

124. Med Decis Making. 2003 Nov-Dec;23(6):518-25. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03258441.

When is it worth introducing a quality improvement program? A mathematical 
model.

Gandjour A(1), Lauterbach KW.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Gesundheitsökonomie und Klinische Epidemiologie, Universität zu 
Köln, Köln, Germany. afschin.gandjour@medizin.uni-koeln.de

Quality improvement programs must compete with other health care interventions 
for limited health care resources. The goal of the research presented here was 
to develop a model that portrays the mathematical relationship between the size 
of a quality deficit caused by the noncompliance of health professionals and the 
cost-effectiveness of a quality improvement program. The model allows the 
determination of the minimum size of a quality deficit for which it is worth 
introducing a quality improvement program. If a quality improvement program has 
already been implemented, the model can be used to define the quality threshold 
beyond which a reduction in quality becomes economically unattractive. An 
example considering the reduction of underuse in depression treatment 
demonstrates that an intervention with a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio may 
become economically unattractive once the costs for the implementation effort 
are considered.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03258441
PMID: 14672112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. J Nutr. 2003 Nov;133(11 Suppl 2):3879S-3885S. doi: 10.1093/jn/133.11.3879S.

Providing micronutrients through food-based solutions: a key to human and 
national development.

Demment MW(1), Young MM, Sensenig RL.

Author information:
(1)Global Livestock Collaborative Research Support Program, Department of 
Agronomy and Range Science, University of California Davis, Davis, CA 95616, 
USA. mwdemment@ucdavis.edu

To alleviate poverty in developing countries, economies must grow. Without the 
necessary investments in human capital, national economic growth may not lead to 
poverty alleviation and socioeconomic development, nor be sustainable. Economic 
growth that leads to poverty alleviation is fueled by the creative and physical 
capacities of people. The impact of micronutrient malnutrition is established 
early in life, leading to growth stunting, lower cognitive abilities, lethargy 
and poor attention, and greater severity and rates of infection. These effects 
limit educational progress, physical work capacity and life expectancy, thereby 
reducing individual lifetime productivity and the aggregate ability of the 
population to enhance its well-being and participate in national and global 
markets. The diets of the poor are largely cereal-based, monotonous and lacking 
in diversity and micronutrients. Animal source foods (ASF) have been an 
important factor in human evolution, a component of what was an historically 
diverse diet and an important source of micronutrients. Poverty and 
micronutrient malnutrition positively influence each other. This poverty 
micronutrient malnutrition (PMM) trap requires outside inputs to change the 
state of development in developing countries. Nutrition interventions have been 
excellent investments in development. More productive interaction between 
agricultural scientists and nutritionists, supported by a strong federal agenda 
for development, is needed to break the PMM trap. In the end, food is the means 
by which nutrients are delivered. Food-based approaches will require long-term 
commitments, but are more likely to be sustainable because they are part of a 
development process that leads to long-term economic growth.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/133.11.3879S
PMID: 14672285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. J Nutr. 2003 Nov;133(11 Suppl 2):3981S-3986S. doi: 10.1093/jn/133.11.3981S.

Improving access to and consumption of animal source foods in rural households: 
the experiences of a women-focused goat development program in the highlands of 
Ethiopia.

Ayele Z(1), Peacock C.

Author information:
(1)Dairy Goat Project, FARM-Africa, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in Africa and its population 
experiences low and falling life expectancy rates, high infant, child and 
maternal mortality and high rates of child malnutrition. This is exacerbated by 
the fact that Ethiopia is not self-sufficient in animal products and is a net 
importer of food. For the majority of the population, most food energy (93%) is 
derived from vegetable products with 7% coming from animal source foods (ASF). 
FARM-Africa hypothesizes that the inadequate nutritional status of the 
population, which contributes to the high mortality rates in the country, is 
related to the population's low consumption of ASF, such as milk and meat. This 
article presents the findings of the Dairy Goat Project, the objectives of which 
included the improvement of family welfare through the generation of increased 
income and milk consumption. The project adopted an integrated approach and 
increased the productivity of local goats managed by women through a combination 
of better management techniques, genetic improvements and information exchange. 
Through pre- and post-intervention analysis of data of those households within 
the project area, FARM-Africa demonstrated a considerable improvement in the 
nutritional status and family welfare of project participants. There was 
increased appearance of milk and meat products in local diets, and the addition 
of other foods, such as eggs and fresh vegetables, as a result of complementary 
activities established with funds generated through the principal activities of 
the Dairy Goat Project.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/133.11.3981S
PMID: 14672299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Ann Rheum Dis. 2004 Jan;63(1):4-10. doi: 10.1136/ard.2003.010629.

TNF inhibitors in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in clinical practice: 
costs and outcomes in a follow up study of patients with RA treated with 
etanercept or infliximab in southern Sweden.

Kobelt G(1), Eberhardt K, Geborek P.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institute, Huddinge Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. 
gisela.kobelt@he-europa.com

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate costs, benefits, and cost effectiveness of tumour 
necrosis factor inhibitor treatment over one year in routine clinical practice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: At four rheumatology units in southern Sweden treatment 
of 160 consecutive patients with RA was started with either etanercept or 
infliximab. The economic analysis was based on 116 patients with complete data 
who received treatment for at least one year. Details on drug treatment, 
functional capacity, disease activity, and laboratory values were available 
during the entire treatment. Information on resource use and QoL was collected 
at baseline and throughout the first year. The cost effectiveness analysis was 
based on changes in outcome and costs compared with the year before treatment. 
Cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained was calculated for the entire 
sample and for patients with different levels of functional disability.
RESULTS: During the first treatment year direct costs were reduced by 40%, but 
indirect costs did not change substantially. Patients' QoL improved on 
treatment-utility increased from an average of 0.28 to 0.65. Assuming that 
improvement occurred after three months' treatment, the cost per QALY gained is 
estimated as euro;43 500. If it occurs after six weeks, in parallel with 
clinical measures, the cost per QALY is euro;36 900. Sensitivity analysis, 
including all 160 patients, gave an estimated cost per QALY of euro;53 600. The 
cost per QALY increases for patient groups with less severe disease.
CONCLUSION: For this patient group, cost effectiveness ratios are within the 
generally accepted threshold of euro;50 000, but need to be confirmed with 
larger samples.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2003.010629
PMCID: PMC1754715
PMID: 14672883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. J Clin Oncol. 2003 Dec 15;21(24):4517-23. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2003.03.559.

Adjuvant endocrine therapy compared with no systemic therapy for elderly women 
with early breast cancer: 21-year results of International Breast Cancer Study 
Group Trial IV.

Crivellari D(1), Price K, Gelber RD, Castiglione-Gertsch M, Rudenstam CM, 
Lindtner J, Fey MF, Senn HJ, Coates AS, Collins J, Goldhirsch A; International 
Breast Cancer Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Centro di Riferimento Oncologico, Via Pedemontana Occidentale 12, I-33081 
Aviano, Italy. dcrivellari@cro.it

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2004 Mar 15;22(6):1164-5; author reply 1165.

PURPOSE: Increasing numbers of older women are affected by early breast cancer, 
because of prolonged life expectancy and the increasing incidence of breast 
cancer with age. The role of adjuvant therapy for this population is still a 
matter of debate. We reviewed the long-term outcome of a mature trial comparing 
endocrine treatment versus no adjuvant therapy in older women with node-positive 
breast cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From 1978 to 1981, 349 women 66 to 80 years of age with 
pathologically involved lymph nodes after total mastectomy and axillary 
clearance were randomly assigned to receive 12 months of adjuvant tamoxifen plus 
low-dose prednisone (p+T) or no adjuvant therapy. Three hundred twenty patients 
were eligible.
RESULTS: At 21 years' median follow-up, 1 year of p+T significantly prolonged 
disease-free survival (DFS; P =.003) and overall survival (P =.05; 15-year DFS, 
10% +/- 3% v 19% +/- 3%; hazard ratio, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.58 to 0.86). When 
comparing competing causes of failure (breast cancer recurrence and deaths 
before breast cancer recurrence), p+T was far superior in controlling breast 
cancer recurrence (P =.0003), but the improvement was seen mainly in soft tissue 
sites. Conversely, patients in the p+T group were more likely to die before a 
breast cancer recurrence (P =.03).
CONCLUSION: This trial demonstrates that significant treatment benefits continue 
to be observed in older patients treated for 1 year with p+T. Despite issues 
relating to competing causes of failure, older breast cancer patients can 
benefit from treatment and should be considered for trials of adjuvant systemic 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2003.03.559
PMID: 14673038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2003 Dec 15;28(24):2673-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.BRS.0000099392.90849.AA.

Intermediate follow-up after treatment of degenerative disc disease with the 
Bryan Cervical Disc Prosthesis: single-level and bi-level.

Goffin J(1), Van Calenbergh F, van Loon J, Casey A, Kehr P, Liebig K, Lind B, 
Logroscino C, Sgrambiglia R, Pointillart V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital, Leuven, Belgium. 
jan.goffin@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

STUDY DESIGN: Prospective, concurrently enrolled, multicenter trials of the 
Bryan Cervical Disc Prosthesis (Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Memphis, TN) were 
conducted for the treatment of patients with single-level and two-level 
(bi-level) degenerative disc disease of the cervical spine.
OBJECTIVES: The studies were designed to determine whether new functional 
intervertebral cervical disc prosthesis can provide relief from objective 
neurologic symptoms and signs, improve the patient's ability to perform 
activities of daily living, decrease pain, and maintain stability and segmental 
motion.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The concept of accelerated degeneration of adjacent 
disc levels as a consequence of increased stress caused by interbody fusion of 
the cervical spine has been widely postulated. Therefore, reconstruction of a 
failed intervertebral disc with functional disc prosthesis should offer the same 
benefits as fusion while simultaneously providing motion and thereby protecting 
the adjacent level discs from the abnormal stresses associated with fusion.
METHODS: Patients with symptomatic cervical radiculopathy and/or myelopathy 
underwent implantation with the Bryan prosthesis after a standard anterior 
cervical discectomy. At scheduled follow-up periods, the effectiveness of the 
device was characterized by evaluating each patient's pain, neurologic function, 
and radiographically measured range of motion at the implanted level.
RESULTS: Clinical success for both studies exceeded the study acceptance 
criteria of 85%. At 1-year follow-up, the flexion-extension range of motion per 
level: Discectomy and implantation of the device alleviates neurologic symptoms 
and signs similar to anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. Radiographic 
evidence supports maintenance of motion. The procedure is safe and the patients 
recover quickly. At least 5 years of follow-up will be needed to assess the 
long-term functionality of the prosthesis and protective influence on adjacent 
levels.

DOI: 10.1097/01.BRS.0000099392.90849.AA
PMID: 14673368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Health Econ. 2003 Dec;12(12):1049-60. doi: 10.1002/hec.799.

Willingness to pay for a QALY.

Gyrd-Hansen D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Winsløwparken, 
Denmark. dgh@sam.sdu.dk

A willingness to pay (WTP) per quality-adjusted-life year (QALY) of DKK 88,000 
was estimated on the basis of elicited preferences for health states. The WTP 
per QALY estimate presented here differs considerably from that implied in 
contingent valuation studies, suggesting that WTP for reducing risk of death is 
based on other preference structures than is ex post WTP for improvements in 
quality of life. Results further suggest that different preference structures 
may exist when respondents are faced with WTP questions in which case 
elimination of minor health problems are associated with negligible utility.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.799
PMID: 14673813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Health Econ. 2003 Dec;12(12):1061-7. doi: 10.1002/hec.787.

An empirical comparison of EQ-5D and SF-6D in liver transplant patients.

Longworth L(1), Bryan S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, UK. 
louise.longworth@brunel.ac.uk

There remains disagreement about the preferred utility-based measure of 
health-related quality of life for use in constructing quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). The recent development of a new measure, the SF-6D, has 
highlighted this issue. The SF-6D and EuroQol EQ-5D measure health-related 
utilities on a scale where 0 represents death and 1 represents full health, and 
both have utility scores generated from random samples of the general UK 
population. This study explored whether, in a large sample of liver transplant 
patients, the two instruments provide similar results. The empirical data 
highlight important variation in the results generated from the use of the two 
instruments. The data are consistent with a view that the SF-6D does not 
describe health states at the lower end of the utility scale but is more 
sensitive than EQ-5D in detecting small changes towards the top of the scale.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.787
PMID: 14673814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Nihon Rinsho. 2003 Dec;61(12):2193-9.

[The indication and practice of home oxygen therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi Y(1), Fukuda T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine and Clinical Immunology, Dokkyo University 
School of Medicine.

COPD(Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) is a cause of chronic respiratory 
failure which leads to pulmonary hypertension and cor pulmonale. Not only 
chronic hypoxia but also low QOL(quality of life) due to dyspnea are shown to 
affect survival of COPD patients. HOT(Home Oxygen Therapy) is one of the most 
successful home therapy in Japan after the availability of health insurance in 
1985. HOT is the only therapy to prolong life expectancy of COPD patients with 
chronic respiratory failure. The induction of HOT needs a consideration of risk 
of narcosis and evaluations of oxygen desaturation during exercise and sleep as 
well as hypoxia at rest. Higher QOL of HOT patients might require an alteration 
of prescription guidelines of HOT.

PMID: 14674332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Scand J Public Health. 2003;31(6):418-27. doi: 10.1080/14034950310002413.

Causes of death between 1911-1950 in a Swedish province with a population 
characterized by longevity.

Baigi A(1), Högstedt B, Isacsson SO, Odén A, Herrström P.

Author information:
(1)Research & Development Unitof Primary Health Care, Halland, Sweden. 
amir.baigi@lthalland.se

AIMS: Life expectancy in Sweden is among the highest in the world, and the 
province of Halland has the highest life expectancy in Sweden today. In an 
earlier paper the authors reported that life expectancy in the province of 
Halland in the south-west of the country was approx. 3.5 years above the 
national average between 1911 and 1950. The aim of this study was to explore the 
influence of different causes of death on life expectancy in Sweden and the 
distribution of these causes of death in Halland compared with Sweden as a whole 
during the same period of time.
METHOD: Causes of death between 1911 and 1950 in the whole of Sweden and in 
Halland were obtained from the archives of Statistics Sweden. A trend analysis 
was performed on the impact of the various causes of death on life expectancy in 
Sweden. Calendar year, age, and sex were controlled for in a Poisson model. The 
distribution and incidence of the most frequent causes of death were compared 
between Halland and Sweden as a whole.
RESULTS: The decreasing mortality risk due to infectious diseases and the 
simultaneous increase in the risk of mortality from tumours and circulatory 
diseases contributed most to the change in life expectancy in Sweden. In Halland 
there was a lower mortality risk in the seven most important causes of death, 
which accounted for approx 80% of all deaths during the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: The lower mortality risk from infectious diseases mostly favoured 
the improvement in life expectancy in Halland up to the mid-1930s. Thereafter, a 
low mortality risk from tumours and particularly circulatory diseases gained 
increasing importance although there was always a difference in favour of 
Halland from the beginning of the study period. Thus, the positive trend in life 
expectancy that favours Halland today seems to have existed for a long period of 
time.

DOI: 10.1080/14034950310002413
PMID: 14675933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. J Orthop Surg (Hong Kong). 2003 Dec;11(2):224-33. doi: 
10.1177/230949900301100222.

A report of two cases of Werner's syndrome and review of the literature.

Yamamoto K(1), Imakiire A, Miyagawa N, Kasahara T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Tokyo Medical University, 6-7-1 
Nishishinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-0023, Japan. kengo-y@tkg.att.ne.jp

Two cases of Werner's syndrome are reported. The first case is that of a man 
with grey hair since his 20s, and alopecia since aged about 50 years. At the age 
of 53 years, Werner's syndrome was diagnosed, along with a malignant soft tissue 
tumour of the hand. The patient underwent ray amputation for the tumour. The 
subsequent histopathological diagnosis was synovial cell sarcoma, and the 
patient died of lung metastasis at 15 weeks postsurgery. The second case is that 
of a woman diagnosed with diabetes mellitus when aged 34 years. At 39 years, a 
bilateral cataract was diagnosed and at 40 years, diabetic gangrene of the left 
calcaneal region and calcaneal osteomyelitis necessitated left below-knee 
amputation. The incidence of Werner's syndrome in Japan is extremely high (1000 
of the around 1300 cases reported worldwide) compared to other countries. Most 
patients develop malignant tumour or arteriosclerosis, the most important 
complications of this syndrome. The average life expectancy for patients with 
Werner's syndrome is 46 years. The incidence of epithelial cancer and 
mesenchymal sarcoma is 10 times that of the general population. The onset of 
symptoms of Werner's syndrome generally precedes any later symptoms of 
associated conditions, such as malignant tumour. Therefore, early recognition of 
Werner's syndrome is important to assist identification of malignant tumours at 
an early stage in this patient group.

DOI: 10.1177/230949900301100222
PMID: 14676353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Rheumatol. 2003 Nov;30(11):2325-9.

Longterm observational study of methotrexate use in a Dutch cohort of 1022 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Hoekstra M(1), van de Laar MA, Bernelot Moens HJ, Kruijsen MW, Haagsma CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Medisch Spectrum Twente-Enschede, PO Box 5000, 
7500 KA Enschede, The Netherlands. m.hoekstra@ziekenhuis-mst.nl

OBJECTIVE: To study which factors are associated with longterm methotrexate 
(MTX) use in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: All patients with RA who had started MTX after January 1, 1993, were 
selected from a regional hospital based registration system. Data on demographic 
and clinical features were retrieved through chart review. By means of life 
table analysis and Cox regression analysis, MTX survival and the relation 
between demographic variables, clinical features, and MTX survival were studied.
RESULTS: A total of 1072 MTX treatment episodes in 1022 patients were analyzed. 
The cumulative MTX survival probability after 5 years was 64%, and after 9 years 
was 50%. Univariate analysis showed a significant relation between MTX survival 
probability and folic acid supplementation, attending rheumatologist, concurrent 
prednisolone use, concurrent sulfasalazine use, and the number of previous 
disease modifying drugs. In the multivariate analysis folic acid 
supplementation, attending rheumatologist, and concurrent prednisolone use 
remained significantly related to MTX survival. Age, disease duration, and 
creatinine clearance were not.
CONCLUSION: In this retrospective study of 1022 patients with RA the cumulative 
MTX survival probability was 64% after 5 years and 50% after 9 years. Folic acid 
supplementation and to a lesser extent prednisolone were associated with a 
longer MTX survival. In addition, treatment strategies of individual 
rheumatologists influenced MTX survival.

PMID: 14677172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Ann Ital Chir. 2003 May-Jun;74(3):275-8.

[Breast cancer in advanced age].

[Article in Italian]

Gentile A(1), Greco L, Chiumarulo C.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento d'Odontoiatria e Chirurgia, Sezione di Chirurgia Generale, 
Università degli Studi di Bari.

The incidence of breast carcinoma increases with advancing age. In view of the 
progressive aging of the population, this problem will tend to become more and 
more frequent. At present, patients of advanced age are often "undertreated" 
owing to the mistaken prejudice that older patients are unable to withstand 
standard multimodal therapy for this disease. In fact, there is no scientific 
evidence to that effect. Treatment choices should therefore be largely 
comparable to those adopted in younger patients. Even chemotherapy, which 
encounters the strongest resistance, by patients but also by doctors, should be 
administered when indicated. A number of studies have demonstrated that the 
toxic and side effects observed in elderly patients are comparable to those 
observed in younger age groups. In practice, particular attention needs to be 
paid when administering cytostatic treatment to patients over 80 years of age. 
Very conservative treatment (tamoxifen plus radiotherapy) may be reserved only 
to particularly frail elderly patients. In conclusion, the therapeutic choice 
should depend more on assessment of the biological age, life expectancy and 
patient's expectations than on the anagraphic age.

PMID: 14677282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Ann Ital Chir. 2003 May-Jun;74(3):311-7.

[Surgical strategy in the treatment of adrenal cortex cancer. Expanded and 
repeated interventions].

[Article in Italian]

Borrelli D(1), Bergamini C, Borrelli A, Reddavide S, Lassig R, Valeri A.

Author information:
(1)Università degli Studi di Firenze Divisione di Chirurgia Generale e Vascolare 
Policlinico di Careggi, Firenze.

AIM OF THE STUDY: To analyze our patients affected by adreno-cortical carcinoma 
(ACC) considering in particular the therapeutical approach in case of local 
recurrence or metastasis, and to compare our results with those from literature.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Since 1975 up to 2001, 35 patients with ACC were observed, 
27 female and 8 male, aged between 3 and 76 year. All patients were surgically 
treated, 3 out of which laparoscopically. Thirty patients underwent radical and 
5 palliative surgery. Twenty-two patients had extended resections to surrounding 
infiltrated organs, such as spleen, pancreatic taIl, vena cava, left colon and 
liver. The intervention was always completed by regional lymphadenectomy. 
Adjuvant treatment was administered in 17 patients, 4 out of which were 
re-operated.
RESULTS: Only one patient died in the perioperative period for hyperacute 
adrenal failure. The survival rate was 85.7% at one year, 76.5% at two years, 
70.8% at three and 28.3% at five years. Out of the 30 patients radically 
treated, only 3 are disease-free up to now. Local recurrence or metastatic 
disease was observed in 27 patients, out of which only 9 were eventually 
surgically treated, once or more times. All non-operated patients died between 1 
and 6 months from the recurrence. The survival rate of the 9 re-operated 
patients was 51% at 2 years, and 22.1% at 5 years. Interestingly, one patient 
who has been re-operated three times, is still alive and disease-free after 7 
years from the first recurrence. No significant difference was observed between 
Mitotane-treated and non-treated patients.
CONCLUSIONS: According with data from literature, we conclude that surgical 
therapy of recurring local or metastatic ACC is up to now the best treatment, 
independently from the original stage of the disease. Controversies still remain 
about the utility of adjuvant chemotherapy in the primary and the recurrent 
disease.

PMID: 14677288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. S Afr Med J. 2003 Nov;93(11):808.

Sunter throws his cap into SAMA's ring.

Bateman C.

PMID: 14677495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Biochem J. 2004 Apr 1;379(Pt 1):191-8. doi: 10.1042/BJ20031807.

Relevance of NAC-2, an Na+-coupled citrate transporter, to life span, body size 
and fat content in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Fei YJ(1), Liu JC, Inoue K, Zhuang L, Miyake K, Miyauchi S, Ganapathy V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical College of Georgia, 
Augusta, GA 30912, USA. yjfei@mail.mcg.edu

We have cloned and functionally characterized an Na+-coupled citrate transporter 
from Caenorhabditis elegans (ceNAC-2). This transporter shows significant 
sequence homology to Drosophila Indy and the mammalian Na+-coupled citrate 
transporter NaCT (now known as NaC2). When heterologously expressed in a 
mammalian cell line or in Xenopus oocytes, the cloned ceNAC-2 mediates the 
Na+-coupled transport of various intermediates of the citric acid cycle. 
However, it transports the tricarboxylate citrate more efficiently than 
dicarboxylates such as succinate, a feature different from that of ceNAC-1 
(formerly known as ceNaDC1) and ceNAC-3 (formerly known as ceNaDC2). The 
transport process is electrogenic, as evidenced from the substrate-induced 
inward currents in oocytes expressing the transporter under voltage-clamp 
conditions. Expression studies using a reporter-gene fusion method in transgenic 
C. elegans show that the gene is expressed in the intestinal tract, the organ 
responsible for not only the digestion and absorption of nutrients but also for 
the storage of energy in this organism. Functional knockdown of the transporter 
by RNAi (RNA interference) not only leads to a significant increase in life 
span, but also causes a significant decrease in body size and fat content. The 
substrates of ceNAC-2 play a critical role in metabolic energy production and in 
the biosynthesis of cholesterol and fatty acids. The present studies suggest 
that the knockdown of these metabolic functions by RNAi is linked to an 
extension of life span and a decrease in fat content and body size.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20031807
PMCID: PMC1224044
PMID: 14678010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Child Care Health Dev. 2004 Jan;30(1):51-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2214.2004.00385.x.

The health of Swedish-speaking and Finnish-speaking schoolchildren in Finland.

Saarela JM(1), Finnäs FS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences, Abo Akademi University, Vasa, Finland. 
jan.saarela@abo.fi

BACKGROUND: It is well known that Swedish-speaking adults in Finland have higher 
life expectancy and better health than their Finnish-speaking counterparts. 
Among young people, similar comparisons have been scarce. The present paper aims 
to compare the health of Swedish-speaking and Finnish-speaking schoolchildren.
METHODS: Survey data from 1997, representing children at grades 8 and 9 of 
compulsory school in a bilingual region, are analysed with the help of logistic 
regression models. Self-rated health as well as objective measures of health are 
explored.
RESULTS: We find that Swedish-speaking schoolchildren are healthier than 
Finnish-speaking ones in terms of objective measures of health, whereas there is 
no difference between language groups in terms of self-assessed health. 
Self-rated health seems to reflect well-being in a very broad context rather 
than objective health from a medical perspective. Risk factors and health 
behaviours being equal, both language groups consequently assess their health in 
a similar manner.
CONCLUSIONS: Policy makers should be careful when advocating the health needs of 
schoolchildren based on survey results concerned with self-assessed health 
measures, particularly when they are concerned with targeting measures towards 
specific subgroups of the population. Self-rated health is obviously not well 
suited for reflecting overall and specific needs of medical assistance and 
expertise for schoolchildren.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2214.2004.00385.x
PMID: 14678311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. JAMA. 2003 Dec 17;290(23):3101-14. doi: 10.1001/jama.290.23.3101.

Screening for proteinuria in US adults: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Boulware LE(1), Jaar BG, Tarver-Carr ME, Brancati FL, Powe NR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Md, USA. lboulwa@jhmi.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2004 Mar 24;291(12):1442-3; author reply 1443.
    J Fam Pract. 2004 Apr;53(4):265-6.
    Natl Med J India. 2004 Sep-Oct;17(5):254-6.

CONTEXT: Chronic kidney disease is a growing public health problem. Screening 
for early identification could improve health but could also lead to unnecessary 
harms and excess costs.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the value of periodic, population-based dipstick screening 
for early detection of urine protein in adults with neither hypertension nor 
diabetes and in adults with hypertension.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND POPULATION: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov 
decision analytic model to compare a strategy of annual screening with no 
screening (usual care) for proteinuria at age 50 years followed by treatment 
with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or an angiotensin 
II-receptor blocker (ARB).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: For persons with neither hypertension nor diabetes, the 
cost-effectiveness ratio for screening vs no screening (usual care) was 
unfavorable (282 818 dollars per QALY; incremental cost of 616 dollars and a 
gain of 0.0022 QALYs per person). However, screening such persons beginning at 
age 60 years yielded a more favorable ratio (53 372 dollars per QALY). For 
persons with hypertension, the ratio was highly favorable (18 621 dollars per 
QALY; incremental cost of 476 dollars and a gain of 0.03 QALYs per person). 
Cost-effectiveness was mediated by both chronic kidney disease progression and 
death prevention benefits of ACE inhibitor and ARB therapy. Influential 
parameters that might make screening for the general population more 
cost-effective include a greater incidence of proteinuria, age at screening (53 
372 dollars per QALY for persons beginning screening at age 60 years), or lower 
frequency of screening (every 10 years: 80 700 dollars per QALY at age 50 years; 
6195 dollars per QALY at age 60 years; and 5486 dollars per QALY at age 70 
years).
CONCLUSIONS: Early detection of urine protein to slow progression of chronic 
kidney disease and decrease mortality is not cost-effective unless selectively 
directed toward high-risk groups (older persons and persons with hypertension) 
or conducted at an infrequent interval of 10 years.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.290.23.3101
PMID: 14679273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2004 Jan;38(1):59-67. doi: 
10.1097/00004836-200401000-00013.

Endoscopic stenting for biliary and pancreatic malignancies.

Costamagna G(1), Pandolfi M.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Endoscopy Unit, Department Of Surgery, Catholic University of the 
Sacred Heart, Largo Agostino Gemelli 8, 00168 Rome, Italy. 
gcostamagna@rm.unicatt.it

Endoscopic treatment of pancreatobiliary malignancies has been recognized in the 
last decades as the treatment of choice in inoperable patients. Endoscopic 
armamentarium includes biliary stents (plastic and metallic) to bypass 
neoplastic strictures of the biliary tree, and pancreatic stents to palliate the 
obstructive pain caused by stenoses of the main pancreatic duct. A major issue 
is the long-term patency of plastic stents that will eventually clog on average 
after 3 to 4 months. Self-expandable metallic stents have longer patency, but 
they can also become occluded by tumor ingrowth or overgrowth; they are also 
much more expensive; their use is thus recommended in patients with longer life 
expectancy. Decompression of the dilated main pancreatic duct in pancreatic 
carcinoma may be effective in the relief of obstructive pain. Endoscopic 
palliation in pancreatic and biliary malignancies appears safe and effective; 
management of patient in referral centers, with an available team of 
gastroenterologists with endoscopic skills, surgeons, and radiologists is 
recommended.

DOI: 10.1097/00004836-200401000-00013
PMID: 14679329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Przegl Lek. 2003;60 Suppl 7:43-7.

[Insufficiency of arteriovenous fistulas in patients with end-stage renal 
failure--emergency surgical procedures].

[Article in Polish]

Brzychczy A(1), Lejman W, Walatek B.

Author information:
(1)II Katedra Chirurgii Ogólnej Collegium Medicum Uniwersytetu Jagiellońskiego, 
31-501 Kraków, ul. Kopernika 21.

From 1.07.1994 to 30.06.2001 in the 2-nd Department of Surgery and Department of 
Nephrology Collegium Medicum Jagiellonian University, in 274 patients with 
terminal renal failure 341 vascular access for hemo-dialysis have been 
performed. Acute insufficiency in functioning arteriovenous fistulas occurred in 
93 patients. In six of them, an attempt of thrombectomy was done. In 56 patients 
(group I) we carried out the new fistula on the same vascular level. In the 
remaining 31 cases (group II) we were forced to perform the procedure at a 
higher level. To compare late results in both groups of patients the method of 
Life Table Analysis was used. Cummulated index of patency (Pk) in the time 
interval 10-12 months in two groups was 0.67. In the time interval 49-54 month 
in group I, Pk dropped to 0.38, in group II was 0.57. The study we carried out 
indicates that creation of vascular access on arterialized vessels, being 
profitable in many aspects, does not provide such long efficient functioning as 
those created on the new, higher level.

PMID: 14679692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Recenti Prog Med. 2003 Nov;94(11):494-500.

[Validity of the International Prognostic Index in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas of 
varying grades of malignancy].

[Article in Italian]

Bettini R(1), Caronni F, Maino C, Marzetta K, Sala D, Saccà V, Gorini M.

Author information:
(1)Università dell'Insubria, Ospedale di Circolo, Varese.

OBJECTIVE: The "International Prognostic Index" (IPI) has been published for 
patients with histological intermediate grade malignancy non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
(NHL) according to the Working Formulation (WF). The IPI is based on 
pre-treatment clinical characteristics: age, performance status, Ann Arbor 
stage, extranodal sites, serum lactate-dehydrogenase concentration. We 
investigated whether the IPI also had prognostic value for NHL patients with a 
low grade malignancy or high grade malignancy according to the WF.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Our series included 192 patients with NHL, diagnosed in a 
single institution between 1986 and 1998. In each patient the relationship among 
IPI, response to therapy and survival was investigated.
RESULTS: The IPI turned out to be of prognostic value for response rate and 
survival in our unselected cohort of patients, as well. In each of the three WF 
classes separately (low, intermediate, high grade malignancy), the four IPI 
classes showed going from low to high risk substantially decreasing response 
rates and survival percentages.
CONCLUSIONS: The IPI is confirmed as an important tool for prognostic evaluation 
of NHL patients: an integration of IPI, histological grading and serum beta 
2-microglobulin concentration is supported.

PMID: 14679917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2003 Dec 19;312(3):741-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2003.10.185.

Molecular cloning and expression of a smooth muscle-specific gene SM22alpha in 
zebrafish.

Yang XY(1), Yao JH, Cheng L, Wei DW, Xue JL, Lu DR.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Institute of Genetics, School of 
Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, PR China.

SM22alpha is a kind of 22-kDa protein which is exclusively expressed in smooth 
muscle containing tissues of the vertebrates. Here we report molecular cloning 
of a novel zebrafish SM22alpha gene. The full length of zebrafish SM22alpha cDNA 
is 1296bp and it encodes a polypeptide of 201 amino acids which shares 69.2%, 
69.7%, 69.2%, 67.2%, and 61.2% overall identity with human, mouse, rat, chicken, 
and bovine SM22alpha, respectively. Characterization of zebrafish SM22alpha 
genomic sequence reveals that it spans 7.7kb and contains five exons and four 
introns. The expression pattern of SM22alpha in zebrafish embryonic development 
is studied by whole-mount in situ hybridization. Strong expression is observed 
in vascular, gut, swim bladder, branchial arches, and fin epidermis. 
Furthermore, we carry out gene knock-down by antisense morpholino 
oligonucleotide, which results in disappearance of yolk extension, caudal fin 
aberrance, and deficiency of circulation system in zebrafish embryo. 
Cross-section of SM22alpha-deficient embryo suggests that SM22alpha may play 
roles in smooth muscle cell morphology transform.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2003.10.185
PMID: 14680827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Dec;32(6):1081-7. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyg192.

Estonia 1989-2000: enormous increase in mortality differences by education.

Leinsalu M(1), Vågerö D, Kunst AE.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, University College of 
South Stockholm, 14189 Huddinge, Sweden. Mall.Leinsalu@sh.se

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Dec;32(6):1087-8.

BACKGROUND: Having regained its political autonomy in 1991, Estonia experienced 
major changes in political, economic, and social realities. We aimed to analyse 
mortality changes by education from 1989 to 2000 in order to assess the impact 
of recent changes in Estonia, as well as the delayed effects of pre-transitional 
developments.
METHODS: Two census-based analyses were compared. Individual cause-specific 
death data for those aged 20+ for 1987-1990 (72 003 deaths) and 1999-2000 (35 
477 deaths) came from the national mortality database. Population denominators 
came from the population censuses of 1989 and 2000. Mortality for all causes 
combined and for selected causes of death were analysed for high, mid, and low 
educational groups. The absolute differences in mortality were evaluated through 
life expectancy at age 25 and age-standardized mortality rates. To assess the 
relative differences between educational levels, mortality rate ratios with 95% 
CI were calculated using Poisson regression.
RESULTS: Educational differences in mortality increased tremendously from 1989 
to 2000: over the 10-year period life expectancy improved considerably for 
graduates, and worsened for those with the lowest education. In 2000, male 
graduates aged 25 could expect to live 13.1 years longer than corresponding men 
with the lowest education; among women the difference was 8.6 years. Large 
differences were observed in all selected causes of death in 1989 and in 2000 
and the trends were invariably much more favourable for the higher educated. 
Educational differences in total mortality increased in all age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Social disruption and increasing inequalities in wealth can be 
considered main recent determinants; however, causal processes, shaped decades 
before recent reforms, also contribute to this widening gap.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyg192
PMID: 14681279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Dec;32(6):1087-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyg299.

Commentary: Winners and losers.

McKee M(1).

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London WC1E 7HT, UK. 
martin.mckee@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Dec;32(6):1081-7.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyg299
PMID: 14681280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. N Engl J Med. 2003 Dec 18;349(25):2383-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp038180.

Dispatch from India.

Gawande A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2004 Apr 1;350(14):1471.
    N Engl J Med. 2004 Apr 1;350(14):1471.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp038180
PMID: 14681503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Vasc Surg. 2003 Dec;38(6):1154-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.07.028.

Natural history of carotid artery stenosis contralateral to endarterectomy: 
results from two randomized prospective trials.

AbuRahma AF(1), Cook CC, Metz MJ, Wulu JT Jr, Bartolucci A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center at West Virginia 
University, Charleston Area Medical Center, 3100 MacCorkle Avenue SE, Ste 603, 
Charleston, WV 25304, USA. Ali.aburahma@camc.org

PURPOSE: A few nonrandomized studies have reported the natural history of 
carotid artery stenosis (CAS) contralateral to carotid endarterectomy (CEA). 
This study analyzed this condition with data from two randomized prospective 
trials.
METHODS: The contralateral carotid arteries in 534 patients from two randomized 
trials that compared CEA with primary closure versus patching were followed up 
clinically and with duplex ultrasound scanning at 1 month and then every 6 
months. CAS was classified as less than 50%, 50% to 79%, 80% to 99%, and 
occlusion. Late contralateral CEA was performed to treat significant CAS. 
Progression was defined as progress to a higher category of stenosis. 
Kaplan-Meier life table analysis was used to estimate freedom from progression 
of CAS. The correlation of risk factors and CAS progression was also analyzed.
RESULTS: Of 534 patients, 61 had initial contralateral CEA and 53 had 
contralateral occlusion. Overall, CAS progressed in 109 of 420 patients (26%) at 
mean follow-up of 41 months. Progression of CAS was noted in 5 of 162 patients 
(3%) with baseline normal carotid arteries. CAS progressed in 56 of 157 patients 
(36%) with less than 50% stenosis versus 45 of 95 patients (47%) with 50% to 79% 
stenosis (P =.003). Median time to progression was 24 months for less than 50% 
CAS, and 12 months for 50% to 79% CAS (P =.035). At 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years, 
freedom from disease progression in patients with baseline CAS <50% was 95%, 
78%, 69%, 61%, 48%, respectively, and in patients with 50% to 79% CAS was 75%, 
61%, 51%, 43%, and 33%, respectively (P =.003). Freedom from progression in 
patients with baseline normal carotid arteries at 1 through 5 years was 99%, 
98%, 96%, 96%, and 94%, respectively. Late neurologic events referable to the 
CCA were infrequent (28 of 420 [6.7%] in the entire series; 28 of 258 [10.9%] 
patients with contralateral CAS), and included 10 strokes (2.4%) and 18 
transient ischemic attacks (4.3%). However, late contralateral CEA was performed 
in 62 patients (62 of 420 [15%] in the entire series; 62 of 258 [24%] patients 
with contralateral CAS). Survival rates were 96%, 92%, 90%, 87%, and 82%, 
respectively, at 1 through 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Progression of CCA stenosis was noted in a significant number of 
patients with baseline contralateral CAS. Serial clinical studies and duplex 
ultrasound scanning every 6 to 12 months in patients with 50% to 79% CAS, and 
every 12 to 24 months in patients with 50% or less CAS is adequate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.07.028
PMID: 14681599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Vasc Surg. 2003 Dec;38(6):1162-8; discussion 1169. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2003.08.021.

In-stent recurrent stenosis after carotid artery stenting: life table analysis 
and clinical relevance.

Lal BK(1), Hobson RW 2nd, Goldstein J, Geohagan M, Chakhtoura E, Pappas PJ, 
Jamil Z, Haser PB, Varma S, Padberg FT, Cerveira JJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School, 185 S. Orange 
Avenue, MSB-H-578, Newark, NJ 07103, USA. lalbk@umdnj.edu

OBJECTIVES: Carotid artery stenting has been proposed as an alternative to 
carotid endarterectomy in cerebral revascularization. Although early results 
from several centers have been encouraging, concerns remain regarding long-term 
durability of carotid artery stenting. We report the incidence, characteristics, 
and management of in-stent recurrent stenosis after long-term follow-up of 
carotid artery stenting.
METHODS: Carotid artery stenting (n = 122) was performed in 118 patients between 
September 1996 and March 2003. Indications included recurrent stenosis after 
previous carotid endarterectomy (66%), primary lesions in patients at high-risk 
(29%), and previous ipsilateral cervical radiation therapy (5%). Fifty-five 
percent of patients had asymptomatic stenosis; 45% had symptomatic lesions. Each 
patient was followed up with serial duplex ultrasound scanning. Selective 
angiography and repeat intervention were performed when duplex ultrasound scans 
demonstrated 80% or greater in-stent recurrent stenosis. Data were prospectively 
recorded, and were statistically analyzed with the Kaplan-Meier method and 
log-rank test.
RESULTS: Carotid artery stenting was performed successfully in all cases, with 
the WallStent or Acculink carotid stent. Thirty-day stroke and death rate was 
3.3%, attributable to retinal infarction (n = 1), hemispheric stroke (n = 1), 
and death (n = 2). Over follow-up of 1 to 74 months (mean, 18.8 months), 22 
patients had in-stent recurrent stenosis (40%-59%, n = 11; 60%-79%, n = 6; > or 
=80%, n = 5), which occurred within 18 months of carotid artery stenting in 13 
patients (60%). None of the patients with in-stent recurrent stenosis exhibited 
neurologic symptoms. Life table analysis and Kaplan-Meier curves predicted 
cumulative in-stent recurrent stenosis 80% or greater in 6.4% of patients at 60 
months. Three of five in-stent recurrent stenoses occurred within 15 months of 
carotid artery stenting, and one each occurred at 20 and 47 months, 
respectively. Repeat angioplasty was performed once in 3 patients and three 
times in 1 patient, and repeat stenting in 1 patient, without complications. One 
of these patients demonstrated asymptomatic internal carotid artery occlusion 1 
year after repeat intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Carotid artery stenting can be performed with a low incidence of 
periprocedural complications. The cumulative incidence of clinically significant 
in-stent recurrent stenosis (> or =80%) over 5 years is low (6.4%). In-stent 
restenosis was not associated with neurologic symptoms in the 5 patients noted 
in this cohort. Most instances of in-stent recurrent stenosis occur early after 
carotid artery stenting, and can be managed successfully with endovascular 
techniques.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.08.021
PMID: 14681601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. J Health Psychol. 2004 Jan;9(1):29-40. doi: 10.1177/1359105304036100.

Diagnostic and treatment decisions in US healthcare.

Kaplan RM(1), Ganiats TG, Frosch DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego 92093, USA. rkaplan@ucsd.edu

The practice of medicine links diagnosis to treatment. However, for many 
diagnosed conditions diagnosis and treatment may not affect health outcome. 
Examples include low-grade cancers that do not influence life expectancy or 
quality of life. Further, there is considerable uncertainty about the point 
along a biologic continuum where treatment should begin. Changes in diagnostic 
thresholds often increase healthcare costs even though the benefit of the 
treatment is uncertain. Although this uncertainty is understood by the 
healthcare providers, it often is not shared with patients. We advocate a new 
paradigm called shared medical decision making that makes uncertainty about 
diagnosis and treatment transparent to patients and engages them in the 
treatment decision process.

DOI: 10.1177/1359105304036100
PMID: 14683567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nonlinear Dynamics Psychol Life Sci. 2004 Jan;8(1):17-40.

The problematisation of existence: towards a philosophy of complexity.

Richardson K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for the Study of Coherence and Emergence, 127 Plymouth Drive, Suite 
2B, Norwood, MA 02062, USA. kurt@kurtrichardcon.com

By assuming that the Universe is best described as a cellular automaton, and by 
making use of results from the field of computational mechanics, this paper 
discusses an extension of the notion of existence from a simple binary 
opposition to that of a continuum. It is argued that none of the traditional 
objects of science, or any objects from any discipline, formal or not, can be 
