said to be real in any absolute sense though a substantial realism may be 
associated with them. By problematising existence it is proposed that an 
evolutionary philosophy referred to as critical pluralism is more sensitive to 
the demands of complexity than contemporary scientific approaches. Though many 
of the conclusions reported herein are not original, the fact that they can be 
'proved' in a scientific sense, and explored scientifically, is certainly of 
interest and is an interpretation of complexity theory that has received little 
attention.

PMID: 14683616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Ann Oncol. 2003;14 Suppl 5:v28-40. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdg752.

Life expectancy and cancer survival in the EUROCARE-3 cancer registry areas.

Micheli A(1), Baili P, Quinn M, Mugno E, Capocaccia R, Grosclaude P; EUROCARE 
Working Group.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Epidemiology, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori, 
Milan, Italy. micheli@istitutotumori.mi.it

BACKGROUND: Mortality information is essential for estimating relative cancer 
survival (that excludes deaths from other causes). However, sufficiently 
detailed mortality data are not available for all areas covered by the cancer 
registries (CRs) participating in the EUROCARE-3 study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Mathematical methods were used to construct complete 
local mortality data (life tables) for each year of age (0-99), for each year 
(1978-2000) and by sex, from the incomplete life tables provided by CRs, 
presenting the results as life expectancy at birth (LE). Socio-economic data 
were obtained from the United Nations (UN) and Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD).
RESULTS: The time and regional trends in LE provided by our estimates are 
closely similar to those published by the UN at the country level. According to 
UN data, LE (men plus women) varied from 70 years in Estonia to almost 79 years 
in Sweden in the period 1995-1999. LE increased markedly over the 20-year study 
period in most countries except Estonia and Denmark. LE correlated directly with 
GDP, national expenditure on health and relative survival for all cancers 
combined. We found that within-country LE variation was large in some countries 
(particularly the UK). Sweden, Iceland, Switzerland, and parts of Spain and 
Italy had high LE; eastern European countries had low LE.
CONCLUSIONS: Detailed area-specific life tables are essential for reliable 
estimation of relative cancer survival and its comparison across populations, 
since LE varies markedly across Europe. Where not available, life tables can be 
constructed to the required level of detail using mathematical approaches.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdg752
PMID: 14684499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2003 Dec;58(12):B1078-84. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/58.12.b1078.

Exceptional longevity in pet dogs is accompanied by cancer resistance and 
delayed onset of major diseases.

Cooley DM(1), Schlittler DL, Glickman LT, Hayek M, Waters DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, Indiana, USA.

To characterize extreme aged pet dogs as a first step in developing an animal 
model of exceptional longevity, we constructed lifetime medical histories for 
345 Rottweiler dogs using information collected from owners and veterinarians. 
Extreme aged dogs (alive at the 95th percentile age at death for the study 
population, > or =13.3 years) were compared with a usual longevity group (9-10 
years). Exceptional longevity in Rottweiler dogs was accompanied by a 
significant delay in the onset of major life-threatening diseases; 76% of 
extreme aged dogs remained free of all major diseases during the first 9 years 
of life. Only 19% of extreme aged dogs died of cancer versus 82% of dogs with 
usual longevity (p <.0001). The reduction in cancer mortality in oldest-old pet 
dogs mimics that seen in human centenarians and provides strong rationale for 
using this animal model to study comparative mechanisms of cancer resistance in 
the extreme aged.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/58.12.b1078
PMID: 14684704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Stroke. 2004 Jan;35(1):203-4. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000108267.46809.C4. Epub
2003  Dec 18.

Editorial comment--stroke cost-effectiveness research: are acceptability curves 
acceptable?

Holloway R, Dick AW.

Comment on
    Stroke. 2004 Jan;35(1):196-203.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000108267.46809.C4
PMID: 14684768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Stroke. 2004 Jan;35(1):196-203. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000105390.20430.9F.
Epub  2003 Dec 18.

Alternative strategies for stroke care: cost-effectiveness and cost-utility 
analyses from a prospective randomized controlled trial.

Patel A(1), Knapp M, Perez I, Evans A, Kalra L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Economics of Mental Health, Health Services Research 
Department, David Goldberg Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, De Crespigny Park, 
London SE5 8AF UK. a.patel@iop.kcl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Stroke. 2004 Jan;35(1):203-4.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although stroke units reduce mortality and 
institutionalization, their comparative cost-effectiveness is unknown.
METHODS: Healthcare, social services, and informal care costs were compared for 
447 acute stroke patients randomly assigned to stroke unit, stroke team, or 
domiciliary stroke care. Prospective and retrospective methods were used to 
identify resource use over 12 months after stroke onset. Cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility analyses were undertaken.
RESULTS: Mean healthcare and social care costs over 12 months were 11 450 pounds 
sterling for stroke unit, 9527 pounds sterling for stroke team, and 6840 pounds 
sterling for domiciliary care. More than half the costs were for the initial 
episode of care. Institutionalization was a large proportion of follow-up costs. 
Inclusion of informal care increased costs considerably. When informal care was 
excluded, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio per percentage point in 
deaths or institutionalizations avoided in the first year was 496 pounds 
sterling for the stroke unit over domiciliary care; incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year quality-adjusted life year gained was 64 097 pounds 
sterling between these 2 groups. The stroke team was dominated by domiciliary 
care.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost perspectives, especially those related to long-term and 
informal care, are important when stroke services are evaluated. Improved health 
outcomes in the stroke unit come at a higher cost.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000105390.20430.9F
PMID: 14684783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. J Pediatr (Rio J). 1999 Sep-Oct;75(5):309-10. doi: 10.2223/jped.949.

[Mortality in adolescents: a threat to the hoped-for improvement in life 
expectancy in Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Jorge MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade de São Paulo (USP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

DOI: 10.2223/jped.949
PMID: 14685506


158. Orv Hetil. 2003 Nov 9;144(45):2207-12.

[Effect of imatinib treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumors].

[Article in Hungarian]

Eckhardt S(1), Pápai Z, Bodoky G, Horti J, Tamás K, Nagy T, Orosz Z, Sápi Z, 
Gödény M, Jakab K, Esik O, Trón L, Besznyák I.

Author information:
(1)Országos Onkológiai Intézet, B Belgyógyászati Osztály, Budapest. 
eckhardt@oncol.hu

INTRODUCTION: Advanced malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumours are 
practically resistant to further radio- or chemotherapy. These tumours are 
characterized by the presence of C-KIT (a transmembrane tyrosin kinase) mutation 
which can be specified by CD117 expression. Imatinib (2-fenilaminopirimidine) is 
a selective inhibitor of the mutated C-KIT.
AIM: The purpose of our study was to determine the potential antitumour effect 
of imatinib in patients with gastrointestinal stroma tumour patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An open, non-randomized trial was performed involving 38 
patients each of which had received/metastatic disease associated with CD117 
positivity. Consecutively daily doses of 400-600 mg imatinib was administered 
orally to the patients. The evaluation was carried out on 37 patients in a form 
of an interim analysis.
RESULTS: After a 3-18 months observation period 1 complete, 19 partial 
remissions and 10 static diseases could be registered (78%), in association of 
only grade 1-2 toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: The imatinib treatment improved the quality of life of the patients 
with gastrointestinal stroma tumour and their life expectancy became 
considerably prolonged. Further follow-up of the patients as well as design of a 
prospective, randomized trial on a larger patient material is urgently needed.

PMID: 14686005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. HEC Forum. 2003 Sep;15(3):258-73. doi: 10.1023/b:hecf.0000014774.96406.29.

Life extension technologies: economic, psychological, and social considerations.

Turner L(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Ethics Unit, Department of Social Studies of Medicine, McGill 
University, Canada. leigh.turner@mcgill.ca

DOI: 10.1023/b:hecf.0000014774.96406.29
PMID: 14686099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2003 Dec 1;60(23):2484-90. doi:
10.1093/ajhp/60.23.2484.

Health in a hand basket? Pursuing your profession through a challenging, 
changing landscape.

Manasse HR Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, 7272 Wisconsin Avenue, 
Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.

DOI: 10.1093/ajhp/60.23.2484
PMID: 14686225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. AIDS Policy Law. 2002 Aug 2;17(14):1, 4.

Global AIDS conference ends on hopeful note amid startling reports.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 14686281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. AIDS Policy Law. 2002 Aug 2;17(14):6.

Negligence. $2.5-million award set aside for untimely reporting of HIV status.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 14686286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2004 Jan 1;19(1):1-24. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01806.x.

Review article: chemoprevention of colorectal cancer.

Courtney ED(1), Melville DM, Leicester RJ.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Medicine Division, St George's Hospital Medical School, 
London, UK. edjcourtney@hotmail.com

Colorectal cancer is a disease with a high mortality at present, due to the late 
stage at which many cases present. Attention is therefore focusing on 
preventative strategies for colorectal cancer given that polyps appear to be 
identifiable and treatable precursor lesions of this disease. Endoscopic 
polypectomy has been shown to reduce the incidence of colorectal cancer and 
there is a good case for endoscopic screening of the general population. 
However, this will require a large amount of manpower and resources and its 
success will also depend on the overall compliance of the population. 
Epidemiological studies have shown that individuals reporting a regular intake 
of aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have a reduced risk 
of developing colorectal polyps and cancer. Similarly, a number of natural 
substances, such as calcium and folate, when supplemented regularly in the diet, 
have also been linked to a possible decreased incidence of colorectal cancer. 
This has led to the concept of using such agents to reduce the number of cases 
of colorectal cancer. In this article, we review the current evidence for the 
use of these and other agents for the chemoprevention of colorectal cancer, 
together with theories as to their possible mechanisms of action.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01806.x
PMID: 14687163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Intern Med. 2004 Jan;255(1):115-24. doi: 10.1046/j.0954-6820.2003.01245.x.

Skeletal muscle and nutritional assessment in chronic renal failure patients on 
a protein-restricted diet.

Cupisti A(1), Licitra R, Chisari C, Stampacchia G, D'Alessandro C, Galetta F, 
Rossi B, Barsotti G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Nephrology Unit, University of Pisa, Pisa, 
Italy. acupisti@int.med.unipi.it

BACKGROUND: The close relationship between protein-energy malnutrition and 
quality of life, morbidity and mortality, makes mandatory a careful evaluation 
of the nutritional status and muscle mass in chronic renal failure (CRF) 
patients.
METHODS: Nutritional and skeletal muscle data were obtained from 28 nondiabetic 
patients with severe CRF (glomerular filtration rate, GFR < 15 mL min-1) on 
conservative treatment. Of them, 14 (8 males, 4 females) were on a conventional 
low-protein (0.6 g kg-1 body weight) diet (LPD) and 14 (8 males, 4 females) were 
on a very low-protein (0.3 g kg-1 body weight) diet supplemented with essential 
amino acids and ketoacids (Ketodiet); 28 healthy sex- and age-matched subjects 
served as controls. We evaluated biochemistry, anthropometry, bioelectrical 
impedance vector analysis, and three noninvasive tests investigating some 
skeletal muscle features: (a) myoelectrical fatigue phenomenon was studied using 
a surface electromyography technique that provides data on conduction velocity 
(CV), median frequency of power spectrum (MDF) and average rectified value (ARV) 
of myofibre action potential, at 15 and 35 Hz stimulation frequency; (b) muscle 
oxidative metabolism was studied by serum lactate following aerobic exercise; 
and (c) muscle strength of the legs was studied using an isokinetic exercise 
test at two different angular velocities (60 degrees and 180 degrees s-1).
RESULTS: No difference between patients and controls was detected regarding CV, 
MDF and ARV, at 35 and 15 Hz testing. Serum lactate was higher in patients than 
in controls at 1, 5, 10 and 30 min recovery. A decreased knee extension and 
flexion strength was detected in CRF patients both at low (60 degrees s-1) and 
at high (180 degrees s-1) angular velocity; muscle strength deficit negatively 
correlated to serum albumin (r = -0.52, P < 0.01), but no relationship was found 
with protein intake or residual renal function. No difference was found between 
LPD and Ketodiet patients regarding the studied muscular tests as well as the 
anthropometry and bio-impedance data.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of a proper dietary regimen, including severe 
restriction of protein intake can preserve lean body mass and nutritional status 
of advanced CRF patients. Skeletal muscle shows unchanged sarcolemma 
excitability but abnormal oxidative metabolism and reduced segmental strength. 
Regular physical activity and a close clinical and dietary monitoring should be 
recommended for the predialysis patient care.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0954-6820.2003.01245.x
PMID: 14687247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2003 Nov;51(11):1655-9. doi:
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2003.51520.x.

Blood pressure concordance in older married Mexican-American couples.

Peek MK(1), Markides KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health Sealy Center on Aging, 
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77555, USA. mkpeek@utmb.edu

There is a strong link between marital status and health. What has been lacking 
in previous literature is the attention to health similarities or concordance in 
health between married adults, especially in older ethnic couples. To address 
the issue of health concordance, the investigators examined the extent to which 
blood pressure is concordant between older Mexican-American spouses. Using Wave 
1 of the Hispanic Established Population for the Epidemiological Study of the 
Elderly (n=553 married couples), ordinary least squares and logistic regression 
were conducted to assess the degree of similarity between married adults for 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure (measured as an average and as percent 
hypertensive). Strong associations were found between spouses for both systolic 
and diastolic blood pressure (correlation coefficient=0.32 and 0.34, 
respectively). These associations remain even when spouse age, weight, and 
health characteristics are included in the models. With life expectancy and the 
time spent in marriage increasing, examining the concordance in health between 
older adults becomes increasingly important to target older spouses at risk for 
declines in health.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2003.51520.x
PMID: 14687399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2003 Dec 19;1:80. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-80.

Problems and solutions in calculating quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).

Prieto L(1), Sacristán JA.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes Research Unit, Eli Lilly & Co, Spain, Av, de Industria 30, 
28108 Alcobendas, Spain. prieto_luis@lilly.com

The quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is a measure of the value of health 
outcomes. Since health is a function of length of life and quality of life, the 
QALY was developed as an attempt to combine the value of these attributes into a 
single index number. The QALY calculation is simple: the change in utility value 
induced by the treatment is multiplied by the duration of the treatment effect 
to provide the number of QALYs gained. QALYs can then be incorporated with 
medical costs to arrive at a final common denominator of cost/QALY. This 
parameter can be used to compare the cost-effectiveness of any treatment. 
Nevertheless, QALYs have been criticised on technical and ethical grounds. A 
salient problem relies on the numerical nature of its constituent parts. The 
appropriateness of the QALY arithmetical operation is compromised by the essence 
of the utility scale: while life-years are expressed in a ratio scale with a 
true zero, the utility is an interval scale where 0 is an arbitrary value for 
death. In order to be able to obtain coherent results, both scales would have to 
be expressed in the same units of measurement. The different nature of these two 
factors jeopardises the meaning and interpretation of QALYs. A simple general 
linear transformation of the utility scale suffices to demonstrate that the 
results of the multiplication are not invariant. Mathematically, the solution to 
these limitations happens through an alternative calculation of QALYs by means 
of operations with complex numbers rooted in the well known Pythagorean theorem. 
Through a series of examples, the new calculation arithmetic is introduced and 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-80
PMCID: PMC317370
PMID: 14687421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Leuk Res. 2004 Mar;28(3):259-66. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(03)00261-3.

Interleukin-18 in multiple myeloma patients: serum levels in relation to 
response to treatment and survival.

Alexandrakis MG(1), Passam FH, Sfiridaki K, Moschandrea J, Pappa C, Liapi D, 
Petreli E, Roussou P, Kyriakou DS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, University Hospital of Heraklion, Medical School of 
Crete, PO Box 1352, Crete, Greece. freda@med.uoc.gr

Interleukin-18 (IL-18) plays a role in the host's response to tumours and 
angiogenesis. We determined serum levels of IL-18, vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF), angiogenin (ANG), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) and CRP in 65 
newly diagnosed myeloma patients. IL-18, VEGF, angiogenin, TNF-alpha and CRP 
were significantly higher at stage III in comparison to stages II and I. These 
cytokines (measured in 27 patients) significantly decreased after treatment. In 
survival analysis, higher levels of IL-18 were associated with a poorer 
prognosis. We conclude that increased serum IL-18 in myeloma patients correlates 
with advanced disease, increased levels of angiogenic cytokines and worse 
survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(03)00261-3
PMID: 14687621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Haematologica. 2003 Dec;88(12):1348-57.

Fludarabine + prednisone +/- alpha-interferon followed or not by 
alpha-interferon maintenance therapy for previously untreated patients with 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia: long term results of a randomized study.

Mauro FR(1), Zinzani P, Zaja F, Gentile M, Vegna ML, Stefoni V, Marin L, Fanin 
R, Baccarani M, Tura S, Mandelli F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie Cellulari ed Ematologia, University La 
Sapienza, via Benevento 6, 00161 Rome, Italy. mauro@bce.med.uniroma1.it

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Fludarabine is an effective therapy for patients with 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) has been 
reported to have anti-leukemic activity in CLL patients. A randomized study was 
designed to evaluate whether the addition of IFN-alpha to a first-line treatment 
with fludarabine and prednisone could increase the response rate in patients 
with advanced CLL and whether IFN-alpha given as maintenance therapy could 
improve the duration of response.
DESIGN AND METHODS: One hundred and thirty-three patients were randomized to 
receive fludarabine (25 mg/m2/i.v., days 9-13) and prednisone (20 mg/m2, days 1, 
3, 5, 7 and 14 and 40 mg/m2, days 9-13) (arm A: 66 patients) or in addition to 
the same schedule, IFN-alpha (2 MUI/sc, days 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 and 15) (arm 
B: 67 patients). Seventy-eight patients responsive to therapy entered the 
post-remission phase of the study in which 41 patients were randomized to 
receive IFN-alpha (3 MUI three times a week) and 37 to clinical observation.
RESULTS: A similar response rate (complete responses + partial responses) was 
observed in the 2 arms: 86% for arm A and 84% for arm B (p = 0.4). A longer 
response duration was observed in patients who achieved a complete response (p = 
0.001) and in patients who received maintenance therapy with IFN-alpha (p < 
0.05). However, the quality of response was the only significant and independent 
factor influencing response duration (p < 0.01). No benefits in terms of 
infection-related mortality and morbidity could be ascribed to IFN-alpha 
administration.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: In previously untreated CLL patients with 
advanced disease a high response rate is obtained from first-line fludarabine 
and prednisone and no benefit is derived from the addition of IFN-alpha to this 
regimen. The achievement of a good quality response to therapy was the only 
independent predictor of a prolonged response.

PMID: 14687987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Haematologica. 2003 Dec;88(12):1372-7.

High dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with 
peripheral T-cell lymphoma not achieving complete response after induction 
chemotherapy. The GEL-TAMO experience.

Rodriguez J(1), Caballero MD, Gutierrez A, Gandarillas M, Sierra J, 
Lopez-Guillermo A, Sureda A, Zuazu J, Marin J, Arranz R, Carreras E, Leon A, De 
Sevilla AF, San Miguel JF, Conde E; GEL/TAMO Spanish Group.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Universitario Son Dureta, Av/Andrea Doria 
55, Palma de Mallorca 07014, Spain. jrodriguez@hsd.es

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas 
(NHL) who do not obtain a complete response (CR) after induction chemotherapy 
have a poor prognosis. However, provided they are sensitive to the first regimen 
of chemotherapy, 25-40% of them with a B-cell phenotype may achieve long-term 
survival when treated with high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell 
transplantation (HDC/ASCT). The aim of this study was to analyze the efficacy of 
this therapy in the corresponding patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma 
(PTCL).
DESIGN AND METHODS: We retrospectively evaluated the efficacy of ASCT in 35 
patients with PTCL from the GEL-TAMO registry, who did not achieve a CR to 
standard induction chemotherapy regimens for aggressive NHL. Thirty-one patients 
underwent transplantation after achieving a partial response (PR) and 4 patients 
were non-responders.
RESULTS: Following HDC/ASCT, 23 (66%) of the patients achieved a CR, 4 (11%) a 
PR and in 7 (20%) cases the transplant failed. One patient was not evaluated 
because of early toxic death. With a median follow-up of the survivors of 37.5 
months, 18 patients (51%) are alive and 15 patients (43%) are free of disease. 
Transplant-related mortality rate at 100 days was 11% and at 5 years the 
probabilities of survival, freedom from progression and disease-free survival 
for complete responders were 37%, 36% and 55% respectively. Pre-transplant 
lactate-dehydrogenase level, age-adjusted International Prognostic Index 
(aa-IPI) and tumor score correlated with survival.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: One third of the patients with PTCL who fail to 
achieve CR to the first chemotherapeutic regimen can be rescued with HDC/ASCT. 
Pre-transplant values of IPI and tumor score risk systems for aggressive 
lymphomas were useful to predict subsequent survival.

PMID: 14687990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2003 Dec;126(6):1935-42. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2003.07.031.

Optimal management when unsuspected N2 nodal disease is identified during 
thoracotomy for lung cancer: cost-effectiveness analysis.

Ferguson MK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
mferguso@surgery.bsd.uchicago.edu

OBJECTIVES: Whether to proceed with lung resection when N2 nodal disease is 
identified at the time of thoracotomy for lung cancer is controversial. A 
decision analysis model was developed to address this question.
METHODS: A meta-analysis was performed on data from reports published between 
1990 and 2002 evaluating survival for (1) patients who were treated by initial 
resection for clinically unsuspected N2 nodal disease (initial resection) and 
(2) survival for patients undergoing resection after neoadjuvant therapy for N2 
nodal disease (no initial resection). Hospital cost data for surgery were 
derived from our institution, and cost data for chemotherapy and radiation 
therapy were obtained from current literature. A decision model was developed to 
compare initial resection to no initial resection from the perspective of the 
medical center using survival, quality-adjusted life years survival, and 
cost-effectiveness as outcomes.
RESULTS: The no initial resection option provided better median survival (2.1 
versus 1.7 years), quality-adjusted life years (1.8 versus 1.3), and 
cost-effectiveness, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 17,119 
dollars/quality-adjusted life year. Outcomes were influenced by survival 
estimates for each treatment option.
CONCLUSIONS: When N2 nodal disease is discovered during thoracotomy, the 
approach of delaying resection until after neoadjuvant therapy provides the best 
survival and is more cost-effective. This is likely due to the beneficial 
effects of neoadjuvant therapy and the exclusion of patients with more 
aggressive disease from the surgical candidate pool.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2003.07.031
PMID: 14688709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2004 Jan;37(1):119-22. doi: 
10.1590/s0100-879x2004000100016. Epub 2003 Dec 18.

Cardiovascular complications and increased levels of circulating modified low 
density lipoprotein in HIV patients and patients with lipodystrophy.

Ronchini KR(1), Duarte AJ, Casseb JS, Gidlund M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Imunofisiopatologia, Departamento de Imunologia, Instituto de 
Ciências Biomédicas, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, Brasil.

The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for patients 
infected with HIV has significantly prolonged the life expectancy and to some 
extent has restored a functional immune response. However, the premature 
introduction of HAART has led to a significant and alarming increase in 
cardiovascular complications, including myocardial infarction and the appearance 
of abnormal distribution of body fat seen as lipodystrophy. One key element in 
the development of ischemic coronary artery disease is the presence of 
circulating and tissue-fixed modified low density lipoprotein (mLDL) that 
contributes to the initiation and progression of arterial lesions and to the 
formation of foam cells. Even though not completely elucidated, the most likely 
mechanism involves mLDL in the inflammatory response and the induction of a 
specific immune response against mLDL. Circulating antibodies against mLDL can 
serve as an indirect marker of the presence of circulating and vessel-fixed 
mLDL. In the present study, we measured antibodies to mLDL and correlated them 
with immune status (i.e., number of CD4+ T cells) in 59 HIV patients and with 
the clinical manifestation of lipodystrophy in 10 patients. We observed a 
significant reduction in anti-mLDL antibody levels related both to lipodystrophy 
and to an immunocompromised state in HIV patients. We speculate that these 
antibodies may explain in part the rapid development of ischemic coronary artery 
disease in some patients.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2004000100016
PMID: 14689052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2004 May;12(3):203-16. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-003-0420-5. Epub 2003 Dec 19.

Interjoint coordination in lower limbs in patients with a rupture of the 
anterior cruciate ligament of the knee joint.

St-Onge N(1), Duval N, Yahia L, Feldman AG.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Institute of Montreal, 6300 Darlington Avenue, Montréal, 
Québec H3S 2J4, Canada. stonge@morille.univ-mrs.fr

Previous studies of movement kinematics in patients with a ruptured anterior 
cruciate ligament (ACL) have focused on changes in angular displacement in a 
single joint, usually flexion/extension of the knee. In the present study, we 
investigated the effect of an ACL injury on the overall limb interjoint 
coordination. We asked healthy and chronic ACL-deficient male subjects to 
perform eight types of movements: forward squats, backward squats, sideways 
squats, squats on one leg, going up a step, going down a step, walking three 
steps, and stepping in place. Depending on the movement concerned, we applied 
principal component (PC) analysis to 3 or 4 degrees of freedom (DFs): thigh 
flexion/extension, knee flexion/extension, ankle flexion/extension, thigh 
abduction/adduction. The first three DFs were investigated in all movements. PC 
analysis identifies linear combinations of DFs. Movements with a fixed ratio 
between DFs are thus described by only one PC or synergy. PCs were computed for 
the entire movement as well as for the period of time when the foot was in 
contact with the ground. For both the control and the injured groups, two 
synergies (PC vectors) usually accounted for more than 95% of the DFs' angular 
excursions. It was possible to describe 95-99% of some movements using only one 
synergy. Compared to control subjects, injured subjects employed different 
synergies for going up a step, walking three steps, squatting sideways, and 
squatting forward, both in the injured and uninjured legs. Those movements may 
thus be more indicative of injury than other movements. Although ACL-deficiency 
did not increase asymmetry (angle between the PCs of the same movement performed 
on the right and the left sides), this result is not conclusive because of the 
comparatively low number of subjects who participated in the study. However, the 
finding that synergies in both legs of patients were different from those in 
control subjects for going up a step and walking three steps suggests that 
interjoint coordination was affected for both legs, so that the asymmetry index 
might have been preserved despite the injury. There was also a relationship 
between the asymmetry index for squatting on one leg, squatting forward, walking 
three steps and some of the outcomes of the knee injury and osteoarthritis 
outcome score (pain, symptoms, activities of daily living, sport and recreation 
function, and knee-related quality of life). This suggests that significant 
differences in the asymmetry index could be obtained if more severely-injured 
patients participated in this study. It is possible that subjects compensated 
for their mechanical deficiencies by modifying muscle activation patterns. 
Synergies were not only modified in injured subjects, but also rearranged: the 
percentage of movement explained by the first PC was different for the injured 
and/or uninjured legs of patients, as compared to the legs of the control group, 
for going up a step, going down a step, walking three steps, and squatting 
forward. We concluded that the analysis of interjoint coordination may be 
efficient in characterizing motor deficits in people with knee injuries.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-003-0420-5
PMID: 14689167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Clin Oncol. 2004 Feb 1;22(3):432-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.04.067. Epub
2003  Dec 22.

Are patients diagnosed with breast cancer before age 50 years ever cured?

Brenner H(1), Hakulinen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, German Centre for Research on Aging, Bergheimer 
Strasse 20, D-69115 Heidelberg, Germany. Brenner@dzfa-uni-heidelberg.de

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2004 Feb 1;22(3):392-4.

PURPOSE: Breast cancer diagnosed before the age of 50 years has become a common 
disease in many developed countries. Although average remaining life expectancy 
in the affected age groups is usually several decades, data regarding survival 
perspectives beyond 10 to 20 years after diagnosis are sparse. The aim of this 
study was to assess long-term survival in a large population-based sample of 
patients diagnosed with breast cancer before age 50 years.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Relative survival within up to 40 years after diagnosis 
was assessed for cohorts of women diagnosed with breast cancer before age 50 
years and notified to the nationwide Finnish Cancer Registry within various time 
intervals since 1953. In addition, up-to-date estimates of 40-year relative 
survival were obtained by exclusively looking at the survival experience of 
breast cancer patients in recent years (1993 to 1999) using period analysis, a 
new method of survival analysis.
RESULTS: Prognosis of patients diagnosed with breast cancer before age 50 years 
has considerably improved during the past decades. According to the latest 
estimates from period analysis, cumulative 40-year relative survival is now 
approximately 43% for all cancers combined, 57% for localized cancers, and 24% 
for cancers with regional tumor spread. Nevertheless, patients diagnosed with 
breast cancer before age 50 years continue to have increased mortality 
throughout at least four decades after diagnosis. This applies even if breast 
cancer is diagnosed in a localized stage and in the absence of a second primary 
breast cancer.
CONCLUSION: Despite major improvement in prognosis over time, breast cancer 
occurring among patients who are younger than 50 years remains a chronic disease 
that affects prognosis for decades.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.04.067
PMID: 14691121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Occup Environ Med. 2004 Jan;61(1):2-7.

Mortality analyses in a cohort of 18 235 ethylene oxide exposed workers: follow 
up extended from 1987 to 1998.

Steenland K(1), Stayner L, Deddens J.

Author information:
(1)Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, 
USA. nsteenl@sph.emory.edu

Comment in
    Occup Environ Med. 2004 Jan;61(1):1.

AIMS: To extend mortality follow up from 1987 to 1998 for cohort of 18 235 men 
and women exposed to ethylene oxide.
METHODS: Standard mortality follow up, life table and Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: There were 2852 deaths, compared with 1177 in the earlier 1987 follow 
up. There was no overall excess of haematopoietic cancers combined or of 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. However, internal exposure-response analyses found 
positive trends for haematopoietic cancers which were limited to males (15 year 
lag). The trend in haematopoietic cancer was driven by lymphoid tumours 
(non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, myeloma, lymphocytic leukaemia), which also have a 
positive trend with cumulative exposure for males with a 15 year lag. 
Haematopoietic cancer trends were somewhat weaker in this analysis than trends 
in the earlier follow up, and analyses restricted to the post-1987 data did not 
show any significant positive trends (exposure levels dropped sharply in the 
early 1980s). Breast cancer did not show any overall excess, although there was 
an excess in the highest cumulative exposure quartile using a 20 year lag. 
Internal exposure-response analyses found positive trend for breast cancer using 
the log of cumulative exposure with a 20 year lag.
CONCLUSIONS: There was little evidence of any excess cancer mortality for the 
cohort as a whole, with the exception of bone cancer based on small numbers. 
Positive exposure-response trends for lymphoid tumours were found for males 
only. Reasons for the sex specificity of this effect are not known. There was 
also some evidence of a positive exposure-response for breast cancer mortality.

PMCID: PMC1757803
PMID: 14691266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Occup Environ Med. 2004 Jan;61(1):57-64.

Mortality among a cohort of uranium mill workers: an update.

Pinkerton LE(1), Bloom TF, Hein MJ, Ward EM.

Author information:
(1)The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Division of 
Surveillance, Hazard Evaluations and Field Studies, Industrywide Studies Branch, 
4676 Columbia Parkway, Cincinnati, Ohio 45226, USA. LPinkerton@cdc.gov

AIMS: To evaluate the mortality experience of 1484 men employed in seven uranium 
mills in the Colorado Plateau for at least one year on or after 1 January 1940.
METHODS: Vital status was updated through 1998, and life table analyses were 
conducted.
RESULTS: Mortality from all causes and all cancers was less than expected based 
on US mortality rates. A statistically significant increase in non-malignant 
respiratory disease mortality and non-significant increases in mortality from 
lymphatic and haematopoietic malignancies other than leukaemia, lung cancer, and 
chronic renal disease were observed. The excess in lymphatic and haematopoietic 
cancer mortality was due to an increase in mortality from lymphosarcoma and 
reticulosarcoma and Hodgkin's disease. Within the category of non-malignant 
respiratory disease, mortality from emphysema and pneumoconioses and other 
respiratory disease was increased. Mortality from lung cancer and emphysema was 
higher among workers hired prior to 1955 when exposures to uranium, silica, and 
vanadium were presumably higher. Mortality from these causes of death did not 
increase with employment duration.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the observed excesses were consistent with our a priori 
hypotheses, positive trends with employment duration were not observed. 
Limitations included the small cohort size and limited power to detect a 
moderately increased risk for some outcomes of interest, the inability to 
estimate individual exposures, and the lack of smoking data. Because of these 
limitations, firm conclusions about the relation of the observed excesses in 
mortality and mill exposures are not possible.

PMCID: PMC1757824
PMID: 14691274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Am Heart J. 2004 Jan;147(1):23-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2003.09.006.

Exploring options for improving healthcare.

Wang SS(1), Mendelson DN, Schulman KA, Mark DB.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. wangmdjd@yahoo.com

New medical technologies generally must receive clearance or approval for 
marketing by the US Food and Drug Administration and be covered by an insurer, 
such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, before becoming 
available for widespread clinical use. These 2 approval processes are discrete 
and usually occur sequentially rather than collaboratively and simultaneously. 
To explore potential mechanisms for increasing regulatory collaboration between 
these 2 key health care agencies, the Duke Clinical Research Institute and 
Health Strategies Consultancy convened an informal meeting of agency, academic, 
and industry leaders on December 8 and 9, 2002, titled "Registration/Approval 
and Coverage/Payment: Exploring Options for Improving Healthcare." This article 
arises from the discussion at this conference; it does not represent the 
official views of any person or institution involved. Although the group did not 
attempt to reach a consensus, it examined several important issues surrounding 
this regulatory debate. Herein are proposed options for enhancing regulatory 
efficiency through greater coordination between the FDA and CMS, and discussion 
of these proposals from the perspectives of members of both agencies, members of 
stakeholder organizations, and academic observers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2003.09.006
PMID: 14691414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Surg Endosc. 2004 Feb;18(2):310-3. doi: 10.1007/s00464-003-8909-z. Epub 2003
Dec  29.

The effects of staging laparoscopy on trocar site and peritoneal recurrence of 
pancreatic cancer.

Velanovich V(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, Henry Ford Hospital, 2799 West Grand Boulevard., 
Detroit, MI 48202, USA. vvelano1@hfhs.org

BACKGROUND: Staging laparoscopy (SL) has been used to assess resectability of 
patients with pancreatic cancer. It has lead to increased resectability rates 
and decreased morbidity. However, experimental data suggests that laparoscopy 
and peritoneal insufflation can promote tumor growth and potential recurrence. 
Few clinical data exist to allow assessment of whether these theoretical 
concerns translate into clinical problems. The purpose of this study was to 
determine if SL increases the incidence of trocar-site and peritoneal recurrence 
of pancreatic cancer.
METHODS: A retrospective review of all patients evaluated for pancreatic cancer 
from 1996 to 2001, inclusive, was included in this study. Patients were divided 
into five groups: nonoperative management (NM), SL followed by resection (SL-R), 
SL without resection (SL-NR), exploratory laparotomy with resection (EL-R), and 
exploratory laparotomy without resection (EL-NR). Patient records were assessed 
for postoperative occurrence of carcinomatosis and/or malignant ascites, trocar- 
or incisional-site recurrence, use of postoperative chemotherapy or radiation 
therapy, and survival.
RESULTS: A total of 235 patients were included. Peritoneal progression of 
disease: NM 15.9%, SL 24.2%, EL 31.6% ( p = 0.03). Trocar/incisional recurrence: 
SL 3.0%, EL 3.9% ( p = NS). Use of chemotherapy/radiotherapy: NM 29.4%, SL-R 
76.5%, SL-NR 62.5%, EL-R 69.6%, EL-NR 41.5%. Median survival (months): NM 3; 
SL-R 15, EL-R 10 ( p = NS); SL-NR 6, EL-NR 5 ( p = NS).
CONCLUSION: SL does not increase the occurrence of trocar-site disease or 
peritoneal disease progression of pancreatic cancer. Patients who are found not 
to be resectable by SL are more likely to receive postoperative treatment. 
However, this does not appear to affect survival greatly. Nevertheless, 
avoidance of nontherapeutic laparotomy is worthwhile in these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-003-8909-z
PMID: 14691701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Surg Endosc. 2004 Feb;18(2):281-9. doi: 10.1007/s00464-002-8877-8. Epub 2003
Dec  29.

Laparoscopic total mesorectal excision (TME) for rectal cancer surgery: 
long-term outcomes.

Leroy J(1), Jamali F, Forbes L, Smith M, Rubino F, Mutter D, Marescaux J.

Author information:
(1)IRCAD-European Institute of Telesurgery (IRCAD-EITS), Louis Pasteur 
University, 1 Place de l'Hopital, 67091 Strasbourg, France.

BACKGROUND: Total mesorectal excision (TME) offers the lowest reported rates of 
local recurrence and the best survival results in patients with rectal cancer. 
However, the laparoscopic approach to resection for colorectal cancer remains 
controversial due to fears that oncologic principles will be compromised. We 
assessed the feasibility, safety and long-term outcome of laparoscopic rectal 
cancer resections following the principles of TME. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the perioperative outcome and long-term results of laparoscopic TME.
METHODS: We reviewed the prospective database of 102 consecutive unselected 
patients undergoing laparoscopic TME for rectal cancer between November 1991 and 
December 2000. Follow-up was done through office charts or direct patient 
contact. Recurrence and survival curves were generated by the Kaplan-Meier 
method.
RESULTS: Laparoscopic TME was completed successfully in 99 patients, whereas 
conversion to an open approach was required in three cases (3%). The overall 
morbidity and mortality rates were 27% and 2%, respectively, with an overall 
anastomotic leak rate of 17%. Of the 102 patients, four were excluded from the 
oncologic evaluation because final pathology was not confirmatory (two had anal 
canal squamous cell carcinoma and two had villous adenoma with dysplasia). In 90 
of the 98 remaining patients (91.8%), the resection was considered curative. The 
remainder had a palliative resection due to synchronous metastatic disease or 
locally advanced disease. Mean follow-up was 36 months (range, 6-96). There were 
no trocar site recurrences. The local recurrence rate was 6%, and the 
cancer-specific survival of all curatively resected patients was 75% at 5 years. 
The overall survival rate of all curatively resected patients was 65% at 5 
years; mean survival time was 6.23 years (95% confidence interval [CI], 
5.39-7.07).
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic TME is feasible and safe. The laparoscopic approach to 
the surgical treatment of operable rectal cancer does not seem to entail any 
oncologic disadvantages.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-002-8877-8
PMID: 14691716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Crit Care. 2003 Dec;18(4):217-27. doi: 10.1016/j.jcrc.2003.10.005.

Cost-effectiveness of drotrecogin alfa (activated) for the treatment of severe 
sepsis in Germany.

Neilson AR(1), Burchardi H, Chinn C, Clouth J, Schneider H, Angus D.

Author information:
(1)HealthEcom AG, Basel, Switzerland. aneilson@healthecon.com

Erratum in
    J Crit Care. 2004 Mar;19(1):66.

Drotrecogin alfa (activated) (Xigris; Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN) 
significantly reduced mortality in severe sepsis in the PROWESS trial. We 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of drotrecogin alfa (activated) as an adjunct to 
standard therapy from the German healthcare payer's perspective with respect to 
patients with 1) severe sepsis and 2) severe sepsis and multiple organ failure 
the approved European indication. Hospital resource use based on PROWESS was 
valued using German unit costs. German life-tables and long-term survival 
assumptions determined life-years gained. European and German healthcare 
resource use data are examined in the sensitivity analysis. We assumed a unit 
price of euro;237.50 for drotrecogin alfa (activated). Per patient treated, 
drotrecogin alfa (activated) increased costs by euro;7,500, and hospital costs 
by euro;900 for all patients (euro;7,400 and euro;1,500 respectively for the 
approved indication) and survival by 0.59 life years (0.87 life years 
respectively for the approved indication). Thus drotrecogin alfa (activated) 
cost euro;14,100 (euro;17,700 discounting life years at 3%) per life year gained 
for all patients (euro;10,200 and euro;12,900, respectively, for the approved 
indication). Testing the unit cost of drotrecogin alfa (activated), pattern of 
resource use, and survival benefit, demonstrated that cost-effectiveness lies 
well within the range of other life saving interventions in Germany representing 
good economic value.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrc.2003.10.005
PMID: 14691895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Cancer. 2004 Jan 1;100(1):72-81. doi: 10.1002/cncr.11884.

Is there age bias in the treatment of localized prostate carcinoma?

Alibhai SM(1), Krahn MD, Cohen MM, Fleshner NE, Tomlinson GA, Naglie G.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, University 
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. shabbir.alibhai@uhn.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Treatment recommendations for localized prostate carcinoma are based 
on the patient's remaining life expectancy (RLE), which is influenced by age, 
comorbidity, and tumor grade. Previous studies have evaluated the influence of 
age and comorbidity, but to the authors' knowledge not RLE, on actual treatment 
decisions.
METHODS: An age-stratified random sample of 347 patients was generated from a 
cohort of all patients with newly diagnosed prostate carcinoma in the Ontario 
Cancer Registry between May 1, 1995 and April 30, 1996 (n = 5192). Chart review 
was performed to obtain detailed tumor, comorbidity, and treatment information. 
RLE was estimated from a published model derived from a cohort of 451 men with 
untreated prostate carcinoma who were followed for 15 years. Multivariable 
logistic regression was performed to evaluate predictors of treatment, such as 
radical prostatectomy (RP), radiotherapy (RT), or potentially curative therapy 
(RP or RT), in relation to patient age, comorbidity, tumor characteristics, and 
RLE.
RESULTS: RP was provided within 6 months of diagnosis to 58.7%, 32.1%, 2.6%, and 
0% of patients of ages < 60 years, 60-69 years, 70-79 years, and 80+ years, 
respectively. The results for RT were 6.4%, 30.9%, 23.4%, and 3.3%, 
respectively. Increasing comorbidity decreased rates of RP but did not affect 
use of RT. After controlling for comorbidity and tumor characteristics, older 
men were found to be treated with RP less often than younger men with similar 
RLE, whereas RLE did not appear to influence receipt of RT.
CONCLUSIONS: Although different mechanisms may account for these results, an age 
bias may be present among urologists and radiation oncologists treating men with 
localized prostate carcinoma.

Copyright 2003 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.11884
PMID: 14692026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Health Serv J. 2003 Dec 11;113(5885):30-3.

Regeneration. The generation aim.

Forrest E.

In the late 1990s, Manchester had 27 out of 33 of the UK's top 10 per cent most 
deprived wards. The Wythenshawe Forum development aims to transform primary care 
and leisure facilities. Funding comes from a range of local, central and 
European sources.

PMID: 14692103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Rev Clin Exp Hematol. 2003 Mar;7(1):4-21.

A thalassemic child becomes adult.

Galanello R(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e Biotecnologie, Università degli Studi di 
Cagliari, Ospedale Microcitemico ASL 8, Cagliari, Italy. 
renzo.galanello@mcweb.unica.it

In the last decades, treatment of patients with beta-thalassemia has changed 
considerably, with advances in red cell transfusion and the introduction of iron 
chelation therapy. This progress has greatly increased the probability for a 
thalassemic child to reach adult age with a good quality of life. At present, 
the prognosis for thalassemia major patients is "open-ended". Compliance with 
the conventional treatment and psychological support are critical to obtain good 
results. The expectancy of a long survival of good quality encourages the 
patients to plan their future life, having a job, a family and often children. 
Optimal treatment of thalassemia major is expensive and for this reason, 
unfortunately, available only for a minority of patients in the world. Despite 
