the significant advances, other progresses are expected to further improve 
survival and quality of life. The major aim is the cure of the disease, 
increasing the possibility of bone marrow transplantation using HLA-matched 
unrelated donors, and hopefully, in the future, gene therapy. However, even the 
conventional treatment and in particular iron chelation is expected to improve. 
Efforts should be made by the Western countries, and by the international health 
and economic organizations to provide continuous and concrete support for 
achieving a high standard of management for thalassemia in all places of the 
world.

PMID: 14692232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Clin Ther. 2003 Nov;25(11):2972-87. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(03)80348-x.

Cost-effectiveness of anastrozole versus tamoxifen as first-line therapy for 
postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer.

Simons WR(1), Jones D, Buzdar A.

Author information:
(1)Global Health Economics & Outcomes Research Inc., Summit, New Jersey 07901, 
USA. rsimons@globalhealtheconomics.com

BACKGROUND: In a recent trial of first-line therapy in 353 postmenopausal women 
with predominantly hormone receptor-positive advanced breast cancer (the North 
American trial), anastrozole 1 mg QD produced a significantly longer time to 
disease progression (TTP) than tamoxifen 20 mg QD (11.1 months vs 5.6 months; P 
= 0.005). Both treatments were well tolerated, but there were fewer 
thromboembolic events and a reduced incidence of vaginal bleeding with 
anastrozole.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to conduct an economic analysis of 
anastrozole versus tamoxifen based on data from the North American trial.
METHODS: Quality-adjusted TTP (QATTP) was determined by combining TTP values 
with uniform or graded weights for adverse events using the Quality-adjusted 
Time Without Symptoms and Toxicity method. Direct health care costs before and 
after disease progression were determined from the perspective of 4 types of 
health care insurers in the United States: health maintenance organizations 
(HMOs), indemnity plans, preferred provider organizations (PPOs), and 
point-of-service (POS) plans.
RESULTS: Median QATTP with graded weights was 9.7 months for anastrozole, 
compared with 4.6 months for tamoxifen (P = 0.003). A resultant reduction in 
health care resource utilization was observed, particularly the requirements for 
hospitalization, outpatient visits, and chemotherapy, but the statistical 
significance of this observation was not assessed. Incremental cost savings per 
patient before and after disease progression were observed with anastrozole 
compared with tamoxifen (9064 dollars for HMO, 9678 dollars for indemnity plan, 
14,273 dollars for PPO, and 12,715 dollars for POS; all P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: In the US managed care setting, anastrozole produced a higher QATTP 
and incurred lower treatment costs than tamoxifen in a population of 
postmenopausal women with predominantly hormone receptor-positive advanced 
breast cancer. Therefore, anastrozole was more cost-effective than tamoxifen as 
first-line endocrine therapy in the population studied.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(03)80348-x
PMID: 14693319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Sante. 2003 Jul-Sep;13(3):137-8.

[The French health aid policy].

[Article in French]

Wiltzer PA.

PMID: 14693471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. J Insur Med. 2003;35(1):5-8.

Comparative mortality of persons with mental retardation in California 
1980-1999.

Shavelle RM(1), Strauss DJ, Day SM.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA. 
shavelle@lifeexpectancy.com

PMID: 14694819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Circ J. 2004 Jan;68(1):35-40. doi: 10.1253/circj.68.35.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of carvedilol for the treatment of chronic heart 
failure in Japan.

Inomata T(1), Izumi T, Kobayashi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Cardiology, Kitasato University School of 
Medicine, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, Japan. inotaka@med.kitasato-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of beta-blocker use in patients with chronic 
heart failure (CHF) has never been elucidated in a Japanese study.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Markov model for outpatients with CHF was constructed to 
simulate remaining life expectancy and expected medical costs for each patient. 
Each patient was assumed that they received either carvedilol in addition to 
conventional therapies (ie, digitalis, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors) or conventional therapies alone. Analyses were conducted both 
for each patient's remaining lifetime and for a period of 5 years. Analyses were 
performed from the perspective of Japanese healthcare insurance. Analysis for 
treatment over the course of each patient's expected life span with carvedilol 
plus conventional therapies versus conventional therapies alone yielded expected 
medical costs of 3.5 million yen and 5.5 million yen respectively, and a life 
expectancy of 121 months and 88 months, respectively. The analysis of a 5-year 
period yielded 1.4 million yen and 2.8 million yen in expected medical costs and 
49 and 45 months life expectancy, respectively, for carvedilol versus 
conventional therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Carvedilol treatment for CHF patients is a highly cost-effective 
method of therapy in the Japanese medical environment.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.68.35
PMID: 14695463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Am J Hematol. 2004 Jan;75(1):52-5. doi: 10.1002/ajh.10454.

Myocardial infarction in a patient with beta-thalassemia major: first report.

Fridlender ZG(1), Rund D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hadassah University Hospital and the Hebrew 
University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel. zvi_f@yahoo.com

Thalassemia is the most common hereditary anemia throughout the world. Survival 
in its most severe long-term form, beta-thalassemia major, has significantly 
risen in the last decades. Cardiac morbidity-heart failure and dysrhythmias-is 
still the most common cause of mortality in these patients. We describe herein a 
case of myocardial infarction with normal coronary arteries in a 48-year-old 
patient with beta-thalassemia and no other recognized risk factors for coronary 
artery disease. Thromboembolic phenomena, a known situation in these patients, 
occur at a frequency of 4-5%. However, as far as we know, this is the first 
report in the literature of myocardial infarction in association with 
beta-thalassemia. With the notable improvement in the life expectancy of 
thalassemia patients, ischemic heart disease may become an important 
complication encountered in these patients.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.10454
PMID: 14695633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Biofactors. 2003;18(1-4):237-44. doi: 10.1002/biof.5520180226.

Caenorhabditis elegans ubiquinone biosynthesis genes.

Rodríguez-Aguilera JC(1), Asencio C, Ruiz-Ferrer M, Vela J, Navas P.

Author information:
(1)Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo, Departamento de Ciencias 
Ambientales, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Ctra. Utrera, Km. 1, E-41013 Sevilla, 
Spain.

Ubiquinone (coenzyme Q, Q) is an essential lipid electron carrier in the 
mitochondria respiratory chain, and also functions as antioxidant and 
participates as a cofactor of mitochondrial uncoupling proteins. Caernorhabditis 
elegans synthesize Q9, but both dietary Q8 intake and endogenous Q9 biosynthesis 
determine Q balance. Thus, it is of current interest to know the regulatory 
mechanisms of Q9 biosynthesis in this nematode. Here we review results that 
leaded to identification of genes involved in Q9 biosynthesis in this nematode 
using the RNA interference technology. C. elegans coq genes were silenced and 
depletion of Q content was observed, indicating that the genes related here 
participate in Q9 biosynthesis. Silenced populations showed an extension of 
adult life span, probably by the decrease of endogenous oxidative stress 
produced in mitochondria. We also report the heterologous complementation of C. 
elegans coq-5 and coq-7 genes in their homologue yeast coq null mutants, leading 
to restore its ability to growth in non-fermentable sugars. These complemented 
yeast strains accumulated Q6 but also the intermediate demethoxy-Q6. These 
findings support the conservative functional homology of these genes.

DOI: 10.1002/biof.5520180226
PMID: 14695939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Hepatogastroenterology. 2003 Nov-Dec;50(54):1903-9.

Innovative chemotherapies for stage III colon cancer: a cost-effectiveness 
study.

Koperna T(1), Semmler D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hospital Mistelbach, Liechtensteinstrasse 67, A-2130 
Mistelbach, Austria. t.koperna@aon.at

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The lower mortality rate associated with Oxaliplatin or 
Irinotecan added to Fluorouracil chemotherapy for stage III colon cancer should 
outweigh significantly higher costs of these therapies. While efficacy data 
currently are lacking, our aim was to generate cost-effectiveness data about a 
range of potential benefits to define the increase in mortality reduction 
required for the future acceptance of these new chemotherapies.
METHODOLOGY: Estimates of efficacy were derived from the literature. Forty-seven 
of our patients treated with Oxaliplatin or Fluorouracil/Leucovorin alone were 
evaluated for cost-analysis.
RESULTS: Three scenarios for Oxaliplatin chemotherapies were constructed with a 
20% to 50% increase of mortality reduction at 5 years after surgery when 
compared to Fluorouracil chemotherapy. The associated increase of 
cost-effectiveness ratio to Fluorouacil chemotherapy was 92% to 36%. A 
sensitivity analysis for various key input parameters demonstrated the 
robustness of the model overall. Only the choice of another chemotherapy 
schedule may significantly alter cost-effective ratios (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Even the most conservative scenario showed a discounted 
cost-effectiveness ratio of only 12,485 per life year gained, when compared to 
best supportive care and therefore met strict cost-effectiveness standards. 
Oxaliplatin chemotherapy should be accepted for all patients with stage III 
colon cancer if the required 20% increase in mortality reduction is achieved. 
Because of the high impact on cost-effectiveness each more expensive 
chemo-therapy schedule with higher overall dosage should first prove its 
superior clinical efficacy.

PMID: 14696430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2003 Nov-Dec;18(6):826-34.

Long-term evaluation of submerged and nonsubmerged ITI solid-screw titanium 
implants: a 10-year life table analysis of 468 implants.

Lambrecht JT(1), Filippi A, Künzel AR, Schiel HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, Oral Radiology and Oral Medicine, School of 
Dental Medicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland. 
J-Thomas.Lambrecht@unibas.ch

PURPOSE: Submerged and nonsubmerged ITI solid-screw titanium implants were 
followed retrospectively from 1989 to 1993 and prospectively from 1994 on to 
analyze long-term prognosis in partially and fully edentulous patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 468 implants were consecutively inserted in 191 
patients from 1989 to 1998. Two hundred twenty-eight successfully integrated 
fixed-restoration implants and 238 with removable restorations were restored 
following a healing period of 4 to 6 months (9 months in sinus floor elevation 
sites). From 1994 on all implants inserted were documented annually up to 9 
years. During examination the clinical status of the implants was analyzed and 
evaluated according to predefined criteria of success and this allowed the 
calculation of 10-year cumulative survival and success rates for 468 implants.
RESULTS: Two implants (0.43%) did not successfully integrate during the healing 
period, and 8 implants (1.7%) were classified as failures during follow-up (1 
late failure under load, 7 with a progressive bone loss from 1 to 3 threads). 
Including 68 implants in subjects who dropped out (with a dropout rate of 
14.4%), the 10-year cumulative survival and success rates were 99.2% and 96.4%, 
respectively.
DISCUSSION: Over the course of this long-term study, osseointegrated implants, 
once used as a last possible solution, became nearly standard in cases of 
single-tooth implants because of the high rate of long-term success. Life table 
analysis not only determines whether an implant is functioning, it also makes a 
statement about its clinical status according to strict success criteria.
CONCLUSION: The study demonstrated that ITI solid-screw titanium implants 
achieved success rates above 95% in a clinical center for an observation period 
of up to 10 years.

PMID: 14696658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. J Aging Soc Policy. 2003;15(2-3):85-108. doi: 10.1300/J031v15n02_06.

Aging, disability, and disabled older people in India.

Prakash IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Bangalore University, Bangalore, India. jprak@bgl.vsnl.net.in

India is witnessing a demographic revolution, leading to a considerable increase 
in the proportion of older people in the population. Similarly, life expectancy 
of both the mentally and physically disabled has improved considerably. About 5% 
of Indian older people have problems with physical mobility. Aging has become a 
gender issue in India not only because more women are surviving into old age; 
they are also vulnerable and disadvantaged in many ways. In most cases they are 
the only caregivers available for the old and disabled. Older Indians are 
considered a high-risk group for multiple morbidity. It is estimated that nearly 
four million Indians suffer from mental problems. India has around 12 million 
people designated as "handicapped." However, little information is available 
about disabled people who grow older. The National Policy on Older Persons, 
which has been recently formulated, aims at providing an improved quality of 
life for millions of older Indians. However, the concerns of older disabled and 
of the disabled who grow old are still treated separately in both policy and 
practice.

DOI: 10.1300/J031v15n02_06
PMID: 14696691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. J Aging Soc Policy. 2003;15(2-3):125-42. doi: 10.1300/J031v15n02_08.

Issues of elder care and elder abuse in the Indian context.

Jamuna D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Ageing, Department of Psychology, S. V. University, 
Tirupati, India. jumunad123@rediffmail.com

With 7% of the population of India being elderly, two-thirds of whom live in 
villages and nearly a half of them in poor conditions, the care of the elderly 
is a difficult problem to be tackled. The dwindling of the joint family, the 
rise of dual-career families, a possible shift in filial piety values, the 
increasing life expectancy with greater chances of a prolonged old age 
characterized by poverty, degeneration, more empty-nest years, and dependency, 
have all added to the seriousness of the problem and made the elderly more 
susceptible than ever to abusive treatment. This paper examines these issues as 
well as the issue of elder abuse in light of available data and suggests some 
strategies to meet the problem. Also discussed are the problems, stresses, and 
strains of caregivers of the elderly. A greater role is envisaged for 
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) than the state in the care of the elderly, 
particularly in providing support services to family caregivers.

DOI: 10.1300/J031v15n02_08
PMID: 14696693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. An Med Interna. 2003 Dec;20(12):627-9.

[Triiodothyronine intoxication. A clinical and phamacokinetic study].

[Article in Spanish]

Botella de Maglia J(1), Compte Torrero L, Rivas Sánchez A, Pérez Pastor JL.

Author information:
(1)Servicios de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital La Fe, Valencia.

A woman, thyroidectomised because of a thyroid papillary carcinoma, interrupted 
temporarily her levothyroxine intake in order to be subjected to an extension 
study five weeks later. To minimise her symptoms for the first three weeks, a 
treatment was prescribed consisting of one 25 micro g-capsule of 
triiodothyronine every 8 hours. Nine days later she complained of abdominal 
pain, nausea, vomiting, fever of 40 degrees C and chest discomfort. A serum 
total triiodothyronine of 575.2 nmol/l was measured by chemoluminiscent 
immunoassay eleven hours after the intake of the latest capsule (normal level: 
1.1-2.9 nmol/l). Along the following ten days the patient suffered from 
delirium, agitation, tachycardia, hypertension, constipation and later 
diarrhoea, but neither arrythmias nor axillary temperature over 38 degrees C. 
Fifty-nine measurements of the serum total triiodothyronine were performed in 
order to determine the kinetics of elimination of this drug. We estimate that 
the maximal serum concentration after the intake of the latest capsule could be 
794.3 nmol/l, i.e. 397 times higher than the mean normal value. The elimination 
half-life was 24 hours 40 minutes. The charcoal haemoperfusion had no impact on 
the velocity of elimination. The concentration of triiodothyronine became normal 
200 hours after the intake of the latest capsule, but the clinical 
manifestations still lasted three days more. The pharmacokinetic data suggest 
that this intoxication could be due to the intake of capsules containing 5 mg of 
triiodothyronine, i.e. a dose 200 times higher than that prescribed by her 
physician.

PMID: 14697084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2004 Jan 1;58(1):34-42. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(03)01434-2.

Predictors of preferences and utilities in men treated with 3D-CRT for prostate 
cancer.

Bruner DW(1), Hanlon A, Mazzoni S, Raysor S, Konski A, Hanks G, Pollack A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Science, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA. D_Watkins-Bruner@fccc.edu

PURPOSE: To assess the preferences and utilities for prostate cancer health 
state scenarios of men treated with three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy and 
the predictors of treatment preferences.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The preferences and utilities for probabilistic health 
states of impotence and incontinence associated with prostate cancer therapies 
were elicited from prostate cancer registry participants using a modified time 
trade-off interview. Sociodemographic, disease, and treatment characteristics, 
as well as quality-of-life scores, were assessed to determine the predictors of 
preferences.
RESULTS: Fifty-seven men treated with three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy 
completed the time trade-off interview. Of these men, 83% had Stage T1-T2 and 
30% were receiving hormonal therapy. The utilities followed a linear trend with 
declining scores for increasing risk of poorer health states. Men showed an 
increased preference for health states associated with radiotherapy compared 
with surgery or hormonal therapy. Univariate predictors of preference included 
income and marital status. Multivariate predictors of preferences included more 
aggressive therapy and better prognostic indicators. Current quality-of-life 
scores in terms of global, sexual, or urinary function were poor predictors of 
preferences.
CONCLUSION: Preference elicitation can assist in decision-making, and 
understanding the predictors of patient preferences can assist in identifying 
factors that may increase patient perceptions of poorer outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(03)01434-2
PMID: 14697418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Neurotoxicology. 2004 Jan;25(1-2):271-7. doi: 10.1016/S0161-813X(03)00106-2.

Monoamine oxidase-B inhibition in Alzheimer's disease.

Riederer P(1), Danielczyk W, Grünblatt E.

Author information:
(1)Neurochemical Laboratory, Clinic for Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Bayerische 
Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg, Füchsleinstr 15, 97080 Würzburg, 
Germany.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in late life. 
There is still no clear-cut consensus whether this disease involves genetic or 
environmental factors or both. There is a great need to find a way to delay the 
disease, as delaying the onset of the disease will bring a great relieve on 
social and medical resources. The monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitors were 
shown to be effective in treating Parkinson's disease and possibly AD, with 
concomitant extension of life span. This article gives a short review on MAO-B 
inhibitors and their mechanism for neuroprotective effects in AD.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-813X(03)00106-2
PMID: 14697902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Transplant Proc. 2003 Dec;35(8):3089-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2003.10.085.

Autologous bone marrow transplant in a patient with sickle cell disease and 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

Onitilo AA(1), Lazarchick J, Brunson CY, Frei-Lahr D, Stuart RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hematology/Oncology Division, Medical University of 
South Carolina, 96 Jonathon Lucas Street, Charleston, SC 29425, USA.

As the life expectancy of patients with homozygous sickle cell anemia (SCA) 
improves, SCA care providers are confronted with diseases of the adult SCA 
population rarely seen before. We report here a 40-year-old woman with SCA who 
developed diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) that was treated 
with eight cycles of chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, 
vincristine, prednisone, and etoposide (CHOPE), without complete remission. She 
subsequently underwent high-dose cyclophosphamide and total-body irradiation 
followed by autologous bone marrow transplantation (BMT). To reduce the risk of 
sickle cell crisis precipitated by G-CSF, she underwent hypertransfusion to 
maintain a low % hemoglobin S throughout her treatment course. Although she has 
required iron chelation therapy and shows no sign of modification of her 
underlying SCA, she remains in remission from NHL 12 years posttransplant. To 
our knowledge, this is the first reported case of autologous BMT in a patient 
with SCA. Our patient illustrates that SCA in itself does not preclude 
autologous stem cell transplantation for lymphoma in selected patients, and this 
report should encourage others to consider autologous BMT in adults with SCA 
where it represents a lifesaving therapy for malignant diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2003.10.085
PMID: 14697986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2004 Mar-Apr;38(2):153-66. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2003.09.002.

Functional status and active life expectancy among senior citizens in a small 
town in Japan.

Konno K(1), Katsumata Y, Arai A, Tamashiro H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health for Senior Citizens, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Hokkaido University, Kita 15, Nishi 7, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan.

The objectives of this study were to understand transition patterns and 
mechanisms of functional status, and to estimate active life expectancy (ALE) 
among senior citizens in a small town in Japan. With data drawn from surveys 
conducted annually from 1998 to 2002 (n=638 at baseline), prevalence and 
incidence of functional disability in activities of daily living (ADL) and 
instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) were described and compared 
between the sexes. Then relationships between potential predictors and 
functional decline through a 4-year follow-up were examined using logistic 
regression. Finally, active and disabled life expectancy was estimated by Katz's 
method. At baseline, 9 and 12% of subjects were dependent in performing ADL and 
IADL, respectively. Prevalence and incidence rates increased with age. The risk 
of mortality increased by 2.2-5.0-fold when the subject was functionally 
dependent at the previous year. Advanced age, difficulty in walking and poor 
interest were shown to be significant predictors of loss of independence in ADL. 
Mean durations with disability in ADL and IADL among women were longer than 
among men by around 1 year. Population-specific preventive care programs 
considering physical, cognitive and social aspects are needed not only to 
maximize ALE but also to improve quality of life during survival period with 
disability especially in old women.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2003.09.002
PMID: 14698494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Nov-Dec;38(11-12):1353-64. doi:
10.1016/j.exger.2003.10.019.

Genetic mouse models of extended lifespan.

Liang H(1), Masoro EJ, Nelson JF, Strong R, McMahan CA, Richardson A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, 7703 Floyd Curl Drive, MSC 7762, San Antonio, TX 78229-3900, USA.

Since 1996, seven genetic mouse models have been reported to show increased 
lifespan: Ames and Snell dwarf mice, the 'little mouse' (Ghrhr(lit/lit)), mice 
null for either growth hormone receptor/binding protein (GHR/BP(-/-)) or 
p66(shc) (p66(shc-/-)), mice heterozygous for the IGF-I receptor (Igf1r(+/-)), 
and fat-specific insulin receptor knockout mice. In this article, we describe 
and evaluate these mouse models with respect to their relevance for aging 
studies. While these seven genetic models all show a significant increase in 
lifespan, issues of sample size and animal husbandry procedures require further 
evaluation before firm conclusions can be drawn on the reproducibility of life 
extension in most of these mouse models. Because data on the age-related 
pathology and physiological functions are lacking for all of the models, except 
the dwarf mice, it is too early to conclude that aging is retarded in these 
mouse models. However, these mouse models are already providing new information 
about the mechanism underlying mammalian aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2003.10.019
PMID: 14698816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. MMW Fortschr Med. 2003 Nov 6;145(45):34-6.

[Early death of the stronger sex. Could behavior change influence men's fate].

[Article in German]

Klotz T(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Weiden. klotz@klinikum-weiden.de

Life expectancy in men is approximately 6.5 years shorter than in women. As an 
explanation for this difference, isolated consideration of the higher prevalence 
of coronary heart disease and cancer in men is inadequate. But it would also 
appear erroneous to postulate that differences in male and female thinking and 
behavior patterns in regard to health-risk behavior are subject to controllable 
socialization processes and "rational" realizations. The interaction of genetic 
and environmental risk factors and socialization is largely unknown. A 
sex-specific consideration of risk behavior and quality of life suggest that a 
healthy lifestyle, relevant information and preventive measures - in particular 
in males - must be initiated before puberty if they are to have a positive 
effect on mortality and morbidity during the course of a person's life.

PMID: 14699805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Lancet. 2003 Dec 20;362(9401):2078. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(03)15159-8.

Fears grow for Brazil's youth. Increased life-expectancy estimates mask 
deep-rooted problems with health care.

Finger C.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(03)15159-8
PMID: 14700071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Am Surg. 2003 Dec;69(12):1047-53; discussion 1053.

The presence of colorectal hepatic metastases does not preclude pulmonary 
metastasectomy.

Patel NA(1), Keenan RJ, Medich DS, Woo Y, Celebrezze J, Santucci T, Maley R, 
Landreneau RL, Roh MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.

Hepatic metastases due to colorectal carcinoma have often been felt to preclude 
pulmonary metastasectomy. With the recent advances in surgical options, should 
patients with both liver and lung metastases be considered for surgical 
resection? The current study reviews the impact of such aggressive management on 
disease-free and overall survival (OS). The clinical course of 63 patients 
presenting with colorectal metastasis to the lung alone (group 1, n = 45) or 
combined hepatic and lung metastases (group 2, n = 18) were reviewed. All 
patients underwent complete resection of their lung metastases. Surgical control 
of hepatic tumor burden was achieved by tumor ablation, intra-arterial therapy, 
and/or resection. All patients in group 1 and group 2 were available for a mean 
follow-up of 27 and 24 months, respectively. The presence of hepatic metastases, 
the resectability of hepatic tumor burden, and the disease-free interval after 
pulmonary metastasectomy did not significantly influence survival. These 
findings demonstrate that aggressive surgical management of pulmonary metastases 
in the presence of liver metastases offers a similar benefit as compared to 
patients with pulmonary metastases alone. Therefore, hepatic metastatic disease 
does not preclude an attempt at pulmonary metastasectomy if hepatic metastases 
can be resected or remains responsive to therapy. Such an approach achieves 
comparable OS and mean survival when compared to pulmonary metastasectomy alone.

PMID: 14700289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Am J Ophthalmol. 2004 Jan;137(1):145-55. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9394(03)00900-0.

Impact of cataract surgery on the visual ability of the very old.

Mönestam E(1), Wachmeister L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences/Ophthalmology, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden. 
eva.monestam@vll.se

PURPOSE: To compare the functional outcome of cataract surgery in terms of 
visual ability between patients ages younger than 84 years, 85 to 89 years, and 
90+ years. Survival time will be estimated at 4 years.
DESIGN: Population-based, observational case series.
METHODS: We prospectively evaluated elderly cataract patients' self-assessed 
visual ability regarding reading, TV viewing, orientation ability, activities of 
daily life, satisfaction, and visual acuity (VA) before and approximately 3 
months after cataract surgery. All patients operated on during a 1-year period 
from our geographically defined admitting area that participated with a 
questionnaire were included (n = 837). Survival was checked after 4 years.
RESULTS: Before surgery, the most elderly were significantly more dissatisfied 
with their visual function (P =.007). Seventy-six percent of 85+ improved their 
subjective ability to read, and two-thirds of those unable to read newspaper 
print were able to read after surgery. A total of 79% of 90+ experienced 
improved postoperative ability to manage their daily lives. Best-corrected VA 
(BCVA) improved in 94% (90+ years of age), 90% (85 to 89 years of age), and 97% 
(younger than 84 years of age), respectively. After surgery, VA was 
significantly worse with increasing age, also after adjustment for ocular 
comorbidity (P <.0001). Patients with a BCVA improvement of less than 0.3 
logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution units, patients with comorbidity, 
and patients aged 90+ had approximately 3 times the odds of being dissatisfied 
with vision after surgery. A total of 43% of 90+ years and 62% of 85 to 89 years 
were alive 4 years after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Most patients aged 85 and older had improved visual ability, 
acuity, and satisfaction after cataract surgery. In terms of visual function, 
surgery of significant cataracts in the very old is beneficial also when life 
expectancy is taken in account.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9394(03)00900-0
PMID: 14700658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Mol Cell Biol. 2004 Jan;24(2):651-61. doi: 10.1128/MCB.24.2.651-661.2004.

Phosphorylation of critical serine residues in Gem separates cytoskeletal 
reorganization from down-regulation of calcium channel activity.

Ward Y(1), Spinelli B, Quon MJ, Chen H, Ikeda SR, Kelly K.

Author information:
(1)Cell and Cancer Biology Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute/NIH, Building 10, Room 3B43, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Gem is a small GTP-binding protein that has a ras-like core and extended chains 
at each terminus. The primary structure of Gem and other RGK family members 
(Rad, Rem, and Rem2) predicts a GTPase deficiency, leading to the question of 
how Gem functional activity is regulated. Two functions for Gem have been 
demonstrated, including inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channel activity and 
inhibition of Rho kinase-mediated cytoskeletal reorganization, such as stress 
fiber formation and neurite retraction. These functions for Gem have been 
ascribed to its interaction with the calcium channel beta subunit and Rho kinase 
beta, respectively. We show here that these functions are separable and 
regulated by distinct structural modifications to Gem. Phosphorylation of 
serines 261 and 289, located in the C-terminal extension, is required for 
Gem-mediated cytoskeletal reorganization, while GTP and possibly calmodulin 
binding are required for calcium channel inhibition. In addition to regulating 
cytoskeletal reorganization, phosphorylation of serine 289 in conjunction with 
serine 23 results in bidentate 14-3-3 binding, leading to increased Gem protein 
half-life. Evidence presented shows that phosphorylation of serine 261 is 
mediated via a cdc42/protein kinase Czeta-dependent pathway. These data 
demonstrate that phosphorylation of serines 261 and 289, outside the GTP-binding 
region of Gem, controls its inhibition of Rho kinase beta and associated changes 
in the cytoskeleton.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.24.2.651-661.2004
PMCID: PMC343818
PMID: 14701738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. QJM. 2004 Jan;97(1):7-13. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hch004.

Predicting late sudden death from ventricular arrhythmia in adults following 
surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot.

Steeds RP(1), Oakley D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, Birmingham, 
UK. rick.steeds@uhb.nhs.uk

Tetralogy of Fallot was the first complex congenital cardiac defect to undergo 
open repair. The life expectancy and quality of life of those surviving surgery 
is now good, although late survival is compromised by the occurrence of sudden 
death. The emergence of successful methods for both the prevention of 
arrhythmias (including valve replacements and electrophysiological ablation) and 
the treatment of arrhythmias when they occur (including implantable 
defibrillators), has meant the identification of those at risk is of even 
greater importance. This paper reviews the predictive methods currently 
available to the practising physician caring for these increasingly common 
patients.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hch004
PMID: 14702506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Harefuah. 2003 Dec;142(12):841-3, 877.

[Longevity in gerontology and in Judaism--quantity years or quality years?].

[Article in Hebrew]

Jaul E(1).

Author information:
(1)Herzog Hospital, Jerusalem.

In this day and age, we have been granted longevity--both a blessing and a 
curse. Longevity has resulted in new diseases, illnesses and long-term 
disabilities due to the shift from death caused by acute infectious diseases and 
by chronic diseases such as cancer, cardiac and vascular diseases, to morbidity 
caused by chronic cases of arthritis, Alzheimer's and sensory 
disabilities--auditory and visual. Chronic diseases are characterized by 
long-term illness and result in escalating reduction in functioning, with an 
increase in the elderly person's dependence on his family or society. What do we 
mean when we say 'longevity'? Do we add days to our lives or perhaps life to our 
days? What can we expect? How do we achieve longevity? I have looked into the 
Torah, into the words of the Sages and into the findings of geriatric research. 
I have found that, both in gerontology, and in the words of the Sages, longevity 
is accompanied by quality of life. In gerontology, 'quality of life' is measured 
as being active and independent, including the ability to carry out routine 
daily activities (ADL). Katz and his colleagues have used the terms 'active life 
expectancy' and 'dependent life expectancy'. The ability to predict active life 
expectancy is no less important than predicting mortality, and particularly how 
to achieve active life expectancy. The Sages praise longevity, accompanied by 
wisdom: "In the elderly, wisdom, and in wisdom, long life' (Job). In addition, 
they say: 'For longevity and years of life and peace shall be granted to you' 
(Proverbs), to teach the blessing of longevity accompanied by wisdom. To achieve 
longevity, one should maintain regular habits that reduce the risk of illness 
such as physical exercise, a balanced diet, no smoking, and have a relaxed 
attitude to self-importance and to financial matters, while emphasizing the 
routine and stable elements of one's daily life.

PMID: 14702752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Eur J Public Health. 2003 Dec;13(4):327-33. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/13.4.327.

Social gradients in years of potential life lost in Ireland.

O'Shea E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, The National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland. 
eamon.oshea@nuigalway.ie

BACKGROUND: The study of mortality differentials by class or socio-economic 
group is underdeveloped in Ireland in comparison to other countries. The work 
that has been done has used a standardized mortality ratio (SMR) methodology to 
measure deaths. There has been no previous work exploring the social gradient in 
years of potential life lost (YPLL) in Ireland.
METHODS: The aim is to investigate socio-economic mortality differentials for 
men aged between 15 and 69 in Ireland, using YPLL as a measure of premature 
mortality. The design is a mortality trends study. The study is based on 
mortality data supplied by the Central Statistics Office in Ireland and 
population data taken from the Census for the years 1981 and 1991. The data 
covers all male deaths aged 15-69 in the years 1981 and 1991. Social position is 
measured by a 12-category socio-economic group (SEG) framework and by a more 
aggregate four-category occupational classification system.
RESULTS: When age at death is taken into account through YPLL, injury and 
poisoning is a major cause of premature mortality in Ireland for all 
socio-economic groups. The results also show significant differentials in YPLL 
by 12-category SEG in Ireland. There was a widening of the social gap during the 
period 1981 to 1991 as measured by the YPLL ratio between lower manual/upper 
non-manual occupational groups. The use of YPLL as a measure of premature 
mortality highlights the importance of respiratory disease and injury and 
poisoning as the major sources of health inequality in 1981 and 1991.
CONCLUSIONS: YPLL is an important indicator of general mortality and for 
monitoring mortality differentials by socio-economic group. Current health 
inequalities as measured by YPLL are unacceptably high in Ireland. A 
comprehensive government strategy to reduce inequalities in mortality is 
required, having the primary objective of improving the economic and social 
circumstances of people in the lower manual occupational category. There is also 
a need to develop measurable priorities and programmes for the reduction of 
premature mortality in the injury and poisoning category for all social groups, 
and especially for people in the lower manual group. This means action now to 
prevent future deaths from road accidents, accidents at work and suicides.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/13.4.327
PMID: 14703319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Genetics. 2003 Dec;165(4):2295-9. doi: 10.1093/genetics/165.4.2295.

A Sod2 null mutation confers severely reduced adult life span in Drosophila.

Duttaroy A(1), Paul A, Kundu M, Belton A.

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, Howard University, Washington, DC 20059, USA. 
aduttaroy@howard.edu

A null mutation for the Sod2 gene, Sod2n283, was obtained in Drosophila 
melanogaster. Homozygous Sod2 null (Sodn283/Sodn283) adult flies survive up to 
24 hr following eclosion, a phenotype reminiscent of mice, where Sod2-/- progeny 
suffer neonatal lethality. Sodn283/+ heterozygotes are sensitive to oxidative 
stress induced by paraquat treatment.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/165.4.2295
PMCID: PMC1462872
PMID: 14704205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. J Craniofac Surg. 2004 Jan;15(1):92-7. doi:
10.1097/00001665-200401000-00026.

Successful free osteocutaneous scapular flap transfer for mandibular 
reconstruction in a 93-year-old patient.

Niitsuma K(1), Hatoko M, Kuwahara M, Tanaka A, Iioka H, Fukuda T, Yane K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic Surgery, Nara Medical University, Kashihara, Japan. 
niitsuma@nmu-gw.naramed-u.ac.jp

With the extension of the average life span and the development of surgical 
technique, anesthesia, and pre- and postoperative management, operations for 
elderly patients have become more widely accepted. In the field of plastic 
surgery, free-flap transfers using microvascular techniques have become a common 
surgical procedure in reconstruction of the head and neck region after surgical 
removal of a cancer. There have been several reports of free-flap transfer in 
patients older than 90 years, but the authors know of no reports of free 
osteocutaneous flap transfer for mandibular reconstruction, which is a very 
invasive free-flap surgery, for such patients. The mandible plays a significant 
role in various kinds of dynamic functions, such as mastication, deglutition, 
and articulation. Disorder of these functions causes a deterioration in the 
patient's quality of life. The authors have performed a mandibular 
reconstruction using an osteocutaneous scapular free flap after resection of a 
gingival cancer invading the mandibular bone in a 93-year-old Japanese woman. In 
our case, an osteocutaneous scapular free flap, which permits the patient rapid 
rehabilitation of the lower leg, is thought to be a good choice because it 
allows the patient to get out of bed as quickly as possible in the postoperative 
period to minimize additional complications.

DOI: 10.1097/00001665-200401000-00026
PMID: 14704572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2003;27(1):5-11. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2003.tb00372.x.

Healthy life expectancy: comparison of OECD countries in 2001.

Mathers CD(1), Murray CJ, Salomon JA, Sadana R, Tandon A, Lopez AD, Ustün B, 
Chatterji S.

Author information:
(1)Global Program on Evidence for Health Policy, World Health Organization, 20 
Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland. mathersc@who.ch

OBJECTIVES: To compare average levels of population health for Australia and 
other OECD countries in 2001.
METHODS: Healthy life expectancies (HALE) for OECD countries for 2001 are based 
on analysis of mortality data for OECD countries, country-specific estimates of 
health state prevalences for 135 causes from the Global Burden of Disease 2000 
study, and an analysis of 34 health surveys in 28 OECD countries, using novel 
methods to improve the comparability of self-report data.
RESULTS: HALE at birth ranges from a low of 59.8 years for Turkey to a high of 
73.6 years in Japan in 2001. Australia ranks fourth among OECD countries at 71.6 
years with a 95% uncertainty interval of 70.9 to 72.8 years, ahead of New 
Zealand in 13th place at 70.3 years. The equivalent 'lost' healthy years at 
birth range from around 10 years in OECD countries with lowest life expectancies 
to around eight years in those with high life expectancies at birth. There is a 
statistically significant association between higher levels of health 
expenditure and higher healthy life expectancy across OECD countries, although 
causal inferences require more sophisticated analyses of the health system and 
non-health system determinants of levels of health.
CONCLUSIONS: The new methods used in the WHO Multi-Country Household Survey 
Study have increased the comparability of self-report data across OECD 
countries, a major step forward in the use of self-reported data on health. 
Building on this experience, WHO is developing improved health status 
measurement techniques for a World Health Survey to be carried out in 2002/03.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2003.tb00372.x
PMID: 14705260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2003;27(1):34-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2003.tb00377.x.

The benefits and costs of tamoxifen for breast cancer prevention.

Eckermann SD(1), Martin AJ, Stockler MR, Simes RJ.

Author information:
(1)National Health and Medical Research Council, Clinical Trials Centre, 
University of Sydney, Locked Bag 77, Camperdown NSW, 1450. simon@ctc.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effects of key uncertainties on the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of breast cancer prevention with tamoxifen.
METHODS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of tamoxifen therapy relative 
to placebo was estimated using decision analysis with Markov modelling of health 
states, outcomes and costs for a simulated cohort of women at high risk for 
breast cancer. Relative effects of tamoxifen's benefits and harms were estimated 
from meta-analyses of randomised controlled trials. Cost estimates were based on 
Australian treatment patterns and costs. The main outcome measure was cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained with costs and effects discounted at a 
5% annual rate.
RESULTS: Tamoxifen therapy over five years reduces the incidence of breast 
cancer by approximately 1.4%, which is offset by an increase in endometrial 
cancer of 0.7% and pulmonary embolism of 0.2%. If the reduction is permanent 
(preventing new breast cancers emerging over five years and no further treatment 
effect thereafter), the model estimates an increase in life expectancy of 0.057 
QALYs and an extra cost of $2,193; or $38,271/QALY gained. A model assuming 
further treatment effects of tamoxifen preventing new breast cancers emerging 
for up to 10 years results in an incremental cost of $19,354/QALY. However, if 
five years of tamoxifen therapy merely delays when these breast cancers appear 
(such that by 10 years there is no longer a reduced incidence), the incremental 
cost per QALY saved is estimated to be $199,149.
CONCLUSIONS: Tamoxifen is potentially cost-effective in preventing breast cancer 
in women at high risk. However, its cost-effectiveness as a preventive therapy 
is highly sensitive to whether these cancers are permanently prevented or their 
clinical presentation is only delayed. Long-term follow-up in randomised 
controlled trials is therefore crucial in forming health policy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2003.tb00377.x
PMID: 14705265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2003;27(4):390-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2003.tb00415.x.

An economic evaluation of increased uptake in Q fever vaccination among meat and 
agricultural industry workers following implementation of the National Q Fever 
Management Program.

Kermode M(1), Yong K, Hurley S, Marmion B.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, Deakin University, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, 
Victoria 3125. mker@deakin.edu.au

INTRODUCTION: Q fever is a serious but vaccine-preventable infectious disease 
that predominantly affects those working in the meat and agricultural 
industries. In October 2000, the Commonwealth Government introduced the National 
Q Fever Management Program. This economic evaluation assesses the 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of improved vaccine uptake among meat and 
agricultural industry workers.
METHODS: Separate analyses were conducted for meat and agricultural industry 
workers. Clinical and epidemiological data used to create the models were 
obtained from published sources. Markov modelling was used to estimate the 
impact of Q fever vaccination uptake on the direct costs and outcomes of Q fever 
over a 20-year period.
RESULTS: Increasing vaccine uptake from 65% to 100% among meat industry workers 
results in an incremental cost per life year gained of $20,002, and a cost per 
QALY of $6,294. Increasing vaccine uptake from zero to 20% among agricultural 
industry workers results in an incremental cost per life year gained of $24,950, 
and a cost per QALY of $7,984. Including some indirect costs in the form of 
Workcover payments results in cost savings for both industry groups.
CONCLUSION: The results of this evaluation indicate that public health 
strategies to enhance the uptake of Q fever vaccine among high-risk workers 
potentially provides excellent value for the money invested.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2003.tb00415.x
PMID: 14705300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Mech Ageing Dev. 2004 Jan;125(1):21-30. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2003.10.008.

An alpha-tocopherol dose response study in Paramecium tetraurelia.

Minogue PJ(1), Thomas JN.

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, Northeastern Illinois University, Chicago, IL 60625, USA.

Vitamin E (D,L-alpha-tocopherol) was administered to Paramecium tetraurelia in 
doses of 10, 100, 1000 and 10,000mg/l throughout its clonal lifespan. ANOVA 
revealed significant differences in clonal lifespan between groups, whether 
lifespan was measured in total fissions, or in days (P<0.05). When mean clonal 
lifespan was measured in fissions the greatest difference was between the 
1000mg/l alpha-tocopherol treatment at 382 fissions, and the ethanol control at 
255.5 fissions. The greatest difference in mean clonal lifespan in days survived 
was between the 10,000mg/l alpha-tocopherol treatment at 292.5 days and the 
ethanol control at 76 days. ANOVA also revealed significant differences (P<0.05) 
in the initial cell fission rates between groups. At the 1000 and 10,000mg/l 
concentrations of alpha-tocopherol, a decrease in cell fission rates was 
apparent early in the lifespan, but these rates began to increase gradually 
during the late clonal lifespan. Although no clonal toxicity effects were found 
in terms of decreasing life-expectancy, the 1000 and 10,000mg/l treatment groups 
exhibited higher background mortality rates throughout their respective 
lifespans than did the control groups, which could represent a cytotoxic effect.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2003.10.008
PMID: 14706234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Urology. 2003 Dec 22;62(6 Suppl 1):13-9. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.10.008.

Use of algorithms as determinants for individual patient decision making: 
national comprehensive cancer network versus artificial neural networks.

Crawford ED(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Urologic Oncology, Division of Urology, University of Colorado 
Health Science Center and the University of Colorado Cancer Center, Denver, 
Colorado 80262, USA. david.crawford@uchsc.edu

The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) developed a series of 
algorithms based on expert opinion to guide the treatment of patients with 
prostate cancer. These algorithms define acceptable treatment options according 
to the risk of disease recurrence and the life expectancy of the patient. 
However, practicing clinicians are expected to use medical judgment when making 
