actual treatment decisions. Many clinical and pathologic variables affect 
patient prognosis, which, in turn, influences the treatment and surveillance of 
patients. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) offer promise for improving the 
predictive value of traditional statistical modeling. ANN models have been 
designed that predict risk of lymph node spread and capsular involvement during 
disease staging, risk of disease recurrence after prostatectomy, and overall and 
cause-specific survival. This article provides a review of guidelines, such as 
NCCN and ANN, used for the management of prostate cancer and suggests that 
group-level recommendations based on these algorithms or other decision trees 
may misrepresent individual patient preferences for treatment. Patients and 
their clinicians need to consider available prognostic information, including 
clinical status, pathologic variables, and comorbidities, and then select a 
reasonable treatment approach that maximizes outcome and quality of life 
according to the preferences of each patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.10.008
PMID: 14706504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Oncology. 2003;65(4):316-22. doi: 10.1159/000074644.

Impact of interval debulking surgery on clinical outcome in primary unresectable 
FIGO stage IIIc ovarian cancer patients.

Fanfani F(1), Ferrandina G, Corrado G, Fagotti A, Zakut HV, Mancuso S, Scambia 
G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Catholic University of the Sacred 
Heart, Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To report the results of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) and the 
impact of interval debulking surgery (IDS) on clinical outcomes of patients 
considered unresectable at primary surgery.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis was carried out on 73 consecutive stage IIIc 
ovarian cancer patients treated with platinum-based NACT followed by IDS. Their 
clinical outcomes were compared with those of 111 consecutive stage IIIc ovarian 
cancer patients treated with primary cytoreduction followed by platinum-based 
adjuvant chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Patients who underwent successful IDS had a more favorable prognosis 
than those who did not in terms of time to progression (TTP) (p = 0.00001), and 
overall survival (OS) (p = 0.0001). On the other hand, in the group of patients 
that underwent successful IDS, no differences in survival outcomes were observed 
between patients with no residual disease and patients with macroscopic residual 
disease <2 cm after IDS (p = n.s.).
CONCLUSIONS: NACT followed by successful IDS can achieve good results in terms 
of survival outcomes in a high percentage of chemoresponsive IIIc ovarian cancer 
patients classified as unresectable at primary surgery. These results are in 
fact inferior to those achievable with optimal primary cytoreduction; however, 
they were quite similar to those seen with suboptimal primary cytoreduction.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000074644
PMID: 14707451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Crit Care Med. 2004 Jan;32(1):137-43. doi:
10.1097/01.CCM.0000104110.74657.25.

Linezolid for treatment of ventilator-associated pneumonia: a cost-effective 
alternative to vancomycin.

Shorr AF(1), Susla GM, Kollef MH.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine Service, Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center, Washington, DC, USA.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2004 Jan;32(1):299-300.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of linezolid 
compared with vancomycin for treatment of ventilator-associated pneumonia due to 
Staphylococcus aureus.
DESIGN: Decision model analysis of the cost and efficacy of linezolid vs. 
vancomycin for treatment of ventilator-associated pneumonia. The primary outcome 
was the incremental cost-effectiveness of linezolid in terms of cost per added 
quality-adjusted life-year gained. Other outcomes were the marginal costs per 
hospital survivor and per year of life saved generated by using linezolid. Model 
estimates were derived from prospective trials of linezolid for 
ventilator-associated pneumonia and from other studies describing the costs and 
outcomes for ventilator-associated pneumonia.
SETTING AND PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of 1,000 patients diagnosed with 
ventilator-associated pneumonia.
INTERVENTIONS: In the model, patients received either linezolid or vancomycin.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness of linezolid 
was calculated as the additional quality-adjusted life-years resulting from 
therapy with linezolid divided by the sum of the incremental costs arising 
because of use of linezolid (e.g., higher direct costs for linezolid, costs per 
in-hospital care of survivors, and posthospitalization costs). Despite its 
higher cost, linezolid was cost-effective for treatment of ventilator-associated 
pneumonia. The cost per quality-adjusted life-year equals approximately 30,000 
dollars. The model was moderately sensitive to the estimated efficacy of 
linezolid over vancomycin. Nonetheless, even with all inputs simultaneously 
skewed against, linezolid remains a cost-effective option (cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year approximately 100,000 dollars). Based on Monte Carlo 
simulation, the results of our analysis are robust across a range of model 
inputs and assumptions (95% confidence interval for cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year ranges from 23,637 dollars to 42,785 dollars).
CONCLUSIONS: Linezolid is a cost-effective alternative to vancomycin for the 
treatment of ventilator-associated pneumonia.

DOI: 10.1097/01.CCM.0000104110.74657.25
PMID: 14707572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2004 Jan;113(1):363-70; discussion 371-2. doi: 
10.1097/01.PRS.0000097288.27152.38.

Treatment of human immunodeficiency virus-associated lipodystrophy with dermafat 
graft transfer to the malar area.

Strauch B(1), Baum T, Robbins N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA. bstrauch@montefiore.org

Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, a death sentence two decades ago, has been 
transformed into a chronic disease with a life expectancy of many years, due to 
the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy. Despite virologic success, 
nearly 50 percent of patients on highly active antiretroviral therapy develop 
lipodystrophy with central and visceral fat accumulation and/or facial and limb 
fat atrophy. The changes are referred to as the human immunodeficiency virus 
lipodystrophy syndrome. The authors describe a series of five patients with 
antiretroviral therapy-induced lipodystrophy of the face who benefited from 
surgical correction of their typical stigmatizing malar atrophy. Dermafat grafts 
were transferred from the abdominal wall to malar pockets through a transoral 
approach. The aesthetic results were dramatic and stable, lasting the duration 
of the 1- to 2-year follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1097/01.PRS.0000097288.27152.38
PMID: 14707661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Urban Health. 2003 Dec;80(4):608-15. doi: 10.1093/jurban/jtg067.

Integrating behavioral and social science into a public health agency: a case 
study of New York City.

Cohen NL(1), Perl S.

Author information:
(1)AMDeC Center on Biodefence, New York, NY 10020, USA. cohen@amdec.org

In the last century, both the health and life expectancy of Americans improved 
dramatically. These gains were primarily the result of advances in public 
health. But the approaches used may not be adequate to achieve the next level of 
improvements in health. Because health exists in the context of social, 
environmental, community, religious, political, and other spheres, ecological 
approaches that incorporate behavioral and social science theory and 
methodologies may provide the best avenue for advancing health in the 21st 
century. In 1999, the New York City Department of Health (NYCDOH) undertook the 
task of integrating behavioral and social science into its public health 
practice. The experience serves as a case study on the integration process at a 
public health agency.

DOI: 10.1093/jurban/jtg067
PMCID: PMC3456210
PMID: 14709708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. EMBO Rep. 2004 Jan;5(1):2-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400059.

Are we becoming less disposable?

Westendorp RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands. r.g.j.westendorp@lumc.nl

Evolution has programmed us for early survival and reproduction but has left us 
vulnerable to disease in old age. In our present affluent environment, we are 
better adapting to these improved conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400059
PMCID: PMC1298970
PMID: 14710174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Bull World Health Organ. 2003;81(9):646-56. Epub 2003 Nov 14.

Burden of major musculoskeletal conditions.

Woolf AD(1), Pfleger B.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Medical School, Duke of Cornwall Department of Rheumatology, Royal 
Cornwall Hospital, Truro TR1 3LJ, England. woolfa@dialin.net

Musculoskeletal conditions are a major burden on individuals, health systems, 
and social care systems, with indirect costs being predominant. This burden has 
been recognized by the United Nations and WHO, by endorsing the Bone and Joint 
Decade 2000-2010. This paper describes the burden of four major musculoskeletal 
conditions: osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, and low back 
pain. Osteoarthritis, which is characterized by loss of joint cartilage that 
leads to pain and loss of function primarily in the knees and hips, affects 9.6% 
of men and 18% of women aged > 60 years. Increases in life expectancy and ageing 
populations are expected to make osteoarthritis the fourth leading cause of 
disability by the year 2020. Joint replacement surgery, where available, 
provides effective relief. Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory condition 
that usually affects multiple joints. It affects 0.3-1.0% of the general 
population and is more prevalent among women and in developed countries. 
Persistent inflammation leads to joint destruction, but the disease can be 
controlled with drugs. The incidence may be on the decline, but the increase in 
the number of older people in some regions makes it difficult to estimate future 
prevalence. Osteoporosis, which is characterized by low bone mass and 
microarchitectural deterioration, is a major risk factor for fractures of the 
hip, vertebrae, and distal forearm. Hip fracture is the most detrimental 
fracture, being associated with 20% mortality and 50% permanent loss in 
function. Low back pain is the most prevalent of musculoskeletal conditions; it 
affects nearly everyone at some point in time and about 4-33% of the population 
at any given point. Cultural factors greatly influence the prevalence and 
prognosis of low back pain.

PMCID: PMC2572542
PMID: 14710506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 2003 Nov;97(8-9):593-6.

[Authorization, institutional services, hospital-based practices and cooperation 
in the hospital--from the perspective of the hospital-based physician].

[Article in German]

Mitrenga D(1).

Author information:
(1)Krankenhaus der Augustinerinnen, Abteilung für Innere Medizin, Köln. 
dr.mitrenga@koeln-kh-augustinerinnen.de

The partitioning of patient care into an ambulatory and stationary sector, which 
has been in existence for decades, was wanted from a general political and 
economic point of view and has since been a guarantee for high-quality care in 
both sectors. The demographic development and scientific medical advances 
leading to higher life expectancy in the face of increasingly sparse resources 
have made us recognise that there might be a considerable cost-saving potential 
in promoting stronger integration of stationary and ambulatory care. The trend 
towards increased specialisation of the medical profession, but also the 
emergence of new professions within the health care sector require increasing 
efforts to ensure consistent courses of treatment and the necessary 
interdisciplinary and interprofessional continuity. But given insufficient 
budgets and the resultant distribution conflicts within this system the 
situation will become more critical. Integration does not simply happen, it must 
be wanted, designed and organised. It is dependent on crossborder co-operation 
and interface competence, especially general conditions promoting instead of 
inhibiting co-operation and integration. This requires an integrative system of 
patient care opening its borders on both sides. If this system which is intended 
to ensure an open and holistic concept of care is to be directed towards the 
individual patient, the transfer of care between the ambulatory and stationary 
sectors must not be system-related and thus imply that the patient will have to 
change his doctor(s) without being asked. Integrative care can and will be 
successful if general conditions are established that allow the medical 
profession to meet the challenges of integration and interface organisation, the 
lack of which is the result of misguided health care policy and not a failure 
that can be blamed on health care providers.

PMID: 14710649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2003 Dec;17(6):1485-507. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(03)00111-4.

Prognosis, clinical outcomes and quality of life issues in cutaneous T-cell 
lymphoma.

Demierre MF(1), Kim YH, Zackheim HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, 
720 Harrison Avenue, DOB 801A, Boston, MA 02118, USA. 
mariefrance.demierre@bmc.org

Although the need for a specific QOL index for MF/SS has been recognized, little 
work has been done in this area. QOL instruments should address general health 
concepts, as well as specific issues that are relevant to patients who have 
MF/SS; a combination of two instruments may be appropriate. Confirming the 
validity, reliability, and responsiveness to change of a combination of QOL 
instruments, such as SKINDEX-29 and FACT-G, in patients who have MF/SS will be 
relevant. For patients who have MF/SS, focusing our efforts on improving the 
disease and their QOL should translate into improvements that are meaningful to 
them. Thus, our goal should be to incorporate the findings of QOL research into 
practice and use the results to guide our practices, as they relate to therapy. 
Some important considerations are: We must be explicit about what will be done 
with the information that is obtained about an individual's QOL. We should 
consider what additional knowledge QOL measures provide that we could not 
otherwise have. We should be ready for unexpected results, as exemplified by 
instances where aggressive therapy could result in improved QOL. Although 
challenges exist in moving forward QOL research in CTCL, the words of wisdom of 
Tannock bring the concept of QOL into perspective: "When cure remains elusive, 
it is time to start treating the patient, not just the tumor." A final 
consideration is that we should not forget the dimension of spirituality, which 
is especially relevant to patients who have advanced MF/SS. Spirituality is 
characterized by the capacity to seek purpose and meaning, to have faith, to 
love, to forgive, and to see beyond current circumstances. Spirituality enables 
a person to rise above suffering. Unfortunately, research on spirituality is 
scarce, in part, because of the difficulty in assessing spiritual suffering. 
Nevertheless, physicians who are caring for patients who have advanced MF/SS 
should acknowledge the spiritual dimension as an integral component of the dying 
process.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(03)00111-4
PMID: 14710899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. IUBMB Life. 2003 Oct-Nov;55(10-11):579-83. doi:
10.1080/15216540310001639274.

Nitric oxide signaling in plant-pathogen interactions.

Romero-Puertas MC(1), Delledonne M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Scientifico e Tecnologico, Università degli Studi di Verona, 
Verona, Italy.

Nitric oxide (NO), first characterized as an endothelium-derived relaxation 
factor, is involved in diverse cellular processes including neuronal signaling, 
blood pressure homeostasis, and immune response. Recent studies have also 
revealed a role for NO as a signaling molecule in plants. As a developmental 
regulator, NO promotes germination, leaf extension and root growth, and delays 
leaf senescence and fruit maturation. Moreover, NO acts as a key signal in plant 
resistance to incompatible pathogens by triggering resistance-associated 
hypersensitive cell death. In addition, NO activates the expression of several 
defense genes (e.g. pathogenesis-related genes, phenylalanine ammonialyase, 
chalcone synthase) and could play a role in pathways leading to systemic 
acquired resistance.

DOI: 10.1080/15216540310001639274
PMID: 14711002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Fertil Steril. 2004 Jan;81(1):80-92. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2003.06.003.

Use of frozen semen to avoid human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transmission by 
donor insemination: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Payne MA(1), Lamb EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Health Research and Policy, Stanford 
University, Stanford, California, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Reappraisal of current guidelines mandating frozen-thawed semen.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis comparing the use of frozen semen with the 
use of fresh semen from the same donors without a second antibody test.
SETTING: A Markov model computer simulation.
PATIENT(S): A theoretical cohort of 80000 women whose husbands are azoospermic.
INTERVENTION(S): Simulation with calculation of costs and payoffs.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Total lifetime direct health care costs, costs per live 
birth, life expectancy, quality adjusted life years (QALY), marginal cost 
effectiveness (dollar/QALY).
RESULT(S): If all 80000 women who undergo donor insemination in the United 
States each year chose to use fresh semen from donors screened according to the 
current practice guidelines but without semen cryopreservation, there would be 
8881 more births and the mean cost per live birth would be US dollars 15501 
less. One recipient would become infected with HIV-1 every 5.1 years, during 
which time over 180000 noninfected children would be born. The average life 
expectancy of recipients would be reduced by 2 days, but their quality-adjusted 
life expectancy would increase by over 1 month. Medicolegal costs to physicians 
would need to exceed US dollars 780 million per infection to equalize the cost 
effectiveness of the fresh and frozen policies.
CONCLUSION(S): The guidelines should be revised to allow the use of fresh semen 
by informed recipients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2003.06.003
PMID: 14711548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. BMJ. 2004 Jan 17;328(7432):134. doi: 10.1136/bmj.37942.601331.EE. Epub 2004
Jan  7.

Cost effectiveness analysis of laparoscopic hysterectomy compared with standard 
hysterectomy: results from a randomised trial.

Sculpher M(1), Manca A, Abbott J, Fountain J, Mason S, Garry R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York YO10 5DD. 
mjs23@york.ac.uk

Comment in
    BJOG. 2016 Oct;123(11):1796.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of laparoscopic hysterectomy 
compared with conventional hysterectomy (abdominal or vaginal).
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis based on two parallel trials: laparoscopic 
(n = 324) compared with vaginal hysterectomy (n = 163); and laparoscopic (n = 
573) compared with abdominal hysterectomy (n = 286).
PARTICIPANTS: 1346 women requiring a hysterectomy for reasons other than 
malignancy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: One year costs estimated from NHS perspective. Health 
outcomes expressed in terms of QALYs based on women's responses to the EQ-5D at 
baseline and at three points during up to 52 weeks' follow up.
RESULTS: Laparoscopic hysterectomy cost an average of 401 pounds sterling (708 
dollars; 571 euros) more (95% confidence interval 271 pounds sterling to 542 
pounds sterling) than vaginal hysterectomy but produced little difference in 
mean QALYs (0.0015, -0.015 to 0.018). Mean differences in cost and QALYs 
generated an incremental cost per QALY gained of 267 333 pounds sterling (471 
789 dollars; 380 437 euros). The probability that laparoscopic hysterectomy is 
cost effective was below 50% for a large range of values of willingness to pay 
for an additional QALY. Laparoscopic hysterectomy cost an average of 186 pounds 
sterling (328 dollars; 265 euros) more than abdominal hysterectomy, although 95% 
confidence intervals crossed zero (-26 pounds sterling to 375 pounds sterling); 
there was little difference in mean QALYs (0.007, -0.008 to 0.023), resulting in 
an incremental cost per QALY gained of 26 571 pounds sterling (46 893 dollars; 
37 813 euros). If the NHS is willing to pay 30 000 pounds sterling for an 
additional QALY, the probability that laparoscopic hysterectomy is cost 
effective is 56%.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic hysterectomy is not cost effective relative to vaginal 
hysterectomy. Its cost effectiveness relative to the abdominal procedure is 
finely balanced.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.37942.601331.EE
PMCID: PMC314505
PMID: 14711748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Empl Benefits J. 2003 Dec;28(4):63-9.

Retirements at risk: employees lack a comprehensive, realistic view of resources 
and needs.

Young ML(1), Gibson C, Asefaw S.

Author information:
(1)Chicago Office of Mercer Human Resource Consulting, USA.

Employees who are following conventional retirement-planning advice will be in 
for a rude awakening as they approach retirement and discover that they can't 
afford to retire just yet or are likely to outlive their retirement funds. The 
article discusses how we have arrived at this point, what the implications are, 
and what both employers and employees can do to remedy the situation.

PMID: 14712738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2003 Dec;10(4):611-9. doi: 10.1677/erc.0.0100611.

Evolving criteria for post-operative biochemical remission of acromegaly: can we 
achieve a definitive cure? An audit of surgical results on a large series and a 
review of the literature.

Minniti G(1), Jaffrain-Rea ML, Esposito V, Santoro A, Tamburrano G, Cantore G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Neuromed Institute, RCSS, Via Atinense 
18, 86077 Pozzili (IS), Italy.

Criteria to define the biochemical remission of acromegaly following surgery 
have changed over the years, and the current use of stringent criteria needs a 
critical re-evaluation of the surgical results. On the other hand, few data are 
currently available concerning the possible impact of pituitary surgery on the 
quality of life of operated acromegalic patients. In this prospective study, we 
wished to evaluate the initial outcome and long-term recurrence rate in a large 
series of acromegalic patients operated on by transsphenoidal surgery (TSS), to 
carefully analyse predictive factors for surgical outcome and to point out 
possible additional effects of surgery in these patients. Ninety-two out of 98 
operated patients could be considered for follow-up. Biochemical remission was 
strictly defined as plasma GH levels <1 ng/ml during an oral glucose tolerance 
test (OGTT) and normalisation of age-related IGF-I levels. Hormonal assessment, 
including an OGTT, was performed 6 months following surgery and then annually to 
evaluate pituitary function. Fifty-five per cent of patients achieved a 
biochemical remission of acromegaly. The remission rate at 6 months was 80% for 
patients with microadenoma and 50% for macroadenoma. Univariate analysis showed 
that a large extrasellar extension, preoperative high GH levels and dural 
invasion were correlated with a poor outcome of surgery while, according to 
multivariate analysis, only invasion of cavernous sinus and preoperative GH 
levels > 10 ng/ml were independent negative predictors. Mortality was 0% and the 
overall complication rate was about 10%. Pituitary function worsened in five 
patients but improved in 16 out of 30 patients with preoperative pituitary 
defects. No recurrence was observed during a median follow-up of about 8 years. 
We conclude that TSS is able to achieve a biochemical remission in more than 
half of acromegalic patients, and that the current criteria for remission seem 
to indicate a cure in most cases.

DOI: 10.1677/erc.0.0100611
PMID: 14713271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Integr Cancer Ther. 2003 Dec;2(4):365-70. doi: 10.1177/1534735403259065.

The integration of hypnosis into a model of palliative care.

Marcus J(1), Elkins G, Mott F.

Author information:
(1)Mind-Body Cancer Research Program and Center for Cancer Prevention and Care, 
Scott and White Memorial Hospital and Clinic. jmarcus@swmail.sw.org

There exists a need for a broad and inclusive model of integration of mind-body 
interventions for palliative care. Symptoms relating to psychological distress 
and existential concerns are even more prevalent than pain and other physical 
symptoms among those with life-limiting conditions. The hypnotic model's purpose 
is to improve the patient's total psychological, social, and spiritual 
well-being. A 4-stage model of interventions is offered to assist the clinician 
in developing and implementing appropriate hypnotherapeutic treatment for 
noncurative patients. The focus of the hypnotherapy is to ameliorate the effects 
of pain and dyspnea to restore a level of psychological and physical wellbeing. 
Within this model of therapy for patients with active, progressive, far-advanced 
disease and a short life expectancy, the goals of the hypnotic intervention are 
to provide relief from pain and shortness of breath. Other focuses include 
assisting the patient with the psychological adjustment to their noncurative and 
ultimately final state.

DOI: 10.1177/1534735403259065
PMID: 14713329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J Urol. 2004 Feb;171(2 Pt 1):907-10. doi: 10.1097/01.ju.0000092859.16817.8e.

Inorganic selenium retards progression of experimental hormone refractory 
prostate cancer.

Corcoran NM(1), Najdovska M, Costello AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Victoria, Australia. 
Niall.Corcoran@mh.org.au

PURPOSE: The development of hormone refractory prostate cancer marks the onset 
of the terminal phase of the disease. Despite the use of traditional 
chemotherapeutic drugs as well as many novel agents life expectancy is not 
significantly increased beyond palliative care alone. Selenium is a 
micronutrient that is incorporated into a number of essential enzymes and a 
minimum intake is necessary for the maintenance of health. In the last few years 
evidence has accumulated from case-control and limited randomized control data 
that supranutritional doses of selenium could inhibit the progression of 
prostate cancer. While much attention has focused on its use as a 
chemopreventive agent, its use as specific therapy has been limited. We 
hypothesized that dietary supplementation of selenium would inhibit the 
progression of hormone refractory prostate cancer in an experimental model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We established orthotopic PC3 tumors in the prostates of 
6-week-old male nude mice and fed them a baseline selenium replete diet (0.07 
ppm), supplementing intake with different forms of selenium (sodium selenate, 
selenomethionine, methylselenocysteine and selenized yeast) at 2 different 
concentrations (0.3 and 3 ppm) in drinking water.
RESULTS: Inorganic selenium (sodium selenate) significantly retarded the growth 
of primary prostatic tumors and the development of retroperitoneal lymph node 
metastases, which was associated with a decrease in angiogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS: High dose dietary supplementation of inorganic selenium inhibits 
the progression of hormone refractory prostate cancer, which is due at least in 
part to a decrease in angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ju.0000092859.16817.8e
PMID: 14713851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Parasitol Res. 2004 Feb;92(3):242-5. doi: 10.1007/s00436-003-1025-0. Epub
2004  Jan 9.

Variability in the prevalence of infection and cercarial production in Galba 
truncatula raised on a high-quality diet.

Rondelaud D(1), Denève C, Belfaiza M, Mekroud A, Abrous M, Moncef M, Dreyfuss G.

Author information:
(1)UPRES EA no. 3174, Facultés de Médecine et de Pharmacie, 87025 Limoges, 
France. rondelaud@pharma.unilim.fr

Two experiments using seven populations of Galba truncatula were carried out to 
analyse the effect of food quality (cos lettuce only, or cos lettuce+Tetraphyll) 
on the characteristics of infections: (1) in a single population of G. 
truncatula infected by one of three digenea (first experiment), and (2) in seven 
populations of G. truncatula differing in their susceptibility to Fasciola 
hepatica miracidia (second experiment). In most groups, food quality did not 
have a significant effect on the survival of snails. The prevalence of infection 
in five populations was significantly higher in snails raised on 
lettuce+Tetraphyll (first and second experiments), whereas it was close to those 
noted in lettuce only-reared groups in the last two populations (second 
experiment). Despite the higher growth of cercariae-shedding snails when raised 
on the mixed diet, no significant differences were noted. Significant effects of 
parasite species (first experiment) and of snail population (second experiment) 
on the life-spans of cercariae-shedding snails were noted, whereas food quality 
did not influence this parameter. Except for a single snail population, 
cercarial production in groups raised on lettuce+Tetraphyll was significantly 
higher than that in groups on lettuce. The variability noted in the prevalence 
of snail infections and in the intensity of cercarial shedding might be 
explained by differences in the susceptibility of snail populations to F. 
hepatica infections, and/or by the fact that Tetraphyll would not have the same 
appetency for all populations of G. truncatula.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-003-1025-0
PMID: 14714176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2003 Dec;111(8):491-8. doi:
10.1055/s-2003-44709.

Therapeutic dose of HIV-1 protease inhibitor saquinavir does not permanently 
influence early insulin signaling.

Algenstaedt P(1), Daneshi S, Schwarzloh B, Hennigs N, Hamann A, 
Hansen-Algenstaedt N, Beisiegel U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Germany. algenstaedt@uke.uni-hamburg.de

The introduction of HIV-1 protease inhibitor therapy has significantly improved 
the expectancy and quality of life for HIV-infected patients. Recent reports 
have highlighted the development of metabolic complications in patients taking 
protease inhibitors, including abnormalities in glucose metabolism such as 
impaired glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes. The mechanisms by which protease 
inhibitors induce these metabolic syndromes are not well understood. The aim of 
this study was to determine whether treatment with the HIV-1 protease inhibitor, 
saquinavir, influences the early insulin signaling cascade in insulin-sensitive 
cell lines.
METHODS: Insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of insulin receptor (IR-beta), 
insulin receptor substrates (IRS-1 and IRS-2), association of 
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase), Ser 473-phosphorylation of Akt and 
Thr202/Tyr204-phosphorylated p44/42 MAP kinase in 3T3L1 adipocytes and FAO 
hepatoma cells incubated with increasing concentrations of saquinavir for 24, 36 
hours, 2, 3 and 6 days were measured. Results. Phosphorylation of IR-beta, IRS-1 
and IRS-2 was not permanently affected by incubation with therapeutic doses (2.5 
microM) of saquinavir for 36 hours. After 24 hours we observed an increase of 
IR-beta and IRS-1 phosphorylation. However, this initial stimulation of IR-beta 
and IRS-1 phosphorylation was not permanent and did not result in an increased 
PI 3-kinase association. Phosphorylation of IRS-2 and MAP kinase as well as 
glucose transport activity was not altered by therapeutic doses. Doses of 10, 25 
and 50 microM of saquinavir altered the early insulin signaling events in a 
dose-dependent manner. However, this effect was primarily due to the cytotoxic 
effect of higher saquinavir doses. Glucose transport activity was not 
significantly reduced in 3T3L1 cells treated with 2.5 microM saquinavir in 
comparison to the control cells stimulated with insulin.
CONCLUSION: Early insulin signaling cascade, essential for normal glucose 
metabolism, is not affected by therapeutic doses of saquinavir. The reduction of 
insulin-induced phosphorylation in higher concentrations is primarily related to 
cytotoxic effects. Other mechanisms than early insulin signaling must be 
primarily responsible for the metabolic alterations during saquinavir therapy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-44709
PMID: 14714271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Vector Ecol. 2003 Dec;28(2):200-7.

Comparison of life table attributes from newly established colonies of Anopheles 
albimanus and Anopheles vestitipennis in northern Belize.

Grieco JP(1), Achee NL, Briceno I, King R, Andre R, Roberts D, Rejmankova E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Biometrics, Uniformed Services 
University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.

A life table study was conducted for recently established colonies of Anopheles 
albimanus and Anopheles vestitipennis in Belize, Central America. The colonies 
were reared in the northern Orange Walk District under uncontrolled 
environmental conditions (29-32 degrees C, 87-90% RH, and 13:11 L:D 
photoperiod). The mean time of larval development for An. albimanus was 10.8 
days for males and 11.7 days for females. Mean times for An. vestitipennis 
larval development were 11.3 days for males and 13.5 days for females. Anopheles 
albimanus exhibited a 92% survival rate from egg hatch to adult emergence, while 
that of An. vestitipennis was 82%. Neither species showed a sex ratio that was 
significantly different from 1:1. Adult male An. albimanus lived for an average 
of 13.6 days, while the females lived for an average of 21.2 days. The An. 
vestitipennis adult males lived for a mean of 14.8 days, while the females lived 
considerably longer with a mean of 25.6 days. The reproductive rate and age of 
mean cohort reproduction were calculated as 287 and 11.3 days for An. albimanus 
and 302 and 13.4 days for An. vestitipennis. The r/B and B/D ratios of 0.13 and 
1.15, respectively, for An. albimanus and 0.1 and 1.1, respectively, for An. 
vestitipennis indicate that these species have a low potential for colonization.

PMID: 14714669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Prev Med. 2004 Feb;38(2):182-91. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2003.09.035.

To screen or not to screen, when clinical guidelines disagree: primary care 
physicians' use of the PSA test.

Purvis Cooper C(1), Merritt TL, Ross LE, John LV, Jorgensen CM.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Division 
of Cancer Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
4770 Buford Highway NE, MS K-55, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. ccooper@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Clinical guidelines for using the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
test as a population-based screening tool vary considerably. This study 
qualitatively explored primary care physicians' PSA screening practices and 
their understanding of the PSA screening controversy.
METHODS: Fourteen telephone focus groups were conducted with 75 primary care 
physicians practicing in 35 US states. Data were coded around three major 
topics: PSA screening practices, factors influencing these practices, and 
familiarity with clinical guidelines.
RESULTS: Two practice patterns emerged. Most participants recommended regular 
PSA screening beginning around age 50 for asymptomatic men with no known risk 
factors and at least a 10-year life expectancy. These "routine screeners" 
attributed their approach to experience that supported the benefit of PSA 
screening and to patient demand for the test. Other physicians discussed the 
implications of PSA screening with patients before offering the test, but 
neither recommended for or against it. The approach of these "nonroutine 
screeners" was primarily guided by the lack of scientific evidence documenting 
the benefit of PSA screening.
CONCLUSIONS: The observed practice patterns reflect both sides of the PSA 
screening controversy. While routine and nonroutine screeners differ in their 
approach, both reported high rates of PSA screening.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2003.09.035
PMID: 14715210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2003 Dec;25(3):213-20. doi:
10.1385/CRIAI:25:3:213.

The surgical treatment of obstructive sleep apnea.

Senders CW(1), Strong EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, UC Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA, USA. 
cwsenders@ucdavis.edu

Obstructive sleep apnea is a highly prevalent disorder that significantly 
increases mortality when it is moderate to severe. Continuous positive airway 
pressure (CPAP) provides excellent relief to sleep apnea in the majority of 
patients. Unfortunately, many patients cannot tolerate CPAP and seek surgical 
alternatives. The reported surgical success rates range between 25 and 100% with 
most studies achieving a 50-70% success rate. The severity of the sleep apnea, 
as well as the patient's physical features influence the surgical success rate. 
Patients with mild sleep apnea should be treated if systematic. Treatment should 
be encouraged for patients with moderate to severe sleep apnea because of the 
decrease in life expectancy and other associated morbidities. Current surgical 
procedures include uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, genioglossus advancement, 
radiofrequency ablation to the base of tongue, tongue suspension, 
maxillomandibular advancement, and tracheostomy.

DOI: 10.1385/CRIAI:25:3:213
PMID: 14716067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2003 Dec;25(3):275-87. doi:
10.1385/CRIAI:25:3:275.

Cystic fibrosis in adults: current and future management strategies.

Morrissey BM(1), Schock BC, Marelich GP, Cross CE.

Author information:
(1)Adult Cystic Fibrosis Clinic and University of California Davis School of 
Medicine, Sacramento, CA, USA. bmmorrissey@ucdavis.edu

Over 30,000 individuals in the United States of America are living with cystic 
fibrosis (CF). Despite incremental advances in care and understanding of its 
pathophysiology, CF remains a significantly life-limiting disease. Readily 
accessible newborn screening, genetic testing, and an improved awareness have 
increased the early recognition of CF, atypical presentations of CF, and the 
CF-related diseases. Improvements in medical management have led to continually 
improving life expectancy for patients with CF. Despite improved management 
strategies, severe lung disease remains the commonly life-limiting pathology. We 
review the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of the respiratory-tract 
manifestations of CF that represent the life-limiting aspects of the condition 
and summarize upcoming and possible future therapies for patients with CF.

DOI: 10.1385/CRIAI:25:3:275
PMID: 14716072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Crit Care Nurs Clin North Am. 2003 Dec;15(4):511-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0899-5885(02)00093-x.

Quality of life when living with heart failure.

Finch N(1), Sneed N.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Medical University of South Carolina, 99 Jonathan Lucas 
Street, PO Box 250160, Charleston, SC 29425, USA. finchn@musc.edu

Heart failure is a chronic condition and consumes a huge portion of health care 
expenditures. Increased life expectancy combined with increasingly effective 
treatments for coronary artery disease and hypertension will increase the number 
of patients with heart failure. Efforts are aimed at helping patients better 
care for themselves. Nurses can design interventions that focus on education and 
self-management of complex treatments, spiritual support, and clinical 
relationships based on trust. It is essential that health care providers direct 
and evaluate interventions that promote improved QOL for patients and families. 
Nurses also need to continue to study the effects of education and self-care 
interventions so that care for heart failure patients is evidence based.

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-5885(02)00093-x
PMID: 14717397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Kidney Int. 2004 Feb;65(2):510-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2004.00438.x.

Expression of p16INK4a and other cell cycle regulator and senescence associated 
genes in aging human kidney.

Melk A(1), Schmidt BM, Takeuchi O, Sawitzki B, Rayner DC, Halloran PF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Immunology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. annettemelk@yahoo.de

BACKGROUND: Somatic cells in vitro have a finite life expectancy before entering 
a state of senescence. If this state has an in vivo counterpart, it could 
contribute to organ aging. We have previously shown that human kidney cortex 
displays telomere shortening with age. In the present study, we evaluated the 
relationship between renal age in humans and a number of phenomena associated 
with cellular senescence in vitro.
METHODS: Human kidney specimens were obtained at 8 weeks to 88 years of age and 
were assessed for changes related to aging.
RESULTS: We found that human kidneys expressed relatively constant levels of 
mRNAs for genes potentially related to senescence. Among the candidate genes 
surveyed, the cell cycle regulator p16INK4a emerged with the strongest 
association with renal aging for both mRNA and protein expression. Proliferation 
as measured by Ki-67 expression was inversely correlated with p16INK4a 
expression, compatible with a role for p16INK4a as an irreversible cell cycle 
inhibitor. Cyclooxygenase 1 and 2 (COX-1 and COX-2) mRNA expression was elevated 
in older kidneys, associated with increased protein expression. Comparison of 
gene expression with age-related histologic changes revealed that 
glomerulosclerosis correlated with p16INK4a and p53, whereas interstitial 
fibrosis and tubular atrophy were associated with p16INK4a, p53, COX-1, 
transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), and heat shock protein A5 
(HSPA5).
CONCLUSION: We conclude that some changes observed in cellular senescence in 
vitro do occur in human kidney with age, particularly in the renal cortex, in 
some cases correlating with histologic features. P16INK4a emerged with the most 
consistent correlations with age and histologic changes and inversely correlated 
with cell replication.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2004.00438.x
PMID: 14717921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Arch Intern Med. 2004 Jan 12;164(1):46-54. doi: 10.1001/archinte.164.1.46.

Cost-effectiveness of postexposure prophylaxis after sexual or injection-drug 
exposure to human immunodeficiency virus.

Pinkerton SD(1), Martin JN, Roland ME, Katz MH, Coates TJ, Kahn JO.

Author information:
(1)Center for AIDS Intervention Research, Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53202, USA.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of interventions that provide human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) to individuals after 
sexual or injection-drug use exposures depends on the distribution of exposure 
routes, prevalence of infection among source partners, adherence to PEP 
regimens, medical care costs, and prevailing epidemiologic contexts, among other 
factors.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of a comprehensive program to 
prevent HIV infection after sexual or injection-drug use exposure for 401 
persons seeking PEP in an urban community.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cost analysis to evaluate the cost of the 
PEP intervention, then combined this information with model-based effectiveness 
estimates to determine the PEP program's "cost-utility ratio," which is the 
ratio of net program costs to the total number of quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) saved by the program.
RESULTS: The average cost of the PEP regimen was $1222, and the total cost of 
the program was $450 970. The PEP program prevented an estimated 1.26 HIV 
infections, saved 11.74 QALYs, and averted $281 323 in future HIV-related 
medical care costs. The overall cost-utility ratio was $14 449 per QALY saved. 
When analysis was restricted to men reporting receptive anal intercourse, the 
savings in averted HIV-related medical care costs exceeded the cost of the 
program. The results were generally robust to changes in key parameter values 
but were sensitive to assumptions about the HIV transmission probability for 
receptive anal intercourse.
CONCLUSIONS: For this study population, HIV PEP was cost-effective by 
conventional standards and cost-saving for persons seeking PEP after male-male 
receptive anal intercourse.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.164.1.46
PMID: 14718321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Arch Intern Med. 2004 Jan 12;164(1):61-5. doi: 10.1001/archinte.164.1.61.

Effect of patient sex on intensive care unit survival.

Romo H(1), Amaral AC, Vincent JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Intensive Care, Erasme Hospital, Free University of Brussels, 
Brussels, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Human observations have shown different mortality rates between men 
and women with various pathological conditions, but this issue has not been 
widely studied in a heterogeneous population of critically ill patients.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of all patients admitted to a mixed 
medical-surgical, 31-bed intensive care unit (ICU) during 2 different years 
(1983 and 1995) to evaluate possible differences in mortality between male and 
female patients and between medical and surgical admissions and variations in 
these differences over time.
RESULTS: From a total of 4420 admissions (1587 women, 2833 men), women showed a 
higher mortality, with an odds ratio (OR) of 1.18 (95% confidence interval [CI], 
1.02-1.38). This pattern was the same for the 2 periods, and all patient data 
were therefore analyzed together. After age stratification, the differences were 
significant for female patients older than 50 years (OR, 1.33; 95% CI, 
1.12-1.58) but not in the younger age group. The subgroup of medical admissions 
had a higher mortality (24.4% vs 7.4%, P<.001) and a higher female proportion 
(37.9% vs 34.2%, P =.01) than surgical admissions. In multivariate analysis, 
female sex remained an important predictor of mortality (OR, 1.54; 95% CI, 
1.25-1.89). Women had a higher mortality than men in the subgroup of 
cardiovascular diseases. The highest mortality in female patients was present in 
the first days after admission and decreased over time, showing a covariance of 
time and sex.
CONCLUSIONS: In a mixed medical-surgical ICU, older women have a higher 
mortality rate than men. This difference is not apparent for patients staying 
longer in the ICU.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.164.1.61
PMID: 14718323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jan;59(1):3-9. doi:
10.1093/gerona/59.1.b3.

Sex differences in the effect of dietary restriction on life span and mortality 
rates in female and male Drosophila melanogaster.

Magwere T(1), Chapman T, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, Darwin Building, Gower 
Street, London WC1E 6BT, United Kingdom.

Dietary restriction (DR) has been shown to increase life span in taxonomically 
diverse animal species. In this study we tested for sex differences in the 
response of life span to graded severity of DR in Drosophila melanogaster. In 
both sexes, life span peaked at an intermediate food concentration and declined 
on either side. However, the magnitude of the response and the food 
concentration that minimized adult mortality differed significantly between the 
sexes. Female life span peaked at a food concentration 60% of the standard 
laboratory diet compared to a concentration of 40% for males. Moreover, female 
flies subject to DR lived up to 60% longer than did starved or fully fed 
females, whereas males subjected to DR lived only up to 30% longer. Analysis of 
age-specific mortality rates showed that DR extended life span by decreasing 
baseline mortality rates in both sexes, and to a greater extent in females. The 
differences in the response to DR in female and male Drosophila may be due to 
previously documented sex differences in sensitivity of life span to 
insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 signalling or in nutrient/energy demand and 
allocation/utilization.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.1.b3
PMID: 14718480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jan;59(1):16-20. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.1.b16.

The APOE gene and differences in life expectancy in Europe.

Ewbank DC(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, 3718 Locust Walk, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104-6298, USA. ewbank@pop.upenn.edu

Common alleles of the apolipoprotein-E gene (APOE) are associated with different 
risks of ischemic heart disease, Alzheimer's disease, and other chronic 
conditions in European populations. Also, the APOE allele frequencies vary 
widely among European countries. We estimated the proportion of differences in 
mortality and differences in life span that are attributable to differences in 
APOE allele frequencies in Europe. Mortality rates by age, sex, and APOE 
genotype for six countries (Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, 
and Sweden) were used to standardize mortality rates to the allele frequencies 
in Italy. Differences in APOE allele frequencies explain 12%-17% of the 
variation among these countries in mortality in people older than 65 years and 
1%-2% of the variation in life span in those older than 65 years. Differences by 
genotype in mortality in people older than 15 years account for about 3.5% of 
the genetic contribution to the variation in life span in Denmark.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.1.b16
PMID: 14718482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jan 20;101(3):732-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0304903101. Epub 2004 Jan 12.

How risky is risk assessment: the role that life history strategies play in 
susceptibility of species to stress.

Stark JD(1), Banks JE, Vargas R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Ecotoxicology Program, Washington State University, 
Puyallup, WA 98371, USA. stark@puyallup.wsu.edu

Measurements of toxicity based on individuals, such as the LC(50) (concentration 
that kills 50% of a population), and effects on reproduction are used 
extensively in determining ecological risk, in particular, for endangered or 
threatened species. An underlying assumption is that individual-based toxicity 
metrics for one species can be directly compared with that for another species. 
However, this assumption overlooks the fact that different species have 
different life-history strategies and variables, such as lifespan, time to first 
reproduction, and number of offspring produced over a lifetime. Using a simple 
model and laboratory-derived parameter values, we tested the impact of 
differences in life-history traits on predicted responses to stress. The model 
predicts the delay in population growth. We compared seven invertebrate species 
by imposing 50% chronic mortality, 50% reduction of offspring, and both of these 
effects. The model predicted substantial differences in population delay among 
all of the species. Furthermore, the intrinsic rate of increase of each 
population was negatively correlated with the delay in population growth; 
species with high intrinsic rates of increase were less susceptible to equal 
levels of stress than species with lower intrinsic rates of increase. These 
results suggest that the susceptibility of species to pollutants is more 
