complicated than previously thought and that differences in life-history 
variables must be considered in analyses of population persistence for 
threatened and endangered species.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0304903101
PMCID: PMC321749
PMID: 14718673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2003 Dec;29(6):585-94. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-815626.

Advances in care of children with hemophilia.

Manco-Johnson MJ(1), Riske B, Kasper CK.

Author information:
(1)Mountain States Regional Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center, University of 
Colorado Health Sciences Center and The Children's Hospital, Denver, Colorado, 
USA. marilyn.manco-johnson@uchsc.edu

Care for children with severe hemophilia has moved from pediatric hospital wards 
and rehabilitation services to the home, school, and community. Advances in 
hemophilia are due largely to the development of specialized hemophilia 
treatment centers, which created a system of comprehensive care and focused 
healthcare efforts on prevention and education. Parallel advances in coagulation 
resulted in identification of clotting factors VIII and IX, elucidation of the 
protein molecular and biochemical structures and functions, sequencing of their 
respective genes and transfer of the human genes for production of proteins by 
recombinant technology, and development of gene therapy. The tragedy of the 
human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis C raised awareness in patients as 
well as healthcare providers of the vulnerability of blood products to viral 
contamination and spurred progress in science leading to viral inactivation of 
purified proteins. Concomitantly, physicians treating bleeding episodes in the 
clinic investigated pharmacokinetics and pharmacoeconomics of various strategies 
of clotting factor replacement. The observation that trough factor levels as low 
as 1 to 2% were adequate to prevent most bleeding episodes led to current 
prophylactic regimens that allow boys to participate fully in school and 
community activities while factor concentrate is infused at home on a regular 
schedule. Currently, children with hemophilia look forward to a normal life 
expectancy and excellent health-related quality of life. Physician and community 
partnerships through research and advocacy societies have accelerated clinical 
advancements as well as extension of treatment to developing countries. The 
future of hemophilia promises a cure with gene therapy. Given the past 
accomplishments in hemophilia, a long-term solution to replacement of the 
genetically deficient protein lies on the horizon.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-815626
PMID: 14719175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Minn Med. 2003 Dec;86(12):2.

Setting calculations aside.

Meyer CR(1).

Author information:
(1)cmeyer1@fairview.org

Comment in
    Minn Med. 2004 Feb;87(2):7.

Comment on
    Minn Med. 2003 Dec;86(12):6-7.
    Minn Med. 2003 Dec;86(12):10-3.

PMID: 14719607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Obstet Gynecol Clin North Am. 2003 Dec;30(4):711-29. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8545(03)00084-6.

Gynecologic issues in the HIV-infected woman.

Cejtin HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of Cook 
County, 1901 W. Harrison, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. hcejtin@ameritech.net

Science has made great strides in understanding the management of the many 
gynecologic conditions that affect HIV-positive women with an increased 
frequency. As HIV-infected women's life expectancy continues to lengthen, new 
treatments are necessary for recurring conditions, such as lower genital tract 
neoplasias. The medical field has much to learn about the interaction between 
sex steroids, HIV-infection, and the immune system. As knowledge grows, 
clinicians will be better equipped to counsel women about contraceptive issues, 
pregnancy, and menopause.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8545(03)00084-6
PMID: 14719847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Am J Respir Med. 2002;1(3):225-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03256612.

Spotlight on montelukast in asthma in children 2 to 14 years of age.

Muijsers RB(1), Noble S.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Inc, Langhorne, Pennsylvania 19047, USA. demail@adis.com

Montelukast is a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist which is used as a 
preventive treatment for persistent asthma in patients > or =2 years of age. In 
children aged 6 to 14 years montelukast (5 mg/day) treatment resulted in a 
significant increase in FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in 1 second, primary 
clinical outcome) during an 8-week randomized, double-blind trial. Moreover, 
significant improvements were observed for a range of secondary endpoints 
assessing symptoms, exacerbation rates, beta-agonist usage and quality of life. 
Concomitant administration of montelukast (5 mg/day) and inhaled budesonide (200 
microg twice daily) resulted in a trend towards an increase in FEV1 (p=0.06, 
primary endpoint) and a statistically significant reduction in both as-needed 
beta2-agonist usage and the percentage of days with asthma exacerbations 
compared with budesonide plus placebo. No significant differences were observed 
in asthma-related quality of life between the two groups. During clinical trials 
both improvements in lung function and reductions in as-needed beta2-agonist 
usage were generally observed within 1 day after initiation of therapy in 
children 2 to 14 years of age with persistent asthma. Data from a randomized, 
nonblind trial in 6- to 11-year-old children and a 6-month extension to this 
trial suggest that both compliance to therapy and patient satisfaction are 
greater for montelukast than for either inhaled cromolyn sodium (sodium 
cromoglycate) or inhaled beclomethasone. In addition, patients and parents 
preferred oral montelukast over cromolyn sodium. In 2- to 5-year-old children 
with persistent asthma, montelukast (4 mg/day) treatment resulted in significant 
improvements in a range of outcomes, such as as-needed beta2-agonist usage, 
symptom scores and percentage of days with asthma symptoms, as assessed during a 
randomized, double-blind trial primarily designed to assess tolerability. Data 
from small randomized, double-blind trials suggest that montelukast reduces 
exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in 6- to 14-year-old children. Montelukast 
is generally well tolerated. The frequency of adverse events in 
montelukast-treated children of all ages was comparable to that in patients 
receiving placebo.
CONCLUSION: Oral montelukast has shown efficacy as a preventive treatment for 
asthma during clinical trials in children aged 2 to 14 years. The drug offers 
benefits over more standard therapies such as inhaled cromolyn sodium and 
nedocromil in terms of compliance and convenience. In addition, the drug offers 
significant benefits when added to inhaled corticosteroids (according to 
secondary endpoints). Montelukast offers an effective, well tolerated and 
convenient treatment option for children with asthma.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256612
PMID: 14720060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Am J Respir Med. 2002;1(2):107-17. doi: 10.1007/BF03256600.

Nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary infection in patients with cystic 
fibrosis: diagnosis and treatment.

Máiz-Carro L(1), Navas-Elorza E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonology (Cystic Fibrosis Unit), Hospital Ramón y Cajal, 
Madrid, Spain. lmaiz@hrc.insalud.es

The prevalence of nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) recovered from patients with 
cystic fibrosis (CF) appears to be increasing, probably related to improved 
surveillance and microbiological procedures and an increase in the life 
expectancy of patients with CF. The distinction between active lung infection 
and colonization is often difficult to assess in patients with CF because of the 
marked overlap in the clinical and radiological presentation of CF lung disease 
and lung disease caused by NTM infection. The possibility of active NTM lung 
infection should be considered in those patients with compatible radiographic 
changes and/or progressive deterioration in lung function who do not improve 
with specific antibiotic therapy and who have repeatedly positive sputum 
cultures and smears for NTM. Patients with repeatedly positive results of 
acid-fast smears are more likely to be infected than colonized. Pseudomonas 
overgrowth may confuse the results of sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid 
cultures. Decontamination of respiratory samples from patients with CF with 5% 
oxalic acid results in improved bacteriological recovery of NTM. Skin tests are 
of limited value as a screening tool for NTM. Since the course of NTM lung 
infection is often slow, careful follow-up with repeated sputum cultures, chest 
radiographs and computed tomography (CT) scans may be needed. Treatment of NTM 
lung disease in patients with CF presents great difficulties because of abnormal 
gastrointestinal drug absorption and pharmacokinetics in this patient 
population. Treatment varies according to the mycobacterial species isolated. 
Long-term multidrug regimens including rifampin (rifampicin) and ethambutol are 
usually required. Monitoring serum drug levels is a useful indicator of correct 
dosage in order to prevent adverse effects due to potential drug interactions 
and altered pharmacokinetics in patients with CF.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256600
PMID: 14720065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Drug Saf. 2004;27(1):7-24. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200427010-00002.

Management of chronic hepatitis C in patients co-infected with HIV: focus on 
safety considerations.

Romero M(1), Pérez-Olmeda M, García-Samaniego J, Soriano V.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Department, Hospital Carlos III, Instituto de 
Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. mromeropo@ozu.es

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a significant public health problem and one 
of the most important causes of chronic liver disease worldwide. Co-infection 
with HCV and HIV occurs frequently, mainly because both viruses share the same 
transmission routes. In recent years, the life expectancy of patients with HIV 
disease has been increased due to the introduction of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Furthermore, several studies have established 
that HIV infection is associated with a major progression of the HCV-related 
liver disease. Thus, end-stage liver disease has become a leading cause of 
morbidity and mortality in this population, emphasising the importance of 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C in HIV-infected persons. The biological and 
histological benefit of interferon-alpha (IFNalpha) therapy in patients 
co-infected with HCV/HIV is not significantly different from that noted in 
similar patients without HIV when the HIV infection is adequately controlled. 
However, patients with low CD4+ cell counts tend to respond poorly to anti-HCV 
therapy.Given the relatively low sustained virological response rate to IFN 
alone, the use of IFNalpha monotherapy has been largely abandoned in favour of 
combination therapy with ribavirin. In the last 2 years, IFN plus ribavirin 
combination therapy has been the standard care for the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis C. Although information on the safety and efficacy of this dual 
therapy in HCV/HIV co-infected patients is scarce, recent trials have reported 
that the combination of IFN plus ribavirin is well tolerated and feasible in 
patients co-infected with HCV/HIV. However, the rates of sustained virological 
response seem to be worse than those observed in patients without HIV infection. 
New IFN formulations (e.g. pegylated interferon) plus ribavirin appear to be way 
of the future for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in patients both with and 
without HIV co-infection.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200427010-00002
PMID: 14720084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Value Health. 2004 Jan-Feb;7(1):52-60. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.71313.x.

Using clopidogrel in non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome patients: 
a cost-utility analysis in Spain.

Latour-Pérez J(1), Navarro-Ruiz A, Ridao-López M, Cervera-Montes M.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care Unit, Hospital General Universitario de Elche, Department of 
Public Health. Universidad de Alicante, Alicante, Spain. jlatour@ua.es

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
clopidogrel, administered for 1 year after hospital admission for non-ST-segment 
elevation acute coronary syndrome in the Spanish public health network.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was conducted from the societal perspective. A 
Markov decision tree was constructed for modeling the long-term cardiovascular 
events according to the probabilities of the CURE study, the Framingham study, 
and the Spanish age-sex-specific mortality rates. The costs of the therapy were 
calculated mainly using the cost per diagnosis-related group in the Spanish 
National Health System. The utilities of the various states were estimated using 
data from published studies. A 3% discount rate was used for both the costs and 
the utilities. An expected value sensitivity analysis and a Monte Carlo 
microsimulation probabilistic analysis were performed.
RESULTS: The cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved owing to 
clopidogrel in the base case was about Euros 12000. This expected 
cost-effectiveness ratio was very sensitive to the age of the patient, the base 
risk of cardiovascular events, and the precision of the estimated effectiveness 
of clopidogrel. The cost per QALY ranged between some Euros 5000 for a 
high-risk, 40-year-old patient and Euros 30000 for a low-risk, 80-year-old 
patient. According to the accepted threshold for Spanish society, the 
probability that clopidogrel was cost-effective in the base analysis case was 
85.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: By Spanish standards, the use of clopidogrel in patients with 
non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome is cost-effective, at least 
when used for patients at high risk of presenting cardiovascular events.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.71313.x
PMID: 14720130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Value Health. 2004 Jan-Feb;7(1):70-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.71246.x.

Cost-effectiveness versus cost-utility analysis of interventions for cancer: 
does adjusting for health-related quality of life really matter?

Tengs TO(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Priorities Research Group, University of California at Irvine, Irvine, 
CA 92697-7075, USA. tengs@uci.edu

OBJECTIVE: The US Public Health Service Panel on Cost-Effectiveness has 
recommended the use of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) as the best way to 
estimate outcomes in a cost-effectiveness analysis. We evaluate the importance 
of this recommendation by assessing whether adjusting for health-related quality 
of life affects the ultimate resource allocation decision implied by the 
cost-effectiveness ratio for interventions aimed at cancer prevention and 
control.
METHODS: We identified 110 interventions in 39 articles for which both 
cost/life-year and cost/QALY were reported. Interventions were forms of 
prevention, early detection, or treatment of cancer. We calculated a Spearman 
correlation to assess the ordinal relationship between cost/life-year and 
cost/QALY. In addition, we employed various decision thresholds to assess 
whether the use of cost/life-year would yield different resource allocation 
decisions than the use of cost/QALY.
RESULTS: The correlation between cost/life-year and cost/QALY is 0.96 (P 
<.0001). Assuming a US dollars 50000 decision threshold, adjustment for quality 
of life would affect the implied choice in 5% of cases. With a US dollars 400000 
threshold, adjustment for quality of life would affect choice for 2% of 
interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: For interventions aimed at cancer, the outcome measures of 
cost/life-year and cost/QALY are highly correlated with one another. Although 
adjusting for quality of life can make an important difference in the evaluation 
of alternative approaches to cancer prevention and control, it often does not.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.71246.x
PMID: 14720132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2004 Jan 13;2:5. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-2-5.

Health-related quality of life among older adults with arthritis.

Dominick KL(1), Ahern FM, Gold CH, Heller DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research & Development, Durham Department of 
Veterans Administration Medical Center, 508 Fulton Street, Durham, NC 27705, 
USA. domin004@mc.duke.edu

BACKGROUND: Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is a key outcome in 
arthritis, but few population-based studies have examined the relationship of 
specific arthritic conditions, such as osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) with HRQOL.
METHODS: Older adults in Pennsylvania completed a mail version of the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) HRQOL modules. Medicare data were used 
to identify subjects with OA, RA, and no arthritis diagnosis. We compared HRQOL 
responses among these groups, and we also examined relationships of demographic 
characteristics to HRQOL among subjects with arthritis.
RESULTS: In analyses controlling for demographic characteristics and 
comorbidity, subjects with OA and RA had poorer scores than those without 
arthritis on all HRQOL items, including general health, physical health, mental 
health, activity limitation, pain, sleep, and feeling healthy and full of 
energy. HRQOL scores were also lower for those with RA compared to OA. Among 
individuals with arthritis, all subject characteristics (including age, race, 
sex, nursing home residence, marital status, income, and comorbid illnesses) 
were significantly related to at least one HRQOL item. Older age, nursing home 
residence, and greater comorbidity were the most consistently associated with 
poorer HRQOL.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study show that both OA and RA have a significant 
impact on multiple dimensions of HRQOL among older adults. Results also suggest 
the CDC HRQOL items are suitable for use among older adults and in mail surveys. 
Due to the rising number of older adults in many countries, the public health 
burden of arthritis is expected to increase dramatically. Efforts are needed to 
enhance access to medical care and disseminate self-management interventions for 
arthritis.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-2-5
PMCID: PMC324570
PMID: 14720300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Neurologist. 2004 Jan;10(1):31-46. doi: 10.1097/01.nrl.0000106922.83090.71.

Brain metastases.

Klos KJ(1), O'Neill BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. klos.kevin@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND: Systemic cancer is the second most common cause of death for adults 
in the United States. Twenty percent of these patients develop neurologic 
symptoms sometime during their illness. An apparent increase in the incidence of 
both systemic cancers and resulting brain metastases are posing an increasing 
challenge to health care providers. Neurologic complications lead to significant 
morbidity and mortality in these patients. Therefore, it is important to 
understand the current concepts of diagnosis and treatment of patients with 
brain metastases.
REVIEW SUMMARY: This review summarizes the epidemiology, clinical features, 
pathophysiology, and diagnostic evaluation of brain metastases. The section on 
current treatments is presented from the perspective of the three most common 
primary tumor locations along with the treatment approach to other metastatic 
tumors. This review includes a thorough evaluation of the literature, highlights 
controversies over treatment options, and provides insight into novel approaches 
currently under investigation. Clinical studies needed for further study are 
also discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: A clearer understanding of the pathophysiology of metastatic tumors 
and advances in diagnostic technology have paved the road to a better approach 
to treatment of brain metastases. Although no curative treatments are available 
to date, significant improvement in a patient's quality of life and life 
expectancy can be achieved with the available therapy. A better understanding of 
different primary cancers leading to brain metastases leads to a more effective 
treatment. More studies are needed to critically analyze the clear benefit of 
these treatment options in selected patients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.nrl.0000106922.83090.71
PMID: 14720313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2004 Feb;6(1):44-51. doi: 10.1007/s11894-004-0025-2.

Screening for hemochromatosis: patients with liver disease, families, and 
populations.

Galhenage SP(1), Viiala CH, Olynyk JK.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, 
Fremantle Hospital Campus, PO Box 480, Fremantle, Western Australia 6959. 
jolynyk@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

Hereditary hemochromatosis is a common autosomal- recessive disorder of iron 
overload usually occurring in individuals who are homozygous for a C282Y 
mutation in the hemochromatosis (HFE) gene. Current screening methods can detect 
affected individuals early in disease pathogenesis, enabling early institution 
of effective treatment that can restore normal life expectancy. Phenotypic 
screening of adults using transferrin saturation and serum ferritin levels 
identifies the majority of individuals who develop iron overload. HFE 
genotyping, when combined with serum biochemical measurements, has reduced 
reliance on liver biopsy as a diagnostic tool and is the preferred initial 
screening modality for families with an affected individual. Genetic testing has 
altered previously held views regarding the high level of penetrance of the 
disease. Although the majority of C282Y homozygotes develop increased body iron 
stores, end-organ damage occurs much less frequently than previously thought. 
Screening is recommended in high-risk groups and in those with a high index of 
clinical suspicion. Opportunistic screening during routine health assessments 
may also be recommended. However, large-scale screening of the average-risk 
population is not recommended on the basis of current evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-004-0025-2
PMID: 14720453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Health Policy. 2004 Feb;67(2):187-94. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(03)00115-5.

Discounting in decision making: the consistency argument revisited empirically.

Brouwer WB(1), van Exel NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. brouwer@bmg.eur.nl

Discounting is one of the prominent topics of debate in health economics. While 
the standard practice in economic evaluation is to discount costs and effects 
alike with a 3-5% discount rate, many have raised questions about this practice. 
The debate sometimes seems trapped in Weinstein and Stason's consistency 
argument. In this paper, we use a set of health care programs--resembling 
Weinstein and Stason's hypothetical programs--to test whether appointed societal 
decision makers are consistent in their preferences over present and future 
costs and health effects, and whether they discount costs and effects at the 
same rate. Our results demonstrate these appointed decision makers to be fairly 
inconsistent on both issues, susceptible to the framing of problems and in part 
myopic. In other words, our respondents appear to be incapable of providing 
reasonable and consistent preferences between present and future costs, and 
health effects for use in economic evaluations. There is some support for the 
idea that rather than using constant and identical rates for costs and effects, 
real differences in health endowment over time (the growth rate for health) 
could serve as a basis for discount rates. Our respondents seem to relate their 
discount rate for health to their expectations about future life expectancy, but 
this also is dependent on the elicitation method.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(03)00115-5
PMID: 14720636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Health Policy. 2004 Feb;67(2):215-24. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(03)00122-2.

Using risk analysis in Health Impact Assessment: the impact of different 
relative risks for men and women in different socio-economic groups.

Nilunger L(1), Diderichsen F, Burström B, Ostlin P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Science, Karolinska Institute, Norrbacka, 171 76 
Stockholm, Sweden. louise.nilunger@health.fgov.be

The aim of this study is to contribute to the emerging field of quantification 
of Health Impact Assessment (HIA), by analysing how different relative risks 
affect the burden of disease for various socio-economic groups (SES). Risk 
analysis, utilising attributable and impact fraction, raises several 
methodological considerations. The present study illustrates this by measuring 
the impact of changed distribution levels of smoking on lung cancer, ischemic 
heart disease (IHD), chronic obstructive lung disorder (COLD) and stroke for the 
highest and lowest socio-economic groups measured in disability adjusted life 
years (DALY). The material is based on relative risks obtained from various 
international studies, smoking prevalence (SP) data and the number of DALY based 
on data available for Sweden. The results show that if smoking would have been 
eliminated (attributable fraction, AF), the inequality between the highest and 
lowest socio-economic groups may decrease by 75% or increase by 21% depending on 
the size of the relative risk. Assuming the same smoking prevalence for the 
lowest socio-economic group as for the highest (impact fraction), then the 
inequality may decrease by 7-26%. Consequently, the size of the relative risk 
used may have a significant impact, leading to substantial biases and therefore 
should be taken into serious consideration in HIA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(03)00122-2
PMID: 14720639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Behav Health Serv Res. 2004 Jan-Mar;31(1):75-85. doi: 10.1007/BF02287340.

Externally caused deaths for adults with substance use and mental disorders.

Dickey B(1), Dembling B, Azeni H, Normand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The Cambridge Hospital, 1493 Cambridge St, 
Cambridge MA 02139, USA. barbara_dickey@hms.harvard.edu.

For decades, there have been reports of shorter life expectancy among those with 
mental illness, especially those with more serious psychiatric disorders. The 
purpose of this study was to compare the risk of mortality among Medicaid 
beneficiaries, aged 18-64 years, treated for mental illness to a comparable 
group who were not mentally ill and to the general population. The data used 
were from the Massachusetts Division of Medical Assistance and records of deaths 
from the Department of Public Health in Massachusetts. Individuals treated for 
both psychiatric illness and substance use disorders (dual diagnoses) were 
compared separately from those whose treatment was only for a psychiatric 
disorder. For all Medicaid beneficiaries, the most common causes of death were 
attributed to heart disease and cancer. When compared to the general population, 
adjusted odds ratios estimated death by injury to be twice as likely among the 
mentally ill when compared to the general population. Medicaid beneficiaries 
with dual diagnoses are 6-8 times more likely to die of injury, primarily 
poisoning, than their counterparts treated for medical conditions only.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02287340
PMID: 14722482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Oncol Nurs Forum. 2004 Jan-Feb;31(1):E9-15. doi: 10.1188/04.ONF.E9-E15.

Older women and breast cancer screening: research synthesis.

Yarbrough SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chronic Nursing Care, School of Nursing, University of Texas 
Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX, USA. syarbrough@excelsior.edu

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To identify the most beneficial ways to support older women 
as they make screening decisions using a systematic, epidemiologic, narrative 
review of research regarding benefits and burdens of breast cancer screening and 
treatment.
DATA SOURCES: Medical and nursing research databases emphasizing women aged 60 
and older.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Older women can tolerate screening and treatment, yet they are 
underserved. The most frequently cited reason to explain this phenomenon is 
declining health status associated with aging. Research evidence does not 
support this claim. No evidence clearly describes relationships among health 
status, aging, and less screening or less aggressive treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Older women experience varied health problems. However, indications 
that they are less able than their younger counterparts to tolerate screening or 
treatment for breast cancer do not exist.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: Further research in all aspects of breast cancer care 
in older women is required to define and describe risks and benefits of 
screening within a context of aging and changing health. Nurses should discuss 
the risks and benefits of screening with older women.

DOI: 10.1188/04.ONF.E9-E15
PMID: 14722601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Oncology (Williston Park). 2003 Dec;17(12):1687-93; discussion 1693-4, 1697,
 1701.

Comparing treatment outcomes using utility assessment for health-related quality 
of life.

Kattan MW(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Urology and Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, USA. kattanm@mskcc.org

When comparing treatments, the simple question of which treatment produces a 
better outcome prompts a complicated answer if both quantity and quality of life 
are considered. This is particularly evident when the treatment associated with 
better survival worsens quality of life, at least for part of the time, or when 
certain aspects of quality of life are better with one treatment while other 
aspects are better with another treatment. Utility assessment is an evolving 
discipline that offers an attractive conceptual solution to these problems. The 
popular approaches are described, and one particular method, the standard 
gamble, is advocated. Utility is easily measured by the standard gamble, and it 
has good psychometric and theoretical properties.

PMID: 14723008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2003 Dec;27(6):627-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2003.tb00610.x.

Is median age at death a useful way to monitor improvements in mortality among 
Indigenous Australians?

Coory M(1), Baade P.

Author information:
(1)Health Information Centre, Queensland Health, Brisbane. 
michael_coory@health.qld.gov.au

BACKGROUND: Trends in the median age at death (MAAD) are now being reported in 
some official government publications. Because trends in MAAD are being 
published and are being used to support discussions about policy, information is 
needed about its strengths and limitations.
METHODS: We conducted a simulation study based on a Markov model to investigate 
the relationship between the MAAD and mortality rates. The main time horizon was 
five years because this is the interval that is relevant for the purposes of 
reviewing and debating policies and programs, but we also continued the models 
out to 50 years.
RESULTS: The simulations brought to light three problems with the MAAD. First, 
for populations with different age structures but the same age-specific 
mortality rates, the MAAD can differ by more than 20 years. Second, for 
Indigenous Australians, a two-year increase in the MAAD after five years 
represents a 30% decrease in the mortality rates, but the same increase in the 
MAAD for non-Indigenous Australians would mean only a 15% decrease in mortality. 
Third, large sample sizes are needed to show that trends in the MAAD are 
statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: In the absence of better information, trends in the MAAD for 
Indigenous Australians may provide a way of assessing whether mortality rates 
are decreasing, but large sample sizes are needed to distinguish real change 
from statistical noise. Comparisons of trends in the MAAD between Indigenous and 
non-Indigenous Australians are even more difficult to interpret. Resources 
should be directed towards improving the validity of rates, for example, through 
linkage of routine data or investing in additional data collection.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2003.tb00610.x
PMID: 14723411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Med J Aust. 2004 Jan 19;180(2):71-3. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2004.tb05802.x.

Olympic medals or long life: what's the bottom line?

Mitton CR(1), Davies HD, Donaldson CR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences, Curtin University of Technology, Perth, WA. 
crmitton@ucalgary.ca

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 2004 Jun 21;180(12):655; author reply 656.

On a per capita basis, Australia spent more than seven times as much on its 
Sydney Olympic team as did Canada, to win four times as many medals. Compared 
with Australia, Canada spent an additional amount per capita (standardised to 
the purchasing power parity rate at year 2000) of US dollars 1605 per life-year 
gained on healthcare in 2000. Neither country is "right" or "wrong" in making 
these funding choices, but they highlight the need for more explicit discussion 
about what is being spent, what is obtained for the given expenditure and what 
society actually values.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2004.tb05802.x
PMID: 14723588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2004 Feb;14(1):24-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0838.2003.00346.x.

Muscle strength correlates with total body bone mineral density in young women 
but not in men.

Ribom E(1), Ljunggren O, Piehl-Aulin K, Ljunghall S, Bratteby LE, Samuelson G, 
Mallmin H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Sciences, Uppsala University, 751 85 Uppsala, Sweden. 
eva.ribon@surgsci.uu.se

Comment in
    Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2004 Feb;14(1):1.

BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis is a growing health problem. One of the proposed 
reasons for this is a more sedentary lifestyle. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the associations between muscle strength and total body bone mineral 
density (TBMD) in young adults at expected peak bone mass.
METHODS: Sixty-four women and 61 men (total 125) 21 years of age were included. 
Handgrip strength, isokinetic knee-flexion and -extension muscle strength, TBMD, 
and body composition were measured.
RESULTS: Univariate regression analyses showed that knee flexion and extension 
explained almost 30% of the variation in TBMD in women, whereas handgrip 
strength was not associated with TBMD. In men, no correlation between any 
measures of muscle strength and TBMD was evident. Stepwise regression analysis 
showed that knee-flexion and -extension muscle strength in women were associated 
with TBMD, R2=0.27. In men, lean body mass, fat mass, weight, and height were 
predictors for TBMD, R2=0.43, whereas muscle strength did not affect the 
prediction of TBMD.
CONCLUSIONS: Muscle strength at weight-bearing sites is related to TBMD in 
women, whereas body composition is related to TBMD in men. The association of 
lower limb strength on TBMD only in young women indicates a gender difference.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0838.2003.00346.x
PMID: 14723784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. BMJ. 2004 Jan 31;328(7434):254. doi: 10.1136/bmj.37956.664236.EE. Epub 2004
Jan  14.

Randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation of a chest pain observation 
unit compared with routine care.

Goodacre S(1), Nicholl J, Dixon S, Cross E, Angelini K, Arnold J, Revill S, 
Locker T, Capewell SJ, Quinney D, Campbell S, Morris F.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield S1 
4DA. s.goodacre@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To measure the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of providing 
care in a chest pain observation unit compared with routine care for patients 
with acute, undifferentiated chest pain.
DESIGN: Cluster randomised controlled trial, with 442 days randomised to the 
chest pain observation unit or routine care, and cost effectiveness analysis 
from a health service costing perspective.
SETTING: The emergency department at the Northern General Hospital, Sheffield, 
United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 972 patients with acute, undifferentiated chest pain (479 
attending on days when care was delivered in the chest pain observation unit, 
493 on days of routine care) followed up until six months after initial 
attendance.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The proportion of participants admitted to hospital, the 
proportion with acute coronary syndrome sent home inappropriately, major adverse 
cardiac events over six months, health utility, hospital reattendance and 
readmission, and costs per patient to the health service.
RESULTS: Use of a chest pain observation unit reduced the proportion of patients 
admitted from 54% to 37% (difference 17%, odds ratio 0.50, 95% confidence 
interval 0.39 to 0.65, P < 0.001) and the proportion discharged with acute 
coronary syndrome from 14% to 6% (8%, -7% to 23%, P = 0.264). Rates of cardiac 
event were unchanged. Care in the chest pain observation unit was associated 
with improved health utility during follow up (0.0137 quality adjusted life 
years gained, 95% confidence interval 0.0030 to 0.0254, P = 0.022) and a saving 
of pound 78 per patient (- pound 56 to pound 210, P = 0.252).
CONCLUSIONS: Care in a chest pain observation unit can improve outcomes and may 
reduce costs to the health service. It seems to be more effective and more cost 
effective than routine care.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.37956.664236.EE
PMCID: PMC324451
PMID: 14724129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Occup Environ Med. 2004 Jan;46(1):3-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.jom.0000105915.59342.9a.

Assessing the burden of disease among an employed population: implications for 
employer-sponsored prevention programs.

Friedman C(1), McKenna MT, Ahmed F, Krebs JG, Michaud C, Popova Y, Bender J, 
Schenk TW.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Program Office, Cancer Surveillance Branch, Division of Cancer 
Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, 
Georgia 30341, USA. cxf7@cdc.gov

Escalating healthcare costs have led employers to identify ways to assess the 
actual burden of disease among their employees. One such measure is the use of 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs). DALYs were calculated for the General 
Motors (GM) population for 1994 through 1998 using data from GM's Mortality 
Registry, published life tables, and age- and sex-specific disease incidence and 
disability data from the U.S. Burden of Disease Study. Chronic diseases 
accounted for 45% (245,844 of 540,450) of total DALYs lost. Ischemic heart 
disease, stroke, lung cancer, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease led the 
list for both men and women and accounted for 39% and 31%, respectively, of the 
top 10 DALYs lost. Disease burden among employees could be reduced through 
targeted interventions aimed at the risk factors associated with the leading 
causes of DALYs.

DOI: 10.1097/01.jom.0000105915.59342.9a
PMID: 14724472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2004 Jan 23;129(4):131-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-817605.

[Erectile dysfunction. Are interdisciplinary diagnosis and therapy necessary?].

[Article in German]

Braun M(1), Sommer F, Lehmacher W, Raible A, Bondarenko B, Engelmann U.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Klinikum der Universität zu Köln, 
Germany. Moritz.Braun@medizin.uni-koeln.de

OBJECTIVE: The last few decades have seen a marked increase in mean life 
expectancy in Central Europe. This has made elderly people and their quality of 
life a matter of ever-increasing medical concern. Besides the lack of population 
based studies in Central Europe, the identifying risk factors for the 
development of erectile dysfunction (ED) is crucial.
METHODS AND MATERIAL: A newly developed and validated questionnaire on male 
erectile dysfunction was mailed to a representative population sample of 8000 
men 30 to 80 years of age in the Cologne urban district.
RESULTS: The response included 4489 analysable replies (56,1 %). The median age 
was 51,8 years. Prevalence of ED was estimated at about 19.2 %, with a steep 
age-related increase (2,3 - 53,4 %) Therapeutic necessity (defined by 
co-occurrence of ED and dissatisfaction with sex life), also increases with age. 
The overall number of ED sufferers seeking therapy was 6,8 %. The following 
illnesses where seen in the ED group: heart failure (14,7 %), pelvic surgery 
(18,8 %), diabetes mellitus (20,2 %), peripheral arterial circulatory disorders 
(21,5 %), herniated disc (23,2 %) and hypertension (32,0 %). Although the 
pathogenetic pathway remains unclear with a prevalence of 72 % "lower urinary 
tract symptoms" (LUTS) seems to be an age independent risk factor. In contrast, 
the prevalence of ED in healthy men was around 6,6 %.
CONCLUSIONS: ED is a common disorder, contributing to dissatisfaction with sex 
life in a considerable proportion of men. ED is frequently associated with 
chronic diseases. For this reason adequate interdisciplinary diagnostic workup 
is essential, to offer patients individually adapted treatment.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-817605
PMID: 14724773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Gastroenterology. 2003 Dec;125(6):1576-82. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2003.09.036.

Survival and cause-specific mortality in ulcerative colitis: follow-up of a 
population-based cohort in Copenhagen County.

Winther KV(1), Jess T, Langholz E, Munkholm P, Binder V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Gastroenterolgy C, Herlev Hospital, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark. Kawi@herlevhosp.kbhamt.dk

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2003 Dec;125(6):1881-3.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: A population-based cohort from Copenhagen County comprising 
1160 patients diagnosed with ulcerative colitis between 1962 and 1987 was 
followed-up until 1997 to describe survival and cause-specific mortality.
METHODS: Observed vs. expected deaths were presented as standardized mortality 
ratio (SMR) with exact 95% confidence intervals (CI) calculated by using 
individually registered person-years at risk and Danish 1995 mortality rates. 
Cumulative survival curves were calculated.
RESULTS: A total of 261 deaths occurred, not significantly different from the 
expected number of 249 (SMR, 1.05; 95% CI, 0.92-1.19). The median age at death 
among men was 70 years (range, 6-96 years) and among women 74 years (range, 
25-96 years). Twenty-five deaths (9.6%) were caused by complications to 
ulcerative colitis, mostly infectious and cardiovascular postoperative 
complications. Patients older than 50 years of age at diagnosis and with 
extensive colitis showed an increased mortality within the first 2 years because 
of ulcerative colitis-associated causes. The mortality from colorectal cancer 
was not increased and that of cancer in general was significantly lower than 
expected: 50 vs. 71 (SMR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.52-0.93). A significantly increased 
mortality from pulmonary embolism and pneumonia was found. Among women only, 
death from genitourinary tract diseases and suicide was significantly increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an overall normal life expectancy for patients with 
ulcerative colitis, patients >50 years of age and with extensive colitis at 
diagnosis had increased mortality within the first 2 years after diagnosis, 
owing to colitis-associated postoperative complications and comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2003.09.036
PMID: 14724807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. J Rheumatol Suppl. 2003 Dec;68:15-8.

Characterizing preferences for health outcomes in economic evaluations.

Tosteson AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire, 
USA. Anna.Tosteson@Dartmouth.edu

PMID: 14725249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Eur J Dent Educ. 2004 Feb;8 Suppl 4:42-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1399-5863.2004.00322.x.

Smoking and tobacco control in Poland.

Bałczewska E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology and Oral Mucosal Diseases, Faculty of Medicine 
and Dentistry, Medical University of Lódz, and Patient Treatment, SP ZOZ, Dental 
Hospital Institute of Dentistry, Lódz, Poland.

The study presents information on the use of tobacco and the health consequences 
over the past 20 years in Poland. During this time, Poland has been among the 
countries with the highest cigarette consumption in the world and a 
correspondingly high number of tobacco-related deaths. Data show that nowadays 
about 10 million Polish people smoke; in 1998 average annual, adult, cigarette 
consumption was over 3000. The greatest rate of smoking among men (64%) was 
recorded in 1974 and among women (33%) in 1986. Recently, there has been a 
significant decrease in the rate of smoking among men to 40%, and among women to 
23%. This favourable change has improved health indices such as infant 
mortality, life expectancy, and a lower rate of increase in male deaths from 
lung cancer. Government organizations as well as medical organizations and 
universities have become involved in prevention of smoking and tobacco control 
in Poland and the latest legislation is described.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-5863.2004.00322.x
PMID: 14725653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Health Policy. 2004 Jan;67(1):57-74. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(03)00083-6.

The impact of ageing on hospital care and long-term care--the example of 
Germany.

Schulz E(1), Leidl R, König HH.

Author information:
(1)German Institute for Economic Research, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In the next few decades the population in all EU-countries will age 
rapidly. This could have a major impact on the health care sector. This study 
analyses the effect of population ageing on utilisation in two key sectors of 
the health care system, namely hospital care and long-term care in Germany, up 
to 2020 with an outlook to 2050.
METHODS: Two population scenarios, one with constant, one with increasing life 
expectancy, were combined with constant age and gender specific utilisation 
rates of hospital and long-term care. In the case of hospital care two 
projection methods were used: Method A differentiates between age-groups, gender 
and main diagnosis. Method B differentiates between age-groups, survivors and 
decedents.
RESULTS: Population ageing was found to cause a moderate increase in hospital 
days, but was associated with substantial changes in the disease and age 
structure. In the case of increasing life expectancy, method B lead to a lower 
growth in hospital days than method A. The number of persons receiving long-term 
care will increase strongly, associated with a shift to more severe disability 
and institutional care. Changes in the composition of private households and the 
increasing labour participation of women will lead to additional demand for 
professional caregivers at home and in institutions.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes in the number and disease structure of hospital days due to 
population ageing will require reorganisation and restructuring of hospital 
departments. In the case of long-term care a high increase in professional home 
care and institutional care will be required. Health policy has to take into 
account these developments in order to adequately deal with future demand for 
these services.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(03)00083-6
PMID: 14726007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Stroke. 2004 Feb;35(2):432-7. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000109225.11509.EE. Epub
2004  Jan 15.

Educational level and stroke mortality: a comparison of 10 European populations 
during the 1990s.

Avendaño M(1), Kunst AE, Huisman M, van Lenthe F, Bopp M, Borrell C, Valkonen T, 
Regidor E, Costa G, Donkin A, Borgan JK, Deboosere P, Gadeyne S, Spadea T, 
Andersen O, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR 
Rotterdam, Netherlands. m.avendanopabon@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Variations between countries in occupational differences 
in stroke mortality were observed among men during the 1980s. This study 
estimates the magnitude of differences in stroke mortality by educational level 
among men and women aged >or=30 years in 10 European populations during the 
1990s.
METHODS: Longitudinal data from mortality registries were obtained for 10 
European populations, namely Finland, Norway, Denmark, England/Wales, Belgium, 
Switzerland, Austria, Turin (Italy), Barcelona (Spain), and Madrid (Spain). Rate 
ratios (RRs) were calculated to assess the association between educational level 
and stroke mortality. The life table method was used to estimate the impact of 
stroke mortality on educational differences in life expectancy.
RESULTS: Differences in stroke mortality according to educational level were of 
a similar magnitude in most populations. However, larger educational differences 
were observed in Austria. Overall, educational differences in stroke mortality 
were of similar size among men (RR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.24 to 1.30) and women (RR, 
1.29; 95% CI, 1.27 to 1.32). Educational differences in stroke mortality 
persisted at all ages in all populations, although they generally decreased with 
age. Eliminating these differences would on average reduce educational 
differences in life expectancy by 7% among men and 14% among women.
CONCLUSIONS: Educational differences in stroke mortality were observed across 
Europe during the 1990s. Risk factors such as hypertension and smoking may 
explain part of these differences in several countries. Other factors, such as 
socioeconomic differences in healthcare utilization and childhood socioeconomic 
conditions, may have contributed to educational differences in stroke mortality 
across Europe.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000109225.11509.EE
PMID: 14726555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Clin Infect Dis. 2004 Feb 1;38(3):363-9. doi: 10.1086/380966. Epub 2004 Jan
13.

Short-course rifampin and pyrazinamide compared with isoniazid for latent 
tuberculosis infection: a cost-effectiveness analysis based on a multicenter 
clinical trial.

Jasmer RM(1), Snyder DC, Saukkonen JJ, Hopewell PC, Bernardo J, King MD, 
Kawamura LM, Daley CL; Short-Course Rifampin and Pyrazinamide for Tuberculosis 
Infection Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, San Francisco General 
Hospital Medical Center, CA 94110, USA. rjasmer@itsa.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2004 Jul 15;39(2):289.

Two months of treatment with rifampin-pyrazinamide (RZ) and 9 months of 
treatment with isoniazid are both recommended for treatment of latent 
tuberculosis infection in adults without human immunodeficiency virus infection, 
but the relative cost-effectiveness of these 2 treatments is unknown. We used a 
Markov model to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis to assess the impact on 
life expectancy and costs based on the results of a recent clinical trial that 
compared the rates of adverse events and completion of the 2 treatment regimens. 
Compared with no treatment, both regimens increased life expectancy by 1.2 
years, but RZ cost 273 dollars more per patient. Sensitivity analyses showed 
