that, assuming equal efficacy between the 2 regimens, there was no threshold 
completion rate for RZ at which the 2 treatments would be of equal net cost. 
Under most circumstances, treatment of latent tuberculosis infection with 
isoniazid is cost-saving than treatment with RZ.

DOI: 10.1086/380966
PMID: 14727206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Health Serv Res. 2003 Dec;38(6 Pt 2):1719-33. doi: 
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2003.00199.x.

Racial segregation and longevity among African Americans: an individual-level 
analysis.

LaVeist TA(1).

Author information:
(1)John Hopkins University, Morgan-Hopkins Center for Health Disparities 
Solutions, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To test the relationship between racial segregation and mortality 
using a multidimensional questionnaire-based measure of exposure to segregation.
DATA SOURCES: Data for this analysis come from the National Survey of Black 
Americans (NSBA), a national multistage probability sample of 2,107 African 
Americans (aged 18-101). The NSBA was conducted as a household survey. The NSBA 
was matched with the National Death Index (NDI).
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective cohort study, where Cox regression analysis was used 
to examine the effect of baseline variables on time to death over a 13-year 
period.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Respondents who were exposed to racial segregation were 
significantly less likely to survive the study period after controls for age, 
health status, and other predictors of mortality.
CONCLUSION: The results support previous studies linking segregation with health 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2003.00199.x
PMCID: PMC1360970
PMID: 14727794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. AMIA Annu Symp Proc. 2003;2003:825.

Assessing home care agencies' readiness for telehealth.

Demiris G(1), Patrick T, Khatri N.

Author information:
(1)Health Management and Informatics, School of Medicine, University of 
Missouri-Columbia, USA.

Home healthcare is facing a set of challenging new realities in the 21st century 
such as funding limitations and increased life expectancy. Many believe that the 
use of telehealth enabling patients at home to interact with nurses at the 
clinical site using videoconferencing technology, will be a cost-effective 
solution to providing quality care services. Many agencies have adopted or are 
planning on implementing a telehealth solution. Level of agencies' readiness can 
lead to a lower level of risk, and a more successful innovation outcome. We 
developed a framework for assessing home care agencies' readiness for telehealth 
consisting of 35 items. This instrument can be used as a decision support tool 
for agencies that are about to implement a telehealth system as well as a 
formative or summative evaluation tool for agencies already utilizing 
telehealth.

PMCID: PMC1480178
PMID: 14728330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Med Hypotheses. 2004;62(1):151-4. doi: 10.1016/s0306-9877(03)00316-5.

Tying it all together: telomeres, sexual size dimorphism and the gender gap in 
life expectancy.

Stindl R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Medizinische Biologie, Medizinische Universität Wien, 
Währingerstrasse 10, 1090 Vienna, Austria. reinhard_stindl@yahoo.de

The classic explanation that women outlive men solely due to hormonal and 
lifestyle differences, does not withstand a critical analysis. In developed 
countries, the average gap in life expectancy between the sexes is 7 years. It 
has widened over the last decades, despite the trend of women copying the 
'unhealthy' lifestyle of men. Estrogen levels in postmenopausal women are 
virtually identical to estrogen levels in males and can hardly explain the 
discrepancy. Furthermore, testosterone got its bad reputation from one study on 
mentally retarded men, which has to be interpreted with caution. However, sexual 
size dimorphism with men being the larger sex in conjunction with the limited 
replication potential of human somatic cells might account for higher mortality 
rates in males, especially at old age. The hypothesis, as presented here, is 
based on the well-known concept of a cellular mitotic clock, which was 
discovered by Leonard Hayflick almost half a century ago. The underlying 
counting mechanism, namely the gradual erosion of chromosome ends (telomeres) 
due to the end replication problem of linear DNA molecules, was first described 
by Alexey Olovnikov in 1971 and with minor modifications has become a widely 
accepted paradigm. In a recent Lancet study, an inverse correlation between mean 
telomere length and mortality in people has been found. In this and two other 
studies, it was confirmed that males do have shorter telomeres than females at 
the same age. This is almost certainly a consequence of men being usually taller 
than women, although nobody has done an investigation yet. Clearly, a larger 
body requires more cell doublings, especially due to the ongoing regeneration of 
tissues over a lifetime. Accordingly, the replicative history of male cells 
might be longer than that of female cells, resulting in the exhaustion of the 
regeneration potential and the early onset of age-associated diseases 
predominantly in large-bodied males. Inherited telomere length variation between 
unrelated individuals might have obscured a clear correlation between body 
height and mortality, leading to conflicting results in some studies. Finally, I 
propose that the secular height increase over the last decades, of about 2.5 cm 
per generation in the western world, has to be blamed for the widening of the 
gender gap in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-9877(03)00316-5
PMID: 14729022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. J Chem Neuroanat. 2003 Dec;26(4):331-43. doi:
10.1016/j.jchemneu.2003.10.002.

The human raphe nuclei and the serotonergic system.

Hornung JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de biologie cellulaire et de morphologie, University of Lausanne, 
Rue du Bugnon 9, 1005, Lausanne, Switzerland. jean-pierre.hornung@ibcm.unil.ch

The raphe nuclei are distributed near the midline of the brainstem along its 
entire rostro-caudal extension. The serotonergic neurons are their main neuronal 
components, although a proportion of them lie in subdivisions of the lateral 
reticular formation. They develop from mesopontine and medullary primordia, and 
the resulting grouping into rostral and caudal clusters is maintained into 
adulthood, and is reflected in the connectivity. Thus, the mesencephalon and 
rostral pons, neurons within the rostral raphe complex (caudal linear, dorsal 
raphe, and median raphe nuclei) project primarily to the forebrain. By contrast, 
in the caudal pons and medulla oblongata, neurons within the caudal raphe 
complex (raphe magnus, raphe obscurus, raphe pallidus nuclei and parts of the 
adjacent lateral reticular formation) project to the brainstem nuclei and to the 
spinal cord. The median raphe and dorsal raphe nuclei provide parallel and 
overlapping projections to many forebrain structures with axon fibers exhibiting 
distinct structural and functional characteristics. The caudal group of the 
serotonergic system projects to the brainstem, and, by three parallel 
projections, to the dorsal, intermediate and ventral columns in the spinal cord. 
The serotonergic axons arborize over large areas comprising functionally diverse 
targets. Some projections form classical chemical synapses while many do not, 
thus contributing to the so-called paracrine or volume transmission. The 
serotonergic projections participate in the regulation of different functional 
(motor, somatosensory, limbic) systems; and have been associated with a wide 
range of neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders. Finally, recent 
experimental data support the role of serotonin in modulating brain development, 
such that a dysfunction in serotonergic transmission during early life could 
lead to long lasting structural and functional alterations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2003.10.002
PMID: 14729135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. J Perianesth Nurs. 2003 Dec;18(6):398-413. doi: 10.1016/j.jopan.2003.08.005.

The patient with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator.

Fetzer SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of New Hampshire, Durham, NH, USA. sfetzer@cisunix.unh.edu

Electrophysiologic technology developed over the past 20 years has improved the 
life expectancy of patients who have survived sudden cardiac death events. Use 
of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) continues to increase as more 
indications for the device are researched. Patients with ICDs will be cared for 
in the postanesthesia care unit following cardiac and noncardiac surgery and 
require PACU nurses to be knowledgeable about this advanced and changing 
technology as well as provide for emotional and psychological needs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jopan.2003.08.005
PMID: 14730522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Fiziol Cheloveka. 2003 Nov-Dec;29(6):12-22.

[Compensatory reserves of human organism and population health under conditions 
of exposure to chronic anthropogenic factors and prolonged psychoemotional 
stress].

[Article in Russian]

Shafirkin AV.

PMID: 14730928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(2):107-32. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200422020-00004.

Infliximab: a pharmacoeconomic review of its use in rheumatoid arthritis.

Lyseng-Williamson KA(1), Foster RH.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Infliximab (Remicade), a biological disease-modifying antirheumatic drug 
(DMARD), binds to and inhibits the activity of tumour necrosis factor-alpha, 
which is thought to play an important role in the pathophysiology of rheumatoid 
arthritis. Intravenous infliximab plus methotrexate is recommended in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis who have not achieved satisfactory disease control 
with adequate courses of other DMARDs. Pharmacoeconomic analyses have been based 
on efficacy data from the pivotal placebo-controlled Anti-Tumour Necrosis Factor 
Trial in Rheumatoid Arthritis with Concomitant Therapy (ATTRACT) trial in 
patients with active, refractory rheumatoid arthritis. Infliximab every 8 weeks 
plus methotrexate demonstrated rapid and sustainable improvements in clinical 
response, delayed radiographic progression, and/or improved functional status 
and health-related QOL compared with placebo plus methotrexate at weeks 30, 54 
and 102. In cost-utility analyses of infliximab plus methotrexate conducted from 
a healthcare payer and/or societal perspective in the US, Europe, Portugal, 
Sweden and the UK, infliximab 3 mg/kg every 8 weeks plus methotrexate was 
associated with acceptable (<$US50,000 per discounted QALY gained) cost-utility 
ratios relative to methotrexate alone in patients with active, refractory 
rheumatoid arthritis. When only direct costs were considered, the lifetime 
incremental cost per discounted QALY gained with infliximab plus methotrexate 
relative to methotrexate alone was $US30,500-38,700 (year of costing 1998 or not 
reported; treatment duration 54 or 102 weeks or lifelong) in the US and Europe 
analyses, and euro39 500 (year of costing not reported; lifelong treatment) in 
the Portuguese analysis. The cost-utility ratios were more favourable when lost 
productivity costs or the additional benefit of infliximab on radiographic 
stabilisation were considered. In the Swedish and UK analyses with a 10-year 
time horizon, infliximab plus methotrexate for 1 or 2 years was associated with 
cost-utility ratios of euro28 600-56 100 (year of costing not reported) when 
direct costs were considered, and euro3440-48 200 when direct costs plus 
loss-of-productivity costs were considered. In conclusion, cost-utility 
analyses, which were based on modelling of data from the pivotal clinical trial 
of infliximab plus methotrexate, indicate that infliximab plus methotrexate is 
associated with acceptable cost-effectiveness ratios (<$US50,000 per discounted 
QALY gained) relative to methotrexate monotherapy in patients with active 
rheumatoid arthritis who have not responded to previous methotrexate or other 
DMARD therapy. The cost effectiveness of infliximab versus other DMARDs is at 
present unclear, but will be clarified when appropriate data from directly 
comparative clinical and/or pharmacoeconomic studies become available. In 
patients in whom adequate courses of other DMARDs have failed to achieve 
satisfactory disease control, infliximab plus methotrexate may prevent or delay 
disability, which may produce reductions in nondrug costs that can help offset 
its acquisition cost.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422020-00004
PMID: 14731052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2004 Feb;15(1):8-17. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2004.00983.x.

Effect of implant design on survival and success rates of titanium oral 
implants: a 10-year prospective cohort study of the ITI Dental Implant System.

Karoussis IK(1), Brägger U, Salvi GE, Bürgin W, Lang NP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology and Fixed Prosthetics, University of Berne, 
School of Dental Medicine, Berne, Switzerland.

AIM: The aim of this 10-year study (observation time 8-12 years, mean: 10 years) 
was to compare the survival rates, success rates and incidences of biological 
complications using three different implant designs of the ITI Dental Implant 
System.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In 89 dental patients treated comprehensively, a total of 
112 hollow screw (HS), 49 hollow cylinder (HC) and 18 angulated hollow cylinder 
(AHC) implants were installed depending on the available bone volume and 
according to prosthetic needs. One and 10 years after surgical placement, 
clinical and radiographic parameters were assessed. The incidences of 
peri-implantitis according to various thresholds were registered over 10 years 
of maintenance.
RESULTS: Success criteria at 10 years were set at: pocket probing depth (PPD)< 
or =5 mm, bleeding on probing (BoP)-, bone loss < 0.2 mm annually. The survival 
rate for HS was 95.4%, for HC 85.7% and for AHC 91.7%. Ninety percent of all the 
HS, 71% of the HC and 88% of the AHC did not present with an incidence of 
peri-implantitis over the 10 years, HC having significantly higher incidence of 
peri-implantitis than HS (P< 0.004). With the success criteria set above, a 
success rate for HS of 74%, for HC of 63% and for AHC of 61% was identified at 
10 years. However, including a definition of PPD< or =6 mm, BoP - and bone loss 
< 0.2 mm annually for success, the rates for HS were 78%, for HC 65% and for AHC 
67%, respectively. Basing success criteria purely on clinical parameters 
(without radiographic analysis), such as: PPD< or =5 mm and BoP-, the success 
rates increased to 90%, 76% and 89%, respectively. With PPD< or =6 mm and BoP - 
as success criteria chosen, the respective rates were 94%, 82% and 94% for HS, 
HC and AHC implants, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A significantly higher survival rate as well as a significantly 
lower incidence of peri-implantitis was identified for hollow screw design ITI 
Dental Implants after 10 years of service when compared to hollow cylinder 
design ITI Dental Implants (95.4% vs. 85.7%; 10% vs. 29%). Depending on the 
setting of the threshold criteria for success, success rates are highly variable 
and hence, reporting of success rates with elaboration on the criteria set 
appears crucial for comparison of different studies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2004.00983.x
PMID: 14731173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Jan;8(1):iii, ix-x, 1-180. doi: 10.3310/hta8010.

What is the best imaging strategy for acute stroke?

Wardlaw JM(1), Keir SL, Seymour J, Lewis S, Sandercock PA, Dennis MS, Cairns J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Western General Hospital (University of 
Edinburgh), Edinburgh, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness of computed tomographic (CT) 
scanning after acute stroke. To assess the contribution of brain imaging to the 
diagnosis and management of stroke, and to estimate the costs, benefits and 
risks of different imaging strategies in order to provide data to inform 
national and local policy on the use of brain imaging in stroke.
DESIGN: A decision-analysis model was developed to represent the pathway of care 
in acute stroke using 'scan all patients within 48 hours' as the comparator 
against which to cost 12 alternative scan strategies.
SETTING: Hospitals in Scotland.
PARTICIPANTS: Subjects were patients admitted to hospital with a first stroke 
and those managed as outpatients.
INTERVENTIONS: The effect on functional outcome after ischaemic or haemorrhagic 
stroke, tumours or infections, of correctly administered antithrombotic or other 
treatment; of time to scan and stroke severity on diagnosis by CT or MRI; on 
management, including length of stay, functional outcome, and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), of the diagnostic information provided by CT scanning; the 
cost-effectiveness (cost versus QALYs) of different strategies for use of CT 
after acute stroke.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Death and functional outcome at long-term follow-up; 
accuracy of CT and MRI; cost of CT scanning by time of day and week; effect of 
CT diagnosis on change in health outcome, length of stay in hospital and QALYs; 
cost-effectiveness of various scanning strategies.
RESULTS: CT is very sensitive and specific for haemorrhage within the first 8 
days of stroke only. Suboptimal scanning used in epidemiology studies suggests 
that the frequency of primary intracerebral haemorrhage (PICH) has been 
underestimated. Aspirin increases the risk of PICH. There were no reliable data 
on functional outcome or on the effect of antithrombotic treatment given long 
term after PICH. In 60% of patients with recurrent stroke after PICH, the cause 
is another PICH and mortality is high among PICH patients. A specific MR 
sequence (gradient echo) is required to identify prior PICH reliably. CT 
scanners were distributed unevenly in Scotland, 65% provided CT scanning within 
48 hours of stroke, and 100% within 7 days for hospital-admitted patients, but 
access out of hours was very variable, and for outpatients was poor. The average 
cost of a CT brain scan for stroke was pounds 30.23 to pounds 89.56 in normal 
working hours and pounds 55.05 to pounds 173.46 out of hours. Average length of 
stay was greatest for severe strokes and those who survived in a dependent 
state. For a cohort of 1000 patients aged 70-74 years, the policy 'scan all 
strokes within 48 hours', cost pounds 10,279,728 and achieved 1982.3 QALYS. The 
most cost-effective strategy was 'scan all immediately' (pounds 9,993,676 and 
1982.4 QALYS). The least cost-effective was to 'scan patients on anticoagulants, 
in a life-threatening condition immediately and the rest within 14 days'.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, strategies in which most patients were scanned 
immediately cost least and achieved the most QALYs, as the cost of providing CT 
(even out of hours) was less than the cost of inpatient care. Increasing 
independent survival by even a small proportion through early use of aspirin in 
the majority with ischaemic stroke, avoiding aspirin in those with haemorrhagic 
stroke, and appropriate early management of those who have not had a stroke, 
reduced costs and increased QALYs.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8010
PMID: 14731377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Fungal Genet Biol. 2004 Feb;41(2):239-52. doi: 10.1016/j.fgb.2003.08.010.

Molecular cloning and characterization of two different cDNAs encoding the 
molecular chaperone Hsp90 in the oomycete Achlya ambisexualis.

Brunt SA(1), Silver JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics and Microbiology and Department of Life 
Sciences, University of Toronto at Scarborough, Toronto, Ont., Canada M1C 1A4.

The chaperone Hsp90 plays a key role in the maturation and activation of many 
'client' proteins in eukaryotic cells. In the oomycete Achlya ambisexualis two 
populations of hsp90 transcripts that differ slightly in size (2.8 and 2.9 kb) 
are present in heat-shocked mycelia. Only the 2.8 kb transcripts are seen in 
vegetative mycelia and in mycelia undergoing antheridiol-induced 
differentiation. Two different hsp90 cDNAs were isolated and characterized. 
Although nearly identical, an additional eight nucleotide sequence was present 
at the end of the 3'UTR of one of the two cDNAs. RT-PCR analyses indicated that 
hsp90 transcripts containing the eight nucleotide extension, were present only 
in heat-shocked mycelia. Hsp90 transcripts lacking this sequence were present in 
vegetative mycelia and the levels of these transcripts increased in both 
heat-shocked and hormone-treated mycelia. Each hsp90 cDNA encoded a nearly 
identical Hsp90 protein. However, two Hsp90 proteins (86 and 84 kDa) were 
observed on immunoblots of mycelial proteins. Only one of these, i.e., the 86 
kDa protein was detected by an anti-phosphoserine antibody, suggesting that the 
difference in mass of the two Hsp90 isoforms, was due at least in part, to 
different levels of phosphoserine residues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fgb.2003.08.010
PMID: 14732269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. J Clin Neurosci. 2004 Feb;11(2):190-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2003.05.001.

Haemorrhagic brain metastasis from a thymic carcinoma.

Al-Barbarawi M(1), Smith SF, Sekhon LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Royal North Shore Hospital and University of 
Sydney, NSW 2065, St. Leonards, Australia.

Brain metastasis from thymic carcinoma is extremely rare, and there is still no 
consensus regarding the best management of thymic metastasis to the central 
nervous system. Here, we report the first-known Australian case. A review of the 
current literature and the characteristics of thymic tumours with brain 
metastasis indicate that aggressive management may be able to improve long-term 
outcomes for these patients. A 49-year-old man presented 2 weeks after 
thoracotomy for thymic carcinoma resection with a 2-day history of headache, 
right-sided weakness and expressive dysphasia. CT and MR scans revealed two 
metastatic brain lesions, one within the left frontal lobe with cystic necrosis 
and haemorrhage, the other deep in the parietal lobe adjacent to the left 
ventricle with a lesser degree of haemorrhage. The patient underwent frameless 
stereotactic craniotomy for excision of the frontal lesion. Histopathology 
confirmed poorly differentiated thymic carcinoma. Post-operatively his weakness 
and speech improved dramatically, and he was discharged home within a week, with 
radiotherapy and chemotherapy to follow. However, he represented with rapidly 
worsening symptoms and died within a week. Thymic carcinoma is a rare tumour, 
displaying malignant features clinically and histopathologically with local 
invasion to adjacent organs. Metastasis is predominantly to lung, bone, liver 
and kidney, with less predilection for the central nervous system. Treatment for 
thymic carcinoma is multimodal, but outcome remains poor and life expectancy is 
very short when brain metastasis with haemorrhage is present.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2003.05.001
PMID: 14732382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Blood Purif. 2004;22(1):60-72. doi: 10.1159/000074925.

Renal cell therapy in the treatment of patients with acute and chronic renal 
failure.

Humes HD(1), Weitzel WF, Fissell WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-0726, USA. dhumes@umich.edu

Hemodialysis and hemofiltration have been important technologies in saving the 
lives of patients with acute (ARF) and chronic renal failure by clearing small 
solutes from plasma and thereby preventing death from acidemia, hyperkalemia, 
volume overload, and uremia. These therapeutic approaches, however, are still 
suboptimal, as patients with ARF have mortality rates exceeding 50%, and 
patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have, on average, a life expectancy 
of 4-5 years. The preeminent cause of death in patients with ARF is the 
development of sepsis or the systemic inflammatory response syndrome with 
resulting systemic vasodilation, hypotension, ischemic injury to solid organs, 
multi-organ failure, and death. This vasodilation is due to persistent and 
excessive pro-inflammation. Similarly, the reduced survival times of patients 
with ESRD on chronic dialysis have been associated with a persistent and chronic 
systemic pro-inflammatory state. We have hypothesized that the loss of renal 
tubule cell mass acutely in acute tubule necrosis and chronically in ESRD 
results in an immunologically dysregulated state leading to excessive 
pro-inflammation. The replacement of renal tubule cell function may thus change 
the current dismal prognosis of patients with these disorders. In this regard, 
this report presents the first patient ever treated with a bioartificial kidney 
consisting of a synthetic hemofilter in series with a renal tubule assist device 
(RAD) containing approximately 10(9) human renal tubule cells. This treatment in 
a critically ill patient with multi-organ failure and ARF in the intensive care 
unit was associated temporally with improved cardiovascular parameters and 
enhanced native kidney function. Multiple systemic plasma cytokine levels and 
gene expression profiles of peripheral white blood cells were also temporally 
changed with cell therapy. Clinical trials in patients suffering from either ARF 
or ESRD are currently ongoing to evaluate the influence of the RAD on the 
inflammatory response in these groups of patients.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000074925
PMID: 14732813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Blood Purif. 2004;22(1):175-80. doi: 10.1159/000074938.

DOPPS estimates of patient life years attributable to modifiable hemodialysis 
practices in the United States.

Port FK(1), Pisoni RL, Bragg-Gresham JL, Satayathum SS, Young EW, Wolfe RA, Held 
PJ.

Author information:
(1)University Renal Research and Education Association, Kidney Epidemiology and 
Cost Center, Ann Arbor, MI 48103, USA. fport@urrea.org

Data from the Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS) allow 
estimation of the percentage of patients outside published hemodialysis 
guidelines and their associated mortality risk. We estimated the number of life 
years that could be gained from adherence to four of these guidelines and two 
other modifiable practices, i.e. dialysis dose, phosphate control, improved 
anemia, partial correction of serum albumin, reduced interdialytic weight gain 
and less use of catheters for vascular access. We extrapolated DOPPS data on 
these practices and guidelines to the US hemodialysis population for a 5-year 
projected period. Of the practices we examined, the highest relative risk of 
mortality was associated with having albumin <3.5 g/dl (relative risk=1.38, 
p<0.0001); 20.5% of the patients in the study fell outside the target range. The 
adjusted sum of the patient years attributable to all six practice patterns was 
143,617; a more conservative estimate, modeling life years potentially gained by 
bringing half of all patients outside targets within them, is 69,367. The 
magnitude of potential savings in life years should encourage greater adherence 
to guidelines and practices that are significantly associated with better 
survival.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000074938
PMID: 14732826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Chronic Dis Can. 2003 Fall;24(4):81-8.

Potential impact of population-based colorectal cancer screening in Canada.

Flanagan WM(1), Le Petit C, Berthelot JM, White KJ, Coombs BA, Jones-McLean E.

Author information:
(1)Health Analysis and Measurement Group, Statistics Canada, 24-A RH Coats, 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1A 0T6.

Randomized controlled trials (RCT) have shown the efficacy of screening for 
colorectal cancer (CRC) using the faecal occult blood test (FOBT) with follow-up 
by colonoscopy. We evaluated the potential impact of population-based screening 
by FOBT followed by colonoscopy in Canada: mortality reduction, 
cost-effectiveness, and resource requirements. The microsimulation model POHEM 
was adapted to simulate CRC screening using Canadian data and RCT results about 
test sensitivity and specificity, participation, incidence, staging, 
progression, mortality and direct health care costs. In Canada, biennial 
screening of 67% of individuals aged 50-74 in the year 2000 resulted in an 
estimated 10-year CRC mortality reduction of 16.7%. The life expectancy of the 
cohort increased by 15 days on average and the demand for colonoscopy rose by 
15% in the first year. The estimated cost of screening was $112 million per year 
or $11,907 per life-year gained (discounted at 5%). Potential effectiveness 
would depend on reaching target participation rates and finding resources to 
meet the demand for FOBT and colonoscopy. This work was conducted in support of 
the National Committee on Colorectal Cancer Screening.

PMID: 14733756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Chronic Dis Can. 2003 Fall;24(4):102-7.

Which cancer clinical trials should be considered for economic evaluation? 
Selection criteria from the National Cancer Institute of Canada's Working Group 
on Economic Analysis.

Evans WK(1), Coyle D, Gafni A, Walker H; National Cancer Institute of Canada 
Clinical Trials Group--Working Group on Economic Analysis.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Care Ontario, 620 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G 2L7. 
bill.evans@cancercare.on.ca

Rising health care costs, expensive new health care technologies and increasing 
patient expectations are placing huge pressures on the publicly funded health 
care system in Canada. As a result, policy makers need information on the cost 
and cost-effectiveness of new therapies in addition to their clinical benefits. 
In response to this need, the National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical 
Trials Group (NCIC CTG) established a Working Group on Economic Analysis (WGEA) 
to provide advice on the economic evaluation of new cancer therapies. This 
article describes the WGEA's recommendations on which trials should be 
considered for concurrent analysis of economic, as well as related issues, such 
as the number of patients required for an economic analysis within a prospective 
clinical trial and the selection of participating centres. The recommendations 
in this document are meant to be pragmatic, as the WGEA recognizes that both the 
research funds and human resource capacity for this type of research in Canada 
are limited. These recommendations are currently guiding priority setting with 
regard to trials for economic evaluation in NCIC trials. Examples of how these 
recommendations have been applied to actual trials are presented.

PMID: 14733759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Chronic Dis Can. 2003 Fall;24(4):108-15.

Cause-deleted health-adjusted life expectancy of Canadians with selected chronic 
conditions.

Manuel DG(1), Luo W, Ugnat AM, Mao Y.

Author information:
(1)Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care, and Institute for Clinical 
Evaluative Sciences, G106-2075 Bayview Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4N 3M5. 
doug.manuel@ices.on.ca

Health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) is life expectancy weighted or adjusted 
for the level of health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Cause-deleted 
probabilities of dying were derived using the cause-eliminated life table 
technique and death data from vital statistics for Canada in 1998/99. Life 
expectancy for men and women in Canada was 76.0 and 81.5 years respectively; 
HALE was 67.9 years for men and 71.1 years for women. Cancer represented the 
greatest burden of disease in the population, and eliminating it would increase 
men's life expectancy to 79.6 years and women's to 85.1 years. HALE would rise 
to 70.7 years for men and 73.6 for women. The gain in life expectancy would be 
very small if osteoarthritis were eliminated, but there would be an overall gain 
in HALE of approximately 1.0 years for men and 2.5 years for women. HALE 
estimated for chronic conditions using a utility-based measure of HRQOL from 
population health surveys should be regarded as a valuable component of 
population health surveillance.

PMID: 14733760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Chronic Dis Can. 2003 Fall;24(4):116-23.

Geographic variation in health services use in Nova Scotia.

Veugelers PJ(1), Yip AM, Elliott DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Dalhousie University, 5790 University Avenue, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada B3H 
1V7. Paul.Veugelers@dal.ca

To further our understanding of factors underlying geographic variation in 
health and the potential role of availability of and access to health services, 
we sought to quantify the geographic variation in health services use in the 
province of Nova Scotia. For the period 1996 to 1999 we examined the variation 
in the use of health services across 64 geographic areas in conjunction with 
health and socio-economic factors, using multilevel methods and empirical 
Bayesian estimates based on provincial physician billings and hospital 
separation records. We revealed moderate geographic variation in the use of 
family physician services and large variation in specialist and hospital 
services. In the two urban centres, Metropolitan Halifax and the Cape Breton 
Regional Municipality, use of specialist services was respectively 26.24% and 
15.59% higher than the provincial average, and use of hospital services was 
respectively 21.55% and 37.67% higher. Geographic areas in which residents had 
better health were characterized by more use of family physician services and 
reduced use of specialist and hospital services. These associations seem to 
support policy strategies that aim to improve health and to reduce health care 
costs by investing in prevention and primary health care, and they highlight the 
potential implications of the shortage of family physicians across Canada.

PMID: 14733761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Eur Urol. 2004 Feb;45(2):147-53; discussion 154. doi: 
10.1016/j.eururo.2003.08.017.

Surgical management of infiltrating bladder cancer in elderly patients.

Peyromaure M(1), Guerin F, Debre B, Zerbib M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Cochin Hospital, 27 rue du Faubourg Saint Jacques, 
75014 Paris, France. michael.peyromaure@cch.ap-hop-paris.fr

OBJECTIVES: To review the surgical therapeutic options in elderly patients with 
infiltrating bladder cancer.
METHODS: A review of the literature relevant to cystectomy and transurethral 
resection for infiltrating bladder cancer in elderly patients was conducted 
using Medline Services.
RESULTS: Thanks to progress in anaesthesia, intensive care and surgery, 
cystectomy now forms part of the classical treatments for bladder cancer in 
elderly patients, with acceptable mortality and morbidity rates. The recent 
series of cystectomies performed in patients over 75 years old report a 
mortality rate associated with the procedure of less than 4.5%. The global 
mortality rate in the same population ranges from 10 to 50%. These rates are now 
similar to those reported in the general population. The mean survival after 
cystectomy in patients over 75 years old is more than 2 years. Global survival 
at 5 years is between 37 and 68%. It is acknowledged by most authors that 
resection alone is associated with higher relapse and progression rates than 
cystectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Cystectomy appears to be reasonable in elderly people who have a 
life expectancy of more than 2 years, provided that a rigorous pre-operative 
assessment and anaesthetic management are performed. Transurethral resection 
alone should be proposed only to patients with poor health status and/or very 
advanced age.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2003.08.017
PMID: 14733998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Ann Intern Med. 2004 Jan 20;140(2):94-100. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-140-2-200401200-00009.

Elevated plasma homocysteine level is an independent predictor of coronary heart 
disease events in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Soinio M(1), Marniemi J, Laakso M, Lehto S, Rönnemaa T.

Author information:
(1)University of Turku, Turku, Finland. minna.soinio@tyks.fi

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Jan 20;140(2):I31.

BACKGROUND: High plasma homocysteine level has been associated with increased 
risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) events in nondiabetic individuals, 
especially in those with previously diagnosed CHD. In persons with type 2 
diabetes mellitus, the association between homocysteine level and cardiovascular 
disease may be stronger than that in nondiabetic individuals, but no large 
prospective studies have examined the relationship between homocysteine level 
and CHD mortality in persons with type 2 diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether moderately elevated plasma homocysteine levels 
are independently related to increased incidence of fatal and nonfatal CHD 
events in persons with type 2 diabetes.
DESIGN: Prospective study.
SETTING: Finnish sample of patients with type 2 diabetes.
PATIENTS: 462 men and 368 women who were 45 to 64 years of age at baseline.
MEASUREMENTS: Coronary heart disease mortality and incidence of nonfatal 
myocardial infarction during the 7-year follow-up.
RESULTS: Participants with plasma homocysteine levels of 15 micromol/L or more 
at baseline had a higher risk for CHD death than those with plasma homocysteine 
levels less than 15 micromol/L (26.1% and 13.5%, respectively; P = 0.005). The 
risks for all CHD events were 36.2% and 22.6%, respectively (P = 0.011). In Cox 
regression analyses, elevated plasma homocysteine level was significantly 
associated with CHD mortality (P < 0.001) and all CHD events (P = 0.002) even 
after adjustment for confounding variables, including creatinine clearance. In 
participants without myocardial infarction at baseline, moderate 
hyperhomocysteinemia was also associated with CHD mortality and all CHD events 
in univariate (P < 0.001 and P = 0.006, respectively) and multivariate Cox 
regression analyses (P < 0.001 and P = 0.004, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: In this large cohort of patients with type 2 diabetes, plasma 
homocysteine level was a strong and independent risk factor for CHD events.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-140-2-200401200-00009
PMID: 14734331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. J Biol Chem. 2004 Apr 2;279(14):13778-85. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M311269200. Epub
2004  Jan 19.

Translation initiation from a naturally occurring non-AUG codon in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae.

Chang KJ(1), Wang CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, National Central University, 300 Jung-da, 
Jung-li, Taiwan 32054.

Although previous studies have already shown that both cytoplasmic and 
mitochondrial activities of glycyl-tRNA synthetase are provided by a single 
gene, GRS1,in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the mechanism by which this 
occurs remains unclear. Evidence presented here indicates that this bifunctional 
property is actually a result of two distinct translational products 
alternatively generated from a single transcript of this gene. Except for an 
amino-terminal 23-amino acid extension, these two isoforms have the same 
polypeptide sequence and function exclusively in their respective compartments 
under normal conditions. Reporter gene assays further suggest that this leader 
peptide can function independently as a mitochondrial targeting signal and plays 
the major role in the subcellular localization of the isoforms. Additionally, 
whereas the short protein is translationally initiated from a traditional AUG 
triplet, the longer isoform is generated from an upstream inframe UUG codon. To 
our knowledge, GRS1 appears to be the first example in the yeast wherein a 
functional protein isoform is initiated from a naturally occurring non-AUG 
codon. The results suggest that non-AUG initiation might be a mechanism existing 
throughout all kingdoms.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M311269200
PMID: 14734560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. FASEB J. 2004 Mar;18(3):595-7. doi: 10.1096/fj.03-0890fje. Epub 2004 Jan 20.

Mitochondrial and nuclear DNA base excision repair are affected differently by 
caloric restriction.

Stuart JA(1), Karahalil B, Hogue BA, Souza-Pinto NC, Bohr VA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Brock University, St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada.

Aging is strongly correlated with the accumulation of oxidative damage in DNA, 
particularly in mitochondria. Oxidative damage to both mitochondrial and nuclear 
DNA is repaired by the base excision repair (BER) pathway. The "mitochondrial 
theory of aging" suggests that aging results from declining mitochondrial 
function, due to high loads of damage and mutation in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). 
Restriction of caloric intake is the only intervention so far proven to slow the 
aging rate. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying such effects are still 
unclear. We used caloric-restricted (CR) mice to investigate whether lifespan 
extension is associated with changes in mitochondrial BER activities. Mice were 
divided into two groups, receiving 100% (PF) or 60% (CR) of normal caloric 
intake, a regime that extends mean lifespan by approximately 40% in CR mice. 
Mitochondria isolated from CR mice had slightly higher uracil (UDG) and 
oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) activities but marginally lower abasic 
endonuclease and polymerase gamma gap-filling activities, although these 
differences were tissue-specific. Uracil-initiated BER synthesis incorporation 
activities were significantly lower in brain and kidney from CR mice but 
marginally enhanced in liver. However, nuclear repair synthesis activities were 
increased by CR, indicating differential regulation of BER in the two 
compartments. The results indicate that a general up-regulation of mitochondrial 
BER does not occur in CR.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.03-0890fje
PMID: 14734635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Heredity (Edinb). 2004 Mar;92(3):170-81. doi: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800383.

Evolutionary genetics of lifespan and mortality rates in two populations of the 
seed beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus.

Fox CW(1), Bush ML, Roff DA, Wallin WG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, S-225 Agricultural Science Center North, University 
of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40546-0091, USA. cfox@uky.edu

The age at which individuals die varies substantially within and between 
species, but we still have little understanding of why there is such variation 
in life expectancy. We examined sex-specific and genetic variation in adult 
lifespan and the shape of mortality curves both within and between two 
populations of the seed beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus, that differ in a suite 
of life history characters associated with adaptation to different host species. 
Mean adult lifespan and the shape of the logistic mortality curves differed 
substantially between males and females (males had lower initial mortality 
rates, but a faster increase in the rate of mortality with increasing age) and 
between populations (they differed in the rate of increase in mortality with 
age). Larger individuals lived longer than smaller individuals, both because 
they had lower initial mortality rates and a slower increase in the rate of 
mortality with increasing age. However, differences in body size were not 
adequate to explain the differences in mortality between the sexes or 
populations. Both lifespan and mortality rates were genetically variable within 
populations and genetic variance/covariance matrices for lifespan differed 
between the populations and sexes. This study thus demonstrated substantial 
genetic variation in lifespan and mortality rates within and between populations 
of C. maculatus.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.hdy.6800383
PMID: 14735137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Chir Organi Mov. 2003 Apr-Jun;88(2):159-64.

Bone metastases in the hip region: surgical treatment.

[Article in English, Italian]

Ippolito V(1), Saccalani M, Iannì L, Spaggiari L, Cavina F, Modonesi F, Bonetti 
L, Sartori G.

Author information:
(1)Centro di Oncologia Ortopedica, Ospedale Civile di Brescia.

Subjective factors of the patient such as age, weight, occupation, expectations, 
etc. must be carefully evaluated in terms of surgery. It is always important to 
remember life expectancy, and the choice of a surgical procedure must be based 
on it. Limited survival and possible radiation therapy must eliminate methods 
that require long healing times: we no longer use bone grafts because the risk 
of healing time taking up too much of the time left for the patient is too high. 
Reconstructions must have an immediate solidity allowing early use of the limb. 
Thus, in the proximal femur, we above all use protheses (traditional or modular 
RPS); in acetabular lesions that do not involve the joint surface, our treatment 
of choice is curettage with liquid nitrogen and cement, armed with screws and 
nails. Prostheses, which are always cemented, are assembled using bipolar cups; 
cases where lysis is so wide on the cotyloid side as to require THR are rare. 
The cotyles, in cases such as these, are those that allow for anchoring with 
several sites (Octopus type), the McMinn or, at times, common cotyles in PE.

PMID: 14735824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Epidemiol Prev. 2003 Sep-Oct;27(5):285-90.

[Impact of smoking in Italy in 1998: deaths and years of potential life lost].

[Article in Italian]

Gorini G(1), Chellini E, Querci A, Seniori Costantini A.

Author information:
(1)UO Epidemiologia ambientale occupazionale, Centro per lo studio e la 
prevenzione oncologica (CSPO), Istituto scientifico della Regione Toscana, 
Firenze. g.gorini@cspo.it

This report presents the impact of smoking habits on Italian mortality in 1998. 
Estimates of smoking-attributable fraction (FAF), smoking-attributable mortality 
(MAF), and years of potential life lost (YPLLf) were calculated using the SAMMEC 
software (CDC, USA), and the Peto method. During 1998, using the SAMMEC 
software, smoking caused approximately 83,650 premature deaths in Italy (67,600 
in men, 16,000 in women, and 45 in infants), equal to 15.1% of mortality in 
adults above the age of 35 years (24.4% of mortality in men and 5.8% in women). 
YPLLf were about 900,000 in men, 221,000 in women, and 3,500 in infants. Using 
the Peto method, smoking-attributable deaths were about 70,200 (59,600 in men 
and 10,600 in women), equal to 12.7% of mortality in adults older than 35 years 
(21.5% of mortality in men and 3.9% in women). YPLLf were about 806,000 in men 
and 142,000 in women. Among adults, for both methods most smoking-related deaths 
were attributable to lung cancer, ischemic heart disease, chronic airways 
obstruction, and cerebrovascular disease. Differences between the estimates of 
the two methods underline the gap between a more conservative estimate (Peto 
method) and a less restrictive one (SAMMEC software). Given validity for both 
methods, it is likely smoking habits caused between 70,000 and 83,000 deaths in 
Italy during 1998.

PMID: 14735840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Pac Health Dialog. 2002 Sep;9(2):263-74.

Living the health transition among the Chamorros of Guam.

Torsch V(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Anthropology, University of Vermont, Williams Hall, Burlington, VT 
05405-0168, USA. vtorsch@earthlink.net

Health transition in the Pacific islands reflects the richness of diversity 
created by varied socio-cultural, ecological, and politico-economic systems and, 
therefore, requires the inclusion of the local cultural context in health 
assessment, planning, and program development. This paper focuses on the health 
transition of the Chamorros of Guam, blending assessment of health trends with 
the cultural contexts associated with them. The review of health trends reveals 
that the Chamorros are experiencing a mixed transition, including a combination 
of infectious and chronic diseases, in addition to the increasing impact of 
health risk behaviors, which have led to increasing rates of injury-related 
mortality. The cultural review presents Chamorro perceptions and values in their 
extended, multigenerational family system, in traditions of caring and sharing 
within their communities, and in the continued use of their traditional healers. 
By paying attention to the Chamorro's cultural perspectives and concerns, a 
"window" is provided to understand the interaction of changing population trends 
with their actual lives as well as an opportunity to integrate culture and 
health in our understanding of the health transition.

PMID: 14736114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Am Psychol. 2004 Jan;59(1):52; discussion 54-5. doi:
10.1037/0003-066X.59.1.52a.

Galton on spirituality, religion, and health.

McCormick DJ.

DOI: 10.1037/0003-066X.59.1.52a
PMID: 14736327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Health Econ. 2004 Feb;13(2):171-81. doi: 10.1002/hec.808.

Lack of multiplicative transitivity in person trade-off responses.

Schwarzinger M(1), Lanoë JL, Nord E, Durand-Zaleski I.

Author information:
(1)Service de Santé Publique, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France. 
schwarzi@univ-paris12.fr

BACKGROUND: The person trade-off (PTO) is a technique for eliciting preferences 
for resource allocation across patient groups. In principle PTO responses should 
satisfy a requirement of multiplicative transitivity, i.e. that if people 
consider treatment of 1 in state A to be equivalent to treating 10 in state B, 
and 1 in state B to be equivalent to 10 in state C, then they should find 1 in 
state A equivalent to 100 in state C. Earlier studies addressing labelled 
diseases (specific diagnoses), have shown multiplicative intransitivity of the 
PTO responses. Our purpose was to test multiplicative transitivity in the case 
of health states described with the EuroQol instrument only and to find a 
possible framing effect such as the number of persons in the reference 
intervention.
METHODS: Forty-four master degree students were asked to fill in a questionnaire 
addressing four chronic health states. Their task consisted in (1). ranking the 
states by severity, (2). valuing each of them by the means of the time 
trade-off, and (3). doing the PTO for all the 10 possible pairwise combinations 
of the four chronic states plus a fatal one. In a subsequent questionnaire the 
number of persons in the reference intervention in the PTO was increased from 10 
to 100. Multiplicative transitivity was studied in subjects who demonstrated a 
willingness to trade off and consistency in ranking individual values.
RESULTS: None of the 39 subjects included satisfied a minimum multiplicative 
transitivity requirement in PTO responses. Internal consistency was not improved 
when the PTO involved health states close to each other in terms of severity, 
nor when the prevention of death was not the reference intervention. For the 22 
subjects having answered both types of questionnaire, increasing the number of 
persons in the reference intervention did not improve multiplicative 
transitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: The PTO holds promise as a useful method for determining social 
preferences for priority setting, inasmuch as it captures distributive concerns 
that individual utility techniques such as the time trade-off do not address. 
But the lack of multiplicative transitivity in PTO responses is unsatisfactory, 
and ways to reduce this problem need to be explored.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.808
PMID: 14737754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Occup Environ Med. 2004 Feb;61(2):157-62. doi: 10.1136/oem.2002.001255.

Lung cancer and dust exposure: results of a prospective cohort study following 
3260 workers for 50 years.

Moshammer H(1), Neuberger M.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Preventive Medicine, Institute of Environmental Health, University of 
Vienna, Austria. hanns.moshammer@univie.ac.at

AIMS: To study the lasting health impact of occupational dust exposure on life 
expectancy and specific causes of death.
METHODS: Male Viennese workers, selected at age > or =40 (mean 54) years during 
preventive check-ups between 1950 and 1960, were followed prospectively until 
death. Half of them (1630) were exposed at work to (non-fibrous) particulates, 
while the non-exposed workers were matched for year, age, and smoking status at 
the start of observation.
RESULTS: Average life expectancy of those exposed was 1.6 years less than that 
of those non-exposed. Only a small part of this decrease in life expectancy 
(hazards ratios in brackets) was related to acknowledged occupational diseases 
such as silicosis and silicotuberculosis (67.12). Chronic obstructive lung 
disease (1.82) and cancer of the lung (1.42) and stomach (1.77) were found more 
frequently among those exposed.
CONCLUSIONS: Results support the hypothesis that high exposure to insoluble 
