particulates such as silica in the metal, glass, ceramics, and stone industries 
promotes bronchial cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The finding 
of an increased incidence of stomach cancer might be related to particles 
swallowed after clearance from the airways.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.2002.001255
PMCID: PMC1740700
PMID: 14739382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Stroke. 2004 Feb;35(2):566-71. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000113692.38574.57. Epub
 2004 Jan 22.

Noninvasive quantification of brain edema and the space-occupying effect in rat 
stroke models using magnetic resonance imaging.

Gerriets T(1), Stolz E, Walberer M, MÃ¼ller C, Kluge A, Bachmann A, Fisher M, 
Kaps M, Bachmann G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology/Experimental Neurology Research Group, Kerckhoff 
Klinik Bad Nauheim, Bad Nauheim, Germany. Tibo.Gerriets@neuro.med.uni-giessen.de

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Brain edema is a life-threatening consequence of stroke 
and leads to an extension of the affected tissue. The space-occupying effect due 
to brain edema can be quantified in rat stroke models with the use of MRI. The 
present study was performed to test 2 hypotheses: (1) Can quantification of the 
space-occupying effect due to brain edema serve as a noninvasive measure for 
brain water content? (2) Does morphometric assessment of brain swelling allow 
determination of true infarct size on MRI after correction for the 
space-occupying effect of edema?
METHODS: Thirty rats were subjected to permanent suture middle cerebral artery 
occlusion. MRI was performed after 6 or 24 hours, and hemispheric swelling was 
assessed morphometrically. Interobserver and intraobserver agreements were 
determined for MRI measurements. In study I, the space-occupying effect due to 
brain edema was correlated with the absolute brain water content by the wet/dry 
method. In study II, lesion volumes corrected and uncorrected for edema were 
calculated on MRI and on TTC staining and compared.
RESULTS: Interobserver and intraobserver agreements for MRI measurements were 
excellent (r>or=0.97). Brain water content and hemispheric swelling correlated 
well after 6 and 24 hours (r>or=0.95). Corrected lesion volumes correlated with 
r=0.78 between TTC staining and MRI. Without edema correction, lesion volumes 
were overestimated by 20.3% after 6 hours and by 29.6% after 24 hours of 
ischemia.
CONCLUSIONS: Morphometric assessment of hemispheric swelling on MRI can 
determine the increase in absolute brain water content noninvasively and can 
also provide ischemic lesion volumes corrected for brain edema.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000113692.38574.57
PMID: 14739415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Biogerontology. 2003;4(6):341-5. doi: 10.1023/B:BGEN.0000006553.13232.a5.

Effect of increasing age on tissue dolichol levels in ad libitum fed and 
food-restricted rats.

Cavallini G(1), Dolfi C, Donati A, Maccheroni M, Parentini I, Gori Z, Bergamini 
E.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Patologia Sperimentale, Biotecnologie Mediche, Infettivologia 
e Epidemiologia. University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.

In order to test the hypothesis that the ageing-related alteration in membrane 
lipids might reflect the biological age of rodents, we studied the effects of 
age in ad libitum fed (AL) and food-restricted (FR) male Sprague-Dawley rats on 
the levels of dolichol in different organs involved [liver (L) and kidney (K)] 
or not involved [brain (B), sciatic nerve (SN), heart (H), soleus (S) and 
extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles] in dolichol excretion. At the given 
age, tissue dolichol was extracted and assayed by HPLC procedure. Results show 
that the levels of dolichol were significantly different in different tissues 
and increased dramatically with increasing age. The anti-ageing FR regimen had 
significant preventive effects on dolichol accumulation in the excretory organs. 
The effect of FR on the liver was much bigger than that of kidney. The effect of 
FR retarding dolichol accumulation in the liver co-varied with the effects of FR 
on longevity. In conclusion, these data show that the quantity of dolichol in 
the hepatic tissue might be used as a marker of the biological age of the 
animal.

DOI: 10.1023/B:BGEN.0000006553.13232.a5
PMID: 14739704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Biogerontology. 2003;4(6):387-95. doi: 10.1023/B:BGEN.0000006559.59110.10.

Reproduction and survival in Mediterranean fruit flies: a "protein and energy" 
free radical model of aging.

Butov AA(1), Carey JR, Volkov MA, Sehl ME, Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Mathematics, Faculty of Mechanics and Mathematics, 
Ulyanovsk State University, Leo Tolstoi 42, 432700 Ulyanovsk, Russian 
Federation.

We propose a "protein and energy" free radical model of aging that predicts 
patterns of survival and fertility curves for Mediterranean fruit flies. 
Mathematical and simulation models of individual physiological processes were 
constructed in terms of stochastic differential equations. The free radical 
theory of aging was used as a basis for construction of the model and was 
extended to describe the dynamics of the protein and energy balance in the 
functioning organism, including the concept of a maximum capacity for energy 
production. We fit the model to observed patterns of survival and fertility in 
flies given the basic diet schemes used in respective experiments. Age patterns 
of fertility and survival were predicted under various diet scenarios using the 
model, revealing that the predictions of the model are in good agreement with 
experimental data.

DOI: 10.1023/B:BGEN.0000006559.59110.10
PMID: 14739710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Educ Health (Abingdon). 2002;15(3):353-61. doi: 10.1080/1357628021000012796.

Service-learning in healthy aging for medical students and family medicine 
residents.

Young S(1), Bates T, Wolff M, Maurana CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, 53226, USA. syoung@mcw.edu

INTRODUCTION: Community-based educational opportunities can diversify and 
strengthen traditional clinical education. With growing diversity of patient 
populations and increasing life expectancy, it is imperative that medical 
students and residents prepare for practice within this context. The Center for 
Healthy Communities in the Department of Family and Community Medicine at the 
Medical College of Wisconsin, USA developed a community-based, service-learning 
program in healthy aging to address this need.
OBJECTIVES: The goals of the Chat and Chew program are to: generate medical 
student/ resident awareness of community health, aging, and diversity; train 
medical students/ residents to present health information to older, minority 
community members; encourage medical students/residents to view community 
members as "teachers" as well as patients; and provide needed health information 
and socialization opportunities to elderly public housing tenants.
IMPLICATIONS: Medical students and residents gain the opportunity to interact 
with community members about the health issues that concern them. They also 
benefit from seeing community members in their real life context and learning 
about their health-related experiences. The housing tenants help shape how 
future patients will be understood and treated by the physicians who 
participated in the service-learning program. The purpose of this article is to: 
(1) provide an overview of service-learning and the Chat and Chew program, 
including reflection components; and (2) discuss how this program has become an 
integral part of the family medicine residency curriculum.

DOI: 10.1080/1357628021000012796
PMID: 14741943


302. Educ Health (Abingdon). 2002;15(2):215-21. doi: 10.1080/13576280210138616.

Why health educators need epidemiology.

Merrill RM(1), White GL.

Author information:
(1)Health Science, College of Health and Human Performance, Brigham Young 
University, Provo, UT 84602, USA. Ray_merrill@byu.edu

The aim of health education is to encourage health behaviors that promote a 
better quality of life and longer life expectancy. In the late 1960s, 
universities in the US began offering degree programs in health education. Most 
programs today require that at least one class be taken in epidemiology, where 
epidemiology involves the study of the distribution and determinants of disease 
frequency in human populations. In recent years, several competency areas have 
been set forth for health educators by the US National Commission for Health 
Education Credentialing. This paper specifically describes how training in 
epidemiology provides health educators with the ability to satisfy, in large 
part, these competency areas. The intent of this paper is to clarify to students 
and advisors of health education the rationale for requiring course work in 
epidemiology, as well as to emphasize that epidemiology is the cornerstone to 
all health education, whether conducted by physicians, nurses, or formally 
trained health educators.

DOI: 10.1080/13576280210138616
PMID: 14741970


303. Educ Health (Abingdon). 2001;14(1):51-60. doi: 10.1080/13576280010015362.

Songs and storytelling: bringing health messages to life in Uganda.

Silver D(1).

Author information:
(1)Friendship Bridge, Evergreen, Colorado 80304, USA. dwsilver@pol.net

In villages without doctors and hospitals in the remote eastern Ugandan district 
of Pallisa, traditional birth attendants and mothers are solving the most 
serious health problems through the teaching power of songs and stories. The 
village's rich oral tradition was enlisted as the principal means not only for 
transmitting these important health messages, but also for supporting their 
practice throughout the community. Utilizing existing community traditions such 
as songs and storytelling offers culturally appropriate ways of enhancing the 
communications component of the health care system to make it serve the poor 
majority in a readily comprehensible, credible, affordable, and accessible form. 
These non-formal active-learning methods are highly compatible with and 
promotive of the general principles of primary health care, especially for their 
empowering, participatory and sustainable qualities. It is only a natural 
extension for health educators to more fully employ the use of the time-honored 
oral traditions of songs and storytelling as a vehicle for communicating health 
messages. For students in the health professions, awareness of these proven 
principles for engaging people at the local levels will contribute to more 
effective training, strategic program design, and advocacy.

DOI: 10.1080/13576280010015362
PMID: 14742044


304. J Vasc Surg. 2004 Feb;39(2):288-97. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.09.047.

Diameter of abdominal aortic aneurysm and outcome of endovascular aneurysm 
repair: does size matter? A report from EUROSTAR.

Peppelenbosch N(1), Buth J, Harris PL, van Marrewijk C, Fransen G; EUROSTAR 
Collaborators.

Author information:
(1)The EUROSTAR Data Registry Center, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to determine the effect of the 
preoperative diameter of abdominal aortic aneurysms on the midterm outcome after 
endovascular abdominal aneurysm repair (EVAR).
METHOD: The data for 4392 patients who had undergone EVAR were analyzed. 
Patients were enrolled over 6 years to June 2002 in the EUROSTAR database. 
Outcomes were compared between three groups defined by the preoperative diameter 
of the aneurysm: group A (n = 1962), 4.0 to 5.4 cm; group B (n = 1528), 5.5 to 
6.4 cm; and group C (n = 902), 6.5 cm or larger. Patient characteristics, 
details of aortoiliac anatomy, operative procedures, old or current device 
generation, and postoperative complications in the three patient groups were 
compared. Outcome events included aneurysm-related death, unrelated death, 
conversion, and post-EVAR rupture of the aneurysm. Life table analysis and 
log-rank tests were used to compare outcome in the three study groups. 
Multivariate Cox models were used to determine whether baseline and follow-up 
variables were independently associated with adverse outcome events.
RESULTS: Patients in group C were significantly older than patients in groups A 
and B (73 years vs 70 and 72 years, respectively; P =.003 - P <.0001 for 
different group comparisons), and more frequently were at higher operative risk 
(American Society of Anesthesiologists classification >or=3; 63% vs 48% and 54%; 
P =.0002-P <.0001). Device-related (type I) endoleaks were more frequently 
observed at early postoperative arteriography in group C compared with groups A 
and B (9.9% vs 3.7% and 6.8%; P =.01-P <.0001). Postoperatively systemic 
complications were more frequently present in group C (17.4% vs 12.0% in group A 
and 12.6% in group B; P <.0001 and.001). The first-month mortality was 
approximately twice as high in group C compared with the other groups combined 
(4.1% vs 2.1%; P <.0001). Late rupture was most frequent in group C. Follow-up 
results at midterm were less favorable in groups C and B compared with group A 
(freedom from rupture, 90%, 98%, and 98% at 4 years in groups C, B, and A, 
respectively; P <.0001 for group C vs groups A and B). Aneurysm-related death 
was highest in group C (88% freedom at 4 years, compared with 95% in group B and 
97% in A; P =.001 and P <.0001, respectively; group B vs A, P =.004). The annual 
rate of aneurysm-related death in group C was 1% in the first 3 years, but 
accelerated to 8.0% in the fourth year. Incidence of unrelated death also was 
higher in groups C and B than in group A (76% and 82% freedom at 4 years vs 87%; 
P <.0001 for both comparisons). Ratio of aneurysm-related to unrelated death was 
23%, 21%, and 50% in groups A, B, and C, respectively. Cox models demonstrated 
that the correlation between large aneurysms (group C) and all assessed outcome 
events was independent and highly significant. Older generation devices had an 
independent association with aneurysm-related and unrelated deaths (P =.02 and P 
=.04, respectively). However, this correlation was less strong than large 
aneurysm diameter (P =.0001 and P =.0009, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The midterm outcome of large aneurysms after EVAR was associated 
with increased rates of aneurysm-related death, unrelated death, and rupture. 
Reports of EVAR should stratify their outcomes according to the diameter of the 
aneurysm. Large aneurysms need a more rigorous post-EVAR surveillance schedule 
than do smaller aneurysms. In small aneurysms EVAR was associated with excellent 
outcome. This finding may justify reappraisal of currently accepted management 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.09.047
PMID: 14743127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Vasc Surg. 2004 Feb;39(2):343-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.07.007.

Hemodynamic outcome of endovascular therapy for TransAtlantic InterSociety 
Consensus type B femoropopliteal arterial occlusive lesions.

Costanza MJ(1), Queral LA, Lilly MP, Finn WR.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. 
mcostanza@smail.umaryland.edu

OBJECTIVE: Endovascular therapy for moderate femoropopliteal arterial occlusive 
disease remains controversial. This study reviewed our experience with 
endovascular therapy for TransAtlantic InterSociety Consensus (TASC) type B 
disease, which is defined as multiple stenoses less than 3 cm in diameter or a 
single stenosis or occlusion 3 to 5 cm in diameter. Stenosis-free patency was 
used as an objective end point to evaluate the hemodynamic outcome.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed of all patients who had undergone 
endovascular treatment of TASC type B lesions between 1997 and 2002 at two 
referral centers. Balloon angioplasty was performed in all patients. Stenting 
was used selectively as an adjunct in patients with suboptimal angioplasty 
results. The treated sites were examined with duplex ultrasound scanning at 
6-month to 12-month intervals. Stenosis-free patency was defined as the absence 
of stenosis greater than 50% diameter in the treated arterial segment with 
standard duplex criteria.
RESULTS: One hundred fifteen limbs in 98 patients were studied. The indication 
for treatment was claudication in 92 patients (80%) and ischemic rest pain or 
gangrene in the remaining patients (20%). Multiple lesions greater than 3 cm 
were treated in 89 limbs (77%), and a single lesion 3 to 5 cm long was treated 
in 26 limbs (23%). Balloon angioplasty alone was performed in 74 limbs (65%), 
and angioplasty and adjunctive stenting was performed in 41 limbs (35%). 
Endovascular therapy was technically successful in all but one patient (99%), 
and there was no perioperative mortality or limb loss. During follow-up 
recurrent stenosis was detected in 46 limbs (40%), and reocclusion occurred in 
11 limbs (10%). Seven patients (6%) underwent surgical bypass after endovascular 
treatment failure. The aggregate 1-year stenosis-free patency rate at life table 
analysis was 55.1%. The 1-year stenosis-free patency for angioplasty alone was 
58%, compared with 51% (NS) for angioplasty and adjunctive stenting. Univariate 
regression analysis failed to demonstrate a difference in stenosis-free patency 
for demographic variables, medical comorbidities, and anatomic characteristics 
(multiple vs single lesions; number of angioplasty procedures).
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular therapy for TASC type B femoropopliteal lesions is 
safe and technically feasible. However, the length of time that a treated 
arterial segment remains free of stenosis is limited, and is not improved with 
adjunctive stenting. Recurrent stenosis, not occlusion, was the most common 
study end point, and few patients subsequently required surgical bypass. 
Predictors of outcome after endovascular therapy for TASC type B lesions were 
not identified in this study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.07.007
PMID: 14743134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Vasc Surg. 2004 Feb;39(2):357-65. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.08.030.

Patients undergoing infrainguinal bypass to treat atherosclerotic vascular 
disease are underprescribed cardioprotective medications: effect on graft 
patency, limb salvage, and mortality.

Henke PK(1), Blackburn S, Proctor MC, Stevens J, Mukherjee D, Rajagopalin S, 
Upchurch GR Jr, Stanley JC, Eagle KA.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division of Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA. henke@umich.edu

INTRODUCTION: Established American Heart Association guidelines recommend the 
use of statin drugs, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and 
antiplatelet agents in patients with systemic atherosclerosis, such as those 
undergoing operative intervention to treat peripheral atherosclerotic disease. 
Many of these patients have not received treatment of coronary heart disease and 
have not been prescribed these medications. Whether statin drugs and ACE 
inhibitors confer an improvement in graft patency, limb salvage, and operative 
mortality is unknown.
METHODS: Consecutive patients who underwent infrainguinal bypass between 1997 
and 2002 were evaluated for demographic data, comorbid disease, medication use, 
as well as cumulative graft patency, limb salvage, and mortality. Univariate, 
multivariate logistical regression, and Kaplan-Meier analyses were performed. P 
<.05 was considered significant.
RESULTS: Two hundred ninety-three patients (mean age, 64 years; 67% men) 
underwent 338 infrainguinal bypass procedures with autologous vein (n = 218), 
prosthetic grafts (n = 88), or composite prosthetic-vein grafts (n = 32). Limb 
salvage was the operative indication in 75% of procedures. Coexisting diseases 
included hypertension (70%), diabetes (52%), hyperlipidemia (37%), coronary 
heart disease (51%), congestive heart failure (14%), and active tobacco use 
(30%). Statin drugs were taken by 56% of patients, ACE inhibitors by 54% of 
patients, and antiplatelet agents or warfarin sodium (Coumadin) by 93% of 
patients. Postoperative graft surveillance was done in 39% of patients. 
Cumulative graft patency was 73%, limb salvage was 85%, and mortality was 9%, 
with a mean follow-up of 17 months. Factors independently associated with 
increased graft patency included statin drug use (odds ratio [OR], 3.7; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 2.1-6.4), male sex (OR, 2.8; 95% CI, 1.6-5.0), and 
graft surveillance (OR, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.3-4.5). Factors associated with decreased 
amputation rate were statin drug use (OR, 0.34; 95% CI, 6.15-0.77) and graft 
surveillance (OR, 0.23; 95% CI, 6.1-0.63). Factors associated with decreased 
mortality included graft surveillance (OR, 0.18; 95% CI, 0.1-0.56), whereas 
congestive heart failure (OR, 6.5; 95% CI, 2.5-17) and hemodialysis-dependent 
renal failure (OR, 29; 95% CI, 6.1-140) were associated with increased 
mortality. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that only ACE inhibitors were associated 
with lower mortality (P =.05)
CONCLUSIONS: Patients undergoing infrainguinal bypass are undertreated with 
respect to cardioprotective medications. ACE inhibitor use is associated with 
lower mortality, and statin drug use is associated with improved graft patency 
and limb salvage. Institution of consensus guidelines concerning these 
medications should be considered by all vascular specialists, including vascular 
surgeons.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.08.030
PMID: 14743136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Vasc Surg. 2004 Feb;39(2):409-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.08.031.

Accelerated progression of carotid stenosis in patients with previous external 
neck irradiation.

Cheng SW(1), Ting AC, Ho P, Wu LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Hong Kong Medical Centre, Queen Mary 
Hospital, China. wkcheng@hku.hk

OBJECTIVE: Radiotherapy to the head and neck often results in carotid stenosis, 
but the course of disease is unknown. We investigated the natural history and 
progression of asymptomatic carotid stenosis induced by external irradiation. 
Patients and methods The study included 130 carotid arteries in 95 patients who 
had received external radiation therapy to the head and neck area and who had 
asymptomatic, mild internal carotid artery or common carotid artery stenosis. 
Stenosis of 15% to 49% on duplex ultrasound (US) scans defined mild (<50%) 
disease. Another 95 arteries in 74 patients with matched degree of carotid 
artery stenosis but who had not received radiation therapy were used as control. 
Both groups were followed up prospectively with serial duplex US scanning, and 
degree of carotid artery stenosis was categorized as 15% to 49%, 50% to 69%, 70% 
to 99%, and occlusion. Progression of carotid artery stenosis was defined as 
increase in stenosis from less than 50% to 50% or greater at ultrasonography. 
Secondary end points included progression to higher disease category, new 
cerebrovascular symptoms, and death. Data from irradiated arteries was compared 
with control data with the life table method. A Cox regression model was used to 
analyze disease progression, adjusted for covariates of sex, age, smoking, 
diabetes, and hypertension.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 36 months. Adjusted freedom from progression rates 
at 3 years were 65% for irradiated arteries and 87% for control arteries at 
life-table analysis (P =.035; odds ratio, 3.1). The annualized progression rate 
from less than 50% to 50% or greater in irradiated arteries was 15.4%, compared 
with 4.8% in nonirradiated arteries. A long history of cervical irradiation (>6 
years) was the only significant risk factor for disease progression. There was 
no difference between the two groups regarding development of new symptoms or 
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Carotid stenosis associated with external irradiation progresses 
more rapidly compared with nonirradiated atherosclerotic arteries. Aggressive 
surveillance is recommended.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.08.031
PMID: 14743145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. J Vasc Surg. 2004 Feb;39(2):421-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.07.027.

Balloon angioplasty as a treatment of failing infrainguinal autologous vein 
bypass grafts.

Carlson GA(1), Hoballah JJ, Sharp WJ, Martinasevic M, Maiers Yelden K, Corson 
JD, Kresowik TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, 
IA 52242-1086, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of balloon 
angioplasty in the treatment of failing infrainguinal vein bypass (IVB) grafts.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of patients undergoing revision of a 
failing IVB graft by vascular surgeons at a tertiary care center from 1990 to 
2001 was performed. Failing bypass grafts were identified by routine duplex scan 
surveillance and physical examination. The criteria for endovascular 
intervention varied on the basis of surgeon preferences and time period; factors 
considered when choosing balloon angioplasty included significant comorbidities 
that precluded operative intervention, the lack of adequate conduit for surgical 
revision, or poor accessibility of the stenotic lesion. Data recorded included 
demographic patient data, type of IVB graft, patency status, further procedures 
performed, and all complications and mortalities. Cumulative primary and 
assisted patency rates were calculated by using Kaplan-Meier life-table 
analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 45 balloon angioplasties were performed in 36 patients. 
There were 36 angioplasties of vein bypass grafts, and additional balloon 
angioplasties were performed on nine of these patients. Locations of IVB grafts 
included femoropopliteal (13 patients), femorodistal (13), and popliteal to 
distal (10). Initial success was achieved in 33 of 36 vein bypass grafts 
(91.7%). In these bypass grafts, the stenotic lesions were identified and 
treated at the proximal anastomosis (3 patients), mid-bypass graft (6 patients), 
and distal anastomosis (27 patients). Autogenous vein was used for all bypass 
grafts. Cumulative vein bypass graft (life-table analysis) primary patency rates 
(those free of occlusion or bypass graft threatening stenosis) were 74.2% at 6 
months, 62.7% at 12 months, and 58.2% at 24 months. Repeat interventions 
included surgical thrombectomy with vein patch angioplasty or bypass graft 
revision, as well as repeat balloon angioplasty with or without thrombolysis. 
Cumulative assisted vein bypass graft patency rates (those free of occlusion or 
bypass graft threatening stenosis) were 87.0%, 83.2%, and 78.9% at 6, 12, and 24 
months, respectively. Two patients (4%) developed thigh hematomas; no other 
procedure-related complications were noted, and there were no deaths in the 
perioperative period.
CONCLUSION: Balloon angioplasty of failing infrainguinal vein bypass grafts can 
be successfully performed with a low rate of complications. Acceptable 
short-term patency can be achieved. This procedure should be considered as an 
initial option in failing IVB grafts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.07.027
PMID: 14743147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. J Vasc Surg. 2004 Feb;39(2):427-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.08.032.

Freedom from secondary interventions to treat stenotic disease after 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of infrarenal aorta: long-term results.

de Vries JP(1), van Den Heuvel DA, Vos JA, van Den Berg JC, Moll FI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The 
Netherlands. jppmdevries@planet.nl

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the long-term results (1-15 
years) of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) of localized 
atherosclerotic lesions of the infrarenal aorta.
METHODS: This was a retrospective study. From January 1987 to January 2002, 69 
patients underwent PTA of an isolated stenosis of the lower abdominal aorta 
under local anesthesia in the department of interventional radiology. All 
atherosclerotic lesions were hemodynamically significant, defined as a 
subjective report of walking distance less than one block, resting pain, or 
trophic changes in combination with diameter reduction of 50% or greater at 
duplex ultrasound scanning and angiography.
RESULTS: The female-male ratio of study patients was 3.6:1; mean age was 58 
years. Endovascular treatment was initially technically and clinically 
successful in all but one patient (98%), who had a near total occlusion. No 
major complications were noted. Mean follow-up was 57 months (range, 6 months-15 
years). At life table analysis, 5-year primary patency was 75%, and secondary 
patency was 97%. Twelve patients (17%) required repeat interventions because of 
hemodynamically significant recurrent stenosis in combination with severe 
clinical symptoms. Most recurrent stenoses (67%) were successfully treated with 
repeat endovascular procedures.
CONCLUSIONS: Early and long-term results of PTA (with additional stent 
placement) of isolated stenosis of the infrarenal aorta are good. This minimally 
invasive procedure is a true alternative to traditional surgical methods.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2003.08.032
PMID: 14743148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2004 Jan 22;124(2):186-8.

[Ocular changes in Down syndrome].

[Article in Norwegian]

Haugen OH(1), HÃ¸vding G, Riise R.

Author information:
(1)Ãyeavdelingen, Haukeland Universitetssykehus, 5021 Bergen. 
olav.haugen@helse-bergen.no

BACKGROUND, MATERIAL AND METHODS: Down's syndrome is the most common cause of 
mental retardation with an incidence of about 1.5/1000 live births. Life 
expectancy and quality of life have improved substantially for this group over 
the last decades. The aim of this paper is to give an updated short survey of 
ocular changes present in Down's syndrome based on current international 
literature and the clinical experience of the authors.
RESULTS AND INTERPRETATION: Ocular problems are common, mostly refractive 
errors, poor accommodation, strabismus, cataract, and keratoconus. Accommodation 
deficit is present in a majority of individuals with Down's syndrome, also in 
children and young people. Bifocal or progressive glasses should therefore be 
prescribed liberally. Because of the high frequency of ocular pathology, all 
individuals with Down's syndrome should be enrolled in a continuous visual 
screening programme from birth. We suggest the following screening guidelines: 
first examination at one month of age, then at one year of age, at 2-3 years of 
age, at 5-6 years of age (school start), and thereafter every five years. In 
case of positive findings (e.g. refractive errors, poor accommodation, 
strabismus) the frequency of examination should be increased and determined 
individually by the responsible ophthalmologist.

PMID: 14743234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Pediatr Cardiol. 2004 Nov-Dec;25(6):660-7. doi: 10.1007/s00246-003-0668-z.

Cost-effectiveness of Project ADAM: a project to prevent sudden cardiac death in 
high school students.

Berger S(1), Whitstone BN, Frisbee SJ, Miner JT, Dhala A, Pirrallo RG, Utech LM, 
Sachdeva RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, 
USA. sberger@chw.org

Public access defibrillation (PAD) in the adult population is thought to be both 
efficacious and cost-effective. Similar programs aimed at children and 
adolescents have not been evaluated for their cost-effectiveness. This study 
evaluates the potential cost-effectiveness of implementing Project ADAM, a 
program targeting children and adolescents in high schools in the Milwaukee 
Public School System. Project ADAM provides education about cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation (CPR) and the warning signs of sudden cardiac death (SCD) and 
training in the use and placement of automated external defibrillators (AEDs) in 
high schools. We developed decision analysis models to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of the decision to implement Project ADAM in public high 
schools in Milwaukee. We examined clinical model and public policy applications. 
Data on costs included estimates of hospital-based charges derived from a 
pediatric medical center where a series of patients were treated for SCD, 
educational programming, and the direct costs of one AED and training for 15 
personnel per school. We performed sensitivity analyses to assess the variation 
in outputs with respect to changes to input data. The main outcome measures were 
Life years saved and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. At an arbitrary 
societal willingness to pay $100,000 per life year saved, the policy to 
implement Project ADAM in schools is a cost-effective strategy at a threshold of 
approximately 5 patients over 5 years for the clinical model and approximately 8 
patients over 5 years for the public policy model. Implementation of Project 
ADAM in high schools in the United States is potentially associated with an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio that is favorable.

DOI: 10.1007/s00246-003-0668-z
PMID: 14743309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Adv Gerontol. 2003;12:9-27.

[Priorities in fundamental research in gerontology: Russia contribution].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Gerontological Society of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Department of 
Carcinogenesis and Oncogerontology, N.N. Petrov Research Institute of Oncology, 
Pesochny-2, Leningradskaya str., 68, St. Petersburg, 197758. aging@mail.ru

Current state-of-art and tendencies in the world gerontology and most important 
results of Russian researchers in the field are presented in the analytical 
review. Among the top achievements of the gerontology are: the identification of 
longevity genes in some animal species; Werner's progeria gene cloning; studies 
on genetic determinants of human longevity; discovery on evolution origin of 
species life span and the trade off with the reproduction; the theory of 
marginotomy and identification of the role of telomere and telomerase in 
cellular senescence; significant increase in the replicative life span of 
transfected with hTERT cells in vitro; the development of the free radical 
theory of aging; the evidence of the role of reactive oxygen species in DNA 
damage; the evidence of life span extension in genetically modified (transgenic, 
knockout or mutant) animals; the studies on the role of somatic mutations and 
DNA repair in mechanisms of aging, apoptosis and malignant transformation; the 
evidence of the life span extension by the exposure to calorie restriction diet 
from worms to primates and discovery of key mechanisms of the phenomena; the 
studies on the role of the pineal gland in the aging and the evidence of 
geroprotective activity of pineal peptides and melatonin. The prospects of the 
development of basic research on aging in Russia are reviewed as well.

PMID: 14743599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Adv Gerontol. 2003;12:46-56.

How the analysis of genetic mutations can help us to solve basic problems in 
gerontology? II. Life extending genetic modifications in budding yeast S. 
cereviseae, fruit fly D. melanogaster and laboratory mice M. musculus.

Khalyavkin AV(1), Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemical Physics of RAS, Moscow 119991, Russia. 
ab3711@mail.sitek.ru

Most studies of aging are conducted in humans and domestic or laboratory 
animals, i.e. in conditions where artificial environment protection is applied, 
This yields changes in physiology and behavior, which set up organism's state 
unobserved in wild life. This state may be less adequate to the evolutionary 
adjusted genetic construction of an organism, which generates a hypothesis that 
in natural niches the aging rate can be lower and stress resistance can be 
higher than in captivity despite the fact that life expectancy in habitat is 
essentially lower than that in laboratory conditions due to high external 
mortality. Direct test of this hypothesis is difficult because of problems 
related to reconstruction of natural environment conditions in the laboratory. 
Substantial life-extending effect of some mutated genes can serve as indirect 
test of the hypothesis. We propose that in some cases genetic mutations can 
distort reaction of an organism on environmental cues and change control 
parameters of its life cycle. As a result such mutants in laboratory may partly 
demonstrate life traits similar to those observed in natural environment, e.g. 
associated with high stress resistance and low rate of aging. These features 
combined with low external mortality in laboratory conditions may lead to 
significant extension in the life span of mutants. Recently we considered 56 
life-extending gene modifications in nematode C. elegans (Adv. Gerontol., 2003, 
Vol. 11), scattered in many publications. In this paper we consider pertinent 
life-extending gene modifications corresponded to the budding yeast S. 
cerevisease (29 genes), fruit fly D. melanogaster (22 genes) and laboratory mice 
M. musculus (8 genes).

PMID: 14743601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Adv Gerontol. 2003;12:57-76.

[Biochemistry of lifespan extension].

[Article in Russian]

Golubev AG(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Experimental Medicine, 12 Akademika Pavlova Str., 
197376, Saint-Petersburg, Russia. alalal@rol.ru

A review of biochemical mechanisms underlying the known approaches to extension 
of lifespan and/or slowing down of ageing suggests that they all modify balances 
between generation of active oxygen and carbonyl species and the mechanisms that 
protect from their damaging effects or repair their consequences. A likely 
common target of the geroprotector effects of antioxidants, melatonin, and 
antidiabetic biguanides is the mitochondrial respiratory chain. In biological 
species that evolved through r-selection (nematodes, fruit flies, mice, and 
rats), the balance between anabolic/reproductive and self-maintenance/protective 
functions is the most significant modifiable factor of longevity and ageing. At 
the molecular level, the pivot of this balance is formed by the forkhead-type 
transfactors, whereas at the physiological level the balance is determined by 
dietary calories and physical activity via mechanism in which the central role 
is played by insuline-like peptides and, also, growth hormone and leptin or 
their functional analogs. In biological species that evolved through K-selection 
(higher primates, particularly humans), the latter balance is less important, 
and the biochemical factors of aging are more refracted through the higher 
regulatory systems, of which the most significant are catecholaminergic 
mechanisms of regulation of neuroendocrine-immune interrelationships and the 
circulatory system. This results in a decreased geroprotector potential of 
calory restriction and in an increased importance of the optimal physical 
activity. When these conclusions are compared with demographic data, it comes 
out that virtually all advances in gerontology may be reduced to maxims of 
healthy ageing known from extreme antiquity. Under optimal socioeconomic 
conditions, the chances to approach the documented world record of human 
longevity (122 years) may be increased by (not to mention getting rid of smoking 
and other abuses) high physical activity, adequate nutrition enriched in fresh 
fruits, optimism, and timely treatment of specific diseases. The most important 
bottleneck in the realization of these reserves is currently the public 
consciousness rather than the science.

PMID: 14743602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Adv Gerontol. 2003;12:149-65.

[Mathematical modeling in gerontology--strategic perspectives].

[Article in Russian]

Novosel'tsev VN(1), Novosel'tseva ZhA, Iashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Control Sciences, RAS, Moscow, Profsoyuznaya 65.

Mathematical description of aging and mortality is presented. A review of 
tendencies in modeling is discussed and some difficulties related to adequacy 
and the ways of information presentation in the models are talked about. A short 
view is given at the two main modeling techniques in biology, namely the models 
of data and models of a system. Strategic perspectives of modeling in 
biogerontology are presented in terms of modeling paradigms. One can speak about 
a general paradigm consisting of postulates, principles and techniques related 
to a model, which allows a solving different problems with the same model, if 
the model can be modified to treat the variety of problems. Modification is to 
be done in the framework of concepts of the model by using a sum of the methods 
related to it. It is shown how the homeostatic paradigm can be used to predict a 
specific human longevity.

PMID: 14743613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Health Phys. 2004 Feb;86(2 Suppl):S42-7. doi:
10.1097/00004032-200402001-00013.

Radiation risks and dirty bombs.

Ring JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard University Environmental Health and Safety Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. 
joseph_ring@harvard.edu

For many, the thought of terrorists detonating a dirty bomb--a radiological 
dispersal device--is frightening. However, the radiation health risks from such 
an occurrence are small. For most people directly involved, the exposure would 
have an estimated lifetime health risk that is comparable to the health risk 
from smoking five packages of cigarettes or the accident risk from taking a 
hike. The actual impact of a dirty bomb would be economic and social (NCRP 
2001). There would be an economic cost for clean-up as well as a decrease in 
economic activity in the affected area due to radiation fear. If such a bomb 
were detonated, those exposed as well as those not exposed would have great 
concern about potential health effects while seeking medical attention and 
avoiding the impacted area. This paper discusses the health risks from radiation 
exposure and compares them to risks from various activities of daily life and to 
exposure to hazardous chemicals.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-200402001-00013
PMID: 14744070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Neurology. 2004 Jan 27;62(2):194-200. doi: 10.1212/wnl.62.2.194.

Increased anticardiolipin antibody IgG titers do not predict recurrent stroke or 
TIA in children.

Lanthier S(1), Kirkham FJ, Mitchell LG, Laxer RM, Atenafu E, Male C, Prengler M, 
Domi T, Chan AK, Liesner R, deVeber G.

Author information:
(1)Cerebrovascular Disease Centre, Division of Neurology, Department of 
Medicine, Centre hospitalier de l'UniversitÃ© de MontrÃ©al and Montreal Heart 
Institute, Quebec, Canada. sylvain.lanthier.chum@ssss.gouv.qc.ca

Comment in
    Neurology. 2004 Jan 27;62(2):172-3.

BACKGROUND: Increased anticardiolipin antibody (ACLA) immunoglobulin (Ig) G 
titers are commonly found in children with arterial ischemic stroke (AIS) or TIA 
(AIS/TIA). The associated risk of recurrent thromboembolism is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the risk of recurrent thromboembolism associated with 
persistently increased ACLA titers of the IgG isotype in children with AIS/TIA.
METHODS: The authors studied a cohort of children surviving first AIS/TIA tested 
by standardized ELISA for beta2-glycoprotein I-dependent ACLA of the IgG 
isotype. Children with ACLA titers >15 IgG phospholipid (GPL) units (per 
manufacturer's cutoff point) on more than two occasions > or =6 weeks apart were 
classified as ACLA-positive (ACLA+) and compared with ACLA-negative (ACLA-) 
children with respect to recurrent thromboembolic events (AIS/TIA, sinovenous 
thrombosis, and extracerebral thromboembolism).
RESULTS: The authors recruited 34 ACLA+ children and 151 ACLA- children. Most 
ACLA+ children (30/34; 88%) had ACLA titers < or =40 GPL units. During the 
follow-up period (median duration, 2.8 years for ACLA+ children and 3.0 years 
for ACLA- children), AIS/TIA recurred in 26% of ACLA+ children and in 38% of 
ACLA- children; none developed sinovenous thrombosis or extracerebral 
thromboembolism. Based on survival analysis, this difference was nonsignificant 
(p = 0.54). Using binary partition evaluation, no titer criteria for ACLA 
positivity (range, 0 to 60 GPL units) predicted recurrent AIS/TIA.
CONCLUSION: In children surviving arterial ischemic stroke/TIA, increased 
anticardiolipin antibody immunoglobulin G titers do not predict recurrent 
thromboembolism.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.62.2.194
PMID: 14745053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Neurology. 2004 Jan 27;62(2):254-7. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000103859.26880.6e.

Risk of seizures while awake in pure sleep epilepsies: a prospective study.

D'Alessandro R(1), Guarino M, Greco G, Bassein L; Emilia-Romagna Study Group on 
Clinical and Epidemiological Problems in Neurology.

Author information:
(1)Neuroepidemiology Unit, Department of Neurological Sciences, University of 
Bologna, Italy. daless.rob@iol.it

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the risk of seizures while awake in pure sleep epilepsies 
in a prospective study.
METHODS: From October 1, 1992, to October 31, 1996, all patients with pure sleep 
epilepsy presenting at a participating center were enrolled. Children with 
benign rolandic epilepsy and patients with frontal lobe epilepsy were excluded. 
Patients were followed for at least 2 up to 6 years. The primary endpoint was 
the occurrence of a seizure while awake.
RESULTS: The authors enrolled 161 patients (64% male). Age at the time of 
inclusion ranged from 11 to 83 years (mean 43.2, median 39). Eighty-five percent 
presented generalized tonic clonic seizures. Both sleep seizures and seizures 
while awake were absent for 2 years after inclusion in the study in 78% of 
patients. Eighteen patients presented a seizure while awake. The estimated risk 
of a seizure while awake during 6 years of follow-up was 13% (95% CI 7 to 18%). 
Multivariate analysis showed that episodes of sudden withdrawal of therapy and a 
higher frequency of seizures at inclusion were associated with an increased risk 
of seizures while awake. The estimated risk of a seizure while awake in patients 
with none of the above risk factors was 6.5% (95% CI 1.5 to 11.3%) during 6 
years of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The clinical picture of pure sleep epilepsies is characterized by a 
preponderance of generalized tonic clonic seizures, low seizure frequency, and a 
good prognosis. The risk of occurrence of a seizure while awake is low, 
particularly among patients with rare seizures and good compliance with the 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000103859.26880.6e
PMID: 14745063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Birth Defects Res C Embryo Today. 2003 Nov;69(4):257-71. doi: 
10.1002/bdrc.10022.

Biology of insulin-like growth factors in development.

Dupont J(1), Holzenberger M.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Centre National de la 
Recherche Scientifique, UMR 6073, Nouzilly, France.

Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) provide essential signals for the control of 
embryonic and postnatal development in vertebrate species. In mammals, IGFs act 
through and are regulated by a system of receptors, binding proteins, and 
related proteases. In each of the many tissues dependent on this family of 
growth factors, this system generates a complex interaction specific to the 
tissue concerned. Studies carried out over the last decade, mostly with 
transgenic and gene knockout mouse models, have demonstrated considerable 
variety in the cell type-specific and developmental stage-specific functions of 
IGF signals. Brain, muscle, bone, cartilage, pancreas, ovary, skin, and fat 
tissue have been identified as major in vivo targets for IGFs. Concentrating on 
several of these organ systems, we review here phenotypic analyses of mice with 
genetically modified IGF systems. Much progress has also been made in 
understanding the specific intracellular signaling cascades initiated by the 
binding of circulating IGFs to their cognate receptor. We also summarize the 
most relevant aspects of this research. Considerable efforts are currently 
focused on deciphering the functional specificities of intracellular pathways, 
particularly the molecular mechanisms by which cells distinguish 
growth-stimulating insulin-like signals from metabolic insulin signals. Finally, 
there is a growing body of evidence implicating IGF signaling in lifespan 
control, and it has recently been shown that this function has been conserved 
throughout evolution. Very rapid progress in this domain seems to indicate that 
longevity may be subject to IGF-dependent neuroendocrine regulation and that 
certain periods of the life cycle may be particularly important in the 
determination of individual lifespan.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bdrc.10022
PMID: 14745968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Lancet Neurol. 2004 Feb;3(2):85-92. doi: 10.1016/s1474-4422(03)00661-6.

Unruptured intracranial aneurysms: benign curiosity or ticking bomb?

Mitchell P(1), Gholkar A, Vindlacheruvu RR, Mendelow AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Newcastle General Hospital, Newcastle Upon Tyne, 
UK. patrick.mitchell@ncl.ac.uk

15 years ago, the treatment of incidentally discovered intracranial aneurysms 
was straightforward with a good evidence base behind it. When intracranial 
aneurysms were identified, people were referred to neurosurgeons who would offer 
surgical repair if the patient was in reasonable health and had a good life 
expectancy. Since that time, several studies have given contradictory evidence 
for what should be done with these lesions, and a new technique for the repair 
of aneurysms, endovascular coil embolisation, has been developed. Here we review 
the research and make several recommendations. First, incidentally discovered 
aneurysms in the anterior circulation less than 7 mm in size in people with no 
personal or family history of subarachnoid haemorrhage should be left untreated. 
Second, people with remaining life expectancy of less than 20 years or so (ie, 
those over age 60 years) should be informed that from a statistical point of 
view the benefits of treatment do not outweigh the risks. Third, in all other 
cases treatment with surgical clipping or coil embolisation should be advised. 
And finally, if surgical treatment is not feasible then medical hypotensive 
treatment may be a viable alternative.

DOI: 10.1016/s1474-4422(03)00661-6
PMID: 14747000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Urology. 2003 Dec 29;62 Suppl 1:55-62. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.052.

Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 90203: a randomized phase 3 study of radical 
prostatectomy alone versus estramustine and docetaxel before radical 
prostatectomy for patients with high-risk localized disease.

Eastham JA(1), Kelly WK, Grossfeld GD, Small EJ; Cancer and Leukemia Group B.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 94115, USA.

The purpose of The Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 90203 trial is to 
determine which of 2 treatment strategies is superior in treating men with 
high-risk, clinically localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate (stage T1 to T3a 
NX M0), defined as a predicted probability < or =60% of remaining free from 
disease recurrence for 5 years after surgery. Patients with a > or =10-year life 
expectancy will be randomized to either radical prostatectomy (RP) alone versus 
estramustine and docetaxel before RP. Participants will be excluded if they have 
received prior therapy for prostate cancer (except transurethral resection of 
the prostate) or are judged not to be appropriate candidates for RP. Eligible 
patients will be stratified according to their predicted probability of 
remaining free from disease recurrence at 5 years after surgery (0% to 20%, 21% 
to 40%, and 41% to 60%) and randomized. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy will be 6 
cycles (1 cycle = 21 days) of estramustine (280 mg tid, days 1 to 5) and 
docetaxel (70 mg/m2 on day 2). Warfarin (2 mg/day orally) will be given for 
prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis. Bilateral pelvic lymph node 
dissection and RP will be performed within 60 days of registration/randomization 
for men randomized to the surgery-alone arm. For men randomized to receive 
preoperative chemotherapy, the surgical procedure will be performed within 60 
days of completion of chemotherapy. Patients will be monitored with history 
review, physical examination, and serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels 
every 3 months for the first 3 years after surgery, every 6 months for the next 
3 years, and annually thereafter. Biochemical disease recurrence will be defined 
as a serum PSA level >0.4 ng/mL on 2 consecutive occasions > or =3 months apart 
after RP. The time of biochemical failure is measured from the date of 
randomization to the time of the first PSA level <0.4 ng/mL that is confirmed on 
the second serial PSA. The primary study end point is to determine if early 
systemic treatment with neoadjuvant estramustine and docetaxel before RP in 
patients with high-risk prostate cancer will decrease 5-year recurrence rates 
when compared with RP alone. Secondary outcomes will include (1) the safety and 
tolerability of neoadjuvant estramustine and docetaxel before RP; (2) the impact 
of this neoadjuvant strategy on pathologic tumor stage, including lymph node and 
surgical margin status; (3) time to clinically apparent disease recurrence; and 
(4) overall survival. The impact of RP with and without neoadjuvant estramustine 
and docetaxel on the patient's quality of life from pretreatment through year 3 
will be assessed. Frozen prostate tissue will be obtained from men undergoing 
prostatectomy who are enrolled in either the treatment or control arms of the 
trial. These samples will be analyzed for their RNA expression patterns in order 
to build outcome prediction models. Furthermore, using array-based methods of 
expression analysis, the sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents and response to 
chemotherapy may likewise be predicted. The trial will enroll approximately 700 
men during a 48-month period. Patients will be observed for 84 months after 
study closure. The power to detect a 36% decrease in 5-year recurrence rates is 
90%.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.052
PMID: 14747042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Diabetes Care. 2004 Feb;27(2):407-14. doi: 10.2337/diacare.27.2.407.

Health-related quality of life and health-adjusted life expectancy of people 
with diabetes in Ontario, Canada, 1996-1997.

Manuel DG(1), Schultz SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, and Institute for Clinical Evaluative 
Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. doug.manuel@ices.on.ca

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the burden of illness from diabetes using a population 
health survey linked to a population-based diabetes registry.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Measures of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) 
from the 1996/97 Ontario Health Survey (n = 35,517) were combined with diabetes 
prevalence and mortality data from the Ontario Diabetes Database (n = 487,576) 
