
351. Circulation. 2004 Feb 24;109(7):926-31. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000112606.41127.D2.  Epub 2004 Feb 2.

Ventricular fibrillation scaling exponent can guide timing of defibrillation and 
other therapies.

Menegazzi JJ(1), Callaway CW, Sherman LD, Hostler DP, Wang HE, Fertig KC, Logue 
ES.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pa, USA. menegazz+@pitt.edu

BACKGROUND: The scaling exponent (ScE) of the ventricular fibrillation (VF) 
waveform correlates with duration of VF and predicts defibrillation outcome. We 
compared 4 therapeutic approaches to the treatment of VF of various durations.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Seventy-two swine (19.5 to 25.7 kg) were randomly assigned 
to 1 of 9 groups (n=8 each). VF was induced and left untreated until the ScE 
reached 1.10, 1.20, 1.30, or 1.40. Animals were treated with either immediate 
countershock (IC); 3 minutes of CPR before the first countershock (CPR); CPR for 
2 minutes, then drugs given with 3 more minutes of CPR before the first shock 
(CPR-D); or drugs given at the start of CPR with 3 minutes of CPR before the 
first shock (Drugs+CPR). Return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) and 1-hour 
survival were analyzed with chi2 and Kaplan-Meier survival curves. IC was 
effective when the ScE was low but had decreasing success as the ScE increased. 
No animals in the 1.30 or 1.40 groups had ROSC from IC (0 of 16). CPR did not 
improve first shock outcome in the 1.20 CPR group (3 of 8 ROSC). Kaplan-Meier 
survival analyses indicated that IC significantly delayed time to ROSC in both 
the 1.3 (P=0.0006) and the 1.4 (P=0.005) groups.
CONCLUSIONS: VF of brief to moderate duration is effectively treated by IC. When 
VF is prolonged, as indicated by an ScE of 1.3 or greater, IC was not effective 
and delayed time to ROSC. The ScE can help in choosing the first intervention in 
the treatment of VF.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000112606.41127.D2
PMID: 14757695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Circulation. 2004 Feb 24;109(7):874-80. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000112604.74713.35.  Epub 2004 Feb 2.

Implications of upstream glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition and coronary artery 
stenting in the invasive management of unstable angina/non-ST-elevation 
myocardial infarction: a comparison of the Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction 
(TIMI) IIIB trial and the Treat angina with Aggrastat and determine Cost of 
Therapy with Invasive or Conservative Strategy (TACTICS)-TIMI 18 trial.

Sabatine MS(1), Morrow DA, Giugliano RP, Murphy SA, Demopoulos LA, DiBattiste 
PM, Weintraub WS, McCabe CH, Antman EM, Cannon CP, Braunwald E.

Author information:
(1)TIMI Study Group, Cardiovascular Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 
Francis St, Boston, MA 02115, USA. msabatine@partners.org

BACKGROUND: TIMI IIIB and TACTICS-TIMI 18 were 2 trials of an early invasive 
strategy in unstable angina (UA)/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) 
that were conducted nearly a decade apart but with virtually identical 
enrollment criteria and designs, except that upstream glycoprotein IIb/IIIa 
inhibition was mandated and coronary artery stenting was routinely used in 
TACTICS-TIMI 18. We sought to examine the effect of these advances on clinical 
outcomes and the benefits of an early invasive strategy in UA/NSTEMI.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients were stratified on the basis of their TIMI risk 
score into low-, intermediate-, and high-risk categories. Within each risk 
category, the rates of clinical outcomes and the benefit of an early invasive 
strategy were compared. Compared with patients in TIMI IIIB and adjusting for 
baseline risk, patients in TACTICS-TIMI 18 had lower rates of death, MI, or 
rehospitalization for acute coronary syndromes (OR, 0.62; P<0.0001). Across both 
trials, the benefit of an early invasive strategy was significantly greater with 
increasing baseline risk: OR, 1.39 in low-risk, 0.80 in intermediate-risk, and 
0.57 in high-risk patients (P< or =0.004 for interactions). After adjustment for 
baseline risk, an early invasive strategy tended toward a more favorable result 
in TACTICS-TIMI 18 than in TIMI IIIB (OR, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.56 to 1.11).
CONCLUSIONS: Advances in the care of patients with UA/NSTEMI, including 
glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition and stenting, were associated with lower rates 
of death, MI, and rehospitalization for acute coronary syndromes and a trend 
toward a greater benefit of an early invasive strategy.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000112604.74713.35
PMID: 14757697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Br Med Bull. 2003;68:1-24. doi: 10.1093/bmb/ldg019.

Environmental pollution and the global burden of disease.

Briggs D(1).

Author information:
(1)Small Area Health Statistics Unit, Department of Epidemiology and Public 
Health, Imperial College, London, UK. d.briggs@imperial.ac.uk

Exposures to environmental pollution remain a major source of health risk 
throughout the world, though risks are generally higher in developing countries, 
where poverty, lack of investment in modern technology and weak environmental 
legislation combine to cause high pollution levels. Associations between 
environmental pollution and health outcome are, however, complex and often 
poorly characterized. Levels of exposure, for example, are often uncertain or 
unknown as a result of the lack of detailed monitoring and inevitable variations 
within any population group. Exposures may occur via a range of pathways and 
exposure processes. Individual pollutants may be implicated in a wide range of 
health effects, whereas few diseases are directly attributable to single 
pollutants. Long latency times, the effects of cumulative exposures, and 
multiple exposures to different pollutants which might act synergistically all 
create difficulties in unravelling associations between environmental pollution 
and health. Nevertheless, in recent years, several attempts have been made to 
assess the global burden of disease as a result of environmental pollution, 
either in terms of mortality or disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). About 
8-9% of the total disease burden may be attributed to pollution, but 
considerably more in developing countries. Unsafe water, poor sanitation and 
poor hygiene are seen to be the major sources of exposure, along with indoor air 
pollution.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/ldg019
PMID: 14757707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Am J Clin Oncol. 2004 Feb;27(1):51-6. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000046300.88847.bf.

Phase II study of external irradiation and weekly paclitaxel for nonmetastatic, 
unresectable pancreatic cancer: RTOG-98-12.

Rich T(1), Harris J, Abrams R, Erickson B, Doherty M, Paradelo J, Small W Jr, 
Safran H, Wanebo HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Virginia Health Science 
Center, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Unresectable cancer of the pancreas was treated with the combination of weekly 
paclitaxel and external beam irradiation in an effort to improve palliation and 
extend life expectancy. One hundred twenty-two patients were entered in a 
multicentered protocol. Thirteen patients were either ineligible, cancelled, or 
had delinquent data, thus providing 109 for analysis. Unresectable cancer was 
based on imaging studies (computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging), 
all had histologic proof of adenocarcinoma, and none had evidence of metastatic 
disease or peritoneal seeding. Image-guided radiotherapy treatment consisted of 
50.4 Gy in 28 fractions over 5.5 weeks with coplanar anterior/posterior and 
lateral ports. An initial dose of 45 Gy was given to fields covering the primary 
tumor plus the regional peripancreatic, celiac, and porta hepatis lymph nodes. A 
cone down field was used for the last three fractions to encompass the gross 
tumor volume with a 1- to 1.5-cm margin. Paclitaxel was administered weekly with 
irradiation in a dosage of 50 mg/m2 as a 3-hour infusion. The median age was 63 
and 53% were female. The Karnofsky performance status was greater than or equal 
to 80 in 81%. Eighty percent were classified T3 or 4; 20% had N1 disease. The 
primary tumor was located in the pancreatic head in 65%. Eighty-five percent 
received all six cycles of paclitaxel per protocol, whereas 93% received 
irradiation with acceptable protocol variation. Field placement, total dose, 
fractionation, and overall treatment time were given per protocol in greater 
than or equal to 90%. Acute toxicity (worst per patient) occurred in 39% with 
grade III (35% of these were asymptomatic neutropenia), 5% with grade IV, and 
one patient died of infection during the fourth cycle of chemotherapy (grade V). 
The median follow-up time for alive patients is 20.6 months (range 5-30). The 
median survival is 11.2 months (95% CI 10.1, 12.3) with estimated 1- and 2-year 
survivals of 43% and 13%, respectively. External irradiation plus concurrent 
weekly paclitaxel is well tolerated when given with large-field radiotherapy. 
The median survival is better than historical results achieved with irradiation 
and fluoropyrimidines. These data provide the basis for a new Radiation Therapy 
Oncology Group trial using paclitaxel and irradiation combined with a second 
radiation sensitizer, gemcitabine, now under way.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000046300.88847.bf
PMID: 14758134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Bull World Health Organ. 2003;81(11):778-87. Epub 2004 Jan 20.

Health expectancy in the Russian Federation: a new perspective on the health 
divide in Europe.

Andreev EM(1), McKee M, Shkolnikov VM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Economic Forecasting, Moscow, Russian Federation.

Comment in
    Bull World Health Organ. 2003;81(11):787-8.

OBJECTIVES: To compare life expectancy and healthy life expectancy in the 
Russian Federation and in countries of Eastern and Western Europe.
METHODS: WHO mortality data and data on self-reported health from the World 
Values Survey and the Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey were used to 
compare the above three regions. Life expectancy was calculated using Sullivan's 
method, with years of life lived divided into healthy and unhealthy. The gap in 
healthy life expectancy between the Russian Federation and Western Europe was 
examined by decomposing the difference by gender and age.
FINDINGS: The probability of remaining alive and healthy declines faster in the 
Russian Federation than in Western Europe, with the gap between Eastern Europe 
and the Russian Federation widening at older ages. In the Russian Federation, 
this rapid decline is due mainly to the high probability of death or of poor 
health for men and women, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a large toll of premature male mortality in the Russian 
Federation but there also appears to be a substantial burden of ill-health among 
women. As in other countries, the responses of men and women to adversity 
differ, leading to premature death in men but survival in a poor state of health 
in women. Epidemiological studies including objective measures of health would 
help policy-makers to estimate more precisely the scale and nature of this 
problem. Policy-makers must recognize that health expectancy in the Russian 
Federation is reduced in both men and women.

PMCID: PMC2572350
PMID: 14758403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Int J Health Serv. 2003;33(4):669-86; discussion 743-9. doi: 
10.2190/NPQK-1TU5-9Q5X-189J.

Regional differences in trends in life expectancy and the influence of the 
political and socioeconomic contexts in Germany.

Helmert U(1), Streich W, Borgers D.

Author information:
(1)Center for Social Policy Research, Bremen University, Germany. 
uhelmert@zes.uni-bremen.de

The aim of the study is to investigate to what extent trends in life expectancy 
are influenced by political variables and socioeconomic characteristics that 
play a role at the regional level of the federal states in Germany. Data on life 
expectancy in males and females at birth are analyzed from 1986 to 1998 for 12 
federal states in Eastern and Western Germany. These states are classified into 
five types of political government since 1980: (1) long-term Christian 
democratic, (2) long-term social democratic, (3) change from Christian to social 
democratic, (4) change from communist to social democratic, and (5) change from 
communist to Christian democratic. The study showed three main results. First, 
life expectancy has been directly influenced by the major political forces that 
determined policies in East and West Germany. Second, life expectancy was higher 
in federal states with predominantly Christian democratic governments than in 
those with predominantly social democratic governments. Third, life expectancy 
was strongly related to the economic power of the federal states. Because 
federal states characterized by a more prosperous economic situation were those 
with a predominantly Christian democratic government, while federal states with 
a less prosperous situation were mostly governed by social democrats, it is 
difficult to disentangle the effects of economic and political factors on life 
expectancy. Nevertheless, this study underlines the importance of politics and 
policies on such robust and more general health indicators as mean life 
expectancy at birth.

DOI: 10.2190/NPQK-1TU5-9Q5X-189J
PMID: 14758855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Eur J Epidemiol. 2003;18(12):1107-8. doi:
10.1023/b:ejep.0000006613.92910.7b.

Prevention comes of age?

Bonneux LG(1), van Hout BA, van Delden JJ, Grobbee DE.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care. l.bonneux@jc.azu.nl

DOI: 10.1023/b:ejep.0000006613.92910.7b
PMID: 14758865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Am Coll Surg. 2004 Feb;198(2):212-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2003.10.010.

Effect of semifundoplication with subtotal gastrectomy for prevention of 
postoperative gastroesophageal reflux.

Shibata Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Toyohashi Municipal Hospital, 50 Hakken-nisi, 
Aotake-cho, Toyohashi, 441-8570 Aichi, Japan.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Surg. 2004 Feb;198(2):242.

BACKGROUND: Postgastrectomy patients often experience reflux esophagitis and a 
compromised quality of life. We hypothesized that reconstructive methods with 
antireflux procedures at operation should prevent reflux esophagitis and improve 
the likelihood of a better quality of life in patients after distal gastrectomy 
for gastric carcinoma. Our antireflux procedure was a subdiaphragmatic 
semifundoplication. We aim to substantiate, with objective arguments, potential 
advantages of Billroth I simple reconstruction versus Billroth I with 
semifundoplication.
STUDY DESIGN: This study evaluated 60 patients who had Billroth I reconstruction 
with semifundoplication (30 patients; F group) and simple Billroth I 
reconstruction (30 patients; B group) after distal gastrectomy for gastric 
cancer. Assessments were made preoperatively and 6 months or later after 
surgical intervention. Results of the procedure, clinical evaluation (reflux 
symptoms), and esophageal alkaline reflux by ambulatory 24-hour pH memory were 
satisfactory.
RESULTS: Operative evaluation time and procedural complications did not differ 
significantly between the two gastrectomy groups. Reflux symptoms only occurred 
in 12 patients in the B group. Lower esophageal sphincter pressure of patients 
in the B group was significantly lower than that of patients in the F group and 
in preoperative states (p < 0.05). The mean appearance of alkaline esophageal 
reflux in the F group and the B group were 2.6% and 13.6%, respectively (p < 
0.01). Patients with semifundoplication had a significantly better quality of 
life and less physiologic regurgitation than patients with simple Billroth I.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that Billroth I reconstruction with 
semifundoplication for gastric cancer is not only effective for patients with a 
postoperative life expectancy, but also prevents reflux esophagitis after 
gastrectomy. We believe that our method is an effective and simple surgical 
option for many patients with gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2003.10.010
PMID: 14759777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2004 Feb 4;96(3):191-201. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djh026.

Impact of preoperative staging and chemoradiation versus postoperative 
chemoradiation on outcome in patients with rectal cancer: a decision analysis.

Telford JJ(1), Saltzman JR, Kuntz KM, Syngal S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2004 Feb 4;96(3):164-5.

BACKGROUND: Although radical resection and postoperative chemoradiation have 
been the standard therapy for patients with rectal cancer, preoperative staging 
by local imaging and chemoradiation are widely used. We used a decision analysis 
to compare the two strategies for rectal cancer management.
METHODS: We developed a decision model to compare survival outcomes after 
postoperative chemoradiation versus preoperative staging and chemoradiation in 
patients aged 70 years with resectable rectal cancer. In the postoperative 
chemoradiation strategy, patients undergo radical resection and receive 
postoperative chemoradiation. In the preoperative staging and chemoradiation 
strategy, patients with locally advanced cancer receive preoperative 
chemoradiation and radical resection, whereas those with amenable localized 
tumors undergo local excision. The cohorts of patients were entered into a 
Markov model incorporating age-adjusted and disease-specific mortality. Outcomes 
were evaluated by modeling 5-year disease-specific survival for preoperative 
chemoradiation as less than, equal to, or greater than that of postoperative 
chemoradiation. Base-case probabilities were derived from published data; the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program database; and U.S. 
Life Tables. One-way and two-way sensitivity analyses were performed. The 
outcome measures were life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: Life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy were 9.72 and 8.72 
years, respectively, in the postoperative chemoradiation strategy. In the 
preoperative staging and chemoradiation strategy, life expectancy was 9.36, 
9.72, and 10.09 years and quality-adjusted life expectancy was 8.71, 9.04, and 
9.37 years when 5-year disease-specific survival was less than, equal to, or 
greater than that of postoperative chemoradiation, respectively. The decision 
model was sensitive to differences in the long-term toxicity of pre- and 
postoperative chemoradiation. When the 5-year disease-specific survival for 
patients after pre- or postoperative chemoradiation was equal, the decision 
model was sensitive to surgical mortality and to the probability of residual 
lymph node disease after local excision.
CONCLUSION: If efficacy and toxicity after preoperative chemoradiation are equal 
to or better than that after postoperative chemoradiation in patients with 
locally advanced rectal cancer, then preoperative staging to select patients 
appropriate for preoperative chemoradiation is beneficial.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djh026
PMID: 14759986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2004 Mar;27(3):299-304. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2003.12.008.

Lifetime gain related to cost of repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in 
octogenarians.

Aune S(1), Laxdal E, Pedersen G, Dregelid E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Haukeland University Hospital, 5021 Bergen, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: To report cost related to gained life years after repair of ruptured 
abdominal aortic aneurysms in patients aged 80 or older.
DESIGN: A retrospective study based on prospectively registered data.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-three patients aged 80 or older were operated on for 
ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm over a 20-year period from 1983 to 2002. 
Thirty-one (58%) patients had systolic BT <80 mmHg. Operative mortality (<30 
days) and long-term survival were studied. The number of life-years gained from 
the operations was estimated. Based on diagnose related group (DRG) values, the 
cost of each gained life-year was calculated.
RESULTS: The operative mortality was 47%. Long-term survival of those patients 
who survived the operation was similar to that of an age and sex matched 
population. The 53 operations resulted in 145 gained life-years, which leaves a 
mean survival of 2.7 years of all the patients and 5.2 years of those who 
survived the operation. The estimated cost per gained life year was euro6817.
CONCLUSIONS: The operative mortality of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm 
remains high. The long-term survival of patients who survive the operation is 
acceptable. The price of each gained life-year is low, as compared to other 
established treatment modalities. Improved results with endovascular treatment 
may even decrease the cost per gained life year.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2003.12.008
PMID: 14760600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Can Fam Physician. 2004 Jan;50:57-63.

Current status of PSA screening. Early detection of prostate cancer.

Pickles T(1).

Author information:
(1)Genito-Urinary Tumour Group, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver.

Comment in
    Can Fam Physician. 2004 Jan;50:14-6, 22-4.

OBJECTIVE: To update current evidence for prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
screening for prostate cancer and to give readers some practical information to 
discuss with patients. QUALITY OF EVIDENCE A MEDLINE: search revealed only three 
randomized studies, two of which are incomplete. Several controlled 
non-randomized studies were found.
MAIN MESSAGE: Two ongoing studies have not yet reported survival data, but have 
added to evidence for screening intervals. One Canadian randomized study has 
been criticized for its design and conclusions. Non-randomized studies suggest 
that screening effectively identifies serious cancers and leads to earlier 
diagnosis. Mortality from prostate cancer has been falling in most western 
countries since 1992. This cannot be explained by PSA screening, which would 
probably not produce survival benefit until at least 10 years after its 
unofficial introduction in about 1990.
CONCLUSION: Indirect evidence suggests that all men older than 45 with at least 
a 10-year life expectancy should be informed of the potential benefits and 
drawbacks of PSA screening so they can make an informed decision on whether to 
have the test.

PMCID: PMC2214499
PMID: 14761105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Physiol Genomics. 2004 Apr 13;17(2):230-44. doi: 
10.1152/physiolgenomics.00203.2003.

Starvation response in mouse liver shows strong correlation with 
life-span-prolonging processes.

Bauer M(1), Hamm AC, Bonaus M, Jacob A, Jaekel J, Schorle H, Pankratz MJ, 
Katzenberger JD.

Author information:
(1)Institut fuer Genetik, Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe, 76021 Karlsruhe, , 
Germany.

We have monitored global changes in gene expression in mouse liver in response 
to fasting and sugar-fed conditions using high-density microarrays. From 
approximately 20,000 different genes, the significantly regulated ones were 
grouped into specific signaling and metabolic pathways. Striking changes in 
lipid signaling cascade, insulin and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) hormonal 
pathways, urea cycle and S-adenosylmethionine-based methyl transfer systems, and 
cell apoptosis regulators were observed. Since these pathways have been 
implicated to play a role in the aging process, and since we observe significant 
overlap of genes regulated upon starvation with those regulated upon caloric 
restriction, our analysis suggests that starvation may elicit a stress response 
that is also elicited during caloric restriction. Therefore, many of the 
signaling and metabolic components regulated during fasting may be the same as 
those which mediate caloric restriction-dependent life-span extension.

DOI: 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00203.2003
PMID: 14762175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Lakartidningen. 2004 Jan 8;101(1-2):133; author reply 133.

[Longevity statistics and PSA in primary health care].

[Article in Swedish]

Dalén P.

PMID: 14763020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Int Tinnitus J. 2002;8(2):104-7.

Cognitive disorders: diagnosis and treatment.

Bergmann JM(1), Bertora GO.

Author information:
(1)otooftal@vertigo-dizziness.com

During the last half century, medical developments have expedited an increase of 
life expectancy all over the world. Owing to this extension of life, some 
pathological processes that formerly were considered to exhibit low prevalence 
now have become top priorities for public health programs. Among these 
pathological processes, cognitive diseases stand out, the two most frequent 
being Alzheimer's disease and cognitive disorders of vascular etiology, for 
which humans are at increased risk beyond age 65. We studied 120 adults with 
cognitive disorders representing a variety of etiologies. We performed a 
comparative statistical study between members of this group of patients and a 
group of general patients by means of different neurophysiological examinations: 
acoustically evoked potentials, P300, brain electrical activity mapping both in 
the resting state and under complex stimulation, and Doppler ultrasonographic 
extracranial and transcranial assessment. The comparative study between both 
populations revealed significant differences in results of the various tests. 
Neurotransmitter equilibrium (dopamine, acetylcholine, gamma-aminobutyric acid 
[GABA], etc.) in the areas of the cerebral cortex related to cognitive disorders 
is essential in the diagnosis and treatment of these diseases.

PMID: 14763220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Am J Occup Ther. 2004 Jan-Feb;58(1):54-63. doi: 10.5014/ajot.58.1.54.

Concerns about the future among older adults with multiple sclerosis.

Finlayson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Illinois at Chicago, 1919 
West Taylor Street, Mail Code 811, Chicago, Illinois 60612, USA. marciaf@uic.edu

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, progressive neurological disease that 
causes demyelination of the central nervous system. Typically diagnosed in 
adulthood, it does not significantly reduce life expectancy. The goal of this 
exploratory study was to describe the health-related concerns and service needs 
of 27 older adults with MS, ages 55 to 81 years. Through in-depth interviews 
using a phenomenological approach, fear of the future was found to be a 
predominant concern among the participants. Within this fear, participants 
expressed particular concerns about experiencing further losses of mobility and 
independence, becoming a burden on caregivers, and having to move to a nursing 
home. The findings raise three major challenges for occupational therapists that 
include: (1) developing or modifying interventions that can enable older adults 
with MS to gain a sense of control over their future, (2) working with families 
affected by MS together with other disciplines such as psychology and social 
work, and (3) advocating for more and better community support options for 
persons with MS.

DOI: 10.5014/ajot.58.1.54
PMID: 14763636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2004 Jan-Feb;14(1):1-11. doi: 
10.1111/j.1048-891x.2004.14178.x.

The exploding worldwide cancer burden: the impact of cancer on women.

Wilson CM(1), Tobin S, Young RC.

Author information:
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 19111, USA.

Although age-adjusted cancer death rates have started to decline in the United 
States and other developed nations - thanks in large part to widespread 
screening programs that detect cancers at early, treatable stages - cancer in 
developing countries is on the rise. Ironically, rising life expectancy in those 
nations along with the adoption of 'Western' lifestyles will leave many more 
people vulnerable to cancer. Unfortunately, the early detection tools and 
treatment technology that have helped control cancer in wealthier lands are 
often not readily available in many other countries. Much of this increased 
cancer burden will take the form of cancers that affect women - not only breast, 
cervical, and other gynecologic cancers but colorectal cancer, lung cancer, and 
other malignancies related to tobacco. Physicians specializing in cancer care 
for women need to be alert to every opportunity to improve cancer screening and 
prevention among the growing, aging populations of less-developed countries. 
Less precise but less costly and more widely available screening techniques may 
save thousands more lives than the most sophisticated technology because 
low-cost programs can be applied widely instead of being reserved for a 
fortunate few. In addition, education and prevention efforts directed toward 
tobacco use need to be put in place to help stem an epidemic of tobacco-related 
cancers that has largely peaked in developed countries but looms ominously in 
the future of developing nations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1048-891x.2004.14178.x
PMID: 14764024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Sep-Oct;35(2):107-20. doi: 
10.1016/s0167-4943(02)00002-x.

Functional transitions and active life expectancy for older Japanese living in a 
community.

Ishizaki T(1), Kai I, Kobayashi Y, Imanaka Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Healthcare Economics and Quality Management, Kyoto University 
School of Public Health, Yoshida Konoe-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. 
tatsuro@pbh.med.kyoto-u.ac.jp

We examined functional transitions in both the activities of daily living (ADL), 
and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL), over a 1-year interval among 
older Japanese living in a community, then estimated their physically active 
life expectancy (PALE) and instrumentally active life expectancy (IALE). In 
1992, all residents aged 65 or older who lived in Saku City, Nagano, Japan, were 
followed-up over the 1-year interval. A self-administrated questionnaire, which 
involved age, sex, five ADL items, and five IADL items, was used for each survey 
in both 1992 and 1993. Of the baseline cohort (n=10,098), we received 9533 
analyzable questionnaires at the follow-up survey in 1993. During the follow-up, 
92 and 87% of subjects who were initially independent in ADL and IADL remained 
independent, respectively. PALE for men and women were estimated to be 16.0 and 
18.9 at 65 years of age, respectively. IALE for men and for women were estimated 
to be 12.8 and 14.6 at the age of 65, respectively. Proportions of the PALE to 
total life expectancy (TLE) at any age did not greatly differ between men and 
women; however, men had a slightly larger proportion of IALE to TLE at any given 
age than women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4943(02)00002-x
PMID: 14764349


368. Diabetes Forecast. 2002 Aug;55(8):73-5.

Simple steps to fitness. Why exercise matters. Exercising does more than burn 
calories--it can also boost your physical, mental, and even financial 
well-being.

Roberts SS.

PMID: 14765453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Diabetes Forecast. 2002 Sep;55(9):60.

Living longer. Six steps for adding years to your life.

Roberts S.

PMID: 14765466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. J Med Entomol. 2003 Nov;40(6):737-42. doi: 10.1603/0022-2585-40.6.737.

Life table characteristics of Anopheles arabiensis (Diptera: Culicidae) under 
simulated seasonal conditions.

Maharaj R(1).

Author information:
(1)Malaria Research Programme, Medical Research Council, Ridge Road, Durban 
4067, South Africa. raj.maharaj@mrc.ac.za

Life tables provide a summary of mortality and reproductive schedules and can 
help explain why certain species proliferate in particular environments. Life 
table characteristics of Alopheles arabiensis, under a range of simulated 
seasonal temperature were determined. F1 progeny of field-collected material 
were observed at four fluctuating temperatures with means of 17.9, 23.2, 26.1, 
and 21.4 degrees C, representing winter, spring, summer and autumn temperature 
profiles. Gonotrophic cycles, egg hatchability rates, mean male and female 
lifespans, reproductive rate, the intrinsic rate of increase, and generation 
times were calculated. Immature development was fastest in summer (11 d) 
compared with winter (32 d), resulting in less robust adults. Mean female 
lifespans were greater than those of the males and also increased with 
decreasing temperatures. From the age-specific survivorship curve and the 
gonotrophic cycles, females were found to lay large numbers of eggs especially 
during spring and summser. Under simulated winter conditions mosquitoes did not 
oviposit in the laboratory. It was also determined that summer reared mosquitoes 
are capable of giving just one infected bite while autumn reared mosquitoes can 
give two infected bites, increasing their transmission potential. Thus life 
table data go some way toward explaining late season transmission of malaria in 
South Africa.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-2585-40.6.737
PMID: 14765646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Gynecol Oncol. 2004 Feb;92(2):713-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2003.10.035.

A 104-year-old woman with advanced cervical carcinoma of the uterus.

Sakurai H(1), Niibe H, Suzuki M, Nakano T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Gunma University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Maebashi, Gunma 371-8511, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Treatment of elderly patient with advanced cancer includes 
considerable problems because of their limited life expectancy.
CASE: A 104-year-old woman with FIGO stage IIIB uterine cervical carcinoma 
treated with external beam radiotherapy and high dose-rate brachytherapy. After 
the treatment, the serum squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) antigen had fallen to 
normal level. She is now living 66 months after the treatment without recurrent 
symptoms.
CONCLUSION: In this specific case, the significance of this treatment is that 
the patient is surviving at the age of 109.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2003.10.035
PMID: 14766273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Urol. 2004 Mar;171(3):1189-93; discussion 1193. doi: 
10.1097/01.ju.0000113145.43174.24.

Efficacy of sildenafil in the treatment of female sexual dysfunction due to 
multiple sclerosis.

Dasgupta R(1), Wiseman OJ, Kanabar G, Fowler CJ, Mikol D.

Author information:
(1)Departmetn of Uro-Neurology, National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, London, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: We assessed the tolerability, safety and efficacy of sildenafil for the 
treatment of women with sexual dysfunction secondary to multiple sclerosis, as 
well as the role of somatosensory evoked potential neurophysiological testing.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a double-blind, randomized, placebo 
controlled, crossover study investigating the effects of sildenafil in women 
with multiple sclerosis and sexual dysfunction. Assessments were done by 
validated questionnaires. Pudendal and tibial evoked potentials were also 
recorded.
RESULTS: A total of 19 women completed the 2 arms of the double-blind phase and 
12 completed the optional open label extension phase. Statistically significant 
improvement following sildenafil was only reported in the lubrication domain of 
sexual function during the double-blind phase. There was no overall change in 
quality of life after sildenafil. There was a significant correlation between 
the latency of tibial and pudendal evoked potentials.
CONCLUSIONS: Sildenafil only appeared to produce limited benefit in certain 
individuals with female sexual dysfunction. Some measure of the extent of 
neurological deficit in these patients could be ascertained from the latency of 
tibial evoked potentials, which correlated with pudendal evoked potentials. 
However, it could not predict the extent of sexual dysfunction. Sildenafil is 
unlikely to help all patients with neurogenic female sexual dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ju.0000113145.43174.24
PMID: 14767298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Transcult Nurs. 2004 Jan;15(1):44-53. doi: 10.1177/1043659603259973.

Nursing education on women's health care in Australia, Japan, South Korea, and 
Thailand.

Lambert VA(1), Lambert CE, Daly J, Davidson PM, Kunaviktikul W, Shin KR.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, 
USA.

Only within the last 3 decades have a select number of countries addressed 
issues surrounding the all-inclusive health and well-being of women. This factor 
has had a major influence on nursing education within these countries and the 
subsequent development of curricula. Because the preparation of nurses is 
pivotal in shaping a society's health care agenda, this article compares and 
contrasts demographic characteristics, curricular frameworks, the role of the 
nurse, quality control of nursing curricula, and the focus of nursing courses 
related to women's health care among the countries of Australia, Japan, South 
Korea, and Thailand. Recommendations based on infant mortality rates, life 
expectancy, leading causes of death, and country-based health care issues are 
provided to inform and guide the future focus of nursing education courses on 
women's health care within these countries.

DOI: 10.1177/1043659603259973
PMID: 14768415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Neth J Med. 2003 Nov;61(11):355-64.

Lifetime health effects and costs of diabetes treatment.

Niessen LW(1), Dijkstra R, Hutubessy R, Rutten GE, Casparie AF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus Medical Centre, Erasmus 
University of Rotterdam, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, the Netherlands. 
niessen@bmg.eur.nl

BACKGROUND: This article presents cost-effectiveness analyses of the major 
diabetes interventions as formulated in the revised Dutch guidelines for 
diabetes type 2 patients in primary and secondary care. The analyses consider 
two types of care: diabetes control and the treatment of complications, each at 
current care level and according to the guidelines.
METHODS: A validated probabilistic diabetes model describes diabetes and its 
complications over a lifetime in the Dutch population, computing 
quality-adjusted life years and medical costs. Effectiveness data and costs of 
diabetes interventions are from observational current care studies and intensive 
care experiments. Lifetime consequences of in total sixteen intervention mixes 
are compared with a baseline glycaemic control of 10% HBA1C.
RESULTS: The interventions may reduce the cumulative incidence of blindness, 
lower-extremity amputation, and end-stage renal disease by >70% in primary care 
and >60% in secondary care. All primary care guidelines together add 0.8 
quality-adjusted life years per lifetime.
CONCLUSION: In case of few resources, treating complications according to 
guidelines yields the most health benefits. Current care of diabetes 
complications is inefficient. If there are sufficient resources, countries may 
implement all guidelines, also on diabetes control, and improve efficiency in 
diabetes care.

PMID: 14768718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Am J Orthopsychiatry. 2004 Jan;74(1):26-32. doi: 10.1037/0002-9432.74.1.26.

Children's appraisal of Major Life Events.

Hasan N(1), Power TG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, College of Dupage, USA.

Two hundred nine 9-12-year-olds completed items assessing their appraisal of the 
most stressful event in the past 5 months. Exploratory factor analyses revealed 
6 appraisal dimensions (Self- Blame, External Blame, Degree of Threat, 
Significance, Gain, and Predictability) and 2 expectancy dimensions (Positive 
Outcome and Duration Expectancies). Situational variations were found for the 
appraisal dimensions, with the exception of Gain, Outcome, and Duration 
Expectancies. Implications for models of developmental psychopathology are 
considered.

DOI: 10.1037/0002-9432.74.1.26
PMID: 14769106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Int J STD AIDS. 2004 Jan;15(1):7-16. doi: 10.1258/095646204322637182.

The global burden of disease attributable to contaminated injections given in 
health care settings.

Hauri AM(1), Armstrong GL, Hutin YJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Essential Health Technologies, World Health Organization, 
Avenue Appia 20, CH1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland.

As part of the 2000 Global Burden of Disease study, we quantified the death and 
disability from injection-associated infections with hepatitis B virus (HBV), 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). We modelled the 
fraction of incident infections attributable to health care injections in the 
year 2000 on the basis of the annual number of injections, the proportion of 
injections administered with reused equipment, the probability of transmission 
following percutaneous exposure, the prevalence of active infection, the 
prevalence of immunity and the total incidence. Infections in 2000 were 
converted into disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in 2000-2030 using natural 
history parameters, background mortality, duration of disease, disability 
weights, age weights and a 3% discount rate. Four Global Burden of Disease 
regions where reuse of injection equipment in the absence of sterilization was 
negligible were excluded from the analysis. In the remaining 10 regions, in 
2000, persons received an average of 3.4 injections per year, 39.3% of which 
were given with reused equipment. In 2000, contaminated injections caused an 
estimated 21 million HBV infections, two million HCV infections and 260,000 HIV 
infections, accounting for 32%, 40% and 5%, respectively, of new infections for 
a burden of 9,177,679 DALYs between 2000 and 2030. Injection overuse and unsafe 
practices account for a substantial burden of death and disability worldwide. 
There is a need for policies and plans for the safe and appropriate use of 
injections in countries where practices are poor.

DOI: 10.1258/095646204322637182
PMID: 14769164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Arch Intern Med. 2004 Feb 9;164(3):321-6. doi: 10.1001/archinte.164.3.321.

Dying with advanced dementia in the nursing home.

Mitchell SL(1), Kiely DK, Hamel MB.

Author information:
(1)Research and Training Institute, Hebrew Rehabilitation Center for Aged, 
Boston, MA 02131, USA. smitchell@mail.hrca.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Nursing homes are important providers of end-of-life care to persons 
with advanced dementia.
METHODS: We used data from the Minimum Data Set (June 1, 1994, to December 31, 
1997) to identify persons 65 years and older who died with advanced dementia (n 
= 1609) and terminal cancer (n = 883) within 1 year of admission to any New York 
State nursing home. Variables from the Minimum Data Set assessment completed 
within 120 days of death were used to describe and compare the end-of-life 
experiences of these 2 groups.
RESULTS: At nursing home admission, only 1.1% of residents with advanced 
dementia were perceived to have a life expectancy of less than 6 months; 
however, 71.0% died within that period. Before death, 55.1% of demented 
residents had a do-not-resuscitate order, and 1.4% had a do-not-hospitalize 
order. Nonpalliative interventions were common among residents dying with 
advanced dementia: tube feeding, 25.0%; laboratory tests, 49.2%; restraints, 
11.2%; and intravenous therapy, 10.1%. Residents with dementia were less likely 
than those with cancer to have directives limiting care but were more likely to 
experience burdensome interventions: do-not-resuscitate order (adjusted odds 
ratio [OR], 0.12; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.09-0.16), do-not-hospitalize 
order (adjusted OR, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.16-0.66), tube feeding (adjusted OR, 2.21; 
95% CI, 1.51-3.23), laboratory tests (adjusted OR, 2.53; 95% CI, 2.01-3.18), and 
restraints (adjusted OR, 1.79; 95% CI, 1.23-2.61). Distressing conditions common 
in advanced dementia included pressure ulcers (14.7%), constipation (13.7%), 
pain (11.5%), and shortness of breath (8.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Nursing home residents dying with advanced dementia are not 
perceived as having a terminal condition, and most do not receive optimal 
palliative care. Management and educational strategies are needed to improve 
end-of-life care in advanced dementia.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.164.3.321
PMID: 14769629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Circulation. 2004 Mar 2;109(8):1010-5. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000117232.30832.EC.  Epub 2004 Feb 9.

Progression of early carotid atherosclerosis is only temporarily reduced after 
antibiotic treatment of Chlamydia pneumoniae seropositivity.

Sander D(1), Winbeck K, Klingelhöfer J, Etgen T, Conrad B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Technical University of Munich, Möhlstrasse 28, 
81675 München, Germany. Dirk.Sander@neuro.med.tu-muenchen.de

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Aug 17;110(7):e74-5; author reply e74-5.

BACKGROUND: Chlamydia pneumoniae (Cp) infection has been associated with 
atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events. There are controversial results 
regarding the beneficial effects of antibiotic therapy on future cardiovascular 
end points.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We determined the long-term effect of a 30-day 
roxithromycin therapy on intima-to-media thickness (IMT) progression of the 
common carotid artery in 272 consecutive Cp-positive and Cp-negative patients 
with ischemic stroke in a prospective, double-blind, randomized trial with a 
follow-up of 4 years. Cp IgG (> or =1:64) or IgA (> or =1:16) antibodies were 
initially found in 125 (46%) patients. During the 3 years before antibiotic 
therapy, Cp-positive patients showed an enhanced IMT progression even after 
adjustment for other cardiovascular risk factors (0.12 [0.11 to 0.14] versus 
0.07 [0.05 to 0.09] mm/year; P<0.005). The 62 Cp-positive patients given 
roxithromycin showed a reduced IMT progression during the first 2 years compared 
with the Cp-positive patients without therapy (0.07 [0.045 to 0.095] versus 0.11 
[0.088 to 0.132] mm/year; P<0.01). However, IMT progression increased again 
during the third and fourth year to similar values as before treatment. No 
significant difference in the occurrence of future cardiovascular events was 
found between both groups during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The only limited positive impact of antibiotic therapy on early 
atherosclerosis progression in Cp-positive patients observed in our study may 
explain the negative results of most antibiotic trials on clinical end points.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000117232.30832.EC
PMID: 14769704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Chest. 2004 Feb;125(2):789-93. doi: 10.1378/chest.125.2.789.

Pulmonary epithelioid hemangioendothelioma: an unusual case and a review of the 
literature.

Cronin P(1), Arenberg D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Division of Thoracic Radiology, University of 
Michigan Medical School, 1150 West Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, 
USA.

Comment in
    Chest. 2005 May;127(5):1870-1; author reply 1871.

We describe a case of pulmonary epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, previously 
known as intravascular bronchoalveolar tumor, in a 35-year-old woman with an 
initial diagnosis made by transbronchial biopsy. This is a rare disease, with 
approximately 50 cases described in the literature. All previous cases have been 
diagnosed by surgical lung biopsy. Although our patient underwent thoracoscopic 
lung biopsy, the diagnosis was initially made on transbronchial biopsy; to our 
knowledge, this has not been previously described in the English-language 
literature. We also described findings on high-resolution CT, both typical and 
atypical relative to previously published reports. This tumor can affect 
multiple organs. The prognosis is very unpredictable, with life expectancy 
ranging from 1 to 15 years. There is no single effective treatment, though 
spontaneous regression and response to chemotherapy and interferon are reported.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.125.2.789
PMID: 14769767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Hypertension. 2004 Apr;43(4):769-74. doi:
10.1161/01.HYP.0000118585.73688.c6.  Epub 2004 Feb 9.

Combined echocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy and electrocardiographic 
ST depression improve prediction of mortality in American Indians: the Strong 
Heart Study.

Okin PM(1), Roman MJ, Lee ET, Galloway JM, Howard BV, Devereux RB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Cornell Medical Center, 525 
East 68th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. pokin@med.cornell.edu

Echocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy (Echo-LVH) and ST segment 
depression (STD) on the ECG have each been demonstrated to predict 
cardiovascular (CV) and all-cause (AC) mortality. However, the prognostic value 
of combining Echo-LVH and ECG-STD has not been examined. ECGs and 
echocardiograms were examined in 2193 American Indian participants in the second 
Strong Heart Study examination. STD was measured by computer and was considered 
abnormal if > or =50 microV. Echo-LVH was defined by indexed LV mass >116 g/m2 
in men and >104 g/m2 in women. After a mean follow-up of 3.1+/-0.7 years, there 
were 57 CV and 169 AC deaths. In univariate Cox analyses, Echo-LVH (chi2=54.2 
and chi2=68.5) and ECG-STD (chi2=35.9 and chi2=46.3, all P<0.001) predicted CV 
and AC mortality, respectively. The combination of Echo-LVH and ECG-STD improved 
risk stratification compared with either alone for both CV death (chi2=74.4, 
P<0.001) and AC death (chi2=102.0, P<0.001), with presence of both ECG-STD and 
Echo-LVH associated with the greatest risks. After adjustment for age, sex, and 
relevant risk factors, combined Echo-LVH and ECG-STD remained predictive of CV 
mortality (chi2=19.7, P<0.001) and AC mortality (chi2=24.9, P<0.001), with the 
presence of both Echo-LVH and ECG-STD associated with a 6.3-fold increased risk 
of CV death (95% CI: 2.8 to 14.2) and a 4.6-fold increased risk of AC mortality 
(95% CI: 2.5 to 8.5). ECG-STD and Echo-LVH additively increase the risk of both 
CV mortality and AC mortality. These findings support the value of combining 
Echo-LVH and ECG-STD to improve risk stratification. These findings require 
verification in other populations.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000118585.73688.c6
PMID: 14769809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Biochem. 2003 Dec;134(6):935-46. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvg225.

Organization and expression of the Bacillus subtilis sigY operon.

Tojo S(1), Matsunaga M, Matsumoto T, Kang CM, Yamaguchi H, Asai K, Sadaie Y, 
Yoshida K, Fujita Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Science and Biotechnology, 
Fukuyama University, 985 Sanzo, Higashimura-cho, Fukuyama, Hiroshima 729-0292.

We investigated the organization and expression of the Bacillus subtilis sigY 
