heterozygosity for some allozyme loci have been studied in a population of the 
sable Martez zibellinna L. kept in cages at a farm. Of all fitness 
characteristic studied, a weak correlation has only been found between 
heterozygosity and the age of the first reproduction (maturation rate). The age 
of the first reproduction is positively associated with the life span and 
fertility. The results obtained are discussed in terms of the relationship 
between the genetic variation of longevity and developmental rate and prospects 
of their application to breeding practice.

PMID: 14964838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Curr Drug Targets CNS Neurol Disord. 2004 Feb;3(1):27-37. doi: 
10.2174/1568007043482624.

5-HT3 receptors.

Costall B(1), Naylor RJ.

Author information:
(1)Bradford School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, Bradford, West 
Yorkshire, BD7 1DP, UK.

5-HT(3)-receptor antagonists are highly selective competitive inhibitors of the 
5-HT(3)-receptor with negligible affinity for other receptors. They are potent, 
rapidly absorbed and easily penetrate the blood-brain barrier; metabolized by 
the cytochrome P450-system with half-life varying from 3-10 hours. The compounds 
investigated so far do not modify normal behaviour in animals or man and are 
well tolerated over wide dose ranges, the most common side effects being 
headache or constipation. Clinical efficacy was first established in 
chemotherapy-induced emesis (and then in radiotherapy-induced and post-operative 
emesis), where 5-HT(3)-receptor antagonists set a new standard of antiemetic 
efficacy and tolerability. The 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists, via a central and / 
or peripheral action, have been shown to reduce secretion and motility in the 
gut and possess clinical utility in irritable bowel syndrome, and possibly other 
visceral pain disorders. Their value in fibromyalgia is being evaluated. In 
preclinical behavioural assays they induce effects consistent with anxiolysis, 
improved cognition, anti-dopaminergic activity and use in drug abuse and 
withdrawal. There is some evidence that ondansetron may reduce alcohol 
consumption in moderate alcohol abusers but overall, 5-HT(3) receptor 
antagonists seem to be of limited use in psychiatric disorders: where effects 
have been seen, they seem to be unusually sensitive to dose and stage of 
disease. Nevertheless, their antiemetic potential has been of great benefit to 
cancer patients and the possible extension of their use to bowel disorders may 
yet fulfil their initial exciting promise.

DOI: 10.2174/1568007043482624
PMID: 14965242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Curr Hematol Rep. 2004 Mar;3(2):121-7.

Improving platelet safety: bacterial contamination of platelets.

Brecher ME(1), Hay SN.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina Hospitals, 101 Manning Drive, Chapel Hill, NC 
27514, USA. brecher@med.unc.edu

In developed countries, transfusion-transmitted bacterial contamination of 
platelets is the most common cause of fatalities related to 
transfusion-transmitted disease. Platelets, to maintain viability and function, 
must be stored at room temperature (20 degrees-24 degrees C), which creates an 
excellent growth environment for the proliferation of bacteria. Multiple studies 
have shown that 1:1000 to 1:2000 platelet units are bacterially contaminated. It 
is estimated that the risk of a bacterial-related death after a transfusion of a 
platelet unit ranges from 1:7500 to 1:100,000. The use of bacterial detection to 
minimize the risk of transfusion-related bacterial sepsis is gaining favor 
around the world. Implementation of bacterial detection methods would improve 
safety for patients, result in an extension of the shelf life of platelets, and 
reduce the outdating of platelets, thus being a cost-saving safety intervention.

PMID: 14965488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. J Clin Oncol. 2004 Feb 15;22(4):730-4. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.03.160.

Enrollment of African Americans onto clinical treatment trials: study design 
barriers.

Adams-Campbell LL(1), Ahaghotu C, Gaskins M, Dawkins FW, Smoot D, Polk OD, 
Gooding R, DeWitty RL.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Center, Division of Cancer Prevention, Control and Population 
Sciences, Howard University College of Medicine2041 Georgia Ave NW, Washington, 
DC 20060, USA. ladams-campbell@howard.edu

PURPOSE: African Americans have the highest cancer mortality rates and poorest 
survival and are more often uninsured and underinsured compared with other 
ethnic groups. Minority participation in clinical trials has traditionally been 
low, with reports ranging from 3% to 20%. The present study systematically 
assesses 235 consecutively diagnosed African American cancer patients regarding 
recruitment onto cancer treatment clinical trials at Howard University Cancer 
Center between January 1, 2001, and December 31, 2002. Our intent is to 
determine the rate-limiting factors associated with enrolling African Americans 
onto clinical trials at a historically black medical institution.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred thirty-five consecutively diagnosed African 
American cancer patients were assessed for participation in clinical trials at 
Howard University Hospital and Cancer Center. The study population comprised 165 
women and 70 men.
RESULTS: The overall eligibility rate was 8.5% (20 of 235 patients); however, 
among those eligible, the enrollment rate (ie, enrollment among the eligible 
population) was 60.0% (12 of 20 patients). Comorbidities rendered 17.1% of the 
patient population ineligible for the trials. Advanced disease stage, associated 
with poor performance status, premature death, and short life expectancy, made 
an additional 10% of the patient population ineligible. Respiratory failure, HIV 
positivity, and anemia accounted for 37.8% of the comorbidities in this 
population. Cardiovascular diseases and renal insufficiency represented 16.2% of 
the comorbidities.
CONCLUSION: It was evident that study design exclusion and inclusion criteria 
rendered the majority of the study population ineligible. Among African 
Americans, comorbidity is a major issue that warrants considerable attention.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.03.160
PMID: 14966098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Mar;58(3):243-9. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.009654.

Evaluation of methodologies for small area life expectancy estimation.

Eayres D(1), Williams ES.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Health Outcome Development, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK. daniel.eayres@lshtm.ac.uk

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate methods for calculating life expectancy in small 
areas, for example, English electoral wards.
DESIGN: The Monte Carlo method was used to simulate the distribution of life 
expectancy (and its standard error) estimates for 10 alternative life table 
models. The models were combinations of Chiang or Silcocks methodology, 5 or 10 
year age intervals, and a final age interval of 85+, 90+, or 95+.
SETTING: A hypothetical small area experiencing the population age structure and 
age specific mortality rates of English men 1998-2000.
PARTICIPANTS: Routine mortality and population statistics for England.
MAIN RESULTS: Silcocks and Chiang based models gave similar estimates of life 
expectancy and its standard error. For all models, life expectancy was 
increasingly overestimated as the simulated population size decreased. The 
degree of overestimation depended largely on the final age interval chosen. Life 
expectancy estimates of small populations are normally distributed. The standard 
error estimates are normally distributed for large populations but become 
increasingly skewed as the population size decreases. Substitution methods to 
compensate for the effect of zero death counts on the standard error estimate 
did not improve the estimate.
CONCLUSIONS: It is recommended that a population years at risk of 5000 is a 
reasonable point above which life expectancy calculations can be performed with 
reasonable confidence. Implications are discussed. Within the UK, the Chiang 
methodology and a five year life table to 85+ is recommended, with no 
adjustments to age specific death counts of zero.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.009654
PMCID: PMC1732705
PMID: 14966240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. J Pediatr Surg. 2004 Feb;39(2):199-202; discussion 199-202. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2003.10.013.

Outcome and complications after resection of hepatoblastoma.

Towu E(1), Kiely E, Pierro A, Spitz L.

Author information:
(1)Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, England, UK.

Comment in
    J Pediatr Surg. 2004 Nov;39(11):1744-5; author reply 1745.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to review the outcome and complications after 
resection of hepatoblastoma treated over 2 decades in our institution.
METHODS: Clinical, radiologic, and pathologic data were reviewed 
retrospectively, focusing on the outcome and complications.
RESULTS: Between January 1978 and December 2002, 56 children were treated for 
hepatoblastoma. The age range was 0.08 to 8.74 years (median, 1 year). The right 
lobe was involved in 48%, the left lobe in 22%, and in 29% the main bulk of the 
tumour was centrally located. Surgical procedures included the following: 
hemihepatectomy in 62%, trisegmentectomy in 18%, extended hemihepatectomy in 
16%, and liver transplantation and laparotomy in one patient each. 
Intraoperative complications occurred in 5(9%)--rupture of the tumour (1), 
haemorrhage from the contralateral lobe (1), a defect in the left hepatic duct 
(1), cardiac arrest from tumour embolus (1), and bleeding from the inferior vena 
cava (1). The mean blood loss was 280 mL (50 to 2,000 mL). Postoperative 
complications occurred in 12 patients (22%) including subphrenic abscess (3), 
adhesion obstruction (2), ischaemic stenosis of the bile duct (1), abdominal 
wound dehiscence (1), pyloric obstruction (1), and pleural effusion (2). Fifteen 
patients died, 14 as a result of tumour recurrence (mortality rate, 27%).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2003.10.013
PMID: 14966740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. World J Gastroenterol. 2004 Feb 15;10(4):484-90. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v10.i4.484.

Anti-neoplastic efficacy of Haimiding on gastric carcinoma and its mechanisms.

Ji YB(1), Gao SY, Ji HR, Kong Q, Zhang XJ, Yang BF.

Author information:
(1)Postdoctoral Research Station, Institute of Materia Medica, Harbin Commercial 
University, 138 Tongda Street, Daoli District, Harbin 150076, Heilongjiang 
Province, China.

AIM: To study the anti-neoplastic effect of Haimiding and its mechanisms of 
action.
METHODS: Experiments using MTT and colony formation were carried out to study 
the in vitro anti-neoplastic action of Haimiding, its in vivo anti-neoplastic 
action was studied by observing its effect on the weight of tumors in FC mice 
and S(180), H(22) tumor bearing mice, as well as their life spans. The effect of 
Haimiding on cell apoptosis and different stages of cell cycles in human gastric 
carcinoma cells were studied by flow cytometry. Its effect on [Ca(2+)](i) of 
human gastric carcinoma cells and the source of Ca(2+) during the change of 
[Ca(2+)](i) were observed by confocal laser scanning technique.
RESULTS: Haimiding showed a definite cytotoxicity to 8 human tumor cell lines, 
which was most prominent against BGC-823, E(ca-109) and HCT-8 tumor cells. It 
also exhibited an obvious inhibition on colony formation of the above tumor cell 
lines, which was most prominent in E(ca-109) tumor cells. It showed obvious 
inhibition on the growth of tumor in FC mice and S(180) bearing mice as well as 
prolonged the life span of H(22) bearing mice. It was able to induce apoptosis 
and elevate intracellular [Ca(2+)](i) concentration of tumor cells. The source 
of Ca(2+) came from both extracellular Ca(2+) influx and intracellular Ca(2+) 
release.
CONCLUSION: Haimiding is composed of a TCM preparation and 5-flurouracil. Its 
anti-neoplastic potency is highly enhanced by synergism as compared with either 
one of its components. Its mechanisms of anti-neoplastic action can be 
attributed to its action to initiate apoptosis of tumor cells by opening the 
membrane calcium channel and inducing intracellular Ca(2+) release to elevate 
[Ca(2+)](i) of the tumor cells.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v10.i4.484
PMCID: PMC4716966
PMID: 14966903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Clin Lung Cancer. 2004 Jan;5(4):209-13. doi: 10.3816/CLC.2004.n.001.

Management of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer in patients with a performance 
status of 2.

Lilenbaum R(1).

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Oncology Program, Mount Sinai Comprehensive Cancer Center, Miami 
Beach, FL 33140-2840, USA. rilenba@salick.com

Patients with a poor performance status (PS) constitute a substantial fraction 
of patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet these patients 
have been largely excluded from clinical research in the past decade. Despite 
the proven benefits of chemotherapy in patients with a good PS, cooperative 
group trials in the 1980s showed that patients with a PS of 2 did not benefit 
from chemotherapy and, in fact, had high rates of morbidity and mortality, a 
notion that came to dominate clinical practice for the next 2 decades. More 
recent studies demonstrate that these patients indeed have a worse prognosis 
than those with a better PS. However, chemotherapy seems to provide a benefit, 
at least in terms of symptom improvement, and may improve survival as well. A 
recent comparison of single-agent therapy with combination chemotherapy showed 
an advantage for patients with a PS of 2 treated with the combination regimen, 
without a detriment to quality of life. Dedicated studies in patients with a PS 
of 2 are urgently needed. More effective chemotherapy and better supportive care 
may allow extension of benefits of chemotherapy in advanced NSCLC to patients 
with a PS of 2. Ongoing trials are in progress to further test the role of 
molecular-targeted agents alone or in combination with standard chemotherapeutic 
agents in this subset of patients.

DOI: 10.3816/CLC.2004.n.001
PMID: 14967072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Circulation. 2004 Mar 2;109(8):990-6. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000117090.01718.2A.  Epub 2004 Feb 16.

Mortality in patients after a recent myocardial infarction: a randomized, 
placebo-controlled trial of azimilide using heart rate variability for risk 
stratification.

Camm AJ(1), Pratt CM, Schwartz PJ, Al-Khalidi HR, Spyt MJ, Holroyde MJ, Karam R, 
Sonnenblick EH, Brum JM; AzimiLide post Infarct surVival Evaluation (ALIVE) 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, St George's Hospital, London, UK. jcamm@sghms.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Depressed left ventricular function (LVF) and low heart rate 
variability (HRV) identify patients at risk of increased mortality after 
myocardial infarction (MI). Azimilide, a novel class III antiarrhythmic drug, 
was investigated for its effects on mortality in patients with depressed LVF 
after recent MI and in a subpopulation of patients with low HRV.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 3717 post-MI patients with depressed LVF were 
enrolled in this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study of azimilide 
100 mg on all-cause mortality. Placebo patients with low HRV had a significantly 
higher 1-year mortality than those with high HRV (>20 U; 15% versus 9.5%, 
P<0.0005) despite nearly identical ejection fractions. No significant 
differences were observed between the 100-mg azimilide and placebo groups for 
all-cause mortality in either the "at-risk" patients identified by depressed LVF 
(12% versus 12%) or the subpopulation of "high-risk" patients identified by low 
HRV (14% versus 15%) or for total cardiac or arrhythmic mortality. Significantly 
fewer patients receiving azimilide developed atrial fibrillation than did 
patients receiving placebo (0.5% versus 1.2%, P<0.04). The incidences of torsade 
de pointes and severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < or =500 
cells/microL) were slightly higher in the azimilide group than in the placebo 
group (0.3% versus 0.1% for torsade de pointes and 0.9% versus 0.2% for severe 
neutropenia).
CONCLUSIONS: Azimilide did not improve or worsen the mortality of patients after 
MI. Low HRV independently identified a subpopulation at high risk of mortality.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000117090.01718.2A
PMID: 14967728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Can J Cardiol. 2004 Jan;20(1):71-9.

Economic evaluation of the use of irbesartan and amlodipine in the treatment of 
diabetic nephropathy in patients with hypertension in Canada.

Coyle D(1), Rodby RA.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Health Research Institute, Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 
dcoyle@ohri.ca

BACKGROUND: Irbesartan has been shown to reduce the doubling of serum creatinine 
(a strong predictor of progression to end-stage renal disease), the onset of 
end-stage renal disease and all-cause mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes 
when compared with standard care and amlodipine.
OBJECTIVE: The present study assessed the cost effectiveness of irbesartan, an 
angiotensin II receptor antagonist, and amlodipine, a calcium channel blocker, 
in the treatment of Canadian patients with diabetic nephropathy and 
hypertension.
METHODS: The analysis was conducted based on a Markov model using Monte Carlo 
simulation analysis to estimate the expected values for outcomes of interest. 
Transition probabilities were obtained from a comparative trial of amlodipine, 
irbesartan and standard care (antihypertensive treatment excluding other 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists or calcium channel blockers) in patients 
with overt diabetic nephropathy and hypertension. Canadian costs for the health 
states studied were obtained from published data.
RESULTS: Based on the results of the Monte Carlo simulation, irbesartan was 
dominant over standard care and amlodipine because it both reduces costs and 
leads to greater life expectancy. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
amlodipine in comparison with standard care was 102,000 dollars. Estimates of 
net benefit were correlated with transition probabilities relating to 
progression from the initial health state. The results were insensitive to 
univariate sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Irbesartan use would lead to a reduction in medical costs and an 
increase in life expectancy when compared with amlodipine or standard care.

PMID: 14968145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2003 Sep-Oct;21(5 Suppl 31):S89-93.

Early predictors of outcome in juvenile idiopathic arthritis.

Ravelli A(1), Martini A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Pediatria, Università di Genova, U.O. Pediatria II, IRCCS G. 
Gaslini, Genova, Italy. angeloravelli@ospedale-gaslini.ge.it

The definition and management of "early arthritis" in children differ from those 
in adults because juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is markedly different from 
adult rheumatoid arthritis. Since a significant proportion of patients with JIA 
develop articular damage and enter adult life with persistently active disease, 
it is important to predict early in the disease course the long-term outcome in 
order to tailor treatment to the risk of disability. Over the past 3 decades a 
number of studies have evaluated the long-term outcome of cohorts of patients 
with JIA and some of them have also attempted to identify early prognostic 
factors. In summary, greater severity/extension of arthritis at onset, symmetric 
disease, precocious hip/wrist involvement, the presence of rheumatoid factor, 
and prolonged active disease were the best predictors of a poor outcome. 
Specific correlates for systemic JIA were persistent systemic features and 
thrombocytosis at 6 months following presentation, whereas joint symmetry and a 
higher erythrocyte sedimentation rate at onset were associated with a more 
severe course in oligoarticular JIA. However, although data is accumulating on 
prognostic factors in JIA, prediction of long-term outcome in the first few 
months remains difficult. To better define prognostic factors in future 
analyses, a considerable effort should be made to increase standardization among 
studies. Furthermore, a radiographic scoring system and a set of remission 
criteria specific for JIA should be developed.

PMID: 14969057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Pract Proced Aesthet Dent. 2003 Nov-Dec;15(10):787-94; quiz 796.

Immediate non-occlusal loading vs. early loading in partially edentulous 
patients.

Testori T(1), Bianchi F, Del Fabbro M, Szmukler-Moncler S, Francetti L, 
Weinstein RL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Implant Dentistry and Oral Rehabilitation, Department of 
Odontology, Galeazzi Institute, University of Milana, Via R. Galeazzi 4, 20161 
Milan, Italy. tiziano.testori@tin.it

Immediate loading of dental implants can reduce treatment time and management 
concerns, thus increasing patient acceptance. This paper reports the authors' 
preliminary experience with partially edentulous patients having received 
non-occlusally loaded provisional restorations within 24 hours of surgery, 
compared to patients treated according to an early loading protocol. The present 
data suggest that implant supported fixed partial prostheses can be immediately 
non-occlusally loaded and restored with a predictability similar to early loaded 
implants.

PMID: 14969216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Oral Oncol. 2004 Apr;40(4):372-82. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2003.09.003.

The cost-effectiveness of Foscan mediated photodynamic therapy (Foscan-PDT) 
compared with extensive palliative surgery and palliative chemotherapy for 
patients with advanced head and neck cancer in the UK.

Hopper C(1), Niziol C, Sidhu M.

Author information:
(1)National Medical Laser Centre and the Eastman Dental Institute for Oral 
Health Care Sciences, University College London and University College Hospitals 
NHS Trust, London WC1E 6Au, UK.

This study aimed to analyse the cost-effectiveness of Foscan mediated 
photodynamic therapy (Foscan-PDT) compared with palliative chemotherapy, 
extensive palliative surgery or 'no treatment' for patients with advanced head 
and neck cancer in the UK. A computerised cost-effectiveness model was 
constructed using published effectiveness data and unit costs for each of the 
treatment arms. Where possible, published resource use data were also used. In 
the absence of such information, expert opinion informed data input. Robust 
sensitivity analyses were performed to negate the effect of potential over or 
underestimation of the costs used for any of the interventions. The primary 
outcome was incremental cost/life year saved (cost/LYS); the secondary outcomes 
were incremental cost/overall tumour response and incremental cost/remission. 
Foscan-PDT was associated with the greatest health gains of all three 
interventions yielding 129 extra days of life compared with no treatment and 
extensive palliative surgery and 48 extra days of life compared with four cycles 
of palliative chemotherapy. The unit cost of Foscan-PDT ( pound 5741) was found 
to be lower than the unit cost for four cycles of palliative chemotherapy ( 
pound 9924) and extensive palliative surgery ( pound 16912). Foscan-PDT 
continued to have a lower unit cost than palliative chemotherapy until the 
number of chemotherapy cycles was reduced to two or fewer. Reducing the number 
of cycles would be likely to reduce the health gains associated with 
chemotherapy. However, even with assumed maintenance of chemotherapy efficacy, 
Foscan-PDT remained cost-effective versus two or fewer chemotherapy cycles. 
Compared with three or more cycles of palliative chemotherapy and extensive 
palliative surgery, Foscan-PDT dominated with a lower unit cost and greater 
health gains. Compared with giving no treatment, Foscan-PDT was a cost-effective 
treatment option at pound 14206/LYS. Sensitivity analysis showed that Foscan-PDT 
remained cost-effective when the costs used for the comparators were decreased 
and/or the costs used for Foscan-PDT were increased. Foscan-PDT is a clinically 
and cost-effective treatment option for patients with advanced head and neck 
cancer compared to palliative chemotherapy, extensive palliative surgery or 'no 
treatment'. Furthermore, Foscan-PDT offers patients, with traditionally very 
limited treatment options, a unique chance of tumour response, remission and 
increased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2003.09.003
PMID: 14969816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2004 Feb 18;96(4):252-3. doi: 10.1093/jnci/96.4.252.

Aspirin for cancer chemoprevention: still a headache?

Garber K.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2004 Jan 7;96(1):22-8.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2004 Feb 18;96(4):305-15.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2004 Feb 18;96(4):316-25.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/96.4.252
PMID: 14970267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2004;27(1):47-55. doi:
10.1023/B:BOLI.0000016601.49372.18.

Pearson syndrome and the role of deletion dimers and duplications in the mtDNA.

Jacobs LJ(1), Jongbloed RJ, Wijburg FA, de Klerk JB, Geraedts JP, Nijland JG, 
Scholte HR, de Coo IF, Smeets HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Cell Biology, University of Maastricht, Research 
Institute Growth and Development (GROW), Maastricht.

Pearson syndrome is an often fatal multisystem disease associated with 
mitochondrial DNA rearrangements. Here we report a patient with a novel mtDNA 
deletion of 3.4 kb ranging from nucleotides 6097 to 9541 in combination with 
deletion dimers. The mutation percentage in different tissues (blood, muscle and 
liver) varied between 64% and 95%. After a remission period of about a year, the 
patient suddenly died at the age of 3 years owing to a severe lactic acidosis. A 
second patient with a previously reported deletion of 8 kb and a milder 
phenotype was found to have mitochondrial duplications and died at the age of 10 
years. From these data and data from previous reports, we hypothesize that 
duplications might be beneficial in the clinical course of the disease and in 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1023/B:BOLI.0000016601.49372.18
PMID: 14970745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol Endod. 2004 Feb;97(2):231-8. doi:
 10.1016/s1079-2104(03)00461-x.

A prospective study on transplantation of third molars with complete root 
formation.

Mejàre B(1), Wannfors K, Jansson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodontics, Dental Speciality Care, St Erik's hosptital, 
Stockholm County Counsil, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: The study objective was to evaluate the prognosis for 
autotransplantation of third molar teeth with fully developed roots followed by 
endodontic treatment on the basis of a time-table analysis.
STUDY DESIGN: A total of 50 third molars with completely developed roots were 
autotransplanted to replace a lost first or second molar in the same number of 
admitted patients. Root canal treatment was started 3 to 4 weeks later. Clinical 
and radiographic checkup of the transplanted and root-filled third molars was 
done annually according to a predesigned record form. Descriptive statistics 
including a life table and statistical analysis were performed.
RESULTS: The cumulative survival rate during 4 years' follow-up was 81.4%. In 
all, 7 transplants were lost during the follow-up time, 4 of them due to 
marginal periodontal pathosis and the other 3 due to root resorption. None of 
the root resorptions was observed before the second postoperative year. The 
radiographic periapical status was considered normal in 96% of the transplants 
at the latest follow-up visit.
CONCLUSIONS: Autotransplantation of mature third molar teeth is a reasonable 
treatment alternative to conventional prosthetic rehabilitation or implant 
treatment in cases of partial edentualism from both a therapeutic and an 
economic point of view.

DOI: 10.1016/s1079-2104(03)00461-x
PMID: 14970782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J Insur Med. 2003;35(3-4):155-60.

Excess mortality in remote symptomatic epilepsy.

Day S(1), Strauss D, Shavelle R, Wu YW.

Author information:
(1)University of California Life Expectancy Project, Department of Pediatrics 
and Neurology, University of California at San Francisco, USA. 
Day@LifeExpectancy.com

BACKGROUND: Published estimates of excess mortality associated with epilepsy 
vary greatly. How much, if any, of the excess is attributable to the seizures 
themselves as opposed to an underlying condition causing the epilepsy is not 
clear from the literature. This article offers evidence that epilepsy per se is 
associated with excess mortality. The excess varies according to severity and 
frequency of seizures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The authors studied mortality rates of developmentally 
disabled persons in California with and without epilepsy. In order to focus on 
the effect on mortality risk of epilepsy per se, they included only persons with 
good motor function (able to walk and climb stairs) and at worst moderate mental 
retardation (MR). The data were 506,204 person-years and 1523 deaths among 
80,682 California subjects of age 5 to 65 years during the 1988-1999 study 
period. Mortality rates for persons with epilepsy were compared to rates for 
persons with no history of epilepsy.
RESULTS: Mortality rates were higher for persons with epilepsy than for those 
without. Excess death rates (EDRs) varied according to type and frequency of 
seizures. Combined EDRs were 6 (deaths per 1000 person-years) for persons with 
recent (< 12 months) history of status epilepticus, 5 for recent history of 
generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures, 3 for recent history of seizures but no 
recent GTC seizures, and less than 1 for a history of seizures but no recent 
events.
CONCLUSIONS: The data presented here are evidence that epilepsy per se is 
associated with increased mortality. The EDRs reported here may be better 
measures of excess mortality due to epilepsy than previously published 
estimates.

PMID: 14971087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. J Insur Med. 2003;35(3-4):161-4.

Recurrent PSA after prostatectomy for prostate cancer: implications of PSA 
doubling time.

Ashley T(1).

Author information:
(1)Gen Re LifeHealth, 695 East Main Street, Stamford, CT 06901, USA. 
tashley@genre.com

After radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer, men frequently develop 
detectable levels of prostate specific antigen (PSA). A slow rate of increase, 
as characterized by the PSA doubling time (PSADT) is the principal marker for a 
favorable prognosis. Data and results presented in 2 recent clinical articles 
studying cohorts of men with clinical stage T1/T2 prostate cancer are reviewed 
and used to develop mortality analyses. Life-table analysis shows a mortality 
ratio of 257% at 5 years for Gleason score < 8, PSA recurrence > 2 years after 
surgery for clinical stage T1/T2 disease, and PSA doubling time (PSADT) > 10 
months. Markov modeling using transition probabilities derived from the clinical 
articles to develop a life table analysis yields a mortality ratio of 145% at 10 
years for similar patients.

PMID: 14971088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Ann Nucl Med. 2003 Dec;17(8):649-55. doi: 10.1007/BF02984970.

Medical economics of whole-body FDG PET in patients suspected of having 
non-small cell lung carcinoma--reassessment based on the revised Japanese 
national insurance reimbursement system.

Abe K(1), Kosuda S, Kusano S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, National Defense Medical College, Tokorozawa, Japan.

Focusing on the savings expected from the revised Japanese national insurance 
reimbursement system in the management of patients suspected of having non-small 
cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC), cost-effectiveness was assessed using decision tree 
sensitivity analysis on the basis of the 2 competing strategies of whole-body 
FDG PET (WB-PET) and conventional imaging (CI).
METHODS: A WB-PET strategy that models dependence upon chest FDG PET scan, 
WB-PET scan, and brain MR imaging with contrast was designed. The cost of a FDG 
PET examination was updated and determined to be US dollar 625.00. The CI 
strategy involves a combination of conventional examinations, such as abdominal 
CT with contrast, brain MR imaging with contrast, and a whole-body bone scan. A 
simulation of 1,000 patients suspected of having NSCLC (Stages I to IV) was 
created for each strategy using a decision tree and baselines of other relevant 
variables cited from published data.
RESULTS: By using the WB-PET strategy in place of the CI strategy for the 
management of patients suspected of having NSCLC in hospitals with an NSCLC 
prevalence of 75%, the cost saving (CS) for each patient would be US dollar 
697.69 for an M1 prevalence of 20% and US dollar 683.52 for an M1 prevalence of 
40%, but the CS gradually decreases as the NSCLC prevalence increases. The 
break-even point requires less than an 80% prevalence in order for the WB-PET 
strategy to gain life expectancy (LE) per patient. By using the WB-PET strategy 
in place of the CI strategy for the management of patients suspected of having 
NSCLC in hospitals with an NSCLC prevalence of 75%, the gain in LE for each 
patient would be 0.04 years (11.06 vs. 11.02 years) for an M1 prevalence of 20% 
and 0.10 years (10.13 vs. 10.03 years) for an M1 prevalence of 40%. The maximum 
cost of a PET study without losing LE would be US dollar 1322.68 per patient for 
prevalences of 75% NSCLC and 20% M1 disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study quantitatively showed WB-PET, employed in place 
of CI for managing NSCLC patients, to be cost-effective in the Japanese revised 
insurance reimbursement system. However, the present cost is very low from the 
industrial viewpoint.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02984970
PMID: 14971606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Psychol Med. 2004 Jan;34(1):19-35. doi: 10.1017/s003329170300881x.

Modelling the population cost-effectiveness of current and evidence-based 
optimal treatment for anxiety disorders.

Issakidis C(1), Sanderson K, Corry J, Andrews G, Lapsley H.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, WHO Collaborating Centre 
for Evidence and Health Policy in Mental Health, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The present paper describes a component of a large population 
cost-effectiveness study that aimed to identify the averted burden and economic 
efficiency of current and optimal treatment for the major mental disorders. This 
paper reports on the findings for the anxiety disorders (panic 
disorder/agoraphobia, social phobia, generalized anxiety disorder, 
post-traumatic stress disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder).
METHOD: Outcome was calculated as averted 'years lived with disability' (YLD), a 
population summary measure of disability burden. Costs were the direct health 
care costs in 1997-8 Australian dollars. The cost per YLD averted (efficiency) 
was calculated for those already in contact with the health system for a mental 
health problem (current care) and for a hypothetical optimal care package of 
evidence-based treatment for this same group. Data sources included the 
Australian National Survey of Mental Health and Well-being and published 
treatment effects and unit costs.
RESULTS: Current coverage was around 40% for most disorders with the exception 
of social phobia at 21%. Receipt of interventions consistent with evidence-based 
care ranged from 32% of those in contact with services for social phobia to 64% 
for post-traumatic stress disorder. The cost of this care was estimated at 
dollar 400 million, resulting in a cost per YLD averted ranging from dollar 7761 
for generalized anxiety disorder to dollar 34 389 for panic/agoraphobia. Under 
optimal care, costs remained similar but health gains were increased 
substantially, reducing the cost per YLD to < dollar 20 000 for all disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence-based care for anxiety disorders would produce greater 
population health gain at a similar cost to that of current care, resulting in a 
substantial increase in the cost-effectiveness of treatment.

DOI: 10.1017/s003329170300881x
PMID: 14971624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Curr Surg. 2003 Mar-Apr;60(2):191-2. doi: 10.1016/S0149-7944(02)00682-7.

Acute embolic occlusion of the distal aorta.

Johnston RB Jr(1), Cohn EJ Jr, Cotlar AM.

Author information:
(1)Keesler Medical Center, Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi, USA. 
rjsworld@aol.com

PURPOSE: Acute occlusion of the abdominal aorta requires rapid diagnosis and 
intervention to prevent loss of life or limb. The overall mortality due to 
embolic occlusion is reported to be over 30%. The most common source of emboli 
is the heart, secondary to atrial fibrillation or myocardial infarction.
METHODS: A patient is herein presented who arrived at the emergency department 6 
hours after onset of classic signs of acute arterial occlusion.
RESULTS: She had a saddle embolus of the distal abdominal aorta with extension 
of the clot into both iliac and femoral arteries.
CONCLUSIONS: Heparin therapy and embolectomy successfully reestablished blood 
flow. The etiology, presentation and management of aortoiliac occlusion is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/S0149-7944(02)00682-7
PMID: 14972293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Urology. 2004 Feb;63(2):235-9; discussion 239-40. doi: 
10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.081.

Tumor-size breakpoint for prognostic stratification of localized renal cell 
carcinoma.

Ficarra V(1), Prayer-Galetti T, Novara G, Bratti E, Zanolla L, Dal Bianco M, 
Artibani W, Pagano F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To identify an optimal tumor-size breakpoint to distinguish between 
two groups with different prognoses in a large cohort of patients with localized 
renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
METHODS: We reviewed the clinical records of 813 patients who had undergone 
surgical treatment for localized RCC from 1976 to 2000. The optimal breakpoint 
for the pathologic size was calculated by receiver operating characteristic 
curve analysis.
RESULTS: The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis identified 5.5 cm 
as the optimal breakpoint to predict cancer-specific survival rates. The 
pathologic size was 5.5 cm or less in 565 neoplasms (69.5%) and more than 5.5 cm 
in 248 (30.5%). In the multivariate analysis, the more predictive model included 
the 5.5-cm-or-less pathologic size breakpoint. The pathologic size of 7 cm or 
less was not an independent variable in this cohort of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In a large cohort of patients with localized RCC, 5.5 cm was the 
optimal breakpoint to classify patients with localized RCC into two subgroups 
with different prognoses; the 7-cm-or-less cutoff value was not an independent 
variable. The data obtained by analyzing a large cohort of consecutive patients 
should be validated by other large series with the prospective of redefining the 
TNM staging system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.081
PMID: 14972460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Urology. 2004 Feb;63(2):278-81. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.038.

High incidence of inguinal hernia after radical retropubic prostatectomy.

Ichioka K(1), Yoshimura K, Utsunomiya N, Ueda N, Matsui Y, Terai A, Arai Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kurashiki Central Hospital, Kurashiki, Okayama, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the incidence of, and risk factors for, inguinal hernia 
after retropubic radical prostatectomy compared with after pelvic lymph node 
dissection and total cystectomy.
METHODS: A total of 155 radical prostatectomies, 35 pelvic lymph node 
dissections, and 56 total cystectomies were included in this study. We reviewed 
the charts retrospectively and evaluated the incidence of, and risk factors for, 
inguinal hernia after surgery using Kaplan-Meier plots and a Cox proportional 
hazard model.
RESULTS: Of 155 patients in the radical prostatectomy group, 35 patients in the 
pelvic lymph node dissection group, and 56 patients in the cystectomy group, 33 
(21.3%), 4 (11.4%), and 3 (5.4%), respectively, developed inguinal hernias 
during follow-up. In the radical prostatectomy group, 27 (81.8%) of the 33 
patients developed inguinal hernia within 2 years postoperatively. Multivariate 
Cox proportional hazard analysis revealed that prostatectomy group, past history 
of inguinal hernia, and body mass index of less than 23 were significant risk 
factors for postoperative inguinal hernia.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of inguinal hernia after radical prostatectomy is not 
low. Urologists should realize that inguinal hernia is one of the major 
complications of radical prostatectomy and examine the groin preoperatively and 
postoperatively.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.038
PMID: 14972471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Urology. 2004 Feb;63(2):297-300. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.020.

High-intensity focused ultrasound for the treatment of localized prostate 
cancer: 5-year experience.

Blana A(1), Walter B, Rogenhofer S, Wieland WF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Regensburg, St. Josef Hospital, 
Regensburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To report on our 5-year results with transrectal high-intensity 
focused ultrasound (HIFU) in the treatment of localized prostate cancer. HIFU 
delivers high energy, causing rapid coagulation necrosis of tissue within the 
target area without damaging the surrounding tissue.
METHODS: A total of 146 patients with biopsy-proven Stage T1-T2N0M0 prostate 
cancer have been treated using the Ablatherm device. All patients had a 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level of 15 ng/mL or less and a Gleason score of 
7 or less (inclusion criteria). The mean follow-up was 22.5 months (range 4 to 
62) and included PSA measurement and control sextant biopsies.
RESULTS: The median PSA nadir 3 months after treatment was 0.07 ng/mL (range 0 
to 5.67). The median PSA level after a follow-up of 22 months was 0.15 ng/mL 
(range 0 to 12.11), and 87% of the patients had a constant PSA level of less 
than 1 ng/mL; 93.4% of all patients had negative control biopsies. One 
rectourethral fistula was noted after a second HIFU treatment in a patient with 
a history of hemicolectomy and repetitive anal fistulas. Of all the patients, 
12% underwent transurethral resection after HIFU because of obstruction, but no 
severe stress incontinence (grade 2 to 3) was observed. Erectile function was 
preserved in 47.3% of patients, and the International Prostate Symptom Score and 
Quality of Life Index did not change from before to after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated the efficacy and low-associated morbidity 
of HIFU. HIFU does not exclude other treatment options and is repeatable. HIFU 
seems to be a valid alternative treatment for patients who are not suitable for 
radical surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.020
PMID: 14972475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Urology. 2004 Feb;63(2):321-6. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.044.

Analysis of biochemical bone markers as prognostic factors for survival in 
patients with hormone-resistant prostate cancer and bone metastases.

Petrioli R(1), Rossi S, Caniggia M, Pozzessere D, Messinese S, Sabatino M, 
Marsili S, Correale P, Salvestrini F, Manganelli A, Francini G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Pathology and Oncology, University of Siena, Siena, 
Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the prognostic value of some conventional bone 
markers and a number of other factors in terms of the survival of patients with 
hormone-resistant prostate cancer and bone metastases treated with chemotherapy.
METHODS: The data of 141 patients were analyzed to verify the influence of the 
following factors on survival: bone-alkaline phosphatase, type I collagen 
propeptide, the carboxyterminal telopeptide of type I collagen, the urinary 
calcium/creatinine ratio, patient age, Karnofsky performance status, pathologic 
grade, duration of response to primary hormonal therapy, prostate-specific 
antigen, hemoglobin, lactate dehydrogenase, and extent of bone disease.
RESULTS: When all the variables were simultaneously analyzed using the 
multivariate proportional hazard model, only Karnofsky performance status (P 
<0.005) and duration of response to primary hormonal therapy (P <0.0001) 
remained statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that bone-alkaline phosphatase, 
type I collagen propeptide, the carboxyterminal telopeptide of type I collagen, 
and the urinary calcium/creatinine ratio are not prognostic of survival in 
patients with hormone-resistant prostate cancer and bone metastases treated with 
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.044
PMID: 14972482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Urology. 2004 Feb;63(2):333-6. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.042.

Invasion of seminal vesicles by adenocarcinoma of the prostate: PSA outcome 
determined by preoperative and postoperative factors.

Bloom KD(1), Richie JP, Schultz D, Renshaw A, Saegaert T, D'amico AV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine which preoperative and postoperative factors were 
predictive of the time to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) failure after radical 
retropubic prostatectomy (RRP) for patients with seminal vesicle invasion (SVI). 
SVI by prostate cancer is associated with high PSA failure rates after RRP and 
subsequent distant metastases.
METHODS: Between 1988 and 2002, 1697 patients with prostate cancer underwent RRP 
at Brigham and Women's Hospital, of whom 103 (6%) had SVI. Cox regression 
multivariable analysis was used to determine whether the preoperative PSA level, 
prostatectomy Gleason score, margin status, or presence of extraprostatic 
extension was predictive of the time to postoperative PSA failure. Estimates of 
PSA outcome were made using the actuarial method of Kaplan and Meier for 
patients who had none, all, or at least one of the factors that predicted for 
the time to postoperative PSA failure.
RESULTS: The statistically significant categorical predictors of the time to PSA 
failure after RRP in patients with SVI included prostatectomy Gleason score of 
4+3 or greater (P = 0.009), preoperative PSA level greater than 20 ng/dL when 
evaluated as a categorical or as a continuous variable (P = 0.002 and P = 0.001, 
respectively), and margin positivity (P = 0.075) which was of borderline 
significance. The 3-year estimate of PSA control was 52% to 100%, 28%, and 0% 
for patients with negative margins, preoperative PSA less than 20 ng/dL, and 
prostatectomy Gleason score of 3+4 or less versus having one to two or all three 
predictors of the time to postoperative PSA failure.
CONCLUSIONS: The PSA outcome after RRP for patients with SVI varies depending on 
the preoperative PSA level, prostatectomy Gleason score, and margin status.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.042
PMID: 14972484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Urology. 2004 Feb;63(2):342-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.045.

Targeting FSH in androgen-independent prostate cancer: abarelix for prostate 
cancer progressing after orchiectomy.

Beer TM(1), Garzotto M, Eilers KM, Lemmon D, Wersinger EM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Oregon Health and Science 
University, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the efficacy of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone 
antagonist abarelix in patients with androgen-independent prostate cancer 
progressing after orchiectomy and to measure its effect on serum 
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH).
METHODS: Sixteen patients with prostate cancer progressing after orchiectomy 
received abarelix-depot 100 mg by intramuscular injection on days 1, 15, and 29 
and then every 28 days for up to 24 weeks (52 weeks in patients who met the 
criteria for a prostate-specific antigen [PSA] response after 24 weeks). PSA 
response was the primary endpoint and was defined as a 50% reduction confirmed 4 
weeks later. The time to progression and effect of therapy on serum FSH were 
secondary endpoints.
RESULTS: No patient met the criteria for a PSA response. Five patients (31%, 95% 
confidence interval 11% to 58%) experienced confirmed reductions in the PSA 
level ranging from 9.3% to 31.8%. At the end of the six cycles of therapy, 6 
patients remained stable without PSA progression or other signs of disease 
progression. The median time to progression was 12 weeks (95% confidence 
interval 6 to 18). The mean serum FSH concentration declined after 4 weeks of 
study treatment by nearly 90% from a baseline of 45.1 IU/L (95% confidence 
interval 34.0 to 56.2) and remained suppressed throughout the observation 
period. Treatment was well tolerated, with one grade 3 allergic reaction.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with abarelix in patients with androgen-independent 
prostate cancer after orchiectomy results in marked reduction in circulating 
FSH. None of the patients met the PSA response criteria; nonetheless, minor 
reductions in serum PSA were observed in 5 of 16 patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.045
PMID: 14972486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Urology. 2004 Feb;63(2):392-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.08.023.

Decreased Fas expression in advanced-stage bladder cancer is not related to p53 
status.

Maas S(1), Warskulat U, Steinhoff C, Mueller W, Grimm MO, Schulz WA, Seifert HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Heinrich-Heine-University, Duesseldorf, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: The Fas-Fas ligand system is an important regulator of apoptosis and 
is involved in tumor development. Invasive cancers downregulate Fas expression 
to evade antitumor immune responses. Fas is a transcriptional target of p53, 
which is often mutated in bladder cancers. Therefore, Fas expression and its 
relation to p53 mutation was investigated.
METHODS: Expression of Fas protein and p53 status was studied by 
immunohistochemistry in 83 bladder cancer specimens. In addition, mRNA levels 
for soluble (decoy) and membrane-bound forms of Fas were compared between 10 
bladder cancer cell lines and primary uroepithelial cells by quantitative TaqMan 
polymerase chain reaction. Mutational analysis of the death domain of the Fas 
gene was performed in all cell lines.
RESULTS: Organ-confined tumors maintained specific Fas staining at the cell 
membrane and often also in the cytoplasm. In higher stage carcinomas, Fas 
expression became restricted to a smaller fraction of cells or was lacking 
entirely. The correlation of Fas staining with tumor stage was highly 
significant but no correlation to tumor grade or survival was found. 
Furthermore, no statistically significant relationship was observed with either 
the presence or lack of mutated p53 accumulation. Membrane-bound Fas mRNA was 
decreased in most, and soluble Fas was increased in all transitional cell 
carcinoma lines compared with primary uroepithelial cells. No mutations in the 
death domain were detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Fas downregulation occurring in advanced bladder cancer is 
unrelated to p53 mutations. The results of immunohistochemistry and mRNA studies 
of soluble and membrane-bound Fas in transitional cell carcinoma lines support 
the hypothesis of immune evasion in advanced bladder cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.08.023
PMID: 14972509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Urology. 2004 Feb;63(2):402-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.08.036.

Syndecan-1 expression in locally invasive and metastatic prostate cancer.

Chen D(1), Adenekan B, Chen L, Vaughan ED, Gerald W, Feng Z, Knudsen BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the significance of syndecan-1 expression, a 
cell-surface heparan sulfate proteoglycan in localized and metastatic prostate 
cancer.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of 76 men with Gleason sum 6 or 7 
prostate cancer treated by radical prostatectomy and a separate cohort of 75 men 
