DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/14.2.141
PMID: 15230498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Eur J Public Health. 2004 Jun;14(2):182-5. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/14.2.182.

Nicotine dependence and lifetime amount of smoking in a population sample.

John U(1), Meyer C, Hapke U, Rumpf HJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Greifswald, Institute of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, 
Addiction Research Center, Greifswald, Germany. ujohn@uni-greifswald.de

AIM: To determine how the age at starting smoking, any quit attempts and the 
single nicotine dependence criteria are related to the lifetime amount of 
smoking.
METHODS: A population-based sample of 4075 18 to 64-year-olds drawn at random in 
northern Germany was used. It included 836 former and 1601 current smokers. They 
were interviewed face-to-face at their homes with the Composite International 
Diagnostic Interview which provides a nicotine dependence diagnosis (DSM-IV). 
Also included was the Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence.
RESULTS: The rates of smokers who started smoking at a young age, who had five 
or more quit attempts in the past and who fulfilled the single nicotine 
dependence criteria increased with the lifetime amount of tobacco smoked.
CONCLUSION: Nicotine dependence may be a main impeding factor against efforts to 
decrease smoker rates.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/14.2.182
PMID: 15230506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Skeletal Radiol. 2004 Sep;33(9):506-13. doi: 10.1007/s00256-004-0810-x. Epub
 2004 Jun 30.

Primary Ewing's sarcoma of the vertebral column.

Ilaslan H(1), Sundaram M, Unni KK, Dekutoski MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Ch2-290 200 First Street, SW, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the demographics, imaging findings, clinical symptoms, 
and prognosis of primary vertebral Ewing's sarcoma (PVES).
DESIGN: A retrospective review of medical records and radiological studies of 
patients diagnosed with PVES from 1936 through 2001 in our institution and 
Department of Pathology consultation files was undertaken. Metastatic and soft 
tissue Ewing's sarcoma cases were excluded.
RESULTS: From a total of 1,277 cases of Ewing's sarcoma, 125 (9.8%) had a 
primary vertebral origin. There were 48 females and 76 males. Patient ages 
ranged from 4 to 54 (mean 19.3, standard deviation 10.7, median 16) years. 
Vertebral column distribution was four cervical (3.2%), 13 thoracic (10.5%), 31 
lumbar (25%), and 67 sacrum (53.2%). More than one vertebral segment was 
involved in ten cases (8%). Satisfactory imaging studies were available in 51 
patients: 49 radiographs, 27 computerized tomography (CT), and 23 magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) studies. The majority of tumors were lytic (93%). Three 
cases were mixed lytic and sclerotic (6%) and one sclerotic. In the nonsacral 
spine, the majority of lesions (12/20) involved the posterior elements with 
extension into the vertebral body. Five cases were centered in the vertebral 
body with extension into the posterior elements. Two cases were limited to the 
posterior elements, and one case solely involved the vertebral body. Ala was the 
most frequently affected site in the sacrum (18/26). Spinal canal invasion was 
frequent (91%). Detailed clinical information was available in 53 patients. 
Duration of symptoms ranged from 1 to 30 (mean 7) months. Local pain was the 
first symptom and seen in all cases. Neurological deficits were present in 21 
(40%) cases. All patients received radiation in various dosages; 70% 
additionally received chemotherapy. Twenty-five patients had surgery, and two 
patients received bone marrow transplantation. Forty-five patients had 
follow-up; the five-year disease-free survival probability is 0.53. Disease-free 
survival probabilities are 0.60 for sacral tumors and 0.45 for nonsacral tumors.
CONCLUSION: PVES is an uncommon tumor, usually seen in the second decade of life 
(mean age 19.3 years) with a male predilection (62%). An aggressive osteolytic 
lesion, particularly in the sacrum, should raise suspicion for this tumor in 
adolescents. Prognosis was similar in sacral and nonsacral tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00256-004-0810-x
PMID: 15232658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2004 Aug;28(2):138-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.02.020.

Subintimal angioplasty: feasible and durable.

Desgranges P(1), Boufi M, Lapeyre M, Tarquini G, van Laere O, Losy F, Mellière 
D, Becquemin JP, Kobeiter H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Henri Mondor Hospital, Creteil, France.

OBJECTIVE: To assess prospectively the feasibility and durability of subintimal 
angioplasty (SA) clinically and by duplex scans every 3 months.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Within a period of 54 months, we selected 96 patients with 
100 occlusions (mean length: 11.5 cm) of femoro-popliteal or tibial arteries, 
for SA.
RESULTS: The technical success rate was 88% and seven out of 12 failures were 
treated by conventional surgery. Five below-the-knee amputations were performed 
despite a patent recanalization. The following complications occurred: arterial 
perforation (6), arterial thrombosis (4), extensions beyond the planned re-entry 
site (5), and arterial dissection (2). Primary, assisted-primary and secondary 
patency rates were 61, 68 and 74%, respectively at 24 months. The 24 month-limb 
salvage and survival rates were 78 and 85%, respectively. Duplex imaging 
demonstrated 10 restenosis (five symptomatic >70%, five asymptomatic 30-70%), 
seven occlusions (five asymptomatic, two symptomatic treated by a bypass) and 
one asymptomatic dilatation.
CONCLUSION: In a selected group of patients SA is feasible with a high initial 
technical success rate. SA is a good alternative in patients who are poor 
candidates for bypass surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.02.020
PMID: 15234693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2004 Aug;28(2):193-200. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.04.005.

Endovascular treatment of chronic splanchnic syndrome.

van Wanroij JL(1), van Petersen AS, Huisman AB, Mensink PB, Gerrits DG, Kolkman 
JJ, Geelkerken RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Medisch Spectrum Twente Hospital, Enschede, 
The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The technical and clinical outcome of endovascular revascularization 
was analyzed in patients with suspicion of chronic splanchnic syndrome (CSS).
METHODS: Medical history, duplex, angiography and exercise gastric tonometry 
suggested CSS in 97 patients. Twenty-seven of them were treated endovascular 
(one patient had 3-vessel, 12 patients had 2-vessels, 14 patients had 1-vessel 
CSS). Five patients received previous splanchnic revascularization. Twenty-three 
patients (85%) had severe co-morbidity: cardiac, pulmonary or cachexia. 
Endovascular treatment consisted of percutaneous transluminal angiography (PTA) 
of the coeliac artery (CA) or superior mesenteric artery (SMA) in three and 
primary balloon expandable stenting in 24 patients (13 CA and 10 SMA solitary, 
two CA and SMA both, 31 splanchnic arteries in total).
RESULTS: Three patients showed procedure related complications (11%). Mean 
follow-up was 19, range 2-76 months. Two patients died during follow up, both 
not procedure or CSS related. Five patients had no improvement of symptoms, 
without evidence of re- or residual stenosis. The primary clinical success was 
67%, secondary clinical success was 81%. The primary patency was 81% and 
secondary patency was 100%.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular treatment of CSS has a reasonable outcome. It is an 
alternative to operative treatment, especially in patients with high 
co-morbidity or limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.04.005
PMID: 15234701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Nat Genet. 2004 Aug;36(8):877-82. doi: 10.1038/ng1389. Epub 2004 Jul 4.

Essential role of limiting telomeres in the pathogenesis of Werner syndrome.

Chang S(1), Multani AS, Cabrera NG, Naylor ML, Laud P, Lombard D, Pathak S, 
Guarente L, DePinho RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Box 11, 1515 
Holcombe Blvd., Houston, Texas 77030, USA. schang@mdanderson.org

Mutational inactivation of the gene WRN causes Werner syndrome, an autosomal 
recessive disease characterized by premature aging, elevated genomic instability 
and increased cancer incidence. The capacity of enforced telomerase expression 
to rescue premature senescence of cultured cells from individuals with Werner 
syndrome and the lack of a disease phenotype in Wrn-deficient mice with long 
telomeres implicate telomere attrition in the pathogenesis of Werner syndrome. 
Here, we show that the varied and complex cellular phenotypes of Werner syndrome 
are precipitated by exhaustion of telomere reserves in mice. In late-generation 
mice null with respect to both Wrn and Terc (encoding the telomerase RNA 
component), telomere dysfunction elicits a classical Werner-like premature aging 
syndrome typified by premature death, hair graying, alopecia, osteoporosis, type 
II diabetes and cataracts. This mouse model also showed accelerated replicative 
senescence and accumulation of DNA-damage foci in cultured cells, as well as 
increased chromosomal instability and cancer, particularly nonepithelial 
malignancies typical of Werner syndrome. These genetic data indicate that the 
delayed manifestation of the complex pleiotropic of Wrn deficiency relates to 
telomere shortening.

DOI: 10.1038/ng1389
PMID: 15235603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Zentralbl Gynakol. 2004 Jun;126(3):101-11. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-822806.

[Causes for and consequences of the decline of fertility in Germany].

[Article in German]

Birg H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Bevölkerungs- und Gesundheitsforschung, Universität Bielefeld. 
herwig.birg@uni-bielefeld.de

The decline in fertility is a world-wide phenomenon. In the past fifty years the 
birth rates have decreased by more than a half in both industrialized and 
developing countries. At the same time, life expectancy has doubled. In the 
lecture, facts and trends in fertility, mortality and migration are analyzed as 
causes of the population dynamics and current population predictions for Germany 
and Europe are presented. These data are then used as the basis for a concise 
survey of the most important conflicts of interest due to demographic factors at 
national and international levels (conflicts of interest between the young and 
old generations, between the new and the old provinces of Germany, between 
immigrants and non-immigrants, between people with children and those without). 
Finally, objectives, instruments, and chances of success of a 
population-conscious, interdisciplinary policy are discussed on the basis of 
international comparative analyses.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-822806
PMID: 15236092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Exp Gerontol. 2004 Jul;39(7):1061-7. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.03.025.

Anti-aging effects of anti-lipolytic drugs.

Donati A(1), Cavallini G, Carresi C, Gori Z, Parentini I, Bergamini E.

Author information:
(1)Centro di Ricerca Interdipartimentale sull'Invecchiamento, Università di 
Pisa, Via Roma 55, 56126, Italy.

Genetic disruption of insulin and insulin-like signaling pathways may extend 
lifespan. Hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance may accelerate aging. The 
hypothesis was tested that a once-a-week life-long inhibition of insulin 
secretion by the administration of anti-lipolytic drugs might have anti-aging 
effects. Groups of 3-month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were (a) given standard 
laboratory food ad libitum (AL); (b) fed AL 6 days and fasted 1 day every week 
(FW); (c) fed AL every other day (EOD), (d) fed like FW and given Acipimox (50 
mg/kg b.w.) on the day of fasting (FWA) by the gastric tube. The AL, FW and EOD 
groups received saline intragastrically. Treatment with ACIPIMOX transiently 
decreased plasma free fatty acids, glucose and insulin and increased valine 
plasma levels, and had no long-term effect on food consumption and body weight. 
By age 6, 12 and 24 months subgroups were taken and the age-related changes in 
liver dolichol and autophagic proteolysis--which are correlated with 
life-expectancy--were measured. Liver dolichol levels increased and autophagic 
proteolysis decreased in mature and older AL rats; EOD and FWA fully 
counteracted these changes; FW rats had significant but smaller beneficial 
effects. It is concluded that life-long weekly-repeated transient inhibition of 
insulin secretion by antilipolytic drugs may have an anti-aging effect, additive 
to the anti-aging effect of a milder caloric restriction. Speculation is that 
transiently lower plasma insulin levels might stimulate the anti-aging 
cell-repair mechanism autophagy, which has longer lasting effects on cell 
housekeeping.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.03.025
PMID: 15236765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Liver Transpl. 2004 Jul;10(7):939-44. doi: 10.1002/lt.20165.

Management of drug-to-drug interactions between cyclosporine A and the 
protease-inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir in liver-transplanted HIV-infected 
patients.

Vogel M(1), Voigt E, Michaelis HC, Sudhop T, Wolff M, Türler A, Sauerbruch T, 
Rockstroh JK, Spengler U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University of Bonn, Germany.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has improved the life expectancy of 
HIV-infected patients, allowing orthotopic liver transplantation as a reasonable 
treatment option for selected patients with terminal liver disease. Both 
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors and protease inhibitors, key 
elements of HAART, give rise to substantial drug-to-drug interactions with 
immunosuppressive drugs such as tacrolimus and cyclosporine A. After studying 
12-hour pharmacokinetic profiles in 3 HIV-positive patients after liver 
transplantation, we describe how dosing of cyclosporine A can be adjusted to 
maintain effective immunosuppressive drug levels on a daily dosing schedule when 
ritonavir-boosted indinavir or lopinavir-based antiretroviral therapy is given. 
To avoid toxic drug levels, we used an orally available cyclosporine A 
formulation prepared from the commercial available intravenous solution, which 
enabled dose adjustments in 1-mg increments. Under ritonavir-boosted HAART, 
cyclosporine A levels showed markedly altered absorption/elimination 
characteristics with more or less constant blood-levels throughout the dosing 
interval and prolonged elimination half-lives up to 38 hours. To obtain 
equivalent areas under the curve of cyclosporine A, daily doses were reduced to 
5-20% of the individual standard doses given before initiation of 
ritonavir-boosted HAART. Because of the flat absorption/elimination profiles 
under ritonavir-boosted HAART cyclosporine A, dosing could be reliably monitored 
long term by measuring cyclosporine A trough-levels.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.20165
PMID: 15237382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Int J Prosthodont. 2004 May-Jun;17(3):323-6.

Long-term survival of porcelain laminate veneers using two preparation designs: 
a retrospective study.

Smales RJ(1), Etemadi S.

Author information:
(1)Dental School, The University of Adelaide, South Australia. 
roger.smales@adelaide.edu.au

PURPOSE: This study evaluated the long-term survival of anterior porcelain 
laminate veneers placed with and without incisal porcelain coverage.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two prosthodontists in a private dental practice placed 
110 labial feldspathic porcelain veneers in 50 patients; 46 veneers were 
provided with incisal porcelain coverage, and 64 were not. The veneers were 
evaluated retrospectively from case records for up to 7 years (mean 4 years).
RESULTS: At 5, 6, and 7 years, the cumulative survival estimates were 95.8% for 
veneers with incisal porcelain coverage and 85.5% for those without incisal 
coverage. The difference was not statistically significant. Six of the nine 
failures occurred from porcelain fracture in the veneers without incisal 
coverage.
CONCLUSION: Although there was a trend for better long-term survival of the 
veneers with incisal porcelain coverage, this finding was not statistically 
significant.

PMID: 15237880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed. 2004 Aug;20(4):184-90. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0781.2004.00102.x.

Oral PUVA and topical steroids for treatment of oral manifestations of chronic 
graft-vs.-host disease.

Wolff D(1), Anders V, Corio R, Horn T, Morison WL, Farmer E, Vogelsang GB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Haematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Rostock, E. Heydemann Strasse 6, 18057 Rostock, Germany. 
daniel.wolff@medizin.uni-rostock.de

BACKGROUND: Oral manifestations of chronic graft-vs.-host disease (cGVHD) can 
significantly affect the quality of life and severity often does not correlate 
with systemic manifestations. We evaluated the use of topical corticosteroids 
and the intraoral application of psoralen-UVA (PUVA) for treatment of oral 
manifestations of cGVHD.
METHODS: Overall, 18 patients with oral manifestations of cGVHD were treated 
with either intraoral PUVA (n=7) or with topical corticosteroids (n=16). Four 
patients received intraoral PUVA after failure of topical steroids and one 
patient was treated with topical corticosteroids after failing treatment with 
intraoral PUVA. A glass fiber extension of an UVA source was used for manual 
intraoral application. Treatment with topical corticosteroids consisted of 0.1 
mg/ml dexamethasone mouth wash four times a day in combination with antifungal 
prophylaxis.
RESULTS: Four patients showed complete local response (CR) due to intraoral 
PUVA, two improved and one did not respond. Topical corticosteroids resulted in 
nine patients in CR, two improved and five did not respond.
CONCLUSION: Intraoral PUVA as well as topical corticosteroids are effective in 
treatment of oral manifestations of oral GVHD with few side-effects and improve 
quality of life in patients with cGVHD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0781.2004.00102.x
PMID: 15238096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. World J Surg Oncol. 2004 Jul 6;2:23. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-2-23.

Emergency surgery for recurrent intraabdominal cancer.

Catena F(1), Gazzotti F, Ansaloni L, Agrusti S, De Cataldis A, D'Alessandro L, 
Taffurelli M.

Author information:
(1)Emergency Surgery Department, St, Orsola Malpighi University Hospital, Via 
Massarenti 9, 40138 Bologna, Italy. fcatena@orsola-malpighi.med.unibo.it

BACKGROUND: Recurrent abdominal cancer can manifest in many ways but there are 
certain situations that are a great challenge to clinicians. Emergency 
presentation is one such situation. Surgeons are faced with a therapeutic 
dilemma that on the one hand most of these patients have a limited life 
expectancy, and on the other surgical procedures are unavoidable. We reviewed 
our experience of recurrent abdominal cancers presenting with acute abdominal 
symptoms requiring emergency.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Over the last 10 years, 81 patients with recurrent 
abdominal cancer presented with an abdominal emergency. Case records, operative 
notes and histology were reviewed. Frequency distributions were prepared for 
clinical, hematological, biochemical parameters, treatment and complications. 
Surgical analysis was carried out by the Kaplan Meier method and groups were 
compared using a log-rank test.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 70.1 years with a female to male ratio 
of 1.25. An overall postoperative mortality of 11.1% and morbidity of 27.1% was 
observed. Postoperative infections and respiratory complications were the most 
common causes of morbidity and mortality. Emergency resections carried the same 
risk of mortality and morbidity as the other surgical procedures (p > 0.05). 
Patients who underwent radical or palliative resections had a better survival 
than patients undergoing other procedures (p < 0.05). Preoperative Apache II 
score was found to be single most important predictor of postoperative mortality 
and morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that surgical resection offers the best chance for 
improvement in survival after emergency surgery for recurrent abdominal cancer. 
If resection is not feasible, the possibility of creating a bypass or 
enterostomies should be considered to improve the patients' quality of life.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-2-23
PMCID: PMC471564
PMID: 15238167


163. Circulation. 2004 Jul 13;110(2):112-6. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000134957.51747.6E.  Epub 2004 Jul 6.

Long-term comparison of the implantable cardioverter defibrillator versus 
amiodarone: eleven-year follow-up of a subset of patients in the Canadian 
Implantable Defibrillator Study (CIDS).

Bokhari F(1), Newman D, Greene M, Korley V, Mangat I, Dorian P.

Author information:
(1)Terrence Donnelly Heart Center, Department of Medicine, St Michael's 
Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Jul 13;110(2):107-8.
    Circulation. 2005 Jan 25;111(3):e26; author reply e26.

BACKGROUND: The implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) is superior to 
amiodarone for secondary prophylaxis of sudden cardiac death. However, the 
magnitude of this benefit over long-term follow-up is not known. Thus, our 
objective was to evaluate the long-term consequences of using amiodarone versus 
an ICD as first-line monotherapy in patients with a prior history of sustained 
ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation or cardiac arrest.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 120 patients were enrolled at St Michael's 
Hospital in the Canadian Implantable Defibrillator Study (CIDS) and were 
randomly assigned to receive either amiodarone (n=60) or an ICD (n=60). The 
treatment strategy was not altered after the end of CIDS unless the initial 
assigned therapy was not effective or was associated with serious side effects. 
After a mean follow-up of 5.6+/-2.6 years, there were 28 deaths (47%) in the 
amiodarone group, compared with 16 deaths (27%) in the ICD group (P=0.0213). 
Total mortality was 5.5% per year in the amiodarone group versus 2.8% per year 
in the ICD group (hazard ratio of amiodarone: ICD, 2.011; 95% confidence 
interval, 1.087 to 3.721; P=0.0261). In the amiodarone group, 49 patients (82% 
of all patients) had side effects related to amiodarone, of which 30 patients 
(50% of all patients) required discontinuation or dose reduction; 19 patients 
crossed over to ICD because of amiodarone failure (n=7) or side effects (n=12).
CONCLUSIONS: In a subset of CIDS, the benefit of the ICD over amiodarone 
increases with time; most amiodarone-treated patients eventually develop side 
effects, have arrhythmia recurrences, or die.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000134957.51747.6E
PMID: 15238454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2004 Jul;71(1):56-64.

Use of disability adjusted life years in the estimation of the disease burden of 
echinococcosis for a high endemic region of the Tibetan plateau.

Budke CM(1), Jiamin Q, Zinsstag J, Qian W, Torgerson PR.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Parasitology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 26a, 
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland. budke@vetparas.unizh.ch

Shiqu County, located on the Tibetan plateau of western China, has an extremely 
high prevalence of both human alveolar echinococcosis (AE), and cystic 
echinococcosis (CE). The short form 12 version 2 quality of life survey, which 
was used to evaluate the extent to which morbidity associated with 
echinococcosis should be accounted, verified that there was a significant 
reduction in the mean health scores in all categories for individuals diagnosed 
with abdominal echinococcosis compared with an age and sex cross-matched 
population. Results of a larger ultrasound survey, which screened 3135 subjects, 
demonstrated that the prevalence rates of AE and CE were both approximately 6% 
with a combined prevalence rate of 11.4%. Prevalence rates adjusted for the age 
and sex structure of Shiqu County were 4.6% for AE and 4.9% for CE with an 
estimated overall adjusted prevalence rate of 9.5%. The burden of disease 
associated with echinococcosis was calculated using disability adjusted life 
years (DALYs) based on these estimated prevalence rates. Monte-Carlo techniques 
were used to model the uncertainty in the prevalence estimates and the 
disability weights. Using these methods, we estimated that the total numbers of 
DALYs lost due echinococcosis was 50,933 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 
41,995-61,026). The DALYs lost consisted of approximately 32,978 (95% CI = 
25,019-42,422) due to AE and 17,955 (95% CI = 14,268-22,128) due to CE and 
suggests an average of approximately 0.81 DALY lost per person. This study has 
clearly shown that the impact of DALYs lost due to echinococcosis, in terms of 
medical treatment costs, lost income, and physical and social suffering, is 
likely to be substantial in this highly endemic region of China.

PMID: 15238690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Health News. 2004 Jul;10(7):10.

Modified therapy for heart failure extends life. For some people with heart 
failure, a combination of two existing treatments lessens symptoms and delays 
death.

Carlson MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

PMID: 15239159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2004 Jul;89(7):3392-6. doi: 10.1210/jc.2003-031513.

Effect of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) gene mutations on premature 
mortality in familial MEN1 syndrome with founder mutations.

Ebeling T(1), Vierimaa O, Kytölä S, Leisti J, Salmela PI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Oulu University Hospital, PB 20, FIN-90029 OYS, 
Finland. tapani.ebeling@oulu.fi

Estimation of mortality and the natural course of a disease is usually based on 
information of carefully studied individuals with or at risk for a specific 
disease. Genealogical information has rarely been accurate enough for such 
studies. With the help of church records and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 
(MEN1) family information of the two founder MEN1 mutations in Northern Finland 
(1466del12 and 1657insC), we could trace back common ancestors born in the 
beginning of the 1700s (1466del12) and approximately 1850 (1657insC) and find 67 
probable gene carriers born between 1728 and 1929, which were identified among 
their offspring. Information was gathered from 34 obligatory MEN1 gene carriers 
and 31 spouses. The mean age (+/- sd) of death of affected males (n = 16) was 
61.1 +/- 12.0 yr vs. 65.8 +/- 15.3 yr for unaffected males (n = 16) and for 
affected females (n = 16) was 67.2 +/- 10.7 yr vs. 67.7 +/- 14.7 yr for 
unaffected females (n = 13). The ages of death of the obligatory heterozygotes 
did not differ from that of the spouses in sex groups or from the sex-matched 
life expectancy estimates derived from Finnish national statistics. Causes of 
death differed significantly between female probands and spouses. In conclusion, 
obligatory MEN1 gene carrier status did not show a harmful effect on survival in 
this retrospective analysis tracing back to almost 300 yr.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2003-031513
PMID: 15240620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2004 Jul;(424):166-72. doi: 
10.1097/01.blo.0000128215.33603.4c.

Distraction osteogenesis for knee arthrodesis in infected tumor prostheses.

Tokizaki T(1), Abe S, Tateishi A, Hirose M, Matsushita T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Teikyo University, 2-11-1 Kaga, 
Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8605, Japan. toki@med.teikyo-u.ac.jp

Three patients had distraction osteogenesis as a salvage method for infected 
endoprostheses. At the first operation, the infected prosthesis was removed and 
stabilization was achieved with an external fixator to preserve limb length. An 
additional external fixator was applied later for distraction osteogenesis after 
ensuring that there was no infection. Osteotomy was done at two sites on the 
femur, or tibia and femur, respectively, as a second operation. A third surgery 
was done at the docking site at the edge of the transported bone fragments. 
Curettage, refreshing, and soft tissue release were done to enhance bone union. 
The healing index was 18.3 days/cm in Patient 1, 17.7 days/cm in Patient 2, and 
33.0 days/cm in Patient 3. All patients walk without a cane. It has been shown 
that patients can obtain a long-lasting and weight-bearable leg with our method, 
because their viable bone establishes biomechanical stability. Loss of knee 
function, a longer treatment period, and pin site treatment are the weaknesses 
of our method. Our method is indicated for patients in whom systemic disease can 
be controlled well and who have longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.blo.0000128215.33603.4c
PMID: 15241160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Cancer. 2004 Jul 15;101(2):294-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.20389.

Prostate carcinoma among men with human immunodeficiency virus infection.

Crum NF(1), Spencer CR, Amling CL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Naval 
Medical Center San Diego, San Diego, California 92134, USA. 
nfcrum@nmcsd.med.navy.mil

BACKGROUND: Several malignancies are known to occur more frequently in 
individuals with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. To determine the 
incidence of prostate carcinoma in men with HIV infection, the authors initiated 
a prostate carcinoma screening program in a large HIV clinic.
METHODS: Beginning in February 2002, monitoring of prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA) levels and digital rectal examination (DRE) were included in the routine 
annual health maintenance provided to men with HIV infection age > or = 35 years 
who were followed in the infectious disease clinic at the Naval Medical Center 
San Diego. All men with prostate carcinoma in this population over the last 2 
years were reviewed. Demographic data (age, ethnicity), duration of HIV 
infection, laboratory values (CD4 counts and HIV viral load), and medication use 
were determined by medical record review. Men with elevated PSA levels (levels 
above age-adjusted PSA values or PSA velocity > or = 0.75 ng/mL per year) or 
abnormal DRE results were referred for urologic evaluation. Comparisons between 
groups were performed using a logistic regression model and the Fisher exact 
test. Multivariate analysis was performed by logistic regression to determine 
relations between prostate carcinoma and patient characteristics.
RESULTS: Two hundred sixty-nine men age > or = 35 years (mean age, 43.4 years; 
range, 35-72years) underwent prostate carcinoma screening by DRE, and 216 men 
also received PSA testing. Overall, 56.3% of the patients were white, 28.7% were 
African American, and 15% were of other racial ethnicity. Of the 216 men, 7 
(3.2%) had elevated PSA values, and none had abnormal DRE results. Three 
patients were diagnosed with prostatitis (PSA range, 3.3-25.7 ng/mL), and 1 
patient had high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, which was determined 
after a biopsy was performed. Repeat PSA evaluations were within normal limits 
for the remaining three patients. Review of the cohort during the 2-year period 
before the current study was initiated revealed 5 additional cases of prostate 
neoplasia. Prostate carcinoma was common (4 of 11 men, 36.4%) in men age > 60 
years and occurred with relatively preserved CD4 counts (mean, 509 cells/mm(3)). 
In multivariate analysis, African-American race (P = 0.020) and duration of HIV 
infection (P = 0.047) were found to be associated with the development of 
prostate carcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostate carcinoma screening identified abnormal PSA values in 3.2% 
of the HIV-positive cohort, many associated with prostatitis. Prostate carcinoma 
was common in older men and was associated with duration of HIV infection. As 
the life expectancy of men with HIV infection increases, prostate carcinoma 
screening will become increasingly important in this population.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20389
PMID: 15241826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Am J Dent. 2004 Feb;17(1):43-50.

Durability of extensive Class II open-sandwich restorations with a 
resin-modified glass ionomer cement after 6 years.

Andersson-Wenckert IE(1), van Dijken JW, Kieri C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Odontology/Pedodontics, Umeå University, 901 87 Umeå, Sweden. 
Ingrid.Andersson-Wenckert@odont.umu.se

PURPOSE: To evaluate the durability of a modified open-sandwich restoration 
utilizing a resin-modified glass ionomer cement (RMGIC) in large cavities.
METHODS: 268, mostly extensive, Class II Vitremer/Z100 restorations were placed 
in 151 patients. 47% of the restorations were placed in patients considered as 
caries-risk patients. Six experimental groups, differing from each other in 
thickness of RMGIC layer and preconditioning, were evaluated at baseline and 
annually during 6-7 years according to modified USPHS criteria.
RESULTS: After 6 years, 220 restorations were evaluated. 42 failures (19%) were 
observed. The most frequent reasons for failure were material fracture (n = 11), 
tooth fractures (n = 9) and secondary caries (n = 10). Non-acceptable proximal 
dissolution of the RMGIC was seen in six restorations. Significantly more 
failures, but similar dissolution of the RMGIC, were recorded in high caries 
risk patients. No differences were seen between the experimental groups or 
between restorations with thick or thin RMGIC layer. 160 restorations were also 
evaluated at 7 years. Another 13 failures were observed, eight with 
non-acceptable dissolution, three secondary caries and two fractures. It can be 
concluded that the modified open sandwich restoration showed an acceptable 
durability for the extensive restorations evaluated. An accelerating dissolution 
of the RMGIC was observed at the end of the study.

PMID: 15241909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2004 Jun;12(2):113-4.

Taxation and life expectancy in Western Europe.

Bagger PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Imperial College and Cardiothoracic Directorate, Hammersmith Hospital, 
London, UK. p.bagger@ic.ac.uk

With the exception of Denmark, life expectancy in Western Europe has shown a 
significant increase over the last decades. During that period of time overall 
taxation has increased in most of the countries, especially in Denmark. We, 
therefore, examined whether taxation could influence life expectancy in Western 
Europe. We used information on the sum of income tax and employees' social 
contribution in percentage of gross wage earnings from the OECD database and 
data on disability adjusted life expectancy at birth from the World Health 
Organization database. We arbitrarily only included countries with populations 
in excess of 4 millions and thereby excluded smaller countries where tax 
exemption is part of the national monetary policy. We found that disability 
adjusted life expectancy at birth was inversely correlated to the total tax 
burden in Western Europe. We speculate whether a threshold exists where high 
taxes exert a negative influence on life expectancy despite increased welfare 
spending. The study suggests that tax burden should be considered among the 
multiple factors influencing life expectancy.

PMID: 15242031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Thyroid. 2004 Jun;14(6):465-7. doi: 10.1089/105072504323150804.

Lack of efficacy of recombinant human thyrotropin versus thyroid hormone 
withdrawal for radioiodine therapy imaging in a patient with differentiated 
thyroid carcinoma lung metastases.

Taïeb D(1), Jacob T, Zotian E, Mundler O.

Author information:
(1)Service central de Biophysique et de Médecine Nucléaire, Centre 
Hospitalo-Universitaire de la Timone, Marseille, France. 
David.taieb@mail.ap-hm.fr

The treatment of lung metastases of thyroid cancer is nearly exclusively limited 
to the administration of iodine-131. For patients presented with micronodular 
lesions, the therapeutic response is often excellent, increasing life 
expectancy. Because of the necessity of multiple iodine-131 treatments in the 
course of this therapy, and subsequently, the lack of tolerance of hormonal 
withdrawal, the use of recombinant human thyrotropin (rhTSH) as a method of 
stimulation could represent an interesting alternative. However, as in the 
present case, the stimulation by rhTSH can be less effective than hormonal 
withdrawal, as shown in the posttherapy scan to detect metastatic lesions and 
thus could be detrimental to the treatment efficiency.

DOI: 10.1089/105072504323150804
PMID: 15242576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Acta Oncol. 2004;43(3):290-6. doi: 10.1080/02841860410028411.

The estimated economic value of the welfare loss due to prostate cancer pain in 
a defined population.

Sennfält K(1), Carlsson P, Sandblom G, Varenhorst E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment, Linköping University, Sweden. 
karin.sennfalt@ihs.liu.se

The aim of the study reported here was to estimate the economic value of the 
welfare loss due to prostate cancer pain by estimating the extent to which pain 
affects health-related quality of life among patients with prostate cancer. The 
material consisted of a point estimate of health status among men with prostate 
cancer in a well-defined population of 200000 males. Clinical data concerning 
the disease at diagnosis (extracted from patients' records and the Regional 
Prostate Cancer Registry), and health utility ratings (using EuroQol) were 
obtained from 1 156 males with prostate cancer. A descriptive model showed that 
optimal treatment that would reduce pain to zero during the whole episode of 
disease would add on average 0.85 quality-adjusted life years (QALY) to every 
man with prostate cancer. Based on an estimate of the willingness to pay for a 
QALY the economic value of this welfare loss due to prostate cancer pain is in 
the magnitude of Euro 86 600 000 per year (Euro 19 800000 per million men in 
Sweden).

DOI: 10.1080/02841860410028411
PMID: 15244254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(10):643-60. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200422100-00003.

Economic evaluation of etoricoxib versus non-selective NSAIDs in the treatment 
of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis patients in the UK.

Moore A(1), Phillips C, Hunsche E, Pellissier J, Crespi S.

Author information:
(1)Pain Research, The Churchill, Headington, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(7):743; author reply 743-5.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential economic 
implications of using etoricoxib versus non-selective NSAID alternatives in the 
treatment of patients with osteoarthritis (OA) or rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in 
the UK.
STUDY DESIGN: Decision-analytical modelling was used to calculate the expected 
costs and consequences of the use of etoricoxib compared with non-selective 
NSAIDs alone, NSAIDs plus proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), NSAIDs plus histamine 
H2 receptor antagonists and NSAIDs plus misoprostol over a continuous treatment 
period of 1 year.
METHODS: The model considered direct medical costs from the perspective of the 
UK National Health Service (NHS) and used data from phase IIb and III clinical 
trials of etoricoxib to determine probabilities of gastrointestinal (GI) events. 
Model outcomes were defined as resource-consuming GI-related events, including 
clinically evident gastroduodenal perforations, symptomatic gastroduodenal 
ulcers, or upper GI bleeding (collectively, PUBs ['perforation, ulcers and/or 
bleeding']). Resource utilisation and costs (2002 values) for the treatment of 
OA and RA as well as GI events were based on published literature and 
information available from UK-specific sources.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: The model suggests that etoricoxib is cost 
saving compared with non-selective NSAIDs plus PPIs or non-selective NSAIDs plus 
misoprostol. The model also suggests that etoricoxib is cost effective in terms 
of the incremental cost per QALY gained for non-selective NSAIDs alone (pound 
19,766) and for non-selective NSAIDs plus H2 antagonists (pound 9350). The 
incremental cost of etoricoxib per PUB avoided was pound 12,446 versus 
non-selective NSAIDs alone and pound 6438 versus NSAIDs co-prescribed with H2 
antagonists. For patients without the presence of specific GI risk factors 
(history of GI event, corticosteroid use or disability), etoricoxib may be cost 
effective for patients over age 56 years, assuming a cost-effectiveness 
threshold of pound 30,000 per QALY gained. Etoricoxib may also be cost effective 
in patients of all ages who had at least one specific GI risk factor.
CONCLUSIONS: The model suggests, with its underlying assumptions and data, that 
etoricoxib is a cost-effective alternative to therapeutic regimens involving 
non-selective NSAIDs for OA or RA, from the UK NHS perspective. Etoricoxib may 
be cost saving and dominant over non-selective NSAIDs used together with a PPI 
or misoprostol. When compared with non-selective NSAIDs alone or non-selective 
NSAIDs co-prescribed with H2 antagonists, the incremental cost per QALY gained 
with use of etoricoxib was within the generally accepted threshold for cost 
effectiveness (less than pound 30,000 per QALY gained).

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422100-00003
PMID: 15244490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Urology. 2004 Jul;64(1):53-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.004.

Foley versus intermittent self-catheterization after transvaginal sling surgery: 
which works best?

Gandhi S(1), Beaumont JL, Goldberg RP, Kwon C, Abramov Y, Sand PK.

Author information:
(1)Evanston Continence Center, Northwestern University Medical School, Evanston, 
Illinois, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether the duration of catheter use differed between 
subjects using clean intermittent self-catheterization and those using 
continuous Foley catheterization after transvaginal sling surgery.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of postoperative bladder drainage 
in 167 consecutive women undergoing transvaginal suburethral sling placement for 
stress urinary incontinence. The primary outcome measure was the duration of 
catheter use. Normal voiding was defined as a voided volume equal to twice the 
residual volume and a residual volume of less than 100 mL for 24 hours. The 
groups were compared for differences in demographic, preoperative, and 
postoperative variables using univariate and multivariate analyses. The 
potential confounding effects of age, concomitant procedures, sling material, 
preoperative Valsalva voiding, and voiding pressures were investigated using 
general linear models.
RESULTS: A total of 122 subjects used clean intermittent self-catheterization 
and 45 had Foley catheter drainage. No differences were found between the groups 
in terms of concomitant procedures performed and preoperative diagnoses. The 
median duration of catheter use was 12 days (range 1 to 120) for women using 
clean intermittent self-catheterization versus 8 days (range 1 to 120) for those 
using Foley catheter drainage (P = 0.026). This difference was not influenced by 
age, concomitant procedures, sling material, preoperative Valsalva voiding, or 
preoperative voiding pressures according to the multivariate analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Although many advocate bladder retraining for postoperative bladder 
rehabilitation, continuous bladder drainage may result in quicker recovery of 
normal voiding after sling procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.004
PMID: 15245935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Urology. 2004 Jul;64(1):74-8. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.001.

Polymorphism within the cyclin D1 gene is associated with an increased risk of 
carcinoma in situ in patients with superficial bladder cancer.

Ito M(1), Habuchi T, Watanabe J, Higashi S, Nishiyama H, Wang L, Tsuchiya N, 
Kamoto T, Ogawa O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, 
Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the prognostic value of CCND1 polymorphism in 
superficial and invasive transitional cell cancer of the bladder.
METHODS: CCND1 polymorphism of blood DNA from patients with transitional cell 
cancer of the bladder was evaluated using the polymerase chain 
reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method.
RESULTS: No statistically significant difference was found in the 
recurrence-free survival of patients with superficial (pTa-T1) transitional cell 
cancer after transurethral resection among different genotype groups (AA versus 
GG, P = 0.746; GA versus GG, P = 0.979). In patients with superficial bladder 
cancer, the occurrence of primary carcinoma in situ was significantly greater in 
patients with the AA genotype compared with those with the GA or GG genotypes (P 
= 0.006, chi-square test). No statistically significant difference was found in 
disease-specific survival after radical cystectomy among the different genotype 
subgroups (AA versus GG, P = 0.245; GA versus GG, P = 0.649).
CONCLUSIONS: Although CCND1 polymorphism is not able to serve as a prognostic 
marker for bladder cancer, the CCND1 variant A allele may recessively increase 
the risk of carcinoma in situ incidence in patients with superficial bladder 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.001
PMID: 15245939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Urology. 2004 Jul;64(1):79-83. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.009.

Intermittent catheterization time required after interstitial laser coagulation 
of the prostate.

Nishizawa K(1), Kobayashi T, Mitsumori K, Watanabe J, Ogura K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Hamamatsu Rosai Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate and minimize the duration of clean intermittent 
catheterization (CIC) required after interstitial laser coagulation of the 
prostate in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia.
METHODS: Patients who did not show sufficient improvement in lower urinary tract 
symptoms or voiding dysfunctions with alpha-1 adrenergic blockers, and who 
agreed to undergo interstitial laser coagulation of the prostate, were enrolled 
in this study. Postoperatively, the indwelling Foley catheters were removed by 
the next morning. Patients were then required to undertake CIC with alpha-1 
adrenergic blockade therapy until the postvoid residual urine volume decreased 
to less than 100 mL.
RESULTS: Seventy-nine patients underwent interstitial laser coagulation of the 
prostate, and 70 underwent catheter-free trials by postoperative day 1. The mean 
age and preoperative prostate volume of these 70 patients was 70.3 years (SD 
8.7) and 49.6 cm3 (SD 34.8), respectively. Forty-three patients experienced 
postoperative urinary retention, and 37 of these underwent CIC. The median 
postoperative catheterization time was 3 days (range 0 to 31), and all patients 
eventually became catheter free. Univariate analysis showed that postoperative 
urinary retention was associated with a preoperative prostate volume of 30 cm3 
or larger, a maximal flow rate of less than 6 mL/s, and a postvoid residual 
urine volume of 100 mL or greater. Multivariate analysis showed that a 
preoperative prostate volume of 30 cm3 or larger was the most significant 
predictor of postoperative urinary retention.
CONCLUSIONS: More than 60% of the patients experienced urinary retention after 
interstitial laser coagulation of the prostate. However, the results of the 
present study suggested that CIC and alpha-1 adrenergic blockade therapy could 
manage post-treatment urinary retention with a relatively short catheterization 
time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.009
PMID: 15245940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Urology. 2004 Jul;64(1):84-9. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.02.004.

Long-term outcome of patients with prostate cancer and pathologic seminal 
vesicle invasion (pT3b): effect of adjuvant radiotherapy.

Lee HM(1), Solan MJ, Lupinacci P, Gomella LG, Valicenti RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas Jefferson 
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term outcome of patients with prostate cancer 
who have pathologic seminal vesicle invasion without lymph node metastasis 
(pT3bN0M0) and compare management strategies.
METHODS: From October 1987 to August of 1997, 43 men underwent radical 
prostatectomy at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, had pT3bN0M0 disease, 
complete preoperative and postoperative prostate-specific antigen (PSA) data, 
and a minimum of 2 years of follow-up. Eighteen patients with undetectable 
postoperative PSA levels received adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) within 6 months of 
surgery. Twelve patients with undetectable PSA levels postoperatively were 
considered for salvage treatment at biochemical progression. Thirteen patients 
with persistently elevated PSA levels postoperatively underwent immediate 
salvage RT. We evaluated the prognostic factors for freedom from biochemical 
failure (bNED), distant metastasis (DM), disease-specific survival, and overall 
survival.
RESULTS: The median follow-up time was 5.9 years (range 2 to 10). Patients who 
received adjuvant RT had significantly greater 5-year bNED survival than 
patients who did not (80% versus 8%, P <0.001) and increased freedom from DM 
that was of borderline significance (P = 0.05). The 5-year survival estimates 
for DM were 0% for the adjuvant RT versus 17% for the observed patient group. In 
patients with undetectable postoperative PSA levels, the preoperative PSA level 
was an independent prognostic factor for later disease progression. Patients 
with a preoperative PSA level of less than 20 ng/mL showed significantly greater 
5-year bNED survival than those with a preoperative PSA level of 20 ng/mL or 
greater (56% versus 32%, P <0.05). The survival curves for risk of DM and death 
from prostate cancer for those two patient groups were not significantly 
different statistically.
CONCLUSIONS: Although pathologic seminal vesicle invasion has been associated 
with poor prognosis and high DM risk, adjuvant RT may result in improved bNED 
survival in patients with undetectable PSA levels after radical prostatectomy. 
The effect on clinical outcome awaits additional follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.02.004
PMID: 15245941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Urology. 2004 Jul;64(1):148-51. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.02.035.

Preservation of accessory pudendal arteries during radical retropubic 
prostatectomy: surgical technique and results.

Rogers CG(1), Trock BP, Walsh PC.

Author information:
(1)James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21287, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Our institution previously described a surgical technique for 
preservation of accessory pudendal arteries at radical retropubic prostatectomy. 
Since then, we have expanded our experience. We now report our refinements in 
the surgical technique, illustrated with video, and the influence of accessory 
artery preservation on the recovery of sexual function after radical retropubic 
prostatectomy (RRP).
TECHNICAL CONSIDERATIONS: Between 1987 and 2003, 2399 potent men underwent RRP. 
Of the 2399 men, 84 (4%) were identified with accessory pudendal arteries. Of 
the 84 men, 52, who underwent bilateral nerve-sparing surgery, were available 
for evaluation. We identified a control population, without accessory pudendal 
arteries, who were matched for age, stage, and neurovascular bundle status. 
Potency was defined as the ability to achieve unassisted intercourse with or 
without the use of sildenafil. In a Cox proportional hazards model, the effect 
of artery preservation increased the likelihood of potency more than twofold 
(relative risk 2.65; 95% confidence interval 1.11 to 6.32; P = 0.028). 
Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a significantly shorter median time to regain 
potency among those with artery preservation, 6 versus 12 months (P = 0.020).
CONCLUSIONS: Preservation of accessory pudendal arteries may favorably influence 
the recovery of sexual function and interval to recovery after RRP.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.02.035
PMID: 15245954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Urology. 2004 Jul;64(1):176-81. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.015.

Positive correlation between allelic loss at chromosome 14q24-31 and poor 
prognosis of patients with renal cell carcinoma.

Kaku H(1), Ito S, Ebara S, Ouchida M, Nasu Y, Tsushima T, Kumon H, Shimizu K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Okayama University Graduate School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Okayama, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To report our development of a new application of the inter-Alu long 
