OBJECTIVE: Recurrencies of lymphatic metastasis implies a poor prognosis in 
patients with head and neck carcinoma. The aim of our study is to analyse the 
results of salvage treatment after an isolated regional tumour recurrence.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Retrospective study of 144 patients with head and neck 
carcinoma with an isolated neck recurrence. The treatments used, regional 
control and patient's survival were analysed.
RESULTS: Sixty-four percent (92/144) of patients were not candidates to salvage 
treatment with radical intention. Salvage surgery was performed in 36% (52/144) 
of patients, with a survival of 46% in this group of patients. Previous 
treatment of the neck was the most relevant variable to decide a salvage 
surgery. Patients treated initially with neck dissection had the worst 
prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The existence of a regional recurrence has a bad prognosis, with 
16% 5-year survival. Only 36% of patients were considered candidates to salvage 
treatment, achieving 46% of survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-6519(03)78471-4
PMID: 15164711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Ageing Res Rev. 2004 Jan;3(1):31-54. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2003.07.001.

HIV infection and advanced age emerging epidemiological, clinical, and 
management issues.

Manfredi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Division of Infectious 
Diseases, University of Bologna "Alma Mater Studiorum", Azienda Ospedaliera di 
Bologna, S. Orsola Hospital, Policlinico S. Orsola-Malpighi, Bologna, Italy. 
manfredi@med.unibo.it

While the mean age of HIV/AIDS patients at first diagnosis is progressively 
rising, no updated epidemiological estimates, controlled clinical data, and 
randomized therapeutic trials, are available regarding clinical and laboratory 
response to antiretroviral therapy, safety of anti-HIV compounds and their 
associations, potential drug-drug interactions, short- and long-term toxicity, 
consequences on underlying disorders, or interactions with concomitant 
pharmacological regimens, in the elderly. The life expectancy of HIV-infected 
persons treated with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) now 
approximates that of general population matched for age, while also AIDS 
definition itself has lost most of its epidemiological and clinical 
significance, thanks to the immunoreconstitution resulting from the large-scale 
use of potent HAART regimens. The increased survival of HIV-infected patients, 
the late recognition of other subjects with missed or delayed diagnosis are 
responsible for a further expected rise of mean age of HIV-infected individuals, 
so that the patient population aged 60-70 years or more is expected to increase 
in coming years. Unfortunately, the majority of therapeutic trials involving 
antiretroviral therapy, as well as antimicrobial chemoprophylaxis for 
AIDS-related opportunistic complications, have advanced age and/or concurrent 
end-organ disorders among main exclusion criteria, or the design of these 
studies does not allow to extrapolate data regarding older patients, compared 
with younger ones. The very limited data presently available seem to demonstrate 
that HAART has a virological efficacy in the elderly comparable with that of 
younger adults, but immunological recovery is often slower and blunted, although 
several studies clearly demonstrated that thymic function is preserved until 
late adult age. When facing an HIV-infected patient with advanced age, health 
care givers have to pay careful attention to eventual end-organ disorders, all 
possible pharmacological interactions, overlapping toxicity due to concurrent 
drug administration. All these issues may significantly interfere with HAART 
activity, patient's adherence to prescribed medications, and frequency and 
severity of untoward effects. The guidelines of antiretroviral therapy and those 
of treatment and prophylaxis of AIDS-related diseases deserve appropriate 
updates, paralleling the increasing mean age of HIV-infected population. 
Moreover, epidemiological figures need an increased focus on older age, while 
clinical trials specifically targeting on the elderly population are mandatory 
to have reliable data on all aspects of HAART administration in advanced age.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2003.07.001
PMID: 15164725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Value Health. 2004 Mar-Apr;7(2):153-67. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.72318.x.

A computer simulation model of the natural history and economic impact of 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Borg S(1), Ericsson A, Wedzicha J, Gulsvik A, Lundbäck B, Donaldson GC, Sullivan 
SD.

Author information:
(1)AstraZeneca R&D, Lund, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major health 
problem with high societal costs. The Global Initiative for Chronic Lung Disease 
(GOLD) has identified a need for health economics data for COPD. For chronic 
diseases, such as COPD, where the natural history of disease is lifetime, a 
modeling approach for economic evaluation may be more realistic than 
prospective, piggy-backed clinical trials or specific COPD cohort studies. 
Simulation models can be used to extrapolate clinical data beyond the limited 
time frame of clinical trials, to analyze subgroups of patients or to explore 
uncertainty regarding the results by using sensitivity analysis techniques. Our 
purpose has been to develop a flexible computer simulation model for COPD that 
will represent disease progression and GOLD recommendations, useful for economic 
evaluations of new medicines to meet the needs of various payer requirements for 
reimbursement and resource allocation.
METHODS: This article describes a two-dimensional Markov model, which uses data 
from multiple sources about disease progression, exacerbation frequency and 
duration, mortality, costs, burden of illness, and the relationships between 
those variables. The model is evaluated using stochastic uncertainty analysis, 
it allows comparison of treatments affecting different disease mechanisms, and 
it uses primary data validated against published sources.
RESULTS: We have evaluated two hypothetical interventions treating different 
features of the disease (lung function decline and acute exacerbations). These 
analyses show that reducing lung function decline must be a long-term strategy 
compared to reducing the number of exacerbations. It was necessary to have a 
long term like 30 years, with 10,000 patients and 20% increase in price, or 20 
years with equal prices to show cost-effectiveness with statistical significance 
for a treatment that reduces lung function decline.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows the value of modeling as a tool for evaluating 
different scenarios and for combining several sources of data, to provide 
estimates that would otherwise be unavailable. Clinical trials of this size and 
duration would be unrealistic.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.72318.x
PMID: 15164805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Acta Orthop Belg. 2004 Apr;70(2):107-11.

Relative rates and features of musculoskeletal complications in adult sicklers.

Bahebeck J(1), Atangana R, Techa A, Monny-Lobe M, Sosso M, Hoffmeyer P.

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals of Yaoundé, Cameroun. jbahebeck@yahoo.fr

The purpose of this study was to prospectively look for the relative rates and 
features of musculoskeletal complications in a sample of adult homozygous SS 
sicklers in Yaoundé. During a 3-year period, known homozygous SS sicklers aged 
sixteen years or more, with suspicion or evidence of locomotor system disease, 
including leg ulcer, were consecutively investigated through complete medical 
history, clinical examination, full blood count, C-reactive protein, standard 
radiographs of the area of complaint, and, when necessary, CT scan and pus 
analysis. Those patients with no definite diagnosis were excluded. The study 
group comprised 84 patients aged 16 to 51 years (mean age: 22 years), with a 
male/female ratio of 0.75. Four of them (4.5%) were older than 40 years. Thirty 
five (41.6%) presented a total of 50 lesions of aseptic osteonecrosis, which 
were located in the hips in 25 cases (50%), in the lumbar spine in 20 cases 
(40%), in the humeral head in four cases (10%) and in the talar body in one 
case. The hip necrosis was grade I in 6 cases, grade II in four, grade III in 11 
and terminal in four. Multiple sites of necrosis were observed in six patients. 
Nineteen (22.6%) of the sicklers came on with 36 malleolar ulcers, more 
frequently in males (sex ratio: 5/1) and 28 (78%) located on the medial side. 
Fifteen sites of osteomyelitis were noted in 14 patients (17.8%) and septic 
arthritis in six (7%). Less frequent complications were impingement syndrome, 
gout osteoarthropathy, stress fracture, subtalar fusion, knee osteoarthritis, 
tendonitis of the anterior tibialis, and recurrent dislocation of the patella. 
All patients were managed conventionally, except for advanced aseptic necrosis 
in which the indication for arthroplasty was delayed till the terminal stage. As 
suggested by another recent report from Senegal, efforts should be made to 
improve the life expectancy of sicklers in Sub-Saharan African countries, by 
acting on education, social and medical care. Orthopaedic surgery should focus 
on reducing the failure rate of joint replacement in terminal stages of 
osteonecrosis and designing core decompression trials in early stages.

PMID: 15165010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. J Biomech. 2004 Jul;37(7):1061-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2003.11.018.

Simulated influence of osteoporosis and disc degeneration on the load transfer 
in a lumbar functional spinal unit.

Polikeit A(1), Nolte LP, Ferguson SJ.

Author information:
(1)M.E. Müller Research Center for Orthopaedic Surgery, M.E. Müller Institute 
for Surgical Technology and Biomechanics, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland. 
anne.polikeit@memcenter.unibe.ch

As life expectancy increases, age-related disorders and the search for related 
medical care will expand. Osteoporosis is the most frequent skeletal disease in 
this context with the highest fracture risk existing for vertebrae. The aging 
process is accompanied by systemic changes, with the earliest degeneration 
occurring in the intervertebral discs. The influence of various degrees of disc 
degeneration on the load transfer was examined using the finite element method. 
The effect of different possible alterations of the bone quality due to 
osteoporosis was simulated by adjusting the corresponding material properties 
and their distribution and several loadings were applied. An alteration of the 
load transfer, characterised by changed compression stiffness and strain 
distributions as well as magnitudes, due to osteoporotic bone and degenerated 
discs was found. When osteoporosis was simulated, the stiffness was 
substantially decreased, larger areas of the cancellous bone were subjected to 
higher strains and strain maxima were increased. Increasing ratios of transverse 
isotropy in the osteoporotic bone yielded smaller effects than reduced bone 
properties. Including a degenerated disc mainly altered the strain distribution. 
Combining osteoporosis and degenerated discs reduced the areas of cancellous 
bone subjected to substantial strain. Based on these results, it can be 
concluded that the definition of a healthy disc in osteoporotic spines might be 
considered as a worst-case scenario. One attempt to evaluate the progress of 
osteoporosis can be made by introducing increasing degrees of anisotropy. If 
several parameters in a model are changed to simulate degeneration, it should be 
pointed out how each individual definition influences the overall result.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2003.11.018
PMID: 15165876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. J Biol Chem. 2004 Jul 23;279(30):31983-9. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M404849200. Epub
2004  May 27.

Oxidative damage to specific proteins in replicative and chronological-aged 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae: common targets and prevention by calorie restriction.

Reverter-Branchat G(1), Cabiscol E, Tamarit J, Ros J.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Ciències Mèdiques Bàsiques, Facultat de Medicina, Universitat 
de Lleida, 25008 Lleida, Spain.

Oxidative modifications of cellular components have been described as one of the 
main contributions to aged phenotype. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, two distinct 
life spans can be considered, replicative and chronological. The relationship 
between both aging models is still not clear despite suggestions that these 
phenomena may be related. In this work, we show that replicative and 
chronological-aged yeast cells are affected by an oxidative stress situation 
demonstrated by increased protein carbonylation when compared with young cells. 
The data on the identification of these oxidatively modified proteins gives 
clues to better understand cellular dysfunction that occurs during aging. 
Strikingly, although in both aging models metabolic differences are important, 
major targets are almost the same. Common targets include stress resistance 
proteins (Hsp60 and Hsp70) and enzymes involved in glucose metabolism such as 
enolase, glyceraldehydes-3-P dehydrogenase, fructose-1,6-biphosphate aldolase, 
pyruvate decarboxylase, and alcohol dehydrogenase. In both aging models, calorie 
restriction results in decreased damage to these proteins. In addition, 
chronological-aged cells grown under glucose restriction displayed lowered 
levels of lipid peroxidation product lipofuscin. Intracellular iron 
concentration is kept almost unchanged, whereas in non-restricted cells, the 
values increase up 4-5 times. The pro-oxidant effects of such increased iron 
concentration would account for the damage observed. Also, calorie-restricted 
cells show undamaged catalase, which clearly appears carbonylated in cells grown 
at a high glucose concentration. These results may explain lengthening of the 
viability of chronological-aged cells and could have an important role in 
replicative life span extension by calorie restriction.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M404849200
PMID: 15166233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2004 Jun;16(6):519-26. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-200406000-00003.

Cost-effectiveness analysis and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios: uses and 
pitfalls.

Bambha K(1), Kim WR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

Cost-effectiveness analysis is a formal method of comparing alternative medical 
interventions with regard to their resource utilization (costs) and outcomes 
(effectiveness). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is an informative 
measure generated from such an analysis and represents the ratio of the 
difference in cost between two medical interventions to the difference in 
outcomes between the two interventions. Thus, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio summarizes the additional cost per unit of health benefit gained in 
switching from one medical intervention to another. Although incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios have limitations, when used in the proper context, 
these ratios serve as one of the important tools needed to help guide decisions 
about allocating scarce resources across competing medical programmes.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-200406000-00003
PMID: 15167152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2004 Jun;16(6):527-34. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-200406000-00004.

Cost-utility and cost-benefit analyses: how did we get here and where are we 
going?

Moayyedi P(1), Mason J.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Division, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; 
and Centre for Health Services Research, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. 
maoyyep@mcmaster.ca

Cost-utility and cost-benefit analyses are currently the only tools available 
for evaluating whether the cost of an intervention is a good use of resources 
when compared with other ways that money could be spent on health care 
(allocative efficiency). Cost-utility analyses assess health in terms of length 
and quality of life using the quality adjusted life year whilst cost-benefit 
analyses measure health in monetary terms. The measurement of health gain with 
either approach has a number of problems and the accuracy of these measures is 
uncertain. Cost-benefit analysis has certain advantages when measuring 
improvements in mild diseases such as irritable bowel disease and dyspepsia, 
which are common problems in gastroenterology. The results of cost-benefit 
analysis may provide more transparent guidance for policy makers, doctors and 
patients.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-200406000-00004
PMID: 15167153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2004 Jun;16(6):567-70. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-200406000-00009.

Nitric oxide and renal function in cirrhotic patients with ascites: from 
physiopathology to practice.

Grangé JD(1), Amiot X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Hôpital Tenon, Paris, France. 
jean-didier.grange@tnn.ap-hop-paris.fr

Patients with cirrhosis and ascites show systemic and splanchnic arterial 
vasodilation, which causes a reduction in effective arterial blood volume and 
the activation of hormonal anti-natriuretic systems. Renal impairment is the 
most important predictor of hospital mortality in cirrhotic patients with SBP. 
In patients with SBP, the inflammatory response to the infection (TNF-alpha, 
IL-6) may be an important mechanism of renal dysfunction. Ascitic-fluid NO 
metabolites are related independently to the development of renal impairment. 
Treatment of SBP with intravenous albumin in addition to cefotaxime prevents 
renal impairment and reduces mortality in comparison with treatment with 
cefotaxime alone. As soon as ascites develops, liver transplantation should be 
considered in eligible patients, especially when local mean waiting times exceed 
life expectancy. Nitric oxide (NO), tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and 
interleukin-6 (IL-6) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of circulatory 
alterations observed in cirrhotic patients with ascites. Kidney failure is one 
of the main factors associated with mortality in patients with end-stage liver 
disease developing complications, particularly severe infections and variceal 
haemorrhage. Renal impairment occurs in patients with the highest concentration 
of cytokines in plasma and ascitic fluid and is associated with marked 
activation of the renin-angiotensin system. In patients with spontaneous 
bacterial peritonitis (SBP), serum and ascitic fluid levels of NO metabolites 
(nitrites and nitrates) were higher than those of patients with sterile ascites, 
and renal impairment is considered to be caused by a decrease in effective 
arterial blood volume as a result of the infection. The administration of 
albumin prevents deterioration of renal function and reduces mortality in these 
patients. However, SBP and renal dysfunction are late complications in the 
course of liver cirrhosis. As soon as ascites develops, liver transplantation 
should be considered in eligible patients, especially when local mean waiting 
times exceed life expectancy. A better knowledge of metabolic disorders 
associated with the early stage of cirrhosis is essential for the development of 
optimal therapeutic strategies for the prophylaxis and treatment of portal 
hypertension and its complications.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-200406000-00009
PMID: 15167158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2004 Jun;13(3):219-30. doi: 
10.1097/01.cej.0000130011.99148.07.

The traditional diet of Greece and cancer.

Simopoulos AP(1).

Author information:
(1)The Center for Genetics, Nutrition and Health, 2001 S Street, N.W., Suite 
530, Washington, DC 20009, USA. cgnh@bellatlantic.net

The term 'Mediterranean diet', implying that all Mediterranean people have the 
same diet, is a misnomer. The countries around the Mediterranean basin have 
different diets, religions and cultures. Their diets differ in the amount of 
total fat, olive oil, type of meat, wine, milk, cheese, fruits and vegetables; 
and the rates of coronary heart disease and cancer, with the lower death rates 
and longer life expectancy occurring in Greece. The diet of Crete represents the 
traditional diet of Greece prior to 1960. Analyses of the dietary pattern of the 
diet of Crete shows a number of protective substances, such as selenium, 
glutathione, a balanced ratio of n-6/n-3 essential fatty acids (EFA), high 
amounts of fibre, antioxidants (especially resveratrol from wine and polyphenols 
from olive oil), vitamins E and C, some of which have been shown to be 
associated with lower risk of cancer, including cancer of the breast. 
Epidemiological studies and animal experiments indicate that n-3 fatty acids 
exert protective effects against some common cancers, especially cancers of the 
breast, colon and prostate. Many mechanisms are involved, including suppression 
of neoplastic transformation, cell growth inhibition, and enhanced apoptosis and 
anti-angiogenicity, through the inhibition of eicosanoid production from n-6 
fatty acids; and suppression of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), interleukin 1 (IL-1) 
and IL-6 gene expression by n-3 fatty acids. Recent intervention studies in 
breast cancer patients indicate that n-3 fatty acids, and docosahexaenoic acid 
(DHA) in particular, increase the response to chemopreventive agents. In 
patients with colorectal cancer, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and DHA decrease 
cell proliferation, and modulate favourably the balance between colonic cell 
proliferation and apoptosis. These findings should serve as a strong incentive 
for the initiation of intervention trials that will test the effect of specific 
dietary patterns in the prevention and management of patients with cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/01.cej.0000130011.99148.07
PMID: 15167223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Menopause. 2004 May-Jun;11(3):343-55. doi:
10.1097/01.gme.0000097742.96468.68.

A cost-effectiveness evaluation of two continuous-combined hormone therapies for 
the management of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms.

Botteman MF(1), Shah NP, Lian J, Pashos CL, Simon JA.

Author information:
(1)Abt Associates Inc., Bethesda, MD, USA; Pfizer Inc., New York, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVES: After the release of the results of the Women's Health Initiative, 
an emerging consensus suggests that continuous-combined hormone therapy (CCHT) 
should be limited to short-term management of moderate-to-severe vasomotor 
symptoms. This, in turn, raises the important question of the economic value, if 
any, of short-term CCHT for this indication. We conducted a cost-effectiveness 
analysis comparing a 1-year treatment course with 1 mg of norethindrone 
acetate/5 microg of ethinyl estradiol (1/5 NA/EE) or 0.625 mg/day of conjugated 
estrogens plus 2.5 mg of medroxyprogesterone (0.625/2.5 CEE/MPA) compared with 
no therapy for the management of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms.
DESIGN: A literature-based Markov model was developed to compare these three 
options' cost and quality-of-life (QOL) benefits. The impact of therapy on 
vasomotor symptoms and breakthrough bleeding/spotting on the direct costs of 
care and QOL were considered.
RESULTS: Compared with no therapy, CCHTs resulted in net increases in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained (0.110 for 1/5 NA/NE v 0.104 for 
0.625/2.5 CEE/MPA). Net costs (v no therapy) were $167 lower for 1/5 NA/NE 
compared with 0.625/2.5 CEE/MPA. Cost per QALY gained (compared with no therapy) 
were $6,200 and $8,200, respectively. Cost-effectiveness was most favorable for 
individuals with more severe symptoms who were less bothered by breakthrough 
bleeding/spotting.
CONCLUSIONS: A short-term course of CCHT for the sole purpose of managing 
moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms is cost-effective. However, 1/5 NA/NE 
seemed to be more cost-effective than 0.625/2.5 CEE/MPA. These findings can be 
used to further refine the role of CCHT and to improve formulary decisions.

DOI: 10.1097/01.gme.0000097742.96468.68
PMID: 15167315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Am J Psychiatry. 2004 Jun;161(6):1030-7. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.161.6.1030.

Prospective study of neurological abnormalities in offspring of women with 
psychosis: birth to adulthood.

Schubert EW(1), McNeil TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatric Epidemiology, University Hospital, Lund University, 
Lund, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: The authors prospectively investigated neurological abnormalities in 
75 young adult offspring of mothers with psychotic disorders and 91 offspring of 
comparison mothers with no psychosis history. They also studied the stability of 
these abnormalities from birth to adulthood.
METHOD: Neurological abnormalities were previously studied in infancy and at 6 
years of age. In this study, they were blindly assessed with a comprehensive 
neurological assessment scale at a mean age of 22.4 years in a 93.3% effective 
follow-up of the sample.
RESULTS: In relation to the comparison subjects (N=88) and offspring of mothers 
with affective psychosis (N=22), the adult offspring of mothers with 
schizophrenia (N=28) had significantly more neurological abnormalities. More 
soft signs, primitive reflexes, involuntary movements, and cranial nerve 
abnormalities characterized a subgroup (32%) among these offspring. The 
offspring of mothers with affective psychosis were not different from comparison 
subjects. The extension of schizophrenia and affective psychosis risk groups to 
include additional maternal "spectrum cases" (N=10 and N=14, respectively) 
generally yielded similar results. Neurological abnormalities at 22 years were 
significantly associated with neurological abnormalities at age 6, but not in 
infancy, among the total high-risk group, offspring of mothers with 
schizophrenia, and comparison offspring.
CONCLUSIONS: High levels of neurological abnormalities are found in a 
substantial proportion of offspring of mothers with schizophrenia but not 
offspring of mothers with affective psychosis. This suggests that familial risk 
for schizophrenia is associated with neurodevelopmental disturbance that is 
manifest throughout life and belongs to a different biological continuum from 
that of affective psychosis.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.161.6.1030
PMID: 15169691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Gac Sanit. 2004 May;18 Suppl 1:8-15. doi: 10.1157/13062245.

[Keys to demographic changes in the new millennium].

[Article in Spanish]

Solsona M(1), Viciana F.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Geografia, Centre d'Estudis Demogràfics, Universitat Autònoma 
de Barcelona, Cerdanyola, Barcelona, Spain. msolsona@ceb.uab.es

This article describes the main features of the dynamics of demographic change 
in the population of Spain during the twentieth century, emphasizing the most 
recent developments: population ageing, the establishment of a very low 
fertility regime and the increasing importance of foreign immigration as well as 
the impact which all these have on the composition of households. Those aspects 
most directly related to the provision of health and social services is 
discussed, such as the impact of increased life expectancy on the incidence of 
illness and handicap in the population, the role of foreign immigration in 
providing personal services within the family and the health implications of the 
new model of delayed fertility. Finally, the health implications of population 
projections for the next 50 years are discussed.

DOI: 10.1157/13062245
PMID: 15171852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2004 Jul 5;806(2):177-83.
doi:  10.1016/j.jchromb.2004.03.058.

High-throughput liquid chromatography for drug analysis in biological fluids: 
investigation of extraction column life.

Zeng W(1), Fisher AL, Musson DG, Wang AQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Drug Metabolism, Merck Research Laboratories, Merck & Co Inc, 
PO Box 4, West Point, PA 19486-0004, USA. wei_zeng@merck.com

A novel method was developed and assessed to extend the lifetime of extraction 
columns of high-throughput liquid chromatography (HTLC) for bioanalysis of human 
plasma samples. In this method, a 15% acetic acid solution and 90% THF were 
respectively used as mobile phases to clean up the proteins in human plasma 
samples and residual lipids from the extraction and analytical columns. The 15% 
acetic acid solution weakens the interactions between proteins and the 
stationary phase of the extraction column and increases the protein solubility 
in the mobile phase. The 90% THF mobile phase prevents the accumulation of 
lipids and thus reduces the potential damage on the columns. Using this novel 
method, the extraction column lifetime has been extended to about 2000 direct 
plasma injections, and this is the first time that high concentration acetic 
acid and THF are used in HTLC for on-line cleanup and extraction column lifetime 
extension.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2004.03.058
PMID: 15171927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Radiother Oncol. 2004 Jun;71(3):275-80. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2004.03.009.

Short course palliative radiotherapy of 20 Gy in 5 fractions for advanced and 
incurable head and neck cancer: AIIMS study.

Mohanti BK(1), Umapathy H, Bahadur S, Thakar A, Pathy S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Institute Rotary Cancer Hospital (IRCH), 
All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Ansari Nagar, New Delhi 110029, 
India.

Comment in
    Radiother Oncol. 2005 Jan;74(1):75; author reply 75-6.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: A proportion of advanced stage head and neck cancer 
patients are incurable and have a limited life expectancy of 100 days or less. 
The study aimed to offer a short course of palliative radiotherapy (PRT) and 
evaluate the symptom relief, disease response and duration of survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1995 and 2001, 505 patients of stage IV squamous 
cell carcinoma received uniform dose of 20 Gy in 5 fractions over 1 week along 
with symptom relief drugs. Incurable status and decision for palliation was made 
conjointly. Distressing symptoms were assessed before PRT. Patients showing more 
than 50% objective regression (PR) at tumor and nodal sites received further RT 
(FRT) up to 70 Gy.
RESULTS: The overall PR rate was 37% (189 patients), but 153 (30%) completed 
FRT, and rest 352 were followed up after PRT only. None of the patients died due 
to radiation toxicity, and the radiation morbidities were confined to dry 
desquamation and patchy mucositis, which healed over 1 month. Symptom relief for 
pain, dysphagia, hoarseness, cough and otalgia was obtained in 47%-59% of the 
patients following PRT. The overall survival ranged from 34 days to 2065 days 
and median survival to PRT and FRT were 200 days and 400 days, respectively. 
Only 10% were disease-free after FRT.
CONCLUSIONS: Unfavourable advanced stage head and neck cancer can be identified 
for a suitable short course of palliative radiotherapy which will achieve growth 
restraint and symptom relief in sizeable proportions for an approximate period 
of 7 months.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2004.03.009
PMID: 15172142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Ann Intern Med. 2004 Jun 1;140(11):972-7. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-140-11-200406010-00039.

Application of economic analysis to diabetes and diabetes care.

Zhang P(1), Engelgau MM, Norris SL, Gregg EW, Narayan KM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes Translation, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30341, USA. paz2@cdc.gov

Facing limited resources and increases in demand from competing programs, 
policymakers and health care providers seek guidance from economic studies on 
how to use health care resources wisely. Previous economic studies mainly 
focused on estimating the cost of diabetes and cost-effectiveness of different 
interventions. These studies found that diabetes is costly and that its cost 
will continue to increase; thus, more resources should be devoted to research 
aimed at finding effective means to prevent the disease and its complications. 
In addition, the cost-effectiveness of interventions varies greatly in terms of 
quality-adjusted life-years gained; therefore, efficient uses of resources 
should be an important consideration when interventions are prioritized. The 
need for economic studies will continue to grow because of increasing demand for 
limited resources from the growing number of interventions available. Future 
studies should be of better quality and broadened in areas of research.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-140-11-200406010-00039
PMID: 15172923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Genetika. 2004 Apr;40(4):482-9.

[Mutation of Indy(p115) increases the life expectancy of imago of Drosophila 
melanogaster depending on sex and genetic background].

[Article in Russian]

Bulgakova NA(1), Trunova SA, Omel'ianchuk LV.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Division, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Novosibirsk, 630090 Russia.

The Indyp115 allele in heterozygous state almost doubles the life span of adult 
Drosophila melanogaster, and this effect largely depends on the strain used for 
obtaining heterozygotes. Male and female life span depends on Indyp115 to a 
different degree. Apart from Indyp115 heterozygotes, sexual dimorphism for life 
span was also observed in strain Hikone-AW, but not in OregonR and TM3 balancer. 
In heterozygotes Indyp115/OR, both the average life span and female reproductive 
period increased as compared to OR control. No substantial increase in female 
reproductive period in Indyp115/Hk heterozygotes was found. In homozygotes for 
allele Indyp115, we have previously revealed two phases of embryotic lethality 
and lethality at the larval and pupa stages. Thus, allele Indyp115 has a double 
and opposite effect on Drosophila viability. On the one hand, it extends the 
life span of adult flies, on the other, decreases survival at preimaginal 
stages.

PMID: 15174281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Nature. 2004 Jun 3;429(6991):562-6. doi: 10.1038/nature02549.

Drosophila dFOXO controls lifespan and regulates insulin signalling in brain and 
fat body.

Hwangbo DS(1), Gershman B, Tu MP, Palmer M, Tatar M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology and Medicine, Box G-W, Brown University, Providence, 
Rhode Island 02912, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2005 Mar 3;434(7029):118. Gersham, Boris [corrected to Gershman, 
Boris].

In Drosophila melanogaster, ageing is slowed when insulin-like signalling is 
reduced: life expectancy is extended by more than 50% when the insulin-like 
receptor (InR) or its receptor substrate (chico) are mutated, or when 
insulin-producing cells are ablated. But we have yet to resolve when insulin 
affects ageing, or whether insulin signals regulate ageing directly or 
indirectly through secondary hormones. Caenorhabditis elegans lifespan is also 
extended when insulin signalling is inhibited in certain tissues, or when 
repressed in adult worms, and this requires the forkhead transcription factor 
(FOXO) encoded by daf-16 (ref. 6). The D. melanogaster insulin-like receptor 
mediates phosphorylation of dFOXO, the equivalent of nematode daf-16 and 
mammalian FOXO3a. We demonstrate here that dFOXO regulates D. melanogaster 
ageing when activated in the adult pericerebral fat body. We further show that 
this limited activation of dFOXO reduces expression of the Drosophila 
insulin-like peptide dilp-2 synthesized in neurons, and represses endogenous 
insulin-dependent signalling in peripheral fat body. These findings suggest that 
autonomous and non-autonomous roles of insulin signalling combine to control 
ageing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature02549
PMID: 15175753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Nature. 2004 Jun 17;429(6993):771-6. doi: 10.1038/nature02583. Epub 2004 Jun
2.

Sirt1 promotes fat mobilization in white adipocytes by repressing PPAR-gamma.

Picard F(1), Kurtev M, Chung N, Topark-Ngarm A, Senawong T, Machado De Oliveira 
R, Leid M, McBurney MW, Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2004 Aug 19;430(7002):921.

Calorie restriction extends lifespan in organisms ranging from yeast to mammals. 
In yeast, the SIR2 gene mediates the life-extending effects of calorie 
restriction. Here we show that the mammalian SIR2 orthologue, Sirt1 (sirtuin 1), 
activates a critical component of calorie restriction in mammals; that is, fat 
mobilization in white adipocytes. Upon food withdrawal Sirt1 protein binds to 
and represses genes controlled by the fat regulator PPAR-gamma (peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor-gamma), including genes mediating fat storage. 
Sirt1 represses PPAR-gamma by docking with its cofactors NCoR (nuclear receptor 
co-repressor) and SMRT (silencing mediator of retinoid and thyroid hormone 
receptors). Mobilization of fatty acids from white adipocytes upon fasting is 
compromised in Sirt1+/- mice. Repression of PPAR-gamma by Sirt1 is also evident 
in 3T3-L1 adipocytes, where overexpression of Sirt1 attenuates adipogenesis, and 
RNA interference of Sirt1 enhances it. In differentiated fat cells, upregulation 
of Sirt1 triggers lipolysis and loss of fat. As a reduction in fat is sufficient 
to extend murine lifespan, our results provide a possible molecular pathway 
connecting calorie restriction to life extension in mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature02583
PMCID: PMC2820247
PMID: 15175761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Ann Vasc Surg. 2004 Jul;18(4):401-7. doi: 10.1007/s10016-004-0047-0.

Endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in the octogenarian.

Brinkman WT(1), Terramani TT, Najibi S, Weiss VJ, Salam AA, Dodson TF, Smith RB, 
Chaikof EL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA 30322, USA.

The aim of this study was to analyze patient outcomes following endovascular 
repair of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms (EAR) among patients 80 years of 
age or older. In this study, reporting standards of the Ad Hoc Committee for 
Standardized Reporting Practices for Endovascular Aortic Aneurysm Repair of the 
Society of Vascular Surgery/American Association for Vascular Surgery (SVS/AAVS) 
were followed. Between August 8, 1996 and February 12, 2001 EAR was performed in 
31 patients (29 male and 2 female) with an average age of 83 +/- 3 years and an 
average maximum aneurysm diameter of 59 +/- 7 mm. Overall technical success was 
90% (28/31) with a single acute conversion and a 6% (2/32) incidence of major 
morbidity. There were no in-hospital deaths, but two patients (6%) died within 
30 days of intervention. Four endoleaks, two type I and two type II, were 
observed within the first 30 days after endograft implantation and three new 
type II endoleaks were noted after implant periods that exceeded 1 month. 
Average follow-up was 16 months, with a single aneurysm-related death that 
occurred after late conversion to open repair, 2 years following initial 
endovascular treatment. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed 3-, 12-, and 24-month 
estimated survivals of 93% (+/-5), 75% (+/-8), and 68% (+/-10), respectively. 
Clinical success rates were 90% (+/-5), 90% (+/-5), and 72% (+/-17) at 12, 24, 
and 36 months, respectively. We conclude that, in the octogenarian with mild to 
moderate medical comorbidities, endovascular aneurysm repair provides an 
alternative to open AAA repair with low operative morbidity and good clinical 
success rates. Elevated SVS/AAVS medical comorbidity scores were not associated 
with increased operative mortality rates, but they did show a trend toward 
decreased mid-term survival. Careful consideration of life expectancy and the 
probability of rupture, as with traditional AAA repair, should dictate necessity 
for intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-004-0047-0
PMID: 15175935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Winter;20(1):67-70. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304000807.

Health technology assessment and policy from the economic perspective.

Rutten F(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam.

This article comments on the four country papers in this volume from an economic 
perspective. Different phases of the decision-making process, which can be 
supported by Health Technology Assessment (HTA), are considered. For each of 
these, there is large cross-country variation in the way in which HTA influences 
policy. Furthermore, economic themes regarding the relevance of HTA evidence for 
policy making, the position of cost-effectiveness in relation to other criteria 
vis-à-vis reimbursement decisions, the use of a cost per quality-adjusted life 
year threshold, and the incorporation of economic considerations in practice 
guidelines are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304000807
PMID: 15176179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Vopr Onkol. 2004;50(2):127-44.

[Cancer and demographic transition].

[Article in Russian]

Napalkov NP.

Two phenomena, one of which relates to the area of human reproduction and the 
other to the frequency, distribution, and control of disease in a population 
have emerged in the previous century and continue intensively to develop 
nowadays. Both these phenomena are directly related to the changes which are 
occurring in the incidence and prevalence of malignant tumours, as well as to 
mortality from them and to the opportunities for cancer control. The first of 
these phenomena has been denominated as the demographic, and the second as the 
epidemiological transition. The commonly accepted definition of the demographic 
transition is currently applied to designate a sustainable change in the type of 
population reproduction, when an initial and abrupt acceleration of population 
growth is replaced by its rapid deceleration with a subsequent stabilization of 
a population and a sharp change in its age structure. Demographic transition 
develops in a brief historical space of time and has the character of a global 
process. Population ageing and disequilibrium between the younger and older 
generations are the most important consequences of the demographic transition, 
and must inevitably influence the strategy and implementation of national cancer 
control programs. As life expectancy increases, so does the certainty that 
people will become more and more prone to diseases that are more common among 
older age groups, i.e. noncommunicable diseases and cancer in particular, rather 
than being affected by epidemics of infectious diseases. This situation is known 
as the epidemiological transition and reflects spectacular shifts in the pattern 
and causes of death and morbidity that have taken place in the vast majority of 
countries over the previous century. Epidemiological transition results in 
accession by poor countries to the problems of the rich, and leads to the 
"double burden" of disease in countries whose economies are undergoing 
transition, because of the still continuing burden of endemic infectious 
diseases. Russia is entering the final stages both of the demographic and the 
epidemiological transition, a period when numerous reasons, increasing demands 
on the systems of social protection and public health are inevitable. During the 
years 1992 to 2001, cancer incidence increased from 271.8 up to 313.9 per 
100,000 population, i.e. a growth of over 16% and an annual rate of growth of 
1.7%. According to the global estimates provided by the International Agency for 
Research on Cancer the number of new cancer cases in the year 2000 exceeded 10 
million, and the number of deaths from cancer reached 6.2 million. The annual 
growth rate of global cancer incidence during the last 25-30 years was higher 
than the global population growth rate. Analysis of data available from 
population based cancer registries in Russia and abroad confirms the conclusion 
that cancer is mainly the fate of people belonging to the older age groups. 
Given the levels of exposure to specific carcinogens and genetic predisposition 
factors, the incidence of cancer should be considered as an exponential function 
of age. The unfeasibility of attempts to change, in the foreseeable future, the 
rate and trend of demographic transition and demographic ageing, in particular, 
is obvious. It would therefore be more feasible to envisage their probable 
consequences and to adapt the limited resources of national health and social 
support services to the needs of cancer control, which will significantly 
increase in the near future.

PMID: 15176213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Exp Appl Acarol. 2004;32(4):231-42. doi: 10.1023/b:appa.0000023237.70549.20.

Demography of the cereal rust mite Abacarus hystrix (Acari: Eriophyoidea) on 
quack grass.

Skoracka A(1), Kuczyński L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Taxonomy and Ecology, Institute of Environmental 
Biology, Adam Mickiewicz University, Szamarzewskiego 91 A, 60-569 Poznań, 
Poland. skoracka@amu.edu.pl

Demography parameters of the cereal rust mite Abacarus hystrix (Nalepa) on quack 
grass were studied to investigate its potential capacity of population increase 
in conditions of initially low density. The experiment was maintained under 
laboratory conditions at a constant temperature of 19.5-20.5 degrees C and 94 
+/- 1% RH. Life-history data were used to calculate duration of developmental 
stages, survival of adults and rates of population increase. A new method of 
estimation of age-dependent fecundity is proposed. On average, eggs required 
7.98 (n = 33, 95% CI: 7.68-8.21) days to develop into adults. Life expectancy of 
females was longer than that of males (9.72 and 5.41 days, respectively). The 
mean sex ratio, expressed as the proportion of females, was 0.80 (n = 122, CI: 
0.71-0.86). The reproductive output for females was age-dependent and daily egg 
production reached a peak (3.83 eggs/day, CI: 2.50-5.15) on the 5th day, and 
then decreased steeply. The net reproductive rate (R0) was 10.12 female progeny 
per female per generation, the generation time (T) was 11.31 days, the intrinsic 
rate of increase (r) was 0.20 female progeny per female per day, and the finite 
rate of increase (lambda) was 1.23 female progeny per day. These estimates 
showed that A. hystrix has a great potential capacity for rapid population 
increase when colonising new hosts and its density is low. Therefore, we 
conclude that the population of the cereal rust mite on quack grass may rapidly 
build up to very high densities and can be a reservoir population, which may 
easily disperse and infest other, including cultivated, grasses.

DOI: 10.1023/b:appa.0000023237.70549.20
PMID: 15176728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2004 Jul 25;807(1):47-54. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2004.02.011.

Optimized extraction by cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide reversed micelles of 
xylose reductase and xylitol dehydrogenase from Candida guilliermondii 
homogenate.

Cortez EV(1), Pessoa A Jr, das Graças de Almeida Felipe M, Roberto IC, Vitolo M.

Author information:
(1)Biochemical and Pharmaceutical Technology Dept./FCF/University of São Paulo, 
P O Box 66083, CEP 05315-970 São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The intracellular enzymes xylose reductase (XR, EC 1.1.1.21) and xylitol 
dehydrogenase (XD, EC 1.1.1.9) from Candida guilliermondii, grown in sugar cane 
bagasse hydrolysate, were separated by reversed micelles of cetyl trimethyl 
ammonium bromide (CTAB) cationic surfactant. An experimental design was employed 
to optimize the extraction conditions of both enzymes. Under these conditions 
(temperature = 5 degree C, hexanol: isooctane proportion = 5% (v/v), 22 %, 
surfactant concentration = 0.15M, pH = 7.0 and electrical conductivity = 14 
mScm(-1)) recovery values of about 100 and 80% were achieved for the enzymes XR 
and XD, respectively. The purity of XR and XD increased 5.6- and 1.8-fold, 
respectively. The extraction process caused some structural modifications in the 
enzymes molecules, as evidenced by the alteration of K(M) values determined 
before and after extraction, either in regard to the substrate (up 35% for XR 
and down 48% for XD) or cofactor (down 29% for XR and up 11% for XD). However, 
the average variation of V(max) values for both enzymes was not higher than 7%, 
indicating that the modified affinity of enzymes for their respective substrates 
and cofactors, as consequence of structural modifications suffered by them 
during the extraction, are compensated in some extension. This study 
demonstrated that liquid-liquid extraction by CTAB reversed micelles is an 
efficient process to separate the enzymes XR and XD present in the cell extract, 
and simultaneously increase the enzymatic activity and the purity of both 
enzymes produced by C. guilliermondii.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2004.02.011
PMID: 15177159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Eur J Cancer. 2004 Jun;40(9):1335-45. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2004.01.033.

Economic evaluation of treatments for cancer in childhood.

Barr RD(1), Feeny D, Furlong W.

Author information:
(1)Haematology/Oncology, McMaster Children's Hospital, Hamilton Health Sciences, 
and Pediatrics, Pathology and Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ont., 
Canada. rbarr@mcmaster.edu

Treatment of cancer in childhood is an expensive undertaking for the health-care 
system and for the affected families. As there is a substantial burden of 
treatment-related morbidity, it is important to determine whether the effects of 
treatment are worth these monetary costs, especially from a societal 
perspective. Economic evaluation affords a comparison of the costs and 
consequences (effects) of relevant therapeutic alternatives. Preference-based 
measures of health-related quality of life are particularly useful for assessing 
the effects of treatment, for these tools integrate mortality and morbidity. 
These measures provide utility scores that can be used as weights on survival 
data to compute quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs are incurred both 
within and outside of the health-care system. The former should include those in 
front-line patient care departments (e.g. nursing); the pro-rated share of the 
expenses of service departments (e.g. materials management) to those in the 
front line; and the fully allocated costs for capital invested in lands, 
building and equipment. The latter are costs borne by families that are both 
out-of-pocket (e.g. for over-the-counter drugs) as well as related to time spent 
in providing care, which may involve foregone income. Costs and consequences 
should be subject to discounting; a process for converting those items incurred 
in the future into contemporary equivalents. Economic evaluation provides 
estimates of incremental discounted costs per discounted QALY gained. By almost 
any interpretative standard this appears attractive with respect to cancer in 
childhood. Examples are provided with the encouragement that economic evaluation 
be undertaken in more clinical trials in paediatric oncology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2004.01.033
PMID: 15177493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Aug;59(4):869-84. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.11.043.

The post-war public health effects of civil conflict.

Ghobarah HA(1), Huth P, Russett B.

Author information:
(1)CBRSS, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA.

Civilian suffering from civil war extends well beyond the period of active 
warfare. We examine longer-term effects in a cross-national analysis of World 
Health Organization data on death and disability broken down by age, gender, and 
type of disease or condition. We find substantial long-term effects, even after 
controlling for several other factors. We estimate that the additional burden of 
death and disability incurred in 1999 alone, from the indirect and lingering 
effects of civil wars in the years 1991-1997, was nearly double the number 
incurred directly and immediately from all wars in 1999. This impact works its 
way through specific diseases and conditions, and disproportionately affects 
women and children.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.11.043
PMID: 15177842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Am J Med. 2004 Jun 15;116(12):797-806. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.01.014.

Clopidogrel versus aspirin for secondary prophylaxis of vascular events: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Schleinitz MD(1), Weiss JP, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (JPW), Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, 
USA. Mark_Schleinitz@Brown.edu

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2004 Jun 15;116(12):850-2.
    Am J Med. 2005 Feb;118(2):198-9; author reply 199.
    Am J Med. 2005 Feb;118(2):199-200; author reply 200.

PURPOSE: Clopidogrel is more effective than aspirin in preventing recurrent 
vascular events, but concerns about its cost-effectiveness have limited its use. 
We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel and aspirin as secondary 
prevention in patients with a prior myocardial infarction, a prior stroke, or 
peripheral arterial disease.
METHODS: We constructed Markov models assuming a societal perspective, and based 
analyses on the lifetime treatment of a 63-year-old patient facing event 
probabilities derived from the Clopidogrel versus Aspirin in Patients at Risk of 
Ischemic Events (CAPRIE) trial as the base case. Outcome measures included 
costs, life expectancy in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios, and events averted.
RESULTS: In patients with peripheral arterial disease, clopidogrel increased 
life expectancy by 0.55 QALYs at an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$25,100 per QALY, as compared with aspirin. In poststroke patients, clopidogrel 
increased life expectancy by 0.17 QALYs at a cost of $31,200 per QALY. Aspirin 
was both less expensive and more effective than clopidogrel in post-myocardial 
infarction patients. In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, our evaluation for 
