Aboriginal population had a rate of burden of disease 2.5 times higher than the 
non-Aboriginal population; in the 35-54-year age group their DALY rate was 4.1 
times higher. The leading causes of disease burden were cardiovascular disease 
for both Aboriginal men (19.1%) and women (15.7%) and mental disorders for both 
non-Aboriginal men (16.7%) and women (22.3%).
CONCLUSIONS: A comprehensive assessment of fatal and non-fatal conditions is 
important in describing differentials in health status of the NT population. Our 
study provides comparative data to identify health priorities and facilitate a 
more equitable distribution of health funding.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2004.tb06051.x
PMID: 15139825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Addiction. 2004 Jun;99(6):661-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2004.00751.x.

Disaggregating the health consequences of alcohol by age and sex.

McPherson K.

Comment on
    Addiction. 2004 Jun;99(6):749-56.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2004.00751.x
PMID: 15139863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Gesundheitswesen. 2004 May;66(5):346-51. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-812832.

[Prevention of dementia (including Alzheimer's disease)].

[Article in German]

Kornhuber HH(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Universit√§tsklinik Ulm.

Prevention of dementia: Life expectancy still increases linearly, and the 
elderly part of the European population grows rapidly in relation to the young. 
Dementia, however, grows even more rapidly, because it increases exponentially 
after age 65; it will become a great burden if nothing is done. The discussion 
so far is concentrated on treatment, whereas prevention is neglected. The 
therapy of dementia, however, has limited effect. Contrary to a widespread 
opinion prevention is possible. Genetic factors alone dominate the fate of 
cognition only in about 3 % of the cases. Besides age, lifestyle and the 
vascular risk factors exercise a great influence. High blood pressure carries a 
fourfold risk, diabetes more than doubles the risk both of the vascular and of 
the Alzheimer type; combined even more. Especially cerebral microangiopathy is 
strongly associated with Alzheimer's dementia, it triggers the vicious circle 
which leads to amyloid deposition. The importance of the circulation is 
underestimated, because most of the microvascular cerebral lesions are not 
perceived by the patient. All the risk factors for Alzheimer's disease after age 
65 are also vascular risk factors especially for microangiopathy: Apo-E4, 
oestrogen deficiency, insulin resistance, diabetes, arterial hypertension, high 
cholesterol, old age and increased plasma homocystin which is often caused by 
alcohol consumption even in moderate doses. A healthy life style with daily 
outdoor activity and a Mediterranean diet not only reduces the risk of dementia, 
but also of coronary death and cancer. Cognitively stimulating activity protects 
even more than physical activity against dementia; the basis for this is 
acquired in youth by education. Therapy with statins is advisable if 
atherosclerosis cannot be reasonably counteracted by physical activity and diet.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-812832
PMID: 15141356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Biochem J. 2004 Aug 15;382(Pt 1):131-6. doi: 10.1042/BJ20040506.

Free aminothiols, glutathione redox state and protein mixed disulphides in aging 
Drosophila melanogaster.

Rebrin I(1), Bayne AC, Mockett RJ, Orr WC, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.

The main purpose of the present study was to test the hypothesis that the aging 
process is associated with a pro-oxidizing shift in the cellular redox state. 
The amounts of the redox-sensitive free aminothiols (glutathione, cysteine, 
Cys-Gly and methionine) and protein mixed disulphides were measured at different 
ages and ambient temperatures in Drosophila melanogaster. GSH/GSSG ratios 
decreased significantly with increasing age of the flies, due to an increase in 
GSSG content. Concentrations of Cys-Gly increased and methionine decreased with 
age. The amounts of protein mixed disulphides, measured as protein-cysteinyl, 
protein-Cys-Gly and protein-glutathionyl mixed disulphides, increased as a 
function of age. The pattern of changes in free aminothiol content, 
glutathione-redox state and protein mixed disulphides varied in proportion to 
the ambient temperature, which is inversely related to the life expectancy of 
the flies. Collectively, these results support the idea that the pro-oxidizing 
shift in the glutathione-redox state, the decrease in methionine content and 
increase in abundance of protein mixed disulphides are associated with the life 
expectancy of flies, and are indicative of enhanced oxidative stress during 
aging.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20040506
PMCID: PMC1133923
PMID: 15142037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Anti Aging Med. 2003;6(4):281-2. doi: 10.1089/109454503323028858.

The horizons of medicine.

Fossel M.

DOI: 10.1089/109454503323028858
PMID: 15142427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. J Anti Aging Med. 2003;6(4):309-14. doi: 10.1089/109454503323028902.

Will human life expectancy quadruple in the next hundred years? Sixty 
gerontologists say public debate on life extension is necessary.

Richel T(1).

Author information:
(1)Stationsstraat 43, 4421 AK Kapelle, The Netherlands. theo@richel.org

Sixty gerontologists were asked for estimates regarding the development of 
future life expectancy. For a person born in the year 2100, life expectancy 
estimates had a median of 100 years and a mean of 292 years. Changes in 
biogerontology suggest that the search for the "fountain of youth" is gaining 
respectability, becoming competitive with compression of morbidity as the 
predominant scientific goal. Appropriate debate should address questions raised 
by such a goal and prepare for sudden advances that may have a large impact on 
society.

DOI: 10.1089/109454503323028902
PMID: 15142432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. J Anti Aging Med. 2003;6(4):357-60. doi: 10.1089/109454503323028975.

Table of world-wide living supercentenarians.

Coles LS(1).

Author information:
(1)Los Angeles Gerontology Research Group, Department of Surgery, UCLA Geffen 
School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA. scoles@ucla.edu

DOI: 10.1089/109454503323028975
PMID: 15142437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Med Hypotheses. 2004;62(6):847-51. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2004.02.006.

Many diseases may reflect dysfunctions of autonomic balance attributable to 
evolutionary displacement.

Yun AJ(1), Lee PY, Bazar KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Stanford University, 470 University Avenue, Palo 
Alto, CA 94301, USA. ayun@stanford.edu

We hypothesize that many ailments are attributable to dysfunctions of autonomic 
balance. The autonomic system is a primitive, highly-adaptive response system 
that allows differential allocation of biologic effort under varying conditions. 
The autonomic system, however, can execute a response that is inappropriate for 
the system stressor due to evolutionary displacement. Evolutionary displacement 
is a situation in which a trait that evolved as an adaptive response to certain 
conditions now faces a new set of conditions. Modern human evolution since the 
Pleistocene era is characterized by substantial evolutionary displacement, 
brought on in large part by the accelerating ability of humans to change their 
own environment. In the setting of evolutionary displacement, previously 
adaptive systems such as the autonomic system can be rendered unhelpful or even 
counterproductive. Emergence of chronic conditions, maladaptation of the trauma 
response, and extension of human lifespan are examples of evolutionary 
displacements that can induce inappropriate sympathetic bias in hosts. We 
postulate that many diseases are manifestations of this general phenomenon. 
Implications for existing and future therapeutic strategies are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2004.02.006
PMID: 15142634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Jun;58(6):451-4. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.011528.

How much downside? Quantifying the relative harm from tobacco taxation.

Wilson N(1), Thomson G, Tobias M, Blakely T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Wellington School of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, University of Otago, New Zealand. nwilson@actrix.gen.nz

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the loss of life expectancy attributable to tobacco 
taxation (via financial hardship and flow-on health effect) in New Zealand.
DESIGN: Data were used on the gradients in life expectancy and smoking by 
neighbourhood socioeconomic deprivation and survey data on tobacco expenditure. 
Three estimates were modelled of the percentage of the crude association of 
neighbourhood deprivation with life expectancy that might be mediated via 
financial hardship: 100%, 50%, and 25% (best estimate). From this information 
the impact of tobacco taxation on life expectancy was estimated.
MAIN RESULTS: For the total population, the estimated loss of life expectancy 
due to tobacco tax ranged from 0.005 years to 0.027 years. For people living in 
the most deprived 30% of neighbourhoods, the range was 0.009 to 0.044 years 
(that is, 3 to 16 days of lost life expectancy). For the total population the 
loss of life expectancy attributable to tobacco tax ranged from 119 to 460 times 
less than that attributable to deprivation. The loss of life expectancy 
attributable to tobacco tax was 42 to 257 times less than that attributable to 
smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: The estimated harm to life expectancy from tobacco taxation (via 
financial hardship) is orders of magnitude smaller than the harm from smoking. 
Although the analyses involve a number of simplistic assumptions, this 
conclusion is likely to be robust. Policy makers should be reassured that 
tobacco taxation is likely to be achieving far more benefit than harm in the 
general population and in socioeconomically deprived populations.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.011528
PMCID: PMC1732801
PMID: 15143110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Jun;58(6):529-30. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.017459.

Spending more, feeling worse: medical care expenditures and self rated health.

Kaplan MS, McFarland BH, Newsom JT, Huguet N.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.017459
PMCID: PMC1732797
PMID: 15143127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Oecologia. 2004 Jul;140(2):312-20. doi: 10.1007/s00442-004-1582-7. Epub 2004
May  14.

Floral affinity and benefits of dietary mixing with flowers for a polyphagous 
scarab, Popillia japonica Newman.

Held DW(1), Potter DA.

Author information:
(1)Coastal Research and Extension Center, Mississippi State University, Biloxi, 
MS 39531, USA.

Many generalist herbivores, especially adult beetles, are facultative 
florivores, feeding on leaves but readily accepting floral tissues when 
available. We speculated that day-flying beetles with high energetic 
requirements would benefit from dietary mixing with nutrient-rich flower tissues 
and favor them during foraging. We tested that "Floral Affinity Hypothesis" with 
Popillia japonica, a day-active ruteline scarab that feeds intermittently 
throughout its adult life on multiple plant species. In field tests with six 
species of flowering hosts, far more landings occurred on flowers than on 
foliage for all plants except Hibiscus syriacus which bears flowers along the 
main stem rather than terminally. Trials with elevated plants showed that height 
of the floral display contributes to beetles' landing on flowers. Flower petals 
generally were preferred over leaves in laboratory choice tests. Nitrogen and 
water content were comparable or higher in foliage than in petals, but plant 
sugars were much higher in petals. Longevity and fecundity of beetles provided 
single-plant diets of Hibiscus, Rosa x hybrida, or Trifolium flowers for 3 weeks 
were as high, or higher, than for beetles fed foliage of Tilia cordata, a highly 
suitable resource. As expected, rotating flowers or Tilia foliage with 
marginally suitable Quercus palustris foliage enhanced those parameters relative 
to a diet of Quercus alone, but beetles provided high-quality Tilia foliage also 
benefitted from dietary mixing with flowers. Nearly all past dietary mixing 
studies concerned immature insects, for which growth rate is paramount. 
Opportunistic florivory by adult beetles represents a type of dietary mixing 
wherein the premium may be calorie-rich food for fueling flight muscles, with 
ensuing reproductive benefits.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-004-1582-7
PMID: 15146324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2003;187(8):1547-63; discussion 1564-5.

[Primary hyperparathyroidism: three decades of evolution in diagnostic and 
imaging techniques and advantages of early surgery].

[Article in French]

Melliere D(1), Hindie E.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire et Endocrinienne du CHU Mondor, 51, avenue du 
Mal de Lattre de Tassigny 94010 Creteil-France. 
didier.melliere@hmn.ap-hop-paris.fr

Recent progresses in the ability to obtain a secure diagnosis and preoperative 
localisation have resulted in a lower threshold for surgery of primary 
hyperparathyroidism. We questioned whether these trends have been accompanied by 
an improvement in surgical results, or changes in the profile of the disease 
among operated patients. From a total of 511 operations (499 patients), we 
retrospectively investigated the data from three successive periods of 10 years 
each: (1973-1982: 73 operations; (1983-1992): 155 operations; (1993-2002): 283 
operations. Rates of surgical failure, defined as persistent hypercalcaemia at 
six months, have progressively declined: 6.8%, 1.3% and 0.7% respectively. There 
also has been a decline in the rates of permanent hypoparathyroidism or 
laryngeal nerve injury. However, these complications were highly influenced by 
the underlying pathology (surgery for single adenoma versus surgery for multiple 
gland disease) and by the need for concomitant thyroid surgery. Considering 
signs and symptoms, the frequency of kidney stones has declined from 50% to 
29.7%, while the rate of patients diagnosed at routine screening has increased 
from 19% to 39%. The prevalence of parathyroid cancer among operated patients 
has successively declined from 6.8% to 1.3%, then 0% during the last period. Our 
data suggest that present improvement in the success rate of parathyroid surgery 
be partly due to improvement in preoperative localisation. Among imaging 
techniques, subtraction scintigraphy, based on the simultaneous recording of 
technetium-99m-sestamibi and iodine-123, provided the highest rate of accurate 
location (92.6%). Because this imaging technique depicted a majority of cases of 
multiple parathyroid gland disease at prospective evaluation (14 out of 15), we 
now use it to select appropriate cases for a focussed surgery under local 
anaesthesia, without the additional need for intraoperative PTH monitoring. The 
present good surgical results would justify surgery even for elderly or 
asymptomatic patients. Surgery carried out before appearance of symptoms seems 
beneficial. Only asymptomatic patients with a short life expectancy may be 
denied surgery.

PMID: 15146584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2003;187(7):1225-43; discussion 1244-7.

[Physiology of somatotropic axis: interest of gene inactivation experiments].

[Article in French]

Le Bouc Y(1), Gicquel C, Holzenberger M.

Author information:
(1)H√¥pital d'Enfants Armand-Trousseau 75571 Paris, 26 Avenue du Docteur Arnold 
Netter.

Research into the somatotropic axis (growth hormone, insulin-like growth 
factors) has received renewed attention in the last few years, owing to 
techniques for genetic modification in the mouse, essentially transgenesis, and 
gene inactivation. The results, compared with phenotypic and molecular data for 
various pathological conditions, e.g. short stature, have increased our 
understanding of the function of the various parameters of the somatotropic 
axis, especially those of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system. During 
fetal development, IGF-II (which is subject to imprinting) and IGF-I are 
essential for increases in height and weight and for development of the various 
organs, adipose tissue in particular. The action of these two IGF is mediated by 
the IGF type 1 receptor. Total inactivation of the IGF-I gene, the paternal 
allele of the IGF-II gene or the IGF type 1 receptor gene leads to growth 
retardation resulting in mouse fetuses weighing only 60%, 60% and 45% of their 
wild-type controls. Combinations of these inactivations have shown that IGF-II 
also exerts its effects by interacting with another, as yet uncharacterized 
receptor. Moreover, inactivation of the IGF-I gene specifically in the liver, 
organ which normally maintains the high IGF-I concentrations in the blood 
(endocrine action), has no effect on growth, demonstrating that local IGF-I 
plays an auto/paracrine role in the periphery, under the direct influence of 
growth hormone (GH). However, endocrine IGF-I plays an important role in 
metabolism and cellular proliferation, and its function in mitosis may favor the 
development of cancer in the breast, colon and prostate. Mice with homozygous 
inactivation of the IGF type 1 receptor gene are not viable after birth. Partial 
and conditional inactivation have made it possible to study the physiology of 
these factors in adult animals. In contrast to IGF-II, the IGF type 1 receptor 
is, like IGF-I, involved in postnatal growth regulation. Lack of IGF type 1 
receptor or of IGF-I affects both height and weight, and shows that this 
receptor is particularly involved in promoting pubertal growth. The activated 
receptor acts differently and specifically in each tissue. Finally, the IGF type 
1 receptor has recently been implicated in the control of lifespan: a 50% 
decrease in the number of receptors increased the lifespan of these mice by 26%. 
This increase displayed sexual dimorphism, being greater for females (33%) than 
for males (16%). Invalidations combining different properties--specificities 
according to tissue, development stage or inducibility by an exogenous 
product--will facilitate fine dissection of the roles of the various ubiquitous 
actors in the IGF system.

PMID: 15146601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Recenti Prog Med. 2004 Apr;95(4):187-9.

[Smoking and survival in centenarians].

[Article in Italian]

Cicconetti P(1), Tafaro L, Tedeschi G, Tombolillo MT, Ursino R, Marigliano V.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze dell'Invecchiamento, Universit√† La Sapienza, Roma.

Cigarette smoking has been clearly linked to the most common causes of death in 
the elderly and contributes to the higher death rate and disability rate 
associated with many chronic illnesses that are common in this age group. The 
combination of smoking along with other risk factors like hypertension and 
diabetes increase high frequency disease, and disability as well as adding to an 
increase in mortality rate. In order to verify if a healthy lifestyle really 
favours longevity and how much smoking is incompatible with extreme longevity, 
we investigated the prevalence of smokers and the total smoking exposure of a 
sample of centenarians as regards residual survival and health conditions. Our 
sample consists of 157 centenarians selected among the registered residents of 
Rome: 39 males and 118 females (ratio = 1:3), mean age being 101.59 years (sd = 
1.8). 83.8% of the centenarians have never smoked, 13.5% are former smokers, and 
2.7% are active smokers. The average starting age of smoking was 21.2 years 
while the average age of quitting in former smokers was 65.7 years with an 
average of 44.7 smoking years (sd = 17.1). The average number of smoked 
cigarettes per day is quite low, less than 10 cigarettes. There seemed to be a 
significant difference (p < 0.001) in gender results in smokers: male 
centenarians were 46%, while female reached only 8.1%. Statistically significant 
higher prevalence of diseases illnesses were noted among centenarian smokers 
over the age of 65 (p < 0.02). Moreover Cox's regression has shown in 
centenarians a lower survival rate (p < 0.05) in smokers than in non-smokers. In 
conclusion, our study is evidence that smoking is for all, but some exceptional 
subjects, incompatible with successful aging and compromises life expectancy 
even in extreme longevity.

PMID: 15147062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Scand J Caring Sci. 2004 Jun;18(2):177-87. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-6712.2004.00267.x.

Factors associated with the attitudes and expectations of patients suffering 
from beta-thalassaemia: a cross-sectional study.

Vardaki MA(1), Philalithis AE, Vlachonikolis I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, School of Health 
Sciences, University of Crete, Heraklion, Crete, Greece. vard99@med.uoc.gr

Regular transfusions and iron chelation therapy have transformed the life 
expectancy of homozygous beta-thalassaemia patients, so that it can now be 
considered a chronic condition. A health questionnaire survey of all adults 
suffering from beta-thalassaemia major receiving treatment on the Island of 
Crete, Greece was carried out with the aim of ascertaining the factors that are 
associated with their attitudes and expectations. The responses of 67 of the 72 
patients, aged 18-45 years, were analyzed using Principal Component Analysis to 
extract three component indicators (Adaptability, Optimism and Pessimism 
Indicators), which reflected their attitudes towards life and two component 
indicators (Healing and Therapy Indicators) that reflected their expectations 
from life. These were then tested against the respondents' socio-demographic 
characteristics, their health status and satisfaction with the services. It was 
found that the Optimism Indicator was associated with a positive comparative 
assessment of health status, while the Adaptability Indicator was associated 
with a positive subjective assessment of health status. The Adaptability 
Indicator was also higher in those satisfied with the services but it was lower 
in the best-educated group. The pessimism indicator was associated with a 
negative comparative assessment of health status and with the lowest level 
education. The expectation indicators showed an interaction with gender and 
other parameters such as admission to hospital. The relationship between the 
attitudes and the expectations of patients suffering from a chronically 
disability condition and specific experiences during their treatment regimens 
raises several issues related to the need for better health education and 
psychological support of the group of patients, as well as issues related to the 
communication skills of the staff caring for them.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-6712.2004.00267.x
PMID: 15147481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2004 Jun 11;318(4):998-1005. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.04.126.

Altered oxidative stress response of the long-lived Snell dwarf mouse.

Madsen MA(1), Hsieh CC, Boylston WH, Flurkey K, Harrison D, Papaconstantinou J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Biological Chemistry and Genetics, University of Texas 
Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555-0643, USA.

Several single gene mutations in mice that increase the murine life span have 
been identified, including the Pit-1 mutation which results in the Snell dwarf 
(Pit1(dw/dw)), however, the biological mechanism of this life-span extension is 
still unclear. Based on studies that show oxidative stress plays an important 
role in the aging process, we hypothesized that the increased longevity seen in 
Snell dwarf mice may result from a resistance to oxidative stress. We report 
that Snell dwarf mice respond to oxidative stress induced by 3-NPA differently 
than their wild type littermates. This altered response results in diminished 
activation of the MEK-ERK kinase cascade and virtually no phosphorylation of 
c-Jun at Ser63 in dwarf mice after 3-NPA treatment, despite a robust 
phosphorylation of Ser63 in wild type mice. We propose that this altered 
management of oxidative stress in dwarf mice is partially responsible for the 
increased longevity in Snell dwarf mice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.04.126
PMID: 15147972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Int J Adolesc Med Health. 2004 Jan-Mar;16(1):21-7. doi: 
10.1515/ijamh.2004.16.1.21.

Adolescence, chronic illness and disability.

Morad M(1), Kandel I, Hyam E, Merrick J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Zusman Child Development Center, Ben Gurion 
University, Beer Sheva, Israel. morad62@013.net.il

The prevalence of chronic illness or disability in adolescence has increased in 
recent years. In the past, children with certain chronic diseases did not reach 
adolescence, but over the last decade the survival rate has increased manyfold. 
The old morbidity (infectious disease, poor housing, poverty, lack of 
immunisation) has been exchanged with a new morbidity of adolescence, where a 
longer life expectancy is followed by an increase in lifelong disability. This 
review discusses issues concerned with the definition of disability in 
adolescence, reviews prevalence studies in several countries, the causes of 
disability, disparities, access and expenditure of health care, psychosocial 
aspects, and how to promote better outcomes.

DOI: 10.1515/ijamh.2004.16.1.21
PMID: 15148855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Appl Philos. 2004;21(1):33-42. doi: 10.1111/j.0264-3758.2004.00261.x.

The Golden Rule and the potentiality principle: future persons and contingent 
interests.

Chan KM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Conservation Biology, Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA 94305-5020, USA. kaichan@stanford.edu

Duties to future persons are central to numerous key ethical issues including 
contraception, abortion, genetic selection, treatment of the environment, and 
population control. Nevertheless, we still seem to be lacking Parfit's 'Theory 
X', a general theory of beneficence whose appropriateness extends to future 
generations. Starting from the Golden Rule (TGR), R.M. Hare purportedly derived 
counterintuitive duties to potential people and 'the potentiality principle'. 
However, I argue that Hare's derivation involves a hidden and unjustifiable 
extension from TGR, and show how the most plausible form of TGR is compatible 
with multiple contradictory principles for the treatment of future persons. I 
appeal to our own preferences to argue that one extension of TGR follows the 
spirit of TGR, while the other is deeply implausible. Using the plausible 
extension, I derive a Contingent Interests Principle (CIP) that offers much 
promise as Parfit's elusive Theory X. In contrast to Hare's interpretation of 
TGR, this application provides solid justification for rejecting the 
potentiality principle.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0264-3758.2004.00261.x
PMID: 15148950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Health Serv J. 2004 Apr 1;114(5899):14-5.

On location--sick city looks to ease burden of acute care.

Hobson S.

PMID: 15148968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Health Serv Res. 2004 Jun;39(3):531-52. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2004.00243.x.

The effect of smoking on years of healthy life (YHL) lost among middle-aged and 
older Americans.

√òstbye T(1), Taylor DH.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Box 2914, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effects of smoking on quality of life over time, 
using the Years of Healthy Life (YHL) construct.
DATA SOURCES/STUDY SETTING: The Health and Retirement Study (HRS) survey 
(N=12,652) of persons 50 to 60 years old and the Asset and Health Dynamics Among 
the Oldest Old (AHEAD) survey (N=8,124) of persons > or =70 years old, plus 
spouses regardless of age, followed from 1992/1993 to 2000.
STUDY DESIGN: Years of healthy life from baseline to death were estimated. 
Regression models were developed with smoking as the main explanatory variable 
and with both YHL and years of life remaining as the outcome variables.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Smoking was strongly and consistently related to YHL lost. 
In HRS, individuals who had quit smoking at least 15 years prior to baseline had 
a similar number of YHL left as never smokers.
CONCLUSIONS: Efforts to encourage smoking cessation should emphasize the impact 
of these factors on quality of life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2004.00243.x
PMCID: PMC1361023
PMID: 15149477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Health Serv Res. 2004 Jun;39(3):627-42. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2004.00248.x.

The lifetime distribution of health care costs.

Alemayehu B(1), Warner KE.

Author information:
(1)ClinivalAnalysis and Outcomes Research/DMA, F2-4 Medco Health Solutions, 100 
Parsons Pond Drive, Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the magnitude and age distribution of lifetime health 
care expenditures.
DATA SOURCES: Claims data on 3.75 million Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan 
members, and data from the Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey, the Medical 
Expenditure Panel Survey, the Michigan Mortality Database, and Michigan nursing 
home patient counts.
DATA COLLECTION: Data were aggregated and summarized in year 2000 dollars by 
service, age, and gender.
STUDY DESIGN: We use life table models to simulate a typical lifetime's 
distribution of expenditures, employing cross-sectional data on age- and 
sex-specific health care costs and the mortality experience of the population. 
We determine remaining lifetime expenditures at each age for all initial members 
of a birth cohort. Separately, we calculate remaining expenditures for survivors 
at all ages. Using cross-sectional data, the analysis holds disease incidence, 
medical technology, and health care prices constant, thus permitting an 
exclusive focus on the role of age in health care costs.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Per capita lifetime expenditure is USD $316,600, a third 
higher for females (USD $361,200) than males (USD $268,700). Two-fifths of this 
difference owes to women's longer life expectancy. Nearly one-third of lifetime 
expenditures is incurred during middle age, and nearly half during the senior 
years. For survivors to age 85, more than one-third of their lifetime 
expenditures will accrue in their remaining years.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the essential demographic phenomenon of our time, the rapid 
aging of the population, our findings lend increased urgency to understanding 
and addressing the interaction between aging and health care spending.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2004.00248.x
PMCID: PMC1361028
PMID: 15149482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Health Rep. 2004 Mar;15(2):19-32.

Leading cancers--changes in five-year relative survival.

Ellison LF(1), Gibbons L.

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division at Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0T6. 
Larry.Ellison@statcan.ca

OBJECTIVES: Changes in five-year relative survival ratios for prostate, breast, 
colorectal and lung cancer cases are examined. Ratios for cases diagnosed in the 
1985-1987 period are compared with those for 1992-1994. Incidence and mortality 
rates between 1985 and 1999 are compared with changes in relative survival.
DATA SOURCES: Data are from the Canadian Cancer Registry, the National Cancer 
Incidence Reporting System, the Canadian Mortality Data Base, and life tables.
ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES: Analysis was conducted using the maximum likelihood 
method of Esteve. Age-standardized ratios for a given cancer were calculated by 
weighting age-specific ratios to the age distribution of patients diagnosed with 
that cancer. Statistical tests were used to compare corresponding age-specific 
and age-standardized ratios across the two periods. National estimates exclude 
Qu√©bec and New Brunswick.
MAIN RESULTS: Between the 1985-1987 period and the 1992-1994 period, increases 
in five-year age-standardized relative survival ratios were dramatic for 
prostate cancer, large for breast cancer, and somewhat smaller for colorectal 
cancer. There was little absolute change in the ratios for lung cancer.

PMID: 15151028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 2004 Jun;32(3):210-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0528.2004.00156.x.

Willingness to pay for dentin regeneration in a sample of dentate adults.

Birch S(1), Sohn W, Ismail AI, Lepkowski JM, Belli RF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Centre for Health 
Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, 1200 Main Street West, 
Hamilton, Ontario L8N 3Z5, Canada. birch@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVES: Measurement of individuals' valuation of dental treatments is 
important in the evaluation of new technologies. In this paper the value of 
dentin regeneration, a new treatment for teeth with reversible pulpitis, is 
measured based on what individuals say they would be willing to pay to receive 
the treatment.
METHODS: A total of 611 randomly selected dentate adults answered willingness to 
pay (WTP) and dental insurance questions. Detailed descriptions of the process 
and expected outcomes for dentin regeneration were presented to subjects as part 
of a larger study measuring preferences for different treatments. WTP was 
determined for two different levels of success for dentin regeneration.
RESULTS: At a success rate of 95%, the mean WTP for dentin regeneration was 
$262.70 (noninsured) and $11.00 per month (insured subjects). For success rate 
of 75%, the corresponding values were $210.90 and $9.20 per month. Multivariate 
analyses were used to identify any significant relationships between WTP and a 
range of variables covering socio-demographic, socio-economic, dental experience 
and oral health status variables. The findings indicate that individuals' 
valuations of treatments involve substantial unexplained variation. About half 
of the noninsured subjects would pay for dentin regeneration if it cost $200 per 
tooth.
CONCLUSIONS: The data on the WTP for dentin regeneration indicate that a 
substantial percentage of adults will pay for this new technology. This study 
provides for the first time an estimate of WTP for dentin regeneration among the 
population.

Copyright Blackwell Munksgaard, 2004

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0528.2004.00156.x
PMID: 15151691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2004 May 19;2004(20):pe21. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2004.20.pe21.

Early life predictors of old-age life expectancy.

Rikke BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, 
Boulder, CO 80309, USA. rikke@ibg.colorado.edu

The laboratory of Richard Miller and numerous heroic collaborators are in the 
process of testing a variety of life span predictors on more than 1000 mice. In 
their most recent publication, Harper et al. show that early-adulthood measures 
of T cell subsets, body weight, and thyroxine can be effectively combined to 
provide a highly significant predictor of life expectancy. Each measure appears 
to be an index of largely separate parameters that affect the course of aging. 
This article summarizes the results, discusses implications, mentions caveats, 
and suggests future studies.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2004.20.pe21
PMID: 15152103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Invasive Cardiol. 2004 May;16(5):257-9.

Methods for the economic and quality of life supplement to the cilostazol for 
RESTenosis (CREST) trial.

Weintraub WS(1), Foster J, Culler SD, Becker ER, Parker K, Zhang Z, Kolm P, 
Douglas JS Jr; Cilostazol for RESTenosis trial.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. 
wweintr@emory.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine economic and quality of life outcomes for the Cilostazol 
for RESTenosis (CREST) trial, which is investigating the efficacy of cilostazol 
vs. placebo in preventing post-stent restenosis.
DESIGN: CREST is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, 
double-blind trial.
SETTING: 20 clinical sites; the Emory Center for Outcomes Research (ECOR) will 
serve as the economic and data coordinating center.
PATIENTS: 705 patients (>18 years) who have undergone successful, uncomplicated 
placement of an intracoronary stent in a native coronary artery.
INTERVENTION: Cilostazol (100 mg twice daily) or placebo for 6 months.
COSTS: Primary endpoint, total direct medical costs at 6 months; secondary 
endpoints, initial hospital costs and follow-up costs. QOL: Health-related 
quality of life (QOL) will be assessed using the EQ-5D and the Seattle Angina 
Questionnaire at baseline and at 1, 3, and 6 months. Cost-effectiveness 
analysis: Preliminary data show that cilostazol is clinically superior to 
placebo and if the mean cost for the cilostazol arm is higher than that for 
placebo, cost-effectiveness analysis will be determined for the cost per episode 
of restenosis prevented, the cost per episode of major clinical and angiographic 
endpoints averted, and the cost per quality-adjusted life-years gained.

PMID: 15152132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2003 Nov;43(11):785-7.

[Intractable neurological diseases and neurology].

[Article in Japanese]

Fukunaga H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National Minamikyusyu Hospital.

In intractable neurological diseases, there are often no appropriate treatment 
methods even after admission and the course is frequently chronic. Therefore 
treatment at home is a major choice. In particular, in Parkinson's disease and 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, care at home while symptoms are stable is 
appropriate in terms of extension of ADL and the QOL of the patient and family. 
We have performed continuous treatment at home according to our plan for the 
previous 9 years. This treatment was favorably accepted by the patient and 
family without major problems. It is important to organize network to support 
patient with intractable neurological diseases. By virtue of the care insurance 
system established in 2000, services of medical care, health and welfare are 
being collectively provided at present. But, there still remain many issues 
awaiting solution on the support to advanced intractable neurological diseases. 
A pending problem about suction of sputa for the ALS patients serving at home 
are being allowed to non-medical profession like home helper.

PMID: 15152464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 2004;(4):14-9.

[Effect of work conditions on life expectancy in workers of some occupations 
(methodological approaches)].

[Article in Russian]

Iakovleva TP, Tikhonova GI, Golovkova NP.

The authors presented methodic approaches to evaluation of work conditions 
influence on average life expectancy in workers of some occupations.

PMID: 15152551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Am Fam Physician. 2004 May 1;69(9):2139-44.

Polycythemia vera.

Stuart BJ(1), Viera AJ.

Author information:
(1)Naval Hospital Jacksonville, Family Practice Department, Jacksonville, 
Florida 32214, USA. stuartbj@2fssg.usmc.mil

Comment in
    Am Fam Physician. 2004 May 1;69(9):2146.

Polycythemia vera is a chronic myeloproliferative disorder characterized by 
increased red blood cell mass. The resultant hyperviscosity of the blood 
predisposes such patients to thrombosis. Polycythemia vera should be suspected 
in patients with elevated hemoglobin or hematocrit levels, splenomegaly, or 
portal venous thrombosis. Secondary causes of increased red blood cell mass 
(e.g., heavy smoking, chronic pulmonary disease, renal disease) are more common 
than polycythemia vera and must be excluded. Diagnosis is made using criteria 
developed by the Polycythemia Vera Study Group; major criteria include elevated 
red blood cell mass, normal oxygen saturation, and palpable splenomegaly. 
Untreated patients may survive for six to 18 months, whereas adequate treatment 
may extend life expectancy to more than 10 years. Treatment includes phlebotomy 
with the possible addition of myelosuppressive agents based on a risk-stratified 
approach. Agents under investigation include interferon alfa-2b, anagrelide, and 
aspirin. Consultation with a hematologist is recommended.

PMID: 15152961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2004 Jun 1;19(11):1159-72. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2004.01963.x.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with 
cirrhosis due to chronic hepatitis C.

Lin OS(1), Keeffe EB, Sanders GD, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Section, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA, USA. 
otto.lin@vmmc.org

BACKGROUND: Screening for hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhotic patients using 
abdominal ultrasonography and alpha-foetoprotein levels is widely practiced.
AIM: To evaluate its cost-effectiveness using a Markov decision model.
METHODS: Several screening strategies with abdominal ultrasonography or 
computerized tomography and serum alpha-foetoprotein at 6-12-month intervals in 
40-year-old patients with chronic hepatitis C and compensated cirrhosis were 
simulated from a societal perspective, resulting in discounted costs per 
quality-adjusted life-year saved. Extensive sensitivity analysis was performed.
RESULTS: For the least efficacious strategy, annual 
alpha-foetoprotein/ultrasonography, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(vs. no screening) was $23 043/quality-adjusted life-year. Biannual 
alpha-foetoprotein/annual ultrasonography, the most commonly used strategy in 
the United States, was more efficacious, with a cost-effectiveness ratio of $33 
083/quality-adjusted life-year vs. annual alpha-foetoprotein/ultrasonography. 
The most efficacious strategy, biannual alpha-foetoprotein/ultrasonography, 
resulted in a cost-effectiveness ratio of $73 789/quality-adjusted life-year vs. 
biannual alpha-foetoprotein/annual ultrasonography. Biannual 
alpha-foetoprotein/annual computerized tomography screening resulted in a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $51 750/quality-adjusted life-year vs. biannual 
alpha-foetoprotein/annual ultrasonography screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for hepatocellular carcinoma is as cost-effective as 
other accepted screening protocols. Of the strategies evaluated, biannual 
alpha-foetoprotein/annual ultrasonography gives the most quality-adjusted 
life-year gain while still maintaining a cost-effectiveness ratio <$50 
000/quality-adjusted life-year. Biannual alpha-foetoprotein/annual computerized 
tomography screening may be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2004.01963.x
PMID: 15153169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Aging Cell. 2004 Jun;3(3):125-31. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00096.x.

Demographic window to aging in the wild: constructing life tables and estimating 
survival functions from marked individuals of unknown age.

M√ºller HG(1), Wang JL, Carey JR, Caswell-Chen EP, Chen C, Papadopoulos N, Yao F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.

Summary We address the problem of establishing a survival schedule for wild 
populations. A demographic key identity is established, leading to a method 
whereby age-specific survival and mortality can be deduced from a marked cohort 
life table established for individuals that are randomly sampled at unknown age 
and marked, with subsequent recording of time-to-death. This identity permits 
the construction of life tables from data where the birth date of subjects is 
unknown. An analogous key identity is established for the continuous case in 
which the survival schedule of the wild population is related to the density of 
the survival distribution in the marked cohort. These identities are explored 
for both life tables and continuous lifetime data. For the continuous case, they 
are implemented with statistical methods using non-parametric density estimation 
methods to obtain flexible estimates for the unknown survival distribution of 
the wild population. The analytical model provided here serves as a starting 
point to develop more complex models for residual demography, i.e. models for 
estimating survival of wild populations in which age-at-entry is unknown and 
using remaining information in randomly encountered individuals. This is a first 
step towards a broad new concept of 'expressed demographic information content 
of marked or captured individuals'.

Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00096.x
PMCID: PMC2474456
PMID: 15153180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Public Health Nutr. 2004 May;7(3):381-3. doi: 10.1079/PHN2004623.

Why a global strategy on diet, physical activity and health? The growing burden 
of non-communicable diseases.

Waxman A(1), Norum KR.

Author information:
(1)WHO Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity and Health, World Health 
Organization. waxmana@who.int

DOI: 10.1079/PHN2004623
PMID: 15153269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Brief Bioinform. 2004 Mar;5(1):59-70. doi: 10.1093/bib/5.1.59.

Globally distributed object identification for biological knowledgebases.

Clark T(1), Martin S, Liefeld T.

Author information:
(1)tim.clark@acm.org

The World-Wide Web provides a globally distributed communication framework that 
is essential for almost all scientific collaboration, including bioinformatics. 
However, several limits and inadequacies have become apparent, one of which is 
the inability to programmatically identify locally named objects that may be 
widely distributed over the network. This shortcoming limits our ability to 
integrate multiple knowledgebases, each of which gives partial information of a 
shared domain, as is commonly seen in bioinformatics. The Life Science 
Identifier (LSID) and LSID Resolution System (LSRS) provide simple and elegant 
solutions to this problem, based on the extension of existing internet 
technologies. LSID and LSRS are consistent with next-generation semantic web and 
semantic grid approaches. This article describes the syntax, operations, 
infrastructure compatibility considerations, use cases and potential future 
applications of LSID and LSRS. We see the adoption of these methods as important 
steps toward simpler, more elegant and more reliable integration of the world's 
biological knowledgebases, and as facilitating stronger global collaboration in 
biology.

DOI: 10.1093/bib/5.1.59
PMID: 15153306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. J Med Screen. 2004;11(2):97-102. doi: 10.1258/096914104774061092.

Cost-effectiveness of a community-based screening programme for chronic atrial 
fibrillation in Japan.

Maeda K(1), Shimbo T, Fukui T.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Kyoto University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Kawahara-cho, Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, 
Japan. maeken@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    J Med Screen. 2004;11(4):210; author reply 210.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the cost-effectiveness of a community-based screening 
programme for chronic atrial fibrillation (AF) in Japan.
METHODS: Using a computer model of a Markov process, the cost-effectiveness of 
an annual ECG screening programme and an annual pulse palpation screening 
programme for arrhythmia were compared with no screening. A hypothetical 
Japanese population of 65 year old individuals was followed until 85 years of 
age. We assumed that individuals with irregular beats on palpation were worked 
up by ECG and that ECG was perfect in detecting AF, whereas palpation was not. 
It was also assumed that patients diagnosed with AF received anticoagulant 
therapy, that some AF patients developed ischaemic stroke, and that some on 
anticoagulant therapy developed intracranial or gastrointestinal haemorrhage. 
Costs, efficacy of anticoagulation, utility of health status, and clinical 
variables were estimated from the literature. Outcomes were expressed as US 
dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: Both annual ECG screening programme and annual palpation screening 
programme were more costly and at the same time more effective compared with no 
screening, with their incremental cost-effectiveness ratios approximately 
US$8000 per QALY in males and US$10,000 per QALY in females. Sensitivity 
analyses showed high sensitivity of cost-effectiveness ratios to the incidence 
of ischaemic stroke and anticoagulants prescription rate. Two annual screening 
programmes were similar in effectiveness and costs.
CONCLUSION: To prevent ischaemic stroke associated with AF, both annual ECG 
screening and annual palpation screening were favourable in the context of 
conventional criteria for cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1258/096914104774061092
PMID: 15153326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2004 Jun;15(6):1656-63. doi: 
10.1097/01.asn.0000127866.34592.60.

Incorporating recipient choice in kidney transplantation.

Su X(1), Zenios SA, Chertow GM.
