shows that the most accurate tests combined with confirmatory biopsy are the 
most cost-effective, whilst combinations of tests add little or no further 
value. There is limited information regarding test accuracy in screening 
populations with diabetes, and there is some uncertainty over whether the test 
characteristics would remain the same. Further research is required regarding 
the role of screening in silent coeliac disease and regarding long-term outcomes 
and complications of untreated coeliac disease.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8220
PMID: 15191683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Popul Trends. 2004 Spring;(115):6-15.

2002-based national population projections for the United Kingdom and 
constituent countries.

Shaw C.

The 2002-based national population projections, carried out by the Government 
Actuary in consultation with the Registrars General, show the population of the 
United Kingdom rising from 59.2 million in 2002 to nearly 65 million by 2031. 
Longer-term projections suggest the population will peak around 2050 at over 65 
million and then gradually start to fall. The population will become gradually 
older with the median age expected to rise from 38.2 years in 2002 to 43.3 years 
by 2031. In 2002, there were around 850 thousand (8 per cent) more children aged 
under 16, than people of state pensionable age. However, from 2007, the 
population of pensionable age is projected to exceed the number of children.

PMID: 15192889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2004 Apr;15(4):233-41. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892004000400003.

[Mortality due to infectious and parasitic diseases in the elderly in Brazil].

[Article in Spanish]

Paes NA(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Estatística, Centro das Ciências Exatas e da Natureza, 
Universidade Federal da Paraíba, Campus I, CEP 58051-910, João Pessoa, PB, 
Brasil. antunes@de.ufpb.br

OBJECTIVE: To describe the mortality due to infectious and parasitic diseases in 
persons over 65 years of age in all of Brazil and in individual states and to 
study the association between that mortality due to these causes and specific 
socioeconomic variables over the period from 1980 to 1995.
METHODS: Data were obtained from Brazil's national Mortality Information System. 
Standardized mortality rates were calculated for tuberculosis, Chagas' disease, 
and sepsis. The relative contribution of these causes of death to overall 
mortality was also calculated. The study also analyzed the relationship between 
mortality rates and gender and the following socioeconomic variables: per capita 
gross domestic product; number of hospital beds per inhabitant; proportion of 
the total population living in urban areas; number of benefits provided per 
capita by the social welfare system; number of deaths reported for every 100 
hospitalizations; and life expectancy at birth. A normal multiple linear 
regression model was used for this analysis.
RESULTS: There were no significant changes in the proportion of deaths due to 
infectious and parasitic diseases in the elderly population during the period 
studied, regardless of sex. However, for both men and women there was a sizeable 
decrease in the impact of tuberculosis and Chagas' disease, while that of sepsis 
appeared to increase. According to the results of the ecological analysis, 
socioeconomic indicators had little power to explain the differences in 
mortality patterns seen in the different states of the country.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that policies to prevent and control infectious 
and parasitic diseases among the elderly in Brazil have stagnated. Given this 
situation and the progressive increase in the elderly population, mortality due 
to infectious and parasitic diseases is not likely to decrease in this age 
group, at least in the near future.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892004000400003
PMID: 15193178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Biochem Pharmacol. 2004 Jul 15;68(2):341-50. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2004.03.029.

Effects of the selective COX-2 inhibitors celecoxib and rofecoxib on human 
vascular cells.

Niederberger E(1), Manderscheid C, Grösch S, Schmidt H, Ehnert C, Geisslinger G.

Author information:
(1)Pharmazentrum frankfurt, Klinikum der Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität 
Frankfurt, Theodor Stern Kai 7, 60590 Frankfurt am Main, Germany. 
e.niederberger@em.uni-frankfurt.de

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with a reduced life expectancy 
considered to be partly caused by cardiovascular events. A growing concern is 
that accelerated atherosclerosis is driven by inflammatory mechanisms similar to 
those responsible for RA. Therefore, selective COX-2 inhibitors, which are 
widely used for the symptomatic treatment of pain and inflammation in RA, may 
have an impact on atherosclerotic processes. Their anti-inflammatory properties 
might provoke anti-atherogenic effects but on the other hand, selective 
inhibition of anti-thrombotic prostacyclin and COX-2 independent effects might 
promote the risk of increased prothrombotic activity. In the current study, the 
effects of the presently marketed selective COX-2 inhibitors celecoxib and 
rofecoxib on vascular cells have been investigated. Celecoxib inhibited the 
proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) in a 
concentration-dependent manner. At high concentrations, it induced apoptosis and 
the modulation of inhibitory cell cycle proteins. In contrast rofecoxib-even at 
high concentrations-had no effect on cell proliferation, apoptosis or cell cycle 
distribution indicating that celecoxib and rofecoxib do not affect the same 
signal transduction pathways in endothelial cells. Both drugs did not affect 
apoptosis induction or cell cycle proliferation in human vascular smooth muscle 
cells. The observed effects on endothelial cells appear to be COX-independent 
since both drugs selectively inhibited COX-2-activity and the applied 
concentrations lay beyond the IC(50) for inhibition of prostacyclin production. 
Regarding endothelial apoptosis as a relevant event in the initiation and 
progression of atherosclerosis the present data put forward the hypothesis that 
the presently marketed COX-2 inhibitors have a different impact on 
atherosclerotic processes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2004.03.029
PMID: 15194006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2004 Jun;23(6):533-46. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2004.02.017.

Antimicrobial selection for community-acquired lower respiratory tract 
infections in the 21st century: a review of gemifloxacin.

Appelbaum PC(1), Gillespie SH, Burley CJ, Tillotson GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Hershey Medical Center, P.O. Box 850, Hershey, PA 
17033, USA. pappelbaum@psu.edu

Community-acquired lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) are more prevalent 
in the elderly than in children and younger adults and form a significant 
proportion of all consultations and hospital admissions in this older age group. 
Furthermore, in a world of increasing life expectancy the trend seems unlikely 
to be reversed. Antimicrobial treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) 
must cover Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella 
catarrhalis, and in many circumstances should also cover the intracellular 
(atypical) pathogens. In contrast, acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis 
(AECB) are mainly associated with H. influenzae and S. pneumoniae and not with 
atypical bacteria: in severe cases, other Gram-negative bacteria may be 
involved. Frequently in LRTIs, the aetiology of the infection cannot be 
identified from the laboratory specimens and treatment has to be empirical. In 
such situations it is important to not only to use an antibiotic that covers all 
likely organisms, but also one that has good activity against these organisms 
given the local resistance patterns. Gemifloxacin is a new quinolone antibiotic 
that targets pneumococcal DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV and is highly active 
against S. pneumoniae including penicillin-, macrolide- and many 
ciprofloxacin-resistant strains, as well as H. influenzae and the atypical 
pathogens. In clinical trials in CAP and AECB, gemifloxacin has been shown to be 
as effective a range of comparators and demonstrated an adverse event profile 
that was in line with the comparator agents. In one long-term study in AECB 
significantly more patients receiving gemifloxacin than clarithromycin remained 
free of recurrence after 26 weeks. The improved potency, broad spectrum of 
activity and proven clinical and bacteriological efficacy and safety profile 
should make it a useful agent in the 21st century battle against 
community-acquired LRTIs.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2004.02.017
PMID: 15194123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Jul;58(7):583-9. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.013755.

Increasing ethnic differences in mortality in Estonia after the collapse of the 
Soviet Union.

Leinsalu M(1), Vågerö D, Kunst AE.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, University College of 
South Stockholm, Huddinge, Sweden. Mall.Leinsalu@sh.se

STUDY OBJECTIVE: This study examined the change in ethnic differences in 
mortality in Estonia 1989-2000.
DESIGN: Two unlinked cross sectional census based analyses were compared. Total 
and cause specific mortality was analysed for ethnic Estonians and Russians. The 
absolute differences in mortality were evaluated through life expectancy at 
birth and age standardised mortality rates. Relative differences were assessed 
by mortality rate ratios with 95% confidence intervals, calculated using Poisson 
regression.
SETTING: Estonia before and after the fall of the Soviet Union.
PARTICIPANTS: Individual cause specific death data for 1987-1990 (69549 deaths) 
and for 1999-2000 (33809 deaths) came from the national mortality database. 
Population denominators came from the population censuses of 1989 and 2000.
MAIN RESULTS: In the period 1989-2000, ethnic differences in life expectancy 
increased from 0.4 years to 6.1 years among men and from 0.6 years to 3.5 years 
among women. In 2000, Russians had a higher mortality than Estonians in all age 
groups and for almost all selected causes of death. The largest differences were 
found for some alcohol related causes of death especially in 2000.
CONCLUSIONS: Political and economic upheaval, increasing poverty, and alcohol 
consumption can be considered the main underlying causes of the widening ethnic 
mortality gap.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.013755
PMCID: PMC1732806
PMID: 15194720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Jul;58(7):604-10. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.012955.

Impact of smoking on the social gradient in health expectancy in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Juel K.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Health expectancy is arrived at by dividing life expectancy 
into average lifetime in different states of health. The purpose of the study 
was to estimate health expectancy among never smokers and smokers in groups at 
high, medium, and low educational levels in Denmark.
DESIGN: Life tables for never smokers and smokers with a high, medium, and low 
educational level were constructed on the basis of Statistics Denmark registers 
and combined with data from the Danish Health Interview Survey 2000. Health 
expectancy was calculated by Sullivan's method.
MAIN RESULTS: Life expectancy at age 30 differs on average by 8.5 years between 
never smokers and heavy smokers. Expected lifetime in self rated good health was 
39.4 years for a never smoking man corresponding to 82.0% of the rest of his 
life. For male lifelong heavy smokers these figures were reduced to 27.3 years 
and 69.2%. The proportion of expected lifetime in self rated good health was 
89.5% and 71.3% among male never smokers and lifelong heavy smokers with a high 
educational level, respectively; and the proportion among male never smokers and 
heavy smokers with a low educational level was 73.4% and 63.6%, respectively. 
Similar results were seen as regards expected lifetime without longstanding 
illness. For women the social gradient in health expectancy was intensified 
among smokers.
CONCLUSIONS: Within each educational group smoking reduces expected lifetime in 
a healthy state. The social gradient in health expectancy cannot be explained by 
a reverse social gradient in smoking prevalence.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.012955
PMCID: PMC1732832
PMID: 15194724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Jul;58(7):611-2. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.011338.

Improving estimation of the variance of expectation of life for small 
populations.

Silcocks PB(1).

Author information:
(1)Trent Institute for Health Services Research, Queen's Medical Centre, 
Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK. paul.silcocks@nottingham.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.011338
PMCID: PMC1732822
PMID: 15194725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Q J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2004 Mar;48(1):49-61.

Economic analyses on the use of positron emission tomography for the work-up of 
solitary pulmonary nodules and for staging patients with 
non-small-cell-lung-cancer in Italy.

Gugiatti A(1), Grimaldi A, Rossetti C, Lucignani G, De Marchis D, Borgonovi E, 
Fazio F.

Author information:
(1)Cergas, Bocconi University, Milan, Italy.

AIM: Increasing ageing of the population and tumor incidence, along with 
worldwide rationing of the resources for public health systems, spur the use of 
economic analyses for the choice of strategies and technologies in the 
assessment and management of cancer patients. Incidence and clinical managing of 
tumors vary in different countries even if positron emission tomography (PET) 
with 2-deoxy-2-[18F]-fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) is becoming a routine clinical 
method for diagnosis, staging, treatment monitoring and follow-up in a variety 
of tumors. Available data indicate that PET can be considered a superior 
alternative or complementary tool to other well-established methods. However, in 
spite of the above and of the rapidly increasing number of PET centers in 
Europe, USA and Japan, only a few studies have dealt with some of the economic 
aspects raised by the clinical use of PET because of differences in values of 
reimbursements and health costs. The main aim of this study is to propose and 
discuss an economic model of analysis for PET applications in the field of 
detection and management of pulmonary tumors.
METHODS: In this study 2 assessments were performed by decision tree analysis on 
the economic impact of the availability of PET on decision-making processes for 
2 conditions: solitary pulmonary nodules assessment and non-small-cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) staging. In order to define a methodology consistent with the 
system of reimbursement and the prevalent clinical views of the Italian National 
Health Service, data on costs, death probability, and life expectancy were 
gathered from the literature and from the Italian system of reimbursement 
(ROD-DRGs).
RESULTS: The results of the cost minimization analysis demonstrate that the use 
of PET in the diagnostic path for the workup of patients with SPN reduces the 
overall diagnostic costs, by approximately 50 Euro per patient, by reducing 
inappropriate invasive diagnostic investigation and their complications. The 
results of the cost effectiveness analysis demonstrate that the use of PET in 
the diagnostic path for the staging of patients with NSCLC reduces the overall 
diagnostic costs by approximately 108 Euro for added year, by reducing 
inappropriate surgical interventions and their complications.
CONCLUSION: Both analyses are based on standard methods used in the literature, 
so our conclusions can be compared with results and assessments of similar 
studies in different countries and health care systems. Also in the Italian 
case, the use of an economic assessment provides relevant information on the 
efficacy and effectiveness of PET.

PMID: 15195004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2004 Apr;16(2):104-11; discussion 111-2. doi: 
10.1007/BF03324538.

The aging factor in health and disease: the promise of basic research on aging.

Butler RN(1), Warner HR, Williams TF, Austad SN, Brody JA, Campisi J, Cerami A, 
Cohen G, Cristofalo VJ, Drachman DA, Finch CE, Fridovich I, Harley CB, Havlik 
RJ, Martin GM, Miller RA, Olshansky SJ, Pereira-Smith OM, Smith JR, Sprott RL, 
West MD, Wilmoth JR, Wright WE.

Author information:
(1)International Longevity Center-USA, Alliance for Health & the Future, and 
Department of Geriatrics, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, NY 10028, USA. 
RobertB@ilcusa.org

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324538
PMID: 15195984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Am J Transplant. 2004 Jul;4(7):1155-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2004.00479.x.

Cost-effectiveness of lung transplantation in relation to type of end-stage 
pulmonary disease.

Groen H(1), van der Bij W, Koëter GH, TenVergert EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonology, Groningen University Hospital, Groningen, the 
Netherlands. h.groen@mta.azg.nl

The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between diagnosis and 
the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of lung transplantation. A 
microsimulation model was used, based on empirical data from the Dutch lung 
transplantation program, collected between 1991 and 1999. We assessed 
life-years, quality-adjusted life-years, and costs with and without 
transplantation for the diagnostic categories alfa-1 antitrypsin deficiency, 
COPD/emphysema, bronchiectasis, primary and secondary pulmonary hypertension, 
cystic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis. Alfa-1 antitrypsin deficiency and 
bronchiectasis had the highest survival gain. Secondary pulmonary hypertension 
and pulmonary fibrosis had the lowest survival gain and the lowest gain of 
quality-adjusted life-years. As compared with COPD/emphysema, alfa-1 antitrypsin 
deficiency, bronchiectasis, and CF had 25%, 40% and 19% more favorable 
cost-effectiveness ratios, respectively. Cost-utility ratios varied less, with 
values of -7%, -14% and -11% for alfa-1 antitrypsin deficiency, bronchiectasis, 
and primary pulmonary hypertension, respectively, compared with COPD. In 
conclusion, our model suggests that there is considerable variation in 
cost-effectiveness and, to a lesser degree, in cost-utility between the 
different diagnostic categories. These variations are the result of differences 
in survival and in quality of life with and without lung transplantation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2004.00479.x
PMID: 15196075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Circulation. 2004 Jul 13;110(2):128-34. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000134480.06723.D8.  Epub 2004 Jun 14.

N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide on admission has prognostic value 
across the whole spectrum of acute coronary syndromes.

Galvani M(1), Ottani F, Oltrona L, Ardissino D, Gensini GF, Maggioni AP, 
Mannucci PM, Mininni N, Prando MD, Tubaro M, Vernocchi A, Vecchio C; Italian 
Working Group on Atherosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology and the 
Associazione Nazionale Medici Cardiologi Ospedalieri (ANMCO).

Author information:
(1)Ospedale G.B. Morgagni and Fondazione Sacco, Forlì, Italy. galvanim@tin.it

BACKGROUND: The prognostic value of natriuretic peptide elevations in patients 
with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) is still incompletely defined. We measured 
N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) on admission in patients 
with ACS and ECG evidence of myocardial ischemia.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The NT-proBNP was measured at a median time of 3 hours 
after symptom onset in 1756 patients. The outcome measure was death at 30 days, 
which occurred in 113 patients (6.4%). The median NT-proBNP level was 353 ng/L 
(107 to 1357 ng/L). Compared with the lowest quartile, patients in the second, 
third, and fourth quartiles had a relative risk of subsequent death of 2.94 (95% 
CI, 1.15 to 7.52), 5.32 (95% CI, 2.19 to 12.91), and 11.5 (95% CI, 4.90 to 
26.87), respectively. The NT-proBNP was independently associated with death in a 
logistic regression model, which included clinical variables, ECG, and troponin 
T in patients either with (OR of highest versus lowest quartile, 7.0; 95% CI, 
1.9 to 25.6) or without (OR of highest versus lowest quartile, 4.1; 95% CI, 1.1 
to 14.6) persistent ST-segment elevation. NT-proBNP was also an independent 
predictor of severe heart failure.
CONCLUSIONS: The measurement of NT-proBNP on admission improves the early risk 
stratification of patients with ACS, suggesting the need for the development of 
targeted therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000134480.06723.D8
PMID: 15197143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Circulation. 2004 Jun 22;109(24):3014-21. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000130644.78677.2C. Epub 2004 Jun 14.

Gender-related differences in acute aortic dissection.

Nienaber CA(1), Fattori R, Mehta RH, Richartz BM, Evangelista A, Petzsch M, 
Cooper JV, Januzzi JL, Ince H, Sechtem U, Bossone E, Fang J, Smith DE, 
Isselbacher EM, Pape LA, Eagle KA; International Registry of Acute Aortic 
Dissection.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University Hospital Rostock, Rostock School of 
Medicine, Ernst-Heydemann-Strasse 6, 18057 Rostock, Germany. 
christoph.nienaber@med.uni-rostock.de

BACKGROUND: Few data exist on gender-related differences in clinical 
presentation, diagnostic findings, management, and outcomes in acute aortic 
dissection (AAD).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Accordingly, we evaluated 1078 patients enrolled in the 
International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection (IRAD) to assess differences 
in clinical features, management, and in-hospital outcomes between men and 
women. Of the patients enrolled in IRAD (32.1%) with AAD, 346 were women. 
Although less frequently affected by AAD (32.1% of AAD), women were 
significantly older and had more often presented later than men (P=0.008); 
symptoms of coma/altered mental status were more common, whereas pulse deficit 
was less common. Diagnostic imaging suggestive of rupture, ie, periaortic 
hematoma, and pleural or pericardial effusion were more commonly observed in 
women. In-hospital complications of hypotension and tamponade occurred with 
greater frequency in women, resulting in higher in-hospital mortality compared 
with men. After adjustment for age and hypertension, women with aortic 
dissection die more frequently than men (OR, 1.4, P=0.04), predominantly in the 
66- to 75-year age group. Moreover, surgical outcome was worse in women than men 
(P=0.013); type A dissection in women was associated with a higher surgical 
mortality of 32% versus 22% in men despite similar delay, surgical technique, 
and hemodynamics.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis provides insights into gender-related differences in 
AAD with regard to clinical characteristics, management, and outcomes; important 
diagnostic and therapeutic implications may help shed light on aortic dissection 
in women to improve their outcomes.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000130644.78677.2C
PMID: 15197151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Circulation. 2004 Jun 22;109(24):2993-9. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000130642.79868.B2. Epub 2004 Jun 14.

Prognosis in women with myocardial ischemia in the absence of obstructive 
coronary disease: results from the National Institutes of Health-National Heart, 
Lung, and Blood Institute-Sponsored Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation (WISE).

Johnson BD(1), Shaw LJ, Buchthal SD, Bairey Merz CN, Kim HW, Scott KN, Doyle M, 
Olson MB, Pepine CJ, den Hollander J, Sharaf B, Rogers WJ, Mankad S, Forder JR, 
Kelsey SF, Pohost GM; National Institutes of Health-National Heart, Lung, and 
Blood Institute.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: We previously reported that 20% of women with chest pain but without 
obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) had stress-induced reduction in 
myocardial phosphocreatine-adenosine triphosphate ratio by phosphorus-31 nuclear 
magnetic resonance spectroscopy (abnormal MRS), consistent with myocardial 
ischemia. The prognostic implications of these findings are unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Women referred for coronary angiography for suspected 
myocardial ischemia underwent MRS handgrip stress testing and follow-up 
evaluation. These included (1) n=60 with no CAD/normal MRS, (2) n=14 with no 
CAD/abnormal MRS, and (3) n=352 a reference group with CAD. Cardiovascular 
events were death, myocardial infarction, heart failure, stroke, other vascular 
events, and hospitalization for unstable angina. Cumulative freedom from events 
at 3 years was 87%, 57%, and 52% for women with no CAD/normal MRS, no 
CAD/abnormal MRS, and CAD, respectively (P<0.01). After adjusting for CAD and 
cardiac risk factors, a phosphocreatine-adenosine triphosphate ratio decrease of 
1% increased the risk of a cardiovascular event by 4% (P=0.02). The higher event 
rate in women with no CAD/abnormal MRS was primarily due to hospitalization for 
unstable angina, which is associated with repeat catheterization and higher 
healthcare costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Among women without CAD, abnormal MRS consistent with myocardial 
ischemia predicted cardiovascular outcome, notably higher rates of anginal 
hospitalization, repeat catheterization, and greater treatment costs. Further 
evaluation into the underlying pathophysiology and possible treatment options 
for women with evidence of myocardial ischemia but without CAD is indicated.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000130642.79868.B2
PMID: 15197152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Circulation. 2004 Jun 15;109(23):2818-25. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000132467.45278.59.

Should C-reactive protein be added to metabolic syndrome and to assessment of 
global cardiovascular risk?

Ridker PM(1), Wilson PW, Grundy SM.

Author information:
(1)Donald W. Reynolds Center for Cardiovascular Research, Boston, Mass, USA. 
pridker@partners.org

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Dec 14;110(24):e532.

Of novel risk factors for cardiovascular disease currently under investigation, 
high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) is the most promising. To date, more 
than 20 prospective epidemiologic studies have demonstrated that hsCRP 
independently predicts vascular risk, 6 cohort studies have confirmed that hsCRP 
evaluation adds prognostic information beyond that available from the Framingham 
Risk Score, and 8 cohort studies have demonstrated additive prognostic value at 
all levels of metabolic syndrome or in the prediction of type 2 diabetes. In 
contrast to several other biomarkers that also reflect biological aspects of 
inflammation, hypofibrinolysis, and insulin resistance, hsCRP measurement is 
inexpensive, standardized, widely available, and has a decade-to-decade 
variation similar to that of cholesterol. Given the consistency of prognostic 
data for hsCRP and the practicality of its use in outpatient clinical settings, 
we believe the time has come for a careful consideration of adding hsCRP as a 
clinical criterion for metabolic syndrome and for the creation of an 
hsCRP-modified coronary risk score useful for global risk prediction in both men 
and women. Toward this end, we believe experts in the fields of epidemiology, 
prevention, vascular biology, and clinical cardiology should be convened to 
begin discussing the merits of this proposal.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000132467.45278.59
PMID: 15197153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Jul;124(3):234-47. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.10268.

Diet and nutrition in wild mongoose lemurs (Eulemur mongoz) and their 
implications for the evolution of female dominance and small group size in 
lemurs.

Curtis DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Surrey Roehampton, London SW15 3SN, 
UK. d.curtis@roehampton.ac.uk

Data collected on the feeding behavior, food intake, and chemical analyses of 
plant foods were used to document seasonal variation in diet and nutrition in 
Eulemur mongoz in northwestern Madagascar. E. mongoz conforms to the general 
Eulemur dietary pattern, with a predominantly frugivorous diet supplemented 
mainly by leaves, flowers, and nectar. Phytochemical analysis revealed high 
water contents in all the main plant foods; mature fruit and flowers contained 
the most water-soluble carbohydrates; immature leaves were richest in protein 
and essential amino acids; the limiting amino acids in all plant foods were 
methionine and cystine; ash (mineral) content was highest in petioles and mature 
leaves; crude lipid content was highest in seeds; and crude fiber content was 
indistinguishable between immature and mature fruit and leaves. High-fiber foods 
were eaten during both seasons; the wet season diet was dominated by high-energy 
foods (mature fruit, nectar, and seeds), while the dry season diet contained 
foods high in energy (mature fruit and flowers) and high in protein (immature 
leaves) and minerals (mature leaves and petioles). However, nutrient intake did 
not vary between seasons, implying that nutrient requirements are met throughout 
the year. These results suggest we draw more conservative conclusions when 
interpreting dietary variability in the absence of chemical analysis, and also 
draw into question the idea that nutritional stress is a factor in the timing of 
reproduction in lemurs and, by extension, is linked to the prevalence of female 
dominance and small group size in lemurs.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10268
PMID: 15197819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2004 May 29;148(22):1106-10.

[Cost-utility analysis; uncertainties restrict applicability].

[Article in Dutch]

de Neeling JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Gezondheidsraad, Postbus 16.052, 2500 BB Den Haag. nico.de.neeling@gr.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2004 May 29;148(22):1074-6.

Assumptions and choices are inherent to cost-utility analysis, the economic 
technique that provides a generic measure for the quantification of the 
efficiency of various health-care services. Uncertainty prevails on many of 
them: on the definition of the output of health care as health gain, on its 
expression in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), on the choice of measurement 
instruments that should provide comparable information across all disease 
categories, on the choice of the procedure to value health states, on the 
relative importance of the judgments of patients and the general public, on the 
quantification of various types of costs, and on the question as to whether, and 
then how, future health gains should be discounted. The conclusion is that the 
results of a cost-utility analysis should be interpreted with caution. For the 
time being, cost-utility analysis cannot be used for direct comparisons of 
efficiency across all types of health-care services.

PMID: 15198066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Palliat Med. 2004 Apr;18(3):234-8. doi: 10.1191/0269216304pm865oa.

How do palliative medicine physicians assess and manage depression.

Lawrie I(1), Lloyd-Williams M, Taylor F.

Author information:
(1)St Gemma's Hospice, Leeds.

Depression is a significant symptom for approximately 25% of palliative care 
patients, but is frequently unrecognized and untreated. This study was carried 
out to determine how senior doctors working in palliative medicine in the UK 
assessed and managed depression in their patients. A questionnaire was sent to 
all palliative care units with a designated consultant or medical director. 
Questions were asked about assessment and management of depression 
(pharmacological and nonpharmacological); difficulties encountered, 
qualifications and current post. The response rate was 63%; two-thirds (90) of 
respondents were consultants and a further 21 medical directors. The majority 
(73%) routinely assessed for depression with 27% using the Hospital Anxiety and 
Depression (HAD) Scale and 10% asking the patient 'are you depressed'? The most 
frequently prescribed medication was SSRI (80%). Less than 6% prescribed 
psychostimulants. Respondents reported difficulties with the assessment and 
management of depression which mainly focused on distinguishing symptoms of 
depression from sadness and whether it was appropriate to treat patients when 
life expectancy was short. Difficulties were identified in accessing psychiatric 
input by 47%. Depression is identified as being a difficult symptom to manage by 
many senior palliative care physicians in the UK and suggestions are made as to 
how some of theses issues can be addressed.

DOI: 10.1191/0269216304pm865oa
PMID: 15198136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Neurosurg Focus. 2004 Mar 15;16(3):E11. doi: 10.3171/foc.2004.16.3.12.

Instrumented transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion with bioabsorbable polymer 
implants and iliac crest autograft.

Coe JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Spinal Deformity and Injury, Los Gatos, California, USA.

Object. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical and radiographic 
results in 31 patients from one center who underwent instrumented transforaminal 
lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) for primarily degenerative indications. Methods. 
Bioabsorbable polymer spacers manufactured with a copolymer of 70:30 
poly(L-lactide-co-D,L-lactide) and filled with iliac crest autograft bone were 
used for the TLIF procedure. In this paper the details of this procedure, 
intermediate (1- to 2-year) clinical and radiographic outcomes, and the basic 
science and rationale for the use of bioabsorbable polymers are discussed. At a 
mean of 18.4 months of follow up, 30 patients (96.8%) were judged to have 
attained solid fusions and 25 patients (81%) had good to excellent results. 
Three patients (9.7%) experienced complications, none of which were directly or 
indirectly attributable to the use of the bioabsorbable polymer implant. Only 
one implant in one patient (3.2%) demonstrated mechanical failure on insertion, 
and that patient experienced no clinical sequelae. Conclusions. This is the 
first clinical series to be published in which the mean follow-up duration 
equals or exceeds the biological life expectancy of this material (12-18 
months). Both the clinical and radiographic results of this study support the 
use of interbody devices manufactured from biodegradable polymers for structural 
interbody support in the TLIF procedure.

DOI: 10.3171/foc.2004.16.3.12
PMID: 15198499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Br J Haematol. 2004 Jul;126(1):153-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2004.04994.x.

Improved extension of platelet storage in a polyolefin container with higher 
oxygen permeability.

Yuasa T(1), Ohto H, Yasunaga R, Kai T, Shirahama N, Ogata T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Blood Transfusion and Transplantation Immunology, Fukushima 
Medical University School of Medicine, Fukushima, Japan.

This study evaluated a newly developed polyolefin bag, which has a 50%/m(2) 
higher oxygen permeability to extend the shelf-life of platelets. Single-donor 
aphaeresis platelets were pooled, separated equally into two bags, PO-80 (0.8 l 
capacity) and KBP-PO (1 l capacity) for control, and stored in plasma for up to 
7 d. Platelet biochemical and functional parameters were monitored in bags 
containing high (4.2 x 10(11)/250 ml/bag, n = 9) and low (2.0 x 10(11)/200 
ml/bag, n = 3) concentrations of platelets over the storage period. After 7 d of 
storage, the PO-80 bags containing high concentrations of platelets had a better 
pH (mean pH 6.74) than those stored in KBP-PO (pH 6.32, P < 0.01); none of the 
nine PO-80 bags with a high platelet concentration had a pH below 6.2, compared 
with four of nine controls (P < 0.05). Similarly, lactate values were 20.19 
mmol/l and 28.09 mmol/l respectively (P < 0.05). Aerobic metabolism was 
maintained better with greater O(2) consumption and less lactate generation in 
high-platelet concentration PO-80 bags than in the control bags. A significant 
difference was also found in pH, pCO(2) and lactate levels between the two bags 
containing low concentrations of platelets during the 7-d period. The in vitro 
characteristics of platelets declined less over 7 d when stored in a higher 
oxygen permeable container than in a marketed bag.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2004.04994.x
PMID: 15198746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Semin Vasc Med. 2004 Feb;4(1):97-104. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-822992.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the genetic screening program for familial 
hypercholesterolemia in The Netherlands.

Wonderling D(1), Umans-Eckenhausen MA, Marks D, Defesche JC, Kastelein JJ, 
Thorogood M.

Author information:
(1)Cancer and Public Health Unit and Health Services Research Unit, London 
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom. 
david.wonderling@lshtm.ac.uk

Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is associated with pronounced atherosclerosis 
leading to premature cardiovascular disease and untimely death. Despite the 
availability of effective preventative drug treatments, many affected 
individuals remain undiagnosed and untreated until they become symptomatic with 
cardiovascular disease. To assess the cost-effectiveness of systematic genetic 
screening of family members of persons diagnosed with FH, an analysis was 
conducted using data from a nationwide screening program for the identification 
of individuals with FH, instituted in The Netherlands in 1994, and from other 
sources. There was DNA testing of families with a known genetic defect to 
identify new cases of FH in the presymptomatic stage of the disease. After 
identification, most newly identified patients were started on 
cholesterol-lowering statin treatment. On average, new cases diagnosed by the 
screening program gained 3.3 years of life each. Twenty-six myocardial 
infarctions would be avoided for every 100 persons treated with statins between 
the ages of 18 and 60 years. The average total lifetime incremental costs, over 
all age ranges and both sexes, including costs for screening and testing, 
lifetime drug treatment, and treatment of cardiovascular events, was US dollars 
7500 per new case identified. Cost per life-year gained was US dollars 8700. 
Therefore, systematic genetic screening of family members of persons diagnosed 
with FH is cost-effective in The Netherlands and should be considered for other 
settings.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-822992
PMID: 15199439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Semin Vasc Med. 2001;1(1):39-42. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-14540.

Clinical and laboratory diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis: new cost-effective 
strategies.

Bounameaux H(1), Perrier A, Wells PS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Angiology and Hemostasis, Medical Clinic, University Hospital of 
Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

Diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) has been made easier, less invasive, and 
somewhat safer over the past 2 decades. This has been due mainly to the 
development of venous compression ultrasonography (US). The prevalence of the 
disease in patients clinically suspected of DVT has steadily decreased during 
the past 10 years, likely as a consequence of the accurate noninvasive test, 
ultrasound imaging. This has led to the development of diagnostic tools that aim 
at reducing the number of unnecessary US exams. These include clinical 
probability assessment and fibrin D-dimer. Several strategies combining these 
tools have been validated in large-outcome studies and compared in a formal 
cost-effectiveness analysis. The results indicate that they should now be 
implemented in daily practice, taking into account local facilities and 
expertise.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-14540
PMID: 15199512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2004 Mar-Apr;78(2):201-13. doi: 
10.1590/s1135-57272004000200007.

[Burden and trends of activities of daily living disability in elderly Spanish 
people].

[Article in Spanish]

Otero A(1), Zunzunegui MV, Rodríguez-Laso A, Aguilar MD, Lázaro P.

Author information:
(1)Centro Universitario de Salud Pública (CUSP), Universidad Autónoma de Madrid 
(UAM), C/Arzobispo Morcillo, s/n 28029 Madrid. angel.otero@uam.es

BACKGROUND: The progressive increase in population aging, specially evident in 
Spain, remark the importance to estimate the volume and the prevalence trends of 
dependency in the 65 years and over Spanish population.
METHODS: The dependency volume was calculated applying the 1993 and 1999 
estimated prevalences in the longitudinal study "Aging in Leganes" to the 
Spanish population of 1991 and 2001. A random study sample of 1560 subjects 65 
years was selected in 1993 in the city of Leganes (Madrid). Response rate at 
baseline was 82% (n = 1283). New information was collected in 1995 (n = 827), 
1997 (n = 666) and 1999 (n = 475). Dependency was defined as needing help in at 
least one of eight Activities of Daily Living ADL. A multilevel model for 
repeated measures was fitted regressing ADL dependency on age, sex, education 
and survey year.
RESULTS: There is a decline in ADL dependency by age in both, men and women. At 
advanced ages, this trend is reversed and there is an apparent increase in 
dependency. The prevalence is higher in women and in low educated subjects. The 
total number of ADL dependent people increased from 903,276 to 995,338 from 1991 
to 2001 although the average age of dependent older people increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Postponement of disability means longer healthy life expectancy and 
increasing volumes of very elderly disabled people, particularly women. 
Consequences for health, labour reform and social security systems can be very 
important.

DOI: 10.1590/s1135-57272004000200007
PMID: 15199798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. J Neurosurg. 2004 Jun;100(6):1123-9. doi: 10.3171/jns.2004.100.6.1123.

To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose: retirement and the 
neurosurgeon.

Rovit RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, New York Medical College, Valhalla, New York, 
USA. hitrick@worldnet.att.net

Neurosurgery has designed a rigid curriculum that must be followed precisely by 
those who wish to enter the specialty. A similar process at the other end of the 
practice cycle has never been formalized except for mandatory retirement from 
certain administrative positions at a particular age. Basic considerations for 
strategic decision making about voluntary retirement from neurosurgery, 
especially operative neurosurgery, are investigated. Statistical data from the 
US Census Bureau and sources in the medical literature were reviewed regarding 
life expectancy and retirement ages. Age-related differences in verbal and 
performance intelligence quotients, attention span, verbal memory recall, and 
visuospatial facility were surveyed. A questionnaire was sent to 29 recently 
retired academic neurosurgeons about their age and reasons for retirement along 
with postretirement activities; 22 responses were received. Analysis of the data 
indicates that surgeons are now retiring at the age of approximately 60 years, 
whereas life expectancy is approximately 80 years. An individual thus may have 
15 to 20 productive years after leaving active neurosurgical practice. Reasons 
for retirement among the 22 responding neurosurgeons included decreasing 
personal satisfaction and financial rewards, a desire to pursue other 
activities, local ground rules mandating age-specific retirement, the general 
sense that enough is enough, and, overall, a strong desire to stop performing 
surgery while at the top of one's game. The process of age-related competence 
assessment of commercial airline pilots is outlined, and a similar process of 
assessment of practicing surgeons may be warranted, with consideration for 
mandatory retirement from operative neurosurgery.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2004.100.6.1123
PMID: 15200137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2004 Jul;26(1):89-95. doi:
10.1016/j.ejcts.2004.03.029.

Factors excercising an influence on recovery of hibernating myocardium after 
coronary artery bypass grafting.

Hausmann H(1), Meyer R, Siniawski H, Pregla R, Gutberlet M, Amthauer H, Felix R, 
Hetzer R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Deutsches Herzzentrum, 
Berlin, Germany. hhausmann@dhzb.de

OBJECTIVE: Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients with endstage 
coronary disease (CAD) significantly improves symptoms and prolongs life 
expectancy. Left ventricular function is also improved in some patients, but not 
in others. Factors which influence functional recovery of hibernating myocardium 
after revascularization are at present under investigation.
METHODS: From 3/2000 to 8/2002, we analyzed 41 patients with an ejection 
fraction (EF) of < or =30%, who underwent CABG, prospectively. All patients 
received low-dose dobutamine echocardiography (DE), dobutamine myocardial 
scintigraphy with SPECT, dobutamine magnetic resonance tomography (MRI), 
contrast-enhanced MRI and, when necessary, positron emission tomography (PET). 
Hibernating myocardium (area of interest) was identified with these diagnostic 
tools preoperatively and biopsy samples were taken intraoperatively.
RESULTS: All patients received complete coronary revascularization. Early 
mortality was 2.4%. Three patients died during follow-up. Six months after the 
operation DE, MRI and SPECT were repeated. EF increased in 23 patients (group I) 
by at least >or =5%, and in 14 patients (group II) it did not improve. The wall 
motion score in the area of interest had increased during preoperative DE in 
group I significantly. The score did not change in group II. In addition the 
diastolic-systolic wall thickness increase in the area of interest rose >15% 
during DE in group I preoperatively; the increase was < or =15% in group II. MRI 
hyperenhancement of the left ventricle was significantly lower in group I 
compared to group II preoperatively. SPECT showed myocardial viability in the 
area of interest in all 37 patients. There were no significant differences 
between group I and II seen in SPECT. When the area of interest was located in 
the anterior wall the patients more frequently showed ventricular improvement 
postoperatively than patients with an area of interest located in the inferior, 
lateral or posterior wall. Light microscopy showed more severe myocardial cell 
hypertrophy (>19 microm) and less severe destruction of myocardial cell 
architecture in biopsies of group I compared to group II (myocardial cell 
hypertrophy < or =17 microm). Electron microscopy showed mitochondrial 
abnormalities in size and shape, lack of contractile material and large areas 
containing nonspecified cytoplasm, lipid droplets, and large glycogen-filled 
regions, but no significant differences between the two groups. Gene expresssion 
of the pro-apoptotic genes BAK and BAX was lowered compared to expression in 
'normal' myocardium. The anti-apoptotic gene BCL-XL was significantly more 
expressed in the 'area of interest' of group II patients than in group I 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that in patients with endstage CAD myocardial recovery 
after coronary revascularization can be predicted using DE and MRI 
preoperatively. Myocardial regions without any potential of functional recovery 
show less adaptation (less pronounced myocardial cell hypertrophy), a more 
severe degree of myocardial architecture destruction and a higher degree of 
anti-apoptotic gene expression. We recommend a myocardial biopsy when DE and MRI 
are not favorable in a patient with end stage coronary artery disease referred 
to us with the option of heart transplantation or coronary bypass.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2004.03.029
PMID: 15200985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Health Soc Policy. 2004;18(3):37-60. doi: 10.1300/J045v18n03_03.

Inter-state disparities in health care and financial burden on the poor in 
India.

Purohit BC(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi, India.

Over five decades of independence, India has made rapid strides in various 
sectors. However, its performance in social sectors and particularly the 
healthcare sector has not been too rosy. Being the State's responsibility the 
healthcare has traditionally been influenced by individual State's budgetary 
allocation. Consequently inter-state disparity in availability and utilization 
of health services and health manpower are distinctly marked. This has 
implications for achievement of Health for All for the nation as a whole. 
Keeping in view the significance of studying inter-state variations in 
healthcare, this study focuses on the performance of healthcare sector in 15 
major States in India. This is attempted through a comparative analysis of 
various parameters depicting availability of health services, their utilization 
and health outcomes. Our analysis depicts the prevalence of considerable 
inequity favoring high income group of States. In terms of healthcare resources, 
for instance, it indicates that the high income States hold a superior position 
in terms of: per capita government expenditure on medical and public health, 
total number of hospitals and dispensaries, per capita availability of beds in 
hospitals and dispensaries and health manpower in rural and urban areas. These 
parameters of availability have an impact on utilization levels and health 
outcomes in these States. A comparative profile of high and low income States as 
well as middle and low income States, both in rural and urban areas, reaffirms a 
greater financial burden in availing treatment at OPD and inpatient in low 
income States. In line with the higher financial burden and low per capita 
health expenditure, the health outcome indicators also depict a disconcerting 
situation in regard to low income States. These States are marked by lower life 
expectancy and higher incidence of diseases as well as high mortality rates. In 
this regard, demand as well as supply side constraints are observed which 
restrain the optimum utilization of existing health services. Among the low 
income States the main constraints on the demand side include illiteracy, 
malnutrition, and lack of infrastructure in accessing the facilities. Certain 
state specific supply side factors add significantly to under-utilization in low 
income States. In some of the States, however, corrective actions have been 
initiated to overcome the problem of the quality and low utilization of health 
facilities. In due course of time, it is likely that proper implementation of 
these measures may result in improved utilization level of existing health 
services, which may be useful to improve health status indicators. Nonetheless, 
overcoming the current levels of regional disparities in healthcare across three 
income groups of States may also require additional resources. The latter could 
be mobilized through assistance of donor agencies and appropriate mix of social 
and private insurance. Ultimately mitigating the problem of regional disparities 
in healthcare and protecting the poor and vulnerable from financial burden may 
require establishing and maintaining proper linkages between socio-economic 
development and healthcare planning.

Copyright 2004 The Haworth Press, Inc.

DOI: 10.1300/J045v18n03_03
PMID: 15201118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2004 Jun 16;2004(24):re4. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2004.24.re4.

Obesity over the life course.

Mizuno T(1), Shu IW, Makimura H, Mobbs C.

Author information:
(1)Fishberg Center for Neurobiology, Neurobiology of Aging Laboratories, 
Department of Geriatrics, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Obesity in middle-aged humans is a risk factor for many age-related diseases and 
decreases life expectancy by about 7 years, which is roughly comparable to the 
combined effect of all cardiovascular disease and cancer on life span. The 
prevalence of obesity increases up until late middle age and decreases 
thereafter. Mechanisms that lead to increased obesity with age are not yet well 
understood, but current evidence implicates impairments in hypothalamic 
function, especially impairments in the ability of hypothalamic 
pro-opiomelanocortin neurons to sense nutritional signals. The rapid increase in 
the prevalence of obesity at all ages in the past decade suggests that, in the 
next two or three decades, diseases associated with obesity, especially 
diabetes, will begin to rise rapidly. Indeed, these trends suggest that for the 
first time in modern history, the life expectancy of people in developed 
societies will begin to decrease, unless the rapid increase in the prevalence of 
obesity can be reversed.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2004.24.re4
PMID: 15201431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Kyobu Geka. 2004 Jun;57(6):450-4.

[Thoracoscopic pericardial resections for malignant pericardial effusions].

[Article in Japanese]
