uncertainty in the results for cost effectiveness.
RESULTS: Screening for HCV is likely to yield benefits in the population 
concerned at around 28,000 pounds per quality adjusted life year. This estimate 
is reasonably stable when explored in extensive one-way sensitivity analysis but 
appeared sensitive to the proportion of HCV positive people who accept biopsy or 
treatment and the utility gains associated with successful drug treatment. 
Important other areas of uncertainty include the effects of mortality from other 
causes on the cost effectiveness of screening in this population and the time at 
which symptoms would have led to presentation in the absence of a screening 
programme.
CONCLUSION: Screening for HCV in this population is moderately cost effective, 
although some caution must remain in accepting this estimate given the current 
uncertainties in this field, and further research is required.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdh109
PMID: 15044577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2004 Mar-Apr;6(2):105-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-817803.

Gene expression analysis in cucumber leaves primed by root colonization with 
Pseudomonas chlororaphis O6 upon challenge-inoculation with Corynespora 
cassiicola.

Kim MS(1), Kim YC, Cho BH.

Author information:
(1)Agricultural Plant Stress Research Center and Institute of Agriculture, 
Science and Technology, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Chonnam 
National University, Gwangju, South Korea.

Root colonization by Pseudomonas chlororaphis O6, a non-pathogenic 
rhizobacterium, induced systemic resistance in cucumber against target leaf spot 
caused by Corynespora cassiicola. A cDNA library was constructed using mRNA 
extracted from cucumber leaves 12 h after inoculation with C. cassiicola, using 
plants colonized by O6. To identify genes involved in O6-mediated induced 
systemic resistance (ISR), we employed a subtractive hybridization method using 
mRNAs extracted from pathogen-challenged cucumber leaves of plants lacking 
colonization. Differential screening of the cDNA library led to the isolation of 
six distinct genes encoding a GTP binding protein, a 60S ribosomal protein, a 
hypersensitive-induced reaction protein, a ubiquitin extension protein, a 
pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase, and a signal recognition particle 
receptor. Expression of these genes was not induced by O6 colonization alone. 
Rather, transcript accumulation of these genes increased significantly faster 
and stronger in the O6 colonized than in non-colonized plants after challenge 
infection. Therefore, O6-mediated ISR may be associated with an enhanced 
capacity for the rapid and effective activation of cellular defence responses 
after challenge inoculation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-817803
PMID: 15045660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. BioDrugs. 2004;18(2):121-39. doi: 10.2165/00063030-200418020-00005.

Adalimumab: a review of its use in rheumatoid arthritis.

Bang LM(1), Keating GM.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Inc., 770 Township Line Road, Suite 300, Yardley, PA 
19067, USA.

Adalimumab (Humira) is a recombinant, fully human IgG1 monoclonal antibody that 
binds specifically to tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, thereby neutralizing 
the activity of the cytokine. Subcutaneous adalimumab has been investigated in 
well designed trials in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis despite 
treatment with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Patients 
receiving adalimumab 40mg every other week in combination with methotrexate 
(Anti-TNF Research Study Program of the Monoclonal Antibody Adalimumab [ARMADA] 
and DE019 trials) or standard antirheumatic therapy (Safety Trial of Adalimumab 
in Rheumatoid Arthritis [STAR] trial) for 24-52 weeks had significantly higher 
American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20, ACR50, and ACR70 response rates than 
patients receiving placebo plus methotrexate or standard antirheumatic therapy. 
In ARMADA, an ACR20 response was achieved in 25%, 52%, and 67% of adalimumab 
plus methotrexate recipients at weeks 1, 4, and 24, respectively. In ARMADA and 
DE019, improvements in the individual components of the ACR response were 
significantly greater with adalimumab 40mg every other week plus methotrexate 
than with placebo plus methotrexate. Monotherapy with adalimumab 40mg every 
other week was associated with significantly higher ACR20, ACR50, and ACR70 
response rates than placebo, as well as significantly greater improvements in 
the individual components of the ACR response. ACR responses were sustained with 
adalimumab according to the results of extension studies in which patients 
received adalimumab in combination with methotrexate (up to 30 months) or as 
monotherapy (up to 5 years). In both concomitant therapy and monotherapy trials, 
adalimumab was associated with significantly greater improvements from baseline 
in health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) measures than placebo; adalimumab 
also retarded the radiographic progression of structural joint damage to a 
significant extent compared with placebo. Adalimumab was generally well 
tolerated as both concomitant therapy and monotherapy. In ARMADA, there were no 
significant differences between adalimumab and placebo (in combination with 
methotrexate) in the incidence of adverse events; however, in STAR, the 
incidence of injection site reactions, rash, and back pain was significantly 
higher with adalimumab than with placebo (in combination with standard 
antirheumatic therapy). No cases of tuberculosis were reported in either 
trial.In conclusion, subcutaneous adalimumab in combination with methotrexate or 
standard antirheumatic therapy, or as monotherapy, is effective in the treatment 
of adults with active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response 
to DMARDs. Adalimumab has a rapid onset of action and sustained efficacy. The 
drug also retards the progression of structural joint damage, improves HR-QOL, 
and is generally well tolerated. Thus, adalimumab is a valuable new option for 
the treatment of DMARD-refractory adult rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.2165/00063030-200418020-00005
PMID: 15046527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Clin Prostate Cancer. 2002 Sep;1(2):105-14. doi: 10.3816/cgc.2002.n.012.

Pilot study of a utilities-based treatment decision intervention for prostate 
cancer patients.

Knight SJ(1), Nathan DP, Siston AK, Kattan MW, Elstein AS, Collela KM, Wolf MS, 
Slimack NS, Bennett CL, Golub RM.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco VA Medical Center, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
California at San Francisco, CA, USA.

This pilot study evaluates a shared decision-making approach to individual 
decision making in localized prostate cancer care. The approach is based on a 
decision analytic model that incorporates patient utilities, ie, patient 
preferences among possible health states that might occur with prostate cancer 
treatments. Data on comorbidities, histologic grade of the biopsy, and age were 
obtained for 13 patients with newly diagnosed localized prostate cancer who 
received care in a Veterans Administration medical center. Using a standard 
gamble technique, interviewers obtained patient utilities for 5 distinct health 
states related to prostate cancer treatment. Utilities and patient clinical and 
pathologic characteristics were incorporated into the decision analytic model, 
and the derived quality-adjusted life expectancies were shared with the treating 
urologist before the first patient-physician discussion about treatment options. 
The results of the pilot study raised 2 major concerns. First, 4 patients had 
utility scores of 1.0 for all of the possible health states, and 7 patients had 
inconsistent utilities in which they rated both impotence and incontinence as a 
better health state than having just one of these problems. Second, the model 
recommended radiation therapy to individuals with a broad range of clinical 
characteristics, pathologic findings, and utility scores. Many of the patients 
who were recommended radiation therapy by the model received discordant 
recommendations from the treating urologist. Future refinements of both the 
utility assessment exercise and decision analytic model may be needed before the 
feasibility of the model in the clinical setting can be determined.

DOI: 10.3816/cgc.2002.n.012
PMID: 15046701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Am J Med. 2004 Apr 1;116(7):451-9. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.10.035.

The management of anticoagulants in the periendoscopic period for patients with 
atrial fibrillation: a decision analysis.

Gerson LB(1), Triadafilopoulos G, Gage BF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
California 94305-5202, USA. lgerson@stanford.edu

PURPOSE: The management of patients who undergo endoscopy while being treated 
with warfarin is challenging. We used decision analysis to determine the 
preferred strategy to manage anticoagulants in the periendoscopic period.
METHODS: We designed a Markov model to estimate costs and quality-adjusted 
survival during a 10-year period in patients with nonvalvular atrial 
fibrillation undergoing screening colonoscopy. We compared six alternatives to 
the continue-warfarin strategy, which was to perform colonoscopy while the 
patient was taking full-dose warfarin. The hold-warfarin strategy was to stop 
warfarin 5 days before the colonoscopy. The repeat endoscopy strategy was to 
continue warfarin for a diagnostic colonoscopy, followed by a repeat procedure 
after cessation of warfarin if polypectomy was required. The dose-reduction 
strategy was to reduce the warfarin dose before colonoscopy. The low molecular 
weight heparin strategy was to administer subcutaneous low molecular weight 
heparin for 2 days before and 2 days after colonoscopy. The unfractionated 
heparin strategy was to administer intravenous unfractionated heparin for 2 days 
before and 2 days after the procedure. The vitamin K strategy was to hold 
warfarin for 4 days and to administer vitamin K if the international normalized 
ratio (INR) exceeded 2.0 the day before the procedure, or low molecular weight 
heparin if the INR was less than 1.5.
RESULTS: For screening colonoscopy, assuming that polyps would be removed in 35% 
of examinations, the hold-warfarin and dose-reduction arms were both 
cost-effective strategies. The hold-warfarin arm was most cost-effective if the 
likelihood of polypectomy exceeded 60%, or if there was a low risk of stroke 
despite atrial fibrillation. The continue-warfarin strategy was preferred if the 
probability of polypectomy was 1% or less.
CONCLUSION: Temporary warfarin cessation or halving the warfarin dose for 
several days before endoscopy was the preferred strategy for most patients. 
Periendoscopic heparin therapy was not cost-effective for patients with 
nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.10.035
PMID: 15047034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Jun;58(11):2149-70. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.08.014.

Life-course experiences and mortality by adult social class among young men.

Pensola T(1), Martikainen P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Population Research Unit, University of Helsinki, 
P.O. Box 18, FIN-00014, Finland. tiina.pensola@helsinki.fi

Circumstances over the life-course may contribute to adult social class 
differences in mortality. However, it is only rarely that the life-course 
approach has been applied to mortality studies among young adults. The aim of 
this study is to determine to what extent social class differences in mortality 
among young Finnish men are explained by living conditions in the parental home 
and life paths related to transitions in youth. The data for males born in 
1956-60 based on the 1990 census records are linked with death records (3184 
deaths) by cause of death for 1991-98, and with information on life-course 
circumstances from the 1970, 1975, 1980, and 1985 censuses. Controlling for 
living conditions in the parental home-social class, family type, number of 
siblings, language and region of residence-reduced the high excess mortality of 
the lower non-manual (RR 1.51, 95% CI: 1.28-1.79), skilled manual (RR 2.94, 
2.54-3.40), and unskilled manual class (RR 4.08, 3.51-4.73) by 10% in all-cause 
mortality. The equivalent reduction for cardiovascular disease was 28% and for 
alcohol-related causes 16%. The effect of parental home on mortality differences 
was mainly mediated through its effect on youth paths (pathway model). 
Educational, marital, and employment paths had a substantial effect-independent 
of parental home-on social class differences from various causes of death. When 
all these variables were controlled for adult social class differences in cause 
specific mortality were reduced by 75-86%. Most of this reduction in mortality 
differences can be attributed to educational path. However, marital and 
employment paths had their independent effects, particularly on the excess 
mortality of unskilled manual workers with disproportionately common exposure to 
long-term unemployment and living without a partner. In summary, social class 
differences in total mortality among men in their middle adulthood were only 
partly determined by parental home but they were mainly attributable to 
educational, marital, and employment paths in youth.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.08.014
PMID: 15047074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Jun;58(11):2219-29. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.08.024.

Testing the internal consistency of the standard gamble in 'success' and 
'failure' frames.

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
Hughton Street, London WC2A 2AE, UK. a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

Decision making behaviour has often been shown to vary following changes in the 
way in which choice problems are described (or 'framed'). Moreover, a number of 
researchers have demonstrated that the standard gamble is prone to internal 
inconsistency, and loss aversion has been proposed as an explanation for this 
observed bias. This study attempts to alter the influence of loss aversion by 
framing the treatment arm of the standard gamble in terms of success (where we 
may expect the influence of loss aversion to be relatively weak) and in terms of 
failure (where we may expect the influence of loss aversion to be relatively 
strong). The objectives of the study are (1) to test whether standard gamble 
values vary when structurally identical gambles are differentially framed, and 
(2) to test whether the standard gamble is equally prone to internal 
inconsistency across the two frames. The results show that compared to framing 
in terms of treatment success, significantly higher values were inferred when 
the gamble was framed in terms of treatment failure. However, there was no 
difference in the quite marked levels of internal inconsistency observed in both 
frames. It is possible that the essential construct of the standard gamble 
induces substantial and/or widespread loss aversion irrespective of the way in 
which the gamble is framed, which offers a fundamental challenge to the 
usefulness of this value elicitation instrument. It is therefore recommended 
that further tests are undertaken on more sophisticated corrective procedures 
designed to limit the influence of loss aversion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.08.024
PMID: 15047079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Diabetes Care. 2004 Apr;27(4):901-7. doi: 10.2337/diacare.27.4.901.

Cost-effectiveness of prevention and treatment of the diabetic foot: a Markov 
analysis.

Ortegon MM(1), Redekop WK, Niessen LW.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Institute of Health Sciences, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. ortegon@bmg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the lifetime health and economic effects of optimal 
prevention and treatment of the diabetic foot according to international 
standards and to determine the cost-effectiveness of these interventions in the 
Netherlands.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A risk-based Markov model was developed to simulate 
the onset and progression of diabetic foot disease in patients with newly 
diagnosed type 2 diabetes managed with care according to guidelines for their 
lifetime. Mean survival time, quality of life, foot complications, and costs 
were the outcome measures assessed. Current care was the reference comparison. 
Data from Dutch studies on the epidemiology of diabetic foot disease, health 
care use, and costs, complemented with information from international studies, 
were used to feed the model.
RESULTS: Compared with current care, guideline-based care resulted in improved 
life expectancy, gain of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and reduced 
incidence of foot complications. The lifetime costs of management of the 
diabetic foot following guideline-based care resulted in a cost per QALY gained 
of < 25,000 US dollars, even for levels of preventive foot care as low as 10%. 
The cost-effectiveness varied sharply, depending on the level of foot ulcer 
reduction attained.
CONCLUSIONS: Management of the diabetic foot according to guideline-based care 
improves survival, reduces diabetic foot complications, and is cost-effective 
and even cost saving compared with standard care.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.27.4.901
PMID: 15047646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. J Urban Health. 2004 Mar;81(1):106-17. doi: 10.1093/jurban/jth097.

Modeled cost-effectiveness of the Experience Corps Baltimore based on a pilot 
randomized trial.

Frick KD(1), Carlson MC, Glass TA, McGill S, Rebok GW, Simpson C, Fried LP.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research and Development Center, Johns Hopkins University 
Bloomberg School of Public Health, 624 North Broadway, Baltimore, MD 21205-1901, 
USA. kfrick@jhsph.edu

The Experience Corps program was designed to harness the social capital of an 
aging society to improve outcomes for public elementary schools. The objectives 
of this article are (1) to model the cost-effectiveness of the Experience Corps 
Baltimore using data from a pilot randomized trial, including costs, older 
adults' health status, and quality of life and cost data from the Medical 
Expenditure Panel Survey, and (2) to describe the relationship between children 
experiencing increased expected lifetime earnings through improved educational 
attainment resulting from exposure to the Experience Corps Baltimore volunteers 
and the program's costs and cost-effectiveness. On average, each quality 
adjusted life year (QALY) gained by older adults in Experience Corps Baltimore 
costs $205,000. The lower bound of the 95% confidence interval for the 
cost-effectiveness is $65,000/QALY. The upper bound is undefined as 15% of the 
simulations indicated no QALY improvements. If 0.3% of students exposed to the 
Experience Corps Baltimore changed from not graduating to graduating, the 
increased lifetime earnings would make the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
$49,000/QALY. If an additional 0.1% changed to graduating from high school, the 
program would be cost-saving. Using conservative modeling assumptions and 
excluding benefits to teachers, principals, and the surrounding community, the 
Experience Corps Baltimore appears expensive for the older adults' health 
improvements, but requires only small long-term benefits to the target children 
to make the program cost-effective or cost-saving.

DOI: 10.1093/jurban/jth097
PMCID: PMC3456137
PMID: 15047789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Hematol J. 2004;5(2):93-102. doi: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200368.

Bone marrow histopathology and biological markers as specific clues to the 
differential diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera and 
prefibrotic or fibrotic agnogenic myeloid metaplasia.

Michiels JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Goodheart Institute, MPD Center Europe, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
postbus@goodheartcenter.demon.nl

Clinical, hematological and morphological peripheral blood and bone marrow 
characteristics, in particular, megakaryopoiesis and bone marrow cellularity, 
reveal diagnostic clues and pathognomonic features, which enable a clear-cut 
distinction between essential thrombocythemia (ET), polycythemia vera (PV) and 
prefibrotic and fibrotic agnogenic myeloid metaplasia (AMM). The characteristic 
increase of enlarged mature megakaryocytes with mature cytoplasm and 
multilobulated nuclei and their tendency to cluster in a normal or slightly 
increased cellular bone marrow represent the hallmark of ET. The characteristic 
increase and clustering of enlarged mature and pleiomorphic megakaryocytes with 
multilobulated nuclei and proliferation of erythropoiesis in a moderate to 
marked hypercellular bone marrow with hyperplasia of dilated sinuses are the 
specific diagnostic features of untreated PV. ET may precede PV for many years 
to more than one decade. Prefibrotic and fibrotic AMM appears to be a distinct 
dual proliferation of abnormal megakaryopoiesis and myelopoiesis. The 
histopathology of the bone marrow in prefibrotic and fibrotic AMM is dominated 
by atypical enlarged and immature megakaryocytes with cloud-like immature 
nuclei, which are not seen in ET and PV at diagnosis and during follow-up. 
Myelofibrosis is not a feature of ET at diagnosis and during long-term 
follow-up. Myelofibrosis, which is secondary to the megakaryocytic/granulocytic 
myeloproliferation, and extramedullary myeloid metaplasia constitute a prominent 
feature and usually progress more or less rapidly during the natural history of 
PV and AMM. Life expectancy is normal in ET, normal in the first and decreased 
in the second decade of follow-up in PV, but significantly shortened in 
thrombocythemia associated with prefibrotic AMM as well as in the various 
fibrotic stages of AMM. These clinical and pathological characteristics of the 
Ph-negative MPDs, by including bone marrow histopathology, enable a clear-cut 
distinction between ET, PV and prefibrotic and fibrotic AMM. The use of 
established and new biological markers of MPDs, like spontaneous EEC, PRV-1 gene 
expression etc, should be validated in large prospective multicenter studies of 
newly diagnosed and previously treated MPD patients using the proposed European 
clinical and pathological (ECP) criteria as the only gold standard available for 
the proper diagnosis and differential diagnosis of ET, PV and AMM.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200368
PMID: 15048058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Orv Hetil. 2004 Feb 15;145(7 Suppl 1):401-5.

[Endoscopic treatment of liver tumors].

[Article in Hungarian]

Németh AM(1), Tulassay Z.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, II. Belgyógyászati Klinika, 
Budapest. nemann@bel2.sote.hu

In cases of patients of high operation risk the endoscopic stent implantation 
has the smallest morbidity and mortality as well as it ensures acceptable life 
quality in non-resec table neoplastic stenosis of liver portal region. In better 
life expectancy the more expensive metallic stents can be recommended because 
they are committed with less complications.

PMID: 15049062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Ugeskr Laeger. 2004 Mar 8;166(11):1005-7.

[The burden of psychiatric illness now and in the future].

[Article in Danish]

Kessing LV(1), Iburg KM.

Author information:
(1)H:S Rigshospitalet, Psykiatrisk klinik, Københavns Universitet, Institut for 
Folkesundhedsvidenskab, Afdeling for International Sundhed. lars.kessing@rh.dk

PMID: 15049236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Exp Hematol. 2004 Apr;32(4):397-407. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2004.01.002.

Factors associated with outcomes of unrelated cord blood transplant: guidelines 
for donor choice.

Gluckman E(1), Rocha V, Arcese W, Michel G, Sanz G, Chan KW, Takahashi TA, 
Ortega J, Filipovich A, Locatelli F, Asano S, Fagioli F, Vowels M, Sirvent A, 
Laporte JP, Tiedemann K, Amadori S, Abecassis M, Bordigoni P, Diez B, Shaw PJ, 
Vora A, Caniglia M, Garnier F, Ionescu I, Garcia J, Koegler G, Rebulla P, 
Chevret S; Eurocord Group.

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplant Unit and Eurocord Registry, Laboratory of Clinical 
Research on Cell Therapy, Saint Louis Hospital AP-HP University Paris VII, 
Paris, France. elaine.gluckman@sls.ap-hop-paris.fr

OBJECTIVE: Optimizing cord blood donor selection based mainly on cell dose and 
human leukocyte antigen (HLA) disparities may further improve results of 
unrelated cord blood transplants (UCBT).
MATERIALS AND RESULTS: We analyzed 550 UCBTs for hematologic malignancies 
reported to the Eurocord Registry. Main outcomes and prognostic factors were 
analyzed in univariable and multivariable analyses incorporating center and 
period effects and using death and relapse as competitive risks for nonfatal 
endpoints. Nucleated cell (NC) dose before freezing and number of HLA 
disparities had a significant influence on outcome. Cumulative incidence (CI) of 
neutrophil and platelet recovery was associated with the number of HLA 
mismatches, number of NC before freezing, and use of granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor. Coexistence of HLA class I and II disparities and 
high CD34 cell dose in the graft were associated with graft-vs-host disease 
grades III-IV. CI of disease relapse was higher in matched transplants showing a 
graft-vs-leukemia effect increased in HLA-mismatched transplants. Overall 3-year 
survival was 34.4%. Prognostic factors for survival were recipient age, gender, 
and disease status.
CONCLUSION: Our results provide indications for a better choice of cord blood 
units according to cord blood cell content and HLA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2004.01.002
PMID: 15050751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Obstet Gynecol. 2004 Apr;103(4):619-31. doi:
10.1097/01.AOG.0000120143.50098.c7.

Cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus DNA testing for cervical cancer 
screening in women aged 30 years or more.

Goldie SJ(1), Kim JJ, Wright TC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115-5924, USA. sgoldie@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 2004 Apr;103(4):617-8.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA 
testing as a primary screening test in combination with cervical cytology in 
women aged 30 years or more.
METHODS: A state-transition mathematical model was used to simulate the natural 
history of HPV and cervical cancer in a cohort of U.S. women. Strategies 
included no screening and screening at different frequencies with conventional 
cytology, liquid-based cytology with HPV testing used for triage of equivocal 
results, and HPV DNA testing and cytology in combination after women had reached 
the age of 30. Outcomes measured included cancer incidence, life expectancy, 
lifetime costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: The estimated reduction in lifetime risk of cervical cancer varies from 
81% to 93% depending on the screening frequency, type of cytology, and test 
strategy. Every 3-year screening with liquid-based cytology administered to 
women at all ages and every 3-year screening using HPV DNA testing and cytology 
in combination administered to women aged 30 years or more provide equivalent or 
greater benefits than those provided by annual conventional cytology and have 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of US dollars 95300 and US dollars 228700 
per year of life gained, respectively. In comparison, annual screening with HPV 
DNA testing and cytology in combination provides only a few hours of additional 
life expectancy and has a cost-effectiveness ratio of more than Us dollars 
2000000 per year of life gained.
CONCLUSIONS: For women aged 30 years and more, every 2- or 3-year screening 
strategy that uses either HPV DNA testing in combination with cytology for 
primary screening or cytology with reflex HPV DNA testing for equivocal results 
will provide a greater reduction in cancer and be less costly than annual 
conventional cytology.

DOI: 10.1097/01.AOG.0000120143.50098.c7
PMID: 15051550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Eur J Nutr. 2004 Mar;43 Suppl 1:I/2-5. doi: 10.1007/s00394-004-1102-x.

Atherosclerosis--epidemiological studies on the health effects of a 
Mediterranean diet.

Kok FJ(1), Kromhout D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Nutrition & Epidemiology, Wageningen University, PO Box 
8129, 6700 EV Wageningen, The Netherlands. frans.kok@wur.nl

Mediterranean diets are characterized by olive oil, as the dominant fat source 
and a high to moderate consumption of fruit and vegetables, cereal products, 
fish, legumes, in combination with little meat and wine with meals. The 
"reference" Mediterranean diet seems to differ according to country, but is 
associated with good health and a long life expectancy. From the Seven Countries 
Studies, it has been shown that especially the traditional Cretan diet was 
associated with very low 25-year mortality rates for coronary heart disease, 
cancer and all-causes. In terms of nutrients and bioactive compounds the 
"reference" Mediterranean diet is low in saturated fat and high in 
monounsaturated fatty acids, high in antioxidants especially vitamin C and E, 
and high in fiber and folic acid. Several epidemiological studies have 
investigated these dietary components either separately or in combination in 
other than Mediterranean populations. In general, also in other populations 
beneficial effects on the coronary risk profile have been observed, which gives 
further support to the positive health effects of the Mediterranean diet. 
Intervention studies in East Finland and Southern Italy have convincingly shown 
that the coronary risk profile (lower LDL cholesterol and blood pressure levels) 
is improved by a Mediterranean diet. Moreover, the Cretan diet was tested in 
cardiac patients and showed a 70 % lower cardiac and all-causes mortality 
compared to the control diet. In conclusion, epidemiological studies and 
intervention trials suggest that the Cretan Mediterranean diet lowers the risk 
of coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00394-004-1102-x
PMID: 15052492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Eur J Nutr. 2004 Mar;43 Suppl 1:I/31-38. doi: 10.1007/s00394-004-1107-5.

The benefit of the Mediterranean diet--considerations to modify German food 
patterns.

Leonhäuser IU(1), Dorandt S, Willmund E, Honsel J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutritional Science, Justus-Liebig-University Giessen, 
Professorship Nutrition Education and Consumer Behaviour, Senckenbergstrasse 3, 
35390 Giessen, Germany. leonhaeuser-ebvv@ernaehrung.unigiessen.de

BACKGROUND: In the early 1960s the occurrence of coronary heart diseases and 
cancer in Mediterranean countries was much lower than in other industrialised 
countries. The life expectancy of the Mediterranean population was higher, 
although medical care did not meet western standards. Studies showed that those 
findings were due to the Mediterranean diet and life style [1, 2].
AIM OF THE STUDY: is to investigate whether these findings are transferable to 
the present German diet and life style in order to take advantage of the 
positive effects of the Mediterranean diet and life style against the background 
of the still present high rate of coronary heart diseases and cancer in Germany.
METHOD: Regarding the aim of the study we compared food consumption data from 
different years between 1961 and 1999 of four Mediterranean countries and 
Germany. The data for this comparison were taken from data of DAta Food 
NEtworking (DAFNE) based on Household Budget Surveys (HBS), and data of Food 
Balance Sheets (FBS).
RESULTS: Compared to Mediterranean residents Germans eat less plant food, 
especially vegetables, cereals and pulses were consumed in lower amounts, 
whereas animal products were consumed in higher amounts at each meal.
CONCLUSION: A transformation of components of the Mediterranean diet to the 
German diet is theoretically possible considering the availability of food. 
Nutrition has to be seen holistically and therefore the lifestyle, cultural and 
social aspects have to be taken into account. These aspects can help prevent the 
occurrence of coronary heart diseases and cancer. From a scientific point of 
view there is a further need of research focused on lifestyle in the context of 
food patterns in different European countries.

DOI: 10.1007/s00394-004-1107-5
PMID: 15052497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Surg Clin North Am. 2004 Feb;84(1):257-87, xi-xii. doi: 
10.1016/S0039-6109(03)00214-7.

Selection of patients and techniques of heart transplantation.

Kirklin JK(1), McGiffin DC, Pinderski LJ, Tallaj J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of 
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. jkirklin@UAB.edu

Cardiac transplantation remains the primary therapeutic choice for most patients 
under 65 years of age with advanced heart failure who remain symptomatic despite 
maximal medical therapy. Cardiac transplantation should be reserved for those 
patients most likely to benefit in terms of both life expectancy and quality of 
life. The concept of survival benefit margin must be balanced with the 
principles of utility in the selection process. A critical component of outcomes 
research for advanced heart failure will be the generation of accurate data and 
analyses which predict long-term survival and quality of life with various 
therapeutic modalities. Patients with multiple comorbidities have inferior 
survival and might be considered for alternative therapies. We currently 
recommend the bicaval techniques as the transplant technique of choice except in 
small infants and children.

DOI: 10.1016/S0039-6109(03)00214-7
PMID: 15053193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Psychooncology. 2004 Apr;13(4):281-92. doi: 10.1002/pon.733.

Improving the effectiveness of adjuvant psychological treatment for women with 
breast cancer: the feasibility of providing online support.

Owen JE(1), Klapow JC, Roth DL, Nabell L, Tucker DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. 
jowen@uab.edu

Many well-designed studies have shown psychosocial treatments for cancer to be 
efficacious for improving patients' quality of life, but the actual impact of 
these treatments may be limited by low rates of participation. Web-based 
treatment formats could improve effectiveness by increasing availability and 
accessibility. Two phases of a feasibility study are reported in this article. 
In the first phase, we sought to assess internet access and perceived interest 
in online support among 136 women with breast cancer (June-October, 1999). 
Levels of interest in participating in an online psychosocial treatment were 
associated with age, outcome expectancy, and barriers to using the internet but 
not stage or time since diagnosis. In the second phase, we document accrual 
rates among several methods of recruitment during a randomized trial 
(February-December, 2001) and report changes over time in internet access. 
Recruitment rates were substantially higher when a study representative was 
available in clinic to provide information about the treatment than for all 
other methods of recruitment. Access to the internet increased between 1999 
(63%) and 2001 (70%) and varied across age groups. These results suggest that 
internet-based psychosocial treatments, with notable limitations, are feasible 
for increasing the impact of psychosocial care.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.733
PMID: 15054732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Rozhl Chir. 2004 Jan;83(1):20-3.

[Atypical portocaval anastomosis for hemorrhage in portal hypertension].

[Article in Czech]

Klein J(1), Král V, Aujeský R, Bohanes T, Konecný M, Procházka V, Vomácka J.

Author information:
(1)I. chirurgická klinika LF UP a FN Olomouc. kleinj@fnol.cz

The success of endoscopy in treating esophageal varices and the later 
introduction of liver transplantation into the algorithm of therapy for liver 
failure shifted surgery of portal hypertension out of sight of hepatologists and 
surgeons. This decline from surgical treatment was further confirmed by 
introduction of TIPS into clinical practice. It is completely out of question 
that only liver transplantation is the causal solution of decompensated liver 
disease and a series of reliable and less invasive methods may be selected for 
acute treatment of bleeding from varices. However, even at the present time the 
portal-systemic shunt may be used in its own indication in repeatedly bleeding 
patients with a good liver capacity, where it can play a role by bridging the 
time to liver transplantation in a way similar to TIPS or even to provide a 
final solution, which makes it possible to live the life expectancy in adequate 
comfort without the risk of bleeding complications. However, it is not always 
possible to place a surgical shunt on some of the main branches of the portal 
vein. In such cases, devascularization is often successfully applied. Atypical 
shunts represent an exceptional alternative, because side feeder veins of the 
portal vein are rarely of sufficient caliber for placing a hemodynamically 
significant shunt. The authors describe two cases, in which stubborn 
anemia-causing bleeding events in portal hypertension were treated with 
left-side epiploic-renal shunt or anastomosis between the mesenteric and 
left-side iliac vein.

PMID: 15055082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Ir Med J. 2004 Jan;97(1):4.

Men's health in Ireland--they die younger don't they?

Murphy JF.

PMID: 15055908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2004 Apr;4(2):197-211. doi: 
10.1586/14737140.4.2.197.

Treatment options for early breast cancer in elderly women.

Basso U(1), Brunello A, Pogliani C, Monfardini S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Ospedale Busonera, via Gattamelata 64, 
Azienda Ospedale - Università, 35100 Padova, Italy. u.basso@tin.it

In clinical practice, approximately 50% of new cases of breast cancer occur in 
women over the age of 65 years, although very few elderly women have been 
enrolled in the numerous randomized trials conducted so far. Notwithstanding 
less aggressive biologic features compared with younger patients, breast cancer 
impacts on mortality of elderly women, especially if not adequately treated. As 
confirmed by meta-analyses, hormonal therapy is the most effective adjuvant 
measure for patients with localized disease, whereas the decrease in the benefit 
of cytotoxic treatment with increased risk of toxicity make the decision on when 
and how to administer it a major challenge for the medical oncologist. Careful 
evaluation of biological prognostic factors, performance status and geriatric 
parameters, such as functional independence, comorbidities and cognitive 
function of the patient, along with determination of her life expectancy and 
preferences, represent the relevant information on which the oncologist should 
ground their decision for integrated treatment with conservative surgery, 
radiotherapy and hormonochemotherapy in otherwise healthy women, or attenuated 
or palliative measures for the frail patients, in order to maximize the balance 
of benefits and toxicities. The aims of this review are to summarize the most 
relevant concepts for decision making in the clinical practice and discuss the 
results of recent research concerning the additional needs of elderly women with 
early breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.4.2.197
PMID: 15056050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2004 Apr;4(2):212-8. doi:
10.1586/14737140.4.2.212.

Follow-up care in breast cancer.

Rutgers EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Antoni van 
Leeuwenhoek Hospital, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
e.rutgers@nki.nl

Improved early diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer has resulted in a 
significant decrease in breast cancer-related mortality in many countries. 
Breast cancer survivors live longer. As a consequence, the prevalence of breast 
cancer survivors will rise and will put an increasing burden on follow-up 
oncology clinics. Follow-up of breast cancer patients should be aimed at the 
detection of curable disease and must comply with the needs of the patient. 
Regular physical examination may be useful for timely discovery of locoregional 
relapse, and screening mammography for the early detection of a second primary 
breast cancer or breast relapse after breast-conserving therapy. Onerous 
searching for distant metastases by routine investigations will not improve life 
expectancy of the patient and may even be harmful because of false-positive 
findings and false expectations and reassurance. Patients seek emotional 
support, information, physical and cosmetic recovery and prompt access to the 
oncologist in case of worrying complaints, signs or symptoms. Support, 
information and screening for relatively healthy patients can be provided by 
breast care nurse practitioners or family practitioners. For more complex 
issues, such as debilitating functional treatment regimens, estrogen deprivation 
symptoms, pregnancy after breast cancer or symptoms suspicious for a relapse, an 
experienced oncologist should be at hand.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.4.2.212
PMID: 15056051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2004 Mar 31;2004(13):nf35. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2004.13.nf35.

Never too old?

Leslie M.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2004.13.nf35
PMID: 15056796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Circ J. 2004 Apr;68(4):315-20. doi: 10.1253/circj.68.315.

Improvement in physiological outcomes and health-related quality of life 
following cardiac rehabilitation in patients with acute myocardial infarction.

Izawa K(1), Hirano Y, Yamada S, Oka K, Omiya K, Iijima S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, St Marianna University School of 
Medicine, Kawasaki, Japan. k-izawa@ga2.so-net.ne.jp

BACKGROUND: The present study examined the impact of an 8-week cardiac 
rehabilitation (CR) program on physiological outcomes and health-related quality 
of life (HRQOL) of patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 124 consecutive AMI patients were divided into a 
supervised outpatient CR group (n=82) and a non-CR group as a control (n=42). 
Peak oxygen uptake, handgrip strength, and knee extension muscular strength were 
used as physiological outcome measures. HRQOL outcomes were assessed by the 
Medical Outcome Study Short Form 36 (SF-36). CR group patients performed both 
aerobic exercise and moderate resistance training from 1 month (T1) to 3 months 
(T2) after AMI onset. Age, sex, body mass index, medications, and ejection 
fraction were similar in both groups. Significantly greater increases in overall 
physiological outcomes from T1 to T2 were measured in the CR group compared with 
those of the non-CR group. There were also significantly greater improvements in 
4 of the 8 SF-36 health status subscales (physical functioning, role-physical, 
general health, and vitality) in the CR group compared with the non-CR group.
CONCLUSIONS: Eight weeks of exercise training have specific effects on 
improvement in HRQOL and physiological outcomes in Japanese patients.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.68.315
PMID: 15056827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Circ J. 2004 Apr;68(4):343-7. doi: 10.1253/circj.68.343.

Very low frequency power of heart rate variability is a powerful predictor of 
clinical prognosis in patients with congestive heart failure.

Hadase M(1), Azuma A, Zen K, Asada S, Kawasaki T, Kamitani T, Kawasaki S, 
Sugihara H, Matsubara H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Japan. 
hadase@msj.biglobe.ne.jp

BACKGROUND: The present study examined whether the very low frequency (VLF) 
power of heart rate variability (HRV) is predictive of clinical prognosis in 
patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).
METHOD AND RESULTS: The study recruited 54 consecutive CHF patients with 
emergency admission because of exacerbation of pulmonary congestion. Holter 
monitoring was performed after improvement of pulmonary congestion. The 
frequency components of HRV were calculated in the frequency domain (VLF, low 
frequency (LF), high frequency (HF), total power (TP) and the ratio of LF to HF 
power). The left ventricular ejection fraction was calculated, and plasma brain 
natriuretic peptide (BNP) and norepinephrine were also measured at discharge. 
Within a mean follow-up period of 19.8 +/- 11.7 months, 18 patients experienced 
cardiovascular events; 7 patients died and 11 patients required 
rehospitalization because of worsening of CHF. In univariate analysis, diabetes 
mellitus (DM), BNP and New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class were 
significant as risk factors for cardiac events. VLF power, LF power and TP were 
the strong predictors for cardiac events in HRV. In multivariate analysis, VLF 
power predicted cardiac events independently of LF power, TP, DM, BNP and NYHA 
functional class (chi-square=6.24, p=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: VLF power is an independent risk predictor in patients with CHF.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.68.343
PMID: 15056832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Nat Med. 2004 Apr;10(4):324. doi: 10.1038/nm0404-324.

Profile: Mark Mattson.

Pearson H.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0404-324
PMID: 15057216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Nat Med. 2004 Apr;10(4):345-7. doi: 10.1038/nm0404-345.

Putting the heat on ALS.

Benn SC, Brown RH Jr.

Comment on
    Nat Med. 2004 Apr;10(4):402-5.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0404-345
PMID: 15057226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2004 Feb;51(2):79-93.

[Role of the social support network which influences age of death and physical 
function of elderly people: study of trends in and outside of Japan and future 
problems].

[Article in Japanese]

Kishi R(1), Horikawa N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Sapporo.

Concerning associations between the social support network and physical health 
of the elderly, longitudinal studies have been conducted using various 
measurement indexes. The studies indicated that the support network influences 
on physical function and life expectancy. In this study we compared research 
papers from Japan and elsewhere that appeared after 1980, from the viewpoint of 
1) social support effects, and 2) social network effects, to examine potential 
problems in the future. The main knowledge obtained was that the receipt of 
emotional support, wide network size, and participation in social activities 
reduced the risk of early death and decrease in physical function of elderly 
people. Sex differences were indicated, and in many cases, the effects were more 
remarkable in men than women. In addition the positive influence of receiving 
help from a support network, a major subject of conventional research, the 
effects of offering help to others and negative findings were also examined. It 
has been indicated that participation in volunteer groups and offer of support 
to other people can prevent decrease in physical function or early death. As 
negative effects, improper instrumental support rather disturbs the mental and 
physical independence of elderly people. As future issues, it is necessary to 
focus on both positive/negative and receipt/offer effects of support network, 
and to clarify how to provide example which best match the life of elderly 
people by comparing sexes and regions. It is also important to actually apply 
the knowledge gained from observational studies to prevent the elderly from 
becoming a condition requiring care, and to develop intervention studies which 
can increase the social contacts of elderly people at the same time as 
conducting health education and medical treatment.

PMID: 15058098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Qual Life Res. 2004 Feb;13(1):1-10; discussion 11-4. doi: 
10.1023/B:QURE.0000015299.45623.38.

Integrating health profile with survival for quality of life assessment.

Hwang JS(1), Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica.

In cohort studies or clinical trials, measurements of quality of life (QoL) were 
averaged across available individuals for each group at given points in time to 
produce single measures for comparisons. However, estimates of these single 
measures may be severely biased if substantial mortality occurs over time. The 
objective of this study is to develop a method that integrates QoL measurement 
and survival for long-term evaluation of health services. We defined a mean QoL 
score function over time for an index population as the average QoL score of all 
individuals both alive and dead at each time point in the population. While a 
living subject's QoL can be assessed by asking one's subjective preference, the 
score of a decedent can be assigned a fixed value depending on the specific 
facet on health profile. The mean QoL score function over time is reduced to a 
single measure of expected cumulative QoL score, which is the area under the 
curve of mean QoL score function over a given time interval and can be estimated 
by taking a random sample from a cross-sectional survey. For the QoL score 
function to be extrapolated to life-long, it requires the assumption that the 
disease causes premature death or a long-term moderate impairment of QoL. We 
provided methods and computer programs for estimating mean QoL score functions 
and the reduced single measures for use in comparisons. A cohort of 779 breast 
cancer patients from Chiangmai, Thailand were followed for 12 years to 
demonstrate the proposed methods. The data included the 12-year complete 
survival records and QoL scores on 233 patients collected from a cross-sectional 
survey using WHOQOL questionnaire and standard gamble method. The expected 
cumulative QoL scores using utility and psychometric scales were compared among 
patients in four groups of clinical stages in this cohort for time from onset up 
to 12 years and life-long. We conclude that such an integration of QoL 
measurement with survival can be useful for the evaluation of health service and 
clinical decision.

DOI: 10.1023/B:QURE.0000015299.45623.38
PMID: 15058782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Eur J Haematol. 2004 May;72(5):314-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.2004.00228.x.

Functional C3435T polymorphism of MDR1 gene: an impact on genetic susceptibility 
and clinical outcome of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Jamroziak K(1), Młynarski W, Balcerczak E, Mistygacz M, Trelinska J, Mirowski M, 
Bodalski J, Robak T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Medical University of Lodz, ul. Pabianicka 62, 
93-513 Lodz, Poland.

The significance of genetic background in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL) is not well understood. Polymorphisms of genes encoding for xenobiotics 
and drug transporters are potential factors, which can influence the risk of 
developing ALL and its clinical outcome. P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is an adenosine 
triphosphate-binding cassette (ABC)-family transporter involved in protection 
against xenobiotics and multi-drug resistance. Recently, the single-nucleotide 
polymorphism C3435T of MDR1 gene has been found to be associated with altered 
tissue expression and function of P-gp. To evaluate whether C3435T MDR1 
polymorphism is associated with the occurrence and outcome of ALL, 113 children 
with ALL (median age 5.1 yr) and 175 healthy individuals of Polish Caucasian 
origin were studied by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment-length 
polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) assay. The mutant homozygous TT genotype was found to be 
associated with occurrence of ALL (OR, 95% CI; 1.8, 1.1-3.1; P = 0.037). 
Besides, the analysis of factors influencing clinical outcome of our ALL patient 
cohort showed that CC genotype carriers had significantly lower event-free 
survival probability (pEFS) (0.62 vs. 0.87; P = 0.007) and overall survival 
probability (pOS) (0.72 vs. 0.91; P = 0.006). The Cox proportional hazards 
model-based analysis revealed that the hazard ratios for lower pEFS and lower 
pOS among CC homozygous subjects were 3.9 (P = 0.008) and 3.3 (P = 0.02), 
respectively. In conclusion, the results of the present study provide evidence 
that C3435T MDR1 polymorphism may involve both the susceptibility to and the 
clinical outcome of childhood ALL. Carriers of the TT genotype are more at risk 
of developing ALL than other individuals, whereas CC genotype carriers are 
supposed to have worse prognosis.

