polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for genomic scanning to screen for 
tumor-specific alterations in tumor DNA. Using this method, we detected a 
rearranged chromosomal region in renal cell carcinomas (RCCs). We then examined 
tumor-specific allelic loss in this region using microsatellite markers and 
determined whether a relationship was present between this allelic loss and the 
clinicopathologic features of the patients.
METHODS: The inter-Alu long PCR genomic scan method was performed using RCC DNA 
samples and primers specific for a minor subset of the human repeat sequence 
Alu. We analyzed DNA samples from 42 pairs of matched normal and nonpapillary 
RCC tissues with seven microsatellite markers.
RESULTS: The inter-Alu long PCR genomic scan method revealed an altered DNA 
region on chromosome 14q24-31, which is the location of several putative tumor 
suppressor genes. At least one of seven microsatellite markers on chromosome 
14q24-31 showed loss of heterozygosity in 23 (54.8%) of 42 informative cases of 
RCC. The prevalent loss region was confined to a 2-Mb region around D14S67. We 
found a positive correlation between the presence of the loss of heterozygosity 
on 14q24-31 and tumor stage (P <0.05). We also found that cases with allelic 
loss at 14q24-31 had a poor prognosis (P = 0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: Our inter-Alu long PCR genomic scan method is a powerful method for 
the screening of DNA alterations, and our data suggest that the chromosome 
14q24-31 region contains likely tumor suppressor genes associated with the 
progression of RCC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.015
PMID: 15245966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Urology. 2004 Jul;64(1):189-90; author reply 190. doi: 
10.1016/j.urology.2004.01.047.

Continued undertreatment of older men with localized prostate cancer.

Carter HB.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.01.047
PMID: 15245976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Oct;59(7):1409-21. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.01.023.

Health lifestyles in central Asia: the case of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.

Cockerham WC(1), Hinote BP, Abbott P, Haerpfer C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 237 Ullman 
Building, 1212 University Boulevard, Birmingham, AL 35226, USA. wcocker@uab.edu

There is a growing body of evidence suggesting that negative health lifestyles 
are the principal social determinants of the mortality crisis in the former 
socialist states. Little is known, however, about health lifestyles in Central 
Asia, where the downturn in life expectancy was also experienced. This paper 
examines health lifestyles in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan in order to fill an 
important gap in the literature. The data show, consistent with the improved 
longevity of the Kyrgyz population, that such lifestyles are more positive in 
Kyrgyzstan despite the somewhat better economic situation in Kazakhstan, where 
the mortality crisis continues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.01.023
PMID: 15246170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Oct;59(7):1423-33. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.01.025.

Analysis of health-related quality of life (HRQL), its distribution, and its 
distribution by income in Japan, 1989 and 1998.

Asada Y(1), Ohkusa Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioethics, Dalhousie University, 5849 University Avenue, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 4H7, Canada. yukiko.asada@dal.ca

Research conducted over the past decade has increasingly focused on health 
inequality. The goals of improving the health of a population are now often 
expressed as the increase in the average level of health and the decrease in 
health inequality as clearly specified in the Healthy People 2010 and the World 
Health Report 2000. Using a nationally representative sample of the 1989 and 
1998 waves of the Japanese Comprehensive Survey of Living Conditions of the 
People on Health and Welfare (CSLC), this research examines the average 
health-related quality of life (HRQL), its distribution, and its distribution by 
income share. This study departs from previous health inequality analyses in the 
following two ways: (1) construction of a measure of HRQL in the CSLC and its 
application to health inequality analysis, and (2) inclusion of the dead in 
health inequality analysis using a cross-sectional survey. This study found that 
between 1989 and 1998 the average HRQL in Japan slightly reduced (0.005 
reduction), its inequality by income slightly reduced (0.002 reduction in the 
difference between the top 20% and bottom 20% income share groups), and its 
inequality measured by the Gini coefficient slightly increased (0.002 increase). 
Women's HRQL was almost always lower than men's, except in earlier ages younger 
than 10 years old. HRQL was more unequally distributed among women than men and 
in older ages. This analysis shows that the success in the improvement in the 
length of life in Japan did not always coincide with the improvement in HRQL and 
provides a basis for the future population health research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.01.025
PMID: 15246171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 2004 Jul;15(3):319-34. doi: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.03.002.

Treatment of trigeminal neuralgia.

Liu JK(1), Apfelbaum RI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, 30 North 
1900 East, Suite 3B409, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA.

When medical treatment for trigeminal neuralgia fails or is limited by 
significant side effects, neurosurgeons need to inform their patients of all the 
available treatment options. The best treatment for the patient depends on the 
age of the patient, medical comorbidities, and the risks the patient is willing 
to assume. We recommend microvascular decompression for younger healthy patients 
with a longer life expectancy. Percutaneous trigeminal neurolysis remains a 
useful minimally invasive approach for the older patient and for the patient 
with medical comorbidities and a shorter life expectancy. The role of 
stereotactic radiosurgery in the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia will be 
better defined in the future. Partial sectioning of the trigeminal nerve may be 
considered in patients who have negative explorations during a microvascular 
decompression or when other less invasive procedures have failed to provide 
adequate relief.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.03.002
PMID: 15246340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Vaccine. 2004 Jul 29;22(21-22):2730-6. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2004.01.045.

The incidence of varicella in southern Taiwan: a life table method estimation 
among susceptible population.

Tan HF(1), Tseng HF, Chang CK, Ke D, Lee-Hsieh J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Healthcare Administration, Chang-Jung University, Taiwan, ROC.

Previous studies have failed to estimate the size of population at risk and 
underestimated the incidence of varicella among susceptible population. In this 
study, we calculated the incidence of varicella and its complications in Taiwan 
based on a life table method, in which the size of population at risk was taken 
into account. Population-based data were obtained from the Bureau of National 
Health Insurance. The age-specific incidences estimated by the uncorrected and 
corrected methods were compared. The incidence of varicella increased sharply 
after infancy and peaked at 16.7% in children aged 5 years. A correction which 
assumes the introduction of varicella vaccine resulted in a higher incidence of 
19.5% in children aged 5 years. The lifetime cumulative incidence increased to 
around 76%. Sensitive surveillance of varicella and correct incidence estimate 
among susceptible population are essential in countries that have implemented or 
are about to implement varicella vaccination.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2004.01.045
PMID: 15246604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Vaccine. 2004 Jul 29;22(21-22):2953-64. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2003.11.057.

Pertussis vaccination strategies for neonates--an exploratory cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Scuffham PA(1), McIntyre PB.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium Ltd., Level 2, Market Square, University of 
York, YO10 5NH, UK. pas8@york.ac.uk

Hospitalisation and death from pertussis in highly immunised populations largely 
occurs before the first vaccination at 2 months. A Markov model was constructed 
to estimate the costs and health consequences of three strategies to reduce 
pertussis over the first 6 months of an infant's life. Earlier vaccination (at 
either birth or 1 month in addition to current practice) or vaccination of the 
parents soon after birth was compared with the current practice of vaccination 
at 2, 4 and 6 months. The model was populated using data on the incidence and 
costs from Australia. Disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) were used as the 
primary outcome measure. The cost to the Australian public health system was 
chosen as the economic perspective, and Monte-Carlo simulations were used to 
accommodate uncertainties in the variables. Vaccination at birth was estimated 
to cost (S.D.) an additional A$33.21 (A$1.60) per infant and to reduce cases, 
deaths and DALYs by 45%. Vaccination at 1 month was estimated to cost an 
additional A$43.24 (A$8.98) per infant and to reduce morbidity by approximately 
25%. Parental vaccination at birth was the most expensive alternative, costing 
an additional A$73.38 (A$4.98) per infant and reducing pertussis morbidity by 
38%. The costs per DALY averted were A$330,175 (A$15,461) A$735,994 (A$147,679) 
and A$787,504 (A$48,075) for the birth, 1 month and parental vaccination 
strategies, respectively. Changing the estimated factor by which 
hospitalisations and deaths are under-reported, and the efficacy of early 
vaccination, had large effects on results. Parental vaccination at birth was 
most cost-effective where protection persisted for subsequent children. The 
birth vaccination strategy appears to offer the greatest potential benefit for 
one-child families, but the efficacy at birth (and 1 month) needs to be 
established.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2003.11.057
PMID: 15246632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:64-9. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.014.

Antiaging treatments have been legally prescribed for approximately thirty 
years.

Ukraintseva SV(1), Arbeev KG, Michalsky AI, Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, 18057 Rostock, Germany. 
ukraintseva@cds.duke.edu

There is an interesting divergence between the achievements of geriatrics and 
gerontology. On the one hand, during the last 30 years physicians in many 
developed countries have successfully prescribed several medicines to cure 
various symptoms of senescence. On the other hand, the influence of such 
medicines on human life span practically has not been studied. The most common 
of the relevant medicines are nootropic piracetam, gamma-aminobutyric acid 
(GABA), selegiline, Ginkgo biloba, pentoxifylline, cerebrolysin, solcoseryl, 
ergoloid, vinpocetin, sertraline, and estrogens, among others. Available data 
from human clinical practices and experimental animal studies indicate that 
treatments with these drugs improve learning, memory, brain metabolism, and 
capacity. Some of these drugs increase tolerance to various stresses such as 
oxygen deficit and exercise, stimulate the regeneration of neurons in the old 
brain, and speed up the performance of mental and physical tasks. This means 
that modern medicine already has "antiaging" treatments at its disposal. 
However, the influence of such treatments on the mean and maximal life span of 
humans, and on the age trajectory of a human survival curve has been poorly 
studied. The increase in human life expectancy at birth in the second half of 
the last century was mostly caused by the better survival at the old and oldest 
old rather than at the young ages. In parallel, the consumption of brain 
protective and regenerative drugs has been expanding in the elderly population. 
We provide evidence in support of the idea that the consumption of medicines 
exerting antiaging properties may contribute to the increase in human longevity.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.014
PMID: 15246996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:333-42. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.057.

Short-term caloric restriction and sites of oxygen radical generation in kidney 
and skeletal muscle mitochondria.

Gredilla R(1), Phaneuf S, Selman C, Kendaiah S, Leeuwenburgh C, Barja G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Biology-II (Animal Physiology), Faculty of Biology, 
Complutense University, 28040 Madrid, Spain.

Mitochondrial free radical generation is believed to be one of the principal 
factors determining aging rate, and complexes I and III have been described as 
the main sources of reactive oxygen species (ROS) within mitochondria in heart, 
brain, and liver. Moreover, complex I ROS generation of heart and liver 
mitochondria seems especially linked to aging rate both in comparative studies 
between animals with different longevities and in caloric restriction models. 
Caloric restriction (CR) is a well-documented manipulation that extends mean and 
maximum longevity. One of the factors that appears to be involved in such life 
span extension is the reduction in mitochondrial free radical generation at 
complex I. We have performed two parallel investigations, one studying the 
effect of short-term CR on oxygen radical generation in kidney and skeletal 
muscle (gastrocnemius) mitochondria and a second one regarding location of 
mitochondrial ROS-generating sites in these same tissues. In the former study, 
no effect of short-term caloric restriction was observed in mitochondrial free 
radical generation in either kidney or skeletal muscle. The latter study ruled 
out complex II as a principal source of free radicals in kidney and in skeletal 
muscle mitochondria, and, similar to previous investigations in heart and liver 
organelles, the main free radical generators were located at complexes I and III 
within the electron transport system.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.057
PMID: 15247039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:436-8. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.079.

Reproductive switch and aging: the case of leptin change in dietary restriction.

Koochmeshgi J(1).

Author information:
(1)National Research Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, P. O. Box 
14155-6343, Tehran, Iran. jkoochmeshgi@yahoo.co.uk

We have proposed that normal food intake is geared toward optimizing the 
internal milieu for reproduction, despite some components of this milieu being 
detrimental to health. In dietary restriction, the animal is prevented from 
eating enough to attain or maintain reproductive capacity and this particular 
milieu does not materialize. Life extension occurs as a by-product. This idea 
provides a framework for exploring biomolecular changes in dietary restriction 
and their relevance to aging. Leptin is a case in point: here, a decrease in 
leptin level in dietary restriction is explored in the light of leptin's role in 
the complex signaling system of reproductive switch.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.079
PMID: 15247061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:490-5. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.090.

Demographics of human supercentenarians and the implications for longevity 
medicine.

Coles LS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-1678, USA. scoles@ucla.edu

Demographers have forecast that there are going to be a great many more older 
adults in the next few decades. This will have great implications for longevity 
medicine. The Gerontology Research Group, affiliated with the UCLA School of 
Medicine, has compiled and maintained a Table of Worldwide Living 
Supercentenarians (persons 110 years or older) for the last 4 years, shedding 
important light on the biological limits of human morbidity and mortality and 
providing a realistic perspective on the problem of long-term interventions that 
can reasonably be achieved in the near future.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.090
PMID: 15247072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:496-501. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.091.

Early-life programming of aging and longevity: the idea of high initial damage 
load (the HIDL hypothesis).

Gavrilov LA(1), Gavrilova NS.

Author information:
(1)Center on Aging, National Opinion Research Center and University of Chicago, 
IL 60637-2745, USA. gavrilov@longevity-science.org

In this study, we test the predictions of the high initial damage load (HIDL) 
hypothesis, a scientific idea that early development of living organisms 
produces an exceptionally high load of initial damage, which is comparable with 
the amount of subsequent aging-related deterioration accumulating during the 
rest of the entire adult life. This hypothesis predicts that even small progress 
in optimizing the early-developmental processes can potentially result in a 
remarkable prevention of many diseases in later life, postponement of 
aging-related morbidity and mortality, and significant extension of healthy life 
span.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.091
PMID: 15247073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:527-34. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.098.

Immortal ethics.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicine, Law and Bioethics, School of Law, University of 
Manchester, M13 9P, United Kingdom. john.m.harris@man.ac.uk

This article draws on ideas published in my "Intimations of Immortality" essay 
in Science (Vol. 288, No. 5463, p. 59, April 7, 2000) and my "Intimations of 
Immortality-The Ethics and Justice of Life Extending Therapies" in editor 
Michael Freeman's Current Legal Problems (Oxford University Press 2002: 65-97). 
This article outlines the ethical issues involved in life-extending therapies. 
The arguments against life extension are examined and found wanting. The 
consequences of life extension are explored and found challenging but not 
sufficiently daunting to warrant regulation or control. In short, there is no 
doubt that immortality would be a mixed blessing, but we should be slow to 
reject cures for terrible diseases that may be an inextricable part of 
life-extending procedures even if the price we have to pay for those cures is 
increasing life expectancy and even creating immortals. Better surely to 
accompany the scientific race to achieve immortality with commensurate work in 
ethics and social policy to ensure that we know how to cope with the transition 
to parallel populations of mortals and immortals as envisaged in mythology.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.098
PMID: 15247080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:535-41. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.099.

Collective suttee: is it unjust to develop life extension if it will not be 
possible to provide it to everyone?

Davis JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Brody School of Medicine, East Carolina University, Greenville, North 
Carolina 27858-4354, USA. jdavis95@utk.edu

If we can anticipate that life extension will be too expensive to provide to 
everyone, is that a reason not to research and develop it? Collective suttee is 
the policy of inhibiting or prohibiting life extension on such grounds: just as 
widows are killed on their husbands' funeral pyres, potential Methuselahs would 
not be allowed to outlive everyone else. However, in other contexts we judge 
that taking from the haves is unjustified when doing so confers a merely 
marginal benefit--or no benefit--to the have-nots. By this standard, collective 
suttee is probably unjustified, for the burdens borne by the have-nots are 
likely to be too small to justify denying extra decades or centuries to those 
who can afford it.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.099
PMID: 15247081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:542-5. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.100.

Biogerontologists' duty to discuss timescales publicly.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EH, UK. ag24@gen.cam.ac.uk

Aging is unpopular with the general public-but, it would seem, only up to a 
point. Treatments that claim (sometimes justifiably) to extend the total and/or 
healthy life span of elderly people, or even just make them look younger, are 
welcomed with open wallets throughout the world. If, however, one suggests to 
the typical nonbiologist-or even to the typical nongerontologist biologist-that 
we should therefore aim, in due course, to take this desire to its logical 
conclusion and bring aging under the same degree of control that we currently 
have over most infectious diseases, one is nearly always met with strong and 
sometimes strident opposition. I argue here that the prevalence of this outright 
irrationality is largely the fault of gerontologists themselves. Most people 
harbor a deep-seated fear of profound change in their lives and embrace it only 
after extensive soul-searching to convince themselves of its benefit. It cannot 
and should not be denied that a postaging world would be as profoundly different 
from today's as we can imagine. Hence, when given the opportunity to postpone 
sober consideration of its pros and cons, most people leap at that opportunity. 
It is provided to them by the nearly universal refusal of gerontologists to 
speculate about the timescales within which truly effective rejuvenation 
therapies may be developed. I suggest that this reticence, while appropriate in 
purely scientific fields, is hugely irresponsible in a biomedical discipline, 
because of its potential to delay the development of such therapies by denying 
them the funding that would be forthcoming if society had greater optimism 
concerning their foreseeability. Arguments that such funding, and/or the 
public's trust in scientists, would be short-lived if timescale predictions were 
not borne out are too flimsy to outweigh this. A further danger is the avoidable 
loss of life following the development of rejuvenation therapies that would 
result from inadequate ability to provide them universally; here again, 
scientists today can minimize this loss of life by agitating for forward 
planning by government, which will only occur when policymakers' minds are 
concentrating on timescale predictions.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.100
PMID: 15247082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:546-51. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.101.

The pitfalls of planning for demographic change.

Stock GB(1).

Author information:
(1)Program on Medicine, Technology and Society, UCLA School of Public Health, 
Department of Health Services, 760 Westwood Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 
90024-1759, USA. gstock@signumbiosciences.com

As we begin to understand the biology of aging, it will be ever more tempting to 
try to plan for the social consequences of the coming biomedical interventions 
in this arena. However, this will remain a daunting task, because the larger 
consequences of the arrival of antiaging interventions will greatly depend on 
the relative character and timing of the specific procedures that emerge. Three 
basic classes of interventions are likely: ones that slow aging in adults, ones 
that reverse aging in adults, and embryonic interventions that modify the 
overall trajectory of human aging. The consequences of each will differ 
significantly in the time required before noticeable demographic shifts begin to 
manifest in the human population, and in the social and political changes the 
interventions evoke. The specific societal consequences generally will arrive 
long before the demographic ones, and will hinge on the technical details of the 
interventions themselves--their complexity, physiological targets, modes of 
delivery, costs, unpleasantness, and the character and frequency of side 
effects.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.101
PMID: 15247083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:552-3. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.102.

Report on the open discussion on the future of life extension research.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EH, UK. ag24@gen.cam.ac.uk

Following a highly stimulating series of talks on the social and ethical 
implications of greatly extended life spans, a discussion of the issues was 
held, in which a series of straw polls was conducted. An alarming conclusion 
from these polls was that most participants thought it either probable or "not 
improbable" that comprehensive functional rejuvenation of middle-aged mice would 
be possible within 10-20 years, but also felt that biogerontologists should not 
yet discuss timescales (either for mouse rejuvenation or similar progress in 
humans) in society at large. This combination of views may be very dangerous, as 
it assumes that humanity will need little forward planning to transition 
smoothly from its current almost universal fatalism concerning the defeat of 
aging to a widespread appreciation of its foreseeability or even imminence.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.102
PMID: 15247084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:559-63. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.104.

The arrest of biological time as a bridge to engineered negligible senescence.

Lemler J(1), Harris SB, Platt C, Huffman TM.

Author information:
(1)Alcor Life Extension Foundation, 7895 E. Acoma Drive, Scottsdale, AZ 85260, 
USA. jlemler@alcor.org

Biological systems can remain unchanged for several hundred years at cryogenic 
temperatures. In several hundred years, current rapid scientific and technical 
progress should lead to the ability to reverse any biological damage whose 
reversal is not forbidden by physical law. We therefore explore whether 
contemporary people facing terminal conditions might be preserved well enough 
today for their eventual recovery to be compatible with physical law. The 
ultrastructure of the brain can now be excellently preserved by vitrification, 
and solutions needed for vitrification can now be distributed through organs 
with retention of organ viability after transplantation. Current law requires a 
few minutes of cardiac arrest before cryopreservation of terminal patients, but 
dogs and cats have recovered excellent brain function after 16-60 min of 
complete cerebral ischemia. The arrest of biological time as a bridge to 
engineered negligible senescence, therefore, appears consistent with current 
scientific and medical knowledge.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.104
PMID: 15247086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1019:568-71. doi: 10.1196/annals.1297.106.

The molecular chaperones and the phenomena of cellular immortalization and 
apoptosis in vitro.

Krøll J(1).

Author information:
(1)Hafnia Unit of Biogerontology, Godthåbsvej 111,3, DK-2000 Frederiksberg, 
Denmark. krollj@danbbs.dk

The molecular chaperones are housekeeping molecules that assist in the folding 
and prevention of the aggregation of proteins and nucleotides, as well as 
participating in the elimination of ubiquitinated molecules. Evidence is 
reviewed to suggest that the Werner protein is a DNA chaperone and also that an 
increase in the expression of the molecular chaperones is the common denominator 
in the extension of cellular and species longevity as well as in the process of 
cellular immortalization, the inherent immortality of germ cells, and the 
inhibition of cellular apoptosis. It is possible that the immortalization of 
normal somatic cells is caused by an accidental reprogramming of the genome, 
recreating the chaperone expression of the germ cells. It is suggested that the 
molecular chaperones are evolution facilitators determining the life span of 
individual cells as the evolution of longevity in species.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1297.106
PMID: 15247088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Arerugi. 2004 May;53(5):484-93.

[Epidemiologic study on the prevalence of the sick house syndrome in Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Koyasu Y(1), Sakai N, Imai T, Kanda A, Kawaguchi T, Odajima Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Showa University.

PURPOSE: Sick house syndrome (SHS; sick house syndrome) presents healthy damage 
owing to the indoor environment of a building. Although SHS is recognized 
socially, there is no medical definition and its illness concept is also 
ambiguous. This time, large-scale epidemiology investigation about SHS of our 
country was conducted.
METHOD: The investigation paper in the "epidemiological research on SHS" group 
of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare was used. The reply of 8737 adults 
and 9387 children was obtained.
RESULT: By the definition of a disease, prevalence of SHS was 8.5 to 22.1% at 
the adult and 5.6-19.8% in the child. Cause environmental substances were "a 
shampoo, makeup and a perfume", "the smell of a wall or the building materials 
of a floor", and "paint". There was no significant difference in SHS development 
of symptoms in construction years and the situation of extension and alteration 
of a dwelling. As a feature of a life style, symptoms developed in the strong 
group of stress and sensitive to a smell developed mostly. CONSIDERATION: 
Prevalence differed greatly by how SHS is defined. In order to diagnose truer 
SHS, we think that the prudent definition based also on the international 
standard is required.

PMID: 15247528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Arthritis Rheum. 2004 Jul;50(7):2264-72. doi: 10.1002/art.20335.

Etanercept treatment of psoriatic arthritis: safety, efficacy, and effect on 
disease progression.

Mease PJ(1), Kivitz AJ, Burch FX, Siegel EL, Cohen SB, Ory P, Salonen D, 
Rubenstein J, Sharp JT, Tsuji W.

Author information:
(1)Seattle Rheumatology Associates, Seattle, Washington 98104, USA. 
pmease@nwlink.com

OBJECTIVE: Etanercept has been shown to improve the articular and cutaneous 
manifestations of psoriatic arthritis (PsA). In this study, we further evaluated 
the safety, efficacy, and effect on radiographic progression of etanercept in 
patients with PsA.
METHODS: Patients with PsA (n = 205) were randomized to receive placebo or 25 mg 
etanercept subcutaneously twice weekly for 24 weeks. Patients continued to 
receive blind-labeled therapy in a maintenance phase until all had completed the 
24-week phase, then could receive open-label etanercept in a 48-week extension. 
Efficacy and safety were evaluated at 4, 12, and 24 weeks and at 12-week 
intervals thereafter. Radiographs of the hands and wrists were assessed at 
baseline and 24 weeks, at entry to the open-label phase, and after 48 weeks in 
the study.
RESULTS: Etanercept significantly reduced the signs and symptoms of PsA and 
psoriasis. At 12 weeks, 59% of etanercept patients met the American College of 
Rheumatology 20% improvement criteria for joint response, compared with 15% of 
placebo patients (P < 0.0001), and results were sustained at 24 and 48 weeks. At 
24 weeks, 23% of etanercept patients eligible for psoriasis evaluation achieved 
at least 75% improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index, compared with 
3% of placebo patients (P = 0.001). Radiographic disease progression was 
inhibited in the etanercept group at 12 months; the mean annualized rate of 
change in the modified total Sharp score was -0.03 unit, compared with +1.00 
unit in the placebo group (P = 0.0001). Etanercept was well tolerated.
CONCLUSION: Etanercept reduced joint symptoms, improved psoriatic lesions, 
inhibited radiographic progression, and was well tolerated in patients with PsA.

DOI: 10.1002/art.20335
PMID: 15248226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Jul;8(30):iii-iv, 1-207. doi: 10.3310/hta8300.

Systematic review of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, and economic 
evaluation, of myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and 
management of angina and myocardial infarction.

Mowatt G(1), Vale L, Brazzelli M, Hernandez R, Murray A, Scott N, Fraser C, 
McKenzie L, Gemmell H, Hillis G, Metcalfe M.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of single photon 
emission computed tomography (SPECT) myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the 
diagnosis and management of angina and myocardial infarction (MI).
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases.
REVIEW METHODS: Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed study 
quality. A decision tree model was used to model the diagnosis decision and a 
Markov model was developed for the management of patients with suspected 
coronary artery disease. Costs for the treatments and interventions within 
strategies were derived from the literature and expressed in 2001-02 pounds 
sterling. Quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) weights for the different Markov 
model states were also obtained from the literature.
RESULTS: Twenty-one diagnostic and 46 prognostic studies were included, plus two 
studies comparing SPECT with electrocardiography (ECG)-gated SPECT and one study 
comparing SPECT with attenuation-corrected SPECT. The diagnostic values of SPECT 
were generally higher than those of stress ECG, indicating that SPECT provided a 
better diagnostic performance. SPECT also provided higher positive and lower 
negative likelihood ratios than stress ECG but heterogeneity was evident among 
studies. The subgroup of studies including patients with previous MI tended to 
report a better diagnostic performance for SPECT than stress ECG, but there were 
too few studies to assess this reliably. The extent and size of the perfusion 
defect, and whether reversible or fixed, were important factors in predicting 
future cardiac events such as cardiac death or non-fatal MI. SPECT may be able 
to identify lower risk patients for whom coronary angiography (CA) might be 
avoided. Normal SPECT scans were associated with a benign prognosis and the 
option of medical rather than invasive management. Four studies of patients 
post-MI reported SPECT to be valuable in stratifying patients into at-risk 
groups for further cardiac events. The two studies comparing SPECT with 
ECG-gated SPECT, one diagnostic and the other prognostic, found in favour of 
gated SPECT. The study comparing SPECT with attenuation-corrected SPECT reported 
the latter to be more accurate. The systematic review of economic evaluations 
indicated that strategies involving SPECT were likely either to be dominant or 
to produce more QALYs at an acceptable cost. There was less agreement about 
which of the strategies involving SPECT was optimal. The model suggested that, 
for low prevalence, the incremental cost per unit of output (true positives 
diagnosed, accurate diagnosis, QALY) for the move from stress ECG-SPECT-CA and 
from stress ECG-CA to SPECT-CA might be considered worthwhile. Even after 
allowing for different values for sensitivity or specificity, the least costly 
and least effective strategy was stress ECG-SPECT-CA. The sensitivity analysis 
suggested that the cost-effectiveness of SPECT-CA improved if it was assumed 
that SPECT results allowed for the adoption of a management strategy without 
recourse to CA. As the time horizon reduced, the incremental cost per QALY 
increased (as the cost of initial diagnosis and treatment were not offset by 
survival and quality of life gains).
CONCLUSIONS: There was a considerable variability in terms of measurement of 
outcomes, management, setting and patient characteristics, however the direction 
of evidence tended to favour SPECT in terms of test sensitivity, although these 
conclusions are based on a relatively small number of diagnostic studies. SPECT, 
in a variety of settings and patient populations, provided valuable independent 
and incremental prognostic information to that provided by stress ECG and/or CA 
that helped to risk-stratify patients and influence the way in which their 
condition was managed. However, all of the prognostic studies were observational 
studies and may be biased by unknown confounding factors. Although the ECG-gated 
and attenuation-corrected SPECT findings seem promising, it is difficult to draw 
conclusions from so few studies. Further research is needed on the effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness, diagnostically and prognostically, of (a) gated and 
attenuation-corrected SPECT compared with standard SPECT, (b) standard SPECT 
compared with stress echocardiography and (c) the uncertainty surrounding the 
results presented in the cost-effectiveness analysis.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8300
PMID: 15248938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Arch Intern Med. 2004 Jul 12;164(13):1413-20. doi:
10.1001/archinte.164.13.1413.

Obesity and unhealthy life-years in adult Finns: an empirical approach.

Visscher TL(1), Rissanen A, Seidell JC, Heliövaara M, Knekt P, Reunanen A, 
Aromaa A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Disability, National Public Health Institute, 
Helsinki, Finland. tommy.visscher@falw.vu.nl

BACKGROUND: Obesity is more strongly related to morbidity and disability than to 
mortality. Obese individuals are thus expected to have more unhealthy life-years 
than normal-weight persons. The objective of the present study was to quantify 
the number of excess unhealthy life-years in obese individuals.
METHODS: A representative cohort of 19 518 Finnish men and women aged 20 to 92 
years was followed for 15 years. Participation rate was 83%. Obesity was defined 
as a body mass index of 30.0 or higher. The number of unhealthy life-years due 
to premature work disability, hospitalization for coronary heart disease, and 
need for long-term medication was calculated per category of body mass index.
RESULTS: During the follow-up of 15 years, obese men who never smoked aged 20 to 
64 years had, on average, 0.63 more years of work disability, 0.36 more years of 
coronary heart disease, and 1.68 more years of longterm medication use, than 
normal-weight counterparts. Obese women had, respectively, 0.52, 0.46, and 1.49 
more years from these conditions than normal weight women. The excess risks of 
morbidity and disability due to obesity were highest in the youngest age groups 
and exceeded those of mortality in all age groups. Obese men and women 65 years 
and older who never smoked had, respectively, 1.71 and 1.41 excess unhealthy 
life-years (not statistically significant) due to premature need for long-term 
medication compared with normal-weight subjects, but no excess unhealthy 
life-years due to coronary heart disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Obesity has a lifetime impact on disability and morbidity. A 
further increase in obesity will lead to an increase in unhealthy life-years and 
in direct and indirect health care costs.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.164.13.1413
PMID: 15249350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Chest. 2004 Jul;126(1):81-9. doi: 10.1378/chest.126.1.81.

The Veterans Short Form 36 questionnaire is predictive of mortality and 
health-care utilization in a population of veterans with a self-reported 
diagnosis of asthma or COPD.

Sprenkle MD(1), Niewoehner DE, Nelson DB, Nichol KL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Hennepin County Medical 
Center, Minneapolis, MN 55415, USA. spren005@umn.edu

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Measures of health-related quality of life (HRQL) correlate 
with disease stage in persons with COPD. However, as their predictive capacity 
for mortality or medical utilization is less well defined, we sought to examine 
the relationship of a general measure of HRQL and outcomes in persons with 
obstructive lung disease.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Upper Midwest Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN)-13.
PARTICIPANTS: All veterans in VISN-13 (n = 70,017) were surveyed with the 
Veterans Short Form 36 (SF-36V). Persons with reported asthma or COPD who 
completed the SF-36V formed the study cohort (n = 8,354).
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: For purposes of analysis, individuals were divided 
into quartiles of HRQL according to their physical component summary (PCS) and 
mental component summary (MCS), values derived from the SF-36V. Outcomes of 
mortality, hospitalization, and outpatient visits were recorded for 12 months 
after the survey. Outpatient utilization was dichotomized into high vs low use, 
with high use being defined as the upper quartile of visits in the 12 months 
prior to survey mailing. The study cohort had a mean age of 65 years and was 
largely male (95%), both consistent with a veteran population. After correcting 
for potential confounding factors through multivariable regression, the PCS was 
independently predictive of death, hospitalization, and high outpatient 
utilization. When using the first quartile of PCS as the reference population, 
those in the fourth quartile of PCS had a hazard ratio for death of 5.47 (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 3.63 to 8.26). Similarly, the odds ratios for 
hospitalization, high primary care visits, and high specialty medicine visits in 
the fourth quartile of PCS were 1.82 (95% CI, 1.51 to 2.19), 1.54 (95% CI, 1.26 
to 1.87), and 1.46 (95% CI, 1.21 to 1.78), respectively. The MCS, through 
multivariable regression, was predictive of death but unassociated with 
subsequent hospitalization or high outpatient utilization.
CONCLUSION: HRQL, as assessed by the SF-36V, is an independent predictor of 
mortality, hospitalization, and outpatient utilization in persons with 
self-reported obstructive lung disease.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.126.1.81
PMID: 15249446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Circulation. 2004 Jul 27;110(4):374-9. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000136580.34604.B8.  Epub 2004 Jul 12.

Treatment of left anterior descending coronary artery disease with 
sirolimus-eluting stents.

Sawhney N(1), Moses JW, Leon MB, Kuntz RE, Popma JJ, Bachinsky W, Bass T, DeMaio 
S, Fry E, Holmes DR Jr, Teirstein PS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Scripps Clinic, San Diego, Calif 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2005 Apr 26;111(16):e265-6; author reply e265-6.

BACKGROUND: Revascularization strategies often hinge on the presence and degree 
of left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) stenosis. A decision for 
bypass surgery is often based on the durability of surgical LAD 
revascularization compared with percutaneous approaches. By decreasing 
restenosis, drug-eluting stents may have reduced the "reintervention gap" 
between surgery and percutaneous intervention, making the percutaneous route 
preferable.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Of the 1101 patients in the SIRIUS trial, 459 with an LAD 
stenosis were randomized to percutaneous intervention with either 
sirolimus-eluting or bare-metal stents. Baseline demographic, clinical, and 
angiographic data were obtained. Patients had 1-year clinical and 8-month 
angiographic follow-up. Baseline characteristics were similar in both groups. 
The majority of lesions were tubular type B lesions (69.7%) with a mean diameter 
of 2.73 mm and a mean length of 14.0 mm. The binary in-stent restenosis rate was 
2% for the sirolimus stent group and 41.6% for the bare-metal arm (relative 
risk, 0.05; 95% CI, 0.02 to 0.1; P<0.001). One-year major adverse events 
(defined as cardiac death, Q-wave and non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, or 
target vessel revascularization) was decreased 59% in the sirolimus-stent group 
(9.8% versus 24.9%; relative risk, 0.39; 95% CI, 0.26 to 0.61; P<0.001). 
Subgroup analysis of 135 patients with proximal LAD lesions showed similar 
benefits. In-stent restenosis was 0 in the proximal LAD sirolimus-eluting group 
(n=67), compared with 38% in the bare-metal arm (n=68), and major adverse events 
demonstrated a similar trend, with a 50% decrease compared with control patients 
(10.4% versus 20.6%, P=NS).
CONCLUSIONS: Sirolimus-eluting stents significantly decrease revascularization 
rates in LAD lesions. At 1 year, sirolimus-eluting stent revascularization rates 
are comparable to historic single vessel bypass surgery revascularization rates.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000136580.34604.B8
PMID: 15249503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. JAMA. 2004 Jul 14;292(2):169; author reply 169. doi:
10.1001/jama.292.2.169-a.

Risk-treatment paradox in use of statins.

Weiss CO, Varadhan R.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2004 Apr 21;291(15):1864-70.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.292.2.169-a
PMID: 15249563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Sex Transm Infect. 2004 Aug;80 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):i14-18. doi: 
10.1136/sti.2004.010157.

Projecting the demographic consequences of adult HIV prevalence trends: the 
Spectrum Projection Package.

Stover J(1).

Author information:
(1)Futures Group, 80 Glastonbury Blvd, Glastonbury, CT 06033, USA. 
j.stover@tfgi.com

This paper describes the software package Spectrum, which is a modular program 
that is used to examine the consequences of current trends and future program 
interventions in reproductive health. It is used to determine the consequences 
of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, including the number of people living with HIV/AIDS by 
age and sex, the number of AIDS deaths, and the number of orphans as a result of 
AIDS, as well as other demographic indicators of interest, such as life 
expectancy and <5 mortality. The core of Spectrum is a demographic projection 
model called DemProj, which projects the population by age and sex. Other 
modules interact with the demographic projection. The HIV/AIDS projections are 
added to the demographic projections using a module called AIDS Impact Model. 
This module uses the projection of adult HIV prevalence over time, which is 
prepared using the Estimation and Projection Package model or the projection 
workbook. It also requires assumptions about the epidemiology of HIV, including 
the ratio of female:male prevalence, the distribution of infection by age, the 
distribution of the time from infection until AIDS death, and the effect of HIV 
on fertility.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.2004.010157
PMCID: PMC1765840
PMID: 15249694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Urologe A. 2004 Aug;43(8):916-21. doi: 10.1007/s00120-004-0636-0.

[Urological illnesses in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Wolff JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrische Urologie-Urologische Klinik, Caritaskrankenhaus, Bad 
Mergentheim. johannes.wolff@ckbm.de

Urological illnesses in the elderly are a growing clinical problem because as 
life expectancy increases so does the prevalence of such illnesses. However, 
sufficient data for judging the various possible therapies are lacking for 
patients over the age of 70. Age itself does not have enough predictive value 
for the determination of the best treatment. It seems more important to estimate 
the functional and socio-economic status, comorbidity, and the cognitive and 
emotional abilities of elderly patients as well as their nutritional intake.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-004-0636-0
PMID: 15249959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Urologe A. 2004 Aug;43(8):922-9. doi: 10.1007/s00120-004-0637-z.

[Geriatric assessment. Is it significantly helpful in selection of elderly 
tumour patients for a difficult therapy?].

[Article in German]

Krege S(1), Friedrich C, Lümmen G, Pientka L, Rübben H.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Universitätsklinik Essen. susanne.krege@uni-essen.de

With increasing life expectancy, a therapeutic decision raises the question of 
the primary goals to be aimed for. Is an absolute gain in age a goal equal to 
the preservation of an active life? While in younger patients the strategy 
followed by the patient and the doctor will usually be that of long-term 
survival, the decision making process for older patients with functional 
deficits is more challenging. Though functional deficits show a positive 
correlation with age, a causal relationship does not exist, which implies 
considerable inter-individual heterogeneity in the group of older patients. In 
particular, patients who have reached older ages "successfully" without any 
major limitations in their health should be considered for more intensive 
treatment strategies. At the same time, younger patients with relevant 
functional limitations and without any chance of improvement may not benefit 
from these interventions. The comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) offers 
the opportunity to describe and classify these deficits systematically. It 
therefore has a key role in the individual decision making process.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-004-0637-z
PMID: 15249960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Indian J Gastroenterol. 2004 May-Jun;23(3):102-6.

The management of bile duct stones.

Roberts-Thomson IC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, 
Adelaide, Australia. ian.roberts-thomson@nwahs.sa.gov.au

Bile duct stones are almost always associated with gallbladder stones and 
coexist with gallbladder stones in approximately 10% of patients. The frequency 
of coexisting bile duct stones increases with advancing age. In patients with 
stones in both the gallbladder and bile duct, therapeutic options for the latter 
include laparoscopic or open exploration of the bile duct, and pre-operative and 
post-operative endoscopic sphincterotomy and stone extraction. Endoscopic 
sphincterotomy remains the treatment of choice for bile duct stones after 
cholecystectomy. However, management algorithms in individual institutions will 
be influenced by surgical and endoscopic expertise and by other factors such as 
overall costs. After surgical or endoscopic removal of bile duct stones, 
estimates of the lifetime risk of recurrent stones range from 5%-20%. Increased 
life expectancy and the apparent absence of simple preventative measures 
indicate that the burden of bile duct stones on health expenditure is likely to 
increase in many countries.

PMID: 15250568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Aug;58(8):659-66. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.014910.

Compression, expansion, or dynamic equilibrium? The evolution of health 
expectancy in New Zealand.

Graham P(1), Blakely T, Davis P, Sporle A, Pearce N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and General Practice, Christchurch School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, New Zealand. patrick.graham@chmeds.ac.nz

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the New Zealand evidence for three theories of 
population health change: compression of morbidity, expansion of morbidity, and 
dynamic equilibrium.
DESIGN: Using the Sullivan method, repeated cross sectional survey information 
on functional limitation prevalence was combined with population mortality data 
and census information on the utilisation of institutional care to produce 
health expectancy indices for 1981 and 1996.
SETTING: The adult population of New Zealand in 1981 and 1996.
PARTICIPANTS: 6891 respondents to the 1981 social indicators survey; 8262 
respondents to the 1996 household disability survey.
MAIN RESULTS: As a proportion of overall life expectancy at age 15 the 
expectation of non-institutionalised mobility limitations increased from 3.5% to 
6% for men, and from 4.5% to 8% for women; the expectation of agility limitation 
increased from 3% to 7.5% for men and from 4.5% to 8.5% for women, and the 
expectation of self care limitations increased from 2.0% to 4.5% for men and 
from 3.0% to 6.0% for women. These changes were primarily attributable to 
increases in the expectation of moderate functional limitation.
CONCLUSION: The dynamic equilibrium scenario provides the best fit to current 
