
807. Pain Med. 2001 Mar;2(1):28-34. doi: 10.1046/j.1526-4637.2001.002001028.x.

The effects of alcohol celiac plexus block, pain, and mood on longevity in 
patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer: a double-blind, randomized, 
placebo-controlled study.

Staats PS(1), Hekmat H, Sauter P, Lillemoe K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, the Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. pstaats@jhmi.edu

OBJECTIVE: This additional analysis of data from a previously reported 
prospective trial comparing the effect of intraoperative alcohol or saline 
placebo neurolytic block in patients with pancreatic cancer was conducted in 
response to the development of a new theory, which explores the relationship of 
negative mood states to pain, pain-related behavior, and ultimately, longevity.
METHODS: The original study used a double-blind procedure to randomly assign 139 
patients with histologically proven, unresectable pancreatic cancer to receive 
either an alcohol or a saline block. Data on visual analog pain, mood, and 
interference with activity were collected preoperatively and every 2 months 
postoperatively until death. The current analysis was conducted on the complete 
data sets received from 130 patients. Demographic data were submitted to 
chi-square analysis and to univariate and multivariate analysis of variance. 
Univariate and multivariate analyses of variance also compared 1) the effect of 
alcohol versus saline on pain, mood, interference of pain with activities, and 
longevity and 2) the impact of mood on pain with longevity as the dependent 
variable. Correlation and regression analyses examined the impact of mood on 
life expectancy.
RESULTS: The alcohol intervention had a significant positive effect on life 
duration and mood scores. High negative mood states correlated significantly 
with an increase in visual analog pain, the rating of pain intensity at its 
worse, and pain interference with patients' activities.
CONCLUSION: In these subjects, the neurolytic block, as compared with medical 
management alone, improved pain, elevated mood, reduced pain interference with 
activity, and was associated with an increase in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1526-4637.2001.002001028.x
PMID: 15102315


808. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2004 May;16(3):186-91. doi: 
10.1097/00002281-200405000-00004.

Advances in the treatment of rheumatic interstitial lung disease.

Vassallo R(1), Thomas CF.

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Diseases Research Unit, Division of Pulmonary Critical Care, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Stabile Building 
8-54, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. vassallo.robert@mayo.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Interstitial lung disease frequently complicates the 
rheumatic diseases. The purpose of this review is to outline recent advances and 
current concepts regarding the management of these interstitial lung diseases.
RECENT FINDINGS: Several histologic lesions cause interstitial lung disease in 
rheumatic diseases, including nonspecific interstitial pneumonia, usual 
interstitial pneumonia, organizing pneumonia, lymphocytic interstitial 
pneumonia, desquamative interstitial pneumonia, and acute interstitial 
pneumonia. Although the relative frequency of occurrence of these 
histopathologic lesions is not definitively established, it seems that 
nonspecific interstitial pneumonia accounts for a large proportion of rheumatic 
disease-associated interstitial lung diseases. Although usual interstitial 
pneumonia generally responds poorly to corticosteroid therapy, other forms of 
interstitial pneumonia are often steroid responsive and have a more favorable 
long-term prognosis. Pulmonary hypertension is increasingly recognized as a 
complication of these interstitial lung diseases. Treatment of pulmonary 
hypertension in these patients provides clinical benefit and may suppress 
pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis. Lung transplantation is a treatment option 
for selected patients with severe pulmonary involvement and limited life 
expectancy.
SUMMARY: Interstitial lung disease is common in the rheumatic diseases, may be 
caused by a variety of lesions that respond differently to treatment, and may 
lead to the development of pulmonary hypertension. Whether the prognosis of 
interstitial lung disease associated with rheumatic disease is similar to that 
associated with the idiopathic interstitial pneumonias is not known. Treatment 
of these interstitial lung diseases should take into account the specific 
histologic lesion, the activity of the underlying rheumatic disease, and 
associated pulmonary hypertension, if present. The diagnosis of a rheumatic 
disease is no longer an absolute contraindication to lung transplantation.

DOI: 10.1097/00002281-200405000-00004
PMID: 15103243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Am J Med Genet A. 2004 May 15;127A(1):54-57. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.20669.

A rapid diagnostic method for a retrotransposal insertional mutation into the 
FCMD gene in Japanese patients with Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy.

Kato R(1), Kawamura J(2), Sugawara H(3)(4)(5), Niikawa N(4)(5), Matsumoto 
N(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, National Higashi-Saitama Hospital, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurology, National Higashi-Saitama Hospital, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Department of Orthopedics, Yamagata University School of Medicine, Yamagata, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, Nagasaki University Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki, Japan.
(5)CREST, Japan Science and Technology Corporation, Kawaguchi, Japan.
(6)Department of Human Genetics, Yokohama City University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Yokohama, Japan.

Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) is characterized by 
congenital muscular dystrophy in combination with central nervous system (CNS) 
abnormalities. Differential diagnosis of FCMD from Duchenne and Becker muscular 
dystrophies (DMD/BMD) or other types of congenital muscular dystrophy is 
occasionally difficult, because of their phenotypic similarity. The gene (FCMD) 
responsible for FCMD at 9q31 was isolated in 1998. In Japan, most FCMD-bearing 
chromosomes (87%) have a 3-kb retrotransposal insertion into the 3'-untranslated 
region (UTR) of the gene that could be derived from a single ancestral founder. 
Nine non-founder mutations have been identified in Japanese FCMD patients. 
Severe phenotype was significantly more frequent in patients who were compound 
heterozygotes for a point mutation and the founder mutation, than in homozygotes 
for the founder mutation. We developed a PCR-based diagnostic method for a rapid 
detection of the retrotransposal insertion mutation. Using this system, we 
screened 18 FCMD patients, and found 16 homozygotes and two heterozygotes for 
the insertion. We also evaluated the carrier frequency in the normal Japanese 
population. Six of 676 persons were recognized as a heterozygous carrier. 
Furthermore, we found three homozygotes for the FCMD founder mutation among 97 
patients who had been said to have probable DMD/BMD without any DMD mutations. 
On the other hand, there were no FCMD homozygotes but four heterozygous carriers 
among 335 patients with DMD mutations. The diagnostic method we developed will 
provide a rapid and reliable diagnosis of FCMD, which can bring important 
information in genetic counseling, such as the accurate mode of inheritance, 
recurrence risk and a life expectancy.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.20669
PMID: 15103718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Insur Med. 2004;36(1):10-5.

Comparative mortality in medically treated aortic regurgitation.

Singer RB.

OBJECTIVE: To present and discuss in this article a table of comparative 
mortality of medically treated patients with aortic regurgitation, derived from 
data presented in the source article.
BACKGROUND: Although there is abundant information on the follow-up (FU) of 
patients after surgical replacement of a leaking aortic valve, FU studies of 
patients with aortic regurgitation prior to valve replacement give discordant 
and confusing results for a number of reasons. The aim of the source study was 
to confine the results to patients who had been and continued to be on medical 
treatment only.
METHODS: In this article, the triple decrement approach to life table analysis 
has been emphasized (death, withdrawal due to surgery, and withdrawal due to end 
of FU). Data in the source article were used to calculate exposures and to 
prepare a life table incorporating exposures, observed and expected deaths, to 
derive observed, expected, and excess death rates and mortality ratios.
RESULTS: There was no significant excess mortality above that in the 
age/sex-matched US population in the NYHA class I group. In NYHA class II group, 
the excess death rate (EDR) averaged 28 per 1000 per year over 0-10 years. In 
NYHA class III and IV groups, the EDR was very high, averaging 205 per 1000 per 
year over 0-5 years, with a mortality ratio (MR) of 1100%.
CONCLUSION: Based on data presented in the source article, there was no excess 
mortality in medically treated aortic regurgitation patients with no functional 
impairment (NYHA class I), compared to the control population. However, the 
long-term outlook for the AR patients with good NYHA functional classification 
includes a high incidence of heart failure and valve surgery. Excess mortality 
was significant in NYHA class II patients, and was very high in patients with 
NYHA class III and IV impairments. In the source study, exposure to risk of 
medically managed aortic regurgitation was greatly curtailed by the performance 
of aortic valve surgery soon after initial diagnosis, most within the first year 
of FU.

PMID: 15104025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. J Insur Med. 2004;36(1):54-9.

Pricing implications of trends in population mortality and underwriting 
effectiveness.

Pokorski RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Gen Re LifeHealth Financial Centre, P.O. Box 300, 695 East Main Street, 
Stamford, CT 06904-0300, USA. pokorski@genre.com

Pricing actuaries try to anticipate insured lives mortality rates for decades 
into the future by considering historic relationships between population and 
insured lives mortality and trends in population mortality. The degree to which 
underwriting might decrease insured lives mortality relative to population 
mortality is of particular importance. A comparison of trends in population and 
insured mortality is presented to illustrate historic relationships. Two 
theories for future life expectancy trends are: 1) no foreseeable limit to life 
expectancy, and 2) life expectancy limited by biological forces. Factors that 
may increase or decrease the future effectiveness of underwriting are reviewed.

PMID: 15104030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. J Insur Med. 2004;36(1):99.

Accelerated death benefits.

Quartararo P.

PMID: 15104038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Stroke. 2004 Jun;35(6):1404-9. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000127785.73065.34. Epub
 2004 Apr 22.

High-intensity resistance training improves muscle strength, self-reported 
function, and disability in long-term stroke survivors.

Ouellette MM(1), LeBrasseur NK, Bean JF, Phillips E, Stein J, Frontera WR, 
Fielding RA.

Author information:
(1)Human Physiology Laboratory, Department of Health Sciences, Sargent College 
of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, Boston University, Boston, Mass 02215, 
USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of supervised high-intensity 
progressive resistance training (PRT) on lower extremity strength, function, and 
disability in older, long-term stroke survivors.
METHODS: Forty-two volunteers aged 50 years and above, 6 months to 6 years after 
a single mild to moderate stroke, were randomized into either a control group of 
upper extremity stretching or a PRT group that received a 12-week supervised 
high-intensity resistance training program consisting of bilateral leg press 
(LP), unilateral paretic and nonparetic knee extension (KE), ankle dorsiflexion 
(DF), and plantarflexion (PF) exercises. Functional performance was assessed 
using the 6-minute walk, stair-climb time, repeated chair-rise time, and 
habitual and maximal gait velocities. Self-reported changes in function and 
disability were evaluated using the Late Life Function and Disability Instrument 
(LLFDI).
RESULTS: Single-repetition maximum strength significantly improved in the PRT 
group for LP (16.2%), paretic KE (31.4%), and nonparetic KE (38.2%) with no 
change in the control group. Paretic ankle DF (66.7% versus -24.0%), paretic 
ankle PF (35.5% versus -20.3%), and nonparetic ankle PF (14.7% versus -13.8%) 
significantly improved in the PRT group compared with the control. The PRT group 
showed significant improvement in self-reported function and disability with no 
change in the control. There was no significant difference between groups for 
any performance-based measure of function.
CONCLUSIONS: High-intensity PRT improves both paretic and nonparetic lower 
extremity strength after stroke, and results in reductions in functional 
limitations and disability.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000127785.73065.34
PMID: 15105515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. EMBO Rep. 2004 May;5(5):503-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400127. Epub 2004 Apr
23.

Shorter telomeres, accelerated ageing and increased lymphoma in 
DNA-PKcs-deficient mice.

Espejel S(1), Martín M, Klatt P, Martín-Caballero J, Flores JM, Blasco MA.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National Cancer Centre (CNIO), Melchor 
Fernández Almagro 3, E-28029, Madrid, Spain.

Non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) is the principal repair mechanism used by 
mammalian cells to cope with double-strand breaks (DSBs) that continually occur 
in the genome. One of the key components of the mammalian NHEJ machinery is the 
DNA-PK complex, formed by the Ku86/70 heterodimer and the DNA-PK catalytic 
subunit (DNA-PKcs). Here, we report on the detailed life-long follow-up of 
DNA-PKcs-defective mice. Apart from defining a role of DNA-PKcs in telomere 
length maintenance in the context of the ageing organism, we observed that 
DNA-PKcs-defective mice had a shorter life span and showed an earlier onset of 
ageing-related pathologies than the corresponding wild-type littermates. In 
addition, DNA-PKcs ablation was associated with a markedly higher incidence of T 
lymphomas and infections. In conclusion, these data link the dual role of 
DNA-PKcs in DNA repair and telomere length maintenance to organismal ageing and 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400127
PMCID: PMC1299048
PMID: 15105825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Indian J Gastroenterol. 2004 Jan-Feb;23(1):16-8.

Hepatitis B immunization: cost calculation in a community-based study in India.

Sahni M(1), Jindal K, Abraham N, Aruldas K, Puliyel JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, St. Stephen's Hospital, Tis Hazari, New Delhi 110 
054.

Comment in
    Indian J Gastroenterol. 2004 Jan-Feb;23(1):2-4.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: In India, approximately 65% of mothers deliver at home, and 
a community-based study evaluating the cost of vaccinating newborns with the 
first dose of hepatitis B vaccine within 48 hours has not been undertaken 
previously. This policy planning study was done to evaluate the costs of such 
immunization in India.
METHODS: All mothers delivering in the study area (population 65,000) over a 
1-year period were tested for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg; ELISA), and 
babies of positive mothers were vaccinated starting at birth. The cost of such 
selective vaccination was calculated. The cost of nursing time required for 
universal immunization was calculated from the data on nursing time required for 
vaccination in the selective vaccination program. The national cost of universal 
immunization without testing was calculated as well as cost-benefit and 
cost-utility in terms of cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved. 
Sensitivity testing considering economies of scale was also factored in.
RESULTS: 1100 mothers delivered during the study period. 252 were primiparous. 
Nationwide universal vaccination would cost Rs 48,000 per QALY saved, which was 
double the per capita GNP of the country; discounted at 3% the cost was Rs 
260,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal immunization vaccination with hepatitis B vaccine is not 
cost-beneficial in India, since cost of every life-year gained with it will 
exceed India's per capita GNP.

PMID: 15106709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J La State Med Soc. 2004 Mar-Apr;156(2):73-7.

Clinical case of the month. A young man with a persistent skin eruption. Mycosis 
fungoides.

Kendrick CG(1), Gerdes MS, Lopez FA, McBurney EI.

Author information:
(1)Louisiana State University School of Medicine, New Orleans, USA.

There are many types of skin disease that fit into the classification of 
cutaneous lymphoma, but mycosis fungoides is by far the most common of this 
group. It is a non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of T-cell origin that presents in the 
skin. Mycosis fungoides often evolves for years without a specific diagnosis 
because it can present as an eczematous or psoriasiform eruption. Patients 
identified in the early stages and treated appropriately have a normal life 
expectancy.

PMID: 15106864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2004;154(5-6):102-6. doi: 10.1007/s10354-004-0054-3.

[Osteomalacia and rickets].

[Article in German]

Bernecker PM(1).

Author information:
(1)1. Interne Abteilung, Geriatriezentrum Baumgarten, Wien, Osterreich. 
peter.bernecker@wienkav.at

Although rickets and osteomalacia posed a serious health problem in 
industrialised countries a hundred years ago, these diseases are now rarely 
found, and when, usually in certain risk groups. In underdeveloped countries, 
rickets is still a major public health problem due to inadequate calcium intake 
by children. In our highly developed countries, elderly people--especially when 
institutionalised in nursing homes--are at a very high risk of developing 
osteomalacia, often combined with pre-existing osteoporosis, with its high 
impact on mobility and life expectancy in this section of the population. In 
this review, the common mechanisms involved in developing rickets or 
osteomalacia are identified and therapeutic measures are reported. Rare causes 
of osteomalacia due to congenital errors in metabolism or genetic defects are 
also discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-004-0054-3
PMID: 15106892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2004;154(5-6):107-18. doi: 10.1007/s10354-004-0052-5.

Renal osteodystrophy.

Haas M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Dialysis, Department of Internal Medicine III, 
University Hospital Vienna, Vienna, Austria. martin.haas@akh-wien.ac.at

Patients with chronic renal failure suffer from four different kinds of typical 
bone lesions which are summarized as renal osteodystrophy (ROD). These changes 
can occur early during renal disease and are dependent on several factors, such 
as the calcium-phosphorus homeostasis, the type of renal disease or the 
frequency and dose of potentially harmful drugs administered. ROD usually gets 
worse as renal failure progresses, and during hemodialysis, and culminates, in 
the case of kidney transplantation, in the early post-transplant phase. Although 
the decrease of parathyroid hormone (PTH) and the dose of immunosuppression 
administered subsequently permit a certain restitution of bone stability, ROD 
persists lifelong in the majority of cases and is associated with a high rate of 
bone fractures. However, the abnormalities of mineral metabolism that lead to 
ROD are not only confined to bone morphology but also predispose to vascular or 
soft tissue calcification. This might lead to severe tissue or coronary artery 
calcification. It is therefore not surprising that life expectancy on 
hemodialysis is correlated to the expression and form of ROD. The awareness and 
early diagnosis of renal osteodystrophy are therefore of great importance, in 
particular since a number of new treatment options have recently evolved. 
Previously-used phosphate binders, which contain either aluminium or calcium, 
might be replaced by non-absorbable drugs which bind phosphate through ion 
exchange. In addition, PTH production can be reduced efficiently by 
administration of recently developed calcimimetic agents that increase the 
sensitivity of calcium-sensing receptors in the parathyroid gland. In patients 
with high-turnover bone disease or after transplantation, bisphosphonates might 
prevent or restore bone loss.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-004-0052-5
PMID: 15106893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Ann Vasc Surg. 2004 Jul;18(4):421-7. doi: 10.1007/s10016-004-0036-3.

Surveillance after endovascular aneurysm repair: diagnostics, complications, and 
associated costs.

Prinssen M(1), Wixon CL, Buskens E, Blankensteijn JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.

The purpose of this study is to describe the diagnostic tests used, the 
complications that occurred the reinterventions performed, and the costs 
incurred after endovascular aneurysm repair. Retrospective review was performed 
of 77 consecutive individuals in whom endovascular aortic grafts had been 
successfully deployed. The series represents a single institution's experience 
with prospective application of a surveillance program using high-resolution CT 
scanning. Follow-up was available for all individuals. Mean interval of 
follow-up was 19.9 months (range 1-72 months), yielding a cumulative follow-up 
of 1540 months. There were no cases of aneurysm rupture. A total of 315 CT scans 
were performed during follow-up. On the basis of predetermined criteria, 28 
interventions were performed in 21 patients. Indications for intervention 
included change in aneurysm sac volume (21 procedures), limb ischemia (5 
procedures), and infection (2 procedures). Seven individuals were converted to 
open repair an average of 28.5 months after graft implantation (range 4-69 
months). Twenty-one additional procedures were performed in 15 individuals after 
an average of 14.8 months (range 1-63 months). Cumulative risk of intervention 
and overall costs were estimated as a function time from implantation. Estimated 
costs at one and five years were 3631 dollars and 9729 dollars. The cumulative 
risk of intervention at one year was 7.2%. The frequency and cost of 
post-implantation procedures after endovascular aortic intervention are 
substantial. As longer follow-up becomes available, continued postoperative 
expenses may cancel out the already marginal cost STET benefits of EVAR benefits 
of EVAR.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-004-0036-3
PMID: 15108054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Surg Today. 2004;34(5):409-12. doi: 10.1007/s00595-003-2728-7.

Patency rates and complications of Exxcel yarn-wrapped polytetrafluoroethylene 
grafts versus Gore-tex stretch polytetrafluoroethylene grafts: a prospective 
study.

Ko PJ(1), Hsieh HC, Chu JJ, Lin PJ, Liu YH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital, Chang Gung University, 5 Fu Shing Street, Kweishan, Taoyuan 333, 
Taiwan.

PURPOSE: Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) has long been used for hemodialysis 
access when there is no suitable superficial vein. We conducted a prospective 
randomized study to compare two PTFE grafts; the stretch Gore-tex graft and the 
Exxcel graft.
METHODS: Between May 2000 and February 2001, PTFE grafts were implanted for 
hemodialysis access in the upper extremities of 94 consecutive patients with 
end-stage renal disease. Graft selection was randomized, with patients receiving 
either a Gore-tex or an Exxcel graft. All grafts were monitored for signs of 
thrombosis or other complications. Graft survival was analyzed using a 
life-table analysis and the log-rank test was applied to compare graft patency.
RESULTS: The primary patency rates 1 and 2 years after implantation were 51% and 
36% for the Exxcel grafts, and 71% and 45% for the Gore-tex grafts, 
respectively. The difference between the two groups was not significant at any 
time. The incidence of complications needing further surgical management was 
8.2% in the Exxcel group and 6.7% in the Gore-tex group, without a significant 
difference.
CONCLUSION: Exxcel grafts or Gore-tex stretch grafts can be used for dialysis 
access with similar expected outcomes for up to 2 years, despite the differences 
in their outer surface design. The yarn-wrapped design does not appear to 
enhance the graft patency and we found no remarkable difference.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-003-2728-7
PMID: 15108078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Eur Spine J. 2004 Aug;13(5):441-8. doi: 10.1007/s00586-002-0515-6. Epub 2004
Apr  24.

Surgical treatment of spinal deformities in Duchenne muscular dystrophy: a long 
term follow-up study.

Cervellati S(1), Bettini N, Moscato M, Gusella A, Dema E, Maresi R.

Author information:
(1)Viale Filopanti 10/2, 40126, Bologna, Italy. stefanocervellati@tiscalinet.it

BACKGROUND: Surgical treatment of spinal deformities in Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy (DMD) is influenced by a number of factors which have proven to be a 
difficult challenge. Each case should be carefully evaluated, considering not 
only the natural history of the spinal deformity, but also the patient's general 
condition. These should be thoroughly assessed through clinical and radiographic 
investigations together with other medical specialists. Life expectancy should 
be determined according to the cardio-respiratory function, and both 
preoperative and postoperative quality of life should be taken into 
consideration, trying to imagine the functional status of each patient after 
surgery.
METHODS: From February 1985 to February 2000, 58 patients with spinal deformity 
in DMD were surgically treated. Of 25 patients that were operated on between 
1985 and 1995, only 20 were followed-up after 5 years because 5 of them had died 
during this time. Therefore, the present study focuses on the results obtained 
in 20 cases. The 20 cases reviewed presented with a mean angular value of 
scoliosis equal to 48 degrees (range 10-92 degrees). Spinal fusion with our 
modified Luque technique [6] was performed in 19 cases, whereas CD 
instrumentation was applied in only one case.
RESULTS: At the 5 year follow-up (range 5.6-10 years), the age ranged from 18 to 
24 years and averaged 20.4 years. The postoperative angular value of scoliosis 
averaged 22 degrees (58%, range 0-43 degrees), the mean correction at follow-up 
was 28 degrees (range 0-60 degrees), and the mean loss of correction was equal 
to 6 degrees (range, 0-11 degrees). Vital capacity showed a slow progression, 
slightly inferior to its natural evolution in untreated patients. The severest 
complication was the death that occurred in one of the patients.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the present study, an early surgery (angular value 
lower than 35-40 degrees) dramatically reduces the rate of risk factors 
associated with spinal deformities in DMD, and its advantages far exceed the 
disadvantages, above all in terms of quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-002-0515-6
PMCID: PMC3476590
PMID: 15108098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Surg Endosc. 2004 Jun;18(6):931-6. doi: 10.1007/s00464-003-9202-x. Epub 2004
Apr  27.

Bronchoscopic palliation of primary lung cancer: single or multimodality 
therapy?

Santos RS(1), Raftopoulos Y, Keenan RJ, Halal A, Maley RH, Landreneau RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Thoracic Surgery, Allegheny General Hospital, 320 East 
North Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232, USA.

BACKGROUND: An obstructing primary lung cancer is a challenging disease 
frequently requiring endobronchial interventional therapy. A variety of 
interventional modalities, including Nd:YAG laser, stenting, photodynamic 
therapy (PDT), and endoluminal brachytherapy, are utilized to relieve airway 
obstruction and bleeding. The aim of this study is to compare the effect on 
patient survival of bronchoscopic palliation for lung cancer utilizing one 
interventional modality compared to the use of combination of modalities to 
relieve the airway problem. METHODS. We reviewed our longitudinal experience 
with interventional bronchoscopy in 75 patients who underwent 176 procedures for 
the management of endobronchial lung cancer between 1994 and 2002. Indication 
for intervention was hemoptysis in 24 patients (32%) and airway obstruction in 
the remaining. Six patients died within 30 days from the first intervention and 
were excluded. Forty of the surviving 69 patients (58%) were treated with a 
single interventional modality (group A). In 29 patients (42%) a multimodality 
endoscopic treatment was utilized (group B). Single-modality treatment in group 
A included Nd-YAG laser in 60%, stent in 17%, brachytherapy in 20%, and PDT in 
3%. A variety of combinations of the aforementioned modalities were used in 
group B to enhance airway patency. Patient data were compared with the Student's 
t-test and chi-square test. Survival analysis and the log rank test were used to 
compare difference in survival between the two groups. A p-value of 0.05 was 
considered significant.
RESULTS: There were 46 males and 23 females, with a mean age of 67 years. The 
tumor was located in the trachea 9%, in the carina in 7%, and primary bronchial 
in 84%. Two patients had complications due to stent malposition. There was no 
significant difference between the two groups in relation to age, gender, tumor 
location, histology, and type of previous cancer therapy. There was a 
significant improvement in survival for the multimodality group (p = 0.04). The 
1- and 3-year cumulative survival rate for groups A and B was 51.3% versus 50% 
and 2.3% versus 22%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Improvement in survival can be seen with diligent airway 
surveillance after interventional bronchoscopy and liberal use of a variety of 
endobronchial treatment modalities for airway obstruction or bleeding. 
Physicians involved in the management of this difficult problem should be versed 
in the use of all available treatment modalities to enhance therapeutic outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-003-9202-x
PMID: 15108108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2004 Feb;28(1):80-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2004.tb00637.x.

To what extent is health and medical research funding associated with the burden 
of disease in Australia?

Aoun S(1), Pennebaker D, Pascal R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Mental Health Services Research, Western Australia. 
s.aoun@ecu.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to analyse the association of the National Health 
and Medical Research Council fund allocations and several measures of burden of 
disease in Australia, and compare it to similar studies in the United States and 
Canada.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study comparing disease-specific funding in two time 
periods (1998-2001 and 2002-03) with data from the Australian Burden of Disease 
study on four measures of burden of disease (incidence, mortality, years of life 
lost and disability-adjusted life years in 1996). This association was measured 
by correlation coefficients. With the use of these measures as predictor 
variables in a regression analysis, predicted funding was calculated and 
compared with actual funding.
RESULTS: The highest correlation coefficients (r = 0.68-0.75) were exhibited by 
the DALYs and years of life lost to disability and the relation was significant 
at p < 0.0001 (1998 to 2003). Based on DALYs, the top five under-funded 
categories (1998-2001) were intentional injuries, cardiovascular diseases, 
mental disorders, unintentional injuries and chronic respiratory diseases. The 
top five over-funded categories were infectious and parasitic diseases, nervous 
system and sense organ disorders, malignant neoplasms, endocrine and metabolic 
disorders and genitourinary diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed a significant relation between NHMRC research 
funding and burden of disease measures and highlighted that comparison of actual 
and predicted funding based on different measures of disease can alter 
conclusions as to whether a disease is over- or under-funded.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2004.tb00637.x
PMID: 15108752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Clin Transplant. 2004 Feb;18(1):89-93.

Morbid obesity does not preclude successful renal transplantation.

Bennett WM(1), McEvoy KM, Henell KR, Valente JF, Douzdjian V.

Author information:
(1)Solid Organ and Cellular Transplantation, Legacy Good Samaritan Hospital, 
Portland, OR 97210-3025, USA. bennettw@lhs.org

Many renal transplantation centers arbitrarily deny transplantation to patients 
with morbid obesity usually defined as body mass index > 35. We present a series 
of 173 primary renal transplant patients in a new transplant program that 
accepted all recipients with 3 yrs or greater life expectancy and no active 
malignancy or infection. When the patient outcomes are divided into groups by 
body mass index, it can be seen as expected that patients with body mass index > 
30 have an increased prevalence of wound infections (p < 0.05). However, aside 
from this complication there are no statistically significant outcome 
differences between the three groups realizing the possibility of type II 
statistical error because of small numbers. Graft survival, patient survival and 
other surgical complications are the same in all groups regardless of body mass 
index. At the end of the 3-yr interval with a minimum transplant follow-up of 3 
months, 169 of 173 patients were alive and 163 of 173 transplants were 
functioning. Based on our experience, morbid obesity should not be used to 
exclude patients arbitrarily from transplantation anymore than advanced age or 
diabetes should.

PMID: 15108776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Trends Biotechnol. 2004 May;22(5):219-21. doi:
10.1016/j.tibtech.2004.03.008.

Biotechnology, bioethics and anti-aging interventions.

Turner L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advanced Study, School of Social Science, Princeton, NJ 08450, 
USA. turner@ias.edu

DOI: 10.1016/j.tibtech.2004.03.008
PMID: 15109806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Transplant Proc. 2004 Apr;36(3):426-7. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2004.03.069.

Donor and organ suitability: risk due to donor social behavior.

Chiarelli AG(1).

Author information:
(1)Associazione Interregionale Trapianti, Centro Inter-regionale di Riferimento, 
Centro di Riferimento Regionale Trapi-anti, Regione Toscana, Firenze, Italy. 
crrt@ao-careggi.toscana.it

For many patients experiencing organ failure, transplantation may be the only 
opportunity to improve their quality of life and to extend life expectancy. 
Organ shortage is an important problem for Italian and international procurement 
organizations. A review of donor and organ suitability is necessary to expand 
the donor pool. The suitability of donors at risk for HIV infection, as well as 
other marginal individuals, must be carefully evaluated before rejecting them. 
For donors with a social history considered to be at risk for HIV infection, 
laboratory testing is necessary to establish the actual HIV infection risk. It 
is important to consider every organ available for transplantation, even those 
considered to be marginal or coming from marginal donors. The only condition 
that we must always consider is that the organs be of acceptable quality and, 
above all, not expose patients to unacceptable risks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2004.03.069
PMID: 15110543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Transplant Proc. 2004 Apr;36(3):497-8. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2004.02.012.

Kidney transplantation from marginal donors.

Veroux P(1), Puliatti C, Veroux M, Cappello D, Macarone M, Puliatti D, Vizcarra 
D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Transplantation and Advanced Technologies, Organ 
Transplant Unit, University Hospital of Catania, Catania, Italy. 
pveroux@unict.it

AIM: The increasing demand for transplantation and the shortage of available 
organs limit the success of organ transplant programs. The use of marginal 
donors to expand the donor pool is receiving increased attention. We reviewed a 
28-month experience of kidney transplants from marginal donors to assess the 
impact on patient and graft survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From January 2001 to May 2003, 78 kidney transplants were 
performed, including 50 grafts from cadaver donors and 28 from living donors 
with 3 patients receiving a double kidney transplant. The patients were divided 
into 4 groups: 31 patients received a kidney from an ideal cadaver donor (group 
1a); 19 patients received a graft from a marginal cadaver donor (group 1b); 19 
patients received an ideal living related kidney (group 2a); and 9 patients 
received a marginal living kidney graft (group 2b).
RESULTS: Twenty-eight grafts from marginal donors were transplanted with an 
average follow-up of 16 months (range, 1-28 months). The graft survival rates 
for groups 1a, 1b, 2a, and 2b were 93%, 79%, 100%, and 100% and patient survival 
rates were 96%, 89%, 100%, and 100%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Despite the observation that use of marginal donors has been 
associated with a worse outcome compared with ideal donors, we of such grafts 
resulted in improved quality of life and survival expectancy compared with 
maintenance dialysis. The marginal kidney donors represent a feasible way to 
improve the donor pool.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2004.02.012
PMID: 15110570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Transplant Proc. 2004 Apr;36(3):718-20. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2004.03.021.

Early de novo malignancies after kidney transplantation.

Veroux M(1), Puliatti C, Fiamingo P, Cappello D, Macarone M, Puliatti D, 
Vizcarra D, Gagliano M, Veroux P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Transplantation and Advanced Technologies, Kidney 
Transplant Unit, University Hospital of Catania, Catania, Italy. veroux@unict.it

INTRODUCTION: Immunosuppressed renal transplant patients display a higher 
incidence of carcinoma than the general population. The chronic use of 
immunosuppressive therapy to prevent acute rejection increases the long-term 
risk of cancer. We reviewed our experience to identify factors affecting the 
development of de novo neoplasms.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between January 2000 and May 2003, 135 renal and three 
combined kidney-pancreas transplantations were performed.
RESULTS: Sixteen (11.6%) cancers were diagnosed in nine renal transplant 
recipients (6.5%). Tumors presented at a mean time of 14 months. Three patients 
displayed in malignancies; three, Kaposi's sarcoma; one, papillary 
microcarcinoma of the thyroid; one, bladder carcinoma; and one, breast 
carcinoma.
CONCLUSION: Although de novo malignancies occur more frequently many years after 
kidney transplantation, our experience demonstrates that they can occur early 
during the posttransplant follow-up. Skin malignancies showed the best 
prognosis, probably because of early detection and treatment. Patients with 
Kaposi's sarcoma benefit from reduction or cessation of immunosuppression, but 
this entails a higher risk of graft loss. Solid organ de novo malignancies are 
often more aggressive than those in normal population; the life expectancy of 
these recipients is low.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2004.03.021
PMID: 15110643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. J Vasc Surg. 2004 May;39(5):1043-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2004.01.024.

Basilic vein transposition fistula: a good option for maintaining hemodialysis 
access site options?

Rao RK(1), Azin GD, Hood DB, Rowe VL, Kohl RD, Katz SG, Weaver FA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Southern 
California, Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California, USA.

PURPOSE: The primary use of autogenous arteriovenous access for chronic 
hemodialysis is recommended by the National Kidney Foundation-Dialysis Outcomes 
Quality Initiative practice guidelines. We review the outcomes of basilic vein 
transposition (BVT) to assess its value as a primary upper arm arteriovenous 
access option.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 56 patients undergoing BVT was performed. 
Thirty patients were men; average age was 56 years. Etiology of end-stage renal 
disease, complications, and time to maturation were tabulated. Primary and 
secondary patency rates were determined by using life table methods. 
Multivariate regression analysis was performed to assess risk factors for 
fistula failure.
RESULTS: Renal failure was associated with diabetes in 32 (57%) patients, and 
BVT was the primary access procedure in 22 (39%) patients. Perioperative 
complications occurred in 5 (9%) patients and included hematoma (n = 3), 
myocardial infarction (n = 1), and death (n = 1). The average time to maturation 
was 74 days (range, 12-265 days), and maturation failure occurred in 21 (38%) 
patients. Logistic regression analysis showed that age older than 60 years was 
associated with poorer maturation and patency rates. On an intent-to-treat 
basis, 1-year primary and secondary patencies were 35% and 47%, respectively, 
but only 18% and 28%, respectively, for age >60 years. Forty-two percent of 
failed BVT were subsequently replaced with a prosthetic graft by using the same 
upper arm vessels.
CONCLUSION: BVT frequently do not mature in patients older than 60 years, which 
compromises its utility as a primary access. However, fistulas that mature 
provide acceptable patency rates, and subsequent conversion to a prosthetic 
access is frequently possible. Selective use of BVT might improve the 
utilization of available access sites.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2004.01.024
PMID: 15111858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Semin Oncol. 2004 Apr;31(2):137-48. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2003.12.025.

Aging biology and cancer.

Denduluri N(1), Ershler WB.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advanced Studies in Aging & Geriatric Medicine, 1700 Wisconsin 
Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007, USA.

Epidemiologic analyses of current registries indicate that the majority of 
patients in the United States with cancer are 65 years old or older. Basic 
research in both gerontology and oncology has led to an understanding that these 
processes (normal aging and the development of cancer) have much in common. In 
this review we attempt to frame specific aspects of cancer biology in the 
context of normal aging.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2003.12.025
PMID: 15112145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Semin Oncol. 2004 Apr;31(2):175-84. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2003.12.028.

Surgery in older patients.

Kemeny MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Queens Cancer Center of Queens Hospital, Mt. Sinai Svc, 82-88 16th Street, 
Jamaica, NY 11432, USA.

Surgery for solid tumors is often withheld from the very elderly because of 
perceptions that they could not tolerate it physically and often because their 
life expectancy is considered too short. Data have shown that both of these 
factors should be carefully considered for the individual patient, since the 
mortality from most operations, even such major surgeries as liver resections, 
is no different for the fit elderly than for younger patients. One of the main 
problems is that the elderly are often not diagnosed and treated early enough to 
prevent emergency operations that carry a much higher mortality. Many new 
surgical techniques have made cancer surgery less invasive; this is especially 
true for stage I and II breast cancer. These advances have increased the 
potential for curative cancer surgeries that can be offered to all patients 
regardless of advanced age.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2003.12.028
PMID: 15112148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Semin Oncol. 2004 Apr;31(2):234-48. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2003.12.033.

Breast cancer in older patients.

Kimmick G(1), Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Medical Center Boulevard, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.

Breast cancer is a common problem and a major health concern in our growing 
geriatric population. Older breast cancer patients are at risk for less than 
standard management, the appropriateness of which is difficult to discern. 
Breast tumors tend to have less aggressive characteristics. In addition, 
planning therapy is not always straightforward because older patients may 
present with comorbid illnesses and frailty that limit therapeutic choices. 
Standard management approaches should always be considered first. Here, we 
outline some data supporting standard treatment for breast cancer in older 
women. We also describe other options that can be considered in circumstances 
when the standard treatment is not possible. For instance, primary treatment 
with tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor is justifiable in a patient who is 
unfit for surgery and axillary dissection may be unnecessary in a patient who is 
obviously unfit for adjuvant chemotherapy. Adjuvant therapies should be 
considered, weighing risks and benefits for each patient, though the threshold 
for using chemotherapy may be higher. The goals in treating metastatic breast 
cancer in an older patient are not different than for younger patients.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2003.12.033
PMID: 15112153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Semin Oncol. 2004 Apr;31(2):249-63. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2003.12.034.

Genitourinary cancer in the elderly.

Raghavan D(1), Skinner E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology, Department of Urology, University of Southern 
California Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Genitourinary malignancy comprises nearly half of the cancers diagnosed in men, 
and the incidence of this group of cancers increases with age. The key to 
successful management is to define appropriate goals (cure v palliation) based 
on the natural history and extent of disease, physiology and life expectancy of 
the patients, and cost-benefit ratio of treatment options. Of particular 
importance, the chance for cure should not be sacrificed because of age-based 
considerations in early-stage cancers of the prostate or kidney nor in the early 
stage of locally advanced urothelial malignancy.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2003.12.034
PMID: 15112154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Bioessays. 2004 May;26(5):485-96. doi: 10.1002/bies.20029.

Can flies help humans treat neurodegenerative diseases?

Marsh JL(1), Thompson LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental and Cell Biology & Developmental Biology Center, 
University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-2300, USA. jlmarsh@uci.edu

Neurodegenerative diseases are becoming increasingly common as life expectancy 
increases. Recent years have seen tremendous progress in the identification of 
genes that cause these diseases. While mutations have been found and cellular 
processes defined that are altered in the disease state, the identification of 
treatments and cures has proven more elusive. The process of finding drugs and 
therapies to treat human diseases can be slow, expensive and frustrating. Can 
model organisms such as Drosophila speed the process of finding cures and 
treatments for human neurodegenerative diseases? We pose three questions, (1) 
can one mimic the essential features of human diseases in an organism like 
Drosophila, (2) can one cure a model organisms of human disease and (3) will 
these efforts accelerate the identification of useful therapies for testing in 
mice and ultimately humans? Here we focus on the use of Drosophila to identify 
potential treatments for neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington's and we 
discuss how well these therapies translate into mammalian systems.

Copyright 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.20029
PMID: 15112229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Epidemiol Bull. 2003 Jun;24(2):1-4.

Techniques to measure the impact of mortality: years of potential life lost.

PAHO's Area of Health Analysis and Information Systems (AIS).

PMID: 15112621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Epidemiol Bull. 2003 Dec;24(4):6-10.

Life tables: a technique to summarize mortality and survival.

Vázquez E(1), Camaño F, Silvi J, Roca A.

Author information:
(1)PAHO's Area of Health Situation Analysis and Information Systems (AIS), 
PAHO/WHO, Argentina.

PMID: 15112633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. BMC Emerg Med. 2004 Mar 15;4(1):1. doi: 10.1186/1471-227X-4-1.

Impact of disaster-related mortality on gross domestic product in the WHO 
African Region.

Kirigia JM(1), Sambo LG, Aldis W, Mwabu GM.

Author information:
(1)WHO, Regional Office for Africa, Congo. kirigiaj@afro.who.int

BACKGROUND: Disaster-related mortality is a growing public health concern in the 
African Region. These deaths are hypothesized to have a significantly negative 
effect on per capita gross domestic product (GDP). The objective of this study 
was to estimate the loss in GDP attributable to natural and technological 
disaster-related mortality in the WHO African Region. METHODS: The impact of 
disaster-related mortality on GDP was estimated using double-log econometric 
model and cross-sectional data on various Member States in the WHO African 
Region. The analysis was based on 45 of the 46 countries in the Region. The data 
was obtained from various UNDP and World Bank publications. RESULTS: The 
coefficients for capital (K), educational enrolment (EN), life expectancy (LE) 
and exports (X) had a positive sign; while imports (M) and disaster mortality 
(DS) were found to impact negatively on GDP. The above-mentioned explanatory 
variables were found to have a statistically significant effect on GDP at 5% 
level in a t-distribution test. Disaster mortality of a single person was found 
to reduce GDP by US$0.01828. CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated that 
disaster-related mortality has a significant negative effect on GDP. Thus, as 
policy-makers strive to increase GDP through capital investment, export 
promotion and increased educational enrolment, they should always keep in mind 
that investments made in the strengthening of national capacity to mitigate the 
