positively affected by full compliance with a periodontal maintenance program in 
a specialist practice.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the limits of this study, data suggest that tooth retention 
and clinical improvements following GTR treatment of intrabony defects can be 
maintained long term in the great majority of cases and thus that regenerative 
periodontal treatment represents an important alternative for the management of 
severely compromised teeth.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2004.75.5.672
PMID: 15212349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. BMJ. 2004 Jun 26;328(7455):1519. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38142.554479.AE. Epub 2004
Jun  22.

Mortality in relation to smoking: 50 years' observations on male British 
doctors.

Doll R(1), Peto R, Boreham J, Sutherland I.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit (CTSU), 
Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford OX2 6HE.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2004 Jun 26;328(7455):1507.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the hazards of cigarette smoking in men who formed their 
habits at different periods, and the extent of the reduction in risk when 
cigarette smoking is stopped at different ages.
DESIGN: Prospective study that has continued from 1951 to 2001.
SETTING: United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 34 439 male British doctors. Information about their smoking 
habits was obtained in 1951, and periodically thereafter; cause specific 
mortality was monitored for 50 years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Overall mortality by smoking habit, considering 
separately men born in different periods.
RESULTS: The excess mortality associated with smoking chiefly involved vascular, 
neoplastic, and respiratory diseases that can be caused by smoking. Men born in 
1900-1930 who smoked only cigarettes and continued smoking died on average about 
10 years younger than lifelong non-smokers. Cessation at age 60, 50, 40, or 30 
years gained, respectively, about 3, 6, 9, or 10 years of life expectancy. The 
excess mortality associated with cigarette smoking was less for men born in the 
19th century and was greatest for men born in the 1920s. The cigarette smoker 
versus non-smoker probabilities of dying in middle age (35-69) were 42% nu 24% 
(a twofold death rate ratio) for those born in 1900-1909, but were 43% nu 15% (a 
threefold death rate ratio) for those born in the 1920s. At older ages, the 
cigarette smoker versus non-smoker probabilities of surviving from age 70 to 90 
were 10% nu 12% at the death rates of the 1950s (that is, among men born around 
the 1870s) but were 7% nu 33% (again a threefold death rate ratio) at the death 
rates of the 1990s (that is, among men born around the 1910s).
CONCLUSION: A substantial progressive decrease in the mortality rates among 
non-smokers over the past half century (due to prevention and improved treatment 
of disease) has been wholly outweighed, among cigarette smokers, by a 
progressive increase in the smoker nu non-smoker death rate ratio due to earlier 
and more intensive use of cigarettes. Among the men born around 1920, prolonged 
cigarette smoking from early adult life tripled age specific mortality rates, 
but cessation at age 50 halved the hazard, and cessation at age 30 avoided 
almost all of it.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38142.554479.AE
PMCID: PMC437139
PMID: 15213107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. J Craniofac Surg. 2004 Jul;15(4):675-7. doi:
10.1097/00001665-200407000-00027.

Plastic surgery considerations for holoprosencephaly patients.

Hendi JM(1), Nemerofsky R, Stolman C, Granick MS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, New Jersey Medical 
School-University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey, 
USA.

Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is considered the leading abnormality of the brain and 
face in humans and is frequently associated with a wide spectrum of specific 
craniofacial anomalies including mid-line facial clefts, cyclopia and nasal 
irregularities. A standard course of treatment has not been developed and 
management is symptomatic and supportive. In this work, the authors discuss the 
wide-ranging spectrum of HPE and propose surgical guidelines to provide more 
uniform and appropriate care to patients suffering from holoprosencephaly. 
Assessment of the patient's brain abnormality is essential in determining the 
extent and benefit of surgical intervention. The authors discuss a median 
straight-line repair of the lip and repair of the anterior palate in a one-year 
old female and review the risks and benefits of surgery. Consistent with the 
ethical approach of surgical beneficence, the authors recommend intervention at 
the earliest possible time.

DOI: 10.1097/00001665-200407000-00027
PMID: 15213551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Am J Med Genet A. 2004 Jul 15;128A(2):159-64. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.30062.

Genetic influences on life span and survival among elderly African-Americans, 
Caribbean Hispanics, and Caucasians.

Lee JH(1), Flaquer A, Costa R, Andrews H, Cross P, Lantigua R, Schupf N, Tang 
MX, Mayeux R.

Author information:
(1)The Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA. jhl2@columbia.edu

An investigation of the genetic influences on life span and survival was 
conducted among elderly African-Americans, Caribbean Hispanics, and Caucasians 
Medicare recipients (ages 65-104 years). Family history information on 13,161 
parents and siblings was obtained. Heritability of life span varied by the age 
and by ethnic group being lowest for African-Americans. We recalculated the 
heritability coefficients for life span including only probands and their 
siblings, but the differences across ethnic groups persisted. In contrast the 
heritability of survival was more similar across ethnic groups but was similar 
to that for life span. Heritability coefficients for survival in probands and 
their siblings revealed little difference between ethnic groups and suggested 
that as much as 35% of the variation in survival may be genetically influenced. 
These results indicate that life span and survival are genetically influenced. 
Comparisons across generations and ethnic groups indicate that changes in 
environmental hygiene, social welfare, and health care systems are significant 
contributors to life span and survival, but genetic influences are also 
important. Identifying the genes associated with life span and survival will 
provide insight into how the genes interact with environment to influence aging 
in humans.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.30062
PMID: 15214008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2004 May-Jun;19(3):399-407.

Alveolar distraction osteogenesis for the correction of vertically deficient 
edentulous ridges: a multicenter prospective study on humans.

Chiapasco M(1), Consolo U, Bianchi A, Ronchi P.

Author information:
(1)Oral Surgery Unit, Department of Medicine, Surgery, and Dentistry, San Paolo 
Hospital, University of Milan, Italy. matteo.chiapasco@unimi.it

PURPOSE: The purposes of this prospective multicenter study were to evaluate the 
use of vertical distraction osteogenesis in the correction of vertically 
deficient alveolar ridges and to evaluate whether the vertical bone gained by 
distraction osteogenesis was maintained over time when dental implants were 
placed in the distracted areas.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-seven patients presenting vertically deficient 
edentulous ridges were treated in 4 different centers by means of distraction 
osteogenesis with an intraoral alveolar distractor. Two to 3 months after 
consolidation of the distracted segments, 138 dental implants were placed in the 
distracted areas. Four to 6 months later, abutments were connected and 
prosthetic loading of the implants began.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up after initial prosthetic loading was 34 months 
(range 15 to 55 months). The mean bone gain obtained by distraction was 9.9 mm 
(range 4 to 15 mm). The cumulative success rate of the implants 4 years after 
the onset of prosthetic loading was 94.2%, while the implants' cumulative 
survival rate was 100%. No statistically significant differences were found 
between the different centers as far as survival and success rates of implants 
were concerned.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The results of this study appear to demonstrate that 
distraction osteogenesis is a reliable technique for the correction of 
vertically deficient edentulous ridges. The regenerated bone appeared to 
withstand the functional demands of implant loading. The survival and success 
rates of the implants placed in the distracted areas were consistent with those 
reported in the literature regarding implants placed in native bone in this 
patient population.

PMID: 15214225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2004 May-Jun;19(3):425-30.

Implants in an HIV-positive patient: a case report.

Baron M(1), Gritsch F, Hansy AM, Haas R.

Author information:
(1)Dental School of the University of Vienna, Department of Oral Surgery, 
Waehringer Strasse 25a, A-1090 Vienna, Austria. monika.baron@univie.ac.at

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) causes an immune incompetence that weakens 
the body's defense against pathogens. It has been supposed that HIV-positive 
patients are more likely to develop both early and late postoperative 
complications, such as septicemia and poor wound healing. This has not been 
corroborated by more recent studies but seems to depend on the patient's level 
of CD4 cells and his or her general condition. As the life expectancy of 
HIV-positive individuals increases and the condition becomes increasingly 
controllable, esthetic dental treatment becomes more significant and 
implant-supported prostheses may be considered as an alternative to removable 
dentures. Except for a single case report on the immediate placement of a 
single-tooth implant, no reports are available on implant dentistry in 
HIV-positive patients. This case report concerns implant placement in the 
maxilla and mandible of an HIV-positive individual and complete dental and 
implant rehabilitation. Two years after implant placement, the prosthesis is 
functioning well.

PMID: 15214229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Food Nutr Bull. 2004 Jun;25(2):175-82. doi: 10.1177/156482650402500211.

The challenge of improving food and nutrition in Latin America.

Uauy R(1), Monteiro CA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology (INTA), University of Chile, 
Santiago, Chile. uauy@uchile.cl

The Latin American Region has exhibited a marked increase in the consumption of 
high-energy-density foods (high in fats and sugars) and a decrease in physical 
activity, with rising trends of sedentary life among the urban population. 
Social and economic progress led to a decline in infectious diseases, while 
higher income fostered the consumption of meats, fats and oils, and sugar and 
reduced the consumption of grains and legumes. The result has been a gradual 
increase in life expectancy at birth and a greater burden of disease linked to 
obesity and other nutrition-related chronic diseases (diabetes, cardiovascular 
disease, certain types of cancer, and osteoporosis). The region is currently 
facing the challenge of a double disease burden--the unresolved problem of 
malnutrition caused by nutritional deficits on the one hand, and the steady 
increase in chronic disease on the other. The need to develop policies and 
programs that make the healthy choice the easy choice in terms of diet and 
physical activity is presented. These should encompass not only individual 
choices, but also environmental factors that condition food and physical 
activity behavior. Food supply, and hence consumption, is largely driven by the 
productivity of the food-production chain; demand and consumption are determined 
by the way food is produced, processed, distributed, marketed, and advertised. 
These factors are beyond the consumer's control, and they operate to maximize 
profit, not health. Public health policies should focus not only on the demand 
side, but also on the supply of more healthful food products. Examples of 
potential interventions to increase the demand for healthful foods and the 
supply of healthier choices are presented and discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/156482650402500211
PMID: 15214264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):B513-4. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.6.b513.

The hype and the reality--part I.

Olshansky SJ(1), Hayflick L, Perls TT.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois at Chicago, 1603 W. Taylor 
St., Rm. 885, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. sjayo@uic.edu

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.b513
PMID: 15215255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):B515-22. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.6.b515.

Life extension and history: the continual search for the fountain of youth.

Haber C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of History, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716, USA. 
chaber@udel.edu

The search for longevity is hardly new. Before recent times, advocates for 
longevity fell into two general time periods. From the 16th century to the 18th 
century, individuals worked to extend the lives and vitality of elderly people; 
they believed senescence was a time of considerable worth. From the 19th century 
through the early 20th century, however, anti-age advocates generally depicted 
old age as a time to be feared and despised, devising myriad procedures in order 
to eliminate it entirely. While sharing little with the advocates of the early 
modern period, the recent anti-age movement clearly mirrors many of the beliefs 
of the longevity advocates of a century ago. Both groups not only see old age as 
a disease to be eradicated through injections and operations, but also argue 
that the old constitute an enormous economic burden. These beliefs reveal that 
the new anti-age movement, like its early 20th century precursor, is based on 
more than simple hair dyes, hormones, or diet. Rather, their ideas and actions 
ultimately serve to marginalize the very process of growing old.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.b515
PMID: 15215256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):B523-33. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.6.b523.

Anti-aging medicine and research: a realm of conflict and profound societal 
implications.

Binstock RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor of Aging, Health, and Society, School of Medicine, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106-4945, USA. robert.binstock@po.cwru.edu

Biogerontologists have recently launched a war of words on anti-aging medicine. 
They seek to discredit what they judge to be fraudulent and harmful products and 
therapies, and to distinguish their own research from what they regard as the 
pseudoscience of anti-aging injections, special mineral waters, and other 
services and products. Yet, many of these biogerontologists are themselves 
trying to develop interventions that will actually slow or arrest the 
fundamental processes of human aging and substantially extend average life 
expectancy and maximum life span. Achievement of these biogerontological goals 
would drastically alter the nature of individual and collective life, radically 
transforming virtually every social institution and norm. Biogerontologists who 
are engaged in anti-aging research need to undertake more active leadership in 
helping the public to understand their goals, to deliberately consider the 
implications of their fulfillment, and to begin thinking about ways to shape 
those ramifications in constructive fashions.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.b523
PMID: 15215257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):B554-9. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.6.b554.

Point-counterpoint: would doubling the human life span be a net positive or 
negative for us either as individuals or as a society?

Stock G(1), Callahan D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, UCLA School of Public Health, Los Angeles, CA 
90024, USA. gstock@ess.ucla.edu

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.b554
PMID: 15215264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):B573-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.6.b573.

"Anti-aging" is an oxymoron.

Hayflick L(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor of Anatomy, Department of Anatomy, University of California, San 
Francisco, School of Medicine, P.O. Box 89, The Sea Ranch, CA 95497, USA. 
len@gene.com

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 Feb;60(2):139-40; author reply 140-1.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 Oct;60(10):1223-7; discussion 1228-32.

No intervention will slow, stop, or reverse the aging process in humans. Whether 
anti-aging medicine is, or is not, a legitimate science is completely dependent 
upon the definition of key terms that define the finitude of life: longevity 
determination, aging, and age-associated diseases. Only intervention in the 
latter by humans has been shown to affect life expectancy. When it becomes 
possible to slow, stop, or reverse the aging process in the simpler molecules 
that compose inanimate objects, such as machines, then that prospect may become 
tenable for the complex molecules that compose life forms. Most of the resources 
available under the rubric "aging research" are not used for that purpose at 
all, thus making the likelihood of intervention in the process even more remote. 
If age changes are the greatest risk factor for age-associated diseases (an 
almost universal belief), then why is the study of aging virtually neglected?

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.b573
PMID: 15215267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):B579-86. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.6.b579.

Demography of human supercentenarians.

Coles LS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90095-7313, USA. scoles@ucla.edu

An international committee of demographers has created a carefully documented 
list of worldwide living supercentenarians (> or =110 years old) that has been 
published by the Los Angeles Gerontology Research Group on its web site and 
updated on a weekly basis for the past 6 years [see "snapshot" for the year 2003 
in the Appendix]. What can be learned by studying this distinguished group of 
individuals? Also, what are the implications for understanding the fundamental 
biological limits to human longevity and maximum life span? Our conclusion: 
Although everyone agrees that average life expectancy has systematically 
advanced linearly over the last century, it is not realistic to expect that this 
pace can continue indefinitely. Our data suggest that, without the invention of 
some new unknown form of medical breakthrough, the Guinness Book of World 
Records benchmark established by French woman Jeanne Calment of 122 years, set 
back in 1997, will be exceedingly difficult to break in our lifetime.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.b579
PMID: 15215268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M590-7. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.6.m590.

Looking forward to a general theory on population aging.

Robine JM(1), Michel JP.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Department, Geneva University Hospitals, CH 1226, Thônex-Geneva, 
Switzerland. jean-pierre.michel@hcuge.ch

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M598-9; athor reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M599-600; author reply 
M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M600; author reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M601-2; author reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M602-3; author reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M603-5; author reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M605-6; author reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M606-8; author reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M608; author reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M609-11; author reply M616-20.
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M611-2; author reply M616-20.

Republished in
    Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 2006 Sep;37(4):29-37.

The main theories on population aging based on recent data on human longevity, 
life expectancy, morbidity changes, disability trends, and mortality decrease 
are presented and discussed within their own geographic, cultural, 
socioeconomic, and medical contexts. The complex interactions between all these 
components do not facilitate trend forecasting of aging population (healthy 
aging versus disability pandemic). In the context of population aging, four 
elements were introduced with their implications: 1) an increase in the survival 
rates of sick persons, which would explain the expansion of morbidity, 2) a 
control of the progression of chronic diseases, which would explain a subtle 
equilibrium between the decrease in mortality and the increase in disability, 3) 
an improvement of the health status and health behaviors of new cohorts of 
elderly people, which would explain the compression of morbidity, and eventually 
4) an emergence of very old and frail populations, which would explain a new 
expansion of morbidity. Obviously, all these elements coexist today, and future 
trend scenarios-expansion or compression of disability-depend on their 
respective weights leading to the need of elaborating "a general theory on 
population aging." This theory has to be based on a world harmonization of 
functional decline measurements and a periodic "International Aging Survey" to 
monitor global aging through a sample of carefully selected countries.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.m590
PMID: 15215269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M600; author reply M616-20.
doi:  10.1093/gerona/59.6.m600.

Robine and Michel's "Looking forward to a general theory on population aging": 
population aging: the benefit of global versus local theory.

Deeg DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit Medical Centre, Institute for Research in Extramural 
Medicine/LASA, Van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081 BT Amsterdam, the Netherlands. 
djh.deeg@vumc.nl

Comment on
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M590-7.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.m600
PMID: 15215272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M601-2; author reply M616-20.
doi:  10.1093/gerona/59.6.m601.

Robine and Michel's "Looking forward to a general theory on population aging": 
population aging: a clinician's view.

Duthie EH Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Jr., Division of Geriatrics, VA Medical Center-Milwaukee, 5000 W. National 
Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53295, USA. eduthie@mcw.edu

Comment on
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M590-7.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.m601
PMID: 15215273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M605-6; author reply M616-20.
doi:  10.1093/gerona/59.6.m605.

Robine and Michel's "Looking forward to a general theory on population aging": 
commentary.

Goodwin JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Sealy Center on Aging, Division of Geriatrics in Internal Medicine, 
University of Texas Medical Branch, 301 University Blvd., Galveston, TX 
77555-0460, USA. jsgoodwi@utmb.edu

Comment on
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M590-7.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.m605
PMID: 15215276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M606-8; author reply M616-20.
doi:  10.1093/gerona/59.6.m606.

Robine and Michel's "Looking forward to a general theory on population aging": 
population aging across time and cultures: can we move from theory to evidence?

Guralnik JM(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging, 7201 Wisconsin Ave., Rm. 3C-309, Bethesda, MD 
20815, USA. jg48s@nih.gov

Comment on
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M590-7.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.m606
PMID: 15215277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M611-2; author reply M616-20.
doi:  10.1093/gerona/59.6.m611.

Robine and Michel's "Looking forward to a general theory on population aging": 
commentary.

Olshansky SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois at Chicago, 1603 West Taylor 
St., Rm. 885, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. sjayo@uic.edu

Comment on
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jun;59(6):M590-7.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.6.m611
PMID: 15215280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Br J Nurs. 2004 May 13-26;13(9):518-21. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2004.13.9.12960.

Palliative care in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Blackler L(1), Mooney C, Jones C.

Author information:
(1)Medical Care Group, King's College Hospital, London, UK.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a slow, debilitating, 
progressive disease and, as symptoms worsen, quality of life is affected and 
issues surrounding end of life arise. There are known difficulties about the 
healthcare professional's ability to manage this area and this is reflected in 
the literature. It is recognized that palliative care services for people with 
non-malignant diseases are not developed but this needs to be addressed. Within 
a London teaching hospital the COPD team has been working towards improving the 
standard of service offered to patients with advanced COPD using various 
strategies. The team's approach to this area of care focuses on quality of life 
by recognizing when an individual may need further support, and patients have 
reported that they feel their needs are being addressed. This article aims to 
review current evidence on the management of palliative care for patients with 
COPD and identify what steps have been taken by a London teaching hospital to 
address this issue.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2004.13.9.12960
PMID: 15215727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Am Heart J. 2004 Jul;148(1):106-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.01.018.

Cost-effectiveness of using electron beam computed tomography to identify 
patients at risk for clinical coronary artery disease.

O'Malley PG(1), Greenberg BA, Taylor AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA. 
patrick.omalley@na.amedd.army.mil

BACKGROUND: The use of electron beam computed tomography (EBCT) to screen for 
coronary artery calcification (CAC) has been widely promulgated, although the 
cost effectiveness of this practice is unknown.
METHODS: We constructed a decision tree to determine the marginal cost per 
additional patient who was "at risk" (>10% 10-year risk of coronary heart 
disease) identified with the addition of EBCT to the Framingham Risk Index (FRI) 
in a screening population with no cardiac symptoms. We also determined the 
marginal cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) saved, assuming a 30% 
improvement in life expectancy associated with primary prevention. A consecutive 
screening cohort of 39- to 45-year-old men and women was used for demographic 
and risk factor data. Estimates of the relevant input costs were made on the 
basis of published literature when available.
RESULTS: Compared with using FRI alone, the strategy of incorporating EBCT 
detects patients who are "at risk" at a cost of 9789 dollars/additional case and 
a marginal cost of 86,752 dollars/QALY. The marginal cost per QALY is highly 
sensitive to the gain in life expectancy from early intervention 
(10,000-1,700,000 dollars/QALY for a relative risk reduction in mortality of 50% 
or 25%, respectively), the utility of being "at risk" (18,000 dollars/QALY to 
dominated for a utility of 1.0-<0.98, similar to other asymptomatic chronic 
illnesses), and the added prognostic value of EBCT (60,000 dollars/QALY to 
dominated in a wide range).
CONCLUSION: The use of EBCT to improve cardiovascular risk prediction in a 
population with no cardiac symptoms who are at low absolute risk is expensive, 
even using favorable assumptions. If the utility of being "at risk" is 
comparable with other asymptomatic disease states, EBCT may in aggregate have a 
detrimental effect on the quality of life of screening populations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.01.018
PMID: 15215799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Rozhl Chir. 2004 Apr;83(4):173-7.

[Is liver resection or radiofrequency ablation indicated in breast carcinoma 
metastases?].

[Article in Czech]

Treska V(1), Skalický T, Fínek J, Kormunda S, Topolcan O, Sutnar A, Neprasová P, 
Sůvová B.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgická klinika Fakultní nemocnice v Plzni.

AIM: Until recently, metastasizing of the breast carcinoma to the liver has been 
considered the sign of the disease process generalization with a poor 
therapeutic prognosis. Therefore, the aim of this work was to assess any 
positive effects of liver resections in cases of patients with metastases with 
respect to the patients' survival rate and the relapse rate of the disorder.
METHODOLOGY: From January 2000 until September 2003, 13 women aged 55.8 years on 
average (39-71 years of age) underwent surgery in the Surgical clinic of the 
Faculty Hospital in Plzen for liver metastases of the breast carcinoma. The 
average period of time from the date of the primary surgery for the breast 
carcinoma till the breast carcinoma liver metastasis appeared, was 4.3 years (3 
months to 9 years). The breast carcinoma liver metastases were solitary in 11 
cases and in two cases the metastases were multiple. The authors conducted four 
right-sided hepatectomies, three segmentectomies, two left-sided lobectomies, 
three radiofrequence ablations (RFA), one combined surgery--the liver resection 
and RFA, in total. In seven cases, the histological examination proved a ductal 
carcinoma and in six cases a lobular carcinoma. Following the surgery, all 
female patients underwent curative chemotherapy. None of the patients died 
earlier than 30 days after the surgery. In case of one patient during the 
complicated hepatectomy, the ductus hepaticus communis was iatrogenically 
injured, and the situation was solved using hepaticojejunoanastomosis according 
to Roux. The data were statistically evaluated according to the Kaplan-Meier 
long-term survival rate and the mestases relapse rate curve. A twelve-month and 
a thirty-month survival rate were 100%, and 66.7%, respectively. A probability 
of the relapse anywhere in the body is rated 0% and 71.5%, respectively for the 
same periods of time following the liver surgery for the breast carcinoma.
CONCLUSION: Based on the authors' own findings and in conjunction with the 
current literature data, it is clearly evident that surgical therapy (liver 
resection, eventually RFA) followed by adjacent chemotherapy is the therapeutic 
method of choice in cases of patients suffering from the breast carcinoma liver 
metastases. The above method represents the only chance for a considerable 
extension of a quality life for women suffering from the breast carcinoma liver 
metastases.

PMID: 15216686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. J Ky Med Assoc. 2004 Jun;102(6):263-6.

Which life?

Jones VF(1), Wheeler F, Aldrich T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Louisville, School of Medicine, 
Louisville, KY 40202, USA.

"Saving a life" is a credible definition of heroism in the United States. 
However, the pervasive societal impression of immediate gratification has led to 
a widespread recognition of "life saving" only in circumstances of immediate 
danger. The lengthening national life expectancy is not accorded respect as an 
accomplishment in and of itself. Families of dying, elderly persons still 
mistake the "loss" by failing to appreciate the many times this life has been 
saved and esteeming the accomplishment that death at a later age poses. Public 
health and preventive medicine both suffer general disregard for this 
shortsighted perspective, from the public and those who determine federal 
funding priorities. This narrative expounds on this frustration and describes 
its implication for the future of public health as it is currently practiced in 
this nation.

PMID: 15216725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2004 May;51(5):335-46.

[Evaluation of indices indicating elderly long-term care need in 
municipalities].

[Article in Japanese]

Takeda S(1), Tamura K.

Author information:
(1)Center for Public Health and Welfare, Taihaku-Ku, Sendai.

OBJECTIVE: To establish a way to evaluate preventive care programs using indices 
that indicate the status of long-term care need for elderly in municipalities.
METHOD: Based on the number of people certified as subject to long-term care 
need and the number of deaths in Taihaku Ward in Sendai City, 3 indices in 14 
junior high school districts in the ward were derived; Healthy Life Expectancy 
for 65 year old men and women (the period in which certification for long-term 
care need is not made), Hours of Care Need (age-adjusted standard hours for care 
need) and the Odds Ratio (age-adjusted relative risk) for the elderly aged 65 
years or older. Yearly comparisons of the indices were made for 2000 vs 2001, 
2001 vs 2002 and 2000 vs 2002. The relationships between the three indices were 
further analyzed for 2000, 2001 and 2002. Care Compensation by district 
(age-adjusted care compensation by district was derived for 2001) and its 
relationships to Healthy Life Expectancy, Hours of Care Need and the Odds Ratio 
were analyzed by school district for 2001.
RESULTS: 1) The Hours of Care Need by district significantly correlated with the 
Odds Ratios by district for 2000, 2001 and 2002. Both the Hours of Care Need and 
the Odds Ratio by district also significantly correlated between 2000 and 2001, 
between 2001 and 2002 and between 2000 and 2002. Healthy Life Expectancy did not 
show a significant correlation between 2000 and 2001, between 2001 and 2002 and 
between 2000 and 2002, for men and women. 2) The 2001 Care Compensation by 
district was obviously proportional to both Hours of Care Need by district and 
the Odds Ratio by district but did not correlate with Healthy Life Expectancy by 
district for men and women. 3) Using the co-relationship of the Hours of Care 
Need between the years, the percentage of applications for certification for 
care need by people needing care was estimated at 65% for 2000, 87.5% for 2001 
and 101% for 2002. This implies that in 2002 almost all the people who needed 
care applied for the certification. The 2001 Odds Ratio by district was 
significantly low in district D and significantly high in district H.
CONCLUSIONS: Hours of Care Need correlate well with the Odds Ratio and also with 
Care Compensation which represents long-term care insurance service expenses. 
The results clearly indicate that the 3 indices represent the status of care 
need of the elderly in these districts, even with conservative estimates, after 
2002. It is suggested that Hours of Care Need and the Odds Ratio are appropriate 
as indices to evaluate preventive care programs in municipalities.

PMID: 15216969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(8):495-8. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200422080-00002.

Pharmacogenomics and the evolution of healthcare : is it time for 
cost-effectiveness analysis at the individual level?

Bala MV(1), Zarkin GA.

Author information:
(1)Centocor Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355, USA. mbala@cntus.jnj.com

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(5):527.

The efficacy and toxicity of any given drug can vary substantially from one 
individual to another. The heterogeneity in individual genetics contributes, in 
part, to this variability. Pharmacogenomics uses each patient's individual 
genetic information to identify the drug with the best efficacy-safety profile 
for that patient. However, heterogeneity is also present in individuals' 
preferences for alternate efficacy-safety profiles. We argue that as healthcare 
evolves towards individualised drug therapy, preference elicitation and 
cost-effectiveness analysis should also be performed at the individual level to 
maximise societal welfare.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422080-00002
PMID: 15217306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(8):525-35. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200422080-00004.

An economic evaluation of fluvastatin used for the prevention of cardiac events 
following successful first percutaneous coronary intervention in the UK.

Scuffham PA(1), Chaplin S.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium Ltd, University of York, York, UK. 
p.scuffham@sph.uq.edu.au

AIMS: To estimate the costs, benefits and cost effectiveness, from the UK NHS 
perspective, of fluvastatin (relative to no HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor 
[statin]) for the secondary prevention of major adverse cardiac events following 
a successful first percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken using efficacy data from 
the Lescol Intervention Prevention Study (LIPS). LIPS was a randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial undertaken in 77 centres (predominantly 
in Europe). Patients included in the trial had moderate hypercholesterolaemia 
and had successfully undergone their first PCI. Fluvastatin (Lescol) 40 mg twice 
daily plus dietary counselling was given to the intervention group for up to 4 
years; the control group received dietary counselling only. A Markov model was 
used to estimate the incremental costs per QALY gained over a 10-year period, 
with cost data drawn from the UK NHS (2002 values). Monte Carlo simulations and 
multivariate analysis were used to assess uncertainty. Costs were discounted at 
6% per annum, and health outcomes at 1.5% per annum.
RESULTS: On average, treatment with fluvastatin cost an additional pound 300 (SD 
pound 303) [euro 423; SD euro 428] per patient and resulted in an additional 
0.092 (SD 0.06) QALYs per patient over 10 years compared with controls. The 
incremental cost per QALY gained with fluvastatin versus the control group was 
pound 3207 (SD pound 5,497) [euro 4,527; SD euro 7,759]. Fluvastatin was 
dominant (better outcomes and lower costs) in 15.9% of the simulations and was 
dominated in 2.9%. The key determinants of cost effectiveness were: the 
effectiveness of fluvastatin in reducing acute myocardial infarction, subsequent 
PCI, coronary artery bypass graft and cardiac deaths; the utility weight 
associated with a subsequent post-PCI state; the cost of fluvastatin; and the 
time horizon evaluated.
CONCLUSIONS: Fluvastatin is the only statin which has proven effective in 
preventing major coronary adverse events in new PCI patients; other statins lack 
this evidence. This Markov model, with its underlying assumptions and data, 
suggests that fluvastatin is a viable and economically efficient pharmaceutical 
(relative to no statin) to reduce heart disease in the UK when given routinely 
to all patients following PCI.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422080-00004
PMID: 15217308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Exp Gerontol. 2004 Jun;39(6):927-30. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.03.020.

Lower body temperature as a potential mechanism of life extension in 
homeotherms.

Rikke BA(1), Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, Campus 
Box 447, Boulder, CO 80309-0447, USA. rikke@colorado.edu

Erratum in
    Exp Gerontol. 2004 Sep;39(9):1431.

Although best known for his studies on the anti-aging effects of dietary 
restriction, Dr Roy Walford began his career by studying the anti-aging effects 
of lowering body temperature. As a tribute to his long and productive career, we 
review these pioneering studies and the singular influence these have had on our 
own thinking about the potential for lower body temperature to extend the life 
span of homeotherms. We show our results from a study of six classical inbred 
strains of mice that depict marked strain variation in the body temperature 
response to dietary restriction. In addition, we show a genome scan from a 
recombinant inbred strain panel in which we identified a significant 
quantitative trait locus on murine chromosome 9 and a provisional locus on 
chromosome 17 that specify variation in the response of body temperature to 
dietary restriction. These discoveries suggest that we can now extend the 
studies of Dr Walford to critically test whether lower body temperature can 
prolong the life span of mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.03.020
PMID: 15217694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Soc Secur Bull. 2003-2004;65(1):33-61.

Lifetime distributional effects of Social Security retirement benefits.

Smith K, Toder E, Iams H.

This article presents three measures of the distribution of actual and projected 
net benefits (benefits minus payroll taxes) from Social Security's Old-Age and 
Survivors Insurance (OASI) for people born between 1931 and 1960. The results 
are based on simulations with the Social Security Administration's Model of 
Income in the Near Term (MINT), which projects retirement income through 2020. 
The base sample for MINT is the U.S. Census Bureau's Survey of Income and 
Program Participation panels for 1990 to 1993, matched with Social Security 
administrative records. The study population is grouped into 5-year birth 
cohorts and then ranked by economic status in three ways. First, the population 
is divided into five groups on the basis of individual lifetime covered 
earnings, and their lifetime present values of OASI benefits received and 
payroll taxes paid are calculated. By this measure, OASI provides much higher 
benefits to the lowest quintile of earners than to other groups, but it becomes 
less redistributive toward lower earners in more recent birth cohorts. Second, 
people are ranked by shared lifetime covered earnings, and the values of shared 
benefits received and payroll taxes paid are computed. Individuals are assumed 
to split covered earnings, benefits, and payroll taxes with their spouses in the 
years they are married. By the shared covered earnings measure, OASI is still 
much more favorable to persons in the lower income quintiles, although to a 
lesser degree than when people are ranked by individual covered earnings. OASI 
becomes more progressive among recent cohorts, even as net lifetime benefits 
decline for the entire population. Finally, individuals are ranked on the basis 
of their shared permanent income from age 62, when they become eligible for 
early retirement benefits, until death. Their annual Social Security benefits 
are compared with the benefits they would have received if they had saved their 
payroll taxes in individual accounts and used the proceeds to buy either of two 
annuities that provide level payments from age 62 until death: a unisex annuity 
that is based on the average life expectancy of the birth cohort or an 
age-adjusted annuity that is based on the worker's own life expectancy. On the 
permanent income measure, OASI is generally more favorable to people in higher 
income quintiles. Moreover, it is particularly unfavorable to those in the 
lowest quintile. Because people in the lowest quintile have a shorter life 
expectancy, they receive OASI benefits for a shorter period. This group would 
receive greater benefits in retirement if they invested their payroll taxes in 
the age-adjusted annuity. OASI is more favorable to them than the unisex 
annuity, however, OASI is becoming more progressive in that the net benefits it 
provides drop more rapidly among higher income quintiles than lower ones. This 
article also examines how OASI affects individuals by educational attainment, 
race, and sex. On both the lifetime covered earnings and the permanent income 
measures, OASI is more favorable to workers with less education and more 
favorable to women. The results by race and ethnicity are mixed. When people are 
ranked by the present value of their shared lifetime covered earnings, OASI 
appears more favorable to non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics than to non-Hispanic 
whites. When people are ranked by shared permanent income in retirement, 
however, OASI produces negative returns for both non-Hispanic blacks and 
non-Hispanic whites in the most recent birth cohorts, with non-Hispanic blacks 
faring relatively worse. The changes across cohorts occur partly because of 
changes in tax rates and benefits, but more importantly because of changing 
demographics and earnings patterns of the workforce. Of particular importance is 
the increasing share of beneficiaries who receive worker benefits instead of 
auxiliary benefits as wives or widows. OASI benefits are based on the lifetime 
covered earnings of current or former married couples, as well as on earned 
retirement benefits of individuals. The reduced importance of auxiliary benefits 
(due to the higher lifetime covered earnings of women) and the increased 
proportion of divorced retirees make OASI more progressive--even as net benefits 
decline--for current and future cohorts than for cohorts who retired in the 
1990s. Analysis of these findings suggests that simulations of policy changes in 
Social Security must take into account the decreasing importance of auxiliary 
benefits across birth cohorts and the complex changes in individuals' marital 
histories.

PMID: 15218634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nefrologia. 2004;24(2):131-41.

[Severe primary vesicoureteral reflux in infants. A follow-up of 203 cases].

[Article in Spanish]

Areses R(1), Arruebarrena D, Urbieta MA, Alzueta MT, Eizaguirre I, Rodríguez F, 
Ubetagoyena M, Emparanza JI.

Author information:
(1)Sección de Nefrología Pediátrica, Hospital Donostia, San Sebastián.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of our study is to analyze the clinic characteristics and 
evolution of the primary reflux in infants.
METHODS: We studied retrospectively 203 infants in our hospital, diagnosed of 
severe primary renal reflux. Renal ecography and cyclic mictional cystography 
were practiced in all cases. DMSA was carried out in 181 patients.
RESULTS: Renal reflux was unilateral in the 23% of the patients, and bilateral 
in the remaining cases; 72% of the renal reflux were grade IV and 28% grade V. 
The renal injuries affected to male infants and reflux grade V. The renal injury 
was focal (27%), global (44%) and atrophic (29%). The 79% of the patients had 
conservative treatment, while 21% had surgical treatment. 100% infants with 
surgical treatment and 94.2% infants with conservative treatment were recovered 
(Test of Kaplan-Meier). The 27% of patients developed one or several urinary 
infections, but progression of old renal injuries or formation of new ones, were 
exceptional (3 cases): While the time the study lasted none of the patients 
developed chronic renal failure nor arterial hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) The fetal severe primary reflux of the patients was 
characterized by the following features: to be bilateral reflux, to affect 
mainly to male infants and to be associated in 33% of cases with a severe renal 
injury of congenital origin (renal displasia) most of them unilateral. 2) The 
natural evolution of the reflux goes to spontaneous recovery, so treatment must 
be conservative. 3) Some patients underwent urinary infections, but progression 
or formation of new renal injuries were inusual. None of the patients had 
terminal renal failure nor hypertension and 4) Risk patients would be male 
infants with bilateral injuries although these are infrequent.

PMID: 15219088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. MMW Fortschr Med. 2004 Mar 25;146(13):63.

[Even with normal diastolic blood pressure. With increasing systolic value, life 
expectancy decreases].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15219140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Treat Respir Med. 2004;3(3):183-99. doi: 10.2165/00151829-200403030-00006.

Omalizumab: a review of its use in the management of allergic asthma.

Bang LM(1), Plosker GL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Inc., Yardley, Pennsylvania 19607, USA. demail@adis.com

Omalizumab (Xolair) is a humanized monoclonal antibody used in the treatment of 
adolescent and adult patients with moderate to severe allergic asthma 
inadequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). It selectively binds 
to circulating immunoglobulin E (IgE) and, thereby, prevents binding of IgE to 
mast cells and other effector cells. Without surface-bound IgE, these cells are 
unable to recognize allergens, thus preventing cellular activation by antigens 
and the subsequent allergic/asthmatic symptoms. Omalizumab decreases free serum 
IgE levels in a dose-dependent manner, reduces IgE receptor density on effector 
cells, and significantly improves airway inflammation parameters. Omalizumab is 
slowly absorbed after subcutaneous administration, and mean elimination 
half-life is 26 days, thus allowing infrequent administration of the drug. 
Omalizumab dosage is determined by bodyweight and pretreatment serum total IgE 
levels. Patients treated with subcutaneous omalizumab in clinical trials 
received a dosage that was approximately equal to 0.016 mg/kg/IgE (IU/mL) per 4 
weeks. Thus, patients received 150 or 300 mg every 4 weeks, or 225, 300, or 375 
mg every 2 weeks. In adults and adolescents (> or =12 years of age) with 
moderate to severe allergic asthma, subcutaneous administration of omalizumab as 
add-on therapy with ICS improved the number of asthma exacerbations, rescue 
medication use, asthma symptom scores, and quality-of-life (QOL) scores compared 
with placebo during 28- and 32-week double-blind trials. In addition, 
concomitant ICS use was significantly decreased in patients receiving 
omalizumab, and in the two largest double-blind trials approximately 40% of 
omalizumab recipients completely withdrew from ICS therapy while maintaining 
effective asthma control. In general, results of extension studies showed that 
the beneficial effects of omalizumab were maintained over a total period of 52 
weeks. Omalizumab was well tolerated as add-on therapy with ICS during treatment 
for up to 52 weeks. Common adverse events in clinical trials included injection 
