Copyright Blackwell Munksgaard 2004.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2004.00228.x
PMID: 15059065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. J Prosthet Dent. 2004 Mar;91(3):219-22. doi: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2003.12.014.

Implant-tissue supported, magnet-retained mandibular overdenture for an 
edentulous patient with Parkinson's disease: a clinical report.

Chu FC(1), Deng FL, Siu AS, Chow TW.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Oral Diagnosis, Faculty of Dentistry, The University of Hong 
Kong, China.

Degenerative neurologic disorders such as Parkinson's disease are becoming more 
prevalent as life expectancy is improved. Although the use of an 
implant-supported overdenture is an acceptable treatment modality, the clinician 
should recognize the indications and maintenance requirements of different 
attachment systems for individual patients. The use of a magnetic attachment 
system in an implant-supported mandibular overdenture for an edentulous patient 
with Parkinson's disease is presented.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2003.12.014
PMID: 15060489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2004 Mar 10;93(11):415-21. doi:
10.1024/0369-8394.93.11.415.

[Modifying bone mass in child and adolescent: why?].

[Article in French]

Chevalley T(1), Bonjour JP, Rizzoli R.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies Osseuses (Centre collaborateur de l'OMS pour la 
Prévention de l'Ostéoporose), Bilan de Gériatrie, Département de Réhabilitation 
et Gériatrie, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève. Thierry.Chevalley@hcuge.ch

Osteoporosis is a major public health problem with an increase of its prevalence 
with age and growing consequences because of the increase of life expectancy. 
Peak bone mass which corresponds to the amount of bony tissue present at the end 
of skeletal maturation, is a major determinant of the risk of fractures, such as 
those observed at the radial, vertebral, or femoral sites in osteoporotic 
patients. Therefore, strategies of primary prevention of osteoporosis and 
associated fractures consist in increasing bone mass acquisition during skeletal 
growth. Physical activity and some nutrients such as calcium and proteins may 
influence positively the trajectory of bone mass acquisition and therefore 
increase peak bone mass.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.93.11.415
PMID: 15061109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Perspect Biol Med. 2004 Winter;47(1):1-14. doi: 10.1353/pbm.2004.0010.

Paleo-oncology: the role of ancient remains in the study of cancer.

Halperin EC(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke University Medical 
Center, Box 3085, Durham, NC 27710, USA. halperin@radonc.duke.edu

Paleo-oncology is the study of carcinomas and sarcomas in ancient human 
populations and their hominid precursors. These populations are informative 
concerning the possible influences on cancer of morphologic and functional 
evolution, diet, lifestyle, and other environmental factors. The prevalence of 
cancer in ancient populations might have differed from that in modern humans, 
because of substantial differences in tobacco and alcohol use, diet, life 
expectancy, and the availability of treatment. The available physical data 
concerning cancer in antiquity includes evidence of its existence in animal 
fossils and ancient humans and their precursors. The difficulties of 
paleo-oncologic research include a limited soft tissue record. In evaluating 
cancer in ancient remains, one must also deal with the problem of 
pseudopathology: whether an observed tissue change is all antemortem pathologic 
lesion or a postmortem artifact. Future archeological discoveries and the 
application of improved diagnostic techniques may enable paleo-oncology to make 
further contributions to our understanding of cancer.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.2004.0010
PMID: 15061165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2003 Nov-Dec;26(6):567-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-003-2736-4.

Single coronary artery with aortic regurgitation.

Katsetos MC(1), Toce DT.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Disease Fellowship Program, St. Francis Hospital and Medical 
Center, University of Connecticut School of Medicine, Hoffman Heart Institute, 
Hartford, Connecticut 06105, USA. mkatsetos@yahoo.com

An isolated single coronary artery can be associated with normal life 
expectancy; however, patients are at an increased risk of sudden death. A case 
is reported of a 54-year-old man with several months of chest pressure with 
activity. On exercise Sestamibi stress testing, the patient developed a 
hypotensive response with no symptoms and minimal electrocardiographic changes. 
Nuclear scanning demonstrated reversible septal and lateral perfusion defects 
consistent with severe ischemia. Coronary angiography revealed a single coronary 
artery with the right coronary artery arising from the left main. There were 
high-grade stenotic lesions in the left anterior descending and circumflex 
arteries with only moderate atherosclerotic disease in the right coronary 
artery. An aortogram showed 2-3+ aortic regurgitation, with an ejection fraction 
of 45% on ventriculography. The patient underwent four-vessel revascularization 
and aortic valve replacement and did well postoperatively.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-003-2736-4
PMID: 15061185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(5):293-300. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200422050-00003.

How often do sensitivity analyses for economic parameters change cost-utility 
analysis conclusions?

Schackman BR(1), Gold HT, Stone PW, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Outcomes and Effectiveness Research, Department of Public Health, 
Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York 10021, USA. 
brs2006@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: There is limited evidence about the extent to which sensitivity 
analysis has been used in the cost-effectiveness literature. Sensitivity 
analyses for health-related QOL (HR-QOL), cost and discount rate economic 
parameters are of particular interest because they measure the effects of 
methodological and estimation uncertainties.
AIM: To investigate the use of sensitivity analyses in the pharmaceutical 
cost-utility literature in order to test whether a change in economic parameters 
could result in a different conclusion regarding the cost effectiveness of the 
intervention analysed.
METHODS: Cost-utility analyses of pharmaceuticals identified in a prior 
comprehensive audit (70 articles) were reviewed and further audited. For each 
base case for which sensitivity analyses were reported (n = 122), up to two 
sensitivity analyses for HR-QOL (n = 133), cost (n = 99), and discount rate (n = 
128) were examined. Article mentions of thresholds for acceptable cost-utility 
ratios were recorded (total 36). Cost-utility ratios were denominated in US 
dollars for the year reported in each of the original articles in order to 
determine whether a different conclusion would have been indicated at the time 
the article was published. Quality ratings from the original audit for articles 
where sensitivity analysis results crossed the cost-utility ratio threshold 
above the base-case result were compared with those that did not.
RESULTS: The most frequently mentioned cost-utility thresholds were 
$US20,000/QALY, $US50,000/QALY, and $US100,000/QALY. The proportions of 
sensitivity analyses reporting quantitative results that crossed the threshold 
above the base-case results (or where the sensitivity analysis result was 
dominated) were 31% for HR-QOL sensitivity analyses, 20% for cost-sensitivity 
analyses, and 15% for discount-rate sensitivity analyses. Almost half of the 
discount-rate sensitivity analyses did not report quantitative results. Articles 
that reported sensitivity analyses where results crossed the cost-utility 
threshold above the base-case results (n = 25) were of somewhat higher quality, 
and were more likely to justify their sensitivity analysis parameters, than 
those that did not (n = 45), but the overall quality rating was only moderate.
CONCLUSIONS: Sensitivity analyses for economic parameters are widely reported 
and often identify whether choosing different assumptions leads to a different 
conclusion regarding cost effectiveness. Changes in HR-QOL and cost parameters 
should be used to test alternative guideline recommendations when there is 
uncertainty regarding these parameters. Changes in discount rates less 
frequently produce results that would change the conclusion about cost 
effectiveness. Improving the overall quality of published studies and describing 
the justifications for parameter ranges would allow more meaningful conclusions 
to be drawn from sensitivity analyses.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422050-00003
PMID: 15061679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(5):321-41. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200422050-00006.

Cost effectiveness of combination therapy with pioglitazone for type 2 diabetes 
mellitus from a german statutory healthcare perspective.

Neeser K(1), Lübben G, Siebert U, Schramm W.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Informatics and Biostatistics, Basel, Switzerland. 
neeser@imib.ch

BACKGROUND: Pioglitazone has been approved in Europe for oral combination 
therapy for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Along with other agents of the 
thiazolidinedione class, it has a novel intracellular mechanism of action. 
Clinical trials with pioglitazone have confirmed a strong product profile in 
terms of control of blood glucose and lipids. However, the drug acquisition cost 
for pioglitazone is greater than standard medications for type 2 diabetes. 
Long-term data regarding the cost effectiveness of pioglitazone-based 
combination therapy are not available.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate, using a decision analysis model, the cost effectiveness 
of pioglitazone-based combination therapy compared with relevant alternative 
medications for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in Germany.
METHODS: This study compared the clinical effects and costs of pioglitazone 30 
mg added to metformin in patients who failed metformin monotherapy and 
pioglitazone added to a sulphonylurea in patients who failed sulphonylurea 
monotherapy, with the most relevant treatment alternatives. A published and 
validated Markov model was adapted to reflect the management of type 2 diabetes. 
This simulated the number of severe complications occurring and the mean life 
expectancy of a diabetic cohort, which was based on the overweight group of the 
UK Prospective Diabetes Study at year 6 of follow-up. Drug treatment costs, 
other costs for general management of type 2 diabetes and the costs of 
complications were combined to compute overall lifetime treatment costs from the 
perspective of the German statutory healthcare system in 2002.
RESULTS: Combination therapy with pioglitazone/metformin was associated with a 
higher life expectancy (15.2 years) relative to sulphonylurea/metformin (14.9 
years) or acarbose/metformin (14.7 years). Likewise, pioglitazone/sulphonylurea 
(15.5 years) was superior to metformin/sulphonylurea (14.9 years) and 
acarbose/sulphonylurea (14.8 years). Undiscounted incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios in comparison to the next best strategy were euro20,002 per life-year 
gained (LYG) for pioglitazone/metformin versus sulphonylurea/metformin, and 
euro8707 per LYG for pioglitazone/sulphonylurea versus metformin/sulphonylurea. 
After discounting costs and life expectancy at 5% per year, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was euro47 636 per LYG for pioglitazone/metformin 
versus sulphonylurea/metformin, and euro19 745 per LYG for 
pioglitazone/sulphonylurea versus metformin/sulphonylurea.
CONCLUSIONS: In this model, with its underlying assumptions and data, 
combination therapy with pioglitazone increased life expectancy in overweight 
type 2 diabetes patients at acceptable cost compared with other well established 
medications in Germany. These findings should be re-evaluated as soon as 
additional evidence becomes available from the currently ongoing long-term 
clinical and economic studies.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422050-00006
PMID: 15061682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Zhonghua Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2004 Feb 22;42(4):213-5.

[Expression of c-jun and c-fos oncogene in medulloblastoma and its clinical 
significance].

[Article in Chinese]

Li YY(1), Mao BY, Dong XH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical College, 
Shandong 272029, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the potential relationship between the expressions of c-jun 
and c-fos oncogenes and the prognosis of medulloblastoma.
METHODS: The specimens from 70 cases of medulloblastoma of the posterior fossa 
and 10 cases of normal cerebellar tissues were collected to determine c-jun and 
c-fos expressions by immunohistochemical staining in formalin fixed 
paraffin-embedded sections.
RESULTS: (1) It showed that c-fos and c-jun protein expression was negative in 
10 normal cerebellar tissue, while positive c-fos, c-jun immunoreactivity was 
found in 70 medulloblastoma specimens. The positive rate of c-jun and c-fos was 
80% and 77%, respectively. There was high expression of c-jun and c-fos protein 
in medulloblastoma tissues. (2) There were positive correlations and strong 
co-operativity between c-jun and c-fos expression (r = 0.493, P < 0.01). (3) 
Correlative analysis indicated that expression of c-jun, c-fos were 
significantly correlated with survival time (c-jun: r = -0.447, P < 0.01; c-fos: 
r = -0.590, P < 0.01). The higher the expression level of c-jun and c-fos 
protein was, the worse the prognosis was in medulloblastoma patients.
CONCLUSIONS: High expression of c-jun and c-fos protein could be noted in 
medulloblastoma tissues. The two transcription factors show positive correlation 
and strong co-existence between c-jun and c-fos expressions. The expression 
levels of c-jun as well as c-fos are negatively correlated with the mortality 
rate and life expectancy of patients with medulloblastoma. In addition, the 
co-expression of c-jun and c-fos could serve as an indicator for judging the 
prognosis of medulloblastoma.

PMID: 15062038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Apr;77(4):1359-65; discussion 1365. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.09.073.

Health status, functional abilities, and quality of life after the Mustard or 
Senning operation.

Moons P(1), De Bleser L, Budts W, Sluysmans T, De Wolf D, Massin M, Gewillig M, 
Pasquet A, Suys B, Vliers A.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services and Nursing Research, Katholieke Universiteit 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. philip.moons@med.kuleuven.ac.be

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy of patients who underwent atrial switch operation 
for the transposition of the great arteries is relatively good. However, many 
patients are faced with residua and sequelae, which may hamper their functioning 
and quality of life. This multicenter study assessed the perceived health 
status, functional abilities, and quality of life in long-term survivors of the 
Mustard or Senning operation.
METHODS: A group of 89 patients (58% male) were selected from four tertiary care 
centers, consisting of 37 Mustard and 52 Senning operation patients. Perceived 
health status was measured using a linear analog scale. The educational level, 
employment status, New York Health Association classification, ability index, 
and Baecke questionnaire were used to evaluate functional abilities. Quality of 
life was assessed with a linear analog scale, the Satisfaction with Life Scale, 
and the Congenital Heart Disease-TNO/AZL Adult Quality of Life.
RESULTS: Patients reported good to very good perceived health, functional 
capacities, and quality of life. The responses of patients with complex 
transposition were equivalent to those of patients with simple transposition. 
The most dominant concerns reported by survivors of the Mustard and Senning 
operations were experiences about physical limitations and worries about a 
current or future job or income.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term survivors after atrial inflow correction demonstrated 
favorable perceived health, functional status, and quality of life; these 
conditions were, to a large extent, comparable with the status of the general 
population. These outcome variables were not negatively affected by the 
complexity of the transposition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.09.073
PMID: 15063266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Lancet. 2004 Apr 3;363(9415):1155-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)15902-3.

Mortality trends and setbacks: global convergence or divergence?

McMichael AJ(1), McKee M, Shkolnikov V, Valkonen T.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, The Australian 
National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia 0200. tony.mcmichael@anu.edu.au

Health trends over much of the past century have been generally, and notably, 
positive throughout the world. In several regions, however, life expectancy has 
declined over the past 1-2 decades. This trend suggests that the expectation 
that emerged in the 1960s and 1970s of worldwide gains and convergence in 
population health status is not guaranteed by a general deterministic process. 
National populations can now be clearly grouped into those that have achieved 
rapid gains in life expectancy; those whose gains are slower or are perhaps 
plateauing; and those in which the trends have reversed. Over the past two 
centuries, outside times of war and famine, such reversals have been rare. 
Exploration of these varied population health trends elucidates better the close 
relation between population health and the processes of economic, social, and 
technological change. Such analysis has shown that the health status of human 
populations should be a guiding criterion in the debate on sustainable 
development.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)15902-3
PMID: 15064037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Lancet. 2004 Apr 3;363(9415):1172. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)15926-6.

The tablets.

Fitzpatrick M(1).

Author information:
(1)fitz@easynet.co.uk

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)15926-6
PMID: 15064057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Indian Pediatr. 2004 Mar;41(3):227-37.

Early childhood development in deprived urban settlements.

Nair MK(1), Radhakrishnan SR.

Author information:
(1)Child Development Centre, Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India. 
nairmkc@rediffmail.com

Poverty, the root cause of the existence of slums or settlement colonies in 
urban areas has a great impact on almost all aspects of life of the urban poor, 
especially the all-round development of children. Examples from countries, 
across the globe provide evidence of improved early child development, made 
possible through integrated slum improvement programs, are few in numbers. The 
observed 2.5% prevalence of developmental delay in the less than 2 year olds of 
deprived urban settlements, the presence of risk factors for developmental delay 
like low birth weight, birth asphyxia, coupled with poor environment of home and 
alternate child care services, highlights the need for simple cost effective 
community model for promoting early child development. This review on early 
child development focuses on the developmental status of children in the 
deprived urban settlements, who are yet to be on the priority list of 
Governments and international agencies working for the welfare of children, the 
contributory nature-nurture factors and replicable working models like infant 
stimulation, early detection of developmental delay in infancy itself, 
developmental screening of toddlers, skill assessment for preschool children, 
school readiness programs, identification of mental sub-normality and primary 
education enhancement program for primary school children. Further, the review 
probes feasible intervention strategies through community owned early child care 
and development facilities, utilizing existing programs like ICDS, Urban Basic 
Services and by initiating services like Development Friendly Well Baby Clinics, 
Community Extension services, Child Development Referral Units at district 
hospitals and involving trained manpower like anganwadi/creche workers, public 
health nurses and developmental therapists. With the decentralization process 
the local self-government at municipalities and city corporations are 
financially equipped to be the prime movers to initiate, monitor and promote 
early child development programs, to emerge as a part and parcel of community 
owned sustainable development process.

PMID: 15064509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Pediatr Surg. 2004 Apr;39(4):575-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2003.12.014.

The outcome of the older (> or =100 days) infant with biliary atresia.

Davenport M(1), Puricelli V, Farrant P, Hadzic N, Mieli-Vergani G, Portmann B, 
Howard ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery, King's College Hospital, Denmark Hill, 
London, England, UK.

BACKGROUND: There is a detrimental effect of increasing age on the results of 
the Kasai portoenterostomy for biliary atresia (BA), and some centers routinely 
advocate primary liver transplantation for the older infant, irrespective of 
other criteria. This perception that such infants are indeed irretrievable was 
tested by retrospective analysis.
METHODS: All infants who had undergone surgery for BA during the period 1980 
through 2000 aged > or =100 days were reviewed. Actuarial survival was 
calculated using 2 end-points (death and transplantation). A retrospective 
review of their ultrasonography (n = 12) and preoperative liver histology (n = 
22) was also undertaken to ascertain possible predictive criteria.
RESULTS: A total of 422 infants had BA diagnosed during this period, of which 35 
(8.2%) were > or =100 days at surgery (median [interquartile range], 133 [range, 
108 to 180] days). Surgery included portoenterostomy (n = 26), 
hepaticojejunostomy (n = 7), and a resection and end-to-end anastomosis (n = 1). 
A laparotomy only was performed in 1. Five- and 10-year actuarial survival rate 
with native liver was 45% and 40%, respectively. Currently, 12 (35%) patients 
are alive with their native liver (8 are anicteric), 9 (28%) have undergone 
transplantation, and 13 have died. Although there were some survival advantages 
for types 1 or 2 BA and "noncirrhosis" at time of surgery, neither reached 
statistical significance. Individual histologic features (eg, degrees of 
fibrosis, giant cell transformation, bile duct destruction) in the retrospective 
review of available material were not discriminatory. The finding of a 
"heterogeneous" parenchyma on ultrasonography was predictive of poor outcome but 
lacked sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: The potential for reasonable medium-term survival is present in 
about one third of infants 100 days or older coming to primary corrective 
surgery. In the absence of accurate discrimination, the authors continue to 
favor this option rather than subject all to transplant simply on the basis of 
age.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2003.12.014
PMID: 15065031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Pediatr Surg. 2004 Apr;39(4):e6-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2003.12.031.

Bronchoplasty for bronchial stenosis in a neonate: a case report.

Prabhakaran K(1), Patankar JZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery, National University Hospital, Singapore.

Bronchial stenosis is an uncommon problem in children. Management can be 
difficult because of the small luminal diameter and proximity of the lung 
parenchyma to the bronchial lesion. Bronchoplasty procedures have obvious 
advantages in children because of their long life expectancy. Long-term 
functional results are superior compared with pneumonectomy because of preserved 
lung tissue. A premature neonate weighing only 779 g at birth was born with 
severe respiratory distress syndrome complicated with hyperbillirubinemia and 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia. The child underwent bronchoplasty using a costal 
cartilage graft for a right main bronchus stenosis after 2 failed attempts at 
bronchoscopic dilatations. In spite of all complications, the child improved 
sufficiently to be discharged without any oxygen dependency. Our case highlights 
the successful application of bronchoplasty in a very small baby. Preoperative 
and intraoperative bronchoscopy was helpful in localization of the endobronchial 
lesion. Understanding the principle, precise attention to technical detail and 
meticulous postoperative care contribute toward long-term benefit for pulmonary 
conservation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2003.12.031
PMID: 15065074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Adv Nurs. 2004 May;46(3):270-8; discussion 278-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2648.2004.02987_1.x.

Rational suicide: uncertain moral ground.

Rich KL(1), Butts JB.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, The University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, 
Mississippi 39406, USA. krich00@att.net

BACKGROUND: The ambiguities involving end-of-life issues, such as 
physician-assisted suicide and voluntary stopping of eating and drinking, have 
caused a blurring of the definition of rational suicide and have prompted rich 
dialogue with moral deliberations that seem to be on disparate paths among 
bioethicists and other health care professionals. With the evolution of advanced 
medical technology extending life expectancy in older, disabled, and terminally 
ill people, rational suicide has become a critical issue of debate.
AIM: The purpose of this article is to address the ethical positions supporting 
and opposing rational suicide and to consider whether coherence can be achieved 
through an ethic of care.
FINDINGS: Attitudes towards suicide have been controversial, varying from 
acceptance to non-acceptance depending on social, political and religious 
influences. Nursing attitudes are no different from general societal attitudes 
and, consequently, nurses are treading on uncertain moral ground.
CONCLUSION: Nurses who have not reflected on the moral issues involved with 
rational suicide may be unprepared psychologically and professionally when 
working with patients who may be contemplating such actions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2004.02987_1.x
PMID: 15066105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Alcohol. 2004 Jan;32(1):69-75. doi: 10.1016/j.alcohol.2003.11.003.

Directions for unraveling the issue of alcohol and health disparities: findings 
from the Postmenopausal Health Disparities study.

Gavaler JS(1), Deal SR, Rosenblum ER; Postmenopausal Health Disparities Study.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, 1014 Salk Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. gavaler@pitt.edu

The Postmenopausal Health Disparities Study (PHD Study) is a model for 
unraveling the underlying factors that may play a role in the health status and 
life expectancy disparities among racial and ethnic groups, with particular 
attention to effects of alcoholic beverage consumption. The study is 
bioepidemiologic; underlying mechanisms, rather than end points per se, are 
evaluated. The design is cross-sectional with historical prospective elements. 
Data were collected from responses to three questionnaires and examination 
findings from a clinic visit. There were significant differences among racial 
and ethnic groups in patterns of alcoholic beverage consumption and selected 
demographic factors, body mass index, measures of physical activity and fitness, 
and nutritional factors. Predictors of body mass index included both moderate 
drinking and hormonal factors. To address the current controversy about risks 
and benefits of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) we examined the predictors of 
control-based categories of estradiol among treated women; predictors included 
drinking of alcohol, hormonal variables, and being Caucasian. In addition, a 
substantial proportion of the variables examined differed significantly between 
alcohol drinkers and abstainers. The significant differences between alcohol 
drinkers and abstainers, and among racial and ethnic groups, demonstrate the 
value of studying multiple racial and ethnic groups simultaneously. The PHD 
Study provides a unique and productive model that can be used in other 
populations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.alcohol.2003.11.003
PMID: 15066706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. J Biomed Sci. 2004 May-Jun;11(3):362-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02254441.

Dynactin affects extension and assembly of adherens junctions in Drosophila 
photoreceptor development.

Fan SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Life Science Research Center, Tunghai University, 
Taichung, Taiwan, ROC. sfan@mail.thu.edu.tw

Drosophila eye development is a progressive process including cell fate 
determination, pattern formation, and rhabdomere morphogenesis. During eye 
development, a dramatic change in cell shape, which involves turning and 
extension of the photoreceptor apical surface, occurs in the early pupal stages. 
It is known that assembly and extension of adherens junctions (AJs) play an 
important role in this process. In the present study, I show that mutation of 
the largest subunit of dynactin complexes encoded by Glued (Gl) affects the 
extension and assembly of Ajs in developing photoreceptors. In Gl(1)/(+) mutants 
and transgenic flies expressing the dominant negative form of Glued, the AJs 
failed to properly assemble and extend. In addition, the morphogenesis of 
rhabdomeres was also affected in these flies. Taken together, these results 
suggest that the extension and assembly of AJs as well as determination of the 
rhabdomere domain in photoreceptor development are Gl dependent.

Copyright 2004 National Science Council, ROC and S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1007/BF02254441
PMID: 15067220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. J Arthroplasty. 2004 Apr;19(3):354-60. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2003.11.004.

Secondary reconstruction of the extensor mechanism using part of the quadriceps 
tendon, patellar retinaculum, and Gore-Tex strips after proximal tibial 
resection.

Kollender Y(1), Bender B, Weinbroum AA, Nirkin A, Meller I, Bickels J.

Author information:
(1)National Unit of Orthopedic Oncology, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, 
Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

Competence of the extensor mechanism is the major determinant of functional 
outcome of patients after proximal tibia resection. A method of secondary 
reconstruction of the extensor mechanism using the middle third of the 
quadriceps tendon and the patellar retinaculum augmented with Gore-Tex strips 
and gastrocnemius flap is described. Between 1981 and 1997, 7 patients with 
extension lag greater than 20 degrees at least 1 year after the initial surgery 
underwent secondary reconstruction of the extensor mechanism. All patients were 
followed up for a minimum of 2 years. Full extension to an extension lag of 10 
degrees was achieved in three patients, and an extension lag between 10 degrees 
and 20 degrees was achieved in 4 patients. All patients had good to excellent 
functional outcomes and reported no limitations in daily life activities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2003.11.004
PMID: 15067651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Lancet. 2004 Apr 3;363(9415):1126. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(04)15942-4.

Japanese people warned to curb unhealthy lifestyles. Health experts urge a 
return to dietary basics to prevent future health problems.

McCurry J.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2004 May 22;363(9422):1737-8.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(04)15942-4
PMID: 15068019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Acta Oncol. 2004;43(1):65-72. doi: 10.1080/02841860310020140.

Familial and personal history of cancer in bronchogenic carcinoma--frequency and 
clinical implications.

Buccheri G(1), Ferrigno D.

Author information:
(1)Cuneo Lung Cancer Study Group, Unit of Respiratory Medicine, S. Croce e Carle 
Hospitals, Cuneo, Italy. buccheri@culcasg.org

A familial and personal history of cancer might be associated with a more 
aggressive cancerous disease. This study was carried out on 1277 consecutive 
lung cancer (LC) patients, seen from January 1989 to October 2002 in a single 
institution. A set of 31 clinical laboratory, radiological and pathological 
variables was recorded prospectively for all patients. In addition, both the 
number of first-degree blood-relatives with cancer (lung and non-lung cancers) 
and the personal history of previously cured cancers were noted. There were 368 
patients (28.8% of the sample) who had one first-degree relative with cancer 
(112, 8.7% of the sample with LC), 100 (7.8%) had two first-degree relatives 
(six with LC) and 31 (2.4%) had three or more relatives affected (four with LC). 
In total, 1142 patients (89.4% of the sample) have never been treated for 
another cancer; the remaining 135 patients (10.6%) had already been diagnosed 
with a variety of tumours, including head and neck cancer (36 patients, 2.8%), 
bladder cancer (33 patients, 2.6%), colorectal cancer (24 patients, 1.9%), 
breast cancer (seven patients, 0.6%), melanoma (five patients, 0.4%), skin (five 
patients, 0.4%) and prostate cancer (five patients, 0.4%). Among the variables 
studied, none was found to be significantly associated with a personal and/or 
family history of cancer. Survival expectancy was similar among patients with or 
without a familial or personal history of cancer. A familial and a personal 
history of cancer are common features in LC, but are not of clinical 
significance.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860310020140
PMID: 15068322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Thyroid. 2004 Feb;14(2):141-7. doi: 10.1089/105072504322880382.

Changing trends of incidence and prognosis of thyroid carcinoma in lower 
Franconia, Germany, from 1981-1995.

Farahati J(1), Geling M, Mäder U, Mörtl M, Luster M, Müller JG, Flentje M, 
Reiners C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Wuerzburg, Germany. 
farahati@bethesda-essen.de

BACKGROUND: A population-based registry (PBR) in Lower Frankonia in southern 
Germany was conducted to evaluate the changes of incidence and prognosis of 
thyroid carcinoma (TC) in this area.
METHODS: The study comprised 476 patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma 
(DTC) from Lower Franconia (1.3 x 10(6) inhabitants) registered between 1981 and 
1995 at the Regional Tumor Center. The incidence was assessed with respect to 
gender, age, histology, tumor stage, lymph node involvement and distant 
metastases in 5-year intervals (1981-1985, 1986-1990, and 1991-1995).
RESULTS: An increasing rate of papillary thyroid carcinoma PTC and a decreasing 
rate of follicular thyroid carcinoma (FTC) were observed over the three time 
periods (1981-1985, 1986-1990, and 1991-1995). The overall incidence revealed no 
significant change with time for both females from 3.22 to 3.25 and 3.73 and 
males (1.07 to 1.54 and 1.69) between the three time periods. There was a 
significant improvement in outcome of patients with DTC with respect to life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Iodine prophylaxis does influence the distribution of the 
histologic types of thyroid cancer and leads to an increase in the ratio of 
papillary versus follicular carcinoma. Our study supports the hypothesis that 
the benefits of correcting iodine deficency outweigh the risks of iodine 
supplementation.

DOI: 10.1089/105072504322880382
PMID: 15068629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Dev Cell. 2004 Apr;6(4):577-88. doi: 10.1016/s1534-5807(04)00095-4.

C. elegans SGK-1 is the critical component in the Akt/PKB kinase complex to 
control stress response and life span.

Hertweck M(1), Göbel C, Baumeister R.

Author information:
(1)BioIII, Bioinformatics and Molecular Genetics, University of Freiburg, 
D-79104 Freiburg, Germany.

The DAF-2 insulin receptor-like signaling pathway controls metabolism, 
development, longevity, and stress response in C. elegans. Here we show that 
SGK-1, the C. elegans homolog of the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 
SGK, acts in parallel to the AKT kinases to mediate DAF-2 signaling. Loss of 
sgk-1 results in defective egg-laying, extended generation time, increased 
stress resistance, and an extension of life span. SGK-1 forms a protein complex 
with the AKT kinases, and is activated by and strictly depends on PDK-1. All 
three kinases of this complex are able to directly phosphorylate DAF-16/FKHRL1, 
yet have different functions in DAF-2 signaling. Whereas AKT-1 and AKT-2 are 
more important for regulating dauer formation, SGK-1 is the crucial factor for 
the control of development, stress response, and longevity. Our data also 
suggest the existence of a second pathway from DAF-2 to DAF-16 that does not 
depend on AKT-1, AKT-2, and SGK-1.

DOI: 10.1016/s1534-5807(04)00095-4
PMID: 15068796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Ann Intern Med. 2004 Apr 6;140(7):501-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-140-7-200404060-00008.

Survival after initial diagnosis of Alzheimer disease.

Larson EB(1), Shadlen MF, Wang L, McCormick WC, Bowen JD, Teri L, Kukull WA.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington and the Group Health Cooperative, Seattle, 
Washington, USA. larson.e@ghc.org

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Apr 6;140(7):573-4.
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Apr 6;140(7):I26.
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Oct 5;141(7):575; author reply 575.
    Evid Based Nurs. 2004 Oct;7(4):120.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer disease is an increasingly common condition in older 
people. Knowledge of life expectancy after the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease 
and of associations of patient characteristics with survival may help planning 
for future care.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the course of Alzheimer disease after initial 
diagnosis and examine associations hypothesized to correlate with survival among 
community-dwelling patients with Alzheimer disease.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study.
SETTING: An Alzheimer disease patient registry from a base population of 23 000 
persons age 60 years and older in the Group Health Cooperative, Seattle, 
Washington.
PATIENTS: 521 newly recognized persons with Alzheimer disease enrolled from 1987 
to 1996 in an Alzheimer disease patient registry.
MEASUREMENTS: Baseline measurements included patient demographic features, 
Mini-Mental State Examination score, Blessed Dementia Rating Scale score, 
duration since reported onset of symptoms, associated symptoms, comorbid 
conditions, and selected signs. Survival was the outcome of interest.
RESULTS: The median survival from initial diagnosis was 4.2 years for men and 
5.7 years for women with Alzheimer disease. Men had poorer survival across all 
age groups compared with females. Survival was decreased in all age groups 
compared with the life expectancy of the U.S. population. Predictors of 
mortality based on proportional hazards models included a baseline Mini-Mental 
State Examination score of 17 or less, baseline Blessed Dementia Rating Scale 
score of 5.0 or greater, presence of frontal lobe release signs, presence of 
extrapyramidal signs, gait disturbance, history of falls, congestive heart 
failure, ischemic heart disease, and diabetes at baseline.
LIMITATIONS: The base population, although typical of the surrounding Seattle 
community, may not be representative of other, more diverse populations.
CONCLUSIONS: In this sample of community-dwelling elderly persons who received a 
diagnosis of Alzheimer disease, survival duration was shorter than predicted on 
the basis of U.S. population data, especially for persons with onset at 
relatively younger ages. Features significantly associated with reduced survival 
at diagnosis were increased severity of cognitive impairment, decreased 
functional level, history of falls, physical examination findings of frontal 
release signs, and abnormal gait. The variables most strongly associated with 
survival were measures of disease severity at the time of diagnosis. These 
results should be useful to patients and families experiencing Alzheimer 
disease, other caregivers, clinicians, and policymakers when planning for future 
care needs.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-140-7-200404060-00008
PMID: 15068977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Ann Intern Med. 2004 Apr 6;140(7):I26. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-140-7-200404060-00002.

Summaries for patients. Early symptoms help predict survival time in patients 
with Alzheimer's disease.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Apr 6;140(7):501-9.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-140-7-200404060-00002
PMID: 15069002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Curr Opin Urol. 2004 May;14(3):171-5. doi: 10.1097/00042307-200405000-00006.

Update on watchful waiting for prostate cancer.

Allaf ME(1), Carter HB.

Author information:
(1)The Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: With the advent of widespread prostate-specific antigen 
screening, smaller volume prostate cancers are detected earlier. Given the long 
natural history of such tumors, watchful waiting may represent an effective 
management strategy for some men. Recent evidence regarding this strategy and 
our experience is highlighted.
RECENT FINDINGS: Watchful waiting as traditionally practiced involves the 
institution of palliative therapy as the disease progresses at a time when cure 
is no longer possible. Recent research and some key discoveries related to 
preoperative parameters predicting disease significance have resulted in a new 
form of watchful waiting. Expectant management with curative intent aims to 
follow patients with early diagnosed, small volume low grade disease without 
immediate therapy. Curative treatment is then initiated at the first sign of 
progression at a time when cure is still possible. Studies regarding patients 
managed expectantly and retrospective reviews of treatment trends along with new 
predictive nomograms continue to shed light on expectant management as an option 
for men with clinically localized prostate cancer.
SUMMARY: Expectant management has evolved to include cure as its ultimate goal. 
Early data regarding such a strategy indicate that it may be a reasonable 
alternative for a select group of older men. For men with a long life 
expectancy, disease is likely to progress and such a strategy is not currently 
recommended. The long-term efficacy of this approach will be determined with 
further follow-up.

DOI: 10.1097/00042307-200405000-00006
PMID: 15069308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Health Rep. 2002 Jul;13(4):49-60.

Disability-free life expectancy by health region.

Mayer F(1), Ross N, Berthelot JM, Wilkins R.

Author information:
(1)Département des sciences économiques, l'Université du Québec à Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, H3C 3P8. mayer.francine@uqam.ca

OBJECTIVES: This article presents a profile of variations in disability-free 
life expectancy (DFLE) by health region.
DATA SOURCES: Mortality data for 1995 through 1997 are from the Canadian Vital 
Statistics Database. Estimates of disability (major activity limitations) and 
sociodemographic characteristics are based on data from the 1996 Census. 
Supplementary information was provided by the Demography and Geography divisions 
at Statistics Canada.
ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES: DFLE was calculated using a modified version of 
Sullivan's method. Linear regression using 4 factors representing 
socio-demographic profiles was used to explain the variation of DFLE by health 
region. These 4 synthetic variables were determined using principal component 
analysis.
MAIN RESULTS: In 1996, DFLE for both sexes was estimated to be 68.6 years. 
Estimates by health region varied considerably. Socio-economic status explains a 
high proportion of the variation of DFLE by health region.

PMID: 15069804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. BMJ. 2004 Apr 3;328(7443):823-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.328.7443.823.

Role of gender in health disparity: the South Asian context.

Fikree FF(1), Pasha O.

Author information:
(1)International Program Division, Population Council, 1 Dag Hammarskjold Plaza, 
New York 10017, USA. ffikree@popcouncil.org

South Asia's girls and women do not have the same life advantage as their 
Western counterparts. A human rights based approach may help to overcome gender 
related barriers and improve the wellbeing of men, women, and children.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.328.7443.823
PMCID: PMC383384
PMID: 15070642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. BMJ. 2004 Apr 3;328(7443):838. doi: 10.1136/bmj.328.7443.838-a.

South Asian health: what is to be done? With peace, enter diseases of old age.

Desapriya EB.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.328.7443.838-a
PMCID: PMC383411
PMID: 15070650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Apr;59(4):385-9. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.4.m385.

Cardiovascular disease delay in centenarian offspring.

Terry DF(1), Wilcox MA, McCormick MA, Perls TT.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Section, Department of Medicine, Boston Medical Center, 
Massachusetts 02118, USA. laterry@bu.edu

BACKGROUND: Previously, the authors have shown that an important component of 
the ability to survive to exceptionally old age is family health history. This 
study assessed the age at onset of age-related diseases in centenarian 
offspring.
METHODS: The health histories of 177 offspring of centenarians enrolled in the 
nationwide New England Centenarian Study, and 166 controls were assessed from 
1997 to 2000. Controls were the offspring of parents born in the same years as 
the centenarians but at least one of whom died at average life expectancy. Ages 
at onset of heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, cancer, osteoporosis, 
cataracts, glaucoma, macular degeneration, depression, thyroid disease, and 
stroke were compared in the two groups.
RESULTS: The median ages of onset for coronary heart disease (p <.001), 
hypertension (p <.001), diabetes (p =.002), and stroke (p =.017) were 
significantly delayed in the centenarian offspring by 5.0, 2.0, 8.5, and 8.5 
years, respectively, compared with the age-matched controls. Adjusted hazard 
ratios were 0.388 (p =.0004), 0.39 (p <.0001), 0.302 (p =.008), and 0.328 (p 
=.06). No differences were found in the ages of onset for the other diseases 
investigated.
CONCLUSIONS: The offspring of centenarians show a marked delay in the age of 
onset for cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension, and stroke but not for 
other age-related diseases such as cancer, osteoporosis, and thyroid disease. 
These results suggest that the children of centenarians may be following in 
their parents' footsteps, markedly delaying the onset of lethal diseases that 
commonly affect older persons.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.4.m385
PMID: 15071083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Card Electrophysiol Rev. 2003 Dec;7(4):479-82. doi: 
10.1023/B:CEPR.0000023153.81976.3a.

Cost-effectiveness of the implantable cardioverter defibrillator.

Hlatky MA(1), Sanders GD, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research and Policy, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, CA 94305-5405, USA. hlatky@stanford.edu

Many clinicians and policymakers are concerned whether use of the implantable 
defibrillator (ICD) is justified in view of its high cost. Three randomized 
trials of the ICD have reported economic outcomes. Each trial found a large 
difference in cost between patients assigned to an ICD versus patients assigned 
to conventional therapy that persisted over three to six years of follow-up. 
Each trial also found better survival among ICD patients, and calculated ICD 
cost-effectiveness (CE) ratios between 27,000 dollars per life year added and 
139,000 dollars per life year added. The variability in the cost-effectiveness 
ratios among trials is mainly due to variability in the years of life added by 
the ICD among the trials and, by extension, among patient subgroups. A rough 
rule of thumb is that the ICD will be economically attractive when it prolongs 
mean survival by six months or more, which is attainable in higher risk patient 
subgroups.

DOI: 10.1023/B:CEPR.0000023153.81976.3a
PMID: 15071279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2004 Apr 8;428(6983):650-2. doi: 10.1038/nature02427.

Pre-social benefits of extended parental care.

Field J(1), Brace S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, Wolfson House, 4 Stephenson 
Way, London NW1 2HE, UK. jeremy.field@ucl.ac.uk

The evolution of helping, in which some individuals forfeit their own 
reproduction and help others to reproduce, is a central problem in evolutionary 
biology. Recently proposed insurance-based mechanisms rely on a pre-existing 
life history with a long period of offspring dependency relative to the short 
life expectancies of adult carers: a lone mother's offspring are doomed if she 
dies young, whereas after a helper dies, other group members can finish rearing 
the offspring. A critical question, however, is how this life history could 
evolve in ancestral non-social populations, as offspring survival would then 
depend on a single, short-lived carer. Here, we resolve this paradox by focusing 
on the extended parental care inherent in prolonged dependency. We show 
experimentally that in non-social wasps, extended care can significantly reduce 
the impact of interspecific parasites. Under extended care, offspring are less 
vulnerable by the time they are exposed to parasites, and costs of parasitism 
are reduced because mothers have the option to terminate investment in failing 
offspring. By experimentally simulating aspects of extended care in a species 
where it is lacking, we demonstrate that neither benefit requires specialized 
behaviour. Such benefits could therefore offset the disadvantage of prolonged 
dependency in non-social species, thereby facilitating the evolution of helping.

DOI: 10.1038/nature02427
PMID: 15071594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Indian Med Assoc. 2003 Aug;101(8):471-4, 476.

Management of age-related macular degeneration.

Mohan KC(1), Shukla D, Namperumalsamy P, Kim R.

Author information:
