
573. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2004 Mar;13(3):285-7. doi: 
10.1517/13543784.13.3.285.

Can food intake be reduced with peptide YY3-36?

Doggrell SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Doggrell Biomedical Communications, Lynfield, Auckland, New Zealand. 
s_doggrell@yahoo.com

Obesity shortens life expectancy. The peripheral administration of peptide 
YY3-36 (PYY3-36) inhibits food intake in mice and rats. The effects of PYY3-36 
on food intake have been assessed in obese and lean subjects in a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, cross-over study. In fasting obese and lean subjects, 
infusion of PYY3-36 reduced the caloric intake in 24 h by 17 and 24%, 
respectively. Long-term studies to determine whether PYY3-36 reduces food intake 
in freely fed humans are now required.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.13.3.285
PMID: 15013946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Clin Cancer Res. 2004 Mar 1;10(5):1789-95. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.ccr-1149-3.

Predictive value of biological markers for hepatocellular carcinoma patients 
treated with orthotopic liver transplantation.

Fiorentino M(1), Altimari A, Ravaioli M, Gruppioni E, Gabusi E, Corti B, 
Vivarelli M, Bringuier PP, Scoazec JY, Grigioni WF, D'Errico-Grigioni A.

Author information:
(1)Pathology Unit of the "F. Addarii" Institute of Oncology, Department of 
Oncology and Hematology, Hopital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France.

PURPOSE: To help stratify candidates with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) for 
orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), biomarkers are needed that are capable 
of predicting recurrence of disease (ROD). We investigated the prognostic role 
in this setting of immunohistochemical markers reported previously to predict 
poor prognosis in HCC patients treated with resection.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Eighty-three patients with HCC who underwent OLT between 
1987 and 2001 with a minimum clinical follow up of 12 months were included in 
this retrospective study. We analyzed immunohistochemical expression of the 
adhesion molecules E-cadherin and beta-catenin (membrane/nuclear localization), 
MIB-1 proliferative index and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27, 
alongside the main clinical-pathological variables.
RESULTS: At univariate analysis, vascular thrombosis, high MIB-1 index, lower 
membrane expression of E-cadherin and beta-catenin, and nuclear beta-catenin 
localization were associated with ROD. At multivariate analysis, only MIB-1 
index, low equal E-cadherin (with respect to non-neoplastic surrounding tissue), 
and nuclear beta-catenin appeared as independent predictors of ROD. The logistic 
regression analysis model indicated that detection of any one parameter was 
associated with at least 88% estimated risk of ROD (up to 99% for all three).
CONCLUSIONS: We propose these three molecular parameters as an additional tool 
for rational selection of OLT candidates among HCC patients (stratification 
according to the risk of ROD might help provide a similar life expectancy for 
cirrhotic candidates with and without HCC).

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.ccr-1149-3
PMID: 15014033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 2004 Mar 11;428(6979):116-8. doi: 10.1038/428116a.

Ageing: growing old gracefully.

Abbott A.

DOI: 10.1038/428116a
PMID: 15014466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 2004 Mar 11;428(6979):128-9. doi: 10.1038/428128a.

Human longevity: the grandmother effect.

Hawkes K.

Comment on
    Nature. 2004 Mar 11;428(6979):178-81.

DOI: 10.1038/428128a
PMID: 15014476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 2004 Mar 11;428(6979):178-81. doi: 10.1038/nature02367.

Fitness benefits of prolonged post-reproductive lifespan in women.

Lahdenperä M(1), Lummaa V, Helle S, Tremblay M, Russell AF.

Author information:
(1)Section of Ecology, Department of Biology, University of Turku, FIN-20014 
Turku, Finland. mipayl@utu.fi

Comment in
    Nature. 2004 Mar 11;428(6979):128-9.

Most animals reproduce until they die, but in humans, females can survive long 
after ceasing reproduction. In theory, a prolonged post-reproductive lifespan 
will evolve when females can gain greater fitness by increasing the success of 
their offspring than by continuing to breed themselves. Although reproductive 
success is known to decline in old age, it is unknown whether women gain fitness 
by prolonging lifespan post-reproduction. Using complete multi-generational 
demographic records, we show that women with a prolonged post-reproductive 
lifespan have more grandchildren, and hence greater fitness, in pre-modern 
populations of both Finns and Canadians. This fitness benefit arises because 
post-reproductive mothers enhance the lifetime reproductive success of their 
offspring by allowing them to breed earlier, more frequently and more 
successfully. Finally, the fitness benefits of prolonged lifespan diminish as 
the reproductive output of offspring declines. This suggests that in female 
humans, selection for deferred ageing should wane when one's own offspring 
become post-reproductive and, correspondingly, we show that rates of female 
mortality accelerate as their offspring terminate reproduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature02367
PMID: 15014499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Internist (Berl). 2004 May;45(5):606-7. doi: 10.1007/s00108-004-1165-z.

[Effects of a Mediterranean diet on mortality].

[Article in German]

Toeller M(1).

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Diabetes-Forschungsinstitut, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf. 
toeller@ddfi.uni-duesseldorf.de

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-004-1165-z
PMID: 15014889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2004 Apr;27(4):357-62. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2003.12.027.

Saphenous vein versus PTFE for above-knee femoropopliteal bypass. A review of 
the literature.

Klinkert P(1), Post PN, Breslau PJ, van Bockel JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Red Cross Hospital, The Hague, The Netherlands.

The autogenous saphenous vein is considered the best bypass graft material for 
arterial bypasses below the inguinal ligament. However, a synthetic graft or 
prosthesis is considered an acceptable alternative, especially when the distal 
anastomosis is situated above the knee. Some studies even suggest that patency 
rates for vein and synthetic grafts are comparable, whereas others indicate that 
a vein graft is superior to a prosthetic graft, even above the knee. To test the 
hypothesis that both vein grafts and synthetic prostheses are equally beneficial 
in the above-knee position, we performed a systematic review of available 
studies comparing the patency of saphenous vein and polytetrafluoroethylene 
(PTFE) as bypass material. English and German medical literature from 1966 to 
2002 was searched using Medline, and 25 articles meeting our inclusion and 
exclusion criteria were selected. The patency of venous bypasses was superior to 
that of PTFE bypasses at all time intervals studied. After 2 years, the primary 
patency rate of venous bypasses was 81% as compared to 67% for PTFE bypasses, 
and after 5 years it was 69 and 49%, respectively. After 5 years, the secondary 
patency of PTFE bypasses reached 60%. When only randomized trials were 
considered, venous bypasses were again superior to PTFE bypasses at all 
intervals studied. After 2 years, the primary patency rate of venous and PTFE 
bypasses was 80 and 69%, respectively, and after 5 years it was 74 and 39%, 
respectively. Since both randomized and retrospective studies comparing venous 
with PTFE bypasses showed that vein grafts were 'better' than PTFE prostheses, 
the null hypothesis that there is no difference between the two types of graft 
material was rejected (p=0.008). We conclude from this systematic review that if 
a saphenous vein is available, a venous bypass should be chosen at all times, 
even if patients have an anticipated short life expectancy (<2 years). If the 
saphenous vein is absent or not suitable for bypass grafting, PTFE is a good 
alternative as bypass material.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2003.12.027
PMID: 15015183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Ethical Theory Moral Pract. 1999;2(1):47-55. doi: 10.1023/a:1009922327634.

Inequalities in health and intergenerational equity.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

In the popular folklore three-score-years-and-ten is treated as a fair innings 
for people, and thereby serves as an informal reference point for judgements 
about distributive justice within a community. But length of life alone is an 
insufficient basis for such judgements--a person's health-related 
quality-of-life also needs to be taken into account. If one of the objectives of 
public policy is to reduce inequalities in lifetime health, it will be 
demonstrated that this is very likely to require systematic discrimination 
against the older members of a community. The notion of community solidarity 
will also be tested, because a decision will need to be made as to whether the 
same fair innings applies to all members of the community, or whether some are 
entitled to more than others. The strength of the fair innings principle is that 
it brings these issues to the fore in a systematic way which should aid their 
resolution in a practical context.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009922327634
PMID: 15015523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Semin Hematol. 2003 Oct;40(4 Suppl 4):17-22. doi: 
10.1053/j.seminhematol.2003.09.007.

Thalidomide in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and overview of experience in 
smoldering/indolent disease.

Rajkumar SV(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905, 
USA.

Based on the activity of single-agent thalidomide demonstrated in relapsed or 
refractory multiple myeloma, investigators have evaluated the role of this agent 
in the treatment of earlier stage disease. Two key phase II trials of 
thalidomide plus dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated symptomatic 
multiple myeloma have yielded overall response rates of 64% to 73%. Comparable 
response rates, reduced toxicity, and increased patient convenience with oral 
administration suggest it may offer an alternative to standard infusional 
chemotherapies, such as vincristine/doxorubicin/dexamethasone (VAD), before stem 
cell mobilization and high-dose chemotherapy in patients with active disease; 
further study is warranted. Two key phase II trials of single-agent thalidomide 
in patients with smoldering/indolent (asymptomatic) disease have yielded overall 
response rates of approximately 35%, and further study of thalidomide in this 
setting is also indicated. The primary toxicities of thalidomide-based therapy 
are neuropathy, sedation/fatigue, constipation, and rash. Studies of thalidomide 
in combination with dexamethasone suggest toxicities of both agents may be 
increased due to the synergy of these agents. Phase III trials of thalidomide in 
newly diagnosed symptomatic multiple myeloma or smoldering/indolent disease are 
ongoing.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminhematol.2003.09.007
PMID: 15015892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Annu Rev Public Health. 2004;25:79-98. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.25.102802.124401.

Trends in the health of the elderly.

Crimmins EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California 90089-0191, USA. crimmin@usc.edu

Health among the older population as measured by most dimensions has improved 
during the last two decades. Mortality has continued to decline, and disability 
and functioning loss are less common now than in the past. However, the 
prevalence of most diseases has increased in the older population as people 
survive longer with disease, and the reduction in incidence does not counter the 
effect of increased survival. On the other hand, having a disease appears to be 
less disabling than in the past.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.25.102802.124401
PMID: 15015913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Annu Rev Public Health. 2004;25:457-73. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.25.101802.123054.

Economic implications of increased longevity in the United States.

Rice DP(1), Fineman N.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health & Aging, University of California, San Francisco, 
California 94118, USA. rice@itsa.ucsf.edu

The elderly population in America is growing in size owing to declining death 
rates, increasing life expectancy, and the aging of the baby boomers. Although 
the prevalence of chronic illness and disability increases with age, successful 
aging in the elderly population is widespread, and the elderly are generally 
healthy. Indeed, the prevalence of disability among the elderly is declining, 
and expenditures for their care are increasingly concentrated at the end of life 
rather than during extra years of relatively healthy life. Nevertheless, health 
care costs will undoubtedly increase during the next 30 years as a result of the 
baby boomers entering late life. The economic and social impact of future 
growing health care expenditures for the elderly will be significant. Important 
policy issues will include the continued viability of the Medicare and Social 
Security programs, future needs for long-term care, improvement of the health 
status of the elderly, technological advances, the need for a geriatric work 
force, and development of viable strategies to pay for escalating medical care 
costs.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.25.101802.123054
PMID: 15015930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Milbank Q. 2004;82(1):5-99. doi: 10.1111/j.0887-378x.2004.00302.x.

Is income inequality a determinant of population health? Part 1. A systematic 
review.

Lynch J(1), Smith GD, Harper S, Hillemeier M, Ross N, Kaplan GA, Wolfson M.

Author information:
(1)Center for Social Epidemiology and Population Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, 48104-2548, USA. jwlynch@umich.edu

This article reviews 98 aggregate and multilevel studies examining the 
associations between income inequality and health. Overall, there seems to be 
little support for the idea that income inequality is a major, generalizable 
determinant of population health differences within or between rich countries. 
Income inequality may, however, directly influence some health outcomes, such as 
homicide in some contexts. The strongest evidence for direct health effects is 
among states in the United States, but even that is somewhat mixed. Despite 
little support for a direct effect of income inequality on health per se, 
reducing income inequality by raising the incomes of the most disadvantaged will 
improve their health, help reduce health inequalities, and generally improve 
population health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0887-378x.2004.00302.x
PMCID: PMC2690209
PMID: 15016244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. East Afr Med J. 2003 Dec;80(12):635-9. doi: 10.4314/eamj.v80i12.8780.

Leprosy in Nkhotakota District Hospital.

Chisi JE(1), Nkhoma A, Zverev Y, Misiri H, Komolafe OO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine, University of Malawi, Private Bag 
360, Blantyre 3, Malawi.

OBJECTIVE: To study the profile of leprosy cases at Nkhotakota District Hospital 
in Central Region of Malawi.
DESIGN: Retrospective cross-sectional study of all registered cases of leprosy 
from records over a nine year period (January 1992 to April 2001)
SETTING: Nkhotakota District Hospital-Central Region of Malawi.
RESULTS: In total 526 cases of leprosy were identified from the records. The 
prevalence rates gradually increased from 0.998 per 10,000 cases in 1992 to 3.39 
cases per 10,000 in 1995. There was however a gradual decline of prevalence 
rates from 1997/1998 that had 3.17 cases per 10,000 to 1.3 cases per 10,000 in 
2001. 1996 registered 2.34 cases per 10,000. Fifty seven cases (10.8%) were 
found with children of the age of 14 or below and 469 (89.2%) cases were of 
adults. Paucibacillary leprosy presented with more cases than multibacillary 
leprosy (p < 0.0000001). There were 80 (15.2%) cases of multibacillary leprosy 
compared to 446 (84.8%) cases of paucibacillary leprosy. In addition more males 
were affected by multibacillary leprosy than females (p < 0.0001) and females 
were more affected by paucibacillary leprosy (p < 0.01) than males.
CONCLUSION: The results show that paucibacillary leprosy though minor in Malawi 
can become endemic as paucibacillary leprosy is a reflection of leprosy contacts 
in the population. We therefore recommend continued epidemiological surveys of 
leprosy. Training in leprosy detection should be encouraged so that this disease 
can be totally eradicated in Malawi.

DOI: 10.4314/eamj.v80i12.8780
PMID: 15018420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. J Clin Epidemiol. 2004 Jan;57(1):14-20. doi: 10.1016/S0895-4356(03)00253-1.

Providing more up-to-date estimates of patient survival: a comparison of 
standard survival analysis with period analysis using life-table methods and 
proportional hazards models.

Smith LK(1), Lambert PC, Botha JL, Jones DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, 22-28 Princess Road 
West, Leicester, LE1 6TP, UK. lks1@le.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: Standard survival methods can yield out-of-date estimates of 
long-term survival. Period analysis, based on life-table methodology, provides 
more up-to-date survival estimates by exploring survival during a restricted 
recent period of interest. It excludes the short-term survival of patients 
recruited at the start of the study. We use statistical models to further 
develop the method of period analysis, providing more up-to-date estimates of 
survival and the ability to explore differences in survival by covariates and 
adjust for case mix.
METHODS: We use cancer registry data for colorectal cancer in Leicestershire, 
UK, to illustrate the use of Cox proportional hazards (CPH) models to estimate 
period and standard survival. We compare these estimates with those obtained 
using life-table methodology.
RESULTS: Period estimates were slightly higher than the standard estimates as 
they reflect recent improvements in short-term survival. The results for period 
analysis using the life-table approach and using CPH models were similar. 
However, CPH models allowed further investigation of other risk factors and the 
ability to control for potential confounding variables.
CONCLUSION: Using period survival estimates, more up-to-date information is 
available to clinicians and others with an interest in monitoring survival. 
Period CHP models offer all the advantages of statistical modeling, and are 
straightforward to fit in standard statistical packages.

DOI: 10.1016/S0895-4356(03)00253-1
PMID: 15019006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2004 Mar;25(3):394-400. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2003.11.035.

Chronic traumatic aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta: mid-term results 
of endovascular repair using first and second-generation stent-grafts.

Demers P(1), Miller C, Scott Mitchell R, Kee ST, Lynn Chagonjian RN, Dake MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, CA 94305, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Endovascular stent-graft repair holds promise for treating traumatic 
injuries of the descending thoracic aorta. The durability of this approach, 
however, remains unknown. The objective is to evaluate the mid-term results of 
stent-graft repair of chronic traumatic aneurysms of the descending thoracic 
aorta.
METHODS: Between 1993 and 2000, endovascular repair of the descending thoracic 
aorta with first (custom-fabricated) and second-generation (commercial) 
stent-grafts was performed in 15 patients (mean age 54+/-13 years) at an average 
of 18+/-14 years after the injury. Because of comorbidities, 4 patients (27%) 
were judged not to be reasonable surgical candidates for conventional open 
surgical approach. Follow-up was 100% complete and averaged 55+/-29 months.
RESULTS: Stent-graft deployment was successful in all without need for surgical 
conversion. One patient died early postoperatively. No neurologic complications 
occurred. Two patients had a primary endoleak, one of them was successfully 
treated before discharge. Actuarial survival estimates at 1 and 6 years were 
93+/-6% and 85+/-10%. Actuarial freedom from reintervention on the descending 
thoracic aorta was 93+/-6% and 70+/-15% at 1 and 6 years, respectively. 
Actuarial freedom from treatment failure (a conservative, all-encompassing 
performance indicator including endoleak, device mechanical fault, 
reintervention, late aortic-related death, or sudden, unexplained late death) at 
1 and 6 years was 87+/-8% and 51+/-15%.
CONCLUSIONS: Stent-grafting is safe in selected patients with chronic traumatic 
aneurysms and associated with satisfactory-but not optimal-mid-term durability. 
Serial follow-up surveillance imaging is mandatory to detect late stent-graft 
complications. Younger, good risk patients should be offered conventional open 
operation, reserving stent-grafting for those who are at prohibitive operative 
risk or who have limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2003.11.035
PMID: 15019666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. J Health Econ. 2004 Mar;23(2):217-35. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.08.004.

A longitudinal study of the effects of age and time to death on hospital costs.

Seshamani M(1), Gray AM.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
meena.seshamani@marshallscholarship.org

Recent studies indicate that approaching death, rather than age, may be the main 
demographic driver of health care costs. Using a 29-year longitudinal English 
dataset, this paper uses more robust methods to examine the effects of age and 
proximity to death on hospital costs. A random effects panel data two-part model 
shows that approaching death affects costs up to 15 years prior to death. The 
large tenfold increase in costs from 5 years prior to death to the last year of 
life overshadows the 30% increase in costs from age 65 to 85. Hence, expenditure 
projections must consider remaining life expectancy in the populations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.08.004
PMID: 15019753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. J Health Econ. 2004 Mar;23(2):335-51. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.12.004.

Adjusting to changes in health: implications for cost-effectiveness analysis.

Sharma R(1), Stano M, Haas M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Portland State University, Portland, OR 97207, USA.

This article introduces a model in which individuals incur adjustment costs 
associated with adaptations made following changes in their health. With 
adjustment costs, patients' preferences for health states depend on their 
initial health in such a way that improvements have lower values than 
corresponding deteriorations. Improvement and deterioration must therefore be 
treated asymmetrically in CEA. The inclusion of adjustment costs also has other 
consequences. It produces a more stringent CEA criterion, and may affect the 
relative rankings of interventions. In addition, when health is 
multi-dimensional, and adjustment costs are incorporated, we show that a 
consensus on even ordinal rankings of health states becomes impossible.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.12.004
PMID: 15019760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. J Health Econ. 2004 Mar;23(2):353-67. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.11.004.

A new and more robust test of QALYs.

Doctor JN(1), Bleichrodt H, Miyamoto J, Temkin NR, Dikmen S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Education, School of Medicine, University of 
Washington, 1959 N.E. Pacific Street, P.O. Box 357240, Seattle, WA 98195-6490, 
USA. jdoctor@u.washington.edu

Previous empirical tests of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), the most widely 
used outcome measure in economic evaluations of health care, generally yielded 
negative results. These tests were, however, for the most part based on expected 
utility, which is now widely acknowledged to be descriptively inaccurate. The 
observed violations might, therefore, have been caused by violations of expected 
utility. We performed a new test of QALYs, which is valid under expected utility 
and under the two most influential non-expected utility theories, rank-dependent 
utility and prospect theory, and found considerable support for the QALY model. 
Our findings suggest that QALYs may be valid if nonexpected utility formulas are 
used to compute health state utilities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.11.004
PMID: 15019761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Gastrointest Surg. 2004 Mar-Apr;8(3):262-5. doi:
10.1016/j.gassur.2003.11.019.

Indications and surgical alternatives for palliation of rectal cancer.

Fazio VW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid 
Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. faziov@ccf.org

The goals of palliation of rectal cancer are relief of disabling symptoms and 
maximizing quality of life. Surgical intervention is appropriate in specific 
situations, where the selected procedure is chosen based on likelihood of 
achieving these goals, balanced against morbidity and recognition of the 
patient's limited life expectancy. Locally unresectable rectal cancer may be 
treated by transanal procedures where obstruction is the major feature; 
techniques used include local resection, self-expanding metal stents, and laser 
debulking of tumor where the rectal lumen is compromised. As well, colostomy may 
be used with or without external beam radiation therapy but is preferred when 
transanal techniques are unsuitable. Resective techniques such as anterior 
proctosigmoidectomy and anastomosis, Hartmann's resection, or abdominoperineal 
rectal excision are preferred in fit patients where local clearance is possible 
and longevity expectations are deemed reasonable--e.g., six months or more. 
Decisions for performing restorative procedures are based on risk assessment for 
anastomotic leak and quality of anal function. In rare cases, palliative 
exenteration is an option, although controversial. Recognition of 
contraindications to resection will minimize the risk of disabling or lethal 
complications of these procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gassur.2003.11.019
PMID: 15019919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Genetics. 2004 Feb;166(2):765-77. doi: 10.1534/genetics.166.2.765.

Rtg2 protein links metabolism and genome stability in yeast longevity.

Borghouts C(1), Benguria A, Wawryn J, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, New Orleans 70112, USA.

Mitochondrial dysfunction induces a signaling pathway, which culminates in 
changes in the expression of many nuclear genes. This retrograde response, as it 
is called, extends yeast replicative life span. It also results in a marked 
increase in the cellular content of extrachromosomal ribosomal DNA circles 
(ERCs), which can cause the demise of the cell. We have resolved the conundrum 
of how these two molecular mechanisms of yeast longevity operate in tandem. 
About 50% of the life-span extension elicited by the retrograde response 
involves processes other than those that counteract the deleterious effects of 
ERCs. Deletion of RTG2, a gene that plays a central role in relaying the 
retrograde response signal to the nucleus, enhances the generation of ERCs in 
cells with (grande) or in cells without (petite) fully functional mitochondria, 
and it curtails the life span of each. In contrast, overexpression of RTG2 
diminishes ERC formation in both grandes and petites. The excess Rtg2p did not 
augment the retrograde response, indicating that it was not engaged in 
retrograde signaling. FOB1, which is known to be required for ERC formation, and 
RTG2 were found to be in converging pathways for ERC production. RTG2 did not 
affect silencing of ribosomal DNA in either grandes or petites, which were 
similar to each other in the extent of silencing at this locus. Silencing of 
ribosomal DNA increased with replicative age in either the presence or the 
absence of Rtg2p, distinguishing silencing and ERC accumulation. Our results 
indicate that the suppression of ERC production by Rtg2p requires that it not be 
in the process of transducing the retrograde signal from the mitochondrion. 
Thus, RTG2 lies at the nexus of cellular metabolism and genome stability, 
coordinating two pathways that have opposite effects on yeast longevity.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.166.2.765
PMCID: PMC1470750
PMID: 15020466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Pediatr Dev Pathol. 2004 Mar-Apr;7(2):171-9. doi: 10.1007/s10024-003-1011-7.
 Epub 2004 Mar 17.

Preliminary study on the cytoarchitecture of the human 
parabrachial/Kölliker-fuse complex, with reference to sudden infant death 
syndrome and sudden intrauterine unexplained death.

Lavezzi AM(1), Ottaviani G, Ballabio G, Rossi L, Matturri L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Milan, Via della Commenda 19, 20122, 
Milan, Italy. anna.lavezzi@unimi.it

The parabrachial/Kölliker-Fuse complex has been defined, in different animal 
species, to lie in the dorsolateral part of the pontine tegmentum and to be 
subdivided into three well-defined regions: the medial parabrachial nucleus, the 
lateral parabrachial nucleus, and the Kölliker-Fuse nucleus. Experimental 
studies have shown that the parabrachial/Kölliker-Fuse complex is involved in a 
variety of functional activities and above all plays an important role in 
respiratory modulation. In human brainstem, the cytoarchitecture and physiology 
of this complex have not yet been fully characterized. The aim of the present 
study was to examine fetal and infant human brainstems in order to define the 
precise morphology of the three nuclei of the parabrachial/Kölliker-Fuse 
complex, and to determine whether this nervous center shows morphologic 
alterations in sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and in sudden intrauterine 
unexplained death (SIUD). In serial sections of 31 brainstems of subjects aged 
from 32 gestational wk to 10 months of life, we studied, by morphologic and 
morphometric analyses, the cytoarchitecture and the extension of the three 
nuclei of the parabrachial/Kölliker-Fuse complex. All the morphometric 
parameters were very similar in SIUD and SIDS cases to those of the respective 
control group, as shown by the absence of significant statistical differences 
between the two fetus and infant groups. We observed that the features of both 
the lateral and the medial parabrachial nuclei are largely consistent with those 
reported in experimental studies. In contrast, the Kölliker-Fuse nucleus appears 
to be more developed in human beings than in other animal species, showing a 
greater extension and a more complex structure, as well as subdivision into two 
subnuclei (compactus and dissipatus).

DOI: 10.1007/s10024-003-1011-7
PMID: 15022077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Gac Med Mex. 2004 Jan-Feb;140(1):59-69.

[Pneumonia due to Pneumocystis carinii in HIV-infected children].

[Article in Spanish]

Morales-Aguirre JJ(1), Villalobos-Acosta CP, Linares-Salas VH, Solís-Ortega AM, 
Gómez-Barreto D, Cashat-Cruz M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Epidemiología Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez, 
Delegación Cuauhtémoc, México DF.

Introduction of new antiretroviral agents and development of new prophylaxis 
schedules against opportunistic microorganisms have allowed increase in survival 
as well as better quality of life in HIV-infected patients. These new treatment 
schedules have changed the epidemiology of opportunistic infections that 
previous to use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), formerly 
occurred with high frequency in HIV-infected children. Specifically, pneumonia 
due to Pneumocystis carinii formerly occurred in 12 to 80% of these patients and 
was associated with high mortality. Currently, with use of combined 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) and prophylactic treatments important reduction of 
PCP has been observed. However, despite these benefits ART is not yet available 
for many patients from several developing countries who are at risk for 
opportunistic infections, mainly due to Pneumocystis carinii, which can affect 
life expectancy. Therefore, the purpose of this paper was a review of 
epidemiologic, clinical, and therapeutic characteristics of P. carinii pneumonia 
in HIV-infected children.

PMID: 15022888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Am J Transplant. 2004 Apr;4(4):569-73. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2004.00373.x.

Cost-effectiveness of organ donation: evaluating investment into donor action 
and other donor initiatives.

Whiting JF(1), Kiberd B, Kalo Z, Keown P, Roels L, Kjerulf M.

Author information:
(1)Maine Medical Center, Portland, ME, USA. whitij@mmc.org

Initiatives aimed at increasing organ donation can be considered health care 
interventions, and will compete with other health care interventions for limited 
resources. We have developed a model capable of calculating the cost-utility of 
organ donor initiatives and applied it to Donor Action, a successful 
international program designed to optimize donor practices. The perspective of 
the payer in the Canadian health care system was chosen. A Markov model was 
developed to estimate the net present value incremental lifetime direct medical 
costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) as a consequence of increased 
kidney transplantation rates. Cost-saving and cost-effectiveness thresholds were 
calculated. The effects of changing the success rate and time frame of the 
intervention was examined as a sensitivity analysis. Transplantation results in 
a gain of 1.99 QALYs and a cost savings of Can$104,000 over the 20-year time 
frame compared with waiting on dialysis. Implementation of an intervention such 
as Donor Action, which produced as few as three extra donors per million 
population, would be cost-effective at a cost of Can$1.0 million per million 
population. The cost-effectiveness of Donor Action and other organ donor 
initiatives compare favorably to other health care interventions. Organ donation 
may be underfunded in North America.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2004.00373.x
PMID: 15023149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. BMJ. 2004 Mar 27;328(7442):747. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38033.896505.EB. Epub 2004
Mar  15.

Cost effectiveness analysis of a randomised trial of acupuncture for chronic 
headache in primary care.

Wonderling D(1), Vickers AJ, Grieve R, McCarney R.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London WC1E 7HT. David.Wonderling@lshtm.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of acupuncture in the management 
of chronic headache.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis of a randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: General practices in England and Wales.
PARTICIPANTS: 401 patients with chronic headache, predominantly migraine. 
Interventions Patients were randomly allocated to receive up to 12 acupuncture 
treatments over three months from appropriately trained physiotherapists, or to 
usual care alone.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained.
RESULTS: Total costs during the one year period of the study were on average 
higher for the acupuncture group (403 pounds sterling; 768 dollars; 598 euros) 
than for controls (217 pounds sterling) because of the acupuncture 
practitioners' costs. The mean health gain from acupuncture during the one year 
of the trial was 0.021 quality adjusted life years (QALYs), leading to a base 
case estimate of 9180 pounds sterling per QALY gained. This result was robust to 
sensitivity analysis. Cost per QALY dropped substantially when the analysis 
incorporated likely QALY differences for the years after the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Acupuncture for chronic headache improves health related quality of 
life at a small additional cost; it is relatively cost effective compared with a 
number of other interventions provided by the NHS.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38033.896505.EB
PMCID: PMC381327
PMID: 15023830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Circulation. 2004 Mar 30;109(12):1489-96. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000121743.10146.78. Epub 2004 Mar 15.

Improved survival with radial artery versus vein conduits in coronary bypass 
surgery with left internal thoracic artery to left anterior descending artery 
grafting.

Zacharias A(1), Habib RH, Schwann TA, Riordan CJ, Durham SJ, Shah A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, St Vincent Mercy Medical Center, Toledo, 
Ohio 43608, USA.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Aug 10;110(6):e62-3; author reply e62-3.
    Circulation. 2004 Aug 10;110(6):e64; author reply e64.

BACKGROUND: Given its proven survival benefit, left internal thoracic artery to 
left anterior descending (LITA-LAD) grafting has become a fundamental part of 
CABG. This grafting also led to increased use of other arterial conduits, of 
which the radial artery is most popular. Whether radial grafting improves 
survival beyond that achieved by LITA-LAD alone is not known.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We compared 6-year outcomes in propensity-matched 
CABG-LITA-LAD patients (925 each) divided into those with > or =1 radial grafts 
and those with vein-only grafting. Matched patients had essentially identical 
demographics, comorbidities, coronary disease, and operative data. Perioperative 
outcomes, including death (radial, 11 [1.2%]; vein, 10 [1.1%]), were similar for 
the 2 groups. Cumulative 0- to 6-year survival was better for radial patients 
(risk ratio, 0.675), particularly after 3 years (P<0.03). Six-year survival in 
vein (86.8%) and radial (92.1%) patients indicated 67% greater overall vein 
mortality. Incidence rates of radial and vein repeated catheterization (190 of 
925 [20.5%] versus 199 of 925 [21.5%]) and revascularization (8.8% versus 8.5%) 
were similar. Angiography data in restudied symptomatic patients showed a trend 
for greater radial patency. Vein failure (66 of 161 [41%]) was significantly 
worse than radial failure (46 of 157 [29.3%]) in patients receiving both types 
of grafts (P=0.039).
CONCLUSIONS: Using radial as a second arterial conduit in CABG-LITA-LAD as 
opposed to vein grafting improves long-term outcomes as a result of decreased 
late deaths, especially after the third postoperative year.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000121743.10146.78
PMID: 15023868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Circulation. 2004 Apr 6;109(13):1594-602. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000124490.27666.B2. Epub 2004 Mar 15.

Targeted anticytokine therapy in patients with chronic heart failure: results of 
the Randomized Etanercept Worldwide Evaluation (RENEWAL).

Mann DL(1), McMurray JJ, Packer M, Swedberg K, Borer JS, Colucci WS, Djian J, 
Drexler H, Feldman A, Kober L, Krum H, Liu P, Nieminen M, Tavazzi L, van 
Veldhuisen DJ, Waldenstrom A, Warren M, Westheim A, Zannad F, Fleming T.

Author information:
(1)Winters Center for Heart Failure Research, Baylor College of Medicine and the 
Houston VA, Houston, Tex 77030, USA. dmann@bcm.tmc.edu

BACKGROUND: Studies in experimental models and preliminary clinical experience 
suggested a possible therapeutic role for the soluble tumor necrosis factor 
antagonist etanercept in heart failure.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients with New York Heart Association class II to IV 
chronic heart failure and a left ventricular ejection fraction < or =0.30 were 
enrolled in 2 clinical trials that differed only in the doses of etanercept 
used. In RECOVER, patients received placebo (n=373) or subcutaneous etanercept 
in doses of 25 mg every week (n=375) or 25 mg twice per week (n=375). In 
RENAISSANCE, patients received placebo (n=309), etanercept 25 mg twice per week 
(n=308), or etanercept 25 mg 3 times per week (n=308). The primary end point of 
each individual trial was clinical status at 24 weeks. Analysis of the effect of 
the 2 higher doses of etanercept on the combined outcome of death or 
hospitalization due to chronic heart failure from the 2 studies was also planned 
(RENEWAL). On the basis of prespecified stopping rules, both trials were 
terminated prematurely owing to lack of benefit. Etanercept had no effect on 
clinical status in RENAISSANCE (P=0.17) or RECOVER (P=0.34) and had no effect on 
the death or chronic heart failure hospitalization end point in RENEWAL 
(etanercept to placebo relative risk=1.1, 95% CI 0.91 to 1.33, P=0.33).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of RENEWAL rule out a clinically relevant benefit of 
etanercept on the rate of death or hospitalization due to chronic heart failure.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000124490.27666.B2
PMID: 15023878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Cell Biol. 2004 Mar 15;164(6):899-910. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200309034.

Cortactin is necessary for E-cadherin-mediated contact formation and actin 
reorganization.

Helwani FM(1), Kovacs EM, Paterson AD, Verma S, Ali RG, Fanning AS, Weed SA, Yap 
AS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, University of Queensland, St. Lucia, 
Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.

Classical cadherin adhesion molecules are key determinants of cell-cell 
recognition during development and in post-embryonic life. A decisive step in 
productive cadherin-based recognition is the conversion of nascent adhesions 
into stable zones of contact. It is increasingly clear that such contact zone 
extension entails active cooperation between cadherin adhesion and the 
force-generating capacity of the actin cytoskeleton. Cortactin has recently 
emerged as an important regulator of actin dynamics in several forms of cell 
motility. We now report that cortactin is recruited to cell-cell adhesive 
contacts in response to homophilic cadherin ligation. Notably, cortactin 
accumulates preferentially, with Arp2/3, at cell margins where adhesive contacts 
are being extended. Recruitment of cortactin is accompanied by a 
ligation-dependent biochemical interaction between cortactin and the cadherin 
adhesive complex. Inhibition of cortactin activity in cells blocked 
Arp2/3-dependent actin assembly at cadherin adhesive contacts, significantly 
reduced cadherin adhesive contact zone extension, and perturbed both cell 
morphology and junctional accumulation of cadherins in polarized epithelia. 
Together, our findings identify a necessary role for cortactin in the 
cadherin-actin cooperation that supports productive contact formation.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200309034
PMCID: PMC2172285
PMID: 15024035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. PLoS Biol. 2004 Apr;2(4):E116. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.0020116. Epub 2004
Mar  5.

Reason as our guide.

Blackburn E(1), Rowley J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics at the University of California, 
San Francisco, USA. telomer@itsa.ucsf.edu <telomer@itsa.ucsf.edu>

Two scientist members of the President's Council on Bioethics express their 
concerns about two recently issued reports by the Council in which the science 
is presented incompletely and myths are perpetuated

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.0020116
PMCID: PMC359389
PMID: 15024408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Apr;58(4):296-302. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.007278.

Increasing inequalities in premature mortality in Great Britain.

Leyland AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. 
a.leyland@msoc.mrc.gla.ac.uk

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To describe inequalities in all cause premature mortality 
between and within regions of Great Britain and how these inequalities have 
changed between 1979 and 1998.
DESIGN: Retrospective study using routine population and death data aggregated 
into five year age and sex groups for each of 20 years.
SETTING: All 459 local authority districts (England and Wales) and local 
government districts (Scotland).
PARTICIPANTS: Estimated population and registered deaths aged 0-64.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Indirectly standardised mortality ratios for all cause 
mortality; percentages of deaths that would be avoided if there were no 
inequalities between and within regions.
RESULTS: The decrease in premature mortality of 36% seen in Great Britain ranged 
from 42% in Wales to 33% in Scotland and 31% in London. Differences between 
regions led to excess mortality of about 25% in Scotland, the North East, and 
the North West. In London excess mortality increased from 14% to 19%. 
Inequalities within regions increased in most parts of Great Britain, the 
exceptions being Wales, London, and the South West. The largest increase was 
seen in Scotland where the percentage of excess deaths increased from 23% to 
33%.
CONCLUSIONS: A decrease in premature mortality in Great Britain was seen in all 
regions, although less pronounced in London, but the gap between regions 
remained. Inequalities between districts within regions vary from one region to 
another and have increased in nearly every part of Great Britain.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.007278
PMCID: PMC1732731
PMID: 15026442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Apr;58(4):308-14. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.012989.

Trends in socioeconomic health inequalities in Korea: use of mortality and 
morbidity measures.

Khang YH(1), Lynch JW, Yun S, Lee SI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Korea. youngk@amc.seoul.kr

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine trends in educational mortality and morbidity 
inequalities in Korea.
DESIGN: Census data (1990, 1995, 2000) and death certificate data (1990-91, 
1995-96, 2000-01) were used for mortality. For morbidity, four waves (1989, 
1992, 1995, and 1999) of Social Statistics Survey from Korea's National 
Statistical Office were used. Morbidity indicators were self rated health and 
self reported illness in the past two weeks. Trends were studied using indices 
for both the relative and absolute size of socioeconomic inequalities in health.
SETTING: South Korea. Patients (or Participants): Representative annual samples 
of the adult population aged 30-59 in Korea.
MAIN RESULTS: Based on trends in relative index of inequalities, the relative 
level of socioeconomic mortality inequality remained virtually unchanged in men 
and women in the past 10 years. Meanwhile, inequalities in self rated health 
have increased over time in both sexes. Most of the total increase in health 
inequalities happened between 1995 and 1999. Inequalities in self reported acute 
illness increased in the past 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The rise in inequalities in morbidity requires increased social 
discourse and policy discussions about health inequalities in Korean society.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.012989
PMCID: PMC1732747
PMID: 15026444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Apr;58(4):354. doi:
10.1136/jech.2003.014167.

Standardised QALYs and DALYs are more understandable, avoid misleading units of 
measurement, and permit comparisons.

Dimoliatis ID.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.014167
PMCID: PMC1732740
PMID: 15026455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2004 Mar 17;43(6):1019-26. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2003.10.043.

Cost-effectiveness of screening with B-type natriuretic peptide to identify 
patients with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction.

Heidenreich PA(1), Gubens MA, Fonarow GC, Konstam MA, Stevenson LW, Shekelle PG.

Author information:
(1)11C Cardiology, VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto VAMC, 3801 Miranda 
Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94034, USA. heiden@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
screening patients with a B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) blood test to 
identify those with depressed left ventricular systolic function.
BACKGROUND: Asymptomatic patients with depressed ejection fraction (EF) may have 
less progression to heart failure if they can be identified and treated.
METHODS: We used a decision model to estimate economic and health outcomes for 
different screening strategies using BNP and echocardiography to detect left 
ventricular EF <40% for men and women age 60 years. We used published data from 
community cohorts (gender-specific BNP test characteristics, prevalence of 
depressed EF) and randomized trials (benefit from treatment).
RESULTS: Screening 1,000 asymptomatic patients with BNP followed by 
echocardiography in those with an abnormal test increased the lifetime cost of 
care (176,000 US dollars for men, 101,000 US dollars for women) and improved 
outcome (7.9 quality-adjusted life years [QALYs] for men, 1.3 QALYs for women), 
resulting in a cost per QALY of 22,300 US dollars for men and 77,700 US dollars 
for women. For populations with a prevalence of depressed EF of at least 1%, 
screening with BNP followed by echocardiography increased outcome at a cost < 
50,000 US dollars per QALY gained. Screening would not be attractive if a 
diagnosis of left ventricular dysfunction led to significant decreases in 
quality of life or income.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening populations with a 1% prevalence of reduced EF (men at 
age 60 years) with BNP followed by echocardiography should provide a health 
benefit at a cost that is comparable to or less than other accepted health 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2003.10.043
PMID: 15028361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
