
Author information:
(1)Kiwa Water Research, PO Box 1072, 3430 BB Nieuwegein, The Netherlands. 
Nellie.Slaats@Kiwa.nl

Approximately 40,000 km of the drinking water network in The Netherlands 
consists of asbestos cement water pipes. The number of fractures in these pipes 
has increased greatly in recent years. This is due to corrosion of the asbestos 
cement (AC) which affects the condition of the pipe. Every time a fracture 
occurs, the question is raised of whether the pipe in question has to be 
replaced or repaired. A relatively simple destructive technique and 
non-destructive tests are used on a large scale to assess the condition of the 
AC pipes in use. Not only is corrosion detrimental to the pipes themselves, it 
also influences the water quality. Corrosion of the inner walls of 
cement-containing pipes involves the leaching of hydroxides. This causes pH 
changes resulting in scaling in water mains and domestic installations. 
Monitoring techniques have been developed to determine the effects of leaching 
on water quality. The large-scale use of the relatively simple techniques at 
water companies increases insight into the condition of the drinking water 
network, the life expectancy of the pipes and the effects of corrosion on the 
water quality. Applying these techniques enables those involved to make 
decisions on pipe replacement and to provide solutions for reducing the effects 
of leaching.

PMID: 14982161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Palliat Med. 2004 Jan;18(1):53-61. doi: 10.1191/0268216304pm818oa.

The needs of terminally ill patients at home: directing one's life, health and 
things related to beloved others.

Proot IM(1), Abu-Saad HH, ter Meulen RH, Goldsteen M, Spreeuwenberg C, 
Widdershoven GA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nursing Research, Maastricht University (UM) and the Institute for 
Bioethics, UM, Maastricht, The Netherlands. i.proot@ige.unimaas.nl

This article describes the results of a grounded theory study among terminally 
ill patients (with a life expectancy of less than three months) at home (n = 13, 
aged 39-83). The most commonly recurring theme identified in the analysis is 
'directing', in the sense of directing a play. From the perspectives of patients 
in our study, 'directing' concerns three domains: 1) directing one's own life; 
2) directing one's own health and health care; and 3) directing things related 
to beloved others (in the meaning of taking care of beloved ones). The patient's 
directing is affected by impeding and facilitating circumstances: the patient's 
needs and problems in the physical, psychological and existential/spiritual 
domain, and the support by family members and providers. Supporting patients and 
families, stimulating the patients' directing, giving attention to all domains 
of needs and counselling patients' families in the terminal phase are issues 
that need attention and warrant further investigation.

DOI: 10.1191/0268216304pm818oa
PMID: 14982208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2004 Jan-Feb;19(1):92-9.

Clinical evaluation of small-diameter ITI implants: a prospective study.

Zinsli B(1), SÃ¤gesser T, Mericske E, Mericske-Stern R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, University of Bern, School of Dental Medicine, 
Bern, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Dental implants with a reduced diameter are designed for specific 
clinical situations, such as placement of implants where bone width is narrow or 
between adjacent teeth that have only a narrow space between them. They are 
particularly useful when replacing small teeth such as lateral maxillary and 
mandibular incisors. The aim of the present study was the clinical evaluation of 
2-part ITI implants (full-body screws with a 3.3-mm diameter).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred forty-nine partially or completely edentulous 
patients received a total of 298 2-part ITI implants over a 10-year period. 
After a standard healing period (3 to 6 months), the implants were restored with 
fixed restorations such as single crowns or fixed partial or complete prostheses 
or overdentures. Complete prosthesis or overdenture in the edentulous jaw was 
the predominant type of restoration. All patients followed a strict maintenance 
program, with regular recalls at least once a year. The survival rate of the 
implants was analyzed, and prosthetic complications were assessed.
RESULTS: Three implants were lost during the healing phase on account of 
peri-implant infection. Two implant body fractures with an osseous length of 8 
mm were observed (one after 2 years of observation, the other after 6 years). 
Four implants exhibited transient peri-implant inflammation that was treated 
successfully by interceptive therapy. The cumulative 5-year survival rate of the 
implants was 98.7% (96.6% after 6 years). Prosthetic complications were mostly 
limited to loose occlusal screws and sore spots caused by the denture base.
DISCUSSION: Within the limited observation period, failures of small-diameter 
implants were infrequent. Prosthetic complications were not dependent on the use 
of small-diameter implants.
CONCLUSION: The use of 3.3-mm ITI implants appears to be predictable if clinical 
guidelines are followed and appropriate prosthetic restorations are provided. 
However, fatigue fracture may occur after a long period of function.

PMID: 14982361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2004 Jan-Feb;19(1):107-15.

Survival analysis of endosseous implants in grafted and nongrafted edentulous 
maxillae.

Becktor JP(1), Isaksson S, Sennerby L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Centre of Head and Orthopaedic, 
Copenhagen University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, Denmark. jonas@becktor.dk

Comment in
    J Evid Based Dent Pract. 2005 Mar;5(1):16-8.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to analyze and compare the survival rates of 
endosseous implants placed in the edentulous maxillae of patients in whom bone 
augmentation was undertaken prior to or in conjunction with implant placement 
with survival rates in patients who did not undergo bone augmentation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study included 2 retrospective patient groups: the 
graft group, which included 64 patients with 437 implants, and the nongraft 
group, which included 118 patients with 683 implants. The patients were treated 
consecutively between 1990 and 1996. In addition, the retrospective patient 
groups were also followed prospectively using a standardized clinical and 
radiographic study design.
RESULTS: The implant survival rate was 75.1% for the graft group and 84.0% for 
the nongraft group after a mean follow-up of 5 to 6 years, a statistically 
significant difference. However, there was no difference with regard to the 
prosthesis survival rate, and after reoperation, more grafted patients had a 
fixed prosthesis at the end of the study (87.5% versus 85.3%). Implant failure 
appeared to be related to the original jawbone volume in the anterior regions. 
In the premolar region, where the inlay graft technique was used, the implant 
survival rate for the graft group was comparable to that of the nongraft group. 
The graft group had significantly more failures than the nongraft group in the 
incisor region, but not in the canine, premolar, or molar regions.
DISCUSSION: The majority of implant failures occurred before loading. Occlusal 
overload during the healing period may have been a causative factor.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall implant survival rate was lower in grafted maxillae 
than in nongrafted maxillae after a mean of 5 to 6 years of follow-up. Analysis 
revealed that jawbone volume in the anterior regions at the start of treatment 
was directly related to implant survival rates in both groups: the greater the 
volume, the higher the survival rate. Moreover, the implant survival rate was 
similar in grafted posterior edentulous maxillae of classes V and VI and in 
nongrafted posterior edentulous maxillae of classes III and IV.

PMID: 14982363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. J Biol Chem. 2004 May 7;279(19):20277-82. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M313119200. Epub
2004  Feb 24.

Mutations in chemosensory cilia cause resistance to paraquat in nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Fujii M(1), Matsumoto Y, Tanaka N, Miki K, Suzuki T, Ishii N, Ayusawa D.

Author information:
(1)Kihara Institute for Biological Research, Yokohama City University, 
Maioka-cho 641-12, Totsuka-ku, Yokohama 244-0813, Japan.

The relationship between oxidative stress and longevity is a matter of concern 
in various organisms. We isolated mutants resistant to paraquat from nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans. One mutant named mev-4 was long-lived and showed 
cross-resistance to heat and Dyf phenotype (defective in dye filling). Genetic 
and sequence analysis revealed that mev-4 had a nonsense mutation on the che-11 
gene, homologues of which are involved in formation of cilia and flagella in 
other organisms. The paraquat resistance was commonly observed in various Dyf 
mutants and did not depend on the daf-16 gene, whereas the extension of life 
span did depend on it. Expression of antioxidant enzyme genes seemed normal. 
These results suggest that chemosensory neurons are a target of oxidative stress 
and influence longevity dependent on the daf-16 signaling in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M313119200
PMID: 14982934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Hastings Cent Rep. 2003 Nov-Dec;33(6):5; author reply 5-6.

More about more life.

Ackerman FN.

Comment on
    Hastings Cent Rep. 2003 Jul-Aug;33(4):31-9.

PMID: 14983549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. BJU Int. 2003 Dec;92 Suppl 2:101-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.2003.04409.x.

Including the quality-of-life effects in the evaluation of prostate cancer 
screening: expert opinions revisited?

Essink-Bot ML(1), Korfage IJ, De Koning HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC/University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands. m.essink-bot@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: To apply the general empirical framework for estimating utilities in 
cost-utility analysis (CUA) of population-based prostate cancer screening, 
including an assessment of empirical health status with a classifying measure 
(e.g. the EQ-5D) and linking these descriptions to utility estimates using the 
standard preference-based algorithm, combining them with the appropriate 
duration into quality-adjusted life years, and sensitivity analysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Empirical studies to describe and value the health status 
effects of prostate cancer screening have been ongoing within the Rotterdam 
centre of the European Randomised Study on Screening for Prostate Cancer since 
1995. The results of these studies, including the screening, the primary 
treatment phase and advanced disease, will be used in estimating utilities for 
cost-utility analysis.
RESULTS: Estimation of cost-utility of population-based prostate cancer 
screening with the results of the three empirical health status studies yielded 
partly counterintuitive results, underestimating the unfavourable health status 
effects that are inevitably associated with prostate cancer screening. This may 
be caused by other than health effects of the screening itself ('process 
effects') and adaptive changes in perception of their situation in patients 
after curative primary treatment ('response shift'), among other elements.
CONCLUSIONS: These results prompted us to reconsider the suitability of the 
general framework of CUA for screening programmes. Possible directions for 
solutions are indicated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.2003.04409.x
PMID: 14983965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2003;2(3):121-7.

Using PBMA in health care priority setting: description, challenges and 
experience.

Mitton C(1), Peacock S, Donaldson C, Bate A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Healthcare Innovation & Improvement, BC Research Institute for 
Children's and Women's Health and Department of Health Care and Epidemiology, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

PMID: 14984275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Am J Med. 2004 Mar 1;116(5):325-31. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.09.027.

Cost-effectiveness of inhaled corticosteroids for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease according to disease severity.

Sin DD(1), Golmohammadi K, Jacobs P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics, Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, Canada. don.sin@ualberta.ca

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2004 Oct 15;117(8):618; author reply 618-9.

PURPOSE: Inhaled corticosteroids reduce exacerbations in patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but their cost-effectiveness is not known.
METHODS: We used a Markov model to determine, from a societal perspective, the 
cost-effectiveness of four treatment strategies involving inhaled 
corticosteroids: no use regardless of COPD severity; use in all disease stages; 
use in patients with stage 2 or 3 disease (forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
[FEV(1)] <50% of predicted); and use in patients with stage 3 disease (FEV(1) 
<35% of predicted). Data from the literature were used to estimate mortality, 
exacerbation, and disease progression rates, as well as the costs associated 
with care and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), according to disease stage 
and use or nonuse of inhaled corticosteroids. A time horizon of 3 years was 
used.
RESULTS: Use of inhaled corticosteroids in patients with stage 2 or 3 disease 
was associated with a cost of 17,000 dollars per QALY gained. In stage 3 
patients, use resulted in a cost of 11,100 dollars per QALY gained. Providing 
inhaled corticosteroids to all COPD patients was associated with a less 
favorable cost-effectiveness ratio. Results were robust to various assumptions 
in a Monte Carlo simulation.
CONCLUSION: In patients with COPD, use of inhaled corticosteroids in those with 
stage 2 or 3 disease for 3 years results in improved quality-adjusted life 
expectancy at a cost that is similar to that of other therapies commonly used in 
clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.09.027
PMID: 14984818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Nurs Adm Q. 2004 Jan-Mar;28(1):67-72. doi: 10.1097/00006216-200401000-00014.

Care of the elderly as a global nursing issue.

Flesner MK(1).

Author information:
(1)Sinclair School of Nursing, S440 School of Nursing Bldg, University of 
Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. flesnerm@missouri.edu

The size of the world's elderly population is growing at a rapid rate, with the 
60 and older population of Europe and North America outpacing total population 
growth in recent decades. As life expectancy lengthens, the quality of that life 
becomes an issue of importance to nursing practitioners and nursing educators. 
Developed countries and developing countries will be faced with different 
challenges when determining service delivery models for their aging populations. 
Innovation in delivery models and comprehensive and longitudinal data are needed 
if the goal of aging in place is to be achieved.

DOI: 10.1097/00006216-200401000-00014
PMID: 14986512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 2003 Oct;13(4):649-69. doi: 
10.1016/s1052-5157(03)00101-6.

Ampullary adenoma: clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and treatment.

Martin JA(1), Haber GB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, PA 15213, USA. Martin@msx.dept-med.pitt.edu

Ampullary adenomas occur sporadically and in the setting of familial polyposis 
syndromes. In either case, and whether symptomatic at presentation or found 
asymptomatically in the setting of endoscopic screening programs, they are 
premalignant lesions with risk for malignant degeneration to carcinoma following 
the adenoma-to-carcinoma sequence that is well recognized in colonic 
adenocarcinoma. Accordingly, many experts advocate excision, although others 
cite the low rate of histologic progression suggested by some recent studies as 
justification for close endoscopic surveillance rather than excision before 
demonstration of dysplastic change. This recommendation, however, is complicated 
by considerable data underscoring the limited accuracy of endoscopic forceps 
biopsy in detecting occult foci of carcinoma within ampullary adenoma. Thus, the 
optimal management of these lesions continues to generate considerable 
controversy. Indications for excision of an ampullary adenoma include treatment 
of immediate symptoms as well as prevention of malignant degeneration. Although 
pancreaticoduodenectomy has long been considered the standard procedure for 
ampullary carcinoma, much controversy exists regarding the procedure of choice 
for ampullary adenoma. Radical surgery (pancreaticoduodenectomy) possesses the 
advantage of low recurrence rate but at the expense of higher morbidity 
(25%-65%) and mortality (0%-10%). Local surgical excision (surgical 
ampullectomy) possesses the advantages of lower morbidity (0%-25%), essentially 
nil mortality, and possibly decreased length of hospital stay, but decidedly 
higher recurrence rates (generally 5%-30%) and the need for postoperative 
endoscopic surveillance. Snare ampullectomy is a newer endoscopic excisional 
technique for which limited data are available; advantages compared with radical 
surgery mirror those of local surgical excision, with apparent lower mortality 
(0%-1%) and lower morbidity (12%). Presumed advantages compared with local 
surgical excision include lack of necessity for general anesthesia and 
laparotomy with comparable morbidity. Disadvantages seem to include limited 
availability of experienced operators, procedural complexity sometimes requiring 
adjunctive modalities such as fulguration, the need for multiple procedures 
(mean, 2.0 procedures) to effect complete excision, and recurrence rates 
approaching 30%, with a requirement for continued endoscopic surveillance. 
Ultimately, choice is driven by availability of local expertise, patient 
tolerance of or expected compliance with long-term endoscopic surveillance 
programs, presence or absence of coexisting familial polyposis syndromes, 
medical comorbidities, and overall life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1052-5157(03)00101-6
PMID: 14986792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Haemophilia. 2004 Mar;10 Suppl 1:50-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1355-0691.2004.00879.x.

Cost-utility analysis in evaluating prophylaxis in haemophilia.

Carcao M(1), Ungar WJ, Feldman BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Divisions of Haematology/Oncology, Hospital for 
Sick Children, Toronto, Canada. manuel.carcao@sickkids.ca

Prophylaxis is an expensive form of management in haemophilia but has 
demonstrated many advantages with respect to decreasing joint bleeds and 
potentially preventing joint damage. The valuation of prophylaxis and how the 
costs and benefits of this intervention compare with other interventions in the 
management of haemophiliacs can be evaluated through cost-utility analysis 
(CUA). CUA is an economic method of analysis where the benefits of a healthcare 
intervention are expressed as an overall utility or preference, usually in the 
form of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). This is a composite measure, which 
takes into consideration both an individual's lifespan and quality of life 
(QoL). The most difficult aspect of performing a CUA is the measurement of 
health-related QoL (HRQoL). Much work is ongoing into evaluating HRQoL in 
haemophiliacs. This paper addresses some of the ways in which this can be 
achieved and some of the problems with evaluating HRQoL. Ultimately CUA may 
provide a tool to allow societies to decide if prophylaxis is worth the cost and 
how the costs and benefits of prophylaxis compare to other healthcare 
interventions for other disease entities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1355-0691.2004.00879.x
PMID: 14987249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2004 Mar 1;19(5):571-81. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2004.01875.x.

Cost-effectiveness of hepatic venous pressure gradient measurements for 
prophylaxis of variceal re-bleeding.

Raines DL(1), Dupont AW, Arguedas MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Measurement of the hepatic venous pressure gradient may identify a 
sub-optimal response to drug prophylaxis in patients with a history of variceal 
bleeding. However, the cost-effectiveness of routine hepatic venous pressure 
gradient measurements to guide secondary prophylaxis has not been examined.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed using specialized software (DATA 3.5, 
Williamstown, MA, USA). Three strategies involved secondary prophylaxis without 
haemodynamic monitoring using beta-blockers alone, beta-blockers plus isosorbide 
mononitrate or endoscopic variceal ligation alone. Four strategies involved 
secondary prophylaxis with beta-blockers plus isosorbide mononitrate or 
beta-blockers alone, accompanied by one or two hepatic venous pressure gradient 
measurements to identify haemodynamic non-responders, who underwent endoscopic 
variceal ligation as an alternative. The total expected costs, variceal bleeding 
episodes and total deaths were calculated for each strategy over 3 years.
RESULTS: The two most effective strategies were combination therapy alone and 
combination therapy with two hepatic venous pressure gradient measurements. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the latter strategy was 136,700 dollars 
per year of life saved compared with combination therapy alone. The ratio 
improved as the time horizon was extended or the rates of variceal re-bleeding 
were increased.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of haemodynamic monitoring to guide 
secondary prophylaxis of recurrent variceal bleeding is highly dependent on 
local hepatic venous pressure gradient measurement costs, life expectancy and 
re-bleeding rates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2004.01875.x
PMID: 14987326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Resuscitation. 2004 Jan;60(1):57-64. doi: 10.1016/S0300-9572(03)00262-4.

Long term survival and costs per life year gained after out-of-hospital cardiac 
arrest.

Naess AC(1), Steen PA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Ethics, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. anns@uus.no

PURPOSE: To study long-term survival and estimate the costs per year of survival 
after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest of cardiac origin.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cardiac arrest patients treated by the physician-manned 
ambulance in Oslo from January 1971 to June 1992. The condition of the patient 
when discharged from hospital was noted and survival followed until June 2002. 
Costs of the Emergency Medical Service (EMS), hospital treatment, rehabilitation 
and nursing homes and psychiatric institutions after discharge from hospital 
were included in a cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: 1300 (42%) of 3065 patients receiving ALS were admitted to hospital 
after return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC). 1066 of these patients had a 
cardiac cause of the arrest, full hospital report and were found in the National 
Registry. Median age was 68 years (60-74) and 802 (75%) were men. 269 of the 
1066 patients were discharged from hospital alive, 239 to their homes and 30 
patients to rehabilitation/nursing homes or psychiatric institutions. The mean 
survival of the 1066 patients was 532 days. They spent mean 3.4 days in a CCU, 
6.8 days in a general ward and 11.2 days in nursing/rehabilitation homes or 
psychiatric institutions. 30 patients were discharged to rehabilitation/nursing 
homes or psychiatric institutions. The mean survival time for the 269 patients 
discharged from hospital alive was 6.13 years. 110 patients were alive after 
five and 61 after 10 years. The cost per patient discharged alive was 40,642 or 
6,632 per life year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac arrest patients do not occupy intensive care beds too long, 
and few end up in a vegetative state. Methodological differences in different 
studies makes meaningful comparisons of costs difficult, but the costs per life 
year saved are not high compared to other publications.

DOI: 10.1016/S0300-9572(03)00262-4
PMID: 14987785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. NeuroRehabilitation. 2004;19(1):1-2.

Aging with a neurodisability: morbidity and life expectancy issues.

DeVivo MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA. devivo@uab.edu

PMID: 14988582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. NeuroRehabilitation. 2004;19(1):45-54.

Mortality following rehabilitation in the Traumatic Brain Injury Model Systems 
of Care.

Harrison-Felix C(1), Whiteneck G, DeVivo M, Hammond FM, Jha A.

Author information:
(1)Research Department, Craig Hospital, Englewood, CO 80113, USA. 
charrison-felix@craighospital.org

Comment in
    NeuroRehabilitation. 2004;19(3):257-8.

While many outcomes after traumatic brain injury (TBI) have been systematically 
investigated, the most basic of all outcomes--survival--has been neglected. The 
purpose of this study was to investigate mortality in a cohort of 2,178 
individuals with TBI completing inpatient rehabilitation in one of 15 National 
Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research-funded TBI Model Systems of 
care. The study hypotheses were: (1) relative to the general population, TBI 
increases mortality and decreases life expectancy in individuals with TBI 
completing inpatient rehabilitation and surviving to one-year post-injury; and 
(2) within the TBI population, the risk of death is greater in certain TBI 
subgroups. Results indicate that individuals with TBI were twice as likely to 
die compared to individuals in the general population of similar age, gender and 
race, resulting in an estimated average life expectancy reduction of seven years 
for individuals with TBI. Within the TBI population, the strongest independent 
risk factors for death after one-year post-injury were older age and not being 
employed at injury, and greater disability at rehabilitation discharge. This 
information is important to guide decision-making for treatment, utilization of 
limited medical resources, and planning for ongoing health care needs and 
lifetime planning.

PMID: 14988587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. NeuroRehabilitation. 2004;19(1):69-78.

Decline in function and life expectancy of older persons with cerebral palsy.

Strauss D(1), Ojdana K, Shavelle R, Rosenbloom L.

Author information:
(1)University of California Life Expectancy Project, 1439-17th Avenue, San 
Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA. Strauss@LifeExpectancy.com

The authors studied the pattern of functional abilities and decline of skills in 
adults with cerebral palsy. The data source was the California Developmental 
Disabilities data base, which included 904 subjects of age 60. For those 
individuals who are mobile when they become adults, there is a marked decline in 
ambulation, especially in late adulthood, and few of the 60 year-olds who walked 
well preserved this skill over the following 15 years. Older subjects frequently 
also lost the ability to dress themselves. Many other skills, however, seemed to 
be well preserved, including speech, self-feeding and the ability to order meals 
in public. Whereas the great majority of young adults lived in their families' 
home or in small private group homes, 18% of the 60 year-olds lived 
independently or semi-independently, and 41% resided in facilities providing a 
higher level of medical care. Survival rates of the ambulatory older adults were 
only moderately worse than the general population. Survival was, however, much 
poorer among those who had lost mobility.

PMID: 14988589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Sao Paulo Med J. 2003 Nov 6;121(6):224-30. doi:
10.1590/s1516-31802003000600002.

Prevalence of diabetes mellitus and impaired glucose tolerance in the urban 
population aged 30-69 years in RibeirÃ£o Preto (SÃ£o Paulo), Brazil.

Torquato MT(1), Montenegro JÃºnior RM, Viana LA, de Souza RA, Lanna CM, Lucas JC, 
Bidurin C, Foss MC.

Author information:
(1)Universidade de SÃ£o Paulo, Brazil. mmtorquato@netsite.com.br

CONTEXT: Diabetes mellitus prevalence has been increasing worldwide due to 
factors like lifestyle changes and higher life expectancy. The Brazilian 
Multicenter Study performed between 1986 and 1988 evaluated the prevalence of 
diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the prevalence of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance 
in the urban population aged 30-69 years of the city of RibeirÃ£o Preto, SP, 
Brazil.
TYPE OF STUDY: A two-stage, cross-sectional home survey.
SETTING: RibeirÃ£o Preto, SÃ£o Paulo, Brazil.
PARTICIPANTS: A random sample of 1,473 individuals.
METHODS: The sample plan was drawn up using a sampling scheme of stage 
conglomerates according to sex, age and family head income. Subjects were first 
screened by fasting capillary glycemia (FCG). Those that screened positive (FCG 
> or = 100 mg/dl) and every seventh consecutive person who screened negative 
(FCG < 100 mg/dl) was submitted to a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test. The 
diagnosis of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance were based on World Health 
Organization criteria.
RESULTS: The overall rates of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance were 12.1 
and 7.7%, respectively. Men and women had similar rates of diabetes (12.0 vs. 
12.1%) and impaired glucose tolerance (7.9 vs. 7.3%). Differences in the rates 
for whites (11.6%) and nonwhites (13.3%) for diabetes were not significant, 
while impaired glucose tolerance was more prevalent among whites. The 
prevalences of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance ranged from 3.3% and 2.6% 
in the 30-39 year age group to 21.7% and 11.3% in the 60-69 year age group, 
respectively. Obese subjects (BMI > or = 30 kg/m2) and those with a family 
history of diabetes (first-degree relatives) presented higher prevalences of 
diabetes (22.6% and 19.7%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of diabetes in RibeirÃ£o Preto was found to be 
comparable to that occurring in developed countries. With respect to the 
Brazilian Multicenter Study we verified an increased prevalence of diabetes but 
a similar prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance. These findings may reflect 
modifications in environmental factors and lifestyle that have been occurring in 
Brazilian cities like RibeirÃ£o Preto, especially regarding increasing rates of 
sedentary living and obesity.

DOI: 10.1590/s1516-31802003000600002
PMID: 14989137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Acta Chir Plast. 2003;45(4):119-23.

Reconstruction of functional handgrip in traumatic tetraplegia--case study.

CizmÃ¡r I(1), Wendsche P, Brychta P, Visna P, Kocis J, MensÃ­k I.

Author information:
(1)Spinal Cord Unit, Traumatology Hospital, Brno, Czech Republic. 
i.cizmar@seznam.cz

The objective of this study is reconstruction of functional handgrip in 
tetraplegic patients, using transfers of the forearm tendons. Authors present 
two case studies of tendon transfers--the first case introduces reconstruction 
of fingers and thumb extension--the second case introduces reconstruction of 
fingers and thumb flexion. The two case studies explain basic principles of 
tendon transfers and assessment criterions. The aim of this study is to point 
out the possibility to create functional unit from a plegic hand by surgical 
intervention, and to improve significantly quality of patients' lives.

PMID: 14989333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2004 Apr;5(2):161-9. doi:
10.1007/s11864-004-0048-9.

Management issues for elderly patients with breast cancer.

Extermann M(1).

Author information:
(1)Moffitt Cancer Center, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612, USA. 
extermann@moffitt.usf.edu

Fifty percent of breast cancers occur after the age of 65 years and 25% occur 
after the age of 75 years. Encountering a breast cancer in an older woman is 
frequent. After years of dearth of data specific to the elderly, some evidence 
is beginning to accumulate concerning breast cancer in the older woman. Recent 
data from mammography studies confirm its effective in women with 10 years or 
more of life expectancy (perhaps even 5 years). Epidemiologic and randomized 
studies demonstrate that a proper surgery and adjuvant treatment can decrease 
relapse and improve survival in patients older than 80 years. Radiation therapy 
studies show a decrease in local relapse even in patients older than 70 years. 
Adjuvant hormonal therapy has essentially the same effectiveness as in younger 
women. Chemotherapy has a role in patients older than 70 years. Consensus 
statements, such as the St. Gallen consensus, have dropped the age limit of 70 
years from their recommendations. Comorbidity and life expectancy should be 
taken into account for proper selection of adjuvant treatment. The treatment of 
metastatic breast cancer has evolved significantly with the introduction of 
aromatase inhibitors, new chemotherapeutic agents, and targeted biologic agents. 
New chemotherapeutic agents are as effective as single agents compared to older 
and more toxic drug combinations. The cumulative result of the introduction of 
these new agents, at a population level, is a 7.5-month increase in the median 
survival time of patients with metastatic breast cancer over the past decade.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-004-0048-9
PMID: 14990210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Clin Oncol. 2004 Mar 1;22(5):943-52. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.05.191.

Short-term impact of cancer prevention and screening activities on quality of 
life.

Cullen J(1), Schwartz MD, Lawrence WF, Selby JV, Mandelblatt JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Georgetown University, 2233 Wisconsin Ave NW, Suite 
440, Washington, DC, USA. jc49@georgetown.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2005 Jan 1;23(1):244; author reply 244-5.

PURPOSE: There are few data on the short-term effects of participating in cancer 
prevention activities, undergoing genetic risk assessment, or having routine 
screening. The objective of this article is to systematically review existing 
research on short-term effects of prevention, genetic counseling and testing, 
and screening activities on quality of life.
METHODS: We conducted a MEDLINE search for original research studies that were 
published between January 1, 1985, and December 31, 2002, and conducted in North 
America or Western Europe. Data were abstracted and summarized using a 
standardized format.
RESULTS: We reviewed 210 publications. Most studies focused on psychological 
states (anxiety, depression), symptoms, or general health status. One hundred 
thirty-one studies used 51 previously validated noncancer instruments. Many 
researchers (12.6%) also added cancer-specific measures, such as perceived 
cancer risk or symptom indices. Only one study measured satisfaction or quality 
of provider-client communication. While one report examined lost workdays, no 
other economic consequences of short-term outcomes were evaluated. Among seven 
studies that assessed short-term outcomes preferences, only four specifically 
used time trade-off or linear rating scale methods. No study used standard 
gamble or willingness-to-pay methods. The overwhelming majority of research 
indicated that short-term effects were transient. Only two studies linked 
short-term effects to long-term cancer-related health behaviors such as repeat 
screening.
CONCLUSION: There is considerable heterogeneity in short-term outcome 
measurement. Clinicians need to be aware of potential for short-term, transient 
adverse effects. The impact of short-term experiences should to be linked to 
long-term health status and use of services.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.05.191
PMID: 14990651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Urologe A. 2004 Feb;43(2):160-7. doi: 10.1007/s00120-004-0528-3.

[Taxanes in the chemotherapy of hormone-refractory prostate carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Johannsen M(1), Wilke K, Schnorr D, Loening SA.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fÃ¼r Urologie, Humboldt-UniversitÃ¤t, Berlin, Germany. 
manfred.johannsen@charite.de

Prostate cancer represents one of the most prevalent malignancies in men. 
Standard therapy of metastatic prostate cancer consists of androgen deprivation, 
which is a palliative therapy yielding a clinical response of limited duration. 
In hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC), response to chemotherapy with 
regimens available until about ten years ago has been disappointing. Nowadays, 
due to increasing life expectancy and earlier diagnosis and therapy of prostate 
cancer, more patients with hormone-refractory disease are still in relatively 
good overall condition. With the taxanes, much more effective cytostatic 
substances for chemotherapy of HRPC are available today. Using modern 
taxane-based chemotherapy, effective palliation of pain can be achieved in 
50-70% of patients with HRPC, while retaining an acceptable quality of life. 
There is also evidence for improved overall survival after taxane-based 
chemotherapy, although this remains to be proven by ongoing studies. This 
article presents an overview of current studies investigating the outcome after 
taxane-based chemotherapy, as well as new therapeutic approaches in combination 
with docetaxel.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-004-0528-3
PMID: 14991117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Internist (Berl). 2004 Feb;45(2):189-95. doi: 10.1007/s00108-003-1120-4.

[Prevention of disability in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Thomas HP(1), Steinhagen-Thiessen E.

Author information:
(1)CharitÃ©, UniversitÃ¤tsmedizin Berlin. hans-peter.thomas@charite.de

While in younger age groups prevention of acute diseases is the primary goal of 
therapeutic intervention, in the elderly the up-rise of disabilities due to 
chronic conditions must be focused. Underestimated risk factors like cognitive 
decline, depression, falls and lack of social contacts are highly correlated 
with disability. A comprehensive functional diagnostic is therefore important in 
order to identify risk factors and to develop preventive strategies. The 
geriatric assessment plays a major role in this concept. Preventive home visits 
have become an effective intervention model. On the other side, specific tools 
for nursing home residents are lacking. We highlight the epidemiological context 
and the dimension of disability of a population in which preventive models for 
the elderly can play a major role. Than, we point out models that put their 
emphasis on preventive strategies for frail elderly persons.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-003-1120-4
PMID: 14991161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Z Rheumatol. 2004 Feb;63(1):59-75. doi: 10.1007/s00393-004-0570-y.

[Contribution of leflunomide to the cost effectiveness of sequential DMARD 
therapy of rheumatoid arthritis in Germany].

[Article in German]

SchÃ¤dlich PK(1), Zeidler H, Zink A, Gromnica-Ihle E, Schneider M, Straub C, 
Brecht JG, Huppertz E.

Author information:
(1)InForMed GmbH-Outcomes Research and Health Economics, BÃ¼ro Itzehoe, 
Conrad-RÃ¶ntgen-Str. 58C, 25524 Itzehoe, Germany. pk.schaedlich@informed.de

Since November 1999, leflunomide (LEF), an innovative disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drug (DMARD), is available in Germany for treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA). LEF slows radiographic disease progression and improves 
functional capacity as well as healthrelated quality of life of RA patients. 
Resources for health care of the patients are limited in Germany as in all other 
countries. The purpose of the analysis therefore was to compare the cost 
effectiveness of the following alternatives: LEF in sequential monotherapy with 
other DMARDs versus sequential monotherapy of other DMARDs. The target variables 
of this cost-effectiveness comparison were additional direct costs per 
ACR20-response year (ACR20RY) gained and per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained, respectively, each after three years of treatment. The 
cost-effectiveness comparison was carried out using a modeling study after 
secondary analysis of relevant data. Oral methotrexate (MTX), sulphasalazine 
(SSZ), antimalarials (CQ/HCQ), intramuscular gold (IMG), and azathioprine (AZA) 
were selected as "other" DMARDs representing the current status of sequential 
monotherapy. Based on health care regulation in Germany-Guidelines on the 
Prescription of Drugs amended by the Federal Commission of Medical Practitioners 
and Health Insurance Funds on 10 December 1999-LEF was exclusively considered 
second within a DMARD sequence. Direct costs were given by outpatient and 
inpatient treatment, long-term care, and rehabilitation treatment. Prices relate 
to the period of 1998 to 2001 and were converted to Euro (euro), according to 
the official exchange rate of 1 euro = 1.95583 DM (1 euro approximately 0.90 US 
dollars; 2001 values). The comparative cost-effectiveness analysis covered a 
treatment period of more than one year. To estimate the net present value of 
future costs and effectiveness, a discount rate of 5% per year was applied. In 
the case of DMARD-naÃ¯ve patients with RA, the sequence MTX, LEF, SSZ, IMG, AZA, 
CQ/HCQ was the most cost effective with direct costs of 7297 euro per ACR20RY 
and 6499 euro per QALY. In order to estimate the consequences of introducing LEF 
into the prescribing practice in Germany, the distribution of RA patients by 
individual DMARD in rheumatological care in 1998 was considered. This 
distribution was taken from the National Database of the German Collaborative 
Arthritis Centres. Though the sequences comprising LEF incurred 3% higher direct 
costs, they led to a higher effectiveness of 6% and 3% in the case of ACR20RYs 
and QALYs, respectively. Choosing sequences comprising LEF, there were 
additional direct costs of 5004 euro per ACR20RY gained and 8301 euro per QALY 
gained, as compared to the corresponding sequences without LEF. In comprehensive 
sensitivity analyses, the robustness of the model and its results was shown. The 
contribution of LEF to the cost effectiveness of sequential DMARD therapy is 
obvious. The modeling study revealed advantages for the patients and the cost 
carriers. Though there were initially higher medication costs of the sequences 
comprising LEF, these costs were nearly compensated to remaining excess costs of 
just 3% after three years. This was caused by cost savings in other sectors of 
the health care system due to the higher effectiveness of the sequences 
comprising LEF.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-004-0570-y
PMID: 14991279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Pediatrics. 2004 Mar;113(3 Pt 1):510-4. doi: 10.1542/peds.113.3.510.

Evaluation of neonatal intensive care for extremely low birth weight infants in 
Victoria over two decades: II. Efficiency.

Doyle LW(1); Victorian Infant Collaborative Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Women's Hospital, 132 Grattan 
St, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia. lwd@unimelb.edu.au

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2004 Aug;114(2):508; author reply 508.
    Pediatrics. 2004 Nov;114(5):1374; author reply 1374-5.

CONTEXT: Although the increasing effectiveness of neonatal programs for 
extremely low birth weight (ELBW, birth weight <1000 g) infants has been 
established from cohort studies, there is a paucity of data on the relationship 
between the costs and the consequences of neonatal intensive care.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the changes in the efficiency of neonatal intensive care 
for ELBW infants in Victoria, Australia over 2 decades.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation (cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses) in a 
population-based cohort study of consecutive ELBW infants born during 4 distinct 
eras (1979-1980, 1985-1987, 1991-1992, and 1997) followed to at least 2 years of 
age.
SETTING: The state of Victoria.
PATIENTS: All ELBW live births of birth weight 500 to 999 g in the state in the 
calendar years indicated (1979-1980: n = 351; 1985-1987: n = 560; 1991-1992: n = 
429; 1997: n = 233).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs were assessed primarily by the consumption of 
hospital resources. The consequences included survival and quality-adjusted 
survival rates at 2 years of age.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness ratios (expressed in Australian dollars for 
1997) were similar between successive eras at 5270 dollars, 3130 dollars, and 
4050 dollars per life-year gained, respectively. The cost-utility ratios were 
similar between successive eras at 5270 dollars, 3690 dollars, and 5850 dollars 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained, respectively, and were similar to the 
cost-effectiveness ratios. The cost-effectiveness and cost-utility ratios were 
generally higher in lower birth-weight subgroups, but there were consistent 
gains in efficiency over time in infants of lower birth weight.
CONCLUSIONS: As there have been large increases in effectiveness from the late 
1970s to the late 1990s, the efficiency of neonatal intensive care for ELBW 
infants in Victoria has remained relatively stable.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.113.3.510
PMID: 14993542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Mar 9;101(10):3486-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0400222101. Epub 2004 Mar 1.

Decreased expression of Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase 1 in ants with extreme 
lifespan.

Parker JD(1), Parker KM, Sohal BH, Sohal RS, Keller L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, Biology Building, University of 
Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. joel.parker@ie-zea.unil.ch

Reactive oxygen species, the by-products of oxidative energy metabolism, are 
considered a main proximate cause of aging. Accordingly, overexpression of the 
enzyme Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) can lengthen lifespan of Drosophila 
melanogaster in the laboratory. However, the role of SOD1 as a main determinant 
of lifespan has been challenged on the grounds that overexpression might be 
effective only in compromised genetic backgrounds. Moreover, interspecific 
comparisons show lower levels of antioxidant activities in longer-lived species, 
suggesting that life-span extension may evolve through less reactive oxygen 
species generation from the mitochondria rather than higher expression of SOD1. 
The tremendous variation in lifespan between ant castes, ranging over 2 orders 
of magnitude, coupled with the fact that all individuals share the same genome, 
provides a system to investigate the role of SOD1 in the wild. We used the ant 
Lasius niger as a model system, because queens can reach the extreme age of 28 
years, whereas workers and males live only 1-2 years and a few weeks, 
respectively. We cloned SOD1 and found that long-lived queens have a lower level 
of expression than workers and males. Specific enzyme-activity assays also 
showed higher SOD1 activity levels in males and workers compared with queens, 
which had SOD1 activity levels similar to that of D. melanogaster. Altogether, 
these data show that increased expression of SOD1 is not required for the 
evolution of extreme lifespan, even in a system in which differential gene 
expression is the only way to express phenotypes with great lifespan 
differences.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0400222101
PMCID: PMC373488
PMID: 14993600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Microb Ecol. 2004 Feb;47(2):137-49. doi: 10.1007/s00248-003-1060-5. Epub
2004  Mar 4.

Microbial astronauts: assembling microbial communities for advanced life support 
systems.

Roberts MS(1), Garland JL, Mills AL.

Collaborators: Garland JL(2).

Author information:
(1)Dynamac Inc., DYN-3, John F. Kennedy Space Center, FL 32899, USA. 
Michael.roberts-1@ksc.nasa.gov
(2)NASA KSC

Extension of human habitation into space requires that humans carry with them 
many of the microorganisms with which they coexist on Earth. The ubiquity of 
microorganisms in close association with all living things and biogeochemical 
processes on Earth predicates that they must also play a critical role in 
maintaining the viability of human life in space. Even though bacterial 
populations exist as locally adapted ecotypes, the abundance of individuals in 
microbial species is so large that dispersal is unlikely to be limited by 
geographical barriers on Earth (i.e., for most environments "everything is 
everywhere" given enough time). This will not be true for microbial communities 
in space where local species richness will be relatively low because of 
sterilization protocols prior to launch and physical barriers between Earth and 
spacecraft after launch. Although community diversity will be sufficient to 
sustain ecosystem function at the onset, richness and evenness may decline over 
time such that biological systems either lose functional potential (e.g., 
bioreactors may fail to reduce BOD or nitrogen load) or become susceptible to 
invasion by human-associated microorganisms (pathogens) over time. Research at 
the John F. Kennedy Space Center has evaluated fundamental properties of 
microbial diversity and community assembly in prototype bioregenerative systems 
for NASA Advanced Life Support. Successional trends related to increased niche 
specialization, including an apparent increase in the proportion of 
nonculturable types of organisms, have been consistently observed. In addition, 
the stability of the microbial communities, as defined by their resistance to 
invasion by human-associated microorganisms, has been correlated to their 
diversity. Overall, these results reflect the significant challenges ahead for 
the assembly of stable, functional communities using gnotobiotic approaches, and 
the need to better define the basic biological principles that define ecosystem 
processes in the space environment.

Copyright 2004 Springer-Verlag

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-003-1060-5
PMID: 14994179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Int J Eat Disord. 2004 Mar;35(2):155-60. doi: 10.1002/eat.10258.

The cost-effectiveness of anorexia nervosa treatment.

Crow SJ(1), Nyman JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota Medical School, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55454, USA. crowx002@umn.edu

OBJECTIVE: Anorexia nervosa (AN) is an expensive-to-treat illness with a high 
mortality rate. Some health care systems have limited the amount of treatment 
provided for AN despite the lack of clearly documented efficacy for these 
limited-intensity approaches. One method that can inform decisions about AN 
treatment is cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHOD: Cost-modeling analysis was used to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of AN treatment. Modeling was chosen given the lack of 
primary data on costs and outcomes in AN treatment. Data for age of onset, life 
expectancy, and disease-associated mortality were taken from the literature. The 
costs of treatment used in the analysis were those in use at the University of 
Minnesota.
RESULTS: Assuming an approach consisting of inpatient weight restoration, 
followed by treatment of gradually diminishing intensity (partial 
hospitalization, then outpatient psychotherapy plus medication management), 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated and compared with a 
limited intensity, "usual care" model. These assumptions yielded a cost per year 
of life saved of 30,180 dollars.
DISCUSSION: Relative to many other medical interventions, the comprehensive 
treatment of AN appears to be quite cost-effective in terms of cost per year of 
life saved. Such data may have an impact on payer decisions and underscore the 
serious nature of AN.

Copyright 2004 by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Eat Disord 35: 155-160, 2004.

DOI: 10.1002/eat.10258
PMID: 14994352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2004 Jan;51(1):13-9.

[An interview survey for health promotion for older residents in T District, 
Sendai City].
