
[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki Y(1), Okazaki F, Kobayashi J, Suzuki S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Yamagata University School of Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: To plan a program for promoting health and improving quality of life 
among the older residents in T District, Miyagino Ward, Sendai City.
SUBJECTS & METHOD: T District has the highest rate of aged individuals and the 
largest number of elderly living alone in the Ward. Based upon our 
community-based health and welfare activities, we recognized that many older 
residents in T District had health and social problems. In order to grasp these 
problems and plan a program for health promotion, we conducted an interview 
survey (using the Esnographic method) of resource persons and older residents in 
the District. The information obtained at interviews was analyzed by the KJ 
method.
RESULTS: The interview survey indicated the most prominent needs for the older 
residents were extension of the network for human relationships and increase in 
opportunities for communication and meeting each other. The older residents did 
not have enough information on the health and welfare services provided by 
Miyagino Public Health and Welfare Center, and we realized the importance of 
promoting communication between residents, private organizations and our Center. 
We informed the residents of these results, and discussed the strategies to 
promote health and improving quality of life among the older residents in T 
District in 2001. Based upon the survey and discussion, we started to publish 
and circulate "Community Information for Older Residents", established a class 
for residents to become supporters of the needy older population in T District, 
and facilitated their active participation in the community activities.
CONCLUSION: The interview survey using the Esnographic approach and analysis 
with the KJ method were useful tools for us to plan and implement a program for 
health promotion for older residents.

PMID: 14994501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2004 Mar;46(3):168-77. doi: 10.1017/s0012162204000301.

Neuropathic bladder and intermittent catheterization: social and psychological 
impact on children and adolescents.

Edwards M(1), Borzyskowski M, Cox A, Badcock J.

Author information:
(1)Guy's and St Thomas' Paediatric Trust, London, UK. 
melinda.edwards@gstt.sthames.nhs.uk

This paper describes part of larger study involving 40 families of children and 
adolescents with neuropathic bladder looking at the psychosocial impact of 
catheterization on them and their families. This study focuses on their 
experiences of clean intermittent catheterization (CIC) and self-catheterization 
(SC). Twenty-eight children and adolescents (11 males, 17 females; mean age 9 
years, SD 2 years 7 months, range 5 to 20 years) with neuropathic bladder 
(mostly with spina bifida) participated in a semi-structured interview to 
explore their understanding of micturition and catheterization, and their views 
about the introduction and practical use of this technique. Participants were 
invited to draw self-portraits and figure diagrams to depict their understanding 
of CIC and SC. Age-appropriate self-esteem measures (Harter Pictorial Scale of 
Perceived Competence, the Self-Perception Profile, and the Culture-Free 
Self-Esteem Inventory) were administered to see if catheterization status 
affected emotional well-being. In an extension of this study, children's 
experiences of SC were explored by a postal questionnaire to all children 
successfully using SC who were attending the Paediatric Neuropathic Bladder 
Clinic. Children aged <5 years, those with learning difficulties, and those 
using indwelling catheters were excluded. From a total sample of 66 (31 females, 
35 males), 52 parents and 42 children and adolescents (28 females and 14 males) 
responded. No significant difference was observed in self-esteem for those 
successfully catheterizing. Specific challenges involved learning SC and 
practical use of the technique. Concerns were leakage and being wet, and peers 
finding out about their continence management. Implications for the education, 
problem solving, and support of families and young people to promote cooperation 
and optimal benefits from catheterization are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162204000301
PMID: 14995086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Transfusion. 2004 Mar;44(3):337-42. doi: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2003.00670.x.

The use of a bacteria detection system to evaluate bacterial contamination in 
PLT concentrates.

Rock G(1), Neurath D, Toye B, Sutton D, Giulivi A, Bormanis J, Olberg B, Holme 
S, Wenz B, Ortolano G, Nelson E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Division of Hematology and 
Transfusion Medicine, The Ottawa Hospital, 1053 Carling Avenue, Ottawa, Ontario 
K1Y 4E9, Canada. grock@ottawahospital.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Random-donor PLTs (RDPs) are functional at 7 days. Nevertheless, 
since the mid-1980s, concern for bacterial contamination has caused the storage 
period to be reduced to 5 days. The ability of a bacteria detection system (BDS, 
Pall) to determine bacterial contamination and permit extension of the PLT shelf 
life to 7 days was assessed.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Blood was collected into CP2D and leukoreduced RDPs 
were prepared. Upon arrival at the hospital, a 2- to 3-mL aliquot was removed 
from each RDP and introduced into the Pall BDS pouch with a sterile docking 
device. The pouch was incubated at 37 degrees C for 24 hours and then the oxygen 
content was measured to determine bacterial contamination. Additionally, the 
RDPs were pooled and an aliquot was removed for culture with standard manual 
techniques. CCIs were calculated 1 hour after infusion.
RESULTS: A total of 12,062 individual RDPs were tested. The Pall BDS detected 
bacteria in 5 units. All of these were positive on repeat sampling. 
Propionibacterium acnes, coagulase-negative Staphylococcus, and Bacillus species 
were confirmed by manual technique in 3 units, one could not be identified, and 
one was negative. Aliquots from PLT pools were positive in 80 of 2201 pools when 
tested by manual methods. Of these, 79 were false-positives and 1 unit contained 
coagulase-negative Staphylococcus. The Pall BDS was easy to use and required 
less than 5 minutes for all manipulations. After 7 days of storage, the PLTs 
gave an average CCI of 16 x 10(11)+/- 3.39 x 10(11) 1 hour after transfusion (n 
= 9).
CONCLUSIONS: The Pall BDS permits evaluation of RDPs for bacterial 
contamination. Culture-negative PLTs were successfully transfused in our 
institution up to and including 7 days after storage with good CCIs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2003.00670.x
PMID: 14996189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Bacteriol. 2004 Mar;186(6):1758-68. doi: 10.1128/JB.186.6.1758-1768.2004.

Interaction of the crystalline bacterial cell surface layer protein SbsB and the 
secondary cell wall polymer of Geobacillus stearothermophilus PV72 assessed by 
real-time surface plasmon resonance biosensor technology.

Mader C(1), Huber C, Moll D, Sleytr UB, SÃ¡ra M.

Author information:
(1)Center for Ultrastructure Research and Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for 
Molecular Nanotechnology, University of Natural Resources and Applied Life 
Sciences Vienna, Austria. Christoph.mader@gmx.net

The interaction between S-layer protein SbsB and the secondary cell wall polymer 
(SCWP) of Geobacillus stearothermophilus PV72/p2 was investigated by real-time 
surface plasmon resonance biosensor technology. The SCWP is an acidic 
polysaccharide that contains N-acetylglucosamine, N-acetylmannosamine, and 
pyruvic acid. For interaction studies, recombinant SbsB (rSbsB) and two 
truncated forms consisting of either the S-layer-like homology (SLH) domain 
(3SLH) or the residual part of SbsB were used. Independent of the setup, the 
data showed that the SLH domain was exclusively responsible for SCWP binding. 
The interaction was found to be highly specific, since neither the peptidoglycan 
nor SCWPs from other organisms nor other polysaccharides were recognized. Data 
analysis from that setup in which 3SLH was immobilized on a sensor chip and SCWP 
represented the soluble analyte was done in accordance with a model that 
describes binding of a bivalent analyte to a fixed ligand in terms of an overall 
affinity for all binding sites. The measured data revealed the presence of at 
least two binding sites on a single SCWP molecule with a distance of about 14 nm 
and an overall Kd of 7.7 x 10(-7) M. Analysis of data from the inverted setup in 
which the SCWP was immobilized on a sensor chip was done in accordance with an 
extension of the heterogeneous-ligand model, which indicated the existence of 
three binding sites with low (Kd = 2.6 x 10(-5) M), medium (Kd = 6.1 x 10(-8) 
M), and high (Kd = 6.7 x 10(-11) M) affinities. Since in this setup 3SLH was the 
soluble analyte and the presence of small amounts of oligomers in even monomeric 
protein solutions cannot be excluded, the high-affinity binding site may result 
from avidity effects caused by binding of at least dimeric 3SLH. Solution 
competition assays performed with both setups confirmed the specificity of the 
protein-carbohydrate interaction investigated.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.186.6.1758-1768.2004
PMCID: PMC355981
PMID: 14996807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2003 Nov;14(11):1947-50.

[Establishment and analysis of laboratory population life table of Trichogramma 
dendrolimi developed on Antherea pernyi eggs].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu C(1), Huang S, Liu W, Han S, Chen Q, Li L.

Author information:
(1)South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China. 
xuzunzun@21cn.com

The laboratory population life table of Trichogramma dendrolimi Matsumura 
developed on the eggs of Antherea pernyi was established by calculating the 
survival rate at immature stage and the adult reproduction. The survival rate of 
egg, larval and pupa was 1.00, 0.9186 and 0.8895, respectively, and the 
emergence rate of pupa was 0.8668. The total mortality rate at immature stage 
reached to 30%, which was a great difference from those developed on small host 
eggs. Each Trichogramma female could lay about 86 eggs on one Antherea pernyi 
egg. The index of Trichogramma population trend was 54.48. Analysis on the 
relationships among intrinsic rate of natural increase (rm), net production rate 
(R0) and index of population trend (I) showed that the R0 and I had the same 
biological meaning, and rm could be calculated with I value.

PMID: 14997653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2004 Feb 11;52(13):1-47.

Deaths: preliminary data for 2002.

Kochanek KD(1), Smith BL.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics, 
Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents preliminary data on deaths for the year 2002 in 
the United States. U.S. data on deaths are shown by age, sex, race, and Hispanic 
origin. Death rates for 2002 are based on population estimates consistent with 
the April 1, 2000, census. Data on life expectancy, leading causes of death, and 
infant mortality are also presented.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on a large number of deaths comprising 
approximately 97 percent of the demographic file and 93 percent of the medical 
file for all deaths in the United States in 2002. The records are weighted to 
independent control counts of infant deaths and deaths 1 year of age and over 
received in State vital statistics offices for 2002. Unless otherwise indicated, 
comparisons are made with final data for 2001. For certain causes of death, 
preliminary data differ from final data because of the truncated nature of the 
preliminary file. These are, in particular, unintentional injuries, homicides, 
suicides, and respiratory diseases. Populations were produced for the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics under 
a collaborative arrangement with the U.S. Census Bureau. The populations reflect 
the results of the 2000 census. This census allowed people to report more than 
one race for themselves and their household members and also separated the 
category for Asian or Pacific Islander persons into two groups (Asian and Native 
Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander). These changes reflected the Office of 
Management and Budget's (OMB) 1997 revisions to the standards for the 
classification of Federal data on race and ethnicity. Because only one race is 
currently reported in death certificate data, the 2000 census populations were 
"bridged" to the single race categories specified in OMB's 1977 guidelines for 
race and ethnic statistics in Federal reporting, which are still in use in the 
collection of vital statistics data.
RESULTS: The age-adjusted death rate in 2002 for the United States decreased 
from 854.5 deaths per 100,000 population in 2001 to 846.8 in 2002. Declines in 
age-adjusted death rates occurred for Diseases of heart, Malignant neoplasms, 
Cerebrovascular diseases, Accidents (unintentional injuries), Chronic liver 
disease and cirrhosis, and Assault (homicide). The decrease in homicide reflects 
the effect of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, on the rates for that 
year. Age-adjusted death rates also decreased for alcohol-induced deaths between 
2001 and 2002. Age-adjusted death rates increased between 2001 and 2002 for the 
following causes: Alzheimer's disease, Influenza and pneumonia, Essential 
(primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease, Septicemia, and 
Nephritis, nephrotic syndrome and nephrosis. Life expectancy at birth rose by 
0.2 years to a record high of 77.4 years. The infant mortality rate increased 
between 2001 and 2002, the first numerical increase in the infant mortality rate 
since 1957-58. However, supplemental analyses of fetal death records indicate 
that the perinatal mortality rate remained stable between 2001 and 2002.

PMID: 14998175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Am J Public Health. 2004 Mar;94(3):378-83. doi: 10.2105/ajph.94.3.378.

Achieving national health objectives: the impact on life expectancy and on 
healthy life expectancy.

Pamuk ER(1), Wagener DK, Molla MT.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Hyattsville, MD, USA. epamuk@cdc.gov

Our study quantifies the impact of achieving specific Healthy People 2010 
targets and of eliminating racial/ethnic health disparities on summary measures 
of health. We used life table methods to calculate gains in life expectancy and 
healthy life expectancy that would result from achievement of Healthy People 
2010 objectives or of current mortality rates in the Asian/Pacific Islander 
(API) population. Attainment of Healthy People 2010 mortality targets would 
increase life expectancy by 2.8 years, and reduction of population wide 
mortality rates to current API rates would add 4.1 years. Healthy life 
expectancy would increase by 5.8 years if Healthy People 2010 mortality and 
assumed morbidity targets were attained and by 8.1 years if API mortality and 
activity limitation rates were attained. Achievement of specific Healthy People 
2010 targets would produce significant increases in longevity and health, and 
elimination of racial/ethnic health disparities could result in even larger 
gains.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.94.3.378
PMCID: PMC1448261
PMID: 14998799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Am J Public Health. 2004 Mar;94(3):384-8. doi: 10.2105/ajph.94.3.384.

Is it time to reassess the categorization of disease burdens in low-income 
countries?

Setel PW(1), Saker L, Unwin NC, Hemed Y, Whiting DR, Kitange H.

Author information:
(1)University of Newcastle upon Tyne Medical School, Department of Medicine, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, England.

The classification of disease burdens is an important topic that receives little 
attention or debate. One common classification scheme, the broad cause grouping, 
is based on etiology and health transition theory and is mainly concerned with 
distinguishing communicable from noncommunicable diseases. This may be of 
limited utility to policymakers and planners. We propose a broad care needs 
framework to complement the broad cause grouping. This alternative scheme may be 
of equal or greater value to planners. We apply these schemes to 
disability-adjusted life year estimates for 2000 and to mortality data from 
Tanzania. The results suggest that a broad care needs approach could shift the 
priorities of health planners and policymakers and deserves further evaluation.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.94.3.384
PMCID: PMC1448262
PMID: 14998800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Am J Public Health. 2004 Mar;94(3):388-93. doi: 10.2105/ajph.94.3.388.

On the classification of population health measurements.

McDowell I(1), Spasoff RA, Kristjansson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine and Institute for 
Population Health, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. mcdowell@uottawa.ca

Summary measures of population health, such as health-adjusted life expectancy, 
are increasingly being used to monitor the health status of regions and to 
evaluate public health interventions. Such measures are based on aggregated 
indicators of individual health and summarize health in a population. They 
describe population health status but have limitations in analytic studies of 
population health. We propose a broader framework for population health 
measurement. This classifies indicators according to their application 
(descriptive, prognostic, or explanatory), according to the conception of 
population (as an aggregate or a dynamic entity), and according to the 
underlying model of health. This approach extends the measurement repertoire to 
include indicators of the health of a population.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.94.3.388
PMCID: PMC1448263
PMID: 14998801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Feb;59(2):118-25. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.2.b118.

Quantitative trait Loci specifying the response of body temperature to dietary 
restriction.

Rikke BA(1), Yerg JE 3rd, Battaglia ME, Nagy TR, Allison DB, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, USA. 
rikke@colorado.edu

Dietary restriction (DR) retards aging and mortality across a variety of taxa. 
In homeotherms, one of the hallmarks of DR is lower mean body temperature 
(T(b)), which might be directly responsible for some aspects of DR-mediated life 
extension. We conducted a quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of the 
response of T(b) to DR in mice using a panel of 22 LSXSS recombinant inbred 
strains, tested in two cohorts. T(b) in response to DR had a significant genetic 
component, explaining approximately 35% of the phenotypic variation. We mapped a 
statistically significant QTL to chromosome 9 and a provisional QTL to 
chromosome 17, which together accounted for about two thirds of the genetic 
variation. Such QTLs could be used to critically test whether the response of 
T(b) to DR also affects the response of life extension. In addition, this study 
demonstrates the feasibility of trying to map QTLs that affect other 
physiological responses to DR, including the life extension response. 
Importantly, the genes underlying such QTLs would be causal factors affecting 
these responses and could be identified by positional cloning.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.2.b118
PMID: 14999024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Feb;59(2):139-42. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.2.m139.

The metabolic syndrome and aging.

Morley JE.

Comment on
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Feb;59(2):178-83; discussion 184-92.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.2.m139
PMID: 14999026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Feb;59(2):172-7. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.2.m172.

Management of peripheral arterial disease of the lower extremities in elderly 
patients.

Aronow WS(1).

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Cardiology and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, New York 
Medical College, Valhalla, USA. WSAronow@aol.com

The prevalence of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) increases with age. PAD in 
elderly persons may be asymptomatic, may be associated with intermittent 
claudication, or may be associated with critical limb ischemia. Other 
atherosclerotic vascular disorders, especially coronary artery disease (CAD), 
may coexist with PAD. Elderly persons with PAD are at increased risk for 
all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and mortality from CAD. 
Modifiable risk factors should be treated in persons with PAD such as cessation 
of cigarette smoking and control of hypertension, dyslipidemia, and diabetes. 
Statins have been shown to reduce the incidence of intermittent claudication and 
to improve treadmill exercise duration until the onset of intermittent 
claudication in persons with PAD and hypercholesterolemia. Antiplatelet drugs 
such as aspirin or clopidogrel, especially clopidogrel, should be administered 
to all persons with PAD. Persons with PAD should be treated with 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and also with beta blockers if CAD is 
present. Cilostazol should be given to persons with intermittent claudication to 
improve exercise capacity unless heart failure is present. Exercise 
rehabilitation programs improve exercise time until claudication. Indications 
for lower extremity angioplasty, preferably with stenting, or bypass surgery are 
1) incapacitating claudication in persons interfering with work or lifestyle; 2) 
limb salvage in persons with limb-threatening ischemia as manifested by rest 
pain, nonhealing ulcers, and/or infection or gangrene; and 3) vasculogenic 
impotence. However, amputation should be performed if tissue loss has progressed 
beyond the point of salvage, if surgery is too risky, if life expectancy is very 
low, or if functional limitations obviate the benefit of limb salvage.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.2.m172
PMID: 14999033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Chemphyschem. 2004 Jan 23;5(1):76-84. doi: 10.1002/cphc.200300905.

Frequency-switched single-transition cross-polarization: a tool for selective 
experiments in biomolecular NMR.

Ferrage F(1), Eykyn TR, Bodenhausen G.

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partement de Chimie, associÃ© au CNRS Ecole Normale SupÃ©rieure, 24 rue 
Lhomond 75231 Paris, France.

Frequency-switched single-transition cross-polarization (FS-ST-CP) provides a 
versatile tool for selective coherence transfer in heteronuclear NMR of 
biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids. This type of coherence transfer 
is spin-state-selective and can therefore benefit from the extension of the 
life-times of selected coherences due to partial cancellation of interfering 
relaxation mechanisms. The limits of the selectivity of the transfer are 
discussed by theory and illustrated by experiment. The methods are particularly 
efficient to obtain quantitative structural and dynamic information for selected 
residues in medium-sized nitrogen-15 or carbon-13 labeled macromolecules.

DOI: 10.1002/cphc.200300905
PMID: 14999846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Prog Urol. 2003 Dec;13(6):1286-9.

[Management of bladder cancer associated with prostate cancer].

[Article in French]

Bonnal JL(1), Irani J, Maidenberg M, ThÃ©odore C, Mauroy B.

Author information:
(1)ComitÃ© Tumeurs urothÃ©liales du C.C.A.F.U., Roubaix, France. 
j.l.b@belgacom.net

The treatment decision in patients with simultaneous development of bladder 
cancer and prostate cancer is based on the prognostic factors of the two 
tumours, the life expectancy, and the complications of treatment influencing 
patient follow-up. This review of the literature tends to confirm a higher 
incidence of prostate cancer in patients with bladder cancer. The diagnostic and 
treatment options are proposed for each situation, but evidence-based 
recommendations cannot be proposed on the basis of the published data.

PMID: 15000300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Prog Urol. 2003 Dec;13(6):1428-56.

[Treatment by HIFU of prostate cancer: survey of literature and treatment 
indications].

[Article in French]

RÃ©billard X(1), Davin JL, SouliÃ© M; ComitÃ© de CancÃ©rologie de l'Association 
FranÃ§aise d'Urologie.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, Clinique Beausoleil, Montpellier, France.

The literature regarding the efficacy and the morbidity of the HIFU treatment 
for localized prostate cancer is poor. The main published studies were carried 
out by 4 teams using the device available in Europe. Despite a follow-up too 
short to allow a relevant assessment of the HIFU efficacy in terms of definitive 
cure of localized prostate cancer, the last published results from the European 
Multicentric Study and from Gelet may consider the HIFU treatment as a valuable 
alternative option for well and moderately differentiated tumors, with an 
initial PSA < or = 15 ng/ml, in men with a life expectancy between 5 and 15 
years. When considering patients presenting a localized cancer with a low or 
intermediate risk for disease recurrence, the HIFU preliminary results are 
similar to those reported for the other therapeutic options. The high risk 
patients should not be considered for HIFU treatment as a monotherapy, but for a 
combined treatment which might include HIFU. The role of the HIFU treatment as a 
salvage therapy for local recurrence after radiotherapy looks promising. In the 
context of a prospective evaluation of the HIFU practice in this indication, the 
urologists using this technology will receive an appropriate training, and will 
include all their patient data in a dedicated database hold by the Association 
FranÃ§aise d'Urologie for a longitudinal study. This AFU evaluation will conclude 
on the positioning of the HIFU treatment among the other treatment options for 
localized prostate cancer, its indications versus watchful waiting in elderly 
and confirm the low HIFU-related morbidity, mainly focusing on the impact on the 
urinary symptoms and the sexual function. In clinical cases which do not match 
with the standard recommendations, separate analysis or specific protocols will 
be considered. For the young patients (life expectancy over 15 years), 
appropriate information must be delivered, explaining that the reference 
treatment of localized prostate cancer is the radical prostatectomy or the 
external beam radiation therapy, and that HIFU is not currently validated for 
them. The HIFU procedure is now standardized. The learning curve is short 
(approximately 10 to 15 patients) for urologists with skills in ultrasound 
imaging. The main advantages of the HIFU treatment are its low morbidity, the 
option for repeated HIFU treatment, the possible treatment of patients who 
previously underwent prostate resection, the early local control with biopsies 
and, if needed, a radiotherapy may be performed after HIFU, without increased 
morbidity.

PMID: 15000326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Lifetime Data Anal. 2003 Dec;9(4):311-30. doi: 
10.1023/b:lida.0000012419.98989.d4.

The perpetual student: modeling duration of undergraduate studies based on 
lifetime-type educational data.

Kalamatianou AG(1), McClean S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Panteion University of Athens, Leof. Syngrou 136, 
Athens 176 75, Greece. akalam@panteion.gr

It is important to educational planners to estimate the likelihood and 
time-scale of graduation of students enrolled on a curriculum. The particular 
case we are concerned with, emerges when studies are not completed in the 
prescribed interval of time. Under these circumstances we use a framework of 
survival analysis applied to lifetime-type educational data to examine the 
distribution of duration of undergraduate studies for 10,313 students, enrolled 
in a Greek university during ten consecutive academic years. Non-parametric and 
parametric survival models have been developed for handling this distribution as 
well as a modified procedure for testing goodness-of-fit of the models. Data 
censoring was taken into account in the statistical analysis and the problems of 
thresholding of graduation and of perpetual students are also addressed. We 
found that the proposed parametric model adequately describes the empirical 
distribution provided by non-parametric estimation. We also found significant 
difference between duration of studies of men and women students. The proposed 
methodology could be useful to analyse data from any other type and level of 
education or general lifetime data with similar characteristics.

DOI: 10.1023/b:lida.0000012419.98989.d4
PMID: 15000407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Lifetime Data Anal. 2003 Dec;9(4):345-55. doi: 
10.1023/b:lida.0000012421.30240.62.

On the analysis of quasi-life tables.

Crowder M(1), Stephens D.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College, Mathematics Department, 180 Queen's Gate, Huxley Building, 
London SW7 2BZ, UK. m.crowder@imperial.ac.uk

Baxter (1994) defined a quasi-life table in which the data arise from many 
concurrent, independent, discrete-time renewal processes. The processes are not 
observed individually, only the total numbers of renewals at each time point are 
observed. The estimates proposed by Baxter (1994), based on the discrete-time 
renewal equation, are studied more formally here, and some extensions are made.

DOI: 10.1023/b:lida.0000012421.30240.62
PMID: 15000409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Lancet. 2004 Feb 28;363(9410):705-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)15646-8.

Liver transplantation as a cure for acute intermittent porphyria.

Soonawalla ZF(1), Orug T, Badminton MN, Elder GH, Rhodes JM, Bramhall SR, Elias 
E.

Author information:
(1)Liver Transplant Unit, Nuffield House, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham 
B15 2TH, UK.

Acute intermittent porphyria occasionally causes frequent and crippling acute 
neurovisceral attacks associated with increased hepatic production of porphyrin 
precursors, resulting in long-term damage, poor quality of life, and shortened 
life expectancy. There has been no cure for this condition, but replacement of 
deficient hepatic enzymes might restore excretion of porphyrin precursors to 
normal and prevent acute attacks. We aimed to treat severe acute intermittent 
porphyria in a 19-year-old woman by liver transplantation. After the transplant, 
concentrations of haem precursors in the patient's urine returned to normal, and 
1.5 years later her quality of life was good. Our report suggests some hope of 
cure for selected patients with severe forms of this disease.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)15646-8
PMID: 15001330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2004 Mar 5;53(8):169-71.

Homicide trends and characteristics--Brazil, 1980-2002.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Brazil is the largest and most populous country in South America (2002 
population: approximately 175 million) (Brazilian Geography and Statistics 
Institute [BGSI], unpublished data, 2004). Although life expectancy in Brazil 
has increased and rates of infant mortality have decreased as a result of 
reductions in infectious disease mortality, homicide and other forms of 
injury-related mortality have increased as a proportion of overall mortality. 
Homicide is now the leading cause of death for persons aged 15-44 years. To 
describe trends and characteristics of homicides countrywide and in SÄo Paulo 
city (2000 population: approximately 10.4 million) (BGSI, unpublished data, 
2004), the State Health Department of SÄo Paulo (SHDSP) analyzed vital 
statistics and census data for 1980-2002. This report summarizes the results of 
that analysis, which indicated that the homicide rate in Brazil more than 
doubled during this period. Since 2001, Brazilian authorities have implemented 
several initiatives to reduce the number of homicides, including a law that 
controls gun ownership and prohibits anyone other than police and members of the 
armed forces from carrying guns. However, homicides among adolescents and young 
adults remain a substantial public health problem in Brazil, and additional 
prevention strategies that target young persons are needed.

PMID: 15001876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Wiad Lek. 2002;55 Suppl 1:196-200.

[Aging of the Polish population and its effect on the health care system in 
Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Kalinowski P(1).

Author information:
(1)Katedry i ZakÅadu Epidemiologii, Akademii Medycznej w Lublinie. 
kalpaw@eskulap.am.lublin.pl

The aim of the paper is presentation of the issue of increase in number of older 
population and the influence of this phenomenon on functioning of health service 
in Poland. The material comprised statistical data concerning age structure of 
the Polish population and demographic prognoses for the next decades, elaborated 
by the Main Statistical Office (GUS). The percentage of children and adolescents 
will decrease according to prognosis from 28% in 2000 to about 21% in 2030. The 
population of adults at the age from 20 to 44 years, will diminish by about 3 
million and its percentage will decrease to about 29%. Population at the age of 
45-65 will reach this level. The highest rise in number and percentage will 
concern the population over 65 years of age. The extension of the length of life 
in Poland will be maintained. The life expectancy for women will be 84.3 years, 
and 78.0 years for men in 2050. Due to this fact in 2030 every fourth women in 
our society will reach 65 years of age. On the basis of these prognoses it is 
indispensable to plan restructuring of hospitals in order to increase the number 
of geriatric, nursing and day-care wards. The increase in number of the elderly 
citizens will impose changes in structure of employment in order to secure 
appropriate medical and nursing staff adequately trained for treatment and care 
of this age group.

PMID: 15002241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Wiad Lek. 2002;55 Suppl 1:540-5.

[Life expectancy in the Plock area caused by lymphatic and erythrocyte line 
leukemia].

[Article in Polish]

Tyszko P(1), Wierzba WM.

Author information:
(1)ZakÅadu Opieki Zdrowotnej Instytutu Medycyny SpoÅecznej, Akademii Medycznej w 
Warszawie. ptyszko@amwaw.edu.pl

Among all specific environmental pollution the chemical compounds released in 
the oil refine process seem to hold the biggest interest. At Medical University 
of Warsaw we have been studying the influence of the PÅock petroleum refinery 
plant pollution to citizens' health status for over 30 years. The high amount of 
hydrocarbons--including benzene--were presented in emission. One of the study 
objectives was to analyze death causes in PÅock and Kutno and in the PÅock 
area--according to environmental criteria. The population of the non-petrochemic 
polluted city Kutno was chosen as the control group. The previous analysis in 
1984-1993 showed increased lymphatic or erythrocyte line leukaemia mortality in 
PÅock population vs Kutno population. Similar situation was observed between the 
area of increased environmental petrochemical pollution and non-polluted area. 
In this article the Potential Years of Life Lost ratio was used to estimate the 
life deficiency as the measure of health needs due to mentioned neoplasms. Data 
indicate that the health needs are bigger than the mortality analysis has shown.

PMID: 15002298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2004 Jan;97(1):7-14.

[The long term (15 years) evolution after valvular replacement with mechanical 
prosthesis or bioprosthesis between the age of 60 and 70 years].

[Article in French]

Hanania G(1), Michel PL, MontÃ©ly JM, Warembourg H, Nardi O, Leguerrier A, Agnino 
A, Despins P, Legault B, Petit H, Bouraindeloup M; Groupe de travail sur les 
valvulopathies de la SociÃ©tÃ© franÃ§aise de cardiologie.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie, Aulnay-sous-Bois.

OBJECTIVE: the aim of this study was to document the choice between prosthesis 
and bioprosthesis in cases of valvular replacement during the seventh decade of 
life.
METHODS: a retrospective and cooperative study linking eleven cardiac surgical 
teams and five medical cardiology teams combined 497 subjects born between 1915 
and 1925 (average age 64.4 years) who underwent aortic (313 cases) or mitral 
(184 cases) valvular replacement with mechanical prosthesis (259 cases) or 
bioprosthesis (238 cases). Information was collected at each centre during the 
year 2000 on the long term evolution (going back 15 years), in particular on the 
mortality, non-fatal complications linked to the valve, cardiac complications 
and extra-cardiac events. These results were subjected to statistical analysis.
RESULTS: the operative mortality of this group was 4.8%. The 15 year survival 
was 46% for the aortic mechanical prostheses, 32% for the aortic bioprostheses 
(p=0.04). 34% for the mitral bioprostheses and 33% for the mitral mechanical 
prostheses. Events linked to the valve were more frequent for the mitral 
valvulopathies than for the aortic valves (49% vs 26%, p<0.001). The absence of 
events linked to the valve at 15 years was 69% for the aortic mechanical 
prostheses and 68% for the aortic bioprostheses. This was the case in only 57% 
of mitral mechanical prostheses and 36% of the mitral bioprostheses (p=0.11). 
Thromboembolic accidents were three times more frequent in the mitrals than in 
the aortics (11.5 vs 3.8%, p=0.002). Haemorrhage was four times more frequent 
for the mechanical prostheses than for the bioprostheses (7.7 vs 2%, p=0.01). 
The risk of degeneration for the aortic bioprostheses was 20% at 15 years, three 
times less so after 65 years of age (p=0.03). At 48% it was much higher in the 
mitral valves at 15 years with no significant difference before and after 65 
years of age (p=0.3).
CONCLUSION: the current life expectancy of subjects in their seventh decade is 
important. The greatly elevated risk of bioprosthesis degeneration in the mitral 
position does not allow this alternative to be advocated before 70 years of age. 
In the aortic position, this risk is elevated before 65 years of age. It is 
lower after 65 years old. Nevertheless, this means the risk of reoperation in 
certain octogenarians must be accepted, balanced with the linear risk of 
haemorrhagic accidents for which a future reduction is expected thanks to milder 
anticoagulation for aortic mechanical prostheses and anticoagulation 
autocontrol.

PMID: 15002704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Cir Pediatr. 2004 Jan;17(1):12-6.

[Pancreatectomy level in the persistent hyperinsulinic hypoglycemia].

[Article in Spanish]

MartÃ­nez IbÃ¡Ã±ez V(1), Gussinyer M, TorÃ¡n N, Lloret J, Abad P, Carrascosa A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de CirugÃ­a PediÃ¡trica, Hospital "Vall d'Ebron, Barcelona.

INTRODUCTION: Persistent neonatal and infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia 
(PNHH) is a rare entity which remains to be elucidated but associated with 
severe lesions in pediatric patients. The aim of this study is to present our 
current surgical strategy face to this disease, based on our pathology findings 
and clinical experience.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: It is a retrospective study of 29 patients treated at our 
centre, medically and surgically. In 15 surgical patients, morphologic, 
morphometric and immunohistochemical studies for insulin, somatostatin and 
glucagon were performed and consequently it has been possible to establish a 
focal and different forms of a diffuse type.
RESULTS: Out of 29 patients studied, 25 were diagnosed before their first year 
old and 4 patients between the first and second infancy. Of the 25 first 
patients, one died at 7 hours postpartum. Twelve patients only received medical 
treatment, one of them died at 45 days of life and the remaining 11 patients had 
good outcome. Another 12 patients received in addition surgical treatment. In 2 
of them we observed adenoma which was removed and patients cured. In the 
remaining 10 patients a subtotal pancreatectomy was performed. (One case was 
informed as normal and cured and the other 9 had the diffuse type). Of these 9 
patients with diffuse type, 4 died, 3 cured and 2 underwent second surgery. Out 
of the 4 patients diagnosed in infancy, 3 underwent surgery (2 adenomas and 1 
diffuse type) and the other one received only medical treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Currently, we give medical treatment in all types and forms of 
PNHH. If the patient is resistant, we dismiss adenoma. If this is diagnosis we 
remove it. If the type is diffuse, near-total pancreatectomy is performed with a 
peroperatory biopsy. In cases of hyperplasia or mixed form we recommend a total 
pancreatectomy and in case of nesidioblastosis we recommend a partial 
pancreatectomy.

PMID: 15002719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Apr;34(2):296-301. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.11.012.

Production and enhanced biological activity of a novel GHRH analog, hGHRH with 
an N-terminal Pro-Pro extension.

Tang SS(1), Chen ZL, Liu JJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Minigene Pharmacy, Biopharmaceutical College, China 
Pharmaceutical University, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Drug Delivery System, 
Nanjing 210009, China.

Erratum in
    Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Feb;39(2):320.

Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone (GHRH) is one of the most important hormones in 
life. Because of its potential clinical importance, its short half-life, and its 
expensive chemical synthesis, an analog of hGHRH with a prolonged half-life and 
better activity has been studied for clinical application, especially for the 
treatment of muscle wasting, type II diabetes, or sleep disorders. The 
Pro-Pro-hGHRH(1-44) peptide has better activity. The fusion partner gene with 
127 amino acid residues of the C-terminus from l-asparaginase was recombined 
with asp-pro-pro-hGHRH(1-44) gene synthesized by PCR method to form a fusion 
protein with the unique acid labile linker Asp-Pro. The recombinant protein was 
expressed to high levels in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The Pro-Pro-hGHRH(1-44) 
peptide was purified to homogeneity by means of cell disruption, washing, 
ethanol precipitation, acid hydrolysis, and SP-Sephadex C-25, and Sephadex G-25 
column chromatography. The fold of the purification was about 88 times and the 
yield was 1.1% of the total protein weight of the inclusion body. The peptide 
molecular mass of 5235.25 Da was determined by ESI mass spectroscopy. Its purity 
was determined by SDS-PAGE. In the study of the activity, we measured GH release 
of rat pituitary by using the antiserum kit against human GH. The peptide doses 
of 0.01, 0.1, 1.0, 7.72, and 20.9 microg/ml used, respectively, released the GH 
values of 0.1+/-0.1, 12.5+/-7.3, 16.6+/-5.8, 49.8+/-7.6, and 79.5+/-5.7 ng/ml 
whereas their blank controls, respectively, were 0.5+/-0.8, 4.1+/-2.6, 
3.1+/-3.1, 4.7+/-1.8, and 1.2+/-0.3 ng/ml. The activity results of all dose 
groups except 0.01 microg/ml Pro-Pro-hGHRH(1-44) group and hGHRH(1-40) group 
showed that there were significant differences between GH released by the 
peptide and that by its blank control. With the increase of dosage, the 
differences were more significant. hGHRH(1-40) showed no measured GH release 
when the dose was up to 2 microg/ml. The activity results show that the 
Pro-Pro-hGHRH(1-44) peptide is a potential GH releasing analog.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.11.012
PMID: 15003264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Trends Biochem Sci. 2004 Mar;29(3):111-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tibs.2004.01.007.

The new life of a centenarian: signalling functions of NAD(P).

Berger F(1), RamÃ­rez-HernÃ¡ndez MH, Ziegler M.

Author information:
(1)Institut fÃ¼r Biochemie, Freie UniversitÃ¤t Berlin, Thielallee 63, 14195 
Berlin, Germany.

Since the beginning of the last century, seminal discoveries have identified 
pyridine nucleotides as the major redox carriers in all organisms. Recent 
research has unravelled an unexpectedly wide array of signalling pathways that 
involve nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and its phosphorylated form, 
NADP. NAD serves as substrate for protein modification including protein 
deacetylation, and mono- and poly-ADP-ribosylation. Both NAD and NADP represent 
precursors of intracellular calcium-mobilizing molecules. It is now beyond doubt 
that NAD(P)-mediated signal transduction does not merely regulate metabolic 
pathways, but might hold a key position in the control of fundamental cellular 
processes. The comprehensive molecular characterization of NAD biosynthetic 
pathways over the past few years has further extended the understanding of the 
multiple roles of pyridine nucleotides in cell biology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tibs.2004.01.007
PMID: 15003268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Vaccine. 2004 Mar 12;22(9-10):1138-49. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2003.09.036.

The cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal conjugate vaccination in Australia.

Butler JR(1), McIntyre P, MacIntyre CR, Gilmour R, Howarth AL, Sander B.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, Australian National 
University, Canberra, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, 7 valent (PCV7) is the most costly 
vaccine yet considered for publicly funded programs. In mid 2001, Australia 
funded PCV7 for high-risk groups only (indigenous children and children with 
certain underlying medical conditions). World wide, non-industry-funded studies 
and studies using cost-utility measures are sparse. We undertook an independent 
economic analysis of PCV7 compared with no vaccination in the non high-risk 
Australian childhood population using cost-utility and cost-effectiveness 
measures.
METHODS: The incidence of invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD), non-bacteraemic 
pneumonia and otitis media was estimated using representative urban Australian 
data, or by extrapolation from comparable industrialised countries. A 
decision-analytic model was developed for a hypothetical birth cohort using the 
age-specific vaccine coverage from the Californian randomised controlled trial 
of PCV7. Health outcomes were measured by life-years saved and deaths and 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) averted. In line with government 
guidelines, only direct costs were considered in 1997-1998 Australian dollars.
RESULTS: For a birth cohort of 250,000, the gross cost of vaccination is $ 78.6 
million. Subtracting treatment cost savings, the net cost (discounted) is $ 61.7 
million. In undiscounted terms, vaccination prevents 13.7 deaths, 11.2 (82%) 
from IPD and the remainder from non-bacteraemic pneumonia. The discounted cost 
per death avoided is $ 5.0 million, per life-year saved $ 230,130 and per DALY 
averted $ 121,100, giving a break-even vaccine price of $ 15.40 per dose. These 
estimates are most sensitive to the unit cost per dose of vaccine, estimates of 
incidence and vaccine efficacy against non-bacteraemic pneumonia and the 
discount rate. The cost per DALY reduced to $ 81,000 with a discount rate of 3% 
rather than 5% and to $ 90,000 with the most favourable assumptions concerning 
pneumonia reduction.
DISCUSSION: With a vaccine price of $ 90 per dose, mid-range estimates of impact 
against non-bacteraemic pneumonia, and discount rate of 5%, a PCV7 program for 
infants not at high risk of IPD is at the upper limit of cost per DALY 
previously approved under Australian pharmaceutical funding guidelines. The 
impact of PCV7 against non-bacteraemic pneumonia is poorly defined, but its 
importance to cost-effectiveness in resource rich and resource poor settings 
warrants further studies or analysis to give greater precision to this outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2003.09.036
PMID: 15003641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Vaccine. 2004 Mar 12;22(9-10):1275-80. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2003.09.019.

Cost-effectiveness of a pediatric dengue vaccine.

Shepard DS(1), Suaya JA, Halstead SB, Nathan MB, Gubler DJ, Mahoney RT, Wang DN, 
Meltzer MI.

Author information:
(1)Schneider Institute for Health Policy, Heller School, Room G19, Mail Stop 
035, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02454-9110, USA. shepard@brandeis.edu

To ascertain the economic feasibility of a pediatric tetravalent dengue vaccine, 
we developed and calibrated a cost-effectiveness model of vaccinating children 
at 15 months in Southeast (SE) Asia using a societal perspective. We assumed 
that full immunization would require two doses at prices of US$ 0.50 and US$ 10 
per dose in the public and private sectors, respectively. The gross cost per 
1000 population (of all ages) of the vaccination program would be US$ 154. Due 
to projected savings in dengue treatment, the net cost per capita would be only 
US$ 17 (89% below the gross cost). The cost per disability adjusted life year 
(DALY) saved by a pediatric vaccine would be US$ 50, making the potential 
vaccine highly cost-effective. Eventually, vaccination may be able to replace 
environmental control as a strategy for dengue prevention and be cost saving.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2003.09.019
PMID: 15003657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Mar 16;101(11):3957-61. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0308118101. Epub 2004 Mar 5.

Timing of brain-derived neurotrophic factor exposure affects life expectancy of 
new neurons.

Alvarez-Borda B(1), Haripal B, Nottebohm F.

Author information:
(1)The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021, USA. 
alvareb@rockefeller.edu

The high vocal center (HVC) of adult male canaries, Serinus canaria, is 
necessary for the production of learned song. New neurons are added to HVC every 
day, where they replace older neurons that have died, but the length of their 
survival depends on the time of year when they are born. A great number of HVC 
neurons born in the fall, when adult canaries learn a new song, are still 
present 8 mo later, when this song is used during the breeding season. By 
contrast, most of the neurons born in HVC in the spring, when little song 
learning takes place, disappear much sooner. Here we show that infusion of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor into HVC during days 14-20 after new HVC 
neurons are born in the spring confers on them a life expectancy comparable to 
that of fall-born neurons; this extension on life is not seen when infusion 
occurs 10 days earlier or later. We suggest that there is, in the adult HVC, a 
subset of neurons whose life expectancy is determined by brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor during a sensitive period soon after these neurons reach 
destination and start forming connections.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0308118101
PMCID: PMC374351
PMID: 15004273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2004 Feb;15(1):18-22. doi: 
10.1046/j.1600-0501.2003.00985.x.

Clinical outcome of 103 consecutive zygomatic implants: a 6-48 months follow-up 
study.

Malevez C(1), Abarca M, Durdu F, Daelemans P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery and Dentistry, Erasme Hospital, 
UniversitÃ© Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium. cmalevez@ulb.ac.be

The purpose of this study was to evaluate retrospectively, after a period of 
6-48 months follow-up of prosthetic loading, the survival rate of 103 zygomatic 
implants inserted in 55 totally edentulous severely resorbed upper jaws. 
Fifty-five consecutive patients, 41 females and 14 males, with severe maxillary 
bone resorption were rehabilitated by means of a fixed prosthesis supported by 
either 1 or 2 zygomatic implants, and 2-6 maxillary implants. This retrospective 
study calculated the success and survival rates at both the prosthetic and 
implant levels. Out of 55 prostheses, 52 were screwed on top of the implants, 
while 3 were modified due to loss of standard additional implants and 
transformed in semimovable prosthesis. Although osseointegration in the 
zygomatic region is difficult to evaluate, no zygomatic implant was considered 
fibrously encapsulated and they are still in function. This study confirms that 
zygoma bone can offer a predictable anchorage and support function for a fixed 
prosthesis in severely resorbed maxillae.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1600-0501.2003.00985.x
PMID: 15005100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


