effects of national disasters expeditiously and effectively will yield 
significant economic returns.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-227X-4-1
PMCID: PMC400735
PMID: 15113453


838. Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2004 May-Jun;26(3):429-41. doi:
10.1016/j.ntt.2004.02.004.

Prenatal cocaine exposure influences the growth and life span of laboratory 
rats.

Church MW(1), Holmes PA, Tilak JP, Hotra JW.

Author information:
(1)C.S. Mott Center for Human Growth and Development, Department of Obstetrics 
and Gynecology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, 275 East Hancock, 
Detroit, MI 48201, USA. mchurch@med.wayne.edu

Laboratory rats prenatally exposed to alcohol, nicotine, amphetamine, 
undernutrition or hypoxia can exhibit shortened life span and other signs of 
enhanced age-related degeneration. We evaluated the possibility of similar 
effects following prenatal cocaine exposure. Pregnant rats received 20 or 40 
mg/kg cocaine HCl subcutaneously (C20, C40), twice daily, from gestation days 
(GD) 7-20. Untreated control (UTC) and pair-fed control (PFC) groups were also 
used. The pregnant C40, C20, and PFC dams ate less food and gained less weight 
than the UTC dams did. The pregnant C40 and C20 dams drank more water than the 
UTC dams did, and the pregnant PFC dams drank less than the UTC dams did. The 
C40 and PFC offspring had delayed earflap openings. The C40 male and female 
offspring had lower birth weights than their cohorts in the other three groups. 
The C40 female and male offspring remained significantly underweight until 
postnatal day (PND) 28 and PND56, respectively. During young adulthood, the 
males and females in the C20, C40, and PFC groups had normal body weights. 
During old adulthood, however, the C20 and C40 males and the C20, C40, and PFC 
females developed reduced body weights as compared with their UTC cohorts. The 
C20 and C40 male offspring and the C20, C40, and PFC female offspring also had 
life spans that were 7-12% shorter than that of their UTC cohorts. Thus, groups 
that showed reduced body weights in old age also showed shorter life spans. 
These results provided converging evidence that prenatal cocaine exposure caused 
enhanced age-related degeneration. Observations on cardiac and other organ 
pathology were also made. Health implications for children born to 
cocaine-abusing women are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ntt.2004.02.004
PMID: 15113604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Gerontology. 2004 May-Jun;50(3):165-70. doi: 10.1159/000076774.

Assessing life expectancies of institutionalized older persons in Hong Kong.

Hui E(1), Wong EM, Woo J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. huie@ha.org.hk

BACKGROUND: In Hong Kong, it has been projected that, by the year 2010, there 
will be 0.86 million persons aged 65 or older. The demand for residential care 
places continues to rise. Information on the survival of older persons will 
allow better management of care in institutional settings.
OBJECTIVE: The Weibull model was developed to predict the 18-month survival of a 
group of Chinese nursing home residents.
METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, 590 older residents from four nursing 
homes with different levels of care were enrolled. The main outcome measure was 
survival at 18 months. Information on subject demographics, clinical data and 
disability levels as measured by the Patient Assessment Instrument (PAI) was 
collected at baseline. Life expectancies were derived from accelerated failure 
time models.
RESULTS: Independent predictors of decreased survival derived from the Weibull 
model included increased age, male gender, diagnosis of cancer, presence of 
malnutrition and functional dependence. Significant interaction was observed 
between male gender and PAI score. The goodness of fit of the model was 
satisfactory.
CONCLUSIONS: From this study, the model for predicting life expectancy in 
nursing home residents can assist policy makers in planning long-term care. It 
can also guide clinicians to make more appropriate management decisions for 
their older patients.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000076774
PMID: 15114038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2004 May;113(6):1650-61. doi: 
10.1097/01.prs.0000117196.61020.fd.

Comparison of the deep inferior epigastric perforator flap and free transverse 
rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap in postmastectomy reconstruction: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Thoma A(1), Veltri K, Khuthaila D, Rockwell G, Duku E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, St. 
Joseph's Healthcare, Surgical Outcomes Research Centre (SOURCE), 206 James 
Street South, Suite 101, Hamilton, Ontario L8P 3A9, Canada. athoma@mcmaster.ca

This study compared the deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap and the 
free transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous (TRAM) flap in postmastectomy 
reconstruction using a cost-effectiveness analysis. A decision analytic model 
was used. Medical costs associated with the two techniques were estimated from 
the Ontario Ministry of Health Schedule of Benefits for 2002. Hospital costs 
were obtained from St. Joseph's Healthcare, a university teaching hospital in 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. The utilities of clinically important health states 
related to breast reconstruction were obtained from 32 "experts" across Canada 
and converted into quality-adjusted life years. The probabilities of these 
various clinically important health states being associated with the DIEP and 
free TRAM flaps were obtained after a thorough review of the literature. The 
DIEP flap was more costly than the free TRAM flap ($7026.47 versus $6508.29), 
but it provided more quality-adjusted life years than the free TRAM flap (28.88 
years versus 28.53 years). The baseline incremental cost-utility ratio was 
$1464.30 per quality-adjusted life year, favoring adoption of the DIEP flap. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed by assuming that the probabilities of 
occurrence of hernia, abdominal bulging, total flap loss, operating room time, 
and hospital stay were identical with the DIEP and free TRAM techniques. By 
assuming that the probability of postoperative hernia for the DIEP flap 
increased from 0.008 to 0.054 (same as for TRAM flap), the incremental 
cost-utility ratio changed to $1435.00 per quality-adjusted life year. A 
sensitivity analysis was performed for the complication of hernia because the 
DIEP flap allegedly diminishes this complication. Increasing the probability of 
abdominal bulge from 0.041 to 0.103 for the DIEP flap changed the ratio to 
$2731.78 per quality-adjusted life year. When the probability of total flap 
failure was increased from 0.014 to 0.016, the ratio changed to $1384.01 per 
quality-adjusted life year. When the time in the operating room was assumed to 
be the same for both flaps, the ratio changed to $4026.57 per quality-adjusted 
life year. If the hospital stay was assumed to be the same for both flaps, the 
ratio changed to $1944.30 per quality-adjusted life year. On the basis of the 
baseline calculation and sensitivity analyses, the DIEP flap remained a 
cost-effective procedure. Thus, adoption of this new technique for 
postmastectomy reconstruction is warranted in the Canadian health care system.

DOI: 10.1097/01.prs.0000117196.61020.fd
PMID: 15114125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Med Sci Monit. 2004 May;10(5):MT73-80. Epub 2004 Apr 28.

Cost-effectiveness of positron emission tomography for non-small cell lung 
carcinoma in Canada.

Sloka JS(1), Hollett PD, Mathews M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, Canada. 
p97jss@mun.ca

Comment in
    Med Sci Monit. 2004 Jul;10(7):LE9-11.

BACKGROUND: Several studies over the past decade have demonstrated that 
2-fluoro-2-D-[18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) is 
more accurate than computed tomography (CT) for the staging of non-small cell 
lung carcinoma (NSCLC). This study uses quantitative decision tree modeling and 
sensitivity analysis to assess the cost-effectiveness of both a CT- and a 
CT+PET-based management strategy for staging NSCLC in Canada. Both management 
costs and life expectancy are determined.
MATERIAL/METHODS: Two patient management scenarios were compared--one using CT 
alone and one using both CT and PET. A survey of recent literature was used to 
construct a meta-analysis of available studies for the accuracies of CT and PET 
in staging NSCLC. Life expectancies were determined from recent Canadian 
statistics, and expected life expectancies with disease were calculated from 
knowledge of published survival rates. Management costs were determined from: 
estimates of the installation cost of PET facilities in Canada; management costs 
from our institutions; and recently published Canadian cost estimates of various 
procedures.
RESULTS: A cost savings of 1455 Canadian dollars per person is expected for the 
CT+PET strategy, along with an increase in life expectancy (3.1 days), when 
compared with the CT alone strategy. This cost savings remained in favour of the 
CT+PET strategy when subjected to a rigorous sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: PET may be a cost effective means of staging NSCLC in Canada.

PMID: 15114279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. J Hum Hypertens. 2004 Oct;18(10):733-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001729.

An economic evaluation of the Irbesartan in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT) in 
a UK setting.

Palmer AJ(1), Annemans L, Roze S, Lamotte M, Rodby RA, Bilous RW.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research, Basel, Switzerland. ap@thecenter.ch

There are substantial healthcare costs associated with the provision of renal 
replacement therapy. Patients with diabetes mellitus are the largest and fastest 
growing group developing end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in the United Kingdom 
(UK). Treatment leading to a slowing of progression to ESRD in diabetic patients 
could lead to considerable cost savings. Using treatment-specific probabilities 
derived from the Irbesartan in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT), the cost 
effectiveness of treating patients with hypertension, type II diabetes and 
nephropathy with irbesartan, amlodipine or control was calculated using a Markov 
model. UK-specific ESRD-related data were retrieved from published sources to 
reflect local management practices, ESRD outcomes and costs. Mean 10-year costs 
and changes in life expectancy due to ESRD delayed or avoided were calculated. 
Future costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 6.0 and 1.5% per annum and 
extensive sensitivity analyses were performed. Delay in the onset of ESRD with 
irbesartan led to cost savings of pound sterling 5125 and pound sterling 
2919/patient and improvements in projected discounted life expectancy of 0.07 
and 0.21 years over 10 years vs amlodipine and control, respectively. The costs 
of treatment of ESRD were the main contributor to the total costs. The cost of 
trial medications had only a minor impact. These results were robust in a wide 
range of plausible assumptions. Given that the IDNT efficacy results could be 
translated to a UK setting, treating patients with hypertension, type II 
diabetes and overt nephropathy with irbesartan was cost saving over a 10-year 
period compared to amlodipine and control.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001729
PMID: 15116142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Rev Port Cardiol. 2004 Feb;23(2):255-70.

Burden of disease from hypercholesterolemia in Portugal.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Gouveia M(1), Borges M, Costa J, Carneiro AV.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Económicas e Empresariais, Universidade Católica 
Poruguess, Centro de Estudos de Medicina Baseada na Evidência, Faculdade de 
Medicina de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal.

Cardiovascular diseases are the main cause of death in Portugal, in developed 
countries and indeed, worldwide. Hypercholesterolemia is a major risk factor for 
these diseases. What are the potential health gains to be obtained by reducing 
the prevalence of hypercholesterolemia in the Portuguese population? How are 
they to be estimated and quantified? Studies of the burden of disease aim to 
measure and evaluate the impact of a disease or group of diseases on overall 
levels of health. Although they do not strictly speaking constitute an economic 
evaluation, since no specific interventions are analyzed, burden of disease 
studies do provide an accurate picture of a specific health problem and its 
magnitude, as well as an indication of changes in health policy and in 
preventive or corrective measures that might lead to improvement. This paper 
reports the results of a study of the disease burden of hypercholesterolemia in 
Portugal, calibrated for data from the year 2000. In this study, the disease 
burden is estimated as the component attributable to hypercholesterolemia in 
DALYs (disability-adjusted life years). DALYs are a measure used by 
international organizations such as the World Health Organization and the World 
Bank.

PMID: 15116460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Harefuah. 2004 Apr;143(4):258-60, 319.

[Intravenous leiomyomatosis].

[Article in Hebrew]

Ben-Ami I(1), Halperin R, Schneider D, Herman A.

Author information:
(1)idorit@netvision.net.il

Erratum in
    Harefuah. 2005 Jan;144(1):64. Ben-Ami, Eido [corrected to Ben-Ami, Ido].

Intravenous leiomyomatosis is a rare tumor described only in women, in which 
benign smooth muscle cells grow into the pelvic venous channels. The tumor may 
cause life-threatening symptoms if there is involvement of the inferior vena 
cava or the right atrium. This is a case study of intravenous leiomyomatosis 
with left ovarian extension in a 42 years old woman. The patient was admitted 
for total abdominal hysterectomy due to uterus myomatosus and menorrhagia. 
During the operation a frozen section was sent for examination revealing 
intravenous leiomyomatosis. Thereupon, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was also 
performed. This article reviews the cause, disease, presentation, diagnosis, 
treatment and recurrence of intravenous leiomyomatosis.

PMID: 15116580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Instr Course Lect. 2004;53:427-39.

Osteoporotic femoral neck fractures: management and current controversies.

Gardner MJ(1), Lorich DG, Lane JM.

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, New York, USA.

Osteoporosis is a pervasive disease among the growing elderly population. 
Femoral neck fractures are often a direct result of osteoporosis and are 
challenging to treat. Surgical interventions seek to return the patient to 
preinjury function as quickly as possible, but many obstacles exist. Disruption 
of the blood supply occurs regardless of the fracture pattern, and in the active 
elderly population, reduction and fixation should be done as soon as possible to 
minimize healing problems. Closed reduction with percutaneous cannulated screw 
instrumentation is currently the fixation method of choice, but even with 
meticulous technique, moderate complication rates persist. Newer devices and 
biologic bone augmentation cement show promise in decreasing postoperative 
fracture collapse. Patients in whom a stable reduction cannot be achieved or who 
have a limited life expectancy should undergo arthroplasty. Unipolar and bipolar 
arthroplasty have both been effective in restoring function and have been the 
standard of care in these patients. Recent evidence suggests that active elderly 
patients who have acetabular disease or severely displaced fractures may benefit 
most from primary total hip arthroplasty.

PMID: 15116632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. BMJ. 2004 May 1;328(7447):1073. doi: 10.1136/bmj.328.7447.1073.

The logrank test.

Bland JM(1), Altman DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York YO10 5DD.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.328.7447.1073
PMCID: PMC403858
PMID: 15117797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Circulation. 2004 May 18;109(19):2309-13. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000129269.98460.C8. Epub 2004 Apr 26.

Independent factors associated with outcomes of parachute mitral valve in 84 
patients.

Schaverien MV(1), Freedom RM, McCrindle BW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, The Hospital for Sick Children, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Parachute mitral valve (PMV) is defined as a unifocal attachment of 
the mitral valve chordae to a single or dominant papillary muscle and may cause 
subvalvar obstruction. We sought to determine factors associated with outcomes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients (n=84; 64% male) who presented between 1977 and 
2001 at a median age of 3 days (range, birth to 5.4 years) were assessed with 
PMV (without atrioventricular septal defect). Associated cardiac anomalies in 
99% included aortic coarctation in 68%, atrial septal defect in 54%, ventricular 
septal defect in 46%, aortic valve stenosis in 32%, subaortic stenosis in 20%, 
and left ventricular hypoplasia in 19%, with complex anomalies in 14%. 
Noncardiac anomalies were noted in 32%. Survival (n=18 deaths) was 82% at 1 year 
and 79% at 10 years, with independent risk factors including left ventricular 
hypoplasia (P<0.001) and atrial septal defect (P<0.003). Freedom from surgical 
mitral valvotomy (n=11 patients) was 95% at age 6 months and 80% at 10 years, 
with independent risk factors including the absence of aortic coarctation 
(P<0.02) and the presence of subaortic stenosis (P<0.04). There was no 
significant increase in mean gradient of the PMV over time, but higher gradient 
was independently associated with the presence of supravalvar mitral stenosis 
(P<0.001), absence of atrial septal defect (P<0.04), presence of ventricular 
septal defect (P<0.02), and subsequent mitral valvotomy (P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Outcomes for patients with PMV are dependent on the spectrum of 
associated cardiac lesions. The degree of mitral valve obstruction remains 
stable, and the majority will not require valvotomy.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000129269.98460.C8
PMID: 15117833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Circulation. 2004 May 18;109(19):2290-5. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000126826.58526.14. Epub 2004 Apr 26.

Propensity analysis of long-term survival after surgical or percutaneous 
revascularization in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease and 
high-risk features.

Brener SJ(1), Lytle BW, Casserly IP, Schneider JP, Topol EJ, Lauer MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 
Euclid Ave, Desk F-25, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. breners@ccf.org

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 May 18;109(19):e9043-4.

BACKGROUND: Although most randomized clinical trials have suggested that 
long-term survival rates after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or 
surgical multivessel coronary revascularization (CABG) are equivalent, some post 
hoc analyses in high-risk groups and adjustment for severity of coronary disease 
have suggested higher mortality after PCI.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied 6033 consecutive patients who underwent 
revascularization in the late 1990s. PCI was performed in 872 patients; 5161 
underwent CABG. Half the patients had significant left ventricular dysfunction 
or diabetes. Propensity analysis to predict the probability of undergoing PCI 
according to 22 variables and their interactions was used. The C-statistic for 
this model was 0.90, indicating excellent discrimination between treatments. 
There were 931 deaths during 5 years of follow-up. The 1- and 5-year unadjusted 
mortality rates were 5% and 16% for PCI and 4% and 14% for CABG (unadjusted 
hazard ratio, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.0 to 1.4; P=0.07). PCI was associated with an 
increased risk of death (propensity-adjusted hazard ratio, 2.3; 95% CI, 1.9 to 
2.9; P<0.0001). This difference was observed across all categories of propensity 
for PCI and in patients with diabetes or left ventricular dysfunction. Other 
independent predictors of mortality (P< or =0.01 for all) were renal 
dysfunction, age, diabetes mellitus, chronic lung disease, peripheral vascular 
disease, left main trunk stenosis, and extent of coronary disease (Duke 
angiographic score).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with multivessel coronary artery disease and many 
high-risk characteristics, CABG was associated with better survival than PCI 
after adjustment for risk profile.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000126826.58526.14
PMID: 15117846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Circulation. 2004 May 18;109(19):2302-8. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000126825.50903.18. Epub 2004 Apr 26.

Natriuretic peptides predict symptom-free survival and postoperative outcome in 
severe aortic stenosis.

Bergler-Klein J(1), Klaar U, Heger M, Rosenhek R, Mundigler G, Gabriel H, Binder 
T, Pacher R, Maurer G, Baumgartner H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology and the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute of Cardiovascular 
Research, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: The prognostic value of natriuretic peptides in aortic stenosis (AS) 
remains unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), N-terminal BNP (NtBNP), 
and N-terminal atrial natriuretic peptide (NtANP) were determined in 130 
patients with severe AS (mean age, 70+/-12 years; mean gradient, 64+/-21 mm Hg; 
valve area, 0.64+/-0.15 cm2) who were followed up for 377+/-150 days. 
Natriuretic peptides increased with NYHA class and with decreasing ejection 
fraction (EF). Even asymptomatic patients frequently had elevated neurohormones. 
Asymptomatic patients who developed symptoms during follow-up had higher BNP and 
NtBNP levels at entry compared with those remaining asymptomatic (median for 
NtBNP, 131 pmol/L [interquartile range, 50 to 202 pmol/L] versus 31 pmol/L 
[range, 19 to 56 pmol/L]; P<0.001). Symptom-free survival at 3, 6, 9, and 12 
months for patients with NtBNP <80 versus > or =80 pmol/L was 100%, 88+/-7%, 
88+/-7%, and 69+/-13% compared with 92+/-8%, 58+/-14%, 35+/-15%, and 18+/-15%, 
respectively (P<0.001). Seventy-nine patients eventually underwent surgery 
because of symptoms. Considering preoperative neurohormone levels, age, NYHA 
class, aortic valve area, EF, and presence of coronary artery disease, we found 
that neurohormones, EF, and NYHA class predicted survival; neurohormones 
predicted postoperative symptomatic status; and neurohormones and preoperative 
EF predicted postoperative EF. However, by multivariate analysis, NtBNP was the 
only independent predictor of outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: In severe AS, natriuretic peptides provide important prognostic 
information beyond clinical and echocardiographic evaluation. NtBNP 
independently predicts symptom-free survival, and preoperative NtBNP 
independently predicts postoperative outcome with regard to survival, 
symptomatic status, and left ventricular function. Thus, neurohormones may gain 
particular importance for timing of surgery in asymptomatic severe AS.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000126825.50903.18
PMID: 15117847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Circulation. 2004 May 11;109(18):2207-12. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000126433.12527.E6. Epub 2004 Apr 26.

Regionalization of treatment for subarachnoid hemorrhage: a cost-utility 
analysis.

Bardach NS(1), Olson SJ, Elkins JS, Smith WS, Lawton MT, Johnston SC.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143-01, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have shown that for the treatment of subarachnoid 
hemorrhage (SAH), outcomes are improved but costs are higher at hospitals with a 
high volume of admissions for SAH. Whether regionalization of care for SAH is 
cost-effective is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In a cost-utility analysis, health outcomes for patients 
with SAH were modeled for 2 scenarios: 1 representing the current practice in 
California in which most patients with SAH are treated at the closest hospital 
and 1 representing the regionalization of care in which patients at hospitals 
with <20 SAH admissions annually (low volume) would be transferred to hospitals 
with > or =20 SAH admissions annually (high volume). Using a Markov model, we 
compared net quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and cost per QALY. Inputs were 
chosen from the literature and derived from a cohort study in California. 
Transferring a patient with SAH from a low- to a high-volume hospital would 
result in a gain of 1.60 QALYs at a cost of 10,548 dollars/QALY. For transfer to 
result in only borderline cost-effectiveness (50,000 dollars/QALY), differences 
in case fatality rates between low- and high-volume hospitals would have to be 
one fifth as large (2.2%) or risk of death during transfer would have to be 5 
times greater (9.8%) than estimated in the base case.
CONCLUSIONS: Transfer of patients with SAH from low- to high-volume hospitals 
appears to be cost-effective, and regionalization of care may be justified. 
However, current estimates of the impact of hospital volume on outcome require 
confirmation in more detailed cohort studies.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000126433.12527.E6
PMID: 15117848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Clin Oncol. 2004 May 1;22(9):1721-30. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.04.095.

Cancer patient preferences for communication of prognosis in the metastatic 
setting.

Hagerty RG(1), Butow PN, Ellis PA, Lobb EA, Pendlebury S, Leighl N, Goldstein D, 
Lo SK, Tattersall MH.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology Research Unit and Department of Medicine, University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE: To identify preferences for and predictors of prognostic information 
among patients with incurable metastatic cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred twenty-six metastatic cancer patients seeing 
30 oncologists at 12 outpatient clinics in New South Wales, Australia, 
participated in the study. Patients were diagnosed with incurable metastatic 
disease within 6 weeks to 6 months of recruitment. Patients completed a survey 
eliciting their preferences for prognostic information, including type, 
quantity, mode, and timing of presentation; anxiety and depression levels; and 
information and involvement preferences.
RESULTS: More than 95% of patients wanted information about side effects, 
symptoms, and treatment options. The majority wanted to know longest survival 
time with treatment (85%), 5-year survival rates (80%), and average survival 
(81%). Words and numbers were preferred over pie charts or graphs. Fifty-nine 
percent (59%) wanted to discuss expected survival when first diagnosed with 
metastatic disease. Thirty-eight percent and 44% wanted to negotiate when 
expected survival and dying, respectively, were discussed. Patients with higher 
depression scores were more likely to want to know shortest time to live without 
treatment (P =.047) and average survival (P =.049). Lower depression levels were 
significantly associated with never wanting to discuss expected survival (P 
=.03). Patients with an expected survival of years were more likely to want to 
discuss life expectancy when first diagnosed with metastases (P =.02).
CONCLUSION: Most metastatic cancer patients want detailed prognostic information 
but prefer to negotiate the extent, format, and timing of the information they 
receive from their oncologists.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.04.095
PMID: 15117995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Nature. 2004 Apr 29;428(6986):936-9. doi: 10.1038/nature02428.

Surprisingly rapid growth in Neanderthals.

Ramirez Rozzi FV(1), Bermudez De Castro JM.

Author information:
(1)UPR 2147, Dyamique de l'Evolution Humaine, CNRS, 44, Rue de l'Amiral Mouchez, 
75014 Paris, France. ramrozzi@ivry.cnrs.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2004 Apr 29;428(6986):904-5.

Life-history traits correlate closely with dental growth, so differences in 
dental growth within Homo can enable us to determine how somatic development has 
evolved and to identify developmental shifts that warrant species-level 
distinctions. Dental growth can be determined from the speed of enamel formation 
(or extension rate). We analysed the enamel extension rate in Homo antecessor (8 
teeth analysed), Homo heidelbergensis (106), Homo neanderthalensis 
('Neanderthals'; 146) and Upper Palaeolithic-Mesolithic Homo sapiens (100). Here 
we report that Upper Palaeolithic-Mesolithic H. sapiens shared an identical 
dental development pattern with modern humans, but that H. antecessor and H. 
heidelbergensis had shorter periods of dental growth. Surprisingly, Neanderthals 
were characterized by having the shortest period of dental growth. Because 
dental growth is an excellent indicator of somatic development, our results 
suggest that Neanderthals developed faster even than their immediate ancestor, 
H. heidelbergensis. Dental growth became longer and brain size increased from 
the Plio-Pleistocene in hominid evolution. Neanderthals, despite having a large 
brain, were characterized by a short period of development. This autapomorphy in 
growth is an evolutionary reversal, and points strongly to a specific 
distinction between H. sapiens and H. neanderthalensis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature02428
PMID: 15118725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Int Dent J. 2004 Apr;54(2):70-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1875-595x.2004.tb00257.x.

Comparison of the dental education systems in Korea and Japan.

Heo SM(1), Kim KJ, Kawamura M, Komabayashi T.

Author information:
(1)neoheo@freechal.com

In recent years, international relationships in dentistry have grown stronger 
through journals, books, academies, seminars, researcher exchanges and so forth. 
Korea and Japan are neighbours in East Asia. However, no comparison of the 
dental education systems of the two countries has been published. Therefore, the 
authors have provided the present comparison to promote mutual understanding and 
to familiarise dentists around the world with dental education in these two 
countries. The number of dentists, life expectancy at birth, and number of 
decayed, missing, and filled teeth (DMFT) at age 12 years in Korea and Japan are 
summarised.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1875-595x.2004.tb00257.x
PMID: 15119795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Chemosphere. 2004 Jul;56(2):113-9. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2004.03.009.

Fate of biodegradable dissolved organic carbon produced by ozonation on 
biological activated carbon.

Nishijima W(1), Speitel GE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Hiroshima 
University, 1-4-1 Kagamiyama, Higashi-Hiroshima, Hiroshima 739-8527, Japan. 
wataru@hiroshima-u.ac.jp

The adsorption and desorption characteristics of BDOC produced by ozonation and 
the replacement of BDOC by non-BDOC on BAC was studied. The fate of BDOC 
produced by ozonation in the BAC column was also evaluated by comparative 
experiment between the BAC supplied with the mixture of BDOC and non-BDOC and 
the BAC supplied only with non-BDOC. Fulvic acids extracted from two river 
sediments and one forest soil were used. BDOC produced by ozonation showed the 
same or lower adsorption capacity than non-BDOC after biodegradation. The 
adsorption rate of BDOC on GAC was lower than that of non-BDOC. BDOC produced by 
ozonation had low desorbability and majority of BDOC produced were not replaced 
by non-BDOC. BDOC in the ozonated fulvic acid did not affect the breakthrough of 
the ozonated fulvic acid on GAC in the early stage of adsorption, suggesting 
that most of BDOC were biodegraded on the surface of GAC before adsorption. 
Therefore, the production of BDOC by ozonation before the GAC treatment is very 
effective for the extension of GAC service life and the reduction of DOC loading 
to GAC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2004.03.009
PMID: 15120556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J R Soc Med. 2004 May;97(5):226-9. doi: 10.1177/014107680409700505.

Clinical management of children and young adults with heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia in the UK.

Greene O(1), Durrington P.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Medicine, Manchester Royal Infirmary, Oxford Road, 
Manchester M13 9WL, UK.

Life expectancy in familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) has been greatly improved 
by the advent of statin therapy. In the UK, however, these agents are not 
licensed for use in children. We approached 169 physicians responsible for lipid 
clinics for information on their practice in young patients, and valid responses 
were received from 54%. A typical lipid clinic has only 3.5 patients aged under 
16 with FH. In boys aged 10-15 years 65% of physicians were prepared to treat 
with bile acid sequestrants but only 23% with statins. There was greater 
reluctance to treat in girls of the same age, corresponding figures being 52% 
and 12%. Despite the efficacy of statins in reducing low-density-lipoprotein 
cholesterol, these agents are little used in children with FH. Their safety and 
clinical efficacy should be assessed by a randomized double-blind trial.

DOI: 10.1177/014107680409700505
PMCID: PMC1079462
PMID: 15121812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Mol Biol Cell. 2004 Jul;15(7):3146-54. doi: 10.1091/mbc.e04-02-0092. Epub
2004  Apr 30.

Salmonella impairs RILP recruitment to Rab7 during maturation of invasion 
vacuoles.

Harrison RE(1), Brumell JH, Khandani A, Bucci C, Scott CC, Jiang X, Finlay BB, 
Grinstein S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Toronto at Scarborough, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

After invasion of epithelial cells, Salmonella enterica Typhimurium resides 
within membrane-bound vacuoles where it survives and replicates. Like endocytic 
vesicles, the Salmonella-containing vacuoles (SCVs) undergo a maturation process 
that involves sequential acquisition of Rab5 and Rab7 and displacement toward 
the microtubule-organizing center. However, SCVs fail to merge with lysosomes 
and instead develop subsequently into a filamentous network that extends toward 
the cell periphery. We found that the initial centripetal displacement of the 
SCV is due to recruitment by Rab7 of Rab7-interacting lysosomal protein (RILP), 
an effector protein that can simultaneously associate with the dynein motor 
complex. Unlike the early SCVs, the Salmonella-induced filaments (Sifs) formed 
later are devoid of RILP and dynein, despite the presence of active Rab7 on 
their membranes. Kinesin seems to be involved in the elongation of Sifs. SifA, a 
secreted effector of Salmonella, was found to be at least partly responsible for 
uncoupling Rab7 from RILP in Sifs and in vitro experiments suggest that SifA may 
exert this effect by interacting with Rab7. We propose that, by disengaging RILP 
from Rab7, SifA enables the centrifugal extension of tubules from the 
Salmonella-containing vacuoles, thereby providing additional protected space for 
bacterial replication.

DOI: 10.1091/mbc.e04-02-0092
PMCID: PMC452572
PMID: 15121880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Pediatrics. 2004 May;113(5):1291-6. doi: 10.1542/peds.113.5.1291.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis for febrile 
children who have cardiac lesions and undergo urinary catheterization in the 
emergency department.

Caviness AC(1), Cantor SB, Allen CH, Ward MA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
Texas, USA. accavine@texaschildrenshospital.org

Comment in
    J Urol. 2005 Apr;173(4):1192-3.

OBJECTIVE: To prevent bacterial endocarditis (BE) in those at risk, the American 
Heart Association recommends antibiotics for patients who have a known urinary 
tract infection and are about to undergo urinary catheterization (UC). In young 
children who have cardiac lesions and undergo UC for fever without a source, the 
problem with prophylaxis only in the presence of infected urine is that the 
presence of urinary tract infection is unknown before testing. This study was 
conducted to determine the cost-effectiveness of BE prophylaxis before UC in 
febrile children aged 0-24 months with moderate-risk cardiac lesions.
METHODS: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of BE prophylaxis compared with no 
prophylaxis from the societal perspective. Clinical outcomes were based on BE 
incidence and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Probabilities were derived 
from the medical literature. Costs were derived from national and local sources 
in US dollars for the reference year 2000, using a discount rate of 3%.
RESULTS: On the basis of the analysis, prophylaxis prevents 7 BE cases per 1 
million children treated. When antibiotic-associated deaths were included, the 
no-prophylaxis strategy was more effective and less costly than the prophylaxis 
strategy. When antibiotic-associated deaths were excluded, amoxicillin cost 10 
million dollars per QALY gained and 70 million dollars per case prevented. For 
vancomycin, it was 13 million dollars per QALY gained and 95 million dollars per 
case prevented. The results were robust to variations in the prophylactic 
efficacy of antibiotics, incidence of bacteremia after UC, incidence of BE after 
bacteremia, and costs associated with BE prophylaxis and treatment.
CONCLUSION: In the emergency department, BE prophylaxis before UC in febrile 
children who are aged 0 to 24 months and have moderate-risk cardiac lesions is 
not a cost-effective use of health care resources.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.113.5.1291
PMID: 15121944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Rev Neurol. 2004 Apr 16-30;38(8):785-90.

[Elderly and brain-damaged drivers in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Lorente Rodríguez E(1), Fernández Guinea S.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Psicologia Básica II, Facultad de Psicologia, Universidad 
Complutense, Pozuelo de Alarcon, España.

AIM: The number of drivers and vehicles crossing our roads increases every year. 
Driving a car requires cognitive, psychomotor and psychological aptitudes and 
abilities that they should be assessed when the driving license is getting.
DEVELOPMENT: The current expectancy of life implies the increasing number of 
elderly people as drivers. The survival of brain injured people has increased 
because of scientific and technological improvements. The cognitive, emotional 
and behavioral sequelae of brain injury could influence in the ability to drive. 
However, the measures of this driving ability are not yet well established.
CONCLUSION: Having in mind the legal dispositions, we would like to analyse the 
psychometric tests administering to get the driving licence and their 
sensitivity to assess brain injured people. It is also important to know how to 
manage cognitive deterioration drivers.

PMID: 15122549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2003 Dec;17(6):945-70. doi: 
10.1016/j.berh.2003.11.001.

Musculoskeletal disorders in diabetes mellitus: an update.

Arkkila PE(1), Gautier JF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Helsinki 
University Central Hospital, Haartmaninkatu 4, Helsinki 00290, Finland. 
perttu.arkkila@hus.fi

Diabetes mellitus (DM) is associated with several musculoskeletal disorders. The 
incidence of DM and the life expectancy of the diabetic patient have both 
increased, resulting in the increased prevalence and clinical importance of 
musculoskeletal alterations in diabetic subjects. The exact pathophysiology of 
most of these musculoskeletal disorders remains obscure. Connective tissue 
disorders, neuropathy, vasculopathy or combinations of these problems, may 
underlie the increased incidence of musculoskeletal disorders in DM. The 
development of musculoskeletal disorders is dependent on age and on the duration 
of DM; however, it has been difficult to show a direct correlation with the 
metabolic control of DM. Most of these disorders can be diagnosed clinically, 
but some radiological examination may help, especially in differential 
diagnosis. No specific treatment is available, and treatments used in the 
general population are also recommended for diabetic subjects. Infectious 
complications affecting the musculoskeletal system are common in DM subjects, 
and these, possibly life-threatening, complications should be systematically 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.berh.2003.11.001
PMID: 15123045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2004 Feb;18(1):147-54. doi: 
10.1016/S1521-6918(03)00100-8.

Photodynamic therapy in cholangiocarcinomas.

Ortner MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department for Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire Vaudois, Rue du Bugnon 46, Lausanne CH 1011, Switzerland. 
maria-anna.ortner@hospyd.ch

Symptoms occur late in cholangiocarcinoma and therefore only about half of the 
patients at the time of diagnosis are candidates for curative surgery. In 
patients with advanced non-resectable cholangiocarcinoma palliative treatment 
options are limited. Until now, insertion of endoprostheses for the treatment of 
cholestasis has been the method of choice. However, tumour growth cannot be 
influenced and so that prognosis is dismal. Although radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy are frequently used, prospective, randomized trials showing an 
improvement in survival time are missing. Encouraging results from prospective, 
single-arm phase II trials and a randomized trial using photodynamic therapy 
(PDT) in non-resectable cholangiocarcinoma indicate considerable benefit on 
survival with a good quality of life. Furthermore, PDT is well tolerated, with 
only few specific side-effects. This is of great importance in patients with 
short life expectancy. PDT should therefore be offered to all patients with 
non-resectable cholangiocarcinoma. However, before initiating PDT or any other 
palliative measure, a proper staging and a surgical consultation is necessary to 
avoid missing a curative surgical option.

DOI: 10.1016/S1521-6918(03)00100-8
PMID: 15123089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Urol Clin North Am. 2004 May;31(2):199-205. doi: 10.1016/j.ucl.2004.03.004.

Introduction to risk assessment and serum risk markers for the prevention of 
coronary heart disease and other potential conditions that impact men's health, 
part II: what do I tell my patients?

Moyad MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Michigan Medical Center, 1500 East 
Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-0330, USA. moyad@umich.edu

Markers and other potential tests for cardiovascular risk abound, and a more 
extensive review of these and other markers can be found elsewhere. 
Cardiovascular health tends to mirror urologic health for several conditions. It 
is imperative in the urology setting that clinicians discuss the probability of 
early morbidity and mortality with patients. This should not undermine the 
importance of prostate cancer and other diseases, but rather place risks in 
their proper perspective. Patients seem to need this guidance more than ever 
because life expectancy for most individuals continues to increase, and the 
potential for comorbidities seems to increase in the average aging patient. It 
is hoped that this article will prompt new interest in evaluating some risk 
factors for various urologic conditions. This may move researchers closer to 
discovering intervention agents that could impact numerous male health 
conditions favorably. Improving men's health will require a concerted 
educational and research effort from several health disciplines, a reminder that 
different medical specialties have much in common, and the role of preventive 
medicine is to point out similarities as opposed to differences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ucl.2004.03.004
PMID: 15123399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2004 May;61(5):518-24. doi: 10.1001/archpsyc.61.5.518.

Apolipoprotein E epsilon4 count affects age at onset of Alzheimer disease, but 
not lifetime susceptibility: The Cache County Study.

Khachaturian AS(1), Corcoran CD, Mayer LS, Zandi PP, Breitner JC; Cache County 
Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Khachaturian and Associates Inc, Potomac, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of Alzheimer disease (AD) increases strongly with age, 
but little is known about the cumulative incidence of AD over a lifetime of 100 
years, or its relationship to the polymorphic APOE locus that encodes 
apolipoprotein E. APOE is a strong genetic risk factor for AD.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the occurrence of AD as a function of age and number of 
APOE epsilon4 alleles; and to explore evidence for heterogeneity of AD risk 
related to APOE genotype and to other sources.
DESIGN: Nonparametric and parametric survival analyses of AD incidence in 
prospective longitudinal study.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: A total of 3308 elderly residents of Cache County, 
Utah.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cumulative incidence of AD; in mixture models assuming 
susceptible and nonsusceptible individuals, the proportion of individuals not 
susceptible to AD at any age.
RESULTS: Models that assumed a proportion of invulnerable individuals provided 
strongly improved fit to the data. These models estimated the 100-year lifetime 
incidence of AD at 72%, implying that 28% of individuals would not develop AD 
over any reasonable life expectancy. We confirmed the acceleration of AD onset 
in individuals with 1 or, especially, 2 APOE, epsilon4 alleles but observed no 
meaningful difference in 100-year lifetime incidence related to number of 
epsilon4 alleles.
CONCLUSIONS: The APOE epsilon4 allele acts as a potent risk factor for AD by 
accelerating onset. However, the risk of AD appears heterogeneous in ways 
independent of APOE. Some individuals seem destined to escape AD, even over an 
extended lifespan. Their relative invulnerability may reflect other genes or 
environmental factors that can be investigated.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.61.5.518
PMID: 15123497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Br J Psychiatry. 2004 May;184:386-92. doi: 10.1192/bjp.184.5.386.

Global burden of depressive disorders in the year 2000.

Ustün TB(1), Ayuso-Mateos JL, Chatterji S, Mathers C, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Global Programme on Evidence for Health Policy, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland. 
ustunb@who.int

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 2004 May;184:379-80.
    Evid Based Ment Health. 2004 Nov;7(4):123.

BACKGROUND: The initial Global Burden of Disease study found that depression was 
the fourth leading cause of disease burden, accounting for 3.7% of total 
disability adjusted life years (DALYs) in the world in 1990.
AIMS: To present the new estimates of depression burden for the year 2000.
METHOD: DALYs for depressive disorders in each world region were calculated, 
based on new estimates of mortality, prevalence, incidence, average age at 
onset, duration and disability severity.
RESULTS: Depression is the fourth leading cause of disease burden, accounting 
for 4.4% of total DALYs in the year 2000, and it causes the largest amount of 
non-fatal burden, accounting for almost 12% of all total years lived with 
disability worldwide.
CONCLUSIONS: These data on the burden of depression worldwide represent a major 
public health problem that affects patients and society.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.184.5.386
PMID: 15123501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Circulation. 2004 May 11;109(18):2197-202. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000126824.12785.B6. Epub 2004 May 3.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ligand bezafibrate for prevention of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus in patients with coronary artery disease.

Tenenbaum A(1), Motro M, Fisman EZ, Schwammenthal E, Adler Y, Goldenberg I, Leor 
J, Boyko V, Mandelzweig L, Behar S.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Rehabilitation Institute, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, 
52621 Israel. altenen@post.tau.ac.il

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have shown that type 2 diabetes is preventable by 
both lifestyle interventions and medications that influence primary glucose 
metabolism. Whether pharmacological interventions that influence primary lipid 
metabolism can also delay development of type 2 diabetes is unknown. The goal of 
this study was to evaluate the effect of the peroxisome proliferator-activated 
receptor ligand bezafibrate on the progression of impaired fasting glucose phase 
to type 2 diabetes in patients with coronary artery disease over a 6.2-year 
follow-up period.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The study sample comprised 303 nondiabetic patients 42 to 
74 years of age with a fasting blood glucose level of 110 to 125 mg/dL (6.1 to 
6.9 mmol/L). The patients received either 400 mg bezafibrate retard (156 
patients) or placebo (147 patients) once a day. No patients were using statins, 
and use of ACE inhibitors, which also reduce diabetes incidence, was relatively 
low. During follow-up, development of new-onset diabetes was recorded in 146 
patients: in 80 (54.4%) from the placebo group and 66 (42.3%) from the 
bezafibrate group (P=0.04). The mean time until onset of new diabetes was 
significantly delayed in patients on bezafibrate compared with patients on 
placebo: 4.6+/-2.3 versus 3.8+/-2.6 years (P=0.004). Multivariate analysis 
identified bezafibrate treatment as an independent predictor of reduced risk of 
new diabetes development (hazard ratio, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.49 to 0.99). Other 
significant variables associated with future overt type 2 diabetes in patients 
with impaired fasting glucose were total cholesterol level (hazard ratio, 1.22; 
95% CI 1.0 to 1.51) and body mass index (hazard ratio, 1.10; 95% CI, 1.05 to 
1.16).
CONCLUSIONS: Bezafibrate reduces the incidence and delays the onset of type 2 
diabetes in patients with impaired fasting glucose. Whether the combination of 
bezafibrate with other recommended drugs for secondary prevention (statins and 
ACE inhibitors) would be as efficacious as suggested by our results remains to 
be determined.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000126824.12785.B6
PMID: 15123532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 May 11;101(19):7433-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0307769101. Epub 2004 May 3.

A small-molecule approach to studying invasive mechanisms of Toxoplasma gondii.

Carey KL(1), Westwood NJ, Mitchison TJ, Ward GE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Vermont, 
Burlington, VT 05405, USA.

Toxoplasma gondii is the most common protozoan parasite of humans. Infection 
with T. gondii can lead to life-threatening disease as a result of repeated 
cycles of host cell invasion, parasite replication, and host cell lysis. 
Relatively little is known about the invasive mechanisms of T. gondii and 
related parasites within the Phylum Apicomplexa (including Plasmodium spp., the 
causative agents of malaria), due to difficulties associated with studying genes 
essential to invasion in haploid obligate intracellular organisms. To circumvent 
this problem, we have developed a high-throughput microscope-based assay, which 
we have used to screen a collection of 12,160 structurally diverse small 
molecules for inhibitors of T. gondii invasion. A total of 24 noncytotoxic 
invasion inhibitors were identified. Secondary assays demonstrated that 
different inhibitors perturb different aspects of invasion, including gliding 
motility, secretion of host cell adhesins from apical organelles (the 
micronemes), and extension of a unique tubulin-based structure at the anterior 
