Campus, 21-25 Webster Street, Liverpool L3 2ET, UK. i.g.cook@livjm.ac.uk

This paper reviews the changing health situation in China, which has shown 
remarkable improvement in the 50 years since the founding of the People's 
Republic of China (PRC) in 1949. At first sight this improving health situation 
follows the classical epidemiological transition model. Just three decades ago 
health in China was characterised by high rates of infectious disease and early 
mortality (diseases of poverty) in a mainly peasant society. More recently 
infectious disease rates have decreased, with corresponding and extended 
morbidity and mortality associated with an aging population in a rapidly 
urbanising society. This process has given rise to new health problems, 
including chronic and degenerative diseases (diseases of affluence). 
Nonetheless, while there is some validity in the application of the 
epidemiological transition concept, further analysis demonstrates that China 
faces a new epidemiological phase, characterised by increasing life expectancy 
and diseases of affluence coupled with the emergence and re-emergence of 
infectious diseases. We demonstrate that China's state policy plays a major role 
in defining the parameters of health in a Chinese context. We conclude that, 
today, China is faced with a new set of health issues, including the impact of 
smoking, hypertension, the health effects of environmental pollution and the 
rise of HIV/AIDS; however, state policy remains vital to the health of China's 
vast population. The challenge for policy is to maintain health reform whilst 
tackling the problems associated with rapid urbanisation, widening social and 
spatial inequalities and the emergence of HIV/AIDS and other infectious 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2003.07.005
PMCID: PMC7133822
PMID: 15036820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Br J Plast Surg. 2004 Mar;57(2):168-71. doi: 10.1016/j.bjps.2003.11.003.

Vincristine as a treatment for a large haemangioma threatening vital functions.

Fawcett SL(1), Grant I, Hall PN, Kelsall AW, Nicholson JC.

Author information:
(1)Addenbrooke's NHS Trust, Cambridge, UK.

We report the use of vincristine to treat a large steroid resistant haemangioma 
of the lower face and neck. At the time of treatment the lesion had shown no 
signs of involution. The haemangioma was not life threatening but extension 
within the mouth was associated with bleeding and ulceration, which was 
impairing feeding and speech development. A significant improvement was seen 
with vincristine treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjps.2003.11.003
PMID: 15037175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Hypertension. 2004 May;43(5):963-9. doi: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000125726.92964.ab.
 Epub 2004 Mar 22.

Adverse prognostic significance of new diabetes in treated hypertensive 
subjects.

Verdecchia P(1), Reboldi G, Angeli F, Borgioni C, Gattobigio R, Filippucci L, 
Norgiolini S, Bracco C, Porcellati C.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Malattie Cardiovascolari, Università di Perugia, Ospedale R. 
Silvestrini S. Andrea delle Fratte 06122 Perugia, Italy. verdec@tin.it

Comment in
    Hypertension. 2004 May;43(5):941-2.
    Curr Hypertens Rep. 2004 Aug;6(4):291-2.
    Curr Hypertens Rep. 2004 Oct;6(5):339-40.
    Curr Hypertens Rep. 2004 Oct;6(5):365-6.

Diabetes may develop in nondiabetic hypertensive subjects during treatment, but 
the long-term cardiovascular implications of this phenomenon are not clear. We 
determined the prognostic value of new diabetes in hypertensive subjects. In a 
long-term cohort study, 795 initially untreated hypertensive subjects, 6.5% of 
whom with type 2 diabetes, underwent diagnostic procedures including 24-hour 
ambulatory blood pressure (BP) monitoring and electrocardiography (ECG). 
Procedures were repeated after a median of 3.1 years in the absence of 
cardiovascular events. Follow-up duration was 1 to 16 years (median 6.0). New 
diabetes occurred in 5.8% of subjects initially without diabetes. 
Antihypertensive treatment included a diuretic in 53.5% of these subjects, 
versus 30.4% of those in whom diabetes did not develop (P=0.002). Plasma glucose 
at entry (P=0.0001) and diuretic treatment on follow-up (P=0.004) were 
independent predictors of new diabetes. Subsequent to the follow-up visit, a 
first cardiovascular event occurred in 63 subjects. Event rate in nondiabetic 
subjects at both visits, new diabetes, and diabetes at entry were 0.97, 3.90, 
and 4.70x100 person-years, respectively (P=0.0001). After adjustment for several 
confounders, including 24-hour ambulatory BP, the relative risk of events was 
2.92 (95% CI: 1.33 to 6.41; P=0.007) in the group with new diabetes and 3.57 
(95% CI: 1.65 to 7.73; P=0.001) in the group with previous diabetes, when 
compared with the group persistently free of diabetes. In treated hypertensive 
subjects, occurrence of new diabetes portends a risk for subsequent 
cardiovascular disease that is not dissimilar from that of previously known 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000125726.92964.ab
PMID: 15037557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Hypertension. 2004 May;43(5):1029-34. doi:
10.1161/01.HYP.0000125230.46080.c6.  Epub 2004 Mar 22.

QRS duration and QT interval predict mortality in hypertensive patients with 
left ventricular hypertrophy: the Losartan Intervention for Endpoint Reduction 
in Hypertension Study.

Oikarinen L(1), Nieminen MS, Viitasalo M, Toivonen L, Jern S, Dahlöf B, Devereux 
RB, Okin PM; LIFE Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Helsinki University Central 
Hospital, Haartmaninkatu 4, 00290 Helsinki, Finland. lasse.oikarinen@kolumbus.fi

Left ventricular hypertrophy is a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality, 
including sudden cardiac death. Experimentally, left ventricular hypertrophy 
delays ventricular conduction and prolongs action potential duration. 
Electrocardiographic QRS duration and QT interval measures reflect these 
changes, but whether these measures can further stratify risk in patients with 
electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy is unknown. We measured the 
QRS duration and QT intervals from the baseline 12-lead electrocardiograms in 
the Losartan Intervention For Endpoint Reduction in Hypertension (LIFE) study, 
which included hypertensive patients with electrocardiographic evidence of left 
ventricular hypertrophy randomized to either losartan-based or atenolol-based 
treatment to lower blood pressure. In the present study, we related study 
baseline electrocardiographic measures to cardiovascular and all-cause 
mortality. There were 5429 patients (male 45.8%; mean age 66+/-7 years) included 
in the present analyses. After a mean follow-up of 4.9+/-0.8 years, there were 
417 deaths from all causes, including 214 cardiovascular deaths. In separate 
univariate Cox regression analyses, QRS duration and several QT measures were 
significant predictors of cardiovascular mortality and all-cause mortality. 
However, in multivariate Cox analyses including all electrocardiographic 
measures and adjusting for other risk factors as well as treatment strategy, 
only QRS duration and maximum rate-adjusted QT(apex) interval remained as 
significant independent predictors of cardiovascular (P=0.022 and P=0.037, 
respectively) and all-cause mortality (P=0.038 and P=0.002, respectively). In 
conclusion, in a hypertensive risk population identified by electrocardiographic 
left ventricular hypertrophy, increased QRS duration and maximum QT(apex) 
interval can further stratify mortality risk even in the setting of effective 
blood pressure-lowering treatment.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000125230.46080.c6
PMID: 15037560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. J Exp Biol. 2004 Apr;207(Pt 9):1523-32. doi: 10.1242/jeb.00899.

In vitro delayed senescence of extirpated buds from zooids of the colonial 
tunicate Botryllus schlosseri.

Rabinowitz C(1), Rinkevich B.

Author information:
(1)Israel Oceanographic and Limnological Research, National Institute of 
Oceanography, Tel Shikmona, PO Box 8030, Haifa, Israel.

In the colonial growth of botryllid ascidians, blastogenesis (bud formation) is 
a cyclical and synchronized developmental process characterized by a weekly 
rhythm of budding and apoptotic events. Very little is known about this cycle 
regulation and its control. In this study, the in vitro fate of developing buds 
and regressing zooids extirpated from Botryllus schlosseri colonies at different 
blastogenic stages were examined, revealing that stages 'B' to 'D' buds (but not 
stage 'A' buds) developed new structures under in vitro conditions. These were 
mainly spheres (up to 1 mm in diameter) and epithelial monolayers around the 
attached buds. We also found that: (1) when attached spheres and epithelial 
monolayers appeared, the life expectancy of an isolated bud in vitro reached 
50-60 days, five times the life expectancy of intact, in vivo developing zooids; 
(2) the life expectancy of in vitro buds that remained unattached to the 
substrates was at least 150 days; (3) after attaching to the substrates, buds 
obeyed a newly imposed developmental clock dictating up to 35 survival days for 
spheres and up to 14 days for epithelial monolayers; (4) the prevailing mode of 
death in vitro was necrotic, in contrast to the apoptotic mode of zooidal 
deterioration at the takeover phase of blastogenesis; (5) under in vitro 
conditions, degenerating zooids surprisingly produced epithelial monolayers 
within 3 weeks of culturing. Monolayers survived for up to 10 additional days, 
extending the lifespan of the degenerating zooids from a few hours to up to 1 
month. We conclude that under in vitro conditions, not only are the underlying 
colonial growth mechanisms replaced by different developmental pathways, but 
also the internal colonial-level clocks programming death, are replaced by a new 
biological mechanism with different timetables.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.00899
PMID: 15037646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Drug Ther Bull. 2004 Mar;42(3):21-3.

Epoetins and [symbol: see text] darbepoetin alfa in malignant disease.

[No authors listed]

Anaemia is common in people with cancer, and may reduce their quality of life 
and life expectancy. Blood transfusion can increase haemoglobin levels but is 
usually reserved for those with moderate anaemia (haemoglobin level below 10 
g/dL). A potential alternative is treatment with one of the human recombinant 
forms of erythropoietin, epoetin alfa (Eprex--Janssen-Cilag) or epoetin beta 
(NeoRecormon--Roche), or their hyperglycosylated derivative [symbol: see text] 
darbepoetin alfa (Aranesp--Amgen). These products have improved the management 
of patients with chronic renal failure who are anaemic. Here we assess the place 
of the epoetins and darbepoetin alfa in managing anaemia in patients with 
cancer.

PMID: 15038080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2003;15(2):94-8. doi: 10.1177/101053950301500204.

Measuring the impact of hepatitis A virus in Chinese cities: a life table 
approach.

Lai D(1), Hardy RJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Texas Health Science Centre, 
Houston 77030, USA. dlai@sph.uth.tmc.edu

The infection of hepatitis A virus is an important public health problem in 
China. In 1990, a survey on seroprevalence of anti-hepatitis A was conducted in 
eight large cities of population size between one to four million. The results 
were used to analyze the impact of hepatitis A. In our study, we used life table 
techniques to determine the impact that the hepatitis A virus (HAV) has on these 
eight cities by computing the expected years of life with anti-hepatitis A 
virus. We compared the results from our approach with those from a previous 
method. The expected years of life with anti-hepatitis A virus were 53.82, 
54.65, 44.26, 53.89, 46.18, 55.77, 55.31 and 49.89 for the eight cities (Xi'an, 
Huhehaote, Chongqing, Nanjing, Jinan, Ha'erbin, Fuzhou and Nanchang), 
respectively. The hepatitis A virus had the greatest impact in Ha'erbin in 
northeastern China; whereas, the impact was lowest in Chongqing in southwestern 
China. However, based on the previous indicator, Chongqing was ranked the 
highest among these cities. Through our comparative study of the methods, our 
approach provides a better measure on the burden of the disease than the 
previous method. It also identifies subgroups of the population where the 
disease has its greatest impact on the population.

DOI: 10.1177/101053950301500204
PMID: 15038682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Popul Health Metr. 2004 Mar 23;2(1):4. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-2-4.

Using linked data to calculate summary measures of population health: 
Health-adjusted life expectancy of people with Diabetes Mellitus.

Manuel DG(1), Schultz SE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
d.manuel@utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) from diabetes 
mellitus (DM) using a population health survey linked to a population-based DM 
registry. METHODS: The 1996/97 Ontario Health Survey (N = 35,517) was linked to 
the Ontario Diabetes Database (N = 487,576). The Health Utilities Index (HUI3) 
was used to estimate health-related quality of life. HALE was estimated using an 
adapted Sullivan method. RESULTS: Life expectancy at birth of people with DM was 
64.7 and 70.7 years for men and women - 12.8 and 12.2 years less than for men 
and women without DM. The HUI3 was lower for physician-diagnosed DM compared to 
self-reported DM (0.799 versus 0.872). HALE at birth was 58.3 and 62.8 years for 
men and women - 11.9 and 10.7 years less than that of men and women without DM. 
CONCLUSIONS: The linked data approach demonstrates that DM is an important cause 
of disease burden. This approach reduces assumptions when estimating the 
prevalence and severity of disability from DM compared to methods that rely on 
self-reported disease status or indirect assessment of disability severity.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-2-4
PMCID: PMC406424
PMID: 15038828


638. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Apr;8(14):iii-iv, ix-xi, 1-100. doi: 
10.3310/hta8140.

Routine examination of the newborn: the EMREN study. Evaluation of an extension 
of the midwife role including a randomised controlled trial of appropriately 
trained midwives and paediatric senior house officers.

Townsend J(1), Wolke D, Hayes J, Davé S, Rogers C, Bloomfield L, Quist-Therson 
E, Tomlin M, Messer D.

Author information:
(1)Public and Environmental Health Research Unit, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the implications and cost-effectiveness of extending the 
role of midwives to include the routine (24-hour) examination of the healthy 
newborn usually carried out by junior doctors.
DESIGN: The study included a prospective randomised controlled trial (RCT) with 
mother and baby dyads randomised to either senior house officer (SHO) or midwife 
for the routine examination of the newborn. Midwives and SHOs were also videoed 
while performing the examinations and the videos were rated by an independent 
consultant and senior midwife. In addition extensive interviews, surveys, 
consultations and assessments were carried out.
SETTING: A District General Hospital (for the RCT), a London Teaching Hospital, 
general practices and mothers' homes (for interviews); questionnaires were sent 
to all maternity units in England (for the National Survey).
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 826 mother and baby dyads in a District General 
Hospital in south-east England. Midwives and SHOs, as well as midwifery 
managers, paediatric consultants; general practitioners (GPs) and 
representatives of key organisations.
INTERVENTIONS: A routine examination of a newborn baby was carried out at about 
24 hours from birth and a further examination for half the babies in each group, 
at 10-days at home by the community midwife.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Referrals assessed as appropriate and as major or minor 
by three independent consultants. Problems identified during the first year of 
life assessed as identifiable at 24 hours. Quality assessment by video against 
an agreed written proforma. Maternal satisfaction. Opinion of professionals and 
mothers about aspects of the examination.
RESULTS: There was no statistical difference between SHO and midwife 
examinations in appropriate referral rates to hospital or community or in 
inappropriate referral rates to hospital. Videoed assessments were assessed as 
carried out more appropriately by the midwives than by the SHOs. Overall 
maternal satisfaction was high and higher when a midwife rather than an SHO 
examined. Few new health problems were identified at the 10-day examination. 
From the National Survey, it was estimated that about 2% of babies in England 
are examined by a midwife. If midwives were to examine all babies where there 
were no complications of birth or antenatal history, there would be savings of 
about 2 pounds per baby born, equivalent to savings of 1.2 pounds million 
nationally. Were midwives to examine all babies on normal wards savings would 
increase to about 4.30 pounds per baby born or 2.5 million pounds nationally. 
Representatives of the professional bodies were of the opinion that having 
trained midwives carrying out the examination would be valuable.
CONCLUSIONS: All component aspects of the study were consistent in showing 
benefits or at least no significant barriers to suitably qualified, trained 
midwives carrying out the examinations. Developing the role of the midwife to 
include examination of the newborn is likely to result in improved quality of 
examinations and higher satisfaction from mothers. It would slightly reduce 
overall health service costs, with some increased resources needed by midwifery 
departments, and some decrease in resource needs of paediatric departments. 
There is a need for further research into the value of the examination being 
carried out at home rather than in hospital; the overall unsatisfactory quality 
of the examination of the hips; and appropriate inclusion criteria for which 
babies' midwives should examine.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8140
PMID: 15038906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Apr;8(13):iii, ix-x, 1-91. doi: 10.3310/hta8130.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone and rosiglitazone 
in the treatment of type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Czoski-Murray C(1), Warren E, Chilcott J, Beverley C, Psyllaki MA, Cowan J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the use of pioglitazone and rosiglitazone, in terms of 
both clinical and cost-effectiveness in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases and the reference lists of relevant articles, 
in addition 14 health services research-related resources were consulted via the 
Internet.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the literature, involving a range of 
databases, was performed to identify all papers relating to the glitazones. The 
methodological quality of the included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) was 
assessed using the Jadad method. A generic proforma for the critical appraisal 
of modelling studies in health economics was used in systematically reviewing 
the economic assessment studies identified. This was supplemented by a detailed 
review of the disease-specific factors within the studies. Where possible, key 
outcomes were compared. Readers should note that information from the sponsor's 
submission was submitted in confidence to the National Institute for Clinical 
Excellence (NICE). Such information was made available to the NICE Appraisals 
Committee, but has been removed from this version of the report.
RESULTS: Of the 1272 studies identified, nine studies met the inclusion 
criteria. The clinical evidence available showed that glitazones reduce 
glycosylated haemoglobin by approximately 1%, and are more effective at higher 
doses than at lower doses. Glitazone treatment is associated with weight gain. 
No published data were available on the long-term effects of glitazone use. No 
prospective RCTs were found comparing pioglitazone to rosiglitazone, but the 
available evidence indicated that the two treatments had similar effects. There 
are no published economic studies on either pioglitazone or rosiglitazone. 
Economic evaluations for both glitazones were provided by the manufacturers. 
Sensitivity analyses undertaken by the assessment team suggest that the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of rosiglitazone is most sensitive to dosage 
and treatment effect, that is, the effect of rosiglitazone on beta-cell function 
and insulin sensitivity. In the two scenarios where rosiglitazone is compared 
with metformin and sulfonylurea combination therapy, the cost-effectiveness of 
rosiglitazone switches from around 10,000 pounds per QALY to being dominated by 
the comparator strategy. Since the baseline estimate of cost-effectiveness is 
not robust to changes in the treatment effect and is reliant on the many 
assumptions included within the metabolic and long-term economic models, caution 
should be used in interpreting the baseline result.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical evidence available showed that glitazones can reduce 
glycosylated haemoglobin; however there were no peer-reviewed data available on 
the long-term effects of their use or any prospective RCTs found comparing 
pioglitazone with rosiglitazone. No published economic studies on either 
pioglitazone or rosiglitazone were found, although sensitivity analyses 
undertaken by the assessment team suggest that the cost per QALY of 
rosiglitazone is most sensitive to dosage and treatment effect. It is suggested 
that research already undertaken in this area should be published, preferably in 
peer-reviewed journals. Direct head-to-head comparisons of the glitazones in 
combination with metformin or sulfonylurea would be helpful. The current licence 
arrangements do not allow for routine use of the glitazones in triple oral 
combination therapy or in combination with insulin. Evidence is emerging of use 
of the glitazones within such combinations; therefore, prospective RCTs would be 
useful. These studies could examine short-term transition strategies and longer 
term management. The impact of the glitazones in delaying transfer to insulin 
and the impact on long-term outcomes should also be considered for 
investigation.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8130
PMID: 15038907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Clin Ther. 2004 Feb;26(2):304-21. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(04)90029-x.

Intensive lifestyle changes or metformin in patients with impaired glucose 
tolerance: modeling the long-term health economic implications of the diabetes 
prevention program in Australia, France, Germany, Switzerland, and the United 
Kingdom.

Palmer AJ(1), Roze S, Valentine WJ, Spinas GA, Shaw JE, Zimmet PZ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research, Binningen/Basel, Switzerland. ap@thecenter.ch

BACKGROUND: In the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), interventions with 
metformin (plus standard lifestyle advice) or intensive lifestyle changes (ILC) 
reduced the risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) by 31% and 58%, 
respectively, versus control (standard lifestyle advice only) in patients with 
impaired glucose tolerance (IGT).
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to establish whether implementing the 
active treatments used in the DPP would be cost-effective in Australia, France, 
Germany, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
METHODS: A Markov model simulated 3 states-IGT, type 2 DM, and deceased-using 
probabilities from the DPP and published data. Country-specific direct costs 
were used throughout.
RESULTS: Assuming only within-trial effects and costs of interventions, both 
metformin and ILC improved life expectancy versus control. Mean improvements in 
nondiscounted life expectancy were 0.11 and 0.22 years for metformin and ILC, 
respectively. Both interventions were associated with cost savings versus 
control in all countries except the United Kingdom, where a small increase in 
costs was observed in both intervention arms. When a lifetime effect of 
interventions was assumed, incremental improvements in life expectancy were 0.35 
and 0.90 years for metformin and ILC, respectively. Results were sensitive to 
probabilities of developing type 2 DM, the projected long-term duration of 
effect of interventions after the 3-year trial period, the relative risk of 
mortality for type 2 DM compared with IGT, and the costs of implementing the 
interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on probabilities from the DPP and published data, in this 
model analysis, incorporation of the DPP interventions into clinical practice in 
5 developed countries was projected to lead to an increase in DM-free years of 
life, improvements in life expectancy, and either cost savings or minor 
increases in costs compared with standard lifestyle advice in a population with 
IGT. Thus, financial constraints should not prevent the implementation of DM 
prevention programs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(04)90029-x
PMID: 15038953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Blood. 2004 Jul 15;104(2):579-85. doi: 10.1182/blood-2004-01-0338. Epub 2004
Mar  23.

A decision analysis of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for the 
myelodysplastic syndromes: delayed transplantation for low-risk myelodysplasia 
is associated with improved outcome.

Cutler CS(1), Lee SJ, Greenberg P, Deeg HJ, Pérez WS, Anasetti C, Bolwell BJ, 
Cairo MS, Gale RP, Klein JP, Lazarus HM, Liesveld JL, McCarthy PL, Milone GA, 
Rizzo JD, Schultz KR, Trigg ME, Keating A, Weisdorf DJ, Antin JH, Horowitz MM.

Author information:
(1)International Bone Marrow Transplant Registry, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
8701 Watertown Plank Rd, PO Box 26509, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA.

Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) can cure myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), 
although transplantation carries significant risks of morbidity and mortality. 
Because the optimal timing of HLA-matched BMT for MDS is unknown, we constructed 
a Markov model to examine 3 transplantation strategies for newly diagnosed MDS: 
transplantation at diagnosis, transplantation at leukemic progression, and 
transplantation at an interval from diagnosis but prior to leukemic progression. 
Analyses using individual patient risk-assessment data from transplantation and 
nontransplantation registries were performed for all 4 International Prognostic 
Scoring System (IPSS) risk groups with adjustments for quality of life (QoL). 
For low and intermediate-1 IPSS groups, delayed transplantation maximized 
overall survival. Transplantation prior to leukemic transformation was 
associated with a greater number of life years than transplantation at the time 
of leukemic progression. In a cohort of patients under the age of 40 years, an 
even more marked survival advantage for delayed transplantation was noted. For 
intermediate-2 and high IPSS groups, transplantation at diagnosis maximized 
overall survival. No changes in the optimal transplantation strategies were 
noted when QoL adjustments were incorporated. For low- and intermediate-1-risk 
MDS, delayed BMT is associated with maximal life expectancy, whereas immediate 
transplantation for intermediate-2- and high-risk disease is associated with 
maximal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2004-01-0338
PMID: 15039286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2004 Jun;43(6):712-8. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/keh153.  Epub 2004 Mar 23.

Improvement in health utility among patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated 
with adalimumab (a human anti-TNF monoclonal antibody) plus methotrexate.

Torrance GW(1), Tugwell P, Amorosi S, Chartash E, Sengupta N.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. torrance@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVES: To compare health-related quality of life (HRQoL), as measured by 
health utility, in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treated with 
adalimumab (a human anti-tumour necrosis factor (anti-TNF) monoclonal antibody) 
plus methotrexate or placebo plus methotrexate.
METHODS: HRQoL data were obtained in two randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, multidose clinical trials conducted in the United States and 
Canada. The Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3) was administered in both 
studies at baseline, at the end of the study and at two time points in between. 
Patients' HUI3 scores were compared with population norm scores. Change in HUI3 
was defined as the end-of-study score minus the baseline score. Utility gained 
throughout the study was measured by area under the utility curve and expressed 
as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Statistical testing adjusted for 
confounders and used the Dunnett test to account for multiple comparisons.
RESULTS: Patients' utility scores at baseline were low (range of treatment group 
means 0.38-0.44) compared with population norms (0.88). HUI3 mean changes from 
baseline scores for adalimumab-treated patients were 0.22 and 0.21 in the two 
trials, whereas placebo patients' changes were 0.04 and 0.07. The rate of QALYs 
gained per year in the treatment group compared with the placebo group were 
0.145 in the ARMADA trial and 0.104 in the DE019 trial. All gains were 
clinically important and statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with adalimumab plus methotrexate provides clinically 
important and statistically significant improvements in HRQoL as measured by 
health utility in patients with RA. This translates into measurable and 
important gains in QALYs.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keh153
PMID: 15039494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Soz Praventivmed. 2004;49(1):1-2. doi: 10.1007/s00038-003-3151-y.

Poverty causes illness!

Wolff H.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-003-3151-y
PMID: 15040117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Soz Praventivmed. 2004;49(1):36-41. doi: 10.1007/s00038-003-3003-9.

Social gradient in life expectancy and health expectancy in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Andersen O, Kjøller M, Rasmussen NK.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen. hbh@niph.dk

OBJECTIVES: Health status of a population can be evaluated by health expectancy 
expressed as average lifetime in various states of health. The purpose of the 
study was to compare health expectancy in population groups at high, medium and 
low educational levels.
METHODS: Health interview data were combined with life table figures using 
Sullivan's method.
RESULTS: Life expectancy was 4.3 years longer for 30-year-old men with a high 
educational level than for those with a low level. At age 30, the proportion of 
expected lifetime in self-rated good health was 67.7%, 76.1% and 82.3% for men 
with a low, medium and high educational level, respectively. Among women, life 
expectancy differed by 2.7 years between low and high educational level, and the 
proportion of expected lifetime in self-rated good health was 62.5% at the low 
and 80.5% at the high educational level.
CONCLUSIONS: Educational level and life expectancy are clearly related. The 
social gradient in terms of health expectancy is even greater than that in terms 
of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-003-3003-9
PMID: 15040127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Antivir Ther. 2004 Feb;9(1):27-36.

Cost effectiveness analysis of routine use of genotypic antiretroviral 
resistance testing after failure of antiretroviral treatment for HIV.

Corzillius M(1), Mühlberger N, Sroczynski G, Jaeger H, Wasem J, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Christian-Albrechts-University, Kiel, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Single use of genotypic antiretroviral resistance testing (GART) 
after first failure of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) was reported 
to be cost effective; its use prior HAART initiation is unknown. Guidelines 
recommend GART after each treatment failure. We assessed the cost effectiveness 
of GART used routinely after first and subsequent treatment failures. 
Furthermore, we determined the minimum effectiveness required for GART prior to 
the first HAART to be as cost effective as after treatment failure.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic Markov model to estimate 
lifetime clinical and economic outcomes in a cohort of HIV patients starting 
HAART. Rates of treatment failure, estimates of GART effectiveness and data on 
disease progression were derived from published trials and observational 
studies. A cost effectiveness analysis was performed from the perspective of the 
healthcare system using cost data from a Central European healthcare setting. 
Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses using Monte Carlo technique 
were performed.
RESULTS: GART after treatment failures increased life expectancy by 9 months and 
undiscounted life-time costs per case by 16,406 euros. The discounted 
incremental cost effectiveness ratio was 22,510 euros per life-year gained 
(euros/LY). Best- and worst-case scenarios yielded 16,512 euros/LY and 42,900 
euros/LY, respectively. GART prior to the initiation of HAART would be equally 
cost effective if it could reduce the probability of first HAART failure by at 
least 36%.
CONCLUSION: Routine use of GART after treatment failures is cost effective. GART 
prior to the first HAART would be equally cost effective if it could lower the 
probability of first HAART failure by approximately a third.

PMID: 15040534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Parasitol. 2004 Feb;90(1):108-13. doi: 10.1645/GE-100R1.

Life-history studies on two molecular strains of mesocestoides (Cestoda: 
Mesocestoididae): identification of sylvatic hosts and infectivity of immature 
life stages.

Padgett KA(1), Boyce WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology, and Immunology, University 
of California, Davis, California 95616-8739, USA.

Life-cycle studies were conducted on 2 molecular strains of Mesocestoides 
tapeworms that represent different evolutionary lineages (clades A and B). Wild 
carnivores, reptiles, and rodents were examined for tapeworm infections at 2 
enzootic sites: (1) San Miguel Island (SMI), a small island off the coast of 
southern California and (2) Hopland Research and Extension Center (HREC), a 
field station in northern California. Results indicate that deer mice 
(Peromyscus maniculatus) and coyotes (Canis latrans) may play an important role 
in the life cycles of Mesocestoides (clades A and B) in California. Over half 
the coyotes at HREC and at least a third of the population of island fox 
(Urocyon littoralis) at SMI were found to harbor clade A adult Mesocestoides 
spp. One of every 4 Mesocestoides-infected coyotes had tapeworms representing 
both clades A and B. Experimental inoculations revealed that proglottids (clades 
A and B) were not directly infectious to rodents, reptiles, or dogs. On the 
other hand, mice, lizards, and hamsters fed tetrathyridia of Mesocestoides spp. 
(clades A or B) developed peritoneal tetrathyridial infections. A dog that was 
fed tetrathyridia (clade B) developed an adult tapeworm infection. Acephalic 
metacestodes given orally to western fence lizards, laboratory mice, or domestic 
dogs did not result in metacestode or adult tapeworm infections. Whereas most 
clade A acephalic metacestodes from dogs were asexually proliferative, clade A 
tetrathyridia isolated from wild deer mice did not show evidence of asexual 
replication. Our study supports the hypothesis that a second, as of yet 
unidentified, intermediate host is necessary to complete the life cycles of 
Mesocestoides spp., and that acephalic metacestodes represent an aberrant form, 
incapable of further development.

DOI: 10.1645/GE-100R1
PMID: 15040675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2004 Jun;29(5):567-92. doi: 
10.1016/S0306-4530(03)00091-X.

The cognitive activation theory of stress.

Ursin H(1), Eriksen HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Medical Psychology, University of Bergen, Jonas 
Liesvei 91, N-5009 Bergen, Norway. holger.ursin@psych.uib.no

This paper presents a cognitive activation theory of stress (CATS), with a 
formal system of systematic definitions. The term "stress" is used for four 
aspects of "stress", stress stimuli, stress experience, the non-specific, 
general stress response, and experience of the stress response. These four 
meanings may be measured separately. The stress response is a general alarm in a 
homeostatic system, producing general and unspecific neurophysiological 
activation from one level of arousal to more arousal. The stress response occurs 
whenever there is something missing, for instance a homeostatic imbalance, or a 
threat to homeostasis and life of the organism. Formally, the alarm occurs when 
there is a discrepancy between what should be and what is-between the value a 
variable should have (set value (SV)), and the real value (actual value (AV)) of 
the same variable. The stress response, therefore, is an essential and necessary 
physiological response. The unpleasantness of the alarm is no health threat. 
However, if sustained, the response may lead to illness and disease through 
established pathophysiological processes ("allostatic load"). The alarm elicits 
specific behaviors to cope with the situation. The level of alarm depends on 
expectancy of the outcome of stimuli and the specific responses available for 
coping. Psychological defense is defined as a distortion of stimulus 
expectancies. Response outcome expectancies are defined as positive, negative, 
or none, to the available responses. This offers formal definitions of coping, 
hopelessness, and helplessness that are easy to operationalize in man and in 
animals. It is an essential element of CATS that only when coping is defined as 
positive outcome expectancy does the concept predict relations to health and 
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/S0306-4530(03)00091-X
PMID: 15041082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2004 Feb;45(1):49-53.

Division of incompetent perforator veins and subfascial interposition of a 
polypropylene foil in post-thrombotic syndrome. Preliminary results.

Vettorello G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, General Hospital, Tolmezzo, Udine, Italy. 
gfvettorello@yahoo.it

AIM: The safety, feasibility and early efficacy of subfascial endoscopic 
perforator surgery was gradually accepted for patients who had severe chronic 
venous insufficiency but, in the literature, the recurrence rate of ulceration 
is about 10-40%, especially in patients with previous deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT).
METHODS: From October 1998 to February 2002, 205 patients with 280 inferior leg 
ulcers were followed; 115 had venous ulcers but only 20 patients had chronic 
ulcers with previous DVT; 4 patients were excluded and only 16 patients (9 
female, 7 male, mean age 61 years) with 18 chronic ulcers were included. These 
patients underwent sub-aponeurotic interruption of perforating veins with blind 
technique in association with subfascial interposition of a hand-made 
polypropylene foil. Eight of these patients had persistent non-healing ulcers at 
the time of surgery and 10 had chronic recurrent ulceration healed at the time 
of the surgical procedure. All patients were assessed clinically and with duplex 
scanning.
RESULTS: The follow-up was done clinically and with eco-Doppler from 6 to 38 
months with a mean follow up period of 23.2 months. The healing rate was 100%. 
The 2-year life table incidence of ulcer recurrence was 0%. Hospital stay ranged 
from 1-2 days, early operative complications included extensive ecchymosis in 1 
patient, oedema in 3 patients.
CONCLUSION: The division of perforating veins, with the subfascial support of a 
polypropylene foil give promising results in the treatment of venous ulcers in 
post-thrombotic syndrome with low morbidity and short hospital stay.

PMID: 15041937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2004 Feb;45(1):55-7.

The reverse upper arm curved graft with ringed PTFE graft as an alternative 
vascular access procedure for hemodialysis.

Kao CL(1), Chang JP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, ROC. sa11421@adm.cgmh.org.tw

AIM: Prosthetic arteriovenous accesses are the last resort after efforts to 
place autogenous accesses are exhausted. During reimplantation of the graft, it 
is sometimes not convenient to dissect out the vessels to be grafted, especially 
around the venous anastomotic site and under local anesthesia.
METHODS: We describe a technique using the ringed PTFE graft for the 
construction of a reverse upper arm curved graft in 14 patients who had received 
upper arm grafts previously.
RESULTS: The mean operative time was 61+/-13 minutes, and the follow-up interval 
extended to 20 months. No infections, pseudoaneurysm formations, or steal 
syndrome occurred during the follow-up period. The primary patency rate was 
calculated by Kaplan-Meier analysis, and the primary patency from graft 
insertion to clotting in the reverse graft was 91% at 3 months, 83% at 6 months, 
66% at 9 months, and 57% at 12 months.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that using the reverse upper arm curved graft 
during the reimplantation procedure was an alternative prosthetic arteriovenous 
access with the advantage of less tissue dissection, shorter operation time, and 
favorable patency rate.

PMID: 15041938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Radiologe. 2004 Apr;44(4):347-57. doi: 10.1007/s00117-004-1033-9.

[Radiofrequency ablation of liver metastases].

[Article in German]

Pereira PL(1), Clasen S, Boss A, Schmidt D, Gouttefangeas C, Burkart C, 
Wiskirchen J, Tepe G, Claussen CD.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Radiologische Diagnostik, Eberhard-Karls-Universität Tübingen. 
philippe.pereira@med.uni-tuebingen.de

The liver is the second only to lymph nodes as the most common site of 
metastatic disease irrespective of the primary tumor. Up to 50% of all patients 
with malignant diseases will develop liver metastases with a significant 
morbidity and mortality. Although the surgical resection leads to an improvement 
of the survival time, only approximately 20% of the patients are eligible for 
surgical intervention. Radiofrequency (RF) ablation represents one of the most 
important alternatives as well as complementary methods for the therapy of liver 
metastases. RF ablation can lead in a selected patient group to a palliation or 
to an increased life expectancy. RF ablation appears either safer (vs. 
cryotherapy) or easier (vs. laser) or more effective (percutaneous ethanol 
instillation [PEI], transarterial chemoembolisation [TACE]) in comparison with 
other minimal invasive procedures. RF ablation can be performed percutaneously, 
laparoscopically or intraoperatively and may be combined with chemotherapy as 
well as with surgical resection. Permanent technical improvements of RF systems, 
a better understanding of the underlying electrophysiological principles and an 
interdisciplinary approach will lead to a prognosis improvement in patients with 
liver metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-004-1033-9
PMID: 15042292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2004 Mar 6;148(10):476-8.

[From gene to disease: cystinosis].

[Article in Dutch]

Levtchenko EN(1), Wilmer M, de Graaf-Hess AC, van den Heuvel LP, Blom H, Monnens 
LA.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Kindergeneeskunde, Universitair Medisch Centrum St Radboud, Postbus 
9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen. e.levtchenko@cukz.umcn.nl

Cystinosis is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by an impaired transport of 
cystine out of lysosomes. The most severe infantile form of cystinosis starts 
with Fanconi syndrome at the age of 3-6 months. Untreated patients develop renal 
failure before the age of 10. The cystinosis gene (CTNS) maps to chromosome 
17p13, spans 23 kb and is composed of 12 exons. CTNS encodes a 367 amino acid 
protein, cystinosin, which is a H(+)-driven lysosomal cystine transporter. It is 
enigmatic how lysosomal cystine accumulation induces the clinical symptoms. ATP 
depletion was demonstrated in an experimental model consisting of loading 
lysosomes with cystine dimethylester. The amino-thiol cysteamine depletes 
lysosomal cystine content by a disulfide-exchange reaction with cystine. Therapy 
with cysteamine should be administered as early as possible and continued after 
a renal transplantation as the extra renal damage still progresses. Improved 
life expectancy of cystinotic patients requires the attention of internists with 
a special interest for this rare disorder.

PMID: 15042893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Clin Occup Environ Med. 2004 Feb;4(1):125-41. doi:
10.1016/j.coem.2003.10.007.

Chronic diseases in globally challenging locations: assessment, impacts, and 
control.

Hua F(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Fudan University, PO Box 248, 138 Yixueyuan Road, 
Shanghai 20032, China. hfu@shmu.edu.cu

A decision regarding work assignment in challenging environments often is made 
on an individual basis. The physician must consider (1) objective medical 
information (eg, CVD risk profile, results of exercise stress testing; see Fig. 
6); (2) psychologic assessment, including potential career impacts of the 
expatriate assignment; and (3) availability of specialty medical facilities and 
expertise in the host country. Although these individual decisions are 
important, health professionals should not lose sight of the opportunity to 
approach chronic diseases on a broader basis by adopting a public health 
approach for the work site and the surrounding community.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coem.2003.10.007
PMID: 15043367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2004 Apr;128(4):430-4. doi:
10.5858/2004-128-430-DAPVOC.

Diagnostic and prognostic value of cardiac troponin I assays in patients 
admitted with symptoms suggestive of acute coronary syndrome.

Apple FS(1), Quist HE, Murakami MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Hennepin County Medical 
Center, University of Minnesota School of Medicine, Minneapolis 55415, USA. 
fred.apple@co.hennepin.mn.us

CONTEXT: Increasing numbers of patients are presenting to emergency departments 
with symptoms suggestive of an acute myocardial infarction.
OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the comparative performance of the Ortho Vitros 
Troponin I and Beckman Access AccuTnI assays used to detect myocardial 
infarction and to develop risk stratification schemes for all-cause death in 
patients who presented with myocardial ischemia symptoms that were suggestive of 
acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
DESIGN: The prospective enrollment of patients with ACS and the measurement of 
serial plasma samples by 2 commercial cardiac troponin I (cTnI) assays.
SETTING: A metropolitan medical center that admitted patients with ACS during a 
2-month period.
PATIENTS: The study population consisted of 200 consecutively admitted patients 
who presented with symptoms that were suggestive of ACS.
RESULTS: Correlation scatterplots showed no significant bias between cTnI assays 
based on 659 specimens across the dynamic range of each assay. Only minor 
differences in slopes and intercepts were observed between assays when 
correlations were based across selected concentration ranges. The receiver 
operating characteristic curve areas for the detection of myocardial infarction 
were not significantly different (Ortho,.991; Beckman,.995). At the 99th 
percentile (Beckman, 0.04 microg/L; Ortho, 0.08 microg/L), each assay 
demonstrated 100% sensitivity with 78% and 80% specificity, respectively. 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves and the log-rank test were used to compare 
time-to-event data. Patients with increased baseline cTnI values had higher odds 
ratios of death than did those with normal concentrations. For Ortho, the 99th 
percentile cutoff was 5.9, and the 10% coefficient of variation cutoff was 10.3; 
for Beckman, the 99th percentile cutoff was 31.4, and the 10% coefficient of 
variation cutoff was 15.3.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparable diagnostic and risk stratification abilities were 
demonstrated in patients with ACS by the Ortho Vitros and Beckman Access cTnI 
assays, with no significant analytic bias between cTnI assays.

DOI: 10.5858/2004-128-430-DAPVOC
PMID: 15043464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2004 Apr;128(4):421-5. doi:
10.5858/2004-128-421-ROPIGS.

Role of PTEN in gastrointestinal stromal tumor progression.

Ricci R(1), Maggiano N, Castri F, Rinelli A, Murazio M, Pacelli F, Potenza AE, 
Vecchio FM, Larocca LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Universita 
Cattolica, Rome, Italy. riccardoricci@rm.unicatt.it

CONTEXT: Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are Kit/CD117-expressing 
mesenchymal neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential. The lack of a reliable 
method of prognostication hampers the selection of patients eligible for STI571 
therapy. 10q22-q23 is a region involved in chromosomal losses found in a 
fraction of malignant primary and metastatic GISTs harboring PTEN (phosphatase 
and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10), a tumor suppressor gene often 
altered in human neoplasms.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of PTEN in GISTs, an issue that to our 
knowledge has not been addressed previously.
DESIGN: PTEN status was determined in a series of 21 GISTs, with follow-up 
ranging between 6 and 198 months, using immunohistochemistry correlated with 
clinical data.
RESULTS: A greater than 25% fraction of cells with low or absent PTEN 
immunostaining was detected in 9 GISTs, including all those showing malignancy. 
By the log-rank test, a fraction of PTEN-deficient cells greater than 25% was 
associated with malignancy (P <.001). Percentage of cells underexpressing PTEN, 
size, cellularity, MIB-1 immunoreactivity, and coagulative necrosis proved to be 
associated with malignancy by Cox proportional hazards univariate analysis; low 
or absent expression of PTEN was the only factor selected by multivariate 
analysis (P =.03).
CONCLUSIONS: PTEN downregulation is implied in GIST progression. The 
immunohistochemical assessment of PTEN status appears to be a promising method 
of GIST prognostication.

DOI: 10.5858/2004-128-421-ROPIGS
PMID: 15043466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2004 Apr 16;316(4):1073-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.02.160.

Transgenic mice overexpressing cyclophilin A are resistant to cyclosporin 
A-induced nephrotoxicity via peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity.

Hong F(1), Lee J, Piao YJ, Jae YK, Kim YJ, Oh C, Seo JS, Yun YS, Yang CW, Ha J, 
Kim SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Medical Science and Engineering Research 
Center for Bioreaction to Reactive Oxygen Species, School of Medicine, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul 130-701, Republic of Korea.

Cyclosporin A (CsA) suppresses immune reaction by inhibiting calcineurin 
activity after forming complex with cyclophilins and is currently widely used as 
an immunosuppressive drug. Cyclophilin A (CypA) is the most abundantly and 
ubiquitously expressed family member of cyclophilins. We previously showed that 
CsA toxicity is mediated by ROS generation as well as by inhibition of 
peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) activity of CypA in CsA-treated 
myoblasts [FASEB J. 16 (2002) 1633]. Since CsA-induced nephrotoxicity is the 
most significant adverse effect in its clinical utilization, we here 
investigated the role of CsA inhibition of CypA PPIase activity in its 
nephrotoxicity using transgenic mouse models. Transgenic mice of either wild 
type (CypA/wt) or R55A PPIase mutant type (CypA/R55A), a dominant negative 
mutant of CypA PPIase activity, showed normal growth without any apparent 
abnormalities. However, CsA-induced nephrotoxicity was virtually suppressed in 
CypA/wt mice, but exacerbated in CypA/R55A mice, compared to that of 
littermates. Also, life expectancy was extended in CypA/wt mice and shortened in 
CypA/R55A mice during CsA administration. Besides, CsA-induced nephrotoxicity 
was inversely related to the levels of catalase expression and activity. In 
conclusion, our data provide in vivo evidence that supplement of CypA PPIase 
activity allows animal's resistance toward CsA-induced nephrotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.02.160
PMID: 15044094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. J Public Health (Oxf). 2004 Mar;26(1):61-71. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdh109.

Screening for Hepatitis C in injecting drug users: a cost utility analysis.

Stein K(1), Dalziel K, Walker A, Jenkins B, Round A, Royle P.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group, Peninsula Medical School, Universities 
of Exeter and Plymouth, Dean Clarke House, Southernhay East, Exeter EX1 1PQ. 
ken.stein@pms.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis C is a major public health problem of increasing 
importance among injecting drug users, among whom screening has been proposed. 
We therefore estimated the cost utility of screening for hepatitis C infection 
among people with a history of injecting drug use in contact with drug misuse 
services.
METHODS: A spreadsheet-based model of screening using ELISA followed by 
polymerase chain reaction tests and treatment using combination therapy with 
interferon alpha and ribavirin was developed. Parameters were informed by 
literature review, expert opinion and a survey of current screening practice in 
England. A range of one-way sensitivity analyses were carried out to explore 
