with metastatic prostate cancer. Syndecan-1 immunoreactivity was measured in 
primary prostate specimens or in samples from metastatic sites and correlated 
with patient outcome.
RESULTS: Syndecan-1 was expressed in normal basal and secretory epithelial 
cells, 26% of radical prostatectomy specimens, and 35% of metastatic disease. No 
association was found between syndecan-1 positivity and prostate-specific 
antigen recurrence in the collective cohort of Gleason sum 6 and 7 cancers. 
However, when stratified by Gleason sum, syndecan-1 immunoreactivity 
(immunoreactivity score 150 or greater) was associated with a greater recurrence 
rate in Gleason sum 7 cancers. Expression of syndecan-1 was significantly 
greater in soft tissue than in bone metastasis (P = 0.048, Fisher's exact test).
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with a possible biochemical role for syndecan-1 in 
prostate cancer progression and metastasis, syndecan-1 expression correlated 
with serologic recurrence in Gleason sum 7 prostate cancer and was highly 
expressed in soft-tissue metastases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.08.036
PMID: 14972511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. N Engl J Med. 2004 Feb 19;350(8):757-66. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa030681.

Excision margins in high-risk malignant melanoma.

Thomas JM(1), Newton-Bishop J, A'Hern R, Coombes G, Timmons M, Evans J, Cook M, 
Theaker J, Fallowfield M, O'Neill T, Ruka W, Bliss JM; United Kingdom Melanoma 
Study Group; British Association of Plastic Surgeons; Scottish Cancer Therapy 
Network.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital National Health Service Trust, London, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2004 Feb 19;350(8):823-5.
    N Engl J Med. 2004 May 27;350(22):2305-6; author reply 2305-6.
    N Engl J Med. 2004 May 27;350(22):2305-6; author reply 2305-6.

BACKGROUND: Controversy exists concerning the necessary margin of excision for 
cutaneous melanoma 2 mm or greater in thickness.
METHODS: We conducted a randomized clinical trial comparing 1-cm and 3-cm 
margins.
RESULTS: Of the 900 patients who were enrolled, 453 were randomly assigned to 
undergo surgery with a 1-cm margin of excision and 447 with a 3-cm margin of 
excision; the median follow-up was 60 months. A 1-cm margin of excision was 
associated with a significantly increased risk of locoregional recurrence. There 
were 168 locoregional recurrences (as first events) in the group with 1-cm 
margins of excision, as compared with 142 in the group with 3-cm margins (hazard 
ratio, 1.26; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.00 to 1.59; P=0.05). There were 
128 deaths attributable to melanoma in the group with 1-cm margins, as compared 
with 105 in the group with 3-cm margins (hazard ratio, 1.24; 95 percent 
confidence interval, 0.96 to 1.61; P=0.1); overall survival was similar in the 
two groups (hazard ratio for death, 1.07; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.85 
to 1.36; P=0.6).
CONCLUSIONS: A 1-cm margin of excision for melanoma with a poor prognosis (as 
defined by a tumor thickness of at least 2 mm) is associated with a 
significantly greater risk of regional recurrence than is a 3-cm margin, but 
with a similar overall survival rate.

Copyright 2004 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa030681
PMID: 14973217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2002 Oct-Dec;106(4):696-701.

[Actualities regarding the degenerative valvular heart].

[Article in Romanian]

Ionescu SD(1), Sandru V, Burdujan A.

Author information:
(1)Clinica a III-a Medicală Cardiologică Ion Enescu, Facultatea de Medicină, 
Universitatea de Medicină şi Farmacie Gr.T. Popa Iaşi.

The degenerative valvular heart disease became prioritary from the 
epidemiological point of view by contrast with the rheumatismal one, as a 
consequence of the increase of the economic standard and of average life 
expectancy. The calcific aortic stenosis is the most frequently encountered 
among the valvular heart lesions. Since the history of this disease is not well 
known, many efforts have been made in order to research all its aspects from the 
etiology to therapeutical and prophylactic methods.

PMID: 14974213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Mod Healthc. 2004 Feb 2;34(5):6-7, 16, 3.

An ounce of prevention. The AHA tries to ward off political attacks by showing 
its worth through healthcare ROI study, election cards and a new logo.

Reilly P.

Fearing political backlash, the American Hospital Association is taking the 
offensive, crafting an image that shows hospitals are providing essential 
services despite the hefty price tag. In an attempt to rebrand itself, the AHA 
is touting a study on healthcare return on investment, has created an election 
card detailing "Seven Steps to a Healthier America" and debuted a new logo.

PMID: 14974297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. MMW Fortschr Med. 2003 Dec 18;145(51-52):21-5.

[Diagnosis and therapy of aortic stenosis in older age. When does it become 
critical?].

[Article in German]

von Scheidt W(1), Sumer C.

Author information:
(1)I. Medizinische Klinik, Klinikum Augsburg, Herzzentrum Augsburg-Schwaben. 
w.scheidt.med1@klinikum-augsburg.de

Together with mitral valve insufficiency, aortic stenosis is the most common 
heart defect in adulthood. The two major forms are degenerative senile aortic 
stenosis of old age, and secondary degenerated bicuspid valve manifesting in 
middle age. A typical feature is a lengthy asymptomatic course due to 
compensating ventricular hypertrophy with a constant systolic wall tension. With 
the aid of Doppler echocardiography aortic stenosis can be accurately 
quantified. Although effective drug treatment is not available, evidence is 
mounting that statins are capable of slowing the progression of valvular 
sclerosis, presumably on the basis of pleiotropic, anti-inflammatory effects. As 
a rule, the onset of symptoms (dyspnea, angina, syncope) is an indication for 
surgery. As a result of rising life expectancy, the proportion of elderly and 
very old patients with degenerative senile aortic stenosis is increasing 
appreciably, and presents a challenge in terms of deciding appropriate 
individual therapy. Advances in valvular surgery in high old age, however, can 
offer many of these patients the option of a procedure with an acceptably low 
risk and longer-term prognostic and symptomatic benefits following successful 
surgery.

PMID: 14974323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2004 Feb;46(2):75. doi: 10.1017/s0012162204000167.

Tribulations of transition care for the developmentally disabled.

Banta JV.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162204000167
PMID: 14974630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(4):267-71. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200422040-00005.

The NICE reference case requirement: implications for drug manufacturers and 
health systems.

Langley PC.

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(4):271-3.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422040-00005
PMID: 14974876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(4):271-3. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200422040-00006.

The NICE reference case requirement: more pain for what, if any, gain?

Gafni A, Birch S.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(4):267-71.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422040-00006
PMID: 14974877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Epileptic Disord. 2003 Dec;5(4):267-73.

Hypothalamic hamartoma with refractory epilepsy: surgical procedures and results 
in 18 patients.

Fohlen M(1), Lellouch A, Delalande O.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Neurochirurgie Pédiatrique, Fondation Ophtalmologique A de 
Rothschild, Paris, France. mfohlen@fo-rothschild.fr

AIM: To study the surgical procedures and results on seizures, in 18 patients 
with refractory epilepsy due to hypothalamic hamartoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighteen patients aged from 9 months to 32 years underwent 
surgery between 1997 and 2002. The mean age at seizure onset was 15.5 months. 
Seventeen patients had gelastic seizures, 14 had partial seizures, two had 
infantile spasms, 10 had tonic or atonic seizures and three had generalized 
seizures. The mean seizure frequency was 21 per day. Four patients had 
borderline intellectual disability and the others were mentally retarded. Five 
patients had precocious puberty, one had acromegaly and four suffered from 
obesity. Brain MRI, performed at least twice in each patient showed the 
hamartoma as a stable, homogeneous interpeduncular mass implanted either on the 
mammillary tubercle or on the wall of the third ventricle, with variable 
extension to the bottom. Ictal SPECT, performed in four patients, showed 
hyperperfusion within the hamartoma in two.
SURGICAL PROCEDURE: Twenty-six operations were performed in 18 patients. The 
first patient underwent a total removal of the hamartoma, whereas the following 
patients underwent a disconnection, either through open surgery (14 patients) or 
endoscopy (10 patients).
RESULTS: Regarding the seizure outcome with a mean follow up of three years four 
months (one year to 4.5 years), nine patients are seizure-free, one patient has 
only brief gelastic seizures and eight are dramatically improved. Surgery was 
uncomplicated in all but two patients: one had transitory hemiplegia and paresis 
of the third cranial nerve, the other presented with hemiplegia due to ischemia 
of the middle cerebral artery territory. The quality of life, behavior and 
school performance were greatly improved in most of the patients.
CONCLUSION: Our series illustrates the feasibility and relative safety of 
disconnecting surgery of hypothalamic hamartomas, with seizure relief in 50% and 
a dramatic improvement in the others. Endoscopic disconnection seems to be a 
very safe way to treat the intra-ventricular part of hamartomas.

PMID: 14975796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2003 Dec;4(12):958-64.

[What is new about stroke prevention?].

[Article in Italian]

Antonicelli R(1), Germanò G.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Terapia Intensiva Cardiologica Istituto Scientifico INRCA Via della 
Montagnola, 81 60100 Ancona. r.antonicelli@inrca.it

More than 186,000 strokes occur every year in Italy, responsible for 10-12% of 
total mortality. Despite the reduction in mortality and disability, the 
incidence of stroke is persistently high and mortality within the first month is 
about 30%; furthermore, the severe residual disability is about 40% in 
survivors. Large clinical outcome trials have defined the strict correlation 
between stroke and systolic and diastolic hypertension, and several 
meta-analyses and intervention studies showed that reduction of blood pressure, 
independently of the drug used (diuretics, beta-blockers, calcium antagonists, 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors), decreases significantly (> or = 30%) 
stroke mortality and morbidity in hypertensives. Despite numerous and effective 
antihypertensive drugs, stroke mortality and morbidity in hypertensive subjects 
remain persistently higher than in normotensive ones. Two recent clinical 
studies confirmed the great efficacy of angiotensin II antagonists in reducing 
stroke relative risk in hypertensive patients at elevated cardiovascular risk. 
The LIFE study demonstrated that an active treatment is superior to another one 
in reducing the prefixed endpoint. This important result has conferred great 
expectancy on angiotensin II antagonists and on their possible "class effect". 
Considering the recent intervention trials and the correct interpretation of the 
evidence-based medicine, we should not consider all principles as belonging to 
the same category, equally effective in the prevention of cardiovascular risk. 
The concept of "class effect" has not a real scientific value and cannot replace 
the experimental results of clinical studies which represent the only bench test 
for the efficacy of a drug.

PMID: 14976861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Health Care Manag Sci. 2004 Feb;7(1):35-41. doi: 
10.1023/b:hcms.0000005396.69890.48.

The 'NICE' approach to technology assessment: an economics perspective.

Birch S(1), Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Room 3H30, 1200 Main Street West, Hamilton, Ontario, L8N 3Z5, Canada. 
birch@mcmaster.ca

The National Institute for Clinical Excellence has published guidelines for 
economic evaluations for considering whether new health care technologies 
contribute to the efficient use of National Health Service resources. The 
analytical basis of the guidelines is a comparison of the costs and consequences 
of new and existing methods for dealing with particular conditions using the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). However, this fails to provide an 
explicit and systematic basis for addressing the dual objectives of health 
maximisation and equitable availability of technologies in the context of a 
fixed NHS budget. We show that information on the costs and consequences of a 
particular technology is insufficient to address issues of efficiency of 
resource use. In addition, information is required about the total resources 
available and the alternative uses of those resources. Moreover, because these 
factors are unlikely to be identical for all settings, it is unlikely that the 
efficiency of using resources to support a new technology will be the same for 
all settings, even if the cost and consequences of the technology are the same 
across settings. Instead of improving the health outcomes from NHS resources, we 
show that using NICE guidelines to inform decisions about new technologies may 
lead to increased resources allocated to new technology, increased local 
variations in the use of new technologies and concerns about the sustainability 
and affordability of public funding for new technologies.

DOI: 10.1023/b:hcms.0000005396.69890.48
PMID: 14977092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Health Care Manag Sci. 2004 Feb;7(1):43-9. doi: 
10.1023/b:hcms.0000005397.93173.bb.

Use of quality adjusted life years and life years gained as benchmarks in 
economic evaluations: a critical appraisal.

Evans C(1), Tavakoli M, Crawford B.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, 15 Court Square, Suite 620, Boston, MA 02108, USA. 
chris.evans@mapivaluesusa.com

Researchers have grappled with various ways of placing the results of an 
economic evaluation in the appropriate context. One of the most common methods 
is to relate the results of a study to an appropriate benchmark (commonly, 
dollars 50,000 per QALY in the US or pounds sterling 30,000 per QALY in the UK). 
This paper examines the foundation for these cut-off points and critiques their 
use by researchers. Although it is difficult to establish an appropriate 
benchmark this paper notes that reference points may be too low based on 
published data. Further, the inconsistent application of benchmarks, and 
differences in the calculation of a value of a statistical life, will lead to an 
inefficient allocation of health care resources.

DOI: 10.1023/b:hcms.0000005397.93173.bb
PMID: 14977093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Drugs. 2004;64(5):499-509. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200464050-00004.

Differentiating factors between erythropoiesis-stimulating agents: a guide to 
selection for anaemia of chronic kidney disease.

Deicher R(1), Hörl WH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Dialysis, Department of Medicine III, University 
of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. robert.deicher@nephro.imed3.akh-wien.ac.at

Endogenous erythropoietin (EPO) consists of a central polypeptide core covered 
by post-translationally linked carbohydrates. Three of the four currently 
available erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESA)--epoetin-alpha, epoetin-beta 
and epoetin-omega- are composed of an identical amino acid sequence, but 
glycosylation varies as a result of type- and host cell-specific differences in 
the production process. Epoetin-alpha and epoetin-beta resemble each other with 
respect to molecular characteristics and pharmacokinetic data, although 
epoetin-beta has a higher molecular weight, a lower number of sialylated glycan 
residues and possibly slight pharmacokinetic advantages such as a longer 
terminal elimination half-life. A serious adverse effect of long-term 
administration of ESA is pure red cell aplasia. This effect has been observed 
predominantly with subcutaneous use of epoetin-alpha produced outside the US 
after albumin was removed from the formulation. In comparison with the 
intravenous route, subcutaneous administration of epoetin has been reported to 
have a dose-sparing effect in some studies. Epoetin-beta has been the subject of 
studies aimed at proving efficacy with a reduced administration frequency but 
results are not unequivocal. Epoetin-omega is produced in a different host cell 
than all other erythropoietic agents, hence glycosylation and pharmacokinetics 
are different. Small-scale clinical studies found epoetin-omega to be slightly 
more potent than epoetin-alpha. Epoetin-delta is a recently approved agent 
produced by human cells that are genetically engineered to transcribe and 
translate the EPO gene under the control of a newly introduced regulatory DNA 
sequence. However, epoetin-delta is not yet on the market and few data are 
available. The erythropoietin analogue darbepoetin-alpha carries two additional 
glycosylation sites that permit a higher degree of glycosylation. Consequently, 
in comparison with the other epoetins, darbepoetin-alpha has a longer serum 
half-life and a higher relative potency, which further increases with extension 
of the administration interval. Dosage requirements of darbepoetin-alpha do not 
appear to differ between the intravenous and subcutaneous routes of 
administration. The less frequent administration of darbepoetin-alpha in 
comparison to the other epoetins may reduce drug costs in the long term, but the 
variability in dosage or dosage frequency required within a single patient is 
high. Further studies should be aimed at defining predictors of the individual 
demand for erythropoietic agents, thereby allowing nephrologists to prescribe a 
cost-effective, individualised regimen.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200464050-00004
PMID: 14977387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2004 Feb;11(1):43-51. doi: 10.1076/opep.11.1.43.26436.

TTO utility scores measure quality of life in patients with visual morbidity due 
to diabetic retinopathy or ARMD.

Shah VA(1), Gupta SK, Shah KV, Vinjamaram S, Chalam KV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Florida/College of Medicine, 
Jacksonville, Florida 32209, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the utility scores in patients with varying degrees of 
visual morbidity due to diabetic retinopathy or ARMD.
METHODS: Patients with vision < or =20/40 in one eye due to diabetic retinopathy 
or ARMD were enrolled. Utility scores were measured by the time trade-off (TTO) 
method after stratifying the patient population with visual impairment in the 
better eye (group 1, 20/20 to 20/40; group 2, 20/50 to 20/100; group 3, 20/200 
to no light perception).
RESULTS: Sub-group analysis revealed that subjects in group 1 were willing to 
give up a median of 1 year as compared to 3 years by the subjects in group 3 for 
perfect bilateral visual acuity (P<0.05). The median utility score was 0.94 for 
group 1, 0.96 for group 2 and 0.80 for group 3. While the utility scores for 
groups 1 and 2 were comparable (P>0.05), there was a significant difference in 
the utility scores between groups 1 and 3 and between groups 2 and 3 (P<0.05). 
There was no significant effect on the utility scores of age, educational level 
or prior ocular surgery.
CONCLUSION: Substantial visual loss secondary to diabetic retinopathy or ARMD is 
associated with a significant decrease in utility scores. However, TTO scores 
were not sensitive enough to demonstrate a difference between subjects with mild 
(group 1) and moderate (group 2) visual loss in the better eye secondary to 
diabetic retinopathy or ARMD.

DOI: 10.1076/opep.11.1.43.26436
PMID: 14977496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2003;187(6):1129-45; discussion 1145-6.

[The immunohistochemical expression of CD105 is a marker for high metastatic 
risk and worse prognosis in breast cancers].

[Article in French]

Charpin-Taranger C(1), Dales JP, Garcia S, Andrac-Meyer L, Ramuz O, 
Carpentier-Meunier S, Bonnier P.

Author information:
(1)Faculté de Médecine Secteur Nord, service d'Anatomie et Cytologie 
Pathologiques, Boulevard Pierre Dramard-Marseille, France. 
colette.charpin@ap-hm.fr

The quantification of angiogenesis in human solid tumors has been shown to be an 
indicator of prognosis and tumor microvasculature is a candidate target for 
antiangiogenic therapy. CD105 (endoglin) is significantly expressed in activated 
endothelial cells in culture and in tumor microvessels. Quantification of CD105 
immunocytochemical expression that may be of significant clinical relevance, has 
not been accurately evaluated as yet. In the present report, CD105 expression on 
frozen sections was investigated using immunohistochemical assays in a series of 
929 patients and correlated with long-term (median = 11.3 years) follow-up. The 
CD105 immunostaining was observed on endothelial cells mostly in small cells. 
The number of vessels and the immunostained surface were evaluated in so called 
"hot spots" within tumor stroma. Both the number of vessels and immunostained 
surface were correlated to the patients' outcome (overall survival, disease free 
survival, metastases) in the whole group of patients and also specifically in 
node negative subgroup. Univariate (Kaplan Meier) analysis showed that the 
number of CD105 positive microvessels (cut-off n = 15) was significantly 
correlated with poor overall survival, among all patients (p = 0.001). This 
correlation was less significant in the group of node negative patients (p = 
0.035). Marked CD105 expression was also correlated with high metastasis risk 
among all patients (p = 0.006) and among node negative patients as well (p = 
0.001). In multivariate analysis (Cox model) CD105 immunodetection was 
identified as an independent prognostic indicator. Our results suggest that 
CD105 immunohistochemical expression has a practical clinical relevance for 
identifying node negative patients with poor prognosis. Moreover, the CD105 
immunodetection may also be considered as a potential tool for selecting 
patients that could benefit from specific antiangiogenic therapy, using anti 
CD105 conjugates.

PMID: 14978873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2003;187(5):985-95.

[Prostate cancer screening using prostate-specific antigen (PSA) determinations 
in plasma. National Academy of Medicine].

[Article in French]

Bourel M, Ardaillou R; Académie nationale de médecine.

Prostate cancer is the most frequent cancer in man above 50 years. There is an 
increase in its incidence due to the longer life of the population. Prostate 
cancer is a slowly progressing disease. If life expectation is smaller than 10 
years, the risk of death from another cause is greater than that from cancer 
whereas it is the opposite in younger patients. Therefore, screening of the 
disease by rectal examination and prostatic specific antigen (PSA) assay is 
necessary, confirmation being obtained by prostate biopsy. Total prostatectomy 
and radiotherapy can cure the disease or inhibit its progression. Plasma PSA is 
a general marker of prostate lesions. It is easy to measure and the cost of the 
assay is acceptable; but its specificity and its sensitivity remain too low. In 
order to improve these two parameters, it has been proposed to follow PSA 
kinetics and to measure the ratio free PSA/total PSA. Taken together, these data 
lead us to recommend, in agreement with the French Association of Urology, that 
a PSA assay be proposed and a rectal examination be performed every year by a 
general practitioner in men between 50 and 75 years and from 45 years in case of 
familial history. If an anomaly is found, the patient must take advice from an 
urologist who will decide which examinations and which treatment are to be 
proposed. Moreover, studies are necessary to compare the principal treatments in 
the long term, to precise the distribution with age of plasma PSA in the 
population and to improve the specificity and the sensitivity of the screening 
test.

PMID: 14979060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Eur Respir J. 2004 Feb;23(2):321-6. doi: 10.1183/09031936.03.00057703.

Inhaled iloprost is a potent acute pulmonary vasodilator in HIV-related severe 
pulmonary hypertension.

Ghofrani HA(1), Friese G, Discher T, Olschewski H, Schermuly RT, Weissmann N, 
Seeger W, Grimminger F, Lohmeyer J.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Justus Liebig University 
Giessen, Giessen, Germany. ardeschir.ghofrani@innere.med.uni-giessen.de

As antiretroviral therapy has improved life expectancy in human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection, the life-limiting complication of HIV-related pulmonary 
hypertension has come into focus. Inhalation of the stable prostacyclin analogue 
iloprost is an effective treatment for various forms of precapillary pulmonary 
hypertension. The main objective of the present study was to evaluate the safety 
and efficacy of inhaled iloprost in HIV-related pulmonary hypertension. In eight 
patients with severe pulmonary hypertension related to HIV infection, right 
heart and femoral artery catheterisation were performed. The acute effect of 
oxygen, inhaled nitric oxide and aerosolised iloprost was investigated. Four 
patients underwent long-term treatment with inhaled iloprost. The rank order of 
pulmonary vasodilatory potency was iloprost>NO>O2, with a maximum reduction 
(mean +/- SEM) in pulmonary vascular resistance of 30.6 +/- 3.1% (p < 0.001), 
5.9 +/- 3.9% and -0.6 +/- 3.9%, respectively. Concomitantly, inhaled iloprost 
significantly increased the cardiac index and central venous oxygen saturation. 
Chronic treatment with inhaled iloprost tended to improve the 6 min walking 
distance and decreased pulmonary vascular resistance in all patients (although 
not significantly). No serious adverse events and no major interactions with the 
ongoing antiretroviral therapy were noted. In conclusion, inhaled iloprost is a 
potent pulmonary vasodilator in human immune deficiency virus-related pulmonary 
hypertension. Future studies are warranted to confirm the encouraging long-term 
beneficial results observed in the present limited number of patients.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.03.00057703
PMID: 14979511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Dev Psychol. 2004 Mar;40(2):295-314. doi: 10.1037/0012-1649.40.2.295.

When "new" meets "old": configurations of adult attachment representations and 
their implications for marital functioning.

Treboux D(1), Crowell JA, Waters E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony 
Brook, NY, USA.

Two studies addressed the implications of concordance versus discrepancy of 
attachment representations in individuals at 2 stages in their marital 
relationships. Engaged (n = 157) and dating (n = 101) couples participated in a 
multimethod 6-year longitudinal study of adult attachment. Individuals completed 
the Adult Attachment Interview (AAI), the Current Relationship Interview (CRI), 
and various questionnaires and were observed in interactions with partners. On 
the basis of AAI and CRI classifications, participants were placed in one of 
four groups: Secure-sub(AAI)/Secure-sub(CRI), Secure-sub(AAI)/Insecure-sub(CRI), 
Insecure-sub(AAI)/Secure-sub(CRI), or Insecure-sub(AAI)/Insecure-sub(CRI). Each 
of the configurations showed a particular pattern of behavior, feelings about 
relationships and the self, and likelihood of relationship breakup. The findings 
of the studies address important points about the protective effects of 
attachment security and have interesting implications for the extension of 
attachment theory into adulthood.

((c) 2004 APA, all rights reserved)

DOI: 10.1037/0012-1649.40.2.295
PMID: 14979768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Inform Prim Care. 2003;11(4):195-202. doi: 10.14236/jhi.v11i4.567.

The development and evaluation of a computerised decision support system for 
primary care based upon 'patient profile decision analysis'.

Short D(1), Frischer M, Bashford J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicines Management, University of Keele, Staffordshire, UK. 
d.short@mema.keele.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To develop and evaluate in primary care a computerised decision 
support system for the management of stroke patients based upon 'patient profile 
decision analysis'.
DESIGN: The decision support system incorporated the findings of 960 Markov 
models examining the decision to prescribe aspirin in the secondary prevention 
of stroke. The models reflected each combination of nine risk factors that 
determined a patient's profile. The evaluation comprised a qualitative interview 
and a questionnaire administered before and after the general practitioners 
(GPs) were given access to the support system.
SETTING: Primary care.
PARTICIPANTS: 15 GPs from the West Midlands.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Decision certainty scoring of hypothetical patient 
vignettes. Qualitative perceptions of the applicability and acceptability of the 
system for primary care.
RESULTS: After using the system, GPs were more certain of their decision making 
and made decisions more in line with national guidelines. Quantitative results 
further suggested that the system made decision making easier, improved feelings 
of being supported, improved the quality of decision making and increased 
satisfaction. Qualitative themes included that GPs thought the system could 
clarify their own decision making and improve GP-patient dialogue.
CONCLUSIONS: The feasibility of individualised decision analysis for general 
practice has been questioned. Patient profile decision analysis, however, may be 
a valuable means of harnessing some of the advantages of the methodology to 
produce more patient-specific guidelines for primary care.

DOI: 10.14236/jhi.v11i4.567
PMID: 14980058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Gac Sanit. 2004 Jan-Feb;18(1):7-15. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(04)71993-7.

[Mortality surveillance in cities: results in Valencia and Alicante, [Spain]].

[Article in Spanish]

Nolasco A(1), Melchor I, Moncho J, García C, Verdú J, Caballero P, Valero S, 
Martínez P, Pérez MJ.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Salud Pública, Universidad de Alicante, Spain. nolasco@ua.es

Comment in
    Gac Sanit. 2004 Jan-Feb;18(1):1-4.

OBJECTIVES: To describe mortality patterns, in general and by selected specific 
causes in Valencia and Alicante, to establish internal inequalities by 
districts, and to evaluate changes in the magnitude of these inequalities over 
time.
METHODS: Deaths among residents of Valencia and Alicante in the periods 
1990-1992 and 1996-1998 were assigned to residential municipal districts. 
Comparisons between the periods studied and between cities were carried out 
using the relative risk derived from a Poisson regression model. A comparative 
mortality figure was calculated using the 17 largest groups of the 9th 
International Classification of Diseases. Rates adjusted by the direct method, 
standardized mortality ratio, potential years of life lost (PYLL) ratio and life 
expectancy at birth were calculated by districts in each study period.
RESULTS: The risks of death from all causes decreased between the first and 
second periods in both men and women in both cities. Life expectancy 
significantly increased in both cities for men and in Valencia for women. The 
city of Valencia had the greatest risk of death in both periods. Some causes of 
death increased (groups 5 and 6, mental and nervous system disorders and sensory 
organ diseases). By districts, there was greater variability in Valencia than in 
Alicante, especially in districts 1 and 11 in Valencia, which showed a high risk 
of death.
CONCLUSIONS: The process of internal mortality surveillance by districts is 
reproducible. In the city of Valencia there were inequalities in mortality that 
were maintained over time. The city of Alicante showed less internal variability 
in its mortality indicators.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(04)71993-7
PMID: 14980167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Gac Sanit. 2004 Jan-Feb;18(1):16-23. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(04)71994-9.

[Inequalities in mortality in Seville [Spain]].

[Article in Spanish]

Ruiz-Ramos M(1), Sánchez J, Garrucho G, Viciana F.

Author information:
(1)Consejería de Salud de la Junta de Andalucía, Seville, Spain. 
miguel.ruiz.ext@juntadeanadlucia.es

Erratum in
    Gac Sanit. 2004 Mar-Apr;18(2):162.

Comment in
    Gac Sanit. 2004 Jan-Feb;18(1):1-4.

OBJECTIVES: To describe social inequalities in mortality in Seville from 1994 to 
1998 according to socioeconomic status.
METHODS: Life expectancy, crude and age-adjusted rates of total mortality as 
well as mortality by causes and potential years of life lost were estimated 
using the number of deaths and the population of Seville, aggregated by Basic 
Health Areas (BHA). BHA were divided in three levels according to the 
unemployment rate among men. The relative risks of total mortality and mortality 
by causes were estimated for men and women in each of these levels, using 
Poisson regression. The unemployment rate of each of the BHA was related to 
total mortality and to some of its causes.
RESULTS: Differences in life expectancy of up to 7.9 years for men and 4.6 years 
for women were found among BHA. Concerning potential years of life lost, the 
areas with the highest mortality showed 4.1 times greater mortality in men and 
2.6 times greater mortality in women than those with the lowest mortality. Total 
mortality increased with unemployment rate: the BHA with the highest 
unemployment rate showed a 15% increase in mortality in men and a 6% increase in 
that in women than those with the lowest unemployment rate. Among causes of 
mortality, AIDS showed the greatest inequalities in both men and women.
CONCLUSIONS: From 1994 to 1998, Seville presented inequalities in total 
mortality and premature mortality, as well as in mortality by causes per BHA. 
Inequalities were present in men and women, although they were greater in men. 
There was a clear association between socioeconomic variables and mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(04)71994-9
PMID: 14980168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Gac Sanit. 2004 Jan-Feb;18(1):50-7. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(04)71999-8.

[Cost-effectiveness of drotrecogin alpha [activated] in the treatment of severe 
sepsis in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Sacristán JA(1), Prieto L, Huete T, Artigas A, Badia X, Chinn C, Hudson P.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Investigación Clínica, Lilly España.

Comment in
    Gac Sanit. 2004 Nov-Dec;18(6):486; author reply 487-8.

INTRODUCTION: The PROWESS clinical trial has shown that treatment with 
drotrecogin alpha (activated) in patients with severe sepsis is associated with 
a reduction in the absolute risk of death compared with standard treatment. The 
aim of the present study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of drotrecogin 
alpha (activated) versus that of standard care in the treatment of severe sepsis 
in Spain.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A decision analysis model was drawn up to compare costs to 
hospital discharge and the long-term efficacy of drotrecogin alpha (activated) 
versus those of standard care in the treatment of severe sepsis in Spain from 
the perspective of the health care payer. Most of the information for creating 
the model was obtained from the PROWESS clinical trial. A two-fold baseline 
analysis was performed: a) for all patients included in the PROWESS clinical 
trial and b) for the patients with two or more organ failures. The major 
variables for clinical assessment were the reduction in mortality and years of 
life gained (YLG). Cost-effectiveness was expressed as cost per YLG. A 
sensitivity analysis was applied using 3% and 5% discount rates for YLG and by 
modifying the patterns of health care, intensive care unit costs, and life 
expectancy by initial co-morbidity and therapeutic efficacy of drotrecogin alpha 
(activated).
RESULTS: Treatment with drotrecogin alfa (activated) was associated with a 6.0% 
drop in the absolute risk of death (p = 0.005) when all of the patients from the 
PROWESS trial were included and with a 7.3% reduction (p = 0.005) when the 
analysis was restricted to patients with two or more organ failures. The 
cost-effectiveness of drotrecogin alfa (activated) was 13,550 euros per YLG with 
respect to standard care after analysing all of the patients and 9,800 euros per 
YLG in the group of patients with two or more organ failures. In the sensitivity 
analysis, the results ranged from 7,322 to 16,493 euros per YLG. The factors 
with the greatest impact on the results were the change in the efficacy of 
drotrecogin alfa (activated), adjustment of survival by initial co-morbidity and 
the application of discount rates to YLG.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with drotrecogin alfa (activated) presents a favorable 
cost-effectiveness ratio compared with other health care interventions commonly 
used in Spain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(04)71999-8
PMID: 14980173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Harv Health Lett. 2004 Feb;29(4):6.

Vegetarianism: addition by subtraction. An increasing number of studies are 
finding health benefits from a low- or no-meat diet.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 14980877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Anesth Analg. 2004 Mar;98(3):750-7, table of contents. doi: 
10.1213/01.ane.0000100945.56081.ac.

Is physician anesthesia cost-effective?

Abenstein JP(1), Long KH, McGlinch BP, Dietz NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. 
abenstein.john@mayo.edu

Comment in
    Anesth Analg. 2004 Nov;99(5):1578; author reply 1578-9.

One of the most controversial issues in anesthesia is whether nonmedically 
directed nurse anesthetists are relatively more cost-effective than 
anesthesiologists in the provision of anesthesia care. We electronically 
surveyed anesthesia practices throughout the United States to estimate the range 
in anesthesia professional costs from the payer perspective. Using this survey 
data on anesthesia reimbursement and published outcomes studies, we developed an 
ad hoc model to estimate the cost-effectiveness of physician-directed anesthesia 
relative to a nonmedically directed nurse anesthetist model of care from the 
payer perspective. Cost-effectiveness ratios were defined as the ratio of 
incremental costs associated with physician anesthesia relative to the estimated 
incremental life expectancy gains with this model of care (i.e., dollars per 
year of life saved [US dollars /YLS]). Reference case results suggest that 
physician anesthesia is cost saving with an estimated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of -US dollars 2601/YLS for a younger privately insured 
patient and an estimated cost-effectiveness ratio of -US dollars 4410/YLS for an 
elderly Medicare insured patient. Cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from -US 
dollars 4410 to US dollars 38778/YLS in univariate and multivariate sensitivity 
analyses across payer types. Results were most sensitive to assumed differences 
in reimbursement (commercial conversion factors) and to mortality rate 
assumptions by provider type. This analysis offers economic evidence in support 
of the physician anesthesia model of care.
IMPLICATIONS: Recent outcome studies suggest improved patient outcomes when 
physicians medically direct nurse anesthetists versus anesthesia care delivered 
with nonmedically directed nurses. The relative cost-effectiveness of this 
practice model is, however, unknown. This economic analysis suggests that 
outcome gains with physician anesthesia may be obtained at cost savings or, 
under conservative assumptions, at a cost deemed reasonable by society.

DOI: 10.1213/01.ane.0000100945.56081.ac
PMID: 14980932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Circulation. 2004 Mar 16;109(10):1244-9. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000118474.71662.E3. Epub 2004 Feb 23.

Randomized study to evaluate sirolimus-eluting stents implanted at coronary 
bifurcation lesions.

Colombo A(1), Moses JW, Morice MC, Ludwig J, Holmes DR Jr, Spanos V, Louvard Y, 
Desmedt B, Di Mario C, Leon MB.

Author information:
(1)EMO Centro Cuore Columbus, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: A sirolimus-eluting stent (Cypher, Cordis Corp) has been reported to 
markedly decrease restenosis in selected lesions; higher-risk lesions, including 
coronary bifurcations, have not been studied.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This prospective study evaluated the safety and efficacy of 
sirolimus-eluting stents for treatment of coronary bifurcation lesions. Patients 
were randomly assigned to either stenting of both branches (group A) or stenting 
of the main branch with provisional stenting of the side branch (SB) (group B). 
Eighty-five patients (86 lesions) were enrolled. There was 1 case of 
unsuccessful delivery of any device at the bifurcation site. Given the high 
crossover, more lesions were treated with 2 stents (n=63) than with 
stent/balloon (n=22). Clinical follow-up at 6 months was completed in all 
patients and angiographic follow-up in 53 patients in group A (85.5%) and 21 in 
group B (95.4%). One patient died suddenly 4.5 months after the procedure. There 
were 3 cases of stent thrombosis (3.5%). The total restenosis rate at 6 months 
was 25.7%, and it was not significantly different between the double-stenting 
(28.0%) and the provisional SB-stenting (18.7%) groups. Fourteen of the 
restenosis cases occurred at the ostium of the SB and were focal. Target lesion 
revascularization was performed in 7 cases; target vessel failure occurred in 15 
cases (17.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: These results are an improvement compared with historical controls 
using bare metal stents. Restenosis at the SB remains a problem. At this time, 
no statement can be made regarding the most appropriate technique to use when 
treating bifurcations with the Cypher stent.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000118474.71662.E3
PMID: 14981005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. J Clin Oncol. 2004 Mar 15;22(6):1045-54. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.06.090. Epub
2004  Feb 23.

Hormone replacement therapy and life expectancy after prophylactic oophorectomy 
in women with BRCA1/2 mutations: a decision analysis.

Armstrong K(1), Schwartz JS, Randall T, Rubin SC, Weber B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104-6021, USA. karmstro@mail.med.upenn.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2004 Mar 15;22(6):978-80.

PURPOSE: The decision about prophylactic oophorectomy is difficult for many 
premenopausal women with BRCA1/2 mutations because of concerns and controversy 
about the use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) after oophorectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A Markov decision analytic model used the most current 
epidemiologic data to assess the expected outcomes of prophylactic oophorectomy 
with or without HRT (to age 50 years or for life) in cohorts of women with 
BRCA1/2 mutations. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the impact of 
alternative assumptions about effects of HRT, effects of prophylactic 
oophorectomy, and risks of cancer associated with BRCA1/2 mutations.
RESULTS: In our model, prophylactic oophorectomy lengthened life expectancy in 
women with BRCA1/2 mutations, irrespective of whether HRT was used after 
oophorectomy. This gain ranged from 3.34 to 4.65 years, depending on age at 
oophorectomy. Use of HRT after oophorectomy was associated with relatively small 
changes in life expectancy (+0.17 to -0.34 years) when HRT was stopped at age 
50, but larger decrements in life expectancy if HRT was continued for life 
(-0.79 to -1.09 years). HRT was associated with a gain in life expectancy of 
between 0.39 and 0.79 years for mutation carriers undergoing both prophylactic 
mastectomy and oophorectomy.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of the results of this decision analysis, we recommend 
that women with BRCA1/2 mutations undergo prophylactic oophorectomy after 
completion of childbearing, decide about short-term HRT after oophorectomy based 
largely on quality-of-life issues rather than life expectancy, and, if using 
HRT, consider discontinuing treatment at the time of expected natural menopause, 
approximately age 50 years.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.06.090
PMID: 14981106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Neurology. 2004 Feb 24;62(4):601-6. doi: 10.1212/wnl.62.4.601.

Disability profile of MS did not change over 10 years in a population-based 
prevalence cohort.

Pittock SJ(1), Mayr WT, McClelland RL, Jorgensen NW, Weigand SD, Noseworthy JH, 
Rodriguez M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
rodriguez.moses@mayo.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether the level of multiple sclerosis (MS) -related 
disability in the Olmsted County population has changed over a decade, and to 
evaluate how the rate of initial progression to moderate disability impacts 
further disability.
METHODS: The Minimal Record of Disability (MRD) measured impairment, disability, 
and handicap for the 2000 (n = 201) prevalence cohort. The authors compared 
these results with the 1991 (n = 162) cohort; 115 patients were in both cohorts. 
The authors assessed retrospectively intervals at which Expanded Disability 
Status Scale (EDSS) scores of 3 (moderate disability), 6 (cane), and 8 
(wheelchair) were reached.
RESULTS: The distribution of the 2000 EDSS and MRD scores were not significantly 
different from the 1991 distribution. The median time from MS diagnosis, for the 
entire cohort, to EDSS scores of 3 and 6 was 17 and 24 years, respectively. At 
20 years after onset, only 25% of those with relapsing-remitting MS had EDSS 
scores > or =3. The median time from diagnosis to EDSS score of 6 for the 
secondary and primary progressive groups was 10 and 3 years, respectively. Rate 
of progression from onset or diagnosis to EDSS score of 3 did not affect the 
rate of further disease progression. However, once an EDSS score of 3 was 
reached, progression of disability was more likely, and rate of progression 
increased.
CONCLUSIONS: The distribution of multiple sclerosis disability in the Olmsted 
community has remained stable for 10 years. Progression of disability for 
patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis or secondary progressive 
multiple sclerosis may be more favorable than reported previously. Once a 
clinical threshold of disability is reached, rate of progression increased.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.62.4.601
PMID: 14981177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2004 Feb;68(2):341-51. doi: 10.1271/bbb.68.341.

Molecular cloning and expression of the gene encoding family 19 chitinase from 
Streptomyces sp. J-13-3.

Okazaki K(1), Yamashita Y, Noda M, Sueyoshi N, Kameshita I, Hayakawa S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, Kagawa University, 
Japan. okazaki@ag.kagawa-u.ac.jp

The gene encoding chitinase from Streptomyces sp. (strain J-13-3) was cloned and 
its nucleotide structure was analyzed. The chitinase consisted of 298 amino 
acids containing a signal peptides (29 amino acids) and a mature protein (269 
amino acids), and had calculated molecular mass of 31,081 Da. The calculated 
molecular mass (28,229 Da) of the mature protein was almost same as that of the 
native chitinase determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization 
time-of-flight mass spectrometer. Comparison of the encoded amino acid sequences 
with those of other chitinases showed that J-13-3 chitinase was a member of the 
glycosyl-hydrolase family 19 chitinases and the mature protein had a chitin 
binding domain (65 amino acids) containing AKWWTQ motif and a catalytic domain 
(204 amino acids). The J-13-3 strain had a single chitinase gene. The chitinase 
(298 amino acids) with C-terminal His tag was overexpressed in Escherichia coli 
BL21(DE3) cells. The recombinant chitinase purified from the cell extract had 
identical N-terminal amino acid sequence of the mature protein in spite of 
confirmation of the nucleotide sequence, suggesting that the signal peptide 
sequence is successfully cut off at the predicted site by signal peptidase from 
E. coli and will be a useful genetic tool in protein engineering for production 
of soluble recombinant protein. The optimum temperature and pH ranges of the 
purified chitinase were at 35-40 degrees C and 5.5-6.0, respectively. The 
purified chitinase hydrolyzed colloidal chitin and trimer to hexamer of 
N-acetylglucosamine and also inhibited the hyphal extension of Tricoderma 
reesei.

DOI: 10.1271/bbb.68.341
PMID: 14981297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Health Econ. 2004 Mar;13(3):227-38. doi: 10.1002/hec.819.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of two strategies for mass screening for colorectal 
cancer in France.

Berchi C(1), Bouvier V, Réaud JM, Launoy G.

Author information:
(1)Registre des Tumeurs Digestives du Calvados (Equipe associée INSERM/InVS), 
Caen, France. berchi@medecine.unicaen.fr

The implementation of colorectal cancer mass screening is a high public health 
priority in France, as in most other industrialised countries. Despite evidences 
that screening using guaiac fecal occult blood test may reduce colorectal cancer 
mortality, no European country has organised widespread mass screening with this 
test. The low sensitivity of this test constitutes its main limitation. 
Immunological tests, which provide higher sensitivity than the guaiac test, may 
constitute a satisfactory alternative. This study was carried out to compare the 
costs and the effectiveness of 20 years of biennial colorectal cancer (CRC) 
screening with an automated reading immunological test (Magstream) with those 
obtained with a guaiac stool test (Haemoccult). The model used to estimate the 
costs and effectiveness of successive biennial CRC screening campaigns was a 
transitional probabilistic model. The parameters used in this model concerning 
costs and CRC epidemiological data were calculated from results obtained in the 
screening program run in Calvados or from published results of foreign studies 
because of the lack of French studies. The use of Magstream for 20 years of 
biennial screening costs 59 euros more than Haemoccult per target individual, 
and should lead to a mean increase in individual life expectancy of 0.0198 years 
(i.e. about one week), which corresponds to an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of 2980 euros per years of life saved. Our results suggest that using an 
immunological test could increase the effectiveness of CRC screening at a 
reasonable cost for society.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.819
PMID: 14981648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Water Sci Technol. 2004;49(2):33-9.

Tools to monitor corrosion of cement-containing water mains.

Slaats PG(1), Mesman GA, Rosenthal LP, Brink H.
