543. Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc. 2004 Feb;79(1):207-33. doi:
10.1017/s1464793103006195.

Metabolic rate depression in animals: transcriptional and translational 
controls.

Storey KB(1), Storey JM.

Author information:
(1)College of Natural Sciences, Institute of Biochemistry, Carleton University, 
1125 Colonel By Drive, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1S 5B6. 
kenneth_storey@carleton.ca

Metabolic rate depression is an important survival strategy for many animal 
species and a common element of hibernation, torpor, aestivation, anaerobiosis, 
diapause, and anhydrobiosis. Studies of the biochemical mechanisms that regulate 
reversible transitions to and from hypometabolic states are identifying 
principles of regulatory control that are conserved across phylogenetic lines 
and that are broadly applied to the control of multiple cell functions. One such 
mechanism is reversible protein phosphorylation which is now known to contribute 
to the regulation of fuel metabolism, to ion channel arrest, and to the 
suppression of protein synthesis during hypometabolism. The present review 
focuses on two new areas of research in hypometabolism: (1) the role of 
differential gene expression in supplying protein products that adjust 
metabolism or protect cell functions for long-term survival, and (2) the 
mechanisms of protein life extension in hypometabolism involving inhibitory 
controls of transcription, translation and protein degradation. Control of 
translation examines reversible phosphorylation regulation of ribosomal 
initiation and elongation factors, the dissociation of polysomes and storage of 
mRNA transcripts during hypometabolism, and control over the translation of 
different mRNA types by differential sequestering of mRNA into polysome versus 
monosome fractions. The analysis draws primarily from current research on two 
animal models, hibernating mammals and anoxia-tolerant molluscs, with selected 
examples from multiple other sources.

DOI: 10.1017/s1464793103006195
PMID: 15005178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Rev Sci Tech. 2003 Dec;22(3):915-30. doi: 10.20506/rst.22.3.1453.

Disaster management in India: the case of livestock and poultry.

Sen A(1), Chander M(2).

Author information:
(1)Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad-380015, Gujurat, India.
(2)Senior Scientist, Division of Extension Education, Indian Veterinary Research 
Institute, Izatnagar – 243 122, Uttar Pradesh, India

Developing countries are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of 
disaster management systems, and increasing efforts are being made to streamline 
preparedness, response and recovery mechanisms at all levels. It is well known 
that many developing countries, including India, are not always well-prepared to 
deal with disasters. A lack of well-developed disaster management plans results 
in a severe loss of human life, animal life and property, which could be saved 
if the necessary mechanisms were in place. A lot needs to be done to improve the 
situation, particularly in regard to livestock. This paper describes in detail, 
with particular reference to India, what can be done to care for animals when 
natural disasters occur. The authors review various types of natural disasters 
and their impact on livestock, and outline different preparedness, response, 
recovery, and mitigation strategies. The roles of different agencies, including 
veterinarians, are also considered.

© OIE, 2003

DOI: 10.20506/rst.22.3.1453
PMID: 15005550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Med Decis Making. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):9-19. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03261565.

Cost-effectiveness of sibutramine in the treatment of obesity.

Warren E(1), Brennan A, Akehurst R.

Author information:
(1)Operational Research, ScHARR, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK.

BACKGROUND: This study reports incremental cost-utility of sibutramine compared 
to diet and lifestyle advice for the treatment of obesity.
METHOD: The model estimates the costs and quality of life benefits associated 
with weight loss itself and the reduced incidence of coronary heart disease 
(CHD) and diabetes in the "healthy obese." The key source of effectiveness data 
is 2 randomized controlled trials over 12 months. Utility gain per kilogram lost 
is analyzed using Short Form-36 data from sibutramine trials. The impact on CHD 
is estimated using the Framingham risk equation, which relates age/sex/body mass 
index to risk of heart disease. The reduced incidence of diabetes due to weight 
loss is estimated from published literature. A life tables approach was used to 
calculate the cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of 1 year's treatment 
with sibutramine compared to diet and lifestyle advice.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per QALY of sibutramine is 4,780 UK pounds. 
Sensitivity analyses show that this result is sensitive to utility associated 
with weight loss and the frequency of monitoring.
CONCLUSIONS: Sibutramine is a cost-effective treatment for obesity when combined 
with diet and lifestyle advice.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03261565
PMID: 15005950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Med Decis Making. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):30-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03261570.

Cost-effectiveness of interventions to reduce vertical HIV transmission from 
pregnant women who have not received prenatal care.

Mrus JM(1), Tsevat J.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of Cincinnati Medical 
Center, 231 Albert Sabin Way, P.O. Box 670535, Cincinnati, OH 45267-0535, USA. 
joseph.mrus@uc.edu.

To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of rapid HIV testing followed by treatment 
with zidovudine, nevirapine, or combination therapy for women presenting in the 
United States in active labor without prenatal care, the authors developed a 
decision analytic model from a societal perspective comparing 2 basic 
strategies: 1) not testing for HIV and 2) offering rapid HIV testing and 
treatment to women testing positive. HIV transmission rates, test 
characteristics, and costs were derived from the literature and local sources. 
Outcomes included number of infected infants, costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness in dollars per quality-adjusted life year saved. The authors 
found that offering rapid HIV testing and administering zidovudine treatment to 
women testing positive would prevent 27 cases of HIV each year and save 
$3,000,000/year compared with no intervention. If more expensive treatments were 
used (e.g., zidovudine rather than nevirapine, or combination therapy rather 
than monotherapy), the relative risk reduction in HIV transmission for the more 
expensive strategies would need to be only slightly better to make the more 
expensive strategies relatively cost effective in comparison with the less 
expensive strategies. In an analysis including empiric nevirapine prophylaxis, 
the authors found that empiric therapy would prevent 32 HIV cases and save $2.1 
million per year compared with no intervention. In conclusion, rapid HIV testing 
and treatment for women presenting in labor without prior prenatal care would 
prevent HIV infections and save costs. At sites where rapid HIV testing is not 
possible, empiric treatment would also prevent HIV infection and saves costs and 
is thus preferred to a strategy of neither testing nor treating. Effectiveness 
in reducing transmission drives the cost-effectiveness ratio much more so than 
drug cost and should be the basis on which a particular prophylactic regimen is 
selected.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03261570
PMID: 15005952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Med Decis Making. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):80-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03261564.

The GAME estimate of reduced life expectancy.

van den Hout WB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, PO 
Box 9600, 2300 RC Leiden, the Netherlands. hout@lumc.nl.

The Declining Exponential Approximation of Life Expectancy (DEALE) is a simple 
method of estimating the impact of excess mortality on life expectancy, but it 
can lead to considerable bias due to the implicit constant baseline and excess 
mortality rates. This article presents a new method that does not use constant 
mortality rates. The variability of the baseline mortality is modeled using 
gamma (GA) distributions. Excess mortality rates are modeled using 
mixed-exponential (ME) distributions, which is appropriate if the excess 
mortality rate is nonincreasing, convex, and smooth. The new gamma 
mixed-exponential (GAME) estimate is convenient enough to replace the DEALE in 
formal decision analyses. The error from assuming gamma distributions for the 
Dutch baseline mortality was shown to be less than 2 months and typically about 
1 month. Therefore, the GAME estimate is accurate enough to replace more 
elaborate methods, provided the mixed-exponential model is an appropriate model 
for the excess mortality.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03261564
PMID: 15005957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Med Decis Making. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):89-100. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03261561.

Gaussian process modeling in conjunction with individual patient simulation 
modeling: a case study describing the calculation of cost-effectiveness ratios 
for the treatment of established osteoporosis.

Stevenson MD(1), Oakley J, Chilcott JB.

Author information:
(1)Operational Research, School of Health and Related Research, University of 
Sheffield, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, England, UK.

Individual patient-level models can simulate more complex disease processes than 
cohort-based approaches. However, large numbers of patients need to be simulated 
to reduce 1st-order uncertainty, increasing the computational time required and 
often resulting in the inability to perform extensive sensitivity analyses. A 
solution, employing Gaussian process techniques, is presented using a case 
study, evaluating the cost-effectiveness of a sample of treatments for 
established osteoporosis. The Gaussian process model accurately formulated a 
statistical relationship between the inputs to the individual patient model and 
its outputs. This model reduced the time required for future runs from 150 min 
to virtually-instantaneous, allowing probabilistic sensitivity analyses-to be 
undertaken. This reduction in computational time was achieved with minimal loss 
in accuracy. The authors believe that this case study demonstrates the value of 
this technique in handling 1st- and 2nd-order uncertainty in the context of 
health economic modeling, particularly when more widely used techniques are 
computationally expensive or are unable to accurately model patient histories.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03261561
PMID: 15005958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Med Screen. 2004;11(1):11-5. doi: 10.1177/096914130301100104.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for colorectal cancer: evidence from the 
Nottingham faecal occult blood trial.

Whynes DK(1); Nottingham FOB Screening Trial.

Author information:
(1)Nottingham FOB Screening Trial, School of Economics, University of 
Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. david.whynes@nottingham.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of faecal occult blood (FOB) 
screening for colorectal cancer within the Nottingham trial.
SETTING: A randomised controlled trial (1981-present) of 153,000 subjects, of 
whom approximately half were offered biennial FOB testing over up to five 
screening rounds.
METHODS: The additional costs of participation in screening relative to 
symptomatic presentation were calculated by combining the results of (i) a 
comprehensive audit of resource use on the part of subjects within the trial, 
(ii) previously-established unit costs for each of the procedures involved. Life 
expectancy gains were estimated from a survival analysis of those trial subjects 
who had been diagnosed with cancer (screening participants vs controls).
RESULTS: The cost of screening under the Nottingham trial protocol was pound 
5290 per cancer detected (at 2002 prices). Under conservative assumptions, the 
incremental cost per life year gained as a result of screening was pound 1584 
(Confidence Interval [CI]:717 to 8612).

DOI: 10.1177/096914130301100104
PMID: 15006108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2004 Jan;9(1):43-50. doi:
10.1258/135581904322716111.

Roughly right or precisely wrong? Systematic review of quality-of-life weights 
elicited with the time trade-off method.

Arnesen T(1), Trommald M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Applied International Studies, Borggt. 2B, Pb. 2947 Toyen, 
N-0608 Oslo, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: Cost-utility analysis is gaining importance as a tool for setting 
priorities in health care. The approach requires quality-of-life weights on a 
scale from 0.00 (corresponding to death) to 1.00 (corresponding to perfect 
health). Different methods and perspectives of the evaluators tend to give 
different results. Time trade-off (TTO) is the most commonly used method to 
elicit quality-of-life weights for quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). How 
reliable are the results of this method, when limited to one specific 
perspective, as input for cost-utility analysis?
METHOD: Systematic literature review of empirical studies in which the TTO is 
elicited by the respondent on their own behalf.
RESULTS: In 56 papers, quality-of-life weights for 102 diagnostic groups were 
given. Ranking of the diagnostic groups according to their quality-of-life 
weights had no apparent relation to severity. One specific diagnostic group was 
assigned quality-of-life weights ranging from 0.39 to 0.84. Altogether, 57% of 
respondents did not trade any life-time at all in exchange for health 
improvements. The distributions studied were skewed towards 1.00 and were 
bimodal without a central tendency. The correlation between the TTO and related 
methods was generally weak. Possible explanations for the poor empirical 
properties of the TTO are inappropriate use of the method, lack of 
representative samples, or that the TTO does not measure what it claims to 
measure.
CONCLUSION: In the light of these findings, the TTO elicited from the patient 
perspective, as currently practised, should not be used as an input for QALYs or 
for comparisons of diagnostic groups.

DOI: 10.1258/135581904322716111
PMID: 15006240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2004 Mar 22;14(6):1487-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.bmcl.2004.01.013.

New PDMP analogues inhibit process outgrowth in an insect cell line.

Slavish JP(1), Friel DK, Oland LA, Polt R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA.

d-threo-1-Phenyl-2-aminodecanoyl-3-morpholinopropanol (d-threo-PDMP) has 
previously been shown to inhibit the biosynthesis of glycosphingolipids (GSLs) 
in mammals and mammalian cell lines by the inhibition of glucosylceramide 
synthase. New d-threo-PDMP analogues were synthesized from d-serine, and found 
to suppress neurite extension in an embryonic insect cell line from the moth 
Manduca sexta, and in explanted neural tissue from insect pupae. Inhibition 
occurred at lower concentrations than d-threo-PDMP. The observed suppression of 
neurite formation was found to be reversible after the removal of the compounds. 
Due to their small size and short life cycle, M. sexta is shown to be an ideal 
model organism for studies of GSL effects in cellular development, and for drug 
development studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2004.01.013
PMID: 15006387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Hypertension. 2004 Apr;43(4):731-8. doi: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000121223.44837.de.
 Epub 2004 Mar 8.

Left ventricular concentric geometry during treatment adversely affects 
cardiovascular prognosis in hypertensive patients.

Muiesan ML(1), Salvetti M, Monteduro C, Bonzi B, Paini A, Viola S, Poisa P, 
Rizzoni D, Castellano M, Agabiti-Rosei E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Brescia, Brescia, 
Italy.

Comment in
    Hypertension. 2004 Apr;43(4):714-5.

Left ventricular (LV) mass and geometry predict risk for cardiovascular events 
in hypertension. Regression of LV hypertrophy (LVH) may imply an important 
prognostic significance. The relation between changes in LV geometry during 
antihypertensive treatment and subsequent prognosis has not yet been determined. 
A total of 436 prospectively identified uncomplicated hypertensive subjects with 
a baseline and follow-up echocardiogram (last examination 72+/-38 months apart) 
were followed for an additional 42+/-16 months. Their family doctor gave 
antihypertensive treatment. After the last follow-up echocardiogram, a first 
cardiovascular event occurred in 71 patients. Persistence of LVH from baseline 
to follow-up was confirmed as an independent predictor of cardiovascular events. 
Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality were significantly greater in patients 
with concentric (relative wall thickness > or =0.44) than in those with 
eccentric geometry (relative wall thickness <0.44) in patients presenting with 
LVH (P=0.002) and in those without LVH (P=0.002) at the follow-up 
echocardiogram. The incidence of cardiovascular events progressively increased 
from the first to the third tertile of LV mass index at follow-up (partition 
values 91 and 117 g/m2), but for a similar value of LV mass index it was 
significantly greater in those with concentric geometry (OR: 4.07; 95% CI: 1.49 
to 11.14; P=0.004 in the second tertile; OR: 3.45; 95% CI: 1.62 to 7.32; P=0.001 
in the third tertile; P<0.0001 in concentric versus eccentric geometry). 
Persistence or development of concentric geometry during follow-up may have 
additional prognostic significance in hypertensive patients with and without 
LVH.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000121223.44837.de
PMID: 15007041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Arthroscopy. 2004 Mar;20(3):225-30. doi: 10.1016/j.arthro.2004.01.010.

Arthroscopic reduction versus fluoroscopic reduction in the management of 
intra-articular distal radius fractures.

Ruch DS(1), Vallee J, Poehling GG, Smith BP, Kuzma GR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27157-1070, USA. druch@wfubmc.edu

PURPOSE: Although arthroscopy offers an unparalleled view of intra-articular 
pathology, its use in the treatment of intra-articular distal radius fractures 
remains controversial. This study was designed to compare functional and 
radiologic outcomes of arthroscopically assisted (AA) versus fluoroscopically 
assisted (FA) reduction and external fixation of distal radius fractures.
TYPE OF STUDY: Retrospective, case-matched comparison of 2 different procedures.
METHODS: Between January 1995 and December 1999, 15 patients with comminuted 
intra-articular distal radius fractures underwent AA external fixation and 
percutaneous pinning. Fifteen patients underwent external fixation and FA 
reduction and pinning. Patients in both groups were matched for fracture pattern 
and age.
RESULTS: Follow-up evaluation consisted of an evaluation of grip strength and 
range of motion as well as radiographic evaluation of palmar tilt, radial 
shortening, stepoff, and degenerative changes. Health-related quality of life 
outcomes were assessed using the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand 
(DASH) questionnaire. Patients who underwent AA surgery had significantly 
improved supination compared with those who underwent FA surgery (88 degrees v 
73 degrees; P =.02). AA reduction also resulted in improved wrist extension 
(mean, 77 degrees v 69 degrees; P =.01) and wrist flexion (mean, 78 degrees v 59 
degrees; P =.02). Radial shortening, Knirk and Jupiter congruity grades, and 
DASH scores were similar for both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: AA reduction and fixation of intra-articular distal radius 
fractures permits a more thorough inspection of the ulnar-sided components of 
the injury. At follow-up evaluation, patients who underwent AA procedures had a 
greater degree of supination, flexion, and extension than patients undergoing FA 
surgery.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level II prospective cohort study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arthro.2004.01.010
PMID: 15007310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Orthopade. 2004 Mar;33(3):297-304. doi: 10.1007/s00132-003-0594-z.

[Bacterial osteitis. Special considerations in immunocompromised patients].

[Article in German]

Niedhart C(1), Miltner O, Zilkens KW, Niethard FU.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik, RWTH, Aachen. 
cniedhart@orthopaedie-aachen.de

With increasing life expectancy and better medical competence, the number of 
older patients with multimorbidity is growing. Patients with a deficient immune 
system need more attention during diagnosis and treatment of osteomyelitis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-003-0594-z
PMID: 15007554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Oncology (Williston Park). 2004 Feb;18(2):151-8; discussion 158-60, 163-4.

Salvage brachytherapy after external-beam irradiation for prostate cancer.

Beyer DC(1).

Author information:
(1)Arizona Oncology Services, Scottsdale, Arizona, USA. dbeyer@azoncology.com

The options available for patients with recurrent prostate cancer are limited. 
Men who have failed external-beam irradiation as the primary treatment are 
rarely considered for potentially curative salvage therapy. Traditionally, only 
palliative treatments have been offered with hormonal intervention or simple 
observation. A significant percentage of these patients have only locally 
recurrent cancer and are thus candidates for curative salvage therapy. Permanent 
brachytherapy with iodine-125 or palladium-103 has been used in an attempt to 
eradicate the remaining prostate cancer and prevent the need for additional 
intervention. It is critical in this population to identify patients most likely 
to have distant metastases or who are unlikely to suffer death or morbidity from 
their recurrence, in order to avoid potential treatment morbidity in those 
unlikely to benefit from any intervention. Following salvage brachytherapy, up 
to 98% of these cancers may be locally controlled, and 5-year freedom from 
second relapse is approximately 50%. With careful case selection, relapse-free 
rates up to 83% may be achieved. A schema is presented, suggesting that it may 
be possible to identify the patients most likely to benefit from salvage 
treatment based on prostate-specific antigen (PSA) kinetics and other features. 
Such features include histologically confirmed local recurrence, clinical and 
radiologic evidence of no distant disease, adequate urinary function, age, and 
overall health indicative of at least a 5- to 10-year life expectancy, prolonged 
disease-free interval (> 2 years), slow PSA doubling time, Gleason sum < or = 6, 
and PSA < 10 ng/mL.

PMID: 15008055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Int J Prosthodont. 2004 Jan-Feb;17(1):52-8.

A retrospective study on the treatment outcome of wide-bodied implants.

Shin SW(1), Bryant SR, Zarb GA.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
swshin@korea.ac.kr

PURPOSE: This retrospective study documented the 5-year cumulative survival rate 
(CSR) of 5-mm-diameter wide-bodied implants in posterior jaws as related to 
identified risk factors and relative host bone site dimensions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty-four wide-bodied implants placed consecutively in 
the posterior jaws of 43 patients were matched using several identified risk 
factors with 64 regular-diameter implants (3.75-mm or 4-mm diameter) placed in 
the posterior jaws of 25 of the same patients and 14 others. Life table analyses 
were undertaken to examine the difference in CSR between the groups. 
Multivariate Cox regression was conducted to assess the relationship between 
potential risk factors and overall CSR.
RESULTS: Ten of the wide-bodied implants failed (CSR 80.9%), while two of the 
regular-diameter implants failed (CSR 96.8%). The difference between the groups 
was statistically significant. Multivariate analysis demonstrated a significant 
predictive relationship between overall CSR and the ratio of implant volume to 
remaining bone volume. This suggests that relative determinants of critical bone 
volume to implant dimensions may need to be considered when planning implant 
surgery.
CONCLUSION: Wide-bodied implants placed in the posterior jaw can suffer a 
significantly elevated risk of implant failure compared to regular-diameter 
implants. This susceptibility may relate to either implant design or the 
relative relationship of implant to host bone dimensions.

PMID: 15008233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2004 Feb 18;52(14):1-38.

United States Life Tables, 2001.

Arias E(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
National Center for Health Statistics, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

This report presents period life tables for the United States based on 
age-specific death rates in 2001. Data used to prepare these life tables are 
2001 final mortality statistics; July 1, 2001, population estimates based on the 
2000 decennial census; and data from the Medicare program. Presented are 
complete life tables by age, race, and sex. In 2001 the overall expectation of 
life at birth was 77.2 years, representing an increase of 0.2 years from life 
expectancy in 2000. Between 2000 and 2001, life expectancy increased for both 
males and females and for both the white and black populations. Life expectancy 
increased by 0.3 years for black males (from 68.3 to 68.6) and black females 
(from 75.2 to 75.5). It increased by 0.1 year for white males (from 74.9 to 
75.0) and white females (from 80.1 to 80.2).

PMID: 15008552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Mayo Clin Proc. 2004 Mar;79(3):416-27. doi: 10.4065/79.3.416.

Preventive health care in the elderly population: a guide for practicing 
physicians.

Takahashi PY(1), Okhravi HR, Lim LS, Kasten MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Community Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 
Rochester, Minn 55905, USA.

Preventive medicine provides important benefits to all persons, including older 
adults; however, these benefits may be seen more clearly in younger adults than 
in older persons. Smoking cessation, proper nutrition, exercise, and 
immunizations are important regardless of age. The prevalence of illness 
increases as we age; at the same time, life expectancy decreases. All physicians 
and patients should consider the potential benefits of screening and treatment 
vs conservative management. We discuss lifestyle recommendations such as smoking 
cessation, exercise, and good nutrition, as well as the role of screening for 
cardiovascular disease, cancer, and sensory and other disorders. These 
recommendations are derived from evidence-based guidelines when available; 
issues not associated with established guidelines are discussed on the basis of 
best current thinking.

DOI: 10.4065/79.3.416
PMID: 15008616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. BJU Int. 2004 Mar;93(4):461-3. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.2003.04650.x.

Patient life-expectancy: a vital element in planning treatment?

Wilson J(1), Graham J, Macdonagh R.

Author information:
(1)Urology Department, Taunton and Somerset Hospital, Taunton, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.2003.04650.x
PMID: 15008708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Differentiation. 2004 Feb;72(1):11-22. doi:
10.1111/j.1432-0436.2004.07201003.x.

Cloning: questions answered and unsolved.

Latham KE(1).

Author information:
(1)The Fels Institute for Cancer Research and Molecular Biology and Department 
of Biochemistry, Temple University School of Medicine, 3307 North Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA. klatham@temple.edu

Cloning by the transfer of adult somatic cell nuclei to oocytes has produced 
viable offspring in a variety of mammalian species. The technology is still in 
its initial stages of development. Studies to date have answered several basic 
questions related to such issues as genome potency, life expectancy of clones, 
mitochondrial fates, and feasibility of inter-species nuclear transfer. They 
have also raised new questions related to the control of nuclear reprogramming 
and function. These questions are reviewed here.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-0436.2004.07201003.x
PMID: 15008822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. J Interv Cardiol. 2004 Feb;17(1):47-52. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-8183.2004.01713.x.

Timing, frequency, and results of catheter intervention following recruitment of 
major aortopulmonary collaterals in patients with pulmonary atresia and 
ventricular septal defect.

De Giovanni JV(1).

Author information:
(1)Heart Unit, Birmingham Children's Hospital, Birmingham, UK. 
degiovanni@blueyonder.co.uk

The condition of pulmonary atresia (PA), ventricular septal defect (VSD), and 
major aortopulmonary collaterals (MAPCAs) can have an extremely variable 
pulmonary blood supply and there are essentially three main anatomical subtypes, 
one with confluent native pulmonary arteries, one with intrapulmonary but 
nonconfluent pulmonary arteries, and one with MAPCAs and no native pulmonary 
arteries (1) Surgical repair can be very challenging and the results are further 
complicated by patchy vascular distribution to the lung parenchyma, multiple 
stenoses, progressive narrowing of the MAPCAs, and high pulmonary vascular 
resistance; despite these hurdles, surgical repair is being carried out with 
increasing frequency and success, but this is also creating a new population of 
patients who require a specific interventional strategy. These problems, some of 
which are not easily addressed surgically, can be helped by catheter 
intervention methods and the two approaches are complementary. Between 1989 and 
2002, 164 patients had surgical recruitment of MAPCAs at Birmingham Children's 
Hospital with repair in 70%. On average, these patients require 2.3 catheter 
procedures up to the point of repair. The catheter interventions are technically 
demanding, time consuming, must be repeated, and require specific techniques due 
to the pathology of the vessels. The management of PA/VSD/MAPCAs involves a 
multidisciplinary team approach often requiring repeated procedures, especially 
for those at the worst end of the spectrum. A proactive approach is essential 
due to known disease progression. Considerable improvement in patients' quality 
of life and, hopefully, life expectancy makes this approach worthwhile.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8183.2004.01713.x
PMID: 15009771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Gen Intern Med. 2004 Feb;19(2):146-55. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1497.2004.30209.x.

Race/ethnicity and the receipt of watchful waiting for the initial management of 
prostate cancer.

Shavers VL(1), Brown ML, Potosky AL, Klabunde CN, Davis WW, Moul JW, Fahey A.

Author information:
(1)Applied Research Program National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. 
shaversv@mail.nih.gov

INTRODUCTION: Several recent studies have noted that African Americans 
disproportionately receive "watchful waiting" for the initial management of 
their prostate cancer. To determine whether racial/ethnic differences in the 
receipt of watchful waiting are explained by differences in clinical 
presentation and life expectancy at the time of diagnosis, we examined 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER)-Medicare data for men 
diagnosed with prostate cancer in 1994 to 1996.
METHODS: Race/ethnicity, comorbidity, stage, grade, age, and expected lifespan 
and their association with the receipt of watchful waiting were examined in 
multivariate logistic regression analyses. Race-stratified logistic regression 
analyses were also used to examine racial/ethnic variation in the association of 
clinical and demographic factors with the receipt of watchful waiting among 
African-American, Hispanic, and non-Hispanic white men.
RESULTS: African-American (odds ratio [OR], 1.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 
1.3 to 1.6) and Hispanic men (OR, 1.3; 95% CI, 1.1 to 1.5) were significantly 
more likely than non-Hispanic white men to receive watchful waiting in a 
multivariate model adjusted for age, comorbidity, stage, grade, and life 
expectancy. Advanced stage and grade, lower life expectancy, older age, and high 
comorbidity indices were also significantly associated with an increase in the 
odds of receipt of watchful waiting in multivariate analyses. In general, the 
association between the receipt of watchful waiting and the clinical 
characteristics (i.e., stage, grade, and age) were similar for the three 
racial/ethnic groups. In race-stratified logistic regression analyses, life 
expectancy was associated with an increase in the odds of receiving watchful 
waiting but results were statistically significant for whites only. There was 
also a statistically significant increase in the odds of receiving watchful 
waiting for African-American and white men with high comorbidity indices but not 
Hispanic men. The odds of receiving watchful waiting were also higher for 
African-American and Hispanic men who resided in census tracts where a large 
percentage of residents had not completed high school than for white men who 
resided in similar census tracts.
CONCLUSION: The disproportionate receipt of watchful waiting among African 
Americans and Hispanics is not completely explained by racial/ethnic variation 
in clinical characteristics or life expectancy as measured in this study. These 
data suggest that there are other factors that contribute to racial/ethnic 
differences in receipt of watchful waiting that warrant investigation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1497.2004.30209.x
PMCID: PMC1492143
PMID: 15009794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Eur J Cancer. 2004 Mar;40(5):778-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2003.12.013.

Modification of SAS macros for a more efficient analysis of relative survival 
rates.

Arndt V, Talbäck M, Gefeller O, Hakulinen T, Brenner H.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2003.12.013
PMID: 15010081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2004 Mar;27(3):206-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2003.12.009.

Terminal cancer patients' wishes and influencing factors toward the provision of 
artificial nutrition and hydration in Taiwan.

Chiu TY(1), Hu WY, Chuang RB, Cheng YR, Chen CY, Wakai S.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Family Medicine and Social Medicine, College of Medicine and 
Hospital, National Taiwan University, No. 7 Chung-Shan South Road, Taipei, 
Taiwan, ROC.

Identifying the concerns of terminal cancer patients and respecting their wishes 
is important in clinical decision-making concerning the provision of artificial 
nutrition and hydration (ANH). The aim of this study was to discover terminal 
cancer patients' wishes and determine influencing factors toward the provision 
of ANH. One hundred and ninety-seven patients with terminal cancer, admitted to 
a palliative care unit in Taiwan over a two-year period, completed a 
questionnaire interview, which included demographic characteristics, knowledge 
and attitudes on ANH, the health locus of control, subjective norms, and the 
wishes to use ANH. One hundred and fifty-four patients (78.2%) used ANH in the 
past month. A knowledge test on issues related to ANH showed the rates of 
accurate responses were ranked as: peripheral intravenous route can only provide 
hydration (48.7%), excessive artificial nutrition may increase the proliferation 
of cancer cells (32%), ANH can prolong life expectancy for all patients (17.3%), 
and ANH can prevent all patients from starving to death (5.6%). The strongest 
attitude of patients toward the potential benefit of ANH was "it can provide the 
body need with nutrition and hydration when inability to eat or drink occurs." 
Otherwise, the strongest attitude toward the potential burdens of ANH was 
"gastrostomy makes the illness worse." One hundred and twenty-two of 197 
patients (62.9%) expressed their wishes to have ANH. The results of logistic 
regression analysis showed that the experience of using a nasogastric tube and 
intravenous fluids, and subjective norms were the most significant variables 
related to the wishes of patients to use ANH (odds ratio [OR]=11.11, 95% 
confidence interval [CI]=3.20-38.64; OR=2.51, 95% CI=1.22-5.15, OR=1.30, 95% 
CI=1.05--1.60, respectively). However, the use of artificial nutrition was 
negatively affected by the knowledge of ANH (OR=0.53, 95% CI=0.37-0.84). In 
conclusion, Taiwanese patients with terminal cancer have insufficient knowledge 
about AHN and still believe in the benefits of ANH, especially in avoiding 
dehydration or starvation. The findings of this study indicate the importance of 
medical professional training and decision-making in the initial consideration 
of using ANH. By improving the knowledge about ANH among patients, more 
appropriate decisions can be achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2003.12.009
PMID: 15010099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Plant Mol Biol. 2003 Nov;53(5):609-19. doi:
10.1023/B:PLAN.0000019075.31353.77.

Selective transcription and post-transcriptional processing of the heteroplasmic 
mitochondrial orf156 copies in the nucleus-cytoplasm hybrids of wheat.

Kitagawa K(1), Takumi S, Nakamura C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Science, Faculty of Agriculture, 
and Division of Life Science, Graduate School of Science and Technology, Kobe 
University, Nada-ku, Kobe 657-8501, Japan.

Transcript profile and post-transcriptional processing of the mitochondrial 
orf156 were compared among the nucleus-cytoplasm (NC) hybrids of tetraploid and 
hexaploid wheat and their parental lines. These NC hybrids, in which the plasmon 
from the maternal Aegilops squarrosa parent is combined with the nuclear genomes 
of the paternal parents, and their parental lines were previously shown to have 
heteroplasmic copies of the polycistronic transcriptional unit nad3-orf156 in 
different sub-stoichiometries. Despite the heteroplasmic conditions, only single 
transcript types were detected among reverse transcription-PCR products of the 
orf156 mRNA in the respective lines. In the NC hybrids only a major maternal 
copy was transcribed and edited, likewise in the parental lines only single 
major copies were transcribed and edited. RNA gel blot analysis using the orf156 
probe showed that the NC hybrids had the transcripts similar to the parental 
lines but unlike the maternal line. Primer extension analysis further revealed 
the orf156 transcripts with different 5' termini, which most probably resulted 
from the alternative post-transcriptional cleavages of the precursor mRNA. These 
cleaved transcripts were polymorphic not only among the lines but also among 
four different tissues. The cleavages were highly selective and the 
paternal-type cleavages predominated in the NC hybrids, irrespective of the 
tissues studied. This seemingly neutral polymorphisms in wheat could make this 
system convenient for further analysis of mitochondrial gene expression in 
plants.

DOI: 10.1023/B:PLAN.0000019075.31353.77
PMID: 15010599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Am Coll Dent. 2003 Fall;70(4):35-8.

In search of the secrets of Methuselah: implications for dentistry in the third 
millennium.

Heft MW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery and Diagnostic Sciences, Claude D. 
Pepper Center for Research on Oral Health and Aging, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32610-0416, USA. mwheft@ufl.edu

Aging is the progressive deterioration of bodily functions over time. Age has 
been prolonged as more individuals avoid early death and as the mature years are 
extended. The potential exists for even further extensions of age through 
genomic advances. Although it is currently unclear how this might happen, the 
benefits of research in genetics might extend oral health-related life issues 
through a multiprong approach.

PMID: 15011801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Hepatogastroenterology. 2004 Jan-Feb;51(55):147-51.

Distributions in CEA doubling time differ in patients with recurrent colorectal 
carcinomas.

Yamamoto M(1), Maehara Y, Sakaguchi Y, Mine H, Yamanaka T, Korenaga D, Okamura 
T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterologic Surgery, National Kyushu Cancer Center, 
Fukuoka, Japan. ik.surg@vesta.ocn.ne.jp

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is often measured during 
follow-up of patients surgically treated for colorectal cancer. We determined 
characteristic findings in serum CEA concentrations or CEA doubling time (DT) 
depending on the different tumor distributions in colorectal cancer patients.
METHODOLOGY: Serum CEA levels were measured monthly until the patients expired 
in 32 colorectal cancers after operations. CEA DT was based on semilogarithmic 
plots of time courses of CEA concentrations.
RESULTS: In cases who were preoperatively CEA positive, the maximum serum CEA 
levels for proximal colon, distal colon and rectal cancers were 384.8+/-586.1 
ng/mL, 1395.7+/-1954.6 ng/mL and 1343.4+/-1478.3 ng/mL, respectively. The 
maximum serum CEA level in cases of the proximal colon in preoperative CEA 
positive patients was lower than that in cases of distal colon or rectum. The 
average CEA DT on the proximal colon, distal colon and rectal cancers was 
71.62+/-43.77 days, 31.07+/-15.98 days and 73.97+/-36.66 days, respectively. The 
CEA DT with distal colon cancers was also significantly shorter than that with 
proximal colon or rectal cancers (p<0.05, p<0.02). The CEA DT for lung 
metastasis was significantly longer than that for liver metastasis, locally or 
lymph node metastasis or multiple metastases (p<0.02, p<0.02, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: CEA DT serves to predict life expectancy for patients with 
recurrent colorectal cancers with different tumor distributions. We propose that 
precise measurements of serum CEA are needed so as not to overlook recurrent 
tumors. Detailed follow-up after operations is necessary for such patients, that 
CEA DT was noted in case of distal colon cancers.

PMID: 15011851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Hepatogastroenterology. 2004 Jan-Feb;51(55):219-23.

Hepatic resection for hepatocellular carcinoma in elderly patients.

Yeh CN(1), Lee WC, Jeng LB, Chen MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University, 
Taipai, Taiwan. ycn@adm.cgmh.org.tw

BACKGROUND/AIMS: We present the clinical features and outcome of 34 patients 
with hepatocellular carcinoma older than 70 years of age who underwent hepatic 
resection (elderly-HCC). Nowadays, hepatic surgeons unavoidably have to perform 
hepatic resection on elderly patients with hepatocellular carcinoma due to 
increasing life expectancy. However, the outcome of hepatic resection on elderly 
patients with hepatocellular carcinoma varies in each series, and the exact role 
of surgery in the management of hepatocellular carcinoma in the elderly remains 
to be clarified.
METHODOLOGY: From 1986 to 1998, the clinical features of 34 surgically treated 
cases of elderly-HCC were reviewed. Factors that may influence the outcome were 
also analyzed. Clinical features and outcome of 398 patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma younger than 70 years old (younger-HCC) were also summarized for 
comparison.
RESULTS: Of 432 surgically resected hepatocellular carcinomas, 34 (7.9%) were 
elderly-HCC. More underlying diabetes mellitus association, higher hepatitis C 
infection, and lower hepatitis B infection were observed in the elderly-HCC 
group. More blood loss, larger tumor size, less capsule formation, and more 
recurrence were significantly prominent in the patients in the younger-HCC group 
compared with the elderly-HCC group. The patients in the elderly-HCC group had a 
favorable disease-free survival rate compared with the younger-HCC group, 
although not statistically significant. The 1- and 5-year survival rates of 
elderly-HCC patients were 85.3% and 39.6%, respectively. No significant 
difference in survival or mortality rate was found between elderly-HCC and 
younger-HCC groups.
CONCLUSIONS: We present the clinical features and outcomes of 34 elderly 
patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who underwent hepatic resection. The 
results seem to indicate that hepatic resection is safe and feasible in the 
elderly with hepatocellular carcinoma with or without cirrhosis. The prognosis 
after hepatic resection is as comparable as that of the younger patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

PMID: 15011868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Scott Med J. 2004 Feb;49(1):14-7. doi: 10.1177/003693300404900104.

Exercise during haemodialysis: West of Scotland pilot study.

Moug SJ(1), Grant S, Creed G, Boulton Jones M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow. 
susanjmoug@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Exercise during dialysis (EDD) in End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) has 
been documented as an effective intervention to improving a patient's aerobic 
capacity.
AIMS: This pilot study aimed to confirm physiological improvements, to establish 
its safety and practicality and to form guidelines for a long-term study, 
leading to the integration of EDD in ESRD therapy.
METHODS: A total of 17 patients on hospital haemodialysis were recruited: ten 
exercisers (age 42.4 +/- 12.6) and six controls (age 41.0 +/- 8.3). Both groups 
were initially tested for estimated VO(2max), heart rate, blood pressure, leg 
extension peak torque, anxiety and depression levels, as well as biochemical and 
haematological values. The exercisers then underwent cycling ergometer exercise 
sessions during dialysis, twice weekly, for a total of 12 sessions. Both groups 
were re-tested after this period.
RESULTS: All test and exercise sessions were completed without complication. 
Compliance was high with only 1 exerciser failing to complete all 12 sessions. 
The exercisers showed a statistically significant increase (p < 0.05) in EDD 
workrates (44.3 to 52.1 watts) during the 12 sessions and a reduction in anxiety 
(p < 0.05). Statistical analysis showed no other significant changes in either 
group after the 6-week period.
CONCLUSION: This pilot study has confirmed that aerobic EDD is feasible and well 
accepted by patients on hospital haemodialysis. EDD reduced anxiety scores and 
showed a trend for an improved level of aerobic fitness.

DOI: 10.1177/003693300404900104
PMID: 15012046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Eur J Heart Fail. 2004 Jan;6(1):95-100. doi: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2003.10.005.

Does aerobic training lead to a more active lifestyle and improved quality of 
life in patients with chronic heart failure?

van den Berg-Emons R(1), Balk A, Bussmann H, Stam H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam, Dr. 
Molewaterplein 40, 3015 GD Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
h.j.g.vandenberg@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Due to dyspnea and fatigue, patients with chronic heart failure 
(CHF) are often restricted in the performance of everyday activities, which 
gradually may lead to hypoactivity.
AIMS: To assess whether aerobic training leads to a more active lifestyle and 
improved quality of life (QoL) in patients with CHF.
METHODS: Patients with stable CHF (NYHA II/III; 59 (11) years) were randomly 
assigned to a training group (n=18; 3-month aerobic program above standard 
treatment) or control group (n=16; standard treatment without special advice for 
exercise). Measurements were performed on level of everyday physical activity 
(PA, novel accelerometry-based activity monitor) and QoL, and on several related 
parameters.
RESULTS: Training did not result in a more active lifestyle or improved QoL, but 
improved (P<0.05) peak power (17%), 6-min walk distance (10%), muscle strength 
(13-15%) and depression (-1.3 unit). Changes in level of everyday PA were 
related to changes in peak Vo(2) (r=0.58, P=0.01) and knee extension strength 
(r=0.48, P=0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: At group level training did not result in a more active lifestyle 
or improved QoL. However, correlations between training-related changes in 
parameters suggest that aerobic training has the potential to increase levels of 
everyday PA in CHF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2003.10.005
PMID: 15012924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2004 Feb;49(2):165-71. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2003.08.003.

Thoracoscopic surgery in elderly lung cancer patients.

Jaklitsch MT(1), Pappas-Estocin A, Bueno R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, 75 Francis Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA. mjaklitsch@partners.org

Age is a recognized risk factor for death after thoracotomy in elderly patients 
with lung cancer. Among other factors, the genesis of this risk is the 
physiologic debilitation that occurs after division of the intrathoracic 
respiratory muscles during thoracotomy, as well as the loss of lung tissue after 
lung resection. Recent advances in video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) 
techniques provide an alternative to standard thoracotomy in elderly lung cancer 
patients, resulting in decreased recovery times and fewer perioperative 
complications. Likewise, smaller lung resections (VATS-guided limited wedge 
resection versus lobectomy with thoracotomy) can be adequate oncologic 
procedures in patients with a limited life expectancy but resectable disease. We 
studied these alternative procedures in a cohort of thoracic surgical patients 
at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, MA. Proposed investigations of 
the psychosocial implications of thoracic surgery in the elderly, irrespective 
of the safety of these maneuvers, are addressed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2003.08.003
PMID: 15012976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2004 Mar;5(3):505-11. doi:
10.1517/14656566.5.3.505.

Cost of cancer clinical trials in elderly patients.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida, H Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research 
Institute, Tampa, Fl 33612, USA. Balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

Of all cancers, > 50% currently occur in individuals >or= 65 years of age and 
this figure is expected to rise to 70% by 2030, due to a progressive expansion 
of the older population [1]. Clinical trials are needed in order to establish 
the benefits and risks of antineoplastic treatment in older individuals. It is 
reasonable to expect that the costs of these trials may be higher than in 
younger individuals, as older patients are more vulnerable to therapeutic 
complications and may need more supportive care, and the benefits of treatment 
may be less because of a reduced life-expectancy and competitive causes of death 
[2]. This article explores a cost-effective approach to clinical trials in older 
individuals, after reviewing the basic concepts of economic analysis and unique 
aspects of geriatric oncology that may affect the cost of treatment. In the 
process, the cost differences of cancer treatment in younger and older patients 
will be explored.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.5.3.505
PMID: 15013919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

