(1)Aravind Eye Hospital and Postgraduate Institute of Ophthalmology, Retina 
Vitreous Services, Madurai 625020.

With the increase in life expectancy across the world, the magnitude of 
blindness due to age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is expected to rise. 
Exudative form is the major cause of visual loss from AMD. Several treatment 
options are available for this form of the disease. However, all treatment 
strategies aim at preservation of residual vision rather than regaining the lost 
vision. Two well-proven strategies are laser photocoagulation and photodynamic 
therapy. Other viable options are submacular surgery, transpupillary 
thermotherapy and pharmacological modalities like angiostatic-steroids. Oral 
anti-oxidants and zinc appear to be beneficial in preventing disease progression 
in early cases. Further research is on to explore more efficient treatments and 
to prove the safety and efficacy of large number of emerging newer treatment 
options.

PMID: 15071799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Cancer Sci. 2004 Apr;95(4):371-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2004.tb03218.x.

Angiogenesis and the efficacy of postoperative administration of UFT in 
pathologic stage I non-small cell lung cancer.

Tanaka F(1), Yanagihara K, Otake Y, Miyahara R, Wada H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, 
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan. ftanaka@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp

UFT is an oral 5-fluorouracil derivative drug that may improve postoperative 
survival in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and experimental studies have 
shown that UFT inhibits tumor angiogenesis. In the present study, therefore, the 
correlation between tumor angiogenesis (intratumoral microvessel density, IMVD) 
and the efficacy of UFT in 162 patients with pathologic stage I NSCLC was 
examined. For higher IMVD tumors (IMVD > or = 20, n = 80), the 5-year survival 
rate of UFT-treated patients (82.5%) was significantly higher than that of 
surgery-alone patients (61.8%, P = 0.032). For lower IMVD tumors (n = 82), 
however, there was no difference in the survival between these groups (5-year 
survival rates, 84.9% and 82.6%, respectively; P = 0.657). Multivariate analyses 
confirmed that postoperative UFT administration was effective for higher IMVD 
tumors (P = 0.046; relative risk [RR] and the 95% confidence interval [CI], 
0.288 [0.084-0.979]), but not for lower IMVD tumors (P = 0.616; 0.726 
[0.208-2.539]). Moreover, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) status was 
also a predictive factor. For tumor showing strong VEGF expression (n = 63), UFT 
administration improved the survival (5-year survival rates of UFT-treated 
patients and surgery-alone patients, 84.6% and 60.0%, respectively; P = 0.048); 
for weakly VEGF-expressing tumors (n = 99), UFT administration did not influence 
the survival (5-year survival rates, 83.4% and 79.1%, respectively; P = 0.455). 
Multivariate analyses demonstrated that UFT administration seemed to be 
effective for strong VEGF tumors (P = 0.063; RR and the 95% CI, 0.234 
[0.051-10.81]), but not for weak VEGF tumors (P = 0.456; 0.673 [0.293-1.900]). 
In conclusion, the efficacy of postoperative UFT administration in NSCLC was 
correlated with tumor angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2004.tb03218.x
PMID: 15072598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 1999 Dec;8(7):519-22. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1557(199912)8:7<519::AID-PDS458>3.0.CO;2-Y.

Estimation of the prevalence of orally treated diabetes in France using a 
pharmacoepidemiologic approach: comparison between 1981 and 1992.

Vauzelle-Kervroëdan F(1), Forhan A, Guillemot D, Sermet C, Maison P, Balkau B, 
Eschwège E.

Author information:
(1)INSERM Unit 258, Université Paris-Sud, 16 avenue Paul Vaillant Couturier, 
94807 Villejuif Cedex, France. orhan@vjf.inserm.fr

PURPOSE: Non-insulin-dependent diabetes may become a public health problem in 
the next decade, given the increasing life expectancy of populations and because 
the baby-boom generation will reach the age at risk. Moreover a modification of 
the diagnostic criteria may increase the number of diabetic patients. We studied 
the evolution of diabetes prevalence.
METHODS: A non-specific household survey, performed every 10 years was used. 
Patients who bought an oral antidiabetic drug during these studies were 
classified as diabetics.
RESULTS: In 1980-81 and 1991-92 the crude diabetes prevalences were not 
significantly different even if there was a trend to increase (1.27% and 1.41%, 
respectively). When the 1980-81 prevalence was standardized to the age 
distribution of the 1991-92 sample, the trend disappeared (prevalence 
1980-81:1.35%).
CONCLUSION: There was no increase in an individual's risk of diabetes. However 
the crude prevalence tended to increase because of the changing age structure of 
the population. On-going studies are needed to follow the prevalence of diabetes 
during the next decade.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1557(199912)8:7<519::AID-PDS458>3.0.CO;2-Y
PMID: 15073895


719. Gerodontology. 2004 Mar;21(1):3-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2004.00007.x.

Impact of Human Genome Project on treatment of frail and edentulous patients.

Nishimura I(1), Garrett N.

Author information:
(1)The Weintraub Center for Reconstructive Biotechnology, Division of Advanced 
Prosthodontics, Biomaterials and Hospital Dentistry, UCLA School of Dentistry, 
Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. ichiron@dent.ucla.edu

Comment in
    Gerodontology. 2004 Mar;21(1):1-2.

OBJECTIVE: Because of ongoing increases in life expectancy and deferment of 
edentulousness to older age, dentists are facing a different challenge to 
satisfy elderly denture wearers with a higher prevalence of chronic diseases. 
This discussion introduces the Human Genome databases as novel and powerful 
resources to re-examine the core problems experienced by frail and edentulous 
patients.
BACKGROUND: Recent studies demonstrated that mandibular implant overdentures do 
not necessarily increase masticatory function, perception and satisfaction in 
denture wearers with adequate edentulous residual ridges. It has been 
demonstrated that the rate of edentulous residual ridge resorption significantly 
varies among individuals. The prognosis and cost-effectiveness of denture 
treatment, with or without implants, may largely depend on how the edentulous 
ridge is maintained. However, reliable clinical methods permitting dentists to 
predict the long-term health of the edentulous residual ridge are lacking.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With the completion of the Human Genome Project, the 
genomic sequence database from this multinational consortium will provide a 
unique resource to determine the genetic basis of similarity and diversity of 
humans.
RESULTS: One base pair in every 100 to 300 base pairs of the genome sequence 
varies among humans, suggesting that genetic diagnosis using the single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) may provide a novel opportunity to differentiate 
our edentulous patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Future dental service for the elderly will require a personalized 
care paradigm, using highly sensitive diagnostic technology such as SNP genomic 
analysis, for recommending the treatment with greatest potential benefit.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2004.00007.x
PMID: 15074534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Eur J Epidemiol. 2004;19(2):97-8. doi: 10.1023/b:ejep.0000017846.55144.06.

The epidemiology of a lifetime.

Barendregt JJ.

Comment on
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2004;19(2):117-21.

DOI: 10.1023/b:ejep.0000017846.55144.06
PMID: 15074562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Eur J Epidemiol. 2004;19(2):117-21. doi: 10.1023/b:ejep.0000017834.35943.bd.

Women's death in Scandinavia--what makes Denmark different?

Jacobsen R(1), Von Euler M, Osler M, Lynge E, Keiding N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej, Denmark. 
R.jacobsen@pubhealth.ku.dk

Comment in
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2004;19(2):97-8.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the mortality for women in Sweden, Norway and Denmark in 
order to search for clues for the low life expectancy of Danish women.
METHODS: Prospective age-period-cohort study covering 40 years for all Swedish, 
Norwegian and Danish women aged 40-84 during the period 1960-2000, and born 
1900-1950.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Relative risks and 95% confidence intervals for deaths.
RESULTS: The high risk of dying among Danish women was associated with being 
born between the two World Wars, and that a similar pattern was not found for 
women in Norway and Sweden. A tendency of a cohort effect was observed for 
Swedish women born around 1940.
CONCLUSIONS: The currently low life expectancy of Danish women compared with 
that of women in Norway and Sweden is partly a transitional phenomenon caused by 
excessive death rates for women born between the two World Wars. Data on smoking 
prevalence by birth cohort and age indicate that a high percentage of Danish 
women in these cohorts were smokers throughout their adult life.

DOI: 10.1023/b:ejep.0000017834.35943.bd
PMID: 15074566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Eur J Epidemiol. 2004;19(2):195-6. doi: 10.1023/b:ejep.0000017829.62827.a2.

Smoking expands expected lifetime with musculoskeletal disease regardless of 
educational level.

Brønnum-Hansen H, Juel K.

Lifetime with musculoskeletal disease were estimated for never smokers and 
smokers at three educational levels. Expected lifetime with musculoskeletal 
disease was 7.4 and 10.6 years for 30-year-old men and women, respectively. 
Regardless of educational level smokers could expect more years with the 
diseases than never smokers. Thus, the impact of smoking on the burden of 
musculoskeletal diseases is not confounded by educational level.

DOI: 10.1023/b:ejep.0000017829.62827.a2
PMID: 15074576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Ital Heart J. 2004 Mar;5 Suppl 2:16S-22S.

[Quality of life in elderly patients with ischemic cardiopathy].

[Article in Italian]

Rosano GM(1), Vitale C, Onorati D, Fini M.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Ricerca Cardiovascolare, Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche, San 
Raffaele-Tosinvest Sanità, Roma. giuseppe.rosano@sanraffaele.it

The progressive aging of the general population is associated with a parallel 
increment of cardiovascular diseases which are the main cause of death and 
morbidity in the elderly. Quality of life in elderly patients with ischemic 
heart disease is one of the most important objectives of medical practice. In 
the clinical management of elderly coronary patients it must be taken into 
account not just the general clinical conditions and the presence of 
comorbidities, but also the impact of therapy on life expectancy and quality of 
life. Revascularization should be reserved to those patients with refractory 
angina despite maximal medical therapy and to those in whom angina compromises 
the quality of life. Conventional antianginal therapy consists mainly in the 
administration of drugs with hemodynamic mechanisms that in elderly patients may 
be associated with a higher incidence of significant adverse effects that are 
dependent not only upon their hemodynamic action but also on altered 
pharmacokinetics. Adjunctive therapy with metabolic agents, such as 
trimetazidine, to standard care of elderly patients with ischemic heart disease 
may be particularly useful in the treatment of angina. The improvement in 
cardiac global performance, seen with adjunctive trimetazidine, is associated 
with a reduction in symptoms and with an improvement in functional capacity and 
quality of life.

PMID: 15074773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. AIDS. 2004 Jan 1;18 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S79-86. doi: 
10.1097/00002030-200401001-00012.

Cognitive impairment in older HIV-1-seropositive individuals: prevalence and 
potential mechanisms.

Valcour VG(1), Shikuma CM, Watters MR, Sacktor NC.

Author information:
(1)University of Hawaii, NeuroAIDS Specialized Neuroscience Research Program, 
John A. Burns School of Medicine, Honolulu, Hawaii 96816, USA. 
vvalcour@hawaii.edu

Individuals over 50 years of age comprise 11% of AIDS cases reported to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. A higher prevalence of AIDS in older 
individuals has been reported in certain states including Hawaii (20%) and 
Florida (13%). Although life expectancy in individuals with AIDS has increased 
with advances in antiretroviral therapy, it is likely that there are health 
consequences both of long-term infection and chronic antiretroviral therapy. 
Given the general increase in neurological disorders with age and the relatively 
high prevalence of cognitive dysfunction associated with HIV itself, the risk of 
HIV-associated dementia (HAD) in this aging HIV-seropositive subgroup is of 
particular concern. Existing data suggest, but have not conclusively 
demonstrated, increased rates of HAD in older compared with younger seropositive 
individuals. Preliminary data from the Hawaii Aging with HIV Cohort, a 
prospective cohort study designed to address this issue definitively, are 
presented. Factors underlying this hypothesized susceptibility in older 
individuals are discussed, including a synergy among HAD and other dementias, 
the role of vascular co-pathology, HIV and age-related immunological changes, 
and detrimental neuroglial changes that limit the compensatory ability of the 
aging brain.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200401001-00012
PMCID: PMC1388077
PMID: 15075502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Med Care. 2004 Mar;42(3):239-50. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000117361.61444.71.

Race/ethnicity and the intensity of medical monitoring under 'watchful waiting' 
for prostate cancer.

Shavers VL(1), Brown M, Klabunde CN, Potosky AL, Davis W, Moul J, Fahey A.

Author information:
(1)Applied Research Program, Health Services and Economics Branch, National 
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892-7344, USA. shaversv@mail.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have found that racial/ethnic minority patients 
with prostate cancer are more frequently managed with "watchful waiting." 
Little, however, is known about the medical care received among men managed with 
watchful waiting. We examine the type and intensity of medical monitoring 
received by African American, Hispanic, and white patients with prostate cancer 
managed with "watchful waiting" in fee-for-service systems.
METHODS: Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results-Medicare data for men 
diagnosed with prostate cancer 1994-1996 were used in this study. Men were 
determined to have initially received watchful waiting if they did not receive 
surgery, radiation, or hormone treatment within the first 7 months of diagnosis. 
Crosstabulations, multivariate logistic, and Cox regressions were used to 
examine the association between clinical and sociodemographic variables and the 
receipt of a primary care, urology visit, prostate-specific antigen test, or 
bone scan.
RESULTS: In general, Hispanic and African American men received less medical 
monitoring and had longer median times from diagnosis to receipt of a medical 
monitoring visit or procedure than white men. Furthermore, nearly 6% of African 
American, 5% of Hispanic, and 1% of white men did not have any medical 
monitoring visits or procedures during the 60-month follow-up period (P<0.001). 
Differences in observed clinical or sociodemographic characteristics did not 
explain variations in medical monitoring.
CONCLUSION: Regular medical monitoring is considered by most medical authorities 
to be a necessary component of management with watchful waiting. The 
disproportionately low receipt of medical monitoring visits and procedures 
observed for African American and Hispanic men managed with watchful waiting in 
this study suggest that there are racial/ethnic disparities in the receipt of 
appropriate prostate cancer management.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000117361.61444.71
PMID: 15076823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Retina. 2004 Feb;24(1):139-46. doi: 10.1097/00006982-200402000-00019.

Health care economic analyses.

Brown GC(1), Brown MM, Sharma S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-Based Medicine, Suite 210, 1107 Bethlehem Pike, Flourtown, 
PA 19031, USA. gary0514@aol.com

DOI: 10.1097/00006982-200402000-00019
PMID: 15076955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2004 Apr;46(4):219. doi: 10.1017/s0012162204000362.

Capacity to enjoy longer life.

Newton R.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2004 Apr;46(4):282-6.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162204000362
PMID: 15077698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2004 Apr;46(4):282-6. doi: 10.1017/s0012162204000441.

Clinical, social, and ethical implications of changing life expectancy in Down 
syndrome.

Bittles AH(1), Glasson EJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Genetics, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia. 
a.bittles@ecu.edu.au

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2004 Apr;46(4):219.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162204000441
PMID: 15077706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Psychol Rep. 2004 Feb;94(1):83-103. doi: 10.2466/pr0.94.1.83-103.

Ryff's psychological well-being inventory: factorial structure and life history 
correlates among Japanese university students.

Kishida Y(1), Kitamura T, Gatayama R, Matsuoka T, Miura S, Yamabe K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Kumamoto University School of Medicine, 1-1-1 
Honjo, Kumamoto, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. 
kitamura@kaiju.medic.kumamoto-u.ac.jp

The theoretical model of psychological well-being that encompasses six domains 
(self-acceptance, positive relations with others, autonomy, environmental 
mastery, purpose in life, and personal growth) was tested with a Japanese 
university student population (N = 574) using a Japanese translation of Ryff's 
1989 Psychological Well-being Inventory. A factor structure similar to Ryff's 
original model emerged. Both depression and anxiety correlated only moderately 
with scores on some subscales of the inventory, suggesting the relative 
independence of these dimensions of psychological well-being and negative 
affectivity. With negative affectivity controlled, some early life experiences 
were significantly linked with psychological well-being: relationships with 
romantic partners were linked with greater autonomy and experiences which 
enhance self-esteem were liked with greater personal growth. Careful 
psychometric work on the Japanese version is required to use the scale; then a 
replication and extension of the present study would be feasible.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.94.1.83-103
PMID: 15077752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. J Intern Med. 2004 May;255(5):562-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2004.01324.x.

Cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel in acute coronary syndromes in Sweden: a 
long-term model based on the CURE trial.

Lindgren P(1), Jönsson B, Yusuf S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Epidemiology, Institute of Environmental 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. peter.lindgren@imm.ki.se

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel on top of standard therapy (including ASA) in 
patients with acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation in Sweden.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were assessed 
using a Markov model with transition probabilities estimated from the Swedish 
hospital discharge and cause of death registers. Patients were assumed to be 
treated for 1 year, with treatment effects (RR = 0.8) and costs taken from the 
Clopidogrel in Unstable Angina to prevent Recurrent ischaemic Events Trial. Two 
scenarios were analysed: with patients similar to those in the trial and with 
patients similar to those from the register. In the first scenario, the 
predicted net direct cost was 160 euro and the net total cost -54 euro, which 
with an incremental survival of 0.12 years give the ICER of 1365 euro per 
life-year gained from the health care payer perspective (including direct costs) 
and cost savings from the societal perspective (also including indirect costs). 
The net costs in the second scenario were 149 euro, giving an ICER of 1009 euro 
for both perspectives.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding clopidogrel to standard therapy including ASA is 
cost-effective in the studied setting and compares favourably with other 
cardiovascular treatment and prevention strategies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2004.01324.x
PMID: 15078498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Circulation. 2004 May 4;109(17):2092-6. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000125853.51637.C8.  Epub 2004 Apr 12.

Decision guidelines for prophylactic replacement of Björk-Shiley convexo-concave 
heart valves: impact on clinical practice.

van Gorp MJ(1), Steyerberg EW, Van der Graaf Y.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Because of risk of outlet strut fracture, prophylactic replacement 
should be considered for Björk-Shiley convexo-concave (BScc) valve recipients. 
We assessed the effects of epidemiological and decision-analytic guidelines on 
actual BScc valve replacement.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We performed a retrospective cohort study including all 
2263 Dutch BScc patients with a mean follow-up of 11.3 years (range, 0 to 23 
years). Outcomes were outlet strut fracture, mortality, and BScc valve 
replacement. For the surviving patients in 1992 (n=1330), we calculated the 
expected differences in life expectancy (LE) with and without BScc valve 
replacement according to decision guidelines developed in 1992. Differences in 
LE were compared with actual replacements. During 8 years of follow-up, there 
were 494 deaths (40%), and 11 patients had suffered outlet strut fracture. Of 
1330 patients, 96 (10%) had undergone BScc valve replacement, particularly in 
years after introduction of initial and updated guidelines. One hundred 
seventeen patients (9%) had an estimated gain in LE after BScc valve 
replacement. These patients were more likely to undergo replacement than 
patients with an estimated loss of LE (hazard ratio, 6.6; 95% CI, 4.4 to 10; 
P<0.0001). A loss in LE after reoperation was predicted for 8 of 11 patients who 
experienced outlet strut fracture after guidelines were available.
CONCLUSIONS: Valve replacement for BScc heart valve patients was largely in 
concordance with guidelines in the Netherlands. Individualized guidelines that 
are based on high-quality epidemiological data and are updated and implemented 
rigorously can influence clinical practice in complex decision problems.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000125853.51637.C8
PMID: 15078796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. J Biol Chem. 2004 Jun 18;279(25):25995-6004. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M400001200.
Epub  2004 Apr 12.

Demethoxy-Q, an intermediate of coenzyme Q biosynthesis, fails to support 
respiration in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and lacks antioxidant activity.

Padilla S(1), Jonassen T, Jiménez-Hidalgo MA, Fernández-Ayala DJ, López-Lluch G, 
Marbois B, Navas P, Clarke CF, Santos-Ocaña C.

Author information:
(1)Centro Andaluz de Biologia del Desarrollo, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, 
41013-Sevilla, Spain.

Caenorhabditis elegans clk-1 mutants cannot produce coenzyme Q(9) and instead 
accumulate demethoxy-Q(9) (DMQ(9)). DMQ(9) has been proposed to be responsible 
for the extended lifespan of clk-1 mutants, theoretically through its enhanced 
antioxidant properties and its decreased function in respiratory chain electron 
transport. In the present study, we assess the functional roles of DMQ(6) in the 
yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Three mutations designed to mirror the clk-1 
mutations of C. elegans were introduced into COQ7, the yeast homologue of clk-1: 
E233K, predicted to disrupt the di-iron carboxylate site considered essential 
for hydroxylase activity; L237Stop, a deletion of 36 amino acid residues from 
the carboxyl terminus; and P175Stop, a deletion of the carboxyl-terminal half of 
Coq7p. Growth on glycerol, quinone content, respiratory function, and response 
to oxidative stress were analyzed in each of the coq7 mutant strains. Yeast 
strains lacking Q(6) and producing solely DMQ were respiratory deficient and 
unable to support (6)either NADH-cytochrome c reductase or succinate-cytochrome 
c reductase activities. DMQ(6) failed to protect cells against oxidative stress 
generated by H(2)O(2) or linolenic acid. Thus, in the yeast model system, DMQ 
does not support respiratory activity and fails to act as an effective 
antioxidant. These results suggest that the life span extension observed in the 
C. elegans clk-1 mutants cannot be attributed to the presence of DMQ per se.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M400001200
PMID: 15078893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Gynakol Geburtshilfliche Rundsch. 2004 Apr;44(2):113-22. doi:
10.1159/000076864.

[Anti-aging diagnosis and therapy: fact and fiction].

[Article in German]

Zech NH(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsfrauenklinik Zürich, Zürich, Schweiz. nicolas.zech@fhk.usz.ch

Anti-aging is a recent medical discipline and discussed rather controversially. 
Yet it is frequently misunderstood, not only because it is repeatedly 
misrepresented by the media but also because it is often practiced by laypersons 
without any profound knowledge about the subject matter. Moreover, most of the 
time it is practiced without any objective scientific basis; and this is the 
reason why anti-aging is being discredited. The intention of this review is to 
clarify and thus de-mystify the subject. Anti-aging medicine is a complex 
matter, hence my aim is to further understanding of the different factors and 
their interplay and thus to create greater interest in this exciting medical 
discipline.

DOI: 10.1159/000076864
PMID: 15079091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Medicina (Kaunas). 2004;40 Suppl 1:179-82.

[Surgery for esophageal cancer: 10 years experience].

[Article in Lithuanian]

Cicenas S(1), Stratilatovas E, Miliauskas P, Sangaila E, Piscikas DA, 
Jakubauskiene R, Askinis R, Zaremba S.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Surgery, Institute of Oncology, Vilnius University, Santariskiu 1, 
2021 Vilnius, Lithuania. cicenas@loc.lt

Objective of work was to evaluate efficacy of surgery for esophageal cancer with 
one-step gastric pipe reconstruction, to analyze postoperative complications, 
causes of deaths and patient's life expectancy. In 1992-2002 in Clinic of 
Surgery Vilnius University Institute of Oncology 213 patients underwent surgery 
for esophageal cancer; 177 patients (83.0%) were applied transthoracic approach, 
34 patients (15.9%) transhiatal and 2 patients (0.9%) Lewis type operations. TNM 
of patients were T3N1M0 - 99 (46.4%), T2N1M0 - 17 (7.9%), T2N0M0 - 16 (7.5%), 
T4N2M0 - 54 (25.3%), T2-3N2M1 - 27 (12.6%). Patient performance status according 
to WHO scale was 0-2. The following postoperative complications were observed: 
vagus pneumonia - 52 (24.2%) patients, heart insufficiency- 13 patients (6.1%), 
aortal bleeding 3 (1.4%) patients, suture leakadge - 33 (15.4%) patients, injury 
of n. reccurentis 17 (7.9%) patients, pleurites 29 (13.6%). Postoperative 
mortality after transthoracic approach - 29.3%, transhiatal - 15%, Lewis 
resections - 0%. Median survival after transthoracic approach - 29 months, 
transhiatal - 34 months, Lewis resections - 39 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery for esophageal cancer is the most sufficient way of 
esophageal cancer treatment. Three-level lymphadenectomies postpone early 
relapses. Postoperative mortality varies from 15 to 29.3%, median survival from 
29 to 39 months.

PMID: 15079133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Eur J Public Health. 2004 Mar;14(1):95-100. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/14.1.95.

The total lifetime costs of smoking.

Rasmussen SR(1), Prescott E, Sørensen TI, Søgaard J.

Author information:
(1)DSI Danish Institute for Health Services Research, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
srr@dsi.dk

BACKGROUND: Net costs of smoking in a lifetime perspective and, hence, the 
economic interests in antismoking policies have been questioned. It has been 
proposed that the health-related costs of smoking are balanced by smaller 
expenditure due to shorter life expectancy.
METHOD: A dynamic (life cycle) method taking differences in life expectancy into 
account. Main outcome measures were direct and indirect lifetime health costs 
for ever-smokers and never-smokers, and cost ratios (ever-smokers to 
never-smokers). The estimations were based on annual disease rates of use of the 
healthcare services, smoking relative risks, smoking prevalences, and costs.
RESULTS: Annual direct and indirect costs of ever-smokers were higher than for 
never-smokers in all age groups of both genders. The direct and indirect cost 
ratios were highest at age 45 for women, and at age 35 and 40 for men, 
respectively. Taking life expectancy differences into account, direct and 
indirect lifetime health costs for men aged 35, discounted by 5% per year were 
66% and 83% higher in ever-smokers than in never-smokers. Corresponding results 
for women were 74% and 79%, respectively. The results are insensitive to a broad 
range of relative risk-estimates and discount rates including no discounting. 
Excess costs of ever-smokers disappear if the inclusion of smoking-related 
diseases is narrowed to that of previous studies.
CONCLUSION: Smoking imposes costs to society even when taking life expectancy 
into consideration--both in direct and indirect costs.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/14.1.95
PMID: 15080400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. J Agric Food Chem. 2004 Apr 21;52(8):2292-6. doi: 10.1021/jf035311i.

Analysis of the oxidative degradation of proanthocyanidins under basic 
conditions.

Jorgensen EM(1), Marin AB, Kennedy JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Oregon State University, 
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.

Proanthocyanidin isolates from grape (Vitis vinifera L. cv. Pinot noir) skin and 
seed underwent oxidative degradation in solution (10 g/L) under basic conditions 
while exposed to atmospheric oxygen. Degradation was monitored by reversed-phase 
HPLC following acid-catalyzed cleavage in the presence of excess phloroglucinol 
(phloroglucinolysis) and by high-performance gel permeation chromatography. All 
isolates degraded under these conditions and followed second-order kinetics for 
over 1 half-life, consistent with an oxidation reaction. The conversion of 
proanthocyanidins to known subunits (conversion yield) when measured by 
phloroglucinolysis showed a dramatic decline over the course of the reaction. 
With the exception of (+)-catechin extension subunits, all individual subunits 
decreased in concentration during the oxidation process, also following 
second-order kinetics for over 1 half-life. Skin proanthocyanidins degraded the 
fastest due to the presence of (-)-epigallocatechin extension subunits. Seed 
procyanidins were degraded with and without flavan-3-ol monomers. Flavan-3-ol 
monomers slowed the rate of seed procyanidin degradation. The mean degree of 
polymerization (mDP) determined by phloroglucinolysis indicated a large decrease 
in mDP as the reaction progressed; yet, by GPC, the size distribution of all 
proanthocyanidins changed little in comparison. The conversion yield could be an 
important parameter to follow when using phloroglucinolysis as a means for 
determining proanthocyanidin mDP, and when monitoring the oxidative degradation 
of proanthocyanidins.

DOI: 10.1021/jf035311i
PMID: 15080635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Eur J Endocrinol. 2004 Apr;150(4):497-502. doi: 10.1530/eje.0.1500497.

Doubled mortality rate in irradiated patients reoperated for regrowth of a 
macroadenoma of the pituitary gland.

Erfurth EM(1), Bulow B, Nordström CH, Mikoczy Z, Hagmar L, Strömberg U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Diabetology and Endocrinology, 
Lund University Hospital, S-221 85 Lund, Sweden. Eva_Marie_erfurth@med.lu.se

BACKGROUND: Reduced life expectancy has been shown in patients with 
hypopituitarism, mainly caused by cardiovascular diseases. A major cause of 
hypopituitarism is pituitary adenomas, and radiotherapy may be employed as a 
treatment modality to reduce the post-operative regrowth rate of these tumours. 
Recently, we showed that in patients with craniopharyngiomas, tumour regrowth 
foreshadowed a fourfold risk increase for death. For patients with pituitary 
adenomas, the impact of regrowth on life expectancy is, however, not known.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of a reoperation due to a regrowth of a 
pituitary macroadenoma on mortality, taking into account other candidate 
prognostic factors.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: In 281 patients with operated and irradiated macroadenomas, 
excluding acromegaly and Cushing's disease, 35 patients had a regrowth (median 
follow-up 16.6 years). Possible risk factors for tumour regrowth were 
investigated by Cox regression models.
RESULTS: For tumour regrowth, age, calendar time at primary surgery, gender and 
extension of tumour growth had no statistically significant impact. For younger 
patients, the proportion of regrowths was higher, but after age-stratified Cox 
regression analysis only regrowth was shown to have a significant impact on 
mortality, with a more than doubled mortality risk for patients with tumour 
regrowth as compared with the non-regrowing tumour patients (hazard ratio=2.24, 
P<0.001). This finding was corroborated by cohort analyses using the general 
population as an external comparison group.
CONCLUSION: Among patients with irradiated pituitary macroadenomas, excluding 
acromegaly and Cushing's disease, a doubled mortality rate was observed for 
those reoperated for tumour regrowth as compared with patients with 
non-regrowing tumours.

DOI: 10.1530/eje.0.1500497
PMID: 15080779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Allergy. 2004 May;59(5):469-78. doi: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2004.00526.x.

The global burden of asthma: executive summary of the GINA Dissemination 
Committee report.

Masoli M, Fabian D, Holt S, Beasley R; Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) 
Program.

Comment in
    Allergy. 2007 Mar;62(3):213-5.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2004.00526.x
PMID: 15080825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2004 Mar;33(1 Suppl):S11-24. doi: 
10.1016/j.gtc.2003.12.003.

Adherence to combination therapy: influence on sustained virologic response and 
economic impact.

Manns MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Endocrinology, Medizinische 
Hochschule Hannover, Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, D-30625 Hannover, Germany. 
manns.michael@mh-hannover.de

The health care burden of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is projected to 
continue to increase over the next two decades, so improving the efficacy of 
anti-HCV therapy has the potential to significantly affect health care 
utilization associated with the disease. Adherence to standard combination 
therapy and maintaining the doses of interferon (IFN) or peginterferon (PEG-IFN) 
and ribavirin (RBV) are now recognized as critical to maximizing a sustained 
virologic response (SVR) rate, particularly in patients infected with genotype 1 
and patients who demonstrate an early virologic response. Early identification 
and management of the treatment-related side effects that are most likely to 
result in dose reductions or discontinuation might also play a role in 
successful adherence to therapy and achieving an SVR, as side effects are the 
primary reason for nonadherance. Educating patients, their family members, and 
their caregivers about the expectations of treatment, side effects, and the 
importance of maintaining doses and completing therapy is essential to 
optimizing adherence. Although patient quality of life (QOL) may decrease during 
treatment, patients achieving an SVR experience an improved QOL. Cohort economic 
modeling studies and available data from recent controlled trials suggest that 
PEG-IFN/RBV therapy increases life expectancy and is cost effective compared 
with standard IFN/RBV, and that the use of treatment management algorithms based 
on early virologic testing can substantially reduce antiviral drug costs and 
further improve the cost effectiveness of therapy, as can increased adherence to 
PEG-IFN/RBV therapy. Further research will be needed to develop optimum and 
cost-effective treatment strategies for the general HCV-infected population, 
particularly patients with comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gtc.2003.12.003
PMID: 15081100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Jun;58(12):2537-43. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.09.025.

Death rates of medical school class presidents.

Redelmeier DA(1), Kwong JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, The Clinical Epidemiology and 
Health Care Research Program, Sunnybrook and Women's College Health Sciences 
Centre, The Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (Ontario), Canada. 
dar@ices.on.ca

Medical professionals often face many competing demands to contribute both to 
the clinical care of patients and to the public health of society. We studied 
the long-term survival of doctors graduating from one medical school over one 
century (n = 1521), comparing those who were presidents of their class to those 
who appeared alphabetically before or alphabetically after the president in the 
graduating class photograph. Statistics on long-term mortality were obtained 
from licensing authorities, medical obituaries, professional associations, 
alumni records, and national physician directories (follow-up 94% complete, 
median follow-up duration = 38 years, total deaths = 220). We found that most 
graduates were male (88%), white (93%), and younger than 30 years at time of 
graduation (93%). Presidents more frequently made contributions to society than 
their classmates, as recognized by professional alumni notices (21.9% vs. 13.3%, 
P < 0.001) and Who's Who directory listings (7% vs. 0.5%, P < 0.001). 
Nonetheless, survival after medical school was 2.4 years shorter for presidents 
than their classmates (49.0 vs. 51.4, P = 0.036). The decrease in 
life-expectancy was unrelated to medical school marks or early career mortality 
and was accentuated after adjustments for birth year, gender, race, and 
specialization (P = 0.001 ). We suggest that the type of medical professional 
who sacrifices themselves for this type of professional prestige may also be the 
type who fails to look after their health or is otherwise prone to early 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.09.025
PMID: 15081203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Jun;58(12):2545-58. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.09.028.

Careers and mortality in France: evidence on how far occupational mobility 
predicts differentiated risks.

Cambois E(1).

Author information:
(1)INED, Paris, France. cambois@ined.fr

This new study goes beyond the well-established correlation between mortality 
differentials and occupational status, to focus on the impact of professional 
careers on mortality risk. It shows heterogeneity in the mortality risks within 
occupational classes, strongly related to the type of occupational moves 
experienced. The occupational data are taken from the French longitudinal census 
sample-using 1968 and 1975 census records-and mortality risks are estimated over 
the 1975-1980 period, for both occupational classes and pathways between 
classes. Results show a close relationship between occupational mobility and 
mortality. For men, favorable occupational moves-e.g. from clerks to upper 
class-put them less at risk of mortality than their counterparts who remained in 
their class. An inverse relationship is found for unfavorable moves. In most 
cases, the mortality risks of the movers are in between the risks in the class 
left and in the class joined. Similar patterns apply to specific groups of women 
only (upper classes, manual workers, clerks) for which occupational moves are 
probably driven, as for most men, by mortality related determinants (level of 
education, qualifications, health, etc.). The findings strongly support the use 
of a dynamic approach, based on individuals' experiences, to improve our 
understanding of mortality differentials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2003.09.028
PMID: 15081204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Exp Neurol. 2004 May;187(1):137-49. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.01.003.

Environmental, pharmacological, and genetic modulation of the HD phenotype in 
transgenic mice.

Schilling G(1), Savonenko AV, Coonfield ML, Morton JL, Vorovich E, Gale A, 
Neslon C, Chan N, Eaton M, Fromholt D, Ross CA, Borchelt DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21205-2196, USA. gschill1@jhem.jhmi.edu

The HD-N171-82Q (line 81) mouse model of Huntington's disease (HD), expresses an 
N-terminal fragment of mutant huntingtin (htt), loses motor function, displays 
HD-related pathological features, and dies prematurely. In the present study, we 
compare the efficacy with which environmental, pharmacological, and genetic 
interventions ameliorate these abnormalities. As previously reported for the 
R6/2 mouse model of HD, housing mice in enriched environments improved the motor 
skills of N171-82Q mice. However, life expectancy was not prolonged. Significant 
improvements in motor function, without prolonging survival, were also observed 
in N171-82Q mice treated with Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10, an energy metabolism 
enhancer). Several compounds were not effective in either improving motor skills 
or prolonging life, including Remacemide (a glutamate antagonist), Celecoxib (a 
COX-2 inhibitor), and Chlorpromazine (a prion inhibitor); Celecoxib dramatically 
shortened life expectancy. We also tested whether raising cellular antioxidant 
capacity by co-expressing high levels of wild-type human Cu/Zn superoxide 
dismutase 1 (SOD1) was beneficial. However, no improvement in motor performance 
or life expectancy was observed. Although we would argue that positive outcomes 
in mice carry far greater weight than negative outcomes, we suggest that caution 
may be warranted in testing Celecoxib in HD patients. The positive outcomes 
achieved by CoQ10 therapy and environmental stimuli point toward two potentially 
therapeutic approaches that should be readily accessible to HD patients and 
at-risk family members.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.01.003
PMID: 15081595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Int Fam Plan Perspect. 2004 Mar;30(1):12-9. doi: 10.1363/3001204.

Compression of women's reproductive spans in Andhra Pradesh, India.

Padmadas SS(1), Hutter I, Willekens F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Social Statistics and Southampton Statistical Sciences Research 
Institute, University of Southampton, UK. ssp@socsci.soton.ac.uk

CONTEXT: The total fertility rate in Andhra Pradesh, India, has recently 
decreased to near-replacement level; however, the reasons for the fertility 
decline are unknown.
METHODS: Data from the second round of the National Family Health Survey were 
used to examine the reproductive span-the duration between first marriage and 
menopause or sterilization-among 4,032 ever-married women aged 15-49 living in 
Andhra Pradesh in 1998-1999.
RESULTS: Between 1992-1993 and 1998-1999, the median age at which women married 
remained at 15.1, whereas the age at which they adopted sterilization decreased 
from 24.5 to 23.6. In life-table analyses, reproductive spans of successive 
cohorts of women decreased-from 22 years among those who married during the 
1960s to 15 years among those who married in the 1970s, 10 years among those who 
married in the 1980s and five years among those who married in 1990-1996. 
Proportional hazards regression analyses that controlled for demographic and 
social characteristics, as well as reproductive attitudes, confirmed this cohort 
effect (hazard ratios, 1.5-2.6).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that women are making the decision to end 
childbearing faster than older generations did. The gradual compression in 
reproductive spans is attributable mainly to sterilization acceptance among 
younger women.

DOI: 10.1363/3001204
PMID: 15082412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Int J Epidemiol. 2004 Apr;33(2):311-7. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyh035.

Population health and income inequality: new evidence from Israeli time-series 
analysis.

Shmueli A(1).

Author information:
(1)The Hebrew University and the Gertner Institute, Jerusalem, Israel. 
ashmeuli@md2.huji.ac.il

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2004 Apr;33(2):318-9.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The relationship between population health and 
inequality in income distribution has attracted much attention during the last 
two decades. The purpose of this paper is to examine that relationship using 
Israeli time-series data, and considering three types of income: economic, 
pre-tax, and disposable.
METHODS: Israeli time series (1979-2000) on life expectancy of men and women at 
birth and at ages 5 and 65, as well as infant mortality, were related to Gini 
coefficients measuring inequality in economic, pre-tax (after transfers) and 
disposable (after taxes) incomes, controlling for gross domestic product (GDP) 
per capita. This design allows for the estimation of the effects on population 
health of changes in income inequalities over time as well as of contemporaneous 
reduction in inequality due to transfers and taxes.
RESULTS: None of the three income inequality measures by itself had an effect 
over time on population health. However, larger contemporaneous reductions in 
inequality, mainly through the transfers system, were associated with better 
population health, in particular with lower infant mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: A significant part of the temporal improvement in the health of the 
Israeli population has been due to the increasing effort to reduce inequality in 
economic income by increasing transfer payments. The results are generally 
inconsistent with the argument of adverse psychosocial effects of inequality on 
health, and are consistent with inequality being related to other harmful public 
goods affecting health and with Rodgers' argument.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyh035
PMID: 15082632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Int J Epidemiol. 2004 Apr;33(2):318-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyh108.

Commentary: the contingencies of income inequality and health: reflections on 
the Canadian Experience.

Ross NA(1), Lynch J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, McGill University, 805 Sherbrooke St West, Montreal 
QC, H3A 2K6, Canada. nancy.ross@mcgill.ca

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2004 Apr;33(2):311-7.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyh108
PMID: 15082633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Int J Epidemiol. 2004 Apr;33(2):320-7. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyh009.

Bridging the gap in life expectancy of the aborigines in Taiwan.

Wen CP(1), Tsai SP, Shih YT, Chung WS.

Author information:
(1)National Health Research Institutes, Division of Health Policy Research, 
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.

BACKGROUND: Similar to the general population in Taiwan, the health of 
aborigines has steadily improved over the last 30 years, but the gap remains 
wide, especially in males, despite an infusion of substantial medical resources. 
The objectives of this study are to quantify the contribution of major causes of 
death to the gap in life expectancy and to propose initiatives to bridge the 
health gap between aborigines and the general population.
METHODS: This study included residents (slightly over 200000) from 30 
'aboriginal townships' in Taiwan. The gap in life expectancy between aborigines 
and the general population was analysed by decomposing these gaps according to 
major causes of deaths. This analysis quantifies the contribution of different 
causes of deaths to the gap in life expectancy between the two populations.
RESULTS: The overall mortality of aborigines in these townships was 
approximately 70% higher than the respective male and female general populations 
over the past 30 years. Mortality from infectious disease, cirrhosis of the 
liver, accidents, and suicide are substantially higher than the general 
population. The gap in life expectancy at birth in males was 8.5 years during 
1971-1973, increasing to 13.5 years by 1998-2000, however, the gap in females 
remained relatively stable (8.0 years and 8.4 years, respectively). Of the 
13.5-year difference in life expectancy in males, the differential mortality 
from diseases of the digestive system (mainly due to cirrhosis of the liver), 
accidents (from both motor vehicle and non-motor vehicle accidents), and 
infectious and parasitic disease contributed half (50%) of the gap in life 
expectancy. In females, the above primarily preventable causes of deaths 
accounted for 41% of the life expectancy gap.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings of this study, we suggest that future focus 
should be in the area of primary prevention in order to reduce the incidence of 
infectious and parasitic diseases, liver cirrhosis, and accidents.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyh009
PMID: 15082634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. J Med Ethics. 2004 Apr;30(2):207-11. doi: 10.1136/jme.2003.003681.

Medical decision making in scarcity situations.

van Delden JJ(1), Vrakking AM, van der Heide A, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, Netherlands. 
jjmvandelden@jc.azu.nl

The issue of the allocation of resources in health care is here to stay. The 
goal of this study was to explore the views of physicians on several topics that 
have arisen in the debate on the allocation of scarce resources and to compare 
these with the views of policy makers. We asked physicians (oncologists, 
cardiologists, and nursing home physicians) and policy makers to participate in 
an interview about their practices and opinions concerning factors playing a 
