

776. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 May;88(5):658-61. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2003.029926.

Low first postoperative day intraocular pressure as a positive prognostic 
indicator in deep sclerectomy.

Shaarawy T(1), Flammer J, Smits G, Mermoud A.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Hospital, University of Basel, Switzerland. 
sharawy@glaucoma-surgery.com

AIM: To study the possibility of using intraocular pressure (IOP) in the first 
postoperative day after sclerectomy as a prognostic indicator.
METHODS: Non-randomised prospective trial involving 105 eyes of 105 patients 
with medically uncontrolled primary and secondary open angle glaucoma. Visual 
acuity, IOP, and slit lamp examinations were performed before and after surgery 
at 1 and 7 days, and 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48, 54, 60, and 66 months. 
Visual field examinations were repeated every 6 months. A split point on day 1 
IOP of less than or equal to 5 mm Hg (61%) versus more than 5 mm Hg (39%) was 
used. The first postoperative day IOP was examined in relation to the need for 
subsequent Nd:YAG goniopuncture, the subsequent use of postoperative 
antiglaucoma medications, and as a stratification variable in the Kaplan-Meier 
analyses.
RESULTS: The mean follow up was 43.2 (SD 14.3) months. The mean preoperative IOP 
was 26.8 (SD 7.7) mm Hg; the mean postoperative IOP was 5.1 (3.3) mm Hg at day 1 
and 11.8 (3.1) mm Hg at month 60. Patients with IOP </=5 mm Hg had significantly 
fewer Nd:YAG goniopunctures (p = 0.0478). A significant (log rank test 0.0122) 
improvement for those with IOP </=5 mm Hg in terms of survival was detected 
using the most stringent criterion (IOP </=15 mm Hg with no medications). For 
patients with first postoperative day IOP </=5 mm Hg, the median time to failure 
was 24 months (95% CI: 12 to 30), but for those with an IOP >5 mm Hg, the median 
time to failure was only 6 months (CI 2 to 9). No significant difference in 
postoperative antiglaucoma medications was observed.
CONCLUSION: First postoperative day IOP can be considered to be a significant 
prognostic indicator in deep sclerectomy.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2003.029926
PMCID: PMC1772153
PMID: 15090419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Environ Pollut. 1989;60(1-2):29-45. doi: 10.1016/0269-7491(89)90218-2.

Survival, growth and reproduction of Daphnia carinata (Crustacea: Cladocera) 
exposed to chronic cadmium stress at different food (Chlorella) levels.

Chandini T(1).

Author information:
(1)Ecology Laboratory, Department of Zoology, University of Delhi, Delhi 110 
007, India.

In nature, organisms have to respond to a diversity of factors acting 
simultaneously. The present investigation was conducted to study whether changes 
in food (Chlorella) levels could modify the chronic toxicity of cadmium on the 
various life-history parameters, such as survivorship, longevity, life 
expectancy, fecundity, age at first reproduction, R(0), T, r and growth rates of 
the cladoceran Daphnia carinata. The study indicated that at low food levels 
(0.5 x 10(6) cells ml(-1) Chlorella), cadmium concentrations in the range of 
27-162 microg litre(-1) reduced these life-history parameters by 50% (EC(50)). 
At medium food levels (1.5 x 10(6) ml(-1) Chlorella) the EC(50) of cadmium was 
in the range of 51-127 microg litre(-1). At high food levels (4.5 x 10(6) cells 
ml(-1) Chlorella), the toxic effect of cadmium was greatly reduced. The 
decreases in survival, growth and reproduction of D. carinata at high 
cadmium-low food levels affected the fitness parameter 'r'. The study emphasises 
the need to include reproductive parameters other than mere survival in toxicity 
bioassays. The study also stresses the need to incorporate in laboratory tests 
other relevant factors that might modify pollutant toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/0269-7491(89)90218-2
PMID: 15092388


778. Environ Pollut. 1988;54(2):139-54. doi: 10.1016/0269-7491(88)90143-1.

Effects of different food (Chlorella) concentrations on the chronic toxicity of 
cadmium to survivorship, growth and reproduction of Echinisca triserialis 
(Crustacea: Cladocera).

Chandini T(1).

Author information:
(1)Ecology Laboratory, Department of Zoology, University of Delhi, Delhi 110 
007, India.

Extraneous factors have been shown to greatly modify pollutant stress. The 
present study was conducted with the objective of determining whether 
differences in food levels could modify chronic toxicity of cadmium to the 
various life-history parameters of the cladoceran Echinisca triserialis. 
Laboratory experiments were conducted on a sublethal range of cadmium (0, 2.5, 
5.0, 10 and 20 microg litre(-1)) on life-history parameters such as 
survivorship, longevity, life expectancy, age at first reproduction, total 
fecundity, neonate size, net reproductive rate (R0), generation time (T), 
intrinsic rate of natural increase (r) and growth of Echinisca triserialis in 
relation to different food (Chlorella) levels of 0.5 (low), 1.5 (medium) and 4.5 
(high) x 10(6) cells ml(-1). Cadmium levels of 10 microg litre(-1) and above, 
and low food levels, had a profound effect in decreasing the magnitude of all 
parameters studied. EC50 levels computed for life-history parameters, such as 
longevity, life expectancy at birth, total fecundity, R0 and T, were in the 
range of 2 to 21 microg litre(-1) cadmium, and this is indicative of extreme 
adverse effects on the population dynamics of E. triserialis when exposed to low 
food levels. At high food levels the EC50 was not achieved for cadmium in the 
toxicant range studied. The significance of these results is discussed in 
relation to field conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/0269-7491(88)90143-1
PMID: 15092530


779. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2004 May 5;804(1):61-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2004.02.012.

Separation and screening of compounds of biological origin using molecularly 
imprinted polymers.

Xu X(1), Zhu L, Chen L.

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 
100871, China. xiaojxu@chem.pku.edu.cn

Molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) represent a new class of materials 
possessing high selectivity and affinity for the target molecule. Since their 
discovery in 1972, molecularly imprinted polymers have attracted considerable 
interest from bio- and chemical laboratories to pharmaceutical institutes. They 
have been utilized as sensors, catalysts, sorbents for solid-phase extraction, 
stationary phase for liquid chromatography, mimics of enzymes, receptors and 
antibodies. Among which, the application of molecularly imprinted polymers for 
molecular recognition-based separation and screening of compounds has undergone 
rapid extension and received much attention in recent years. This article mainly 
focuses on the separation and screening of certain pharmacophoric compounds of 
interests from biological origin using molecular imprinting technology. Examples 
of extraction and recognition of active components as anti-tumors or 
anti-Hepatitis C virus inhibitors from Chinese traditional herbs using 
molecularly imprinting technology are particularized in this article. Comparison 
between the screening effect based on MIPs and that based on antibodies is also 
represented. Consequently the merits and demerits of these two technologies are 
highlighted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2004.02.012
PMID: 15093160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Eur J Cancer. 2004 May;40(7):1013-20. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2004.01.018.

Quality of life after brachytherapy in patients with glioblastoma multiforme.

Koot RW(1), de Heer K, Oort FJ, Hulshof MC, Bosch DA, de Haes JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Academic Medical Centre, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. r.w.koot@amc.uva.nl

As quality of life (QoL) is perhaps the most important outcome for patients 
treated for glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), we measured QoL in GBM patients after 
brachytherapy. QoL was assessed by questionnaires for both patients and partners 
before brachytherapy and at various times during follow-up in 21 GBM patients by 
an extension of the Rotterdam Symptom Checklist (e-RSCL), consisting of four 
subscales. The Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) was also measured. Analysis of 
variance was done to evaluate the direct effect of brachytherapy (visit 1-2, 
short-term) and during follow up (visit 1-4, longer-term). Significant 
short-term effects were found for two subscales of the e-RSCL. Longer-term 
effects were found for all four subscales and for the KPS. A high correlation 
between partner and patient's QoL assessment was found. QoL in GBM patients 
after brachytherapy can therefore be carefully monitored with a subjective 
instrument such as the e-RSCL. Patients and partners experience QoL equally.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2004.01.018
PMID: 15093576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Am J Med. 2004 May 1;116(9):606-12. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.12.025.

Willingness of patients to switch from conventional to daily hemodialysis: 
looking before we leap.

Halpern SD(1), Berns JS, Israni AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the willingness of patients with end-stage renal disease to 
switch from conventional hemodialysis to short daily hemodialysis, and to 
determine what health benefits clinical trials of daily hemodialysis would have 
to document for patients to switch regimens.
METHODS: We studied all patients receiving conventional hemodialysis (defined as 
three times per week) at three dialysis centers in Philadelphia during a 4-month 
period. Patients indicated their willingness to switch to daily hemodialysis 
(defined as six 2- to 3-hour in-center treatments per week) in each of 21 
scenarios presented via an interactive computer display. We used conjoint 
analysis to determine how patients' decisions were influenced by four attributes 
of daily hemodialysis: predicted life expectancy, quality of life, number of 
annual hospitalizations, and weekly transportation time to and from the dialysis 
center.
RESULTS: Of 126 patients interviewed, 55 (44%) would not choose daily 
hemodialysis regardless of its health benefits. The remaining 71 patients (56%) 
indicated that they would consider switching if daily hemodialysis was shown to 
yield certain health benefits. Patients were more willing to switch to daily 
hemodialysis as the associated life expectancy and average quality of life 
increased, and as the number of annual hospitalizations and weekly 
transportation time decreased (all P <0.001).
CONCLUSION: Although daily hemodialysis has received broad support from 
nephrologists, funding agencies, and lawmakers as the emerging standard of care 
for patients with end-stage renal disease, upcoming clinical trials would have 
to document substantial health benefits in order for patients to switch to daily 
hemodialysis, and many patients may still decline this regimen regardless of the 
documented benefits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.12.025
PMID: 15093757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Am J Med. 2004 May 1;116(9):621-9. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.09.050.

Effects of rofecoxib and naproxen on life expectancy among patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis: a decision analysis.

Choi HK(1), Seeger JD, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
hchoi@partners.org

BACKGROUND: The VIOXX Gastrointestinal Outcomes Research (VIGOR) trial showed a 
53% decrease in the risk of upper gastrointestinal toxicity and a fivefold 
increase in the risk of myocardial infarction for rofecoxib (a selective 
cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor) compared with naproxen. We examined the effects of 
these competing adverse events on life expectancy in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis.
METHODS: We used decision analysis to compare the life expectancy of a cohort of 
rheumatoid arthritis patients taking naproxen versus a similar cohort taking 
rofecoxib, using data from the VIGOR trial. We incorporated the competing risks 
of upper gastrointestinal toxicity and myocardial infarction, as well as their 
long-term health consequences, on the basis of population-based studies.
RESULTS: For 58-year-old women with rheumatoid arthritis (i.e., typical of 
participants in the VIGOR trial), naproxen was associated with a longer life 
expectancy than was rofecoxib (difference = 4.4 months). This difference was 
larger among 58-year-old men (7.8 months). The probability that naproxen is 
associated with a longer life expectancy than rofecoxib among 58-year-old 
patients was 92% for women and 98% for men. Life expectancy became the same 
between the two treatments when the risk of upper gastrointestinal toxicity was 
70% higher or the risk of myocardial infarction was 40% lower than that of the 
base case among women, and when the risk of upper gastrointestinal toxicity was 
4.4-fold higher or the risk of myocardial infarction was 70% lower among men.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis suggests that the competing risks of upper 
gastrointestinal toxicity and myocardial infarction shown in the VIGOR trial 
would project a longer life expectancy with naproxen than rofecoxib among 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis, except in those at low risk of myocardial 
infarction or at high risk of upper gastrointestinal toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.09.050
PMID: 15093759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2004 May;23(5 Suppl):S202-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2004.03.008.

Calcineurin inhibitors in heart transplantation.

Keogh A(1).

Author information:
(1)Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute and Heart Lung Transplant Unit, St. 
Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst, New South Wales, Australia. 
amkeogh@stvincents.com.au

The use of calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs; cyclosporine and tacrolimus) has 
dramatically increased medium-term life expectancy after heart transplantation 
but has had only limited impact on long-term outcomes for heart transplant 
recipients. The original oil-based formulation of cyclosporine has been 
superceded by a microemulsion formulation (Neoral), which has more predictable 
pharmacokinetics and allows more precise dose-tailoring. Cyclosporine 
microemulsion and tacrolimus (Prograf) have a similar efficacy in the prevention 
of acute rejection of heart transplants, but their use is accompanied by 
nephrotoxicity and by cardiovascular side effects. The efficacy of 
immunosuppression can be improved by adjunctive therapy, such as azathioprine, 
mycophenolate mofetil (MMF; Cellcept), corticosteroids, and induction therapy. 
One of the most important predictors of patient mortality at >5 years after 
heart transplantation is cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV)/late graft 
failure, which accounts for 31% of deaths. Neither cyclosporine nor tacrolimus 
have been shown to prevent the development of CAV. In terms of efficacy, MMF 
provides a modest advantage over azathioprine in preventing CAV, and the 
combination of cyclosporine plus MMF results in significantly lower mortality 
than cyclosporine plus azathioprine. Overall, CNIs have multiple cardiovascular 
side effects, such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia and new-onset diabetes after 
transplantation, although cyclosporine and tacrolimus have somewhat different 
cardiovascular side-effect profiles. The challenge in choosing the best 
immunosuppressive regimen is to balance efficacy and safety to optimize graft 
and patient survival over the course of many decades. Because cyclosporine and 
tacrolimus have similar efficacy against acute rejection the choice of CNI for 
heart transplant recipients should be based on the relative risk of 
cardiovascular and renal side effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2004.03.008
PMID: 15093806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2004 Apr;50(1):71-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2003.11.001.

Update on screening for prostate cancer with prostate-specific antigen.

Schmid HP(1), Riesen W, Prikler L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kantonsspital, CH-9007 St. Gallen, Switzerland. 
hans-peter.schmid@kssg.ch

Serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) determination in conjunction with digital 
rectal examination (DRE) is recommended by the majority of clinical guidelines 
for early detection(opportunistic screening) of prostate cancer provided the 
patient is well informed and has a life-expectancy of at least 10 years. The 
major disadvantage of PSA is its lack of specificity. Various static and dynamic 
concepts have been developed to improve the diagnostic performance of PSA of 
which free/total PSA ratio and PSA doubling time seem to be the most promising. 
Apart from early detection, population screening(mass screening) is a distinct 
topic. The effect of the latter one with regard to reduction of prostate cancer 
specific mortality and quality of life issues is not yet clear. Several national 
and international prospective trials are currently being conducted to answer 
these important questions but results will only be available in a few years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2003.11.001
PMID: 15094160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Fortune. 2004 Apr 19;149(8):130-2, 134-6.

Chasing the youth pill.

Stipp D.

PMID: 15095504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Fortune. 2004 Apr 19;149(8):134-5.

All this talk about aging had me wondering: how old am I really?

Armour LA.

PMID: 15095505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Fortune. 2004 Apr 19;149(8):138.

Caloric restriction. Extreme makeover. Eating like a bird may extend your life. 
But is it worth it?

David G.

PMID: 15095506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 2004 Feb;124(2):97-100.

[Protein and calcium consumption, and bone growth].

[Article in French]

Chevalley T(1), Bonjour JP, Rizzoli R.

Author information:
(1)Service des maladies osseuses Centre collaborateur de l'OMS pour la 
prévention de l'ostéoporose Département de réhabilitation et gériatrie HUG. 
Thierry.Chevalley@hcuge.ch

Osteoporosis is a major public health problem with an increase of its prevalence 
with age and growing consequences because of the increase of life expectancy. 
Peak bone mass, which corresponds to the amount of bony tissue present at the 
end of skeletal maturation, is a major determinant of the risk of fractures, 
such as those observed at the radial, vertebral, or femoral sites in 
osteoporotic patients. Therefore, strategies of primary prevention of 
osteoporosis and associated fractures consist in increasing bone mass 
acquisition during skeletal growth. Some nutrients such as calcium and proteins 
may influence positively the trajectory of bone mass acquisition and therefore 
increase peak bone mass.

PMID: 15095623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 2003 Nov;123(11):665-9.

[Screening and prevention in the elderly: which interventions should be 
proposed, to whom, and up to what age?].

[Article in French]

Seematter-Bagnoud L(1), Cornuz J, Büla C.

Author information:
(1)Division de Gériatrie et Réadaptation Gériatrique, CUTR Sylvana, CHUV, 
Institut Universitaire de Médecine Sociale et Préventive, Lausanne.

Recommendations on preventive services rarely mention how to apply them to older 
people. Even though general criteria (prevalence of disease, quality of 
screening tests) that influence screening's efficacy remain important, 
appropriateness of screening in older persons depends much more on individual 
criteria, such as comorbidity, functional status, and life expectancy. More than 
with any other age group, patients preferences regarding future investigation 
and treatment guide the clinical decision. This article focuses on primary and 
secondary prevention, and discusses specific criteria to consider in each 
patient. A table summarizes the appropriate recommendations.

PMID: 15095630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 2003 Mar;123(3):191-4.

[Localized cancer of the prostate: which treatment should be chosen?].

[Article in French]

Jayet C(1), Leisinger HJ.

Author information:
(1)Kantonsspital Basel Urologische Klinik Spitalstrasse 21, 4031 Basel. 
jayetc@uhbs.ch

Prostate cancer is a frequent tumor. Nowadays, its diagnosis is often 
established when the tumor is localized, and curative treatment can be proposed 
to the patients. Systematic screening studies are under way. Although their 
conclusions are not yet known, some clues seem to show that early diagnosis and 
treatment may increase specific prostate cancer survival. Every patient over 50 
years old and with a life expectancy of at least 10 years should benefit from a 
prostate specific antigen (PSA) blood testing and from a prostate rectal 
palpation every year. This paper reviews oncological and functional results of 
the established curative treatments of localized prostate cancer, namely radical 
prostatectomy, external beam radiation, and brachytherapy.

PMID: 15095706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2003 Fall;19(4):731-7. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462303000710.

Cost-effectiveness of adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen in the treatment of diabetic 
ulcers.

Guo S(1), Counte MA, Gillespie KN, Schmitz H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health, Saint 
Louis University, MO 63104, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study estimates the cost-effectiveness (CE) of the adjunctive 
use of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO2) therapy in the treatment of diabetic ulcers 
based on the payer's and societal perspectives.
METHODS: The study population was a hypothetical cohort of 1,000 patients sixty 
years of age with severe diabetic foot ulcers. A decision tree model was 
constructed to estimate the CE of HBO2 therapy in the treatment of diabetic 
ulcers at years 1, 5, and 12. Scenario and one-way sensitivity analyses were 
also undertaken to identify parameters that may significantly influence the 
estimates.
RESULTS: The CE model estimated that the incremental cost per additional 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained at years 1, 5, and 12, was dollar 
27,310, dollar 5,166, and dollar 2,255, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The study results indicate that HBO2 therapy in the treatment of 
diabetic ulcers is cost-effective, particularly based on a long-term 
perspective. However, the results are limited by the clinical studies that 
provide the basis of the CE estimation.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462303000710
PMID: 15095781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2004 Apr;23(4):982-9. doi: 10.1897/03-150.

Elk exposure to arsenic in geothermal watersheds of Yellowstone National Park, 
USA.

Kocar BD(1), Garrott RA, Inskeep WP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geological and Environmental Sciences, Stanford University, 
Palo Alto, California 94305, USA.

Geothermal activity in Yellowstone National Park (WY, USA) (YNP) results in 
elevated levels of arsenic in surface waters, aquatic vegetation, and sediments 
in the Upper Madison River Basin. This study was conducted to determine 
concentrations of arsenic in the tissues, feces, and rumen contents of elk 
(Cervus elaphus) residing in the Madison-Firehole (MF) River basin, and to 
evaluate potential arsenic exposure pathways. Concentrations of total arsenic in 
MF elk were significantly higher than in control elk populations, and analysis 
of arsenic in surface waters, elk forage, sediments, and soils suggests that the 
predominant arsenic exposure pathways are forage species found in aquatic and 
riparian habitats. Analysis of arsenic species in selected plant and elk samples 
indicated that the ingested forms of arsenic are predominantly inorganic, while 
the appearance of dimethylarsonate in elk rumen and feces suggests that arsenic 
is subject to methylation reactions after ingestion, potentially contributing to 
arsenic detoxification. Arsenic:creatinine ratios of elk urine samples analyzed 
across three different winters increased during winter progression and were 
correlated with total snow water equivalent as an index of winter severity. 
Exposure to arsenic and other trace elements (fluorine) may contribute to the 
previously observed decreased life expectancy of MF elk relative to control 
populations.

DOI: 10.1897/03-150
PMID: 15095895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Retina. 2004 Apr;24(2):254-62. doi: 10.1097/00006982-200404000-00011.

Clinical phenotype as a prognostic factor in Stargardt disease.

Oh KT(1), Weleber RG, Oh DM, Billingslea AM, Rosenow J, Stone EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, 
USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the prognostic significance of widespread flecks, 
described as fundus flavimaculatus, in patients with Stargardt disease.
DESIGN: Historical cohort study.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Patients with Stargardt disease were identified by 
searching preexisting databases at the University of Iowa and Oregon Health 
Sciences University. The medical records of these patients were evaluated for 
the validity of the diagnosis, initial and final visual acuity, length of 
follow-up, and initial and final phenotype. Phenotype was graded as I, II, or 
III on the basis of the distribution of flecks and the extent of atrophy. The 
relationship between final visual acuity and final clinical appearance 
(phenotype I versus II versus III) was evaluated controlling for length of 
follow-up and age using a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. The clinical progression 
of visual acuity loss for each phenotype was analyzed using life tables and 
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis for age and length of follow-up effects.
RESULTS: A total of 214 patients were confirmed to have Stargardt disease; 131 
patients were seen at multiple visits. Eighty-two patients were identified with 
phenotype I, 62 with phenotype II, and 70 with phenotype III. The final visual 
outcome was significantly better for patients whose ophthalmoscopic 
abnormalities were limited to the macula (phenotype I): 80 of 82 patients with 
phenotype I (97.6%) maintained 20/200 or better visual acuity in at least one 
eye as compared to 40/62 (64.5%) patients with phenotype II and 13/70 (18.6%) 
patients with phenotype III (P < 0.0001). Survival analysis showed a similarly 
significant difference in the survival probabilities (likelihood of maintaining 
20/200 or better vision) for the three phenotypes considered over age and over 
follow-up length (P < 0.0001), with phenotypes II and III demonstrating 
significantly more deterioration in vision over time.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of midperipheral flecks, especially early in life, 
carries a poorer visual prognosis for patients with Stargardt disease than when 
disease is limited to the macula. The development of midperipheral flecks is an 
indicator of more extensive fundus involvement and thus poorer long-term visual 
prognosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00006982-200404000-00011
PMID: 15097887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Nurs Forum. 2004 Jan-Mar;39(1):28-31. doi: 10.1111/j.0029-6473.2004.00028.x.

Nursing care of special populations: issues in caring for elderly people with 
mental retardation.

Fisher K(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, College of Health and Human Development, Pennsylvania 
State University, Hershey, PA, USA.

TOPIC: Changes in the life expectancy of people with mental retardation (MR) and 
its impact on nursing.
PURPOSE: To outline issues associated with health care of an aging MR 
population. Advances in medicine and technology have contributed to gains in 
life expectancy for people with MR. Nurses, therefore, will be providing 
increased care for these individuals in both acute and community settings. 
Nurses and other healthcare providers must be educated concerning the special 
needs of individuals with MR.
SOURCES: Review of CINAHL, MEDLINE, PUBMED, government documents, and policy 
papers from 1993 to 2003.
CONCLUSIONS: Nurses need education and increased exposure to the special 
clinical challenges of caring for individuals with MR. In addition, accessible 
and appropriate community-based services are required to enhance the quality of 
life for people with MR.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0029-6473.2004.00028.x
PMID: 15098323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. J Nurs Scholarsh. 2004;36(1):48-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2004.04010.x.

Health disparities and mental retardation.

Fisher K(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, College of Health and Human Development, Pennsylvania 
State University, 600 Centerview Drive, 1300 ASB/A110, Hershey, PA 17033-0855, 
USA. kmf103@psu.edu

PURPOSE: To identify health care needs and the availability and accessibility of 
health care services for people with mental retardation (MR).
METHODS: Review of the literature on health disparities and mental retardation 
was performed using MEDLINE, PubMed, the Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied 
Health Literature (CINAHL), and PsycInfo from 1992 to 2002.
FINDINGS: Deficiencies in care identified in the literature included general 
health screening and care for physical symptoms, mental health, women's care, 
dental services, health maintenance, and prevention.
CONCLUSIONS: Disparities in health care place people with MR at high risk for 
morbidity and premature mortality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2004.04010.x
PMID: 15098418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(6):375-87. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200422060-00004.

Measuring treatment preferences and willingness to pay for docetaxel in advanced 
ovarian cancer.

Dranitsaris G(1), Elia-Pacitti J, Cottrell W.

Author information:
(1)Augmentium Pharma Consulting, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. george@augmentium.com

BACKGROUND: Docetaxel is an equally active alternative to paclitaxel in advanced 
ovarian cancer but has a different adverse effect profile. Whilst paclitaxel is 
associated with less haematological toxicity, such as febrile neutropenia and 
anaemia, docetaxel causes less sensory and motor neuropathy.
OBJECTIVE: To measure the economic value and preference scores for docetaxel as 
an alternative to paclitaxel in patients with advanced ovarian cancer.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A cost-benefit analysis using a consumer-based 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) approach was conducted. The study population consisted 
of a patient surrogate sample comprised of 80 oncology pharmacists and nurses 
from eight Canadian provinces. Background information on ovarian cancer was 
provided including its current management, and differences in adverse effects 
between docetaxel and paclitaxel. Respondents were then asked what their 
preferred product would be if they were diagnosed with ovarian cancer and how 
much they would be willing to pay per cycle for six cycles in the form of a 
co-payment (i.e. user's fee) for the product of their choice. The maximum 
willingness to pay for docetaxel was then compared against the incremental cost 
(acquisition and administration) of the drug.
STUDY PERSPECTIVE: Canadian healthcare system perspective.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: The WTP survey instrument was simple to 
administer and easily understood by participants. Respondents ranked motor 
neuropathy as being the most unpleasant adverse effect of treatment. Of the 
sample, 63.8% preferred to use docetaxel instead of paclitaxel (p = 0.075). The 
patient surrogate sample was willing to pay a mean of 64 Canadian dollars 
(dollars Can; 2003 values) [95% CI dollars Can33, dollars Can92] per cycle for 
the benefits offered by docetaxel as an alternative to paclitaxel. This estimate 
was marginally lower than the incremental cost of dollars Can87 per cycle of 
docetaxel.
CONCLUSION: A substantial portion of Canadian patients with ovarian cancer would 
likely prefer to be treated with docetaxel instead of paclitaxel for the 
management of their disease and would be willing to pay a portion of the 
incremental cost. Therefore, both options should be offered to patients, and 
selection of treatment can be based on reducing the risk of the toxicity that 
concerns the patient the most.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422060-00004
PMID: 15099123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Pain Med. 2002 Dec;3(4):313-23. doi: 10.1046/j.1526-4637.2002.02055.x.

Management of intrathecal catheter-tip inflammatory masses: a consensus 
statement.

Hassenbusch S(1), Burchiel K, Coffey RJ, Cousins MJ, Deer T, Hahn MB, Pen SD, 
Follett KA, Krames E, Rogers JN, Sagher O, Staats PS, Wallace M, Willis KD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. samuel@neosoft.com

OBJECTIVES: In a companion article, we synthesized current clinical and 
preclinical data to formulate hypotheses about the etiology of drug 
administration catheter-tip inflammatory masses. In this article, we communicate 
our recommendations for the detection, treatment, mitigation, and prevention of 
such masses.
METHODS: We reviewed published and unpublished case reports and our own 
experiences to find methods to diagnose and treat catheter-tip inflammatory 
masses in a manner that minimized adverse neurological sequelae. We also 
formulated hypotheses about theoretical ways to mitigate, and possibly, prevent 
the formation of such masses.
RESULTS: Human cases have occurred only in patients with chronic pain who 
received intrathecal opioid drugs, alone or mixed with other drugs, or in 
patients who received agents that were not labeled for long-term intrathecal 
use. Most patients had noncancer pain owing to their large representation among 
the population with implanted pumps. Such patients also had a longer life 
expectancy and exposure to intrathecal drugs, and they received higher daily 
doses than patients with cancer pain. Clues to diagnosis included the loss of 
analgesic drug effects accompanied by new, gradually progressive neurological 
symptoms and signs. When a mass was diagnosed before it filled the spinal canal 
or before it caused severe neurological symptoms, open surgery to remove the 
mass often was not required. Anecdotal reports and the authors' experiences 
suggest that cessation of drug administration through the affected catheter was 
followed by shrinkage or disappearance of the mass over a period of 2-5 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Attentive follow-up and maintenance of an index of suspicion should 
permit timely diagnosis, minimally invasive treatment, and avoidance of 
neurological injury from catheter-tip inflammatory masses. Whenever it is 
feasible, positioning the catheter in the lumbar thecal sac and/or keeping the 
daily intrathecal opioid dose as low as possible for as long possible may 
mitigate the seriousness, and perhaps, reduce the incidence of such inflammatory 
masses.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1526-4637.2002.02055.x
PMID: 15099236


798. Neuromuscul Disord. 2004 May;14(5):297-300. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2004.02.005.

Optimization of power wheelchair control for patients with severe Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy.

Pellegrini N(1), Guillon B, Prigent H, Pellegrini M, Orlikovski D, Raphael JC, 
Lofaso F.

Author information:
(1)Medical ICU and Physiology-Functional Testing Unit, Garches Institute and 
Technological Innovation Center, Raymond Poincaré Teaching Hospital, AP-HP, 
92380 Garches, France.

The extended survival of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) 
achieved by the introduction of mechanical ventilation is raising new 
quality-of-life issues. We evaluated passive range of wrist extension, key pinch 
strength, and power wheelchair driving in 84 patients. The 47 drivers with 
restricted driving abilities were older than the 37 unrestricted drivers 
(27.2+/-5.0 y vs. 22.8+/-3.8 y) and had worse upper limb performance. By 
multiple logistic regression, only key pinch was significant ( R(2) = 0.224, P = 
0.02. Eighteen restricted drivers were reassessed after having swapped a 
conventional joystick for another control system (mini-joystick, isometric 
mini-joystick, finger joystick, or pad) and having moved the position of the 
tested control system so that the patient could use it with different fingers, 
his chin or his mouth. All of them regained the ability to drive unrestricted. 
Adults with DMD gradually lose their ability to drive with a conventional 
joystick but can regain unrestricted driving with alternative control systems.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2004.02.005
PMID: 15099587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Gynecol Oncol. 2004 May;93(2):280-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2004.02.013.

Systematic review of management options for women with a hereditary 
predisposition to ovarian cancer.

Rosen B(1), Kwon J, Fung Kee Fung M, Gagliardi A, Chambers A; Cancer Care 
Ontario's Practice Guidelines Initiative Gynecology Cancer Disease Site Group.

Author information:
(1)Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. barry.rosen@uhn.on.ca

Comment in
    Gynecol Oncol. 2004 May;93(2):277-9.

OBJECTIVE: To develop through consensus and literature review management options 
for women with a hereditary predisposition to ovarian cancer, outcomes of 
interest were incidence of ovarian cancer, life expectancy, additional benefits 
of prophylactic oophorectomy, complications of surgery, and alternatives to 
prophylactic oophorectomy.
METHODS: MEDLINE, CANCERLIT, and the Cochrane Library databases were searched to 
September 2003 using the terms ovarian, cancer, neoplasms, prophylactic 
oophorectomy, ovariectomy, clinical trial, metaanalysis, and systematic review.
RESULTS: Four cohort studies (two retrospective, two prospective) examined 
whether prophylactic oophorectomy reduced the lifetime risk of developing 
ovarian cancer. All the cohort studies found that prophylactic oophorectomy 
reduced the lifetime risk of developing ovarian cancer; however, this risk 
reduction was statistically significant in only two cohort studies. The 
complication rate of laparoscopic surgery for prophylactic oophorectomy is low 
(0.22-4.0%). However, there are long-term adverse effects of prophylactic 
oophorectomy, most notably the onset of early menopause.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the evidence from the four cohort studies, prophylactic 
oophorectomy does protect against the development of ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2004.02.013
PMID: 15099934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2004 Apr 21;96(8):604-15. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djh104.

Projected clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of a human papillomavirus 
16/18 vaccine.

Goldie SJ(1), Kohli M, Grima D, Weinstein MC, Wright TC, Bosch FX, Franco E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115-5924, USA. sgoldie@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine may be commercially available in 
a few years. We explored the clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of 
introducing an HPV16/18 vaccine in a population with an organized cervical 
cancer screening program.
METHODS: A computer-based model of the natural history of HPV and cervical 
cancer was used to project cancer incidence and mortality, life expectancy 
(adjusted and unadjusted for quality of life), lifetime costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (i.e., the additional cost of a strategy divided by 
its additional clinical benefit compared with the next most expensive strategy) 
associated with different cancer prevention policies, including vaccination 
(initiated at age 12 years), cytologic screening (initiated at 18, 21, 25, 30, 
or 35 years), and combined vaccination and screening strategies. We assumed that 
vaccination was 90% effective in reducing the risk of persistent HPV16/18 
infections and evaluated alternative assumptions about vaccine efficacy, waning 
immunity, and risk of replacement with non-16/18 HPV types.
RESULTS: Our model showed that the most effective strategy with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of less than 60 dollars-000 per quality-adjusted life 
year is one combining vaccination at age 12 years with triennial conventional 
cytologic screening beginning at age 25 years, compared with the next best 
strategy of vaccination and cytologic screening every 5 years beginning at age 
21 years. This triennial strategy would reduce the absolute lifetime risk of 
cervical cancer by 94% compared with no intervention. These results were 
sensitive to alternative assumptions about the underlying patterns of cervical 
cancer screening, duration of vaccine efficacy, and natural history of HPV 
infection in older women.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model predicts that a vaccine that prevents persistent HPV16/18 
infection will reduce the incidence of HPV16/18-associated cervical cancer, even 
in a setting of cytologic screening. A program of vaccination that permits a 
later age of screening initiation and a less frequent screening interval is 
likely to be a cost-effective use of health care resources.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djh104
PMID: 15100338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2004;(2):21-5.

[Methodological basics of prognosticating the life expectancy of population in 
big cities].

[Article in Russian]

Men' TKh, Zaridze DG.

The reasons of high mortality and of low life expectancy among Russian citizens 
as well as their sharp fluctuations observed in the 90-ies were explained 
differently by researchers, however, no attempt was made to analyze the impact 
made by a huge inflow of immigrant from the republics of the former USSR and 
"close abroad" in any case studies. In this paper we point at the fact that the 
mortality statistics and life expectancy in Moscow were influenced, at least for 
as long as 12 years, by a systemic error, which made the mortality index higher 
and the life expectancy lower, among Muscovites, due to overestimates of the 
absolute number of died Muscovites and to underestimates of the city residents. 
The 2001 life expectancy of men and women in Moscow calculated on the basis of 
data, from which non-residents who died in the capital were deleted, was 64.7 
and 75.0, respectively, but not 61.7 and 73.5 as represented by the official 
statistics. The maximum negative effect of death cases of non-residents exerted 
on the life expectancy coincides with the overall mortality peak value in 
Moscow: life expectancy of Muscovites for 1994 estimated without accounting of 
the mortality rate for non-residents turned out to be 3.2 years higher for men 
and 1.5 years higher for women. Supposedly, the Russian mortality statistics is 
not nation-wide in line with the actual state of affairs. However, the influence 
of the discussed systemic error in Russia's regions can be expected to be less 
pronounced since the level of immigration in Moscow is most probably by far 
higher.

PMID: 15101204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Q Rev Biol. 2004 Mar;79(1):3-50. doi: 10.1086/381662.

Meat-adaptive genes and the evolution of slower aging in humans.

Finch CE(1), Stanford CB.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90089, USA. cefinch@usc.edu

The chimpanzee life span is shorter than that of humans, which is consistent 
with a faster schedule of aging. We consider aspects of diet that may have 
selected for genes that allowed the evolution of longer human life spans with 
slower aging. Diet has changed remarkably during human evolution. All direct 
human ancestors are believed to have been largely herbivorous. Chimpanzees eat 
more meat than other great apes, but in captivity are sensitive to 
hypercholesterolemia and vascular disease. We argue that this dietary shift to 
increased regular consumption of fatty animal tissues in the course of hominid 
evolution was mediated by selection for "meat-adaptive" genes. This selection 
conferred resistance to disease risks associated with meat eating also increased 
life expectancy. One candidate gene is apolipoprotein E (apoE), with the E3 
allele evolved in the genus Homo that reduces the risks for Alzheimer's and 
vascular disease, as well as influencing inflammation, infection, and neuronal 
growth. Other evolved genes mediate lipid metabolism and host defense. The 
timing of the evolution of apoE and other candidates for meat-adaptive genes is 
discussed in relation to key events in human evolution.

DOI: 10.1086/381662
PMID: 15101252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. MMW Fortschr Med. 2003 Mar 27;145(13):37-8.

[Nation-wide program for the prevention of atherosclerosis. Physicians, patients 
and health insurance carriers must all pull together].

[Article in German]

Platzer H(1).

Author information:
(1)Vorstandsvorsitzender der AOK Bayern, München.

PMID: 15101531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2004 Mar-Apr;19(2):247-59.

Long-term survival and success of oral implants in the treatment of full and 
partial arches: a 7-year prospective study with the ITI dental implant system.

Romeo E(1), Lops D, Margutti E, Ghisolfi M, Chiapasco M, Vogel G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Dental Clinic, School of Dentistry, University 
of Milan, Via Beldiletto 1/3, 20142 Milano, Italy. eugenio.romeo@unimi.it

PURPOSE: This study evaluated the long-term survival and success of different 
implant-supported prostheses supported by ITI implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred fifty consecutive patients were rehabilitated 
using implant-supported prostheses. Seven hundred fifty-nine implants were 
loaded. Single-tooth prostheses (n = 106), cantilever fixed partial prostheses 
(n = 42), fixed partial prostheses (n = 137), fixed complete prostheses (n = 5), 
implant/tooth-supported prostheses (n = 13), and overdentures (n = 37) were 
used. The mean follow-up period was 3.85 years. Life table analyses were 
performed. Implant survival rates were calculated by means of standard life 
table principles. Statistical analysis was performed to compare the implant 
survival and success by implant placement site for each type of prosthesis.
RESULTS: The cumulative implant survival rates were calculated for implants 
supporting single-tooth prostheses (95.6%), cantilever fixed partial prostheses 
(94.4%), fixed partial prostheses (96.1%), fixed complete prostheses (100%), 
implant/tooth-connected prostheses (90.6%), and overdentures (95.7%). Similar 
survival and success rates were documented for implants placed in maxillae and 
mandibles. Implant size did not influence survival.
DISCUSSION: Seven-year survival rates were similar for implants supporting 
single-tooth prostheses, cantilever fixed partial prostheses, fixed partial 
prostheses, and implant/tooth-supported prostheses. Medium-long term implant 
survival and success were not influenced by the site (maxilla or mandible). 
Implant and prosthetic survival rates for overdentures supported by 2 implants 
were comparable to those for overdentures supported by 3 or more implants.
CONCLUSION: Prostheses supported by ITI implants represent a reliable 
medium-term treatment. (More than 50 references.)

PMID: 15101597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Natl Med Assoc. 2004 Apr;96(4):468-75.

Application of body mass index principles in a model elementary school: 
implications for overweight and obese children.

Vieweg WV(1), Sood AB, Pandurangi A, Silverman JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, VA, USA. vvieweg@hsc.vcu.edu

The first model elementary school in Richmond, VA formed the study site for this 
project. Changes in this model will lay the groundwork for changes throughout 
the Richmond Public School System. Of the 283 students in grades one through 
five, 66 students (23.3%) were randomly selected. Of the 66 students, 54 (81.8%) 
were black. Each student underwent height and weight measurement. Using the 
Nutstat module of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Epi Info software 
program available at no cost on the Internet, we identified Body Mass Index 
(BMI), BMI percentile for sex and age, and z-score for each student. Z-score 
measurements placed the 19 black male children at the 98.08th percentile for BMI 
(fewer than 2% of U.S. male children were larger). Similarly, the 35 black 
female children's BMI was at the 95.35th percentile (fewer than 5% of U.S. 
female children were larger). Based on data in the literature, the typical black 
male and female elementary child included in our study can expect a significant 
reduction in life expectancy compared with their nonobese counterparts.

PMCID: PMC2595020
PMID: 15101667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Drugs. 2004;64(9):913-36. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200464090-00001.

Glycopeptide antibiotics: from conventional molecules to new derivatives.

Van Bambeke F(1), Van Laethem Y, Courvalin P, Tulkens PM.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Pharmacologie Cellulaire et Moléculaire, Université Catholique de 
Louvain, 73.70 avenue Mounier 73, Brussels 1200, Belgium. 
vanbambeke@facm.ucl.ac.be

Vancomycin and teicoplanin are still the only glycopeptide antibiotics available 
for use in humans. Emergence of resistance in enterococci and staphylococci has 
led to restriction of their use to severe infections caused by Gram-positive 
bacteria for which no other alternative is acceptable (because of resistance or 
allergy). In parallel, considerable efforts have been made to produce 
semisynthetic glycopeptides with improved pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
properties, and with activity towards resistant strains. Several molecules have 
now been obtained, helping to better delineate structure-activity relationships. 
Two are being currently evaluated for skin and soft tissue infections and are in 
phases II/III. The first, oritavancin (LY333328), is the 4'-chlorobiphenylmethyl 
derivative of chloroeremomycin, an analogue to vancomycin. It is characterised 
by: i) a spectrum covering vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE), 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and to some extent 
glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus (GISA); ii) rapid bactericidal activity 
including against the intracellular forms of enterococci and staphylococci; and 
iii) a prolonged half-life, allowing for daily administration. The second 
molecule is dalbavancin (BI397), a derivative of the teicoplanin analogue 
A40926. Dalbavancin has a spectrum of activity similar to that of oritavancin 
against vancomycin-sensitive strains, but is not active against VRE. It can be 
administered once a week, based on its prolonged retention in the organism. 
Despite these remarkable properties, the use of these potent agents should be 
restricted to severe infections, as should the older glycopeptides, with an 
extension towards resistant or poorly sensitive bacteria, to limit the risk of 
potential selection of resistance.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200464090-00001
PMID: 15101783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

