
Okada S(1), Ishimori S, Yamagata S, Satoh S, Yaegashi S, Tanaba Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery and Medicine, Kamaishi Municipal Hospital, 
Kamaishi, Japan.

We have performed 5 thoracoscopic pericardial resections for malignant 
pericardial effusions. An initial trocar was placed in the seventh or eighth 
intercostal space posterior to the midaxillary line. Two additional trocars were 
placed, usually in the sixth intercostals spaces in the anterior axillary and 
posterior axillary lines. Using an endoscopic grasping instrument and scissors 
through the working ports, a pericardial resection was performed. All patients 
were successfully managed by thoracoscopic pericardial resections. Two of the 5 
patients had associated malignant pleural effusions that were able to be managed 
at the same time by thoracoscopy. The average chest tube duration was 1.8 days. 
There has been no reaccumulation of pericardial effusions in all patients at an 
average follow-up of 5 months. The thoracoscopic approach could be minimally 
invasive and the procedure of choice in performing pericardial resections in 
selected patients with malignant pericardial effusions who are expected to have 
a reasonable life expectancy.

PMID: 15202263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Popul Stud (Camb). 2004;58(1):55-75. doi: 10.1080/0032472032000183753.

Mortality in China 1964-2000.

Banister J(1), Hill K.

Author information:
(1)Javelin Investments, Beijing, China. Judith_Banister@yahoo.com

This paper uses data from censuses and surveys to re-estimate mortality levels 
and trends in China from the 1960s to 2000. We use the General Growth Balance 
method to evaluate the completeness of death reporting above the youngest ages 
in three censuses of the People's Republic of China from 1982 to 2000, 
concluding that reporting quality is quite high, and revisit the completeness of 
death recording in the 1973-75 Cancer Epidemiology Survey. Estimates of child 
mortality from a variety of direct and indirect sources are reviewed, and best 
estimates arrived at. Our estimates show a spectacular improvement in life 
expectancy in China: from about 60 years in the period 1964-82 to nearly 70 
years in the period 1990-2000, with a further improvement to over 71 years by 
2000. We discuss why survival rates continue improving in China despite reduced 
government involvement in and increasing privatization of health services, with 
little insurance coverage.

DOI: 10.1080/0032472032000183753
PMID: 15204262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Ann Hum Biol. 2004 Mar-Apr;31(2):139-58. doi: 10.1080/03014460410001663407.

Parental effects on offspring longevity--evidence from 17th to 19th century 
reproductive histories.

Kemkes-Grottenthaler A(1).

Author information:
(1)Johannes Gutenberg University, Institute of Anthropology, Mainz, Germany. 
kemkes@mail.uni-mainz.de

BACKGROUND: Family studies provide support for a modest genetic influence on 
offspring life span, although the magnitude of these correlations is small.
AIM: The study aimed to clarify the relative contributions of parental age at 
birth and overall parental longevity on offspring lifespan, and to identify the 
biological and cultural mechanisms.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Information was derived from two village genealogies 
(1650-1927) encompassing 9979 births (5315 males, 4664 females). Data selection 
was guided by the inclusion of information about parental age at birth and 
lifespan, offspring lifespan and cohort-specific life expectancy.
RESULTS: Parental age at reproduction displayed a negative association with 
offspring survivability, which was caused by a host of biological as well as 
environmental factors. In contrast, parental lifespan was positively associated 
with offspring age at death. These effects differed by parent's and child's sex.
CONCLUSION: The maternal age effect on female progeny is thought to be 
indicative of a preferential genetic load. From an evolutionary point of view, 
direct selection for maternal lifespan may be an adaptive strategy to enhance 
child survival prospects.

DOI: 10.1080/03014460410001663407
PMID: 15204358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Disabil Rehabil. 2004 Apr 8;26(7):377-86. doi: 10.1080/0963828032000174098.

Trends in disability-free life expectancy.

Perenboom RJ(1), Van Herten LM, Boshuizen HC, Van Den Bos GA.

Author information:
(1)TNO Prevention and Health, Leiden, The Netherlands. rjm.perenboom@pg.tno.nl

PURPOSE: To assess trends in Disability-Free Life Expectancy, in life expectancy 
with disabilities according to levels of severity and in Disability-Adjusted 
Life Expectancy in the Netherlands between 1989 and 2000.
METHOD: The disability-free life expectancy, a composite population health 
status measure, was calculated with data on long-term disability. Weights 
reflecting the impact of disability on personal functioning were assigned to 
different levels of severity of disability, in order to calculate a 
Disability-Adjusted Life Expectancy and to define cut-off points, in order to 
distinguish between levels of severity.
RESULTS: At an aggregated level, for both males and females at the ages of 16 
and of 65 years, an increase in years with disabilities and a decline in 
disability-free life expectancy were observed. These trends were mainly caused 
by a rise in the number of years with mild disabilities, with the number of 
years with moderate and severe disabilities decreasing. The combined changes 
have resulted in an increase in the Disability-Adjusted Life Expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Trends in disability-free life expectancy and in years with 
disabilities provide support for a scenario of dynamic equilibrium. The number 
of years with moderate and severe disabilities has reduced, resulting in an 
increase in the number of years with minor disabilities. Further research should 
focus on the underlying causes of the increase of years with minor disabilities.

DOI: 10.1080/0963828032000174098
PMID: 15204474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2004 
Mar;47(3):266-78. doi: 10.1007/s00103-003-0793-0.

[Life expectancy, potential years of life lost (PYLL), and avoidable mortality 
in an East/West comparison].

[Article in German]

Wiesner G(1), Bittner EK.

Author information:
(1)Robert Koch-Institut, Berlin. WiesnerG@rki.de

The dynamics of convergence between East and West Germany in the life-prolonging 
process continued undiminished from 1990 until 2001. The regional differences in 
premature and avoidable mortality were clearly reduced, both between East and 
West and between the individual federal states. In the East and in the West 
there was an increase in life expectancy in all age groups and for both sexes, 
whereby the increase in life expectancy was considerably greater in East Germany 
and in all of the East German federal states. Also, the standardized potential 
years of life lost before the age of 65 decreased more intensively in East 
Germany. The women in East Germany achieved a lower premature mortality due to 
illness in the year 2001 than those in West Germany. In the initial year of 
1990, the years of life lost were 27.2% greater. Unnatural premature mortality 
(especially due to accidents) was also relatively high in East Germany in the 
year 2001, but it is clearly being reduced. The avoidable mortality has been 
more than cut in half in all East German federal states since 1990. An almost 
complete alignment between East and West in regard to avoidable mortality was 
achieved in the year 2001. The phase of economic stagnation that can be observed 
in East Germany since 1997 has up to now not led to a worsening in the 
constitutive health references presented above.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-003-0793-0
PMID: 15205796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Suppl Tumori. 2004 Jul-Aug;3(4):S55-6.

[Meta-analysis of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in locally advanced bladder cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Ruggeri EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica A, Istituto Regina Elena, Roma.

PMID: 15206213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Suppl Tumori. 2004 Jul-Aug;3(4):S57-8.

[The SWOG-8710/INT-0080 study: innovations and controversies concerning 
neoadjuvant treatment of locally advanced bladder cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Nelli F(1).

Author information:
(1)Ospedale Belcolle, Viterbo.

PMID: 15206214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Suppl Tumori. 2004 Jul-Aug;3(4):S59-61.

[Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: meta-analysis and interpretation of results in 
bladder cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Pollera CF(1).

Author information:
(1)UOC di Oncologia, Presidio Ospedaliero Centrale, Belcolle, ASL di Viterbo.

PMID: 15206215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Arch Gerontol Geriatr Suppl. 2004;(9):425-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2004.04.054.

Smoking and longevity: an incompatible binomial?

Tafaro L(1), Cicconetti P, Tedeschi G, Baratta A, Ursino R, Ettorre E, 
Marigliano V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging Science, Policlinico Umberto I, University La Sapienza, 
I-00161 Roma, Italy. ltafaro@libero.it

In Western countries data from clinical and epidemiological studies have induced 
the public health offices to promote a great deal of advertising and informative 
campaigning for smoking reduction. Cigarette smoking has been clearly linked to 
the most common causes of death in the elderly and contributes to the higher 
death rate and disability rate associated with many chronic illnesses that are 
common in this age group. The combination of smoking along with other risk 
factors like hypertension and diabetes increase high frequency diseases, 
disability as well as adding to an increase in mortality rate. In order to 
verify if a healthy lifestyle really favors longevity and how much smoking is 
incompatible with extreme longevity we investigated the prevalence of smokers 
and the total smoking exposure of a sample of centenarians in relation with 
residual survival and health conditions. Our sample consists of 157 centenarians 
living in Rome, 39 males and 118 females (ratio m/f =1:3),mean age being 101.59 
+/- 1.8 years (+/-SD), 83.8% of the centenarians have never smoked,13.5 % are 
former smokers, and 2.7% are active smokers. The average starting age of smoking 
is 21.2 years, while the average age of quitting is 65.7 years with an average 
of 44.7 +/- 17.1 smoking years. The average number of smoked cigarettes per day 
is quite low,less than 10 cigarettes, so that the total average number of smoked 
cigarettes is 158,045,well under 280,000 which is considered the cut-off point 
in many studies of when tumors are noticed. There seemed to be a significant 
difference (p < 0.001) in gender results in smokers: among male centenarians 
smokers reached 46%, while female smoker centenarians reached only 8.1%. 
Statistically significant chronic illnesses were noted among centenarian smokers 
over the age of 65 (p < 0.02). Moreover, Cox's regression has shown in 
centenarians a lower survival rate (p < 0.05) in smokers (20.7 +/- 11.2 months) 
than in non-smokers (27.0 +/- 19.0 months). In conclusion, our study evidences 
that smoking is for all but some exceptional subjects, incompatible with 
successful aging and compromises life expectancy even in extreme longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2004.04.054
PMID: 15207443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2004 Jul;86(1):54-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ijgo.2004.02.005.

The impact of uterine cancer on life expectancy in Japan.

Sun J(1), Sun P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China. 
sunjuana@oita-med.ac.jp

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijgo.2004.02.005
PMID: 15207679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2004 Dec;97(6):2121-31. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00418.2004. Epub 2004 Jun 18.

Force fluctuations are modulated by alternate muscle activity of knee extensor 
synergists during low-level sustained contraction.

Kouzaki M(1), Shinohara M, Masani K, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Sports Sciences, Dept. of Life Sciences, Graduate School of 
Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 
153-8902, Japan. kouzaki@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The study examined the hypothesis that altered synergistic activation of the 
knee extensors leads to cyclic modulation of the force fluctuations. To test 
this hypothesis, the force fluctuations were investigated during sustained knee 
extension at 2.5% of maximal voluntary contraction force for 60 min in 11 men. 
Surface electromyograms (EMG) were recorded from the rectus femoris (RF), vastus 
lateralis (VL), and vastus medialis (VM) muscles. The SD of force and average 
EMG (AEMG) of each muscle were calculated for 30-s periods during alternate 
muscle activity. Power spectrum of force was calculated for the low- (< or =3 
Hz), middle- (4-6 Hz), and high-frequency (8-12 Hz) components. Alternate muscle 
activity was observed between RF and the set of VL and VM muscles. The SD of 
force was not constant but variable due to the alternate muscle activity. The SD 
was significantly greater during high RF activity compared with high VL and VM 
activity (P < 0.05), and the correlation coefficient between the SD and AEMG was 
significantly greater in RF [0.736 (SD 0.095), P < 0.05] compared with VL and 
VM. Large changes were found in the high-frequency component. During high RF 
activity, the correlation coefficient between the SD and high-frequency 
component [0.832 (SD 0.087)] was significantly (P < 0.05) greater compared with 
other frequency components. It is suggested that modulations in knee extension 
force fluctuations are caused by the unique muscle activity in RF during the 
alternate muscle activity, which augments the high-frequency component of the 
fluctuations.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00418.2004
PMID: 15208288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2004 Jun;7(2):69-76.

Cost-effectiveness of interventions for depressed Latinos.

Schoenbaum M(1), Miranda J, Sherbourne C, Duan N, Wells K.

Author information:
(1)RAND, 1200 South Hayes Street, Arlington, VA 22202, USA. mikels@rand.org.

CONTEXT: Depression is a leading cause of disability worldwide, but treatment 
rates are low, particularly for minority patients.
OBJECTIVE: To estimated societal cost-effectiveness of two interventions to 
improve care for depression in primary care, examining Latino and white patients 
separately.
METHODS: Intent-to-treat analysis of data from a group-level controlled trial, 
in which matched primary care clinics in the US were randomized to usual care or 
to one of two interventions designed to increase the rate of effective 
depression treatment. One intervention facilitated medication management 
("QI-Meds") and the other psychotherapy ("QI-Therapy"); but patients and 
clinicians could choose the type of treatment, or none. The study involved 46 
clinics in 6 non-academic, managed care organizations; 181 primary care 
providers; and 398 Latino and 778 White patients with current depression. 
Outcomes are health care costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALY), depression 
burden, employment, and costs per QALY, over 24 months of follow-up.
RESULTS: Relative to usual care, QI-Therapy resulted in significantly fewer 
depression burden days for Latinos and increased days employed for white 
patients. Average health care costs increased 278 dollars in QI-Meds and 161 
dollars in QI-Therapy for Latinos, and by 655 dollars in QI-Meds and 752 dollars 
in QI-Therapy for whites, relative to usual care. The estimated cost per QALY 
for Latinos was 6,100 dollars or less under QI-Therapy, but 90,000 dollars or 
more in QI-Meds. For Whites, estimated costs per QALY were around 30,000 dollars 
under both interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: Latinos benefit from improved care for depression, and the cost is 
less than that for white patients. Diverse patients are likely to benefit from 
improving care for depression in primary care.

PMID: 15208467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2004 Jun;7(2):77-85.

Should clozapine continue to be restricted to third-line status for 
schizophrenia?: a decision-analytic model.

Wang PS(1), Ganz DA, Benner JS, Glynn RJ, Avorn J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, 1620 Tremont Street, Suite 3030 Boston, MA 02120, USA. 
pwang@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Clozapine is currently restricted to patients who have failed at 
least two trials of other antipsychotic medications because of concerns that its 
use as a first-line agent would lead to greater mortality, mainly through 
agranulocytosis.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: We sought to determine the cost-effectiveness of allowing 
clozapine to be a first-line treatment versus the current policy of restricting 
clozapine to third-line status.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis using published data from 
randomized controlled trials and epidemiologic studies. The target population 
was patients with schizophrenia in an acute psychotic episode, with a lifetime 
time horizon and societal perspective. Outcome measures included life 
expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, costs, and cost-effectiveness 
ratios.
RESULTS: Using clozapine as a first agent would lead to modest gains in 
life-expectancy as well as quality-adjusted life expectancy, relative to 
restricting its use to patients who failed 2 conventional antipsychotics. The 
cost-effectiveness ratio of using clozapine first vs. using clozapine third 
would be $24,100 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). In 1-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses, these findings were robust to a variety of 
assumptions.
DISCUSSION: Allowing clozapine to be a first-line agent may lead to small gains 
in life expectancy at moderate but acceptable costs.
IMPLICATIONS: While these results do not shed light on whether clozapine should 
be the preferred first-line strategy, they do suggest that clozapine should be 
added to the armamentarium of possible treatments for treatment-sensitive as 
well as treatment-resistant schizophrenia.

PMID: 15208468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Medicina (Kaunas). 2004;40(6):582-8.

Healthy life expectancy--an important indicator for health policy development in 
Lithuania.

Kalediene R(1), Petrauskiene J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Kaunas University of Medicine, A. Mickeviciaus 
9, 44307 Kaunas, Lithuania. ramune.kalediene@kmu.lt

The aim of the study was to assess the changes in healthy life expectancy of the 
Lithuanian population between the years 1997 and 2001 and to explore the 
differentials of this combined mortality and subjective health measure in males 
and females.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The data about the Lithuanian population and the deceased 
were available from the Lithuanian Department of Statistics, life tables for 
1997 and 2001 were created and life expectancy estimated. The method presented 
first by D. F. Sullivan was applied for the assessment of healthy life 
expectancy. The data on self-perceived health of the Lithuanian population were 
acquired from the surveys of the health behavior of a randomly selected sample 
of the adult population of Lithuania, carried out by the Lithuanian Center for 
Health Education.
RESULTS: Healthy life expectancy at birth increased from 52.7 in males and 52.6 
in females in 1997 up to 53.7 in males and 55.3 in females in 2001. The 
proportion of healthy life expectancy in the total life expectancy at birth 
increased both in males and in females. Though the total life expectancy of 
males is 10-11 years shorter, females are expected to spend considerably more 
years in poor health, even though some positive changes were observed.
CONCLUSION: Increasing healthy life expectancy reflects improving health of 
Lithuanian population. This integrated health indicator should be periodically 
assessed and used for development health strategies to promote health in 
Lithuania.

PMID: 15208483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Acta Odontol Latinoam. 2001;14(1-2):3-8.

Root resorption in elderly patients.

Aguilar PE(1), Aguilar AP, Rolleri MF, Ubios AM.

Author information:
(1)Departament of Histology and Embriology, Faculty of Dentistry, University of 
Buenos Aires.

Root resorption in permanent teeth is a frequently observed pathology that may 
originate in various causes. Life expectancy is progressively rising, 
odontological preventive care is becoming more widespread and professionals are 
educating their patients in the importance of preventive practices. Because 
senior citizens are thus losing fewer teeth prematurely they will be conversely 
more at risk for dental problems later in life. The knowledge of the alterations 
that may appear in the roots of geriatric patients is particularly relevant to 
devising therapy and establishing prognosis. The aim of the present study was to 
evaluate the nature and magnitude of the histologic and histomorphometric 
features of root resorption and the eventual possibility of repair in elderly 
people. Seventy-seven uniradicular teeth of patients aged between 65 and 90 
years and 18 premolars of patients aged between 14 and 20 years, were removed, 
fixed in 90% formalin, decalcified in EDTA and embedded in paraffin. 
Vestibulo-lingual sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin and employed to 
perform histological and histomorphometric studies. The results showed that 30% 
of the teeth of younger patients and 94% of the teeth of elderly patients 
exhibited areas of root resorption. From the 416 resorptive areas found in 
elderly patients, 173 exhibited signs of repair being the volume/surface ratio 
of these areas 0.69 +/- 0.06. These data show that root resorption is a frequent 
finding in the older population under study. Resorptions are characterized by 
scarce depth, large areas and a high incidence of repair despite the old age of 
the patients.

PMID: 15208929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Acta Odontol Latinoam. 2002;15(1-2):21-7.

Compliance with medical and dental treatments in children and adolescents renal 
transplant patients.

Fernández de Preliasco MV(1), Viera MJ, Sebelli P, Rodríguez Rilo L, Sánchez GA.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Dentistry Department, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Buenos 
Aires. posmast@pediat.odon.uba.ar

In recent years, the number of pediatric organ transplants has increased. As the 
life expectancy of pediatric transplant recipients continues to rise the number 
of transplant children visiting dental clinics increases accordingly. These 
patients need medical and dental treatment for life due to the kind of 
medication they take and its effects on the oral cavity. However, satisfactory 
compliance with medical treatment has not been reported. We analyze the degree 
of association between compliance with medical/dental treatments, biological 
variables (age and number of transplant surgeries) and social-economical 
variables (family type, schooling, place of residence and economical status) in 
infant and adolescent renal transplant patients, in a retrospective descriptive 
study. 74 infant and adolescent renal transplant patients aged 16.7 +/- 1.23 
years were studied. Information on age, time in dialysis treatment, time since 
the transplant surgery, number of transplants, social-economical status, 
parents' schooling, family type, place of residence and compliance with 
prescribed treatment was collected from clinical records and guided 
questionnaires. Tables of contingence for Chi square test were constructed for 
all variables to test association among them. The statistical analysis showed 
that compliance with both medical and dental treatments were positively 
associated with family type and schooling. Association with place of residence 
and economical status was not observed. No association was observed with age and 
number of transplants. Pediatric transplant patients who live in unsupportive 
homes and whose parents' schooling is poor, are a vulnerable group which should 
be periodically motivated to promote satisfactory compliance with the prescribed 
treatment.

PMID: 15208939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Demography. 2004 May;41(2):315-34. doi: 10.1353/dem.2004.0017.

Decomposition of differences in health expectancy by cause.

Nusselder WJ(1), Looman CW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. w.nusselder@erasmusmc.nl

Health expectancy is a widely used measure for monitoring trends in the health 
of a population and assessing differences in health among population groups. 
However, no decomposition method is available to examine the contribution made 
by causes of death and disability to differences in health expectancy among 
population groups or periods. We present a method for decomposing differences in 
health expectancy, based on the Sullivan method. This method is an extension of 
the decomposition method for life expectancy developed by Arriaga. We illustrate 
the method and its added value by decomposing male-female differences in health 
expectancy for the Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2004.0017
PMID: 15209043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Demography. 2004 May;41(2):335-61. doi: 10.1353/dem.2004.0018.

A new method for correcting under-estimation of disabled life expectancy and an 
application to the Chinese oldest-old.

Zeng Y(1), Gu D, Land KC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Department of Sociology, Duke University, 
Campus Drive, Box 90408, Durham, NC 27708, USA. zengyi@duke.edu

This article demonstrates that disabled life expectancies that are based on 
conventional multistate life-table methods are significantly underestimated 
because of the assumption of no changes in functional status between age x and 
death. We present a new method to correct the bias and apply it to data from a 
longitudinal survey of about 9,000 oldest-old Chinese aged 80-105 collected in 
1998 and 2000. In our application, the age trajectories of disability 
(activities of daily living--ADL), status-specific death rates, and the 
probabilities of transitions between ADL states of the oldest-old were 
investigated for the first time in a developing country. In this article, we 
report estimates of bias-corrected disabled and active life expectancies of the 
Chinese oldest-old and demonstrate patterns of large differences associated with 
initial status, gender, and advances in ages. Using combined information on ADL 
disabilities and length of having been bedridden before dying, we analyze gender 
and age patterns of the extent of morbidity before dying among the oldest-old 
and their implications for debates on the hypothesis of compression of 
morbidity.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2004.0018
PMID: 15209044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Spring;20(2):184-91. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304000960.

Cost-effectiveness of fracture prevention treatments in the elderly.

Fleurence RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, Heslington, UK. 
rfleurence@yahoo.co.uk

OBJECTIVES: The cost-effectiveness of fracture prevention treatments (vitamin D 
and calcium and hip protectors) in male and female populations older than 
seventy years of age in the United-Kingdom was investigated.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to follow up, over lifetime, a 
hypothetical cohort of males and females at high-risk and general risk of 
fracture. Patients could sustain hip, wrist, vertebral, and/or other fractures. 
Fracture rates were obtained from population surveys in the United Kingdom. 
Effectiveness and quality of life data were identified from the clinical 
literature. Costs were those incurred by the UK National Health Service, and 
were obtained from several published sources. Uncertainty was explored through 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: In the general-risk female (male) population, the incremental cost per 
Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) was dollar 11,722 (dollar 47,426) for hip 
protectors. In the male high-risk population, the incremental cost per QALY was 
dollar 17,017 for hip protectors. In the female high-risk population, hip 
protectors were cost-saving. Vitamin D and calcium alone was dominated by hip 
protectors in all four subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS: Current information available on interventions to prevent fractures 
in the elderly in the United Kingdom, suggests that, at the decision-maker's 
ceiling ratio of dollar 20,000 per QALY, hip protectors are cost-effective in 
the general female population and high-risk male population, and cost-saving in 
the high-risk female population, despite the low compliance rate with the 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304000960
PMID: 15209178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Headache. 2004 Jul-Aug;44(7):652-60. doi: 10.1111/j.1526-4610.2004.04123.x.

When to stress over triptans: a Markov analysis of cardiovascular risk in 
migraine treatment.

Orlando LA(1), Matchar DB.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham VA, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Migraines affect 10% of the U.S. population and the episodes are 
frequently associated with significant disability. Triptans, 5HT1 receptor 
agonists, can be highly effective in treating pain and reducing disability. 
However, reports of cardiac events associated with triptan ingestion have led to 
concerns about its use in the face of possible cardiac disease.
OBJECTIVE: Should a patient without known cardiovascular disease (CAD) and 
moderately severe to severe migraines undergo cardiovascular testing prior to 
the initiation of triptan therapy?
DESIGN: A Markov model of migraine and cardiac disease using DATA 4.0. Three 
strategies were compared: (1) use triptans without further evaluation (TREAT); 
(2) test, then treat if negative (TEST); and (3) avoid triptans (NOTRIPTAN). 
Triptans were prohibited if a cardiac event occurred.
DATA: Model inputs were derived from the literature and subjected to sensitivity 
analyses across all possible values.
TIME HORIZON: Markov cycle is 1 week.
OUTCOMES: The primary outcomes of interest were quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, in years (QALYs) and the impact of various cardiovascular risk 
levels on the preferred strategy.
RESULTS: For the base case results were TREAT 19.4 QALYs, TEST 19.2, NOTRIPTAN 
19.1. When altering CAD probability: TREAT dominated from 0 to 87%, TEST 87% to 
97%, and NOTRIPTAN above 97%. Results were robust during sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis suggests that even for individuals with a relatively 
high risk of CAD it is not beneficial to perform cardiac testing, nor to avoid 
triptans. The exact level of cardiac risk at which testing should be considered 
is probably at or above 87%.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1526-4610.2004.04123.x
PMID: 15209686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Risk Anal. 2004 Jun;24(3):665-73. doi: 10.1111/j.0272-4332.2004.00466.x.

Agreement between scales in the measurement of breast cancer risk perceptions.

Schapira MM(1), Davids SL, McAuliffe TL, Nattinger AB.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, USA. mschap@mcw.edu

The objective of this article is to compare the accuracy and numeric responses 
of breast cancer risk perception as measured by a frequency scale and percentage 
scale. A cross-sectional survey was conducted. Perceptions of five-year and 
lifetime breast cancer risk were measured using a frequency and a percentage 
scale. Estimation error was calculated as the absolute difference between actual 
breast cancer risk as determined by the Gail model and perceived risk. Agreement 
between scales was determined by calculating the mean and standard deviation of 
the difference between numeric responses. The study was conducted among women 
enrolled in two primary care clinics associated with an academic medical center. 
Two-hundred-fifty-four participants were recruited from one of the two 
participating internal medicine clinics. Inclusion criteria included female 
gender and age 40-84 years. Exclusion criteria included a history of breast 
cancer, dementia, or a life expectancy of less than two years. The frequency 
scale was more accurate than the percentage scale in estimating lifetime risk 
(p= 0.05), but less accurate in estimating five-year risk (p < 0.02). Only 79 
participants (31%) were considered consistent scale users, providing identical 
responses when using the frequency and percentage scale for a given risk 
estimate. Although the mean difference (percentage-frequency scale) for 
estimates of breast cancer lifetime risk was only 2.4, the empirically 
determined 90% limits of agreement between the frequency and percentage scale 
for lifetime risk were wide, from -30 to 40. Higher numeracy was associated with 
consistent use of scales (OR 1.61, 95% CI; 1.09-2.37). We report disagreement in 
breast cancer risk perceptions when measured by a frequency and a percentage 
scale. The accuracy and direction of bias associated with each scale varies 
according to the time frame of risk being assessed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0272-4332.2004.00466.x
PMID: 15209937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Cell. 2004 Jun 25;117(7):981-91. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2004.06.011.

Taste representations in the Drosophila brain.

Wang Z(1), Singhvi A, Kong P, Scott K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology and Helen Wills Neuroscience 
Institute, 291 Life Sciences Addition, University of California, Berkeley, 
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Drosophila taste compounds with gustatory neurons on many parts of the body, 
suggesting that a fly detects both the location and quality of a food source. 
For example, activation of taste neurons on the legs causes proboscis extension 
or retraction, whereas activation of proboscis taste neurons causes food 
ingestion or rejection. We examined whether the features of taste location and 
taste quality are mapped in the fly brain using molecular, genetic, and 
behavioral approaches. We find that projections are segregated by the category 
of tastes that they recognize: neurons that recognize sugars project to a region 
different from those recognizing noxious substances. Transgenic axon labeling 
experiments also demonstrate that gustatory projections are segregated based on 
their location in the periphery. These studies reveal the gustatory map in the 
first relay of the fly brain and demonstrate that taste quality and position are 
represented in anatomical projection patterns.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2004.06.011
PMID: 15210117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Arch Neurol. 2004 Jun;61(6):914-8. doi: 10.1001/archneur.61.6.914.

Effectiveness, tolerability, and impact on quality of life of the 5% lidocaine 
patch in diabetic polyneuropathy.

Barbano RL(1), Herrmann DN, Hart-Gouleau S, Pennella-Vaughan J, Lodewick PA, 
Dworkin RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. Richard_Barbano@URMC.Rochester.edu

BACKGROUND: The treatment of painful diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN) is often 
inadequate and frequently limited by the systemic adverse effects of 
medications, necessitating the evaluation of novel treatments.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness, tolerability, and impact on quality of 
life of the 5% lidocaine patch in painful diabetic polyneuropathy.
DESIGN: Open-label, flexible-dosing, 3-week study with a 5-week extension.
SETTING: Outpatient clinics and clinical research centers.Patients Volunteer 
sample of 56 patients with clinically defined painful diabetic polyneuropathy of 
longer than 3 months' duration. Intervention The 5% lidocaine patch, with a 
maximum of 4 patches daily for 18 hours.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Change in mean daily pain diary ratings from baseline to 
week 3. Secondary end points included assessments of safety, tolerability, and 
quality of life.
RESULTS: Patients with painful diabetic polyneuropathy showed significant 
improvements in pain and quality-of-life outcome measures during a 3-week 
treatment period. These benefits were maintained in a subgroup of patients 
treated for an additional 5 weeks, during which taper of concomitant analgesic 
therapy was permitted. Adverse events were minimal, and systemic accumulation of 
lidocaine did not occur.
CONCLUSIONS: Up to four 5% lidocaine patches for up to 18 h/d are well tolerated 
in patients with painful diabetic polyneuropathy, significantly improve pain and 
quality-of-life ratings, and may allow tapering of concomitant analgesic 
therapy. Given the open-label design of this trial, a randomized controlled 
trial is necessary to confirm these results.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.61.6.914
PMID: 15210530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Circulation. 2004 Jul 13;110(2):149-54. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000134279.79571.73.  Epub 2004 Jun 21.

Anemia and its relationship to clinical outcome in heart failure.

Anand I(1), McMurray JJ, Whitmore J, Warren M, Pham A, McCamish MA, Burton PB.

Author information:
(1)VA Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minn, USA.

BACKGROUND: Anemia is often observed in patients with chronic heart failure 
(CHF), but its implications for patient outcomes are not well understood. The 
goal of this study was to investigate the relationship between anemia, severity 
of CHF, and clinical outcomes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Hemoglobin concentration (Hb) was measured in 912 subjects 
with CHF enrolled in the Randomized Etanercept North American Strategy to Study 
Antagonism of Cytokines (RENAISSANCE) trial. In a subgroup of 69 subjects, 
cardiac MRI was performed at randomization and 24 weeks later. Anemia (Hb < or 
=12.0 g/dL) was present in 12% of subjects. Cox regression analysis indicated 
that for every 1-g/dL-higher baseline Hb, the risk of mortality was 15.8% lower 
(P=0.0009) and the risk of mortality or hospitalization for heart failure was 
14.2% lower (P<0.0001). Greater CHF severity was associated with significantly 
lower Hb concentrations. An increase in Hb over time was associated with a 
decrease in left ventricular mass and lower mortality, whereas a decrease in Hb 
over time was associated with an increase in left ventricular mass and higher 
mortality. In multivariate analysis, anemia remained a significant, independent 
predictor of death or hospitalization for heart failure, with both outcomes 
being significantly higher in all NYHA classes.
CONCLUSIONS: Anemia is frequently present in patients with CHF. Lower Hb is 
associated with greater disease severity, a greater left ventricular mass index, 
and higher hospitalization and mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000134279.79571.73
PMID: 15210591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Neurology. 2004 Jun 22;62(12):2203-8. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000130485.89814.10.

Autosomal dominant striatal degeneration (ADSD): clinical description and 
mapping to 5q13-5q14.

Kuhlenbäumer G(1), Lüdemann P, Schirmacher A, De Vriendt E, Hünermund G, Young 
P, Hund-Georgiadis M, Schuierer G, Möller H, Ringelstein EB, Van Broeckhoven C, 
Timmerman V, Stögbauer F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Münster, Germany. 
gkuhlen@uni-muenster.de

OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical and neuroradiologic features and chromosomal 
mapping of a novel autosomal dominant disease affecting the basal ganglia.
METHODS: The authors characterized a large family with autosomal dominant basal 
ganglia disease (ADSD) clinically and by MRI, MR spectroscopy (MRS), and SPECT. 
The authors performed a whole genome genetic linkage scan to map the underlying 
genetic defect.
RESULTS: The main clinical features of the disease are dysarthria and gait 
disturbance without any apparent reduction in life expectancy. MRI demonstrated 
a distinctive lesion pattern restricted mainly to the putamen and caudate 
nucleus. Genetic linkage analysis localized the causative genetic defect to a 
3.25 megabase candidate region on chromosome 5q13.3-q14.1.
CONCLUSIONS: ADSD is an autosomal dominant basal ganglia disease mapping to 
chromosome 5q13.3-q14.1.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000130485.89814.10
PMID: 15210883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2004;18(2):197-206. doi: 10.1159/000079201. Epub 
2004 Jun 21.

Five-year outcome of cholinergic treatment of Alzheimer's disease: early 
response predicts prolonged time until nursing home placement, but does not 
alter life expectancy.

Wallin AK(1), Gustafson L, Sjögren M, Wattmo C, Minthon L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Neuropsychiatric Clinic, Malmö University Hospital, 
Malmö, Sweden. asa.k.wallin@skane.se

Fifty consecutive outpatients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) received treatment 
with the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine in an open longitudinal study. 
Assessments using Mini-Mental State Examination, Alzheimer's Disease Assessment 
Scale - cognitive subscale, and a global rating were made at baseline and at 6, 
12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months. Three outcome groups were characterized: 
responders, unchanged and deteriorated. Additional outcome measures were time 
until nursing home placement, and mortality rate. At 6 months -75%, at 12 months 
-42%, at 24 months -20%, and after that 10% of the patients still on medication 
had improved or remained stable. The mortality rate did not differ between the 
outcome groups. Response to tacrine treatment at 6 or 12 months was found to 
predict a prolonged time until nursing home placement. No predictors for a 
positive treatment response could be identified at baseline.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000079201
PMID: 15211076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Pancreas. 2004 Jul;29(1):e1-8. doi: 10.1097/00006676-200407000-00061.

The correlation between cytoplasmic overexpression of epidermal growth factor 
receptor and tumor aggressiveness: poor prognosis in patients with pancreatic 
ductal adenocarcinoma.

Ueda S(1), Ogata S, Tsuda H, Kawarabayashi N, Kimura M, Sugiura Y, Tamai S, 
Matsubara O, Hatsuse K, Mochizuki H.

Author information:
(1)Surgery I, National Defense Medical College, Saitama, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Recent studies have shown that some growth factor receptors with 
tyrosine kinase activity, eg, the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr) and 
the c-erbB-2 (HER-2) oncoprotein, are associated with aggressive biologic 
behavior of various cancer cell types. We examined the clinicopathological 
significance of the expression and localization of EGFr and HER-2 in both 
invasive and intraductal components of ductal adenocarcinomas of the pancreas.
METHODS: Tissue samples from 76 archival cases of pancreatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma were immunohistochemically analyzed for both membrane and 
cytoplasmic overexpression of EGFr and HER-2 oncoprotein. The rate of incidence 
between the invasive and intraductal components was analyzed and then their 
correlation with tumor differentiation and patient prognosis was analyzed.
RESULTS: Cytoplasmic EGFr overexpression was more frequent in invasive 
components (47 of 76, 62%) than in intraductal components (19 of 76, 25%), while 
membrane EGFr overexpression was more frequent in intraductal components (41 of 
76, 54%) than in invasive components (11 of 76, 14%). The membrane HER-2 
overexpression was also more frequent in intraductal components (15 of 76, 20%) 
than in invasive components (2 of 76, 3%), but the incidence of cytoplasmic 
HER-2 overexpression did not differ between intraductal components (12 of 76, 
16%) and invasive components (8 of 76, 11%). The cytoplasmic EGFr overexpression 
in invasive components was more frequent in grade 3 group (32 of 33, 97%) than 
in grade 2 (15 of 32, 47%) and grade 1 groups (0 of 10, 0%) (P < 0.001). 
Patients with adenocarcinoma with cytoplasmic EGFr overexpression showed shorter 
overall survival than those with adenocarcinoma without cytoplasmic EGFr 
overexpression (P = 0.02).
CONCLUSION: It is suggested that the cytoplasmic overexpression of EGFr plays a 
significant role in the progression of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, 
especially in the invasion and acquisition of aggressive clinical behavior. Both 
membrane and cytoplasmic expression of HER-2 showed no significant correlation 
between tumor differentiation and poor survival.

DOI: 10.1097/00006676-200407000-00061
PMID: 15211117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. J Prosthet Dent. 2004 Jun;91(6):548-53. doi: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2004.03.011.

Survival of ceramic onlays placed with and without metal reinforcement.

Smales RJ(1), Etemadi S.

Author information:
(1)Dental School, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: All-ceramic molar onlays continue to have higher failures 
from bulk fracture than similar cast metal onlays.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this retrospective study was to compare long-term 
failure rates and causes for posterior sintered feldspathic ceramic (Mirage) 
onlays placed with and without metal substructure reinforcement.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Nineteen onlays were placed with and 78 without metal 
reinforcement in 50 older adolescent and adult patients treated by 2 
prosthodontists in a private practice. All onlays opposed occluding tooth 
surfaces. Clinical judgment determined the type of onlay placed. Observational 
factors included patients, clinicians, onlay sites, and failure modes. Acrylic 
resin maxillary splints were generally provided for patients with multiple 
onlays or parafunctional habits. Thirty-six dies were also available for 
comparison of the occlusal thickness and taper of intact and failed molar 
onlays. The chi-square test or Fisher exact test, Student t test, and life table 
survival statistics were used to evaluate the data (alpha=.05).
RESULTS: Over 6 years, failures occurred in 21.1% of onlays placed with metal 
reinforcement and in 26.9% without metal reinforcement. Cumulative survival 
estimates (+/- standard error) were 62.4% +/- 14.7% and 60.5% +/- 6.3%, 
respectively (P=.84). Bulk fracture occurred in 16.5% of molars, independent of 
metal reinforcement (P=1.00). Overall, 11.4% of premolar and 33.9% of molar 
onlays failed. Irreversible pulpitis occurred in 6.2% of all teeth. From the 
dies, there were no clear relationships between either the thickness of occlusal 
ceramic material or the internal preparation taper and molar onlay failures, for 
onlays placed with or without metal reinforcement.
CONCLUSION: Sintered ceramic onlays placed with and without metal reinforcement 
showed a similar incidence of bulk fracture in molars. Preparations for both 
types of onlays were similar.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2004.03.011
PMID: 15211297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Stat Med. 2004 Jul 15;23(13):2109-23. doi: 10.1002/sim.1802.

Overall C as a measure of discrimination in survival analysis: model specific 
population value and confidence interval estimation.

Pencina MJ(1), D'Agostino RB.

Author information:
(1)Statistics and Consulting Unit, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, 
Boston University, 111 Cummington St., MA 02215, USA. mpencina@bu.edu

The assessment of the discrimination ability of a survival analysis model is a 
problem of considerable theoretical interest and important practical 
applications. This issue is, however, more complex than evaluating the 
performance of a linear or logistic regression. Several different measures have 
been proposed in the biostatistical literature. In this paper we investigate the 
properties of the overall C index introduced by Harrell as a natural extension 
of the ROC curve area to survival analysis. We develop the overall C index as a 
parameter describing the performance of a given model applied to the population 
under consideration and discuss the statistic used as its sample estimate. We 
discover a relationship between the overall C and the modified Kendall's tau and 
construct a confidence interval for our measure based on the asymptotic 
normality of its estimate. Then we investigate via simulations the length and 
coverage probability of this interval. Finally, we present a real life example 
evaluating the performance of a Framingham Heart Study model.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.1802
PMID: 15211606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Am J Med Genet A. 2004 Jul 1;128A(1):101-2; author reply 103. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.a.20690.

Outcome in Down syndrome fetuses with cardiac anomalies.

Marino B, Diociaiuti L, Calcagni G, Mastroiacovo P.

Comment on
    Am J Med Genet A. 2003 Jan 15;116A(2):147-51.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.20690
PMID: 15211668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Periodontol. 2004 May;75(5):672-8. doi: 10.1902/jop.2004.75.5.672.

Long-term tooth survival following regenerative treatment of intrabony defects.

Cortellini P(1), Tonetti MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Eastman Dental Institute, University College 
London, London, UK.

Comment in
    J Evid Based Dent Pract. 2005 Sep;5(3):147-8.

BACKGROUND: The longevity of the clinical benefits of guided tissue regeneration 
(GTR) has not been fully explored. The aim of this investigation was to assess 
the long-term survival of GTR treated sites in terms of clinical attachment 
level (CAL) stability and tooth loss.
METHODS: A total of 175 patients with one deep intrabony defect were selected 
for a retrospective investigation of tooth retention and CAL stability. All 
sites had been treated with GTR more than 2 years previously and had received 
full periodontal examinations every 2 years for up to 16 years. Definitions of 
events for survival analyses were tooth loss, loss of > or = 2 mm compared with 
the CAL observed before GTR treatment, and loss of > or = 2 mm compared with the 
CAL observed 1 year after completion of GTR.
RESULTS: Teeth were severely compromised by the presence of CAL loss of 10.7 +/- 
2.4 mm, probing depths of 8.7 +/- 2.3 mm and deep intrabony defects (average 
depth 6.6 +/- 2.1 mm). After GTR, CAL gains were 4.6 +/- 2 mm. Average follow up 
was 8 +/- 3.4 years; 66.9% of subjects strictly complied with a periodontal 
maintenance program. Tooth survival was greater than 96% more than 10 years 
after GTR. CAL was equal or coronal with respect to pretreatment in 92% of cases 
followed for 15 years after treatment, while loss of CAL compared to the 1-year 
post-GTR result was observed in 37.8% of cases. Cox proportional hazard models 
indicated that incidence-free survival was negatively affected by smoking and 
