
Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, USA.

Despite the acute shortage of cadaveric organs for kidney transplantation, more 
than 10% of cadaveric kidneys are discarded each year because of marginal 
quality. Transplant recipients' access to these kidneys and to information about 
their quality is limited. A Monte Carlo model was developed to simulate the 
operations of an organ procurement organization over a 10-yr period. Donor and 
recipient characteristics were generated from the United States Renal Data 
System. Kidneys were assigned one of five possible grades, which were determined 
by calculating the relative risk of graft failure associated with donor 
characteristics and HLA matching for every donor-candidate pair. Modeled were 
recipient decisions to accept or reject a kidney on the basis of the relative 
change in quality-adjusted life years (QALY). Compared were the United Network 
of Organ Sharing (UNOS) policy, the UNOS expanded donor criteria policy, two 
benchmark policies (one equity driven and the other efficiency driven), and a 
hybrid policy that incorporated recipient choice into the UNOS algorithm. 
Sensitivity analyses for major input variables were performed. Compared with 
UNOS, an algorithm that incorporated recipient choice predicted a 6% increase in 
QALY, a 12% decrease in median waiting time, a 39% increase in the likelihood of 
transplantation, and a 56% reduction in the number of discarded kidneys. 
Benefits were observed across categories of age, gender, and race. Incorporating 
recipient choice in kidney transplantation would improve equity, efficiency, and 
QALY of the end-stage renal disease population.

DOI: 10.1097/01.asn.0000127866.34592.60
PMID: 15153578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Br Dent J. 2004 May 22;196(10):639-43; discussion 627. doi: 
10.1038/sj.bdj.4811283.

Long-term cost-effectiveness of single indirect restorations in selected dental 
practices.

Kelly PG(1), Smales RJ.

Author information:
(1)Macarthur Oral Health Services, South Western Sydney Area Health Service, 5 
Thomas Rose Drive, Rosemeadow, NSW 2560, Australia. 
Philip.Kelly@swsahs.nsw.gov.au

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative cost-effectiveness of alternative methods 
for restoring large tooth substance loss in adults.
METHODS: Long-term survival estimates and discounted costs for 245 large 
indirect restorations were used to calculate their incremental 
cost-effectiveness over 15 years when compared with direct placement Class II 
cusp-overlay amalgams and Class IV multisurface resin composites, placed in 100 
patients from three private dental practices.
RESULTS: The direct placement restorations were more cost-effective than the 
indirect restorations at all time intervals over the 15-year study period. The 
full gold crown and the ceramometal crown were the most cost-effective indirect 
posterior and anterior restorations respectively. The cast gold onlay and the 
porcelain jacket crown were the least cost-effective indirect posterior and 
anterior restorations respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: When clinically practicable, large direct placement restorations 
should be placed initially in preference to indirect restorations.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4811283
PMID: 15153977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Health Econ. 2004 Jan;23(1):157-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.08.002.

Equity weights in the allocation of health care: the rank-dependent QALY model.

Bleichrodt H(1), Diecidue E, Quiggin J.

Author information:
(1)iMTA/iBMG, Erasmus University, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. bleichrodt@bmg.eur.nl

This paper introduces the rank-dependent quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) 
model, a new method to aggregate QALYs in economic evaluations of health care. 
The rank-dependent QALY model permits the formalization of influential concepts 
of equity in the allocation of health care, such as the fair innings approach, 
and it includes as special cases many of the social welfare functions that have 
been proposed in the literature. An important advantage of the rank-dependent 
QALY model is that it offers a straightforward procedure to estimate equity 
weights for QALYs. We characterize the rank-dependent QALY model and argue that 
its central condition has normative appeal.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.08.002
PMID: 15154692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Med Decis Making. 2004 May-Jun;24(3):272-80. doi: 10.1177/0272989X04265479.

Prioritizing health care: is "health" always an appropriate maximand?

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, London School of Economics, London, United 
Kingdom. a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

In recent years, a few health economists have begun to question the ethical 
underpinnings of the standard practice of quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
maximization as a ubiquitous decision rule in the allocation of health care 
resources. Prominent among these is Erik Nord, who conjectures that QALY 
maximization discriminates against the chronically ill and disabled when 
prioritizing between different individuals (or groups of individuals) for 
life-extending interventions. Nord has recommended that life years gained should 
always be given a weight equal to 1 in these circumstances. This article reports 
an experiment designed as an initial attempt at eliciting some of the thought 
processes employed by people when they prioritize life-saving health care 
interventions between patients who differ only in respect to the presence or 
absence of a disability. The results show that in the priority-setting contexts 
used, a majority of the respondents perceived the relative health status of the 
different patients as irrelevant, providing some tentative support for Nord's 
argument.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X04265479
PMID: 15155016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Br J Sports Med. 2004 Jun;38(3):324-30. doi: 10.1136/bjsm.2003.005595.

Effects of 20 days of bed rest on the viscoelastic properties of tendon 
structures in lower limb muscles.

Kubo K(1), Akima H, Ushiyama J, Tabata I, Fukuoka H, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan. 
kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of 20 days' 
bed rest on the viscoelastic properties of human tendon structures in knee 
extensor and plantar flexor muscles in vivo.
METHODS: Eight healthy men (age: 24+/-4 years, height: 172+/-9 m, body mass: 
69+/-13 kg) carried out a 6 degrees head-down bed rest for 20 days. Before and 
after bed rest, elongation (L) of the tendon and aponeurosis of vastus lateralis 
(VL) and medial gastrocnemius muscles (MG) during isometric knee extension and 
plantar flexion, respectively, were determined using real-time ultrasonic 
apparatus, while the subjects performed ramp isometric contraction up to the 
voluntary maximum, followed by ramp relaxation. The relationship between 
estimated muscle force (Fm) and tendon elongation (L) was fitted to a linear 
regression, the slope of which was defined as stiffness. The hysteresis was 
calculated as the ratio of the area within the Fm-L loop to the area beneath the 
load portion of the curve.
RESULTS: L values above 100 N were significantly greater after bed rest for VL, 
while there were no significant differences in L values between before and after 
for MG. The stiffness decreased after bed rest for VL (70.3+/-27.4 v 50.1+/-24.8 
N/mm, before and after bed rest, respectively; p = 0.003) and MG (29.4+/-7.5 v 
25.6+/-7.8 N/mm, before and after bed rest, respectively; p = 0.054). In 
addition, hysteresis increased after bed rest for VL (16.5+/-7.1% v 
28.2+/-12.9%, before and after bed rest, respectively; p = 0.017), but not for 
MG (17.4+/-4.4% v 17.7+/-6.1%, before and after bed rest, respectively; p = 
0.925).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that bed rest decreased the stiffness of 
human tendon structures and increased their hysteresis, and that these changes 
were found in knee extensors, but not the plantar flexors.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsm.2003.005595
PMCID: PMC1724819
PMID: 15155437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jun 1;101(22):8425-30. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0400625101. Epub 2004 May 20.

Deletion of macrophage-inflammatory protein 1 alpha retards neurodegeneration in 
Sandhoff disease mice.

Wu YP(1), Proia RL.

Author information:
(1)Genetics of Development and Disease Branch, National Institutes of Diabetes 
and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892, USA.

Sandhoff disease is a prototypical lysosomal storage disorder in which a 
heritable deficiency of a lysosomal enzyme, beta-hexosaminidase, results in the 
storage of the enzyme's substrates in lysosomes. As with many of the other 
lysosomal storage diseases, neurodegeneration is a prominent feature. Although 
the cellular and molecular pathways that underlie the neurodegenerative process 
are not yet fully understood, macrophage/microglial-mediated inflammation has 
been suggested as one possible mechanism. We now show that the expanded 
macrophage/microglial population in the CNS of Sandhoff disease mice is 
compounded by the infiltration of cells from the periphery. Coincident with the 
cellular infiltration was an increased expression of macrophage-inflammatory 
protein 1alpha (MIP-1alpha), a leukocyte chemokine, in astrocytes. Deletion of 
MIP-1alpha expression resulted in a substantial decrease in infiltration and 
macrophage/microglial-associated pathology together with neuronal apoptosis in 
Sandhoff disease mice. These mice without MIP-1alpha showed improved neurologic 
status and a longer lifespan. The results indicate that the pathogenesis of 
Sandhoff disease involves an increase in MIP-1alpha that induces monocytes to 
infiltrate the CNS, expand the activated macrophage/microglial population, and 
trigger apoptosis of neurons, resulting in a rapid neurodegenerative course.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0400625101
PMCID: PMC420410
PMID: 15155903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Methods Mol Biol. 2004;268:117-25. doi: 10.1385/1-59259-766-1:117.

Typing fungal isolates: molecular methods and computerized analysis.

Rementeria A(1), Vivanco AB, Cadaval A, Ruesga MT, Brena S, Pontón J, Quindós G, 
Garaizar J.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad del País Vasco, Lejona, Spain.

Infections caused by fungi (mycoses) are increasingly reported in many countries 
owing to greater life expectancy associated with an increase in quality of 
medical and surgical procedures, as well as the emergence of diseases or 
infections that affect the immune system such as AIDS. Nosocomial outbreaks of 
fungal infections are sometimes reported, and typing is then necessary to find 
the reservoirs, analyze the modes of transmission, study the antifungal 
susceptibility patterns, and investigate the susceptibility of the host. In 
addition, the food industry is increasingly demanding typing methods that could 
help in selection of the best fungal strains, in order to incorporate them in 
the productive chains and augment the quality and security of food. This is the 
case for Saccharomyces cerevisiae in the wine industry: the selection and 
characterization of indigenous or autochthonous strains is an important 
objective for the production of high-quality certified wines.Several genotyping 
methods are now widely used for strain delineation of medically or economically 
important microorganisms belonging to the kingdom Fungi. Most molecular typing 
methods are comparable to those already described for bacteria, although the 
peculiarities of their nucleic acids increase the number of available methods. 
Although typing procedures based on the analysis of nucleic acid sequences have 
been developed, most genotyping methods currently in use are electrophoretically 
based, and the procedures include the visual comparison of nucleic acid band 
profiles or their reading with the help of computerized software. Here we 
describe some of the most frequently used genotyping methods for fungi, based on 
polymerase chain reactions (PCR), the isolation of chromosomal or mitochondrial 
DNA, and their restriction using endonuclease enzymes. The latter methods are 
exclusive for typing eukaryotic organisms and are based on the expected 
polymorphism obtained from the separation of large chromosomes using 
pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and the restriction of mitochondrial or 
chromosomal DNA. More sophisticated methods, such as those that combine 
endonuclease restriction with hybridization, are also available, although their 
use is less extensive and is limited mostly to research laboratories.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-766-1:117
PMID: 15156023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Surg Endosc. 2004 Jul;18(7):1130-5. doi: 10.1007/s00464-003-9152-3. Epub
2004  May 27.

Laparoscopy as a prognostic factor in curative resection for node positive 
colorectal cancer: results for a single-institution nonrandomized prospective 
trial.

Capussotti L(1), Massucco P, Muratore A, Amisano M, Bima C, Zorzi D.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Surgical Oncology, Institute for Research and Cure of Cancer, 10060, 
Candiolo, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Several studies reporting preliminary long-term survival data after 
laparoscopic resections for colonic adenocarcinoma did not show any detrimental 
effect in comparison with historic studies of laparotomies. A previous 
randomized study has reported an unforeseen better long-term survival for 
node-positive patients treated by laparoscopic colectomy.
METHODS: A single-institution prospective nonrandomized trial compared short- 
and long-term results of laparoscopic and open curative resection for 
adenocarcinoma of the left colon or rectum in 255 consecutive patients from 
January 1996 to December 2000.
RESULTS: In this study, 34 left hemicolectomy, 202 anterior resections, and 19 
abdominoperineal resections were performed. A total of 74 patients underwent a 
laparoscopic resection (LR), and 181, an open resection (OR). The tumor site was 
the descending colon in 32 cases, the sigmoid colon in 98 cases, and the rectum 
in 125 cases, including 87 mid-low rectal cancers. Ten LR procedures (13.5%) 
were converted to open surgery. The hospital mortality was 0.08%, and in 
hospital morbidity was 16.2% for LR and 13.3% for OR (p = 0.56). The median 
postoperative stay was 1 day shorter for LR (9 days) than for OR (10 days) (p = 
0.09). The mean number of lymph nodes retrieved were 13.8 +/- 5.7 for OR and 
12.7 +/- 5; for LR (p = 0.23). Age exceeding 70 years, T stage, N stage, 
grading, mid-low rectal site, and laparoscopy were found by multivariate 
analysis to be significant prognostic factors for disease-free and 
cancer-related survival. When patients were stratified by stage, a trend toward 
a better disease-free and cancer-related survival was identified in stage III 
patients undergoing LR.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic colonic resection is a safe procedure in terms of 
postoperative outcome and long-term survival. Multivariate analysis showed that 
laparoscopy is a positive prognostic factor for disease-free and cancer-related 
survival. The current data agrees with the data for the only randomized study 
reported so far. Both suggest a better outcome for node-positive patients 
treated by laparoscopy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-003-9152-3
PMID: 15156384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(2 Suppl 1):1-12. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-200422001-00002.

Epidemiology and burden of illness of rheumatoid arthritis.

Kvien TK(1).

Author information:
(1)Oslo City Department of Rheumatology, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
t.k.kvien@ioks.uio.no

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, generally progressive autoimmune disease 
that causes functional disability, significant pain and joint destruction, and 
leads to premature mortality. It is estimated to affect between 0.5 and 1.0% of 
the adult population worldwide, increases in prevalence with age and affects 
more women than men. The magnitude of the severe long-term economic consequences 
of RA has been underestimated in the past. Most patients with the disease 
require continuous treatment to retard or stop progression and to control 
disease flares. Many also require surgery, such as total hip or knee 
replacement. In addition to these direct costs, work disability leads to reduced 
productivity and early retirement, and as a result, substantial indirect costs. 
The individual and his or her family must cope with the feeling of loss of 
contribution to society combined with redefined social roles, and the effects of 
pain, fatigue, low self-esteem, mental distress and depression. A number of 
countries in North America and Europe have reported a decline in the incidence 
of RA in recent years, although geographical differences remain that may be 
associated with genetic, environmental or cultural factors. Nevertheless, 
patients with RA have not shared the improvements in survival rates seen with 
other diseases over the last 40 years, and have a mean reduction in life 
expectancy of between 5 and 10 years. Disease severity, activity and disability 
are strongly linked to premature mortality in patients with RA. The high direct 
and indirect costs associated with RA, together with the substantial morbidity 
and mortality affecting millions of people worldwide, underline the potential 
benefits of improved treatments for this chronic disease to patients, their 
families and society.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422001-00002
PMID: 15157000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2004 May 24;4:6. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-4-6.

Description and validation of a Markov model of survival for individuals free of 
cardiovascular disease that uses Framingham risk factors.

Martin C(1), Vanderpump M, French J.

Author information:
(1)Laindon Health Centre Primary Care Research Team, Essex, SS15 5TR, United 
Kingdom. chris.martin@laindonhc.org.uk

BACKGROUND: Estimation of cardiovascular disease risk is increasingly used to 
inform decisions on interventions, such as the use of antihypertensives and 
statins, or to communicate the risks of smoking. Crude 10-year cardiovascular 
disease risk risks may not give a realistic view of the likely impact of an 
intervention over a lifetime and will underestimate of the risks of smoking. A 
validated model of survival to act as a decision aid in the consultation may 
help to address these problems. This study aims to describe the development of 
such a model for use with people free of cardiovascular disease and evaluates 
its accuracy against data from a United Kingdom cohort.
METHODS: A Markov cycle tree evaluated using cohort simulation was developed 
utilizing Framingham estimates of cardiovascular risk, 1998 United Kingdom 
mortality data, the relative risk for smoking related non-cardiovascular disease 
risk and changes in systolic blood pressure and serum total cholesterol total 
cholesterol with age. The model's estimates of survival at 20 years for 1391 
members of the Whickham survey cohort between the ages of 35 and 65 were 
compared with the observed survival at 20-year follow-up.
RESULTS: The model estimate for survival was 75% and the observed survival was 
75.4%. The correlation between estimated and observed survival was 0.933 over 39 
subgroups of the cohort stratified by estimated survival, 0.992 for the seven 
5-year age bands from 35 to 64, 0.936 for the ten 10 mmHg systolic blood 
pressure bands between 100 mmHg and 200 mmHg, and 0.693 for the fifteen 0.5 
mmol/l total cholesterol bands between 3.0 and 10.0 mmol/l. The model 
significantly underestimated mortality in those people with a systolic blood 
pressure greater than or equal to 180 mmHg (p = 0.006). The average gain in life 
expectancy from the elimination of cardiovascular disease risk as a cause of 
death was 4.0 years for all the 35 year-old men in the sample (n = 24), and 1.8 
years for all the 35 year-old women in the sample (n = 32).
CONCLUSIONS: This model accurately estimates 20-year survival in subjects from 
the Whickham cohort with a systolic blood pressure below 180 mmHg.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-4-6
PMCID: PMC434521
PMID: 15157279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Contraception. 2004 Jun;69(6):447-59. doi:
10.1016/j.contraception.2004.03.008.

Costs and net health effects of contraceptive methods.

Sonnenberg FA(1), Burkman RT, Hagerty CG, Speroff L, Speroff T.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, UMDNJ-Robert Wood Johnson Medical 
School, 125 Paterson Street, Room 2302, New Brunswick, NJ 08903 USA. 
sonnenbe@umdnj.edu

BACKGROUND: Pregnancy and contraceptive methods both have important health 
effects that include risks and benefits. The net impact of contraception on 
women's health has not been reported previously.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a cost-utility analysis using a Markov model evaluated by 
Monte Carlo simulation using the societal perspective for costs. The analysis 
compared 13 methods of contraception to nonuse of contraception with respect to 
healthcare costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Discounting was 
applied for future costs and health effects. The base-case analysis applies to 
women of average health and fertility, ranging from 15 to 50 years of age, who 
are sexually active in a mutually monogamous relationship; smoking rates 
observed in women of reproductive age were used. Sensitivity analysis extended 
the analysis to nonmonogamous status and smoking status.
RESULTS: Compared with use of no contraception, contraceptive methods of all 
types result in substantial cost savings over 2 years, ranging from US$5907 per 
woman for tubal sterilization to US$9936 for vasectomy and health gains ranging 
from 0.088 QALYs for diaphragm to 0.147 QALYs for depot medroxyprogesterone 
acetate. Compared with nonuse, even with a time horizon as short as 1 year, use 
of any method other than sterilization results in financial savings and health 
gains. Most of the financial savings and health gains were due to contraceptive 
effects. In a population of patients, even modest increases in the use of the 
most effective methods result in financial savings and health gains.
CONCLUSIONS: Every method of contraception dominates nonuse in most clinical 
settings. Increasing the use of more effective methods even modestly at the 
expense of less effective methods will improve health and reduce costs. Methods 
that require action by the user less frequently than daily are both less costly 
and more effective than methods requiring action on a daily basis.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.contraception.2004.03.008
PMID: 15157789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Trends Biotechnol. 2004 Jun;22(6):286-94. doi:
10.1016/j.tibtech.2004.04.003.

The contribution of farm animals to human health.

Kues WA(1), Niemann H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Institut für Tierzucht, Mariensee, D-31535 
Neustadt, Germany.

Farm animals and their products have a longstanding and successful history of 
providing significant contributions to human nutrition, clothing, facilitation 
of labour, research, development and medicine and have thus been essential in 
improving life expectancy and human health. With the advent of transgenic 
technologies the potential of farm animals for improving human health is growing 
and many areas remain to be explored. Recent breakthroughs in reproductive 
technologies, such as somatic cloning and in vitro embryo production, and their 
merger with molecular genetic tools, will further advance progress in this 
field. Here, we have summarized the contribution of farm animals to human 
health, covering the production of antimicrobial peptides, dietary supplements 
or functional foods, animals used as disease models and the contribution of 
animals to solving urgent environmental problems and challenges in medicine such 
as the shortage of human cells, tissues and organs and therapeutic proteins. 
Some of these areas have already reached the level of preclinical testing or 
commercial application, others will be further advanced only when the genomes of 
the animals concerned have been sequenced and annotated. Provided the necessary 
precautions are being taken, the transmission of pathogens from animals to 
humans can be avoided to provide adequate security. Overall, the promising 
perspectives of farm animals and their products warrant further research and 
development in this field.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tibtech.2004.04.003
PMID: 15158058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Nurs Clin North Am. 2004 Jun;39(2):251-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cnur.2004.01.001.

Nursing and men's health movement: considerations for the 21st century.

Porche DJ(1), Willis DG.

Author information:
(1)Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, School of Nursing, 1900 
Gravier Street, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA. dporch@lsuhsc.edu

Men's health is a holistic, comprehensive approach that addresses the physical, 
mental, emotional, social, and spiritual life experiences and health needs of 
men throughout their lifespan. The men's health movement consists of various 
movements that are melding into a central focus on men's health and well being. 
Current health policy is attempting to establish an Office of Men's Health. A 
men's health nurse practitioner role is proposed for development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cnur.2004.01.001
PMID: 15159177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Circulation. 2004 Jun 15;109(23):2866-71. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000129317.12580.68. Epub 2004 May 24.

Long-term outcome of renal transplant recipients in the United States after 
coronary revascularization procedures.

Herzog CA(1), Ma JZ, Collins AJ.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Special Studies Center, United States Renal Data System, 914 
South 8th Street, Suite D-206, Minneapolis, MN 55404, USA. cherzog@usrds.org

BACKGROUND: Retrospective studies in dialysis patients have reported increased 
survival after coronary artery bypass (CAB) compared with coronary artery 
stenting and PTCA. The purpose of this study was to compare the long-term 
outcome of renal transplant recipients after stent, PTCA, or CAB with or without 
internal mammary grafting (CAB [IMG+] or CAB [IMG-]).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Renal transplant recipients hospitalized from 1995 to 1999 
for first coronary revascularization procedure were retrospectively identified 
from the United States Renal Data System database. Event-free survival for the 
end points of all-cause death, cardiac death, acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 
and the combined end point of cardiac death or AMI was estimated by the 
life-table method. The impact of independent predictors on survival was examined 
in a comorbidity-adjusted Cox model. In-hospital mortality rate was 2.3% for 909 
stent patients, 4.3% for 652 PTCA patients, 9.4% for 288 CAB (IMG-) patients, 
and 5.0% for 812 CAB (IMG+) patients. Two-year all-cause survival (+/-SE) was: 
stent, 82.5+/-2.8%; PTCA, 81.6+/-3.1%; CAB (IMG-), 74.4+/-5.4%; and CAB (IMG+), 
82.7+/-2.8%. The relative risks of all-cause and cardiac death were not 
significantly different among revascularization groups. The relative risk of 
cardiac death or AMI (versus PTCA) was 0.90 (95% CI, 0.69 to 1.17) for stent, 
0.80 (95% CI, 0.55 to 1.17) for CAB (IMG-), and 0.57 (95% CI, 0.42 to 0.76) for 
CAB (IMG+).
CONCLUSIONS: Renal transplant recipients in the United States have comparable 
long-term survival after percutaneous and surgical coronary revascularization 
procedures. The most favorable long-term outcome occurs after surgical coronary 
revascularization.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000129317.12580.68
PMID: 15159290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Cell Biol. 2004 May 24;165(4):465-71. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200401136.

A pathway of neuregulin-induced activation of cofilin-phosphatase Slingshot and 
cofilin in lamellipodia.

Nagata-Ohashi K(1), Ohta Y, Goto K, Chiba S, Mori R, Nishita M, Ohashi K, 
Kousaka K, Iwamatsu A, Niwa R, Uemura T, Mizuno K.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Biomolecular Sciences, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku 
University, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan.

Cofilin mediates lamellipodium extension and polarized cell migration by 
stimulating actin filament dynamics at the leading edge of migrating cells. 
Cofilin is inactivated by phosphorylation at Ser-3 and reactivated by 
cofilin-phosphatase Slingshot-1L (SSH1L). Little is known of signaling 
mechanisms of cofilin activation and how this activation is spatially regulated. 
Here, we show that cofilin-phosphatase activity of SSH1L increases approximately 
10-fold by association with actin filaments, which indicates that actin assembly 
at the leading edge per se triggers local activation of SSH1L and thereby 
stimulates cofilin-mediated actin turnover in lamellipodia. We also provide 
evidence that 14-3-3 proteins inhibit SSH1L activity, dependent on the 
phosphorylation of Ser-937 and Ser-978 of SSH1L. Stimulation of cells with 
neuregulin-1beta induced Ser-978 dephosphorylation, translocation of SSH1L onto 
F-actin-rich lamellipodia, and cofilin dephosphorylation. These findings suggest 
that SSH1L is locally activated by translocation to and association with F-actin 
in lamellipodia in response to neuregulin-1beta and 14-3-3 proteins negatively 
regulate SSH1L activity by sequestering it in the cytoplasm.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200401136
PMCID: PMC2172350
PMID: 15159416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Neurology. 2004 May 25;62(10):1783-7. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000125196.88449.89.

Long-term outcome of oligodendrogliomas.

Lebrun C(1), Fontaine D, Ramaioli A, Vandenbos F, Chanalet S, Lonjon M, Michiels 
JF, Bourg V, Paquis P, Chatel M, Frenay M; Nice Brain Tumor Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hôpital Pasteur, Nice, France. 
christine.lebrun-frenay@wanadoo.fr

BACKGROUND: Favorable prognostic factors for oligodendroglial tumors include age 
younger than 40 years, low tumor grade, and extent of resection.
OBJECTIVE: To assess survival time and prognostic factors of 100 patients with 
oligodendrogliomas diagnosed between 1995 and 2002.
METHODS: The tumors were rated histologically by the WHO classification as low 
grade (grade II) or anaplastic (grade III). One hundred patients were 
categorized into three groups: group A: grade II, group B: secondary grade III 
(low grade with anaplastic transformation during the follow-up), group C: de 
novo grade III. All patients were symptomatic at presentation and underwent 
neurosurgical procedure for histologic diagnosis. Follow-up was performed with 
clinical assessment, brain MRI, and MIBI scintigraphy.
RESULTS: There were 66 men and 34 women (mean age at diagnosis 46.7 years). The 
most common first symptom was partial epileptic seizure (75%). Fifty-six 
patients had initial gadolinium enhancement (A: 15.6%; B: 36.8% as grade II, 95% 
as grade III; C: 90%), generally associated with MIBI hypermetabolism (p < 
0.0001). Survival rates at 2, 5, and 10 years were A: 88%, 88%, 85%; B: 79%, 
64%, 42%; C: 43%, 16%, 15%.
CONCLUSIONS: Secondary anaplastic oligodendroglioma patients were younger than 
patients with de novo anaplastic oligodendrogliomas. Histologic confirmation is 
mandatory because some low grade oligodendrogliomas had gadolinium enhancement 
on MRI and some anaplastic did not. Survival time was longer for secondary than 
for de novo anaplastic oligodendrogliomas without difference in the duration of 
the malignant phase of the disease.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000125196.88449.89
PMID: 15159478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Neurology. 2004 May 25;62(10):1794-8. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000125194.27381.d4.

Anticipation of age at onset in multiple sclerosis: a Sardinian cohort study.

Cocco E(1), Sardu C, Lai M, Spinicci G, Contu P, Marrosu MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Cagliari, Italy.

BACKGROUND: To assess the temporal trend in multiple sclerosis (MS) onset during 
the last 50 years in Sardinia, Italy.
METHODS: The authors used a cohort study to assess age at onset in 1,513 MS 
patients at the MS clinic in Cagliari, all born and living in Sardinia. They 
also assessed age at onset in 41 pairs of familial patients from two generations 
and 78 pairs of affected sibs. Each familial couple was paired with three 
couples of sporadic patients born in the same year as the familial ones. The 
time interval between the first symptoms and diagnosis was analyzed in first and 
second-diagnosed patients from both familial and control couples.
RESULTS: Mean age at onset progressively decreased from the most remote to the 
most recent decade of birth (log-rank test 778.27, p < 0.0001), being 41 years 
in the former decade and 22 years in the latter. A genetic influence was ruled 
out, because the younger member of familial patients coming from two generations 
had onset 14.0 years earlier than the older one (p < 0.0001), as in the paired 
control couples (11.6 years, p < 0.0001). Moreover, mean onset in younger sibs 
was 3.4 years earlier than in older ones (p = 0.01), similar to that of control 
couples (4.1 years, p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: Age at onset decreases progressively from older to younger 
generations in Sardinian MS patients. Nongenetic but recent widespread 
environmental changes might contribute to shortening of the preclinical 
phase-overt disease interval.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000125194.27381.d4
PMID: 15159480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Neurology. 2004 May 25;62(10):1818-21. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000125191.40444.8e.

Electrocardiographic Q-waves as a predictor of mortality in patients with 
cerebral infarction.

Tanaka M(1), Nakayama Y, Maeda Y, Nishioka T, Shirakawa M, Tsumura K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Ishikiriseiki Hospital, Osaka, Japan. 
masa-t@msic.med.osaka-cu.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether abnormal EKG findings could be predictive 
factors for death after a stroke event.
METHODS: Patients with acute cerebral infarction who were 35 to 98 years old 
during April 1996 through November 2000 were analyzed (n = 216). A standard 
12-lead EKG was recorded for each patient after acute cerebral infarction. The 
authors prospectively investigated the association between abnormal EKG findings 
and the risk for death after stroke over a 1-year period.
RESULTS: Using multivariate Cox proportional hazards models, the authors found 
age (hazard ratio of mortality per year 1.10, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.15, p < 0.001), 
sex (female; hazard ratio of mortality 3.42, 95% CI 1.43 to 8.19, p = 0.006), 
and the presence of Q-waves in more than two leads (hazard ratio of mortality 
2.75, 95% CI 1.23 to 6.14, p = 0.013) were independently associated with death 
after stroke.
CONCLUSION: The presence of Q-waves in more than two leads could be a predictive 
factor for death after acute cerebral infarction.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000125191.40444.8e
PMID: 15159484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Neurology. 2004 May 25;62(10):1822-6. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000125190.10967.d5.

Heart rate dynamics predict poststroke mortality.

Mäkikallio AM(1), Mäkikallio TH, Korpelainen JT, Sotaniemi KA, Huikuri HV, 
Myllylä VV.

Author information:
(1)The Graduate School of Circumpolar Wellbeing, Health and Adaptation, Centre 
for Arctic Medicine, Department of Neurology, University of Oulu, Finland. 
Anne.Makikallio@ppshp.fi

BACKGROUND: Impaired cardiovascular autonomic regulation assessed by heart rate 
(HR) variability provides prognostic information in patients with heart disease 
as well as among elderly. Reduced HR variability has been described in stroke 
patients, but the prognostic significance of HR variability measures after 
stroke has not been studied.
METHODS: A series of 84 patients (mean age 59 +/- 12 years) with an acute 
first-ever ischemic stroke underwent a comprehensive clinical investigation, 
laboratory tests, and 24-hour EKG recordings and were followed up for 7 years 
(mean 83 +/- 54 months). Various conventional and newer qualitative measures of 
HR variability were analyzed from the baseline 24-hour EKG. Risk factors for 
all-cause mortality were assessed.
RESULTS: During the follow-up, 33 (39%) patients died and 51 survived. Among all 
the variables analyzed, abnormal long-term HR variability measure power-law 
slope beta (beta < -1.5), reflecting an altered distribution of spectral 
characteristics over ultra and very low frequency bands, was the best univariate 
predictor of death (hazard ratio 4.5, 95% CI 2.2 to 9.5, p < 0.001). High age, 
poor Scandinavian Stroke Scale score, and abnormal short-term HR variability 
scaling measure (alpha) also predicted mortality in univariate analysis. In 
multivariate analysis, after adjustment for age, the only independent predictor 
of the risk of death was abnormal long-term power-law slope beta (hazard ratio 
3.8, CI 1.8 to 8.2, p < 0.001). Conventional HR variability measures showed no 
prognostic power.
CONCLUSION: Abnormal long-term HR dynamics predict poststroke mortality. This 
measure may have value in the risk stratification of stroke patients.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000125190.10967.d5
PMID: 15159485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2004 Sep;54(3):193-205. doi: 
10.1007/s00280-004-0794-1. Epub 2004 May 25.

Pharmacokinetic linearity of i.v. vinorelbine from an intra-patient dose 
escalation study design.

Khayat D(1), Rixe O, Brunet R, Goupil A, Bugat R, Harousseau JL, Ifrah N, Puozzo 
C.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Pitié-Salpétrière, Paris, France.

As pharmacokinetics represents a bridge between pharmacological concentrations 
and clinical regimens, the pharmacokinetic exploration of the therapeutic dose 
range is a major outcome. This study was aimed at assessing pharmacokinetic 
linearity of i.v. vinorelbine through an open design with intra-patient dose 
escalation (3 doses/group). Three groups of six patients received either 
20-25-30 mg/m2; or 25-30-35 mg/m2; or 30-35-40 mg/m2. The inclusion criteria 
were: histologically confirmed tumour with at least one assessable target 
lesion, age 25-75 years, WHO PS < or =2, normal haematology and biochemistry, 
life expectancy > or =3 months. The pharmacokinetics was evaluated in both whole 
blood and plasma over 120 h. Twenty-six patients were recruited and 18 were 
evaluable for pharmacokinetics. The toxicity consisted in grade < or =3 
leucopenia and neutropenia (<20% of courses) and two grade 4 constipation with 
rapid recovery (2/54 courses). Compared to blood, plasma was demonstrated to 
underestimate the pharmacokinetic parameters. In blood, the drug total clearance 
was about 0.6 l/h/kg, with minor contribution of renal clearance, steady state 
volume of distribution close to 13 l/h/kg, and elimination half-life at about 40 
h. A pharmacokinetic linearity was demonstrated up to 40 mg/m2, and even up to 
45 mg/m2 when pooling data from another study. A pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic 
relationship was evidenced on leucopenia and neutropenia when pooling the data 
from the two studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-004-0794-1
PMID: 15160284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. J Environ Manage. 2004 Feb;70(2):119-28. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2003.11.003.

Mortality and morbidity benefits of air pollution (SO2 and PM10) absorption 
attributable to woodland in Britain.

Powe NA(1), Willis KG.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Environmental Appraisal and Management, School of 
Architecture, Planning and Landscape, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU, UK. n.a.powe@ncl.ac.uk

Forests in Britain produce social and environmental benefits, in addition to 
marketable timber outputs. One such non-market benefit is the reduction in air 
pollution, linked to health impacts (mortality and morbidity). This study 
assesses the benefits of SO2 and PM10 absorption by trees in terms of extending 
life expectancy of the population and reducing hospital admissions. Working at a 
resolution of 1 km2 with woodland over 2 ha, it is estimated that, for Britain 
as a whole, woodland saves between 5 and 7 deaths, that would otherwise have 
been brought forward, and between 4 and 6 hospital admissions each year. The 
economic value of the health effect of woodland is estimated to be at least 
900,000 pounds Sterling per year. Smaller areas of woodland, often located 
closer to population, sometimes strategically planted close to pollution 
sources, will generate additional air pollution absorption benefits to those 
estimated here. Researching such benefits would require more detailed data than 
is available at present for a national study. However, the health benefits of 
woodland are relatively small in comparison to other non-market forestry 
benefits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2003.11.003
PMID: 15160738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2004 Mar;18(2):153-9. doi: 
10.1023/B:CARD.0000029033.83282.d0.

Increasing awareness and perception of heart failure in Europe and improving 
care--rationale and design of the SHAPE Study.

Remme W(1), Boccanelli A, Cline C, Cohen-Solal A, Dietz R, Hobbs R, Keukelaar K, 
Sendon JL, Macarie C, McMurray J, Rauch B, Ruzyllo W, Zannad F; SHAPE Study.

Author information:
(1)Sticares Foundation, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. w.j.remme@sticares.org

In the last decennia heart failure has become one of the most important diseases 
worldwide in terms of prevalence, morbidity, life expectancy, and in health care 
management and costs. Despite significant improvements in prevention and 
treatment, heart failure remains a frequently occurring disorder with increasing 
incidence and a high hospitalisation and death rate. As major health care 
problem it deserves full attention of health care authorities. Unfortunately, 
the seriousness of heart failure and the therapeutic possibilities are often not 
recognised by those directly involved, i.e. the doctor, the patient or his 
relatives, let alone that they are known to the general public and health care 
authorities. The SHAPE study aims at improving heart failure care by increasing 
awareness and perception of the disease in Europe. Firstly, awareness and 
perception of heart failure will be documented in the general public, primary 
care physicians and specialists (cardiologists, internists and geriatricians) in 
9 European countries: France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, 
Spain, Sweden and the UK. Subsequently, the results will be used to design and 
carry out suitable awareness and educational programmes in these groups, aimed 
at improving heart failure care and research. Finally, the results of these 
programmes will be tested in a second documentation phase and adaptations made 
where needed. This manuscript describes the rationale and design of the first 
phase, the Documentation Phase.During the first documentation phase, 800 
participants per country selected based on sex, two age groups and urban vs. 
rural location (100/cell) will be surveyed using a 32-question interview. 
Questions for the general public focus on recognition, incidence and prevalence, 
severity and prognosis of the disease in comparison to other disease areas, like 
cancer, on quality of life, therapeutic possibilities and availability of care. 
The primary care physician (PCP) survey aims at receiving a minimum of 300 
responses. A questionnaire with 33 closed questions will be used covering the 
PCP's knowledge of heart failure, including prevalence, aetiology, new 
diagnostic and therapeutic developments and health care costs. Questions 
concerning diagnostic procedures and various treatments carried out by the PCP 
in his own practice, as well as referral patterns for diagnostic procedures and 
for specialist care. Questions relating to the type of practice and number of 
patients in each PCP's clinical practice. A minimum of 150 cardiologists and 150 
internists + geriatricians will be surveyed per country. The specialist's 
questionnaire contains 31 questions focusing on identification of heart failure 
patients, patients at risk, use and availability of diagnostic tools, importance 
of therapies and order of treatment, perceived risks of treatment, relevance of 
counselling and advice, use of paramedical personnel, and questions concerning 
practice size, type of practice and number of patients with heart failure.
CONCLUSION: This first part of the SHAPE study will provide important 
information about the level of knowledge and understanding of heart failure of 
the general public, as well as the perception of the relevance of heart failure 
and appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic approaches by both the primary care 
physician and the medical specialist. This knowledge will be extremely valuable 
when it comes to defining optimal educational programmes in the different target 
groups studied in SHAPE necessary to implement appropriate heart failure care in 
Europe and to obtain the means to do so.

DOI: 10.1023/B:CARD.0000029033.83282.d0
PMID: 15162077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. J Spinal Cord Med. 2004;27(2):2 p following 200.

Spinal cord injury: facts and figures at a glance.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15162887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Scand J Rheumatol. 2004;33(2):102-7. doi: 10.1080/03009740410006060.

Daily activities and hand function in women with scleroderma.

Sandqvist G(1), Eklund M, Akesson A, Nordenskiöld U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Lund University, Sweden. 
gunnel.sandqvist@skane.se

OBJECTIVE: To give a detailed description of hand function and the ability to 
perform daily activities among patients with systemic sclerosis.
METHODS: Thirty patients with scleroderma answered a self-administered 
activities of daily living (ADL) questionnaire. Hand function was estimated with 
respect to hand mobility, dexterity, and grip force. Perceived symptoms were 
reported on a visual analogue scale (VAS), and skin thickness was assessed by 
means of the modified Rodnan skin score.
RESULTS: Finger flexion and extension were the most impaired aspects of hand 
mobility. Dexterity was on average reduced to 68-80%, and grip force to 46-65% 
compared with values for healthy persons. The predominant self-perceived problem 
was Raynaud's phenomenon, whereas pitting scars/ulcers were perceived as the 
least problem. Activities building on hand and arm function were harder to 
perform than activities depending on lower limb function. Raynaud's phenomenon, 
stiffness, grip force, and dexterity were factors with the strongest 
associations with ADL difficulties. Assistive devices and alternative working 
methods improved ADL ability.
CONCLUSION: Impaired hand function was related to ADL difficulties and the use 
of assistive devices improved ADL. This emphasizes the importance of treatments 
that improve hand function and of testing ergonomic tools.

DOI: 10.1080/03009740410006060
PMID: 15163111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Nature. 2004 May 27;429(6990):413-7. doi: 10.1038/nature02544.

VEGF delivery with retrogradely transported lentivector prolongs survival in a 
mouse ALS model.

Azzouz M(1), Ralph GS, Storkebaum E, Walmsley LE, Mitrophanous KA, Kingsman SM, 
Carmeliet P, Mazarakis ND.

Author information:
(1)Oxford BioMedica plc, The Oxford Science Park, Medawar Centre, Oxford OX4 
4GA, UK. m.azzouz@oxfordbiomedica.co.uk

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) causes adult-onset, progressive motor neuron 
degeneration in the brain and spinal cord, resulting in paralysis and death 
three to five years after onset in most patients. ALS is still incurable, in 
part because its complex aetiology remains insufficiently understood. Recent 
reports have indicated that reduced levels of vascular endothelial growth factor 
(VEGF), which is essential in angiogenesis and has also been implicated in 
neuroprotection, predispose mice and humans to ALS. However, the therapeutic 
potential of VEGF for the treatment of ALS has not previously been assessed. 
Here we report that a single injection of a VEGF-expressing lentiviral vector 
into various muscles delayed onset and slowed progression of ALS in mice 
engineered to overexpress the gene coding for the mutated G93A form of the 
superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1(G93A)) (refs 7-10), even when treatment was only 
initiated at the onset of paralysis. VEGF treatment increased the life 
expectancy of ALS mice by 30 per cent without causing toxic side effects, 
thereby achieving one of the most effective therapies reported in the field so 
far.

DOI: 10.1038/nature02544
PMID: 15164063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Br J Surg. 2004 Jun;91(6):709-12. doi: 10.1002/bjs.4525.

Prediction of mediastinal lymph node metastasis in medullary thyroid carcinoma.

Machens A(1), Holzhausen HJ, Dralle H.

Author information:
(1)Department of General, Visceral and Vascular Surgery, 
Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Ernst-Grube-Strasse 40, D-06097 
Halle/Saale, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Mediastinal lymph node metastases can be life threatening owing to 
their proximity to vital organs. Reliable identification of mediastinal 
metastasis is of utmost importance for timely mediastinal lymph node dissection, 
although suitable clinicopathological variables for their detection in patients 
with thyroid cancer have yet to be identified.
METHODS: This was an analysis of 83 consecutive patients with radiological 
suspicion of mediastinal metastasis who underwent trans-sternal mediastinal 
lymph node dissection for node-positive medullary thyroid carcinoma between 
November 1994 and March 2003.
RESULTS: Univariate analysis revealed that extrathyroidal extension (P < 0.001), 
distant metastasis (P = 0.001), the preoperative serum calcitonin level (P = 
0.001), operation type (P = 0.004), contralateral cervicolateral metastasis (P = 
0.016) and bilateral nodal metastasis (P = 0.031) were significantly associated 
with mediastinal involvement. Only extrathyroidal extension remained significant 
in a multivariate logistic regression analysis of mediastinal lymph node 
metastasis. Prediction of mediastinal metastasis by extrathyroidal extension was 
best at reoperation, with a specificity of 97 per cent and a positive predictive 
value of 88 per cent.
CONCLUSION: Mediastinal lymph node dissection should be considered in patients 
undergoing reoperation for node-positive medullary thyroid carcinoma who have 
extrathyroidal extension and cervical lymph node metastases.

Copyright 2004 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.4525
PMID: 15164439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp. 2003 Dec;54(10):697-703. doi: 
10.1016/s0001-6519(03)78469-6.

[Induction chemotherapy using vinorelbine, cisplatin, and UFT in advanced 
pharyngeo-laryngeal carcinomas: results of a phase II study].

[Article in Spanish]

Rubio Suárez A(1), Teigeiro Núñez V, Gallo Terán J, Señaris González B, Mesuro 
Domínguez N.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Otorrinolaringología, Hospital Universitario Marqués de 
Valdecilla, 39008 Santander. arubios@seorl.net

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results of an induction chemotherapy protocol with 
Vinorelbine, UFT and Cisplatin (UFTVP).
METHODS: 93 patients with laryngo-pharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma in stage 
III or IV were prospectively entered into a protocol to receive four cycles of 
UFTVP. Responders followed definitive radiation therapy. Nonresponders underwent 
conventional surgery with postoperative radiation.
RESULTS: Following chemotherapy nodal response (complete in 28% and partial in 
33%) was less than that the primary site (complete in 60% and partial in 30%), p 
= 0.002. With a median follow-up of 62 months, the Kaplan-Meier 5-year survival 
was 45%. Successful larynx preservation was achieved in 50% of patients with 
laryngeal cancer and in 29% of patients with hypopharyngeal cancer. Lymph node 
metastases and pharyngeal localization were found to be significant negative 
factors with regards to survival.
CONCLUSIONS: UFTVP is an active regime of chemotherapy in advanced squamous cell 
carcinoma of the pharynx and larynx. Results differ according to the 
localization, having significantly better rates of survival and organ 
preservation in the laryngeal cancers that in those of the pharynx.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-6519(03)78469-6
PMID: 15164709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp. 2003 Dec;54(10):710-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0001-6519(03)78471-4.

[Isolated lymphatic recurrences in patients with head and neck carcinomas].

[Article in Spanish]

León X(1), Gañán L, Costey M, Kolanczak K, Orús C, Quer M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Otorrinolaringología, Hospital de Sant Pau., Avda. San Antoni Ma 
Claret, 167, 08025 Barcelona. xleon@hsp.santpau.es

