

605. Urology. 2004 Mar;63(3):447-50. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.10.039.

Significance of thrombocytosis for determining prognosis in patients with 
localized renal cell carcinoma.

Göğüş C(1), Baltaci S, Filiz E, Elhan A, Bedük Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ankara University School of Medicine, Ankara, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the significance of thrombocytosis for determining 
survival in patients with localized renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who underwent 
radical nephrectomy with curative intent.
METHODS: The study population comprised 151 patients who underwent radical 
nephrectomy with a diagnosis of localized RCC. The inclusion criteria were at 
least one preoperative platelet count and a tissue diagnosis of RCC. 
Thrombocytosis was defined as a platelet count greater than 400,000/mm3. The 
charts of these patients were retrospectively reviewed and the relationship 
between the preoperative platelet counts and survival was evaluated according to 
the histologic variants.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up was 37.1 +/- 24.1 months (median 34, range 3 to 91). 
Of these 151 patients, 21 had a preoperative platelet count greater than 
400,000/mm3. The thrombocytosis rate was significantly greater in those with 
advanced T stage (P = 0.045). Lymph node positivity also correlated with 
thrombocytosis (P = 0.028). However, no statistically significant correlation 
was found between grade and histologic subtypes and thrombocytosis (P = 0.053 
and P = 0.354, respectively). Ten (47.6%) of 21 patients with thrombocytosis and 
21 (16.2%) of the remaining 130 patients died of disease progression (P = 
0.002). The Kaplan-Meier cause-specific survival curves showed that patients who 
had thrombocytosis had a mean survival of 45.2 months compared with 76.6 months 
in patients without thrombocytosis (P = 0.0002).
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative thrombocytosis is a significant predictor for 
determining prognosis in patients with localized RCC. Thrombocytosis was found 
more frequently in patients with advanced stage RCC, and patients with 
preoperative thrombocytosis had a worse survival compared with those with normal 
platelet counts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.10.039
PMID: 15028435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Urology. 2004 Mar;63(3):509-12. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.10.022.

Prostate cancer diagnosed in spinal cord-injured patients is more commonly 
advanced stage than in able-bodied patients.

Scott PA Sr(1), Perkash I, Mode D, Wolfe VA, Terris MK.

Author information:
(1)Section of Urology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, Georgia 30912-4050, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the incidence and characteristics of prostate cancer in 
men with spinal cord injury (SCI). Little is known about the characteristics of 
prostate cancer in men with SCI, because prostate cancer screening is not 
aggressively performed in this population.
METHODS: In one fiscal year, 648 men with SCI older than age 50 years were 
actively enrolled with the SCI service, 20,949 able-bodied men older than age 50 
years were actively enrolled in the outpatient clinic database, and 945 patients 
with prostate cancer were in the cancer registry at our facility. These three 
databases were cross-referenced for prostate cancer diagnosis and stage and 
compared with the presence of SCI.
RESULTS: Of the 648 patients with SCI, 12 patients with a prostate cancer 
diagnosis that preceded their injury were excluded. Of the remaining 636 
patients, 11 (1.7%) had been diagnosed with prostate cancer since their injury. 
In contrast, of the 20,949 able-bodied men older than age 50 years seen at our 
facility in fiscal year 1999, 919 (4.4%) had prostate cancer. Of the patients 
with SCI and prostate cancer, 7 (63.6%) had locally advanced (Stage T3) or 
metastatic prostate cancer compared with 267 (29.1%) in the able-bodied 
population (P = 0.012).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the proportion of patients with a prostate cancer 
diagnosis was greater in the able-bodied patients, the prostate cancer detected 
in the patients with SCI tended to be of a more advanced stage and grade. The 
difference was likely a result of the decreased use of prostate cancer screening 
in this population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.10.022
PMID: 15028447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Urology. 2004 Mar;63(3):518-22. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.10.045.

Do younger men have better biochemical outcomes after radical prostatectomy?

Freedland SJ(1), Presti JC Jr, Kane CJ, Aronson WJ, Terris MK, Dorey F, Amling 
CL; SEARCH Database Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 
21287-2101, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the relationship between age and biochemical failure 
after radical prostatectomy (RP), controlling for the year of surgery. Prior 
studies have suggested that younger men have lower prostate-specific antigen 
recurrence rates after RP, although none of the prior studies had controlled for 
the year of surgery.
METHODS: We examined the data from 1753 men treated with RP between 1988 and 
2002 at five equal access medical centers. We compared age, as a categorical 
variable according to decade of life (50 years old or younger, 51 to 60, 61 to 
70, and older than 70 years), with the clinical and pathologic variables at RP, 
as well as the time to biochemical recurrence, using a multivariate Cox 
proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: Age was significantly related to the year of surgery, with the more 
recently treated patients being younger than less recently treated patients (P 
<0.001). After controlling for the year of surgery, the younger men had smaller 
prostates, fewer high-grade tumors on biopsy, and less lymph node metastasis, 
but a greater percentage of cores with cancer. On multivariate analysis, men 50 
years old or younger had significantly lower recurrence rates than did the older 
men. Moreover, men older than 70 years had significantly greater 
prostate-specific antigen failure rates than men aged 51 to 70 years or men aged 
50 years or younger.
CONCLUSIONS: The average age of men undergoing RP has decreased with time. 
Independent of this, young men have more favorable outcomes after RP than older 
men. Continued screening to detect prostate cancer among younger men when it is 
most curable appears warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.10.045
PMID: 15028449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Urology. 2004 Mar;63(3):528-31. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.064.

No difference in six-year biochemical failure rates with or without pelvic lymph 
node dissection during radical prostatectomy in low-risk patients with localized 
prostate cancer.

Bhatta-Dhar N(1), Reuther AM, Zippe C, Klein EA.

Author information:
(1)Glickman Urological Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio 
44195, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To compare differences in the actuarial biochemical relapse-free 
survival rates at 6 years in a contemporary series of patients who underwent 
radical prostatectomy with and without pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND). 
Biochemical failure was defined as a serum prostate-specific antigen level 
greater than 0.2 ng/mL confirmed at least 1 week later.
METHODS: The records of 806 consecutive radical prostatectomy cases performed 
between January 1995 and June 1999 were reviewed. A total of 336 patients with 
favorable tumor characteristics (prostate-specific antigen 10 ng/mL or less, 
biopsy Gleason score 6 or less, and clinical Stage T1 or T2) not receiving 
adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy were divided into two groups according to 
whether PLND was performed (PLND group, n = 140) or omitted (no-PLND group, n = 
196). A Cox proportional hazards model was used to analyze the effect of age, 
race, family history, initial prostate-specific antigen level, tumor stage, 
biopsy Gleason score, PLND, extracapsular extension, and seminal vesicle 
invasion on the likelihood of biochemical failure. Biochemical relapse-free 
survival for each group was estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis. The mean 
follow-up time for the entire group was 60.0 months, with a similar follow-up 
for both cohorts (mean 61.8 and 58.2 months, respectively, P value not 
statistically significant). Follow-up information was obtained through an 
institutional review board-approved prospective patient registry.
RESULTS: The 6-year biochemical relapse-free rate for the PLND versus no-PLND 
group was 86% and 88%, respectively (P = 0.28). On multivariate analysis, PLND 
was not an independent predictor of outcome (P = 0.33).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study results demonstrated that the omission of PLND in 
patients with favorable tumor characteristics does not adversely affect 
biochemical relapse rates at 6 years after surgery. Such patients can be spared 
the morbidity and cost of PLND without affecting the chance for cure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.09.064
PMID: 15028451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2004 May;242(5):397-401. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-004-0858-2. Epub 2004 Mar 17.

Glaucoma and mortality.

Grødum K(1), Heijl A, Bengtsson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Malmö University Hospital, S-20502, Sweden. 
kirsti.grodum@oftal.mas.lu.se

PURPOSE: To compare mortality rates in glaucoma patients and matched controls 
from a large population screening as well as glaucoma patients diagnosed through 
routine clinical examination (self-selected patients).
METHODS: A population-based screening of 32,918 elderly citizens of Malmö was 
conducted between 1992 and 1997. Individuals with newly detected, previously 
untreated open-angle glaucoma were identified. Two controls of the same age and 
gender were chosen among the screening negative participants for each patient. 
From the same birth cohorts, glaucoma patients seen in routine clinical practice 
(self-selected patients) were identified through retrospective examination of 
patient records from the Eye Department at Malmö University Hospital. The number 
and time of deaths for each group were determined based on centrally 
administered registers.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up time was 7.75 years. Five-year mortality did not differ 
significantly between the groups, and was 9.2% among glaucoma patients from the 
screening (n=402), and 11.9% among the controls (n=804; p=0.7406). Self-selected 
glaucoma patients had a 5-year mortality of 8.5% (n=354), not significantly 
different from the screening-detected glaucoma patients (p=0.1361). Among 
glaucoma patients, neither IOP (p=0.1781) nor pseudoexfoliation (p=0.8882) was 
related to significantly increased mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study strongly suggest that the life expectancy 
of glaucoma patients does not differ from the population at large.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-004-0858-2
PMID: 15029499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Rev Neurol. 2004 Mar 1-15;38(5):469-72.

[Memory. An introduction to the study of the cognitive disorders in normal and 
pathological aging].

[Article in Spanish]

Casanova Sotolongo P(1), Casanova Carrillo P, Casanova Carrillo C.

Author information:
(1)Policlinico Docente "Heroes del Moncada". Municipio de Salud Plaza, La 
Habana, Cuba. pcasanov@infomed.sld.cu

INTRODUCTION: As the life expectancy of the population rises, there is also an 
increase in the frequency of the diseases that appear in the elderly. Aging can 
be healthy or pathological, but the borderline between the two is still a bit 
fuzzy.
DEVELOPMENT: With the increase in the longevity of the population, Alzheimer's 
Disease (AD) and other illnesses linked to the aging process have become more 
common, above all in people between 65 and 85 years of age. The cognitive 
aspects that, in clinical practice, are most frequently seen to be involved are 
memory, attention, executive functions and the speed at which information is 
processed; these are the most common in these patients but the most severe and 
insidious as well as the first to appear are problems affecting memory. The 
physiological mechanism behind memory has still not been wholly explained. The 
modulation of many of the cognitive processes given by the cerebellum expands 
the borders in the study of the different mnemonic processes. The prefrontal 
cortex plays an essential role in controlling attention and in the mnemonic 
filing system required to supervise and modulate sensory motor processing and 
the basic complex actions of cognition, emotion and human behaviour.
CONCLUSIONS: The neuroanatomical, psychological and neurophysiological 
foundations of memory are very complex and involve the intervention of a number 
of structures that, within a single integrated context, each contribute to the 
overall functioning.

PMID: 15029527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Pediatr Pulmonol Suppl. 2004;26:116-8. doi: 10.1002/ppul.70075.

When should children be referred for lung or heart-lung transplantation?

Aurora P(1).

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Unit, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, Portex 
Respiratory Unit, Institute of Child Health, London, UK. p.aurora@ich.ucl.ac.u

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.70075
PMID: 15029621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2004 Feb;15(1):263-306. doi: 
10.1016/s1047-9651(03)00124-4.

Integrated technology for evaluation of brain function and neural plasticity.

Rossini PM(1), Dal Forno G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Hospital Fatebenefratelli, Isola 
Tiberina 39, 00186-Rome, Italy.

The study of neural plasticity has expanded rapidly in the past decades and has 
shown the remarkable ability of the developing, adult, and aging brain to be 
shaped by environmental inputs in health and after a lesion. Robust experimental 
evidence supports the hypothesis that neuronal aggregates adjacent to a lesion 
in the sensorimotor brain areas can take over progressively the function 
previously played by the damaged neurons. It definitely is accepted that such a 
reorganization modifies sensibly the interhemispheric differences in somatotopic 
organization of the sensorimotor cortices. This reorganization largely subtends 
clinical recovery of motor performances and sensorimotor integration after a 
stroke. Brain functional imaging studies show that recovery from hemiplegic 
strokes is associated with a marked reorganization of the activation patterns of 
specific brain structures. To regain hand motor control, the recovery process 
tends over time to bring the bilateral motor network activation toward a more 
normal intensity/extent, while overrecruiting simultaneously new areas, perhaps 
to sustain this process. Considerable intersubject variability exists in 
activation/hyperactivation pattern changes over time. Some patients display 
late-appearing dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activation, suggesting the 
development of "executive" strategies to compensate for the lost function. The 
AH in stroke often undergoes a significant "remodeling" of sensory and motor 
hand somatotopy outside the "normal" areas, or enlargement of the hand 
representation. The UH also undergoes reorganization, although to a lesser 
degree. Although absolute values of the investigated parameters fluctuate across 
subjects, secondary to individual anatomic variability, variation is minimal 
with regards to interhemispheric differences, due to the fact that individual 
morphometric characters are mirrored in the two hemispheres. Excessive 
interhemispheric asymmetry of the sensorimotor hand areas seems to be the 
parameter with highest sensitivity in describing brain reorganization after a 
monohemispheric lesion, and mapping motor and somatosensory cortical areas 
through focal TMS, fMRI, PET, EEG, and MEG is useful in studying hand 
representation and interhemispheric asymmetries in normal and pathologic 
conditions. TMS and MEG allow the detection of sensorimotor areas reshaping, as 
a result of either neuronal reorganization or recovery of the previously damaged 
neural network. These techniques have the advantage of high temporal resolution 
but also have limitations. TMS provides only bidimensional scalp maps, whereas 
MEG, even if giving three-dimensional mapping of generator sources, does so by 
means of inverse procedures that rely on the choice of a mathematical model of 
the head and the sources. These techniques do not test movement execution and 
sensorimotor integration as used in everyday life. fMRI and PET may provide the 
ideal means to integrate the findings obtained with the other two techniques. 
This multitechnology combined approach is at present the best way to test the 
presence and amount of plasticity phenomena underlying partial or total recovery 
of several functions, sensorimotor above all. Dynamic patterns of recovery are 
emerging progressively from the relevant literature. Enhanced recruitment of the 
affected cortex, be it spared perilesional tissue, as in the case of cortical 
stroke, or intact but deafferented cortex, as in subcortical strokes, seems to 
be the rule, a mechanism especially important in early postinsult stages. The 
transfer over time of preferential activation toward contralesional cortices, as 
observed in some cases, seems, however, to reflect a less efficient type of 
plastic reorganization, with some aspects of maladaptive plasticity. Reinforcing 
the use of the affected side can cause activation to increase again in the 
affected side with a corresponding enhancement of clinical function. Activation 
of the UH MI may represent recruitment of direct (uncrossed) corticospinal 
tracts and relate more to mirror movements, but it more likely reflects activity 
redistribution within preexisting bilateral, large-scale motor networks. 
Finally, activation of areas not normally engaged in the dysfunctional tasks, 
such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex or the superior parietal cortex in 
motor paralysis, might reflect the implication of compensatory cognitive 
strategies. An integrated approach with technologies able to investigate 
functional brain imaging is of considerable value in providing information on 
the excitability, extension, localization, and functional hierarchy of cortical 
brain areas. Deepening knowledge of the mechanisms regulating the long-term 
recovery (even if partial), observed for most neurologic sequelae after neural 
damage, might prompt newer and more efficacious therapeutic and rehabilitative 
strategies for neurologic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-9651(03)00124-4
PMID: 15029909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2003 Nov;1(4):523-32. doi:
10.1586/14779072.1.4.523.

Etiology of valvular heart disease.

Boudoulas H(1).

Author information:
(1)Foundation of Biomedical Research, Academy of Athens, Greece. 
boudoulas-1@medctr.osu.edu

The etiology of valvular heart diseases (VHD) has changed in the last 50 years 
in the industrialized countries. A significant reduction in the incidence of 
rheumatic fever and its sequelae, increase in life expectancy, recognition of 
new causes of VHD and advancement in technology are responsible for the 
metamorphosis of the etiology of VHD. Heritable disorders of connective tissue 
(marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, adult polycystic kidney disease, 
floppy mitral valve/mitral valve prolapse); congenital heart disease (bicuspid 
aortic valve); inflammatory/immunologic disorders (rheumatic fever, AIDS, 
Kawasaki disease, syphilis, seronegative spondyloarthropathies, systemic lupus 
erythematosus, antiphospholipid syndrome); endocardial disorders (nonbacteremic 
thrombotic endocarditis, infective endocarditis, endomyocardial fibroelastosis); 
myocardial dysfunction (ischemic heart disease, dilated cardiomyopathy, 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy); diseases and disorders of other organs (chronic 
renal failure, carcinoid heart disease); aging (calcific aortic stenosis, mitral 
annular calcification); postinterventional valvular disease; drugs and physical 
agents are all clinical entities associated with VHD. It should be emphasized 
that VHDs still constitute a major health problem which will increase with the 
aging population.

DOI: 10.1586/14779072.1.4.523
PMID: 15030251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2004 Feb;15(2):94-103. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892004000200004.

[Assessing the impact of health sector reform in Costa Rica through a 
quasi-experimental study].

[Article in Spanish]

Bixby LR(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro Centroamericano de Población, Universidad de Costa Rica, San José 
2060, Costa Rica.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of health sector reform in Costa Rica on that 
country's child and adult mortality rates and on the people's access to primary 
health care.
METHODS: Health sector reform was initiated in Costa Rica in 1995 in some 
districts, but in others reforms were adopted later. This made it possible to 
perform a time series analysis, using a quasi-experimental study design, in 
which observations were made annually from 1985 through 2001 for each of the 420 
districts that existed in Costa Rica in 1984. The time series were divided into 
three periods that allowed all districts to be grouped into three categories 
(pioneer, intermediate, and late) according to the year when they first 
implemented health sector reform: 1995-1996; 1997-2000; and 2001 or after, 
respectively. For each of these periods, mortality rates were broken down by 
cause (communicable, socially-determined, or chronic disease), sex, and age 
group. The status of the reform process in a particular district was described 
by two indicators: (1) the presence or absence of health sector reform during a 
given period and, wherever such reforms had been adopted, (2) the number of 
years that had transpired since their adoption. Eight variables were used to 
control for confounders. Vital statistics and demographic data were obtained 
from the National Institute for Statistics and Census' [Centro Nacional de 
Estadística y Censos] electronic database. Poisson multiple regression analysis 
with fixed effects was used to estimate the impact of reform on child and adult 
mortality from different causes. Assessment of the population's access to 
primary care before and after the reform was based on the percentage of people 
who lived within a 4 km radius of a health facility that offered patient 
visiting hours two or more days a week. This information came from a previous 
study that used census data from 2000 and geographic information systems to map 
health care facilities throughout the country.
RESULTS: Multiple regression showed that the reform was associated with an 
overall 8% reduction in deaths among children and with a 2% reduction in deaths 
among adults, both statistically significant. Also noted were a 14% reduction in 
deaths from communicable diseases or from conditions brought on by the presence 
of infectious processes, a 0% reduction in deaths from socially-determined 
causes, and a 2% reduction in deaths from chronic diseases. An estimated 120 
child lives and 350 adult lives were saved by the reform in 2001 alone. Also, 
the percentage of people without equitable access to primary health services 
dropped by 15% between 1994 and 2000 in areas where health sector reform was 
implemented in 1995-1996, whereas areas that had not yet initiated health sector 
reform in 2000 experienced only a 3% reduction.
CONCLUSION: Health sector reform significantly reduced mortality in Costa Rica 
and put an end to a decade of stagnation, as shown by certain health indicators, 
such as life expectancy. Equity in access to primary care improved considerably, 
perhaps because the first reforms were implemented in less developed areas of 
the country.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892004000200004
PMID: 15030654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 Apr;88(4):450-4. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2003.035279.

Cost utility of screening and treatment for early age related macular 
degeneration with zinc and antioxidants.

Hopley C(1), Salkeld G, Wang JJ, Mitchell P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology and the Westmead 
Millennium Institute, University of Sydney, Westmead Hospital, Hawkesbury Road, 
Westmead, NSW 2145, Australia.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Feb;89(2):251.

AIM: To assess the cost effectiveness of high dose zinc and antioxidants for 
delaying and reducing the progression of early age related macular degeneration 
(AMD).
BACKGROUND: AMD is the leading cause of severe vision impairment and blindness 
in older people throughout the developed world. It currently affects around 420 
000 people in the United Kingdom.
METHODS: A cost utility analysis (CUA) was conducted to estimate the cost per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) for screening a cohort of men and women, aged 
55 years and over, for early AMD and then treating them with zinc and 
antioxidants. The incremental CUA was based on a decision analytic model, 
comparing screening with a no screening comparator (current practice). Extensive 
one way sensitivity analysis of parameters was conducted to determine the 
robustness of the model.
RESULTS: In this model the cost effectiveness of screening for early AMD was 
pound 22 722 per quality adjusted life year (QALY) saved. The cost per QALY 
decreased to pound 18 948 if photodynamic therapy with verteporfin savings were 
included.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for, and prophylactic treatment of, early AMD is 
estimated to cost around pound 22 700 per QALY saved. This cost falls within 
accepted levels to warrant further investigation. These findings have 
implications for ophthalmic practice and healthcare planning.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2003.035279
PMCID: PMC1772079
PMID: 15031152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Mar;59(3):249-54. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.3.m249.

Hemoglobin levels and skeletal muscle: results from the InCHIANTI study.

Cesari M(1), Penninx BW, Lauretani F, Russo CR, Carter C, Bandinelli S, Atkinson 
H, Onder G, Pahor M, Ferrucci L.

Author information:
(1)Sticht Center on Aging, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. mcesari@wfubmc.edu

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Mar;59(3):238-41.

BACKGROUND: Anemia is associated with reduced physical performance and muscle 
strength. The aim of the study was to explore whether anemia and hemoglobin 
levels are associated with differences in quantitative and qualitative measures 
of muscle and fat.
METHODS: The study sample consisted of 909 participants 65 years and older 
enrolled in the "Invecchiare in Chianti" (InCHIANTI) study, a prospective 
population-based study of older people aimed at identifying risk factors for 
late-life disability. All the analyses were performed considering continuous 
hemoglobin levels as well as the dichotomous anemia variable (defined according 
to World Health Organization criteria as hemoglobin <12 g/dL in women and <13 
g/dL in men). A peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) scan was 
performed in all participants to evaluate total, muscular, and fat 
cross-sectional areas of the calf and relative muscle density. Ankle extension 
strength was measured using a hand-held dynamometer. Linear regression analyses 
were used to assess the multivariate relationship of pQCT and skeletal muscle 
strength measures with hemoglobin levels and anemia after adjustment for 
demographics, chronic conditions, medication use, and other biological 
variables.
RESULTS: Participants were aged 74.8 +/- 6.8 years. In our sample, 94 
participants (10.3%) were anemic. Hemoglobin levels were significantly 
associated with muscle density (beta = 0.225 [SE, standard error 0.098], p=.02), 
muscle area/total area ratio (beta=0.778 [SE 0.262], p=.003), fat area/total 
area ratio (beta=-0.869 [SE 0.225]; p<.001). Skeletal muscle strength and muscle 
density were highly associated with anemia (beta=-3.266 [SE 1.173], p=.005 and 
beta=-0.816 [SE 0.374], p=.03, respectively). Results did not change when 
analyses were rerun in a restricted sample of participants not affected by major 
medical conditions.
CONCLUSION: The present study shows that hemoglobin levels are associated with 
the parameters of body composition obtained by pQCT, and that decreases in 
muscular strength measures occur in the presence of anemia.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.3.m249
PMID: 15031309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2004 Apr;19(4):945-51. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfh022.

How great is the survival advantage of transplantation over dialysis in elderly 
patients?

Oniscu GC(1), Brown H, Forsythe JL.

Author information:
(1)The Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, 1 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh EH3 9YW, UK.

BACKGROUND: Patients >60 years old represent 66% of all new patients starting 
renal replacement therapy in Scotland. The aim of this study was to investigate 
whether or not transplantation provides any survival benefit in this group of 
patients.
METHODS: 325 patients >60 years old listed for transplantation in Scotland 
between 1 January 1989 and 31 December 1999 were followed up until 31 December 
2000. Sociodemographic, comorbidity, listing and transplant data were obtained 
from the national renal and transplant databases and case-notes review. Survival 
was compared between those who received a transplant and those who were listed 
but did not receive a transplant by the end of the follow-up period. 
Mann-Whitney, chi(2), Fisher's exact and log-rank tests were used where 
appropriate.
RESULTS: Of the 325 patients listed, 128 (39.4%) received a first transplant 
within the study period and the remaining 197 (60.6%) continued to undergo 
dialysis. The transplant recipients were younger at listing (P<0.0001), lived 
closer to the transplant centre (P = 0.043) and spent less time on the active 
waiting list (P<0.0001) than patients who remained on dialysis. They had less 
ischaemic heart disease (P = 0.024), cerebrovascular disease (P = 0.03) and 
arrhythmias (P = 0.016). The overall mortality rate was 0.16 per patient-year 
for dialysis and 0.10 for transplantation. There was a significantly lower risk 
of death (RR = 0.35, 95% CI 0.22--0.54; P<0.0001, log-rank) and a longer life 
expectancy after listing with a transplant (8.17 vs 4.32 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Renal transplantation offers a significant survival advantage over 
dialysis in elderly patients with end-stage renal failure who are considered 
suitable for transplantation.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfh022
PMID: 15031354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Occup Environ Med. 2004 Apr;61(4):295-304. doi: 10.1136/oem.2003.007831.

Mortality patterns among residents in Louisiana's industrial corridor, USA, 
1970-99.

Tsai SP(1), Cardarelli KM, Wendt JK, Fraser AE.

Author information:
(1)Shell Oil Company, Shell Health Services-USA, One Shell Plaza, PO Box 2463, 
Houston, Texas 77252-2463, USA. shan.tsai@shell.com

BACKGROUND: Because of the high concentration of oil refining and petrochemical 
facilities, the industrial area of the lower Mississippi River of South 
Louisiana has been termed the Industrial Corridor and has frequently been 
referred to as the "Cancer Corridor".
AIMS: To quantitatively assess the "Cancer Corridor" controversy based on 
mortality data available in the public domain, and to identify potential 
contributing factors to the observed differences in mortality.
METHODS: Age adjusted mortality rates were calculated for white and non-white 
males and females in the Industrial Corridor, Louisiana, and the United States 
for the time periods 1970-79, 1980-89, and 1990-99.
RESULTS: All-cause mortality and all cancer combined for white males in the 
Industrial Corridor were significantly lower than the corresponding Louisiana 
population while Louisiana had significantly higher rates than the US population 
for all three time periods. Cancer of the lung was consistently higher in the 
Industrial Corridor region relative to national rates but lower than or similar 
to Louisiana. Non-respiratory disease and cerebrovascular disease mortality for 
white males in the Industrial Corridor were consistently lower than either 
Louisiana or the USA. However, mortality due to diabetes and heart disease, 
particularly during the 1990s, was significantly higher in the Industrial 
Corridor and Louisiana when compared to the USA. Similar mortality patterns were 
observed for white females. The mortality for non-white males and females in the 
Industrial Corridor was generally similar to the corresponding populations in 
Louisiana. There were no consistent patterns for all cancer mortality combined. 
Stomach cancer was increased among non-whites in both the Industrial Corridor 
and Louisiana when compared to the corresponding US data. Mortality from 
diabetes and heart disease among non-whites was significantly higher in the 
Industrial Corridor and Louisiana than in the USA.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality rates in the Industrial Corridor area were generally 
similar to or lower than the State of Louisiana, which were increased compared 
to the United States. Contrary to prior public perceptions, mortality due to 
cancer in the Industrial Corridor does not exceed that for the State of 
Louisiana.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.2003.007831
PMCID: PMC1740760
PMID: 15031386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Stroke. 2004 May;35(5):1041-6. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000125012.36134.89. Epub
 2004 Mar 18.

Trial application of a Model of Resource Utilization, Costs, and Outcomes for 
Stroke (MORUCOS) to assist priority setting in stroke.

Moodie ML(1), Carter R, Mihalopoulos C, Thrift AG, Chambers BR, Donnan GA, Dewey 
HM.

Author information:
(1)National Stroke Research Institute, Health, Heidelberg Heights, Australia. 
mmoodie@unimelb.edu.au

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Cost-effectiveness data for stroke interventions are 
limited, and comparisons between studies are confounded by methodological 
inconsistencies. The aim of this study was to trial the use of the intervention 
module of the economic model, a Model of Resource Utilization, Costs, and 
Outcomes for Stroke (MORUCOS) to facilitate evaluation and ranking of the 
options.
METHODS: The approach involves using an economic model together with added 
secondary considerations. A consistent approach was taken using standard 
economic evaluation methods. Data from the North East Melbourne Stroke Incidence 
Study (NEMESIS) were used to model "current practice" (base case), against which 
2 interventions were compared. A 2-stage process was used to measure benefit: 
health gains (expressed in disability-adjusted life years [DALYs]) and filter 
analysis. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated, and 
probabilistic uncertainty analysis was undertaken.
RESULTS: Aspirin, a low-cost intervention applicable to a large number of stroke 
patients (9153 first-ever cases), resulted in modest health benefits (946 DALYs 
saved) and a mean ICER (based on incidence costs) of US 1421 dollars per DALY 
saved. Although the health gains from recombinant tissue-type plasminogen 
activator (rtPA) were less (155 DALYs saved), these results were impressive 
given the small number of persons (256) eligible for treatment. rtPA dominates 
current practice because it is more effective and cost-saving.
CONCLUSIONS: If used to assess interventions across the stroke care continuum, 
MORUCOS offers enormous capacity to support decision-making in the prioritising 
of stroke services.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000125012.36134.89
PMID: 15031457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2004 Jan 14;93(3):53-8. doi: 10.1024/0369-8394.93.3.53.

[Nutritional support for critically ill and dying patients].

[Article in German]

Haller A(1), Imoberdorf R, Ballmer PE.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Kantonsspital Winterthur. a.haller@ksw.ch

There is evidence in the literature that oral nutritional supplements, total 
enteral and parenteral nutrition can expand life expectancy and improve quality 
of life in patients suffering from undernutrition. In the present review, we 
outline whether these treatments regimens are also effective in severely ill 
patients. Moreover, the usefulness of nutritional interventions in patients sick 
unto death, e.g. by stroke, cancer or dementia, is broadly discussed. The 
controversy about terminal dehydration is shortly reviewed.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.93.3.53
PMID: 15032032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Med Clin (Barc). 2004 Mar 20;122(10):369-71. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7753(04)74245-1.

[Burden of disease in Spanish population under 15 years old in 1999].

[Article in Spanish]

Cortés García M(1), Pereira Candel J, Peña-Rey Lorenzo I, Gènova Maleras R, 
Amela Heras C.

Author information:
(1)Centro Nacional de Epidemiología (CNE), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 
Madrid, España. mtcortes@iscii.es

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Burden of disease (DALYs) can help define health 
priorities. Our objective was to assess DALYs of those illnesses most important 
in Spanish children and teenagers.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: We calculated DALYs components (YLL, YLD) by age groups and 
sex. Sources used were Spanish mortality data and WHO DALY's estimates.
RESULTS: Total DALYs was 46.57/1000 habitants and it was highest in children 
aged less than 1 year. The first cause was represented by non-communicable 
diseases and the second by communicable-perinatal diseases in less than 1 year 
and 1-4 years and injuries in 5-14 years.
CONCLUSIONS: DALYs is a good indicator to define health's population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7753(04)74245-1
PMID: 15033040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Pediatr Neurol. 2004 Mar;30(3):195-200. doi: 
10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2003.07.003.

Nijmegen breakage syndrome in 13% of age-matched Czech children with primary 
microcephaly.

Seeman P(1), Gebertová K, Paderová K, Sperling K, Seemanová E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Neurology, Charles University Hospital, Motol Prague, 
Czech Republic.

The Nijmegen breakage syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive chromosomal 
instability disorder characterized by early growth retardation, congenital 
microcephaly, immunodeficiency, borderline mental development, and a high 
tendency to lymphoreticular malignancies. Most Nijmegen breakage syndrome 
patients are of Slavonic origin, and all of them known so far carry a founder 
homozygous 5 nucleotide deletion in the NBS1 gene. Microcephaly was present in 
100% of Nijmegen breakage syndrome patients in a recent large international 
cooperative study. The frequency of Nijmegen breakage syndrome among children 
with primary microcephaly was not known. Early correct diagnosis of the syndrome 
is crucial for appropriate preventive care and therapy. We tested 67 Czech 
patients of different ages with simple microcephaly for the presence of the most 
common mutation in the NBS1 gene. Three new Nijmegen breakage syndrome cases 
were detected in this cohort, representing 4.5% of the cohort. All these newly 
diagnosed Nijmegen breakage syndrome patients were younger than 10 months at the 
time of diagnosis. They were all born within a 2.5-year period. Twenty-three of 
the 67 children in the cohort were born within this 2.5-year period, 
representing a 13% incidence of Nijmegen breakage syndrome. Frequency of 
Nijmegen breakage syndrome heterozygotes among infants in the Czech Republic is 
1: 130-158 and the birth rate is 90,000 per year, therefore in the time span of 
2.5 years, three new Nijmegen breakage syndrome homozygotes are expected to be 
born. Therefore we assume that by DNA testing of Czech primary microcephalic 
children it is possible to detect all Nijmegen breakage syndrome patients to be 
expected. The age at correct diagnosis was lowered from 7.1 years at the time 
before DNA testing, to well under 1 year of age. All new Nijmegen breakage 
syndrome patients could receive appropriate preventive care, which should 
significantly improve their life expectancy and prognosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2003.07.003
PMID: 15033202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Eur Heart J. 2004 Mar;25(5):409-15. doi: 10.1016/j.ehj.2003.12.015.

Smoking decreases the duration of life lived with and without cardiovascular 
disease: a life course analysis of the Framingham Heart Study.

Mamun AA(1), Peeters A, Barendregt J, Willekens F, Nusselder W, Bonneux L; 
NEDCOM, The Netherlands Epidermiology and Demography Compression of Morbidity 
Research Group.

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. mamun@sph.uq.edu.au

AIMS: To compare the burden of cardiovascular disease in terms of lifetime risk 
and life years lived with disease between smokers and non-smokers.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We constructed multi-state life tables describing 
transitions through various cardiovascular diseases for 4723 smokers and 
non-smokers observed during 20 biannual observations in the Original Framingham 
Heart Study. Non-smokers live 8.66 (95% CI 7.61-9.63) (men) and 7.59 (95% CI 
6.33-8.92) (women) years longer than smokers and more years free of 
cardiovascular disease: 6.22 (95% CI 5.09-7.30) years for males and 4.93 (95% CI 
3.54-6.29) for females. But non-smokers spend more years with cardiovascular 
disease over the life course: 2.43 (95% CI 1.72-3.16) years for males and 2.66 
(95% CI 1.87-3.38) years for females. The risk of cardiovascular disease before 
age 70 is higher among smokers, but over the entire lifecourse male non-smokers 
have higher risks of coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, stroke and 
congestive heart failure, and female non-smokers have higher risks of coronary 
heart disease and congestive heart failure.
CONCLUSION: Smoking, by shortening life, decreases both the probability and 
duration of cardiovascular disease throughout the life course. Non-smokers live 
many years longer and longer free of cardiovascular disease than smokers, but at 
the end of their life non-smokers will have lived longer with cardiovascular 
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehj.2003.12.015
PMID: 15033253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Health Policy. 2004 Apr;68(1):103-12. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2003.09.008.

Health sector policy in the first decade of Nepal's multiparty democracy. Does 
clear enunciation of health priorities matter?

Adhikari SR(1), Maskay NM.

Author information:
(1)Nepal Health Economics Association, GPO Box # 19755, Kathmandu, Nepal.

Nepal experienced a significant political regime shift in 1990 from the 
partyless Panchyat system to the present multiparty form of democracy. While 
political instability existed in the decade of the 1990s, reflected in the 
approximately one government per year, there had been continued enunciation of 
health policy priorities toward the rural sector, as reflected in the Nepal 
National Health Policy, 1991 (NHP (1991)) and subsequent plans. The objective of 
the paper is to assess whether clear enunciation of health priorities have 
translated into beneficial health outcomes, reflected in reduction of the child 
death rate, child morality rate, infant mortality rate and increase in the life 
expectancy rate. This question is assessed empirically over the 10-year period 
of fiscal year 1989/1990 to 1999/2000 using mainly secondary data published by 
His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N), through the perspectives of 
input-output model and extension of health services, along with an indicative 
regression of a Nepalese health production function. The results (i.e. empirical 
observations) suggest that while there have been clear enunciation of health 
priorities, there have not been significant positive effects on health sector 
outcomes. The paper ends with a number of recommendations and concludes with the 
necessity for effective and appropriate implementation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2003.09.008
PMID: 15033557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Environ Health Perspect. 2004 Mar;112(4):460-4. doi: 10.1289/ehp.6673.

Overview on the application of transcription profiling using selected 
nephrotoxicants for toxicology assessment.

Kramer JA(1), Pettit SD, Amin RP, Bertram TA, Car B, Cunningham M, Curtiss SW, 
Davis JW, Kind C, Lawton M, Naciff JM, Oreffo V, Roman RJ, Sistare FD, Stevens 
J, Thompson K, Vickers AE, Wild S, Afshari CA.

Author information:
(1)Pfizer Inc, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

Microarrays allow for the simultaneous measurement of changes in the levels of 
thousands of messenger RNAs within a single experiment. As such, the potential 
for the application of transcription profiling to preclinical safety assessment 
and mechanism-based risk assessment is profound. However, several practical and 
technical challenges remain. Among these are nomenclature issues, 
platform-specific data formats, and the lack of uniform analysis methods and 
tools. Experiments were designed to address biological, technical, and 
methodological variability, to evaluate different approaches to data analysis, 
and to understand the application of the technology to other profiling 
methodologies and to mechanism-based risk assessment. These goals were addressed 
using experimental information derived from analysis of the biological response 
to three mechanistically distinct nephrotoxins: cisplatin, gentamicin, and 
puromycin aminonucleoside. In spite of the technical challenges, the 
transcription profiling data yielded mechanistically and topographically 
valuable information. The analyses detailed in the articles from the 
Nephrotoxicity Working Group of the International Life Sciences Institute Health 
and Environmental Sciences Institute suggest at least equal sensitivity of 
microarray technology compared to traditional end points. Additionally, 
microarray analysis of these prototypical nephrotoxicants provided an 
opportunity for the development of candidate bridging biomarkers of 
nephrotoxicity. The potential future extension of these applications for risk 
assessment is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.6673
PMCID: PMC1241900
PMID: 15033596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. J Food Prot. 2004 Mar;67(3):601-6. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-67.3.601.

Sodium lactate addition on the quality and shelf life of refrigerated sliced 
poultry sausage packaged in air or nitrogen atmosphere.

Cegielska-Radziejewska R(1), Pikul J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science e and Technology, Cieszkowski Agricultural 
University of Poznań, Wojska Polskiego 31, 60-624 Poznań, Poland. 
renatara@owl.au.poznan.pl

The aim of this study was to determine the effect of sodium lactate addition on 
shelf-life extension of sliced poultry sausage packaged both in air and nitrogen 
atmospheres and stored in refrigerated conditions. Basic chemical composition, 
pH, and malonaldehyde content were assayed and color measurement using the 
reflection method was carried out. Microbiological examination consisted of 
determination of total number of aerobic psychrotrophic bacteria and number of 
lactic acid bacteria. Sensory evaluation of products was performed. 
Microbiological and sensory quality of sliced poultry meat sausage was dependent 
on the addition during production of sodium lactate and the composition of gases 
(air or nitrogen) used in packaging. Slices of poultry sausage with 1% as well 
as 2% of sodium lactate maintained their initial quality of evaluated sensory 
attributes longer, irrespective of the applied gases. Sodium lactate inhibited 
growth of aerobic psychrotrophic bacteria and lactic acid bacteria during 
refrigerated storage. Sodium lactate also inhibited the formation of 
malonaldehyde in sliced poultry sausage during refrigerated storage. The 
effectiveness of this process depended on the concentration of sodium lactate 
addition. It was concluded that 1% as well as 2% addition of sodium lactate 
could extend the shelf life of sliced poultry sausage packaged in air atmosphere 
and stored at 5 to 7 degrees C by 3 or 4 times, respectively. Sliced poultry 
sausage treated with 2% sodium lactate packed in nitrogen had the longest 
(35-day) shelf life. This was a sevenfold increase in the shelf life of sliced 
poultry sausage compared with the control.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-67.3.601
PMID: 15035381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Artif Life. 2004 Winter;10(1):23-38. doi: 10.1162/106454604322875896.

Folding stabilizes the evolution of catalysts.

Altmeyer S(1), Füchslin RM, McCaskill JS.

Author information:
(1)Fraunhofer Gesellschaft, Biomolecular Information Processing, Institute 
Center Birlinghoven, D-53754 St. Augustin, Germany.

Sequence folding is known to determine the spatial structure and catalytic 
function of proteins and nucleic acids. We show here that folding also plays a 
key role in enhancing the evolutionary stability of the intermolecular 
recognition necessary for the prevalent mode of catalytic action in replication, 
namely, in trans, one molecule catalyzing the replication of another copy, 
rather than itself. This points to a novel aspect of why molecular life is 
structured as it is, in the context of life as it could be: folding allows 
limited, structurally localized recognition to be strongly sensitive to global 
sequence changes, facilitating the evolution of cooperative interactions. RNA 
secondary structure folding, for example is shown to be able to stabilize the 
evolution of prolonged functional sequences, using only a part of this length 
extension for intermolecular recognition, beyond the limits of the (cooperative) 
error threshold. Such folding could facilitate the evolution of polymerases in 
spatially heterogeneous systems. This facilitation is, in fact, vital because 
physical limitations prevent complete sequence-dependent discrimination for any 
significant-size biopolymer substrate. The influence of partial sequence 
recognition between biopolymer catalysts and complex substrates is investigated 
within a stochastic, spatially resolved evolutionary model of trans catalysis. 
We use an analytically tractable nonlinear master equation formulation called 
PRESS (McCaskill et al., Biol. Chem. 382: 1343-1363), which makes use of an 
extrapolation of the spatial dynamics down from infinite dimensional space, and 
compare the results with Monte Carlo simulations.

DOI: 10.1162/106454604322875896
PMID: 15035861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Hepatol Res. 2004 Mar;28(3):125-136. doi: 10.1016/j.hepres.2003.11.002.

Cost-effectiveness of ribavirin plus interferon alpha-2b for either interferon 
relapsers or non-responders in chronic hepatitis C: a Japanese trial.

Ishida H(1), Inoue Y, Wong JB, Okita K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics and Decision Sciences, Yamaguchi University 
School of Medicine, Ube, Japan.

The aim of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of combination 
therapy with ribavirin plus interferon alpha-2b compared with interferon 
monotherapy for hepatitis C-infected Japanese patients who had either 
temporarily responded or not responded to initial interferon treatment. Data 
from a recent randomized clinical trial among relapsed or non-responding 
patients comparing combination therapy to interferon alone were applied to a 
computer cohort simulation Markov process model to project lifelong clinical and 
economic outcomes. Combination therapy for 24 weeks should increase life 
expectancy by 1.6 quality-adjusted life years and should reduce discounted (3% 
per year) lifetime costs by yen 121,000 when compared to retreatment with 
interferon alone. For the subgroup of patients with genotype 1b and high viral 
load, combination therapy should be cost-effective ( yen 187,000 per QALY gained 
with a 3% annual discount rate) by well-accepted international standards. These 
results were robust with combination therapy remaining cost-effective or cost 
saving in sensitivity analysis involving reasonable variation in all parameters. 
For patients similar to those enrolled in the interferon alpha-2b and ribavirin 
trials in Japan, combination therapy should be considered cost-effective with 
the higher drug treatment costs nearly completely offset by future savings 
through reductions in future liver complications from hepatitis C.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hepres.2003.11.002
PMID: 15036068


629. Exp Gerontol. 2004 Feb;39(2):159-63. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2003.11.002.

Life expectancy in Germany until 2050.

Bomsdorf E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economic and Social Statistics, University of Cologne, 
Albertus-Magnus-Platz, Cologne 50923, Germany. bomsdorf@wiso.uni-koeln.de

The expected demographic shifts-already having commenced in many countries-have 
their origin primarily in decreasing birth rates and increased life expectancy. 
This paper will show possible development paths for life expectancy at birth up 
until the year 2050. We will distinguish between traditional period life tables 
and cohort life tables, the latter leading to more realistic values for life 
expectancy. It will be shown that a marked increase in life expectancy up to 
over 90 years is to be expected.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2003.11.002
PMID: 15036408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Health Policy. 2004 Mar;67(3):329-43. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2003.07.005.

Changing health in China: re-evaluating the epidemiological transition model.

Cook IG(1), Dummer TJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Science, Liverpool John Moores University, Henry Cotton 
