of the parasite (the conoid). Unexpectedly, the screen also identified six small 
molecules that dramatically enhance invasion, gliding motility, and microneme 
secretion. The small molecules identified here reveal a previously unrecognized 
complexity in the control of parasite motility and microneme secretion, and they 
constitute a set of useful probes for dissecting the invasive mechanisms of T. 
gondii and related parasites. Small-molecule-based approaches provide a powerful 
means to address experimentally challenging problems in host-pathogen 
interaction, while simultaneously identifying new potential targets for drug 
development.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0307769101
PMCID: PMC409936
PMID: 15123807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Clin Nephrol. 2004 Apr;61(4):238-45. doi: 10.5414/cnp61238.

Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes mellitus type I 
after kidney transplantation: a case-control study.

Lufft V(1), Dannenberg B, Schlitt HJ, Pichlmayr R, Brunkhorst R.

Author information:
(1)Nephrologisches Zentrum Rendsburg-Eckernförde, Rendsburg, Germany. 
VLUFFT@AOL.COM

BACKGROUND: The proportion of diabetics among patients requiring renal 
replacement therapy continues to increase in most western countries. The 
acceptance rate for renal transplantation varies among transplant centers and is 
influenced by the current opinion on the outcome of transplantation in 
diabetics. Controlled data on patient and graft survival in type I diabetics, 
however, are scarce.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective case-control analysis on patient and graft 
survival and the cardiovascular morbidity of patients with type I diabetes after 
renal transplantation versus carefully matched non-diabetic transplant 
recipients. Match criteria were duration of previous hemodialysis, age and date 
of renal transplantation. Moreover, risk factors for cardiovascular disease in 
uremic patients were evaluated at the time of registration for renal 
transplantation and at the end of the observation period.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven matched pairs were enclosed. Patient survival was 
significantly worse in the diabetic patients, graft survival was comparable in 
both groups, when graft loss because of patient's death was censored. In the 
diabetic patients, risk of death (odds ratio: 4.38) as well as the prevalence of 
cardiovascular morbidity (odds ratio: 4.47) were significantly higher than in 
the matched nondiabetic controls. Cox regression analysis showed that diabetes 
mellitus was an independent risk factor for patient survival; no association was 
found with hypertension, hyperlipidemia, hyperparathyroidism, calcium x 
phosphate product, body mass index and HbA1c. Cardiovascular morbidity, however, 
was already significantly higher in the diabetic group at the time of 
registration.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes mellitus type I has a dominant impact on morbidity and 
mortality after renal transplantation and is associated with an approximately 
4-fold higher risk of death. Cardiovascular disease accounts for the 
significantly worse long-term outcome of diabetic patients after renal 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.5414/cnp61238
PMID: 15125029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Arch Latinoam Nutr. 2003 Dec;53(4):333-47.

[Review: functional foods and ingredients derived from milk].

[Article in Spanish]

Silva Hernández ER(1), Verdalet Guzmán I.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ciencias Básicas, Universidad Veracruzana, Xalapa, Veracruz, 
México.

The objective of this paper is to review the main research works related to 
functional foods and ingredients derived from milk. Research in functional foods 
has increased during last twelve years with the intention of increasing life 
expectancy and improving human health conditions. Probiotics, prebiotics, 
bioactive peptides or proteins, dietetic fibers and fatty acids, as well as the 
addition of fitochemical compounds in dairy products and a record of some 
allergic compounds are also discussed. The demand of this kind of products is 
increasing due to intense advertising campaigns posted in many countries. 
Basically, these campaigns promise better health and/or the prevention of 
certain illnesses. Milk contains diverse constituents with physiological 
functionality, which might change the traditional view point that we have about 
drugs. The topic of functional foods in general, and specifically that from milk 
and dairy products, has still not been completely exploited, and in the future 
it will be found that the best work has not been carried out in this area.

PMID: 15125074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2004 Apr;86(3):450-6. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.86b3.14330.

The posterior cruciate ligament during flexion of the normal knee.

Nakagawa S(1), Johal P, Pinskerova V, Komatsu T, Sosna A, Williams A, Freeman 
MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Osaka University, Medical School, Osaka 
City, Japan.

The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) was imaged by MRI throughout flexion in 
neutral tibial rotation in six cadaver knees, which were also dissected, and in 
20 unloaded and 13 loaded living (squatting) knees. The appearance of the 
ligament was the same in all three groups. In extension the ligament is curved 
concave-forwards. It is straight, fully out-to-length and approaching vertical 
from 60 degrees to 120 degrees, and curves convex-forwards over the roof of the 
intercondylar notch in full flexion. Throughout flexion the length of the 
ligament does not change, but the separations of its attachments do. We conclude 
that the PCL is not loaded in the unloaded cadaver knee and therefore, since its 
appearance in all three groups is the same, that it is also unloaded in the 
living knee during flexion. The posterior fibres may be an exception in 
hyperextension, probably being loaded either because of posterior femoral 
lift-off or because of the forward curvature of the PCL. These conclusions 
relate only to everyday life: none may be drawn with regard to more strenuous 
activities such as sport or in trauma.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.86b3.14330
PMID: 15125137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. P R Health Sci J. 2004 Mar;23(1):35-8.

Status of cardiovascular disease in Puerto Rico.

García-Palmieri MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiology, School of Medicine, Medical Sciences Campus, 
University of Puerto Rico. mgarcia@rcm.upr.edu

For the last 40 years diseases of the heart has ranked as the primary cause of 
death in Puerto Rico, being cancer the second. In the National Vital Statistics 
of the Department of Health of Puerto Rico for the year 2002, cancer is listed 
as the main cause of death and diseases of the heart ranks as the second most 
frequent. This unexpected change is mainly due a new classification by ICD-10, 
that now substitutes ICD-9, in association to a change introduced by using the 
2000 population census rather than the 1990 census used until 1999. Additional 
relevant information concerning life expectancy at birth, death by specific 
causes in the last 5 years and statistics about invasive surgical and medical 
services rendered to cardiovascular patients in the year 2003 are included. A 
summary of the situation concerning postgraduate training programs in Puerto 
Rico in different cardiovascular subspecialties is also included.

PMID: 15125217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Growth Horm IGF Res. 2004 Jun;14(3):251-60. doi: 10.1016/j.ghir.2004.01.006.

Cardiac IGF-I manipulation by growth hormone following myocardial infarction.

Matthews KG(1), Devlin GP, Stuart SP, Conaglen JV, Bass JJ.

Author information:
(1)Functional Muscle Genomics Group, AgResearch Ruakura, Private Bag 3123, East 
Street, Hamilton, New Zealand.

Evidence of a role for growth hormone (GH) in cardiac structure and function has 
been derived from studies of patients suffering either GH excess or deficiency, 
both of which may lead to reduced life expectancy. The role of GH in the 
ischaemic heart, however, is less than clear. We therefore investigated the 
effect of 30 days GH treatment in sheep with myocardial infarction. GH treatment 
significantly increased circulating IGF-I levels (P<0.01), heart weight 
(P<0.01), and cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area (P<0.001). IGF-I mRNA in 
peri-infarct cardiac tissue also increased significantly (P<0.05). We conclude 
that post-infarct GH treatment increases circulating and cardiac IGF-I levels, 
resulting in significant cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. This increase in 
cardiomyocyte size appears to correlate with local IGF-I expression rather than 
plasma IGF-I levels.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ghir.2004.01.006
PMID: 15125887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Am J Ophthalmol. 2004 May;137(5):893-900. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2003.12.032.

Survival, anatomic, and functional long-term results in choroidal and ciliary 
body melanoma after ruthenium brachytherapy (15 years' experience with 
beta-rays).

Rouberol F(1), Roy P, Kodjikian L, Gérard JP, Jean-Louis B, Grange JD.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Clinic, Hôpital de la Croix Rousse, 103 Grande rue de la 
Croix-Rousse, 69004 Lyon, France. fredrouberol@yahoo.fr

PURPOSE: To analyze survival, radiation-related complications, local recurrence, 
enucleation, and visual acuity after ruthenium-106 irradiation of malignant 
uveal melanoma.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
METHODS: A total of 213 patients treated with ruthenium-106 brachytherapy 
between 1983 and 1995. End point rates were estimated by life tables, and 
prognostic factors by Cox proportional hazards regression. Main outcome measures 
were survival rate, radiation-related maculopathy, radiation-related vascular 
occlusion, local tumor recurrence, enucleation, and visual acuity (<20/100 at 3 
years).
RESULTS: At 5 and 10 years, survival was 82% (standard error [SE] 2.7%) and 72% 
(SE 3.4%), local recurrence 21.7% (SE 3.0%) and 24.3% (SE 3.2%), and enucleation 
18.0% (SE 2.7%) and 19.2% (SE 2.8%), respectively. Sixty-one patients showed 
maculopathy (29%), 36 retinal vascular occlusion (17%), in 33 local recurrence 
(16%), and 38 enucleation (18%). Age and large tumor diameter were independently 
associated with survival (P <.0001 and P <.0075, respectively). Age below 40 and 
melanoma located posteriorly were significant risk factors for maculopathy (P 
<.0085 and P <.0004, respectively) and vascular occlusion (P <.0415 and P 
<.0114, respectively). Diameter and Bruch membrane rupture were significant 
predictors (P <.0032 and P <.0390, respectively) of local recurrence. Visual 
acuity <20/100 was observed in only 26 of 97 (27%) cases of anterior but 34 of 
42 (81%) of posterior tumor (P <.001).
CONCLUSION: Although percentage tumor recurrence was high, survival was 
comparable to series using other treatments. Radiation-related complication 
rates were acceptable, especially for anterior tumors. Ruthenium therapy can, 
therefore, be recommended for small and medium-sized tumors with anterior 
location.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2003.12.032
PMID: 15126155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2004 May-Jun;12(3):240-9.

Family caregiving of persons with dementia: prevalence, health effects, and 
support strategies.

Schulz R(1), Martire LM.

Author information:
(1)University Center for Social and Urban Research, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA. schultz@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Home Healthc Nurse. 2010 May;28(5):264-9.

The authors summarize the dementia caregiving literature and provide 
recommendations regarding practice guidelines for health professionals working 
with caregivers. Family caregiving of older persons with disability has become 
commonplace in the United States because of increases in life expectancy and the 
aging of the population, with resulting higher prevalence of chronic diseases 
and associated disabilities, increased constraints in healthcare reimbursement, 
and advances in medical technology. As a result, family members are increasingly 
being asked to perform complex tasks similar to those carried out by paid health 
or social service providers, often at great cost to their own well-being and 
great benefit to their relatives and society as a whole. The public health 
significance of caregiving has spawned an extensive literature in this area, 
much of it focused on dementia caregiving because of the unique and extreme 
challenges associated with caring for someone with cognitive impairment. This 
article summarizes the literature on dementia caregiving, identifies key issues 
and major findings regarding the definition and prevalence of caregiving, 
describes the psychiatric and physical health effects of caregiving, and reviews 
various intervention approaches to improving caregiver burden, depression, and 
quality of life. Authors review practice guidelines and recommendations for 
healthcare providers in light of the empirical literature on family caregiving.

PMID: 15126224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):681-8. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-140-9-200405040-00007.

Relationship between health status and use of screening mammography and 
Papanicolaou smears among women older than 70 years of age.

Walter LC(1), Lindquist K, Covinsky KE.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center and University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94121, USA. louisew@itsa.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):754-5.
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):I18.

BACKGROUND: Older women whose life expectancy is less than 5 years are unlikely 
to benefit from screening mammography or Papanicolaou (Pap) smears. Since life 
expectancy is better predicted by health status than by age alone, guidelines 
recommend considering an older woman's general health when making screening 
decisions.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether screening mammography and Pap smears are 
targeted to healthy older women and are avoided in women with limited life 
expectancies.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional population-based study.
SETTING: California.
PATIENTS: 4792 women 70 years of age or older who participated in the California 
Health Interview Survey between November 2000 and October 2001.
MEASUREMENTS: Predictor variables included age and health status. Health status 
was measured by using the Medical Outcomes Study 12-item Short Form Physical 
Summary Scale. The main outcome was self-reported receipt of screening 
mammography within the previous 2 years and a screening Pap smear within 3 
years.
RESULTS: Seventy-eight percent of women reported recent screening mammography, 
and 77% reported a recent Pap smear. Screening rates decreased with advancing 
age. However, within each age group, the percentage of women reporting screening 
did not significantly decrease with worsening health status (P > 0.1 for all 
comparisons). More than half of women 80 years of age or older in the worst 
health quartile reported recent screening, representing approximately 81,000 
mammograms and 35,000 Pap smears.
LIMITATIONS: This study relied on self-report, and the interview response rate 
was 63.7%.
CONCLUSIONS: Rates of recent screening mammography and Pap smears are high among 
older women in California. Although screening rates drop with advancing age, 
women in poor health do not avoid screening. Screening should be better targeted 
to healthy older women and should be avoided in women with limited life 
expectancies for whom risks of screening outweigh potential benefits.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-140-9-200405040-00007
PMID: 15126251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):689-99. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-140-9-200405040-00008.

Screening for type 2 diabetes mellitus: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Hoerger TJ(1), Harris R, Hicks KA, Donahue K, Sorensen S, Engelgau M.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA. 
tjh@rti.org

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):756-8.
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):I29.

BACKGROUND: No randomized, controlled trial of screening for diabetes has been 
conducted. In the absence of direct evidence, cost-effectiveness models may 
provide guidance about preferred screening strategies.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of 2 diabetes 
screening strategies: screening targeted to people with hypertension and 
universal screening.
DESIGN: Markov model.
DATA SOURCES: United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study, Hypertension Optimal 
Treatment trial, and recent cost data.
TARGET POPULATION: General primary care population in the United States.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Health care system.
INTERVENTIONS: Diabetes screening targeted to people with hypertension and 
universal screening.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Costs (in 
1997 U.S. dollars) and QALYs discounted at a 3% annual rate.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: At all ages, incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were more favorable for screening targeted to people with hypertension 
than for universal screening. For example, at age 55 years, the cost per QALY 
for targeted screening compared with no screening was 34,375 dollars, whereas 
the cost per QALY for universal screening compared with targeted screening was 
360,966 dollars. Screening was more cost-effective for ages 55 to 75 years than 
for younger ages.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: In single-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses, findings were robust to therapy costs, screening costs, screening lead 
time, reduced effectiveness of intensive antihypertensive therapy, and increased 
relative risk reduction for stroke attributable to intensive hypertension 
control.
LIMITATIONS: We did not consider screening targeted to persons with 
dyslipidemia, and we used studies of people whose diabetes was detected 
clinically to estimate screening benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes screening targeted to people with hypertension is more 
cost-effective than universal screening. The most cost-effective strategy is 
targeted screening at age 55 to 75 years.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-140-9-200405040-00008
PMID: 15126252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):I29. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-140-9-200405040-00002.

Summaries for patients. The cost-effectiveness of screening for type 2 diabetes.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):689-99.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-140-9-200405040-00002
PMID: 15126270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Apr;1011:7-20. doi: 10.1007/978-3-662-41088-2_2.

Mitochondrial genome single nucleotide polymorphisms and their phenotypes in the 
Japanese.

Tanaka M(1), Takeyasu T, Fuku N, Li-Jun G, Kurata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gene Therapy, Gifu International Institute of Biotechnology, 
1-1 Naka-Fudogaoka, Kakamigahara, Gifu 504-0838, Japan. mtanaka@giib.or.jp

Polymorphisms in the human mitochondrial genome have been used for the 
elucidation of phylogenetic relationships among various ethnic groups. Because 
analysis by mitochondrial genetics has detected pathogenic mutations causing 
mitochondrial encephalomyopathy or cardiomyopathy, most of the mitochondrial 
single nucleotide polymorphisms (mtSNPs) found in control subjects have been 
regarded as merely normal variants. However, we cannot exclude the possibility 
that the mitochondrial functional differences among individuals are ascribable 
at least in part to the mtSNPs of each individual. Human lifespan in ancient 
history was much shorter than that at the present time. Therefore, it is 
reasonable to speculate that certain mtSNPs that predispose one toward 
susceptibility to adult- or elderly-onset diseases, such as Parkinson's disease 
and Alzheimer's disease, have never been a target for natural selection in the 
past. Similarly, thrifty mtSNPs that had been advantageous for survival under 
severe famine or cold climate conditions might turn out to be related to 
satiation-related diseases, such as diabetes mellitus and obesity. To examine 
these hypotheses, we have constructed a mtSNP database by sequencing the entire 
mitochondrial genomes of 672 subjects: 96 in each of seven groups (i.e., 
centenarians, young obese or non-obese subjects, diabetic patients with or 
without major vascular involvement, patients with Parkinson's disease, and those 
with Alzheimer's disease).

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-662-41088-2_2
PMID: 15126279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Health Econ. 2004 May;13(5):405-15. doi: 10.1002/hec.903.

Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves--facts, fallacies and frequently asked 
questions.

Fenwick E(1), O'Brien BJ, Briggs A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Evaluation of Medicines, St Joseph's Hospital, Hamilton, Canada. 
ealf100@york.ac.uk

Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves (CEACs) have been widely adopted as a 
method to quantify and graphically represent uncertainty in economic evaluation 
studies of health-care technologies. However, there remain some common fallacies 
regarding the nature and shape of CEACs that largely result from the 'textbook' 
illustration of the CEAC. This 'textbook' CEAC shows a smooth curve starting at 
probability 0, with an asymptote to 1 for higher money values of the health 
outcome (lambda). But this familiar 'ogive' shape which makes the 'textbook' 
CEAC look like a cumulative distribution function is just one special case of 
the CEAC. The reality is that the CEAC can take many shapes and turns because it 
is a graphic transformation from the cost-effectiveness plane, where the joint 
density of incremental costs and effects may 'straddle' quadrants with attendant 
discontinuities and asymptotes. In fact CEACs: (i) do not have to cut the y-axis 
at 0; (ii) do not have to asymptote to 1; (iii) are not always monotonically 
increasing in lambda; and (iv) do not represent cumulative distribution 
functions (cdfs). Within this paper we present a 'gallery' of CEACs in order to 
identify the fallacies and illustrate the facts surrounding the CEAC. The aim of 
the paper is to serve as a reference tool to accompany the increased use of 
CEACs within major medical journals.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.903
PMID: 15127421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Health Econ. 2004 May;13(5):417-27. doi: 10.1002/hec.850.

Should the consumption of survivors be included as a cost in cost-utility 
analysis?

Nyman JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research and Policy, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
55455-0392, USA. nyman001@umn.edu

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2006 Mar;15(3):311-3; discussion 319-22.
    Health Econ. 2006 Mar;15(3):315-7; discussion 319-22.
    Health Econ. 2008 Feb;17(2):293-7.

Survivor costs are those costs associated with a treatment because it extends 
the patient's life. A controversy exists regarding whether survivor consumption 
costs should be included in cost-utility analyses. The present paper uses this 
controversy to motivate a general reexamination of what costs to include in 
cost-utility analyses. Rather than the ad hoc inclusion rules currently used--a 
causal relationship between the intervention and the costs, and a proscription 
on double counting--this paper suggests three inclusion principles based on 
standard welfare economics. Thus, costs should be (1) included if they represent 
resources that directly produce the utility that is being measured in the 
denominator of the cost-utility ratio, (2) excluded if they represent resources 
that produce utility that is not being measured in the denominator, even though 
the costs are causally associated with the intervention, and (3) included if 
they represent resources consumed that are causally related to the intervention, 
but that have no counterveiling utility gains. These principles suggest 
important changes in how we account for recuperation time and unrelated medical 
care. They also suggest that survival consumption costs and earnings be excluded 
from existing cost-utility analyses.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.850
PMID: 15127422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Health Econ. 2004 May;13(5):429-36. doi: 10.1002/hec.853.

When does quality-adjusting life-years matter in cost-effectiveness analysis?

Chapman RH(1), Berger M, Weinstein MC, Weeks JC, Goldie S, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, Harvard Center for 
Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA. pneumann@hsps.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: This paper investigates the impact of quality-of-life adjustment on 
cost-effectiveness analyses, by comparing ratios from published studies that 
have reported both incremental costs per (unadjusted) life-year and per 
quality-adjusted life-year for the same intervention.
METHODS: A systematic literature search identified 228 original cost-utility 
analyses published prior to 1998. Sixty-three of these analyses (173 ratio 
pairs) reported both cost/LY and cost/QALY ratios for the same intervention, 
from which we calculated medians and means, the difference between ratios 
(cost/LY minus cost/QALY) and between reciprocals of the ratios, and cost/LY as 
a percentage of the corresponding cost/QALY ratio. We also compared the ratios 
using rank-order correlation, and assessed the frequency with which 
quality-adjustment resulted in a ratio crossing the widely used 
cost-effectiveness thresholds of 20, 000 US dollars, 50,000 US dollars, and 
100,000 US dollars/QALY or LY.
RESULTS: The mean ratios were 69,100 US dollars/LY and 103,100 US dollars/QALY, 
with corresponding medians of 24,600 US dollars/LY and 20,400 US dollars/QALY. 
The mean difference between ratios was approximately -34,300 US dollars (median 
difference: 1300 US dollars), with 60% of ratio pairs differing by 10,000 US 
dollars/year or less. Mean difference between reciprocals was 59 (QA)LYs per 
million dollars (median: 2.1). The Spearman rank-order correlation between ratio 
types was 0.86 (p<0.001). Quality-adjustment led to a ratio moving either above 
or below 50,000 US dollars/LY (or QALY) in 8% of ratio pairs, and across 100,000 
US dollars in 6% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS: In a sizable fraction of cost-utility analyses, quality adjusting 
did not substantially alter the estimated cost-effectiveness of an intervention, 
suggesting that sensitivity analyses using ad hoc adjustments or 'off-the-shelf' 
utility weights may be sufficient for many analyses. The collection of 
preference weight data should be subjected to the same scrutiny as other data 
inputs to cost-effectiveness analyses, and should only be under-taken if the 
value of this information is likely to be greater than the cost of obtaining it.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.853
PMID: 15127423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Health Econ. 2004 May;13(5):437-52. doi: 10.1002/hec.864.

Does NICE have a cost-effectiveness threshold and what other factors influence 
its decisions? A binary choice analysis.

Devlin N(1), Parkin D.

Author information:
(1)City Health Economics Centre, Department of Economics, City University, UK. 
n.j.devlin@city.ac.uk

The decisions made by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) give 
rise to two questions: how is cost-effectiveness evidence used to make 
judgements about the 'value for money' of health technologies? And how are 
factors other than cost-effectiveness taken into account? The aim of this paper 
is to explore NICE's cost-effectiveness threshold(s) and the tradeoffs between 
cost effectiveness and other factors apparent in its decisions. Binary choice 
analysis is used to reveal the preferences of NICE and to consider the 
consistency of its decisions. For each decision to accept or reject a 
technology, explanatory variables include: the cost per life year or per QALY 
gained; uncertainty regarding cost effectiveness; the net cost to the NHS; the 
burden of disease; the availability (or not) of alternative treatments; and 
specific factors indicated by NICE. Results support the broad notion of a 
threshold, where the probability of rejection increases as the cost per QALY 
increases. Cost effectiveness, together with uncertainty and the burden of 
disease, explain NICE decisions better than cost effectiveness alone. The 
results suggest a threshold somewhat higher than NICEs stated 'range of 
acceptable cost effectiveness' of pound 20,000-30,000 British pounds per 
QALY--although the exact meaning of a 'range' in this context remains unclear.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.864
PMID: 15127424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Health Econ. 2004 May;13(5):453-9. doi: 10.1002/hec.861.

Why cost-effectiveness should trump (clinical) effectiveness: the ethical 
economics of the South West quadrant.

Dowie J(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Policy Department, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK. jack.dowie@lshtm.ac.uk

In many health decision making situations there is a requirement that the 
effectiveness of interventions, usually their 'clinical' effectiveness, be 
established, as well as their cost-effectiveness. Often indeed this is 
effectively a prior requirement for their cost-effectiveness being investigated. 
If, however, one accepts the ethical argument for using a threshold incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for interventions that are more effective but 
more costly (i.e. fall in the NE quadrant of the cost-effectiveness plane), one 
should apply the same decision rule in the SW quadrant, where the intervention 
is less effective but less costly. This implication is present in most standard 
treatments of cost-effectiveness analysis, including recent stochastic versions, 
and had gone relatively unquestioned within the discipline until the recent 
suggestion that the ICER threshold might be 'kinked'. A kinked threshold would, 
O'Brien et al. argue, better reflect the asymmetrical individual preferences 
found in empirical studies of consumer's willingness to pay and willingness to 
accept and justify different decision rules in the NE and SW quadrants. We 
reject the validity of such asymmetric preferences in the context of public 
health care decisions and consider and counter the two main 'ethical' objections 
that probably underlie the asymmetry in this case--the objection to 'taking 
away' and the objection to being required to undergo treatment that is less 
effective than no treatment at all.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.861
PMID: 15127425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2003;5(4):213-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00203.x.

Tapered implants in jaws with soft bone quality: a clinical and radiographic 
1-year study of the Brånemark System Mark IV fixture.

Astrand P(1), Billström C, Feldmann H, Fischer K, Henricsson V, Johansson B, 
Nyström E, Sunzel B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital, Linköping, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The survival rate of oral implants in soft-quality bone has been 
demonstrated to be inferior to that of implants inserted in good-quality bone. A 
possible way to increase the survival rate in soft-quality bone may be to use a 
tapered implant. Such an implant has been developed and manufactured by Nobel 
Biocare AB, Gothenburg, Sweden. So far, there have been only a few publications 
regarding this implant.
PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to compare the outcome of using the tapered 
Brånemark System Mark IV fixture with the outcome of using earlier Brånemark 
fixtures in a controlled prospective study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was performed as a multicenter study including 
seven specialist centers. The material consisted of 40 patients in need of 
implant-supported bridges in the maxilla. Twenty-five patients belonged to the 
test group, in which the tapered Mark IV implants were inserted, and 15 patients 
belonged to the control group, in which Brånemark Standard or Mark II implants 
were used. The patients were allocated to the test group or the control group 
according to randomization schedules. The implants were inserted according to 
the guidelines for Brånemark implants. A two-stage surgical protocol was used, 
and abutment connection was made 6 months after fixture insertion. The test 
group comprised 97 Mark IV implants, and the control group made up 92 implants. 
The prosthetic procedure followed the guidelines for Brånemark implants, and all 
patients were provided with full fixed maxillary bridges. The patients were 
followed up with clinical and radiographic records for 1 year after loading.
RESULTS: The survival rate was 96.9% for the Mark IV implants and 98.9% for the 
control implants. There was no significant difference between the two groups. 
There was a mean marginal bone loss of 0.2 mm during the observation period, and 
there was no difference between test implants and control implants.
CONCLUSIONS: With regard to survival rate and marginal bone level changes, no 
differences could be demonstrated between the Mark IV tapered implant and the 
Brånemark implants used earlier. However, compared with earlier results of 
Brånemark implants in soft-quality bone, the Mark IV implant demonstrated an 
improved survival rate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00203.x
PMID: 15127991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2003;5(4):273-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00211.x.

Mk III: a third generation of the self-tapping Brånemark System implant, 
including the new Stargrip internal grip design. A 1-year prospective 
four-center study.

Widmark G(1), Friberg B, Johansson B, Sindet-Pedersen S, Taylor A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Mölndal Hospital, 431 80 
Mölndal, Sweden. goran.widmark@vgregion.se

BACKGROUND: Many prospective studies have shown predictable long-term results of 
the Brånemark System (Nobel Biocare AB, Gothenburg, Sweden) turned-surface 
implants in totally edentulous, partially edentulous, and single cases. The Mk 
III self-tapping implant was introduced by Nobel Biocare in 1999 as part of a 
new implant generation that improved on the Mk II self-tapping implant that had 
been introduced in 1992. A new implant design should always be evaluated, 
preferably in prospective multicenter studies.
PURPOSE: The aim of the present prospective multicenter study was to evaluate 
the short-term success rate of the Brånemark Mk III machined- and turned-surface 
self-tapping implant and to evaluate the clinical handling of the new Stargrip 
(Nobel Biocare AB) internal grip design.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The open prospective 1-year multicenter study was 
performed at four clinics. Sixty-four patients (38 females, 26 males) with a 
mean age of 51 years (range, 16 to 80 years) were included. Seventeen of the 
patients were totally edentulous, 26 were partially edentulous, and 21 had 
single-tooth losses. In total, 194 Mk III implants were inserted, 89 in the 
maxillas and 105 in the mandibles.
RESULTS: Fifty-eight patients were observed for 1 year after prosthetic loading. 
Three of 194 implants were lost, corresponding to a cumulative success rate of 
98.4% after 1 year, 100% for maxillary implants and 97.1% for mandibular 
implants. The implant driver carried the implants reliably in 99.5% of all 
treated patients. Sixty-two patients received the planned prosthetic 
reconstruction. All but one prosthetic reconstruction survived after 1 year of 
loading. The mean marginal bone resorption, analyzed from radiographs of 143 
implants, was 1.15 mm (standard deviation [SD], 1.09 mm) from the second-stage 
surgery to the 1-year follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The 1-year success rate of the Mk III implant was high, and the 
clinical handling of the internal grip design (Stargrip) improved the surgical 
technique and was well appreciated by both surgeons and assisting staff.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00211.x
PMID: 15127999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Pharmacogenetics. 2004 Jan;14(1):53-60. doi:
10.1097/00008571-200401000-00006.

Pharmacoeconomic evaluation of testing for angiotensin-converting enzyme 
genotype before starting beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase 
inhibitor therapy in men.

Maitland-van der Zee AH(1), Klungel OH, Stricker BH, Veenstra DL, Kastelein JJ, 
Hofman A, Witteman JC, Leufkens HG, van Duijn CM, de Boer A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacotherapy, Utrecht Institute for 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University. Utrecht, The Netherlands.

This study aimed to assess the potential cost-effectiveness of screening men for 
their angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-genotype before starting statin 
therapy. We used a combination of decision-analytic and Markov modelling 
techniques to evaluate the long-term incremental clinical and economic effects 
associated with genetic testing of men with hypercholesterolemia before starting 
treatment with statins. The study was performed from a health care payer 
perspective. We used data from the Rotterdam study, a prospective 
population-based cohort study in the Netherlands, which was started in 1990 and 
included 7983 subjects aged 55 years and older. Men treated with 
cholesterol-lowering drugs at baseline or with a baseline total cholesterol > or 
= 6.5 mmol/l were included. The ratio of difference in lifelong costs between 
the screening strategy and the no screening strategy to difference in life 
expectancy between these strategies was calculated. We also performed a 
cost-utility analysis. The base case was a 55-year-old man with 
hypercholesterolemia who was initially untreated. Several univariate sensitivity 
analyses were performed. All costs were discounted with an annual rate of 5%. 
Screening men for their ACE-genotype was the dominant strategy for the base case 
analysis, because the screening strategy saved money (851 Euro), but life 
expectancy was not changed. Screening was the dominant strategy for all 
age-groups in our cohort. Even in 80-year-old subjects, with the shortest 
life-expectancy, it was cheaper to screen than to give lifelong treatment to men 
with a DD genotype without success. Even if all DD subjects were treated with 
other (non-statin) cholesterol-lowering drugs, screening remained the 
cost-effective strategy. The results of the cost-utility analysis were similar. 
Discounting the effects with 5% per year also had no major impact on the 
conclusions. If other studies confirm that men with the DD genotype do not 
benefit from treatment with statins, screening for ACE genotype in men most 
likely will be a cost-effective strategy before initiating statin therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/00008571-200401000-00006
PMID: 15128051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2004 Jun;6(3):231-9. doi: 10.1007/s11894-004-0013-6.

Hepatobiliary complications of cystic fibrosis.

Feranchak AP(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department 
of Pediatrics, The Children's Hospital and the University of Colorado Health 
Sciences Center, 1056 East 19th Avenue, #B290, Denver, CO 80218, USA. 
drew.feranchak@UCHSC.edu

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common potentially lethal genetic disease in 
the Caucasian population. The disease results from mutations in the gene for the 
cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), a cAMP-activated 
Cl(-) channel in the apical membrane of most secretory epithelia. In the liver, 
CFTR is located in biliary epithelial cells or cholangiocytes and gallbladder 
epithelia, where it appears to play a role in normal bile formation. However, 
how a defective CFTR protein leads to associated liver and biliary disease in a 
subset of patients with CF is unknown. Improvements in life expectancy have led 
to an increasing recognition of hepatobiliary complications from CF. Whereas the 
biliary tract disease is usually clinically evident, the liver involvement may 
progress silently, only manifesting as end-stage liver disease and portal 
hypertension. Unlike the pancreatic involvement in CF, a genotype-phenotype 
correlation is not apparent in the expression of liver disease, suggesting the 
presence of as yet unidentifiable "genetic modifiers" influencing disease 
expression. This review focuses on the pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, 
screening, diagnosis, and treatment of CF hepatobiliary disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-004-0013-6
PMID: 15128491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Curr Opin Obstet Gynecol. 2004 Jun;16(3):257-62. doi: 
10.1097/00001703-200406000-00009.

HIV and reproduction.

Semprini AE(1), Fiore S.

Author information:
(1)University of Milan Medical School, Italy. semprini@esman.it

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Three quarters of individuals infected with HIV are in their 
reproductive years and can expect an almost normal life expectancy under 
antiretroviral treatment. Many of them want to have a child and reproductive 
counselling and care can offer a sharp reduction in both sexual and vertical 
transmission rates.
RECENT FINDINGS: Most couples with HIV are formed by an infected man and an 
uninfected woman; in this setting, semen washing coupled with reproductive 
technology can be applied to eliminate the risk of sexual transmission of the 
virus. Semen washing is a processing method which reduces both HIV RNA and DNA 
to undetectable amounts. In couples in which only the woman is infected, 
self-insemination might be indicated. When both partners are carrying HIV, semen 
washing can be used in couples with different viral strains. HIV can be 
vertically transmitted and the risk of infection for the infant can be decreased 
to approximately 1% by reducing maternal viral load, elective caesarean section 
and avoidance of breastfeeding. In pregnancy the efficacy of antiretroviral 
treatment should be balanced against the possibility of embryonic or fetal 
toxicity. Caesarean section, performed electively, has proven its protective 
efficacy, without significant maternal morbidity. Its role should now be 
reassessed in mothers with undetectable viral load. Breastfeeding, discouraged 
to avoid postnatal transmission, might be possible in the future, with 
antiretroviral therapy capable of suppressing viral excretion in maternal milk.
SUMMARY: Semen washing, reproductive technology, antiretroviral therapy and 
obstetrical care can work in sequence to allow safe reproduction in couples 
infected with HIV.

DOI: 10.1097/00001703-200406000-00009
PMID: 15129056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Qual Life Res. 2004 May;13(4):773-82. doi:
10.1023/B:QURE.0000021685.83961.88.

Health status versus utilities of patients with end-stage liver disease.

Bryce CL(1), Angus DC, Switala J, Roberts MS, Tsevat J.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of 
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

BACKGROUND: Health-related quality of life (HRQL) in patients with end-stage 
liver disease (ESLD) can be evaluated using either health-status questionnaires 
or utility assessment techniques. The two approaches have never been compared in 
terms of the values they assign to health prior to liver transplantation.
STUDY DESIGN: We assessed health status of patients with ESLD using validated 
disease-specific instruments covering multiple domains (measures of disease, 
psychological status, personal function, social/role function, and general 
health perception). We also elicited utilities using formal approaches (standard 
gamble [SG] and time tradeoff [TTO]) and a simpler alternative (visual analog 
scale [VAS]).
PATIENTS: Outpatients and inpatients at a single center prior to liver 
transplantation (n = 78).
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Health status was generally poor (median physical symptoms 
score on a 0-1 [worst to best] scale, 0.33; psychological symptoms, 0; 
happiness, 0.50; personal function, 0; social/role function, 0.40; and general 
health perception, 0.40). The median VAS score was 0.50. The median TTO was 
0.79, indicating that half of the patients in our sample chose healthier life in 
return for a 21% shorter life expectancy. The median SG score was 0.50, 
indicating that half of the patients were willing to take up to a 50% risk of 
death in exchange for perfect health.
CONCLUSIONS: Both health status measures and utility assessments indicate that 
HRQL is compromised in patients awaiting liver transplantation. Despite the 
overall consistency between the two approaches, however, health status measures 
do not serve as reasonable proxies for utilities. For formal economic 
evaluations such as cost effectiveness analyses, only direct measures of utility 
can be used to quantify health states.

DOI: 10.1023/B:QURE.0000021685.83961.88
PMID: 15129887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Health Technol Assess. 2004 May;8(18):iii-iv, ix-x, 1-105. doi:
10.3310/hta8180.

The clinical and cost-effectiveness of anakinra for the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis in adults: a systematic review and economic analysis.

Clark W(1), Jobanputra P, Barton P, Burls A.

Author information:
(1)Medicines Evaluation Unit, Department of Medicines Management, Keele 
University, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To review the evidence of the clinical and cost-effectiveness of 
anakinra, an interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra), for the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic bibliographic databases. Scrip, Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) submissions for new drug applications, European Agency for 
the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA) reports and the pharmaceutical 
company submission to the National Institute for Clinical Excellence.
REVIEW METHODS: Studies were identified that included randomised controlled 
trials (RCTs) or economic evaluations of anakinra in adult patients with RA. 
Existing health economic reviews were also assessed. Data were extracted and 
quality assessed using a structured approach. The Birmingham Rheumatoid 
Arthritis Model (BRAM) was used to compare disease-modifying antirheumatic drug 
(DMARD) sequences, chosen to reflect current clinical practice, with and without 
anakinra, at different points in the DMARD sequence.
RESULTS: Five high-quality RCTs of anakinra in adult patients with RA, involving 
a total of 2905 patients, of whom 2146 received anakinra, were identified. The 
results of the clinical trials were consistent with clinical benefit (compared 
with placebo) as measured by American College of Rheumatology (ACR) composite 
response rate at 6 months. Variation in response rate was seen across the 
trials, which is likely to be a reflection of the size of the trials and the 
wide range of doses evaluated. Consistent benefit was seen at the higher dose 
evaluated. Benefit was evident both with monotherapy and when used in 
combination with methotrexate. Data on the efficacy end-points evaluated in a 
large pragmatic safety study have not been made available, which is of concern. 
Anakinra treatment was associated with a high incidence of injection-site 
reactions. Serious adverse events were infrequent, but longer term follow-up is 
required. No fully published economic evaluations of anakinra in patients with 
RA were identified. The BRAM gives a base-case estimate of the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of anakinra of 106,000 pounds to 604,000 
pounds/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). In the sensitivity analyses 
substantial variations were made in key parameters and ICERs were shown to be 
responsive. However, ICERs did not drop below 50,000 pounds/QALY in any 
univariate sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Anakinra can be considered modestly effective in the treatment of 
RA based on ACR response, although no conclusion can currently be made on the 
effect of treatment on disease progression. Adjusted indirect comparison 
suggests that anakinra may be significantly less effective at relieving the 
clinical signs and symptoms of RA, as measured by the ACR response criteria, 
than tumour necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors all used in combination with 
methotrexate, although these results should be interpreted with caution. The 
BRAM produces an ICER for anakinra substantially higher than those for 
infliximab and etanercept. However, patients may respond to anakinra when they 
have not responded to other TNF inhibitors, as these agents have a different 
mechanism of action. Thus, anakinra may produce a clinically significant and 
important improvement in some patients that they could not otherwise have 
achieved. Further research would be valuable in the following areas: RCTs to 
evaluate the efficacy, safety and cost of anakinra over the longer term; 
comparative trials of anakinra with other DMARDs and biological modifiers; 
assessment of the role of anakinra in the treatment of patients who have failed 
to achieve a benefit while taking infliximab or etanercept; assessment on the 
impact of DMARDs and anakinra on joint replacement, mortality and quality of 
life; controlled clinical trials of combination therapy with two anticytokines; 
investigations into newer biological therapies; and the utility of radiographic 
outcomes in clinical trials of RA.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8180
PMID: 15130461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Health Technol Assess. 2004 May;8(17):iii, 1-131. doi: 10.3310/hta8170.

Does early imaging influence management and improve outcome in patients with low 
back pain? A pragmatic randomised controlled trial.

Gilbert FJ(1), Grant AM, Gillan MG, Vale L, Scott NW, Campbell MK, Wardlaw D, 
Knight D, McIntosh E, Porter RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To establish whether the early use of sophisticated imaging 
techniques influences the clinical management and outcome of patients with low 
back pain (LBP) and whether it is cost-effective.
DESIGN: A pragmatic multicentre randomised controlled trial using a standard two 
parallel group approach incorporating an economic evaluation. For a subgroup of 
trial participants, a controlled 'before and after' approach was used to assess 
the impact of 'early imaging' on clinicians' diagnostic and therapeutic 
confidence.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: A total of 782 participants who had been referred by 
their general practitioner to a consultant orthopaedic specialist or 
neurosurgeon because of symptomatic lumbar spine disorders. The study included 
14 hospitals in Scotland and one in England over a 24-month period.
RESULTS: Participants in both groups reported an improvement in health status at 
8 and 24 months with the 'early imaging' group having statistically 
significantly better outcome. Other than the proportion of participants 
receiving imaging (90% versus 30%), there were few differences between the 
groups in the management received throughout the 24-month follow-up. The total 
number of outpatient consultations in the two groups was similar although more 
people in the 'early imaging' group had return outpatient appointments during 
the 8-month follow-up. Clinicians' diagnostic confidence, between trial entry 
and follow-up, increased significantly for both groups with a greater increase 
in the 'early imaging' group. The cost of imaging was the main determinant of 
the difference in total costs between the groups and it was estimated that 
'early imaging' could provide an additional 0.07 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), at an additional average cost of 61 British pounds over the 24-month 
follow-up. Using non-imputed costs and QALYs but adjusted for baseline 
differences in EQ-5D score, the mean incremental cost per QALY of 'early 
imaging' was 870 British pounds. The results were sensitive to the costs of 
imaging and the confidence intervals surrounding estimates of average costs and 
QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: The early use of sophisticated imaging does not appear to affect 
management overall but does result in a slight improvement in clinical outcome 
at an estimated cost of 870 British pounds per QALY. Imaging was associated with 
an increase in clinicians' diagnostic confidence, particularly for 
non-specialists. Further research is required to determine if more rapid 
referral to sophisticated imaging and secondary care is important in the acute 
episode and whether the use of imaging would be more beneficial for particular 
categories of LBP.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8170
PMID: 15130462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Mech Ageing Dev. 2004 May;125(5):351-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.01.010.

Histone deacetylases, HDAC1 and HSIR2, act as a negative regulator of ageing 
through p53 in human gingival fibroblast.

Kim MM(1), Yoon SO, Cho YS, Chung AS.

Author information:
