role in decision making for patients in different age groups. Both physicians 
and policy makers recognised allocation decisions as part of their reality. One 
of the strong general opinions of both physicians and policy makers was the 
rejection of age discrimination. Making allocation decisions as such seemed to 
be regarded as a foreign entity to the practice of medicine. In spite of the 
reluctance to make allocation decisions, physicians sometimes do. This would 
seem to be only acceptable if it is justified in terms of the best interests of 
the patient from whom treatment is withheld.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2003.003681
PMCID: PMC1733845
PMID: 15082820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Postgrad Med J. 2004 Apr;80(942):206-13. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.2003.013722.

Management of inflammatory bowel disease.

Nayar M(1), Rhodes JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease result from an interaction between 
genetic and environmental factors. Only one gene, NOD2/CARD15, has been clearly 
identified; a minority of people with alteration of this gene develop Crohn's 
disease. The NOD2/CARD15 protein is thought to be involved in defence against 
intracellular bacteria. This supports the idea that Crohn's disease and 
ulcerative colitis result from altered immunological responses to the normal 
intestinal flora. Life expectancy is normal in ulcerative colitis and nearly so 
in Crohn's disease, but both conditions cause considerable morbidity. 
Approximately 80% of patients with Crohn's disease eventually require surgery, 
and about 25% of patients with ulcerative colitis require colectomy. Treatment 
of ulcerative colitis is generally by corticosteroids for acute disease and 
mesalazine for maintenance, but the range of therapies for Crohn's disease is 
expanding. Alternative therapies include immunosuppressives, enteral nutrition, 
antibiotics, anti-TNF antibody (infliximab), corticosteroids, and surgery. High 
dosages of corticosteroids may provide symptomatic relief in Crohn's disease but 
do not affect the long term natural history of the disease, and management 
strategies should avoid using steroids whenever possible.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.2003.013722
PMCID: PMC1742977
PMID: 15082841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2004 Apr 15;29(8):925-31. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-200404150-00021.

Quality improvement in an outpatient department for subacute low back pain 
patients: prospective surveillance by outcome and performance measures in a 
health technology assessment perspective.

Johansen B(1), Mainz J, Sabroe S, Manniche C, Leboeuf-Yde C.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Unit in the County of Ringkoebing, Ringkoebing, Denmark. 
bendt@post4.tele.dk

STUDY DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
OBJECTIVES: To develop clinical indicators and standards in an outpatients' 
department for sub acute low back pain patients.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: A systematic quantitative surveillance to assess 
quality of care was implemented using outcome and performance measures. These 
measures were developed within the framework of Health Technology Assessment, 
which comprises the areas of healthcare technology, patient, organization, and 
economy.
METHODS: A multidisciplinary project group defined 1) clinical indicators in 
terms of outcome and performance measures and 2) the corresponding standards 
using the available evidence from literature. Observed outcomes were compared 
with the standards. Associations between process and outcome measures were 
investigated.
RESULTS: A total of 300 patients were included consecutively. In relation to 
technology, the standards for the field of application were fulfilled (e.g., not 
too many patients were x-rayed). With respect to effectiveness, the observed 
rate of patients reaching a 50% cutoff point of improvement of pain and function 
did not fulfill the standards. In relation to patient aspects, the standards of, 
for example, proper understanding of patient education and satisfaction, were 
fulfilled. In relation to organization, nearly one third of the patients were 
referred later to the department than the recommended 24 weeks. This refer 
variable showed an association to a reduced chance of scoring "better" or "much 
better" in "patients global assessment." The chance was reduced by 50% if 
patients were referred later than 12 weeks after onset of pain. In relation to 
economy, the cost of gaining a quality adjusted life-year by a course in the 
department was considerably lower than by comparison with total hip 
arthroplasty.
CONCLUSIONS: Surveillance by clinical indicators in relation to the four areas 
of health technology assessment provides quantitative information that is 
meaningful for various stakeholders on important aspects of the quality of care 
(including consumers), provides a basis for quality improvement, and provides 
data for analysis of possible important relationships between structure, 
process, and outcome.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-200404150-00021
PMID: 15082998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Med Care. 2004 May;42(5):423-31. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000124245.62354.57.

Quality of death: assessing the importance placed on end-of-life treatment in 
the intensive-care unit.

Bryce CL(1), Loewenstein G, Arnold RM, Schooler J, Wax RS, Angus DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Modeling of Acute Illness (CRISMA) Laboratory, 
Department of Critical Care Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA. brycec@upmc.edu

Comment in
    Med Care. 2004 May;42(5):406-7.

CONTEXT: The value of good end-of-life (EOL) care could be underestimated if its 
effects are assessed using the standard metric of quality-adjusted survival, 
especially if the time horizon is limited to the duration of the EOL care. This 
issue is particularly problematic in the intensive-care unit (ICU) where death 
is frequent, care is difficult, and costs are high.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to test whether people would trade 
healthy life expectancy for better EOL care, to understand how much life 
expectancy they would trade relative to domains of good care, and to determine 
the association of respondent characteristics to time traded.
DESIGN AND SUBJECTS: We used a computerized survey instrument describing 
hypothetical patient experiences in the ICU used to assess attitudes of a 
general population sample (n = 104) recruited in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
MEASURES: We used life expectancy traded (from a baseline of 80 healthy years 
followed by a 1-month fatal ICU stay) for improving ICU care in 4 domains: pain 
and discomfort, daily surroundings, treatment decisions, and family support.
RESULTS: Three fourths of respondents (n = 78) were prepared to shorten healthy 
life for better EOL care. Median time traded in individual domains ranged from 
7.2 to 7.7 months overall and 9.6 to 11.4 months when restricted to those 
willing to trade. Median time traded for improvement in all domains was 8.3 
months overall and 24.0 months by those willing to trade. In multivariable 
analyses, respondents who were older, nonwhite, or had children traded 
significantly less time, whereas those who did not perceive the ICU to be a 
caring environment traded more time.
CONCLUSIONS: Good EOL care is highly valued, both in terms of medical and 
nonmedical domains, as suggested by previous work and confirmed by our data 
showing respondents trading quantities of healthy life several times longer than 
the duration of the EOL period itself. The considerable interperson variation 
highlights the importance of soliciting individual preferences about EOL care.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000124245.62354.57
PMID: 15083102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2004 Apr 16;129(16):871. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-823031.

[Ageing: fascination and dilemma].

[Article in German]

Fölsch UR, Schreiber S.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-823031
PMID: 15083406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2004 Apr 16;129(16):903-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-823037.

[Molecular mechanisms for the control of life-expectancy].

[Article in German]

Nikolaus S(1), Schreiber S.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Allgemeine Innere Medizin Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, 
Campus Kiel.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-823037
PMID: 15083412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Lancet. 2004 Apr 10;363(9416):1202-3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(04)15986-2.

HIV overshadows South African health advances. Life expectancy is on the 
decline, and adult deaths are soaring--mainly due to HIV-related diseases.

Kapp C.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(04)15986-2
PMID: 15083818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Breast Cancer Res. 2004;6(3):R149-56. doi: 10.1186/bcr767. Epub 2004 Feb 17.

Infiltrating lobular carcinoma of the breast: tumor characteristics and clinical 
outcome.

Arpino G(1), Bardou VJ, Clark GM, Elledge RM.

Author information:
(1)Breast Center at Baylor College of Medicine and The Methodist Hospital, 
Houston, Texas, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) comprises approximately 10% of 
breast cancers and appears to have a distinct biology. Because it is less common 
than infiltrating ductal carcinoma (IDC), few data have been reported that 
address the biologic features of ILC in the context of their clinical outcome. 
In the present study we undertook an extensive comparison of ILC and IDC using a 
large database to provide a more complete and reliable assessment of their 
biologic phenotypes and clinical behaviors.
METHODS: The clinical and biological features of 4140 patients with ILC were 
compared with those of 45,169 patients with IDC (not otherwise specified). The 
median follow-up period was 87 months.
RESULTS: In comparison with IDC, ILC was significantly more likely to occur in 
older patients, to be larger in size, to be estrogen and progesterone receptor 
positive, to have lower S-phase fraction, to be diploid, and to be HER-2, p53, 
and epidermal growth factor receptor negative. It was more common for ILC than 
for IDC to metastasize to the gastrointestinal tract and ovary. The incidence of 
contralateral breast cancer was higher for ILC patients than for IDC patients 
(20.9% versus 11.2%; P < 0.0001). Breast preservation was modestly less frequent 
in ILC patients than in IDC patients. The 5-year disease-free survival was 85.7% 
for ILC and 83.5% for IDC (P = 0.13). The 5-year overall survival was 85.6% for 
ILC and 84.1% for IDC (P = 0.64).
CONCLUSION: Despite the fact that the biologic phenotype of ILC is quite 
favorable, these patients do not have better clinical outcomes than do patients 
with IDC. At present, management decisions should be based on individual patient 
and tumor biologic characteristics, and not on lobular histology.

DOI: 10.1186/bcr767
PMCID: PMC400666
PMID: 15084238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Breast Cancer Res. 2004;6(3):R191-8. doi: 10.1186/bcr775. Epub 2004 Mar 9.

Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha in high-risk breast cancer: an independent 
prognostic parameter?

Gruber G(1), Greiner RH, Hlushchuk R, Aebersold DM, Altermatt HJ, Berclaz G, 
Djonov V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Bern, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (hif-1alpha) furnishes tumor cells 
with the means of adapting to stress parameters like tumor hypoxia and promotes 
critical steps in tumor progression and aggressiveness. We investigated the role 
of hif-1alpha expression in patients with node-positive breast cancer.
METHODS: Tumor samples from 77 patients were available for immunohistochemistry. 
The impact of hif-1alpha immunoreactivity on survival endpoints was determined 
by univariate and multivariate analyses, and correlations to clinicopathological 
characteristics were determined by cross-tabulations.
RESULTS: hif-1alpha was expressed in 56% (n = 43/77) of the patients. Its 
expression correlated with progesterone receptor negativity (P = 0.002). The 
Kaplan-Meier curves revealed significantly shorter distant metastasis-free 
survival (DMFS) (P = 0.04, log-rank) and disease-free survival (DFS) (P = 0.04, 
log-rank) in patients with increased hif-1alpha expression. The difference in 
overall survival (OS) did not attain statistical significance (5-year OS, 66% 
without hif-1alpha expression and 55% with hif-1alpha expression; P = 0.21). The 
multivariate analysis failed to reveal an independent prognostic value for 
hif-1alpha expression in the whole patient group. The only significant parameter 
for all endpoints was the T stage (T3/T4 versus T1/T2: DMFS, relative risk = 
3.16, P = 0.01; DFS, relative risk = 2.57, P = 0.03; OS, relative risk = 3.03, P 
= 0.03). Restricting the univariate and multivariate analyses to T1/T2 tumors, 
hif-1alpha expression was a significant parameter for DFS and DMFS.
CONCLUSIONS: hif-1alpha is expressed in the majority of patients with 
node-positive breast cancer. It can serve as a prognostic marker for an 
unfavorable outcome in those with T1/T2 tumors and positive axillary lymph 
nodes.

DOI: 10.1186/bcr775
PMCID: PMC400672
PMID: 15084243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Breast Cancer Res. 2004;6(3):R246-51. doi: 10.1186/bcr783. Epub 2004 Mar 23.

Outcome and human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) 1-4 status in invasive 
breast carcinomas with proliferation indices evaluated by bromodeoxyuridine 
labelling.

Tovey SM(1), Witton CJ, Bartlett JM, Stanton PD, Reeves JR, Cooke TG.

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Cancer Group, Division of Cancer Sciences and Molecular Biology, 
University Department of Surgery, Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Glasgow G31 2ER, UK.

BACKGROUND: We have shown previously that whereas overexpression of human 
epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)1, HER2 and HER3 is associated with poor 
prognosis in breast cancer, HER4 is associated with a good prognosis. Cell 
proliferation is a key component of aggressive cancers and is driven by growth 
factors. In this study, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-derived proliferation indices 
are correlated with clinical outcome and HER1-4 status for further clarification 
of the differing roles for the HER family at a biological level.
METHODS: Seventy-eight invasive breast cancers had BrdU labelling in vivo to 
determine the BrdU labelling index (BLI) and the potential tumour doubling time 
(Tpot). Long-term clinical follow-up was available for these patients. We used 
immunohistochemistry to establish the HER1-4 status in 55 patients from the BrdU 
cohort.
RESULTS: We demonstrate a significant correlation between high BLI values and 
breast cancer-specific death (P = 0.0174). Low Tpot times were also 
significantly correlated with breast cancer-specific death (P = 0.0258). 
However, BLI did not independently predict survival in Cox's multiple regression 
analysis when combined with other prognostic factors such as size, grade and 
nodal status. Tumours found to be positive for HER1, HER2 or HER3 had 
significantly (P = 0.041) higher labelling indices, with HER1 also showing 
significantly higher indices when considered independently (P = 0.024). 
Conversely, HER4 positivity was significantly correlated (P = 0.013) with low 
BLI values, in line with previous data associating this receptor with good 
prognosis tumours.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support the hypothesis that HER1-3 are associated 
with driving tumour proliferation, whereas HER4 is involved in a 
non-proliferative or even protective role.

DOI: 10.1186/bcr783
PMCID: PMC400680
PMID: 15084248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Immunity. 2004 Apr;20(4):495-506. doi: 10.1016/s1074-7613(04)00074-3.

A major role for TPPII in trimming proteasomal degradation products for MHC 
class I antigen presentation.

Reits E(1), Neijssen J, Herberts C, Benckhuijsen W, Janssen L, Drijfhout JW, 
Neefjes J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Tumor Biology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, 
1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Immunity. 2004 Apr;20(4):362-3.

Intracellular proteins are degraded by the proteasome, and resulting peptides 
surviving cytoplasmic peptidase activity can be presented by MHC class I 
molecules. Here, we show that intracellular aminopeptidases degrade peptides 
within seconds, almost irrespectively of amino acid sequence. N- but not 
C-terminal extension increases the half-life of peptides until they are 15 amino 
acids long. Beyond 15 amino acids, peptides are exclusively trimmed by the 
peptidase TPPII, which displays both exo- and endopeptidase activity. 
Surprisingly, most proteasomal degradation products are handled by TPPII before 
presentation by MHC class I molecules. We define three distinct proteolytic 
activities during antigen processing in vivo. Proteasome-generated peptides 
relevant for antigen presentation are mostly 15 amino acids or longer. These 
require TPPII activity for further trimming before becoming substrates for other 
peptidases and MHC class I. The heterogeneous pool of aminopeptidases will 
process TPPII products into MHC class I peptides and beyond.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-7613(04)00074-3
PMID: 15084277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. FASEB J. 2004 Jun;18(9):1022-4. doi: 10.1096/fj.03-1162fje. Epub 2004 Apr
14.

Inflammation underlying cardiovascular mortality is a late consequence of 
evolutionary programming.

Van Den Biggelaar AH(1), De Craen AJ, Gussekloo J, Huizinga TW, Heijmans BT, 
Frölich M, Kirkwood TB, Westendorp RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine, Section Gerontology and Geriatrics, 
Leiden University Medical Center, C2-R, Albinusdreef 2, P.O. Box 9600, 2300 RC 
Leiden, The Netherlands. Biggelaar@lumc.nl

With the increase in life expectancy, death from cardiovascular disease has 
risen greatly. There is increasing evidence that inflammation plays an important 
role in cardiovascular disease. We postulate that the development of 
cardiovascular disease in old age is a late consequence of evolutionary 
programming for a pro-inflammatory response to resist infections in early age. 
In 311 women, aged 85 yr old, the production of the pro- and anti-inflammatory 
cytokines tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-10 was 
determined in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated whole blood samples and studied 
prospectively in association with cardiovascular mortality. High TNF-alpha was a 
risk factor for death from cardiovascular disease (relative risk [RR] = 1.56; 
95% confidence interval [CI]: 1-2.40), whereas high IL-10 was protective (RR = 
0.58; 95% CI: 0.40-0.85). A genetic variant of the IL-10 gene promoter, which is 
associated with lower IL-10 production, was found to predispose to a 2.8-fold 
higher cardiovascular mortality risk (95% CI: 1.17-6.60). Reproductive success, 
which was studied as a measure of evolutionary programming because it trades off 
with early survival by pro-inflammatory resistance genes, was negatively 
associated with an increasing production of TNF-alpha (RR = 0.77; 95% CI: 
0.68-0.88), while a positive association with IL-10 was found (RR = 1.22; 95% 
CI: 1.05-1.41). We suggest that cardiovascular mortality is a late consequence 
of evolutionary programming for a pro-inflammatory response.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.03-1162fje
PMID: 15084512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2004;18(1):1-5. doi: 10.1159/000077728. Epub
2004  Apr 6.

No evidence for a genetic relationship between Alzheimer's disease and 
longevity.

Heun R(1), Bonsignore M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany. heun@uni-bonn.de

OBJECTIVE: Late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) is frequent in subjects who have 
reached an age above the average life expectancy. AD and life expectancy are 
both influenced by genetic factors. Consequently, a possible genetic 
relationship between AD and longevity was investigated using family study data.
METHODS: First-degree relatives of patients with AD (n = 645) and of 
non-demented controls (n = 1,106) were examined by direct interview or by family 
history in the case of already deceased or unavailable subjects. Survival of 
subjects with an assumed familial load for AD (i.e. first-degree relatives of AD 
patients) and of controls was compared using the Kaplan-Meier analysis and 
log-rank statistics.
RESULTS: Relatives with AD reached higher ages than other family members. 
However, there was no significant co-aggregation of AD and longevity in 
first-degree relatives of AD patients in comparison with those of controls. This 
applied to all diseased as well as non-demented relatives.
CONCLUSIONS: Longevity is an independent prerequisite for the development of the 
disease, but is not genetically related to AD. The apparent longevity in 
relatives with AD is likely to result from the selection of subjects fulfilling 
this prerequisite.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000077728
PMID: 15084787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2004;18(1):24-31. doi: 10.1159/000077731. Epub
2004  Apr 6.

Life expectancy following psychogeriatric reactivation. Identification of 
prognostic characteristics of survival assessed on admission.

Bakker TJ(1), Duivenvoorden HJ, van der Lee J, Schudel WJ.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric-Skilled Nursing Home 'DrieMaasStede', Schiedam, The Netherlands. 
tjembakker@zorggroepwaterwegnoord.nl

OBJECTIVES: To estimate life expectancy of psychogeriatric patients having 
participated in a reactivation program. To identify prognostic characteristics - 
on admission - for survival after discharge.
DESIGN: A prospective, clinical-empirical observational study.
SETTING: A Dutch psychiatric-skilled nursing home.
PARTICIPANTS: Psychogeriatric patients (n = 75) suffering from very mild to 
moderate cognitive function disorders in conjunction with psychiatric function 
disorders.
INTERVENTION: Interdisciplinary reactivation program.
MEASUREMENTS: General, functional and diagnostic patient characteristics 
assessed on admission for the psychogeriatric reactivation program, and survival 
rate after discharge over a period of 7 years.
RESULTS: The probability of survival for patients who were discharged from the 
psychogeriatric reactivation program to their own homes or to a residential home 
with restricted support ('independent' group, n = 53) was higher (1/HR = 3.2) 
than for patients who were discharged to a nursing home ('dependent' group, n = 
22). The median survival period of the reference group (community-dwelling 
elderly people) was 95 months (95% confidence interval, CI: 74-116), that of the 
'independent' group 35 months (95% CI: 25-45) and that of the 'dependent' group 
13 months (95% CI: 3-22). For the reactivated patients (n = 75), gender was the 
only general characteristic of prognostic value for survival after discharge 
(the survival rate for women was higher; hazard ratio (HR) = 3.07; 95% CI: 
1.61-5.85). Age was statistically insignificant. One functional characteristic, 
the Global Deterioration Scale, was of prognostic significance (HR = 1.58; 95% 
CI: 1.11-2.23). The diagnostic characteristics of prognostic significance were: 
psychiatric function disorders (paranoia; HR = 2.19; 95% CI: 1.11-4.28), somatic 
comorbidity (urogenital pathology; HR = 1.83; 95% CI: 1.13-2.94; cardiopulmonary 
pathology; HR = 1.56; 95% CI: 1.16-2.07) and adequacy of the caregiver system 
(HR = 0.59; 95% CI: 0.33-1.03). The specific diagnostic classifications of 
cognitive function disorders (DSM-IV) were not of prognostic significance. It 
was possible to account for 32% of the variance in survival after discharge.
CONCLUSION: The survival rate of the 'independent' group of patients was 
obviously higher (1/HR = 3.2) than that of the 'dependent' group. There was no 
overlap in the 95% CI of the median survival period after discharge. The results 
suggest that with respect to survival the two groups of psychogeriatric patients 
who participated in the intensive reactivation program differed definitely. 
Additionally, patients belonging to the 'independent' group had a greater chance 
to benefit from a reactivation program. The program should pay special attention 
to the patient characteristics on admission, which demonstrated a significant 
negative correlation to survival. These patient characteristics belonged to five 
domains (i.e. gender, cognitive function disorders, psychiatric function 
disorders, somatic comorbidity and adequacy of the caregiver system) The five 
dimensions are of clinical interest for optimizing the selection of patients who 
may derive most benefit from a reactivation program. The development of a valid 
prognostic instrument is a prerequisite for optimal medical decision-making for 
such intensive intervention programs, as is the analysis of cost-effectiveness. 
In order to draw firm conclusions, it is recommended that a large-scale study 
with a randomized, parallel-group design will be performed. Our group has 
started such a research program in July 2001.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000077731
PMID: 15084790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2004 Sep;242(9):741-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-004-0905-z.

Unilateral adult malignant optic nerve glioma.

Wabbels B(1), Demmler A, Seitz J, Woenckhaus M, Bloss HG, Lorenz B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Ophthalmology, Strabismology and Ophthalmogenetics, 
University of Regensburg, Franz Josef Strauss Allee 11, 93053 Regensburg, 
Germany. bettina.wabbels@klinik.uni-regensburg.de

INTRODUCTION: Adult malignant optic nerve gliomas are rare and rapidly fatal 
visual pathway tumours. They represent a clinical entity different from the more 
common childhood benign optic nerve gliomas, which are frequently associated 
with neurofibromatosis I.
CASE REPORT: A 61-year-old woman presented with rapidly progressing right vision 
loss, lower altitudinal visual field defect and papilloedema. MRI showed 
intraorbital and intracranial swelling of the right optic nerve. Resection of 
the intracranial part of the right optic nerve up to the chiasm revealed 
anaplastic astrocytoma grade III. Within 1 year, the patient died of 
leptomeningeal metastasis despite radiotherapy. Clinical and MRI evaluation of 
the left eye and optic nerve were normal at all times.
DISCUSSION: Unilateral adult malignant glioma of the optic nerve is exceptional. 
The final diagnosis was only confirmed by optic nerve biopsy. In the literature, 
only one patient has been reported with a unilateral tumour manifestation; he 
was lost to follow-up 3 months later. All other cases were bilateral. To date, 
44 case reports of adult malignant optic nerve glioma have been published, 
either malignant astrocytoma or glioblastoma. These tumours can mimic optic 
neuritis in their initial presentation. The diagnosis is seldom made before 
craniotomy. On MRI images, malignant glioma cannot be distinguished from optic 
nerve enlargement due to other causes. Although radiotherapy appears to prolong 
life expectancy, all presently available treatment options (radiation, surgery, 
radio-chemotherapy) are of limited value. Most patients go blind and die within 
1 or 2 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-004-0905-z
PMID: 15085353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Ann Hematol. 2004 Jul;83(7):414-9. doi: 10.1007/s00277-004-0855-x. Epub 2004
Apr  14.

Assessment of biological prognostic factors provides clinically relevant 
information in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma--a Nordic Lymphoma 
Group study.

Jerkeman M(1), Anderson H, Dictor M, Kvaløy S, Akerman M, Cavallin-Ståhl E; 
Nordic Lymphoma Group study.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Jubileum Institute, Lund University Hospital, Sweden. 
mats.jerkeman@onk.lu.se

The purpose of this study was to investigate the prognostic effects of four 
biological markers, BCL2, TP53, Ki-67, and P-glycoprotein, and their possible 
clinical relevance in addition to the international prognostic index (IPI) in 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). A total of 405 patients with aggressive 
lymphoma, stage II-IV, between 18 and 67 years, were randomized in a trial 
comparing CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) with 
MACOP-B (methotrexate, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, 
and bleomycin). Of these, 267 cases were classified as DLBCL, with adequate 
paraffin blocks available in 207 cases, enabling immunohistochemical assessment 
of the expression of BCL2, TP53, P-glycoprotein, and Ki-67. In a multivariate 
analysis, stratified for IPI, high BCL2 expression (>10%) low (<60%) expression 
of Ki-67, and high TP53 protein expression (>75%) were shown to provide 
additional prognostic information with regard to overall or failure-free 
survival. We found no association between expression of P-glycoprotein and 
outcome. Assessment of BCL2 positivity might be introduced as part of the 
routine investigation in patients with DLBCL, but further studies are necessary 
to confirm the clinical relevance of Ki-67 and TP53 expression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-004-0855-x
PMID: 15085385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2004 Apr;15(2):150-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2004.00978.x.

A 7-year life table analysis from a prospective study on ITI implants with 
special emphasis on the use of short implants. Results from a private practice.

Nedir R(1), Bischof M, Briaux JM, Beyer S, Szmukler-Moncler S, Bernard JP.

Author information:
(1)rabah.nedir@medicine.unige.ch

This paper reports on a 7-year life table analysis on ITI titanium 
plasma-sprayed (TPS) and sandblasted and etched (SLA) implants placed in a 
private practice and loaded for at least 1 year. In 236 patients, 528 (264 TPS 
and 264 SLA) implants were placed, 351 (66.5%) implants rehabilitated the 
posterior region and 71.1% implants were < or =11 mm. In the posterior mandible 
and maxilla, the mean implant length was 9.90 and 9.74 mm respectively. Implant 
length was determined through standard radiographs only. Increase of the number 
of implants or reduction of the width or length of the rehabilitations was no 
specifically sought for the shorter implants. One hundred and twenty-two SLA 
implants were loaded within 63 days. All early loaded SLA implants resisted the 
applied 35 N cm without rotation or pain. Three implants failed, one early and 
two late failures, all were SLA implants placed in the mandible. Shorter 
implants did not fail more than longer ones. The cumulative success rate was 
99.40%. The predictable use of short implants supporting single crowns and small 
fixed partial dentures of 2-4 units supported by two to three implants permitted 
(1) restricting the need for sophisticated and expensive presurgical procedures 
aimed to determine precisely the available bone height by computerized 
radiographic methods, (2) the placement of prosthetically driven restoration 
instead os surgically driven ones, (3) reducing the indications span for complex 
invasive procedures like sinus lift and bon grafting procedures, (4) 
facilitating the surgery, without attempting to place the longest implant and 
(5) avoiding the occurrence of sensation disturbance. The safe use of short 
implants in a private practice should make implant therapy simpler and 
accessible to a higher number of patients and practitioners.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2004.00978.x
PMID: 15085870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Qual Life Res. 2004 Mar;13(2):377-88. doi:
10.1023/B:QURE.0000018488.95206.d6.

Estimation and comparison of derived preference scores from the SF-36 in lung 
transplant patients.

Lobo FS(1), Gross CR, Matthees BJ.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. 
lobo0004@umn.edu

The purpose of this study was to estimate and compare preference scores derived 
from MOS Short Form-36 (SF-36) data for a sample of lung transplant patients 
using three methodologies: Fryback et al. (Med Decis Making 1997; 17: 1-9), 
Nichol et al. (Med Decis Making 2001; 21: 105-112) and Brazier et al. (J Health 
Econ 2002: 21: 271-292). Data were gathered from 99 lung transplant recipients 
using a mail survey, which included the SF-36 and other health-related quality 
of life (HRQL) measures. The mean preference score for the sample was 0.643 
(range 0.43-0.83), 0.765 (range 0.36-1.0), and 0.697 (range 0.33-1.00) for 
Fryback, Nichol and Brazier methods, respectively. Correlations between the 
derived scores and visual analogue ratings of health (0.58-0.68) and pulmonary 
symptoms (-0.59 to -0.62) were moderate to good and in the expected directions. 
The mean preferences of patients grouped by levels of dyspnea, depression 
symptoms, illness burden, and self-rated general health differed significantly 
with all methods and supported the construct validity of the derived scores as 
measures of preference. The Nichol and Brazier scores, both derived with 
standard gamble utilities, were generally higher than Fryback scores, which are 
not utility-based. Given the popularity of the SF-36, these three methods could 
be useful where direct elicitation of preferences is not feasible. Researchers 
must be cognizant of the derivation method used, as absolute preference levels, 
hence quality adjusted life years (QALYs), will differ by method.

DOI: 10.1023/B:QURE.0000018488.95206.d6
PMID: 15085910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Qual Life Res. 2004 Mar;13(2):427-33. doi:
10.1023/B:QURE.0000018496.02968.50.

Assessment of post-stroke quality of life in cost-effectiveness studies: the 
usefulness of the Barthel Index and the EuroQoL-5D.

van Exel NJ(1), Scholte op Reimer WJ, Koopmanschap MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
vanexel@bmg.eur.nl

Stroke is a major cause of death and long-term disability in Western societies 
and constitutes a major claim on health care budgets. We address the problem of 
estimating quality adjusted life years (QALYs) for use in cost-effectiveness 
studies of stroke interventions. In the acute phase after stroke--at stroke 
onset and during rehabilitation--many patients are physically or mentally not 
able to (self-)report their quality of life. Missing values may obviously bias 
cost-effectiveness results. We have examined the direct relationship between a 
conventional clinical scale of functional status that is suited for 
proxy-assessment (Barthel Index (BI)) and a measure of health related quality of 
life (EuroQoL-5D). Based on data collected within the framework of an evaluation 
of three stroke-service experiments in The Netherlands (n = 598, 6 month 
follow-up), we established a plausible and significant relationship between the 
measures. Health related quality of life (HRQoL) is -0.25 for patients with a BI 
of 0, and with each additional point HRQoL increases with 0.05. Independent 
patients (BI 20) get a HRQoL is 0.75, which corresponds to the general 
population reference score for our sample. BI scores may be used as proxy for 
HRQoL in case of missing values on EuroQoL-5D.

DOI: 10.1023/B:QURE.0000018496.02968.50
PMID: 15085915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2004 May;52(5):685-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2004.52203.x.

Effect of hip fracture on mortality in elderly women: the EPIDOS prospective 
study.

Empana JP(1), Dargent-Molina P, Bréart G; EPIDOS Group.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM), 
Villejuif, France.

OBJECTIVES: To assess whether the occurrence of a hip fracture is associated 
with an increased risk of mortality even after taking into account age and 
prefracture health status and whether this increased risk of mortality persists 
beyond the first 6 months after the fracture.
DESIGN: A prospective study of risk factors for hip fracture.
SETTING: Five French areas: Amiens, Lyon, Montpellier, Paris, and Toulouse.
PARTICIPANTS: The cohort consisted of 7,512 volunteer ambulatory women aged 75 
and older who were recruited from voter registration lists. Women who had a 
history of hip fracture or bilateral hip replacement were excluded.
MEASUREMENTS: The baseline examination included a functional and clinical 
examination and a questionnaire on life style and treatments. Thereafter, women 
were followed every 4 months for 4 years to record the occurrence of fractures 
and deaths. A multivariable proportional hazards model was used to determine the 
association between hip fracture (treated as a time-dependent variable) and 
mortality, after adjustment for age and baseline health status.
RESULTS: During a mean+/-standard deviation follow-up of 3.9+/-0.9 years, 338 
women had a first hip fracture, and their postfracture mortality rate was 112.4 
per 1,000 woman-years, compared with 27.3 per 1,000 woman-years for the 6,115 
women who did not have any fracture (P<.001). After adjusting for age and 
baseline health status, women with hip fracture were more than twice as likely 
to die (95% confidence interval (CI)=1.6-2.8). This increased risk appeared more 
pronounced in the first 6 months (relative risk (RR)=3.0, 95% CI=1.9-4.7) than 
after (RR=1.9, 95% CI=1.6-2.2) (P=.09).
CONCLUSION: In ambulatory elderly women, the occurrence of a hip fracture is 
associated with an increased risk of death, even after prefracture health status 
is taken into account. Although the effect of the fracture is stronger in the 
first 6 months, it persists for several years thereafter, which suggests that 
prevention of hip fracture and improved care after the fracture may contribute 
to increase life expectancy in addition to preserving quality of life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2004.52203.x
PMID: 15086646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Transplantation. 2004 Apr 15;77(7):1024-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.tp.0000119163.30745.c1.

New perspectives for children with microvillous inclusion disease: early small 
bowel transplantation.

Ruemmele FM(1), Jan D, Lacaille F, Cézard JP, Canioni D, Phillips AD, Peuchmaur 
M, Aigrain Y, Brousse N, Schmitz J, Revillon Y, Goulet O.

Author information:
(1)Combined Program of Liver and Intestinal Transplantation, Hôpital 
Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris, France. frank.ruemmele@nck.ap-hop-paris.fr.

BACKGROUND: Microvillous inclusion disease (MVID) is a congenital intestinal 
epithelial cell disorder leading to lifelong intestinal failure. Despite 
long-term total parenteral nutrition, life expectancy is extremely reduced 
because of metabolic or septic complications or liver failure.
METHODS: Twelve patients with early-onset MVID were evaluated between 1995 and 
2002 for the possibility of small bowel transplantation (SbTx). Three patients 
died before they could be placed on the waiting list for SbTx, and one patient 
is still awaiting SbTx. SbTx was contraindicated in one patient.
RESULTS: Seven of 12 patients (six boys and one girl) underwent transplantation 
(three SbTxs and four combined liver-SbTxs). Actuarial survival rates were 100% 
and 75% in the SbTx and combined liver-SbTx groups, respectively, with a mean 
follow-up of 3 years (1.1-8.5 years). In contrast, the survival rate was only 
40% in the subgroup of five patients who did not undergo transplantation. After 
transplantation, all patients were weaned from parenteral nutrition: the five 
patients with an additional colon graft were weaned within 36 days as opposed to 
the others without colonic transplant who obtained full intestinal autonomy 
several months after transplantation. The only two surviving patients who did 
not undergo SbTx remain highly dependent on total parenteral nutrition, which is 
complicated by repeated episodes of metabolic decompensation.
CONCLUSIONS: SbTx alone or in combination with the liver is highly successful in 
children with MVID, offering them a long-term perspective for the first time. 
Associated colon grafting markedly improves the outcome and quality of life 
after SbTx in patients with MVID.

DOI: 10.1097/01.tp.0000119163.30745.c1
PMID: 15087765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Lakartidningen. 2004 Mar 18;101(12):1130; author reply 1130.

[A coincidence, genes or life style?].

[Article in Swedish]

Larsson S.

PMID: 15088370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Eur J Haematol. 2004 Apr;72(4):252-8. doi: 10.1046/j.0902-4441.2003.00205.x.

Serum syndecan-1, basic fibroblast growth factor and osteoprotegerin in myeloma 
patients at diagnosis and during the course of the disease.

Kyrtsonis MC(1), Vassilakopoulos TP, Siakantaris MP, Kokoris SI, Gribabis DA, 
Dimopoulou MN, Angelopoulou MK, Pangalis GA.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Section and Research Laboratory, First Department of Internal 
Medicine, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of Medicine, 
Laikon General Hospital, Athens, Greece.

Neovascularisation and bone resorption are related to myeloma disease activity.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the possible prognostic importance of serum 
syndecan-1, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and osteoprotegerin (OPG) 
levels, the relationship between them, with parameters of disease activity and 
the effect of treatment on their levels.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-seven patients were studied from diagnosis and an 
additional five from remission, for a median follow-up of 40 months. 
Twenty-three patients received chemotherapy plus bisphosphonates and nine only 
bisphosphonates. Sera from 11 healthy individuals (HI) were used as controls. 
Cytokines were determined by commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assays (ELISA) kits.
RESULTS: In HI, median syndecan-1 was 40 ng/mL (28-75), bFGF 8 pg/mL (7-30), OPG 
35 pg/mL (4-100). Pretreatment median serum syndecan-1 was 177.5 ng/mL 
(34-3500), bFGF 11.5 pg/mL (8-65) and OPG 100 pg/mL (4-1000). Pretreatment 
syndecan-1, bFGF and OPG serum levels were increased in patients compared with 
HI (P = 0.001, 0.03 and 0.01, respectively). Syndecan-1 and bFGF levels were 
correlated with stage (P = 0.004 and 0.03, respectively). Both syndecan-1 and 
OPG levels were correlated with beta2M (P = 0.04 and 0.01, respectively). 
Patients with elevated syndecan-1 and bFGF serum levels had shorter survival 
than patients with normal levels (P = 0.01 and 0.05, respectively). After 
chemotherapy syndecan-1 and OPG levels were found to be decreased in responders 
and syndecan-1 level was reduced in patients receiving bisphosphonates alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Pretreatment syndecan-1, bFGF and OPG levels were found to be 
increased at diagnosis. Syndecan-1 and OPG fluctuated according to MM activity. 
Elevated serum syndecan-1 and bFGF levels predicted short survival.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0902-4441.2003.00205.x
PMID: 15089762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Eur J Haematol. 2004 Apr;72(4):259-63. doi:
10.1111/j.0902-4441.2003.00210.x.

1513A/C polymorphism in the P2X7 receptor gene in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: 
absence of correlation with clinical outcome.

Nückel H(1), Frey UH, Dürig J, Dührsen U, Siffert W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Medical Faculty, University of Essen, Essen, 
Germany. holger.nueckel@uni-essen.de

Purinergic P2X7 receptors are ligand-gated cation channels expressed on the 
cells of the immune and hemopoietic system which have been shown to mediate the 
ATP-induced apoptotic death of monocytes, macrophages and lymphocytes. A common 
single nucleotide polymorphism within the P2X7 gene has been described in exon 
13 (1513A/C), the gene products encoding fully active and non-functional 
proteins. We genotyped the P2X7 1513A/C polymorphism using DNA from 111 patients 
with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and 97 healthy controls using polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) amplification followed by Hha1 restriction analysis. We 
found no significant difference in allele frequency between CLL patients and 
controls. Time periods from diagnosis to initiation of chemotherapy, a surrogate 
marker for disease progression, were not different in patients displaying the 
combined 1513A/C and C/C or the 1513A/A genotype (P = 0.97). Similar results 
were observed in a subgroup analysis of prognostically more favorable 
CD38-negative and ZAP-70-negative CLL patients. In conclusion, our data do not 
support a role of the P2X7 genotype as a prognostic marker in B-cell CLL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0902-4441.2003.00210.x
PMID: 15089763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Diabet Med. 2004 May;21(5):403-14. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2004.01176.x.

Prevention of Type 2 diabetes mellitus. A review of the evidence and its 
application in a UK setting.

Davies MJ(1), Tringham JR, Troughton J, Khunti KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diabetes, University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, 
Leicester Royal Infirmary, Infirmary Square, Leicester LE1 5WW, UK. 
melanie.davies@uhl-tr.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Diabet Med. 2005 Sep;22(9):1285-6; author reply 1286-7.

Abstract Type 2 Diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a complex metabolic, multifactorial 
disease, which affects the quality, quantity and style of life. People with T2DM 
have a life expectancy that can be shortened by as much as 15 years, with up to 
75% dying of macrovascular complications. To reduce the impact of T2DM in the 
21st century, we need an approach that not only optimally treats the person with 
established diabetes but also prevents diabetes from occurring in the first 
place. The best evidence for prevention of diabetes is for interventions that 
target individuals at highest risk. Targeting patients who have impaired glucose 
tolerance with lifestyle changes including physical activity and dietary factors 
has been shown to be effective in the Chinese, North American and Finnish 
populations. In order for such lifestyle interventions to be successful in other 
populations, they need to be culturally sensitive, individualized and sustained. 
Some pharmacological agents including metformin and acarbose have also been 
shown to be effective, although the profile of those who respond is different. 
There continues to be a need to develop and evaluate interventions that target 
communities and populations at risk in a UK setting.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2004.01176.x
PMID: 15089783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Diabet Med. 2004 May;21(5):460-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2004.01183.x.

Cost-effectiveness of flexible intensive insulin management to enable dietary 
freedom in people with Type 1 diabetes in the UK.

Shearer A(1), Bagust A, Sanderson D, Heller S, Roberts S.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium, University of York, Vanbrugh Way, 
Heslington, York, YO10 4NH , UK. as57@york.ac.uk

AIMS: To determine the cost-effectiveness of a structured treatment and teaching 
programme (STTP) combining dietary freedom with insulin adjustment for Type 1 
diabetes.
METHODS: Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis based on effectiveness data 
from three RCTs in Germany, Austria, and Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating 
(DAFNE) in the UK, to model the long-term microvascular complications of Type 1 
diabetes.
RESULTS: The STTP approach yields effectiveness gains at a lower cost compared 
with current standard practice for treatment of Type 1 diabetes. STTPs are 
likely to save 0.05 life years, yield 0.12 EuroQol 5 dimensions (EQ-5D) and 0.09 
visual analogue scale (VAS) incremental quality-adjusted life years, and save 
approximately pound 2200 per patient treated discounted over 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Introducing STTPs as standard treatment for people with Type 1 
diabetes in the UK may help to achieve the primary goal of the National Service 
Framework (NSF) for Diabetes by enabling individuals to manage their own 
lifestyle and condition. In doing so it could save valuable resources for the 
NHS and yield important morbidity and mortality gains.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2004.01183.x
PMID: 15089791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Med Decis Making. 2004 Mar-Apr;24(2):181-91. doi: 10.1177/0272989X04263342.

HIV prevention, cost-utility analysis, and race/ethnicity: methodological 
considerations and recommendations.

Holtgrave DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Science, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. dholtgr@sph.emory.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2004 Mar-Apr;24(2):232-4.

In this methodological article, the author reviews 1) the disproportionate 
impact that HIV/AIDS is having on communities of color in the United States, 2) 
what is known about the cost-effectiveness of HIV prevention interventions for 
racial/ethnic minority communities (including the methods used in these 
studies), and 3) the relative lack of methodological guidance in the field for 
conducting economic evaluation studies specifically for communities of color. 
The author finds that race/ethnicity affects cost-utility analyses in several 
heretofore unrecognized ways. In this article, methodological techniques to 
address these concerns are proposed. In particular, the author recommends 
cost-utility analytic strategies that maximize comparability among studies and 
avoid the introduction of methodological discrimination.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X04263342
PMID: 15090104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Med Decis Making. 2004 Mar-Apr;24(2):232-4. doi: 10.1177/0272989X04264157.

Is cost-effectiveness analysis unfair?

Russell LB.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 2004 Mar-Apr;24(2):181-91.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X04264157
PMID: 15090108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 May;88(5):606-12. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2003.028712.

Cost effectiveness of treatment for amblyopia: an analysis based on a 
probabilistic Markov model.

König HH(1), Barry JC.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Leipzig, Johannisallee 20, D-04317 Leipzig, Germany. koenig@aya.yale.edu

AIMS: To estimate the long term cost effectiveness of treatment for amblyopia in 
3 year old children.
METHODS: A cost utility analysis was performed using decision analysis including 
a Markov state transition model. Incremental costs and effects during the 
children's remaining lifetime were estimated. The model took into account the 
costs and success rate of treatment as well as effects of unilateral and 
bilateral visual impairment caused by amblyopia and other eye diseases coming 
along later in life on quality of life (utility). Model parameter values were 
obtained from the literature, and from a survey of experts. For the utility of 
unilateral visual impairment a base value of 0.96 was assumed. Costs were 
estimated from a third party payer perspective for the year 2002 in Germany. 
Costs and effects were discounted at 3%. Uncertainty was assessed by univariate 
and probabilistic sensitivity analysis (Monte-Carlo simulation).
RESULTS: The incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) of treatment was 
euro2369 per quality adjusted life year (QALY). In univariate sensitivity 
analysis the ICER was most sensitive to uncertainty concerning the utility of 
unilateral visual impairment-for example, if this utility was 0.99, the ICER 
would be euro9148/QALY. Monte-Carlo simulation yielded a 95% uncertainty 
interval for the ICER of euro710/QALY to euro38 696/QALY; the probability of an 
ICER smaller than euro20 000/QALY was 95%.
CONCLUSION: Treatment for amblyopia is likely to be very cost effective. Much of 
the uncertainty in results comes from the uncertainty regarding the effect of 
amblyopia on quality of life. In order to reduce this uncertainty the impact of 
amblyopia on utility should be investigated.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2003.028712
PMCID: PMC1772149
PMID: 15090409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
