trial.

Cohen DJ(1), Bakhai A, Shi C, Githiora L, Lavelle T, Berezin RH, Leon MB, Moses 
JW, Carrozza JP Jr, Zidar JP, Kuntz RE; SIRIUS Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, Mass, USA. 
dcohen@caregroup.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Aug 3;110(5):472-4.

BACKGROUND: Recently, sirolimus-eluting stents (SESs) have been shown to 
dramatically reduce the risk of angiographic and clinical restenosis compared 
with bare metal stent (BMS) implantation. However, the overall 
cost-effectiveness of this strategy is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between February and August 2001, 1058 patients with 
complex coronary stenoses were enrolled in the SIRIUS trial and randomized to 
percutaneous coronary revascularization with either a SES or BMS. Clinical 
outcomes, resource use, and costs were assessed prospectively for all patients 
over a 1-year follow-up period. Initial hospital costs were increased by 2881 
dollars per patient with SESs. Over the 1-year follow-up period, use of SESs led 
to substantial reductions in the need for repeat revascularization, including 
repeat percutaneous coronary intervention and bypass surgery. Although follow-up 
costs were reduced by 2571 dollars per patient with SESs, aggregate 1-year costs 
remained 309 dollars per patient higher. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio for SES was 1650 dollars per repeat revascularization event avoided or 
27,540 dollars per quality-adjusted year of life gained, values that compare 
reasonably with other accepted medical interventions. Under updated treatment 
assumptions regarding available stent lengths and duration of antiplatelet 
therapy, use of SESs was projected to reduce total 1-year costs compared with 
BMSs.
CONCLUSIONS: Although use of SESs was not cost-saving compared with BMS 
implantation, for patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention of 
complex coronary stenoses, their use appears to be reasonably cost-effective 
within the context of the US healthcare system.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000136821.99814.43
PMID: 15262844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jul 27;101(30):10847-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0404198101. Epub 2004 Jul 19.

Living longer: Information revolution, population expansion, and modern human 
origins.

Rosenberg K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716, USA. 
krr@udel.edu

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jul 27;101(30):10895-900.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0404198101
PMCID: PMC503707
PMID: 15263080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jul 27;101(30):11159-64. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0402026101. Epub 2004 Jul 19.

Evidence for defective energy homeostasis in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: 
benefit of a high-energy diet in a transgenic mouse model.

Dupuis L(1), Oudart H, René F, Gonzalez de Aguilar JL, Loeffler JP.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Signalisations Moléculaires et Neurodégénérescence, Faculté de 
Médecine, EA3433, Université Louis Pasteur, 11 Rue Humann, 67085 Strasbourg 
Cedex, France.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurodegenerative disease 
characterized by selective loss of motor neurons and progressive muscle wasting. 
Growing evidence indicates that mitochondrial dysfunction, not only occurring in 
motor neurons but also in skeletal muscle, may play a crucial role in the 
pathogenesis. In this regard, the life expectancy of the ALS G93A mouse line is 
extended by creatine, an intracellular energy shuttle that ameliorates muscle 
function. Moreover, a population of patients with sporadic ALS exhibits a 
generalized hypermetabolic state of as yet unknown origin. Altogether, these 
findings led us to explore whether alterations in energy homeostasis may 
contribute to the disease process. Here, we show important variations in a 
number of metabolic indicators in transgenic ALS mice, which in all shows a 
metabolic deficit. These alterations were accompanied early in the asymptomatic 
phase of the disease by reduced adipose tissue accumulation, increased energy 
expenditure, and concomitant skeletal muscle hypermetabolism. Compensating this 
energetic imbalance with a highly energetic diet extended mean survival by 20%. 
In conclusion, we suggest that hypermetabolism, mainly of muscular origin, may 
represent by itself an additional driven force involved in increasing motor 
neuron vulnerability.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0402026101
PMCID: PMC503756
PMID: 15263088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Actas Urol Esp. 2004 May;28(5):335-40. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(04)73087-9.

[Analysis of renal neoplasms in adult patients under 40].

[Article in Spanish]

Argüelles Salido E(1), Medina López RA, Congregado Ruiz CB, Cayuela Domínguez A, 
Pascual del Pobil Moreno JL.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Uro-Oncología, Servicio de Urología, Hospital Universitario Virgen 
del Rocío, Sevilla.

OBJECTIVES: To analyze within our sample population the number of patients under 
40 receiving surgery as a result of renal neoplasm; to describe the 
characteristics of these patients and compare them with those of adult patients 
over 40.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We have revised the clinical history of the 379 patients 
with renal neoplasm who have undergone surgery in our Service from January 1986 
through June 2003. Patients were divided into two groups. Group I, formed by 36 
subjects (9.5%) < or = 40. Group II includes 343 patients (90.5%) over 40. Data 
were included in a database created using the software programme Access and were 
subsequently analysed using the statistical package SPSS. A descriptive analysis 
was performed and life expectancy was calculated for both groups using the 
Kaplan-Meier survival curve.
RESULTS: 7.3% of the total number of renal cell carcinomas included in our 
series occurs in patients of or under 40. No significant differences have been 
observed as regards the distribution per sexes, laterality, size, incidental 
occurrence, clinical symptoms, anatomopathology, staging or surgical technique 
employed. However, we have observed differences as regards cancer-specific 
survival rate after 5 years, being 94.74% in the case of group I and 68.64% in 
group II (log-rank 0.0338).
CONCLUSIONS: The number of patients < or = 40 undergoing surgery as a result of 
renal cell carcinoma in the sample under study matches other series already 
published. No statistically significant difference has been observed as regards 
staging among patients under and over 40. Differences do exist as regards 
cancer-specific survival rate. In the case of our patients, irrespective of the 
age group to which they were ascribed, it is more common to diagnose a renal 
neoplasm incidentally than through the clinical manifestations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(04)73087-9
PMID: 15264675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2004 Aug;5(8):1781-98. doi:
10.1517/14656566.5.8.1781.

Anagrelide: a decade of clinical experience with its use for the treatment of 
primary thrombocythaemia.

Petrides PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Oncology Center, Zweibruckenstr. 2, 80331 Munich, Germany. 
Petrides@onkologiemuenchen.de

Primary thrombocythaemia (PT) is the most frequent among the rare chronic 
myeloproliferative disorders. Life expectancy is determined by thromboembolic 
and haemorrhagic complications, which can be prevented by cytoreductive therapy. 
For a long time, hydroxyurea has been considered as the therapeutic gold 
standard. However, hydroxyurea treatment is not lineage-specific, may not be 
tolerated because of adverse effects (skin, gastrointestinal tract) and is 
leukaemogenic when sequentially used with other DNA-targeting drugs. Hence, 
anagrelide was welcomed in 1988 when it was first described as being efficient 
at normalising elevated platelet counts, specific for megakaryocytes and 
non-mutagenic. Since then, anagrelide has been approved in the US and Canada 
(Agrylin), Shire Pharmaceuticals) as well as in Austria and other countries of 
the EU (Thromboreductin), AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals). Clinical Phase III trials 
(PT1 and ANAHYDRET) are underway to directly compare the efficacy and safety of 
anagrelide and hydroxyurea.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.5.8.1781
PMID: 15264993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. J Palliat Med. 2004 Jun;7(3):411-8. doi: 10.1089/1096621041349518.

Barriers to hospice care and referrals: survey of physicians' knowledge, 
attitudes, and perceptions in a health maintenance organization.

Brickner L(1), Scannell K, Marquet S, Ackerson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kaiser Permanente Medical Centers, Oakland, 
California 94611, USA. leslea.brickner@kp.org

INTRODUCTION: Many proponents of hospice care believe that this service is 
underutilized.
OBJECTIVE: To determine physicians' perceptions of hospice utilization and of 
their own hospice referral pattern; their perceived and actual knowledge of 
appropriate hospice referral diagnoses; and perceived barriers to hospice 
referral.
METHODS: Surveys for anonymous response were distributed to 125 physicians in 2 
internal medicine departments of a large not-for-profit health maintenance 
organization (HMO). Of these 125 physicians, 89% responded, including 91 staff 
physicians and 20 residents.
RESULTS: Of the 111 physician-respondents, 78% reported their belief that 
hospice care was underutilized; 84% were unable to identify appropriate hospice 
diagnoses; and 12% were aware of the "National Hospice Organization Medical 
Guidelines for Determining Prognosis in Selected Non-Cancer Diseases." 
Difficulty of predicting death to within 6 months was cited by 37% as the 
foremost barrier to hospice referral. In addition, 28% expressed concern that 
patients or families would interpret hospice referral as a cost saving measure; 
11% of respondents had been accused of using hospice referral for this purpose.
CONCLUSION: Our study-the first major survey of physician attitudes and 
practices regarding hospice utilization in an HMO setting-showed that barriers 
to hospice referral are similar to those in non-HMO settings; physicians have 
difficulty predicting life expectancy and lack knowledge of patient eligibility 
guidelines. Physician concern that patients or their family members would 
construe hospice referral as a cost-saving technique may be a barrier 
particularly troublesome in an HMO setting.

DOI: 10.1089/1096621041349518
PMID: 15265350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1024:153-67. doi: 10.1196/annals.1321.013.

Human immunodeficiency virus type-1 accessory protein Vpr: a causative agent of 
the AIDS-related insulin resistance/lipodystrophy syndrome?

Kino T(1), Chrousos GP.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric and Reproductive Endocrinology Branch, National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892-1583, USA. kinot@mail.nih.gov

Recent advances in the development of three different types of antiviral drugs, 
the nucleotide and non-nucleotide analogues acting as reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors (NRTIs) and the nonpeptidic viral protease inhibitors (PI), and their 
introduction in the management of patients with AIDS, either alone or in 
combination, have dramatically improved the clinical course of the disease and 
prolonged life expectancy in patients with AIDS. The increase in life expectancy 
in association with the long-term use of the above antiviral agents, however, 
have generated novel morbidities and complications. Central among them is the 
quite common AIDS-related insulin resistance and lipodystrophy syndrome, which 
is characterized by a striking phenotype and marked metabolic disturbances. To 
look for the pathologic causes of this particular syndrome, we focused on one of 
the HIV-1 accessory proteins, Vpr, which has multiple functions, such as virion 
incorporation, nuclear translocation of the HIV-1 preintegration complex, 
nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling, transcriptional activation, and induction of 
apoptosis. Vpr may also act like a hormone, which is secreted into the 
extracellular space and affects the function of distant organs. Vpr functions as 
a coactivator of the glucocorticoid receptor and potentiates the action of 
glucocorticoid hormones, thereby inducing tissue glucocorticoid 
hypersensitivity. Vpr also arrests host cells at the G2/M phase of the cell 
cycle by interacting with novel 14-3-3 proteins. Vpr facilitates the interaction 
of 14-3-3 and its partner protein Cdc25C, which is critical for the transition 
of G2/M checkpoint in the cell cycle, and suppresses its activity by segregating 
it into the cytoplasm. The same Vpr protein also suppresses the association of 
14-3-3 with other partner molecules, the Foxo transcription factors. Since the 
Foxo proteins function as negative transcription factors for insulin, Vpr may 
cause resistance of tissues to insulin. Through these two newly identified 
functions of Vpr, namely, coactivation of glucocorticoid receptor activity and 
inhibition of insulin effects on Foxo proteins, Vpr may participate in the 
development of AIDS-related insulin resistance/lipodystrophy syndrome.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1321.013
PMID: 15265780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2004 Oct;19(10):2547-52. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfh404.
Epub  2004 Jul 20.

Critical limb ischaemia as a main cause of death in patients with end-stage 
renal disease: a single-centre study.

Koch M(1), Trapp R, Kulas W, Grabensee B.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Nephrology, Mettmann, Germany. koch@dialyse-mettmann.de

BACKGROUND: Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have a high overall 
mortality rate, particularly due to cardiovascular morbidity. In an era of 
decline in cardiovascular diseases and early cardiovascular intervention, 
non-cardiac diseases seem to have a larger impact on overall mortality.
METHODS: From 1997 to 2003, all incident haemodialysis patients in a single 
centre were enrolled in this prospective study. Those with clinical signs of 
vascular disease were examined by coronary or peripheral angiographies. 
Physicians took the patients' medical histories, examined them and followed them 
up until the end of the study or death. Causes of death were defined by the 
physicians.
RESULTS: In all, 322 patients were enrolled in the study, 38% of whom were 
diabetic. At the start of dialysis treatment, 38% had coronary artery disease 
(CAD), defined as >50% stenosis of at least one coronary artery or as definite 
myocardial infarction, and 14% had critical ischaemia of at least one limb 
(CLI). In all patients with foot lesions, CLI was defined angiographically, as 
evidenced by stenosis or rarefication of distal vessels in the legs. Patients 
who died (n = 121) [due to cardiac causes (n = 25), complications of CLI (n = 
22), stroke (n = 10), cachexia following a long-standing, non-malignant disease 
(n = 6), malignancy (n = 24), infection not related to CLI (n = 18) and other 
causes (n = 16)] were older (71+/-10 vs 65+/-13 years), more often male [74/121 
(61%)] and often diabetic [56/121 (46%)]. CAD was documented in 82/121 (68%). 
Five-year survivals in patients with no risk and diabetes without CAD or CLI, 
CAD and CLI were 74%, 73%, 50% and 10%, respectively. Age, CLI and smoking 
habits independently increased the risk of death (hazard ratios: 1.052, 4.921 
and 2.292, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that CLI with associated complications is 
not only an indicator of high mortality in patients with ESRD, but is also one 
of the main causes of death.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfh404
PMID: 15266035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. MedGenMed. 2004 May 17;6(2):3.

Physiotherapy in rheumatoid arthritis.

Kavuncu V(1), Evcik D.

Author information:
(1)Kocatepe University, School of Medicine, Department of Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Afyon-Turkey.

Comment in
    MedGenMed. 2004;6(2):9.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic and painful clinical condition that leads 
to progressive joint damage, disability, deterioration in quality of life, and 
shortened life expectancy. Even mild inflammation may result in irreversible 
damage and permanent disability. The clinical course according to symptoms may 
be either intermittent or progressive in patients with RA. In most patients, the 
clinical course is progressive, and structural damage develops in the first 2 
years. The aim of RA management is to achieve pain relief and prevent joint 
damage and functional loss. Physiotherapy and rehabilitation applications 
significantly augment medical therapy by improving the management of RA and 
reducing handicaps in daily living for patients with RA. In this review, the 
application of physiotherapy modalities is examined, including the use of 
cold/heat applications, electrical stimulation, and hydrotherapy. Rehabilitation 
treatment techniques for patients with RA such as joint protection strategies, 
massage, exercise, and patient education are also presented.

PMCID: PMC1395797
PMID: 15266230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2004;(3):CD004448. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004448.pub2.

Phytomedicines (medicines derived from plants) for sickle cell disease.

Cordeiro NJ(1), Oniyangi O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Royal Berkshire and Battle NHS Trust, London Road, 
Reading, UK, RG1 5AN. nuno_cordeiro@yahoo.com

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;(10):CD004448.

BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a common recessively inherited disorder 
of haemoglobin affecting peoples originating from sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle 
East and Mediterranean basin, the Indian subcontinent, the Caribbean and South 
America. The homozygous state (SS) is associated with complications and a 
reduced life expectancy. Phytomedicines (medicine derived from plants in their 
original state) encompass much of what the populations most affected would 
encounter in terms of plant-remedies from traditional healers. There has been 
little in the way of systematic appraisal of their benefits.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and risks of phytomedicines in people with 
SCD of all types, of any age, in any setting.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
group specialised register of controlled trials of haemoglobinopathies, which 
comprises references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches, 
handsearches of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. 
We performed an additional search of the bibliographic database of Allied and 
Complementary Medicine (AMED). Date of most recent search of the trials 
register: September 2003.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised or quasi-randomised trials with participants 
of all ages with SCD, in all settings, comparing the administration of 
phytomedicines, by any mode to placebo or standard treatment, including blood 
transfusion and hydroxyurea.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Both reviewers independently assessed trial 
quality and extracted data from the study.
MAIN RESULTS: Reports of two trials were found, of which only one, including 82 
participants, was eligible for inclusion in this review. This Phase IIB 
(pivotal) study suggests that a phytomedicine, NIPRISAN, was effective in 
reducing episodes of SCD crisis associated with severe pain over a six-month 
period. NIPRISAN did not appear to affect the risk of severe complications or 
the level of anaemia. No serious adverse effects were reported.
REVIEWERS' CONCLUSIONS: While NIPRISAN, as a phytomedicine, appeared to be safe 
and effective, over a six-month follow-up period of this study, in reducing 
crises associated with severe pain, further studies are required to assess its 
role in the management of people with sickle cell disease. The results of Phase 
III, multicentre trials are awaited.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004448.pub2
PMID: 15266534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. J Neurobiol. 2004 Aug;60(2):214-26. doi: 10.1002/neu.20022.

Age-associated synapse elimination in mouse parasympathetic ganglia.

Coggan JS(1), Grutzendler J, Bishop DL, Cook MR, Gan W, Heym J, Lichtman JW.

Author information:
(1)Neurobiology Section, Division of Biology, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA. jcoggan@biomail.ucsd.edu

Little is known about the effects of aging on synapses in the mammalian nervous 
system. We examined the innervation of individual mouse submandibular ganglion 
(SMG) neurons for evidence of age-related changes in synapse efficacy and 
number. For approximately 85% of adult life expectancy (30 months) the efficacy 
of synaptic transmission, as determined by excitatory postsynaptic potential 
(EPSP) amplitudes, remains constant. Similarly, the number of synapses 
contacting individual SMG neurons is also unchanged. After 30 months of age, 
however, some neurons (23%) dramatically lose synaptic input exhibiting both 
smaller EPSP amplitude and fewer synaptic boutons. Attenuation of both the 
amplitude and frequency of miniature EPSPs was also observed in neurons from 
aged animals. Electron micrographs revealed that, although there were many 
vesicle-laden preganglionic axonal processes in the vicinity of the postsynaptic 
membrane, the number of synaptic contacts was significantly lower in old 
animals. These results demonstrate primary, age-associated synapse elimination 
with functional consequences that cannot be explained by pre- or postsynaptic 
cell death.

Copyright 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/neu.20022
PMID: 15266652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Assoc Physicians India. 2003 Jun;51:567-73.

Hypertension in the elderly population of Assam.

Hazarika NC(1), Biswas D, Mahanta J.

Author information:
(1)Regional Medical Research Centre, NE Region (ICMR), Dibrugarh, Assam, India.

BACKGROUND: With the increase in life-expectancy and modification of lifestyle 
cardiovascular disease especially hypertension is emerging as a major public 
health problem in the elderly people of Assam. The Geriatric population needs 
priority in assessment of the disease burden. With this background this study 
was undertaken with an objective to know the dimension of the hypertension 
prolem in elderly people of Assam and relevant factors associated with it.
METHODS: Eight hundred and eighty eight elderly participants 60 years and above 
(males 500, females 388 from three randomly selected areas were interviewed to 
collect information on dietary habit and socio-demographic variables and 
clinically examined for blood pressure and athropometric parameters using 
standardized technique. Statistical analysis was performed using the Epi Info 
and SPSS software.
RESULTS: To overall age adjusted mean systolic blood pressure (SBP) was 150.52 
(95% CI 148.81-152.23) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) was 88.22 (95% CI 
87.39-89.05). Overall prevalence of hypertension was 63.63% (95% CI 59.8-66.2), 
64.2% in males and 62.89% in females. Isolated systolic hypertension was 
detected in 13.2% males and 10.31% females among the hypertensives. 26.90% of 
the hypertensives were aware of their increase in blood pressure. Determinants 
of hypertension derived by multiple logistic regression analysis were age, 
intake of extra salt, alcohol and body mass index (BMI).
CONCLUSION: High prevalence with inadequate awareness and control of 
hypertension in the elderly group of population call for an immediate 
implementation of active public health programme in the state.

PMID: 15266922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2004 Jul;4(7):1059-71. doi:
10.1517/14712598.4.7.1059.

Gene therapy approaches to prolonging corneal allograft survival.

Williams KA(1), Jessup CF, Coster DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University of South Australia, Flinders 
Medical Centre, Bedford Park, GPO Box 2100, Adelaide SA 5042, Australia. 
keryn.williams@flinders.edu.au

Irreversible immunological rejection is the major cause of human corneal 
allograft failure and occurs despite the use of topical glucocorticoid 
immunosuppression. Systemic pharmacological interventions have not found 
widespread favour in corneal transplantation because of associated morbidities 
and inadequate demonstration of efficacy. Gene therapy offers tantalising 
prospects for improving corneal allograft survival, especially in those 
recipients at high risk of graft rejection. Donor corneas can be gene-modified 
ex vivo, while in storage prior to implantation, and the relative isolation of 
the transplanted cornea from the circulation decreases the risk of potential 
systemic complications. A wide variety of vectors have been found suitable for 
gene transfer to the cornea. The mechanisms involved in corneal graft rejection 
have been placed on a relatively secure footing over the past decade and in 
consequence a number of transgenes with promise for modulating rejection have 
been identified. However, relatively few studies have thus far demonstrated 
significant prolongation of corneal allograft survival after gene transfer to 
the donor cornea. In these instances, the therapeutic protein almost certainly 
acted at a proximal level in the afferent immune response, within the ocular 
environs.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.4.7.1059
PMID: 15268674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Aging Cell. 2004 Aug;3(4):195-208. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00106.x.

Immunity and aging: the enemy within?

DeVeale B(1), Brummel T, Seroude L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, BioSciences Complex, Queen's University, Kingston, 
Ontario K7L 3 N6, Canada.

Functional analyses of changes in the immune response indicate that aging is 
associated with a decline of adaptive immunity whereas innate immunity is ramped 
up. Gene expression studies also support age-dependent changes in immunity. 
Studies using a large panel of methodologies and multiple species show that some 
of the most dramatic transcriptional changes that occur during aging are 
associated with immunity. This observation leads to two fundamental questions: 
(1) Why is the immune response altered with age? (2) Is this a consequence of 
aging or does it contribute to it? The origin of these changes and the 
mechanistic relationship among them as well as with aging must be identified. In 
mammals, this task is complicated by the interdependence of the innate and 
adaptive immune systems. The value of invertebrates as model organisms to help 
answer these questions is presented. This includes a description of the immune 
response in invertebrate models and how it compares with vertebrates, focusing 
on conserved pathways. Finally, these questions are explored in light of recent 
reports and data from our laboratory. Experimental alterations of longevity 
indicate that the differential expression of immunity-related genes during aging 
is linked to the rate of aging. Long-lived nematodes are more resistant to 
pathogens and blocking the expression of immune-related genes can prevent 
lifespan extension. These observations suggest that the immune response has a 
positive effect on longevity, possibly by increasing fitness. By contrast, it 
has been reported that activation of the immune system can reduce longevity upon 
starvation. We also observed that deregulation of the immune response has 
drastic effects on viability and longevity in Drosophila. These data suggest 
that the immune response results in a trade-off between beneficial and 
detrimental effects that might profoundly affect the aging process. Given this, 
immunity may be an ally early in life, but turns out to be an enemy as we age.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00106.x
PMID: 15268753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Clin Cancer Res. 2004 Jul 15;10(14):4822-30. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-04-0349.

Inhibition of hepatocellular carcinomas in vitro and hepatic metastases in vivo 
in mice by the histone deacetylase inhibitor HA-But.

Coradini D(1), Zorzet S, Rossin R, Scarlata I, Pellizzaro C, Turrin C, Bello M, 
Cantoni S, Speranza A, Sava G, Mazzi U, Perbellini A.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Biomolecular Determinants in Prognosis and Therapy, Experimental 
Department, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori, Milan. 
Danila.Coradini@istitutotumori.mi.it

PURPOSE: The purpose is to evaluate the CD44-mediated cellular targeting of 
HA-But, a hyaluronic acid esterified with butyric acid (But) residues, to 
hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines in vitro and to hepatic tumor metastases in 
vivo.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: In vitro, the CD44-dependent cytotoxicity in two human 
hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines (HepB3 and HepG2) with high and low CD44 
expression was investigated; in vivo, the effect on liver metastases originating 
from intrasplenic implants of Lewis lung carcinoma (LL3) or B16-F10 melanoma in 
mice was compared with the pharmacokinetics of organ and tissue distribution 
using different routes of administration.
RESULTS: HepB3 and HepG2 cell lines showed different expression of CD44 (78 and 
18%, respectively), which resulted in a CD44-dependent HA-But inhibitory effect 
as demonstrated also by the uptake analysis performed using radiolabeled HA-But 
((99m)Tc-HA-But). Pharmacokinetic studies showed different rates of 
(99m)Tc-HA-But distribution according to the route of administration (i.v., 
i.p., or s.c.): very fast (a few minutes) after i.v. treatment, with substantial 
accumulation in the liver and spleen; relatively slow after i.p. or s.c. 
treatment, with marked persistence of the drug at the site of injection. The 
effect of s.c. and i.p. treatment with HA-But on liver metastases originating 
from intrasplenic implants of LL3 carcinoma or B16-F10 melanoma (both 
CD44-positive: 68 and 87%, respectively), resulted in 87 and 100% 
metastases-free animals, respectively (regardless of the route of 
administration), and a significant prolongation of the life expectancy compared 
with control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: HA-But tends to concentrate in the liver and spleen and appears to 
be a promising new drug for the treatment of intrahepatic tumor lesions.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-04-0349
PMID: 15269158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Cell Stress Chaperones. 2004 Mar;9(1):38-48. doi: 10.1379/469.1.

The mitochondrial 60-kDa heat shock protein in marine invertebrates: biochemical 
purification and molecular characterization.

Choresh O(1), Loya Y, Müller WE, Wiedenmann J, Azem A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv 
University, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.

Sessile marine invertebrates undergo constant direct exposure to the surrounding 
environmental conditions, including local and global environmental fluctuations 
that may lead to fatal protein damage. Induction of heat shock proteins (Hsps) 
constitutes an important defense mechanism that protects these organisms from 
deleterious stress conditions. In a previous study, we reported the 
immunological detection of a 60-kDa Hsp (Hsp60) in the sea anemone Anemonia 
viridis (formerly called Anemonia sulcata) and studied its expression under a 
variety of stress conditions. In the present study, we show that the sponge 
Tetilla sp. from tidal habitats with a highly variable temperature regime is 
characterized by an increased level of Hsp60. Moreover, we show the expression 
of Hsp60 in various species among Porifera and Cnidaria, suggesting a general 
importance of this protein among marine invertebrates. We further cloned the 
hsp60 gene from A viridis, using a combination of conventional protein isolation 
methods and screening of a complementary deoxyribonucleic acid library by 
polymerase chain reaction. The cloned sequence (1764 bp) encodes for a protein 
of 62.8 kDa (588 amino acids). The 62.8-kDa protein, which contains an amino 
terminal extension that may serve as a mitochondrial targeting signal, shares a 
significant identity with mitochondrial Hsp60s from several animals but less 
identity with Hsp60s from either bacteria or plants.

DOI: 10.1379/469.1
PMCID: PMC1065304
PMID: 15270076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. EBRI Issue Brief. 2004 Jul;(271):1-29.

Health care expenses in retirement and the use of health savings accounts.

Fronstin P(1), Salisbury D; Employee Benefit Research Institute.

Author information:
(1)Health Research and Education Program, Employee Benefit Research Institute, 
Washington, DC 20037-1896, USA.

PMID: 15270177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Arch Esp Urol. 2004 May;57(4):397-411.

[Perineal radical prostatectomy as monotherapy: ten-year experience].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez de la Riva SI(1), López-Tomasety JB, Marrero Domínguez R, Santamaría 
Blanco P.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Santiago de Compostela, España.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical and oncological results of perineal radical 
prostatectomy (PRP) as monotherapy.
METHODS: We include our initial series of 115 consecutive patients with prostate 
cancer without neoadjuvant hormonal therapy undergoing perineal radical 
prostatectomy as monotherapy from November 92, when we decide to abandon 
laparoscopic lymphadenectomy in patients deemed at low risk of N+ (PSA = 10 and 
Gleason score = 7 and organ confined or suspicion of minimal extra capsular 
extension on ultrasound). Functional results are compared with the first 115 
consecutive patients in our own series of retropubic radical prostatectomy 
(RRP). No patient received adjuvant therapy and deferred intermittent androgen 
blockade was only applied when patients with biochemical progression reached a 
PSA of 4 ng/ml.
RESULTS: After a mean follow-up of 57.7 months (3-130) we obtained: global 
survival 98.3%, disease specific 100%; biochemical progression 13.9% (161, pT 2 
(5.2%), 32pT3a (21.8%), 7pT3b-pT4a (71.4%)). Incidence of positive margins 41.7% 
(52.1% unifocal with a progression rate of only 12%). 87% of the patients did 
not need transfusion during or after surgery. Urinary continence was 96.5% and 
the probability of potency preservation was 34.7%. Among 16 patients with 
biochemical progression, only 4 required deferred intermittent androgen blockade 
(1 cycle in 3 patients and two in the remainder).
CONCLUSIONS: PRP without lymphadenectomy as monotherapy offers excellent 
oncological and functional results equivalent to RRP, which favour the perineal 
approach: short-term operative times, lower transfusion rate, possibility of 
regional anesthesia, better tolerance with minimal analgesia requirements, and 
shorter hospital stay. Watchful waiting in the follow-up of patients in 
biochemical progression with a deferred intermittent androgen blockade regimen 
offers an excellent quality of life, with survivals similar to any other 
therapeutic option after this follow-up time.

PMID: 15270282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Fortune. 2004 Jul 12;150(1):64.

Get ready for a life-and-death battle over obesity.

Colvin G.

PMID: 15270462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2004 Aug;128(8):863-8. doi:
10.5858/2004-128-863-ACEOFL.

A clinicopathologic evaluation of follicular lymphoma grade 3A versus grade 3B 
reveals no survival differences.

Hsi ED(1), Mirza I, Lozanski G, Hill J, Pohlman B, Karafa MT, Coupland R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44195, USA. hsie@ccf.org

CONTEXT: The World Health Organization classification recommends categorizing 
grade 3 follicular lymphomas based on the presence of centrocytes (grade 3A) or 
of sheets of centroblasts (grade 3B). The clinical significance of this practice 
is not known.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether grade 3 follicular lymphoma subtype is 
associated with prognosis.
DESIGN: Multi-institutional retrospective case series.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Overall survival.
RESULTS: Forty-five cases of grade 3 follicular lymphoma without diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma were studied (35 cases of grade 3A, 10 cases of grade 3B) from 
21 men and 24 women (median age, 67 years; mean age, 63.8 years; range, 26-86 
years). Follow-up information from the time of diagnosis was available in all 
patients, with a median follow-up time of 24 months (mean, 34 months; range, 2- 
115 months). Treatment information was available in 40 patients. There was no 
difference in age (P =.45, Wilcoxon test) or stage (P =.76, Fisher exact test) 
between patients with follicular lymphoma of grade 3A or grade 3B. Furthermore, 
the Cochran-Armitage test for trends showed no evidence that the proportion of 
patients with follicular lymphoma grade 3A or 3B increased or decreased with 
increasing stage at presentation. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a median overall 
survival of 44 months from the time grade 3 follicular lymphoma was diagnosed, 
with no significant difference between cases diagnosed as grade 3A or grade 3B 
(P =.14, log-rank test). Univariable Cox proportional hazards modeling showed no 
evidence that an anthracycline-containing chemotherapy regimen or history of 
lower grade follicular lymphoma affected overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: In this retrospective series, subclassification of grade 3 
follicular lymphoma into type 3A and 3B categories had limited clinical and 
prognostic significance. However, the study was limited by lack of statistical 
power. Since morphology often provides clues for progress in defining biologic 
differences, subtyping may still be useful, particularly in the setting of 
prospective clinical studies.

DOI: 10.5858/2004-128-863-ACEOFL
PMID: 15270618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2004 Aug;3(4):433-42. doi: 10.1586/14760584.3.4.433.

Cost-effectiveness studies of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines.

McIntosh ED(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Division, Wyeth, Huntercombe Lane South, Taplow, Maidenhead, 
Berkshire SL6 0PH, UK. mcintod@wyeth.com

The 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine is licensed in many countries for 
the prevention of pediatric pneumococcal disease. The vaccine is known to be 
highly immunogenic in infants and young children, and has been shown to be 
efficacious not only in decreasing disease in pediatric age groups but also in 
adults through herd immunity. Cost-effectiveness analyses of this vaccine have 
been performed in a number of countries. The present review compiles, summarizes 
and critiques these analyses. The range of values for cost-effectiveness, as 
measured in cost per life-years gained, in the studies reviewed, ranges from 
14,000 US dollars to 147,000 US dollars with one outlier at 504,000 US dollars. 
For cost per quality-adjusted life years the range is 26,000 US dollars to 
66,000 US dollars. Recommendations for the use of the vaccine will take account 
not only of these ratios but also of the absolute burden of disease. Performing 
cost-effectiveness analyses for healthcare interventions in infants and children 
is one means of redressing inequalities.

DOI: 10.1586/14760584.3.4.433
PMID: 15270648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Inorg Biochem. 2004 Aug;98(8):1385-90. doi:
10.1016/j.jinorgbio.2004.04.018.

Antiviral properties and cytotoxic activity of platinum(II) complexes with 
1,10-phenanthrolines and acyclovir or penciclovir.

Margiotta N(1), Bergamo A, Sava G, Padovano G, de Clercq E, Natile G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Farmaco-Chimico, Università degli Studi di Bari, via E. Orabona 
4, 70125 Bari, Italy. nmargiotta@farmchim.uniba.it

Platinum compounds containing an aromatic diimine (1,10-phenanthroline or 
2,9-dimethyl-1,10-phenanthroline; phen and Me(2)phen, respectively) and 
antiviral guanosine-type ligands (acyclovir or penciclovir; acy and pen, 
respectively) have been synthesised. These compounds maintain the antiviral 
activity against Herpes Symplex Virus (HSV) and have greater efficacy than free 
acyclovir or penciclovir against Cytomegalovirus (CMV); in both cases the 
species with Me(2)phen are more active. The same complexes are effective against 
tumor cell proliferation which also results to be dependent upon the nature of 
the diimine ligand: all compounds containing Me(2)phen being more active than 
those containing phen. Although in vivo some complexes significantly reduce 
tumor cell proliferation, nevertheless, they do not appear to significantly 
affect the life time expectancy of the treated mice. The greater cytotoxicity of 
compounds with Me(2)phen may result from a higher reactivity towards cellular 
components, such as glutathione, which could cause release of the diimine, known 
to be highly cytotoxic.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinorgbio.2004.04.018
PMID: 15271515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2004 Jul;3(7):547-8. doi: 10.1038/nrd1444.

Targeted lung cancer therapies.

Farmer G.

DOI: 10.1038/nrd1444
PMID: 15272497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 2003;45(4):5-10.

Population ageing in the Balkan countries.

Aleksandrova S(1), Velkova A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, Higher Institute of 
Medicine, Pleven, Bulgaria.

INTRODUCTION: As we enter the third millennium, we are witnessing an 
unprecedented rapid expansion of the population of older persons in both the 
developed and developing world. The total worldwide aged population (aged 60 and 
older) is projected to rise from 605 million in 2000 to 1.2 billion in 2025 and 
to nearly 2 billion in 2050.
AIM: To study the process of population ageing in Bulgaria and Balkan countries 
and to reveal its main characteristics, similarities and differences as compared 
to other European countries.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Primary information was obtained from the European 
Database "Health for all", the European Public Health Information Network for 
Eastern Europe and the US Census Bureau International Database. Total, male and 
female old and youth dependency ratios and ratio of people over 65 to 0-14 years 
were calculated and trends were followed for 30 years. Countries were ranked and 
compared with Europe and East European countries.
RESULTS: From 1970 to 1999 the old dependency ratio increased dramatically in 
Bulgaria (14.2-23.6%), Greece (17.2-24.7%), Romania and Slovenia. The ratio of 
old to young people surpassed 100% in Greece (107.3%, for female 122.6%) and in 
Bulgaria (99.7% and 116.8%, respectively). Albanian and Turkish populations 
differ substantially from the other Balkan countries.
DISCUSSION: Population ageing creates great socio-economic and health 
problems--slower economic growth, lack of young labour force, higher tax charges 
on working-age population, etc. The process in Balkan countries is aggravated by 
the rise of inflation, unemployment and other socio-economic factors.
CONCLUSION: All Balkan countries face multiple challenges posed by population 
ageing. Most of them experience the same demographic tendencies as for market 
economy countries even though their economic development is far worse. This is 
especially true for Bulgaria.

PMID: 15272808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. BMC Bioinformatics. 2004 Jul 23;5:100. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-5-100.

Graph-based iterative Group Analysis enhances microarray interpretation.

Breitling R(1), Amtmann A, Herzyk P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 
8QQ, United Kingdom. r.breitling@bio.gla.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: One of the most time-consuming tasks after performing a gene 
expression experiment is the biological interpretation of the results by 
identifying physiologically important associations between the differentially 
expressed genes. A large part of the relevant functional evidence can be 
represented in the form of graphs, e.g. metabolic and signaling pathways, 
protein interaction maps, shared GeneOntology annotations, or literature 
co-citation relations. Such graphs are easily constructed from available genome 
annotation data. The problem of biological interpretation can then be described 
as identifying the subgraphs showing the most significant patterns of gene 
expression. We applied a graph-based extension of our iterative Group Analysis 
(iGA) approach to obtain a statistically rigorous identification of the 
subgraphs of interest in any evidence graph.
RESULTS: We validated the Graph-based iterative Group Analysis (GiGA) by 
applying it to the classic yeast diauxic shift experiment of DeRisi et al., 
using GeneOntology and metabolic network information. GiGA reliably identified 
and summarized all the biological processes discussed in the original 
publication. Visualization of the detected subgraphs allowed the convenient 
exploration of the results. The method also identified several processes that 
were not presented in the original paper but are of obvious relevance to the 
yeast starvation response.
CONCLUSIONS: GiGA provides a fast and flexible delimitation of the most 
interesting areas in a microarray experiment, and leads to a considerable 
speed-up and improvement of the interpretation process.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-5-100
PMCID: PMC509016
PMID: 15272936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Pers Soc Psychol Bull. 2003 Feb;29(2):164-9. doi: 10.1177/0146167202239041.

Younger achievement age predicts shorter life for governors: testing the 
precocity-longevity hypothesis with artifact controls.

McCann SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral and Life Sciences, University College of Cape 
Breton, Sydney, Nova Scotia, Canada. Stewart_McCann@uccb.ca

McCann's precocity-longevity hypothesis suggests that the prerequisites, 
concomitants, and consequences of early peaks in career achievement may foster 
the conditions for premature death. In the present test of the 
precocity-longevity hypothesis, it was predicted that state governors elected at 
younger ages live shorter lives. Two competing explanatory frameworks, the life 
expectancy artifact and the selection bias artifact, also were tested. In a 
sample of 1,672 male governors, the precocity-longevity prediction was 
supported, and it was demonstrated with correlation, regression, and subsample 
construction strategies that the life expectancy and selection bias artifacts 
were not sufficient to account or the significant positive correlation between 
election age and death age. The positive correlation also was maintained when 
year of birth, years of service, span of service, and state of election were 
statistically controlled.

Copyright 2003 Society for Personality and Social Psychology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1177/0146167202239041
PMID: 15272944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2004 Jun;15(6):388-94. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892004000600004.

An ecological analysis of childhood-onset type 1 diabetes incidence and 
prevalence in Latin America.

Collado-Mesa F(1), Barceló A, Arheart KL, Messiah SE.

Author information:
(1)University of Miami School of Medicine, Department of Epidemiology and Public 
Health, Miami, Florida, USA. fcollado@med.miami.edu

OBJECTIVE: To explore, for Latin America, by means of an ecological correlation 
analysis, the possible relationships between both the incidence and prevalence 
of childhood type 1 diabetes and selected hypothesized etiological factors, 
including race/ethnicity, geographical latitude, breastfeeding rates, per capita 
milk supply and coffee consumption, and wealth-related indicators such as infant 
mortality rate, life expectancy at birth, and national human development index.
METHODS: Recently published data on incidence and prevalence of type 1 diabetes 
in children < or = 14 years of age in Latin American countries were utilized. 
Risk indicators were selected based on existing genetic and environmental 
hypotheses. Indicator data were obtained from publicly available resources. 
Spearman correlation coefficients were used to measure the association between 
both incidence and prevalence of type 1 diabetes and the selected indicators.
RESULTS: A strong negative correlation was found between the proportion of 
Amerindians in a country's population and both incidence (r = -0.75; P = 0.008) 
and estimated prevalence (r = -0.78; P < 0.0001) of childhood type 1 diabetes. 
The per capita supply of milk showed a strong positive correlation with both 
incidence (r = 0.70; P = 0.025) and prevalence (r = 0.55; P = 0.018). 
Wealth-related indicators correlated with prevalence but not with incidence.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the presence of the Amerindian component 
of the population in Latin America provides protection against childhood-onset 
type 1 diabetes. Our results also confirm the association previously reported in 
other countries and regions of the world of type 1 diabetes and milk 
consumption. Further studies are needed to develop and test potential genetic 
and environmental hypotheses that could help to better understand the interplay 
between genetic susceptibility and environment in type 1 diabetes across 
different ethnic groups.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892004000600004
PMID: 15272985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Harv Health Lett. 2004 Jul;29(9):8.

By the way, doctor. I read in the newspaper that angioplasty and stents don't do 
any good because narrowed arteries aren't the cause of most heart attacks. Is 
that true?

Lee TH.

PMID: 15273045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. J Infus Nurs. 2004 Jul-Aug;27(4):263-9. doi:
10.1097/00129804-200407000-00012.

Epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of patients with metastatic cancer and 
high-grade gliomas of the central nervous system.

Lemke DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, 9200 West Wisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 
53226, USA.

Cancer is the hyperactive state of cell growth in which the multiplication and 
division of cells occur abnormally. Malignant cancer to the brain frequently 
begins and ends with the loss of self or quality of life. Cancer of the central 
nervous system can be in the form of a primary or secondary brain tumor commonly 
known as metastatic cancer. Primary brain tumors can be benign or malignant on 
the basis of the cell type or location within the brain. Metastatic cancer has a 
primary source of origin, from which it has traveled to the brain by direct 
extension (tumors arising from the skull or vertebral column), or most commonly 
by hematogenous spread (through the blood supply, lymphatic system, or cerebral 
spinal fluid). As the cancer grows, the individual can experience headache, 
seizures, or focal neurologic deficits, all impinging on quality of life. This 
article addresses malignant central nervous system cancer including metastatic 
cancer and malignant gliomas (anaplastic astrocytoma, grade III, and 
glioblastoma multiforme, grade IV). Epidemiology, diagnostic workup, treatment, 
and outcome also are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1097/00129804-200407000-00012
PMID: 15273634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Cardiovasc Radiat Med. 2004 Jan-Mar;5(1):38-43. doi: 
10.1016/j.carrad.2004.04.004.

Radiation-induced coronary artery disease in Hodgkin's disease.

Miltényi Z(1), Keresztes K, Garai I, Edes I, Galajda Z, Tóth L, Illés A.

