major heart diseases cannot be traced with any confidence owing to changes over 
time in the emphasis accorded particular causes. Our findings suggest caution 
with respect to the socioeconomic analysis of heart disease mortality data, 
particularly where the instability of the coding conventions has been most 
acute.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2003.9989068
PMID: 15510541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. J Palliat Care. 2004 Autumn;20(3):155-62.

Is physician-assisted death only for developed countries? Latin America as a 
case study.

Luna F(1), Van Delden JJ.

Author information:
(1)Bioethics Programme of FLACSO, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The achievements of modern medicine are manifold and impressive. However, there 
is a broad recognition of the fact that continuing medical treatment is not 
always beneficial to the patient, nor is it always what the patient wants. This 
has led to a debate about the way physicians may or may not be involved in the 
end of life of patients. Could there be a justification for the active ending of 
a patient's life? This debate has a global character. In this article we will 
explore this debate for developing countries; we will focus on 
physician-assisted death (PAD) in Latin American countries. At stake is the 
moral relevance of differences, not the moral justification of PAD per se. We 
argue that arguments for PAD apply equally in affluent and in developing 
countries. Some of the counterarguments, however, would seem to hold more in 
developing countries than in affluent countries. Yet, under certain conditions, 
a policy tolerating PAD would be as acceptable in developing countries as in 
developed countries.

PMID: 15511034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Int J Soc Psychiatry. 2004 Sep;50(3):216-26. doi: 10.1177/0020764004043131.

The burden of social phobia in a Brazilian community and its relationship with 
socioeconomic circumstances, health status and use of health services: the 
Bambuí study.

Vorcaro CM(1), Rocha FL, Uchoa E, Lima-Costa MF.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Medical Anthropology, René Rachou Research 
Center, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

AIMS: Social phobia in the environment of poverty and major social inequalities, 
as observed in most developing countries, has received little attention. This 
population-based study was carried out in a poor community in Brazil (15,000 
inhabitants), aiming at determining the prevalence of social phobia and its 
associated factors.
METHOD: The Composite International Diagnostic Interview was applied in a random 
sample of 1037 residents aged > or = 18 years.
RESULTS: The 1-month, 1-year and lifetime prevalence of social phobia were 7.9, 
9.1 and 11.8%, respectively. One-month social phobia was independently 
associated with age (45-64 years), marital status (divorced/separated), worse 
socioeconomic indicators (family income and education), number of months worked, 
worse health status and use of health services and medications.
CONCLUSION: There was an important burden of social phobia in the study 
community, due to its high prevalence (similar or superior to those observed in 
most developed countries), and due to its association with worse health status 
and use of health services and medications. The strong association between 
social phobia and socioeconomic circumstance, even in a small and poor 
community, is certainly a reflex of the major social inequalities in Brazil.

DOI: 10.1177/0020764004043131
PMID: 15511115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1591-7. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.074.

Total arterial off-pump coronary surgery: time to change our habits?

Mariani MA(1), D'Alfonso A, Grandjean JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University Hospital of Pisa, Pisa, 
Italy. massimo_mariani@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: This was a single-institutional study about total arterial 
myocardial off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB) surgery.
METHODS: We studied 569 multivessel coronary artery bypass patients who 
underwent total arterial OPCAB (42.7% of total OPCAB and 42.4% of total coronary 
artery bypass grafting operations) between June 2000 and June 2003. Risk profile 
was moderate to high, with a mean logistic EuroSCORE of 6.2 +/- 5.1. Univariate 
and multivariate analysis were used to find determinants of in-hospital death, 
neurologic events, and cardiac-related events at follow-up. Overall survival was 
determined by the Kaplan-Meier method. Linearized complication rates at 
follow-up are reported.
RESULTS: In-hospital mortality was 2.3%. At univariate analysis, significant 
determinants of in-hospital mortality were age, logistic EuroSCORE greater than 
15, diabetes, extracardiac arteriopathy, New York Heart Association class IV, 
ejection fraction less than 30%, and intraaortic balloon pump. At multivariate 
analysis, extracardiac arteriopathy and New York Heart Association class IV were 
the independent predictors for in-hospital mortality. Neurologic events were 
1.1%. At univariate analysis, significant determinants of neurologic events were 
age, logistic EuroSCORE greater than 15, and extracardiac arteriopathy. At 
multivariate analysis no independent factor for neurologic events was found. 
Survival at 36 months was 95.6% +/- 0.9%, and freedom from cardiac-related 
events at follow-up was 91.6% +/- 1.7%. Linearized rates of cardiac-related 
events during follow-up were as follows: recurrence of angina, 1.1% +/- 0.3%/y; 
myocardial infarction, 0.6% +/- 0.2%/y; congestive heart failure, 1.2% +/- 
0.3%/y; graft occlusion, 0.4% +/- 0.2%/y; and re-coronary artery bypass 
grafting, 0.2% +/- 0.1%/y.
CONCLUSIONS: Total arterial OPCAB has a safe outcome in terms of mortality and 
neurologic events and has a low linearized rate of cardiac-related events at 
follow-up, even for patients with a moderate- to high-risk profile.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.074
PMID: 15511438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1644-9. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.059.

Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is superior to right ventricular assist 
device for acute right ventricular failure after heart transplantation.

Taghavi S(1), Zuckermann A, Ankersmit J, Wieselthaler G, Rajek A, Laufer G, 
Wolner E, Grimm M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 
taghavis@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Acute right ventricular failure after heart transplantation is a 
life-threatening condition, and sometimes the use of mechanical circulatory 
support is inevitable. The aim of this retrospective study was to investigate 
the effectiveness of two different mechanical circulatory support systems for 
this indication.
METHODS: From 1984 to 2003, 28 heart transplant recipients exhibited right 
ventricular failure resistant to drug therapy. Right ventricular assist device 
(n = 15) or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (n = 13) was implanted to 
support the failing heart.
RESULTS: Overall in-hospital survival was 43%. In the right ventricular assist 
device group, only 2 patients (13%) could be weaned from mechanical circulatory 
support compared with 10 patients (77%) in the extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation group (p = 0.001). Retransplantation was necessary in 6 patients in 
the right ventricular assist device group and in 1 patient in the extracorporeal 
membrane oxygenation group (p = 0.049). There was no difference in patient 
survival between groups, but graft survival was significantly better in the 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation group (p = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: In view of these results, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation seems 
to be the better option as mechanical circulatory support for right ventricular 
failure in heart transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.059
PMID: 15511449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1688-95. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.057.

Improving outcomes in functional single ventricle and total anomalous pulmonary 
venous connection.

Lodge AJ(1), Rychik J, Nicolson SC, Ittenbach RF, Spray TL, Gaynor JW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. andrew.lodge@duke.edu

BACKGROUND: We have previously reported that the outcome of infants with 
functional single ventricle and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection is 
poor relative to that of other single ventricle patients. Younger age at initial 
operation and obstructed total anomalous pulmonary venous connection were found 
to be risk factors for mortality. A review of our recent experience was 
undertaken to determine whether results in these patients are improving.
METHODS: Medical records of 18 patients admitted after 1997 were reviewed (group 
B) and compared with the previous group of 73 patients admitted between 1984 and 
1997 (group A). Data were analyzed using a Cox proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: Median age at first operation was the same for both groups. The 
incidence of obstructed total anomalous pulmonary venous connection was not 
significantly different between groups (29% versus 33%, p = 0.70). Early 
survival is significantly improved for group B compared with group A (p = 
0.015). Only group and younger age at initial operation were found to be risk 
factors for mortality. In the current group, 5 patients have undergone superior 
cavopulmonary connection with one death, 3 have undergone Fontan completion with 
no deaths, and heart or heart-lung transplantation was performed in 5 patients 
with two deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: Early survival in patients with single ventricle and total 
anomalous pulmonary venous connection has improved significantly in recent 
years, but intermediate survival is still approximately 50%. Selective 
management using staged reconstructive surgery and transplantation may result in 
improved survival. Further study may identify risk factors for mortality and 
improve selection of appropriate patients for each therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.057
PMID: 15511457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1696-702. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.05.035.

Associated factors and trends in outcomes of interrupted aortic arch.

Oosterhof T(1), Azakie A, Freedom RM, Williams WG, McCrindle BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Cardiology, University of Toronto, The 
Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Interrupted aortic arch (IAA) continues to be associated with 
important mortality, both before and immediately after repair, with ongoing 
morbidity during follow-up. We sought to determine trends in presentation, 
management, outcomes and associated factors.
METHODS: We reviewed all consecutive patients (n = 119) presenting from 1975 to 
1999, and data were collected regarding demographics, anatomy, management and 
outcomes.
RESULTS: Significant trends over time for patients born in three consecutive 
periods (1975 to 1984, 1985 to 1993, and 1994 to 1999) demonstrated a smaller 
proportion of patients with presentation with circulatory collapse (65%, 51%, 
and 25%, respectively), greater use of prostaglandins (72%, 90%, 100%), fewer 
deaths without IAA repair (49%, 15%, 13%) and greater use of one-stage repair 
(68%, 75%, 100%). Independent risk factors for death without IAA repair (p < 
0.001) included absence of ventricular septal defect, and the presence of 
noncardiac anomaly, complex cardiac anomaly, episode of acidosis and earlier 
birth cohort. Overall survival after repair was 50% at age 1 month, 35% at 1 
year, and 34% at 5 years. Early and constant-hazard phases were noted, with 
incremental risk factors for early phase mortality being cyanosis at 
presentation, presence of truncus arteriosus or aortic stenosis, an episode of 
circulatory collapse before repair, earlier date of repair, and lower weight at 
repair. Greatest survival occurred in those patients with uncomplicated IAA who 
had repair since 1993 (5 year survival, 83%). Freedom from reintervention for 
arch obstruction was 60% at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: While improving, outcomes of IAA remain of concern, especially in 
patients with associated lesions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.05.035
PMID: 15511458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1728-33. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.05.017.

Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma of the lung 3 centimeters or less in diameter: a 
prognostic assessment.

Sakurai H(1), Dobashi Y, Mizutani E, Matsubara H, Suzuki S, Takano K, Shindo S, 
Matsumoto M.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, University of Yamanashi, Yamanashi, Japan. 
sakuraihm@ybb.ne.jp

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2005 Nov;80(5):1978; author reply 1979.

BACKGROUND: Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma (BAC) of the lung is a subtype of 
adenocarcinoma for which the incidence is actually rising, but the histologic 
definition of BAC has been recently changed by the revised World Health 
Organization (WHO) classification in 1999. The clinical features of patients 
with BAC diagnosed according to the recently revised WHO classification have not 
yet been clarified. In this retrospective study, we investigated the pattern of 
recurrence and survival outcome for patients with resected BAC by pathology 
review, compared with those in patients who had adenocarcinoma other than BAC.
METHODS: From 1985 through 2002, 108 patients underwent surgical resection for 
pulmonary adenocarcinoma 3 cm or less in diameter at the University of 
Yamanashi, Japan. All of the resected specimens of these 108 patients were 
pathologically reviewed again to confirm the diagnosis as BAC or adenocarcinoma 
other than BAC. The tumor was defined as BAC when the adenocarcinoma lesion had 
a pure bronchioloalveolar growth pattern and no evidence of stromal, vascular, 
or pleural invasion according to the WHO classification (third edition).
RESULTS: Twenty-five patients (23%) had a diagnosis of BAC, and 83 (77%) had a 
diagnosis of other adenocarcinoma. There was a female predominance among both 
patients with BAC and those with other adenocarcinoma. Lymph node involvement 
was seen for 30 lesions (36%) of adenocarcinoma other than BAC, but not for any 
BAC lesions. The median duration of follow-up after surgery was 5.1 years. There 
was no recurrence in the postoperative course in patients with BAC for a 5-year 
disease-free survival rate of 100%, whereas the 5-year disease-free survival 
rate for other adenocarcinoma was 63.5%.
CONCLUSIONS: The patients with resected BAC, which is defined as a noninvasive 
adenocarcinoma by the revised WHO classification, had an excellent prognosis. 
However, these results may depend on a strictly accurate pathology diagnosis as 
BAC. Limited resection might be curative in patients with focal BAC based on 
evidence of pathologic noninvasive features.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.05.017
PMID: 15511463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1734-41. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.05.056.

SCCRO expression correlates with invasive progression in bronchioloalveolar 
carcinoma.

Sarkaria IS(1), Pham D, Ghossein RA, Talbot SG, Hezel M, Dudas ME, Ebright MI, 
Chuai S, Memoli N, Venkatraman ES, Miller VA, Kris MG, Zakowski MF, Rusch VW, 
Singh B.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epithelial Cancer Biology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.

BACKGROUND: Overexpression of squamous cell carcinoma-related oncogene (SCCRO) 
is associated with invasive progression and poor outcomes in non-small cell lung 
cancer. We assessed the role of SCCRO as a tumor marker in bronchioloalveolar 
carcinoma (BAC), a subtype of adenocarcinoma exhibiting evidence of histologic 
tumor progression. We hypothesized that SCCRO expression would correlate with 
invasive tumor phenotypes and worse survival in BAC.
METHODS: We classified 150 tumors as pure BAC, BAC with focal invasion, or 
adenocarcinoma with BAC features. A tissue microarray was constructed from areas 
of benign lung, BAC, and invasive adenocarcinoma in these tumors. Squamous cell 
carcinoma-related oncogene expression was graded by immunohistochemistry from 0 
to 3 (absent, low, moderate, or high), with positive SCCRO phenotype defined as 
grade 3. Squamous cell carcinoma-related oncogene specificity was determined by 
Wilcoxon rank test and area under the receiver-operator curve, survival by the 
Kaplan-Meier method, and correlation with prognostic factors by log-rank test.
RESULTS: Of the 86.0% (129 of 150) of specimens suitable for analysis, positive 
SCCRO phenotype was seen in 16.3% (21 of 129) and was 100.0% specific for tumor 
versus benign tissue (area under receiver-operator curve, 0.92). Positive SCCRO 
phenotype was greater in tumors with increasing degrees of invasive histologic 
type (7.0% pure BAC, 13.6% BAC with focal invasion, and 28.6% adenocarcinoma 
with BAC features; p = 0.02). Low-level SCCRO expression was present in 83.9% 
(99 of 118) of benign tissues and correlated with tobacco use and poor survival 
(p = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Squamous cell carcinoma-related oncogene is a marker of invasive 
tumor progression in BAC. Low-level expression in adjacent benign lung predicts 
worse survival, and may represent field cancerization or host-tumor effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.05.056
PMID: 15511464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1742-7. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.084.

Personal experience in surgical management of pulmonary pleomorphic carcinoma.

Raveglia F(1), Mezzetti M, Panigalli T, Furia S, Giuliani L, Conforti S, Meda S.

Author information:
(1)University of Milan, Milan, Italy. ravegliafederico@tiscali.it

BACKGROUND: Pleomorphic carcinoma is a rare epithelial malignant tumor. 
Pulmonary pleomorphic carcinoma was introduced by the 1999 World Health 
Organization classification as a new peculiar type of lung carcinoma showing 
concurrent malignant epithelial and sarcomatoid spindle cell elements. Few 
reports describe its clinical behavior. My colleagues and I report a series of 
patients surgically treated for pulmonary pleomorphic carcinoma to describe our 
experience with this malignant neoplasm.
METHODS: Twenty cases of pleomorphic pulmonary carcinoma were collected and 
studied clinicopathologically. All patients underwent surgical resection. The 
cases were as follows: 6 stage I, 12 stage II, and 2 stage IIIA. Histologic 
diagnosis was established by using light microscopic examination and 
immunohistochemistry. Survival rates were calculated with the Kaplan-Meier 
method.
RESULTS: We postoperatively diagnosed 20 cases of pleomorphic carcinoma: 14 
cases were exclusively spindle and giant-cell carcinomas, 2 cases were spindle 
and giant-cell carcinoma combined with adenocarcinoma, 2 were combined with 
squamous cell carcinoma, and 2 were combined with large cell carcinoma. At last 
follow-up, 4 patients were still alive; they were postoperative T1 N0 and T2 N0. 
The remaining 16 patients died from early distant metastases. The median 
duration of disease-free survival was 5 months. The median duration of overall 
survival was 8 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The prognosis of patients with pleomorphic carcinoma was poor, 
despite surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy, because of early relapse of disease. 
Nodal involvement was a determinant prognostic variable, because advanced stages 
were related to worse prognosis. In case of preoperatively proven pulmonary 
pleomorphic carcinoma, surgery should be recommended to N0 patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.084
PMID: 15511465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1748-53. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.061.

Arterial invasion predicts early mortality in stage I non-small cell lung 
cancer.

Pechet TT(1), Carr SR, Collins JE, Cohn HE, Farber JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA. taine.pechet@uphs.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1753-4.

BACKGROUND: A retrospective study was performed to evaluate the association 
between arterial invasion and survival in patients with stage I non-small cell 
lung cancer.
METHODS: One hundred patients were identified who had undergone complete 
anatomic resection as definitive treatment for stage I non-small cell lung 
cancer. The tumors were reviewed for the presence or absence of arterial 
invasion. Five-year survival data were obtained for all patients.
RESULTS: The 100 patients had an overall 5-year survival of 61%. There were 64 
stage IA patients with a 62% 5-year survival and 36 stage IB patients with a 58% 
5-year survival. The 39 patients identified with arterial invasion had a 38% 
5-year survival compared with a 73% 5-year survival in the 61 patients without 
arterial invasion (p < 0.001), with an unadjusted hazard ratio of 3.5 (p < 
0.001). Multivariate analysis by stage IA versus IB and by size greater or less 
than 2 cm demonstrated hazard ratios of 3.5 and 4.0, respectively (p < 0.001). 
This difference was independent of demographic characteristics, tumor type, or 
grade. Subgroup analysis revealed a hazard ratio of 5.8 in patients with stage 
IA non-small cell lung cancer (p < 0.001) and 19.8 in patients with tumors < or 
= 2 cm (p = 0.006).
CONCLUSIONS: Arterial invasion is present in a substantial percentage of 
patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer and is adversely associated 
with survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.061
PMID: 15511466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1769-72. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.05.025.

Intrapleural hyperthermic perfusion with chemotherapy increases apoptosis in 
malignant pleuritis.

Matsuzaki Y(1), Edagawa M, Shimizu T, Hara M, Tomita M, Ayabe T, Onitsuka T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery II, Miyazaki Medical College, University of Miyazaki, 
Miyazaki, Japan. yasu@med.miyazaki-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Nov;78(5):1772-3.

BACKGROUND: Previously, we reported on the effectiveness of intrapleural 
hyperthermic perfusion with chemotherapy, a new treatment we developed for 
patients with malignant pleuritis. The present study analyzes the mechanism of 
the effectiveness of this therapy by examining the induction ratio of apoptosis 
among tumor cells following the perfusion treatment.
METHODS: This study included 11 consecutive patients with primary pulmonary 
adenocarcinoma and accompanying pleural seedlings and pleural effusions 
containing tumor cells but without distant metastasis. All patients underwent 
surgical resection of the primary lesion and then received sequential perfusion 
treatment. Tumor cells collected from the effusion both before and again at 24 
hours following the perfusion treatment were subsequently examined using an 
immunocytochemical stain to determine apoptosis among tumor cells. The 
percentage of positively stained cells was expressed as the apoptotic index. We 
compared the survival rate of these 11 patients with the survival rate of a 
second group of 11 patients with malignant pleuritis who underwent surgical 
resection of the primary lesion but who did not receive the perfusion treatment 
(control group).
RESULTS: The ratio of spontaneous apoptosis of untreated tumor cells was 2.8% 
+/- 2.0%. Following the perfusion, apoptosis among tumor cells was 25.2% +/- 
4.6%, clearly a significant increase. While the median survival time for 
patients receiving the perfusion treatment was 20 months, the median survival 
time for the control group was 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with malignant pleuritis, intrapleural hyperthermic 
perfusion with chemotherapy induced potent apoptosis of tumor cells in the 
pleural cavity and also improved the survival rate of these patients as compared 
with patients who did not receive the perfusion treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.05.025
PMID: 15511471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Popul Stud (Camb). 2004;58(3):297-310. doi: 10.1080/0032472042000272357.

Long-term effects of childbearing on mortality: evidence from pre-industrial 
Sweden.

Dribe M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economic History, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
Martin.Dribe@ekh.lu.se

This paper presents an analysis of the impact of childbearing history on 
later-life mortality for ever-married men and women using historical micro-level 
data of high quality for southern Sweden. The analysis uses a Cox proportional 
hazards model, estimating the effects on old-age mortality of number of births 
and timing of first and last births. By studying the effects of previous 
childbearing on mortality by sex and social status, we also gain important 
insights into the mechanisms relating childbearing to mortality in old age. The 
results show that number of children ever born had a statistically significant 
negative impact on longevity after age 50 for females but not for males. 
Analysis by social group shows that only landless women experienced higher 
mortality from having more children, which seems to indicate that the main 
explanations are to be found in social or economic conditions specific to 
females, rather than in the strictly biological or physiological effects of 
childbearing.

DOI: 10.1080/0032472042000272357
PMID: 15513285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Popul Stud (Camb). 2004;58(3):311-29. doi: 10.1080/0032472042000272366.

The peculiar pattern of mortality of Jews in Moscow, 1993-95.

Shkolnikov VM(1), Andreev EM, Anson J, Meslé F.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
Shkolnikov@demogr.mpg.de

Russian Jews, particularly men, have a large mortality advantage compared with 
the general Russian population. We consider possible explanations for this 
advantage using data on 445,000 deaths in Moscow, 1993-95. Log-linear analysis 
of the distribution of deaths by sex, age, ethnic group, and cause of death 
reveals a relatively high concentration of endogenous causes and a relatively 
low concentration of exogenous and behaviourally induced causes among Jews. 
There is also a significant concentration of deaths from breast cancer among 
Jewish women. Mortality estimates using the 1994 micro-census population as the 
denominator reveal an 11-year Russian-Jewish gap in the life expectancy of males 
at age 20, but only a 2-year life-expectancy gap for women. Only 40 per cent of 
the Russian-Jewish difference for men, but the entire difference for women, can 
be eliminated by adjustment for educational differences between the two ethnic 
groups. Similarities with other Jewish populations and possible explanations are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/0032472042000272366
PMID: 15513286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. BMJ. 2004 Oct 30;329(7473):995. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7473.995.

Doctors need not ventilate baby to prolong his life.

Dyer C.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7473.995
PMCID: PMC524541
PMID: 15514327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Nat Genet. 2004 Nov;36(11):1153-8. doi: 10.1038/ng1448.

Lifespan and mitochondrial control of neurodegeneration.

Wright AF(1), Jacobson SG, Cideciyan AV, Roman AJ, Shu X, Vlachantoni D, McInnes 
RR, Riemersma RA.

Author information:
(1)MRC Human Genetics Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK. 
alan.wright@hgu.mrc.ac.uk <alan.wright@hgu.mrc.ac.uk>

We examine the allometric (comparative scaling) relationships between rates of 
neurodegeneration resulting from equivalent mutations in a diverse group of 
genes from five mammalian species with different maximum lifespan potentials. In 
both retina and brain, rates of neurodegeneration vary by as much as two orders 
of magnitude and are strongly correlated with maximum lifespan potential and 
rates of formation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS). 
Cell death in these disorders is directly or indirectly regulated by the 
intrinsic mitochondrial cell death pathway. Mitochondria are the main source of 
RONS production and integrate cellular stress signals to coordinate the 
intrinsic pathway. We propose that these two functions are intimately related 
and that steady-state RONS-mediated signaling or damage to the mitochondrial 
stress-integration machinery is the principal factor setting the probability of 
cell death in response to a diverse range of cellular stressors. This provides a 
new and unifying framework for investigating neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/ng1448
PMID: 15514669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Stat Med. 2005 Jan 15;24(1):131-45. doi: 10.1002/sim.1794.

Regression methods for cost-effectiveness analysis with censored data.

Willan AR(1), Lin DY, Manca A.

Author information:
(1)Program in Population Health Sciences, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick 
Children, 555 University Avenue, Toronto, ON, Canada M5G 1X8. 
willana@mcmaster.ca

A system of seemingly unrelated regression equations is proposed for prognostic 
factor adjustment and subgroup analysis when comparing two groups in a 
cost-effectiveness analysis with censored data. Because of the induced dependent 
censoring on costs and quality-adjusted survival, inverse probability weighting 
is employed for parameter estimation. The method is illustrated with data from 
two recent examples using both survival time and quality-adjusted survival time 
as the measures of effectiveness.

2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.1794
PMID: 15515137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. ScientificWorldJournal. 2004 Sep 24;4:859-80. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2004.142.

The life mission theory VI. A theory for the human character: healing with 
holistic medicine through recovery of character and purpose of life.

Ventegodt S(1), Kromann M, Andersen NJ, Merrick J.

Author information:
(1)The Quality of Life Research Center, Copenhagen K, Denmark. 
ventegodt@livskvalitet.org

The human character can be understood as an extension of the life mission or 
purpose of life, and explained as the primary tool of a person to impact others 
and express the purpose of life. Repression of the human character makes it 
impossible for a person to realize his personal mission in life and, therefore, 
is one of the primary causes of self-repression resulting in poor quality of 
life, health, and ability. From Hippocrates to Hahnemann, repression of 
physical, mental, and spiritual character can be seen as the prime cause of 
disease, while recovery of character has been the primary intention of the 
treatment. In this paper, human character is explained as an intersubjective 
aspect of consciousness with the ability to influence the consciousness of 
another person directly. To understand consciousness, we reintroduce the 
seven-ray theory of consciousness explaining consciousness in accordance with a 
fractal ontology with a bifurcation number of seven (the numbers four to ten 
work almost as well). A case report on a female, aged 35 years, with severe 
hormonal disturbances, diagnosed with extremely early menopause, is presented 
and treated according to the theory of holistic existential healing (the 
holistic process theory of healing). After recovery of her character and purpose 
of life, her quality of life dramatically improved and hormonal status 
normalized. We believe that the recovery of human character and purpose of life 
was the central intention of Hippocrates and thus the original essence of 
western medicine. Interestingly, there are strong parallels to the peyote 
medicine of the Native Americans, the African Sangomas, the Australian 
Aboriginal healers, and the old Nordic medicine. The recovery of human character 
was also the intention of Hahnemann''s homeopathy. We believe that we are at the 
core of consciousness-based medicine, as recovery of purpose of life and human 
character has been practiced as medicine in most human cultures throughout time. 
We believe that such recovery can help some (motivated) patients to survive, 
even with severe disease.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2004.142
PMCID: PMC5956297
PMID: 15517095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Internist (Berl). 2004 Dec;45(12):1402-6. doi: 10.1007/s00108-004-1297-1.

[Are "biologics" in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis really cost 
effective?].

[Article in German]

Müller-Ladner U(1).

Author information:
(1)Bereich Rheumatologie/Klinische Immunologie, Klinik und Poliklinik für Innere 
Medizin I der Universität Regensburg. ulf.mueller-ladner@klinik.uni-r.de

Since the biologics have been introduced in clinical rheumatology, the landscape 
for medication of rheumatoid arthritis has changed substantially. A completely 
new family of drugs had to be evaluated for efficacy with regard to its impact 
on amelioration of disease activity but also with regard to long-term side 
effects and costs. This evaluation of effectiveness of biologics belongs to the 
most intensively discussed topics in rheumatology, and at present, only for the 
clinical side adequate answers can be obtained from the published data. On the 
other hand, more long-term observation and prospective studies are needed to be 
able to answer the question of real cost-effectiveness adequately. However, when 
all current data are summarized, the cost for a TNF-inhibitor in regard of one 
quality-adjusted life-year ranges below the internationally recommended critical 
amount of 40,000 euro.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-004-1297-1
PMID: 15517125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Diabetologia. 2004 Oct;47(10):1747-59. doi: 10.1007/s00125-004-1527-z. Epub
2004  Oct 27.

A model to estimate the lifetime health outcomes of patients with type 2 
diabetes: the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Outcomes Model 
(UKPDS no. 68).

Clarke PM(1), Gray AM, Briggs A, Farmer AJ, Fenn P, Stevens RJ, Matthews DR, 
Stratton IM, Holman RR; UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKDPS) Group.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Headington, Oxford, UK. Philip.clarke@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: The aim of this study was to develop a simulation model for 
type 2 diabetes that can be used to estimate the likely occurrence of major 
diabetes-related complications over a lifetime, in order to calculate health 
economic outcomes such as quality-adjusted life expectancy.
METHODS: Equations for forecasting the occurrence of seven diabetes-related 
complications and death were estimated using data on 3642 patients from the 
United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS). After examining the internal 
validity, the UKPDS Outcomes Model was used to simulate the mean difference in 
expected quality-adjusted life years between the UKPDS regimens of intensive and 
conventional blood glucose control.
RESULTS: The model's forecasts fell within the 95% confidence interval for the 
occurrence of observed events during the UKPDS follow-up period. When the model 
was used to simulate event history over patients' lifetimes, those treated with 
a regimen of conventional glucose control could expect 16.35 undiscounted 
quality-adjusted life years, and those receiving treatment with intensive 
glucose control could expect 16.62 quality-adjusted life years, a difference of 
0.27 (95% CI: -0.48 to 1.03).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATIONS: The UKPDS Outcomes Model is able to simulate event 
histories that closely match observed outcomes in the UKPDS and that can be 
extrapolated over patients' lifetimes. Its validity in estimating outcomes in 
other groups of patients, however, remains to be evaluated. The model allows 
simulation of a range of long-term outcomes, which should assist in informing 
future economic evaluations of interventions in type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-004-1527-z
PMID: 15517152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Z Rheumatol. 2004 Oct;63(5):380-4. doi: 10.1007/s00393-004-0658-4.

[The role of utilities in economic evaluations of healthcare interventions-an 
introduction].

[Article in German]

Maetzel A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, University Health Network, 200 
Elizabeth Street EN6-232A, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G 2C4. 
maetzel@uhnresearch.ca

Assessment of strength of preference values (utilities) for patients' own 
health, or disease states from a societal perspective, is an essential element 
to economic evaluations of healthcare interventions. This review provides an 
overview of the different methods used to directly elicit strength of preference 
values: the standard gamble, time trade-off and rating scale methods. Methods 
used to derive utilities for patients' health states indirectly, and from a 
societal perspective are described. Three commonly used questionnaires: Health 
Utilities Index 3, EQ-5D and SF-6D are briefly commented upon. We also discuss 
the usefulness of utilities and advantages and disadvantages to be considered 
when choosing direct or indirect utility elicitation methods.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-004-0658-4
PMID: 15517298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Cancer. 2004 Dec 1;101(11):2701-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.20718.

Patient expectation is a strong predictor of severe nausea after chemotherapy: a 
University of Rochester Community Clinical Oncology Program study of patients 
with breast carcinoma.

Roscoe JA(1), Bushunow P, Morrow GR, Hickok JT, Kuebler PJ, Jacobs A, Banerjee 
TK.

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Medicine Unit, University of Rochester Community Clinical Oncology 
Program Research Base, University of Rochester James P. Wilmot Cancer Center, 
Rochester, New York.

BACKGROUND: Patients may use their past experiences with nausea, as well as 
information about the incidence of nausea from chemotherapy that other patients 
have experienced, to form a prediction, or response expectancy, of nausea from 
their own upcoming chemotherapy. Mounting evidence suggests that these 
expectancies relating to nausea are significant predictors, and, likely, 
contributing factors to the development of treatment-related nausea.
METHODS: The patients in the current study were participants in the control arm 
of a multicenter clinical trial conducted between November 1999 and July 2001 by 
the University of Rochester Community Clinical Oncology Program. All patients in 
the current report were age >/= 18 years and were about to begin a first cancer 
treatment regimen containing doxorubicin.
RESULTS: Expectancy of nausea assessed before patients received their first 
doxorubicin-based chemotherapy treatment was found to be a strong predictor of 
subsequent nausea and in fact was stronger than previously reported predictive 
factors, including age, nausea during pregnancy, and susceptibility to motion 
sickness. Women who believed it was "very likely" that they would have severe 
nausea from chemotherapy were five times more likely to experience severe nausea 
than fellow patients who thought its occurrence would be "very unlikely."
CONCLUSIONS: Further studies confirming an expectancy of nausea as a risk factor 
are warranted as are studies examining the benefit to a patient's quality of 
life from modifying antiemetic treatment guidelines to take into account symptom 
expectancies. Finally, ethically acceptable interventions that are designed to 
reduce patients' nausea expectancies or increase their expectancies of nausea 
control should be developed and studied.

(c) 2004 American Cancer Society

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20718
PMID: 15517574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2004 Nov 2;44(9):1801-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2004.05.086.

Cost-effectiveness of distal embolic protection for patients undergoing 
percutaneous intervention of saphenous vein bypass grafts: results from the 
SAFER trial.

Cohen DJ(1), Murphy SA, Baim DS, Lavelle TA, Berezin RH, Cutlip DE, Ho KK, Kuntz 
RE; SAFER Trial Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
dcohen@caregroup.harvard.edu

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2004 Nov 2;44(9):1809-11.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2004 Nov 2;44(9):1812-8.

OBJECTIVES: The goal of this research was to determine the incremental cost and 
cost-effectiveness of embolic protection in patients undergoing percutaneous 
revascularization (PCI) of diseased saphenous vein bypass grafts (SVGs).
BACKGROUND: Distal protection using the GuardWire balloon occlusion device has 
been shown to reduce major ischemic complications in patients undergoing SVG 
PCI, but the cost-effectiveness of this approach is unknown.
METHODS: We prospectively measured medical resource utilization and cost for 801 
patients undergoing SVG intervention who were randomized to distal protection 
using the GuardWire (n = 406) or conventional treatment (n = 395) in the 
Saphenous Vein Graft Angioplasty Free of Emboli Randomized (SAFER) trial. 
Long-term survival and cost-effectiveness were projected based on observed 
30-day outcomes and a validated survival model for postcoronary artery bypass 
graft patients.
RESULTS: Compared with conventional treatment, distal protection increased 
initial procedural costs by approximately $1,600 ($6,326 vs. $4,779, p < 0.001). 
However, by reducing ischemic complications, distal protection reduced mean 
length of stay by 0.4 days and other hospital costs by nearly $1,000 ($6,846 vs. 
$7,811, p = 0.018). As a result, overall initial hospital costs were only $582 
per patient higher with distal protection. Based on the observed 30-day cost and 
outcome differences in the trial, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
distal protection was $3,718 per year of life saved and remained <$40,000 per 
year of life saved in 97.3% of bootstrap simulations (95% confidence interval, 
$0 to $43,079).
CONCLUSIONS: For patients undergoing PCI of diseased SVGs, distal protection 
using the GuardWire system is an attractive use of limited health care 
resources.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2004.05.086
PMID: 15519010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2004 Nov 15;60(4):1040-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.03.044.

PSA failure and the risk of death in prostate cancer patients treated with 
radiotherapy.

Kwan W(1), Pickles T, Duncan G, Liu M, Agranovich A, Berthelet E, Keyes M, 
Kim-Sing C, Morris WJ, Paltiel C.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Therapy Program, Fraser Valley Centre, British Columbia Cancer 
Agency, Surrey, British Columbia, Canada. wkwan@bccancer.bc.ca

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2004 Nov 15;60(4):1016-7.
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2005 Jul 15;62(4):1253-4; author reply 1254.

PURPOSE: To determine the relationship between prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
failure and cause-specific and overall survival in prostate cancer patients 
treated with radical radiotherapy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients with and without PSA failure were compared with 
respect to overall survival and cause-specific survival in a cohort of 1786 
patients. The relationship between PSA failure and survival was further 
investigated among six subgroups defined by three tumor risk groups (high, 
intermediate, and low risk based on T stage, Gleason score, and presenting PSA) 
and two age groups (<75 years and >/=75 years).
RESULTS: The 5-year overall survival among patients who had PSA failure was 
79.5% vs. 87.5% among patients who had not failed (p = 0.0003). The 
corresponding 5-year cause-specific survival was 84.4% vs. 99.0% (p <0.0001). 
When the six subgroups are considered separately, PSA failure was associated 
with a worse cause-specific survival in the groups with intermediate- and 
high-risk disease. PSA failure was only associated with a worse overall survival 
in one subgroup: patients younger than 75 with high-risk disease. Deaths from 
nonprostate causes made the survival curves of patients with and without PSA 
failure in the other subgroups almost identical.
CONCLUSION: PSA failure in prostate cancer patients treated with radiotherapy 
was associated with a poorer overall survival, which is seen mainly in younger 
patients with high-risk disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.03.044
PMID: 15519773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Arch Pediatr. 2004 Nov;11(11):1389-97. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2004.03.098.

[Headache in childhood: which diagnostic imaging strategies?].

[Article in French]

Christophe C(1), Damry N, Guissard G, Dan B, Sekhara T.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital universitaire des Enfants-Reine-Fabiola, Bruxelles, Belgique. 
catherine.christophe@huderf.be

There are various causes of headaches in children. The majority of cases are 
considered as primary and include migraine and tension headaches. Headaches 
secondary to an underlying pathology are much less frequent. The aim of imaging 
will be to depict lesions that can benefit from specific therapy and hence 
improve life quality and expectancy of the affected child. In case of secondary 
headaches, imaging will have to precise the diagnosis, which is based mainly 
upon history of the disease and clinical findings. These findings are important 
to the radiologist as they will help to choose the more adequate technique 
between CT scan and MRI. This choice is based upon the presumed diagnoses, 
degree of emergency and availability of the technique. Knowledge of the 
differential diagnoses influences the way to perform the examination itself 
(choice of slice thickness, plane of imaging, MR sequences, need for an MR 
angiogram or injection of contrast medium...). In our opinion, dedicated MR 
imaging is the technique of choice to investigate secondary headaches in 
children given its superior sensitivity in depicting certain tumors (glioma of 
the pons, posterior fossa tumors...), intracranial hypotension, Chiari I 
malformation, lesions of the hypothalamo-hypophyseal axis etc...

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2004.03.098
PMID: 15519842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Pediatrics. 2004 Nov;114(5):1374; author reply 1374-5. doi: 
10.1542/peds.2004-1296.

Effectiveness of neonatal intensive care for extremely low birth weight infants.

Kilbride HW.

Comment on
    Pediatrics. 2004 Mar;113(3 Pt 1):505-9.
    Pediatrics. 2004 Mar;113(3 Pt 1):510-4.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2004-1296
PMID: 15520140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Pediatrics. 2004 Nov;114(5):1375; author reply 1375-6. doi: 
10.1542/peds.2004-1283.

Comments on the Prosser et Al approach to value disease reduction in children.

Beutels P, Viney RC.

Comment on
    Pediatrics. 2004 Feb;113(2):283-90.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2004-1283
PMID: 15520142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Circulation. 2004 Nov 9;110(19):3036-42. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000147186.83715.95. Epub 2004 Nov 1.

Prevention of iatrogenic atrial tachycardia after ablation of atrial 
fibrillation: a prospective randomized study comparing circumferential pulmonary 
vein ablation with a modified approach.

Pappone C(1), Manguso F, Vicedomini G, Gugliotta F, Santinelli O, Ferro A, 
Gulletta S, Sala S, Sora N, Paglino G, Augello G, Agricola E, Zangrillo A, 
Alfieri O, Santinelli V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Electrophysiology and Cardiac Pacing Unit, San 
Raffaele University Hospital, Milan, Italy. carlo.pappone@hsr.it

Comment in
    Evid Based Cardiovasc Med. 2005 Mar;9(1):33-6; author reply 37.

BACKGROUND: Circumferential pulmonary vein ablation (CPVA) is effective in 
curing atrial fibrillation (AF), but new-onset left atrial tachycardia (AT) is a 
potential complication. We evaluated whether a modified CPVA approach including 
additional ablation lines on posterior wall and the mitral isthmus would reduce 
the incidence of AT after PV ablation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 560 patients (291 men, 52%; age, 56.5+/-7.3 
years) entered the study; 280 were randomized to CPVA alone (group 1) and 280 to 
modified CPVA (group 2). The primary end point was freedom from AT after the 
procedure. In group 1, 28 patients (10%) experienced new-onset AT, and 41 
(14.3%) experienced recurrent AF. In group 2, 11 patients (3.9%) experienced AT, 
and 36 (12.9%) had recurrent AF. Group 1 was more likely to experience AT than 
group 2 (P=0.005). Freedom from AF after ablation was similar in both groups 
(P=0.57). Among those in group 1, gap-related macroreentrant AT was documented 
in 23 of the 28 patients (82%), and focal AT was found in 5 (18%). In group 2, 
gap-related macroreentrant AT was found in 8 of the 11 patients (73%), and focal 
AT was seen in 3 (27%). Two patients in group 1 and 1 patient in group 2 had 
both AT and AF. The strongest predictor of AT was the presence of gaps 
(P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Modified CPVA is as effective as CPVA in preventing AF but is 
associated with a lower risk of developing incessant AT.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000147186.83715.95
PMID: 15520310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Circulation. 2004 Nov 9;110(19):3011-6. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000146894.45533.C2.  Epub 2004 Nov 1.

Coenzyme Q10 combined with mild hypothermia after cardiac arrest: a preliminary 
study.

Damian MS(1), Ellenberg D, Gildemeister R, Lauermann J, Simonis G, Sauter W, 
Georgi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospitals of Leicester, Leicester, United 
Kingdom. msd13@le.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Therapeutic hypothermia can improve survival after cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation (CPR). Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) has shown a protective effect in 
neurodegenerative disorders. We investigated whether combining mild hypothermia 
with CoQ10 after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest provides additional benefit.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Forty-nine patients were randomly assigned to either 
hypothermia plus CoQ10 or hypothermia plus placebo after CPR. Hypothermia with a 
core temperature of 35 degrees C was instituted for 24 hours. Liquid CoQ10 250 
mg followed by 150 mg TID for 5 days or placebo was administered through 
nasogastric tube. Age, sex, premorbidity, cause of arrest, conditions of CPR, 
and degree of hypoxia were similar in both groups; no side effects of CoQ10 were 
identified. Three-month survival in the CoQ10 group was 68% (17 of 25) and 29% 
(7 of 24) in the placebo group (P=0.0413). Nine CoQ10 patients versus 5 placebo 
patients survived with a Glasgow Outcome Scale of 4 or 5. Mean serum S100 
protein 24 hours after CPR was significantly lower in the CoQ10 group (0.47 
versus 3.5 ng/mL).
CONCLUSIONS: Combining CoQ10 with mild hypothermia immediately after CPR appears 
