unprocessed and processed meats revealed no difference in consumer 
acceptability, and no deterioration in the sensory quality was evident for any 
of the products tested during the study. Additionally, inoculated pack studies 
were conducted to determine if HPP could be used as a postlethality treatment to 
reduce or eliminate Listeria monocytogenes and thus assess the potential use of 
HPP in a hazard analysis critical control point plan for production of RTE 
meats. Inoculated samples (initial level of 10(4) CFU/g) were pressure treated 
(600 MPa, 20 degrees C, for 180 s) and stored at 4 degrees C, and survival of L. 
monocytogenes was monitored for 91 days. L. monocytogenes was not detected by 
plating methods until day 91, but selective enrichments showed sporadic recovery 
in three of the four products examined. The results show that HPP at 600 MPa, 20 
degrees C, for 180 s can extend the refrigerated shelf life of RTE meats and 
reduce L. monocytogenes numbers by more than 4 log CFU/g in inoculated product.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-67.8.1709
PMID: 15330538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2004 Sep;5(9):1867-80. doi:
10.1517/14656566.5.9.1867.

Evaluation and review of pharmacoeconomic models.

Hay JW(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, Department of Pharmaceutical Economics and 
Policy, CA, USA. JHay@usc.edu

Difficult decisions as to whether to provide or withhold drug therapy to 
patients are needed to be made on a daily basis. These decisions should be based 
on carefully designed and constructed pharmacoeconomic models, with explicit and 
justifiable parameter values, validated by publication in peer-reviewed 
literature. This review describes and evaluates the common types of 
pharmacoeconomic models, modelling approaches and methods. It also discusses 
model quality, validity and usefulness.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.5.9.1867
PMID: 15330725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2004 Sep;5(9):1881-6. doi:
10.1517/14656566.5.9.1881.

Cost-effectiveness of TNF-alpha-blocking agents in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Merkesdal S(1), Ruof J, Mittendorf T, Zeidler H.

Author information:
(1)Hannover Medical School, Division of Rheumatology, Carl-Neuberg-Str. 1, 30623 
Hannover, Germany. merkesdal.sonja@mh-hannover.de

The current literature covering cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses of 
biological treatments in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are reviewed in 
order to discuss options and limitations for future application of these highly 
priced drugs in routine clinical practice. The cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility ratios of the studies analysed are converted into the corresponding 
Euros of the publication year. Etanercept treatment achieved a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of 44,300 Euros (2002)/ACR 20 (20% response according 
to American College of Rheumatology criteria) and 43,100 Euros (2002)/ACR 70WR 
(ACR 70 weighted response) compared with sulfasalazine and methotrexate, 
respectively, in methotrexate-naive RA. In methotrexate-resistant RA, the 
combination of etanercept and methotrexate is compared to a combination therapy 
of methotrexate, sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine revealing costs of 46,100 
Euros (2000)/ACR 20, and 37,700 Euros/ACR 70WR. The cost-utility ratios for 
infliximab treatment range from 16,000 Euros to almost 166,000/QALY (quality 
adjusted life-year) gained, the studies investigating etanercept treatment show 
a ratio of approximately 25,000 Euros and 120,000/QALY gained. No substantial 
differences of cost-utilities of infliximab and etanercept were found. The 
administration of these drugs as third-line therapy is regarded cost-effective 
compared to other well-accepted therapies with comparable cost-utility ratios of 
< 50,000 Euros/QALY gained. Still, data on economic outcomes of RA trials are 
sparse and further cost-effectiveness and cost-utility evaluations are needed.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.5.9.1881
PMID: 15330726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Milbank Q. 2004;82(3):507-46, table of contents. doi: 
10.1111/j.0887-378X.2004.00320.x.

The effect of heavy drinking on social security old-age and survivors insurance 
contributions and benefits.

Ostermann J(1), Sloan FA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy, Law and Management, Duke University, Durham, NC 
27708, USA.

This article estimates the effects of heavy alcohol consumption on Social 
Security Old-Age and Survivor Insurance (OASI) contributions and benefits. The 
analysis accounts for differential earnings and mortality experiences of 
individuals with different alcohol consumption patterns and controls for other 
characteristics, including smoking. Relative to moderate drinkers, heavy 
drinkers receive fewer OASI benefits relative to their contributions. 
Ironically, for each cohort of 25-year-olds, eliminating heavy drinking costs 
the program an additional $3 billion over the cohort's lifetime. Public health 
campaigns are designed to improve individual health-relevant behaviors and, in 
the long run, increase longevity. Therefore, if programs for the elderly are 
structured as longevity-independent defined benefit programs, their success will 
reward healthier behaviors but increase these programs' outlays and worsen their 
financial condition.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0887-378X.2004.00320.x
PMCID: PMC2690221
PMID: 15330975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2004 Sep;51(3):229-40. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2004.04.001.

European experiences on aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in elderly patients.

Fratino L(1), Bernardi D.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Department, National Institute for Infectious Diseases L. 
Spallanzani, IRCCS, Rome, Italy. lucia.fratino@libero.it

This review focused on the main aspects of aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas 
(NHL) in the population aged 65 years or older. In parallel with the increase of 
the elderly in the populations of western countries, there has been a steady 
increase in incidence and mortality rates of NHL in industrialised countries. 
This pattern has been particularly marked among the older segment of the 
population. New advances in cytogenetic and molecular genetics have favoured a 
better definition of lymphoid malignancies, but it is still unclear whether a 
biologically different disease may develop more frequently in elderly patients. 
Up to the mid-1990s, elderly patients with NHL were often excluded from 
randomized trials because of their age and because of comorbidity. Presently, 
barriers to the enrollment of elderly cancer patients in clinical trials are 
less stringent, and elderly patients may now take benefit from advances in our 
knowledge as younger patients do.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2004.04.001
PMID: 15331080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2004;13(3):312-6.

Nutrition transition in west Sumatra, Indonesia.

Lipoeto NI(1), Wattanapenpaiboon N, Malik A, Wahlqvist ML.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Andalas University, Padang, West Sumatra, Indonesia. 
tikky.w@adm.monash.edu.au

Indonesia, like many developing countries, is experiencing a rapid urbanisation 
characterised by double burden of disease in which non communicable diseases 
become more prevalent while infectious diseases remain undefeated. This report 
describes the nutrition transition which occurred to Indonesia after economic 
transformation in 1966, based on information gathered from published reports. 
The major sources of information used in this paper were: a) a series of 
Indonesian National Socio-Economic Surveys (SUSENAS) conducted regularly by 
Central Bureau of Statistics (which provided a coherent picture of the nutrition 
transition in Indonesia) and b) data collected from two relatively smaller 
surveys conducted in West Sumatra (which demonstrated the changes in food and 
nutrient intakes over the period 1983-1999). It was found that while Indonesia 
had a rapid economic growth since 1970s, major dietary changes included an 
increase in expenditure for meat, eggs, milk and prepared food, and a fall in 
expenditure in cereal products. Nutrient proportions had changed from 
carbohydrate to fat and protein but the proportions remained close to the ideal 
ratio. There was also a dramatic shift in causes of death from infectious to 
chronic diseases. It is concluded that the nutrition transition in Indonesia is 
similar to patterns in other developing countries. Although fat consumption 
increased slightly, there is movement to maintain the traditional diet.

PMID: 15331346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nephron Clin Pract. 2004;97(4):c137-41. doi: 10.1159/000079172.

Levamisole in steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome children with frequent 
relapses and/or steroid dependency: comparison of daily and every-other-day 
usage.

Fu LS(1), Shien CY, Chi CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, 
Taiwan/ROC. linshienfu@yahoo.com.tw

Steroid dependency (SD) and frequent relapses (FR) are common with 
steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome (SSNS). We assessed the effectiveness of 
daily levamisole in 36 children with SSNS with FR and/or SD. Twenty patients 
(group 1) were given levamisole 2-3 mg/kg q.o.d. for 4-24 months. Sixteen (group 
2) had relapses within 3 months: 5 received levamisole q.d. for 3-18 months, and 
11 q.d. for 6 months and then q.o.d. for 4-18 months. Follow-up was 4-36 (mean 
20.4 +/- 9.2) months. After therapy, relapses (4.82 +/- 3.15 vs. 2.01 +/- 2.5 in 
group 1; 5.97 +/- 3.38 vs. 1.34 +/- 2.1 in group 2; p < 0.05) and prednisolone 
doses (0.57 +/- 0.37 vs. 0.15 +/- 0.33 mg/kg/day in group 1; 0.61 +/- 0.42 vs. 
0.19 +/- 0.35 mg/kg/day in group 2; p < 0.05) decreased. Relapse frequency, 
prednisolone dose, response percentage, and survival curves for remission did 
not differ between groups. Group 1 had five episodes of leukopenia, and group 2 
had four. White blood cell counts normalized after levamisole was discontinued. 
Serum blood urea nitrogen/creatinine and alanine aminotransferase/aspartate 
aminotransferase levels were normal. Levamisole is effective in maintaining 
remission in children with SSNS and FR and/or SD. Daily levamisole can be 
considered when responses to q.o.d. usage are unsatisfactory.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000079172
PMID: 15331936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Downs Syndr Res Pract. 2004 Jun;9(1):17-24.

A comparison between older persons with down syndrome and a control group: 
clinical characteristics, functional status and sensorimotor function.

Carmeli E(1), Kessel S, Bar-Chad S, Merrick J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Israel. elie@post.tau.il

The increase in life expectancy within the general population has resulted in an 
increasing number of elderly adults with intellectual disability, and this is 
reflected in the increased life expectancy in persons with Down syndrome, 
currently about 56 years. The aim of this study was to study the clinical 
characteristics, the functional status and sensori-motor function of 10 older 
persons with Down syndrome (mean age 59 years), 13 younger persons with Down 
syndrome (mean age 44 years) and compare them with 38 adults with intellectual 
disability without Down syndrome and a control group of people without 
intellectual disability. All the persons with Down syndrome and intellectual 
disability resided in two residential living centres in Israel, while the 31 
older persons without intellectual disability (mean age 75 years), who served as 
the control group, lived in an independent living facility. The study considered 
demographic data, medical backgrounds, physical and functional tests. The 
results showed that the older persons with Down syndrome in the study were more 
obese, shorter and had more medical problems than both the older persons with 
intellectual disability and the control group. The functional performance of the 
older adults with Down syndrome was more impaired in comparison with both other 
groups. It is postulated that their slower responses may be explained by a less 
physically active lifestyle, that may accelerate the onset of disease, resulting 
in symptoms associated with aging that are detrimental to health.

PMID: 15332436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Palliat Care. 2004 Summer;20(2):101-4.

Thrombosis and anticoagulation in palliative care: an evolving clinical 
challenge.

Kirkova J(1), Fainsinger RL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Palliative Medicine, Department of Oncology, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

There is a clear recognition of the relationship between thrombosis and 
neoplastic diseases. In recent years, there have been a few reports dealing with 
some of the features of clinical progression and management of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in palliative care patients. In this report, we present 
four cases that describe some of the diverse aspects of this clinically 
challenging area to illustrate the symptom and quality of life issues for 
patients, and the management challenge for palliative care clinicians. Perhaps 
the most important issue in the palliative care setting is the need to balance 
the inconvenience of the various diagnostic and therapeutic options, 
particularly in settings where progression has resulted in a deteriorated 
physical and cognitive condition. We need to recognize that VTE does cause 
significant problems for some of our patients. We will always need to balance 
issues of life expectancy, comfort and quality of life, and risk and benefits of 
anticoagulation, and align these problems with the individual patient, and the 
family dynamics and desires we encounter.

PMID: 15332474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. BMC Cell Biol. 2004 Aug 27;5:32. doi: 10.1186/1471-2121-5-32.

Mutations in the IGF-II pathway that confer resistance to lytic reovirus 
infection.

Sheng J(1), Organ EL, Hao C, Wells KS, Ruley HE, Rubin DH.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Tennessee Valley Healthcare System, Department of Medicine, 
Division of Infectious Diseases, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA. 
jinsong.sheng@vanderbilt.edu

BACKGROUND: Viruses are obligate intracellular parasites and rely upon the host 
cell for different steps in their life cycles. The characterization of cellular 
genes required for virus infection and/or cell killing will be essential for 
understanding viral life cycles, and may provide cellular targets for new 
antiviral therapies.
RESULTS: A gene entrapment approach was used to identify candidate cellular 
genes that affect reovirus infection or virus induced cell lysis. Four of the 
111 genes disrupted in clones selected for resistance to infection by reovirus 
type 1 involved the insulin growth factor-2 (IGF-II) pathway, including: the 
mannose-6-phosphate/IGF2 receptor (Igf2r), a protease associated with insulin 
growth factor binding protein 5 (Prss11), and the CTCF transcriptional regulator 
(Ctcf). The disruption of Ctcf, which encodes a repressor of Igf2, was 
associated with enhanced Igf2 gene expression. Plasmids expressing either the 
IGF-II pro-hormone or IGF-II without the carboxy terminal extension (E)-peptide 
sequence independently conferred high levels of cellular resistance to reovirus 
infection. Forced IGF-II expression results in a block in virus disassembly. In 
addition, Ctcf disruption and forced Igf2 expression both enabled cells to 
proliferate in soft agar, a phenotype associated with malignant growth in vivo.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that IGF-II, and by inference other 
components of the IGF-II signalling pathway, can confer resistance to lytic 
reovirus infection. This report represents the first use of gene entrapment to 
identify host factors affecting virus infection. Concomitant transformation 
observed in some virus resistant cells illustrates a potential mechanism of 
carcinogenesis associated with chronic virus infection.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2121-5-32
PMCID: PMC517494
PMID: 15333144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Radiology. 2004 Oct;233(1):101-12. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2331030863. Epub 2004
Aug  27.

Imaging of carotid arteries in symptomatic patients: cost-effectiveness of 
diagnostic strategies.

Buskens E(1), Nederkoorn PJ, Buijs-Van Der Woude T, Mali WP, Kappelle LJ, 
Eikelboom BC, Van Der Graaf Y, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care and Dept of Radiology, 
Univ Medical Center Utrecht, Heidelberglaan 100, Rm D01.335, 3584 CX Utrecht, 
The Netherlands. e.buskens@umcutrecht.nl

Comment in
    Radiology. 2005 May;235(2):711-2; author reply 712-3.

PURPOSE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of noninvasive imaging strategies in 
patients who have had a transient ischemic attack (TIA) or minor stroke and are 
suspected of having significant carotid artery stenosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 1997 through 2000, 350 patients were included in a 
multicenter blinded consecutive cohort study. The sensitivities and 
specificities of duplex ultrasonography (US), magnetic resonance (MR) 
angiography, and these two examinations combined were estimated by using digital 
subtraction angiography (DSA) as the reference standard. The actual costs (from 
a societal perspective) of performing imaging and endarterectomy were estimated. 
The survival, quality of life, and costs associated with stroke were based on 
data reported in the literature. Markov modeling was used to predict long-term 
outcomes. Subsequently, a decision model was used to calculate costs, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental costs per QALY gained for 
62 examination-treatment strategies. Extensive sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: Duplex US had 88% sensitivity and 76% specificity with use of 
conventional cutoff criteria. MR angiography had comparable values: 92% 
sensitivity and 76% specificity. Combined concordant duplex US and MR 
angiography had superior diagnostic performance: 96% sensitivity and 80% 
specificity. Duplex US alone was the most efficient strategy. Adding MR 
angiography led to a marginal increase in QALYs gained but at prohibitive costs 
(cost-effectiveness ratio > 1 500 000 per QALY gained). Performing DSA owing to 
discordant duplex US and MR angiographic findings and to confirm duplex US and 
MR angiographic findings led to extra costs and QALY loss owing to 
complications. Sensitivity analyses revealed that duplex US as a stand-alone 
examination remained the preferred strategy while estimates and assumptions were 
varied across plausible ranges.
CONCLUSION: Duplex US performed without additional imaging is cost-effective in 
the selection of symptomatic patients suitable for endarterectomy. Adding MR 
angiography increases effectiveness slightly at disproportionately high costs, 
whereas DSA is inferior because of associated complications.

Copyright RSNA, 2004

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2331030863
PMID: 15333770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Tob Control. 2004 Sep;13(3):264-7. doi: 10.1136/tc.2003.006023.

The economic burden of smoking in California.

Max W(1), Rice DP, Sung HY, Zhang X, Miller L.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health & Aging, University of California, San Francisco, 3333 
California Street, Suite 340, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA. wmax@itsa.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVE: To develop estimates of the direct and indirect costs of smoking for 
California in 1999.
METHODS: A prevalence based approach was used to estimate the annual costs of 
smoking. Econometric models were used to estimate the smoking attributable 
fraction (SAF) for direct costs (hospitalisations, ambulatory care, prescription 
drugs, home health care, and nursing home services) and indirect costs due to 
lost productivity from smoking related illness. The models controlled for 
socioeconomic factors and other risk behaviours. Epidemiological methods were 
used to estimate the SAF for indirect costs due to lost productivity from 
premature deaths. The SAFs were applied to total health care expenditures, days 
lost, and deaths to obtain smoking attributable total costs.
RESULTS: In 1999, the total costs of smoking in California were 15.9 billion 
dollars, 475 dollars per resident, and 3331 dollars per smoker. Direct costs 
were 8.6 billion dollars (54% of the total), indirect costs due to lost 
productivity from illness were 1.5 billion dollars (10%), and indirect costs due 
to premature deaths were 5.7 billion dollars (36%). The cost of smoking was 9.4 
billion dollars for men and 6.3 billion dollars for women. There were 43,137 
deaths attributed to smoking, representing a total of 535,000 years of life 
lost. The value of life lost per death averaged 132,000 dollars, or 12.4 years.
CONCLUSIONS: California smoking related costs are high. The cost methodology 
presented is useful for other states and nations interested in estimating their 
costs of smoking. Cost estimates can be used to evaluate the level of cigarette 
taxes and other policies related to smoking.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2003.006023
PMCID: PMC1747911
PMID: 15333882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2004 Oct;34(8):657-65. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1704588.

Transmission of donor illness by stem cell transplantation: should screening be 
different in older donors?

Niederwieser D(1), Gentilini C, Hegenbart U, Lange T, Moosmann P, Pönisch W, 
Al-Ali H, Raida M, Ljungman P, Tyndall A, Urbano-Ispizua A, Lazarus HM, Gratwohl 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II, Division of Hematology and Oncology, 
University of Leipzig, Philipp Rosenthalstr. 23-25, Leipzig D-4103, Germany. 
dietger@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

With increasing donor age, the potential of transmitting diseases from donor to 
recipient reaches new dimensions. Potentially transmittable diseases from donors 
include infections, congenital disorders, and acquired illnesses like autoimmune 
diseases or malignancies of hematological or nonhematological origin. While 
established nonmalignant or malignant diseases might be easy to discover, 
early-stage hematological diseases like CML, light-chain multiple myelomas, 
aleukemic leukemias, occult myelodysplastic syndromes and other malignant and 
nonmalignant diseases might not be detectable by routine screening but only by 
invasive, new and/or expensive diagnostic tests. In the following article, we 
propose recommendations for donor work-up, taking into consideration the age of 
the donors. In contrast to blood transfusions, stem cells from donors with 
abnormal findings might still be acceptable for HCT, when no other options are 
available and life expectancy is limited. This issue is discussed in detail in 
relation to the available donor and stem cell source. Finally, the 
recommendations presented here aim at harmonized worldwide work-up for donors to 
insure high standard quality.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1704588
PMID: 15334048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Neurosurgery. 2004 Sep;55(3):594-9; discussion 599-601. doi: 
10.1227/01.neu.0000134289.04500.ee.

Risk of infection with prolonged ventricular catheterization.

Park P(1), Garton HJ, Kocan MJ, Thompson BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA. ppark@umich.edu

OBJECTIVE: The relationship between extended ventricular catheterization and 
infection remains controversial. Although studies have substantiated an 
increasing infection rate with prolonged catheterization, there has been less 
agreement on whether this trend continues beyond 10 days. Our study reviews the 
daily infection rate of 595 patients, 213 of whom underwent more than 10 days of 
catheterization.
METHODS: All patients who underwent ventricular monitoring in the neurological 
intensive care unit from 1995 to 2003 at the University of Michigan Health 
System were reviewed retrospectively. Infection was defined as a positive 
cerebrospinal fluid culture. Life-table analysis was used to calculate daily 
hazard (infection) rates. Patient age, sex, diagnosis, catheter exchanges, 
location of patient during catheter insertion, and cerebrospinal fluid leak were 
evaluated as risk factors for infection.
RESULTS: The average patient age was 51.3 years, and 51.3% were male. Duration 
of catheterization averaged 8.6 days. The overall infection rate was 8.6%. Daily 
infection rates increased from the onset of catheter insertion but reached a 
plateau after Day 4, with subsequent rates ranging predominantly between 1 and 
2%, even with extended catheterization beyond 10 days. Only ventricular 
catheters that had been placed at other institutions significantly affected the 
infection rate.
CONCLUSION: A relationship between duration of catheterization and infection 
seems to be present. However, this relationship is not linear. There is an 
extremely low daily infection rate that rises over the initial 4 days but then 
remains relatively constant even with prolonged catheter use. Clinical decisions 
to continue ventricular catheterization should reflect this low daily risk of 
infection, which does not seem to increase with extended catheter use.

DOI: 10.1227/01.neu.0000134289.04500.ee
PMID: 15335426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. J Hepatol. 2004 Sep;41(3):446-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2004.05.013.

Donor age influences 10-year liver graft histology independently of hepatitis C 
virus infection.

Rifai K(1), Sebagh M, Karam V, Saliba F, Azoulay D, Adam R, Castaing D, Bismuth 
H, Reynès M, Samuel D, Féray C.

Author information:
(1)Centre Hépato-Biliaire, Hôpital Paul Brousse, Villejuif Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Université Paris Sud, 12-14 Avenue Paul Vaillant 
Couturier, 94800 Villejuif, France.

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2004 Sep;41(3):485-7.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Factors influencing the long-term histological outcome of liver 
graft are not known. We conducted a prospective study based on a 10-year liver 
biopsy in order to identify the main factors influencing long-term graft 
histology.
METHODS: 270 of 423 patients who still had their first functional graft 10 years 
after liver transplantation accepted to undergo routine liver biopsy. All slides 
were blindly reviewed by two pathologists.
RESULTS: Main histological findings were fibrosis in 143 patients (54%) and 
ductopenia in 76 patients (29%). Ductopenia was independently related to higher 
donor age (32+/-12 vs 28+/-13 years; P<0.02). Severity of fibrosis was 
influenced by hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection (P<0.001), hepatitis B virus 
(HBV) recurrence (P=0.001) and higher donor age (P=0.03). Eighty biopsies (30%) 
showed minimal-change lesions which were associated with the absence of HCV 
infection (24/80 vs 99/185; P<0.001) or of HBV infection (1/80 vs 15/185; 
P=0.03) and lower donor age (25+/-11 vs 31+/-13 years; P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Post-transplant infection by HCV or HBV are main factors 
influencing the histological course of liver graft. Donor age was also a strong 
factor in HCV infected patients as well as in HCV-negative patients. This 
variable should be taken into account, particularly for candidate recipients 
with long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2004.05.013
PMID: 15336448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Bone. 2004 Sep;35(3):771-6. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2004.05.009.

Prevalence and correlates of vertebral fractures in adults with cystic fibrosis.

Rossini M(1), Del Marco A, Dal Santo F, Gatti D, Braggion C, James G, Adami S.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Unit, Osteoporosis Center, University of Verona, 37122, Verona, 
Italy. maurizio.rossini@libero.it

INTRODUCTION: Osteoporosis associated with cystic fibrosis (CF) is becoming 
increasingly important as the life expectancy of patients continues to increase.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We studied 191 adults with CF (18-50 years old; 100 men, 
91 women). Total body, lumbar spine, and total proximal femur bone mineral 
density (BMD) were measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, and lateral 
spinal radiographs were taken for assessment of vertebral fractures. A range of 
anthropometric, clinical and biochemical variables were evaluated as potential 
correlates.
RESULTS: BMD T score values at the lumbar spine lower than -2.5 SD were observed 
in 27.3% and 11.2% of male and female patients, respectively. These proportions 
fell to 14% and 9.9% for total hip and 10.4% and 12.1% for total body, in men 
and women, respectively. Vertebral deformities were identified in 26.7% of the 
patients with a slightly higher prevalence in males (32%) than in females (21%, 
P = 0.058). Multiple vertebral deformities were observed in 12% and 7.7% of men 
and women, respectively. BMD values were significantly related to body weight, 
FEV1, age of puberty and occasionally to cumulative steroid dose in both 
genders. BMD values were also significantly related with serum albumin, IgG and 
cholinesterase. Serum estradiol levels were found below the normal range in 23% 
of the women and 27% of the men, and was significantly related to femur BMD 
values in both women and men. Significantly lower serum estradiol and free 
testosterone levels were observed in men with vertebral fractures. Serum 
osteocalcin was below the normal range in 36% and urinary deoxypyridinoline 
above the normal range in 51% of the patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that osteoporosis is a common complication of 
CF, being related to disease progression and apparently due to both excess bone 
resorption and inadequate bone formation. Estradiol deficiency may have a 
significant role in the pathogenesis in both genders. Vertebral fracture 
prevalence is high and greater than expected from prevalent BMD values.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2004.05.009
PMID: 15336615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2004 Oct 1;322(4):1359-63. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.08.042.

TRPV6 and prostate cancer: cancer growth beyond the prostate correlates with 
increased TRPV6 Ca2+ channel expression.

Wissenbach U(1), Niemeyer B, Himmerkus N, Fixemer T, Bonkhoff H, Flockerzi V.

Author information:
(1)Experimentelle und Klinische Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, Medizinische 
Fakultät, Universität des Saarlandes, D-66421 Homburg, Germany.

Life expectancy for patients suffering from prostate cancer is inversely 
correlated with the degree of extraprostatic metastasis. In order to find 
pharmacological tools to treat this aggressive growth it is important to define 
targets whose expression not only correlates with the malignancy of the 
cancerous cells, but that are also amenable to pharmacological intervention. In 
this review, we would like to focus on the potential role of a distinct class of 
ion channels that may be involved in this process.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.08.042
PMID: 15336984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Circulation. 2004 Sep 7;110(10):1213-8. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000140983.69571.BA.  Epub 2004 Aug 30.

Long-term outcome in elderly patients with chronic angina managed invasively 
versus by optimized medical therapy: four-year follow-up of the randomized Trial 
of Invasive versus Medical therapy in Elderly patients (TIME).

Pfisterer M(1); Trial of Invasive versus Medical therapy in Elderly patients 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland. 
pfisterer@email.ch

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2005 Mar-Apr;142(2):39.

BACKGROUND: There are no prospective trial data on long-term outcomes in 
80-year-old patients with chronic angina with regard to antiischemic therapy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: To assess long-term survival and quality of life (QoL) in 
patients from the Trial of Invasive versus Medical Therapy in the Elderly 
(TIME), all 276 1-year survivors (of a total 301 patients) were contacted after 
a median of 3.1 years (range, 1.1 to 5.9 years). At baseline, patients were 
80+/-4 years old, 42% were women, and they were designated as being in angina 
class 3.2+/-0.7, despite their taking 2.5+/-0.7 antiischemic drugs. Patients 
were randomized to an invasive (n=153) or an optimized medical (n=148) strategy. 
Survival of invasive-strategy versus medical-strategy patients was 91.5% versus 
95.9% after 6 months, 89.5% versus 93.9% after 1 year, and 70.6% versus 73.0% 
after 4.1 years (P=NS). Mortality was independently increased in patients >or=80 
years of age, with prior heart failure, ejection fraction <or=0.45, and >or=2 
comorbidities, and without revascularization within the first year. 
Revascularization within the first year improved survival in invasive-strategy 
(P=0.07) and medical-strategy (P<0.001) patients. The early benefit of both 
treatments in angina relief and QoL was maintained long term, but freedom from 
major events remained higher in invasive-strategy versus medical-strategy 
patients (39% versus 20%, P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term survival was similar for patients assigned to invasive 
and medical treatment. The benefits of both treatments in angina relief and 
improvement in QoL were maintained, but nonfatal events occurred more frequently 
in patients assigned to medical treatment. Irrespective of whether patients were 
catheterized initially or only after drug therapy failure, their survival rates 
were better if they were revascularized within the first year.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000140983.69571.BA
PMID: 15337691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. J Clin Oncol. 2004 Sep 1;22(17):3581-6. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.11.151.

Survey on use of palliative radiotherapy in hospice care.

Lutz S(1), Spence C, Chow E, Janjan N, Connor S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Blanchard Valley Regional Cancer Center, 
Findlay, OH 45840, USA. slutz@bvha.org

PURPOSE: Radiation oncologists and hospice professionals both provide 
end-of-life care for oncology patients, and little has been written about the 
interface between these two groups of specialists. Hospice professionals were 
surveyed to assess the perceived need for palliative radiotherapy in the hospice 
setting, to investigate factors that limit the access of hospice patients to 
radiotherapy, and to suggest areas of future collaboration on education, 
research, and patient advocacy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Members of the National Hospice and Palliative Care 
Organization (NHPCO) and American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology 
jointly authored a questionnaire to investigate the beliefs of hospice 
professionals toward the use of radiotherapy for oncology patients in hospice. 
The questionnaire was distributed to all NHPCO member institutions, and the 
results were compiled and statistically analyzed.
RESULTS: Four hundred eighty of more than 1,800 surveyed facilities responded to 
the questionnaire. The findings suggest that the majority of hospice 
professionals feel that radiotherapy is important in palliative oncology and 
that radiotherapy is widely available in the United States. Yet less than 3% on 
average of hospice patients served by hospices responding to the survey actually 
received radiotherapy in 2002. The most common barriers to radiotherapy in 
hospice care include radiotherapy expense, transportation difficulties, short 
life expectancy, and educational deficiencies between the specialties.
CONCLUSION: Multiple barriers act to limit the use of palliative radiotherapy in 
hospice care. Finding ways to surmount these obstacles will provide opportunity 
for improvement in the end-of-life care of cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.11.151
PMID: 15337808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. J Vasc Surg. 2004 Sep;40(3):554-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2004.05.024.

Resection of an intravenous leiomyoma with intracardiac extension with use of 
endovascular techniques.

Derubertis BG(1), Clair D, Faries P, Kapur S, Park K, Kent KC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, 
New York-Presbyterian Hospital, New York 10021, USA.

Intravenous leiomyoma with intracardiac extension is a rare entity that 
necessitates surgical excision to alleviate symptoms and prevent 
life-threatening complications. These procedures are generally performed under 
cardiopulmonary bypass, and review of the literature reveals an evolution in 
management of this disease from 2-stage to single-stage procedures. We report 
the case of a 45-year-old woman with an intravenous leiomyoma with intracardiac 
extension after presenting with syncopal symptoms. The intravenous tumor and its 
supradiaphragmatic extension were ultimately resected via laparotomy without the 
need for cardiopulmonary bypass. Distal control was achieved by passing an 
occluding balloon catheter above the tumor through a venotomy with fluoroscopic 
guidance and echocardiography, thus enabling protected tumor extraction through 
the intra-abdominal inferior vena cava. In selected patients, we believe use of 
endovascular techniques combined with proper preoperative imaging can safely 
permit single-stage resection of these tumors via laparotomy without 
cardiopulmonary bypass.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2004.05.024
PMID: 15337888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Kardiol Pol. 2004 Jul;61(7):56-8.

[Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries in a 72 year old 
man--a case report].

[Article in Polish]

Kowalik E(1), Jakubowska E, Hoffman P.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Wad Wrodzonych Serca, Instytut Kardiologii, Warszawa, Poland.

Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (CCTGA) is a rare 
form of congenital heart disease characterised by atrioventricular as well as 
ventriculoarterial discordance. The life expectancy of individuals with CCTGA is 
limited by the onset of the systemic ventricular failure. There have been only a 
few patients with CCTGA and age >50 years reported in literature. We describe a 
72-year-old man with CCTGA who was admitted to the hospital because of severe 
congestive heart failure. Our patient s survival is one of the longest ever 
described.

PMID: 15338020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Naturwissenschaften. 2004 Sep;91(9):422-5. doi: 10.1007/s00114-004-0553-5.
Epub  2004 Aug 26.

Month of birth and life expectancy: role of gender and age in a comparative 
approach.

Lerchl A(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Engineering and Science, International University Bremen, Campus 
Ring 6, 28759 Bremen, Germany. a.lerchl@iu-bremen.de

The effects of month of birth (MOB) on life expectancy of a German subpopulation 
was investigated. Data from people who died in North Rhine Westphalia in the 
years 1984 ( n=188,515) and 1999 ( n=188,850) were analyzed. For comparative 
purposes, all deaths that occurred at an age of <50 years were excluded (1984: 
8.4%; 1999: 6.2%). In general, individuals born in May through July had the 
lowest age at death (1984: 75.27+/-0.09 years; 1999: 77.58+/-0.09 years), while 
those born between October and December had the highest (1984: 75.98+/-0.08 
years; 1999: 78.35+/-0.09 years), supporting earlier findings. The observed 
amplitudes (differences between highest and lowest values) were more pronounced 
in men than in women. When comparing these data of MOB effects on life 
expectancy with earlier findings in Australia, Austria, Denmark, Ukraine, and 
the USA, it is evident that a negative correlation exists between the average 
age at death and the MOB amplitudes. Separate analyses by gender, possible for 
the data from Germany, the Ukraine, and the USA, revealed a significant negative 
correlation for men, but not for women. A new hypothesis is therefore presented 
describing an influence of life quality, as reflected by average life 
expectancy, on the extent of MOB effects; for example, seasonally variable 
sensitivities during pregnancy/early childhood.

DOI: 10.1007/s00114-004-0553-5
PMID: 15338031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Lancet. 2004 Aug 28-Sep 3;364(9436):745-8. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(04)16956-0.

Little by little.

Aris B.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)16956-0
PMID: 15338565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Acta Derm Venereol. 2004;84(4):285-7. doi: 10.1080/00015550410025877.

Seborrhoeic dermatitis in the elderly: inferences on the possible role of 
disability and loss of self-sufficiency.

Mastrolonardo M(1), Diaferio A, Vendemiale G, Lopalco P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Foggia, Bari, Italy. 
mariomastrolonardo@libero.it

The constant increase of life expectancy in countries with high standards of 
living raises growing concern about many aspects of skin morbidity in the 
elderly. As regards seborrhoeic dermatitis, literature yields prevalence 
estimates for elderly people that are consistently higher than those reported 
from the general population. This prompts speculations on whether factors 
inherently involved in senescence might have some role in the course of 
seborrhoeic dermatitis. In a series of 186 subjects, aged > or =65, strength of 
association of the skin disorder with age, sex, coexisting non-cutaneous 
conditions, and degree of loss of self-sufficiency in activities of daily living 
(ADL index) was evaluated by univariate and multivariate analysis. We found that 
age (OR: 1.14; p<0.001) and, more importantly, dependency in more than one ADL 
(OR: 30.2; p<0.0001) were independent explanatory variables of seborrhoeic 
dermatitis. These findings suggest that senescence per se might have some 
significance in the natural history of this type of eczema.

DOI: 10.1080/00015550410025877
PMID: 15339072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. East Mediterr Health J. 2002 Mar-May;8(2-3):315-23.

Atraumatic restorative treatment and glass ionomer sealants in Tunisian 
children: survival after 3 years.

Abid A(1), Chkir F, Ben Salem K, Argoubi K, Sfar-Gandoura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paedodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Monastir, 
Monastir, Tunisia.

We evaluated the survival rates of atraumatic restorative treatment restorations 
and of glass ionomer sealants after 3 years of usage in primary and permanent 
teeth in Tunisian children aged 3-15 years attending rural schools, and assessed 
the presence or absence of dental caries in the restored teeth. After an initial 
survey of 1949 children, 242 were selected and agreed to undergo treatment. The 
loss to follow-up after 3 years was about 40%. Of those evaluated, 45.73% of 
one-surface ART restorations in permanent teeth had survived, 54.96% of 
one-surface sealants in permanent teeth had survived and 27.85% of one-surface 
ART restorations in primary teeth had survived. Caries was found in only 19 
teeth after 3 years.

PMID: 15339119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. East Mediterr Health J. 2002 Mar-May;8(2-3):409-15.

Changing use of the emergency department by the elderly in the United Arab 
Emirates, 1989 and 1999.

Margolis SA(1), Reed RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, United Arab Emirates University, Al-Ain, 
United Arab Emirates.

Changes in use by the elderly of the emergency department of a major hospital in 
Al-Ain in the years 1989 and 1999 were examined. All patients aged 65 years or 
older who attended the emergency room were included in this cross-sectional 
survey. Patient numbers rose from 321 in 1989 to 1347 in 1999 with no 
significant change in the female to male ratio of 0.78 or the mean age of the 
elderly attendees 72.9 +/- 7.4 years. Attendance rose 5.4 fold while non-urgent 
attendance rose 14.7 fold, demonstrating rising use but falling illness severity 
over time.

PMID: 15339131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Eur J Endocrinol. 2004 Aug;151 Suppl 1:S77-80. doi: 10.1530/eje.0.151s077.

Cystic fibrosis -- therapeutic challenge in cystic fibrosis children.

Staab D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department for Paediatric Pulmonology and Immunology, Charité Berlin, Cystic 
Fibrosis Centre Chest Hospital Heckeshorn, Zum Heckeshorn 30, 14109 Berlin, 
Germany. doris.staab@charite.de

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common autosomal recessive disease with fatal 
outcome in Caucasians with a frequency of 1 in 2500 life births. It is caused by 
mutations in a single gene on the long arm of chromosome 7 encoding a protein 
called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR). The defect in CFTR 
leads to pathological changes in all organs with mucus-secretory glands, e.g. 
airways, pancreas, gut, biliary tract, vas deferens and sweat glands. Despite 
impressive advances in understanding the molecular basis of the disease, life 
expectancy is still limited in CF and chronic infection of the lung resulting in 
fibrosis and bronchiectasis followed by respiratory insufficiency is still the 
main factor in morbidity and the leading cause of death. Poor nutritional status 
is one of the major problems in the vicious cycle of chronic inflammation and 
lung destruction and its impact on outcome in lung function has been 
demonstrated. The possible role of growth hormone treatment in this context will 
be discussed.

DOI: 10.1530/eje.0.151s077
PMID: 15339249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Obstet Gynecol. 2004 Sep;104(3):433-42. doi:
10.1097/01.AOG.0000133481.74113.f3.

Tamoxifen for breast cancer prevention: a framework for clinical decisions.

Cykert S(1), Phifer N, Hansen C.

Author information:
(1)Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, the University of North 
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA. sam.cykert@mosescone.com

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 2004 Sep;104(3):431-2.

OBJECTIVE: Given the potential side effects and an uncertain survival benefit, 
decisions about tamoxifen treatment for the primary prevention of breast cancer 
remain complex. Primary care providers, including gynecologists, will need to 
counsel patients regarding this form of preventive care. In this report, we 
update cost-effectiveness calculations for tamoxifen chemoprevention and 
establish reasonable parameters for clinicians' use.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis that compared women aged 50 
years who were treated with tamoxifen for 5 years with an untreated cohort. In 
the base model, we assumed a 3.4% 5-year breast cancer risk. Quality-of-life 
estimates for important outcomes (breast cancer, endometrial cancer, deep venous 
thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, stroke, metastatic cancer, and hot flushes) were 
obtained from 106 women. Probabilities and costs of outcomes were derived from 
the Breast Cancer Chemoprevention Trial and other published estimates. Broad 
sensitivity analyses were performed. Cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained 
as a result of tamoxifen breast cancer prevention was the main outcome measure.
RESULTS: The use of tamoxifen led to a remaining life expectancy of 26.07 
quality-adjusted life-years compared with 25.97 without treatment. The cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained was $43,300. Sensitivity analysis revealed 
that younger age, the absence of the uterus, higher initial risk of breast 
cancer, increased fear of curable breast cancer, and reduced tamoxifen cost 
further favored treatment.
CONCLUSION: Tamoxifen chemoprevention is cost-effective for women aged 40-50 
years who are at significant breast cancer risk. Whether this holds true for 
older women depends on the initial breast cancer risk, fear of breast cancer, 
and presence of the uterus.

DOI: 10.1097/01.AOG.0000133481.74113.f3
PMID: 15339751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Br J Cancer. 2004 Aug;91 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S11-7. doi:
10.1038/sj.bjc.6602062.

Treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer: a perspective on the recent advances 
and the experience with gefitinib.

Onn A(1), Tsuboi M, Thatcher N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Box 403, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, TX 
77030-4009, USA. amironn@mdanderson.org

Worldwide, non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a leading cause of 
cancer-related mortality and, until screening detects early disease, treatment 
for the majority of patients will consist of radiation therapy, chemotherapy or 
combinations thereof. Modern mono and doublet chemotherapy regimens have 
translated into modest increases in life expectancy and improved quality of 
life, but at the expense of systemic and pulmonary adverse events (AEs). There 
is a great unmet need to provide effective therapy for advanced NSCLC that does 
not have the toxicity burden of conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 
Novel drugs that inhibit a range of growth factor receptors, such as the 
epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib ('Iressa') 
and erlotinib ('Tarceva') or the monoclonal antibody cetuximab ('Erbitux'), have 
recently been evaluated. Having demonstrated antitumour activity and rapid 
symptom improvement in pretreated patients with advanced NSCLC, gefitinib was 
approved in the USA, Japan and other countries. Gefitinib is well tolerated with 
a low incidence of grade 3/4 AEs. Interstitial lung disease has been reported in 
a small number of patients receiving gefitinib, although this may be attributed 
to other treatments and conditions. Nevertheless, although the use of novel 
treatments requires vigilance for unexpected AEs such as pulmonary toxicity, in 
this area of high unmet clinical need, the benefits outweigh the risks in 
patients for whom no other proven effective treatment exists.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602062
PMCID: PMC2750809
PMID: 15340373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2004 Dec;29(12):2266-71. doi:
10.1038/sj.npp.1300551.

Prefrontal neuropsychological predictors of treatment remission in late-life 
depression.

Potter GG(1), Kittinger JD, Wagner HR, Steffens DC, Krishnan KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

Recent studies suggest that neuropsychological measures involving the prefrontal 
cortex are associated with treatment remission in late-life depression. To 
further explore this issue, we studied the neuropsychological performance of 110 
depressed individuals aged 60 years and over who are participating in an ongoing 
pharmacologic treatment study. Participants were clinically depressed at entry 
to the study as rated by the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS > 
or = 15), at which time they also completed a neuropsychological assessment that 
included measures of prefrontal/executive functions. A geriatric psychiatrist 
treating the participant using a standardized pharmacologic treatment algorithm 
evaluated the participant at baseline and 3-month follow-up, completing a MADRS 
at both visits. Using logistic discriminative procedures to predict depression 
remission at 3 months while controlling for age, gender, education, ethnicity, 
and baseline MADRS severity, we found that perseverative responses during verbal 
initiation tasks significantly predicted remission status (MADRS < 7). This 
finding is consistent with previous single-agent treatment studies suggesting a 
relationship between prefrontal neuropsychological function and treatment 
response in late-life depression. The current results, however, appear to 
