with interferon alpha-2b and ribavirin in patients with chronic hepatitis C.

Sullivan SD(1), Jensen DM, Bernstein DE, Hassanein TI, Foster GR, Lee SS, 
Cheinquer H, Craxi A, Cooksley G, Klaskala W, Pettit K, Patel KK, Green J.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle WA 98195, USA.

BACKGROUND: Sustained virological response (SVR) is the primary objective in the 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Results from a recent clinical trial of 
patients with previously untreated CHC demonstrate that the combination of 
peginterferon alpha-2a and ribavirin produces a greater SVR than interferon 
alpha-2b and ribavirin combination therapy. However, the cost-effectiveness of 
peginterferon alpha-2a plus ribavirin in the U.S. setting has not been 
investigated.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to investigate cost-effectiveness in 
patients with CHC using genotype to guide treatment duration. SVR and disease 
progression parameters were derived from the clinical trials and epidemiologic 
studies. The impact of treatment on life expectancy and costs were projected for 
a lifetime. Patients who had an SVR were assumed to remain virus-free for the 
rest of their lives. In genotype 1 patients, the SVRs were 46% for peginterferon 
alpha-2a plus ribavirin and 36% for interferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin. In 
genotype 2/3 patients, the SVRs were 76% for peginterferon alpha-2a plus 
ribavirin and 61% for interferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin. Quality of life and 
costs were based on estimates from the literature. All costs were based on 
published U.S. medical care costs and were adjusted to 2003 U.S. dollars. Costs 
and benefits beyond the first year were discounted at 3%.
RESULTS: In genotype 1, peginterferon alpha-2a plus ribavirin increases 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALY) by 0.70 yr compared to interferon 
alpha-2b plus ribavirin, producing a cost-effectiveness ratio of $2,600 per QALY 
gained. In genotype 2/3 patients, peginterferon alpha-2a plus ribavirin 
increases QALY by 1.05 yr in comparison to interferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin. 
Peginterferon alpha-2a combination therapy in patients with HCV genotype 2 or 3 
is dominant (more effective and cost saving) compared to interferon alpha-2b 
plus ribavirin. Results weighted by genotype prevalence (75% genotype 1; 25% 
genotype 2 or 3) also show that peginterferon alpha-2a plus ribavirin is 
dominant. Peginterferon alpha-2a and ribavirin remained cost-effective (below 
$16,500 per QALY gained) under sensitivity analyses on key clinical and cost 
parameters.
CONCLUSION: Peginterferon alpha-2a in combination with ribavirin with duration 
of therapy based on genotype, is cost-effective compared with conventional 
interferon alpha-2b in combination with ribavirin when given to treatment-naïve 
adults with CHC.

Copyright 2004 American College of Gastroenterology

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2004.30286.x
PMID: 15307866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Age Ageing. 2004 Nov;33(6):556-61. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afh187. Epub 2004 Aug
12.

Time to death and health expenditure: an improved model for the impact of 
demographic change on health care costs.

Seshamani M(1), Gray A.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
Meena.Seshamani@marshallscholarship.org

BACKGROUND: Obtaining well-founded estimates of the effect of demographic change 
on future health expenditures is a pressing issue in all developed countries. 
Thus far, expenditure projections have examined the effect of age on health care 
costs, but fail to account for the influence of remaining life expectancy on 
costs.
OBJECTIVE: This paper seeks to create a more accurate projection model that 
considers the concentration of costs towards the end of life, and to compare 
this model with the more traditional approach that holds age- and sex-specific 
per capita expenditures constant.
METHODS: We used a longitudinal hospital dataset which followed 90 929 patients 
aged 65 and older from 1970 to death, to create an economic model of hospital 
costs based on patient age and time remaining to death. We then applied the 
model to England population projections to predict the effect of demographic 
changes on hospital expenditures from 2002 to 2026.
RESULTS: The decline in age-specific mortality rates over time postpones death 
to later ages, pushing back death-related costs. Accounting for this in 
expenditure projections gave a predicted annual growth rate of 0.40%-half of the 
rate predicted with a traditional method.
CONCLUSIONS: Using richer data and more refined methods than have hitherto been 
employed, this study strongly confirms that the pressure of population increases 
and ageing demographic structure on hospital expenditures will be partially 
countered by the postponement of death-related hospital costs to later in life-a 
finding consistent with emerging epidemiological evidence, and heartening for 
policy makers and physicians alike.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afh187
PMID: 15308460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Epidemiology. 2004 Sep;15(5):519-20; author reply 527-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.ede.0000135911.42282.b4.

Eco-epidemiology: thinking outside the black box.

Susser E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New 
York 10032, USA. ess8@columbia.edu

Comment on
    Epidemiology. 2004 Sep;15(5):529-35.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ede.0000135911.42282.b4
PMID: 15308946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Eye (Lond). 2005 Apr;19(4):387-91. doi: 10.1038/sj.eye.6701514.

Is poor life expectancy a predictive factor in the progression of primary open 
angle glaucoma?

Tattersall CL(1), Vernon SA, Negi A.

Author information:
(1)Eye out-patient department, Department of Ophthalmology, Queens Medical 
Centre, Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK. stephen.vernon@mail.qrncuh-tr.trent.nhs.uk

AIM: To investigate the disease progression and final visual outcome of glaucoma 
patients with poor life expectancy, compared to matched patients with a longer 
life expectancy.
METHOD: Visual fields at diagnosis and at the last ophthalmic appointment before 
death were analysed for glaucoma patients referred between 1991 and 1995, and 
deceased before the end of 2001. These patients were matched to the patients 
living beyond 2001. Functional vision was also assessed, and classified as 
better than the NHS partial sighted criteria.
RESULTS: A total of 61 deceased patients were identified, resulting in 40 
matched pairs. In all, 6.5% of the patients with poor life expectancy progressed 
from functional vision to beyond partial sighted criteria, and none of the 
matched patients progressed to this extent. At final assessment an association 
between poor life expectancy and progression beyond functional vision was found 
existing (P = 0.02), with a lesser association at diagnosis (P = 0.06). Visual 
field scores of the matched pairs who had test results available for both 
initial and final assessment (n = 23 pairs) showed no statistically significant 
difference between the two groups at diagnosis (P = 0.52); However, a 
significant difference at final the assessment did exist (P = 0.042). No 
difference between the initial (off medication) intraocular pressures (IOPs) was 
found (P = 0.82). At the final assessment a significant difference existed (P = 
0.025), with the surviving group having a higher final mean pressure (15.9 mmHg, 
SD 2.8, vs 18.3 mmHg, SD 4.9).
CONCLUSION: Patients with poor life expectancy progressed more than the matched 
surviving patients, when measured from an initially similar position, despite 
better IOP control.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6701514
PMID: 15309025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. HNO. 2004 Aug;52(8):724-8. doi: 10.1007/s00106-003-0949-0.

[Course and therapy of an invasive aspergilloma of the skull base in a 
non-immunocompromised patient].

[Article in German]

Wenzel S(1), Sagowski C, Kehrl W, Metternich FU.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Hals-, Nasen- und Ohrenheilkunde des 
Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf. swenzel@uke.uni-hamburg.de

Fulminant-invasive sinus aspergillosis affects immunocompromised patients and is 
usually lethal because of intracranial complications. Chronic-invasive and 
non-invasive types occur in non-immunocompromised patients. In these cases, 
intracranial extension is possible and life-threatening. The effective 
management of sinus aspergillosis requires early diagnosis by CT and 
histological classification, surgery, and if necessary, chemotherapy or steroids 
in case of allergy. Here we report a successfully treated case in a 29-year-old 
non-immunocompromised patient with chronic-invasive sinus aspergillosis. He 
presented a recurrent sphenoid sinus aspergillosis with destruction of the 
clivus and ophthalmoplegia. Diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are described.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-003-0949-0
PMID: 15309253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Pediatr Surg Int. 2004 Aug;20(8):567-72. doi: 10.1007/s00383-004-1231-6.
Epub  2004 Aug 11.

Long-term outcomes of anorectal malformations.

Davies MC(1), Creighton SM, Wilcox DT.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University College London, 
86-96 Chenies Mews, London WC1E 6HX, UK. melissa.davies@ucl.ac.uk

Anorectal malformations (ARMs) and cloacal anomalies are rare and complex 
malformations of the lower gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts. They 
affect approximately 1 in 3,500 live births. The treatment of these patients has 
traditionally focused on achieving urinary and faecal continence, with 
preservation of renal function. With improved surgical techniques and paediatric 
intensive care facilities, these patients now live relatively normal lives, with 
a near-normal life expectancy. Comparing results reported by different surgeons 
is difficult because a wide range of terminology is employed to describe the 
anomalies encountered. This paper attempts to simplify some of the reported 
outcomes of bowel function to allow a more direct comparison between groups. 
Urinary outcomes were not so easily comparable due to the disparity in assessing 
patient outcomes. Therefore, before a global analysis of all groups can take 
place, a standardised terminology will be necessary. At present there is a gap 
in the published literature of comprehensive follow-up in this group of 
patients, particularly regarding reproductive and sexual functioning. More 
detailed information on long-term outcomes is needed in these patients to 
facilitate informed decision-making by the primary physician (usually the 
paediatric surgeon) and the parents on behalf of their child.

DOI: 10.1007/s00383-004-1231-6
PMID: 15309468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Ginecol Obstet Mex. 2004 Mar;72:95-102.

[Bone mineral density and 17 beta-estradiol correlation in postmenopausal 
women].

[Article in Spanish]

Cárdenas Morales BE(1), Pérez Campos E, Gatica Valdez N.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Medicina y Cirugía de la Universidad Autónoma Benito Juárez de 
Oaxaca, México. becar2003@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: With the increased life-expectancy reached during 20th century, 
women will spend a very important part of their lives in the estrogenic 
deficiency state accompanying menopause.
OBJECTIVES: To detect serum 17beta-estradiol levels, bone mineral density 
values, and to see the correlation between both parameters as well as with 
postmenopausal period.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A transversal study with ambulatory, community-dwelling 
postmenopausal women from Oaxaca de Juárez, Oax. was performed.
RESULTS: We studied 70 women with spontaneous menopause, medium values were: 
age, 55.9 +/- 5.4 yr; menopause age, 48 +/- 3 yr; postmenopausal period, 7.9 +/- 
5.3 yr; body mass index, 28.3 +/- 5.4, and serum 17beta-estradiol by 
radioimmunoassay, 62.78 +/- 25.83 pg/mL. Quantitative calcaneous ultrasound was 
used to measure bone mineral density and we found 30 women with normal level 
(-1.0 to 1.4 SD), 29 with osteopenia (-1.1 to -2.3 SD) and only 2 subjects with 
osteoporosis (-2.7 to 2.8 SD).
CONCLUSIONS: Statistical analysis shows that bone mineral density and 
postmenopausal period were significantly correlated (p<0.05) as well as serum 
17beta-estradiol levels with postmenopausal period; nevertheless, no correlation 
between bone mineral density and serum 17beta-estradiol or body mass index 
(p>0.05) was found. On the other hand, it is remarkable high serum 
17beta-estradiol levels found in this group, related with postmenopausal status. 
These latter results are different from those reported in the literature.

PMID: 15310101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Health Policy Plan. 2004 Sep;19(5):302-9. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czh035.

The cost-effectiveness of technology transfer using telemedicine.

Johnston K(1), Kennedy C, Murdoch I, Taylor P, Cook C.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, UK. 
kathy.johnston@scotland.gsi.gov.uk

The high burden of disease in developing countries often makes it difficult for 
health systems in these countries to attain the same level of specialist skills 
as industrialized countries. Technology transfer is one way to improve 
specialist skills whilst at the same time reducing the burden of disease. This 
paper describes the use of teleophthalmology, a form of telemedicine, as a mode 
of technology transfer between the United Kingdom and South Africa. As the 
burden of eye disease in South Africa is high, the country cannot afford the 
level of ophthalmic specialization achieved in the UK. The paper estimates the 
cost-effectiveness of the technology transfer project in terms of a cost per 
Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) averted. We found the technology transfer 
project to be cost-effective in reducing the burden of eye disease, and that 
practitioners in South Africa also learned novel procedures that could help 
future patients and improve cost-effectiveness. Technology transfer using 
telemedicine is a cost-effective method that richer countries can employ to aid 
capacity building in the health care systems of poorer countries.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czh035
PMID: 15310665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Clin Oncol. 2004 Aug 15;22(16):3293-301. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.05.066.

Randomized trial of a shared decision-making intervention consisting of 
trade-offs and individualized treatment information for BRCA1/2 mutation 
carriers.

van Roosmalen MS(1), Stalmeier PF, Verhoef LC, Hoekstra-Weebers JE, Oosterwijk 
JC, Hoogerbrugge N, Moog U, van Daal WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy (341), University Medical Center Nijmegen, PO Box 
9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, the Netherlands. m.vanroosmalen@rther.umcn.nl

PURPOSE: To evaluate a shared decision-making intervention (SDMI) for BRCA1/2 
mutation carriers who have to make a choice between screening and prophylactic 
surgery for breasts and/or ovaries.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The SDMI consisted of two value assessment sessions, using 
the time trade-off method, followed by individualized treatment information 
based on (quality-adjusted) life expectancy. After the baseline assessment (2 
weeks after a positive DNA test result), women were randomly assigned to the 
SDMI group (n = 44), receiving the SDMI 2 months after the test result, or to 
the control group (n = 44). The short- and long-term effects, 3 and 9 months 
after the test result, were assessed using questionnaires. Data were collected 
on well-being, treatment choice, and decision-related outcomes.
RESULTS: In the short term, the SDMI had no effect. In the long term, with 
respect to well-being, patients in the SDMI group had less intrusive thoughts (P 
=.05) and better general health (P =.01) and tended to be less depressed (P 
=.07). With respect to decision-related outcomes for the breasts, the SDMI group 
held stronger preferences (P =.02) and agreed more strongly to having weighed 
the pros and cons (P =.01). No effect was found on treatment choice. In the long 
term, interaction effects between the SDMI and cancer history were found. The 
SDMI showed an overall beneficial effect for unaffected women, whereas affected 
women tended to experience detrimental effects.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the SDMI improved decision making in unaffected 
BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. Supporting decision making in a systematic way using 
trade-offs is beneficial for these women.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.05.066
PMID: 15310772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. J Heart Valve Dis. 2004 Jul;13(4):545-52; discussion 552-3.

Surgery for aortic stenosis in octogenarians: influence of coronary disease and 
other comorbidities on hospital mortality.

Langanay T(1), De Latour B, Ligier K, Derieux T, Agnino A, Verhoye JP, Corbineau 
H, Chaperon J, Leguerrier A.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital Centre, 
Rennes, France. thierry.langanay@chu-rennes.fr

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Increasing life expectancy in industrialized 
countries and the high incidence of aortic stenosis (AS) in higher-age groups 
have led to wider indications for surgery in the elderly. The study aim was to 
re analyze operative risk factors, considering especially coronary status, for 
better patient selection and decreased risk.
METHODS: Between 1978 and 2003, 771 patients (319 men, 452 women) aged > or =80 
years (mean 82.9 years) underwent valve replacement (bioprosthesis in 760 cases; 
99%) for AS. Preoperative coronary angiography (performed in 617 cases; 80%) 
found significant lesions in 203 patients (33%) of either single- (n = 122), 
double- (n = 54) or triple- (n = 27) vessel disease. In total, 112 patients 
underwent associated coronary revascularization (one graft in 80 patients, and 
two or three grafts in 32).
RESULTS: Overall operative mortality was 10.1% (n = 78 patients). Predictive 
factors of mortality were left and right heart failure (p <0.001), emergency 
surgery (p <0.001), NYHA class IV (p <0.01), renal insufficiency (p <0.001), 
left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <40% (p <0.01), atrioventricular block 
(p <0.01) and associated mitral valve replacement (p <0.01). Although no 
statistical difference was found, operative mortality increased according to the 
coronary status: no significant lesion 8.2%, single-vessel disease 11.5%, 
two-vessel 11.1%, and three-vessel 18.5%. If operative mortality is not 
influenced by single-vessel revascularization (10%), it becomes higher in 
multiple bypasses (18.8%).
CONCLUSION: Surgery remains the only treatment for AS. Since analysis failed to 
identify any specific high-risk groups, indications should remain broad and 
decisions made on an individual patient basis. A combined strategy associating 
angioplasty and surgery should be evaluated in order to improve the preoperative 
coronary status and reduce operative risk.

PMID: 15311859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Rejuvenation Res. 2004 Summer;7(2):148-53. doi: 10.1089/1549168041553026.

An interview with Arthur Caplan. Interview by Vicki Glaser.

Caplan A.

DOI: 10.1089/1549168041553026
PMID: 15312302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Biol Psychiatry. 2004 Aug 15;56(4):213-6. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2003.12.025.

Therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative disorders: emerging clues from 
Parkinson's disease.

Bjarkam CR(1), Sørensen JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Institute of Anatomy, University of Aarhus, 
Aarhus, Denmark.

Our knowledge of Parkinson's disease pathophysiology has greatly expanded during 
the last century, resulting in successful new medical and neurosurgical 
approaches toward this common neurodegenerative disorder. These approaches might 
also be useable in the treatment of psychiatric disorders, which often are 
linked to atrophic and degenerative processes in the brain; however, the 
successful application of these techniques in psychiatry requires thorough 
elucidation of disease pathophysiology to identify proper intervention sites. 
Likewise, awareness of the differences between the parkinsonian and psychiatric 
patient populations in terms of age, disease course, and life expectancy, as 
well as ethical considerations might in the end determine the appropriateness of 
these therapeutic strategies in psychiatry.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2003.12.025
PMID: 15312807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Prev Med. 2004 Sep;39(3):528-35. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.02.010.

The mortality risks of smokers in Taiwan: Part I: cause-specific mortality.

Wen CP(1), Tsai SP, Chen CJ, Cheng TY.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy Research, National Health Research Institute, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Few studies of adverse health effects from smoking have been 
conducted in southeastern Asian populations which may exhibit racial, cultural, 
and smoking behavioral differences that could affect mortality patterns. This 
study aims to quantify cause-specific mortality risks among cigarette smokers in 
Taiwan.
METHODS: The study population for this investigation was derived from two 
existing prospective study cohorts: a community-based cohort and a cohort 
composed of civil servants and teachers. Smoking data were obtained by 
face-to-face interview in the community cohort and by self-administered 
questionnaire in the civil servant/teacher cohort. The mortality risks of 
current smokers, adjusted for age, were compared to those of nonsmokers using 
Cox's proportional hazards model and dose-response relationships were examined 
by variables of smoking intensity and duration.
RESULTS: Male smokers had significantly higher all-cause mortality than 
nonsmokers. Cigarette smoking was also significantly associated with increased 
risks of dying from cancer, cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, chronic 
bronchitis, diabetes, peptic ulcer, liver cirrhosis, and kidney disease. In 
addition, smokers had an increase in risk of fatal injuries from motor vehicle 
accidents and nonmotor vehicle accidents, as well as cancers of the oral cavity 
nasopharynx, esophagus, stomach, rectum, liver, and lungs. Risks for women 
smokers were generally higher than those for men, although this is based on 
small numbers of smokers. In women, deaths from all causes, all cancers, and 
cancers of the cervix, liver, and lung, cardiovascular disease, and respiratory 
disease were also significantly increased. The mean age at death for smokers who 
died before age 65 from smoking-related diseases was 57.4 years, which 
represented a loss of 22 years of life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The pervasive and serious impact of cigarette smoking on the health 
of Taiwanese cannot be underestimated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.02.010
PMID: 15313092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Jun;1016:628-58. doi: 10.1196/annals.1298.027.

The road we travelled: discovery, choreography, and significance of brain 
replaceable neurons.

Nottebohm F(1).

Author information:
(1)The Rockefeller University, Field Research Center, Tyrrel Road, Millbrook, NY 
12545, USA. nottebo@mail.rockefeller.edu

Neurons are constantly added to the telencephalon of songbirds. In the high 
vocal center (HVC), where this has been studied, new neurons replace older ones 
that died. Peaks in replacement are seasonal and affect some neuronal classes 
but not others. Peaks in replacement coincide with peaks in information 
acquisition. The new neurons are produced by division of cells in the wall of 
the lateral ventricle. Where studied closely, the neuronal stem cells proved to 
be radial glia. Life expectancy of the new neurons ranges from weeks to months. 
New neuron survival is regulated by vacancies, hormones, and activity. The 
immediate agent of new neuron survival is, in some cases, brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The effect of BDNF is maximal 14-20 days after the 
cells are born, when they are establishing their connections. These observations 
are now being extended to other vertebrates and may apply, to varying degrees, 
to all of them. The function of neuronal replacement in healthy adult brain 
remains unclear. If synaptic number and efficacy sufficed as mechanisms for 
long-term memory storage and could be adjusted again and again to incorporate 
new memories, then neuronal replacement would seem unnecessary. Since it occurs, 
it seems reasonable to suppose that replacement serves to maintain learning 
potential in a way that could not be done just by synaptic change. Long-term 
memories may be encoded by long-term changes in gene expression akin to a last 
step in cell differentiation. If so, neuronal replacement may be the adult 
brain's way of striking a balance between limited memory space and the need to 
acquire new memories. The testing of this hypothesis remains in the future. This 
chapter tells how neuronal replacement was discovered in the adult songbird 
brain.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1298.027
PMID: 15313798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Circulation. 2004 Sep 14;110(11):1364-71. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000141593.05085.87. Epub 2004 Aug 16.

Surgery for aneurysms of the aortic root: a 30-year experience.

Zehr KJ(1), Orszulak TA, Mullany CJ, Matloobi A, Daly RC, Dearani JA, Sundt TM 
3rd, Puga FJ, Danielson GK, Schaff HV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 First St SW, Rochester, 
Minn 55905, USA. zehr.kenton@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND: This study evaluated long-term results of aortic root replacement 
and valve-preserving aortic root reconstruction for patients with aneurysms 
involving the aortic root.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Two-hundred three patients aged 53+/-16 years (mean+/-SD; 
153 male, 50 female) underwent elective or urgent aortic root surgery from 1971 
to 2000 for an aortic root aneurysm: 149 patients underwent a composite valve 
conduit reconstruction, and 54 patients underwent valve-preserving aortic root 
reconstruction. Fifty patients had Marfan syndrome. In-hospital and 30-day 
mortality was 4.0% (8/203) overall: for a composite valve conduit procedure, the 
corresponding value was 4.0% (6/149) and for valve-preserving procedure, 3.7% 
(2/54) (P=NS). Morbidity included 3 strokes (1%), 10 perioperative myocardial 
infarctions (5%), and 8 reoperations for bleeding (4%). Actuarial survival at 5, 
10, 15, and 20 years was 93% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 88% to 97%), 79% 
(95% CI = 71% to 87%), 67% (95% CI = 57% to 79%), and 52% (95% CI = 36% to 69%), 
respectively. Freedom from reoperation was 72% (95% CI = 54% to 86%) at 20 
years. Complications with anticoagulation occurred in 29 patients; with valve 
thrombosis, in 2; and with hemorrhage, in 27 (4 life threatening and 23 minor). 
Freedom from thromboembolism was 91% (95% CI = 77% to 98%) at 20 years. Freedom 
from endocarditis was 99% (95% CI = 92% to 100%) at 20 years. Multivariate 
analysis revealed preoperative mitral valve regurgitation (+3 to 4) and older 
age to be significant predictors of late death (P< or =0.005), and Marfan 
syndrome, initial valve-preserving aortic root reconstruction, and need for a 
concomitant procedure at initial operation to be significant predictors of the 
need for reoperation (P< or =0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Aortic root replacement for aortic root aneurysms can be done with 
low morbidity and mortality. Composite valve conduit reconstruction resulted in 
a durable result. There were few serious complications related to the need for 
long-term anticoagulation or a prosthetic valve. Reoperation was most commonly 
required because of failure of the aortic valve when a valve-preserving aortic 
root reconstruction was performed or for other cardiac or aortic disease 
elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000141593.05085.87
PMID: 15313937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Circulation. 2004 Aug 24;110(8):975-81. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000139862.48167.23.  Epub 2004 Aug 16.

Left ventricular assist device as destination for patients undergoing 
intravenous inotropic therapy: a subset analysis from REMATCH (Randomized 
Evaluation of Mechanical Assistance in Treatment of Chronic Heart Failure).

Stevenson LW(1), Miller LW, Desvigne-Nickens P, Ascheim DD, Parides MK, Renlund 
DG, Oren RM, Krueger SK, Costanzo MR, Wann LS, Levitan RG, Mancini D; REMATCH 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis St, Boston, Mass 02115, USA. 
lstevenson@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) have improved survival in 
patients with end-stage heart failure. Compared with previous trials, the 
Randomized Evaluation of Mechanical Assistance in Treatment of Chronic Heart 
Failure (REMATCH) trial enrolled patients with more advanced heart failure and 
high prevalence of intravenous inotropic therapy. This study analyzes, on a post 
hoc basis, outcomes in patients undergoing inotropic infusions at randomization.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Of 129 patients randomized, 91 were receiving intravenous 
inotropic therapy at randomization to LVAD or optimal medical management (OMM). 
Mean systolic pressure was 100 versus 107 mm Hg in those not receiving 
inotropes, serum sodium was 134 versus 137 mEq/L, and left ventricular ejection 
fraction was 17% for both groups. LVADs improved survival throughout follow-up 
for patients undergoing baseline inotropic infusions (P=0.0014); for the LVAD 
group versus the OMM group, respectively, 6-month survival was 60% versus 39%, 
1-year survival rates were 49% versus 24%, and 2-year survival rates were 28% 
versus 11%. For 38 patients not undergoing inotropic infusions, 6-month survival 
was 61% for those with LVADs and 67% for those with OMM, whereas 1-year rates 
were 57% and 40%, respectively (P=0.55). Quality-of-life scores for survivors 
improved. Median days out of hospital for patients on inotropic therapy at 
randomization were 255 with LVAD and 105 with OMM.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite severe compromise, patients undergoing inotropic infusions 
at randomization derived major LVAD survival benefit with improved quality of 
life. Patients not undergoing inotropic infusions had higher survival rates both 
with and without LVAD, but differences did not reach significance. Future 
studies should prespecify analyses of inotropic and other therapies to determine 
how disease severity and parallel medical treatment influence the benefits 
offered by mechanical circulatory support.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000139862.48167.23
PMID: 15313942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Circulation. 2004 Oct 19;110(16):2389-94. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000139841.42454.78. Epub 2004 Aug 16.

Continuous autonomic assessment in patients with symptomatic heart failure: 
prognostic value of heart rate variability measured by an implanted cardiac 
resynchronization device.

Adamson PB(1), Smith AL, Abraham WT, Kleckner KJ, Stadler RW, Shih A, Rhodes MM; 
InSync III Model 8042 and Attain OTW Lead Model 4193 Clinical Trial 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Cardiovascular Disease and Physiology, University of 
Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 920 SL Young Blvd, WP3120, Oklahoma City, OK 
73104, USA. Philip-adamson@ouhsc.edu

Comment in
    Circulation. 2005 Jul 12;112(2):e37-8; author reply e37-8.

BACKGROUND: Heart rate variability (HRV) as an indirect autonomic assessment 
provides prognostic information when measured over short time periods in 
patients with heart failure. Long-term continuous HRV can be measured from an 
implantable device, but the clinical value of these measurements is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 397 patients with New York Heart Association 
class III or IV heart failure were studied. Of these, 370 patients had 
information from their implanted cardiac resynchronization device for mortality 
risk stratification, and 288 patients had information for measured parameters 
(ie, HRV, night heart rate, and patient activity) and clinical event analyses. 
Continuous HRV was measured as the standard deviation of 5-minute median 
atrial-atrial intervals (SDAAM) sensed by the device. SDAAM <50 ms when averaged 
over 4 weeks was associated with increased mortality risk (hazard ratio 3.20, 
P=0.02) and SDAAM were persistently lower over the entire follow-up period in 
patients who required hospitalization or died. SDAAM decreased a median of 16 
days before hospitalization and returned to baseline after treatment. Automated 
detection of decreases in SDAAM was 70% sensitive in detecting cardiovascular 
hospitalization, with 2.4 false-positives per patient-year of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that SDAAM continuously measured from an 
implanted cardiac resynchronization device is lower in patients at high 
mortality and hospitalization risk. SDAAM declines as patient status 
decompensates. Continuous long-term SDAAM may be a useful tool in the clinical 
management of patients with chronic heart failure.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000139841.42454.78
PMID: 15313946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Circulation. 2004 Sep 7;110(10):1183-90. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000140765.71014.1C. Epub 2004 Aug 16.

Prevalent low-frequency oscillation of heart rate: novel predictor of mortality 
after myocardial infarction.

Wichterle D(1), Simek J, La Rovere MT, Schwartz PJ, Camm AJ, Malik M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiological Sciences, St George's Hospital Medical School, 
London, UK.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2005 Apr 12;111(14):e180-1; author reply e180-1.

BACKGROUND: This study evaluates a novel method for postinfarction risk 
stratification based on frequency-domain characteristics of heart rate 
variability (HRV) in 24-hour Holter recordings.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A new risk predictor, prevalent low-frequency oscillation 
(PLF), was determined in the placebo population of the European Myocardial 
Infarction Amiodarone Trial (EMIAT). Frequencies of peaks detected in 5-minute 
low-frequency HRV spectra were averaged to obtain the PLF index. PLF >or=0.1 Hz 
was the strongest univariate predictor of all-cause mortality associated with 
relative risk of 6.4 (95% CI, 3.9 to 10.6; P<10(-12)). In a multivariate Cox's 
regression model including clinical risk factors, mean RR interval, HRV index, 
low- and high-frequency HRV spectral power, and heart rate turbulence, PLF was 
the most powerful mortality predictor, with a relative risk of 4.6 (95% CI, 2.2 
to 9.3; P=0.00003). Predictive power of PLF was blindly validated in the 
population of the Autonomic Tone and Reflexes After Myocardial Infarction 
(ATRAMI) trial. PLF >or=0.1 Hz was associated with univariate relative risk of 
6.1 (95% CI, 2.9 to 12.9; P<10(-5)) for cardiac mortality or resuscitated 
cardiac arrest. In multivariate Cox's regression model including age, left 
ventricular ejection fraction, baroreflex sensitivity, mean RR interval, 
standard deviation of normal RR intervals, low- and high-frequency HRV spectral 
power, and heart rate turbulence, only left ventricular ejection fraction and 
PLF were significant predictors, with relative risks of 4.2 (95% CI, 1.5 to 
11.7; P=0.007) and 3.6 (95% CI, 1.3 to 10.5; P=0.02), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: An innovative analysis of frequency-domain HRV, which characterizes 
the distribution of spectral power within the low-frequency band, is a potent 
and independent risk stratifier in postinfarction patients.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000140765.71014.1C
PMID: 15313954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Lipid Res. 2004 Nov;45(11):2044-51. doi: 10.1194/jlr.M400100-JLR200. Epub
2004  Aug 16.

Long-term effects of sterol depletion in C. elegans: sterol content of 
synchronized wild-type and mutant populations.

Merris M(1), Kraeft J, Tint GS, Lenard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Medicine and Dentistry 
of New Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, 675 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, NJ 
08854, USA.

Three major long-term effects of sterol deprivation in Caenorhabditis elegans 
are described. 1) The life expectancy of sterol-deprived wild-type animals is 
decreased by more than 40%. Similar decreases are found in animals carrying 
mutations in the daf-9, daf-12, daf-16, and clk-1 genes, suggesting that 
previously described aging pathways involving these genes are not involved in 
the life-extending effects of sterols. 2) There is a premature loss of motility, 
measured by response to mild touch. 3) There is a rapid postreproductive onset 
of sarcopenia (muscle wasting) as measured by total body fluorescence in a 
myo3::GFP-expressing strain. We also report that five sterols (the 
desmethylsterols cholesterol, 7-dehydrocholesterol, and lathosterol and the 
4alpha-methyl sterols lophenol and 
4alpha-methyl-cholesta-Delta8(14)-en-3beta-ol) are found in significant amounts 
at all stages of development and aging in cholesterol-fed animals. Supplying any 
one of these as the sole sterol confers similar protection from the long-term 
effects of sterol deprivation. These findings suggest that sterols are required 
continuously throughout the animal's life.

DOI: 10.1194/jlr.M400100-JLR200
PMID: 15314097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Taehan Kanho Hakhoe Chi. 2004 Jun;34(3):449-57. doi:
10.4040/jkan.2004.34.3.449.

[A cost-utility analysis of home care services by using the QALY].

[Article in Korean]

Lim JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Inha University, Nam-Ku, Inchon, Korea. 
lim20712@inha.ac.kr

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to analyze economical efficiency of home care 
service by comparing a cost-utility ratio(CUR) between home care and 
hospitalization.
METHOD: The analytic framework of this study was constructed in 5 stages: 
Identifying the analytic perspectives, measurement of costs, measurement of 
utility, analysis of CUR, and sensitivity test. Data was collected by reviewing 
medical records, home care service records, medical fee claims, and other 
related research.
RESULT: The mean of the annual total cost was 23,317,636 Won in home care and 
73,739,352 Won in hospital care. QALY was 0.389 in home care and 0.474 in 
hospital care, so CUR was 299,712,545 QALY in home care and 777,841,266 QALY in 
hospital care.
CONCLUSION: The findings affirmed that home care had an economical efficiency in 
the aspect of utility compared to hospitalization. Therefore, the findings of 
this study can be used to develop a governmental health policy or to expand the 
home care system. In addition, the cost-utility analysis framework and process 
of this study will be an example model for cost-utility analysis in nursing 
research. Therefore, it will be used as a guideline for future research related 
to cost-utility analysis in nursing.

DOI: 10.4040/jkan.2004.34.3.449
PMID: 15314301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2004 Sep;16(5):577-87. doi: 
10.1097/01.bor.0000137852.42270.0f.

Update on pediatric systemic lupus erythematosus.

Stichweh D(1), Arce E, Pascual V.

Author information:
(1)Baylor Institute for Immunology Research, Dallas, Texas, and the UT 
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to provide an update on the 
clinical manifestations of SLE in children. Emerging clues on the pathogenesis 
of the disease based on recent human studies conducted both in children and 
adults, will also be summarized.
RECENT FINDINGS: Pediatric Rheumatologists caring for children with SLE face 
many challenges. As the life expectancy of these patients improves, new 
recognized complications such as accelerated atherosclerosis and hypertension 
emerge as major causes of morbidity. However, few longitudinal studies 
describing the long term outcome of these children, including the impact of 
disease and treatment on their physical and psychological development are 
available. Few prospective interventional studies have been carried out to 
assess the efficacy of established and novel treatments in the pediatric 
population. Recently, basic studies aimed at understanding the immune 
alterations underlying this disease have been performed in children. These 
studies indicate an important role for interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) in the 
pathogenesis of this disease and reveal an overall striking homogeneity of 
leukocyte gene expression profiles in children and adults with SLE. The 
contribution of novel gene polymorphisms to disease susceptibility and the 
sequential breakdown of tolerance to nuclear antigens that precedes clinical 
manifestations in patients with SLE are among the recent studies that are 
helping us understand the complex SLE puzzle.
SUMMARY: SLE continues to cause significant morbidity in the pediatric age 
group. A better recognition of the age-specific manifestations and long-term 
complications of this disease is required to improve its outcome. Understanding 
its unique pathogenesis will hopefully lead to the development of better, more 
targeted and less toxic therapies.

Copyright 2004 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins

DOI: 10.1097/01.bor.0000137852.42270.0f
PMID: 15314498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Technol Eval Cent Assess Program Exec Summ. 2004 Apr;19(2):1.

Special report: cost-effectiveness of left-ventricular assist devices as 
destination therapy for end-stage heart failure.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15314825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. AIDS. 2004 Sep 3;18(13):1827-34. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200409030-00012.

The cost-effectiveness of elective Cesarean delivery to prevent hepatitis C 
transmission in HIV-coinfected women.

Schackman BR(1), Oneda K, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Outcomes and Effectiveness, Department of Public Health, Weill 
Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY 10021, USA. 
brs2006@med.cornell.edu

OBJECTIVES: To determine the net health consequences, costs, and 
cost-effectiveness of elective Cesarean delivery (C-section) to prevent 
perinatal transmission of hepatitis C virus (HCV) in HIV/HCV-coinfected women 
with suppressed HIV RNA but detectable HCV RNA.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a probabilistic decision model.
METHODS: The model compared two strategies: (i) C-section for all coinfected 
women with suppressed HIV RNA but detectable HCV RNA; (ii) C-section only when 
indicated based on fetal status. Outcomes included vertical transmission of HCV, 
maternal mortality, quality-adjusted life expectancy, delivery and HCV treatment 
costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Data were obtained from the 
literature and national databases. Delivery cost data were from a hospital 
consortium database. Probability distributions were derived from published 
confidence intervals or estimated ranges, or calculated using reported sample 
sizes.
RESULTS: Elective C-section in coinfected women with suppressed HIV RNA but 
detectable HCV RNA would avoid 45 vertical HCV transmissions per 1000 deliveries 
and increase maternal mortality by one death per 100 000 deliveries. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a recommendation for C-section versus 
current practice was 3900-6100 dollars per quality-adjusted life year for the 
mother-child pair. Results are sensitive to the efficacy of C-section in 
preventing transmission, the probability of vaginal delivery without a 
recommendation, and rates of maternal acceptance of the recommendation.
CONCLUSIONS: Assuming 2000 births/year among HIV/HCV-coinfected women in the 
United States, a recommendation for elective C-section in these women could 
avoid an additional 90 perinatal HCV transmissions per year with a risk of one 
maternal death in 50 years.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200409030-00012
PMID: 15316344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. AIDS. 2004 Sep 3;18(13):1835-43. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200409030-00013.

All cause mortality in the Swiss HIV Cohort Study from 1990 to 2001 in 
comparison with the Swiss population.

Keiser O(1), Taffé P, Zwahlen M, Battegay M, Bernasconi E, Weber R, Rickenbach 
M; Swiss HIV Cohort Study.

Author information:
(1)Data Centre of the Swiss HIV Cohort Study, Lausanne, Switzerland. 
Olivia.Keiser@hospvd.ch

DESIGN: Mortality within the Swiss HIV Cohort Study for the years 1990-2001 was 
compared with the mortality of the general Swiss population.
METHODS: Standardized mortality ratios (SMR) and life tables were calculated for 
strata defined by combinations of gender and HIV transmission group. The effect 
of dropouts was investigated with a sensitivity analysis and by analysing CD4 
cell counts before dropout.
RESULTS: During the study period 10 977 individuals had at least one cohort 
visit with a median observation time of 46 months. A total of 3630 patients died 
and 2290 dropped out. SMR decreased from 79.3 [95% confidence interval (CI), 
77.2-81.5] before the introduction of highly active antiretroviral treatment 
(HAART) in 1996 to 15.3 (95% CI, 14.2-16.4) thereafter. For persons who acquired 
HIV infection by injecting drug use (IDUs), the SMR decreased from 98.2 (95% CI, 
94.9-103.5) to 40.9 (95% CI, 37.0-44.8) after 1996; for all other HIV 
transmission groups the SMR decreased from 69.2 (95% CI, 66.9-71.6) to 9.4 (95% 
CI, 8.5-10.4). Thus, IDUs had significantly lower survival in comparison with 
other patient groups after 1996. Patients who had started HAART during the time 
period in which this treatment was available, had even lower SMRs.
CONCLUSIONS: Although overall survival has improved considerably since the 
introduction of HAART, cohort life expectancy remains below that of the Swiss 
population. We noted, however, substantial differences in mortality among 
subgroups, and the results indicate that the additional risk related to 
injection drug use before 1996 had been masked by HIV-associated mortality.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200409030-00013
PMID: 15316345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2004 Sep;19(5):494-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.hco.0000132321.24004.25.

Acute and chronic psychological stress in coronary disease.

Ramachandruni S(1), Handberg E, Sheps DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, Florida 32610-0277, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death 
in the United States and other developed countries. Along with a number of other 
factors thought to contribute to the high prevalence of CAD in developed 
societies (longer life expectancy, obesity, sedentary lifestyles), various 
psychological and social factors appear to promote the development or worsening 
of heart disease. It is well recognized that stress can be harmful to the 
cardiovascular system. The combination of the preexisting vulnerability and the 
major stressor are believed to result in cardiac arrhythmias and/or plaque 
rupture leading to death.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recently, the epidemiologic evidence of a link between stress 
and CAD is very convincing, yet the biopsychosocial pathway that would explain 
how stress can lead to disease is less clear. Different types of psychological 
stress have been found to be associated with increased cardiovascular events. 
Evidence regarding the efficacy of psychosocial interventions is also presented.
SUMMARY: It is suggested that, taken as a whole, evidence for a psychological 
and social impact on CAD morbidity and mortality is convincing.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hco.0000132321.24004.25
PMID: 15316459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nervenarzt. 2004 Dec;75(12):1153-66. doi: 10.1007/s00115-004-1769-5.

[Limb girdle muscular dystrophies].

[Article in German]

Finsterer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Abteilung, KA Rudolfstiftung, Wien, Osterreich. 
duarte@aonmail.at

Limb girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMDs) are a genetically heterogeneous group 
of primary myopathies involving progressive weakness and wasting of the muscles 
in the hip and shoulder girdles, with distal spread to the bulbar or respiratory 
musculature in rare cases. Depending on the mode of genetic transmission, six 
autosomal dominant forms (LGMD1A-F, 10-25%) and ten autosomal recessive forms 
(LGMD2A-J, 75-90%) are currently known. The prevalence of LGMDs is 0.8/100,000. 
These conditions are caused by mutations in genes encoding for myotilin (5q31, 
LGMD1A), lamin A/C (1q11-q21.2, LGMD1B), caveolin-3 (3p25, LGMD1C), unknown 
proteins (7q, LGMD1D, 6q23, LGMD1E, 7q32.1-32.2., LGMD1F), calpain-3 
(15q15.1-21.1, LGMD2A), dysferlin (2p13.3-13.1, LGMD2B), gamma-sarcoglycan 
(13q12, LGMD2C), alpha-sarcoglycan, also known as adhalin (17q12-q21.3, LGMD2D), 
beta-sarcoglycan (4q12, LGMD2E), delta-sarcoglycan (5q33-q34, LGMD2F), 
telethonin (17q11-q12, LGMD2G), E3-ubiquitin ligase (9q31-q34.1, LGMD2H), 
fukutin-related protein (19q13.3, LGMD2I), and titin (2q31, LGMD2J). Cardiac 
involvement has been described for LGMD1B-E, LGMD2C-G, and LGMD2I. The time of 
onset varies between early childhood and middle age. There is no male or female 
preponderance. Disease progression and life expectancy vary widely, even among 
different members of the same family. The diagnosis is based primarily on DNA 
analysis. The history, clinical neurological examinations, blood chemistry 
investigations, electromyography, and muscle biopsy also provide information 
that is helpful for the diagnosis. No causal therapy is currently available.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-004-1769-5
PMID: 15316618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Cancer. 2004 Sep 1;101(5 Suppl):1229-38. doi: 10.1002/cncr.20511.

Examining the cost-effectiveness of cancer screening promotion.

Andersen MR(1), Urban N, Ramsey S, Briss PA.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prevention Program, Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred 
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98102-1024, USA. 
rander@fhcrc.org

Cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) can help to quantify the contribution of the 
promotion of a screening program to increased participation in screening. The 
cost-effectiveness (C/E) of screening promotion depends in large part on the 
endpoints of interest. At the most fundamental level, the C/E of a strategy for 
promoting screening would focus on the attendance rate, or cost per person 
screened, and the C/E would be influenced by the costs of promotion, as well as 
by the size and responsiveness of the target population. In addition, the costs 
of screening promotion (measured as the cost per additional participant in 
screening) can be included in a CEA estimate of the screening technology. In 
this case, depending on the efficacy of the screening test and the costs and 
influence of the promotion, the C/E of screening may improve or become poorer. 
In the current study, the authors reviewed the literature on the C/E of cancer 
screening promotion. The following lessons were learned regarding the C/E of 
screening and its promotion: 1) high-quality information on the C/E of screening 
is increasingly available; 2) cost-effective promotion of screening is dependent 
on cost-effective screening strategies; 3) quality-of-life effects may be 
important in assessing the overall C/E of screening programs; 4) research 
efforts aimed at identifying cost-effective approaches to screening promotion 
are useful but sparse; 5) C/E studies should be better incorporated into well 
designed effectiveness research efforts; 6) variations in C/E according to 
intervention characteristics, population characteristics, and context should be 
evaluated in greater depth; 7) the long-term effects of screening promotion are 
critical to assessing C/E; 8) the effects of promotion on costs of screening 
must be better understood; and 9) CEA must be interpreted in light of other 
information. The authors showed that CEA can be a valuable tool for 
understanding the merits of health promotion interventions and that CEA is 
particularly valuable in identifying screening strategies that might be promoted 
most cost-effectively.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20511
PMID: 15316909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Can Fam Physician. 2004 Jul;50:963-5, 969-71.

Peering down the vortex. Poverty and human health.

Powles WE.

Comment in
    Can Fam Physician. 2004 Dec;50:1637.

PMCID: PMC2214635
PMID: 15317224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
