differentiate verbal perseveration from verbal initiation as the cognitive 
process that is most associated with poor treatment response. By extension, we 
suggest that orbitofrontal prefrontal cortex may play a role in sustaining 
perseverative processing in geriatric depression.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.npp.1300551
PMID: 15340392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Internist (Berl). 2004 Sep;45(9):1053-62. doi: 10.1007/s00108-004-1268-6.
Epub  2004 Aug 3.

[Recommendations for statin therapy in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Döser S(1), März W, Reinecke MF, Ringleb P, Schultz A, Schwandt P, Becker HJ, 
Bönner G, Buerke M, Diener HC, Gohlke H, Keil U, Ringelstein EB, Steinmetz A, 
Gladisch R, Wehling M.

Author information:
(1)IV. Medizinische Klinik, Fakultät für Klinische Medizin Mannheim, 
Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg.

Elderly patients are significantly less likely to receive statins than younger 
patients possibly because of doubts regarding compliance or concerns regarding 
the increased likelihood of adverse events and drug interactions. Poor 
compliance can be expected especially in patients suffering from dementia or 
depression as well as those whose stage of cardiovascular disease exhibits few 
symptoms. On the other hand, the clinical significance of CHD events is high in 
the elderly, and 80% of coronary deaths occur in patients aged over 65 years. 
The average statistical life expectancy of elderly and old patients is often 
underestimated. The HPS and PROSPER studies showed that statins reduce mortality 
and morbidity even in very elderly individuals with a high global cardiovascular 
risk and/or CAD. Patients up to the age of 79 years should be treated according 
to the same guidelines as younger patients. Statin therapy should only be 
considered for patients aged 80 years and older who are at a very high risk for 
cardiovascular events.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-004-1268-6
PMID: 15340698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2004 
Aug;47(8):762-70. doi: 10.1007/s00103-004-0872-x.

[The new indicator set for health reporting activities in the German States].

[Article in German]

Bardehle D(1), Annuss R, Hermann S, Ziese T, Böhm K.

Author information:
(1)Landesinstitut für den Offentlichen Gesundheitsdienst NRW (lögd), Bielefeld. 
Doris.Bardehle@loegd.nrw.de

In May 2003, the third revised version of the indicator set for health reporting 
activities was confirmed by the health ministries of all German States 
(Bundesländer). Modeled on the restructured indicator set which has been 
annotated with meta-data descriptions, most Bundesländer have now started to 
collect data for their specific health reporting activities. Thanks to the 
support provided by national data holders and the Federal Statistical Office, it 
has been possible to further enlarge the database and for the first time also 
ensure access via the Federal Statistical Office. In this contribution the 
authors describe the methodological and statistical principles of the indicator 
set. Another aspect is the benefit of the indicator set for the health reporting 
activities in the German States.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-004-0872-x
PMID: 15340720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Herz. 2004 Aug;29(5):480-7. doi: 10.1007/s00059-004-2608-y.

[Postprandial hyperglycemia as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Therapy 
improves prognosis].

[Article in German]

Hanefeld M(1), Schaper F.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Klinische Studien, Gesellschaft für Wissens- und 
Technologietransfer der TU Dresden mbH, Dresden, Deutschland. 
hanefeld@gwtonline-zks.de

Diabetes is a cardiovascular disease, however, up to two decades ago there was 
no evidence that hyperglycemia itself is an independent risk factor. However 
consistent data from recently published prospective studies in subjects with 
impaired glucose tolerance and patients with early type 2 diabetes prove that 
postprandial/postchallenge hyperglycemia is an important risk factor for 
cardiovascular disease. Pathophysiological investigations have shown that 
excessive postprandial hyperglycemia causes a cascade of proatherogenic 
abnormalities such as oxidative stress, activation of NFkappaB receptor and 
impaired NO release of the endothelium. Moreover in the last years intervention 
studies like DIGAMI and a study in critical ill patients have shown that strict 
normalization of blood glucose control improves life expectancy in seriously ill 
patients. There are now three studies: STOP-NIDDM, MERIA and IMT study of the 
common carotid arteries which impressively demonstrate that control of 
postprandial hyperglycemia may prevent cardiovascular complications to the same 
degree as reported for statins and AC-inhibitors. Thus control of the glucose 
trias-HbA(1c), postprandial and fasting plasma glucoses is essentially practice 
in patients with cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-004-2608-y
PMID: 15340733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Herz. 2004 Aug;29(5):496-503. doi: 10.1007/s00059-004-2610-4.

[Diabetic nephropathy - current concepts in early diagnosis and treatment of 
diabetic microvascular complications].

[Article in German]

Meier M(1), Haller H.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Hannover, Deutschland. 
meier.matthias@mh-hannover.de

Diabetic nephropathy represents the most important microvascular complication in 
long-term diabetes mellitus because chronic renal insufficiency is further 
aggravated by increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in diabetic 
patients. Although early intensive insulin therapy has led to a significant 
reduction of incidence and prevalence of end-stage renal failure over the last 
decades in juvenile type 1 diabetes mellitus, the total number of type 2 
diabetic patients with chronic renal insufficiency is dramatically increasing 
due to the improved life expectancy of the general population and the more 
effective medical treatment of macrovascular complications such as arterial 
hypertension, coronary artery disease, and peripheral arterial occlusive 
disease. Apart from the personal burden for each individual the frightening 
epidemiologic dimension of diabetic nephropathy represents an outstanding 
challenge for our social systems.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-004-2610-4
PMID: 15340735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Ann Hematol. 2005 Jan;84(1):47-55. doi: 10.1007/s00277-004-0930-3. Epub 2004
Aug  31.

Quality-adjusted survival analysis shows differences in outcome after 
immunosuppression or bone marrow transplantation in aplastic anemia.

Viollier R(1), Passweg J, Gregor M, Favre G, Kühne T, Nissen C, Gratwohl A, 
Tichelli A.

Author information:
(1)Transplantation Unit, University Hospitals of Basel, Petersgraben 4, 4031 
Basel, Switzerland.

Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) and immunosuppression (IS) have improved the 
prognosis of aplastic anemia; both treatments have specific advantages and 
drawbacks but similar survival rates. Analysis of additional endpoints may help 
in treatment decisions. In a single-center study, patients with aplastic anemia 
treated with IS (n=155) or BMT (n=52) were compared for survival, event-free 
survival, and quality-adjusted time without symptoms and toxicity (Q-TWiST). 
Probability of overall and event-free survival at 15 years was similar among 
both groups (BMT 51+/-15% and 25+/-14%, IS 53+/-10% and 27+/-8%), with more 
early deaths in the transplant group and more late deaths in the IS group. There 
were differences in terms of mean duration of seven analyzed health states: time 
with symptoms from treatment-related toxicity (IS 0.36 years, BMT 0.27), 
transfusion dependency (IS 0.66 years, BMT 0.1 years), partial remission (IS 
3.27 years, BMT 1.42), and secondary clonal disorder (IS 0.68 years, BMT 0.04) 
was significantly longer for IS compared to BMT (p< or =0.001). Patients treated 
with BMT spent more time with extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) 
(IS 0 years, BMT 0.96, p<0.023) and in CR without drugs (IS 1.22 years, BMT 
2.43, p=0.056). In conclusion, survival, event-free survival, and Q-TWiST are 
similar. BMT-treated patients had longer periods free from symptoms, while 
IS-treated patients needed closer medical care, transfusion support, and 
medications.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-004-0930-3
PMID: 15340760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2004 Aug;16(5):332-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2004.03.006.

Prognostic factors in brain metastases: can we determine patients who do not 
benefit from whole-brain radiotherapy?

Lock M(1), Chow E, Pond GR, Do V, Danjoux C, Dinniwell R, Lea J, Bezjak A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, London Regional Cancer Centre, University 
of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2005 Apr;17(2):128.
    Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2006 Feb;18(1):85-6.

AIMS: Whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) is a standard treatment recommendation for 
patients with brain metastases. The goal of treatment is symptom control, which 
in the short run can be often achieved by steroids. Patients with a short life 
expectancy may not derive benefit from the addition of radiation. The ability to 
identify this group would aid the decision of whether to recommend WBRT.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data on all patients referred for WBRT to palliative 
radiotherapy teams at two comprehensive cancer centres were prospectively 
collected over a 2-year period. The most frequent radiation dose and 
fractionation was 2000 cGy in 5 fractions over 1 week. Multivariate logistic 
regression analysis using forward stepwise selection process was used to develop 
a prediction model for early death (before 8 weeks). The variables considered 
were sex, performance status, primary disease, weight loss, age, time from 
primary diagnosis to brain metastases diagnosis, number of metastatic sites and 
Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) recursive partitioning analysis (RPA) 
status.
RESULTS: Two hundred and seventy-five patients with brain metastases were 
assessed. The median follow-up was 19 weeks, and estimated median overall 
survival was 5.3 months. Multivariate regression revealed Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status and number of metastatic sites to be 
significant predictors of early death. The odds ratios were 2.38 (95% confidence 
interval [CI] 1.77-3.19) and 1.39 (95% CI 1.07-1.81), respectively. Sixty-eight 
per cent of patients could be correctly classified; however, 55% would have been 
incorrectly predicted to die early.
CONCLUSIONS: Poor performance status and number of metastatic sites are useful 
predictors of early death. A regression model was highly predictive overall, but 
this was primarily due to a high negative predictive value of 86%. The ability 
to predict patients who would die early (positive predictive value) was only 
45%. Thus, despite the understanding that we are over-treating a subset of 
patients, further research is required to identify patients who do not require 
radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2004.03.006
PMID: 15341436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Eur J Neurosci. 2004 Sep;20(5):1205-10. doi:
10.1111/j.1460-9568.2004.03577.x.

Integration and differentiation of neural stem cells after transplantation into 
the dysmyelinated central nervous system of adult mice.

Ader M(1), Schachner M, Bartsch U.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Molekulare Neurobiologie, Universität Hamburg, Martinistr. 52, 
D-20246, Germany.

Mutant mice deficient in the myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and the 
nonreceptor-type tyrosine kinase Fyn are characterized by a severely 
hypomyelinated central nervous system (CNS) and morphologically abnormal myelin 
sheaths. Despite this pronounced phenotype, MAG/Fyn-deficient mice have a normal 
longevity. In the present study, we took advantage of the normal life expectancy 
of this myelin mutant and grafted neural stem cells (NSCs) into the CNS of 
MAG/Fyn-deficient mice to study in short- and long-term experiments the fate of 
NSCs in adult dysmyelinated brains. Neural stem cells were isolated from spinal 
cords of transgenic mouse embryos ubiquitously expressing enhanced green 
fluorescent protein. Cells were expanded in vitro in the presence of mitogens 
for up to 5 weeks before they were grafted into the lateral ventricles or 
injected into white matter tracts. Analysis of mutant brains 3-15 weeks after 
intracerebroventricular transplantation of NSCs revealed only limited 
integration of donor cells into the host brains. However, injection of NSCs 
directly into white matter tracts resulted in widespread distribution of donor 
cells within the host tissue. Donor cells survived for at least 15 weeks in 
adult host brains. The majority of grafted cells populated white matter tracts 
and differentiated into oligodendrocytes that myelinated host axons. Results 
suggest that intraparenchymal transplantation of NSCs might be a strategy to 
reconstruct myelin in dysmyelinated adult brains.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2004.03577.x
PMID: 15341592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nat Rev Immunol. 2004 Sep;4(9):737-43. doi: 10.1038/nri1440.

Will telomere erosion lead to a loss of T-cell memory?

Akbar AN(1), Beverley PC, Salmon M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Molecular Pathology, The Windeyer Building, 46 
Cleveland Street, Division of Infection and Immunity, Royal Free and University 
College Medical School, London W1T 4JF, UK. a.akbar@rfc.ucl.ac.uk

Evidence is accumulating that elderly individuals are more susceptible to 
infection with organisms to which they were previously immune. This indicates 
that there might be a limit to the persistence of immune memory. This fact is 
particularly disturbing because the average life expectancy of humans has almost 
doubled in the past 200 years and is still increasing. We discuss mechanisms 
that might constrain the persistence of memory T cells and consider whether 
humans will suffer from memory T-cell exhaustion as life expectancy increases.

DOI: 10.1038/nri1440
PMID: 15343372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Harv Ment Health Lett. 1998 Mar;14(9):1-5.

Cancer and the mind.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15344239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Pharmacoeconomics. 2000 Oct;18(4):355-68. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200018040-00004.

Cost effectiveness of human immunodeficiency virus postexposure prophylaxis for 
healthcare workers.

Scheid DC(1), Hamm RM, Stevens KW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, College of Medicine, University 
of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, USA. dewey-scheid@ouhsc.edu

OBJECTIVE: The United States Public Health Service (USPHS) published 
recommendations for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) postexposure prophylaxis 
(PEP) of healthcare workers in May 1998. The aim of this study was to analyse 
the cost effectiveness of the USPHS PEP guidelines.
DESIGN AND SETTING: This was a modelling study in the setting of the US 
healthcare system in 1989. The analysis was performed from the societal 
perspective; however, only HIV healthcare costs were considered and 
health-related losses of productivity were not included.
METHODS: A decision tree incorporating a Markov model was created for 4 PEP 
strategies: the current USPHS recommendations, triple drug therapy, zidovudine 
monotherapy or no prophylaxis. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis using a 
Monte Carlo simulation was performed. Confidence intervals (CIs) around 
cost-effectiveness estimates were estimated by a bootstrapping method.
RESULTS: The costs (in 1997 US dollars) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
save by each strategy were as follows: monotherapy $US688 (95% CI: $US624 to 
$US750); USPHS recommendations $US5211 (95% CI: $US5126 to $US5293); and triple 
drug therapy $US8827 (95% CI: $US8715 to $US8940). The marginal cost per year of 
life saved was: USPHS recommendations $US81 987 (95% CI: $US80 437 to $US83 
689); triple drug therapy $US970 451 (95% CI: $US924 786 to $US 1 014 429). 
Sensitivity testing showed that estimates of the probability of seroconversion 
for each category of exposure were most influential, but did not change the 
order of strategies in the baseline analysis. With the prolonged HIV stage 
durations and increased costs associated with recent innovations in HIV therapy, 
the marginal cost effectiveness of the USPHS PEP strategy was decreased to $US62 
497/QALY saved. All 3 intervention strategies were cost effective compared with 
no postexposure prophylaxis.
CONCLUSIONS: Current USPHS PEP recommendations are marginally cost effective 
compared with monotherapy, but the additional efficacy of triple drug therapy 
for all risk categories is rewarded by only a small reduction in HIV infections 
at great expense. For the foreseeable future, assuming innovations in therapy 
that employ expensive drug combinations earlier in the HIV disease course to 
extend life expectancy and the increasing prevalence of HIV drug resistance, our 
model supports the use of the USPHS PEP guidelines.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200018040-00004
PMID: 15344304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Pharmacoeconomics. 2000 Oct;18(4):383-91. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200018040-00006.

Cost effectiveness of acute imipramine therapy versus two imipramine maintenance 
treatment regimens for panic disorder.

Mavissakalian MR(1), Schmier JK, Flynn JA, Revicki DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the medical costs and effectiveness of acute treatment 
with imipramine versus acute treatment plus 2 different maintenance therapies 
for panic disorder.
METHODS: A clinical decision model was constructed to estimate 18-month costs 
and outcomes associated with these treatment scenarios based on the medical 
literature and clinician judgment. The clinical parameters and outcomes for the 
model were derived from a series of systematic clinical trials with imipramine 
utilising uniform dosage procedures and validated response criteria. Costs were 
calculated based on standardised treatment regimens. The outcome measures were 
18-month medical costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs per QALY 
gained. A sensitivity analysis was performed to explore the impact of treatment 
withdrawals on outcomes.
STUDY PERSPECTIVE: US mental healthcare system.
RESULTS: Over 18 months, the total costs (1997 values) and QALYs associated with 
half-dose maintenance therapy (imipramine 1.1 mg/kg/day) [$US3377; QALYs = 
0.991] and full-dose maintenance therapy (imipramine 2.25 mg/kg/ day) [$US3361; 
QALYs = 0.991] were almost identical; both were cost saving compared with acute 
imipramine therapy (2.25 mg/kg/day) with no maintenance treatment ($US3691; 
QALYs = 0.979). Whether patients withdrawing from treatment were considered to 
have continued to respond to treatment or to have relapsed, the half-dose and 
full-dose maintenance treatments were still cost saving compared with acute 
treatment alone.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that imipramine maintenance treatment is cost 
effective compared with acute imipramine treatment for patients with panic 
disorder. The basic findings and conclusions are not affected after modifying 
model assumptions for clinical response in patients withdrawing from treatment.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200018040-00006
PMID: 15344306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. BMC Womens Health. 2004 Aug 25;4 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S9. doi: 
10.1186/1472-6874-4-S1-S9.

Mortality: life and health expectancy of Canadian women.

DesMeules M(1), Manuel D, Cho R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Chronic Disease Prevention and Control, Health Canada, 120 
Colonnade Rd, Ottawa, Canada. Marie_desmeules@hc-sc.gc.ca

HEALTH ISSUE: The sex differences in mortality, life expectancy, and, to a 
lesser extent, health expectancy, are well recognized in Canada and 
internationally. However, the factors explaining these differences between women 
and men are not well understood. This chapter explores the contribution of 
various causes of death (such as preventable, and sex-specific deaths) on these 
differences between women and men. KEY FINDINGS: "External" preventable causes 
of death (e.g. smoking-related, injuries, etc.) were responsible for a large 
portion of the sex gap in mortality and life expectancy. When excluding these 
causes from the calculations, the sex gap in life expectancies were largely 
reduced, decreasing from approximately 5.5 years (life expectancy being 81.4, 
years in women, and 75.9 years in men) to approximately 2.2 years (84.9 in women 
and 82.7 in men). Sex gaps in corresponding health expectancies entirely 
disappeared when these preventable causes of death were excluded. Moreover, a 
larger death burden was observed among women than men for sex-specific causes of 
death (eg. excess breast cancer, gynaecological cancers, maternal mortality). 
Significant disparities were also observed in the mortality rates of various 
subgroups of women by geographic regions of Canada. DATA GAPS AND 
RECOMMENDATIONS: These results indicate that women do not appear to have a large 
biological survival advantage but, rather, are at lower risk of preventable 
deaths. They also provide additional information needed for the development of 
policies aimed at reducing disparities in life and health expectancies in Canada 
and other developed countries.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6874-4-S1-S9
PMCID: PMC2096684
PMID: 15345072


447. Semin Liver Dis. 2004;24 Suppl 2:61-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-832930.

Hepatitis C virus in the setting of HIV or hepatitis B virus coinfection.

Sterling RK(1), Sulkowski MS.

Author information:
(1)Virginia Commonwealth University Health System/Medical College of Virginia, 
Richmond, Virginia 23298, USA. rksterli@hsc.vcu.edu

Because of shared routes of transmission, coinfection with hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) or hepatitis B virus (HBV), or both, is common among HIV-infected persons, 
affecting approximately 15 to 30% and 10 to 15% of patients, respectively. 
Advances in antiretroviral therapy have improved the life expectancy of patients 
infected with HIV, and, as a consequence, HCV-related liver disease has emerged 
as a significant comorbid disease among such patients. Concurrent HIV infection 
may be associated with higher serum HCV RNA levels, accelerated progression of 
hepatic fibrosis, increased risk of end-stage liver disease, hepatocellular 
carcinoma and death among persons coinfected with hepatitis C. Similarly, 
coinfection with HCV and HBV may lead to more severe liver disease and greater 
risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) than does HCV infection alone. Although 
definitive randomized controlled trials are not yet completed, current 
guidelines recommend the use of pegylated interferon alfa plus ribavirin for the 
treatment of chronic HCV in eligible HIV-infected persons. Conversely, the 
optimal treatment of chronic HCV in persons with chronic HBV infection has not 
been defined but may include pegylated interferon alfa plus ribavirin, with or 
without additional antiviral agents, such as lamivudine or adefovir, or both.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-832930
PMID: 15346248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. FDA Consum. 2004 Jul-Aug;38(4):3.

Drug combination can extend life for men with prostate cancer.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15346560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Vnitr Lek. 2004 Jun;50(6):470-8.

[Families at risk of colon cancer I. Familial adenomatous polyposis].

[Article in Slovak]

Hlavatý T(1), Lukác L, Duris I.

Author information:
(1)I. interná klinika Lekárskej fakulty UK a FN, Bratislava, Slovenská 
republika.

Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a well-defined autosomal dominant 
inherited disease characterised by a diffuse polyposis of the colon and rectum 
leading to inevitable colorectal cancer by 50 years. The purpose of this review 
is to summarize the current knowledge regarding this entity with the focus on 
recent knowledge on genetic testing, surveillance guidelines and therapy of FAP. 
Available medical databases were searched from 1998 to May 2003 using keywords 
"familial adenomatous polyposis", followed by further search for particular 
issues. Additional articles were identified through the reference sections of 
retrieved articles and from personal archives of authors. Approximately 300 
papers on FAP are published yearly. There has been a large progress in our 
understanding of the genetics of FAP leading to the development of genetic 
counselling, reliable genetic tests and screening strategies. There is 
accumulating evidence about genotype-phenotype associations with direct clinical 
implications. Our knowledge about the extracolonic manifestations is also 
expanding resulting in new surveillance and treatment strategies for FAP 
patients after proctocolectomy. Although still representing a serious burden for 
affected patients and their families, the research of last decades together with 
national registers improved the life expectancy and the quality of life of FAP 
patients dramatically. Further research in the area of molecular genetics, 
genetic testing and emerging gene therapy for FAP patients is to be expected in 
the near future.

PMID: 15346641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2004 Jul-Aug;19(4):563-77.

The extremely resorbed mandible: a comparative prospective study of 2-year 
results with 3 treatment strategies.

Stellingsma K(1), Raghoebar GM, Meijer HJ, Stegenga B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Maxillofacial Prosthetics, 
University Hospital, Groningen, The Netherlands. c.stellingsma@kchir.azg.nl

PURPOSE: The aim of this prospective clinical study was to compare the clinical 
and radiographic results of 3 modes of implant treatment in combination with an 
overdenture in patients with extremely resorbed mandibles. The 3 treatment 
strategies used were a transmandibular implant, augmentation of the mandible 
with an autologous bone graft followed by placement of 4 endosseous implants, 
and the placement of 4 endosseous implants only.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty edentulous patients met the inclusion criteria and 
were assigned according to a balanced allocation method to 1 of the 3 groups. 
Postoperative complications, implant survival, periodontal indices, change in 
mandibular bone height, and prosthetic complications were assessed during a 
2-year evaluation period.
RESULTS: During the evaluation period significantly more implants were lost in 
the transmandibular implant and the augmentation groups compared to the group 
with endosseous implants only. Except for the Bleeding Index and the Periotest 
values, the periodontal parameters did not differ significantly among the 
groups. In all 3 groups, there was no significant bone loss at most locations. 
Minimal prosthetic retreatment was necessary.
DISCUSSION: Although implant loss is a frequently used outcome measure for 
success, the necessity of retreatment seems to be of more relevance for both the 
patient and the clinician.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggested that patients with extremely 
resorbed mandibles can be treated with implants alone in this patient 
population.

PMID: 15346755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. N Z Dent J. 2004 Mar;100(1):4-9.

The Down syndrome patient in dental practice, Part II: clinical considerations.

Boyd D(1), Quick A, Murray C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Sciences, University of Otago School of Dentistry, 
Dunedin, New Zealand. dorothy.boyd@dent.otago.ac.nz

Down syndrome (DS), or Trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder which results in 
intellectual impairment, typical craniofacial features and a wide spectrum of 
phenotypic abnormalities (reviewed by Kieser et al, 2003). Despite a large 
volume of research into this condition, its prevalence remains high (1 in 700 
live births - Serra and Neri, 1990; Reeves, 2000). This, together with a notable 
increase in life expectancy (Pilcher, 1998), improved health care and a greater 
degree of integration into society in New Zealand has resulted in an increased 
demand for dental care.

PMID: 15346875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. J Support Oncol. 2003 Nov-Dec;1(4 Suppl 2):5-10.

Cancer: a disease of the elderly.

Ershler WB(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advanced Studies in Aging and Geriatric Medicine, Washington, 
DC 20007, USA. wershler@iasia.org

Healthcare providers can expect to see a steadily growing number of elderly 
patients with cancer. The US population is aging, and the incidence of cancer 
and cancer mortality are increasing. Sex-related differences in the incidence of 
cancer become apparent after the age of 64 years, with a higher lifetime risk of 
cancer in men. The process of aging at the subcellular level contributes to the 
development of cancer. The cost of cancer to society is hundreds of billions of 
dollars a year, and the direct, indirect, and intangible costs of cancer to a 
patient can be devastating. Elderly patients' out-of-pocket expenses for 
treatment and care can come at a time when their financial reserves are 
diminishing. Managing cancer in older patients is complicated by their shorter 
life expectancy and greater risk of treatment complications because of the high 
prevalence of comorbidities, decreased hematopoietic reserves, cognitive 
impairment, functional decline, and depression. The goals of managing cancer in 
older patients may differ from those in younger patients, as the potential 
benefits of treatment decrease and the risks of treatment and the need for 
supportive care increase.

PMID: 15346994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. J Support Oncol. 2003 Nov-Dec;1(4 Suppl 2):30-7.

New paradigms for treating elderly patients with cancer: the comprehensive 
geriatric assessment and guidelines for supportive care.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research 
Institute, Tampa, Florida 33612-9416, USA. balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

Strategies for treating cancer are evolving to address the growing number of 
elderly patients with cancer. Older patients have highly variable physiologic 
ages, and their treatment should be individualized for optimal outcomes. 
Treatment paradigms should also take into account the diversity of patients' 
life expectancy, functional reserve, social support, and personal preference. A 
Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA) is a useful tool for estimating life 
expectancy and tolerance of treatment and for identifying reversible factors 
that may interfere with cancer treatment, including depression, malnutrition, 
anemia, neutropenia, and lack of caregiver support. Adopting a common language 
to describe older patients may facilitate the design and analysis of studies to 
determine effective drugs and care strategies for them. Information from a CGA 
can guide the prescription of potentially curative therapy, determine the best 
use of supportive care agents, and help identify frail patients for whom 
palliative care is the best option. There is evidence in a number of settings 
that the routine use of a CGA has a positive effect on health outcomes by 
reducing hospitalizations, preserving functional independence, and preventing 
geriatric syndromes. Guidelines for supportive care are also important in 
treating elderly patients with cancer. Pain, caused by cancer or its treatment, 
is prevalent, and guidelines for its assessment and treatment should be 
implemented to improve quality of life. Toxicities such as neutropenia and 
mucositis should be managed aggressively. Growth factors reduce the incidence 
and severity of neutropenia and its complications in older patients, 
particularly when they are administered in the early cycles of chemotherapy. The 
development of effective strategies for the management of toxicity caused by 
anticancer drugs may help the elderly, as much as younger patients, expect and 
look forward to a positive outcome with their treatment.

PMID: 15346998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Neurosurg Focus. 2003 Sep 15;15(3):E6. doi: 10.3171/foc.2003.15.3.6.

Surgery for postarthrodesis adjacent-cervical segment degeneration.

Azmi H(1), Schlenk RP.

Author information:
(1)Neurological Institute of New Jersey, University of Medicine and Dentistry of 
New Jersey, New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey 07103, USA. hooman 
az@hotmail.com

Anterior cervical decompression and fusion has gained popularity because of its 
applicability to a variety of cervical spine disorders. The authors of long-term 
follow-up studies have demonstrated the development of degenerative changes in 
segments adjacent to fusion. So-called adjacent-segment disease causes 
symptomatic deterioration in up to 25% of the patients who have undergone 
anterior cervical decompression and fusion for cervical spondylotic myelopathy. 
The causes of this condition are debated in the literature. The authors provide 
a review of the available literature on the pathogenesis, prevention, and 
treatment of postarthrodesis adjacent-segment degenerative disease.

DOI: 10.3171/foc.2003.15.3.6
PMID: 15347224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Age Ageing. 2004 Nov;33(6):571-6. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afh190. Epub 2004 Sep
3.

Can adapting the homes of older people and providing assistive technology pay 
its way?

Lansley P(1), McCreadie C, Tinker A.

Author information:
(1)University of Reading, Reading, UK. p.r.lansley@reading.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Adaptations and assistive technology (AT) have an important role in 
enabling older people to remain in their own homes.
OBJECTIVE: To measure the feasibility and cost of adaptations and AT, and the 
scope for these to substitute and supplement formal care.
DESIGN: Detailed design studies to benchmark the adaptability of 82 properties 
against the needs of seven notional users.
SETTING: Social rented housing sector.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Measures of the adaptability of properties, costs of 
care, adaptations and AT, and relationships between these costs.
RESULTS: The adaptability of properties varies according to many design factors 
and the needs of occupiers. The most adaptable properties were ground floor 
flats and bungalows; the least were houses, maisonettes and flats in converted 
houses. Purpose-built sheltered properties were generally more adaptable than 
corresponding mainstream properties but the opposite was the case for bungalows. 
Adaptations and AT can substitute for and supplement formal care, and in most 
cases the initial investment in adaptations and AT is recouped through 
subsequently lower care costs within the average life expectancy of a user.
CONCLUSION: Appropriately selected adaptations and AT can make a significant 
contribution to the provision of living environments which facilitate 
independence. They can both substitute for traditional formal care services and 
supplement these services in a cost-effective way.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afh190
PMID: 15347537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Chemotherapy. 2004 Oct;50(4):171-7. doi: 10.1159/000080690. Epub 2004 Sep 3.

Cytogenetic consequences of vinblastine treatment in mouse bone marrow.

Choudhury RC(1), Palo AK, Padhy A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Berhampur University, Berhampur 760-007, Orissa, 
India. rameshchoudary@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Vinblastine (VBL), a vinca alkaloid, has very often been included in 
different cancer chemotherapeutic treatment regimens. Chemotherapy cures certain 
cancers and, at least, increases the life expectancy of cancer patients. 
However, in cancer survivors, a second malignancy frequently occurs after 
chemotherapy, which warrants detailed genotoxicity testing of the 
chemotherapeutic agents. The available genotoxicity test reports on VBL are 
self-contradictory and inconclusive. Thus, following a suitable experimental 
protocol, it is necessary to test the cytogenetic consequences of VBL treatment 
in mammals.
METHODS: Swiss mice received 1 of 3 different doses of VBL (0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 
mg/kg body weight) as a single intraperitoneal injection. The cytogenetic 
toxicity of VBL was assessed from the induced aberrant metaphases, chromosomal 
aberrations (CAs) excluding gaps and the mitotic index (MI) 24 h after 
treatment, and micronuclei (MN) 30 h after treatment.
RESULTS: All 3 doses of VBL induced statistically significant (p < or = 0.01) 
percentages of aberrant metaphases and CAs, but there was no significant change 
in the MI. The induced percentage of aberrant metaphases and CAs were decreased 
with the increase in the dose of VBL. On the other hand, there was a 
dose-dependent and significant (p < or = 0.01) increase in MN induction.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study indicate the clastogenic potential of VBL 
in the mouse bone marrow. In the present study, the induction of numerous 
relatively large-sized MN by VBL is in agreement with the reported aneugenic 
action of the drug. Although VBL is cytotoxic and is a spindle poison, the 
mechanism(s) involved in bringing about its clastogenic effects is yet to be 
elucidated.

Copyright (c) 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000080690
PMID: 15347909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. J Clin Psychopharmacol. 2004 Oct;24(5):497-506. doi: 
10.1097/01.jcp.0000138769.61600.e4.

Cost and effectiveness of venlafaxine extended-release and selective serotonin 
reuptake inhibitors in the acute phase of outpatient treatment for major 
depressive disorder.

Trivedi MH(1), Wan GJ, Mallick R, Chen J, Casciano R, Geissler EC, Panish JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX 75390-9119, USA. Madhukar.trivedi@utsouthwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this retrospective analysis was to estimate the cost 
and effectiveness of venlafaxine extended-release (VXR) compared with selective 
serotonin reuptake inhibitors in the outpatient treatment of major depressive 
disorder.
METHODS: Pooled data from 8, 8-week, randomized, double-blind studies comparing 
treatment of major depressive disorder with venlafaxine/venlafaxine XR (n = 
851), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (fluoxetine, paroxetine, 
fluvoxamine; n = 748), or placebo (4 studies; n = 446) were retrospectively 
analyzed to determine the economic implications of symptom remission from the 
perspective of a US third party payer and that of an employer. A decision 
modeling approach was used to determine cost and effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Patients on VXR were associated with 22.8 depression-free days versus 
18.6 depression-free days with the studied selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors, based on the decision model. Productive and quality-adjusted days 
were also expected to increase for VXR patients (22.06 vs. 19.34 and 4.56 to 
9.36 vs. 3.72 to 7.63), as was the percentage of patients achieving full 
activity (25.9% vs. 19.6%). The expected cost per patient achieving remission of 
symptoms was US 1303.94 dollars and US 1514.96 dollars, and the cost per 
depression-free days was US 25.66 dollars and US 28.25 dollars, for the VXR and 
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors groups, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with VXR is not only expected to increase the rate of 
remission of symptoms but is also associated with achievement of full activity, 
higher number of depression-free days, productive days, and quality-adjusted 
days. VXR is a cost-effective treatment option for major depressive disorder.

DOI: 10.1097/01.jcp.0000138769.61600.e4
PMID: 15349005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Prev Med. 2004 Oct;39(4):841-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.03.015.

An index to measure the association between dietary patterns and coronary heart 
disease risk factors: findings from two Italian studies.

Massari M(1), Freeman KM, Seccareccia F, Menotti A, Farchi G; Research Group of 
the RIFLE Project.

Author information:
(1)Centro Nazionale di Epidemiologia, Sorveglianza e Promozione della Salute, 
Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy. massari@iss.it

BACKGROUND: To examine the association between established coronary heart 
disease (CHD) risk factors and eating patterns by creating a dietary index 
utilizing a limited amount of food frequency questionnaire data on specified 
indicator foods.
METHODS: Selected data from the Italian Risk Factors and Life Expectancy (RIFLE) 
project collected between 1978-1979 and 1983-1984 on 7665 men and women, aged 
20-59 years, were used to compute a dietary index summarizing the relative 
proportion of fatty to non-fatty foods. The association between this index and 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP, DBP), body mass index, total serum 
cholesterol (TC), and blood glucose, controlling for potential confounders was 
then tested using multiple linear regression.
RESULTS: Among men, a positive association was found between the index and all 
five CHD risk factors (P < 0.01). Among women, the associations were weaker, 
becoming statistically significant only for TC and glucose.
CONCLUSIONS: Our food index was able to detect relationships between diet and 
traditional CHD risk factors. A tool such as this, which requires only a limited 
number of key indicator food items, might enhance the use of existing food 
frequency questionnaires and also streamline the process of collecting new 
dietary information.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.03.015
PMID: 15351554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Urology. 2004 Sep;64(3):479-84. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.024.

Gemcitabine and carboplatin combination as first-line treatment in elderly 
patients and those unfit for cisplatin-based chemotherapy with advanced bladder 
carcinoma: Phase II study of the Hellenic Co-operative Oncology Group.

Linardou H(1), Aravantinos G, Efstathiou E, Kalofonos C, Anagnostopoulos A, 
Deliveliotis C, Bafaloukos D, Athanasios Dimopoulos M, Bamias A; Phase II study 
of Hellenic Co-operative Oncology Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Metropolitan Hospital, N. Faliro, Athens, 
Greece.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate, in a multicenter Phase II study, the safety and 
efficacy of the combination of gemcitabine and carboplatin, as first-line 
treatment in elderly and unfit patients with advanced bladder carcinoma. The 
toxicity of platinum-based chemotherapy combinations represents a common problem 
for elderly or unfit patients with advanced bladder carcinoma.
METHODS: Patients with previously untreated inoperable or metastatic bladder 
carcinoma and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status greater 
than 2, age older than 75 years, or creatinine clearance of less than 50 mL/min 
were treated with carboplatin area under the curve 4 on day 1 and gemcitabine 
1000 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8, every 21 days for a total of six cycles.
RESULTS: A total of 56 patients (48 men and 8 women, median age 75 years) were 
enrolled. Of these patients, 46% had a performance status of 2 to 3, 68% had a 
creatinine clearance of less than 50 mL/min, and 59% had distant metastases. The 
overall response rate was 36% (95% confidence interval 23.4% to 49.6%), and an 
additional 14 patients had disease stabilization (25%, 95% confidence interval 
14.4% to 38.4%). The median time to progression was 4.8 months, the median 
overall survival was 7.2 months, and the 1-year survival rate was 26%. Grade 3 
or 4 toxicity included anemia (18%); thrombocytopenia (16%); neutropenia (27%), 
with two episodes of febrile neutropenia requiring hospitalization; diarrhea 
(2%); and fatigue (5.5%). Two toxic deaths occurred during the study.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of gemcitabine and carboplatin has some activity as 
first-line treatment of advanced bladder carcinoma in the elderly and those 
unfit for cisplatin-based chemotherapy, with manageable toxicity, and represents 
a reasonable choice for the treatment of such patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.024
PMID: 15351574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Urology. 2004 Sep;64(3):488-93. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.088.

Clinical outcome in patients with locally advanced bladder carcinoma treated 
with conservative multimodality therapy.

George L(1), Bladou F, Bardou VJ, Gravis G, Tallet A, Alzieu C, Serment G, Salem 
N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, France.

OBJECTIVES: To describe the outcome of patients with muscle-invasive bladder 
carcinoma treated with multimodality therapy in our institution from 1993 to 
2002.
METHODS: The charts of 60 patients with Stage T2-T4N0-N1M0 treated with 
transurethral resection of bladder tumor followed by a chemoradiotherapy 
combination were retrospectively reviewed. Of the 60 patients, 22 had received 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy (methotrexate, cisplatin, and vinblastine or 
methotrexate, adriamycin, cisplatin, and vinblastine) followed by concomitant 
chemoradiotherapy (weekly cisplatin/carboplatin or a cisplatin and 
5-fluorouracil combination), and 38 had received concomitant chemoradiotherapy 
alone. Radiotherapy delivered a median dose of 45 Gy to the pelvis and 65 Gy to 
the bladder in a once-daily or twice-daily fractionation scheme. Follow-up 
evaluations included cystoscopy with biopsies at regular intervals. Salvage 
cystectomy was recommended in the case of local persistent tumor or bladder 
relapse.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 48.5 months (range 10 to 126). Of the 22 
patients who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy, 18 (82%) had received two or 
more cycles; 51 (85%) of the 60 patients received the concomitant chemotherapy 
as planned. Radiotherapy was completed in 56 patients. Twenty-eight patients 
developed relapse either locally (14 did not achieve a complete local response 
after chemoradiotherapy and 6 had true local relapse during follow-up) or at 
distant sites. The actuarial 5-year disease-specific survival and freedom from 
local and distant relapse rate was 54% and 42%, respectively. The actuarial 
local control rate with an intact bladder was 56% at 5 years. When stratified 
according to stage and grade, patients with Stage T2-T3, grade 2 tumors had a 
statistically significantly better chance of remaining relapse free than did the 
others (P = 0.045). Salvage cystectomy (n = 11) for isolated local failure in 
this population achieved limited results.
CONCLUSIONS: Transurethral resection of bladder tumor with this 
chemoradiotherapy combination achieved satisfactory results in this unfavorable 
population with invasive bladder carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.088
PMID: 15351577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Urology. 2004 Sep;64(3):494-8. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.038.

Analysis of treatment for small cell cancer of the bladder and report of three 
cases.

Karpman E(1), Goldberg Z, Saffarian A, Gandour-Edwards R, Ellison LM, deVere 
White RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of California, Davis, School of Medicine, 
Sacramento 95817, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To present our experience with 3 patients with small cell cancer 
(SCC) of the bladder who were treated with different modalities and review the 
literature for patients undergoing primary chemoradiotherapy. SCC of the bladder 
is a rare tumor, with patients commonly presenting with metastatic disease. 
Surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy, either alone or as part of combined 
therapy, have been used. Because of the rarity of this disease, no prospective 
studies evaluating the most effective treatment have been done.
METHODS: The medical records of 3 patients diagnosed with SCC of the bladder at 
our institution were reviewed. Additionally, we reviewed published reports to 
identify all cases of SCC of the bladder treated with primary chemoradiotherapy.
RESULTS: Three patients with SCC of the bladder were identified at our 
institution. A total of 23 patients with SCC of the bladder who were treated 
with primary chemoradiotherapy were identified: 22 in published reports and 1 at 
our institution. Patients presented with muscle-invasive disease (17%), 
extravesical disease only (26%), and metastatic disease (52%). Multiagent 
chemotherapy was administered to most patients. The reported median radiation 
dose was 6000 cGy. A total of 16 patients (70%) were alive at a median follow-up 
of 34 months. The median survival of patients had not yet been reached in this 
study at the last follow-up. We did not find any reports of SCC recurrence in 
the bladder, and the bladder was preserved in most patients (87%).
CONCLUSIONS: SCC of the bladder should be viewed as a systemic disease, because 
most patients present with metastatic disease. Primary chemoradiotherapy appears 
to be an effective treatment modality. Prospective studies are needed to 
evaluate the optimal treatment further.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.038
PMID: 15351578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Urology. 2004 Sep;64(3):537-41; discussion 542-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.084.

Effect of dutasteride on the detection of prostate cancer in men with benign 
prostatic hyperplasia.

Andriole GL(1), Roehrborn C, Schulman C, Slawin KM, Somerville M, Rittmaster RS.

Author information:
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the rate of prostate cancer detection in three large 
randomized placebo-controlled benign prostatic hyperplasia trials of 
dutasteride. Dutasteride, which lowers serum dihydrotestosterone more than 93% 
by inhibiting type 1 and type 2 5-alpha-reductase, is effective in the treatment 
of benign prostatic hyperplasia. However, its effect on the development of 
prostate cancer is unknown.
METHODS: A total of 4325 men with benign prostatic hyperplasia but without a 
history, or evidence, of prostate cancer, and a serum prostate-specific antigen 
level of 1.5 to 10 ng/mL, were randomized to 0.5 mg/day dutasteride or placebo 
for 24 months. The prostate cancer detection rates for subjects were determined 
by non-protocol-mandated biopsies, either during the double-blind phase of the 
study or during the first 3 months of the open-label extension. A follow-up 
questionnaire was administered to a subset of consenting subjects to ascertain 
the number, outcomes, and reasons for the prostate biopsies.
RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of prostate cancer as an adverse event was 
significantly lower in the dutasteride versus placebo group at 24 months (1.1% 
versus 1.9%, P = 0.025) and 27 months (1.2% versus 2.5%, P = 0.002). There were 
no differences in the diagnosis rates of prostate cancer during the first 15 
months, after which time the detection rate of prostate cancer increased in the 
placebo group and remained low in the dutasteride group.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostate cancer detection was significantly lower in subjects 
randomized to dutasteride compared with the placebo group. These results have 
prompted the initiation of the Reduction by Dutasteride of Prostate Cancer 
Events (REDUCE) study, which was designed and powered to test the hypothesis 
that treatment with dutasteride decreases the incidence and progression of 
prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.084
PMID: 15351586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Urology. 2004 Sep;64(3):551-5. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.003.

Positive proximal (bladder neck) margin at radical prostatectomy confers greater 
risk of biochemical progression.

Aydin H(1), Tsuzuki T, Hernandez D, Walsh PC, Partin AW, Epstein JI.

