The increased prevalence of atrial fibrillation (AF) in older people contributes 
to an increased risk of stroke. Although clear guidelines exist, there is 
considerable variation in physicians' approaches to the selection of patients 
appropriate for warfarin treatment as stroke prevention. We compared attitudes 
to the anticoagulation of elderly patients with AF, in a postal study of 
geriatricians and specialist physicians (general physicians with specialist 
interests in Cardiology, Gastroenterology, Diabetes and Endocrinology, 
Nephrology and Neurology). A structured questionnaire was mailed to all 108 
consultant physicians and geriatricians in South East Wales. This explored their 
attitude to their patients' age and comorbidity when considering the benefits 
and risks of warfarin prophylaxis for AF. About 25/30 geriatricians (83%) and 
43/78 specialist physicians (55%) responded; an overall response rate of 63%. 
About 94% of the respondents agreed that patients aged over 75 with atrial 
fibrillation were at a greater risk of stroke than younger patients. About 68% 
considered warfarin related bleeds more likely in this age group, despite which 
most thought that the benefits of warfarin outweighed the risks. In people aged 
above 75, only 13/25 (52%) geriatricians and 17/43 (40%) specialist physicians 
viewed lone AF (AF with no underlying risk factor) as an indication for 
anticoagulation. When considering the use of warfarin, geriatricians' appeared 
more likely to be influenced by coexisting problems such as disability, falls, 
cerebrovascular disease and limited life expectancy. Only a history of falls 
(96% geriatricians vs. 86% specialist physicians) and cerebrovascular disease 
(79% geriatricians vs. 51% specialist physicians) had a significant influence on 
prescribing practice (P<0.05, chi(2) test). There appears to be widespread 
uncertainty about the indications for warfarin as stroke prophylaxis, and ageist 
attitudes or a lack of conviction of benefit appear to be disadvantaging older 
people. Patients aged below 65 with lone AF who are at the lowest risk of 
embolic events are often considered for treatment, whilst the use of warfarin in 
75-year-olds with lone AF who are at a moderately high risk of embolic events 
remains disappointing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4943(01)00184-4
PMID: 15374018


550. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 1995 Jul-Aug;21(1):21-6. doi: 
10.1016/0167-4943(95)00644-z.

Incidence of Alzheimer's dementia in homes for the elderly.

Leel-Ossy L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Vaszary Kolos University Hospital, H-2500 Esztergom, 
Petöfi 26-28, Hungary.

This study tried to emphasize the significance of statistical data (incidence 
rate) considering Alzheimer dementia (AD) because variations in incidence and 
types of dementias do exist in different countries. The data of persons living 
in two homes (elderly people and psychiatric patients) were overviewed together 
with the patients admitted to our hospital in 1993. It was discovered that there 
were 40 Alzheimer dementia cases in our catchment area of 107,000 population 
which may be increased by private and undiscovered cases to approximately 50 
cases. The number of the vascular dementia (VD) proved to be higher (2-3 x) than 
the AD. Our findings need also explanation considering the different proportions 
in the incidence rate of Alzheimer and vascular dementia existing between 
Hungary and other countries. It was concluded that the lower life expectancy, a 
tendency for vascular diseases and some environmental factors may be responsible 
for the higher number of VD. However these findings and statements should not 
decrease our effort in the research work which has to include the study of the 
etiology, pathogenesis and the possibility of a successful treatment of AD in 
the future.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4943(95)00644-z
PMID: 15374220


551. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 1991 Jul-Aug;13(1):89-101. doi: 
10.1016/0167-4943(91)90019-m.

Decelerated growth and longevity in men.

Holzenberger M(1), Martín-Crespo RM, Vicent D, Ruiz-Torres A.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Freie Universität Berlin, Berlin, F.R.G.

Severe dietary restriction delays the physical development of rodents and leads 
to adult animals of reduced body size but significantly increased life 
expectancy. We tried to find a similar relationship in human populations using 
demographical and statistical methods. We show for the total Spanish male 
population that the mean adult body height reliably reflects the regional living 
and nutritional conditions. This relation does not only hold for todays 
socioeconomic data but can also be reproduced using data on family income in the 
mid 19th century. We calculated the mean height of young men liable to the 
military service around 1860 and determined their longevity retrospectively 
using posterior census data. This was done separately for all the Spanish 
provinces. The linear regression between both parameters manifests a 
statistically highly significant relationship: the smaller the mean height at 
age 18 in a province, the higher the chance for people living there to reach 
high chronological ages. Migrational movements, selection, mortality due to 
epidemics or unreliability of the population censuses can be largely ruled out 
as explications for the described correlation. Furthermore, we determined the 
secular growth trend in Spain for the last 130 years. From 1860 to 1920 the mean 
height increased by 2.7 cm, from 1920 to 1987 by another 9.8 cm. Since 1950 the 
trend is above 2 cm per decade country-wide. From 1974 onwards it amounts to 
2.89 +/- 0.17. Such high values were worldwide looked upon as isolated cases 
found only in geographically and socially isolated population subgroups during 
very limited periods.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4943(91)90019-m
PMID: 15374439


552. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 1990 Mar-Apr;10(2):141-62. doi: 
10.1016/0167-4943(90)90015-x.

Geriatric oncology: perspectives from decision analysis. A review.

Claudia Beghe(1), Lodovico Balducci.

Author information:
(1)General Medicine, Medical Service, Bay Pines VA Medical Center, Bay Pines, FL 
33504, USA.

The management of advanced cancer in the older person is variable. In some 
patients with common malignancies chemotherapy may palliate symptoms and prolong 
survival, while in other patients chemotherapy is a cause of overwhelming 
toxicity and supportive care is the preferred form of treatment. We explored the 
principles of individualized management for the older person with cancer and we 
used decision analysis as a guide. From a decisional standpoint, geriatric 
malignancies may be subdivided into two categories: diseases whose management is 
not affected by age and diseases whose management may be age-conditioned. In the 
latter group one can distinguish three clinical situations: diseases with short 
survival when untreated, which are responsive only to highly toxic chemotherapy; 
diseases with short survival when untreated, which may be responsive to 
low-toxicity chemotherapy; and diseases with prolonged survival when untreated, 
whose clinical course may be affected by chemotherapy. From the analysis of 
these clinical situations, a critical paucity of information has emerged in five 
areas: prognostic evaluation of the older patients, interaction of comorbid 
conditions and cancer chemotherapy, availability of low-toxicity alternative 
treatment regimens, life expectancy and estimate of outcome utilities. Further 
research in these areas, according to the lines we propose, may fill critical 
gaps of knowledge and allow optimal management of geriatric cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4943(90)90015-x
PMID: 15374510


553. Ann Bot. 2004 Nov;94(5):753-62. doi: 10.1093/aob/mch200. Epub 2004 Sep 16.

Stature of sub-arctic birch in relation to growth rate, lifespan and tree form.

Jónsson TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Icelandic Institute of Natural History, POB 5320, 125 Reykjavik, Iceland, 
Iceland Forest Research Station, Mógilsá Kjalarnes, 116 Reykjavik, Iceland and 
Icelandic Horticultural College, Reykir, 810 Hveragerdi, Iceland.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Sub-arctic mountain birch Betula pubescens var. pumila 
communities in the North Atlantic region are of variable stature, ranging from 
prostrate scrubs to forests with trees up to 12 m high. Four hypotheses were 
tested, relating growth and population characteristics of sub-arctic birch 
woodland and scrub to tree stature; i.e. the variable stature of birch woods is 
due to differences in (1) the mean growth rate; (2) the age-related patterns of 
growth rate; (3) the life expectancy of stems; or (4) the tree form.
METHODS: A stratified random sample of 300 birch trees was drawn from the total 
population of indigenous birch woodlands and scrub in Iceland, yielding 286 
valid sample genets. The population was divided into three sub-populations with 
dominant trees 0-2, 2-4 and 4-12 m tall, referred to as birch scrub, birch 
scrub-woodland and birch forest, respectively.
KEY RESULTS: Trees in the scrub population were of more contorted growth form 
than birch in the scrub-woodland and forest populations. Mean growth rates, mean 
age and median life expectancies increased significantly with sub-population of 
greater tree stature. At the population level, annual increment and longevity of 
birch stems was apparently interrelated as the stems in vigorously growing birch 
sub-populations had a longer life expectancy than those of slower growth. 
However, no difference was observed between sub-populations in age-related 
patterns of extension growth rate.
CONCLUSIONS: The results were consistent with hypotheses (1), (3) and (4), but 
hypothesis (2) was rejected. Hence, mountain birch of more vigorous growth 
attains a greater stature than birch of lesser increment due to faster extension 
growth rate and a longer lifespan. In addition, the more contorted stem form of 
scrub populations contributes to their low stature.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mch200
PMCID: PMC4242221
PMID: 15374837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Science. 2004 Sep 17;305(5691):1736-9. doi: 10.1126/science.1092556.

Inflammatory exposure and historical changes in human life-spans.

Finch CE(1), Crimmins EM.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center and Departments of Biological Sciencesand of 
Sociology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA. 
cefinch@usc.edu

Comment in
    Science. 2005 Jan 14;307(5707):208-9; author reply 208-9.
    Science. 2005 Jan 14;307(5707):208-9; author reply 208-9.
    Science. 2005 Jun 17;308(5729):1743; author reply 1743.

Most explanations of the increase in life expectancy at older ages over history 
emphasize the importance of medical and public health factors of a particular 
historical period. We propose that the reduction in lifetime exposure to 
infectious diseases and other sources of inflammation--a cohort mechanism--has 
also made an important contribution to the historical decline in old-age 
mortality. Analysis of birth cohorts across the life-span since 1751 in Sweden 
reveals strong associations between early-age mortality and subsequent mortality 
in the same cohorts. We propose that a "cohort morbidity phenotype" represents 
inflammatory processes that persist from early age into adult life.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1092556
PMID: 15375259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2004 Jun;23(6):1499-503. doi: 10.1897/03-96.

Fitness cost of resistance to cadmium in the least killifish (Heterandria 
formosa).

Xie L(1), Klerks PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Louisiana Lafayette, P.O. Box 42451, 
Lafayette, Louisiana 70504, USA.

Fitness costs constrain the evolution of resistance to environmental stress in 
populations. We earlier reported on a rapid response to laboratory selection for 
cadmium resistance in the least killifish (Heterandria formosa). By the sixth 
generation, the three selection populations were threefold more resistant to 
cadmium than the control populations. Here, we report the fitness costs and 
trade-offs associated with this evolution of resistance. In the F3 and F4 
generations, the selection populations produced smaller-sized offspring than the 
control populations. A comprehensive life-history traits study in the F7 
generation showed that the selection populations had, on average, an 18% 
decrease in fecundity. The selection populations also had a smaller brood size, 
longer time to first reproduction, and shorter female life expectancy than the 
control populations. Our results strongly suggest that fitness costs and 
trade-offs were associated with the evolution of resistance to cadmium in the 
least killifish. The fitness costs and trade-offs may result from maintenance of 
the underlying resistance mechanisms, leading to changes in resource allocation 
in the cadmium-adapted fish.

DOI: 10.1897/03-96
PMID: 15376535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. IEEE Trans Nanobioscience. 2003 Dec;2(4):233-8. doi:
10.1109/tnb.2003.817019.

The role of 3' UTRs in the mechanisms for segregating mitochondrial proteins.

Pattini L(1), Cerutti S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Polytechnic University of Milan, Milan 
32-20133, Italy. pattini@biomed.polimi.it

The mitochondrial proteome, meant as the collection of proteins localized in the 
mitochondrion, whose fundamental function is the energy production for the life 
of the cell, is estimated to be constituted by at least 1000 proteins. Since the 
mitochondrial genome codes only for 13 polypeptides, in practice all of them are 
coded by nuclear genes and are imported in the mitochondrion by means of a 
sophisticated mechanism of sorting that is not completely known. Most classified 
mitochondrial proteins are synthesized as precursors with an amino-terminal 
extension (leader peptide), provided with peculiar physical and structural 
characteristics that are responsible for the recognition and import system. 
However, there is experimental evidence that complementary or alternative import 
systems exist. In particular, the 3' UnTranslated Regions (UTRs) of the mRNAs 
may be involved, through their secondary structure, in the mechanisms of 
recognition and localization. In this paper, the information content of 
different human mRNA sequences has been analyzed, and the results show that a 
significative short-term correlation exists in the 3' UTR sequences of the 
mRNA's coding for the proteins provided with leader peptides, probably 
representing the structural constraints that are necessary to the sorting 
machinery.

DOI: 10.1109/tnb.2003.817019
PMID: 15376913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Haematologica. 2004 Sep;89(9):1054-61.

Treatment of severe aplastic anemia with antilymphocyte globulin, cyclosporine 
and two different granulocyte colony-stimulating factor regimens: a GITMO 
prospective randomized study.

Locasciulli A(1), Bruno B, Rambaldi A, Saracco P, Dufour C, Finelli C, Sica S, 
Varotto S, Arcese W, Locatelli F, Soligo D, Bacigalupo A; GITMO prospective 
randomized study.

Author information:
(1)Ematologia e Trapianto di Midollo, Ospedale San Camillo, Circonvallazione 
Gianicolense 87, 00152 Rome, Italy. annabri@libero.it

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: In a previous study we showed that patients with 
severe aplastic anemia (SAA) treated with anti-lymphocyte globulin (ALG), 
cyclosporin (CyA) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) 5 micro 
g/kg/day had an encouraging outcome. However, failure to respond, delayed 
responses, partial responses, relapses and early deaths remain significant 
problems. The aim of the present study was to test whether a higher dose of 
G-CSF (10 micro g/kg/day) would reduce these complications.
DESIGN AND METHODS: This was a multicenter prospective trial in 77 SAA patients 
treated with horse ALG (15 mg/kg/day day1-5) and CyA (5 mg/kg/day day 1-180). 
Patients were randomized to receive G-CSF 5 micro g/kg/day (n=38, group A) or 10 
micro g/kg/day (n=39, group B) from day +1 to day +30. All patients then 
received G-CSF 5 micro g/kg/day from day +31 to day +90. The primary end point 
of this study was response at day +120. Secondary end points were early deaths, 
blood counts at day +120, and survival.
RESULTS: At day +120 responses were classified as absent, partial, and complete 
in 12, 22, and 4 patients in group A and in 23, 7, and 9 patients in group B 
(p=0.001). At last follow-up these figures were respectively 9, 12, and 17 vs 
19, 2, and 18 (p=0.004). Thirteen patients (5 in group A and 8 in group B) died 
before day 120 (p=0.3). Median peripheral blood counts on day 120 were 
comparable in the two groups: Hb 10.5 and 9.5 g/dL in group A and B, 
respectively (p=0.6), Neutrophil counts were 2.4 vs 1.9x10(9)/L in groups A and 
B (p=0.4) and platelet counts were, respectively, 42 vs 36x10(9)/L (p=0.3). The 
actuarial survival at 4 years is 72% in group A and 67% in group B (p=0.3).
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Increasing the dose of G-CSF does not appear to 
reduce early deaths, does not improve peripheral blood counts nor survival, and 
may reduce the response rate in patients with SAA receiving ALG and CyA.

PMID: 15377466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Haematologica. 2004 Sep;89(9):1082-90.

The influence of age on prognosis of de novo acute myeloid leukemia differs 
according to cytogenetic subgroups.

Schoch C(1), Kern W, Schnittger S, Büchner T, Hiddemann W, Haferlach T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Leukemia Diagnostics, Department of Internal Medicine III, 
University Hospital Grosshadern, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany. 
claudia.schoch@med3.med.uni-muenchen.de 
<claudia.schoch@med3.med.uni-muenchen.de>

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: In the presented study the effect of age and 
cytogenetics on clinical outcome in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) was evaluated. 
The 1225 patients with de novo AML were separated according to age as follows: 
A1: 16 to 49 years (n=442), A2: 50 to 59 years (n=246), A3: 60-69 years (n=333), 
A4: 70 years and older (n=204).
DESIGN AND METHODS: Patients were categorized with respect to cytogenetics into 
5 groups: C1: t(15;17) (n=107), C2: CBF-AML/inv(16)/t(8;21) (n=171), C3: 
11q23/MLL (n=42), C4: complex aberrant karyotype (n=130), C5: other: normal, 
other abnormalities, 5q-/-5, 7q-/-7, inv(3)/t(3;3), other 3q abnormalities 
(n=746). For each age category univariate cox regression analysis was performed 
using age as a continuous variable and C1 to C5 as dichotomous variables.
RESULTS: In cohort A1 all parameters were significantly associated with overall 
survival (OS). However, in multivariate analysis all cytogenetic parameters were 
independently correlated with OS, while age was not. In cohort A2 only CBF and 
complex aberrant karyotype were significantly correlated with OS. In A3 
t(15;17), complex karyotype and age, and in A4 only complex karyotype and age 
were significantly associated with OS in univariate and multivariate analyses. 
Within all cytogenetic subgroups except AML 11q23/MLL there were significant 
associations between age and OS.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: (i) Both age and cytogenetics are independent 
prognostic parameters in AML;(ii) up to the age of 49 years age has no major 
impact on prognosis while the karyotype has; (iii) in patients 50 years and 
older the influence of age on outcome increases, and (iv) cytogenetics show an 
independent effect on survival also in patients over 60 years old.

PMID: 15377469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Haematologica. 2004 Sep;89(9):1134-8.

G20210A prothrombin gene variant and clinical outcome in patients with a first 
acute coronary syndrome.

Burzotta F(1), Leone AM, Paciaroni K, De Stefano V, Rossi E, Testa L, Giannico 
F, Leone G, Maseri A, Crea F, Andreotti F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology, Catholic University, Rome, Italy. 
f.burzotta@eudoramail.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The prognostic value of the G20210A prothrombin gene 
polymorphism in patients with a first acute coronary syndrome has not been 
previously assessed. We conducted a prospective study to investigate this issue.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Genotyping at the 20210 prothrombin gene locus was performed 
in 162 patients with a first episode of myocardial infarction (MI) or unstable 
angina (UA) occurring before 65 years of age. Patients were stratified according 
to cardiovascular risk factors and to treatment strategy. The subsequent 
two-year relative risk (RR) of adverse events (death, MI and UA) was adjusted 
for possible confounders and analyzed according to genotype, risk factor 
category, and treatment allocation.
RESULTS: In the entire study population, the prothrombin variant did not 
significantly increase the two-year risk of events: the adjusted RR for GA vs GG 
carriers was 1.82 (95% CI 0.68-4.89). However, in the absence of traditional 
cardiovascular risk factors the risk of events was consistently higher: among 
the 46 patients without hypertension, diabetes and hypercholesterolemia, GA vs 
GG carriership was associated with an adjusted RR at two years of 5.64 (95% CI 
1.07-29.84). The gene variant also enhanced the risk of events among the 98 
patients who did not undergo myocardial revascularization procedures (RR for GA 
vs GG: 2.89, 95% CI 1.04-8.00), but not among those who did.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: The present prospective study suggests that 
heterozygosity for the G20210A prothrombin polymorphism adversely affects 
prognosis after a first acute coronary syndrome in the subgroup of patients 
without metabolic risk factors and in those not treated by revascularization 
procedures.

PMID: 15377476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. BMJ. 2004 Oct 2;329(7469):767. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38202.667130.55. Epub 2004
Sep  17.

Life span and disability: a cross sectional comparison of Russian and Swedish 
community based data.

Bobak M(1), Kristenson M, Pikhart H, Marmot M.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Health and Society, University College London, 
London WC1E 6BT. m.bobak@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2004 Nov 27;329(7477):1288; author reply 1288.

OBJECTIVES: To compare levels of disability (in terms of physical function and 
self rated health) among middle aged and elderly people in Russia and Sweden, a 
country with high life expectancy.
DESIGN: Cross sectional study.
SETTING: General population of the Russian Federation and of two counties in 
southern Sweden.
PARTICIPANTS: Randomly selected men and women in Sweden (n = 9489) and Russia (n 
= 1599).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Official life table data; self rated health and physical 
functioning (subscale of the SF-36).
RESULTS: The official life table data showed large differences in mortality--for 
example, 36% of Russian men aged 45-49 years would survive the next 25 years 
compared with 75% of Swedish men. The survey data showed, for both sexes, 
similar levels of self rated health and physical functioning in the two 
countries up to the age of about 45 years, but after that, the age related 
decline in both outcomes was much faster in Russia than in Sweden. By combining 
the national life tables with survey data on physical functioning we estimated 
that in the age group 45-49 years, 99% of Russian and 97% of Swedish men would 
be free of disability; of these, if these data were for a cohort, only 17% of 
Russians would be alive and free of disability 25 years later compared with 65% 
of Swedes. The difference in survival was similar in women.
CONCLUSIONS: Large differences exist in survival without disability between 
elderly Russians and Swedes. The short life span in Russia reflects high levels 
of ill health and disability and is associated with a rapid age related decline 
in physical functioning.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38202.667130.55
PMCID: PMC520996
PMID: 15377571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Med Care. 2004 Oct;42(10):939-42. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200410000-00001.

Socioeconomic status disparities in healthcare outcomes: selection bias or 
biased treatment?

Fiscella K.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200410000-00001
PMID: 15377925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2004 
Sep;47(9):882-9. doi: 10.1007/s00103-004-0898-0.

The Dutch National Atlas of Public Health.

Zwakhals SL(1), Giesbers H, Mac Gillavry E, van Boven PF, van der Veen AA.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health and the Environment, Centrum 
Volksgezondheid Toekomst Verkenningen. laurens.zwakhals@rivm.nl

The Dutch National Atlas of Public Health (http://www.zorgatlas.nl) maps the 
regional distribution of demand and usage of health care, public health status 
and influencing factors. The Atlas provides answers to locational questions, e. 
g. 'Where are the highest mortality rates?', 'Where are the longest waiting 
lists?' and 'Where are hospitals located?' Maps play a pivotal role in the 
Atlas. Texts, graphics and diagrams support the interpretation of the maps. The 
information in the Atlas specifically targets policy makers at the Ministry of 
Health, Welfare and Sport. For them, the Atlas is a tool for problem detection, 
policy making and policy evaluation. The Atlas is also aimed at all 
professionals in health care. In practice, also the general public appears to 
access and use the Atlas. The Atlas is part of the Dutch Public Health Status 
and Forecasts (PHSF). The PHSF is made by the National Institute of Public 
Health and the Environment mandated by the Ministry of Health, Welfare and 
Sport.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-004-0898-0
PMID: 15378176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Haematologica. 1994 Jan-Feb;79(1):46-54.

Probability of cure in elderly Hodgkin's disease patients.

Levis A(1), Depaoli L, Urgesi A, Bertini M, Orsucci L, Vitolo U, Buchi G, 
Gallamini A, Gavarotti P, Novarino A, Rota Scalabrini D, Mazza U, Pileri A, 
Sannazzari GL, Resegotti L.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Ospedale Molinette, Torino, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Elderly Hodgkin's disease patients have a poor prognosis. The 
question arises whether these patients need aggressive treatment or a palliative 
strategy. So far, as a consequence of the scarcity of trials designed for them, 
useful information can be obtained only by retrospective analyses.
METHODS: We retrospectively studied clinical data from 567 patients recorded 
from 1982 to 1989 in the Piemonte Hodgkin's Disease Register (PHDR). The 65 
patients over 65 years of age were compared to younger ones. We analyzed the 
role of disease independently of confounding variables, mainly inadequacy of 
staging and/or treatment, comorbidity and toxicity.
RESULTS: In the elderly comorbidity was as high as 35%. Forty elderly patients 
(60%) entered a suboptimal plan with a low degree of aggressivity, which was 
different from the usual PHDR protocol. Elderly patients also had a high 
proportion of subsequent protocol interruptions (25%). Chemotherapy dose 
intensity was negatively affected by advanced age (p < 0.01 after both 3 and 6 
courses of chemotherapy). Toxic deaths were significantly higher in elderly 
patients than in younger ones (14% vs 1%; p < 0.05). CR rates, overall survival 
(OS), disease-specific survival (DSS) and event free survival (EFS) were all 
significantly influenced by age (p < 0.01). Relapse-free survival (RFS) in 
patients achieving CR did not differ according to age class (77% vs 60%; p = 
ns). RFS was better in elderly patients entering the PHDR protocols than in 
those following an alternative plan (75% vs 54%; p = 0.04); however, elderly 
patients treated according to PHDR guidelines showed a higher incidence of toxic 
deaths than those treated less aggressively (23% vs 8%). The two groups had 
similar EFS (36% vs 24%; p = ns).
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly patients who achieve CR can have good RFS and cure is 
possible, but the toxic cost of conventional strategies is unacceptable and 
selected strategies still must be found.

PMID: 15378948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. J Psychol. 2004 Jul;138(4):293-302. doi: 10.3200/JRLP.138.4.293-302.

Achievement age-death age correlations alone cannot provide unequivocal support 
for the precocity-longevity hypothesis.

McCann SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral and Life Sciences, University College of Cape 
Breton, P.O. Box 5300, Sydney, Nova Scotia, Canada B1P 6L2. 
stewart_mccann@uccb.ca

This study is a further exploration (see S. J. H. McCann, 2001) of the capacity 
of the selection bias and life expectancy artifacts to produce correlations 
between peak achievement ages and death ages that could be mistakenly construed 
as support for the precocity-longevity hypothesis that those who reach career 
pinnacles earlier tend to have shorter lives. For 1,672 governors, 10 fake 
achievement age variables and 10 fake death age variables were randomly 
generated. Fake achievement age variables were correlated with real death age; 
fake death age variables were correlated with real achievement age. However, the 
real age correlations were much larger than the fake age correlations, and when 
the 2 artifacts were controlled through a subsample strategy, only real age 
correlations were significant. Overall, the results support the 
precocity-longevity hypothesis.

DOI: 10.3200/JRLP.138.4.293-302
PMID: 15379007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Aging Cell. 2004 Oct;3(5):249-51. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00112.x.

Is aging programed?

Austad SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular & Structural Biology, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, STCBM Bldg., Room 3.100, Barshop Center for Longevity & Aging 
Studies, 15355 Lambda Drive, San Antonio, TX 78245, USA. austad@uthscsa.edu

Development and morphogenesis may easily be thought of as programed, in the 
sense that they result from a sequence of cellular and molecular events designed 
by natural selection to produce a given adult phenotype. Aging, except in 
exceptional cases such as the rapid decay and death of Pacific salmon, is not 
design but decay. The decay of senescence is not due to natural selection's 
designing hand, but to its absence. The empirical difference between programed 
and nonprogramed senescence becomes evident when comparing the stereotypical 
steps leading to death in salmon contrasted with the lack of such stereotypy in 
most organisms such as humans and mice. Understanding the distinction between 
programed development and nonprogramed senescence helps focus attention on the 
phenotypic performance of adults, which is the focus of natural selection, and 
therefore be attentive to any unwanted pleiotropic side-effects of genetic or 
environmental treatments which retard aging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00112.x
PMID: 15379846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Neurochem. 2004 Oct;91(1):133-43. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2004.02700.x.

The arachidonic acid 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid inhibits 
tumor necrosis factor alpha activation of microglia and extends survival of 
G93A-SOD1 transgenic mice.

West M(1), Mhatre M, Ceballos A, Floyd RA, Grammas P, Gabbita SP, Hamdheydari L, 
Mai T, Mou S, Pye QN, Stewart C, West S, Williamson KS, Zemlan F, Hensley K.

Author information:
(1)Free Radical Biology and Aging Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73104, USA.

Familial forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) can be caused by mutations 
in copper, zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1). Mice expressing SOD1 mutants 
demonstrate a robust neuroinflammatory reaction characterized, in part, by 
up-regulation of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and its primary receptor 
TNF-RI. In an effort to identify small molecule inhibitors of neuroinflammation 
useful in treatment of ALS, a microglial culture system was established to 
identify TNFalpha antagonists. Walker EOC-20 microglia cells were stimulated 
with recombinant TNFalpha, with or without inhibitors, and the cell response was 
indexed by NO2- output. Three hundred and fifty-five rationally selected 
compounds were included in this bioassay. The arachidonic acid 5-lipoxygenase 
(5LOX) and tyrosine kinase inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), a natural 
dicatechol, was one of the most potent non-cytotoxic antagonists tested (IC50 8 
+/- 3 microm). Investigation of the G93A-SOD1 mouse model for ALS revealed 
increased message and protein levels of 5LOX at 120 days of age. Oral NDGA (2500 
p.p.m.) significantly extended lifespan and slowed motor dysfunction in this 
mouse, when administration was begun relatively late in life (90 days). NDGA 
extended median total lifespan of G93A-SOD1 mice by 10%, and life expectancy 
following start of treatment was extended by 32%. Disease-associated gliosis and 
cleaved microtubule-associated tau protein, an indicator of axon damage, were 
likewise reduced by NDGA. Thus, TNFalpha antagonists and especially 5LOX 
inhibitors might offer new opportunities for treatment of ALS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2004.02700.x
PMID: 15379894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Clin Immunol. 2004 Oct;113(1):81-8. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2004.06.003.

Leishmania infantum enhances human immunodeficiency virus type-1 replication in 
primary human macrophages through a complex cytokine network.

Zhao C(1), Papadopoulou B, Tremblay MJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Immuno-Retrovirology, Research Center in Infectious 
Diseases, RC709, CHUL Research Center, Quebec G1V 4G2, Canada.

Leishmaniasis has emerged as an important potential opportunistic disease among 
patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1). It has been 
reported that the visceral form of leishmaniasis accelerates the course of HIV-1 
disease progression and shortens the life expectancy of persons in areas where 
both diseases are endemic. As both pathogens can infect in a productive manner 
the same target cell, that is, the macrophage, we examined the possible 
modulatory effect of the protozoan parasite Leishmania infantum on the biology 
of HIV-1 in primary human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs). We found that 
coinfection of MDMs with Leishmania and HIV-1 resulted in a significant 
enhancement of both virus transcription and release of progeny virus. The 
Leishmania-directed increase in HIV-1 production was associated with an 
increased secretion of the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1 alpha. 
Altogether, these findings indicate that the presence of Leishmania and HIV-1 
within the same cellular microenvironment leads to an enhancement of virus gene 
expression. The present work also underscores the importance of studying the 
possible complex interactions between two human pathogens in a physiological 
cellular reservoir.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clim.2004.06.003
PMID: 15380533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Circulation. 2004 Oct 5;110(14):1967-73. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000143150.13727.19. Epub 2004 Sep 20.

Health system costs of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in relation to time to 
shock.

van Alem AP(1), Dijkgraaf MG, Tijssen JG, Koster RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Academic Medical Center, Room F3-241, Meibergdreef 
9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands. a.p.vanalem@amc.uva.nl.

BACKGROUND: Early defibrillation results in higher admission rates and 
healthcare costs. This study determined the healthcare resources used and 
related medical costs after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) in relation to 
time to shock. We assessed the incremental healthcare costs per life gained from 
reduction in time to shock of 2, 4, and 6 minutes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Clinical and costs data of patients in witnessed OHCA with 
ventricular fibrillation as initial rhythm were collected. Each patient's time 
to shock was estimated and assigned to 1 of 3 categories: < or =7 minutes 
(early), 7 to 12 minutes (intermediate), and >12 minutes (late). Incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis and Monte Carlo simulation compared scenarios of 
reduction in time to shock of 2, 4, and 6 minutes. Six-month survival was 22%. 
Mean prehospital, in-hospital, and posthospital costs in the first half-year 
after OHCA were 559 Euros, 6869 Euros and 666 Euros. Mean costs were 28,636 
Euros per survivor and 2384 Euros per nonsurvivor. Among patients shocked early 
(n=24), 46% survived, with costs averaging 20,253 Euros. Of the intermediate 
group (n=149), 26% survived, with costs averaging 31,467 Euros. Among patients 
shocked late (n=135), 13% survived, with costs averaging 27,781 Euros. The point 
estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of reduction of time to 
shock of 2, 4, and 6 minutes compared with baseline were 17,508 Euros, 14,303 
Euros, and 12,708 Euros per life saved, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Costs per survivor were lowest with the shortest time to shock 
because of shorter stay in the intensive care unit. Reducing the time to 
defibrillation increases the healthcare costs by an acceptable amount according 
to current standards and is economically attractive.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000143150.13727.19
PMID: 15381641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Circulation. 2004 Sep 28;110(13):1780-6. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000143059.68996.A7. Epub 2004 Sep 20.

Prognostic impact of plasma N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide in severe 
chronic congestive heart failure: a substudy of the Carvedilol Prospective 
Randomized Cumulative Survival (COPERNICUS) trial.

Hartmann F(1), Packer M, Coats AJ, Fowler MB, Krum H, Mohacsi P, Rouleau JL, 
Tendera M, Castaigne A, Anker SD, Amann-Zalan I, Hoersch S, Katus HA.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik II, Universitaetsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, Campus 
Luebeck, Ratzeburger Allee 160, D-23538 Luebeck, Germany. 
hartmann@medinf.mu-luebeck.de

BACKGROUND: The utility of N-terminal proBNP (NT-proBNP) to predict the 
occurrence of death and hospitalization was prospectively evaluated in the 
COPERNICUS study, which enrolled patients with an ejection fraction <25% and 
symptoms of chronic congestive heart failure at rest or on minimal exertion.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Baseline plasma concentrations of NT-proBNP were measured 
in a subgroup of 814 men and 197 women with symptoms at rest or on minimal 
exertion who were enrolled in the COPERNICUS study and were randomized to 
placebo (n=506) or carvedilol (n=505). Values of NT-proBNP were markedly 
increased despite the requirement that patients be euvolemic before the start of 
treatment (mean+/-SD, 3235+/-4392 pg/mL; median, 1767 pg/mL). By univariate Cox 
regression analysis, NT-proBNP was found to be a powerful predictor of 
subsequent all-cause mortality (relative risk [RR], 2.7; 95% CI, 1.7 to 4.3; 
P=0.0001 for above versus below median) and all-cause mortality or 
hospitalization for heart failure (RR, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.8 to 3.4; P=0.0001 for 
above versus below median). The predictive value of NT-proBNP was similar when 
both placebo and carvedilol patients were analyzed separately. No significant 
interaction was found between NT-proBNP and treatment group (P=0.93 for above- 
versus below-median NT-proBNP).
CONCLUSIONS: NT-proBNP was consistently associated with increased risk for 
all-cause mortality and for all-cause mortality or hospitalization for heart 
failure in patients with severe congestive heart failure, even in those who were 
clinically euvolemic. This marker therefore may be a useful tool in risk 
stratification of patients with severe congestive heart failure.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000143059.68996.A7
PMID: 15381643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Circulation. 2004 Sep 28;110(13):1738-42. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000143105.42988.FD. Epub 2004 Sep 20.

Role of coronary collaterals in off-pump and on-pump coronary bypass surgery.

Nathoe HM(1), Buskens E, Jansen EW, Suyker WJ, Stella PR, Lahpor JR, van Boven 
WJ, van Dijk D, Diephuis JC, Borst C, Moons KG, Grobbee DE, de Jaegere PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Heart Lung Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Collaterals limit infarct size, preserve viability, and reduce 
mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction. In patients with stable 
coronary disease, collaterals are associated with less angina and ischemia 
during angioplasty and fewer ischemic events during follow-up. The role of 
collaterals has not been studied in patients undergoing off-pump or on-pump 
bypass surgery.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The population consisted of the 281 patients randomized to 
off-pump or on-pump CABG in the Octopus Study. Collaterals were defined on the 
baseline angiogram with the Rentrop score and were present in 49% and 51% of the 
patients in the off-pump and on-pump group, respectively. Perioperative 
myocardial infarction was defined by a creatine kinase-MB to CK ratio >10% and 
occurred in 18.2% in the off-pump group and 32.5% in the on-pump group. The 
unadjusted OR of perioperative myocardial infarction in the presence of 
collaterals was 0.31 (95% CI 0.17 to 0.84) in the off-pump group and 1.06 (95% 
CI 0.29 to 3.85) in the on-pump group After adjustment for age, gender, 
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes, multivessel disease, ventricular 
dysfunction, incomplete revascularization, and ischemic time, the OR was 0.34 
(95% CI 0.14 to 0.84) in the off-pump group and 1.28 (95% CI 0.30 to 5.40) in 
the on-pump group, respectively. Kaplan-Meier estimates of event-free survival 
at 1 year were 87% in patients with and 69% in those without collaterals after 
off-pump CABG. These estimates were 66% and 63%, respectively, after on-pump 
CABG.
CONCLUSIONS: Collaterals protect against perioperative myocardial infarction 
during off-pump surgery but not during on-pump surgery and are associated with a 
better 1-year event-free survival.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000143105.42988.FD
PMID: 15381650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Br J Surg. 2004 Oct;91(10):1300-6. doi: 10.1002/bjs.4755.

Economic analysis of VenUS I, a randomized trial of two bandages for treating 
venous leg ulcers.

Iglesias CP(1), Nelson EA, Cullum N, Torgerson DJ; VenUS I collaborators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Seebohm Rowntree Building (Area 4), University 
of York, Heslington, York YO10 5DD, UK.

BACKGROUND: The study investigated the cost-effectiveness of four-layer and 
short-stretch compression bandages for treating venous leg ulcers.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses were performed using 
patient-level data collected alongside the VenUS I leg ulcer study. The 
perspective for the economic analysis was that of the UK National Health Service 
(NHS) and Personal Social Service. The time horizon for the analysis was 1 year 
after recruitment. Health benefit was measured as differences in ulcer-free days 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The mean healing time for ulcers treated with four-layer bandages was 
10.9 (95 per cent confidence interval (c.i.) -6.8 to 29.1) days less than that 
for ulcers treated with short-stretch bandages. Mean average difference in QALYs 
between compression systems was -0.02 (95 per cent c.i. -0.08 to 0.04). The 
four-layer bandage cost a mean of pound 227.32 (95 per cent c.i. pound 16.53 to 
pound 448 .30) less per patient per year than the short-stretch bandage.
CONCLUSION: On average, four-layer bandaging was associated with greater health 
benefits and lower costs than short-stretch bandaging.

Copyright (c) 2004 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.4755
PMID: 15382101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. BJOG. 2004 Oct;111(10):1103-14. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2004.00265.x.

A cost-utility analysis of microwave and thermal balloon endometrial ablation 
techniques for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding.

Garside R(1), Stein K, Wyatt K, Round A, Pitt M.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group, Peninsula Medical School, Universities 
of Exeter and Plymouth, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of the second-generation surgical 
treatments for heavy menstrual bleeding (microwave and thermal balloon 
endometrial ablation) compared with existing endometrial ablation techniques 
(transcervical resection and rollerball, alone or in combination) and 
hysterectomy.
DESIGN: A state transition (Markov) cost-utility economic model.
POPULATION: Women with heavy menstrual bleeding.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed using spreadsheet software. Transition 
probabilities, costs and quality of life data were obtained from a systematic 
review of effectiveness undertaken by the authors, from published sources, and 
expert opinion. Cost data were obtained from the literature and from a NHS trust 
hospital. Indirect comparison of thermal balloon endometrial ablation versus 
microwave endometrial ablation or either second-generation endometrial ablation 
method versus hysterectomy, and comparison of second-generation versus 
first-generation techniques were carried out from the perspective of health 
service payers. The effects of uncertainty were explored through extensive 
one-way sensitivity analyses and Monte Carlo simulation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost effectiveness ratios based on cost per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained, and cost effectiveness acceptability 
curves.
RESULTS: Compared with first-generation techniques, both microwave and thermal 
balloon endometrial ablation cost less and accrued more QALYs. Hysterectomy was 
more expensive, but accrued more QALYs than all endometrial ablation methods. 
Baseline results showed that differences between microwave endometrial ablation 
and thermal balloon endometrial ablation were slight. Sensitivity analyses 
showed that small changes in values may have a marked effect on cost 
effectiveness. Probabilistic simulation highlighted the uncertainty in 
comparisons between different endometrial ablation options, particularly between 
second-generation techniques.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite limitations in available data, the analysis suggests that 
second-generation techniques are likely to be more cost effective than 
first-generation techniques in most cases. Hysterectomy, where a woman finds 
this option acceptable, continues to be a very cost effective procedure compared 
with all endometrial ablation methods.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2004.00265.x
PMID: 15383113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Am J Kidney Dis. 2004 Oct;44(4):651-60.

Inherited epidermolysis bullosa and the risk of death from renal disease: 
experience of the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Registry.

Fine JD(1), Johnson LB, Weiner M, Stein A, Cash S, DeLeoz J, Devries DT, 
Suchindran C; National Epidermolysis Bullosa Registry.

Author information:
(1)The National Epidermolysis Bullosa Registry, Lexington, KY, USA. 
ProfMoose@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Isolated case reports and limited clinical series suggested that 
renal failure may occur in some patients with inherited epidermolysis bullosa 
(EB). Reported causes have included poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis, 
secondary amyloidosis, and chronic mechanical obstruction. To date, no data 
exist that permit an accurate estimation of the risk for death from renal 
failure in patients with this disease.
METHODS: Life table analyses were performed using 16 years of data from the 
National EB Registry, a federally funded longitudinal epidemiological study 
encompassing the entire continental United States. Data were stratified so that 
cumulative and conditional risks for death from renal failure could be 
estimated. Renal failure as cause of death was identified by death certificates 
and verified from hospital records and interviews with the patients' immediate 
families.
RESULTS: The cumulative risk for death from renal failure among patients with 
Hallopeau-Siemens recessive dystrophic EB (RDEB-HS) was 12.3% by age 35 years. 
In addition, deaths from renal failure also were reported rarely in patients 
with other subtypes of generalized RDEB and in junctional EB (JEB).
CONCLUSION: Renal failure is an important cause of death among adults with 
RDEB-HS, surpassed only by death from metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. It 
also rarely may occur in the setting of JEB and other subtypes of generalized 
RDEB. Given our data, medical surveillance for early renal involvement should 
become part of the routine evaluation of all adults with RDEB and JEB.

PMID: 15384016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. J Insur Med. 2004;36(2):115-8.

Preparation of mortality abstracts.

Ivanovic B.

Comment on
    J Insur Med. 1991 Spring;23(1):21-9.

PMID: 15384231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Insur Med. 2004;36(2):119-20.

Morbidity/mortality abstraction--finding suitable articles.

Kita MW(1).

Author information:
(1)UNUM Life Insurance Company, Portland, ME, USA.

PMID: 15384233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. J Insur Med. 2004;36(2):130-1.

Anatomy of an abstract.

Kita MW.

PMID: 15384235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Provider. 2004 Aug;30(8):33-5.

Alzheimer's Gains fuel optimism.

Vickery K.

PMID: 15384309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Acta Paediatr. 2004 Sep;93(9):1166-71. doi: 10.1080/08035250410027652.

A novel technique to measure position-dependent resistance changes in the 
vertebral arteries postmortem: new insights into the aetiology of SIDS?

Wald M(1), Klupp N, Lawrenz K, Puig S, Heimberger K, Reiter C, Pollak A, 
Ipsiroglu O.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology and Intensive Care, Department of Paediatrics, 
University of Vienna, Austria. martin.wald@meduniwien.ac.at

AIM: A central respiratory regulation disturbance--triggered by impaired oxygen 
supply to the brainstem--is being discussed as an aetiological factor in sudden 
infant death syndrome. In this experimental study, further insight was sought 
into how far cervical spine movements may induce critical narrowing of the 
vertebral arteries.
METHODS: In 10 infant bodies, the vertebral arteries were cannulated close to 
their origin and perfused with a fluid bolus of 5 ml in 2 s. The intravascular 
peak pressure created was memorized. Individual resistance indices were computed 
for every vertebral artery by relating the average pressure maximum from 10 
measurements each with maximal rotation of the neck to either side alone and 
then with additional hyperextension of the cervical spine to the average peak 
pressure in neutral head position.
RESULTS: Alterations of position-induced pressure changes occurred in the 
vertebral arteries of all children. Considering exclusively the combined 
movements of rotation plus extension, resistance increased ipsi- and 
contralaterally--no matter which side the head was turned--in three infants. A 
further three reacted with resistance surges only contralateral to the direction 
of rotation, and one only ipsilateral. Double contralateral associated with only 
one-directional ipsilateral rise was observed twice, and vice versa once.
CONCLUSION: The presented method enables crude quantification of postmortem 
dynamic resistance alterations in the vertebral arteries. How far such 
measurements reflect authentic circulatory conditions during life remains to be 
assessed.

DOI: 10.1080/08035250410027652
PMID: 15384878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Gynecol Oncol. 2004 Oct;95(1):247-51. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2004.07.030.

Prolonged survival in recurrent endometrial carcinoma to the brain.

Elliott KS(1), Borowsky ME, Lee YC, Rao C, Abulafia O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, State University of New York, Health 
Science Center at Brooklyn, Downstate Hospital, Brooklyn, NY 11203, USA. 
