
DOI: 10.1016/S1078-1439(03)00144-3
PMID: 15283885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. BMJ. 2004 Jul 31;329(7460):250. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7460.250-a.

Life expectancy in Great Britain rises--but later years are still spent in poor 
health.

HÃ©bert K.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7460.250-a
PMCID: PMC498056
PMID: 15284135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Public Health (Oxf). 2004 Jun;26(2):130-7. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdh138.

Cost-effectiveness of organized versus opportunistic cervical cytology screening 
in Hong Kong.

Kim JJ(1), Leung GM, Woo PP, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, Department of Health Policy and Management, 
Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: To assess the cost-effectiveness of alternative cervical cancer 
screening strategies to inform the design and implementation of a 
government-sponsored population-based screening programme in Hong Kong.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a computer-based model of cervical 
carcinogenesis was performed. Strategies included no screening, opportunistic 
screening (status quo), organized screening using either conventional or 
liquid-based cytology conducted at different frequencies. The main outcome 
measures were cancer incidence reduction, years of life saved (YLS), lifetime 
costs and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Data were from local hospitals 
and laboratories, clinical trials, prospective studies and other published 
literature.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, a simulation of the current situation of 
opportunistic screening using cervical cytology produced a nearly 40 per cent 
reduction in the lifetime risk of cervical cancer. However, with organized 
screening every 3, 4 and 5 years, corresponding reductions with conventional 
(and liquid-based) cytology were 90.4 (92.9), 86.8 (90.2) and 83.2 per cent 
(87.3 per cent) compared with no screening. For all cytology-based screening 
strategies, opportunistic screening was more costly and less effective than an 
organized programme of screening every 3, 4 and 5 years. Every 3-, 4- and 5-year 
screening cost $12,300, $7100 and $800 per YLS, each compared with the next best 
alternative.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the status quo of opportunistic screening, adopting a 
policy of organized, mass cervical screening in Hong Kong can substantially 
increase benefits and reduce costs.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdh138
PMID: 15284314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2004 Jun;190(6):1636-41. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2004.02.054.

Rationing of medical care: Rules of rescue, cost-effectiveness, and the Oregon 
plan.

Lamb EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Stanford University, CA, USA.

Doctors who deal with individual patients fail to avoid interventions with 
minimal expected benefits. This is one reason that the United States spends more 
on health care services than any of 28 other industrialized nations. Yet, our 
money has not bought us health; our infant mortality rate ranks 23rd, and our 
overall life expectancy rate ranks 20th among the 29 nations. Ours is the only 
nation without a national health system. Our job-based health insurance system 
has allowed the number of uninsured persons to reach 44 million, which is 18% of 
the nonelderly population. This article examines the role of such ethical 
concepts as beneficence, utilitarianism, and justice in the allocation of health 
care resources. It also examines the innovative Oregon Health Plan and its use 
of cost-effectiveness analysis for health care allocation that is based on 
league tables.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2004.02.054
PMID: 15284761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. J Arthroplasty. 2004 Aug;19(5):647-51. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2004.02.027.

Late dissociation of an alumina-on-alumina bearing modular acetabular component.

Akagi M(1), Nonaka T, Nishisaka F, Mori S, Fukuda K, Hamanishi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, St. Gallen, 
Switzerland.

Alumina-on-alumina bearings for total hip arthroplasty have been introduced as a 
promising alternative to reduce wear debris and to increase the life expectancy 
of the prosthesis. We report a case of a late dissociation of an 
alumina-on-alumina bearing modular acetabular component, which occurred 2 years, 
8 months after surgery. Detailed analysis of the retrieved prosthesis suggested 
that the cause of the failure may be strong rotational torque developed by a 
roughening of the bearing's alumina surface caused by edge loading 
(microseparation). The strong friction torque in articulation may explain the 
higher reported rate of mechanical loosening of the acetabular component in 
alumina-on-alumina bearing total hip prostheses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2004.02.027
PMID: 15284989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. G Ital Nefrol. 2004 May-Jun;21(3):245-53.

[Are convective treatments equivalent to the traditional ones? The Hemo Study 
and beyond (review)].

[Article in Italian]

Altieri P(1), Sau G, Menneas A, Cabiddu G, Michittu MB, Mereu MC.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Patologia Renale, Azienda G. Brotzu, Ospedale San Michele, 
Cagliari. paaltie@tin.it

Dialysis treatments have allowed 'terminal patients' to live for years and 
years. However, life expectancy and quality are still consistently reduced in 
renal dialysis patients. Consequently, all efforts to device alternative 
treatments to the conventional ones are highly justified. Recently, the Hemo 
Study showed that neither the use of high flux membranes, nor the increase of 
the dialysis dose above the conventional, were capable to reduce significantly 
patient's mortality and morbidity, although 8% reduction of the risk of death 
was seen in patients treated with high flux vs. patients treated with low-flux 
dialysis. A relevant question is if convective treatments may offer an 
overprotection from morbidity and mortality, in comparison with low flux and 
high flux treatments. Data from the Registro Lombardo di Nefrologia e Trapianto 
published in 2000 showed a trend toward a better survival (RR= 90) and a 
significantly better protection from tunnel carpal syndrome (RR= 0.58; p= 0.03) 
in patients treated with convective treatments (hemofiltration and/or 
hemodiafiltration) vs. patients treated with diffusive dialysis. Except than a 
better cardiovascular stability observed on hemofiltration and an higher 
beta2-microglobuline clearance given by online hemofiltration and 
hemodiafiltration, evident clinical benefits of convective treatments, over the 
conventional high flux treatments, are not yet clearly demonstrated. 
Notwithstanding that, online convective treatments, that are performed with high 
flux compatible membranes and high technology machines, producing high quality 
water, offer at the moment the best bases for the improvement of clinical 
results of dialysis, especially in some category of patients.

PMID: 15285003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Am J Psychiatry. 2004 Aug;161(8):1334-49. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.161.8.1334.

Physical health monitoring of patients with schizophrenia.

Marder SR(1), Essock SM, Miller AL, Buchanan RW, Casey DE, Davis JM, Kane JM, 
Lieberman JA, Schooler NR, Covell N, Stroup S, Weissman EM, Wirshing DA, Hall 
CS, Pogach L, Pi-Sunyer X, Bigger JT Jr, Friedman A, Kleinberg D, Yevich SJ, 
Davis B, Shon S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, CA, 
USA. marder@ucla.edu

OBJECTIVE: Schizophrenia is associated with several chronic physical illnesses 
and a shorter life expectancy, compared with life expectancy in the general 
population. One approach to improving the health of patients with schizophrenia 
is to improve the monitoring of physical health that occurs in psychiatric 
settings. The authors discuss a consensus panel's recommendations for improving 
the physical health monitoring of patients with schizophrenia who are treated in 
outpatient settings.
METHOD: A consensus meeting including psychiatric and other medical experts 
assembled on October 17-18, 2002, to evaluate the existing literature and to 
develop recommendations for physical health monitoring of patients with 
schizophrenia. Conference participants reviewed the literature in the following 
areas: 1) weight gain and obesity; 2) diabetes; 3) hyperlipidemia; 4) 
prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG; 5) prolactin elevation and related 
sexual side effects; 6) extrapyramidal side effects, akathisia, and tardive 
dyskinesia; 7) cataracts; and 8) myocarditis. Experts for each topic area 
formulated monitoring recommendations that were discussed by all of the 
participants until a consensus was reached.
RESULTS: Consensus recommendations included regular monitoring of body mass 
index, plasma glucose level, lipid profiles, and signs of prolactin elevation or 
sexual dysfunction. Information from monitoring should guide the selection of 
antipsychotic agents. Specific recommendations were made for cardiac monitoring 
of patients who receive medications associated with QT interval prolongation, 
including thioridazine, mesoridazine, and ziprasidone, and for monitoring for 
signs of myocarditis in patients treated with clozapine. Patients who receive 
both first- and second-generation antipsychotic medications should be examined 
for extrapyramidal symptoms and tardive dyskinesia. Patients with schizophrenia 
should receive regular visual examinations.
CONCLUSIONS: The conference participants recommended that mental health care 
providers perform physical health monitoring that typically occurs in primary 
care settings for their patients who do not receive physical health monitoring 
in those settings. This change in usual practice is recommended on the basis of 
the conference participants' belief that this additional monitoring will result 
in the earlier detection of common, serious risk factors that could, without 
detection and intervention, contribute to impaired health of patients with 
schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.161.8.1334
PMID: 15285957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Pediatrics. 2004 Aug;114(2):417-26. doi: 10.1542/peds.114.2.417.

Cost-effectiveness of inhaled nitric oxide for the management of persistent 
pulmonary hypertension of the newborn.

Lorch SA(1), Cnaan A, Barnhart K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Center for Outcomes Research, Children's Hospital 
of Philadelphia, 3535 Market St, Ste 1029, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, 
USA. lorch@email.chop.edu

OBJECTIVE: Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) is a selective pulmonary vasodilator that 
has become part of the standard management for persistent pulmonary hypertension 
of the newborn (PPHN). This treatment modality, like many in neonatology, has 
not been well studied using quantitative economic techniques. The objective of 
this study was to evaluate the economic impact of adding iNO to the treatment 
protocol of PPHN for term infants from birth to the time of discharge from their 
initial hospitalization.
METHODS: We used decision analysis modeling from a societal perspective to 
obtain an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Outcome probabilities were taken 
from the medical literature and a cohort of 123 infants who were treated with 
PPHN at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia between 1991 and 2002. Costs 
were estimated from daily resources used by these infants in 2001 dollars. 
Survival and quality-adjusted life years were used as effectiveness measures. 
One-way, threshold, and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to 
assess the robustness of the base-case estimate.
RESULTS: The addition of iNO to the treatment regimen of PPHN increased the cost 
of treating an infant by an average of 1141 dollars, primarily from an increased 
number of mechanical ventilation days. Use of iNO led to 3.4% more lives saved 
and a 6% increase in the average utility gained per infant. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 33,234 dollars per life saved and 19,022 dollars 
per quality-adjusted life year gained. The model was robust to changes in 
outcome probabilities, cost, and utility variables. Only 3.6% of the trials 
using probabilistic sensitivity analysis found iNO to be more expensive with a 
worse outcome than conventional therapy alone, whereas 35.7% of the trials found 
iNO to be cheaper and more effective than conventional treatment alone.
CONCLUSIONS: iNO is cost-effective but not cost-saving in treating infants with 
PPHN from a societal perspective. There are critical time points during an 
infant's hospitalization that could improve the efficiency and consequently the 
cost of care for this patient population.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.114.2.417
PMID: 15286225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Qual Life Res. 2004 Aug;13(6):1153-61. doi:
10.1023/B:QURE.0000031336.81580.52.

Glycemia and the quality of well-being in patients with diabetes.

Tabaei BP(1), Shill-Novak J, Brandle M, Burke R, Kaplan RM, Herman WH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology & Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the cross-sectional relationships among self-reported 
frequencies of symptomatic hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, HbA1c, and symptoms 
in the Quality of Well-Being Self-Administered (QWB-SA), and to examine the 
associations among these measures of glycemia and health-utility scores.
METHODS: The study group included 1522 patients with diabetes who attended 
University of Michigan Health System clinics. Published studies were reviewed to 
identify symptoms in the QWB-SA that might be associated with measures of 
glycemia. Linear-regression analyses were performed to evaluate the strength of 
the associations among the frequency of self-reported measures of glycemia, 
QWB-SA symptoms, and QWB-SA-derived health-utility scores.
RESULTS: Frequency of hyperglycemic symptoms was associated with 3% of the 
variance in the QWB-SA-derived health-utility score in type-1 diabetes and with 
5% of the variance in type-2 diabetes. Frequency of hypoglycemic symptoms was 
not associated with the QWB-SA-derived health-utility score in type-1 diabetes 
but was associated with 1% of the variance in type-2 diabetes. HbAlc levels were 
not significantly associated with QWB-SA-derived health-utility scores. After 
controlling for age, gender, and complications, frequency of hyperglycemic 
symptoms was significantly associated with QWB-SA-derived health-utility scores 
in type-1 and type-2 diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Reported frequency of hyperglycemic symptoms is associated with 
symptoms included in the QWB-SA and with QWB-SA-derived health-utility scores. 
The QWB-SA may be an appropriate measure to assess the health burden of 
hyperglycemia.

DOI: 10.1023/B:QURE.0000031336.81580.52
PMID: 15287281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Fungal Genet Biol. 2004 Sep;41(9):865-71. doi: 10.1016/j.fgb.2004.04.007.

The mitochondrial plasmid pAL2-1 reduces calorie restriction mediated life span 
extension in the filamentous fungus Podospora anserina.

Maas MF(1), de Boer HJ, Debets AJ, Hoekstra RF.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, Department of Plant Sciences Wageningen University, 
Arboretumlaan 4, 6703 BD, The Netherlands. marc.maas@wur.nl

Calorie restriction is the only life span extending regimen known that applies 
to all aging organisms. Although most fungi do not appear to senesce, all 
natural isolates of the modular filamentous fungus Podospora anserina have a 
limited life span. In this paper, we show that calorie restriction extends life 
span also in Podospora anserina. The response to glucose limitation varies 
significantly among 23 natural isolates from a local population in The 
Netherlands, ranging from no effect up to a 5-fold life span extension. The 
isolate dependent effect is largely due to the presence or absence of pAL2-1 
homologous plasmids. These mitochondrial plasmids are associated with reduced 
life span under calorie restricted conditions, suggesting a causal link. This 
has been substantiated using three combinations of isogenic isolates with and 
without plasmids. A model is proposed to explain how pAL2-1 homologues influence 
the response to calorie restriction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fgb.2004.04.007
PMID: 15288022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Lancet Oncol. 2004 Aug;5(8):459. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(04)01534-7.

An ageing problem.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(04)01534-7
PMID: 15288232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2004 Sep;28(3):229-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.03.024.

Quality of life after repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Tambyraja AL(1), Fraser SC, Murie JA, Chalmers RT.

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Vascular Surgical Service, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, Lothian 
EH16 4SA, UK.

BACKGROUND: Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) continues to be associated 
with high operative mortality. Though survivors can expect to return to a normal 
life expectancy, their postoperative health related quality of life (HRQoL) 
remains uncertain. This review examines HRQoL following operative repair of 
ruptured AAA.
METHODS: PreMedline, Medline and Embase databases were searched for clinical 
studies relating to quality of life following repair of ruptured AAA. Reference 
lists of relevant papers were also reviewed.
RESULTS: Fourteen retrospective-observational studies of postoperative quality 
of life following repair of ruptured AAA were identified. Both validated and 
non-validated tools for generic HRQoL assessment were used. All but one study 
showed no significant difference in overall HRQoL following ruptured AAA repair 
when compared to both the normal age-adjusted population and patients undergoing 
elective repair of intact AAA. However, survivors of ruptured AAA did exhibit 
significant reductions in the isolated domains of physical function, social 
behaviour and general well-being.
CONCLUSIONS: There are few studies of HRQoL following repair of ruptured AAA. 
These reports are retrospective, have small sample sizes and use generic 
instruments for HRQoL assessment. The findings suggest that survivors of 
ruptured AAA may attain a similar functional outcome to patients undergoing 
elective AAA repair and the age-matched healthy population. However, these 
results must be interpreted with caution and further prospective study is 
required.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.03.024
PMID: 15288624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2004 Sep;28(3):287-95. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.06.003.

Optimal follow-up strategies after aorto-iliac prosthetic reconstruction: a 
decision analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Post PN(1), Kievit J, van Bockel JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The primary aim of ultrasound follow-up after aorto-iliac prosthetic 
reconstruction is to correct false aneurysms before rupture occurs. We 
investigated whether follow-up improves the life expectancy of patients and 
sought to identify the most cost-effective follow-up strategy.
DESIGN OF THE STUDY: A Monte Carlo Markov decision model was constructed. The 
occurrence of false aneurysms was modelled as a time-dependent process for each 
anastomotic site, based on published series. Using this model, the impact of 
various follow-up strategies was investigated for three types of prostheses, 
aorto-distal tube, aorto-bi-iliac, and aorto-bi-femoral prostheses. Main outcome 
measures were discounted quality adjusted life years (dQALYs), discounted costs, 
and (discounted) cost-effectiveness (CE) ratios.
RESULTS: Follow-up of patients with aorto-distal tube and aorto-bifemoral 
prostheses did not result in an improvement life expectancy and was not 
cost-effective, QALYs 7.53 and 7.62 years, respectively. The results for 
aorto-distal tube and aorto-bifemoral prostheses were not sensitive to any 
variation in the model parameters. In the base case analysis, the life 
expectancy of patients with aorto-bi-iliac prostheses was 7.50 QALYs (95% 
confidence interval 7.46-7.54) whether or not they underwent routine follow-up. 
However, patients aged 54 years or younger gained 0.11 QALYs with annual 
follow-up (p<0.05). The most cost-effective strategy was annual follow-up that 
starts 10 years after the initial operation, and continues up to 30 years after 
surgery (4600 Euro; CE ratio 21,000 Euro per QALY). When perioperative mortality 
of elective reconstruction of false aneurysms is 2% or lower (e.g. when 
endovascular treatment is used), a small improvement is observed (7.56 vs. 7.50 
QALYs; p<0.05; CE ratio 35,000 Euro per QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Annual follow-up of aorto-bi-iliac prostheses should be restricted 
to patients aged 54 or younger and not start before 10 years after surgery. The 
same strategy can only be considered for older patients if mortality for 
secondary intervention is lower than 2%. Since patients with aorto-distal tube 
and aorto-bi-femoral prostheses do not benefit from follow-up for the detection 
of false aneurysms, this practice should be discouraged in these patient groups.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.06.003
PMID: 15288633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Eur J Intern Med. 2004 Jul;15(4):238-241. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2004.04.006.

Phenotype and genotype of French cystic fibrosis patients with long survival and 
follow-up.

Badet F(1), Bellis G, De Braekeleer M, Nove Josserand R, Vital Durand D; The 
Cystic Fibrosis Centre of ONM; Durieu I.

Author information:
(1)Adult Cystic Fibrosis Center, Department of Internal Medicine, Pavillion 1K, 
Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud 69495 Pierre BÃ©nite, France.

Background: The aim of this study was to assess the clinical features and the 
genotype characteristics of French patients diagnosed with cystic fibrosis (CF) 
before their fifth year and who were still alive after 30 years. It is the first 
descriptive study of 114 CF patients with long survival and follow-up. We 
compared this subgroup of French CF patients with the overall French CF 
population and with French adult (> 18 years) CF patients regardless of their 
age at diagnosis. Methods: Data were obtained from the French CF registry. 
Results: The 67 men and 47 women studied were 30-59 years old. Some 56% of the 
patients had DeltaF508 homozygous genotype, 90% had a pancreatic insufficiency, 
and 81% were colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The mean body mass index 
(BMI) was 19.5 for both female and male patients. Mean forced expiratory volume 
in 1 s was 46% (S.D. 29.2) of the predicted value for men and 53% (S.D. 20.6) 
for women. Eleven patients underwent a lung transplantation. Conclusions: The 
data on the patients with long survival and long follow-up were very similar to 
the data of the overall CF adult population in terms of clinical status. 
Therefore, criteria such as DeltaF508 homozygous genotype, pancreatic 
insufficiency, and P. aeruginosa colonization are not sufficient to serve as 
prognostic criteria for life expectancy in CF patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2004.04.006
PMID: 15288678


305. Exp Gerontol. 2004 Aug;39(8):1137-43. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.04.006.

Metabolic rate is not reduced by dietary-restriction or by lowered insulin/IGF-1 
signalling and is not correlated with individual lifespan in Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Hulbert AJ(1), Clancy DJ, Mair W, Braeckman BP, Gems D, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Metabolic Research Centre and School of Biological Sciences, University of 
Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW 2522, Australia. hulbert@uow.edu.au

The link between resting metabolic rate and aging, measured as adult lifespan, 
was investigated in Drosophila melanogaster by (i) comparing lifespan and 
metabolic rate of individual flies, (ii) examining the effect of 
dietary-restriction on the metabolic rate of adult flies, and (iii) comparing 
the metabolic rate of wild-type and insulin/IGF-1 signalling mutant chico1 
flies. The resting oxygen consumption of 65 individually housed and fully fed 
Drosophila was measured weekly throughout their lifetime. There was no 
significant difference in the mass-specific rate of oxygen consumption between 
cohorts that differed in lifespan. Nor was there any statistical correlation 
between mass-specific oxygen consumption and lifespan of individual Drosophila. 
The average mass-specific rate of oxygen consumption at 25 degrees C was 
3.52+/-0.07 microl O2 mg(-1) h(-1). Variation in mass-specific metabolic rate 
explained only 4% of variation in individual life span in these flies. Contrary 
to predictions from the 'rate of living' theory of aging lifetime oxygen 
consumption was not constant and the lifespan of individual flies accounted for 
91% of their lifetime oxygen consumption. An average Drosophila consumes about 3 
ml O2 during its adult life. Dietary-restriction had no effect on mass-specific 
resting metabolic rate both when measured as oxygen consumption by respirometry 
and when measured as heat production by microcalorimetry. The mass-specific 
resting heat production of fully fed adult flies at 25 degrees C averaged 
17.3+/-0.3 microW mg(-1). Similarly there was no difference in mass-specific 
metabolic rate of wild-type flies and longliving chico1 insulin/IGF-1 signalling 
mutant flies, either when measured as oxygen consumption or heat production. 
Thus, individual variation in lifespan in wild-type flies, and life extension by 
dietary-restriction and reduced insulin/IGF-1 signalling is not attributable to 
differences in metabolic rate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.04.006
PMID: 15288688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Circulation. 2004 Aug 10;110(6):660-5. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000138104.83366.E9.  Epub 2004 Aug 2.

Outcomes in children with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension.

Yung D(1), Widlitz AC, Rosenzweig EB, Kerstein D, Maislin G, Barst RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians & 
Surgeons, New York, NY 10032, USA.

BACKGROUND: Treatment for idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension in children 
includes calcium channel blockade (CCB) for acute responders with vasodilator 
testing and chronic epoprostenol for nonresponders. We sought to determine 
parameters associated with survival and treatment success.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A previously identified cohort of 77 children diagnosed 
between 1982 and 1995 with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension was 
followed up through 2002. For acute responders treated with CCB (n=31), survival 
at 1, 5, and 10 years was 97%, 97%, and 81%, respectively; treatment success was 
84%, 68%, and 47%, respectively. Survival for all children treated with 
epoprostenol (n=35) at 1, 5, and 10 years was 94%, 81%, and 61%, respectively; 
treatment success was 83%, 57%, and 37%, respectively. Because of the 
inconsistent availability of epoprostenol before 1995, we defined a "recent 
medical era" subset by excluding children from the total 77 patient cohort for 
whom epoprostenol was recommended but was unavailable. Survival in the recent 
medical era (n=44) at 1, 5, and 10 years was 97%, 97%, and 78%; treatment 
success was 93%, 86%, and 60%, respectively. Treatment success on CCB decreased 
significantly when acute responders became nonresponders. Age at diagnosis 
predicted treatment success in the recent medical era.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival for children with idiopathic pulmonary arterial 
hypertension has significantly improved with CCB and epoprostenol. Children who 
are acute responders are treated with CCB; they are treated with epoprostenol if 
they become nonresponders. The decrease in survival and in treatment success 
after 5 years in all children supports the role for transplant evaluation before 
treatment failure.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000138104.83366.E9
PMID: 15289375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Circulation. 2004 Aug 3;110(5):472-4. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000136820.77558.B1.

Economics of sirolimus-eluting stents: drug-eluting stents have really arrived.

Weintraub WS.

Comment on
    Circulation. 2004 Aug 3;110(5):508-14.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000136820.77558.B1
PMID: 15289386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Circulation. 2004 Aug 3;110(5):496-500. doi:
10.1161/01.cir.0000137122.95108.52.

Comparing warfarin with aspirin after biological aortic valve replacement: a 
prospective study.

Gherli T(1), Colli A, Fragnito C, Nicolini F, Borrello B, Saccani S, D'Amico R, 
Beghi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Patients with prosthetic heart valves have a higher risk of 
developing valve thrombosis and arterial thromboembolism. Antithrombotic therapy 
in the early postoperative period after biological aortic valve replacement 
(BAVR) is controversial. The American College of Cardiology/American Heart 
Association and European Society of Cardiology guidelines recommend the use of 
warfarin for the first 3 months after BAVR, although the American College Chest 
Physician guidelines suggest that the recommendations are very weak and that the 
risk/benefit is unclear. This prospective study investigated the efficacy of 
postoperative warfarin compared with aspirin in patients after aortic valve 
replacement.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients undergoing BAVR between 2001 and 2002 received 2 
antithrombotic therapies: 141 patients received warfarin for the first 3 months, 
and 108 patients received only aspirin. The major end points evaluated were the 
rate of cerebral ischemic events, bleeding, and survival. There were 3 and 5 
postoperative cerebral ischemic events between 24 hours and 3 months for 
patients treated with aspirin and warfarin, respectively. After 3 months, the 
incidence of cerebral ischemic events did not differ between the 2 groups. The 
rate of major bleeding events, the stroke-free survival, and the overall 
survival rates were not statistically significant between the warfarin and 
aspirin groups.
CONCLUSIONS: There seem to be no advantages in performing early anticoagulation 
therapy compared with a low-antiplatelet regimen with regard to early cerebral 
ischemic events, bleeding, and survival. Currently there is no evidence to 
support the fact that warfarin is more effective than aspirin.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.0000137122.95108.52
PMID: 15289387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. CMAJ. 2004 Aug 3;171(3):213, 215. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.1041125.

Pound of prevention, ounce of cure?

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.1041125
PMCID: PMC490052
PMID: 15289400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nucleic Acids Res. 2004 Aug 2;32(13):4071-80. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkh747. Print
 2004.

Cleavage of deoxyoxanosine-containing oligodeoxyribonucleotides by bacterial 
endonuclease V.

Hitchcock TM(1), Gao H, Cao W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Biochemistry and Life Science Studies, South 
Carolina, Experiment Station, Clemson University, Room 219, Biosystems Research 
Complex, 51 New Cherry Street, Clemson, SC 29634, USA.

Oxanine (O) is a deamination product derived from guanine with the nitrogen at 
the N1 position substituted by oxygen. Cytosine, thymine, adenine, guanine as 
well as oxanine itself can be incorporated by Klenow Fragment to pair with 
oxanine in a DNA template with similar efficiency, indicating that oxanine in 
DNA may cause various mutations. As a nucleotide, deoxyoxanosine may substitute 
for deoxyguanosine to complete a primer extension reaction. Endonuclease V, an 
enzyme known for its enzymatic activity on uridine-, inosine- and 
xanthosine-containing DNA, can cleave oxanosine-containing DNA at the second 
phosphodiester bond 3' to the lesion. Mg2+ or Mn2+, and to a small extent Co2+ 
or Ni2+, support the oxanosine-containing DNA cleavage activity. All four 
oxanosine-containing base pairs (A/O, T/O, C/O and G/O) were cleaved with 
similar efficiency. The cleavage of double-stranded oxanosine-containing DNA was 
approximately 6-fold less efficient than that of double-stranded 
inosine-containing DNA. Single-stranded oxanosine-containing DNA was cleaved 
with a lower efficiency as compared with double-stranded oxanosine-containing 
DNA. A metal ion enhances the binding of endonuclease V to double-stranded and 
single-stranded oxanosine-containing DNA 6- and 4-fold, respectively. Hypothetic 
models of oxanine-containing base pairs and deaminated base recognition 
mechanism are presented.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkh747
PMCID: PMC506822
PMID: 15289580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Allergy. 2004 Sep;59(9):940-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2004.00491.x.

IgE level and Phadiatop in an elderly population from the PAQUID cohort: 
relationship to respiratory symptoms and smoking.

Raherison C(1), Nejjari C, Marty ML, Filleul L, Barberger-Gateau P, Dartigues 
JF, Tessier JF.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire SantÃ© Travail Environnement, UniversitÃ© Victor Segalen, Bordeaux 
2, France.

BACKGROUND: In the last decades in industrialized countries, the increase of 
life expectancy has resulted in an increase in the population of the elderly. 
However, little is known about the prevalence of allergies in the elderly 
population. The aim of the study was to investigate the specific relationship of 
serum IgE and Phadiatop, with asthma, rhinitis, and smoking in a sample of an 
elderly population.
METHODS: Subjects from the Paquid cohort living in Gironde Department (age 65 
years and over) in France were followed up since 1988 (PAQUID cohort).
RESULTS: Among the randomized sample of 352 subjects, there were 158 men (45%) 
and 194 women (55%). The lowest levels of IgE were in subjects with chronic 
sputum; and in normal subjects (47.1 +/- 56.4 vs 56.2 +/- 73.9, NS). Multiple 
linear regression was performed with log(10) IgE values as a dependent variable 
and age, Phadiatop test, smoking, and respiratory symptoms independently in men 
and in women. In men, a significant relationship was observed between IgE values 
and Phadiatop test (P < 0.001), asthma history (P = 0.002), and smoking (P = 
0.019).
CONCLUSIONS: Respiratory allergy is present in persons >65 years of age. There 
is an association between smoking and IgE level independent of allergic 
reactivity to common allergens in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2004.00491.x
PMID: 15291901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2004 Aug;86(8):1684-9. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-200408000-00011.

Patient survival after hip arthroplasty for metastatic disease of the hip.

Schneiderbauer MM(1), von Knoch M, Schleck CD, Harmsen WS, Sim FH, Scully SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street S.W., Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: The hip joint is a common location for metastatic disease. Actual as 
well as impending fractures at this site are frequently due to mechanical 
instability after tumor invasion and are usually treated surgically with hip 
arthroplasty. The objective of this study was to analyze survival and influences 
on survival after hip arthroplasty for metastatic hip disease.
METHODS: Two hundred and ninety-nine patients who had undergone a total of 306 
hemiarthroplasty or total hip arthroplasty procedures for treatment of a 
pathologic or an impending pathologic hip fracture between 1969 and 1996 at our 
institution were included in this study. Data that had been acquired 
prospectively within the total joint registry of our institution were reviewed 
retrospectively.
RESULTS: The median duration of survival after the arthroplasty was 8.6 months. 
The duration of survival was significantly associated with the site of the 
fracture, location of the primary tumor, and time from the diagnosis of the 
primary tumor to the surgery for the fracture (p < or = 0.05). The time from the 
diagnosis to the arthroplasty was a significant independent predictor of 
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients undergoing hip arthroplasty for metastatic disease have a 
limited life expectancy, with only 40% (120) of the 299 patients in our series 
still alive at one year after the surgery. By identifying prognostic factors 
regarding life expectancy, this study provides surgeons and oncologists with 
information with which to weigh risks and benefits of hip arthroplasty for 
individual patients preoperatively.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-200408000-00011
PMID: 15292415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Obes Res. 2004 Jul;12(7):1145-51. doi: 10.1038/oby.2004.143.

Adult obesity and the burden of disability throughout life.

Peeters A(1), Bonneux L, Nusselder WJ, De Laet C, Barendregt JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
anna.peeters@med.monash.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the prevalence of disability throughout life and life 
expectancy free of disability, associated with obesity at ages 30 to 49 years.
RESEARCH METHODS AND PROCEDURES: We used 46 and 20 years of mortality follow-up, 
respectively, for 3521 Original and 3013 Offspring Framingham Heart Study 
participants 30 to 49 years and classified as normal weight, overweight, or 
obese at baseline. Disability measures were available between 36 and 46 years of 
follow-up for 1352 Original participants and at 20 years of follow-up for 2268 
Offspring participants. We measured the odds of disability in the Original 
cohort after 46 years follow-up, and we estimated life expectancy with and 
without disability from age 50. Two disability measures were used, one 
representing limitations with mobility only and the second representing 
limitations with activities of daily living (ADL).
RESULTS: Obesity at ages 30 to 49 years was associated with a 2.01-fold increase 
in the odds of ADL limitations 46 years later. Nonsmoking adults who were obese 
between 30 and 49 years lived 5.70 (95% confidence interval, 4.11 to 7.35) (men) 
and 5.02 (95% confidence interval, 3.36 to 6.61) (women) fewer years free of ADL 
limitations from age 50 than their normal-weight counterparts. There was no 
significant difference in the total number of years lived with disability 
throughout life between those obese or normal weight, due to both higher 
disability prevalence and higher mortality in the obese population.
DISCUSSION: Obesity in adulthood is associated with an increased risk of 
disability throughout life and a reduction in the length of time spent free of 
disability, but no substantial change in the length of time spent with 
disability.

Copyright 2004 NAASO

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2004.143
PMID: 15292479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Ear Hear. 2004 Aug;25(4):336-60. doi: 10.1097/01.aud.0000134550.80305.04.

Criteria of candidacy for unilateral cochlear implantation in postlingually 
deafened adults II: cost-effectiveness analysis.

UK Cochlear Implant Study Group.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to estimate the cost-effectiveness 
of unilateral cochlear implantation for postlingually deafened adults; to study 
the impact on cost-effectiveness of relaxing criteria of candidacy to include 
patients who benefit from acoustic hearing aids; and to study the further impact 
of age at implantation and duration of profound deafness before implantation.
DESIGN: This prospective cohort study was carried out in 13 hospitals with four 
groups of severely to profoundly hearing-impaired subjects distinguished by 
their preoperative ability to identify words in prerecorded sentences when aided 
acoustically. The groups represent a progressive relaxation of criteria of 
candidacy: Group I (N=134) scored 0% correct without lipreading and did not 
improve their lipreading score significantly when aided; group II (N=93) scored 
0% without lipreading but did improve their lipreading score significantly when 
aided; group III (N=53) scored 0% without lipreading when the ear to be given an 
implant was aided but between 1% and approximately 50% when the other ear was 
aided; and group IV (N=31) scored between 1% and approximately 50% without 
lipreading when the ear to be given an implant was aided. Lifetime costs to the 
UK National Health Service of providing and maintaining a cochlear implant were 
estimated for each subject. The gain in health utility from cochlear 
implantation was estimated with the Mark III Health Utilities Index and was 
combined with life expectancy to estimate the number of quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) that would be gained from cochlear implantation. Cost/QALY 
ratios were calculated by means of the Net Benefit technique and were compared 
with an upper limit of acceptability of 50,000 euros/QALY.
RESULTS: Averaged over the whole cohort, the cost of gaining a QALY was 27,142 
euros (95% confidence interval, 24,532 euros to 30,323 euros); 203 of 311 (67%) 
of the cohort displayed cost/QALY ratios more favorable than 50,000 euros/QALY. 
The average cost of gaining a QALY increased from group I (24,032 euros) to 
groups II (27,062 euros) and IV (27,092 euros) to group III (39,009 euros). 
Cost/QALY varied with age at implantation from 19,223 euros for subjects who 
were younger than 30 yr of age to 45,411 euros for subjects who were older than 
70 yr of age. Cost/QALY was unacceptable because of minimal gain in health 
utility for the subset of groups I and II, who were given implants in ears that 
had been profoundly deaf for more then 40 yr and for the subset of groups III 
and IV, who were given implants in ears that had been profoundly deaf for more 
than 30 yr.
CONCLUSIONS: Cochlear implantation was a cost-effective intervention for the 
majority of subjects, including the group given implants when older than 70 yr 
of age. Relaxation of criteria of candidacy for cochlear implantation reduces 
cost-effectiveness. Prioritization of the provision of cochlear implantation 
should take duration of profound deafness in the ear to be given an implant into 
account, as well as preoperative word recognition performance.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aud.0000134550.80305.04
PMID: 15292775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2004 Aug;(425):4-11. doi: 
10.1097/01.blo.0000132631.30714.11.

The limits of medicine.

Maloney JV Jr.

DOI: 10.1097/01.blo.0000132631.30714.11
PMID: 15292782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. J Pediatr. 2004 Aug;145(2 Suppl):S28-32. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2004.05.019.

Feeding method and health outcomes of children with cerebral palsy.

Rogers B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Developmental Pediatrics, Oregon Health 
and Science University, Portland, Oregon, USA. rogersbr@ohsu.edu

Disorders of feeding and swallowing are common in children with cerebral palsy. 
Feeding and swallowing disorders have significant implications for development, 
growth and nutrition, respiratory health, gastrointestinal function, 
parent-child interaction, and overall family life. Assessments need to be 
comprehensive in scope and centered around the medical home. Oral feeding 
interventions for children with cerebral palsy may be effective in promoting 
oral motor function, but have not been shown to be effective in promoting 
feeding efficiency or weight gain. Feeding gastrostomy tubes are a reasonable 
alternative for children with severe feeding and swallowing problems who have 
had poor weight gain.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2004.05.019
PMID: 15292884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Osteoporos Int. 2004 Aug;15(8):625-32. doi: 10.1007/s00198-004-1596-3. Epub
2004  Mar 20.

The burden of osteoporosis in Latin America.

Morales-Torres J(1), GutiÃ©rrez-UreÃ±a S; Osteoporosis Committee of Pan-American 
League of Associations for Rheumatology.

Author information:
(1)Osteoporosis Unit, Hospital Aranda de la Parra, LeÃ³n, Gto, Mexico. 
j.morales@att.net.mx

Osteoporosis causes considerable morbidity, mortality and resource utilization 
in industrialized nations. Its burden is relatively well known in United States 
and Canada, but poorly studied in the rest of America. This study aimed to 
discover the burden of osteoporosis in Latin America through a review of 
literature and publicly available information. In this transversal and 
descriptive study, information from 20 countries in Latin American region was 
collected from diverse published and electronic sources. Rheumatologists and 
bone specialists were asked for additional information through a questionnaire 
created by consensus. In the year 2000, the population of the Latin America and 
Caribbean region was 524 million from diverse ethnic origins. On average, 5.5% 
of the population is 65 years and older. However, with life expectancy higher 
than 70 years in most countries, a significant growth in the elderly population 
is anticipated. Studies using World Health Organization's criteria for 
osteoporosis report 12-18% of women 50 years and older with vertebral 
osteoporosis and 8-22% with proximal femur osteoporosis. Community based studies 
in Argentina reported between 263 and 331 hip fractures per 100,000 people 50 
years and older. Hospital based studies in Colombia, Chile, Brazil, Mexico, 
Panama, Peru and Venezuela reported between 40 and 362 hip fractures per 100,000 
persons aged 50 and more. Between 17 and 37% of hip fracture sufferers die in 
the year following fracture. Prevalence of vertebral fractures in 
community-dwelling women aged 50 and more in Mexico is 19.35%. Data on other 
fractures are rare. Direct costs of a hip fracture ranged from $4500 to $6000. 
National gross income per capita in the region ranges from $410 to $7550. The 
burden of osteoporosis varies across countries with differences in populations 
and health resources. Considerable support for research is required, since 
numerous gaps in knowledge need to be filled to face the anticipated explosive 
growth in osteoporotic fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-004-1596-3
PMID: 15292978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Sep;125(1):61-72. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.10266.

Demography, life history, and social structure in Propithecus diadema edwardsi 
from 1986-2000 in Ranomafana National Park, Madagascar.

Pochron ST(1), Tucker WT, Wright PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, State University of New York at Stony Brook, 
Stony Brook, New York 11794, USA. spochron@ms.cc.sunysb.edu

Prosimian lemurs differ fundamentally from anthropoid primates in many traits 
related to social structure. By exploring the demography of Milne-Edwards' 
sifakas (Propithecus diadema edwardsi), and comparing it to other well-studied 
primates, we explore the effect of demographic and life-history factors on 
social structure. Specifically, we compare lemur survivorship and fertility 
patterns to two published composite models: one created for New World and 
another created for Old World monkeys. Using longitudinal data collected on 
individual Propithecus diadema edwardsi from four study groups from 1986-2000 in 
Ranomafana National Park, Madagascar, we quantify 1) group composition, 2) birth 
seasonality, 3) interbirth interval, 4) life-table values, and 5) population 
growth estimates. The mortality, survivorship, and life-expectancy schedules 
indicate high infant and juvenile mortality. Fertility remains high until death. 
The intrinsic rate of increase and net reproductive rate indicate a shrinking 
population. We suggest that high mortality rather than low fertility causes the 
observed population decline. While sifaka survivorship closely resembles New 
World patterns, fertility resembles Old World patterns, i.e., like New World 
monkeys, few sifakas survive to reproductive age, and those that do, reproduce 
at a slow rate resembling the Old World pattern. This necessarily impacts social 
structure. An adult sifaka at the end of her lifespan will have one only 
daughter who survives to reproductive age, compared to 3.4 for New World or 2.7 
for Old World monkeys. Demography limits the formation of large kin-based groups 
for sifakas, and survivorship and fertility patterns do not easily permit 
sifakas to form large same-sex family groups.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10266
PMID: 15293332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. J Nephrol. 2004 Mar-Apr;17(2):216-22.

A primer on survival analysis.

Khan IH(1), Prescott GJ.

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, Scotland, UK. 
Izhar.Khan@arh.grampian.scot.nhs.uk

Survival analysis is the statistical method for studying the time between entry 
to a study and a subsequent event. Survival is often the most important outcome 
in both observational and intervention studies. The analysis of survival, 
however, is not simple because of a number of factors. The time between entry to 
a study and the end of follow-up varies during the study period, as recruitment 
time for each subject is different. In addition, most studies have a finite 
duration during which not all subjects would have experienced the outcome of 
interest, while some patients might leave the study or are lost to follow-up. 
Survival analysis is not just concerned with time from treatment to death. The 
outcome could be any defined event such as time to doubling of serum creatinine 
concentration or first rejection episode following transplantation. An 
understanding of the principles involved in the statistical analyses of survival 
is essential for critical appraisal of studies, which employ these methods, and 
for designing clinical studies. This brief review describes the principles of 
survival analysis and its application to studies in nephrology.

PMID: 15293520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(12):759-69. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200422120-00001.

Incorporation of statistical uncertainty in health economic modelling studies 
using second-order Monte Carlo simulations.

Nuijten MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. nuijten@medtap.nl

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(8):851-3; author reply 853.

Health economic modelling studies are of interest to many parties with different 
responsibilities and diverging interests. Therefore, it is obvious that 
recognising the relevance of statistical uncertainty and dealing with it 
appropriately are required to obtain unbiased results from health economic 
modelling studies, especially when those data are being used for reimbursement 
decisions. In this manuscript we explore the relevance of the incorporation of 
statistical uncertainty in a health economic model and identify various types of 
statistical uncertainty. The concepts were applied to a hypothetical Markov 
model for a hypothetical antiparkinsonian (AP) product. The method was based on 
the incorporation of probability distributions in the input variables using a 
second-order Monte Carlo simulation and the definition of minimum relevant 
differences for clinical and economic input variables and outcomes. Our paper 
shows that the outcomes of a health economic model might be severely biased when 
statistical uncertainty is not taken into account, which justifies the need for 
the incorporation of statistical uncertainty in a health economic model.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422120-00001
PMID: 15294010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Development. 2004 Sep;131(17):4275-85. doi: 10.1242/dev.01281. Epub 2004 Aug
4.

The Fgf8 signal causes cerebellar differentiation by activating the Ras-ERK 
signaling pathway.

Sato T(1), Nakamura H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Neurobiology, Graduate School of Life Sciences, 
Tohoku University, Seiryo-machi 4-1, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8575, Japan.

