from randomisation of 14.3 years. Five year event-free survival (EFS) was 38% 
(95% confidence interval (CI) 21-54%) in the melphalan-treated group and 27% 
(95% CI 12-42%) in the "no-melphalan" group. This difference was not 
statistically significant (P = 0.08, log rank test) but for the 48 randomised 
stage IV patients aged >1 year at diagnosis outcome was significantly better in 
the melphalan-treated group-5 year EFS 33% versus 17% (P = 0.01, log rank test).
CONCLUSIONS: In this trial, high dose melphalan improved the length of EFS and 
overall survival of children with stage IV neuroblastoma >1 year of age who 
achieved CR or GPR after OPEC induction therapy and surgery. Multi-agent 
myeloablative regimens are now widely used as consolidation therapy for children 
with stage IV disease and in those with other disease stages when the MYCN gene 
copy number in tumour cells is amplified. Because they are more toxic, complex, 
and costly these combination megatherapy regimens should be compared with single 
agent melphalan in randomised clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.20219
PMID: 15546135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Dec;58(12):1054-5.

Qualia years (qy) [corrected]--not years--should be the unit of measurement of 
QALYs, DALYs, life expectancy, and life.

Dimoliatis ID.

PMCID: PMC1732659
PMID: 15547073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Biogerontology. 2004;5(5):305-16. doi: 10.1007/s10522-004-2568-x.

The histone acetyltransferase GCN5 modulates the retrograde response and genome 
stability determining yeast longevity.

Kim S(1), Ohkuni K, Couplan E, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA.

Transcriptional silencing decreases at both subtelomeric and silent mating-type 
loci and increases at the ribosomal DNA locus during the replicative life span 
of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae . Evidence exists that epigenetic changes 
in the regulatory state of chromatin may be a causal factor in determining yeast 
longevity and that histone deacetylases play a role. The significance of histone 
acetylation has been examined here in more detail. Deletion of the histone 
acetyltransferase gene GCN5 suppressed the extension of replicative life span 
afforded by the induction of the retrograde response, which signals 
mitochondrial dysfunction and leads to changes in nuclear gene expression. It 
was difficult to ascribe this effect to changes in transcriptional silencing in 
any of the three known types of heterochromatin. However, a promoter related 
effect was uncovered by the participation of GCN5 in the induction of the 
retrograde response. Gcn5p and the retrograde signal transducer Rtg2p are 
components of the histone acetyltransferase coactivator complex SLIK. Rtg2p 
blocks the production of extrachromosomal ribosomal DNA circles when it is not 
engaged in transmission of the retrograde signal. Deletion of GCN5 , which 
disrupts the integrity of SLIK, suppressed circle accumulation. The results 
indicate that Gcn5p and SLIK impact the interplay between the retrograde 
response signal and Rtg2p with consequences for the induction of the response 
and circle production. Rtg2p and Gcn5p in the SLIK complex link metabolism to 
stress responses, chromatin-dependent gene regulation, and genome stability in 
yeast aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-004-2568-x
PMID: 15547318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Biogerontology. 2004;5(5):317-25. doi: 10.1007/s10522-004-2570-3.

D-galactose-caused life shortening in Drosophila melanogaster and Musca 
domestica is associated with oxidative stress.

Cui X(1), Wang L, Zuo P, Han Z, Fang Z, Li W, Liu J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Science, 
Peking Union Medical College, 5 Dongdan Santiao, Beijing 100005, China.

D-galactose causes aging acceleration in different animal models but the 
mechanism is unclear. In the present study, we investigated the effects of 
D-galactose on lifespan and oxidative stress biomarkers in the fruit fly 
(Drosophila melanogaster) and housefly (Musca domestica). D-galactose was added 
to drinking water (20 mg/ml) for housefly and to culture medium (6.5%) for fruit 
fly from 24 h after emergence. Oxidative stress was estimated by measuring the 
activity of Cu-Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) and the levels of lipid 
peroxidation products, namely malondialdehyde (MDA) and lipofuscin in housefly 
brain (male) and in fruit fly (male and female). D-galactose caused a 
significant decrease in mean lifespan (by 12.6% of male and 15.9% of female) and 
maximum lifespan (by 12.9% of male and 17.1% of female) in fruit fly, and also a 
significant decrease in mean lifespan (by 27.1% of male, 19.8% of female) and 
maximum lifespan (by 27.1% of male, 21.9% of female) in housefly. MDA and 
lipofuscin increased with age in fruit fly and in housefly brains while change 
of the SOD activity showed a biphasic shape with age. D-galactose caused a 
significant increase in MDA and lipofuscin and decrease in SOD activity in the 
age-matched fruit flies and houseflies. These data indicate that D-galactose 
shortens the lifespan of the two different fly species and that the life 
shortening effect is associated with an increase in oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-004-2570-3
PMID: 15547319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Biogerontology. 2004;5(5):327-37. doi: 10.1007/s10522-004-2571-2.

Cross-life stage and cross-generational effects of gamma irradiations at the egg 
stage on Drosophila melanogaster life histories.

Vaiserman AM(1), Koshel NM, Mechova LV, Voitenko VP.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Mathematical Modelling of Aging Processes, Institute of 
Gerontology, Vyshgorodskaya st. 67, Kiev 04114, Ukraine. 
vaiserman@geront.kiev.ua

The long-term effects of X-irradiation with 0.25, 0.5, 0.75 and 1 Gy of 1 h eggs 
on the fitness-related life history traits in adult Drosophila melanogaster 
fruit flies and their offspring were investigated. Following irradiation with 
0.25, 0.5 and 0.75 Gy, both F0 and F1 flies have decreased adult body weight and 
increased locomotor (photo- and geotactic) activity, whereas metabolic rate 
measured as the rate of CO2 production was unchanged or even increased, and 
female fecundity was slightly reduced compared to appropriate controls. In some 
cases, irradiation resulted in hormetic effects increased resistance to both 
starvation and heat shock stresses as well as life extension. An explanation of 
the beneficial long lasting effects induced by early irradiation is offered, 
which suggests that these effects are due to cross-life stage and 
cross-generational adaptive phenotypic plasticity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-004-2571-2
PMID: 15547320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Otol Neurotol. 2004 Nov;25(6):1006-8. doi: 10.1097/00129492-200411000-00024.

T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia presenting as an ear canal mass.

Adelson RT(1), Samy RN, Lindberg G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery, Division of 
Otology/Neurotology/Skull Base Surgery, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

OBJECTIVE: We discuss the first reported case of a chronic leukemia involving 
the external auditory canal.
STUDY DESIGN: Case report and review of the literature (Medline, 1962-2003).
METHODS AND RESULTS: An adult man in good health came to receive medical 
attention because of a sensation of aural fullness. Radiologic and physical 
examination demonstrated an ovoid soft tissue mass of the lateral external 
auditory canal that, after biopsy and flow cytometry studies, was found to be 
T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia. The patient presented with minimal disease in a 
highly symptomatic location, allowing early initiation of therapy and extending 
his life by nearly four times the average life expectancy for this aggressive 
chronic leukemia.
CONCLUSION: Lymphomas of the external auditory canal are extremely rare 
neoplasms. Only a few cases have previously been reported, and all of the 
previous reports involve acute leukemias. This report indicates that chronic 
leukemias can present with otologic manifestations such as an external auditory 
canal mass.

DOI: 10.1097/00129492-200411000-00024
PMID: 15547434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2004 Dec;75(12):1753-5. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.2003.024364.

Unexpected decline in survival from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neurone 
disease.

Forbes RB(1), Colville S, Cran GW, Swingler RJ; Scottish Motor Neurone Disease 
Register.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, 
Scotland, UK. Raeburnforbes@aol.com

OBJECTIVES: To describe survival of 1226 Scottish adults with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis/motor neurone disease (ALS/MND).
METHODS: Ten year, prospective, population based disease register. Cox time 
dependent proportional hazards modelling for multivariate survival analyses.
RESULTS: Median survival from onset was 25 months (interquartile range 16-34 
months). In multivariate models we found an increased hazard with more recently 
diagnosed cases-that is, there was an unexpected decline in survival over the 10 
year period (hazard ratio (HR) 1.06 (95% CI 1.04 to 1.09). Positive effects on 
survival were demonstrated for longer time from onset to diagnosis (HR 0.38 (95% 
CI 0.33 to 0.42), assessment by a neurological specialist (HR 0.56 (95% CI 0.40 
to 0.77), and treatment with riluzole (HR 0.24 (95% CI 0.14 to 0.42). Poor 
prognosis was associated with bulbar onset (HR 1.25 (95% CI 1.09 to 1.46) and a 
mixed lower and upper motor neurone syndrome (HR 1.23 (95% CI 1.01-1.49) and 
increasing age.
CONCLUSIONS: We found an unexpected decline in survival over the 10 year period, 
despite controlling for potential confounding variables. We would be cautious 
about over-interpreting these observations and suggest that further research is 
required to confirm or refute these findings.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.2003.024364
PMCID: PMC1738850
PMID: 15548498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Eur J Health Econ. 2004 Dec;5(4):365-7. doi: 10.1007/s10198-004-0255-0.

Exponential health utility. A characterization and comments on the contribution 
by Happich and Muhlbacher.

Osterdal LP(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Economics, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. 
lars.p.osterdal@econ.ku.dk

Comment on
    Eur J Health Econ. 2003 Nov;4(4):292-4.

In a recent contribution Happich and Muhlbacher proposed an axiom of constant 
absolute trade-off of life-years for health states, and studied the family of 
QALY models satisfying this axiom under expected utility and mutual utility 
independence between life-years and health states. Here we provide a complete 
characterization of the family of QALY models satisfying these conditions. This 
family should not be mistaken for the family of multiplicative exponential QALY 
models; in particular, it violates the zero condition.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-004-0255-0
PMID: 15549604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. BMJ. 2004 Nov 20;329(7476):1233-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7476.1233.

Is economic evaluation in touch with society's health values?

Coast J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 2PR. 
jo.coast@bristol.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Feb 5;330(7486):311.
    BMJ. 2005 Feb 5;330(7486):311.

Health funding is increasingly based on the results of economic evaluation. But 
current methods fail to consider all society's health objectives and are too 
complex for policy makers to use

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7476.1233
PMCID: PMC529373
PMID: 15550430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Ann Rheum Dis. 2005 Jul;64(7):995-1002. doi: 10.1136/ard.2004.027565. Epub
2004  Nov 18.

Cost effectiveness of adalimumab in the treatment of patients with moderate to 
severe rheumatoid arthritis in Sweden.

Bansback NJ(1), Brennan A, Ghatnekar O.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 40 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA UK. 
n.j.bansback@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Societal decision makers increasingly emphasise their need for 
evidence based economic analyses to make reimbursement decisions.
OBJECTIVE: To analyse the cost utility of adalimumab, on both incremental cost 
and incremental quality adjusted life years (QALYs), versus traditional disease 
modifying antirheumatic drugs and the other tumour necrosis factor (TNF) 
antagonists suitable for submission to the Swedish LFN (Pharmaceutical Benefit 
Board).
METHODS: Swedish unit costs and treatment guidelines from a lifetime perspective 
were implemented. A mathematical model, incorporating data from seven trials, 
simulated the experiences of 10 000 hypothetical patients with moderate to 
severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The primary outcome measure-QALYs-was derived 
from utility values calculated from a relationship between the Health Assessment 
Questionnaire (HAQ) Disability Index (DI) and Health Utility Index-III (HUI-3) 
from adalimumab trial results. The model followed the progression of HAQ-DI 
through a number of treatments in a sequence accounting for mortality, drug and 
monitoring costs, and other direct costs.
RESULTS: When using ACR50 as a response threshold for determining successful 
treatment, adalimumab plus methotrexate showed the greatest number of QALYs 
gained (2.3 from one study and 2.1 from the pooled results of two trials). The 
etanercept plus methotrexate strategy yielded QALY gains similar to the pooled 
adalimumab results. Except for the infliximab strategy, the costs results were 
between 35 000 and 42 000, a range normally considered cost effective in other 
European countries.
CONCLUSION: Adalimumab appears to be cost effective for the treatment of 
moderate to severe RA. The results suggest that adalimumab is at least as cost 
effective as other TNF antagonists.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2004.027565
PMCID: PMC1755554
PMID: 15550533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Med Care. 2004 Dec;42(12):1211-21. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200412000-00008.

Disease management programs for depression: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.

Neumeyer-Gromen A(1), Lampert T, Stark K, Kallischnigg G.

Author information:
(1)Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, 10317 Berlin, Germany. 
neumeyer-gromen.angela@baua.bunde.de

BACKGROUND: Substantial deficits in the care of depression make the provision of 
new evidence-based care models a matter of increasing importance. So far, 
disease management programs (DMPs) have not been systematically assessed.
OBJECTIVE: This study was a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized 
controlled trials investigating the effectiveness of DMP for depression as 
compared with usual primary care.
METHODS: Criteria for study selection were depression as main diagnosis in 
adults, the intervention DMP (evidence-based guidelines, patient/provider 
education, collaborative care, reminder systems, and monitoring), and trial 
quality A/B (Cochrane Collaboration guidelines) rated by 2 observers. 
Measurement instruments had to be published in peer-reviewed journals and filled 
out by the participants, their relations, or independent raters. Meta-analyses 
were conducted by using dichotomous outcomes within forest plots. Tests of 
heterogeneity, sensitivity analyses, and funnel plots were performed. Economic 
evaluations were descriptively summarized.
RESULTS: DMP had a significant effect on depression severity, with a relative 
risk of 0.75 (95% confidence interval 0.70-0.81) in a homogeneous dataset of 10 
high-quality trials. It was robust in all sensitivity analyses (evidence level 
1A). Funnel plot symmetry indicated a low probability of publication bias. 
Patient satisfaction and adherence to the treatment regimen improved 
significantly, but only in heterogeneous models. The costs per quality adjusted 
life year ranged between US 9,051 dollars and US 49,500 dollars.
CONCLUSION: DMP significantly enhance the quality of care for depression. Costs 
are within the range of other widely accepted public health improvements. Future 
research should focus on the effect of long-term interventions, and the 
compatibility with health care systems other than managed-care driven ones.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200412000-00008
PMID: 15550801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Chirurg. 2005 Jan;76(1):35-42. doi: 10.1007/s00104-004-0974-x.

[Nononcologic abdominal surgery in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Gassel HJ(1), Meyer D, Sailer M, Thiede A.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum Operative Medizin, Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universität 
Würzburg.

Comment in
    Chirurg. 2005 Jun;76(6):609; author reply 609.

Due to rising life expectancy of the population, the proportion of elderly 
patients requiring surgery is rising as well. Present aspects of selected, 
typical, nononcologic diseases of elderly people are discussed. The key to 
success in their treatment is not to consider primarily the patient's 
calendrical age but to assess the individual profile of risk factors on the 
basis of comorbidities. The kind, extent, and timing of an operation has to be 
based on this assessment. For the treatment of acute diseases (e.g., complicated 
ulcera, cholecystitis, appendicitis, mesenteric ischemia, and diverticulitis), a 
rapid and efficacious diagnostic algorithm is essential that takes into account 
the reduced functional reserve of old people. Constructive interdisciplinary 
cooperation and minimally invasive techniques play dominant roles in both 
diagnosis and therapy. Given these prerequisites, there is no reason to withhold 
surgical intervention from elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-004-0974-x
PMID: 15551006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Chirurg. 2005 Jan;76(1):28-34. doi: 10.1007/s00104-004-0972-z.

["FRAGILE"-Old people and surgery].

[Article in German]

Hestermann U(1), Thomas C, Oster P.

Author information:
(1)Bethanien-Krankenhaus, Geriatrisches Zentrum am Klinikum der Universität 
Heidelberg. uhestermann@bethanien-heidelberg.de

As life expectancy and modern surgical and intensive care techniques develop, 
the number of old patients in surgery is rising. Associated are problems with 
the indication for surgical intervention and rising incidence of "typical" peri- 
and postoperative complications such as postoperative delirium. Geriatric 
assessment serves to identify patients at risk of developing complications, to 
describe the postoperative course of functional and cognitive abilities, and to 
adjust therapeutic strategies to the individual needs of these patients. The 
most important instruments of geriatric assessment are described. Postoperative 
delirium, the most prevalent complication in surgical geriatric patients, is 
discussed in detail with regard to risk factors, prevalence, diagnosis, and 
therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-004-0972-z
PMID: 15551008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Internist (Berl). 2004 Dec;45(12):1428-36. doi: 10.1007/s00108-004-1311-7.

["State of the HAART". Current strategies for antiretroviral therapy].

[Article in German]

Staszewski S(1), Stephan C.

Author information:
(1)Schwerpunkt HIV am Zentrum der Inneren Medizin, Klinik II, Klinikum der 
Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-Unversität Frankfurt. Stasz@HIVcenter.de

The goal of antiretroviral therapy is to interrupt the disease progression and 
to approach normal life expectancy for individuals with HIV. The condition for 
this is to deter the emergence of resistant HIV. This aim is achieved by 
improved patient drug adherence, sufficient enteral resorption and the control 
of interactions, as well as good tolerability and full antiviral activity. An 
insufficient drug exposure for protease inhibitors is overcome by the use of a 
booster agent. Emerging HIV-resistance can be described in a phase model:Phase 
1:replication of wild-type HIV under incomplete suppressive therapy. Phase 
2:transformation of wild-type into resistant HIV through accumulation of 
mutations. A preventive, resistance-guided switch of therapy preserves 
therapeutic options for the future. Phase 3:replication of resistant HIV (no 
more mutations possible).a)stable immunity: continue with failing 
therapy.b)threatening disease progression: resistance-guided switch to a 
salvage-regimen.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-004-1311-7
PMID: 15551021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Heart Advis. 2004 Jul;7(7):2.

Why (and how) heart patients should check air quality.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15551415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Health News. 2004 Aug;10(8):13.

Watchful waiting in prostate cancer.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15551464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 2004;121(1):57-72; discussion 72-6.

[Poverty, social exclusion, social capital and health].

[Article in Spanish]

Del Rey Calero J.

Social capital is the social structure which facilitates the actions of 
individuals, stimulates production and allows for success. Poverty maintains 
basic needs unmet (food, health, autonomy) over time and unvoluntarily. Social 
exclusion does not allow individuals to participate in society. The following 
dimensions are assessed: financial poverty, social inclusion, employment, health 
and education. Social participation, work integration, empowerment, self-esteem, 
and personal achievement should be promoted. In Europe 15% of people is exposed 
to poverty; in Spain corresponding figures are 13.4%, while for the elderly 
reached 21%. Extreme poverty affects 6.2% population and severe poverty 14.2%. 
Women and those living in Andalusia, Canary Islands and Extremadura are 
particularly affected, health inequality are for elderly, immigration, gender, 
social class, and should be reduced 10% for 2010. The Gini indez measures the 
income distribution; in the European Union (EU) it is 0.29 while in Spain is 
0.33. Poverty and health are inversely correlated, health care expenditure in 
Spain is 7.5% og GDP. Life expectancy in U.E. is 75.5 years for men and 81.6 
years for women, while in Spain it is 78 and 83.1 respectively. Infant mortality 
in EU is 4.5/1000, 4.1 per thousand in Spain. Lastly, the number of children per 
women in EU is 1.47 and in Spain 1.3.

PMID: 15553403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Orv Hetil. 2004 Sep 26;145(39):1991-6.

[Review of our experiences and results with renal cell cancer patients in the 
last five years].

[Article in Hungarian]

Romics I(1), Szendroi A, Riesz P.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, Urológiai Klinika, 
Budapest. romimre@urol.sote.hu

PATIENTS AND METHODS: The authors have collected and processed data of 307 
patients at Urological Department Semmelweis University, who were treated for 
renal tumour from June 1997 to December 2002.
RESULTS: During this process on the basis of their work, they formed their 
opinion of the main steps of diagnostical, surgical and conservative 
therapeutical procedure with patients suffering from renal cell cancer. They 
established the fact that the data is parallel with retraceable international 
literature, therefore this work can be the starting-point of long term 
prospective studies. They call attention to the fact that 70% of the tumours 
were recognized without any symptoms, during examination indicated for other 
reasons, due to the widely spreading of ultrasound, computed tomography and 
other imaging techniques.
CONCLUSION: The tumours are recognized and removed in earlier stages and it is 
to be hoped that it prolongs their life expectancy, and makes the quality of 
life of our patients much better.

PMID: 15553910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Orthopedics. 2004 Oct;27(10):1100-3. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-20041001-22.

Transmandible approach for the treatment of upper cervical spine metastatic 
tumors.

Logroscino CA(1), Casula S, Rigante M, Almadori G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, the Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

The transmandible tongue-splitting approach is a useful and safe procedure for 
treating secondary lesions of the upper cervical spine, with only minor cosmetic 
and functional impairment. This method requires a team approach and has the 
advantage of enhancing the surgical exposure, thus allowing for resection and 
stabilization on more levels. Two patients with metastases in the upper cervical 
spine were treated using this approach. In view of a relatively long life 
expectancy, a marginal resection was performed. The residual instability 
required a combined approach and internal fixation. Both patients were ambulant, 
neurologically intact, and pain free 24 and 26 months postoperatively.

DOI: 10.3928/0147-7447-20041001-22
PMID: 15553953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Metab Brain Dis. 2004 Dec;19(3-4):195-206. doi: 
10.1023/b:mebr.0000043969.96895.3c.

Erythropoietin: novel approaches to neuroprotection in human brain disease.

Ehrenreich H(1), Aust C, Krampe H, Jahn H, Jacob S, Herrmann M, Sirén AL.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Neuroscience Laboratory, Max-Planck-Institute for Experimental 
Medicine, Göttingen, Germany. ehrenreich@em.mpg.de

With the increased life expectancy in western industrialized countries, the 
incidence and prevalence of brain diseases dramatically increased. Stroke and a 
wide spectrum of neuropsychiatric illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, traumatic head injury, and 
schizophrenia all lead to severe disability. However, targeted effective 
therapies for treatment of these diseases are lacking. Even more frustrating is 
the fact that we do not yet clearly understand the basic mechanisms underlying 
the disease processes in these conditions. We propose a hypothesis of loss of 
neuronal function via a final common deleterious pathway in this clinically very 
heterogeneous disease group. This review presents a novel neuroprotective 
concept for treatment of brain disease: Erythropoietin (EPO). EPO is a natural 
body-own-protein hormone that has been used for treatment of anemia for more 
than a decade. The neuroprotective approach using EPO in brain disease 
represents a totally new frontier. The "Göttingen EPO-stroke trial" represents 
the first effective use in man of a neuroprotective therapy in an acute brain 
disease while the experimental EPO therapy to combat cognitive decline in 
patients with schizophrenia will be introduced as an example of a 
neuroprotective strategy for a chronic brain disease.

DOI: 10.1023/b:mebr.0000043969.96895.3c
PMID: 15554415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2004 Sep;25(9):822-3.

[Disease burden of malignant tumor in urban in City Hanzhou].

[Article in Chinese]

Li AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Hanzhou Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Hanzhou 310006, China

PMID: 15555375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Lancet. 2004 Nov 20-26;364(9448):1829-30. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(04)17449-7.

US health care: a state lottery?

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)17449-7
PMID: 15555645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Health Econ. 2004 Nov;23(6):1101-16. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2004.02.002.

Investigating the social value of health changes.

Gyrd-Hansen D(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Institute of Public Health, Odense University, 
Winsløwparken 19, 3rd Floor, DK-5000 Odense C, Denmark. dgh@sam.sdu.dk

This survey has demonstrated that the Danish public is concerned with 
distributional aspects of health gains. They have a strong inclination to give 
priority to those in a more severe health state provided their expected benefits 
are large enough to bring them to the health level where their rival patients 
are without treatment. Results also indicated that the equity argument may not 
apply with equal force on all health dimensions. Respondents did to some extent 
trade-off equity for greater health gains. A nouvelle finding is that the 
valuations of health increments per se seem to be affected by whether questions 
are framed as individual or social choices. If social decision making is the 
issue, health gains which involve relieving patients of extreme problems are 
valued more highly than relief of minor ailments. These discrepancies between 
individual and social valuations suggest that the use of QALY values elicited 
from an individual's perspective may not be valid in social decision making.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2004.02.002
PMID: 15556238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. BMJ. 2004 Dec 11;329(7479):1381. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38282.607859.AE. Epub 2004
Nov  19.

United Kingdom back pain exercise and manipulation (UK BEAM) randomised trial: 
cost effectiveness of physical treatments for back pain in primary care.

UK BEAM Trial Team.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Jan 8;330(7482):53-4.
    BMJ. 2005 Mar 19;330(7492):674; author reply 674.
    BMJ. 2005 Mar 19;330(7492):674; author reply 674.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of adding spinal manipulation, 
exercise classes, or manipulation followed by exercise ("combined treatment") to 
"best care" in general practice for patients consulting with low back pain.
DESIGN: Stochastic cost utility analysis alongside pragmatic randomised trial 
with factorial design.
SETTING: 181 general practices and 63 community settings for physical treatments 
around 14 centres across the United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 1287 (96%) of 1334 trial participants.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Healthcare costs, quality adjusted life years (QALYs), 
and cost per QALY over 12 months.
RESULTS: Over one year, mean treatment costs relative to "best care" were 195 
pounds sterling (360 dollars; 279 euros; 95% credibility interval 85 pounds 
sterling to 308 pounds sterling) for manipulation, 140 pounds sterling (3 pounds 
sterling to 278 pounds sterling) for exercise, and 125 pounds sterling (21 
pounds sterling to 228 pounds sterling) for combined treatment. All three active 
treatments increased participants' average QALYs compared with best care alone. 
Each extra QALY that combined treatment yielded relative to best care cost 3800 
pounds sterling; in economic terms it had an "incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio" of 3800 pounds sterling. Manipulation alone had a ratio of 8700 pounds 
sterling relative to combined treatment. If the NHS was prepared to pay at least 
10,000 pounds sterling for each extra QALY (lower than previous recommendations 
in the United Kingdom), manipulation alone would probably be the best strategy. 
If manipulation was not available, exercise would have an incremental cost 
effectiveness ratio of 8300 pounds sterling relative to best care.
CONCLUSIONS: Spinal manipulation is a cost effective addition to "best care" for 
back pain in general practice. Manipulation alone probably gives better value 
for money than manipulation followed by exercise.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38282.607859.AE
PMCID: PMC535455
PMID: 15556954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Biol Chem. 2005 Feb 11;280(6):4238-46. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M412240200. Epub
2004  Nov 22.

Evidence that monoclonal antibodies directed against the integrin beta subunit 
plexin/semaphorin/integrin domain stimulate function by inducing receptor 
extension.

Mould AP(1), Travis MA, Barton SJ, Hamilton JA, Askari JA, Craig SE, Macdonald 
PR, Kammerer RA, Buckley PA, Humphries MJ.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell-Matrix Research, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, United Kingdom. 
paul.mould@manchester.ac.uk

The overall structure of integrins is that of a ligand-binding head connected to 
two long legs. The legs can exhibit a pronounced bend at the "knees," and it has 
been proposed that the legs undergo a dramatic straightening when integrins 
transit from a low affinity to a high affinity state. The knee region contains 
domains from both alpha and beta subunits, including the N-terminal 
plexin/semaphorin/integrin (PSI) domain of the beta subunit. The role played by 
the knee domains in the regulation of integrin-ligand binding is uncertain. Here 
we show that: (i) monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) N29 and 8E3 have epitopes in the 
beta(1) subunit PSI domain and stimulate ligand binding to alpha(5)beta(1); (ii) 
N29 and 8E3 cause long range conformational changes that alter the ligand 
binding activity of the head region; (iii) the stimulatory action of these mAbs 
is dependent on the calf-1 domain, which forms part of the alpha subunit knee; 
and (iv) the epitopes of 8E3 and N29 map close to the extreme N terminus of the 
PSI and are likely to lie on the side of this domain that faces the alpha 
subunit. Taken together, our data suggest that the binding of these mAbs results 
in a levering apart of the PSI and calf-1 domains, and thereby causes the alpha 
and beta subunit knees to separate. Several major inferences can be drawn from 
our findings. First, the PSI domain appears to form part of an interface with 
the alpha subunit that normally restrains the integrin in a bent state. Second, 
the PSI domain is important for the transduction of conformational changes from 
the knee to head. Third, unbending is likely to provide a general mechanism for 
control of integrin-ligand recognition.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M412240200
PMCID: PMC3328395
PMID: 15557320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Neurology. 2004 Nov 23;63(10):1933-5. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000144345.49510.4e.

Functional outcome measures as clinical trial endpoints in ALS.

Traynor BJ(1), Zhang H, Shefner JM, Schoenfeld D, Cudkowicz ME; NEALS 
Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Clinical Trials Unit, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. btraynor@partners.org

The topiramate study was a 12-month randomized placebo-controlled trial in 
patients with ALS. Follow-up evaluation of the placebo group (n = 97) 
constituted a well-described cohort of patients with ALS, in whom multiple 
outcome measures were assessed at 3-month intervals. During the 12-month study 
period, the decline of forced vital capacity (FVC%) and ALS functional rating 
scale (ALSFRS) was linear, whereas the decline of maximum voluntary isometric 
contraction-arm (MVIC-arm) and MVIC-grip Z scores was curvilinear. Rates of FVC% 
and ALFRS decline, but not of MVIC-arm or MVIC-grip, were independent predictors 
of survival.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000144345.49510.4e
PMID: 15557515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Gastrointest Endosc. 2004 Nov;60(5):739-56. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(04)02167-4.

Cost-effectiveness of photodynamic therapy for high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's 
esophagus.

Vij R(1), Triadafilopoulos G, Owens DK, Kunz P, Sanders GD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Center for Primary Care and 
Outcomes Research, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Photodynamic therapy appears to be effective in ablating high-grade 
dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus. Our aim was to identify the most effective and 
cost-effective strategy for managing high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus 
without associated endoscopically visible abnormalities.
METHODS: By using decision analysis, the lifetime costs and benefits of 4 
strategies for which long-term data exist were estimated by us: esophagectomy, 
endoscopic surveillance, photodynamic therapy, followed by esophagectomy for 
residual high-grade dysplasia; and photodynamic therapy followed by endoscopic 
surveillance for residual high-grade dysplasia. It was assumed by us that there 
was a 30% prevalence of cancer in high-grade dysplasia patients and a 77% 
efficacy of photodynamic therapy for high-grade dysplasia and early cancer.
RESULTS: Esophagectomy cost 24,045 dollars, with life expectancy of 11.82 
quality-adjusted life years. In comparison, photodynamic therapy followed by 
surveillance for residual high-grade dysplasia was the most effective strategy, 
with a quality-adjusted life expectancy of 12.31 quality-adjusted life years, 
but it also incurred the greatest lifetime cost (47,310 dollars) for an 
incremental cost-effectiveness of 47,410 dollars/quality-adjusted life years. 
The results were sensitive to post-surgical quality of life and survival, and to 
cancer prevalence if photodynamic therapy efficacy for cancer was less than 50%.
CONCLUSIONS: Photodynamic therapy followed by endoscopic surveillance for 
residual high-grade dysplasia appears to be cost effective compared with 
esophagectomy for patients diagnosed with high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's 
esophagus. Clinical trials directly comparing these strategies are warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(04)02167-4
PMID: 15557950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2004 Oct;99(6):603-7. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02762004000600012. Epub 2004 Nov 18.

Life tables and reproductive parameters of Lutzomyia spinicrassa (Diptera: 
Psychodidae) under laboratory conditions.

Escovar J(1), Bello FJ, Morales A, Moncada L, Cárdenas E.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Entomología, Biología Celular y Genética, Departamento de 
Ciencias Básicas, Universidad de La Salle, Bogotá, DC, Colombia.

Lutzomyia spinicrassa is a vector of Leishmania braziliensis in Colombia. This 
sand fly has a broad geographical distribution in Colombia and Venezuela and it 
is found mainly in coffee plantations. Baseline biological growth data of L. 
spinicrassa were obtained under experimental laboratory conditions. The 
development time from egg to adult ranged from 59 to 121 days, with 12.74 weeks 
in average. Based on cohorts of 100 females, horizontal life table was 
constructed. The following predictive parameters were obtained: net rate of 
reproduction (8.4 females per cohort female), generation time (12.74 weeks), 
intrinsic rate of population increase (0.17), and finite rate of population 
increment (1.18). The reproductive value for each class age of the cohort 
females was calculated. Vertical life tables were elaborated and mortality was 
described for the generation obtained of the field cohort. In addition, for two 
successive generations, additive variance and heritability for fecundity were 
estimated.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762004000600012
PMID: 15558171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2004 Dec;37(12):1909-17. doi: 
10.1590/s0100-879x2004001200018. Epub 2004 Nov 17.

Swimming training increases cardiac vagal activity and induces cardiac 
hypertrophy in rats.

Medeiros A(1), Oliveira EM, Gianolla R, Casarini DE, Negrão CE, Brum PC.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biodinâmica do Movimento do Corpo Humano, Escola de Educação 
Física e Esporte, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The effect of swimming training (ST) on vagal and sympathetic cardiac effects 
was investigated in sedentary (S, N = 12) and trained (T, N = 12) male Wistar 
rats (200-220 g). ST consisted of 60-min swimming sessions 5 days/week for 8 
weeks, with a 5% body weight load attached to the tail. The effect of the 
autonomic nervous system in generating training-induced resting bradycardia (RB) 
was examined indirectly after cardiac muscarinic and adrenergic receptor 
blockade. Cardiac hypertrophy was evaluated by cardiac weight and myocyte 
morphometry. Plasma catecholamine concentrations and citrate synthase activity 
in soleus muscle were also determined in both groups. Resting heart rate was 
significantly reduced in T rats (355 +/- 16 vs 330 +/- 20 bpm). RB was 
associated with a significantly increased cardiac vagal effect in T rats (103 
+/- 25 vs 158 +/- 40 bpm), since the sympathetic cardiac effect and intrinsic 
heart rate were similar for the two groups. Likewise, no significant difference 
was observed for plasma catecholamine concentrations between S and T rats. In T 
rats, left ventricle weight (13%) and myocyte dimension (21%) were significantly 
increased, suggesting cardiac hypertrophy. Skeletal muscle citrate synthase 
activity was significantly increased by 52% in T rats, indicating endurance 
conditioning. These data suggest that RB induced by ST is mainly mediated 
parasympathetically and differs from other training modes, like running, that 
seems to mainly decrease intrinsic heart rate in rats. The increased cardiac 
vagal activity associated with ST is of clinical relevance, since both are 
related to increased life expectancy and prevention of cardiac events.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2004001200018
PMID: 15558199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Pediatr Radiol. 2004 Oct;34 Suppl 3:S207-14; discussion S234-41. doi: 
10.1007/s00247-004-1271-z.

Management of pediatric radiation dose using Agfa computed radiography.

Schaetzing R(1).

Author information:
(1)Agfa Corporation, 10 South Academy St., Greenville, SC 29601, USA. 
ralph.schaetzing@agfa.com

Radiation dose to patients and its management have become important 
considerations in modern radiographic imaging procedures, but they acquire 
particular significance in the imaging of children. Because of their longer life 
expectancy, children exposed to radiation are thought to have a significantly 
increased risk of radiation-related late sequelae compared to adults first 
exposed to radiation later in life. Therefore, current clinical thinking 
dictates that dose in pediatric radiography be minimized, while simultaneously 
ensuring sufficient diagnostic information in the image, and reducing the need 
for repeat exposures. Dose management obviously starts with characterization and 
control of the exposure technique. However, it extends farther through the 
imaging chain to the acquisition system, and even to the image processing 
techniques used to optimize acquired images for display. Further, other factors, 
such as quality control procedures and the ability to handle special pediatric 
procedures, like scoliosis exams, also come into play. The need for dose 
management in modern radiography systems has spawned a variety of different 
solutions, some of which are similar across different manufacturers, and some of 
which are unique. This paper covers the techniques used in Agfa Computed 
Radiography (CR) systems to manage dose in a pediatric environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-004-1271-z
PMID: 15558263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2005 Feb;125(1):66-9. doi:
10.1007/s00402-004-0755-5.  Epub 2004 Nov 19.

Clear cell chondrosarcoma of the proximal femur with intrapelvic extension.

Simsek A(1), Sipahioğlu S, Ataoğlu O, Cila E.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Orthopaedics and Traumatology Department, Gazi 
University, 06600, Besevler, Ankara, Turkey.

Clear cell chondrosarcoma is a rare tumor that can be easily confused with 
benign tumors. The aim of this report is to present a case that is rare, 
initially diagnosed as aneurysmal bone cyst and then chondroblastoma, and has an 
interesting extension pattern. A 41-year-old male patient was treated for an 
apparently benign cystic lesion of the right proximal femur by intralesional 
excision and bone grafting. The pathological diagnosis was aneurysmal bone cyst. 
Two years later, the patient presented with a pathological fracture at the same 
site and a total hip arthroplasty was performed. The pathological specimen was 
diagnosed as chondroblastoma. Three years later, clinical and radiological 
examination of the patient revealed a large mass located on the intrapelvic side 
of the acetabulum. There was no evidence of distant metastases. Both tumors were 
resected with a wide margin on the femoral side and a marginal margin on the 
intrapelvic side. The extremity was reconstructed with a resection-type total 
hip prosthesis. Again, the pathological diagnosis was chondroblastoma. The 
patient developed a deep infection that was treated by antibiotic therapy and 
surgical debridement. One year later, there was recurrence of the femoral and 
intrapelvic masses and right hemipelvectomy was performed; the specimen was 
reported as clear cell chondrosarcoma. Since then, the patient has been leading 
an active life, and there is no evidence of local recurrence or distant 
metastasis. Clinically and pathologically, clear cell chondrosarcoma may be 
confused with benign bone tumors. This caused a delay in the final diagnosis of 
this patient and he received inadequate surgical treatment, leading to a 
hemipelvectomy. We also found that the intrapelvic mass seemed to have developed 
independently on the intrapelvic side of the acetabulum. We were unable to find 
an exact explanation for this finding and postulated that tumor cells might have 
been seeded into the inner wall of the acetabulum during acetabular preparation 
of the total hip prosthesis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-004-0755-5
PMID: 15558292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Rev Prat. 2004 Sep 30;54(14):1568-9, 1571-2.

[Osteo-articular complications of sickle-cell-anemia in adult].

[Article in French]

M'Bappé P(1), Girot R.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, hôpital Tenon, 75970 Paris Cedex 20.

Osteo-articular complications of sickle cell anaemia in adult are represented by 
bone marrow infarcts, osteomyelitis and osteonecrosis of femoral and humeral 
heads. The frequency and/or the severity of these complications provide a great 
functional disability in young patients whose life expectancy is growing. A well 
adapted treatment would may limit the sequels.

PMID: 15558968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Adv Gerontol. 2004;14:105-13.

[The influence of substances revealing geroprotective of spontaneous 
carcinogenesis in mice].

[Article in Russian]

Popovich IG.

The review presents the results of experimental studies conducted by the author. 
CBA, SHR, HER-2/neu and SAM mice revealed inhibition of age-related alterations 
in estrus function and spontaneous tumour development and showed life span 
extension under the influence of the pineal gland hormone Melatonin, synthetic 
peptide bioregulator Epitalon, delta-sleep-inducing peptide Deltaran, 
enterosorbent Aqualen and succinic acid containing preparation Neuronol 
(Noogam). The observed effect depended on the dose and conditions of 
administration, as well as genetic predisposition of the particular mice strains 
to tumour development.

PMID: 15559508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Int Psychogeriatr. 2004 Sep;16(3):259-73. doi: 10.1017/s1041610204000456.

Luigi Amaducci memorial award winner's paper 2003. A neurologist's view of 
Alzheimer's disease and dementia.

Katzman R(1).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Disease Research Center, University of California, San Diego School 
of Medicine, La Jolla, 92093-0949, USA. rkatzman@ucsd.edu

Senile dementia was the third most common admission diagnosis for New York 
psychiatric hospitals at the start of the twentieth century and the distinction 
between vascular and senile dementia was understood by psychiatrists even then. 
The term Alzheimer's disease (AD) was originally introduced to distinguish a 
pre-senile dementia from the common general paresis, but Alzheimer raised the 
possibility that pre-senile AD might not be distinguishable in clinical or 
histological terms from senile dementia. By the late 1970s it had become clear 
that the most common disorder producing dementia in elderly people was 
clinically and pathologically identical to pre-senile AD. AD is malignant, 
reducing remaining life expectancy by almost half and raising the risk of death 
over five years threefold (cancer raises it fourfold). Synapse loss associated 
with beta amyloid oligomers is a strong determinant of cognitive decline in 
patients with AD. Tau-containing neurofibrillary tangles usefully track disease 
severity. Unmodifiable risk factors include mutations in three genes which 
affect the production or metabolism of beta amyloid, the risk factor gene for 
Apolipoprotein [see symol in text]4 and female gender. The overriding risk 
factor is age, the prevalence of AD doubling with every five years of age until 
90. Low education, head injury and low folate levels are examples of potentially 
modifiable risk factors. Since a delay of onset of five years would halve the 
number of patients with the disease, clinical trials for such putative 
protective factors as estrogens, folic acid, vitamin E, statins, and NSAIDs have 
begun. Cognitive and leisure activity may be protective against the development 
of AD but any protective function can only be confirmed by clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1017/s1041610204000456
PMID: 15559752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

