to improve survival and may improve neurological outcome in survivors.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000146894.45533.C2
PMID: 15520321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2004 Nov;61(11):1097-103. doi:
10.1001/archpsyc.61.11.1097.

The burden of major depression avoidable by longer-term treatment strategies.

Vos T(1), Haby MM, Barendregt JJ, Kruijshaar M, Corry J, Andrews G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Services, Melbourne, Australia; School of Population 
Health, University of Queensland, Herston, Australia. t.vos@sph.uq.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Major depression is the largest single cause of nonfatal disease 
burden in Australia. Effective drug and psychological treatments exist, yet are 
underused.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify the burden of disease currently averted in people seeking 
care for major depression and the amount of disease burden that could be averted 
in these people under optimal episodic and maintenance treatment strategies.
DESIGN: Modeling impact of current and optimal treatment strategies based on 
secondary analysis of mental health survey data, studies of the natural history 
of major depression, and meta-analyses of effectiveness data. Monte Carlo 
simulation of uncertainty in the model.
SETTING: The cohort of Australian adults experiencing an episode of major 
depression in 2000 are modeled through "what if" scenarios of no treatment, 
current treatment, and optimal treatment strategies with cognitive behavioral 
therapy or antidepressant drug treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Disability-Adjusted Life Year.
RESULTS: Current episodic treatment averts 9% (95% uncertainty interval, 6%-12%) 
of the disease burden of major depression in Australian adults. Optimal episodic 
treatment with cognitive behavioral therapy could avert 28% (95% uncertainty 
interval, 19%-39%) of this disease burden, and with drugs 24% (95% uncertainty 
interval, 19%-30%) could be averted. During the 5 years after an episode of 
major depression, current episodic treatment patterns would avert 13% (95% 
uncertainty interval, 10%-17%) of Disability-Adjusted Life Years, whereas 
maintenance drug treatment could avert 50% (95% uncertainty interval, 40%-60%) 
and maintenance cognitive behavioral therapy could avert 52% (95% uncertainty 
interval, 42%-64%), even if adherence of around 60% is taken into account.
CONCLUSIONS: Longer-term maintenance drug or psychological treatment strategies 
are required to make significant inroads into the large disease burden 
associated with major depression in the Australian population.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.61.11.1097
PMID: 15520357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Nov 9;101(45):15998-6003. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0404184101. Epub 2004 Nov 1.

Sir2 mediates longevity in the fly through a pathway related to calorie 
restriction.

Rogina B(1), Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology, University of Connecticut 
Health Center, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT 06030, USA.

Calorie restriction can extend life span in a variety of species including 
mammals, flies, nematodes, and yeast. Despite the importance of this nearly 
universal effect, little is understood about the molecular mechanisms that 
mediate the life-span-extending effect of calorie restriction in metazoans. Sir2 
is known to be involved in life span determination and calorie restriction in 
yeast mother cells. In nematodes increased Sir2 can extend life span, but a 
direct link to calorie restriction has not been demonstrated. We now report that 
Sir2 is directly involved in the calorie-restriction life-span-extending pathway 
in Drosophila. We demonstrate that an increase in Drosophila Sir2 (dSir2) 
extends life span, whereas a decrease in dSir2 blocks the life-span-extending 
effect of calorie reduction or rpd3 mutations. These data lead us to propose a 
genetic pathway by which calorie restriction extends life span and provides a 
framework for genetic and pharmacological studies of life span extension in 
metazoans.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0404184101
PMCID: PMC528752
PMID: 15520384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Can J Clin Pharmacol. 2004 Fall;11(2):e202-11. Epub 2004 Sep 14.

The economics of adjunctive therapies in coronary angioplasty: drugs, devices, 
or both?

Oh PI(1), Cohen EA, Mittmann N, Seung SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Sunnybrook and Women's and Cardiac 
Rehabilitation and Secondary Prevention Program, Toronto Rehabilitation 
Institute University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. oh.pauldr@torontorehab.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Abciximab reduces the number of ischemic events in patients 
undergoing angioplasty compared to standard therapy. Coronary stenting reduces 
the need for repeat procedures. Abciximab or stents individually are considered 
cost effective interventions. There is a need to quantify the economic value of 
the combination of abciximab and stenting over stenting alone.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was developed incorporating the outcomes from 
the EPISTENT study. Costs from Canadian sources for hospitalization, procedures 
and medications were used. Life expectancy was estimated using a Markov model. 
Total expected costs and outcomes of the abciximab and stent vs. stent alone 
were compared in an incremental analysis. The perspective of the analysis was a 
Canadian teaching hospital.
RESULTS: The acquisition cost for abciximab was partially offset by reduced 
costs for managing clinical events resulting in a net incremental cost of 1,076 
dollars per patient over one year (8,617 dollars combination vs. 7,541 dollars 
stent alone). This added cost was accompanied by a reduction in large MI or 
death by an absolute rate of 5.7% at one year (5.3% combination vs. 11.0% stent 
alone), yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 18,877 dollars per 
death or large MI averted. The long-term survival gain was 0.15 to 0.37 years 
yielding an attractive incremental cost effectiveness ratio of 2,832 dollars to 
7,173 dollars per life year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of abciximab and stenting versus stenting alone 
provides improved clinical outcomes at a very reasonable cost from the Canadian 
hospital perspective.

PMID: 15520474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. MedGenMed. 2004 Sep 20;6(3):51.

Sociocultural, environmental, and health challenges facing women and children 
living near the borders between Afghanistan, Iran, and Pakistan (AIP region).

Poureslami IM(1), MacLean DR, Spiegel J, Yassi A.

Author information:
(1)Iran University of Medical Sciences.

Erratum in
    MedGenMed. 2004;6(3):50.

BACKGROUND: For hundred of years, people in the region encompassed by the 
Afghanistan-Iran-Pakistan borders (AIP region) have been challenged by conflict 
and political and civil instability, mass displacement, human rights abuses, 
drought, and famine. It not surprising that health and quality of life of 
vulnerable groups in this region are among the worst in the world. In general, 
women and children, in particular girls, in the AIP region have had especially 
limited access to healthcare. Women and children have dramatically high rates of 
communicable and non-communicable disease, morbidity, and mortality and a 
general low life expectancy that is rapidly declining. In spite of national and 
international efforts to improve health status of vulnerable populations in this 
region, the key underlying sociocultural determinants of health and disparities 
(ie, gender, language, ethnicity, residential status, and socioeconomic status) 
have not been systematically studied, nor have their relationships to 
environmental challenges been examined.
OBJECTIVES: We set out to summarize existing information regarding the 
sociocultural, environmental, and traditional determinants of health disparities 
among different population groups in the AIP region; identify gaps in research 
regarding the communities' needs in the region; and highlight factors that must 
be considered in the design and implementation of future health intervention 
studies in the region.
METHODS: We reviewed current health literature, official documents, and other 
information (eg, reports of UN agencies) related to the social, cultural, and 
environmental factors that may influence the health outcomes of subpopulations 
living in the AIP region. We also interviewed individuals who had recently 
worked in this region.
RESULTS: Overall, the health problems faced by this underdeveloped region can be 
categorized into those resulting from lack of essential supplies and services 
and those stemming from the existing cultural practices in the area. The low 
health status of the people, particularly women and children, in the AIP region 
is associated with not only poor hygiene and lack of water but also limited 
knowledge and lack of access to healthcare services. In addition, cultural, 
political, and socioenvironmental factors play a role, including gender 
inequality and differences between languages spoken locally in the region and 
those most often used in written health education materials.
CONCLUSION: Future intervention programs designed for this region must use 
culturally sensitive strategies not only to provide health information and 
health services but also to address the underlying nonmedical determinants of 
health related to gender inequalities.

PMCID: PMC1435647
PMID: 15520675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2004 Nov;85(11):1764-73. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2004.06.062.

Health status, community integration, and economic risk factors for mortality 
after spinal cord injury.

Krause JS(1), Devivo MJ, Jackson AB.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 29425, USA. Krause@musc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To examine the association of health, community integration, and 
economic status with subsequent mortality and life expectancy among persons with 
spinal cord injury.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: Model Spinal Cord Injury Systems (MSCIS) hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 5947 persons injured since 1973 who were enrolled in 
the National Spinal Cord Injury Database and who were still alive and received 
an annual evaluation from November 1995 through March 2002.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Mortality was determined by routine follow-up supplemented 
by information from the Social Security Death Index. A logistic regression model 
based on the full set of predictor variables was developed to estimate the 
chance of dying in any given year.
RESULTS: After adjusting for demographic characteristics and injury severity, 
health status indicators, measures of community integration, and economic status 
indicators all had relatively small but statistically significant effects 
(20%-70% increases) on the likelihood of dying during the next year. Inclusion 
of these factors may result in higher life expectancy estimates under highly 
favorable conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: Whereas previous reports of the MSCIS data have identified the life 
expectancies associated with a particular set of demographic (eg, age, gender) 
and injury-related characteristics (level and completeness of injury; ventilator 
dependence), the current analysis suggests that consideration of health, 
economic, and psychosocial factors may make computations of life expectancy more 
accurate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2004.06.062
PMID: 15520971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2004 Sep;97(9):855-60.

[Medical histories of patients with Marfan's syndrome].

[Article in French]

Hirtzlin I(1), Kiyeila-Loubaki F, Jondeau G.

Author information:
(1)Université de Paris 1 (Panthéon-Sorbonne), Paris. hirtzlin@univ-paris1.fr

The life expectancy of patients with Marfan's syndrome has been increased by 
over 30 years by modern medico-surgical management but the diagnostic problems 
related to the multiplicity of symptoms and the necessity of collaboration by 
many specialities complicate the medical history of patients, which is largely 
unknown. The authors sent a self-administered questionnaire to 1 353 patients 
with Marfan's syndrome to obtain this information. Of the 430 questionnaires 
returned, as many by men as by women, the diagnosis of the disease was made in 
less than half the cases by clinical symptoms (42%): the investigation of an 
unrelated clinical problem (39%) or a family enquiry (19%) also led to the 
diagnosis. The delay between the first symptoms of the disease and first medical 
consultation (usually cardiological or ophthalmic) was long (5.2 years) as was 
the interval between the first consultation and the diagnosis (2.8 years). 
However, the population could be divided into two groups. one with rapid access 
to the physician (< 1 year) and to the diagnosis (< 3 years) and the second 
group in which the delays are long. When the diagnosis of Marfan's syndrome is 
made following consultation for an unrelated condition, it is more often delayed 
and the patient is usually older. The delay in diagnosis observed could be 
shortened by systematic familial enquiries and better information to physicians 
who could then suspect the diagnosis before the advent of clinical symptoms.

PMID: 15521477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Eur J Haematol. 2004 Dec;73(6):407-11. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.2004.00334.x.

VH gene mutation status and cellular drug resistance in chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia.

Aleskog A(1), Tobin G, Laurell A, Thunberg U, Lindhagen E, Roos G, Nilsson K, 
Nygren P, Sundström C, Höglund M, Larsson R, Rosenquist R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. 
anna.aleskog@medsci.uu.se

OBJECTIVE: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) can be divided into two 
clinical entities based on the immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (VH) gene 
mutation status, as cases with unmutated VH genes display a more aggressive 
disease with shorter survival time than mutated cases. The aim of this study was 
to investigate whether differences in cellular drug resistance could give an 
explanation for these divergent clinical courses.
METHODS: The VH gene mutation status was analysed in patients with previously 
untreated B-CLL using VH gene family-specific PCR amplification and nucleotide 
sequencing. In vitro sensitivity to cytarabine, fludarabine, cladribine, 
doxorubicin, idarubicin, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, melphalan and 
prednisolone was assessed using the non-clonogenic in vitro assay, fluorometric 
microculture cytotoxicity assay.
RESULTS: The VH genes and in vitro drug resistance were successfully analysed in 
46 cases, revealing that 25 (54%) cases showed unmutated and 21 (46%) cases 
mutated VH genes. Interestingly, the unmutated group generally tended to be more 
chemosensitive than the mutated group with significant differences for 
cytarabine and prednisolone (P < or = 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The propensity of inferior drug response in mutated B-CLL may 
reflect a more differentiated disease than in unmutated B-CLL. We conclude that 
the difference in prognosis between B-CLL cases with unmutated and mutated VH 
genes could not be explained by difference in cellular drug resistance.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2004.00334.x
PMID: 15522062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Jan;60(2):219-22. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.031.

Equity, capabilities and health.

Anand P(1), Dolan P.

Author information:
(1)Economics Department, The Open University, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA, UK. 
p.anand@open.ac.uk

This paper provides an introduction to a collection of articles concerning the 
relevance of Amartya Sen's work, the capability approach and related ethical 
claims, to health-care rationing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.031
PMID: 15522479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Jan;60(2):237-46. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.032.

Acceptability of less than perfect health states.

Brouwer WB(1), van Exel NJ, Stolk EA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO 
Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. brouwer@bmg.eur.nl

Health normally deteriorates beyond a certain age. This means, in Amartya Sen's 
terms, that one's health capabilities decline beyond a certain age, making it 
more difficult to achieve functionings such as mobility or sexual activity. In 
this paper, we investigate whether this normal reduction in quality of life also 
induces less than perfect health states to be considered acceptable at advanced 
stages of life. In other words, we investigate whether it is considered 
acceptable that health capabilities decline over time. In this study, we use 
domain-specific descriptions of health (mostly following the EQ-5D domains) in 
order to investigate whether the acceptability of less than perfect health 
states is similar for all types of health losses. Besides a theoretical 
consideration of this issue, we present some empirical evidence based on the 
answers of 226 respondents to a web-based survey. The results show that often 
individuals do indeed consider less than perfect health states acceptable, 
especially at more advanced stages of life. Mild health problems are more often 
considered acceptable than severe health problems. The acceptability of health 
states is related to the quality of life score of these states, i.e., worse 
states are considered less acceptable. This may have implications for the 
allocation of scarce health care resources.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.032
PMID: 15522481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Jan;60(2):257-63. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.05.003.

Concerns for the worse off: fair innings versus severity.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, P.O. Box 4404 Nydalen, Oslo, Norway. 
erik.nord@fhi.no

The original fair innings argument is about claims on length of life. Alan 
Williams has suggested that the argument also should apply to quality of life. 
His 'generalised fair innings approach' on the one hand, and the severity 
approach on the other, are two ways of incorporating concerns for fairness in 
economic evaluation of health care. They are based on different ethical 
arguments and therefore partly lead to different results. Both approaches 
incorporate concerns for current and future severity. There is strong support 
for this in formal theories of justice and government guidelines, and a number 
of public surveys even indicate the strength of these concerns. The generalised 
fair innings approach additionally incorporates concerns for past suffering. 
Intuitively, this is not unreasonable, but there is at this point little ethical 
theory or empirical evidence to suggest the strength of such concerns. The fair 
innings argument can be decomposed in an 'equal innings argument' and a 
'sufficient innings argument'. When the fair innings argument is applied to 
quality of life, its sufficient innings component implies that young people 
should have priority over old people when it comes to functional improvements 
and symptom relief for non-fatal conditions. This runs counter to both moral 
intuitions and official goverment guidelines in Norway and Sweden.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.05.003
PMID: 15522483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Jan;60(2):277-86. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.035.

A "fair innings" between the sexes: are men being treated inequitably?

Tsuchiya A(1), Williams A.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, University of Sheffield, 30 Regent Street, 
ScHARR, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. a.tsuchiya@sheffield.ac.uk

In most modern developed communities, women are known to live longer than men. A 
less known fact is that in many statistics reporting differences in life 
expectancy between socio-economic classes, on average women in the worst-off 
social class live as long as men in the best-off social class, if not longer. It 
is true that women tend to have higher morbidity, or lower health-related 
quality of life, especially at advanced age, but this female disadvantage does 
not offset the life expectancy advantage sufficiently to lead to the conclusion 
that men and women enjoy comparable lifetime health prospects in these 
communities. Although there is much public and policy discussion about the 
inequity of health inequalities between the social classes, there is relatively 
little discussion about such inequalities between the sexes. The paper first 
discusses the applicability of the fair innings argument to the issue of 
inequality in health between the sexes. It critically examines six arguments 
concerning why inequality in health between the sexes may or may not be an 
inequity. Next, special attention is given to the argument that it is wrong to 
judge the fairness or unfairness of health inequalities in isolation, but that 
this judgement should be made only after considering other inequalities relevant 
to overall human well-being, many of which are believed to work to the 
disadvantage of women. An analytical framework based on the Gender-related 
Development Index (a supplementary index to the Human Development Index) is 
taken as a starting point, to address the issue of health and overall 
well-being. But this is found wanting, and suggestions are made as to how its 
conceptual and empirical properties could be improved. Meanwhile we conclude 
that a prima facie case has been made that the current distribution of health in 
most countries does not give men a "fair innings", but the broader question 
about general well-being remains unresolved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.035
PMID: 15522485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Jan;60(2):313-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.08.001.

Are rich people or poor people more likely to be ill? Lay perceptions, by social 
class and neighbourhood, of inequalities in health.

Macintyre S(1), McKay L, Ellaway A.

Author information:
(1)MRC Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, University of Glasgow, 4 Lilybank 
Gardens, Glasgow, Scotland, G12 8RZ, UK. s.macintyre@msoc.mrc.gla.ac.uk

Research in the UK has suggested that people in lower social classes or from 
poorer neighbourhoods are less likely than their more socially advantaged 
counterparts to agree that health and life expectancy are worse among more 
deprived population groups. The small body of previous research has either used 
qualitative approaches or coded open-ended responses to survey questions about 
causes of health and illness or of inequalities between areas. We examined lay 
perceptions by asking a direct question and using a quantitative, multivariate 
approach. Residents in three age groups (25, 45 and 65 years old) living in two 
socially contrasting localities in Glasgow, Scotland, were asked who were more 
likely to have accidents, cancer, heart disease, mental illness, to be fitter, 
and to live longer: rich people, poor people, or both equally. Across all the 
health categories, those in lower social classes or from poorer neighbourhoods 
were equally or less likely than their more socially advantaged counterparts to 
say the poor had worse health. In a model containing age, sex, class and 
locality, those in lower social classes and in the poorer locality were 
significantly less likely to say that richer people live longer (OR: 0.5). We 
have therefore confirmed earlier observations that those most at risk of ill 
health may be less likely to acknowledge the social gradient in health. We 
suggest a need to examine this apparent paradox in other contexts and in more 
detail, using both quantitative and qualitative approaches.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.08.001
PMID: 15522487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Jan;60(2):357-68. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.05.016.

Under what conditions is euthanasia acceptable to lay people and health 
professionals?

Teisseyre N(1), Mullet E, Sorum PC.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire Cognition et Décision, Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, 
Université du Mirail, 31058-Toulouse, France.

Euthanasia is legal only in the Netherlands and Belgium, but it is on occasion 
performed by physicians elsewhere. We recruited in France two convenience 
samples of 221 lay people and of 189 professionals (36 physicians, 92 nurses, 48 
nurse's aides, and 13 psychologists) and asked them how acceptable it would be 
for a patient's physician to perform euthanasia in each of 72 scenarios. The 
scenarios were all combinations of three levels of the patient's life expectancy 
(3 days, 10 days, or 1 month), four levels of the patient's request for 
euthanasia (no request, unable to formulate a request because in a coma, some 
form of request, repeated formal requests), three of the family's attitude (do 
not uselessly prolong care, no opinion, try to keep the patient alive to the 
very end), and two of the patient's willingness to undergo organ donation 
(willing or not willing). We found that most lay people and health care 
professionals structure the factors in the patient scenarios in the same way: 
they assign most importance to the extent of requests for euthanasia by the 
patient and least importance (the lay people) or none (the health professionals) 
to the patient's willingness to donate organs. They also integrate the 
information from the different factors in the same way: the factors of patient 
request, patient life expectancy, and (for the lay people) organ donation are 
combined additively, and the family's attitude toward prolonging care interacts 
with patient request (playing a larger role when the patient can make no 
request). Thus we demonstrate a common cognitive foundation for future 
discussions, at the levels of both clinical care and public policy, of the 
conditions under which physician-performed euthanasia might be acceptable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.05.016
PMID: 15522491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2004 Nov;86(11):2446-55. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-200411000-00014.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of total ankle arthroplasty.

SooHoo NF(1), Kominski G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California at Los Angeles, 
10833 Le Conte Avenue, Room 76-143 CHS, Los Angeles, CA 90095. 
nsoohoo@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: There is renewed interest in total ankle arthroplasty as an 
alternative to ankle fusion in the treatment of end-stage ankle arthritis. 
Despite a lack of long-term data on the clinical outcomes associated with these 
implants, the use of ankle arthroplasty is expanding. The purpose of this 
cost-effectiveness analysis was to evaluate whether the currently available 
literature justifies the emerging use of total ankle arthroplasty. This study 
also identifies thresholds for the durability and function of ankle prostheses 
that, if met, would support more widespread dissemination of this new 
technology.
METHODS: A decision model was created for the treatment of ankle arthritis. The 
literature was reviewed to identify possible outcomes and their probabilities 
following ankle fusion and ankle arthroplasty. Each outcome was weighted for 
quality of life with use of a utility factor, and effectiveness was expressed in 
units of quality-adjusted life years. Gross costs were estimated from Medicare 
charge and reimbursement data for the relevant codes. The effect of the 
uncertainty of estimates of costs and effectiveness was assessed with 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The reference case of our model assumed a ten-year duration of survival 
of the prosthesis, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
ankle arthroplasty of $18,419 per quality-adjusted life year gained. This 
reflects a gain of 0.52 quality-adjusted life years at a cost of $9578 when 
ankle arthroplasty is chosen over fusion. This ratio compares favorably with the 
cost-effectiveness of other medical and surgical interventions. Sensitivity 
analysis determined that the cost per quality-adjusted life year gained with 
ankle arthroplasty rises above $50,000 if the prosthesis is assumed to fail 
before seven years. Treatment options with ratios above $50,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year are commonly considered to have limited 
cost-effectiveness. This threshold is also crossed when the theoretical 
functional advantages of ankle arthroplasty are eliminated in sensitivity 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The currently available literature has not yet shown that total 
ankle arthroplasty predictably results in levels of durability and function that 
make it cost-effective at this time. However, the reference case of this 
analysis does demonstrate that total ankle arthroplasty has the potential to be 
a cost-effective alternative to ankle fusion. This reference case assumes that 
the theoretical functional advantages of ankle arthroplasty over ankle fusion 
will be borne out in future clinical studies. Performance of total ankle 
replacement will be better justified if these thresholds are met in published 
long-term clinical trials.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-200411000-00014
PMID: 15523017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Indian Pediatr. 2004 Oct;41(10):1025-30.

Primary vesicoureteral reflux: progress of disease, somatic growth and renal 
parameters.

Menon P(1), Rao KL, Bhattacharya A, Mahajan JK, Samujh R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education 
and Research, Chandigarh, India.

Thirty children (45 units) in the age group 1 day-12 yrs with primary 
vesicoureteral reflux were studied prospectively and periodically assessed for 
renal function, scarring, grade of reflux and somatic growth parameters. Four 
children (6 units) with grade IV reflux underwent ureteric reimplantation. 
Complete resolution with medical management was seen in all 12 units of grade 
I-III reflux and in 5 of the remaining 27 units of grade IV-V reflux over 6 
months-6 yrs. This group showed highly significant improvement in height . The 
weight gain of the above 2 groups was statistically significant compared to 
those with persistent reflux. Focal defects were seen initially in 62 percent 
refluxing units. None of the patients showed deterioration in renal function or 
formation of new scars over the next 1-7 years. Three children on conservative 
management showed persistent growth retardation with associated breakthrough 
infection, hypertension, multiple renal scars and poor renal functional volume.

PMID: 15523128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Mol Cell Biochem. 2004 Aug;263(1-2):99-114. doi: 
10.1023/B:MCBI.0000041852.42291.aa.

Cellular and molecular aspects of familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy caused by 
mutations in the cardiac troponin I gene.

Gomes AV(1), Potter JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology, University of Miami School 
of Medicine, Miami, FL 33101, USA.

Mutations in the cardiac troponin I (CTnI) gene occur in approximately 5% of 
families with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC) and 20 mutations in 
this gene that cause FHC have now been described. The clinical manifestations of 
CTnI mutations that cause FHC are diverse, ranging from asymptomatic with high 
life expectancy to severe heart failure and sudden cardiac death. Most of these 
FHC mutations in CTnI result in cardiac hypertrophy unlike cardiac troponin T 
FHC mutations. All CTnI FHC mutations investigated in vitro affect the 
physiological function of CTnI, but other factors such as environmental or 
genetic factors (other genes that may affect the CTnI gene) are likely to be 
involved in influencing the severity of the phenotype produced by these 
mutations, since the distribution of hypertrophy among affected individuals 
varies within and between families. CTnI mutations mainly alter myocardial 
performance via changes in the Ca2+ -sensitivity of force development and in 
some cases alter the muscle relaxation kinetics due to haemodynamic or physical 
obstructions of blood flow from the left ventricle.

DOI: 10.1023/B:MCBI.0000041852.42291.aa
PMID: 15524171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Neurosci Nurs. 2004 Oct;36(5):245-51, 259. doi: 
10.1097/01376517-200410000-00003.

Aging with multiple sclerosis.

Finlayson M(1), Van Denend T, Hudson E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA. 
marciaf@uic.edu

Although multiple sclerosis (MS) does not typically reduce life expectancy, 
there has been relatively little systematic investigation of the experiences and 
health-related concerns of people aging with this disease. A current search of 
the database CINAHL produced no articles when the search terms "multiple 
sclerosis," "nursing" and "aging" were used. To initiate more dialogue about the 
role of nurses in addressing the issues and concerns of people aging with MS, a 
cross-sectional descriptive study was conducted using both qualitative 
interviews and the administration of standardized instruments to elicit 
information about the health concerns and service needs of 27 people with MS 55 
years of age and older. Qualitatively, participants perceived that they had less 
freedom and required more assistance than same age peers who do not have MS. 
Scores from standardized instruments support these perceptions. Participants 
expressed unmet needs in the areas of housework, physical therapy, MS support 
groups, religious service attendance, information and referral, check-in 
services, assistive technology use, social activities, personal care, and care 
coordination. To address these perceptions and needs, neuroscience nurses need 
to be aware of and sensitive to the challenges of aging with MS. In addition, 
nurses must be prepared to discuss and provide information, resources, and 
referrals on a wide range of health, social, and wellness-related services.

DOI: 10.1097/01376517-200410000-00003
PMID: 15524242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Nov;8(45):iii, 1-57. doi: 10.3310/hta8450.

Systematic review and economic evaluation of a long-acting insulin analogue, 
insulin glargine.

Warren E(1), Weatherley-Jones E, Chilcott J, Beverley C.

Author information:
(1)ScHARR Technology Assessment Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the use of insulin glargine in its licensed basal-bolus 
indication in terms of both clinical and cost-effectiveness.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the literature, involving a range of 
databases, was performed to identify all papers relating to insulin glargine.
RESULTS: Nineteen studies met the inclusion criteria but full reports were 
available for only six. For type 1 diabetes patients, insulin glargine appears 
to be more effective than neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) in reducing fasting 
blood glucose (FBG) but not in reducing glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and 
there is some evidence that both insulins are as effective as each other in both 
FBG and HbA1c control. For type 2 patients for whom oral antidiabetic agents 
provide inadequate glycaemic control, there is no evidence that insulin glargine 
is more effective than NPH in reducing either FBG or HbA1c and some evidence 
that both insulins are as effective as each other in both FBG and HbA1c control. 
Evidence for control of hypoglycaemia is equivocal. In studies where insulin 
glargine is demonstrated to be superior to NPH in controlling nocturnal 
hypoglycaemia, this may be only apparent when compared with once-daily NPH and 
not twice-daily NPH. Further, this superiority of glargine over NPH in the 
control of nocturnal hypoglycaemia may relate to one formulation of insulin 
glargine (HOE901[80]) and not another (HOE901[30]). There is no conclusive 
evidence that insulin glargine is superior to NPH in controlling symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia and severe hypoglycaemia. Insufficient data are available to 
conclude whether insulin glargine is different from each of the commonly used 
NPH dosing regimens: once daily and more than once daily. Given the lack of a 
published evidence base for the cost-effectiveness of insulin glargine, the 
economic review concentrates on a review of the industry submission and an 
amended model. Three economic models are provided in the submission, two 
relating to type 1 diabetes and one relating to type 2 diabetes. All three 
models compare the cost--utility of insulin glargine against NPH insulin. In 
general, the structures of the models are poor and in all three models, mistakes 
relating to assumptions and calculations have been made. The assessment team 
believe that the cost per QALY estimates generated by the Aventis model may be 
an underestimate for several reasons. The cost-effectiveness of insulin glargine 
in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes is highly sensitive to the amount of utility 
associated with reducing the fear of hypoglycaemia.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence suggests that, compared with NPH insulin, insulin 
glargine is effective in reducing the number of nocturnal hypoglycaemic 
episodes, especially when compared with once-daily NPH. There appears to be no 
improvement in long-term glycaemic control and therefore insulin glargine is 
unlikely to reduce the incidence of the long-term microvascular and 
cardiovascular complications of diabetes. Further research into insulin glargine 
is needed that addresses the quality of life issues associated with fear of 
hypoglycaemia and also the economic impact of balance of HbA1c control and 
incidence of hypoglycaemia achieved in practice. Studies examining the economic 
evidence on insulin glargine should be published.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8450
PMID: 15525480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Int Orthop. 2005 Feb;29(1):47-50. doi: 10.1007/s00264-004-0599-1. Epub 2004
Nov  4.

Low back pain after spinal fusion and Harrington instrumentation for idiopathic 
scoliosis.

Niemeyer T(1), Bövingloh AS, Grieb S, Schaefer J, Halm H, Kluba T.

Author information:
(1)Spine Service, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University Hospital 
Tübingen, Tubingen, Germany. thomas.niemeyer@med.uni-tuebingen.de

We reviewed 41 patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis treated with spinal 
fusion and Harrington instrumentation between 1973 and 1992. The mean follow-up 
was 23 (11-30) years. All patients completed self-administered questionnaires, 
Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Score (ODS), Roland Morris score (RLS), and 
Visual Analog Pain Intensity Scale (VAS). We found a high degree of satisfaction 
with more than three quarters of the patients in work. The outcome of ODS, RLS, 
and VAS showed low scores. We found a significant correlation between the scores 
and the Cobb angle preoperatively as well as at follow-up. The patient-oriented 
outcome did not correlate with the type of curve, extension of vertebral fusion, 
tilt angle of the lowest instrumented vertebra, postoperative Cobb angle, loss 
of correction, or lumbar lordosis. This long-term follow-up of Harrington rod 
fusion for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis showed no important impairment of 
health-related quality of life.

Nous avons examiné 41 patients avec une scoliose idiopathique de l’adolescence 
traitée par fusion vertébrale et instrumentation de Harrington entre 1973 et 
1992. La moyenne de suivi était de 23 ans (11–30). Tous les malades ont complété 
des questionnaires auto-administrés (Oswestry Score, Roland Morris Score et la 
cotation visuelle moyenne pour la douleur). Nous avons trouvé un haut degré de 
satisfaction avec plus de 3/4 des malades exerçant un travail. Les résultats des 
questionnaires ont montré des scores faibles. Nous avons trouvé une corrélation 
significative entre les scores et les angles de Cobb préopératoire aussi bien 
que postopératoire. Le résultat n’est pas en relation avec le type de courbe, 
l’extension de la fusion vertébrale, l’angle d’inclinaison de la plus basse 
vertèbre instrumentée, l’angle de Cobb postopératoire, la perte de correction ou 
la lordose lombaire. Ce suivi à long terme de la fusion rachidienne selon 
Harrington pour scoliose idiopathique de l’adolescent n’a montré aucune 
diminution importante de la qualité de vie des patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-004-0599-1
PMCID: PMC3456958
PMID: 15526199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Aktuelle Urol. 2004 Nov;35(6):505-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-818528.

[Breast cancer metastatic to a renal cell carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Van Wynsberge LK(1), Vierling P, Lampel A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie der Stadt Villingen-Schwenningen. 
lodewijkvw@mac.com

INTRODUCTION: Renal tumors are often diagnosed during routine 
radiological-imaging. A newly diagnosed renal tumor next to an existing cancer 
is challenging since a primary or a secondary renal neoplasm has to be 
considered in the differential diagnosis.
CASE REPORT: A 64-year-old woman underwent radical mastectomy and axillary 
lymphadenectomy for cancer of the right breast. After surgery, the patient 
underwent chemotherapy and radiotherapy because of multiple metastases. Six 
years later, computed tomography (CT) obtained as follow-up examination revealed 
a solid mass in the left kidney. Because radiological differentiation between 
metastatic breast cancer and primary kidney tumor was impossible and fine needle 
biopsy of renal tumors should be avoided, a nephrectomy was performed. 
Histologic diagnosis was a metastatic breast cancer within a primary renal cell 
carcinoma. Whereas the primary tumor was receptor negative, the breast cancer 
metastasis was estrogen receptor positive.
CONCLUSIONS: In a renal mass of unknown nature in patients in good general 
condition and acceptable life-expectancy, surgical exploration with partial or 
radical nephrectomy is justified in spite of a synchronous metastatic tumor of 
different origin. This is the only way to obtain a definitive histologic 
diagnosis. A primary renal tumor can be treated curatively, preventing secondary 
complications, such as hematuria. In this case, the changed receptor state of 
the breast cancer metastasis also offered the patient the possibility of new 
palliative chemotherapy and hormonal manipulation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-818528
PMID: 15526232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Posit Aware. 2004 Sep-Oct;15(5):24-6.

15th International AIDS Conference. News on treatment and social issues. 
Monotherapy, clean needles, and more.

Vázquez E.

PMID: 15526390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Rev Port Cardiol. 2004 Sep;23 Suppl 3:III33-6.

[From diagnostic and therapeutic guidelines to clinical practice in Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Vilas-Boas F(1).

Author information:
(1)Presidente do Grupo de Estudos em Insuficiência Cardíaca Sociedade Brasileira 
de Cardiologia, Salvador, Brasil. fabiovboas@hospitalalianca.com.br

Heart failure (HF) is a clinical syndrome of high incidence and high prevalence 
all over the world. Available therapeutic options for chronic HF slow the 
progression of ventricular remodeling and decrease the number of arrhythmic 
deaths; the resulting increased life expectancy leads to a higher prevalence of 
heart failure in the community and a higher number of hospital admissions. In 
Brazil, the largest country in Latin America, hospital admissions due to HF 
represent approximately 4% of all hospitalizations and 31% of hospitalizations 
for cardiovascular diseases. Brazilian cardiologists are increasingly following, 
the Brazilian Society of Cardiology Guidelines on Heart Failure, which are very 
similar to other international guidelines. Differences between the public and 
private health systems in our country, although, compromise the compliance of 
patients to HF treatment, decreasing the efficacy of treatment in the lower 
social classes.

PMID: 15526612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Ecotoxicology. 2004 Aug;13(6):535-44. doi:
10.1023/b:ectx.0000037190.09248.62.

Effects of mercury on the life table demography of the rotifer Brachionus 
calyciflorus Pallas (Rotifera).

Ramírez-Pérez T(1), Sarma SS, Nandini S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Aquatic Zoology, Edificio UMF, National Autonomous University 
of Mexico, Campus Iztacala, Tlalnepantla, State of Mexico, Mexico.

Mercury is highly toxic to a variety of aquatic organisms including zooplankton. 
The functioning of freshwater ecosystems can be altered if rotifers, being a 
natural food link between phytoplankton and fish larvae, are contaminated by 
mercuric compounds. In order to detect age-specific responses of the rotifer 
Brachionus calyciflorus to mercury toxicity (5 nominal concentrations as 
chloride viz. 0, 0.000625, 0.00125, 0.0025 and 0.005 mg l(-1)), we used the 
standard life table method at two different food (Chlorella vulgaris) levels 
(0.5 x 10(6) and 1.5 x 10(6) cells ml(-1)). Data indicated that increase in 
mercury concentration had an increasingly intense negative effect on many of the 
life history variables, while at higher food levels, its impact was less. A 
nearly rectangular survivorship pattern was obtained in controls, especially at 
higher food levels. This trend gradually changed to a steep fall as the 
concentration of the heavy metal in the medium increased from 0 to 0.005 mg 
l(-1). At any given food density, increase in the mercury concentration resulted 
in decreased age-specific reproduction. A maximum of 3.5 offspring female(-1) 
was observed in controls at higher food density. The average lifespan varied 
from 6 to 8 days at low food level, depending on the heavy metal concentration 
in the medium. The corresponding values at high food level varied from 8 to 12 
days. Regardless of mercury concentration in the medium, gross and net 
reproductive values varied from 10 to 33 and 4 to 19 offspring female(-1). The 
longest generation time (about 9 days) of B. calyciflorus was obtained at 1.5 x 
10(6) cells ml(-1) food density in control, while the shortest was 5 days at low 
food level and high (0.005 mg l(-1)) mercury concentration in the medium. 
Depending on the food level and heavy metal concentration in the medium, the 
rate of population growth (r) varied from 0.32 to 0.62 d(-1). In general, higher 
food level resulted in higher r. Except generation time, all other derived 
variables were significantly influenced by food level and the heavy metal 
concentration in the medium.

DOI: 10.1023/b:ectx.0000037190.09248.62
PMID: 15526859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2004 Oct;27(10):328-30.

[What is a cost-benefit analysis?].

[Article in German]

Müller-Bohn T.

PMID: 15527174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Br J Psychol. 2004 Nov;95(Pt 4):489-508. doi: 10.1348/0007126042369811.

A model of aesthetic appreciation and aesthetic judgments.

Leder H(1), Belke B, Oeberst A, Augustin D.

Author information:
(1)Freie Universität Berlin, Institute of Psychology, Germany. 
leder@experimental-psychology.de

Although aesthetic experiences are frequent in modern life, there is as of yet 
no scientifically comprehensive theory that explains what psychologically 
constitutes such experiences. These experiences are particularly interesting 
because of their hedonic properties and the possibility to provide 
self-rewarding cognitive operations. We shall explain why modern art's large 
number of individualized styles, innovativeness and conceptuality offer positive 
aesthetic experiences. Moreover, the challenge of art is mainly driven by a need 
for understanding. Cognitive challenges of both abstract art and other 
conceptual, complex and multidimensional stimuli require an extension of 
previous approaches to empirical aesthetics. We present an 
information-processing stage model of aesthetic processing. According to the 
model, aesthetic experiences involve five stages: perception, explicit 
classification, implicit classification, cognitive mastering and evaluation. The 
model differentiates between aesthetic emotion and aesthetic judgments as two 
types of output.

DOI: 10.1348/0007126042369811
PMID: 15527534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Nov;8(46):iii-iv, 1-61. doi: 10.3310/hta8460.

Supplementation of a home-based exercise programme with a class-based programme 
for people with osteoarthritis of the knees: a randomised controlled trial and 
health economic analysis.

McCarthy CJ(1), Mills PM, Pullen R, Richardson G, Hawkins N, Roberts CR, Silman 
AJ, Oldham JA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Rehabilitation Science, University of Manchester, Manchester Royal 
Infirmary, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To establish the relative effectiveness and cost of providing a 
home-based exercise programme versus home-based exercise supplemented with an 
8-week class-based exercise programme.
DESIGN: The trial was a pragmatic, single-blind randomised clinical trial 
accompanied by a full economic evaluation.
SETTING: Patients were randomly allocated to either home-based exercise or home 
exercise supplemented with class exercise programmes.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 214 patients, meeting the American College of 
Rheumatology's classification of knee osteoarthritis, were selected from 
referrals from the primary and secondary care settings.
INTERVENTIONS: Both groups were given a home exercise programme aimed at 
increasing lower limb strength, and endurance, and improving balance. The 
supplemented group also attended 8 weeks of twice-weekly knee classes run by a 
physiotherapist. Classes represented typical knee class provision in the UK.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Assessments of locomotor function, using a timed score of 
three locomotor activities, walking pain and self-reported disability with the 
Western Ontario and McMaster's Universities osteoarthritis index (WOMAC) were 
made. General health, lower limb strength, range of movement and compliance with 
exercise were also measured. Patients were assessed before and after treatment, 
and also at 6- and 12-month follow-ups. The economic evaluation looked at health 
service resource use and assessed cost-effectiveness by relating differential 
costs to differences in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) based on patients' 
responses to the EuroQol-5 Dimensions. Data were obtained at baseline, 1 month, 
6 months and 12 months through face-to-face interviews and, where appropriate, 
examination of hospital medical records.
RESULTS: Patients from the supplemented group demonstrated significantly greater 
improvement in locomotor function and decrease in pain while walking at all 
follow-ups. The supplemented group also demonstrated smaller but significant 
improvements in balance, strength, WOMAC score, and the physical function and 
pain dimensions of the Short Form-36. However, not all of these improvements 
were maintained over the 12-month follow-up period. There was no evidence that 
compliance with the home exercise programme was different or that total costs or 
mean QALY gains were significantly different between the groups. However, costs 
were slightly lower and QALY gains slightly higher in the group with the 
supplementary class-based programme. The economic evaluation suggests that 
supplemented programmes are likely to be considered cost-effective, although 
there is uncertainty around this estimate, with approximately 30--35% 
probability that the intervention would not be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The supplementation of a home-based exercise programme with a 
class-based exercise programme led to superior improvement in the supplemented 
group. These differential improvements were still evident at review 12 months 
after treatment had ceased. The additional cost of the supplemented group was 
offset by reductions in resource use elsewhere in the system. Compliance with 
the home exercise programme did not differ between the groups. Based on this 
evidence, the supplementation of a home-based exercise programme with an 8-week 
class-based exercise programme can be confidently expected to produce small 
improvements in locomotor function and clinically important reductions in pain. 
It is recommended that future research investigates methods of increasing 
compliance with home exercise programmes and evaluates the impact of these 
interventions in the primary care setting, where most patients with knee 
osteoarthritis are managed.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8460
PMID: 15527668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Nov;8(48):iii, 1-35. doi: 10.3310/hta8480.

Acupuncture of chronic headache disorders in primary care: randomised controlled 
trial and economic analysis.

Vickers AJ(1), Rees RW, Zollman CE, McCarney R, Smith CM, Ellis N, Fisher P, Van 
Haselen R, Wonderling D, Grieve R.

Author information:
(1)Integrative Medicine Service, Biostatistics Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the effects of a policy of using acupuncture, compared 
with a policy of avoiding acupuncture, on headache in primary care patients with 
chronic headache disorders. The effects of acupuncture on medication use, 
quality of life, resource use and days off sick in this population and the 
cost-effectiveness of acupuncture were also examined.
DESIGN: Randomised, controlled trial.
