Author information:
(1)3rd Department of Medicine, Medical and Health Science Center, University of 
Debrecen, MÃ³ricz Zs. krt. 22, 4004 Debrecen, Hungary. mil03@freemail.hu

PURPOSE: Secondary malignant tumours and cardiovascular complications are of 
great importance among the late complications after treatment for Hodgkin's 
disease (HD) because they may significantly reduce the patients' life 
expectancy. We report on coronary artery disease (CAD) after treatment for HD.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We present the case of two female patients with HD who 
received mediastinal irradiation after which complete remission was achieved. In 
12 and 19 years after the onset of the disease, control examinations revealed 
ischaemic heart disease, which was confirmed by coronary arteriography and 
solved by stent implantation in one of the patients and bypass surgery in the 
other one.
CONCLUSIONS: Ischaemic heart disease was due to early CAD, which was associated 
with mediastinal irradiation accompanied by hypothyroidism, hyperlipidaemia and, 
possibly, early menopause, all posing an increased risk for the cardiologic 
disease. Our cases may serve as a warning example to carefully plan the 
management (low dose, involved field irradiation) of newly diagnosed patients as 
well as the cardiologic follow-up of patients with HD.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carrad.2004.04.004
PMID: 15275631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2004 Aug;28(2):115-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2003.11.008.

Prediction of survival in terminal cancer patients in Taiwan: constructing a 
prognostic scale.

Chuang RB(1), Hu WY, Chiu TY, Chen CY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine (R.-B.C.), Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

We prospectively identified prognostic factors and developed a prognostic scale 
in 356 Taiwanese terminal cancer patients (training set). Demographic data, 
severity of symptoms/signs, and survival were statistically analyzed to create 
the scale, which was tested in another 184 patients (testing set). In the 
training set, liver and lung metastases, functional performance status, weight 
loss, edema, cognitive impairment, tiredness, and ascites were independently 
associated with shorter survival (multivariate analysis). The scale ranged from 
0.0 (no altered variables) to 8.5 (maximal alteration for all variables). When 
scores were < 3.5, 2-week survival was predicted with 0.72 and 0.61 accuracy for 
the training and testing sets, respectively. With scores < 6.0, 1-week survival 
was predicted with 0.72 and 0.66 accuracy, respectively. This scale, which 
includes lung and liver metastases and severity of symptoms/signs, may help in 
identifying the stage of dying and its corresponding symptoms/signs and also in 
improving survival prediction in terminal cancer patients.

Copyright 2004 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2003.11.008
PMID: 15276192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Aug;78(2):458-65; discussion 458-65. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.049.

Adjunctive transmyocardial revascularization: five-year follow-up of a 
prospective, randomized trial.

Allen KB(1), Dowling RD, Schuch DR, Pfeffer TA, Marra S, Lefrak EA, Fudge TL, 
Mostovych M, Szentpetery S, Saha SP, Murphy D, Dennis H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, St. Vincent Hospital, Indiana Heart 
Institute, 10590 N. Meridian Street, Suite 105, Indianapolis, IN 46260, USA. 
kallen2340@aol.com

BACKGROUND: In a prospective, randomized trial involving 263 patients who would 
be incompletely revascularized by coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) alone, 
CABG plus transmyocardial revascularization (CABG/TMR) provided an early 
mortality benefit with similar angina relief compared with CABG alone at 1 year. 
We evaluated the long-term outcome of patients randomized to CABG/TMR or CABG 
alone.
METHODS: Thirteen centers that enrolled 83% (218/263) of the patients in the 
original trial participated in this longitudinal study. Between 1996 and 1998, 
these centers randomized 218 patients who would be incompletely revascularized 
by CABG alone because of diffusely diseased target vessels to either 
holmium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (holmium:YAG) CABG/TMR (n = 110) or CABG alone 
(n = 108). Baseline demographics and operative characteristics were similar 
between groups. Follow-up (mean 5.0 +/- 1.7 years) included survival and blinded 
angina class assessment.
RESULTS: At this 5-year follow-up both groups experienced significant angina 
improvement from baseline, however, the CABG/TMR group had a lower mean angina 
score (0.4 +/- 0.7 vs 0.7 +/- 1.1, p = 0.05), a significantly lower proportion 
of patients with severe angina (class III/IV: 0% [0/68] vs 10% [6/60], p = 
0.009), and a trend towards greater number of angina-free patients (78% [53/68] 
vs 63% [38/60], p = 0.08), compared with CABG alone patients. Kaplan-Meier 
survival at 6 years was similar between CABG/TMR and CABG alone patients (76% vs 
80%, p = 0.90).
CONCLUSIONS: Five-year follow-up of prospectively randomized patients who would 
be incompletely revascularized because of diffuse coronary artery disease 
indicates that the addition of TMR to conventional CABG provides superior angina 
relief compared to CABG alone.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.049
PMID: 15276496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Aug;78(2):471-5; discussion 476. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.02.038.

Comparison of bilateral thoracic artery grafting with percutaneous coronary 
interventions in diabetic patients.

Locker C(1), Mohr R, Lev-Ran O, Uretzky G, Frimerman A, Shaham Y, Shapira I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, 6Tel 
Aviv 64239, Israel.

BACKGROUND: This study compares the outcome of percutaneous coronary 
interventions (PCI) with bilateral internal thoracic grafting (BITA) in diabetic 
patients.
METHODS: From May 1996 to December 1999, 802 consecutive diabetic patients 
underwent myocardial revascularization: 363 by PCI and 439 by BITA. The two 
groups were similar; however, left main disease (28% versus 3.3%), ejection 
fraction less than 0.35 (14.5% versus 5.5%), and chronic obstructive lung 
disease (8.4% versus 3%) were more prevalent in the BITA group, and prior 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, in the PCI group (16.8% versus 
10.5%).
RESULTS: The number of coronary vessels treated per patient was higher in the 
BITA group (3.4 versus 1.2; p < 0.001). Thirty-day mortality was similar: 3.4% 
in the BITA group and 2.8% in the PCI group. Late follow-up (3 to 6.5 years) 
showed decreased return of angina (11% versus 64%; p < 0.001), fewer 
reinterventions (2.7% versus 55%; p < 0.001), and increased cardiovascular 
event-free survival (80% versus 30%; p < 0.001) in the BITA group. Six-year 
survival of BITA and PCI patients was 85.5% and 81.2%, respectively (not 
significant). However, survival of the subgroups of patients with left main or 
three-vessel coronary artery disease was significantly better with BITA (86% 
versus 76%; p = 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite higher risk profile of diabetic patients treated surgically 
by BITA, their late outcome is better than that of patients treated by PCI. The 
results of this study support referring diabetics with single-vessel or 
double-vessel disease to PCI and those with three-vessel and left main coronary 
artery disease to surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.02.038
PMID: 15276499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Aug;78(2):477-80. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.02.119.

Midterm results of coronary artery bypass graft surgery with internal thoracic 
artery under low free-flow conditions.

Hata M(1), Shiono M, Inoue T, Sezai A, Negishi N, Sezai Y.

Author information:
(1)The Second Department of Surgery, Nihon University School of Medicine, 30-1 
Ooyaguchi Kamimachi, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8610, Japan. 
mihata@med.nihon-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: We use the left internal thoracic artery (LITA) even when flow is 
very low. In this study, we investigated midterm outcome of coronary artery 
bypass graft surgery with low free-flow LITA.
METHODS: One hundred patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery 
using LITA with a free flow of less than 20 mL/min were reviewed. The mean 
follow-up duration was 47.4 months, ranging from 1 to 65 months. Graft 
angiography was performed postoperatively. The diameter of the LITA was assessed 
angiographically. Cumulative graft patency, cardiac-related event-free rate, and 
actuarial survival rate were calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: An early postoperative Doppler study showed that the 
diastolic-to-systolic ratio in the LITA was 1.76 +/- 0.33. A 1-month 
postoperative angiography revealed LITA string sign in 2 patients. One had a 
percutaneous coronary intervention, whereas string sign was not detected in the 
second patient, and LITA patency showed a marked improvement in 1-year 
postoperative angiogram. One month postoperatively the LITA diameter was 1.6 +/- 
0.4 mm, and significantly enlarged in the second angiogram (1.9 +/- 0.4 mm, p = 
0.0003). There was a significant correlation between the diameter of the LITA 
and the left anterior descending coronary artery (r = 0.889, p = 0.0001). The 
cumulative graft patency rate at 1 and 4 years was 99.0% and 94.3%, 
respectively. The cardiac-related event-free rate at 1 and 5 years was 97.0% and 
93.3%, respectively. The actuarial survival rate at 5 years was 97.1%.
CONCLUSIONS: Even with a very low LITA free flow, graft function improves with 
LITA growth, if there was no mechanical damage that impedes recovery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.02.119
PMID: 15276501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Aug;78(2):487-91. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.11.044.

Impact of multivessel coronary artery disease on outcome after isolated 
minimally invasive bypass grafting of the left anterior descending artery.

Lichtenberg A(1), Klima U, Paeschke H, Pichlmaier M, Ringes-Lichtenberg S, 
Walles T, Goerler H, Haverich A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Hannover Medical School, 
30623 Hannover, Germany. lichtenberg@thg.mh-hannover.de

BACKGROUND: The outcome in patients treated surgically for coronary artery 
disease is known to be influenced by the extent of the disease. Whether this 
factor also has an effect in patients undergoing isolated minimally invasive 
revascularization of the left anterior descending (LAD) artery using the 
internal thoracic artery (ITA) (MIDCAB) has not been looked at. Thus, this study 
sought to evaluate the impact of multivessel disease (MVD) on midterm outcome 
after MIDCAB.
METHODS: From 1996 to 1999, 411 patients received a MIDCAB at our institution 
and were now followed up. Isolated disease of the LAD (SVD -single vessel 
disease) was presented in 262 patients (63.7%) and 149 patients (36.3%) had MVD 
at the time of operation. The reasons for apparent incomplete revascularization 
in patients with MVD were very small target vessels (< 1.0-mm diameter), 
stenoses of less than 50%, distal localization of the stenoses, long-term 
patency after angioplasty, or an extensive risk for sternotomy and(or) 
cardiopulmonary bypass. The midterm outcome was evaluated by questionnaires sent 
to the patients and their physicians.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up was 29.4 +/- 11.1 months. The incidence of 
myocardial infarction was significantly higher in MVD as compared to SVD 
patients (8.1% vs 1.9%, p = 0.04). Patients with MVD had significantly more 
subsequent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (10.7% vs 5.3%, p = 
0.049) and a similar number of repeat surgical revascularizations as compared to 
SVD patients. Patients with MVD had a significantly higher total 3-year 
mortality as compared to SVD patients by Kaplan-Meier estimate (8.7% vs 3.1%, 
relative risk [RR] = 2.56, p = 0.011). The 3-year cardiac mortality was 
significantly higher in patients with MVD as compared to SVD (4.0% vs 0.4%, RR = 
9.48, p = 0.0054). After adjustment of baseline characteristics by Cox 
regression analysis, the 3-year risk of cardiac death was significantly higher 
in the MVD groups (RR = 2.2, confidence interval [CI] 95%: 1.8 to 4.65, p = 
0.029).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with isolated disease of the LAD appear to benefit from 
ITA grafting in the form of a MIDCAB procedure. Here, it should be an approach 
of choice. The results show that MVD is an independent risk factor for outcome 
in patients undergoing a MIDCAB procedure. Nevertheless, the midterm morbidity 
and mortality in MVD patients after a MIDCAB procedure where the LAD is the only 
target vessel for interventional or surgical treatment is acceptable despite a 
higher morbidity than in SVD patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.11.044
PMID: 15276503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Aug;78(2):549-55; discussion 555-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.02.039.

Operative outcome of simultaneous carotid and valvular surgery.

Yoda M(1), Boethig D, Fritzsche D, Horstkotte D, Koerfer R, Minami K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Heart Center North 
Rhine-Westphalia, University of Bochum, Georgstrasse 11, 32545 Bad Oeynhausen, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Operative outcome of simultaneous carotid endarterectomy and 
valvular surgery has not been clarified. We retrospectively reviewed short-term 
and long-term outcomes after carotid endarterectomy combined with valvular 
replacement.
METHODS: Seventy-nine patients (50 men and 29 women. mean age, 68.9 +/- 6.9 
years; range, 53.3 to 78.7 years) underwent carotid endarterectomy combined with 
valve replacement from February 1985 to April 2002. Indication of carotid 
endarterectomy was more than 75% carotid stenosis with or without ulceration. 
Thirteen patients had history of stroke. Endarterectomy was performed under mild 
hypothermia with cardiopulmonary bypass in all cases. Positions of replaced 
valves were aortic in 64 patients, mitral in 10, and mitral and aortic in 5 
patients.
RESULTS: There were 8 early deaths (10.1%). Early neurologic complications 
occurred in 8 patients (10.1%); two late events were observed. Double valve 
replacement was an independent risk factor for early death (p = 0.039; odds 
ratio = 25.6). For early stroke we found no statistically significant risk 
factor. Myocardial infarction (p = 0.022; odds ratio = 3.0) and age more than 70 
years (p = 0.03; odds ratio = 2.5) were independent risk factors for premature 
death; we found no independent risk factor for late stroke. Permanent impairment 
or death as a stroke consequence was seen in 5 patients, 3 of them had 
ipsilateral strokes, 2 had contralateral strokes.
CONCLUSIONS: Endarterectomy can be safely performed combined with aortic valve 
surgery. Concomitant mitral or double valve replacement cannot be judged 
reliably because of the small number of patients, but they might be a high risk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.02.039
PMID: 15276517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Aug;78(2):644-9; discussion 644-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.02.090.

Cardiac retransplantation in children.

Kanter KR(1), Vincent RN, Berg AM, Mahle WT, Forbess JM, Kirshbom PM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Emory University 
School of Medicine, 1365 Clinton Road, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. kkanter@emory.edu

BACKGROUND: Experience with pediatric cardiac retransplantation is limited. 
Outcomes should be inspected to insure proper use of donor hearts.
METHODS: Of 152 pediatric heart transplantations, we performed 20 retransplants 
in 17 children (3 had a second retransplant). The retransplant children were 
older than the primary transplant children (11.1 +/- 4.4 years versus 7.1 +/- 
6.0 years; p = 0.005). Excluding 1 early retransplant, the interval from primary 
transplant to retransplant was 5.5 +/- 3.3 years (range, 1.1 to 11.1). The 
retransplant patients were clinically more ill than the primary transplant 
patients (United Network for Organ Sharing status I, 75% versus 63%; mechanical 
circulatory support or dialysis, 20% versus 3.8%).
RESULTS: Donor ischemia time (188 versus 165 minutes) and cardiopulmonary bypass 
time (127 versus 127 minutes) were not significantly different for the 
retransplant patients. Excluding 1 retransplant patient who required a 
tracheostomy, days on the ventilator (2.7 versus 2.7), days on inotropic support 
(3.0 versus 3.2), intensive care unit days (7.2 versus 6.7), and hospital days 
(15.9 versus 13.8) were similar in the retransplant group. Freedom from 
rejection at 90 days and 1 year was not different in the retransplant patients. 
Actuarial patient survival in the patients undergoing first retransplant was 
similar to the primary transplant patients at 30 days (95% versus 94.7%), 1 year 
(94.1% versus 80.7%), and 3 years (78.4% versus 73.1%). Two of 3 children 
receiving a third transplant died within 1 year of redo retransplantation.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac retransplantation can be performed in children with results 
comparable with those for primary transplantation despite increased clinical 
acuity. These early results suggest that cardiac retransplantation in children 
is a reasonable therapeutic option. Children with repeat retransplantation do 
not fare as well.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.02.090
PMID: 15276538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Aug;78(2):666-72; discussion 672. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.12.021.

Better surgical prognosis for patients with complete atrioventricular septal 
defect and Down's syndrome.

Formigari R(1), Di Donato RM, Gargiulo G, Di Carlo D, Feltri C, Picchio FM, 
Marino B.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery, Policlinico S. Orsola, University 
of Bologna, Via Massarenti 9, 40138 Bologna, Italy. r.formigari1@tin.it

BACKGROUND: Several studies have shown that Down's syndrome is not a risk factor 
for biventricular repair of complete atrioventricular septal defects. However, 
few data are available about the comprehensive outcome of all the cardiac 
surgical procedures in patients with trisomy 21, including palliative surgery.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study of 206 consecutive patients who underwent 
cardiac surgery from January 1992 to January 2002. Data about mortality and 
morbidity were analyzed and the impact of Down's syndrome was evaluated.
RESULTS: Overall mortality was 7.7%. Actuarial survival was 94% among patients 
with Down's syndrome versus 86% of the group with normal karyotype (p = 0.12). 
The presence of unbalanced ventricles was the only independent risk factor 
affecting survival at multivariate analysis (p < 0.0001). The need for a Norwood 
type surgery was more frequent among non-Down patients (12.0% vs 1.5%, p = 0.02) 
as was the prevalence of pulmonary artery banding operations (22.9% vs 9.3%, p = 
0.04). Cumulative mortality after palliation was higher in non-Down patients 
(44% vs 2.9%, p = 0.0001). Freedom from reoperation was lower in the group with 
normal chromosomes in respect to patients with Down's syndrome (81.4% vs 94.6%, 
p = 0.04), due to the higher prevalence of anomalies of the mitral valve (4.9% 
vs 1.8%, p = 0.03) or left ventricular outflow tract (7.3% vs 0%, p = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Down patients showed a decreased risk for biventricular repair and 
lower mortality and morbidity in cases of complex cardiac malformations 
requiring complex palliative operations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.12.021
PMID: 15276542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Int Rev Psychiatry. 2004 Feb-May;16(1-2):117-25. doi: 
10.1080/09540260310001635168.

Lithuania mental health country profile.

Puras D(1), Germanavicius A, Povilaitis R, Veniute M, Jasilionis D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Vilnius, Lithuania. 
dainius.puras@mf.vu.lt_liberalparty-yeh

As a part of international mental health policy, programmes and services 
project, the 'country profile' instrument was used for assessment of mental 
health policy and services in the Republic of Lithuania. Analysis of contextual 
factors revealed high levels of social pathology (including violence, suicide 
and other self-destructive behaviour) with stigmatizing approaches by the 
general population to mentally disturbed persons and other vulnerable groups. 
Analysis of existing data about resources invested in the mental health care 
system raises questions for policymakers about the effectiveness of this 
traditional way of investment. The largest proportion of physical and human 
capital is concentrated in psychiatric institutions, with large numbers of beds, 
psychiatrists and increasing funding for medications, while other components of 
care--such as housing, psychosocial and vocational rehabilitation, 
community-based child mental health services--are not being developed. 
Statistical accounts keep the tradition of presenting processes as outcomes, 
while modern assessment of outcomes of services, programmes and policies are 
lacking. The findings from this country profile may be very useful in the 
development of modern mental health policies in the countries of Eastern and 
Central Europe, which have been deprived for decades from the opportunity to 
introduce evidence-based mental health policies and services.

DOI: 10.1080/09540260310001635168
PMID: 15276944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Diabetes Care. 2004 Aug;27(8):1897-903. doi: 10.2337/diacare.27.8.1897.

Cost-effectiveness of early irbesartan treatment versus control (standard 
antihypertensive medications excluding ACE inhibitors, other angiotensin-2 
receptor antagonists, and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers) or late 
irbesartan treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and renal 
disease.

Palmer AJ(1), Annemans L, Roze S, Lamotte M, Lapuerta P, Chen R, Gabriel S, 
Carita P, Rodby RA, de Zeeuw D, Parving HH.

Author information:
(1)CORE-Center for Outcomes Research, Buendtenmattstrasse 40, 4102 
Binningen/Basel, Switzerland. ap@thecenter.ch

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the most cost-effective time 
point for initiation of irbesartan treatment in hypertensive patients with type 
2 diabetes and renal disease.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This study was a Markov model-simulated progression 
from microalbuminuria to overt nephropathy, doubling of serum creatinine, 
end-stage renal disease, and death in hypertensive patients with type 2 
diabetes. Two irbesartan strategies were created: early irbesartan 300 mg daily 
(initiated with microalbuminuria) and late irbesartan (initiated with overt 
nephropathy). These strategies were compared with control, which consisted of 
antihypertensive therapy with standard medications (excluding ACE inhibitors, 
other angiotensin-2 receptor antagonists, and dihydropyridine calcium channel 
blockers) with comparable blood pressure control, initiated at microalbuminuria. 
Transition probabilities were taken from the Irbesartan in Reduction of 
Microalbuminuria-2 study, Irbesartan in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial, and other 
published sources. Costs and life expectancy, discounted at 3% yearly, were 
projected over 25 years for 1,000 simulated patients using a third-party payer 
perspective in a U.S. setting.
RESULTS: Compared with control, early and late irbesartan treatment in 1,000 
patients were projected to save (mean +/- SD) 11.9 +/- 3.3 million dollars and 
3.3 +/- 2.7 million dollars, respectively. Early use of irbesartan added 1,550 
+/- 270 undiscounted life-years (discounted 960 +/- 180), whereas late 
irbesartan added 71 +/- 40 life-years (discounted 48 +/- 27) in 1,000 patients. 
Early irbesartan treatment was superior under a wide-range of plausible 
assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Early irbesartan treatment was projected to improve life expectancy 
and reduce costs in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and 
microalbuminuria. Later use of irbesartan in overt nephropathy is also superior 
to standard care, but irbesartan should be started earlier and continued long 
term.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.27.8.1897
PMID: 15277414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Neurology. 2004 Jul 27;63(2):220-7. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000130531.90205.ef.

Memory impairment, but not cerebrovascular disease, predicts progression of MCI 
to dementia.

DeCarli C(1), Mungas D, Harvey D, Reed B, Weiner M, Chui H, Jagust W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California at San Francisco, USA. 
cdecarli@ucdavis.edu

Comment in
    Neurology. 2005 Feb 22;64(4):766; author reply 766.

BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is widely viewed as the transition 
phase between normal aging and Alzheimer disease (AD). Given that MCI can also 
result from cerebrovascular disease (CVD), the authors used clinical, MRI, and 
cognitive measures of AD and CVD to test the hypothesis that CVD increases the 
likelihood of progression from MCI to dementia within 3 years.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the impact of CVD on progression of MCI to dementia.
METHODS: Fifty-two consecutive patients with MCI (71% men) including many with 
symptomatic CVD were longitudinally evaluated for 3.1 +/- 1.3 years. MCI was 
defined as a Clinical Dementia Rating Scale (CDR) score of 0.5. Dementia was 
defined as progression to a CDR score of > or =1.0.
RESULTS: Forty-four percent of the MCI patients had MRI infarcts, 50% of which 
were symptomatic. Thirty-three percent of patients progressed to dementia, and 
37.8% of these had MRI infarcts. Clinically probable or possible AD was 
diagnosed in approximately 82% of converters. Of the clinical and MRI measures, 
only hippocampal volume was associated with increased risk to progression 
(hazard ratio [HR] = 0.31 [95% CI 0.1 to 0.92], p = 0.03). When 
neuropsychological measures were included in the analysis, memory (HR = 0.90 
[95% CI 0.84 to 0.96], p = 0.002) and executive function (HR = 0.96 [95% CI 0.92 
to 1.0], p = 0.045) were associated with increased risk of dementia progression, 
whereas APOE genotype, cerebrovascular risk factors, clinical stroke, presence 
or absence of lacunes, and extent of white matter hyperintensities did not 
predict progression.
CONCLUSION: Within a heterogenous group of MCI patients, including many with 
clinically significant CVD, baseline memory and executive performance 
significantly predicted likelihood to develop dementia.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000130531.90205.ef
PMCID: PMC1820872
PMID: 15277612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Neurology. 2004 Jul 27;63(2):354-6. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000130249.41341.58.

Chemotherapy as initial treatment in gliomatosis cerebri: results with 
temozolomide.

Levin N(1), Gomori JM, Siegal T.

Author information:
(1)Leslie & Michael Gaffin Center for Neuro-Oncology and the Neuro-Imaging Unit, 
Hadassah-Hebrew University Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel. imbar_l@netvision.net.il

Comment in
    Neurology. 2004 Jul 27;63(2):204-5.

The optimal therapy for gliomatosis cerebri is unclear, and the rate of response 
to chemotherapy is not known. Eleven radiotherapy-naive patients received a 
median number of 10 treatment cycles of temozolomide. An objective response was 
documented in 45%, and the median time to tumor progression was 13 months with a 
progression-free survival of 55% at 12 months. These results indicate that 
radiotherapy to extensive brain regions can be deferred until progressive 
disease is observed.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000130249.41341.58
PMID: 15277636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2004 Aug;83(8):650-4; quiz 655-7, 662. doi: 
10.1097/01.phm.0000133447.46918.d3.

Muscle strength in patients with unicompartmental arthroplasty.

Fuchs S(1), Frisse D, Laass H, Thorwesten L, Tibesku CO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University Hospital Muenster, 
Albert-Schweitzer-Strasse 33, 48129 Muenster, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the current study was to evaluate the isokinetic strength 
of the knee in patients with unicondylar prostheses, to compare these results 
with healthy control subjects of the same age, and to correlate these results 
with clinical scores.
DESIGN: Seventeen patients were examined an average of 21.5 mos after surgery. 
Clinical examination was done using the Hospital for Special Surgery, Knee 
Society, and patellar scores and a visual analog scale for pain. Quality of life 
was assessed by the Short Form 36 Health Questionnaire. Isokinetic evaluation of 
knee extensor and flexor muscles was done using a Cybex 6000 dynamometer at 
angular velocities of 60 and 180 degrees/sec. Eleven healthy subjects of 
comparable age served as a control group.
RESULTS: Clinical results differed significantly in all categories. Quality of 
life differed only in the items of physical functioning, role limitation because 
of physical problems, and bodily pain. Isokinetic strength in patients showed a 
loss of torque of approximately 30% in extension and flexion at 60 and 180 
degrees/sec compared with the control group. The flexion and extension ratio and 
the angles of maximum torque did not differ between the groups.
CONCLUSION: In comparison with healthy control subjects, persons with an 
implanted unilateral sledge prosthesis have strength deficits in extension and 
flexion. A deficit of the extensor muscles, as it has been described previously 
for patients with a total knee arthroplasty, could not be found.

DOI: 10.1097/01.phm.0000133447.46918.d3
PMID: 15277967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Econ Entomol. 2004 Jun;97(3):854-61. doi: 
10.1603/0022-0493(2004)097[0854:DOSAHA]2.0.CO;2.

Demography of soybean aphid (Homoptera: Aphididae) at summer temperatures.

McCornack BP(1), Ragsdale DW, Venette RC.

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota, Department of Entomology, 219 Hodson Hall, 1980 
Folwell Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55108, USA.

Soybean aphid, Aphis glycines Matsumura, is now widely established in soybean, 
Glycine max L., production areas of the northern United States and southern 
Canada and is becoming an important economic pest. Temperature effect on soybean 
aphid fecundity and survivorship is not well understood. We determined the 
optimal temperature for soybean aphid growth and reproduction on soybean under 
controlled conditions. We constructed life tables for soybean aphid at 20, 25, 
30, and 35 degrees C with a photoperiod of 16:8 (L:D) h. Population growth rates 
were greatest at 25 degrees C. As temperature increased, net fecundity, gross 
fecundity, generation time, and life expectancy decreased. The prereproductive 
period did not differ between 20 and 30 degrees C; however, at 30 degrees C 
aphids required more degree-days (base 8.6 degrees C) to develop. Nymphs exposed 
to 35 degrees C did not complete development, and all individuals died within 11 
d. Reproductive periods were significantly different at all temperatures, with 
aphids reproducing longer and producing more progeny at 20 and 25 degrees C than 
at 30 or 35 degrees C. Using a modification of the nonlinear Logan model, we 
estimated upper and optimal developmental thresholds to be 34.9 and 27.8 degrees 
C, respectively. At 25 degrees C, aphid populations doubled in 1.5 d; at 20 and 
30 degrees C, populations doubled in 1.9 d.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493(2004)097[0854:DOSAHA]2.0.CO;2
PMID: 15279264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Curr Pharm Des. 2004;10(17):2111-22. doi: 10.2174/1381612043384286.

Therapy of chronic hepatitis C virus infection in HIV co-infected people.

Fabris P(1), Barnes E, Tositti G, Giordani MT, Grasso A, De Lalla F.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine, S. Bortolo Hospital, 
Viale Rodolfi, 36100 Vicenza, Italy. pfabris@yahoo.com

The introduction of highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) for Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection has significantly improved the life 
expectancy of HIV positive patients. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) co-infection is 
common in HIV infected patients and is now a significant cause of morbidity and 
mortality. Optimal management and treatment of HCV in HIV infected patients is 
therefore essential. Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) and ribavirin is the mainstay 
of treatment for HCV infection in HIV infected people. The sustained virological 
response rate (SVR) with combination therapy is lower than that commonly 
observed in HCV mono-infected patients. This is, at least in part, due to the 
very high treatment drop out rates. Ribavirin in combination with HAART is 
associated with particular side effects such as mitochondrial toxicity. 
Therefore, vigilant monitoring of patients during therapy, in specialist centers 
is essential. Pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN) plus ribavirin is particularly 
promising as it is easier to administer and will probably become the treatment 
of choice for co-infected patients. A SVR is associated with genotype 2 and 3, 
in addition to a high CD4+ cell count and a low HCV load prior to therapy. The 
progression of HCV related liver disease in HIV positive patients is faster than 
in subjects with HCV infection alone. As a result, there is an increasing 
incidence of cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease in co-infected patients. 
Liver transplantation is being evaluated in many centers. To date the 
experiences are very limited but encouraging in term of survival rate.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612043384286
PMID: 15279550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Curr Treat Options Neurol. 2004 Sep;6(5):349-356. doi: 
10.1007/s11940-996-0027-5.

Surgical Treatment of Refractory Epilepsy.

Shields WD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Neurology David Geffen School of Medicine at University 
of California Los Angeles, Box 91572, 22-474 MDCC, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. 
wshields@mednet.ucla.edu

The extension of cortical resection to treat children with intractable epilepsy 
is one of the most exciting advances in pediatric neurology in the past two 
decades. Many children with epilepsy who previously had little hope have been 
given a new chance at life. Many patients who were not considered for surgery 
are now recognized to be excellent surgical candidates. Most notably, children 
with generalized seizures such as infantile spasms or gelastic seizures caused 
by hypothalamic hamartomas now have the opportunity to benefit from surgery. In 
adults, there is one goal for epilepsy surgery: freedom from seizures. This is 
an important goal but it is not the only one in children. It may not even be the 
most important goal. When operating on young children with epilepsy, we seek to 
alter the long-term developmental and behavioral outcome. Although there are 
many significant recent advances in pediatric epilepsy surgery, three are 
particularly important. These are 1) hemispherotomy for children who require 
hemispheric resection; 2) resection of hypothalamic hamartomas through an 
innovative transcallosal approach; and 3) resection of multiple tubers in 
children with tuberous sclerosis complex.

DOI: 10.1007/s11940-996-0027-5
PMID: 15279757


282. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2004 Sep;137(1):121-32. doi: 
10.1016/j.molbiopara.2004.05.005.

Identification of a mitochondrial superoxide dismutase with an unusual targeting 
sequence in Plasmodium falciparum.

Sienkiewicz N(1), Daher W, Dive D, Wrenger C, Viscogliosi E, Wintjens R, Jouin 
H, Capron M, MÃ¼ller S, Khalife J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Microbiology, School of Life 
Sciences, University of Dundee, WTB/MSI Complex, DD15EH, UK.

The intraerythrocytic stages of Plasmodium falciparum are exposed to oxidative 
stress and require functional anti-oxidant systems to survive. In addition to 
the parasite's known iron-dependent superoxide dismutase PfSOD1, a second SOD 
gene (PfSOD2) interrupted by 8 introns was identified on chromosome 6. Molecular 
modelling shows that the structure of PfSOD2 is similar to other iron-dependent 
SODs and phylogenetic analysis suggests PfSOD1 and PfSOD2 are the result of an 
ancestral gene duplication. The deduced amino acid sequence of PfSOD2 is similar 
to PfSOD1 but has a long N-terminal extension. Immunofluorescence studies show 
that PfSOD1 is cytosolic, whereas the N-terminal extension of PfSOD2 targets a 
green fluorescent protein fusion into the parasite's mitochondrion. Both SOD 
genes are transcribed during the erythrocytic cycle with PfSOD1 mRNA levels up 
to 35-fold higher than those of PfSOD2. Northern blots demonstrated that the 
mRNA levels of both SOD genes are up-regulated upon exposure to oxidative 
stress.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molbiopara.2004.05.005
PMID: 15279958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Transplantation. 2004 Jul 27;78(2):257-63. doi: 
10.1097/01.tp.0000133537.87951.f2.

Ten years of "extended" life: quality of life among heart transplantation 
survivors.

Politi P(1), Piccinelli M, Fusar-Poli P, Klersy C, Campana C, Goggi C, ViganÃ² M, 
Barale F.

Author information:
(1)DSSAeP, Sezione di Psichiatria, UniversitÃ  di Pavia and Servizio Psichiatrico 
di Diagnosi e Cura, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo-Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy. 
plpoliti@smatteo.pv.it

Erratum in
    Transplantation. 2012 Aug 15;94(3):e22. Poli, Paolo Fusar [corrected to 
Fusar-Poli, Paolo].

BACKGROUND: Long-term quality of life (QOL) outcome in heart transplant 
recipients still remains uncertain. This study evaluates the health status and 
QOL of survivors with associated predictors 10 years after heart 
transplantation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 276 patients who underwent heart 
transplantation in the Department of Cardiac Surgery, University of Pavia, 
between 1985 and 1992 were included in a cross-sectional study. Patients still 
alive 10 years after transplantation (n=122) were asked to complete the SF36 
questionnaire and then received a full clinical examination. All QOL instruments 
that were used had acceptable reliability and validity. Descriptive statistics, 
Kaplan-Meier estimate, correlation coefficients, and general linear regression 
were used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: Survival rates 1, 5, and 10 years after transplantation were 87%, 77%, 
and 57%, respectively, and the average life expectancy was 9.16 years. The 
mental QOL of patients 10 years after heart transplantation was similar to that 
among the general population. The physical QOL was worse among patients when 
compared with the QOL of the general population, with predictors including older 
age, being married, the presence of complications, and impaired renal function.
CONCLUSIONS: Heart transplantation ensures a relatively high QOL even 10 years 
after surgery. Predictors of a poor QOL were determined, which may help to 
identify those patients for whom a poor outcome is likely so treatment can be 
tailored accordingly.

DOI: 10.1097/01.tp.0000133537.87951.f2
PMID: 15280687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. AIDS. 2004 Aug 20;18(12):1732-4. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000131383.15232.95.

An update on the impact of HIV/AIDS on life expectancy in the United States.

Lai D(1), Hardy RJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Texas, Houston, TX, USA.

We used the potential gains in life expectancy to quantify the impact of 
eliminating HIV/AIDS,heart disease and malignant neoplasms on the life 
expectancy of the population of the USA from 1987 to 1999 by race and sex 
groups. We previously reported the results from 1987 to 1992,with a focus on the 
year 1992. This report gives an update to 1999, showing the impact of 
improvements in the care and treatment of HIV/AIDS in recent years.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000131383.15232.95
PMID: 15280787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2004 Aug;51(2):205-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2003.08.015.

Association of porphyria cutanea tarda with hereditary hemochromatosis.

Mehrany K(1), Drage LA, Brandhagen DJ, Pittelkow MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: An increased frequency of hereditary hemochromatosis gene mutations 
occurs in patients with porphyria cutanea tarda. Polymerase chain reaction 
analysis of peripheral blood for hemochromatosis gene (HFE) mutations is 
available for clinical use. Early detection and treatment of hereditary 
hemochromatosis limit disease progression and improve life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: We present 8 patients with porphyria cutanea tarda subsequently found 
to have hereditary hemochromatosis or mutations in the HFE gene.
METHODS: Retrospective review of patients in whom both porphyria cutanea tarda 
and hereditary hemochromatosis or HFE gene mutations were diagnosed between 1976 
and 2000.
RESULTS: Eight patients with porphyria cutanea tarda (6 males, 2 females; age 
range, 4-60 years; mean age at diagnosis of porphyria cutanea tarda, 42 years) 
were subsequently found to have hepatic iron overload or HFE gene mutations. Two 
patients had liver biopsy findings compatible with homozygous hereditary 
hemochromatosis. In the other 6 patients, HFE gene analysis revealed 3 
homozygous C282Y, 1 compound heterozygous C282Y/H63D, and 2 heterozygous C282Y 
mutations. Seven patients (88%) had no specific signs or symptoms of hereditary 
hemochromatosis at diagnosis. In 5 patients (63%), the diagnosis of hereditary 
hemochromatosis or HFE gene mutation was initially suspected by the 
dermatologist.
CONCLUSION: Porphyria cutanea tarda can be an important cutaneous marker for 
patients with mutations of the HFE gene. HFE gene analysis should be done in 
patients who present with porphyria cutanea tarda. The dermatologist may play a 
key role in the early diagnosis of subclinical hereditary hemochromatosis in 
patients who present with porphyria cutanea tarda.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2003.08.015
PMID: 15280838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Anesth Analg. 2004 Jul;99(1):262-271. doi:
10.1213/01.ANE.0000118165.70750.78.

A restrictive use of both autologous donation and recombinant human 
erythropoietin is an efficient policy for primary total hip or knee 
arthroplasty.

Couvret C(1), Laffon M, Baud A, Payen V, Burdin P, Fusciardi J.

Author information:
(1)Departments of *Anesthesiology and Critical Care and â Orthopedic Surgery, 
Trousseau University Hospital, Tours, France.

A limitation of preoperative autologous blood donation (PABD) in nonanemics and 
the use of recombinant human erythropoietin (EPO) in anemics (baseline 
hematocrit [Hct] < or = 39%) could be an efficient approach of the cost-benefit 
ratio of transfusion during primary total hip (THA) or knee (TKA) 
arthroplasties. We evaluated the consequences on transfusion rates and costs of 
two different applications of a transfusion policy based on personal 
requirements during primary THA or TKA. This quality assurance observational 
study compared two prospective successive time periods; each included successive 
patients treated by the same medical team and standardized care. In Study 1 (n = 
182), PABD was indicated if there were insufficient estimated red blood cell 
reserve and a life expectancy > or = 10 yr, no use of EPO, and identical 
criteria for any transfusion. Because this policy led to a 50% allogeneic 
transfusion rate when baseline Hct < or = 37% and autologous blood wastage in 
the nonanemics (baseline Hct > 39%), 2 refinements were introduced in Study 2 (n 
= 708): EPO without PABD when baseline Hct < or = 37%, and life expectancy > or 
= 10 yr, and avoidance of PABD in nonanemics. This novel care induced a marked 
decrease in transfusion rates (respectively, from 41% to 7%, P < 0.0002, in 
nonanemics; from 58% to 27%, P < 0.003, in anemics; and from 43% to 12%, P < 
0.0001, overall), with no change in allogeneic transfusion (10%) and discharge 
Hct, and a 39% financial savings. This saving effect is a result of the 
suppression of PABD in nonanemics, who represent 75% of this surgical 
population. Although erythropoietin is expensive, it can be used with cost 
savings in selected patients because the overall cost of transfusion is reduced.

DOI: 10.1213/01.ANE.0000118165.70750.78
PMID: 15281542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Ugeskr Laeger. 2004 Jun 7;166(24):2348-51.

[Fair distribution and prioritization of health care].

[Article in Danish]

Norup MS(1), Rossel P.

Author information:
(1)KÃ¸benhavns Universitet, Institut for Folkesundhedsvidenskab, Afdeling for 
Medicinsk Videnskabsteori. m.norup@medphil.ku.dk

PMID: 15281575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2004 Aug;32(4):360-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2004.00837.x.

Life expectancy of patients with neovascular glaucoma drained by Molteno 
implants.

Blanc JP(1), Molteno AC, Fuller JR, Bevin TH, Herbison P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Dunedin Hospital, Dunedin, New Zealand.

PURPOSE: To determine the survival of patients with sighted eyes who had Molteno 
implants inserted for neovascular glaucoma.
METHODS: Patients who had Molteno implants inserted for neovascular glaucoma 
between October 1977 and March 2001 at Dunedin Hospital, New Zealand, were 
reviewed. Relative survival analysis was then used to compare survival in this 
group to survival of the New Zealand population of the same age.
RESULTS: A total of 114 patients had 131 Molteno implants inserted for 
neovascular glaucoma. Neovascular glaucoma was secondary to central retinal vein 
occlusion in 66 eyes (50%) and diabetes in 42 eyes (32%), and patients lost 52% 
or 6.53 years of their expected remaining life span. Age, sex and postoperative 
intraocular pressure control did not predict survival. The only predictor of 
improved survival was a preoperative visual acuity of 6/48 or better. These 
patients lost 21% (or 2.43 years) of expected remaining life compared to 62% (or 
10.78 years) in those patients who had a presenting visual acuity of 6/60 or 
worse.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with neovascular glaucoma had a markedly reduced life 
expectancy, which has improved in recent years when compared to that of the 
normal sex and age-matched New Zealand population. Patients presenting with 
better vision (6/48 or better) survived significantly longer than those 
presenting with poorer vision.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2004.00837.x
PMID: 15281967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nefrologia. 2004;24(3):231-8.

[Cost-efectiveness of Ibersartan in type II diabetic nephropathy with 
hypertension. A Spanish perspective].

[Article in Spanish]

Palmer AJ(1), Annemans L, Roze S, Lamotte M, Rodby RA, de Alvaro F; Grupo de 
Estudio Colaborativo IDNT.

Author information:
(1)Hospital La Paz, Servicio de NefrologÃ­a, Madrid.

BACKGROUND: In the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT), treatment with 
irbesartan demonstrated 23% and 20% reductions in the combined endpoint of 
doubling of serum creatinine (DSC), end-stage renal disease (ESRD) or death in 
patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy compared to 
amlodipine and control respectively. A simulation model was developed to project 
long-term cost consequences of the IDNT in the Spanish setting.
METHODS: A Markov model simulated progression from nephropathy to DSC, ESRD and 
death in patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy. 
Treatment-specific probabilities were derived from IDNT. Country-specific 
ESRD-related data were retrieved from published sources. Delay in onset of ESRD, 
life expectancy and mean lifetime costs were calculated for patients with 
baseline age 59 years. Future costs were discounted at 6% per annum, and 
clinical benefits were discounted at 0% and 6% per annum. Extensive sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Onset of ESRD was delayed with irbesartan by 1.41 and 1.35 years versus 
amlodipine and control respectively. When a 25-year (lifetime) horizon was 
considered, delay in ESRD onset led to anticipated improvements in life 
expectancy (discounted at 6% shown in brackets) of 0.46 (0.21) years versus 
amlodipine and 0.75 (0.37) years versus control. Irbesartan was associated with 
cost savings of 13,673 Euro and 7,632 Euro patient versus amlodipine and control 
respectively. The results were robust under a wide range of plausible 
assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes and overt 
nephropathy using irbesartan was both cost- and life-saving compared to 
amlodipine and control in the Spanish setting.

PMID: 15283313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Sociol Health Illn. 2004 Jul;26(5):575-96. doi: 
10.1111/j.0141-9889.2004.00406.x.

After the euphoria: HIV medical technologies from the perspective of their 
prescribers.

Rosengarten M(1), Imrie J, Flowers P, Davis MD, Hart GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sexually Transmitted Diseases, University College, London. 
m.rosengarten@gold.ac.uk

This paper focuses on the relationship of HIV medical technologies to current 
styles of medical practice and highlights issues posed by the technologies for 
those working and/or living with HIV. The paper examines HIV anti-retroviral 
combination therapies and associated tests from the perspective of their 
prescribers. The prescribers were interviewed during the later part of 2002 at 
three London HIV clinics. Their comments, considered in light of other recent 
studies in the field, suggest that current therapies are part of a transitional 
phase in the epidemic which informs the identification and negotiation of known 
risks and uncertainty. An undetermined but extended life expectancy, afforded by 
anti-retroviral therapies, is understood against risk of iatrogenic diseases 
and/or viral drug resistance. The tension arising in this situation of unwanted 
and even uncertain phenomena poses ethical dilemmas and affects doctor/patient 
relations. Indeed, it also contributes to a reconfiguring of the lived 
experience of managing HIV. While the new technologies have offered considerable 
advances in the medical management of HIV, they are altering the nature of HIV 
medicine both materially and socially. The scenario is further complicated by 
the uneven allocation of resources and different patient health and disease 
states. The heterogeneity of resources, disease states and technological effects 
points to the need for ongoing and extended evaluation as the relationship 
between these and the everyday practice of medicine continues to change.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0141-9889.2004.00406.x
PMID: 15283778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Urol Oncol. 2004 Jul-Aug;22(4):290-4. doi: 10.1016/S1078-1439(03)00144-3.

Management of clinical T1 bladder transitional cell carcinoma by radical 
cystectomy.

Bianco FJ Jr(1), Justa D, Grignon DJ, Sakr WA, Pontes JE, Wood DP Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Wayne State University School of Medicine and Karmanos 
Cancer Institute, Detroit, MI, USA. biancofj@mac.com

High-grade bladder cancer involving the lamina propria is considered superficial 
disease. This spectrum is generally treated with TUR plus intravesical therapy. 
However, significant understaging jeopardizes long-term survival and 
improvements and radical surgery represents a provocative alternative. We 
evaluated disease-free and cancer-specific survival (CSS) in our cohort of 
patients with high-grade T1 tumors. A total of 318 patients with bladder cancer 
underwent radical cystectomy between 1990 and 2000 at our institution. Of these, 
66 had cT1 tumors with or without Carcinoma in-situ (CIS). Our multidisciplinary 
bladder cancer database was queried to perform a multivariate analysis on 
clinical parameters such as: age, race, sex, cystectomy year, intravesical 
therapy, angiolymphatic-invasion and tumor upstage in relation to recurrence and 
survival. The clinical stage was accurate in 44 of the cases (66%). However, 27% 
were upstaged by cystectomy and 12% of the cT1 + CIS patients had nodal disease. 
Patients with cT1 tumors plus CIS had a significantly worse CSS. Those with 
persistent disease after an initial course of BCG therapy appeared to have worse 
CSS also. At a median follow up of 4 years, overall cancer-specific mortality 
was 22%, however, pathologic T1 +/- CIS had 92% CSS at 10 years. Our data 
suggests that some cT1 bladder cancer tumors have assiduous clinical courses 
evidenced in staging discrepancies. For high-grade tumors, early cystectomy and 
orthotopic diversion increases life expectancy significantly and should be carry 
out early rather than late.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc.
