lives, approximately half of the patients with WPW syndrome experience symptoms 
secondary to tachyarrhythmias, such as paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, 
atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, and, rarely, ventricular fibrillation and 
sudden death. Symptoms include palpitations, dizziness, syncope, and dyspnea. 
Diagnosis is usually made by electrocardiogram findings, but further testing may 
be warranted to confirm the diagnosis.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: A thorough patient history and physical examination 
can aid the practitioner in identifying patients who may have WPW syndrome. With 
appropriate referral, treatment, and patient education, patients with WPW 
syndrome can expect to have a normal life expectancy and good quality of life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-7599.2004.tb00387.x
PMID: 15495691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Harv Ment Health Lett. 2004 Oct;21(4):8.

Questions & answers. What is the relationship between stroke and depression. 
Does depression increase the risk of stroke? How does depression affect life 
expectancy after a stroke?

Miller MC.

PMID: 15496355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Harv Health Lett. 2004 Oct;29(12):7.

Quitting smoking: sooner is best, but later is better than not at all.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15496376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Health Econ. 2005 Jul;14(7):669-78. doi: 10.1002/hec.958.

The importance of age in allocating health care resources: does 
intervention-type matter?

Johri M(1), Damschroder LJ, Zikmund-Fisher BJ, Ubel PA.

Author information:
(1)SOLIDAGE -- McGill University, Université de Montréal Research Group on 
Integrated Services for Older Persons, Canada. mira.johri@umontreal.ca

BACKGROUND: Recent proposals to reform cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) by 
weighting health benefits [(Quality-adjusted life-years) QALYs] by recipients' 
age are based on studies examining age-related preferences in life-saving 
contexts. We investigated whether the perceived importance of age in resource 
allocation decisions differs among intervention-types.
METHODS: 160 individuals were recruited from a cafeteria of a university medical 
centre and asked to choose between hypothetical health care programmes. Scenario 
A described two programmes treating life-threatening conditions and Scenario B 
two programmes providing palliative care. Programmes were identical except in 
average patient age (35 versus 65). Respondents also directly rated the 
importance of age for allocating resources for six types of interventions.
RESULTS: Responses for the life-saving scenario favoured younger age groups 
while those for the palliative care scenario showed no age preference. The 
difference between scenarios was statistically significant. When directly rating 
the importance of age in allocating treatment resources, people placed greatest 
importance on age in treating infertility and life-saving, and least importance 
in treating depression.
DISCUSSION: The importance people place on age as a resource allocation 
criterion depends on the clinical context. As QALYs serve as a common measure of 
health benefits for all intervention types, age weighting of QALYs is premature.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.958
PMID: 15497189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Health Econ. 2005 May;14(5):487-96. doi: 10.1002/hec.944.

Estimating mean QALYs in trial-based cost-effectiveness analysis: the importance 
of controlling for baseline utility.

Manca A(1), Hawkins N, Sculpher MJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK. am126@york.ac.uk

In trial-based cost-effectiveness analysis baseline mean utility values are 
invariably imbalanced between treatment arms. A patient's baseline utility is 
likely to be highly correlated with their quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
over the follow-up period, not least because it typically contributes to the 
QALY calculation. Therefore, imbalance in baseline utility needs to be accounted 
for in the estimation of mean differential QALYs, and failure to control for 
this imbalance can result in a misleading incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. 
This paper discusses the approaches that have been used in the 
cost-effectiveness literature to estimate absolute and differential mean QALYs 
alongside randomised trials, and illustrates the implications of baseline mean 
utility imbalance for QALY calculation. Using data from a recently conducted 
trial-based cost-effectiveness study and a micro-simulation exercise, the 
relative performance of alternative estimators is compared, showing that widely 
used methods to calculate differential QALYs provide incorrect results in the 
presence of baseline mean utility imbalance regardless of whether these 
differences are formally statistically significant. It is demonstrated that 
multiple regression methods can be usefully applied to generate appropriate 
estimates of differential mean QALYs and an associated measure of sampling 
variability, while controlling for differences in baseline mean utility between 
treatment arms in the trial.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd

DOI: 10.1002/hec.944
PMID: 15497198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Soz Praventivmed. 2004;49(5):318-27. doi: 10.1007/s00038-004-3002-5.

[Personal support and mortality: a cohort analysis of the National Questionnaire 
Survey 1984-86].

[Article in German]

Helmert U(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum for Sozialpolitik, Universität Bremen. uhelmert@zes.uni-bremen.de

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study is to investigate the association between 
personal support and mortality experience in Germany.
METHODS: Data source is the Life Expectancy Survey of the Federal Institute for 
Population Research (Wiesbaden). This study comprises the National Questionnaire 
Survey of the German Cardiovascular Prevention Study (1984-86) and a mortality 
follow-up (1998). Included are 7240 persons with German nationality aged 31-69 
years at baseline. 957 persons (13.2%) died during the observation period from 
1984-1998. An additive index combining familiy status and number of persons 
available in emergency situations was administered as indicator for social 
support. The multivariate statistical analysis was performed with the 
cox-regression method.
RESULTS: Persons with low or very low personal support yielded in both sexes 
significantly higher relative risks for mortality during the 14 years of 
follow-up. The relative risks in the regression models including confounding 
factors for low personal support were 1.49 (p < 0.01) in males and 1.67 (p < 
0.01) in females, and for very low personal support 1.81 (p < 0.05) in males and 
2.31 (p < 0.01) in females.
CONCLUSIONS: These results are indicating an increasing importance of personal 
support for the mortality experience in the general population.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-004-3002-5
PMID: 15497651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2004 Sep 18;148(38):1873-8.

[The determinants of the high Dutch perinatal mortality in a complete regional 
cohort, 1990-1994].

[Article in Dutch]

Bais JM(1), Eskes M, Bonsel GJ.

Author information:
(1)Medisch Centrum Alkmaar, afd. Verloskunde en Gynaecologie, Wilhelminalaan 12, 
1815 JD Alkmaar. j.m.j.bais@mca.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2004 Sep 18;148(38):1853-5.

OBJECTIVE: Analysis of the effects of population-based determinants (maternal 
age, parity, multiple pregnancy and ethnicity) and of professional and 
organisational factors (conservative management in case of early preterm birth, 
the policy on prenatal screening and the Dutch obstetric-care system in general) 
on perinatal mortality.
DESIGN: Population-based prospective cohort study.
METHOD: In a regional cohort (Zaanstreek) of 8031 pregnancies in the period 
1990-1994 data were prospectively collected in an electronic database by 
deliverers of primary and secondary care. Analysis focussed on the effect on 
perinatal mortality of maternal age, parity, multiple pregnancy, ethnicity and 
professional and organisational factors (the policy in case of early preterm 
birth, the policy on prenatal screening and the Dutch obstetric-care system in 
general). Perinatal mortality was defined as mortality from a gestational age of 
22 weeks until 28 days post partum.
RESULTS: The perinatal mortality in the Zaanstreek was 12.6/1000. Increasing the 
gestational age to 28 weeks decreased the perinatal mortality by 29%. The 
perinatal mortality in this cohort was significantly affected by parity, 
multiple pregnancy and maternal age (relative risk: 2.8), but not by ethnicity 
if corrected for the previous factors. Conservative management in case of early 
preterm birth and a restrictive screening policy for lethal birth defects were 
associated with an increase in perinatal mortality. In 31 of 92 singleton 
pregnancies followed by perinatal mortality, a relationship to substandard care 
was established. In 7 cases this relationship was probable and in 1 case the 
midwife was responsible.
CONCLUSION: Given the magnitude of their effects, both independently and via 
interaction, stratification for maternal age, parity, multiple pregnancy and 
ethnicity must precede any interpretation and comparison of perinatal mortality 
rates. Although clinical policy played a modest role, a negative role of the 
organisation of obstetric care was unlikely in this cohort. A definitive 
judgement as to the quality of perinatal care would require extension of the 
evaluation to at least the entire first year of life in connection with the 
morbidity. The most favourable effects can be expected from stimulatory measures 
directed at lowering the age at first pregnancy.

PMID: 15497783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Diabet Med. 2004 Nov;21(11):1243-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2004.01215.x.

Mortality in patients with diabetic neuropathic osteoarthropathy (Charcot foot).

Gazis A(1), Pound N, Macfarlane R, Treece K, Game F, Jeffcoate W.

Author information:
(1)Foot Ulcer Trials Unit, Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, City 
Hospital, Nottingham NG5 1PB, UK.

Comment in
    Diabet Med. 2005 Sep;22(9):1289.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the mortality of a population of patients diagnosed with 
Charcot neuropathic osteoarthropathy managed by a single specialist unit and to 
compare the results with a control population.
METHODS: We have undertaken a retrospective analysis of all cases of Charcot 
foot on the comprehensive database which has been maintained at the specialist 
diabetic foot clinic at the City Hospital, Nottingham since 1982. Survival and 
the incidence of amputation (major and minor) was compared with a control 
population referred with uncomplicated neuropathic ulceration. Controls were 
individually matched for gender, age (+/-2 years), disease type, disease 
duration (+/-2 years) and year of referral (+/-3 years).
RESULTS: Forty-seven cases (21 female, 26 male) of Charcot foot were identified, 
of whom 18 (38.3%) had Type 1 diabetes. Mean age and disease duration at 
presentation were 59.2 +/- 13.4 (sd) and 16.2 +/- 11.2 years, compared with 59.7 
+/- 12.6 and 16.3 +/- 11.2 years, respectively, in the controls. Twenty-one 
(44.7%) of those with Charcot had died, after a mean interval of 3.7 +/- 2.8 
years. This compared with 16 (34.0%) after a mean 3.1 +/- 2.7 years in the 
control group. Mean duration of follow-up in the survivors was 4.7 +/- 4.9 years 
(Charcot) and 5.3 +/- 3.9 years (controls). A total of 11 (23.4%) Charcot 
patients had had a major amputation on the side of the index lesion, compared 
with five (10.6%) controls. There was no difference between the two groups (P > 
0.05, Chi-square).
CONCLUSIONS: The mortality in this group of patients with Charcot foot was 
higher than expected. Nevertheless, there was no difference between those with 
Charcot and those with uncomplicated neuropathic ulceration. It is possible that 
it is neuropathy, rather than Charcot osteoarthropathy, which is independently 
associated with increased mortality in diabetes. The mechanism underlying any 
such association is not known. There is a need for a formal, prospective, 
multicentre study to investigate the life expectancy and cardiovascular risk of 
those with Charcot osteoarthropathy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2004.01215.x
PMID: 15498092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2004 Sep;38(5):338.

[Analysis of disease burden of diabetes mellitus in 1971-2000 in Shanghai].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang ZJ(1), Li SB, Zhao GM, Han M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200032, China

PMID: 15498252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Emerg Med. 2004 Nov;27(4):333-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2004.04.016.

Population characteristics of traffic accident-related deaths in Japan and 
Ireland, 1950-2000.

Sun J(1), Kono A, Sun P, Misumi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China.

To compare epidemiological characteristics of traffic accidents in Japan and 
Ireland, we analyzed mortality and the negative effect on life expectancy 
between 1950 and 2000 and generated a multivariate model. The characteristics 
were similar in the two countries: The time trends showed an increase in 
mortality followed by a decrease. The mortality rates were about 13 and 
5/100,000 for males and females, respectively, in 2000. Correlation coefficients 
for sex were over 0.9. Age distribution obeyed the natural logarithm regularity. 
The negative effect on life expectancy was about 0.34 year for males, and 0.13 
year for females. The economic level was positively associated with mortality, 
whereas "number of vehicles owned" was associated negatively. In conclusion, we 
can take advantage of the broad consistencies in these two countries when we 
draw up an intervention strategy. Any preventive strategy should be directed to 
the young, particularly males.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2004.04.016
PMID: 15498612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Circ Res. 2004 Nov 12;95(10):1035-41. doi:
10.1161/01.RES.0000148664.33695.2a.  Epub 2004 Oct 21.

Modulation of cardiac gap junction expression and arrhythmic susceptibility.

Danik SB(1), Liu F, Zhang J, Suk HJ, Morley GE, Fishman GI, Gutstein DE.

Author information:
(1)The Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology, New York University School of 
Medicine, New York 10010, USA.

Connexin43 (Cx43), the predominant ventricular gap junction protein, is critical 
for maintaining normal cardiac electrical conduction, and its absence in the 
mouse heart results in sudden arrhythmic death. The mechanisms linking reduced 
Cx43 abundance in the heart and inducibility of malignant ventricular 
arrhythmias have yet to be established. In this report, we investigate 
arrhythmic susceptibility in a murine model genetically engineered to express 
progressively decreasing levels of Cx43. Progressively older cardiac-restricted 
Cx43 conditional knockout (CKO) mice were selectively bred to produce a 
heart-specific Cx43-deficient subline ("O-CKO" mice) in which the loss of Cx43 
in the heart occurs more gradually. O-CKO mice lived significantly longer than 
the initial series of CKO mice but still died suddenly and prematurely. At 25 
days of age, cardiac Cx43 protein levels decreased to 59% of control values 
(P<0.01), but conduction velocity was not significantly decreased and no O-CKO 
mice were inducible into sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. By 45 days of 
age, cardiac Cx43 abundance had decreased in a heterogeneous fashion to 18% of 
control levels, conduction velocity had slowed to half of that observed in 
control hearts, and 80% of O-CKO mice were inducible into lethal 
tachyarrhythmias. Enhanced susceptibility to induced arrhythmias was not 
associated with altered invasive hemodynamic measurements or changes in 
ventricular effective refractory period. Thus, moderately severe reductions in 
Cx43 abundance are associated with slowing of impulse propagation and a dramatic 
increase in the susceptibility to inducible ventricular arrhythmias.

DOI: 10.1161/01.RES.0000148664.33695.2a
PMCID: PMC2956442
PMID: 15499029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. J Policy Anal Manage. 2004 Aug;23(4):857-72. doi: 10.1002/pam.20051.

Federal policy mandating safer cigarettes: a hypothetical simulation of the 
anticipated population health gains or losses.

Tengs TO(1), Ahmad S, Moore R, Gage E.

Author information:
(1)Health Priorities Research Group, Department of Planning, Policy, and Design, 
University of California, Irvine, USA.

If manufacturing a safer cigarette is technically possible--an open 
question--then mandating that tobacco manufacturers improve the safety of 
cigarettes would likely have both positive and negative implications for the 
nation's health. On the one hand, removing toxins may reduce the incidence of 
smoking-related diseases and premature mortality in smokers. On the other hand, 
smokers might be less inclined to quit, those who have quit might resume the 
habit, and youth who have never smoked will have one less reason to avoid 
tobacco use. To assess the expected population health impacts of a legislative 
or regulatory mandate, we created the Tobacco Policy Model, a system dynamics 
computer simulation model. The model relies on secondary data and simulates the 
U.S. population over time spans as long as 50 years. Our simulation results 
reveal that even if requiring cigarettes to be safer makes smoking more 
attractive and increases tobacco use, a net gain in population health is still 
possible.

DOI: 10.1002/pam.20051
PMID: 15499707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2004 Nov;5(11):2279-85. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.5.11.2279.

The role of growth hormone-receptor antagonism in relation to acromegaly.

Ayuk J(1), Sheppard MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Sciences, University of Birmingham, Queen Elizabeth 
Hospital, Edgbaston, UK.

Acromegaly is a rare but disabling condition associated with reduced life 
expectancy. It is caused almost invariably by a growth hormone-secreting 
pituitary adenoma. Transsphenoidal surgery and/or radiotherapy are still 
considered to be the treatment of choice, but despite recent advances in both 
these forms of treatment, the overall surgical cure rate remains approximately 
60%, and radiotherapy is characterised by delayed effect and a high incidence of 
hypopituitarism. Medical therapy in the form of dopamine agonists and 
somatostatin analogues has traditionally been used as an adjunct to surgery 
and/or radiotherapy, but is increasingly being used as first line therapy in the 
treatment of acromegaly. Recently, a third form of medical therapy, the growth 
hormone receptor antagonist, pegvisomant, has been licensed for use in 
acromegaly. This article examines the design, properties, clinical efficacy and 
safety of pegvisomant.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.5.11.2279
PMID: 15500374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2004 Nov;3(6):559-77. doi: 10.1517/14740338.3.6.559.

A benefit-risk assessment of class III antiarrhythmic agents.

Elming H(1), Brendorp B, Pehrson S, Pedersen OD, Køber L, Torp-Petersen C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, 
Denmark. he@heart.dk

The prevalence of arrhythmia in the population is increasing as more people 
survive for longer with cardiovascular disease. It was once thought that 
antiarrhythmic therapy could save life, however, it is now evident that 
antiarrhythmic therapy should be administrated with the purpose of symptomatic 
relief. Since many patients experience a decrease in physical performance as 
well as a diminished quality of life during arrhythmia there is still a need for 
antiarrhythmic drug therapy. The development of new antiarrhythmic agents has 
changed the focus from class I to class III agents since it became evident that 
with class I drug therapy the prevalence of mortality is considerably higher. 
This review focuses on the benefits and risks of known and newer class III 
antiarrhythmic agents. The benefits discussed include the ability to maintain 
sinus rhythm in persistent atrial fibrillation patients, and reducing the need 
for implantable cardioverter defibrillator shock/antitachycardia therapy, since 
no class III antiarrhythmic agents have proven survival benefit. The risks 
discussed mainly focus on pro-arrhythmia as torsade de pointes ventricular 
tachycardia.

DOI: 10.1517/14740338.3.6.559
PMID: 15500415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Int J Equity Health. 2004 Oct 23;3(1):11. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-3-11.

The development of a strategy for tackling health inequalities in the 
Netherlands.

Mackenbach JP(1), Stronks K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
P,O, Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, the Netherlands. j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl.

Over the past decade, the Dutch government has pursued a research-based approach 
to tackle socioeconomic inequalities in health. We report on the most recent 
phase in this approach: the development of a strategy to reduce health 
inequalities in the Netherlands by an independent committee. In addition, we 
will reflect on the way the report of this committee has influenced health 
policy and practice.A 6-year research and development program was conducted 
which covered a number of different policy options and consisted of 12 
intervention studies. The study results were discussed with experts and policy 
makers. A government advisory committee developed a comprehensive strategy that 
intends to reduce socioeconomic inequalities in disability-free life expectancy 
by 25% in 2020. The strategy covers 4 different entry-points for reducing 
socioeconomic inequalities in health, contains 26 specific recommendations, and 
includes 11 quantitative policy targets. Further research and development 
efforts are also recommended.Although the Dutch approach has been influenced by 
similar efforts in other European countries, particularly the United Kingdom and 
Sweden, it is unique in terms of its emphasis on building a systematic 
evidence-base for interventions and policies to reduce health inequalities. Both 
researchers and policy-makers were involved in the process, and there are clear 
indications that some of the recommendations are being adopted by health 
policy-makers and health care practice, although more so at the local than at 
the national level.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-3-11
PMCID: PMC529300
PMID: 15500696


768. Exp Gerontol. 2004 Oct;39(10):1563-5. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.08.004.

Blood type B might imply longevity.

Shimizu K(1), Hirose N, Ebihara Y, Arai Y, Hamamatsu M, Nakazawa S, Masui Y, 
Inagaki H, Gondo Y, Fujimori J, Kanno Y, Konishi K, Kitagawa K.

Author information:
(1)Health Care Center, Shoko-Chukin Bank, 2-10-17 Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 
104-0028, Japan. shimizu_kenichiro@1986.jukuin.keio.ac.jp

The aim of the present study was to investigate the association between blood 
groups and life expectancy. We compared frequencies of ABO blood group in 269 
centenarians (persons over 100 years) living in Tokyo and those in regionally 
matched controls (n=7153). Frequencies of blood types A, O, B, and AB in 
centenarians were 34.2, 28.3, 29.4, and 8.2%, respectively, while those in 
controls were 38.6, 30.1, 21.9, and 9.4%, respectively. Blood type B was 
observed more frequently in centenarians than in controls (chi(2)=8.41, P=0.04). 
This tendency also was true in comparison between centenarians and 118 elderly 
old individuals of the 7153. Approximate one-third of the centenarians were free 
from serious diseases such as malignancy. However, blood types were not 
associated with such medical records. Our findings suggest that blood type B 
might be associated with exceptional longevity. Responsible mechanisms need to 
be investigated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.08.004
PMID: 15501027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Rev Med Interne. 2004 Nov;25(11):801-5. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2004.01.013.

[Statins and cerebral and cardiovascular risk in elderly people].

[Article in French]

Schlienger JL(1), Vinzio S, Pradignac A, Grunenberger F, Goichot B.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne et nutrition, hôpital de Hautepierre, 67098 
Strasbourg cedex, France. jean-louis.schlienger@chru-strasbourg.fr 
<jean-louis.schlienger@chru-strasbourg.fr>

INTRODUCTION: The rationale for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in the 
elderly is less clear than in middle-aged patients because of several 
conceptual, epidemiological, economical facts, a higher prevalence of 
polypathology and a weaker relation between hypercholesterolemia and 
cardiovascular risk when age increases.
CURRENT KNOWLEDGE AND KEY POINTS: However, cardiovascular events-stroke and 
myocardial infarction occur mainly in people aged more than 65 years. The data 
of recent randomised clinical trials have demonstrated that the use of statins 
in the elderly remained associated to a reduced all-cause mortality, 
cardiovascular mortality and stroke. Statins were effective in elderly with 
average LDL-cholesterol in primary and secondary prevention trials. The drug 
tolerance was as good as in middle-aged patients. However, convincing data 
concerning subjects over 80 are lacking.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of disponible data it may be considered that statins 
are useful in older persons with a serum LDL cholesterol level above 1.3 g/l and 
or a high cardiovascular risk, with or without cardiovascular disease, when 
their life expectancy is consequent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2004.01.013
PMID: 15501349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2005 Jan 15;171(2):158-64. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.200405-667OC. Epub 2004 Oct 22.

One-year outcome after severe pulmonary exacerbation in adults with cystic 
fibrosis.

Ellaffi M(1), Vinsonneau C, Coste J, Hubert D, Burgel PR, Dhainaut JF, Dusser D.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Groupe Hospitalier Cochin, Assitance Publique 
Hôpitaux de Paris, Faculté Cochin Port-Royale, Université Paris 5, France.

We retrospectively studied the outcomes of adult patients with cystic fibrosis 
(CF) hospitalized for severe pulmonary exacerbations (69 cases) between January 
1997 and June 2001. Cases were treated either in the Pulmonary Department (n = 
46) or in the intensive care unit (ICU) (n = 23) depending on severity. 
Noninvasive mechanical ventilation was used in 61% (14 of 23) and 33% (15 of 46) 
of cases treated in the ICU and the Pulmonary Department groups, respectively. 
Invasive ventilation was necessary in 4 of 23 cases treated in the ICU. The 
1-year survival rate was 52% (12 of 23) and 91% (42 of 46) in the ICU and the 
Pulmonary Department groups, respectively. Lung transplantation was performed in 
two patients from the ICU group and in five patients from the Pulmonary 
Department group after hospital discharge. Factors predictive of death were 
prior colonization with Burkholderia cepacia and rapid decline in FEV1 before 
admission and severity of exacerbations (severity of hypoxemia and hypercapnia, 
simplified acute physiology score II and logistic organ dysfunction (LOD) 
scores, requirement of noninvasive mechanical ventilation, and hospitalization 
in the ICU) in the univariate analysis and were prior colonization with B. 
cepacia, the severity of hypoxemia at admission, and hospitalization in the ICU 
in the multivariate analysis. In 1-year survivors, pulmonary exacerbation did 
not affect the progression of the disease.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.200405-667OC
PMID: 15502116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Taehan Kanho Hakhoe Chi. 2004 Aug;34(5):809-19. doi:
10.4040/jkan.2004.34.5.809.

[Effects of a comprehensive rehabilitation program for mastectomy patients].

[Article in Korean]

Cho OH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Pochon CHA University, Kyungki-do 487-800, Korea. 
dhrgml@hanmail.net

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of a 
comprehensive rehabilitation program on physical function, immune response, 
fatigue and quality of life in mastectomy patients.
METHOD: The subjects included fifty-five patients with breast cancer (27 in the 
control group and 28 in the experimental group). The subjects in the 
experimental group participated in a comprehensive rehabilitation program for 10 
weeks, which was composed of 1 session of education, 2 sessions of stress 
management, 2 sessions of exercise, and 1 session of peer support group activity 
per week.
RESULT: The results revealed an increase in shoulder extension, abduction, 
external rotation, and internal rotation of the affected upper extremity, and in 
shoulder extension and abduction of the healthy upper extremity. Also an 
increase in quality of life and a decrease in fatigue were significantly higher 
in the experimental group than the control group. However, the results revealed 
that the natural killer cell ratio of the experimental group increased but there 
was no significant difference from that of the control group.
CONCLUSION: The 10-week comprehensive rehabilitation program showed a large 
affirmative effect on physical function, fatigue and quality of life of breast 
cancer patients after a mastectomy.

DOI: 10.4040/jkan.2004.34.5.809
PMID: 15502446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Spinal Cord Med. 2004;27 Suppl 1:S139-40.

Spinal cord injury facts and figures at a glance. August 2004.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15503713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Circulation. 2004 Nov 2;110(18):2851-7. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000147539.39775.F4.  Epub 2004 Oct 25.

Heart rate recovery and impact of myocardial revascularization on long-term 
mortality.

Chen MS(1), Blackstone EH, Pothier CE, Lauer MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Nov 2;110(18):2778-80.

BACKGROUND: Although heart rate recovery (HRR) predicts mortality after exercise 
testing, its ability to identify patients likely to benefit after 
revascularization is unknown. We sought to determine whether HRR can identify 
patients likely to have improved survival after revascularization.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 8861 patients undergoing treadmill nuclear or 
echocardiographic testing were divided into early revascularization 
(percutaneous coronary intervention or bypass surgery within 3 months) and 
non-early revascularization groups. Prespecified subgroup analysis was performed 
based on the presence or absence of ischemia, normal or impaired functional 
capacity, and normal or abnormal HRR. The primary end point was all-cause 
mortality. Early revascularization occurred in 552 patients. We 
propensity-matched 508 early revascularization patients to 508 non-early 
revascularization patients on the basis of 48 possible confounders. This 
constituted the present study cohort. During 8-year follow-up, 232 patients 
died. Overall, revascularization was associated with a slight but not 
significant decrease in mortality (hazard ratio [HR] 0.80, 95% CI 0.62 to 1.03). 
A significant decrease in mortality after revascularization was present in 
patients with imaging evidence of stress-induced ischemia (HR 0.62, 95% CI 0.44 
to 0.87). Ischemic patients with normal HRR had significantly lower mortality 
with revascularization (HR 0.55, 95% CI 0.34 to 0.90), whereas ischemic patients 
with abnormal HRR did not (HR 0.78, 95% CI 0.47 to 1.29); however, the test for 
interaction between these 2 groups was not significant (P=0.34).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with imaging evidence of myocardial ischemia, an 
abnormal HRR is associated with a nonsignificant trend toward blunting the 
survival improvement associated with early revascularization. HRR does not 
appear to identify patients likely to have a survival benefit.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000147539.39775.F4
PMID: 15505081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Circulation. 2004 Nov 2;110(18):2797-801. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000146786.87037.26. Epub 2004 Oct 25.

Noninducibility of atrial fibrillation as an end point of left atrial 
circumferential ablation for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a randomized study.

Oral H(1), Chugh A, Lemola K, Cheung P, Hall B, Good E, Han J, Tamirisa K, Bogun 
F, Pelosi F Jr, Morady F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA. 
oralh@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: An anatomic approach of left atrial radiofrequency circumferential 
ablation (LACA) to encircle the pulmonary veins is often effective in 
eliminating paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF). However, no 
electrophysiological end points other than voltage abatement and/or conduction 
slowing or block across ablation lines have been used. It has been unclear 
whether noninducibility of AF is a clinically useful end point.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In 100 patients with paroxysmal AF (mean age, 55+/-10 
years), LACA to encircle the left- and right-sided pulmonary veins was performed 
during AF, with additional ablation lines in the posterior left atrium and 
mitral isthmus, with an 8-mm-tip catheter. After completion of this lesion set, 
sinus rhythm was present, and AF lasting >60 seconds was not inducible in 40 
patients (40%; group 1). The 60 patients in whom AF was still present or who 
still had inducible AF were randomly assigned to no further ablation (group 2; 
30 patients) or to additional ablation lines along the left atrial septum, roof, 
and/or anterior wall where there were fractionated electrograms (group 3; 30 
patients). In group 3, AF was rendered noninducible in 27 of 30 patients (90%). 
At a 6-month follow-up, 67% of patients in group 2 were free of AF without drug 
therapy compared with 86% of patients in group 3. (P=0.05, log-rank test). Left 
atrial flutter occurred in 17% and 27% of patients in each group, respectively 
(P=0.3).
CONCLUSIONS: After LACA in patients with paroxysmal AF, AF usually can be 
rendered noninducible by additional ablation at sites of fractionated 
electrograms. Noninducibility of AF attained by additional electrogram-guided 
left atrial ablation may be associated with a better midterm clinical outcome 
than when AF is still inducible after LACA alone.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000146786.87037.26
PMID: 15505091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2004 Jul;15(7):1281-4.

[Potential ecological risks of transgenic trees].

[Article in Chinese]

Kang X(1), Liu Z, Li S.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Genetics & Breeding of Forest Trees and Ornamental Plants, 
MOE, Beijing Forestry University, Beijing 100083, China. Kangxy@bjfu.edu.cn

A new approach to genetic improvement of trees has been introduced with the 
birth of gene engineering technique. Compared to that in crops, gene 
introduction in trees has bigger potential ecological risk in environmental 
release and extension, because trees, most of which are wind-dispersed, grow on 
various habitats, have longer life span, and subject to relatively more 
extensive management. Extensive plantation of transgenic trees may reduce the 
genetic diversity of the trees concerned. Co-evolution of pests and pathogens is 
likely to be caused under the pressure of long-term and continuous selection of 
the trees derived from gene transferring. Escaping of exogenous gene may have a 
certain kind of influence on fitness of plants naturally generated, and as a 
result, have influence on species diversity in the natural world. It is not 
reasonable for China, a developing country, to reject gene introduction as an 
approach to promote forestry development. It is also important, on the other 
hand, to take future ecological safety into consideration because it is unwise 
to get present profit at the cost of future profit. To strengthen basic study on 
gene transferring, adopting safe management of varieties generated from gene 
transferring and increasing funds on research and management of transgenic trees 
are believed to be measures to decrease, to the greatest extent, ecological 
risks brought about by gene transferring of trees, and to quicken transformation 
of products of trees derived from gene-transferring into merchandises.

PMID: 15506115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Int Angiol. 2004 Jun;23(2):185-8.

Screening men for aortic aneurysm.

Calderwood R(1), Welch M.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Unit, Wythenshave Hospital, Manchester, UK.

AIM: Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (rAAA) accounts for 10000 deaths 
annually in the UK. Deaths occur in the 6th and 7th decades with loss of 
potential years of life. Mortality rates of 5% to 8% are reported for elective 
AAA repair, but no significant improvement in emergency outcome, with community 
mortality remaining at 80% and operative mortality at 50%. Patients surviving 
have several years life expectancy, regardless of age, and good quality of life. 
The difference suggests that overall emergency mortality could be significantly 
reduced by earlier diagnosis with widespread screening of the at risk 
population. Previous studies suggest screening men over 65 years significantly 
reduces incidence of rupture and aneurysm related death. Patients with abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (AAA) have a high prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) 
and vice versa. There is mounting evidence that screening men for AAA reduces 
rAAA mortality, especially in high-risk groups. A limited screening study of 
CABG patients was introduced.
METHODS: Patients on the waiting list for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) 
(n=118) had a single duplex scan of the abdominal aorta. Aortic diameter of >2.6 
cm was considered abnormal.
RESULTS: Eighteen AAAs were detected (15.3%), 5 required surgery, 13 underwent 
surveillance. Mean age at detection was 64.8 years with a range of ages between 
60 and 72 years.
CONCLUSION: Patients with symptomatic CAD have a high incidence of AAA, with 
significant risk of rupture in the perioperative period post-CABG. Screening 
should form part of the routine work-up for coronary revascularisation. Staged 
repair should be considered with AAA greater than 5.5 cm diameter.

PMID: 15507898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Gastroenterology. 2004 Nov;127(5 Suppl 1):S283-93. doi: 
10.1053/j.gastro.2004.09.043.

Hepatocellular carcinoma in the woodchuck model of hepatitis B virus infection.

Tennant BC(1), Toshkov IA, Peek SF, Jacob JR, Menne S, Hornbuckle WE, Schinazi 
RD, Korba BE, Cote PJ, Gerin JL.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14953, USA. bct3@cornell.edu

The Eastern woodchuck ( Marmota monax ) harbors a DNA virus (Woodchuck hepatitis 
virus [WHV]) that is similar in structure and replicative life cycle to the 
human hepatitis B virus (HBV). Like HBV, WHV infects the liver and can cause 
acute and chronic hepatitis. Furthermore, chronic WHV infection in woodchucks 
usually leads to development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) within the first 
2-4 years of life. The woodchuck model has been important in the preclinical 
evaluation of safety and efficacy of the antiviral drugs now in use for 
treatment of HBV infection and continues to serve as an important, predictive 
model for innovative forms of therapy of hepatitis B using antiviral nucleosides 
and immune response modifiers alone or in combination. Almost all woodchucks 
that become chronic WHV carriers after experimental neonatal inoculation develop 
HCC with a median HCC-free survival of 24 months and a median life expectancy of 
30-32 months. The woodchuck model of viral-induced HCC has been used effectively 
for the development of new imaging agents for enhancement of detection of 
hepatic neoplasms by ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. The 
chemoprevention of HCC using long-term antiviral nucleoside therapy has been 
shown in the woodchuck, and "proof of principal" has been established for some 
of the innovative, molecular methods for treatment of HCC. The model is 
available for fundamental investigations of the viral and molecular mechanisms 
responsible for hepatocarcinogenesis and should have substantial value for 
future development of innovative methods for chemoprevention and gene therapy of 
human HCC.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2004.09.043
PMID: 15508096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Presse Med. 2004 Aug 28;33(14 Pt 1):966-73. doi:
10.1016/s0755-4982(04)98808-2.

[Percutaneous closure of the inter-auricular communications, well defined 
indications].

[Article in French]

Losay J(1), Lambert V.

Author information:
(1)Unité de cardiologie pédiatrique, laboratoire d'hémodynamique et 
d'angiographie, Hôpital Marie Lannelongue, Le Plessis-Robinson. jlosay@ccml.com

POSSIBLITIES FOR PROGNOSTIC IMPROVEMENT: The inter-auricular communication (IAC) 
is the most frequent of congential malformations in adults and is responsible 
for enhanced morbidity and rduction in life expectancy. The closure of an IAC 
with volumic overload eradicates such morbidity and mortality. The technical 
progress in the conception of prosthesises that obstrue the interauricular 
communications via the percutaneous route make this technique a reliable 
alternative to surgery that, itself, leads to a certain degree of discomfort and 
considerable morbidity. DEPENDING ON THE ECHOCARDIOGRAPHICAL DATA: The selection 
of patients is crucial and relies on trans-thoracic echocardiography. It is 
indicated in isolated ostium secundum-type inter-auricular communications with a 
border of at least 4 mm separating it from the adjacent structures of the heart; 
the size on the echocardiography must not exceed 30 mm. FROM A TECHNICAL POINT 
OF VIEW: The closure is made under fluoroscopic and echocardiographic control 
via the trans-oesophageal route. It is rapid, simple, and induces a low rate of 
morbidity. With Amplatz's prosthesis, the percentage of complete closure is 
equivalent to that obtained with surgery but with less morbidity with regard to 
arrhythmia. Today the reliable percutaneous closure of an IAC will probably 
permit the extension of the indications for the closure of this congenital 
abnormality in adults.

DOI: 10.1016/s0755-4982(04)98808-2
PMID: 15509057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Anthropol Anz. 2004 Sep;62(3):291-9.

[Cribra orbitalia, dentin hypoplasia and life expectancy of 20-year-old persons 
as social and sex specific stress indicators in correlation with the health 
status of an early medieval population].

[Article in German]

Hotz G(1).

Author information:
(1)Naturhistorisches Museum Basel, Schweiz. gerhard.hotz@bs.ch

The aim of this study is based on the analysis of diachronically social and 
sexual specific considerations on the life situation of the early medieval 
population of Schleitheim, Kanton Schaffhausen, Switzerland. Cribra orbitalia 
and the linear enamel hypoplasia of the teeth are considered as stressors. This 
study is based on the life expectancy of the 20 years old, as the life 
expectancy gives information on the health condition of a social group or an 
entire population. The considered indicators show the same tendencies in three 
of the four social groups (women social group A and group B/C, men of the social 
group A). The female and male population of the social group A show a steady 
decrease in the indicator from the 5th century to come to its lowest level in 
the 7th century. The same parameters indicate a continuous increase in stress 
for the female population of the group B/C. Only one of the three indicators, 
the Cribra orbitalia, shows a positive tendency in the male population of the 
social group B/C from the 6th century to the following period, while hypoplasia 
and the life expectancy on the other hand indicate a negative tendency. The 
results show equal tendencies in the three independent indicators concerning 
three of the four social groups. This proves the high reliability of the 
indicators. These results are astonishing in two ways. First of all, the 
tendencies show that the originally better life situation of women of the higher 
ranking social group decreases in the following periods, whereas the women of 
the lower social group show an inverse development. This female population of 
low life situation in the 5th century shows an increase in life qualities in the 
following periods. Remarkable, too, is the fact, that the female population of 
both social groups shows a lower level of stress than the corresponding male 
population. This fact is astonishing, as we would expect inverse results in a 
patriarchal society. This may point to a well known fact: Women show a higher 
vitality than the male population.

PMID: 15509088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Anthropol Anz. 2004 Sep;62(3):347-62.

[Secular trends of demographic parameters].

[Article in German]

Jaeger U(1), Finke L, Zellner K.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Humangenetik und Anthropologie der Friedrich 
Schiller-Universität, Jena.

The aim of this paper is to describe the secular changes of selected demographic 
parameters and to investigate the possible causes for such changes as well as 
the biological relevance. We took into account the following parameters: 
population density, mean live expectancy, average age at marriage of until then 
unmarried persons, rate of live births, and number of children per woman. The 
results show that the population density (global and in Germany) especially in 
the twentieth century increased dramatically. We found a striking increase of 
life expectancy in Germany. Essential causes are rapid decreases in infant and 
maternal mortality. Since the 80s of the twentieth century the average age at 
marriage of until then unmarried persons as well as the number of single mothers 
show a permanent increase. Generally, the average age of mothers increased (for 
live and legitimate births). In the past 150 years we found a decrease in 
fertility rates in Germany. The registered demographic parameters show temporal 
and regional variations. These differences, especially between East Germany and 
West Germany, are emphasized.

PMID: 15509092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2004 Oct;9(4):237-45. doi:
10.1258/1355819042250177.

Health care resource allocation: is the threshold rule good enough?

Lord J(1), Laking G, Fischer A.

Author information:
(1)Tanaka Business School, Imperial College London, South Kensington campus, 
London SW7 2AZ, UK.

We review the foundations of resource allocation rules based on 
cost-effectiveness information. Comprehensive approaches, where a total budget 
is allocated in one go, require estimation of the costs and effects of all 
available health care programmes, which is unlikely to be practical. A common 
alternative is to assess individual programmes against a cost-effectiveness 
threshold. This has been shown to be efficient if the threshold is well 
calibrated and all programmes can be wholly or partially implemented with 
constant returns to scale. We discuss the feasibility of these assumptions, and 
the effects of relaxing them, concluding that programme indivisibility is 
unlikely to be a serious problem at a national level, but that miscalibration of 
the threshold and non-constant returns to scale might be. A rule that avoids 
these difficulties has been proposed previously: a new programme should only be 
implemented if it can be funded by cancelling another less effective programme. 
This could never reduce efficiency, unlike the threshold rule, though we show 
that it might sometimes fail to recommend an efficiency-improving change. We 
suggest a refinement of this reallocation rule based on explicit estimation of 
the costs and effects of partial implementation of the programmes under review. 
Research is required to assess the practicality of this option.

DOI: 10.1258/1355819042250177
PMID: 15509410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Soc Biol. 2003 Spring-Summer;50(1-2):102-26. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2003.9989067.

Economic distress and cause-of-death patterns for black and non-black men in 
Chicago: reconsidering the relevance of classic epidemiological transition 
theory.

Palazzo L(1), Guest A, Almgren G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Box 353340, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 
98195, USA. lpalazzo@u.washington.edu

The mortality disadvantage of African Americans is well documented, but previous 
studies have not considered its implications for population theory in the 
general case of industrialized nation states with high levels of income 
inequality. This paper examines the relevance of classic epidemiological theory 
to the extremes of income and mortality observed in Chicago, one of America's 
most racially divided cities. We analyze cause-specific death rates for black 
and non-black male populations residing in Chicago's community areas by using 
linked data from the 1990 Census and from 1989-1991 individual death 
certificates. The same cause-of-death patterns explain much of the mortality of 
black and non-black men. These two major structures include one, degenerative 
diseases, the other, "tough-living" causes (accidents, homicides, and liver 
disease). Community socioeconomic status is strongly related to tough-living 
deaths within each racial group, and to degenerative deaths for African 
Americans. Black men's tough-living mortality is much greater than non-blacks', 
but their younger age structure suppresses their degenerative death rates. 
Aggregate unemployment and social disorganization account for the most salient 
disparities in mortality across racial groups. This patterning of mortality 
along a socioeconomic continuum supports epidemiological theory and extends its 
applicability to highly unequal populations within industrialized countries.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2003.9989067
PMID: 15510540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Soc Biol. 2003 Spring-Summer;50(1-2):127-47. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2003.9989068.

Reconciling heart disease mortality and ICD codes.

Smith DP(1), Bradshaw B.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas School of Public Health, W206, 1200 Herman Pressler, 
Houston, TX 77025, USA. David.P.Smith@uth.tmc.edu

This study uses 61 years of death certificates for Bexar County, Texas, 
uniformly coded under ICD 9, to describe the transition in heart disease 
mortality from 1935-1995. We find that life expectancy for persons dying with 
heart diseases increased throughout this period, with clear differences in rates 
of increase for males and females, associated with acute ischemic heart disease. 
Our data point to an epidemic of AIHD in the 1950s and 1960s, which is now 
abating. Findings are less clear for chronic ischemic heart disease, while other 
