The mes/metencephalic boundary (isthmus) is an organizing center for the optic 
tectum and cerebellum. Fgf8 is accepted as a crucial organizing signal. 
Previously, we reported that Fgf8b could induce cerebellum in the mesencephalon, 
while Fgf8a transformed the presumptive diencephalon into mesencephalon. Since 
lower doses of Fgf8b exerted similar effects to those of Fgf8a, the type 
difference could be attributed to the difference in the strength of the signal. 
It is of great interest to uncover mechanisms of signal transduction pathways 
downstream of the Fgf8 signal in tectal and cerebellar development, and in this 
report we have concentrated on the Ras-ERK pathway. In normal embryos, 
extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is activated at the site where Fgf8 
mRNA is expressed. Fgf8b activated ERK while Fgf8a or a lower dose of Fgf8b did 
not activate ERK in the mes/metencephalon. Disruption of the Ras-ERK signaling 
pathway by a dominant negative form of Ras (RasS17N) changed the fate of the 
metencephalic alar plate from cerebellum to tectum. RasS17N canceled the effects 
of Fgf8b, while co-transfection of Fgf8a and RasS17N exerted additive effects. 
Disruption of Fgf8b, not Fgf8a, by siRNA resulted in posterior extension of the 
Otx2 expression domain. Our results indicate that the presumptive metencephalon 
receives a strong Fgf8 signal that activates the Ras-ERK pathway and 
differentiates into the cerebellum.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.01281
PMID: 15294862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2004 Aug 4;2004(31):re5. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2004.31.re5.

Murine models of life span extension.

Quarrie JK(1), Riabowol KT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, AB, Canada, T2N 4N1.

Mice are excellent experimental models for genetic research and are being used 
to investigate the genetic component of organismal aging. Several mutant mice 
are known to possess defects in the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor 1 
(GH/IGF-1) neurohormonal pathway and exhibit dwarfism together with extended 
life span. Their phenotypes resemble those of mice subjected to caloric 
restriction. Targeted mutations that affect components of this pathway, 
including the GH receptor, p66Shc, and the IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R), also extend 
life span; mutations that affect IGF-1R or downstream components of the pathway 
decouple longevity effects from dwarfism. These effects on life span may result 
from an increased capacity to resist oxidative damage.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2004.31.re5
PMID: 15295107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Hematol J. 2004;5(4):287-92. doi: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200407.

Iron-chelation therapy: an update.

Franchini M(1), Veneri D.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Immunoematologia e Trasfusione, Azienda Ospedaliera di Verona, 
Verona, Italy. mfranchini@mail.univr.it

Chronically transfused patients develop iron overload that leads to organ damage 
and ultimately to death. The introduction of the iron-chelating agent, 
desferrioxamine mesylate, dramatically improved the life expectancy of these 
patients. However, the very demanding nature of this treatment (subcutaneous 
continuous infusion via a battery-operated portable pump) has been the 
motivation for attempts to develop alternative forms of treatment that would 
facilitate the patients' compliance. In this review, we describe the most 
important advances in iron-chelating therapy. In particular, we analyze a new 
method of administering desferrioxamine mesylate (twice daily subcutaneous bolus 
injections) and a novel, orally active iron chelator (ICL670A). We also present 
a meta-analysis of the largest trials on the oral iron chelator deferiprone and 
the results of combined therapy (deferiprone and desferrioxamine).

DOI: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200407
PMID: 15297844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Curr Microbiol. 2004 Jul;49(1):4-9. doi: 10.1007/s00284-003-4232-0.

Molecular characteristics of phosphoenolpyruvate: mannose phosphotransferase 
system in Streptococcus bovis.

Asanuma N(1), Yoshii T, Hino T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, College of Agriculture, Meiji University, 
Higashimita, Tama-ku, Kawasaki 214-8571, Japan. asanuma@isc.meiji.ac.jp

To elucidate the regulatory mechanism of catabolite control in Streptococcus 
bovis, we investigated the molecular properties and gene expression of the 
mannose-specific phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP)-dependent sugar: phosphotransferase 
system (PTS). The mannose PTS gene cluster (man) was found to comprise a gene 
encoding enzyme (E) II AB (manL) and genes encoding EIIC (manM), EIID (manN), 
and a putative regulator (manO). The gene cluster (man operon) was transcribed 
from one transcriptional start site, which was located 40 bp upstream of the 
manL start codon. However, two transcriptional start sites were found between 
manN and manO in primer extension analysis, and the manO may be transcribed 
independently from the man operon. The man operon and manO were constitutively 
transcribed without being affected by culture conditions, such as the sugar 
supplied (glucose, galactose, fructose, maltose, lactose, sucrose, or mannose), 
growth rate, or pH.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-003-4232-0
PMID: 15297922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Bull World Health Organ. 2004 May;82(5):338-45.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of cataract surgery: a global and regional analysis.

Baltussen R(1), Sylla M, Mariotti SP.

Author information:
(1)iMTA (Institute for Medical Technology Assessment), Erasmus University 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. baltussen@bmg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the population health effects, costs and cost 
effectiveness of selected cataract surgery interventions in areas of the world 
with different epidemiological profiles.
METHODS: Effectiveness estimates are based on a review of the literature taking 
into account factors such as operative failure, complications and patient 
non-compliance. A population model was applied to follow the lifelong impact on 
individuals having cataract surgery. Costing estimates are based on primary data 
collected in 14 epidemiological subregions by regional costing teams and on a 
literature review. Costings were estimated for different geographical coverage 
levels using non-linear cost functions.
FINDINGS: Intra- and extra-capsular cataract surgeries are cost-effective ways 
to reduce the impact of cataract-blindness. Extra-capsular cataract surgery is 
more cost-effective than intra-capsular surgery in all regions considered. 
Providing extra-capsular cataract surgery to 95% of those who need it (95% 
coverage level) would avert over 3.5 million disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) per year globally. The cost-effectiveness ranges from 57 International 
dollars (1 dollar) per DALY in the WHO South-East Asia Region where there is 
high overall child and adult mortality to 1 dollar 2307 per DALY in the WHO 
Western Pacific Region where there is low overall child and adult mortality.
CONCLUSION: Extra-capsular surgery for cataracts at a high level of coverage is 
the most cost-effective way of restoring sight in all epidemiological subregions 
considered. Analysts from countries within a region are encouraged to further 
contextualize the results based on their own country's specific parameters.

PMCID: PMC2622839
PMID: 15298224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Hum Reprod. 2004 Oct;19(10):2420-3. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deh358. Epub 2004
Aug 6.

Assessment of welfare of the child in HIV positive couples.

Frodsham LC(1), Smith JR, Gilling-Smith C.

Author information:
(1)Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, 369 Fulham Road, London SW10 9NH, UK.

BACKGROUND: Demand for assisted conception amongst HIV-infected couples is 
rising in parallel with increased efficacy of antiretroviral medication which 
has improved life expectancy and reduced vertical transmission risk. There are 
no published data on welfare of the child assessment in HIV positive couples 
undergoing assisted conception.
METHODS: We assessed welfare of the child in 131 (i.e. total number seen, not 
treated) couples, where one or both partners were infected with HIV and referred 
to the infertility clinic at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital since 1999. In 
total, 59 couples received sperm washing treatment (male partner infected) 
resulting in 17 healthy babies, and 14 couples were treated in the female 
positive programme (5 concordant and 9 discordant for HIV) resulting in three 
healthy babies.
RESULTS: Issues surrounding welfare of the child were commonly encountered in 
this series and were significant enough to withhold treatment in five cases. 
Many were relationship issues surrounding acquisition of infection, fear of 
infection in the negative partner or child (n = 1), poor prognosis (multiple 
drug resistance) (n=3) or disability related to infection (n = 1).
CONCLUSIONS: Welfare of the child in HIV infected couples must be carefully 
considered in specialist centres with experienced counsellors. Issues 
surrounding treatment are complex and require close liaison with HIV specialists 
and involvement of the couple.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deh358
PMID: 15298969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Nurs BC. 2004 Jun;36(3):4.

Fostering nursing expertise.

Searle H(1).

Author information:
(1)president@rnabc.bc.ca

PMID: 15301075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Oncol Res. 2004;14(7-8):325-30. doi: 10.3727/0965040041292341.

Effect of association of temozolomide with other chemotherapic agents on cell 
growth inhibition in glioma cell lines.

Balzarotti M(1), Ciusani E, Calatozzolo C, Croci D, Boiardi A, Salmaggi A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, Department of Neurology, National 
Neurological Institute "C Besta" Via Celoria, Milan, Italy.

Despite progresses in surgery and treatments of malignant gliomas, prognosis of 
these tumors remains poor, with a median life expectancy of 12 months in 
glioblastomas. Chemotherapy (mostly with nitrosoureas) has been demonstrated to 
prolong overall survival, but the entity of this improvement is slight and 
disease recurrence/progression is the rule, stressing the need for multimodality 
treatment. In this work we investigated the effect of association of 
temozolomide (TMZ), an orally bioavailable alkylating agent, with three 
chemotherapeutic drugs, liposomal doxorubicin (DOXO), cis-platinum (CDDP). and 
topotecan (TP), on cell growth of A 172, U373, U138, U87, and SW1783 (all human 
glioma cell lines). Results indicate a synergistic effect (CI < 1) of TMZ in 
association with liposomal DOXO and CDDP on cell growth inhibition in most of 
the studied cell lines (A172, U373, U138, U87). Synergistic effect also has been 
obtained after treatment of A 172 and U373 with TMZ and TP in association. In 
conclusion, our results confirm the potential effect of association of 
chemotherapic drugs with different mechanisms of action in the treatment of 
gliomas.

DOI: 10.3727/0965040041292341
PMID: 15301423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Eur J Heart Fail. 2004 Aug;6(5):669-72. doi: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2003.11.016.

An 8-year follow-up study of acute admissions with heart failure in a 
multiethnic population.

Sosin MD(1), Bhatia GS, Zarifis J, Davis RC, Lip GY.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Medicine, Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS 
Trust, City Hospital, Birmingham B18 7QH, UK.

In 1994, we reported a cross-sectional survey of acute heart failure admissions 
to a city centre hospital serving a multiethnic population and found ethnic 
differences in aetiological factors and short-term (in-patient) mortality. We 
analysed long-term mortality data for this original survey cohort after 8 years' 
follow-up. At 8 years' follow-up, the total mortality was 90.5% amongst 
Europeans and 87.0% amongst non-Europeans (log rank test, P=0.0705). The 
non-European patients had significantly better survival at all time points until 
6 years, after which the survival curves start to converge. In univariate 
analysis, age <75.6 years (that is, the median age of the whole cohort), use of 
beta-blockers, use of ACE inhibitors, and absence of atrial fibrillation were 
significantly associated with increased survival. In addition, patients who had 
had an echocardiographic examination had significantly prolonged survival when 
compared to those who did not. Using a Cox multiple regression analysis, age, 
renal impairment, atrial fibrillation, absence of echocardiography, absence of 
beta-blockers or ACE inhibitor use (and not ethnicity) remained significant 
predictors of mortality at 8 years. While this follow-up study has suggested 
that survival following admission for acutely decompensated heart failure is not 
different between different ethnic groups when corrected for age, it is clear 
from the younger age of heart failure patients from ethnic minority groups and 
the relatively high prevalence, that the burden of heart failure is greater in 
these populations. Future observational and therapeutic trials in heart failure 
should include sufficient numbers of participants from ethnic minority groups to 
ensure that the results can be applied to the population at risk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2003.11.016
PMID: 15302017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2004 Sep;26(3):542-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ejcts.2004.05.028.

Late results of first myocardial revascularization in multiple vessel disease: 
single versus bilateral internal mammary artery with or without saphenous vein 
grafts.

Calafiore AM(1), Di Giammarco G, Teodori G, Di Mauro M, Iacò AL, Bivona A, 
Contini M, Vitolla G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital, Torino, Italy. 
calafiore@unich.it

OBJECTIVE(S): We evaluated our experience to investigate if the use of bilateral 
internal mammary artery (BIMA) grafting, with or without complementary saphenous 
vein grafts (SVGs), if compared to the use of single IMA and SVG(s), increases 
the quality of the results of coronary bypass grafting in patients younger than 
75 years who undergo first myocardial revascularization.
METHODS: From September 1986 to December 1999, 1602 patients younger than 75 
years underwent first myocardial revascularization using left internal mammary 
(LIMA) to left anterior descending (LAD) and SVG(s) (n=576) or BIMA (one IMA on 
the LAD) with or without SVG(s) (n=1026). Propensity score analysis was used to 
select 1140 patients with the same preoperative and operative characteristics. 
Thirty day outcome was evaluated as well as 10-year freedom from death by any 
cause, cardiac death, acute myocardial infarction (AMI), AMI in a grafted area 
(GA), redo/PTCA, redo/PTCA in a GA, target cardiac events (death from cardiac 
cause, AMI in a GA, redo/PTCA in a GA), and any event. Follow-up ranged from 3.5 
to 16.8 years (mean 7.3+/-4.8 years).
RESULTS: Thirty day mortality was 2.8% in Group LIMA and 2.1% in Group BIMA, P 
n.s.; incidence of major complications was, respectively, 7.0 versus 5.4%, P 
n.s. Group BIMA showed better 10-year freedom from cardiac death (96.5+/-0.8 
versus 91.3+/-1.4, P=0.0288), AMI (98.0+/-0.6 versus 94.3+/-1.2, P=0.0180), AMI 
in a GA (98.4+/-0.6 versus 94.7+/-1.1, P=0.0057) and target cardiac events 
(93.9+/-1.1 versus 86.3+/-1.8, P=0.0388). Cox analysis confirmed that LIMA+SV(s) 
was an independent risk factor from lower freedom from cardiac death, AMI, AMI 
in a GA and cardiac events.
CONCLUSIONS: As freedom from cardiac events is a main target of any 
revascularization procedure, we think that, when a patient undergoes a first 
coronary surgery and is younger than 75 years, BIMA grafting should not be 
denied, especially if his life expectancy is higher than 10 years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2004.05.028
PMID: 15302049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Urology. 2004 Aug;64(2):292-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.034.

Aggressive treatment for bladder cancer is associated with improved overall 
survival among patients 80 years old or older.

Hollenbeck BK(1), Miller DC, Taub D, Dunn RL, Underwood W 3rd, Montie JE, Wei 
JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan 48109-0330, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the impact of various treatment modalities on survival 
among patients with bladder cancer who were 80 years old or older compared with 
younger patients. A compendium of evidence suggests that bladder cancer surgery 
is safe among octogenarians; however, the benefit of such treatment in a 
population with limited life expectancy has not been well documented.
METHODS: Subjects with the primary diagnosis of bladder cancer were identified 
from the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
cancer registry between 1988 and 1999. Of the 13,796 patients diagnosed with 
bladder cancer, 24% were older than 80 years of age. Proportional hazards 
regression modeling was performed to determine the independent association of 
treatment strategy on overall and bladder cancer survival while adjusting for 
multiple covariates.
RESULTS: Of patients 80 years old or older, bladder cancer management included 
watchful waiting (7%), radiotherapy alone (1%), full or partial cystectomy 
(12%), and transurethral resection (79%). Patients 80 years old or older were 
less likely to be treated with extirpative surgery than their younger 
counterparts (P <0.0001). Cox proportional hazards models demonstrated that, 
among patients 80 years old or older, radical cystectomy/partial cystectomy had 
the greatest risk reduction in death from bladder cancer (hazard ratio 0.3) and 
death from any cause (hazard ratio 0.4) among the primary treatment modalities 
(both P <0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Disparities in practice patterns between younger and geriatric 
patients with bladder cancer exist. We provide compelling evidence that 
aggressive surgical management of bladder cancer in these patients may improve 
survival. Risk adjustment tools should be used to identify patients (young and 
old) who would be better served by less aggressive management.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.034
PMID: 15302481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Arch Intern Med. 2004 Aug 9-23;164(15):1634-40. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.164.15.1634.

Short-term menopausal hormone therapy for symptom relief: an updated decision 
model.

Col NF(1), Weber G, Stiggelbout A, Chuo J, D'Agostino R, Corso P.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital, Brown Medical 
School, Providence 02903, USA. ncol@lifespan.org

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2005 Mar 14;165(5):587-8; author reply 588.

BACKGROUND: Hormone therapy (HT) provides the most effective relief of 
menopausal symptoms. This therapy is associated with a decreased risk of 
osteoporosis and colorectal cancer but increased risks of cardiovascular disease 
(CVD), venous thrombosis, and breast cancer. Our objective was to identify which 
women should benefit from short-term HT by exploring the trade-off between 
symptom relief and risks of inducing disease.
METHODS: A Markov model simulates the effect of short-term (2 years) estrogen 
and progestin HT on life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) 
among 50-year-old menopausal women with intact uteri, using findings from the 
Women's Health Initiative. Quality-of-life (QOL) utility scores were derived 
from the literature. We assumed HT-affected QOL only during perimenopause, when 
it reduced symptoms by 80%.
RESULTS: Among asymptomatic women, short-term HT was associated with net losses 
in life expectancy and QALE of 1 to 3 months, depending on CVD risk. Women with 
mild or severe menopausal symptoms gained 3 to 4 months or 7 to 8 months of 
QALE, respectively. Among women at low risk for CVD, HT extended QALE if 
menopausal symptoms lowered QOL by as little as 4%. Among women at elevated CVD 
risk, HT extended QALE only if symptoms lowered QOL by at least 12%.
CONCLUSIONS: Hormone therapy is associated with losses in survival but gains in 
QALE for women with menopausal symptoms. Women expected to benefit from 
short-term HT can be identified by the severity of their menopausal symptoms and 
CVD risk.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.164.15.1634
PMID: 15302633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Arch Ophthalmol. 2004 Aug;122(8):1122-8. doi: 10.1001/archopht.122.8.1122.

Long-term outcome of trabeculotomy for the treatment of developmental glaucoma.

Ikeda H(1), Ishigooka H, Muto T, Tanihara H, Nagata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tenri Hospital, Nara, Japan. 
hanakoi@mbox.kyoto-inet.or.jp

OBJECTIVE: To elucidate long-term outcome of trabeculotomy in primary and 
secondary developmental glaucoma.
METHODS: One hundred forty-nine eyes of 89 patients with developmental glaucoma 
who underwent trabeculotomy were retrospectively studied. Intraocular pressure 
(IOP), success probabilities, visual acuities, and visual field were determined 
during follow-up and at the final visit.
RESULTS: The mean +/- SD IOP of 112 eyes with primary developmental glaucoma at 
the final visit with an mean +/- SD follow-up period of 9.5 +/- 7.1 years was 
15.6 +/- 5.0 mm Hg. The average IOP for 37 eyes with secondary developmental 
glaucoma was 16.7 +/- 4.2 mm Hg. One hundred eyes (89.3%) with primary 
developmental glaucoma were defined as achieving success at the final visit. 
Complete and qualified successes were achieved in 71 eyes (63.4%) and 29 eyes 
(25.9%), respectively. Visual acuities were 20/40 or better in 78 (59.5%) of 131 
eyes examined and were poorer than 20/200 in 32 eyes (24.4%). The causes of poor 
visual acuities were mainly progression of glaucoma, including delay of 
detection of onset or surgery and amblyopia. Eyes with glaucoma that existed 
before 2 months of age or eyes that needed several trabeculotomies were 
considered to have poor visual acuity. Visual fields were classified as normal 
or almost normal in 21 (44.7%) of 47 eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Trabeculotomy for developmental glaucoma is effective over a long 
time. There is a fairly good prognosis for visual function of eyes with 
developmental glaucoma with early detection of the onset, proper treatment, and 
proper management after trabeculotomy.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.122.8.1122
PMID: 15302651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Circulation. 2004 Aug 24;110(8):921-7. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000139860.33974.28.  Epub 2004 Aug 9.

Albuminuria, a therapeutic target for cardiovascular protection in type 2 
diabetic patients with nephropathy.

de Zeeuw D(1), Remuzzi G, Parving HH, Keane WF, Zhang Z, Shahinfar S, Snapinn S, 
Cooper ME, Mitch WE, Brenner BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Groningen University Medical Center, Ant 
Deusinglaan 1, 9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands. d.de.zeeuw@med.rug.nl

BACKGROUND: Albuminuria is an established risk marker for both cardiovascular 
and renal outcomes. Albuminuria can be reduced with drugs that block the 
renin-angiotensin system (RAS). We questioned whether the short-term 
drug-induced change in albuminuria would predict the long-term cardioprotective 
efficacy of RAS intervention.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We analyzed data from Reduction in Endpoints in Non-insulin 
dependent diabetes mellitus with the Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan 
(RENAAL), a double-blind, randomized trial in 1513 type 2 diabetic patients with 
nephropathy, focusing on the relationship between the prespecified 
cardiovascular end point (composite) or hospitalization for heart failure and 
baseline or reduction in albuminuria. Patients with high baseline albuminuria (> 
or =3 g/g creatinine) had a 1.92-fold (95% CI, 1.54 to 2.38) higher risk for the 
cardiovascular end point and a 2.70-fold (95% CI, 1.94 to 3.75) higher risk for 
heart failure compared with patients with low albuminuria (<1.5 g/g). Among all 
available baseline risk markers, albuminuria was the strongest predictor of 
cardiovascular outcome. The association between albuminuria and cardiovascular 
outcome was driven by those patients who also had a renal event. Modeling of the 
initial 6-month change in risk parameters showed that albuminuria reduction was 
the only predictor for cardiovascular outcome: 18% reduction in cardiovascular 
risk for every 50% reduction in albuminuria and a 27% reduction in heart failure 
risk for every 50% reduction in albuminuria.
CONCLUSIONS: Albuminuria is an important factor predicting cardiovascular risk 
in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy. Reducing albuminuria in the first 
6 months appears to afford cardiovascular protection in these patients.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000139860.33974.28
PMID: 15302780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Circulation. 2004 Aug 24;110(8):1006-12. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000139335.04152.F3. Epub 2004 Aug 9.

Low-dose therapy with the long-acting erythropoietin analogue darbepoetin alpha 
persistently activates endothelial Akt and attenuates progressive organ failure.

Bahlmann FH(1), Song R, Boehm SM, Mengel M, von Wasielewski R, Lindschau C, 
Kirsch T, de Groot K, Laudeley R, Niemczyk E, Güler F, Menne J, Haller H, Fliser 
D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Carl-Neuberg 
Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. Bahlmann.Ferdinand@MH-Hannover.de

BACKGROUND: The hematopoietic cytokine erythropoietin has cytoprotective effects 
in endothelial cells in vitro that are mediated through direct activation of the 
pro-survival Akt tyrosine kinase signaling pathway. We tested the hypothesis 
that low-dose therapy with the long-acting recombinant human erythropoietin 
analogue darbepoetin alpha protects vascular endothelium in vivo in a classic 
remnant kidney rat model characterized by severe endothelial damage, progressive 
vascular sclerosis, and ischemia-induced tissue fibrosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using a parallel group study design, we randomly assigned 
animals after 5/6 nephrectomy to treatment with either saline (n=36) or 0.1 
microg/kg body wt darbepoetin (n=24) subcutaneously once weekly. We monitored 
hematocrit, blood pressure, and serum creatinine regularly and obtained renal 
tissue 6 weeks after nephrectomy for morphological and immunohistochemical 
analysis. Darbepoetin-treated animals had significantly improved survival 
compared with saline-treated controls (63% versus 33%; P<0.05), although 
hematocrit levels were similar in both groups. Darbepoetin treatment ameliorated 
endothelial damage; attenuated the composite tissue injury score (saline 
1.9+/-0.4; darbepoetin 0.4+/-0.2; P<0.001), which included vascular sclerosis, 
glomerulosclerosis, and tubulointerstitial damage; and preserved renal function. 
We found persistent activation of the pro-survival Akt signaling pathway in 
endothelial and epithelial glomerular cells in darbepoetin-treated animals, 
accompanied by a significant reduction of apoptotic cell death in renal tissue.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose darbepoetin treatment confers vascular and tissue 
protection that is associated with persistent stimulation of the pro-survival 
Akt signaling pathway. The use of recombinant human erythropoietin or analogues 
may have utility in preventing ischemia-related progressive vascular injury and 
organ failure.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000139335.04152.F3
PMID: 15302785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Health Phys. 2004 Sep;87(3):251-7. doi: 10.1097/00004032-200409000-00005.

Radiation protection principles of NCRP.

Kase KR(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, CA 
94025, USA. krk@slac.stanford.edu

The current recommendations of the National Council on Radiation Protection and 
Measurements (NCRP) relative to ionizing radiation are based on radiation 
protection principles that developed historically as information about radiation 
effects on human populations became available. Because the NCRP Charter states 
that the NCRP will cooperate with the International Commission on Radiological 
Protection (ICRP), the basic principles and recommendations for radiation 
protection of the NCRP are closely coupled with those of the ICRP. Thus, the 
fundamental principles of justification, optimization, and dose limitation as 
initially stated in ICRP Publication 26 have been adopted and applied by the 
NCRP in its recommendations. ICRP and NCRP recommendations on dose limitation 
for the general public and for occupationally exposed individuals are based on 
the same analyses of radiation risk, and, while similar, there are differences 
reflecting the aspects of radiation application and exposure circumstances 
unique to the United States. The NCRP has recently extended its guidance to 
address exposure to individuals engaged in space activities. Several reports 
have been issued or are in preparation to provide recommendations on dose 
limitation and the development of radiation safety programs to apply the 
radiation protection principles in space activities. The biological basis for 
these recommendations is provided in these and accompanying NCRP reports. 
Recommendations for the application of basic radiation protection principles 
have been made in many reports over the years. Those that are most current 
appear in approximately 50 reports published in the last 15 y. These address 
radiation safety practices in industrial and medical institutions, control of 
radionuclides in the environment, protection of the public, and assessment of 
radiation risk. Some of the aspects of these recommendations will be discussed. 
Current recommendations related to radiation safety practice are based on the 
principles and dose limits specified in Report No. 116. The limits are based on 
estimates of the risk of fatal cancer and an assessment of the risk that should 
be tolerated by workers who are occupationally exposed and by the general 
public. These levels of risk are related to other risks that individuals accept 
in their lives. Looking to the future, one might consider other directions that 
the NCRP could take in developing radiation safety recommendations that are 
still based upon the stated principles, such as relating dose to loss of life 
expectancy instead of fatal cancer risk. It may also be that the principles of 
justification, optimization, and dose limitation should be reconsidered. For 
example, the NCRP may make recommendations about the relationship of radiation 
dose to various biological effects or outcomes and the resulting estimates of 
risk, but not specify dose limits. This would relieve the NCRP of the necessity 
to speculate about acceptable risks. One can also imagine that the principle of 
justification could be applied not only to the introduction of a new source of 
radiation, but also to the removal of an existing source of radiation, i.e., the 
idea of justifying decontamination efforts. It is clear that as we move into the 
21st century there will be a continuing need for the NCRP to identify the 
principles upon which radiation protection is to be based and to provide 
guidance on the application of those principles for the many beneficial uses of 
radiation and radioactive materials in society.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-200409000-00005
PMID: 15303061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Insur Med. 2002;34(1):3-11.

Abnormal delay in recovery of pulse rate in 9454 patients referred for treadmill 
exercise test to Cleveland Clinic, 1990-1997--an independent predictor of excess 
mortality.

Singer RB.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this article is to present results from the latest 
of 3 recent reports from the Cleveland Clinic on excess mortality associated 
with abnormal delay in the recovery of an elevated pulse rate produced in a 
treadmill exercise test. This is done in the context of a long-standing medical 
interest in this phenomenon and its prognostic significance (see Comment 
section).
BACKGROUND: Delay in return of the pulse rate after exercise has long attracted 
medical interest as a potentially unfavorable prognostic factor. However, this 
has not become a factor in the interpretation of the treadmill exercise test. 
Cardiologist staff members of the Cleveland Clinic have recently studied the 
mortality predictive effect of delay in pulse recovery in 3 different cohorts of 
patients given a treadmill exercise test (modified Bruce protocol). The newest, 
largest and most complete of these studies is the source article for this 
report.
STUDY DESIGN: This was an observational follow-up (FU) study with a median of 
5.2 years (range 1.4-8.7 years). The patients were categorized as abnormal pulse 
recovery at 1 minute after peak exercise with decrease of only 12 beats per 
minute or less, and normal if >12 beats per minute. These classes were combined 
with dichotomous classes according to the exercise test result and with other 
associated risk factors.
RESULTS: A good approximation of exposure was achieved for each of the 4 pulse 
recovery/exercise test groups. From numerical data in the article, it was 
possible to derive aggregate mean annual mortality rates for these groups and 
selected combinations of pulse recovery with other risk factors. Mortality was 
lowest (2.8 per 1000) in the group with pulse recovery and exercise test both 
normal (66% of the total patients screened), and this was used as the "expected" 
rate, without adjustment for any differences in age. On this basis the excess 
death rate (EDR) was about 7 per 1000 per year when either pulse recovery or 
exercise test was abnormal, and 28 per 1000 when both were abnormal. Similar 
levels of EDR were found in the combinations of pulse recovery with other risk 
factors.
CONCLUSION: Abnormal pulse recovery after the treadmill exercise test is a 
powerful and independent predictor of significant excess mortality.

PMID: 15303589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Cogn Psychol. 2004 Sep;49(2):155-90. doi: 10.1016/j.cogpsych.2004.01.001.

The emergence of kind-based object individuation in infancy.

Xu F(1), Carey S, Quint N.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA. fei@psych.ubc.ca

Four experiments investigated whether 12-month-old infants use perceptual 
property information in a complex object individuation task, using the 
violation-of-expectancy looking time method (Xu, 2002; Xu & Carey, 1996). 
Infants were shown two objects with different properties emerge and return 
behind an occluder, one at a time. The occluder was then removed, revealing 
either two objects (expected outcome, if property differences support 
individuation) or one object (unexpected outcome). In Experiments 1-3, infants 
failed to use color, size, or a combination of color, size, and pattern 
differences to establish a representation of two distinct objects behind an 
occluder. In Experiment 4, infants succeeded in using cross-basic-level-kind 
shape differences to establish a representation of two objects but failed to do 
so using within-basic-level-kind shape differences. Control conditions found 
that the methods were sensitive. Infants succeeded when provided unambiguous 
spatiotemporal information for two objects, and they encoded the property 
differences during these experiments. These findings suggest that by 12 months, 
different properties play different roles in a complex object individuation 
task. Certain salient shape differences enter into the computation of numerical 
distinctness of objects before other property differences such as color or size. 
Since shape differences are often correlated with object kind differences, these 
results converge with others in the literature that suggest that by the end of 
the first year of life, infants' representational systems begin to distinguish 
kinds and properties.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cogpsych.2004.01.001
PMID: 15304370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jul;59(7):652-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.7.b652.

Use of growth hormone for prevention or treatment of effects of aging.

Harman SM(1), Blackman MR.

Author information:
(1)Kronos Longevity Research Institute, 2222 E. Highland, Suite 220, Phoenix, AZ 
85016, USA. mitch.harman@kronosinstitute.org

Decreases in growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I, estrogen 
deficiency in women, diminished testosterone in men, and loss of lean body mass, 
increased fat, and other changes consistent with hormone deficiencies occur 
during aging. Treatment of nonelderly GH-deficient adults with recombinant human 
GH (rhGH) improves body composition, muscle strength, physical function, and 
bone density, and reduces blood cholesterol and cardiovascular disease risk, but 
is often accompanied by carpal tunnel syndrome, peripheral edema, joint pain and 
swelling, gynecomastia, glucose intolerance, and possibly increased cancer risk. 
Reports that rhGH augments lean body mass and reduces body fat in aged 
individuals increased use of rhGH to delay aging effects. However, clinically 
significant functional benefits, prolongation of youth, and life extension have 
not been demonstrated. Moreover, marketing of rhGH and other hormone supplements 
largely ignores adverse effects. Until more research has better defined the 
risk/benefit relationships, treatment of elderly individuals with rhGH should be 
confined to controlled research studies.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.7.b652
PMID: 15304529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2004 Jul;59(7):697-704. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/59.7.b697.

The human life span is not that limited: the effect of multiple longevity 
phenotypes.

Arking R(1), Novoseltsev V, Novoseltseva J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Biological Sciences Building, 5705 Gullen 
Mall, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 48202, USA. 
rarking@biology.biosci.wayne.edu

There is an ongoing debate as to whether or not human longevity is approaching 
its limits. The debate and its outcome are important since they might affect 
public policy. We review the evidence presented by both schools. We add our 
empirical observation that there exist multiple longevity phenotypes, each of 
which arises from the alteration of fundamental aging processes. The current 
debate only considers two of the three known mammalian longevity phenotypes. The 
overlooked phenotype is the delayed onset of senescence phenotype, which can be 
induced by various interventions, including pharmaceuticals. The existence of 
multiple phenotypes means that an overview of potential life expectancy outcomes 
for a species should be based on the analysis of all longevity phenotypes likely 
to occur in that species.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/59.7.b697
PMID: 15304534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Neurology. 2004 Aug 10;63(3):568-70. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000133214.78602.b3.

A prospective analysis of the outcome of levetiracetam in clinical practice.

Nicolson A(1), Lewis SA, Smith DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hope Hospital, Stott Lane, Salford M6 8HD, UK. 
andrew@nicolson71.freeserve.co.uk

In this postlicensing surveillance study in a large unselected population, data 
were collected prospectively on all patients prescribed levetiracetam (LEV) at a 
regional epilepsy clinic over a 2-year period. Two hundred forty-five (69.2%) 
patients remained on LEV, with 8.8% achieving remission and some improvement in 
seizure control in 49.3%. Sedation was the most common adverse effect (10.7%), 
but mood disturbance was more likely to lead to discontinuation (4.8%). 
Cumulative probability of remaining on LEV at 12 months was 0.74 (95% CI 0.69 to 
0.79). Factors predictive of a poorer retention were a greater number of 
previous antiepileptic drugs and a faster initial titration regimen.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000133214.78602.b3
PMID: 15304598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Insur Med. 2002;34(2):86-8.

Population-based mortality outcome of rheumatoid arthritis in females.

Iacovino JR(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Life Insurance Company, 51 Madison Avenue, New, York, NY 10010, USA. 
John_R_Iacovino@NewYorkLife.com

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic disease whose morbidity exceeds its 
mortality. This abstract quantifies the mortality of RA in a general population 
over a 30-year period in females. The generic, across the spectrum of disease, 
mortality ratio is 136%; the excess death rate is 12. The mortality impact on 
males is minimal; the source publication noted a mortality ratio of 107%. Many 
selected cases of RA can be underwritten very favorably.
PURPOSE: To quantify the excess mortality in females diagnosed with rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) between 1955 to 1985.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Medical records of all residents age 35 and over of 
Rochester, Minnesota, who met the American College of Rheumatology 1987 
diagnostic criteria for RA were reviewed. Based on the comprehensive statistical 
base for residents in Rochester, virtually complete ascertainment of all 
clinically recognized cases of RA were identified. An incidence cohort 
identifying the same residents with new cases of RA occurring between January 1, 
1955, and January 1, 1985, was created. Three, 10-year prevalence cohorts were 
assembled as of July 1, 1965, 1975 and 1985. Patients in each cohort were 
followed longitudinally until death or migration from Rochester. Data of disease 
characteristics, course, co-morbidity and death were collected. During the 
follow-up period, 6.9% moved out of the county, and 5.1% moved into the county 
after the diagnosis of RA had been made elsewhere. Expected survival was based 
on age and sex adjusted survival from the same community in the same time 
period. Mortality was described using the Kaplan-Meier product-limit method. Cox 
proportional hazards modeling was used to examine the effects of age, sex and 
rheumatoid factor on survival.
DATA: In the 1965, 1975 and 1985 prevalence cohorts, there were 163, 235 and 272 
cases of RA, respectively. Some individuals were present in more than one. 
Deaths in each cohort were 54, 93 and 111, respectively. Median follow-up was 
12.7 years for the entire group with the earlier groups being longer. Mean 
follow-up was 15.1 years. Seventy-three percent of patients were females. The 
average age at diagnosis was 60.2 years.

PMID: 15305782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Insur Med. 2002;34(2):89-91.

Fecal occult blood testing and the incidence of colorectal cancer.

Singer RB(1).

Author information:
(1)American Academy of Insurance Medicine, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this abstract is to demonstrate by life table 
methodology a significant reduction in the mean annual incidence rate of 
colorectal cancer in randomized groups with annual or biennial screening for 
fecal occult blood, as compared with the annual incidence rate in the control 
group.
BACKGROUND: Testing for the presence of fecal occult blood has long been used 
for the early detection of colorectal polyps and potential cancers. The 
Minnesota Colon Cancer Study, in an earlier report, has shown that colorectal 
cancer mortality was significantly reduced, but a 12% reduction in incidence of 
colorectal cancer was not statistically significant. Follow-up in the Minnesota 
Study has now been extended to 18 years for augmented incidence results, which 
have now been reported in the source article and in this morbidity abstract.
RESULTS: Subjects in Minnesota were recruited in 1975-1978 and randomized into 
annual or biennial screening for fecal occult blood, and a control group 
receiving "usual care." Screening was continued 1976-1982, discontinued, then 
resumed 1986-1992. During 18 years of follow-up, about 235,000 person-years of 
exposure were accumulated in each randomized group, with 417 and 435 cases of 
colorectal cancer in each of the screening groups and 507 cases in the control 
group.
CONCLUSION: Aggregate mean annual incidence rates of colorectal cancer were 
significantly lower in both screening groups than in the control group, as shown 
in Table 1. In the source article the same was true for the 18-year cumulative 
incidence rates, which were also significantly reduced (p < 0.001 for the annual 
screening group and p = 0.002 for the biennial screening group).

PMID: 15305783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Insur Med. 2002;34(2):92-3.

Mortality analysis in patients with atrial fibrillation and implantable 
permanent pacemaker after ablation of the atrioventricular node.

Naslafkih A(1), Sestier F.

Author information:
(1)University of Montreal Program of Insurance Medicine, QC, Canada.

OBJECT: Atrial fibrillation is associated with excess mortality. This analysis 
was performed to determine the magnitude of the excess mortality risk.
METHODS: Life table analysis of a published study of 350 patients undergoing 
radiofrequency ablation of the atrioventricular node and permanent pacemaker 
implantation for symptomatic paroxysmal or chronic atrial fibrillation. A 
substantial proportion of subjects had evidence of left ventricular dysfunction.
RESULTS: In this cohort, compared to expected population mortality, the relative 
mortality ratio was 234% and the annual excess death rate was 46 deaths/1000.

PMID: 15305784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Insur Med. 2002;34(2):94-9.

Analysis of accelerated death benefit claims at a Japanese life insurance 
company.

Kobayashi M(1), Kudomi H.

Author information:
(1)Underwriting and Medical Department, The Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance 
Company, Oi, Kanagawa Prefecture, 258-8511, Japan. mkobay@dl.dai-ichi-life.co.jp

We studied accelerated death benefit (ADB) claims at the Dai-ichi Mutual Life 
Insurance Company (Dai-ichi Life). The ADB provision is designed to pay all or a 
portion of the death benefit if the insured is expected to die within 6 months. 
Dai-ichi Life paid 243 ADB claims and did not pay 17 ADB claims between December 
1994 and March 1998. Of the 260 ADB claims, 253 (97.3%) were caused by malignant 
neoplasm, 2 by intracranial hemorrhage, 2 by angina pectoris, 1 by dilated 
cardiomyopathy, 1 by hepatic cirrhosis, and 1 by bleeding gastric ulcer. The age 
range of the 243 paid claims at the time when the attendant physician predicted 
a life expectancy below 6 months was 21.6-72.6 years (48.7 +/- 8.7 years [Mean 
+/- SD]). By the end of March 2000, 236 cases were followed up among the above 
243 paid ADB claims. Of the 236 followed-up cases, 149 (63.1%) died within 6 
months and 203 (86.0%) died within 1 year. The range of survival periods of 
these 236 cases was 6-1516 days (210 +/- 237 days). Of the 217 dead cases due to 
malignant neoplasm, 45 (20.7%) died of gastric cancer, 44 (20.3%) of lung 
cancer, 24 (11.1%) of liver cancer, 16 (7.4%) of colon cancer, 13 (6.0%) of 
rectum cancer, and 12 (5.5%) of pancreatic cancer.

PMID: 15305785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2004 Aug 29;359(1448):1191-204;
discussion  1204-6. doi: 10.1098/rstb.2004.1498.

Water-protein interactions from high-resolution protein crystallography.

Nakasako M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science and Technology, Keio University, 
3-14-1 Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 223-8522, Japan. 
nakasako@phys.keio.ac.jp

To understand the role of water in life at molecular and atomic levels, 
structures and interactions at the protein-water interface have been 
investigated by cryogenic X-ray crystallography. The method enabled a much 
clearer visualization of definite hydration sites on the protein surface than at 
ambient temperature. Using the structural models of proteins, including several 
hydration water molecules, the characteristics in hydration structures were 
systematically analysed for the amount, the interaction geometries between water 
molecules and proteins, and the local and global distribution of water molecules 
on the surface of proteins. The tetrahedral hydrogen-bond geometry of water 
molecules in bulk solvent was retained at the interface and enabled the 
extension of a three-dimensional chain connection of a hydrogen-bond network 
among hydration water molecules and polar protein atoms over the entire surface 
of proteins. Networks of hydrogen bonds were quite flexible to accommodate 
and/or to regulate the conformational changes of proteins such as domain 
motions. The present experimental results may have profound implications in the 
understanding of the physico-chemical principles governing the dynamics of 
proteins in an aqueous environment and a discussion of why water is essential to 
life at a molecular level.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2004.1498
PMCID: PMC1693410
PMID: 15306376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2004 Jul-Aug;38(4):315-9. doi: 
10.1177/153857440403800402.

Outcomes after redo procedures for failed mesenteric revascularization.

Giswold ME(1), Landry GJ, Taylor LM Jr, Moneta GL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Oregon Health and Sciences University, 
Portland, OR 97201, USA.

This report examines results of mesenteric revascularization following a failed 
splanchnic revascularization. Patients undergoing repeat mesenteric 
revascularization from January 1985 to July 2002 were identified from a 
prospectively maintained registry. Data recorded included procedures performed, 
perioperative mortality, complications, and operative indications. Patients who 
had embolic events were excluded. Eighty-six patients underwent 105 mesenteric 
interventions in this time period; 22 patients underwent 33 repeat mesenteric 
revascularization procedures. There were 25 single-vessel bypasses, 3 
multivessel reconstructions, 3 angioplasty procedures (1 open, 2 percutaneous), 
and 2 graft thrombectomies. Complications occurred in 33.3%. Perioperative 
mortality was 6.1%, all in patients with acute mesenteric ischemia. One- and 
4-year primary patency for repeat mesenteric revascularization was 73.5% and 
62.2%, respectively, and survival for repeat mesenteric revascularization was 
85.9% and 75.5%, respectively. Patients surgically treated for mesenteric 
ischemia can require additional interventions. Repeat revascularization 
effectively prolongs survival when an earlier intervention fails.

DOI: 10.1177/153857440403800402
PMID: 15306948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Director. 2001 Spring;9(2):49-53.

Recognizing and meeting the mental health needs of the elderly in the new 
century.

Jarman RW, Herrera RM.

PMID: 15307357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. ASAIO J. 2004 Jul-Aug;50(4):306-10. doi: 10.1097/01.mat.0000129319.55804.be.

Arterial sound based noninvasive malrotation detection of rotary LVAD.

Tanishiro H(1), Funakubo A, Fukui Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering, Tokyo Denki University, 
Hatoyama Campus, Ishizaka, Hatoyama, Hiki, Saitama, Japan.

A number of advanced cardiovascular assist devices have been developed recently 
with the capability to prolong the life expectancy of patients with cardiac 
disease. To allow long-term use, it is necessary to assemble these devices using 
as few accessories as possible; however, a sensor for mechanical disorder 
detection is typically included to ensure mechanical reliability. Although a 
rotary left ventricular assist device (LVAD) has a simple mechanism, a 
malrotation caused by thrombogenesis can occur at any time. This situation could 
cause fatal damage to the cardiovascular circulation of the patient. In this 
study, we propose a simple, noninvasive method based on Korotkoff sounds, which 
would be able to detect the pressure-flow state during circulation supported by 
a rotary LVAD. Korotkoff sounds provide a means to noninvasively measure blood 
pressure in auscultation. We have found that the sounds are directly influenced 
by the pressure-flow state. We measured the arterial sound generated by an 
occluded brachial artery, as well as the Korotkoff sound generated during rotary 
LVAD circulation. To verify the effectiveness of the system, a circulatory 
simulator, rather than a human subject, was used. The arterial sound of several 
abnormal pressure-flow conditions was investigated. The simulator consists of a 
pulsatile blood pump, a compliance chamber, flow valves, a venous reservoir, and 
a rotary LVAD. Abnormal pressure-flow states are generated by simply changing 
the rotational speed of the rotary LVAD. We established the relationship between 
an abnormal pressure-flow state and the characteristics of the arterial sound, 
thus demonstrating that a malrotation of the rotary LVAD can be detected by the 
change of the arterial sound.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mat.0000129319.55804.be
PMID: 15307538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Am J Gastroenterol. 2004 Aug;99(8):1490-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2004.30286.x.

Cost-effectiveness of combination peginterferon alpha-2a and ribavirin compared 
