and LAW Task Force.

Comment in
    Hum Reprod. 2005 May;20(5):1430; author reply 1430-1.

In this 8th statement of the ESHRE Taskforce on Ethics and Law, the focus is on 
the ethical issues raised by (assisted) reproduction for HIV positive men and 
women. Due to treatment improvements, their life expectancy has increased 
substantially. This, in combination with the reduction of perinatal transmission 
to the child, makes the creation of a family more acceptable. Recommendations 
are made concerning methods of avoiding HIV transmission in the couple and to 
their offspring. It is concluded that, if certain precautions are taken, medical 
assistance to reproduction of HIV positive people is ethically acceptable. For 
the time being, only cases of serodiscordant couples should be considered.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deh467
PMID: 15459168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Stroke. 2004 Nov;35(11):2477-83. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000143453.78005.44.
Epub  2004 Sep 30.

Immediate computed tomography scanning of acute stroke is cost-effective and 
improves quality of life.

Wardlaw JM(1), Seymour J, Cairns J, Keir S, Lewis S, Sandercock P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Neurosciences, Western General Hospital, Crewe Rd, 
Edinburgh, EH4 2XY, UK. jmw@skull.dcn.ed.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Stroke. 2005 Mar;36(3):688.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stroke is very common, but computed tomography (CT) 
scanning, an expensive and finite resource, is required to differentiate 
cerebral infarction, hemorrhage, and stroke mimics. We determined whether, and 
in what circumstances, CT is cost-effective in acute stroke.
METHODS: We developed a decision tree representing acute stroke care pathways 
populated with data from multiple sources. We determined the effect of 
diagnostic information from CT scanning on functional outcome, length of stay, 
costs, and quality of life during 5 years for 13 alternative CT strategies 
(varying proportions and types of patients and rapidity of scanning).
RESULTS: For 1000 patients aged 70 to 74 years, the policy "scan all strokes 
within 48 hours" cost 10,279,728 pounds sterling and achieved 1982.3 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The most cost-effective strategy was "scan 
all immediately" (9,993,676 pounds sterling and 1982.4 QALYs). The least 
cost-effective was "scan patients on anticoagulants and those in a 
life-threatening condition immediately and the rest within 14 days" (12,592,666 
pounds sterling and 1931.8 QALYs). "Scan no patients" reduced QALYs (1904.2) and 
increased cost (10,544,000 pounds sterling).
CONCLUSIONS: Immediate CT scanning is the most cost-effective strategy. For the 
majority of acute stroke patients, increasing independent survival by correct 
early diagnosis, ensuring appropriate subsequent treatment and management 
decisions, reduced costs of stroke and increased QALYs.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000143453.78005.44
PMID: 15459431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Pathobiology. 2004;71(5):267-73. doi: 10.1159/000080061.

Expression of heart-type fatty acid-binding protein in human gastric carcinoma 
and its association with tumor aggressiveness, metastasis and poor prognosis.

Hashimoto T(1), Kusakabe T, Sugino T, Fukuda T, Watanabe K, Sato Y, Nashimoto A, 
Honma K, Kimura H, Fujii H, Suzuki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Fukushima Medical University School of Medicine, 
Fukushima, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Fatty acid-binding proteins (FABPs) are involved in lipid metabolism 
by intracellular transport of long-chain fatty acids. Heart-type (H-) FABP has 
been reported to inhibit cell growth and induce cell differentiation, but to our 
knowledge the significance of H-FABP expression in human gastric carcinoma has 
not been elucidated. The aim of the current study was to examine the expression 
of H-FABP and its relation to clinicopathologic parameters and fatty acid 
synthase (FAS) status of gastric carcinoma, since gastric cancer shows increased 
expression of FAS.
METHODS: Immunohistochemistry with anti-H-FABP antibody was performed in 669 
gastric carcinomas and 60 tubular adenomas of the stomach. H-FABP-positive and 
H-FABP-negative carcinomas were analyzed for their clinicopathologic 
characteristics and FAS status.
RESULTS: None of the adenomas expressed H-FABP, whereas 127 of 669 carcinomas 
(19.0%) were positive for the protein. H-FABP positivity was associated with the 
depth of invasion (p <0.0001), vascular invasion (p <0.0001), lymph node 
metastasis (p <0.0001), hepatic metastasis (p=0.0011), stage of the carcinoma (p 
<0.0001) and FAS status of the carcinoma (p=0.0476). A higher survival rate was 
noted in H-FABP-negative cases compared with H-FABP-positive cases (p=0.0004).
CONCLUSIONS: A subset of human gastric carcinoma expresses H-FABP and its 
expression is associated with FAS status, disease progression, tumor 
aggressiveness and poor patient survival.

DOI: 10.1159/000080061
PMID: 15459486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Genewatch. 2004 May-Jun;17(3):6-10.

Beyond politics--the strange saga of the President's Council on Bioethics.

Keim B(1).

Author information:
(1)Council for Responsible Genetics, USA.

PMID: 15459988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Demography. 2004 Aug;41(3):465-82. doi: 10.1353/dem.2004.0025.

HIV status and union dissolution in sub-Saharan Africa: the case of Rakai, 
Uganda.

Porter L(1), Hao L, Bishai D, Serwadda D, Wawer MJ, Lutalo T, Gray R; Rakai 
Project Team.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and Family Health Sciences, Johns Hopkins 
University, USA. lporter@cdc.gov

Little is known about the impact of HIV infection on the disruption of families 
through separation, divorce, and widowhood. Using life tables and multinomial 
logistic regression, this research examined the influence of HIV status on the 
risk of separation or divorce and widowhood among women in Rakai, Uganda. The 
multivariate results revealed that dissolution is more common among HIV-infected 
women and that infected women in HIV-discordant couples are especially likely to 
face separation or divorce than women in other HIV-status couples. These results 
highlight women's vulnerability to the social impact of HIV infection and the 
importance of dyadic studies of the disruption of unions.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2004.0025
PMID: 15461010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Demography. 2004 Aug;41(3):509-28. doi: 10.1353/dem.2004.0021.

Pregnancy-related dropouts and gender inequality in education: a life-table 
approach and application to Cameroon.

Eloundou-Enyegue PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Development Sociology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, 
USA. pme7@cornell.edu

In this study, I used a life-table approach to estimate how much hypothetical 
reductions in pregnancy-related dropouts would help close the gender gap in 
educational attainment. Using the schooling histories of 6,686 pupils, I 
partitioned Cameroon's gender gap in education into "pregnancy-related" and 
"non-pregnancy-related" components and simulated the impact of reductions in 
pregnancy-related dropouts on this gap. The results suggest that such reductions 
would have substantial payoffs in this setting, but payoffs would be the 
greatest where societies also address gender inequities before puberty and 
outside the realm of pregnancy. Reductions in pregnancy-related dropouts 
complement but do not replace efforts to reduce gender discrimination in 
schooling. Recent data from Demographic and Health Surveys should make it 
possible to extend this analysis to other countries.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2004.0021
PMID: 15461012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Vasa. 2004 Aug;33(3):155-8. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526.33.3.155.

Frequency of non-vascular accompanying diseases in patients with peripheral 
arterial disease.

Heidrich H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Franziskus-Krankenhaus, Berlin, Germany. 
Prof.Heidrich@web.de

BACKGROUND: Since there are so far no relevant figures on the frequency of 
non-vascular associated diseases in patients with peripheral arterial disease 
(PAD), an analysis was carried out to determine how frequently co-morbidity is 
found in such patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In the course of a retrospective analysis, 1693 patients 
(55.4% men, 44.6% women/average 68.6years) with peripheral arterial diseases 
(PAD) of Fontaine stage II to IV were examined to find out how often 
cardiopulmonary, gastrointestinal, haematological, endocrinological, 
neurological, orthopaedic, urological-nephrological, psychiatric diseases and 
tumours were seen.
RESULT: Coronary ischaemic heart disease was present in 63.1% of the cases, 
heart failure existed in 20.7%, hypertension in 57.9%, endocrine and metabolic 
diseases in 60.4%, gastrointestinal diseases in 14.8%, pulmonary diseases in 
14.5%, psychological and behavioural deficiencies in 16.2%, orthopaedic diseases 
in 21.6%, haematological diseases in 9.0%, urological diseases in 16.9%, chronic 
renal insufficiency in 7.3% and malignant tumours in 5.8%.
CONCLUSIONS: The frequency of non-vascular comorbidity in patients with PAD 
necessitates systematic interdisciplinary diagnosis prior to any therapy 
decision to take into account the patient's associated diseases, life expectancy 
and current quality of life.

DOI: 10.1024/0301-1526.33.3.155
PMID: 15461067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Geriatrics. 2004 Sep;59(9):11, 15.

Did President Reagan have mild cognitive impairment while in office? Living 
longer with Alzheimer's Disease.

Sherman FT.

PMID: 15461232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. CNS Drugs. 2004;18 Suppl 2:5-17; discussion 41-3. doi: 
10.2165/00023210-200418002-00002.

Current issues in schizophrenia: overview of patient acceptability, functioning 
capacity and quality of life.

Lambert M(1), Naber D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Psychosocial Medicine, Department for Psychiatry and 
Psychotherapy, University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany. 
lambert@uke.uni-hamburg.de

The increasing interest in the subjective wellbeing and quality of life (QoL) of 
patients with schizophrenia represents a conceptual extension of therapeutic 
outcome criteria. For a long time, the reduction of positive symptoms alone was 
the most important outcome parameter, but the development of atypical 
antipsychotic drugs in the early 1990s resulted in the adoption of more 
wide-reaching measures of therapeutic outcome. Patient satisfaction appears to 
be strongly related to their willingness to be or stay engaged in psychosocial 
and pharmacological treatment, and therefore to the symptomatic and functional 
outcome. Existing studies that deal with QoL and subjective wellbeing differ in 
their methodology and are difficult to compare because of varying underlying 
concepts of QoL or subjective wellbeing, different assessment scales or small 
sample sizes. Although QoL is a heterogeneous concept, it is clearly correlated 
with a number of factors, including illness, medication and stress 
process-related variables. Various protective factors have been identified; 
among these are personality traits, the degree of social support and treatment 
interventions. In clinical studies, atypical antipsychotic agents are associated 
with greater improvements in QoL and subjective wellbeing than are conventional 
agents. The reason for this is probably the ability of atypical agents to have a 
positive impact on factors most associated with QoL, such as negative and 
affective symptoms and drug tolerability. The most appropriate clinical approach 
to maximize QoL and subjective wellbeing for patients with schizophrenia is to 
use atypical antipsychotic drugs as a first-line treatment approach. Ideally, an 
atypical drug which is known not to have a negative effect on attention, affect 
or motivation should be chosen.

DOI: 10.2165/00023210-200418002-00002
PMID: 15461312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Oct;8(39):iii-iv, 1-125. doi: 10.3310/hta8390.

Pegylated interferon alpha-2a and -2b in combination with ribavirin in the 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Shepherd J(1), Brodin H, Cave C, Waugh N, Price A, Gabbay J.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessment Centre (SHTAC), Wessex Institute for 
Health Research and Development, Southampton, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
pegylated interferon-alpha combined with ribavirin in the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis C.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases, reference lists of retrieved reports, and 
the industry submissions to the National Institute for Clinical Excellence.
REVIEW METHODS: Sources were rigorously searched and studies were selected that 
met the inclusion criteria of being randomised controlled trials (RCTs) 
involving comparisons between pegylated interferon-alpha plus ribavirin and 
non-pegylated interferon plus ribavirin (two trials) or pegylated interferon 
alone and non-pegylated interferon alone (four trials). The primary outcome in 
all trials was sustained virological response (SVR) at follow-up. The trials 
were generally of good quality, although reporting of methodological details 
could have been more thorough in places. A cost-effectiveness model followed a 
hypothetical cohort of 1000 individuals with chronic hepatitis C over a 30-year 
period.
RESULTS: In the two trials that tested pegylated interferon plus ribavirin 
against non-pegylated interferon plus ribavirin the combined percentage of 
sustained virological response was 55%. The relative risk (RR) for remaining 
infected was reduced by 17% for pegylated interferon plus ribavirin compared 
with non-pegylated interferon plus ribavirin. Response to therapy varied 
according to viral genotype. Patients with genotype 1 had the lowest levels of 
sustained virological response and patients with genotype 2 or 3 had the 
highest. In the four trials that evaluated pegylated interferon monotherapy 
against non-pegylated interferon the combined sustained virological response 
rates were 31% for pegylated interferon and 14% for non-pegylated interferon. 
The RR for remaining infected with hepatitis C was reduced by 20% with the use 
of pegylated interferon. Patients with genotype 1 had the lowest levels of 
sustained virological response. There were also variations in sustained 
virological response according to other prognostic variables such as baseline 
viral load. Regimens involving pegylated interferon appear to be fairly well 
tolerated. Adverse events were been reported, but they did not differ 
substantially from levels of adverse events in regimens involving non-pegylated 
interferon. The incremental discounted cost per QALY for comparing no active 
treatment to 48 weeks of dual therapy with pegylated interferon and ribavirin 
(PEG + RBV) was 6045 pounds sterling. When moving from 48 weeks of dual therapy 
with non-pegylated interferon and ribavirin (IFN + RBV) to 48 weeks of dual 
therapy with PEG + RBV the figure was 12,123 pounds sterling. Subgroup analyses 
for dual PEG + RBV therapy demonstrated that the most favourable incremental 
discounted cost per QALY estimates were for patients infected with genotypes 2 
and 3, and with low baseline viral load (3921 pounds sterling) compared with no 
active treatment. Results of one-way sensitivity analyses showed that the 
estimates varied according to differences in SVRs, drug costs and discount 
rates. In general estimates remained under 30,000 pounds sterling per QALY. The 
incremental discounted cost per QALY when moving from no active treatment to 48 
weeks of monotherapy with pegylated interferon was 6484 pounds sterling. When 
moving from 48 weeks of monotherapy with IFN to 48 weeks of monotherapy with PEG 
the figure was 8404 pounds sterling. As with dual therapy, the lowest 
incremental cost per QALY was for patients with genotypes 2 and 3 and low 
baseline viral load, in the range 2641-4194 pounds sterling. The highest 
estimates were for patients with genotype 1 and high baseline viral load, around 
30,000 pounds sterling.
CONCLUSIONS: Well-designed RCTs show that patients treated with pegylated 
interferon, both as dual therapy and as monotherapy, experience higher sustained 
viral response rates than those treated with non-pegylated interferon. Patients 
with genotypes 2 and 3 experience the highest response, with rates in excess of 
80%. Patients with the harder to treat genotype 1 nevertheless benefit, with up 
to 46% of patients experiencing an SVR in one of the trials. Pegylated 
interferon also appears to be relatively cost-effective in both monotherapy and 
dual therapy, with cost per QALY estimates remaining generally under 30,000 
pounds sterling. The most favourable estimates were for patients with genotypes 
2 and 3. Pegylated interferon is a relatively new intervention in the treatment 
of hepatitis C and therefore there are areas where further research is needed. 
These include: efficacies of therapy with PEG-alpha-2a vs PEG-alpha-2b; 
retreatment of previous non-responders using pegylated interferon; efficacy of 
treatments and long-term outcomes in patients who have other co-morbidities; 
prospective tests of rules governing stopping treatment; treating patients with 
acute hepatitis C; problems that may occur in a minority of patients with 
hepatitis C, such as cryoglobulinaemia and vasculitis; additional psychological 
effects on quality of life due to hepatitis C and also on the treatment of 
children and adolescents with hepatitis C.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8390
PMID: 15461877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Oct;8(40):iii-iv, xv-xvi, 1-141. doi: 
10.3310/hta8400.

Clopidogrel used in combination with aspirin compared with aspirin alone in the 
treatment of non-ST-segment-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a systematic 
review and economic evaluation.

Main C(1), Palmer S, Griffin S, Jones L, Orton V, Sculpher M, Henderson R, 
Sudlow C, Hawkins N, Riemsma R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To review systematically the clinical effectiveness and the 
cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel used in combination with standard therapy 
including aspirin, compared with standard therapy alone for the treatment of 
non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (ACS).
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases. Manufacturers' submissions.
REVIEW METHODS: Studies were selected using rigorous criteria. The quality of 
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) was assessed according to criteria based on 
NHS CRD Report No. 4, and the quality of systematic reviews was assessed 
according to the guidelines for the Database of Reviews of Effect (DARE) 
criteria. The quality of economic evaluations was assessed according to a 
specifically tailored checklist. The clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel in combination with standard therapy compared 
with standard therapy alone were synthesised through a narrative review with 
full tabulation of the results of the included studies. In the economic 
evaluations, a cost-effectiveness model was constructed using the best available 
evidence to determine cost-effectiveness in a UK setting.
RESULTS: One RCT (the CURE trial) was a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial of high quality and showed that clopidogrel in addition 
to aspirin was significantly more effective than placebo plus aspirin in 
patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS for the composite outcome of death 
from cardiovascular causes, non-fatal myocardial infarction or stroke over the 
9-month treatment period. However, clopidogrel was associated with a 
significantly higher number of episodes of both major and minor bleeding. The 
results from the five systematic reviews that assessed the adverse events 
associated with long-term aspirin use showed that aspirin was associated with a 
significantly higher incidence of haemorrhagic stroke, extracranial haemorrhage 
and gastrointestinal haemorrhage compared with placebo. Of the 
cost-effectiveness evidence reviewed, only the manufacturer's submission was 
considered relevant from the perspective of the NHS. The review of this evidence 
highlighted potential limitations within the submission in its use of data and 
in the model structure used. These limitations led to the development of a new 
model with the aim of providing a more reliable estimate of the 
cost-effectiveness from the perspective of the UK NHS. This model indicated that 
clopidogrel appears cost-effective compared with standard care alone in patients 
with non-ST-elevation ACS as long as the NHS is willing to pay GBP6078 per 
quality of life year (QALY). The results were most sensitive to the inclusion of 
additional strategies that assessed alternative treatment durations with 
clopidogrel. Although treatment with clopidogrel for 12 months remained 
cost-effective for the overall cohort, provisional findings indicate that the 
shorter treatment durations may be more cost-effective in patients at low risk.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the CURE trial indicate that clopidogrel in 
combination with aspirin was significantly more effective than placebo combined 
with aspirin in a wide range of patients with ACS. This benefit was largely 
related to a reduction in Q-wave myocardial infarction. There was no 
statistically significant benefit in relation to mortality. The trial data 
suggested that a substantial part of the benefit derived from clopidogrel is 
achieved by 3 months, with a further small benefit over the remaining 9 months 
of chronic treatment. The results from the base-case model suggest that 
treatment with clopidogrel as an adjunct to standard therapy (including aspirin) 
for 12 months, compared with standard therapy alone, is cost-effective in non-ST 
elevation ACS patients as long as the health service is willing to pay GBP6078 
per additional QALY. However, although treatment with clopidogrel for 12 months 
remained cost-effective for the overall cohort, provisional findings indicate 
that the shorter treatment durations may be more cost-effective in patients at 
low risk. To estimate the exact length of time that clopidogrel in addition to 
standard therapy should be prescribed for patients with non-ST-segment ACS would 
require a prospective trial that randomised patients to various durations of 
therapy. This would accurately assess whether a 'rebound' phenomenon occurs in 
patients if clopidogrel were stopped after 3 months of treatment.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8400
PMID: 15461878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Nihon Rinsho. 2004 Sep;62(9):1749-56.

[Improvement of QOL by drug delivery systems].

[Article in Japanese]

Okada H(1), Takashima Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery, School of Pharmacy, Tokyo 
University of Pharmacy and Life Science.

The objectives of the medical advancements made in recent years are i) the cure 
of diseases and relief of their symptoms, ii) expansion of life expectancy, iii) 
improvement of QOL (quality of life), and iv) prevention of diseases. Most 
importantly, the therapy should maintain the dignity of patients. DDS is defined 
as a highly-functional dosage form for improving the medical usefulness of drugs 
by potentiating their efficacy, reducing their toxicity, and making them a 
'patient-friendly medicine'. DDS is strongly expected for achieving 1) the 
controlled release, 2) new alternative mucosal absorption, and 3) targeting to 
the action site of drugs. The improvements of QOL by devising novel DDS such as 
Lupron Depot, Imigran Nasal Spray, Durotep Patch and Pegasys were reviewed.

PMID: 15462396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2004 Jun;16(3):244-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03327391.

Association between longevity and cytokine gene polymorphisms. A study in 
Sardinian centenarians.

Pes GM(1), Lio D, Carru C, Deiana L, Baggio G, Franceschi C, Ferrucci L, Oliveri 
F, Scola L, Crivello A, Candore G, Colonna-Romano G, Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)University of Sassari, Sassari, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Human longevity seems to be directly correlated with 
optimal functioning of the immune system, suggesting that some genetic 
determinants of longevity reside in those polymorphisms for the immune system 
genes which regulate immune-inflammatory responses, in particular cytokine gene 
polymorphisms. The frequency of -174C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in 
the promoter region of the interleukin (IL)-6 gene is increased in Italian male 
centenarians. Moreover, the frequency of -1082G SNP at the 5' flanking region of 
the IL-10 gene coding sequence is increased among male centenarians, and that of 
+874A SNP at the interferon (IFN)-gamma gene was found more frequently in female 
centenarians. These findings indicate that different alleles at different 
cytokine gene codings for pro- (IL-6, IFN-gamma) or anti-inflammatory (IL-10) 
cytokines may affect the individual life-span expectancy, influencing the type 
and intensity of immune-inflammatory responses against environmental stressors.
METHODS: In the present study, we analyzed these IL-6, IL-10 and IFN-gamma gene 
polymorphisms in 112 (36 male, 76 female) centenarians from the island of 
Sardinia, whose population shows a genetic background quite different from that 
of mainland Italy, as well as in 137 sixty-year-old controls from the same 
geographic area.
RESULTS: No significant differences were observed on analyzing IL-6, IL-10 and 
IFN-gamma polymorphism frequencies among centenarians and controls, either on 
the whole and when the data were analyzed according to gender.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that gene polymorphisms of cytokines playing a 
major regulatory role in the inflammatory response do not affect life expectancy 
in the Sardinian population. Thus, cytokine/longevity associations have a 
population-specific component, being affected by the population-specific gene 
pool as well as by gene-environment interactions, behaving as survival rather 
than longevity genes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03327391
PMID: 15462469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Cyst Fibros. 2004 Aug;3(3):193-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2004.04.006.

Hepatocellular carcinoma in association with cirrhosis in a patient with cystic 
fibrosis.

McKeon D(1), Day A, Parmar J, Alexander G, Bilton D.

Author information:
(1)CF Unit, Papworth Hospital NHS Trust, Papworth Everard, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis liver disease (CFLD) occurs in 37% of patients with 
CF. To date and to the best of our knowledge, there has not been a documented 
case of hepatocellular carcinoma in association with cirrhosis and CF.
CASE REPORT: A 32-year-old lady with cystic fibrosis (CF) presented for her 
annual review. She had been diagnosed with CFLD since early adolescence. A 
routine ultrasound of her liver revealed lesions consistent with hepatocellular 
carcinoma. This was confirmed on histology. She had no risk factors for 
hepatitis, and thorough investigation revealed no other cause for her chronic 
liver disease. She was also found to be pregnant at the time of diagnosis. Her 
tumour was considered too large for resection and liver transplantation and she 
was referred to a national centre for laser ablative therapy.
CONCLUSION: It is our concern that with the increased life expectancy of 
patients with CF and the chronic nature of CFLD that this may be an increasingly 
recognised complication amongst the CF adult population. Therefore, we have 
changed our practice to more intense surveillance of patients with established 
CFLD to incorporate biannual ultrasound imaging of the hepatic system and yearly 
serum concentration measurements of alpha-fetoprotein.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2004.04.006
PMID: 15463908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1142-51; discussion 1142-51. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.044.

J. Maxwell Chamberlain Memorial Paper. Early fundoplication prevents chronic 
allograft dysfunction in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Cantu E 3rd(1), Appel JZ 3rd, Hartwig MG, Woreta H, Green C, Messier R, Palmer 
SM, Davis RD Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. 
davis053@mc.duke.edu

BACKGROUND: Chronic allograft dysfunction limits the long-term success of lung 
transplantation. Increasing evidence suggests nonimmune mediated injury such as 
due to reflux contributes to the development of bronchiolitis obliterans 
syndrome. We have previously demonstrated that fundoplication can reverse 
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome in some lung transplant recipients with 
reflux. We hypothesized that treatment of reflux with early fundoplication would 
prevent bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome and improve survival.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 457 patients who underwent lung 
transplantation from April 1992 through July 2003 was conducted. Patients were 
stratified into four groups: no history of reflux, history of reflux, history of 
reflux and early (< 90 days) fundoplication and history of reflux and late 
fundoplication.
RESULTS: Incidence of postoperative reflux was 76% (127 of 167 patients) in pH 
confirmed subgroups. In 14 patients with early fundoplication, actuarial 
survival was 100% at 1 and 3 years when compared with those with reflux and no 
intervention (92% +/- 3.3, 76% +/- 5.8; p < 0.02). Further, those who underwent 
early fundoplication had improved freedom from bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome 
at 1 and 3 years (100%, 100%) when compared with no fundoplication in patients 
with reflux (96% +/- 2.5, 60% +/- 7.5; p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Reflux is a frequent medical complication after lung 
transplantation. Although the number of patients undergoing early fundoplication 
is small, our results suggest early aggressive surgical treatment of reflux 
results in improved rates of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome and survival. 
Further research into the mechanisms and treatment of nonalloimmune mediated 
lung allograft injury is needed to reduce rates of chronic lung failure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.044
PMID: 15464462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1152-60; discussion 1152-60. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.046.

Utility of PET, CT, and EUS to identify pathologic responders in esophageal 
cancer.

Swisher SG(1), Maish M, Erasmus JJ, Correa AM, Ajani JA, Bresalier R, Komaki R, 
Macapinlac H, Munden RF, Putnam JB, Rice D, Smythe WR, Vaporciyan AA, Walsh GL, 
Wu TT, Roth JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA. sswisher@mdanderson.org

BACKGROUND: This study evaluates the utility of positron emission tomography 
(PET), endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), and computed tomographic (CT) scans to 
predict pathologic response and survival following preoperative chemoradiation 
(CRT) in esophageal cancer.
METHODS: One hundred three sequential patients with locoregionally advanced 
esophageal cancer, who were treated with CRT and esophageal resection between 
May 2001 and November 2003 at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, were retrospectively reviewed. PET, EUS, and CT were performed before 
(pre) or after (post) CRT and before surgical resection. PET standardized uptake 
value (SUV) was defined as maximal uptake in primary tumor.
RESULTS: Most patients were male (91 [88%]) with adenocarcinoma (90 [87%]). 
Pretreatment clinical stages were: IIA (42 [41%]), IIB (5 [5%]), III (50 [49%]), 
and IVA (6 [6%]). At the time of surgery, 58 patients (56%) had a pathologic 
response to CRT (< or =10% viable cells). Post-CRT measurements that correlated 
with pathologic response were: CT esophageal wall thickness (13.3 vs 15.3 mm, p 
= 0.04), EUS mass size (0.7 vs 1.7 cm, p = 0.01) and PET SUV (3.1 vs 5.8, p = 
0.01). Post-CRT PET SUV equal to or greater than 4 had the highest accuracy for 
pathologic response (76%). Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analysis 
demonstrated that a post-CRT PET SUV equal to or greater than 4 was an 
independent predictor of survival (HR, 3.5, p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: The FDG-PET SUV is the most accurate noninvasive test to predict 
long-term survival after preoperative CRT and before surgical resection. 
Post-CRT FDG-PET cannot, however, rule out residual microscopic disease so 
esophagectomy should remain a therapeutic option even if the post-CRT imaging 
modalities are normal.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.046
PMID: 15464463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1161-9; discussion 1161-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.045.

The prognostic importance of immunohistochemically detected node metastases in 
resected esophageal adenocarcinoma.

Waterman TA(1), Hagen JA, Peters JH, DeMeester SR, Taylor CR, Demeester TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.

BACKGROUND: The number or ratio of lymph node metastases detected by hematoxylin 
& eosin (H&E) staining is the most important predictor of survival in esophageal 
cancer. The survival effect of lymph node metastases detected on 
immunohistochemistry (IHC) is controversial. My colleagues and I hypothesized 
that the extent of nodal disease determined by both H&E and IHC examination 
would more accurately predict survival than either technique alone.
METHODS: The study population consisted of 37 patients who underwent en bloc 
esophagectomy as primary therapy for esophageal adenocarcinoma 5 or more years 
ago. All had mediastinal and upper abdominal lymphadenectomy. No patient 
received neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy. Tissue blocks were sectioned for H&E 
staining to confirm the initial histology, and a second slide was stained with 
monoclonal antibodies AE1 and CAM 5.2, which are directed at a number of 
cytokeratin antigens. The slides were reviewed by an investigator blinded to 
clinical outcome. The effect of IHC staining on prognosis was assessed by 
comparing 5-year survival based on H&E and IHC findings.
RESULTS: A total of 1,970 nodes were examined in the 37 patients. Routine H&E 
staining detected metastases in 29 patients (78%); the remaining 8 with N0 
disease all survived at least 5 years after operation (median not reached). In 
the 29 patients with N1 disease, survival was 41% at 5 years. In 20 of the 29 N1 
patients, metastases were detected by H&E in less than 10% of the nodes removed; 
55% of the patients survived 5 years, and 39% survived 8 years. Nine of the 29 
patients had metastases detected in more than 10% of the nodes removed, and all 
died at a median of 17 months. IHC staining was performed on the nodes from the 
8 N0 patients and the 20 patients with less than 10% nodal involvement (a total 
of 28 patients). Additional nodal metastases, not identified on H&E examination, 
were found in 51 nodes from 17 patients (60.7%). Of the 8 patients who were node 
negative on H&E examination, 3 had metastases detected by IHC, and all survived 
5 years or more free of disease. Of the 20 patients with less than 10% nodal 
metastases on H&E, 14 (70%) had additional metastases detected by IHC (median, 2 
nodes per patient). When combined with the results of H&E staining, the node 
ratio remained less than 10% in 13 patients and exceeded 10% in 7. Survival in 
patients whose ratio remained less than 10% was significantly better than in 
those whose ratio exceeded 10% (actual 5-year survival, 77% vs 14%; chi2 = 
4.662; p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: IHC staining techniques can identify nodal metastases missed by 
routine H&E examination in a large number of patients. The combination of H&E 
and IHC examination is useful in patients with less than 10% nodal involvement 
by H&E examination in that IHC detection of micrometastases allows 
classification into low-risk (> 75% survival) and high-risk (< 15% survival) 
groups. IHC-detected micrometastases are not of prognostic importance in N0 
patients or those with greater than 10% nodal metastases on H&E.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.045
PMID: 15464464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1184-9; discussion 1184-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.066.

Combined resection of superior vena cava for lung carcinoma: prognostic 
significance of patterns of superior vena cava invasion.

Suzuki K(1), Asamura H, Watanabe S, Tsuchiya R.

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Surgery Division, National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. 
kjsuzuki@ncc.go.jp

BACKGROUND: Combined resection of the superior vena cava (SVC) for lung 
carcinoma remains challenging in terms of technical aspect and prognosis. We 
attempted to clarify the surgical outcome of combined resection and 
reconstruction of the SVC for lung carcinoma.
METHODS: Between March 1980 and May 2001, among 3,499 lung resections, 40 (1.1%) 
patients underwent combined resection of the SVC. Thirty-four were men and 6 
were women. Ages ranged from 37 to 77 years, with median of 64 years. Lobectomy 
and pneumonectomy was performed in 19 and 21 patients, respectively. The SVC 
system was totally resected and reconstructed with grafts in 11 patients, and 
partially resected in 29 patients. For the latter patients, autologous 
pericardial patches were used in 8 patients, and a running direct suture was 
performed in 21 patients. The survival curves were constructed by the method of 
Kaplan-Meier, and the curves were compared using the log-rank test.
RESULTS: Thirty-day mortality was 10%. The 5-year survival rate was 24%, with 
the median follow-up period for living patients 67 months (actual 5-year 
survivors were 7). The prognoses were compared between patients with SVC 
invasion by metastatic nodes (n = 15) and those with SVC invasion by a direct 
tumor extension (n = 25), and the survival difference was statistically 
significant (5-year survival rate, 6.6% versus 36%; p = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The pattern of SVC invasion was considered to be a significant 
prognostic factor, and this factor should be taken into consideration for 
evaluating the outcome of clinical trials for T4 lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.066
PMID: 15464467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1194-9. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.03.102.

Surgical treatments for multiple primary adenocarcinoma of the lung.

Nakata M(1), Sawada S, Yamashita M, Saeki H, Kurita A, Takashima S, Tanemoto K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Shikoku Cancer Center, Ehime, Japan. 
mnakata@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to identify the clinical characteristics 
of multiple primary adenocarcinomas and to evaluate the efficacy of surgical 
treatments.
METHODS: Three-hundred sixty-nine patients who underwent pulmonary resection for 
adenocarcinoma from January 1994 to December 2002 were reviewed.
RESULTS: Thirty-one patients (8.4%) were determined to have multiple primary 
adenocarcinomas that could be detected on chest x-rays or computed tomography 
(CT). Twenty-six patients were synchronous and five patients were metachronous 
with a median interval of 59.0 months. Forty-nine (72.1%) of the total 68 
lesions exhibited ground-glass opacity on high-resolution CT (HRCT). 
Pathologically well-differentiated adenocarcinoma with mixed bronchioloalveolar 
pattern was the most common subtype (39.7%). Taking into consideration pulmonary 
function, size, location, and HRCT findings of the lesions the procedures 
performed were lobectomy with mediastinal lymph-node dissection for 32 patients, 
segmentectomy with hilar node dissection for 8 patients, and wedge resection for 
28 patients. Of 17 patients with bilateral synchronous cancers, simultaneous 
bilateral pulmonary resection was performed in 14 patients including 
simultaneous bilateral video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) in 11 patients. 
After a median follow-up period of 27.7 months, the 3-year overall survival rate 
was 92.9% and the 3-year disease-free survival rates of synchronous cancer and 
metachronous cancer were 77.9% and 100%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of multiple primary adenocarcinomas was relatively 
common. Early radiographic detection and surgical excision could yield a 
favorable prognosis. The use of VATS, even for synchronous bilateral patients, 
was a safe and beneficial procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.03.102
PMID: 15464469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1219-23; discussion 1219-23. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.03.015.

Chest-wall desmoid tumors: results of surgical intervention.

Abbas AE(1), Deschamps C, Cassivi SD, Nichols FC 3rd, Allen MS, Schleck CD, 
Pairolero PC.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Thoracic Surgery, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: We are analyzing our experience with treatment of desmoid tumors of 
the chest wall and adjacent structures.
METHODS: A retrospective review was undertaken of the records of all patients 
who underwent surgical management for a desmoid tumor of the chest between 
January 1980 and December 2001 at one institution. Fifty-three patients (24 men 
and 29 women) were identified, whose median age was 39 years (range 10 to 78 
years).
RESULTS: The desmoid tumor involved the chest wall exclusively in 25 patients 
(47%) and both the chest wall and adjacent structures in 28 (53%). Twenty-eight 
patients (53%) had previous resections for a desmoid tumor. Three patients also 
had previous radiation therapy. A wide radical resection was attempted in all 53 
patients; resection was complete in 44. Seven patients had positive microscopic 
margins and 2 had gross residual disease. Complications were noted in 6 patients 
(11%); no operative deaths occurred. Median hospitalization was 6 days (range 1 
to 124 days). Nineteen patients (36%) had postoperative radiation therapy (12 
had complete resection and 7 had positive margins). Follow-up was complete in 51 
patients (96%) and ranged from 2 weeks to 21 years (median 53 months). At the 
end of the review 46 patients were alive with no recurrence; 3 were alive with 
local recurrence and 2 died (1 from metastatic breast cancer and 1 from unknown 
cause). Five-year overall probability of developing a local recurrence was 37.5% 
(95% confidence interval, 20.2% to 53.3%). Recurrence occurred in 8 of 9 
patients with positive margins (89%) and 8 of 44 with negative margins (18%). 
Factors adversely affecting the rate of postoperative recurrence were 
reoperation (p = 0.0199), positive margins (p < 0.0001), and postoperative 
radiation therapy (p = 0.0027). Eleven patients (22%) required reoperation at a 
median of 24.6 months postoperatively (range 11 to 78 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Desmoid tumors involving the chest and adjacent structures are 
locally aggressive tumors with a high recurrence rate. Wide radical resection 
should be attempted whenever possible. Positive margins at resection, 
reoperation and postoperative radiation are associated with a high risk of local 
recurrence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.03.015
PMID: 15464474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1224-8; discussion 1228-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.03.081.

Short- and long-term outcomes after large pulmonary resection for germ cell 
tumors after bleomycin-combination chemotherapy.

Andrade RS(1), Kesler KA, Wilson JL, Brooks JA, Reichwage BD, Rieger KM, Einhorn 
LH, Brown JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Thoracic Division, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA.

BACKGROUND: Treatment of nonseminomatous germ cell tumors frequently requires 
bleomycin-combination chemotherapy followed by resection of residual disease. 
Bleomycin administration however raises concerns with respect to postoperative 
respiratory complications, particularly for patients undergoing large pulmonary 
resections. We undertook an institutional review to determine the outcome of 
large pulmonary resections after bleomycin-combination chemotherapy.
METHODS: Between 1981 and 2001, 530 patients presented to our institution for 
resection of residual intrathoracic disease for either metastatic testicular or 
primary mediastinal nonseminomatous germ cell tumors. We subsequently reviewed 
32 of these patients who required pneumonectomy (n = 19; RIGHT = 9, LEFT = 10) 
or bilobectomy (n = 13) after bleomycin-combination chemotherapy.
RESULTS: There were four operative deaths (13%). All postoperative deaths 
occurred in patients undergoing right-sided resections (pneumonectomy, n = 2; 
bilobectomy, n = 2) as a consequence of pulmonary complications. Operative 
survivors had a pulmonary morbidity of 18%. Fourteen of 20 long-term survivors 
were found to have a satisfactory performance status at follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Otherwise young and healthy male nonseminomatous germ cell tumors 
patients requiring large pulmonary resections after bleomycin-combination 
chemotherapy appear to be at higher than anticipated risk for pulmonary-related 
morbidity and mortality. However long-term survivors report an acceptable 
functional status.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.03.081
PMID: 15464475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1345-50; discussion 1350-1. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.03.071.

Heterotopic heart transplantation: an expanding role in the twenty-first 
century?

Newcomb AE(1), Esmore DS, Rosenfeldt FL, Richardson M, Marasco SF.

Author information:
(1)Heart and Lung Transplantation Service, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Heterotopic heart transplantation was first performed in humans in 
1974, the main advantage being the continuing function of the patient's native 
heart, in the event of life-threatening acute rejection. The effect of 
cyclosporine on acute rejection saw the heterotopic transplantation technique 
wane. Our unit revisited heterotopic transplantation in response to a growing 
number of waiting list patients with high pulmonary artery pressures. We also 
anticipated an increased cardiac allograft utilization, and improvement of our 
waiting list times.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 151 patients undergoing heart 
transplantation by our unit between August 1997 and September 2003. Twenty 
received allografts in the heterotopic position. This cohort was compared with 
the 131 contemporary orthotopic heart transplant recipients with respect to 
their outcomes.
RESULTS: The indication for transplantation was ischemic cardiomyopathy in 14 
(70%) of the heterotopic cohort and 47 (36%) of the orthotopic cohort (p = 
0.004), and dilated cardiomyopathy in 3 (15%) and 48 (37%) in the heterotopic 
and orthotopic groups, respectively (p = 0.06). Heterotopic recipients were 
significantly older than orthotopic recipients, and they had higher pulmonary 
artery pressures. The heterotopic donors were also older and the ischemic times 
were longer. A subgroup analysis was made among those patients who had high 
pulmonary artery pressures as these groups were better matched. Major morbidity 
in the heterotopic heart transplantation group consisted of reversible allograft 
dysfunction in 4 patients, renal dysfunction requiring hemofiltration in 3 
patients, profound myopathy in 4 patients, and cerebrovascular events in 2 
patients. There were two early deaths in the heterotopic transplant group and 
eight in the orthotopic group (p = 0.87). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis of 
survival was performed.
CONCLUSIONS: Heterotopic heart transplantation is a viable transplant option for 
selected high-risk heart transplant recipients in spite of somewhat poorer 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.03.071
PMID: 15464497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1352-61; discussion 1352-61. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.012.

Trends and outcomes in transplantation for complex congenital heart disease: 
1984 to 2004.

Chen JM(1), Davies RR, Mital SR, Mercando ML, Addonizio LJ, Pinney SP, Hsu DT, 
Lamour JM, Quaegebeur JM, Mosca RS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiac Surgery, Columbia University College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York, USA. jmc23@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: Cardiac transplantation for patients with complex congenital heart 
disease poses several anatomic and physiologic challenges for the transplant 
surgeon. We undertook the current single center study to evaluate surgical 
outcomes and lessons learned through a nearly twenty year experience with 
cardiac transplantation for complex congenital heart disease.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed to evaluate all patients 
undergoing cardiac transplantation from January 1, 1984 through January 1, 2004. 
Donor and recipient demographic and intraoperative and postoperative variables 
were acquired and correlated with perioperative (30-day) and late mortality in 
both univariate and multivariate analyses, and with Kaplan-Meier survival 
estimates.
RESULTS: One hundred and six patients underwent transplantation for complex 
congenital heart disease and were followed for a median of 56 months. 
Thirty-seven (34.9%) patients died. Male gender and later year of 
transplantation were protective, and neonatal age and pulmonary artery 
reconstruction detrimental in multivariable modeling of overall mortality. 
Transplantation to a physiologic or anatomic single lung did not impact on 
survival. Patients in the study cohort had comparable survival estimates when 
compared with all those in the entire cohort without complex congenital heart 
disease. When comparing patients by era of transplantation, both cohorts 
demonstrated improved survival with later transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS: Outcomes with transplantation for complex congenital heart disease 
have improved annually over the past twenty years. Transplantation to an 
anatomic or physiologic single lung did not impair overall survival. Pulmonary 
artery reconstruction imparted an increase in mortality both short and long 
term, a finding which merits further investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.012
PMID: 15464499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Oct;78(4):1403-8. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.079.

Current status of surgery for rheumatic carditis in children.

Hillman ND(1), Tani LY, Veasy LG, Lambert LL, Di Russo GB, Doty DB, McGough EC, 
Hawkins JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Primary Children's Medical Center and the 
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84113, USA. neal.hillman@hsc.utah.edu

BACKGROUND: The incidence of rheumatic heart disease (RHD) has increased 
recently in the western United States. We reviewed our 18-year surgical 
experience with RHD in children to examine current surgical techniques and 
results.
METHODS: From 1985 until 2003, 596 children (<21 years) with rheumatic fever 
were seen at Primary Children's Medical Center. Rheumatic carditis was diagnosed 
in 366 patients (61.4%). Twenty-six with carditis (26/366, 7.1%) required 
operation for rheumatic valve disease including 8 for mitral regurgitation, 7 
for mitral and aortic regurgitation, 4 for aortic regurgitation, 4 for mitral 
regurgitation and stenosis, 2 for combined mitral stenosis and regurgitation 
with aortic insufficiency, and 1 for mitral and tricuspid regurgitation.
RESULTS: Mean age at operation was 13.5 +/- 4 years. Three patients required 
operation during the acute phase of rheumatic fever (< 6 weeks), 2 during the 
subacute phase (< 6 months), and 21 during the chronic phase after the episode 
of rheumatic fever (6.7 +/- 3 years). Mitral valve repair was possible in 19 of 
22 patients who required mitral operation. Aortic valve repair was possible in 4 
patients whereas replacement was necessary in 9, including 2 Ross procedures. No 
operative deaths were recorded and 2 late deaths occurred at 4.6 and 10 years. 
Actuarial survival was 94% at 5 years and 78% at 10 years. Six patients required 
reoperation; actuarial freedom from reoperation was 78% at 5 years, 65% at 10 
years, and 49% at 15 years. All survivors are in New York Heart Association 
class I or II.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with RHD in the United States uncommonly require valve 
operation. Mitral repair with a technique that allows annular growth is possible 
in most children with good long-term functional results. Long-term surveillance 
of children with RHD is necessary because of the possible need for late valve 
operation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.04.079
PMID: 15464505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Clin Liver Dis. 2004 Nov;8(4):735-53, vii. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2004.06.002.

Hemochromatosis.

Adams PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Western Ontario, London Health Sciences 
Centre, University Campus, P.O. Box 5339, London, Ontario N6A 5A5, Canada.

Hemochromatosis is a common genetic disease with a wide range of clinical 
expression: from no symptoms to cirrhosis of the liver. The discovery of the 
gene has led to a genetic blood test useful in the diagnosis of hemochromatosis. 
Treatment by phlebotomy is simple and efficient and can prevent the development 
of cirrhosis, leading to a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2004.06.002
PMID: 15464653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. J Mol Biol. 2004 Oct 22;343(3):659-70. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2004.08.054.

Structural analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana nucleoside diphosphate kinase-2 for 
phytochrome-mediated light signaling.

Im YJ(1), Kim JI, Shen Y, Na Y, Han YJ, Kim SH, Song PS, Eom SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology, 
Gwangju 500-712, South Korea.

In plants, nucleoside diphosphate kinases (NDPKs) play a key role in the 
signaling of both stress and light. However, little is known about the 
structural elements involved in their function. Of the three NDPKs (NDPK1-NDPK3) 
expressed in Arabidopsis thaliana, NDPK2 is involved in phytochrome-mediated 
signal transduction. In this study, we found that the binding of dNDP or NTP to 
NDPK2 strengthens the interaction significantly between activated phytochrome 
and NDPK2. To better understand the structural basis of the phytochrome-NDPK2 
interaction, we determined the X-ray structures of NDPK1, NDPK2, and dGTP-bound 
NDPK2 from A.thaliana at 1.8A, 2.6A, and 2.4A, respectively. The structures 
