
927. Clin Liver Dis. 1998 May;2(2):265-82, viii. doi:
10.1016/s1089-3261(05)70007-6.

Primary biliary cirrhosis: clinical and associated autoimmune features and 
natural history.

Jones DE(1), James OF, Bassendine MF.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Liver Research, The Medical School, University of Newcastle upon 
Tyne, New Castle upon Tyne, United Kingdom.

Primary biliary cirrhosis, a chronic liver disease, predominately affects 
middle-aged women. The diagnosis is established by the presence of 
disease-specific autoantibodies and compatible liver histology showing focal 
immune-mediated damage to the intrahepatic bile ducts. Patients now are detected 
prior to the onset of symptoms typical of cholestasis with abnormal liver 
function tests, or even prior to the onset of abnormal liver function tests, 
with positive antimitochondrial antibodies. Earlier diagnosis is changing not 
only our appreciation of the prevalence of this condition, but also of the 
natural history. The disease appears to be heterogeneous with some patients 
having a slow progression and a normal life-expectancy, although other patients 
have a more aggressive course developing symptoms and end-stage disease that 
leads to death or liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/s1089-3261(05)70007-6
PMID: 15560032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Clin Liver Dis. 1998 Feb;2(1):31-49, v-vi. doi:
10.1016/s1089-3261(05)70362-7.

Wilson's disease.

Ferenci P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine IV, Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Wilson's disease is an autosomal, recessive-inherited disorder of impaired 
biliary copper excretion that results in the accumulation of copper in various 
organs including the liver, the cornea and the brain. The Wilson's disease gene 
on chromosome 13 codes for a copper transporting P-type ATPase-ATP7B. More than 
60 mutations of this gene have been described. The diagnosis of Wilson's disease 
is based on clinical findings and laboratory abnormalities and can be made if 
two of the following symptoms are present: Kayser-Fleischer rings; topical 
neurologic symptoms; and low serum ceruloplasmin levels. In less typical cases 
diagnosis requires various other tests of copper metabolism. Effective medical 
treatment with copper chelators (D-penicillamine, trientine) or zinc results in 
symptomatic improvement and normal life expectancy. Orthotopic liver 
transplantation is indicated in advanced cases with hepatic decompensation or in 
patients with fulminant Wilson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1089-3261(05)70362-7
PMID: 15560044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Recenti Prog Med. 2004 Oct;95(10):457-62.

[Hereditary hemocromatosis].

[Article in Italian]

Franchini M(1), Veneri D.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Immunoematologia e Trasfusione, Azienda Ospedaliera, Verona. 
massimo.franchini@mail.azosp.vr.it

Hereditary hemochromatosis is a disorder of iron metabolism characterized by a 
progressive tissue iron overload which leads to an irreversible organ damage if 
it is not treated timely. The recent developments in the field of molecular 
medicine have radically changed the physiopathology and the diagnosis of this 
disease. However, transferrin saturation and serum ferritin are still the most 
reliable tests for the detection of subjects with hereditary hemochromatosis. 
Therapeutic phlebotomy is the mainstay of the treatment of hereditary 
hemochromatosis. If phlebotomy is started before the onset of irreversible organ 
damages, the life expectancy of these patients is similar to that of normal 
population.

PMID: 15560291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Duodecim. 2004;120(18):2173-9.

[Expected life span, aging population and health problems in Finland and 
elsewhere].

[Article in Finnish]

Valkonen T(1).

Author information:
(1)Helsingin yliopiston sosiologian laitos, väestöntutkimuksen yksikkö. 
tapani.valkonen@helsinki.fi

PMID: 15560449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Injury. 2004 Dec;35(12):1239-47. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2004.03.018.

Population-based prediction of trauma volumes at a Level 1 trauma centre.

Beilman GJ(1), Taylor JH, Job L, Moen J, Gullickson A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, North Trauma Institute, North Memorial Medical Center, 
Robbinsdale, MN, USA. beilm001@umn.edu

OBJECTIVE: With an ageing US population, the demographics of traumatic injuries 
are being significantly altered. Census projections predict that the number of 
Americans over age 65 will double in the next 20 years. We used stochastic 
methods to forecast trauma admissions in order to predict the effects of such 
demographic changes at our trauma centre.
METHODS: Age- and sex-related rates of traumatic admission were determined using 
population statistics and trauma registry data from 1994 to 1999. These rates 
were then projected from 2000 to 2025 based on both the Lee-Carter and random 
walk with drift methods. Stochastic population projections were made and paired 
with the projected trauma rates, allowing estimation of total trauma volume.
RESULTS: Trauma rates were predicted to increase for most age groups. Trauma 
admissions are predicted to increase 57% by 2024. By 2019, 50% of trauma 
admissions will be 60 or older.
CONCLUSIONS: Our trauma volume is expected to increase 57% by 2024, an increase 
of 2% per year. More of this volume will consist of elderly patients, 
potentially requiring increased health-care resources.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2004.03.018
PMID: 15561113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Nurs Clin North Am. 2004 Dec;39(4):741-53. doi: 10.1016/j.cnur.2004.08.002.

Transitional care issues influencing access to health care: employability and 
insurability.

Hellstedt LF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Nursing, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, 251 East 
Huron, Suite 4-508, Feinberg Pavilion Chicago 60611, IL, USA. lhellste@nmh.org

Addressing the issues of employability and insurability remains a challenge for 
young adults with CHD, their parents, and health care professionals who care for 
this patient group. Because of their chronic condition, these young persons 
require ongoing access to health care, throughout their adult lives. Because 
most individuals obtain insurance through their place of employment (unless it 
is obtained under a spouse's policy), adolescents with CHD should begin to look 
carefully at career options that are compatible with their interests and their 
physical abilities. If it is more appropriate, assistance with referral to 
vocational rehabilitation programs may be given. Finally, guidance should 
include how to avoid issues of discrimination during a job interview and when 
working at one's place of employment. Legislation now supports many workers as 
long as they can carry out the job for which they were hired. With the 
continuing rise in cost of health care and health insurance coverage, young 
persons with CHD must understand the high importance of maintaining health care 
coverage for their chronic health condition, usually through a group plan in 
their place of employment. Current legislation supports supplemental coverage 
and portability of coverage when changing jobs, which minimizes or eliminates 
waiting periods for pre-existing conditions. Suggestions for ongoing health care 
are included not only for care by a cardiologist but noncardiac care, including 
a primary care practitioner, dental care, and obstetric-gynecologic care. With 
the size and life expectancy of this patient group growing each year, the issues 
of employability and insurability must continually be addressed by health care 
professionals in conjunction with government policy makers and insurance 
representatives. As additional long-term survival data become available on the 
natural history of CHD, it is hoped that insurance requirements will be modified 
to afford this group the insurance coverage needed to obtain adequate medical 
and financial security, with facilitated access to appropriate, high quality, 
and affordable health care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cnur.2004.08.002
PMID: 15561157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Int J Cardiol. 2004 Dec;97(3):355-66. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2003.07.039.

Optimal management of hyperlipidemia in primary prevention of cardiovascular 
disease.

Raza JA(1), Babb JD, Movahed A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Cardiology, The Brody School of Medicine, 
East Carolina University, Greenville, NC 27834-4354, USA.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) in the developed countries continues to grow at an 
epidemic proportion. There are a significant number of young adults with no 
clinical evidence of CVD, but who have two or more risk factors that predispose 
them to CV events and death. Many of these risk factors are modifiable, and by 
controlling these factors, the CVD burden can be decreased significantly. Recent 
statistics have shown that, if all major forms of CVD were eliminated, the life 
expectancy would rise by almost 7 years. Hence it is imperative that primary 
prevention efforts should be initiated at a young age to avert decades of 
unattended risk factors. Hyperlipidemia has been linked to CVD almost a century 
ago. Since then various clinical trials have not only supported this link, but 
have also shown the CV benefits in aggressively treating patients with 
hyperlipidemia. In this generation, we have various therapeutic agents that are 
capable of reducing the elevated lipid levels. With drugs like statins, we are 
able to reduce the risk of CVD by about 30% and avoid major adverse events. 
Newer drugs are being researched and introduced in the treatment of 
hyperlipidemia in humans. These can be used in combination therapy resulting in 
optimal levels of lipids. The new National Cholesterol Education Program 
(NCEP)/Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) guidelines have come as a wake-up 
call to clinicians about primary prevention of CVD through strict lipid 
management and multifaceted risk management approach in the prevention of CVD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2003.07.039
PMID: 15561319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2005 Mar;44(3):342-8. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/keh475.  Epub 2004 Nov 23.

Long-term efficacy and safety of etanercept after readministration in patients 
with active ankylosing spondylitis.

Brandt J(1), Listing J, Haibel H, Sörensen H, Schwebig A, Rudwaleit M, Sieper J, 
Braun J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology/Rheumatology, Charité, Medical University 
Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Germany.

Erratum in
    Rheumatology (Oxford). 2005 Apr;44(4):569.

OBJECTIVES: Treatment of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) with the tumour necrosis 
factor alpha (TNF-alpha) receptor fusion protein etanercept has shown efficacy 
in patients with active disease in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) for 
limited periods. The objective of the study was to assess the long-term efficacy 
and safety of etanercept over 1 yr, including discontinuation and 
readministration.
METHODS: In this 54-week open observational study, 26 AS patients received 25 mg 
etanercept subcutaneously twice weekly after several months of discontinuation 
following a 6-month RCT with the same agent. All patients who developed high 
disease activity after cessation of etanercept, defined as a Bath Ankylosing 
Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) > or = 4 and pain > or = 4 on a 
numerical rating scale, entered the study. Standard assessment tools, such as 
the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis functional index (BASFI), were used. An 
intention-to-treat (ITT) and a completer analysis were performed. The results 
were compared with the baseline values of the open study.
RESULTS: Out of the initial 30 patients, 26 (87%) were eligible for the open 
extension study after a mean of about 27 weeks. At week 54, 23/26 patients (88%) 
were still on treatment with etanercept. The ITT analysis showed that 58% (95% 
confidence interval 39-74%) of the patients achieved a 50% improvement of BASDAI 
at week 54. According to the Assessments in Ankylosing Spondylitis working group 
criteria, 8/26 patients (31%) were in partial remission at week 54. Function, 
metrology and quality of life improved significantly. Only one patient had a 
serious adverse event that resulted in discontinuation.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that treatment with etanercept is efficacious and 
safe after readministration over 1 yr in patients with active AS not taking 
DMARDs or steroids.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keh475
PMID: 15561737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2005 Apr;288(4):E674-84. doi: 
10.1152/ajpendo.00382.2004. Epub 2004 Nov 23.

Long-term calorie restriction reduces proton leak and hydrogen peroxide 
production in liver mitochondria.

Hagopian K(1), Harper ME, Ram JJ, Humble SJ, Weindruch R, Ramsey JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biosciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of California, 1 Shields Ave., Davis, CA 95616, USA.

Calorie restriction (CR) without malnutrition increases maximal life span in 
diverse species. It has been proposed that reduction in energy expenditure and 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) production could be a mechanism for life span 
extension with CR. As a step toward testing this theory, mitochondrial proton 
leak, H2O2 production, and markers of oxidative stress were measured in liver 
from FBNF1 rats fed control or 40% CR diets for 12 or 18 mo. CR was initiated at 
6 mo of age. Proton leak kinetics curves, generated from simultaneous measures 
of oxygen consumption and membrane potential, indicated a decrease in proton 
leak after 18 mo of CR, while only a trend toward a proton leak decrease was 
observed after 12 mo. Significant shifts in phosphorylation and substrate 
oxidation curves also occurred with CR; however, these changes occurred in 
concert with the proton leak changes. Metabolic control analysis indicated no 
difference in the overall pattern of control of the oxidative phosphorylation 
system between control and CR animals. At 12 mo, no significant differences were 
observed between groups for H2O2 production or markers of oxidative stress. 
However, at 18 mo, protein carbonyl content was lower in CR animals, as was H2O2 
production when mitochondria were respiring on either succinate alone or 
pyruvate plus malate in the presence of rotenone. These results indicate that 
long-term CR lowers mitochondrial proton leak and H2O2 production, and this is 
consistent with the idea that CR may act by decreasing energy expenditure and 
ROS production.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00382.2004
PMID: 15562252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Clin Liver Dis. 1997 May;1(1):121-7, xii. doi:
10.1016/s1089-3261(05)70260-9.

A commonsense approach to variceal bleeding.

LaBrecque DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Liver Service, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa Hospitals 
and Clinics Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1081, USA.

A cirrhotic patient with large varices and red color signs at endoscopy, and a 
portal pressure greater than 12 mmHg, has a high risk of bleeding from those 
varices in the near future. Prophylactic therapy with a nonselective 
beta-adrenergic blocking drug or long acting nitroglycerin reduces the risk of 
developing the first bleed and increases life expectancy. The acute variceal 
bleed requires prompt resuscitation with volume replacement, early initiation of 
vasoactive drugs (octreotide, somatosatin, or vasopressin plus nitroglycerin) to 
reduce portal pressure and decrease splanchnic flow, and early diagnostic 
endoscopy to determine the cause of bleeding. Variceal banding or sclerotherapy 
is successful in controlling the acute bleed in up to 90% of cases. 
Beta-adrenergic blocker therapy should be instituted once the bleed has been 
controlled and banding/sclerotherapy continued until the varices have been 
obliterated. In the patient with recalcitrant or recurrent bleeding, TIPS, 
selective shunt surgery, or liver transplantation may be options depending on 
the specifics of the particular case.

DOI: 10.1016/s1089-3261(05)70260-9
PMID: 15562673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Apr;34(2):306-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyh361. Epub 2004
Nov  24.

Commentary: the decline of death--how do we measure and interpret changes in 
self-reported health across cultures and time?

Mitchell R(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Unit in Health Behaviour and Change, University of Edinburgh, EH8 
9AG, UK. richard.mitchell@ed.ac.uk

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Apr;34(2):295-305.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyh361
PMID: 15563585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Med Clin (Barc). 2004 Nov 20;123(18):686-91. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7753(04)75331-2.

[Tables of coronary risk evaluation adapted to the Spanish population: the 
DORICA study].

[Article in Spanish]

Aranceta J(1), Pérez Rodrigo C, Foz Sala M, Mantilla T, Serra Majem L, Moreno B, 
Monereo S, Millán J; Grupo Colaborativo para el estudio DORICA fase 2.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Nutrición Comunitaria, Servicio Municipal de Salud Pública, Bilbao, 
Vizcaya, Spain. jaranceta@unav.es

Erratum in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2004 Dec 4;123(20):30.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Independent risk factors (smoking, hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia and diabetes mellitus) are direct causes of coronary heart 
disease and are common in the population. Considering all independent factors 
together seems to be more appropriate to estimate the global risk of coronary 
heart disease. The objective of this paper was to estimate the global risk of 
coronary heart disease based on the Framingham function, adapted to the 
prevalence of risk factors in Spain.
SUBJECTS AND METHOD: The prevalence of risk factors in the Spanish population 
was estimated based on pooled analysis of regional cross-sectional random 
population surveys. Prevalence estimates and incidence rate of coronary events 
were replaced in the Framingham equation accordingly. Risk probability for 10 
years was estimated and risk tables were designed using a gradual color coding 
system according to an increasing risk.
RESULTS: The estimated attributable fraction (AF) for hypertension in the 
Spanish population was 26.7% for men and 22.9% women; that for 
hypercholesterolemia was 15.7% and 12.7% for men and women, respectively. 
Smoking was identified in the third position of the ranking order for males (AF 
13.13%) and fourth for the female group (AF 3.71%). The prevalence of obesity 
was 13.2% for men and 17.5% for women. AF for obesity among men was 4% and it 
was 5% for women.
CONCLUSIONS: An adaptation of the Framingham equation according to the 
prevalence of independent risk factors and incidence of coronary events in the 
Spanish population is useful to build instruments to estimate the 10-year global 
risk of coronary heart disease while a specific function based on a 
well-designed cohort study in not available in Spain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7753(04)75331-2
PMID: 15563815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Clin Chest Med. 2004 Dec;25(4):739-47, vii. doi: 10.1016/j.ccm.2004.07.001.

Acute interstitial pneumonia.

Vourlekis JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Lung and Upper Aerodigestive Cancer Research Group, Division of Cancer 
Prevention, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
MD 20892, USA. vourlekj@mail.nih.gov

The idiopathic interstitial pneumonias have unknown etiology and are 
characterized by diffuse parenchymal lung involvement and the potential to 
develop pulmonary fibrosis. Most portend a reduction in life expectancy due, in 
part, to the absence of effective therapies. The symptoms of idiopathic 
interstitial pneumonia develop insidiously. In contradistinction, acute 
interstitial pneumonia (AIP, also known as acute interstitial pneumonitis) is 
unique in that it has a very rapid to fulminant onset, leading to early 
hospitalization and a high initial case fatality ratio but, potentially, a more 
favorable long-term prognosis for survivors. Despite its contemporary 
description nearly 20 years ago, knowledge of this disease has increased little. 
This review focuses on AIP and its current place among the idiopathic 
interstitial pneumonias.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccm.2004.07.001
PMID: 15564019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Asian J Surg. 2004 Jul;27(3):241-2. doi: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60042-7.

Isolated mediastinal lymphangioma herniating through the intercostal space.

Handa R(1), Kale R, Upadhyay KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery, Army Hospital (Research and Referral), New 
Delhi, India. rakeshhanda@touchtelindia.net

Lymphangiomas are congenital malformations of the lymphatic system, and 90% have 
manifested by the end of the second year of life. While 75% of these are located 
in the cervical region, only 2% to 3% are associated with an intrathoracic 
extension. An isolated mediastinal lymphangioma without a cervical component is 
an uncommon occurrence. Presented here is an isolated mediastinal lymphangioma 
that herniated through the intercostal space to present as a cystic mass in the 
parasternal region, which has not been reported so far.

DOI: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60042-7
PMID: 15564170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. BMJ. 2004 Nov 27;329(7477):1288; author reply 1288. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.329.7477.1288-a.

Life span and disability in Sweden and Russia: paper highlights poor health 
among Russian women.

McKee M, Shkolnikov VM, Andreev E.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2004 Oct 2;329(7469):767.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7477.1288-a
PMCID: PMC534489
PMID: 15564270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. J Public Health (Oxf). 2005 Mar;27(1):25-32. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdh197.
Epub  2004 Nov 25.

Does primary care referral to an exercise programme increase physical activity 
one year later? A randomized controlled trial.

Harrison RA(1), Roberts C, Elton PJ.

Author information:
(1)Bolton Primary Care Trust, St Peters House, Silverwell Street, Bolton BL1 
1PP, UK. roger.harrison@bolton.nhs.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effectiveness of a primary care referral scheme on 
increasing physical activity at 1 year from referral. Design Two-group 
randomized controlled trial recruiting primary care referrals to a borough-based 
exercise scheme. Setting A local authority borough in the north-west of England. 
Participants 545 patients defined as sedentary by a primary care practitioner. 
Intervention Referral to a local-authority exercise referral scheme and written 
information compared with written information only. Main outcome measures 
Meeting physical activity target at 12 months following referral, with a 
secondary outcome measured at 6 months from referral.
RESULTS: At 12 months, a non-significant increase of 5 per cent was observed in 
the intervention compared with control group, for participation in at least 90 
minutes of moderate/vigorous activity per week (25.8 versus 20.4 per cent, OR 
1.45, 0.84 to 2.50, p = 0.18). At 6 months, a 10 per cent treatment effect was 
observed which was significant (22.6 versus 13.6 per cent, OR 1.67, 1.08 to 
2.60, p = 0.05). The intervention increased satisfaction with information but 
this did not influence adherence with physical activity.
CONCLUSION: Community-based physical activity referral schemes have some impact 
on reducing sedentary behaviour in the short-term, but which is unlikely to be 
sustained and lead to benefits in terms of health.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdh197
PMID: 15564275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Radiology. 2004 Dec;233(3):729-39. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2333032052.

Metastatic colorectal carcinoma: cost-effectiveness of percutaneous 
radiofrequency ablation versus that of hepatic resection.

Gazelle GS(1), McMahon PM, Beinfeld MT, Halpern EF, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment and Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Zero Emerson Place, 
Suite 2H, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relative cost-effectiveness of radiofrequency (RF) 
ablation and hepatic resection in patients with metachronous liver metastases 
from colorectal carcinoma (CRC) and compare the outcomes, cost, and 
cost-effectiveness of a variety of treatment and follow-up strategies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A state-transition decision model for evaluating the 
(societal) cost-effectiveness of RF ablation and hepatic resection in patients 
with CRC liver metastases was developed. The model tracks the presence, number, 
size, location, growth, detection, and removal of up to 15 individual metastases 
in each patient. Survival, quality of life, and cost are predicted on the basis 
of disease extent. Imaging, ablation, and resection affect outcomes through 
detection and elimination of individual metastases. Several patient care 
strategies were developed and compared on the basis of cost, effectiveness, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness (expressed as dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year [QALY]). Extensive sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate the 
impact of alternative scenarios and assumptions on results.
RESULTS: A strategy permitting ablation of up to five metastases with computed 
tomographic (CT) follow-up every 4 months resulted in a gain of 0.65 QALYs 
relative to a no-treat strategy, at an incremental cost of $2400 per QALY. 
Compared with this ablation strategy, a strategy permitting resection of up to 
four metastases, one repeat resection, and CT follow-up every 6 months resulted 
in an additional gain of 0.76 QALYs at an incremental cost of $24 300 per QALY. 
Across a range of model assumptions, more aggressive treatment strategies (ie, 
ablation or resection of more metastases, treatment of recurrent metastases, 
more frequent follow-up imaging) were superior to less aggressive strategies and 
had incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of less than $35 000 per QALY. 
Findings were insensitive to changes in most model parameters; however, results 
were somewhat sensitive to changes in size thresholds for RF ablation, the 
number of metastases present, and surgery and treatment costs.
CONCLUSION: RF ablation is a cost-effective treatment option for patients with 
CRC liver metastases. However, in most scenarios, hepatic resection is more 
effective (in terms of QALYs gained) than RF ablation and has an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of less than $35 000 per QALY.

(c) RSNA, 2004.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2333032052
PMID: 15564408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Cesk Slov Oftalmol. 2004 Sep;60(5):335-41.

[Evidence based medicine and cost-effectiveness analysis in ophthalmology].

[Article in Czech]

Nováková D(1), Rozsíval P.

Author information:
(1)Ocní klinika FN Hradec Králové.

GOAL: To make the reader familiar with the term evidence based medicine (EBM), 
to explain the principle of cost-effectiveness analysis (price-profit), and to 
show its usefulness to compare the effectiveness of different medical 
procedures.
METHOD: Based on few examples, in this article the relevance and calculation of 
important parameters of cost-effectiveness analysis (CE), as utility value (UV), 
quality adjusted life years (QALY) is explained. In addition, calculation of UV 
and QALY for the cataract surgery, including its complications, is provided.
RESULTS: According to this method, laser photocoagulation and cryocoagulation of 
the early stages of retinopathy of prematurity, treatment of amblyopia, cataract 
surgery of one or both eyes, from the vitreoretinal procedures the early 
vitrectomy in cases of hemophtalmus in proliferative diabetic retinopathy or 
grid laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema or worsening of the visual 
acuity due to the branch retinal vein occlusion belong to highly effective 
procedures. On the other hand, to the procedures with low cost effectiveness 
belongs the treating of the central retinal artery occlusion with anterior 
chamber paracentesis, as well as with CO2 inhalation, or photodynamic therapy in 
choroidal neovascularization in age-related macular degeneration with visual 
acuity of the better eye 20/200.
CONCLUSION: Cost-effectiveness analysis is a new perspective method evaluating 
successfulness of medical procedure comparing the final effect with the 
financial costs. In evaluation of effectiveness of individual procedures, three 
main aspects are considered: subjective feeling of influence of the disease on 
the patient's life, objective results of clinical examination and financial 
costs of the procedure. According to this method, the cataract surgery, as well 
as procedures in the pediatric ophthalmology belong to the most effective 
surgical methods.

PMID: 15566221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. World Hosp Health Serv. 2004;40(3):12-4, 40, 42.

Population health in Europe: how much is attributable to health care?

Nolte E(1), McKee M.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.

Does health care save lives? Commentators such as McKeown and Illich, writing in 
the 1960s, argued that it contributed very little to population health, and 
might even be harmful. However, they were writing about a period when health 
care had relatively little to offer compared to today. More recent reviews of 
the contribution of health care to health have led to a consensus that McKeown 
was correct to the extent that 'curative medical measures played little role in 
mortality decline prior to mid-20th century'. But the rapidly changing scope and 
nature of health care means it cannot be assumed that this is still the case. 
Thus, several writers have described often quite substantial improvements in 
death rates from conditions for which effective interventions have been 
introduced. Yet the debate continues, with some arguing that health care is 
making an increasingly important impact on overall levels of health while others 
contend that it is in the realm of broader policies, such as education, 
transport and housing that we should look to for future advances in health. 
Inevitably, this is to a considerable extent a false dichotomy. Both are 
important. But how much does health care contribute to population health?

PMID: 15566272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2004 Dec;13(12):1641-3. doi: 
10.1517/13543784.13.12.1641.

Alpha-lipoic acid, an anti-obesity agent?

Doggrell SA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland, Australia. 
s_doggrell@yahoo.com

Obesity shortens life expectancy and is a risk factor for hypertension and Type 
2 diabetes. When added to the standard chow of Sprague-Dawley or Otsuka 
Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty rats, alpha-lipoic acid (0.5% weight/weight) reduced 
body weight and food intake. Alpha-lipoic acid also increased whole-body energy 
expenditure. It exerts its effects by suppressing hypothalamic AMP-activated 
protein kinase. Long-term studies to determine whether these anti-obesity 
effects are maintained in animals are required before alpha-lipoic acid is 
considered for clinical trial in human obesity.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.13.12.1641
PMID: 15566320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Hum Evol. 2004 Dec;47(6):385-98. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2004.08.006.

Life history of wild Sumatran orangutans (Pongo abelii).

Wich SA(1), Utami-Atmoko SS, Setia TM, Rijksen HD, Schürmann C, van Hooff JA, 
van Schaik CP.

Author information:
(1)Utrecht University, Behavioural Biology, P.O. Box 80086, 3508 TB, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.

We present life history data on wild Sumatran orangutans gleaned from a 32-year 
and a 5.5-year study. Estimated age at first reproduction was 15.4 years. At 9.3 
years, the average interbirth interval for this population is the longest ever 
recorded for any great ape population, significantly longer than that of a 
Bornean orangutan population. We find that age-specific mortality of Sumatran 
orangutans does not differ between sexes and is significantly lower than that of 
wild chimpanzees. We conclude that orangutan life history is the slowest among 
extant great apes. In accordance with their slow life history, longevity in the 
wild is estimated to be at least 58 years for males and at least 53 for females. 
We find no evidence for menopause. These data suggest that compared to the 
ancestral state, humans have undergone less of an increase in longevity than 
commonly assumed, and have experienced selection on earlier cessation of 
reproduction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2004.08.006
PMID: 15566945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. St Louis Univ Law J. 2003 Fall;48(1):13-35.

Race, health, and health care.

Williams DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Univesity of Michigan, USA.

PMID: 15568259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. J Econ Entomol. 2004 Oct;97(5):1570-80. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-97.5.1570.

Effect of probiotic adult diets on fitness components of sterile male 
Mediterranean fruit flies (Diptera: Tephritidae) under laboratory and field cage 
conditions.

Niyazi N(1), Lauzon CR, Shelly TE.

Author information:
(1)USDA-APHIS, P.O. Box 1040, Waimanalo, HI 96795, USA.

The aim of the current study was to investigate the effect of probiotic adult 
diets, i.e., adult diets containing viable symbiotic intestinal bacteria, on the 
pheromone-calling activity, mating success, life expectancy, and survival of 
mass-reared male Mediterranean fruit flies, Ceratitis capitata (Wiedemann), as 
an avenue for improving the field performance of sterile males in release 
programs to eradicate, suppress, or prevent spread of wild populations. The 
effect of inoculation of two standard adult diets (sugar-yeast granulate [SY] 
and sugar agar [s]) and two experimental formulations (yeast-reduced granulate 
[Sy] and yeast-enhanced sugar agar [sy]) with Enterobacter agglomerans and 
Klebsiella pneumoniae (typically occurring in the gut of wild flies) on the 
different fitness components was assessed in the laboratory and on field-caged 
host trees. We found that, in the laboratory, males reared on the probiotic 
yeast-enhanced agar, sy, had a significant mating advantage over competitors fed 
the standard s agar (probiotic and control) or noninoculated sy agar; no effect 
of probiotic enrichment (or lowering the yeast content) was found with the 
granular diets. Mating test results obtained in the field were inconsistent with 
laboratory data in that no differences in the numbers of matings were observed 
between males reared on any of the probiotic and control agar diets (or the SY 
granulate), whereas males feeding on the probiotic modified granulate, Sy, 
scored significantly more matings than their control competitors. The 
pheromone-calling activity of males maintained on the granular diets was not 
affected by probiotic enrichment on any of the seven observation days. Agar-fed 
males, however, "called" more frequently on days 6 and 7 (but not on days 1-5) 
when their diet contained the probiotic load. Laboratory survival of 
granulate-fed males was found to be significantly prolonged with probiotic 
inoculation and lowering the yeast content of the standard SY granulate (but not 
with probiotic inoculation of sy). Similarly, males reared on the probiotic and 
control modified agars (sy) survived significantly longer than those feeding on 
the standard s agars (inoculated and control). Again, the results obtained in 
the field were inconsistent, because no differences between treated and control 
males were found for any of the diets. The findings are discussed in the light 
of other published studies on adult nutrition and behavioral ecology in C. 
capitata.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-97.5.1570
PMID: 15568345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Ann Ig. 2004 Sep-Oct;16(5 Suppl 1):1-35, II.

[Three year action plan to renew Hygiene and Public Health Services (SISP) of 
Local Health Units of Veneto region. Methods and contents].

[Article in Italian]

[No authors listed]

The Council of the Veneto Region entrusted the Regional Direction for Prevention 
and the Department for Prevention of ULSS 7 (Local Health and Social Unit) by 
means of the Regional Resolution 3045/2001, the strategic coordination and 
development of a three year Plan concerning the Hygiene and Public Health (SISP) 
Services in Veneto. The Plan aims to renew working methods, areas of activities 
and the organization of the SISP Services. The activities were divided in the 
following four categories from LEA (Essential levels of Assistance) and from the 
regional price list: 1) innovative activities to be put into practice; 2) new 
activities to be developed; 3) activities to be standardized; 4) obsolete 
activities to be deleted. The Plan identified the following five macroareas: 1. 
Epidemiology and prophylaxis of communicable diseases; 2. Prevention of non 
communicable diseases: 3. Urban and Environmental Hygiene; 4. Forensic and 
necroscopic Medicine; 5. Health safeguard in sports activities, with twenty 
specific technical schemes regarding the main areas of Hygiene and Public Health 
Services and three cross cutting schemes regarding: 1. the relationship with the 
user; 2. the SISP System; 3. training. The Plan also identified leaders and 
members of task forces that are in charge of developing the schemes. The 23 
schemes of the Plan were approved by means of the Regional Resolution 3015/2003 
and are now being implemented. The coordination of the activities of the Plan is 
carried out by a special Service.

PMID: 15568441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Br J Radiol. 2004 Dec;77(924):1007-15. doi: 10.1259/bjr/97382129.

The role of infrapopliteal angioplasty.

Tsetis D(1), Belli AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, St George's Hospital, Blackshaw Road, London SW17 
0QT, UK.

Infrapopliteal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is currently 
indicated in patients with critical limb ischaemia (CLI). It may be performed 
after femoral angioplasty or bypass surgery, to improve outflow and hence 
patency of the proximally treated segment. Patients with CLI are typically 
elderly with multiple co-morbidities and limited life expectancy and therefore, 
a procedure, which is minimally invasive with reduced morbidity and mortality 
but lesser long-term patency, may be more appropriate than a more invasive 
procedure with better long-term patency. Clinical success is superior to 
angiographic patency, because once healing has occurred, should the artery 
restenose or occlude, collateral flow can be sufficient to preserve tissue 
integrity if there is no further injury. Although no prospective randomized 
trials have been performed, the reported limb-salvage rates of PTA are 
comparable with surgery. As PTA carries a lower morbidity and mortality, shorter 
hospital stay and does not preclude surgery, it is ideal for this group of 
patients who are high-risk surgical candidates. Improvements in guide-wire and 
catheter technology and recanalization techniques mean that very long stenoses 
or occlusions, and multiple lesions can be treated successfully. At the current 
time, PTA is the treatment of choice for infrapopliteal occlusive disease; 
experience with the use of stents in this territory is increasing but currently 
insufficient to justify their primary use.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/97382129
PMID: 15569642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Am J Psychiatry. 2004 Dec;161(12):2155-62. doi:
10.1176/appi.ajp.161.12.2155.

Cost-utility analysis studies of depression management: a systematic review.

Pirraglia PA(1), Rosen AB, Hermann RC, Olchanski NV, Neumann P.

Author information:
(1)Rhode Island Hospital, 593 Eddy St., MPB-1, Providence, RI 02903, USA. 
ppirraglia@lifespan.org

OBJECTIVE: Depression is common, costly, treatable, and a major influence on 
quality of life. Cost-utility analysis combines costs with quantity and quality 
of life into a metric that is meaningful for studies of interventions or care 
strategies and is directly comparable to measures in other such studies. The 
objectives of this study were to identify published cost-utility analyses of 
depression screening, pharmacologic treatment, nonpharmacologic therapy, and 
care management; to summarize the results of these studies in an accessible 
format; to examine the analytic methods employed; and to identify areas in the 
depression literature that merit cost-utility analysis.
METHOD: The authors selected articles regarding cost-utility analysis of 
depression management from the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis 
Cost-Effectiveness Registry. Characteristics of the publications, including 
study methods and analysis, were examined. Cost-utility ratios for interventions 
were arranged in a league table.
RESULTS: Of the 539 cost-utility analyses in the registry, nine (1.7%) were of 
depression management. Methods for determining utilities and the source of the 
data varied. Markov models or cohort simulations were the most common analytic 
techniques. Pharmacologic interventions generally had lower costs per 
quality-adjusted life year than nonpharmacologic interventions. Psychotherapy 
alone, care management alone, and psychotherapy plus care management all had 
lower costs per quality-adjusted life year than usual care. Depression screening 
and treatment appeared to fall within the cost-utility ranges accepted for 
common nonpsychiatric medical conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a paucity of literature on cost-utility analysis of 
depression management. High-quality cost-utility analysis should be considered 
for further research in depression management.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.161.12.2155
PMID: 15569883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2005 Jan;29(1):28-34. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.10.003.

Mid-term survival and costs of treatment of patients with descending thoracic 
aortic aneurysms; endovascular vs. open repair: a case-control study.

Glade GJ(1), Vahl AC, Wisselink W, Linsen MA, Balm R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, 1090 HM Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the results of open surgery or endovascular stent graft 
repair of descending thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA).
DESIGN, MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a retrospective multicenter study of 95 
patients undergoing TAA repair (42 stent grafts, 53 open repair). The median age 
was 67 years. Post-operative complications, mid-term survival and costs were 
assessed. The results were pooled with data in the literature.
RESULTS: After a mean follow up of 26 months (open group) and 15 months 
(endovascular group) survival was similar for patients treated by either repair 
method. Post-operative pneumonia was more in the open group (p <0.02). The 
hospital costs of open treatment were 40% more than that of the endovascular 
procedure. Combining the present results with pooled data from the literature 
the peri-operative mortality and paraplegia rate was less in the endovascular 
group (p <0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: These retrospective data suggest that endografting of descending 
thoracic aneurysms can be performed with less peri-operative morbidity, at lower 
hospital costs, but with equal mid-term life expectancy, compared with open 
grafting.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2004.10.003
PMID: 15570268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. N Z Med J. 2004 Nov 5;117(1205):U1145.

The Orewa Speech: another threat to Maori health?

Towns C(1), Watkins N, Salter A, Boyd P, Parkin L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Structural Biology, Dunedin School of Medicine, 
University of Otago, Dunedin. cindy.towns@anatomy.otago.ac.nz

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 2004 Nov 5;117(1205):U1139.

In early 2004, Dr Don Brash, leader of the National Party (New Zealand's 
opposition political party), gave a speech to a community group regarding what 
he perceived to be the preferential treatment of Maori in health and education 
policies. This viewpoint article is written by a group of concerned medical 
students at Otago University. It argues that epidemiological data provide strong 
support for specifically addressing Maori health need, whilst the Treaty of 
Waitangi represents a contractual obligation on behalf of the New Zealand 
Government to ensure equity of outcome for Maori. Underpinning both the 
epidemiological and legal arguments, are ethical principles. The central tenets 
of medicine (ie, to reduce suffering, and to improve and prolong the quality and 
length of life) should provide a strong driving force to address these 
inequalities.

PMID: 15570329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Ann Urol (Paris). 2004 Oct;38(5):225-58. doi: 10.1016/j.anuro.2004.06.004.

[Prostate cancer. Treatment].

[Article in French]

Fournier G(1), Valeri A, Mangin P, Cussenot O.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, Centre hospitalier universitaire de Brest, hôpital de la 
Cavale Blanche, boulevard Tanguy-Prigent, 29609 Brest, France. 
georges.fournier@chu-brest.fr

The discovery and the utilisation of the prostate specific antigen (PSA) that 
allows early diagnosis of prostate cancer, have considerably improved the 
management of this disease. Before the PSA era, prostate cancer was just a 
disease of the old man, generally detected at an advanced stage and incurable, 
with a fatal outcome delayed by the androgenic deprivation. Since early 1990's, 
prostate cancer has become primarily a disease of the man of 60 years, 
detectable earlier, and curable provided no extraprostatic dissemination has 
occurred. Early treatment of prostate cancer has benefited from important 
advances in surgical and radio-therapeutic techniques (conformational 
irradiation, brachytherapy), with, as principal goal, the combination of a 
better survival and the reduction of the potential adverse effects that alter 
quality of life. A better definition of the characteristics of the tumours in 
terms of progression regarding various parameters (clinical stage, PSA, tumoral 
differentiation) have resulted, despite the heterogeneity of the disease, in the 
determination of subgroups of tumours with different prognosis, which leads to 
an improved therapeutic strategy. The assessment of men's life expectancy (< or 
> 10 years) is the second primary parameter on which is based the indication for 
curative or non curative therapy in case of localized tumour. Roughly, before 
the age of 75, a curative therapy is indicated whereas after this age a 
surveillance is reasonable as first-line treatment, followed by hormone therapy 
in case of onset of symptoms indicating some progression of the disease (urinary 
symptoms, bone lesion). At a Later stage, in case of a metastatic or locally 
advanced cancer, hormone therapy by androgenic deprivation is highly indicated. 
The hormone sensitivity characterizes prostate cancer; it has been discovered 
more than 50 years ago by Charles Huggins (Nobel prize-winner). This hormone 
therapy is a palliative treatment since its efficacy is transient (ineluctable 
occurrence of hormone resistance in a variable time delay), but it constitutes 
an essential therapeutic means with a well-established efficacy. Hormone therapy 
has progressively improved, with the renunciation of oestrogen therapy and 
surgical castration which has been replaced by luteinizing hormone-releasing 
hormone (LH-RH) analogues, and/ or anti-androgens. Numerous works have resulted 
in a better rationalization of the prescription (date of treatment initiation, 
interest of combined androgenic deprivation, ...) but uncertainties remain, such 
as the therapeutic interest of intermittent treatment, or of earlier hormone 
therapy combined with the treatment of the primitive tumour (adjuvant hormone 
therapy). Finally, at the time of the hormonal escape of which the molecular 
mechanisms remain unclear, no therapy has proven any efficacy in survival 
lengthening, and the treatment remains palliative and symptomatic. Although 
improved knowledge of prostate cancer aetiology is expected for a real disease 
prevention, early diagnosis at a curable stage of the disease (by PSA 
assessment) remains the only means for mortality reduction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anuro.2004.06.004
PMID: 15570706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Surgeon. 2003 Jun;1(3):166-76. doi: 10.1016/s1479-666x(03)80099-9.

Early twentieth century surgical urology: the 1909-1939 experience of Henry 
Wade.

Gardner DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Edinburgh Medical School, Teviot 
Place, Edinburgh, EH8 9AG, UK. d.l.gardner@ed.ac.uk

This historical review uses the experience of Henry Wade (1876-1955) to examine 
the state of surgical urology in the early decades of the twentieth century. For 
50 years, Wade was a central figure in the life of the Royal College of Surgeons 
of Edinburgh. His work epitomises Scottish surgery in the years between 1909 and 
1939. Wade adopted every available technique to arrive at the precise diagnosis 
of urinary tract disease. An exact clinical history and examination were 
followed by the testing of the urine, the analysis of the blood, radiography and 
cystoscopy. During his time, urological surgery was revolutionised by the advent 
of excretion pyelography. Soon afterwards, blood transfusion and the first 
antibacterial agents began to transform prognosis. Nevertheless, the urological 
scene was still dominated by the hazards of prostatectomy, the high frequency of 
renal tuberculosis, and the challenges of bladder and renal cancer. The virtual 
impossibility of eradicating malignant prostatic tumours, much less common in a 
population where the mean expectation of life for males was 20 to 30 years less 
than now, relegated this insidious disorder to a small place in his practice. In 
30 years of active consultant life, Wade brought to surgical urology the skills, 
integrity, knowledge and determination that had already led him to prominence in 
the fields of cancer research and in orthopaedic and military surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s1479-666x(03)80099-9
PMID: 15570755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Acta Chir Belg. 2004 Oct;104(5):527-31. doi: 10.1080/00015458.2004.11679609.
