Johnell O(1), Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Malmo General Hospital, Malmo, Sweden.

The aim of this study was to quantify the global burden of osteoporosis as 
judged by hip fracture and the burden in different socio-economic regions of the 
world. The population mortality in 1990 and the incidence of hip fracture in 
different regions were identified, where possible in 1990. Excess mortality from 
hip fracture used data for Sweden, and disability weights were assigned to 
survivors from hip fracture. In 1990 there were an estimated 1.31 million new 
hip fractures, and the prevalence of hip fractures with disability was 4.48 
million. There were 740,000 deaths estimated to be associated with hip fracture. 
There were 1.75 million disability adjusted life-years lost, representing 0.1% 
of the global burden of disease world-wide and 1.4% of the burden amongst women 
from the established market economies. We conclude that hip fracture is a 
significant cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-004-1627-0
PMID: 15490120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. N Engl J Med. 2004 Oct 14;351(16):1690-1; author reply 1690-1.

Bevacizumab in colorectal cancer.

Sharieff W.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2004 Jun 3;350(23):2335-42.

PMID: 15490497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Adv Gerontol. 2004;13:21-31.

[Ageing and necrotic form of "unwanted" cells].

[Article in Russian]

Proskuriakov SIa, Konopliannikov AG.

Collecting experimental data testify that cellular necrosis is the same 
component of "unwanted" cell system elimination in a metaphyte, as well as 
apoptosis. The essential role of the last in definition of rates of ageing is 
expressed, in particular, in secretion by phagocytes of the factors overwhelming 
inflammatory reactions which are rather characteristic for such illnesses as an 
atherosclerosis, a diabetes and others. Apparently, infringement of balance 
between necrotic and apoptotic forms "unwanted" cell elimination from an 
organism can be the important factor of ageing and the reason of reduction of 
life expectancy as a result of supression of renewal processes in an organism, 
occurrence and weights of development of some senile illness.

PMID: 15490722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Mech Ageing Dev. 2004 Sep;125(9):591-4. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.08.011.

Role of sirtuin proteins in life extension by caloric restriction.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, 7703 
Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio 78229-3900, USA. masoro@aol.com

The deacetylase activity of sirtuin proteins may play a key role in the life 
extending action of caloric restriction in organisms ranging from yeast to 
mammals. Recent research has been focused on the possible afferent pathway by 
which caloric restriction increases the deacetylase activity and on the efferent 
pathway by which the increased deacetylase activity extends life. Further 
research is needed to firmly establish the role of sirtuin proteins in life 
extension by caloric restriction in mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.08.011
PMID: 15491676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Urology. 2004 Oct;64(4):729-32. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.043.

Influence of patient age on biochemical freedom from disease in patients 
undergoing conformal proton radiotherapy of organ-confined prostate cancer.

Rossi CJ Jr(1), Slater JD, Yonemoto LT, Jabola BR, Bush DA, Levy RP, Grove R, 
Slater JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Medicine, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Loma 
Linda, California 92354, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine a large, single-institution series of patients to test 
the perception among clinicians that radiotherapy is preferred for "older" 
patients and surgery should be indicated for "younger" men. Both radiotherapy 
and surgery are used to control prostate cancer, and both yield similar results 
in terms of long-term biochemical disease-free (bNED) survival.
METHODS: The bNED survival results from more than 1000 patients treated solely 
with conformal radiotherapy were analyzed to determine whether a difference in 
outcome supervened for patients younger than 60 years of age versus older 
patients.
RESULTS: No statistically significant difference in bNED survival was found, in 
terms of patient age. Statistically significant predictors of outcome included 
pretreatment prostate-specific antigen level, clinical stage at diagnosis, and 
Gleason score.
CONCLUSIONS: Patient age younger than 60 years versus older than 60 years at 
treatment did not influence bNED survival significantly. Patient age at 
treatment should not be used in and of itself to recommend one type of treatment 
over another.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.043
PMID: 15491710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Urology. 2004 Oct;64(4):744-8. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.05.003.

Local recurrence after radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer: an 
analysis of predictive factors.

Honma I(1), Masumori N, Sato E, Takayanagi A, Takahashi A, Itoh N, Tamagawa M, 
Sato MA, Tsukamoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine, 
Sapporo, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To examine which clinicopathologic parameters predict clinically 
detectable local recurrence after radical cystectomy. Local recurrence after 
radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer was infrequently observed until 
20 years ago because of the lack of adequate diagnostic tools. The recent 
development and use of pelvic computed tomography has allowed us to detect local 
recurrence more precisely. However, only a few studies have investigated the 
rate and pattern of local recurrence in the computed tomography era.
METHODS: This retrospective review included 145 patients with muscle-invasive 
bladder cancer treated with radical cystectomy, regional pelvic lymph node 
dissection, and urinary diversion between January 1990 and December 2001. The 
development of local recurrence and/or distant metastasis was analyzed as the 
endpoint using univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: Local recurrence developed in 27 (18.6%) of the 145 patients at a 
median of 8 months after cystectomy. Of the 27 patients, 8 had local recurrence 
alone and 19 had concurrent distant metastasis. Distant metastasis without local 
recurrence developed in 34 patients (23.4%). Univariate and multivariate 
analyses revealed that Stage pT3-T4 and pathologic pelvic lymph node involvement 
were statistically significant factors predicting clinical failure, local 
recurrence, and/or distant metastasis. However, a concomitant squamous cell 
carcinoma component in the specimen was the only independent predictor of local 
recurrence alone in both univariate and multivariate analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Only the finding of a concomitant squamous cell carcinoma component 
in the specimen was an independent predictor of local recurrence in patients 
treated with radical cystectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.05.003
PMID: 15491713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Urology. 2004 Oct;64(4):749-53. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.070.

Vascular invasion predicts recurrence after radical prostatectomy: 
stratification of risk based on pathologic variables.

Ferrari MK(1), McNeal JE, Malhotra SM, Brooks JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether vascular invasion (VI) is an independent 
predictor of prostate cancer recurrence and/or survival and to stratify risk of 
recurrence in patients with VI.
METHODS: Vascular invasion status was documented in 620 radical prostatectomy 
specimens with an average of 7.5 years of follow-up. The relationship between VI 
and other clinical and pathologic features was tested. Vascular invasion as an 
independent predictor of recurrence was investigated by logistic regression 
analysis. Survival analyses and stratification of VI patients was developed with 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves.
RESULTS: Vascular invasion was identified in 110 patients (18%) and correlated 
significantly (P <0.0001) with high Gleason grade, extracapsular extension 
(EPE), seminal vesicle invasion, increasing cancer volumes, positive margins, 
and elevated preoperative prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. Logistic 
regression analysis demonstrated that VI was a strong and independent predictor 
for disease recurrence, when considered with grade, EPE, seminal vesicle 
invasion, lymph node involvement, cancer volume, preoperative PSA levels, and 
positive margins. At 12 years after radical prostatectomy, patients with VI 
demonstrated significantly lower disease-specific survival (P = 0.0005). Among 
patients with VI, stratification of grade, EPE, and the number of VI foci 
identified three significantly different prognostic groups.
CONCLUSIONS: In long-term follow-up, VI was a significant predictor of prostate 
cancer recurrence and death after radical prostatectomy. In patients with VI, 
high Gleason grade, EPE, and more than five foci of VI are associated with poor 
prognosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.070
PMID: 15491714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Urology. 2004 Oct;64(4):754-9. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.054.

Permanent interstitial brachytherapy in younger patients with clinically 
organ-confined prostate cancer.

Merrick GS(1), Butler WM, Wallner KE, Galbreath RW, Adamovich E.

Author information:
(1)Schiffler Cancer Center, Wheeling Hospital, Wheeling, West Virginia 
26003-6300, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate biochemical progression-free survival in hormone-naive 
men 62 years of age or younger with clinically organ-confined prostate cancer 
who underwent brachytherapy with or without supplemental external beam 
radiotherapy.
METHODS: From April 1995 through December 2000, 119 hormone-naive patients 62 
years of age or younger underwent permanent interstitial brachytherapy for 
clinical T1b-T2cNxM0 (2002 American Joint Committee on Cancer) prostate cancer. 
No patient underwent seminal vesicle biopsy or pathologic lymph node staging. 
The median follow-up was 5.4 years. Biochemical progression-free survival was 
defined by either a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level of 0.4 ng/mL or less 
after a nadir or by the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology 
consensus definition. No patient was lost to follow-up. The clinical, treatment, 
and dosimetric parameters evaluated for biochemical progression-free survival 
included age, clinical T stage, Gleason score, pretreatment PSA level, risk 
group, percentage of positive biopsies, isotope, supplemental external beam 
radiotherapy, prostate volume, brachytherapy planning volume, percentage of the 
target volume receiving 100%, 150%, and 200% of the prescribed dose, minimal 
percentage of the prescribed dose covering 90% of the target volume, and tobacco 
status.
RESULTS: For the entire group, the actuarial 7-year biochemical progression-free 
survival rate was 96.1% and 98.3% for a PSA cutpoint of 0.4 ng/mL or less and 
for the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology consensus 
definition, respectively. Using a PSA biochemical control definition of 0.4 
ng/mL or less, 93.1%, 100%, and 95.2% of the low-risk, intermediate-risk, and 
high-risk hormone-naive patients were free of biochemical progression. The 
median post-treatment PSA level for the biochemically disease-free group was 
less than 0.1 ng/mL. In multivariate analysis, only the pretreatment PSA level 
predicted the biochemical outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Hormone-naive patients 62 years of age or younger have a high 
probability of 7-year biochemical progression-free survival after permanent 
interstitial brachytherapy with or without supplemental external beam 
radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.04.054
PMID: 15491715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Urology. 2004 Oct;64(4):839-44. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.05.020.

Association of nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA expression with clinical outcome in 
patients with bladder carcinoma.

Tsui KH(1), Cheng AJ, Chang Pe, Pan TL, Yung BY.

Author information:
(1)Chang Gung Genomics Research Center, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan, 
Republic of China.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA expression in bladder 
carcinoma predicts recurrence, progression, and survival.
METHODS: Real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was performed 
on 50 fresh cancer specimens. The change in the cycle of threshold (Ct)was the 
difference in the Ct values derived from the nucleophosmin/B23 gene assayed and 
the 18S ribosomal RNA control [Ct (18S)-Ct (nucleophosmin/B23)].
RESULTS: Fifty patients diagnosed with bladder cancer were followed up 
postoperatively for a median of 24 months. Overexpression of nucleophosmin/B23 
mRNA was observed in 37.1% of patients with Stage pT1 and 73.3% of those with 
pT2-T4 disease. Nucleophosmin/B23 overexpression was not associated with tumor 
grade (P = 0.163) but was associated with bladder cancer recurrence (68.2%) and 
progression (88.9%) when adjusted for the effects of clinical stage. 
Multivariate analysis revealed that the overall tumor stage and 
nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA overexpression were important prognostic indicators for 
bladder carcinoma (P <0.05). Patients with nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA overexpression 
were at a significantly greater risk of disease recurrence and progression than 
those with low expression of nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA.
CONCLUSIONS: Overexpression of nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA was independently 
associated with bladder cancer recurrence and progression. In patients with 
muscular invasion disease, overexpression of nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA was 
associated with the greatest risk of recurrence and progression, suggesting a 
potential rationale for early definitive therapy in these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.05.020
PMID: 15491744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Circulation. 2004 Nov 2;110(18):2831-6. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000146338.62813.E7.  Epub 2004 Oct 18.

Correlations between fractional flow reserve and intravascular ultrasound in 
patients with an ambiguous left main coronary artery stenosis.

Jasti V(1), Ivan E, Yalamanchili V, Wongpraparut N, Leesar MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40292, USA.

BACKGROUND: Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is being used to assess the 
significance of a left main coronary artery stenosis (LMCS). However, the cutoff 
values of IVUS parameters at which to predict a fractional flow reserve (FFR) of 
0.75 are unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In 55 patients with an angiographically ambiguous LMCS, a 
pressure guidewire was used to calculate FFR, and IVUS parameters were 
calculated after automatic pullback. FFR averaged 0.86+/-0.13 (range, 0.55 to 
1.0). IVUS minimum lumen diameter (MLD), minimum lumen area (MLA), 
cross-sectional narrowing (CSN), and area stenosis (AS) were 3.8+/-0.61 mm, 
7.65+/-2.9 mm2, 59+/-13%, and 47+/-19%, respectively. Regression analysis 
demonstrated strong correlations between FFR and MLD (r=0.79, P<0.0001) as well 
as between FFR and MLA (r=0.74, P<0.0001). There were inverse, moderate 
correlations between FFR and CSN (r=0.69, P<0.0001), followed by those between 
FFR and AS (r=0.54, P<0.0001). Compared with FFR as the "gold standard," an MLD 
of 2.8 mm had the highest sensitivity and specificity (93% and 98%, 
respectively) for determining the significance of an LMCS, followed by an MLA of 
5.9 mm2 (93% and 95%, respectively). Based on an FFR <0.75 and an FFR > or 
=0.75, the 38-month survival and event-free survival estimates (EFSEs) were both 
100% and 100% versus 90%, respectively (P=NS).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that (1) an IVUS MLD and MLA of 2.8 mm and 5.9 mm2, 
respectively, strongly predict the physiological significance of an LMCS and (2) 
among patients with an LMCS, an FFR of 0.75 is a strong predictor of survival 
and EFSE.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000146338.62813.E7
PMID: 15492302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Circulation. 2004 Nov 2;110(18):2809-16. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000146378.65439.7A. Epub 2004 Oct 18.

Effects of fosinopril and pravastatin on cardiovascular events in subjects with 
microalbuminuria.

Asselbergs FW(1), Diercks GF, Hillege HL, van Boven AJ, Janssen WM, Voors AA, de 
Zeeuw D, de Jong PE, van Veldhuisen DJ, van Gilst WH; Prevention of Renal and 
Vascular Endstage Disease Intervention Trial (PREVEND IT) Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Microalbuminuria is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular 
events. We assessed whether therapeutic intervention aimed at lowering urinary 
albumin excretion would reduce cardiovascular events in microalbuminuric 
subjects (15 to 300 mg/24 hours).
METHODS AND RESULTS: From the Prevention of Renal and Vascular Endstage Disease 
(PREVEND) cohort (n=8592), 1439 subjects fulfilled the inclusion criteria of the 
PREVEND Intervention Trial (PREVEND IT). Of these subjects, 864 were randomized 
to fosinopril 20 mg or matching placebo and to pravastatin 40 mg or matching 
placebo. The mean follow-up was 46 months, and the primary end point was 
cardiovascular mortality and hospitalization for cardiovascular morbidity. Mean 
age was 51+/-12 years; 65% of subjects were male, and 3.4% had a previous 
cardiovascular event. Mean cholesterol level was 5.8+/-1.0 mmol/L, mean 
systolic/diastolic blood pressure was 130+/-18/76+/-10 mm Hg, and median urinary 
albumin excretion was 22.8 (15.8 to 41.3) mg/24 hours. The primary end point 
occurred in 45 subjects (5.2%). Fosinopril reduced urinary albumin excretion by 
26% (P<0.001). Subjects treated with fosinopril showed a 40% lower incidence of 
the primary end point (hazard ratio 0.60 [95% CI 0.33 to 1.10], P=0.098, 
log-rank). Pravastatin did not reduce urinary albumin excretion, and subjects 
treated with pravastatin showed a 13% lower incidence of the primary end point 
than subjects in the placebo group (0.87 [0.49 to 1.57], P=0.649, log-rank).
CONCLUSIONS: In microalbuminuric subjects, treatment with fosinopril had a 
significant effect on urinary albumin excretion. In addition, fosinopril 
treatment was associated with a trend in reducing cardiovascular events. 
Treatment with pravastatin did not result in a significant reduction in urinary 
albumin excretion or cardiovascular events.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000146378.65439.7A
PMID: 15492322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Pediatrics. 2004 Nov;114(5):e548-53. doi: 10.1542/peds.2004-0668. Epub 2004
Oct  18.

Spinal muscular atrophy: survival pattern and functional status.

Chung BH(1), Wong VC, Ip P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurodevelopmental Paediatrics, Department of Paediatrics and 
Adolescent Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. 
vcnwong@hkucc.hku.hk.

OBJECTIVE: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is common. The prevalence of SMA in 
southern Chinese is 1 in 53,000. The clinical course is variable. The 
traditional classification of SMA includes age of onset, age of death, 
achievement of motor milestones, and ambulatory status as criteria. There was a 
lack of inclusion of the best lifetime functional status of any child with SMA. 
With the advances in medical care, the life expectancy and ambulatory status of 
patients with SMA have improved. The objective of this study was to assess the 
survival pattern, ambulatory status, and functional status of children with SMA.
METHODS: Patients with SMA were recruited from the neuromuscular clinic of the 
Duchess of Kent Children's Hospital, which is a university-affiliated hospital, 
and the Families of SMA in Hong Kong. By September 2002, 102 SMA cases had been 
registered in the Duchess of Kent Children's Hospital neuromuscular clinic and 
Families of SMA registry, and 83 patients were analyzed. Among them, 39 were 
recruited for the administration of Functional Independence Measure for Children 
(WeeFIM), an assessment tool for functional status that has been previously 
validated by us for Chinese children. The diagnosis of SMA was made from 
clinical history, serum muscle enzyme, electromyography, muscle biopsy, and, 
recently, by molecular studies. In Hong Kong, molecular tests of the survivor 
motor neuron gene was available since 1995. A total of 36 in our cohort of 83 
patients had the diagnosis confirmed with molecular analyses. We adopted the 
classification of SMA from previous studies in which the criteria were based on 
the International SMA consortium (1992) with modifications according to the 59th 
European Neuromuscular Center International Workshops. As only SMA patients with 
childhood onset were studied, we did not include any type IV patients in our 
study. Parents were interviewed and records were reviewed for demographic and 
clinical data, including age of onset, gender, family history, motor milestones, 
disease progression, loss of motor function, and involvement of respiratory or 
bulbar muscles. We define the age of disease onset as the age in which the first 
abnormalities were obvious from the medical records or from the descriptions of 
the parents about the first signs of weakness, eg, age of achievement of certain 
motor milestones or loss of functions. For the ambulatory status, we define 
"being ambulatory" as having the ability to walk for 100 meters, either with 
assistance such as calipers or walkers or without assistance. Actuarial survival 
curves were obtained by using the Kaplan-Meier method for calculating survival 
probabilities and probabilities of remaining ambulatory. The parents or the 
chief caregivers were interviewed for functional status using WeeFIM at the last 
registered date in September 2002. The WeeFIM consists of 3 domains: 1) 
self-care, 2) mobility, and 3) cognition. The self-care domain consists of 8 
items, namely eating, grooming, bathing, dressing (upper body), dressing (lower 
body), toileting, and bladder and bowel management. The mobility domain consists 
of 5 items: transfer from chair or wheelchair, transfer to toilet, transfer to 
tub or shower, walking/wheelchair/crawling distance, and moving up and down 
stairs. The cognition domain assesses comprehension, expression, social 
interaction, problem solving, and memory. A scoring scale from 1 to 7 was used 
(1 = total assistance, 2 = maximal assistance, 3 = moderate assistance, 4 = 
minimal contact assistance, 5 = supervision, 6 = modified independence, and 7 = 
complete independence). The maximum total WeeFIM score is 126, and the maximum 
score for self-care, mobility, and cognition are 56, 35, and 35, respectively.
RESULTS: For type I SMA (n = 22), the survival probabilities at 1, 2, 4, 10, and 
20 years were 50%, 40%, 30%, 30%, and 30%, respectively. For type II SMA (n = 
26), the survival probabilities at 1, 2, 4, 10, and 20 years were 100%, 100%, 
100%, 92%, and 92%, respectively. Sixteen of the SMA I patients and 4 of the SMA 
II patients died of cardiorespiratory failure. The 5 surviving SMA I patients 
all were ventilator dependent. All SMA III patients were surviving at the time 
of study. The probability of remaining ambulatory at 2, 4, 10, and 20 years 
after onset was 100%, 100%, 81%, and 50% for type IIIa (age of onset <3 years) 
and 100%, 100%, 84%, and 68% for type IIIb (age of onset between 3 and 30 
years), respectively. The interval between disease onset and inability to walk 
was 15.0 +/- 10.9 years (mean +/- standard deviation) and 21.2 +/- 11.7 years 
for patients with SMA IIIa and IIIb, respectively. Only 39 patients participated 
in the WeeFIM interview as 20 had already died at the time of study and 24 
refused participation. No difference could be found in the age of onset, gender, 
or types of SMA between those who participated (n = 39) and those who did not (n 
= 24). The mean total WeeFIM quotients were 24% for SMA type 1, 57% for SMA type 
11, 75% for SMA type IIIa, and 78% for SMA type IIIb. For the self-care domain, 
100% SMA type I and 73% SMA type II patients required assistance, whereas 55% 
and 63% of SMA types IIIa and IIIb patients achieved functional independence. 
Bathing and dressing (upper and lower body) were items with which most SMA 
children required help or supervision. For the mobility domain, assistance was 
needed in >90% of SMA types I, II, and IIIa and in 63% of SMA type IIIb 
patients. Stair management was the major obstacle for independence in achieving 
mobility for all types of SMA. For the cognition domain, performance was the 
best among the 3 domains, and 60% of SMA type II, 78% of SMA type IIIa, and 90% 
of SMA type IIIb patients achieved functional independence. However, except for 
SMA type IIIb, a significant proportion of patients still need assistance or 
supervision in the area of problem solving. Statistically significant 
differences were found in the WeeFIM scores between type I and type II and 
between type IIIa and IIIb patients. However, no significant difference could be 
observed between type II and type IIIa SMA patients in the overall WeeFIM scores 
or performance in any of the 3 domains.
CONCLUSION: We found that there was improvement in survival in SMA patients as 
compared with other studies. Assistance or supervision was needed for the 
majority of SMA patients for both mobility and self-care domains. With 
improvement in survival as a result of medical advances, assessment of the most 
current or the best-ever functional status at a designated age might be an 
important criterion for classification of SMA.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2004-0668
PMID: 15492357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Cancer. 2004 Dec 1;101(11):2584-92. doi: 10.1002/cncr.20674.

Long-term survival estimates for imatinib versus interferon-alpha plus low-dose 
cytarabine for patients with newly diagnosed chronic-phase chronic myeloid 
leukemia.

Anstrom KJ(1), Reed SD, Allen AS, Glendenning GA, Schulman KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical and Genetic Economics, Duke Clinical Research Institute, 
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

BACKGROUND: The authors estimated survival among patients with chronic myeloid 
leukemia for a cost-effectiveness analysis of imatinib versus interferon-alpha 
plus low-dose cytarabine (IFN+LDAC).
METHODS: Two-year survival and cytogenetic response were determined using data 
from 553 patients who received first-line imatinib in the International 
Randomized Interferon versus ST571 Study (IRIS). Long-term survival was modeled 
on complete cytogenetic response (CCyR) after 2 years. Long-term survival for 
patients with a CCyR was modeled using data from a cohort study of 317 patients 
with CCyRs. Long-term survival for patients without a CCyR was modeled using 
data from a trial of 275 patients who were treated with IFN+LDAC. Computation of 
lifetime survival estimates for imatinib assumed a proportional hazards relation 
between survival for an age-matched and gender-matched cohort and survival for 
patients with and without a CCyR.
RESULTS: For IRIS patients receiving imatinib, the estimated survival was 95.8% 
and the CCyR rate was 73.8%. The average residual life expectancy was estimated 
to be 16.71 years for CCyR patients and 5.78 years for non-CCyR patients. The 
estimated life expectancy after treatment with imatinib was 15.30 years, 
compared with 9.07 years for patients who were treated with IFN+LDAC in previous 
studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Assuming the relation between CCyR and survival with 
interferon-alpha holds for imatinib, higher CCyR rates with imatinib therapy 
will result in an estimated 6.23 life-years gained compared with treatment with 
IFN+LDAC.

(c) 2004 American Cancer Society

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20674
PMID: 15493041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Cancer. 2004 Dec 1;101(11):2574-83. doi: 10.1002/cncr.20694.

Cost-effectiveness of imatinib versus interferon-alpha plus low-dose cytarabine 
for patients with newly diagnosed chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia.

Reed SD(1), Anstrom KJ, Ludmer JA, Glendenning GA, Schulman KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical and Genetic Economics, Duke Clinical Research Institute, 
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite a lack of long-term data, imatinib has become standard 
therapy for patients with newly diagnosed chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia 
(CML) who are not candidates for allogeneic stem cell transplantation. In the 
current study, the authors estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness of 
imatinib versus interferon-alpha plus low-dose cytarabine (IFN+LDAC) as 
first-line therapy for these patients.
METHODS: Data from the International Randomized Interferon versus STI571 Study 
and the literature were used to estimate lifetime costs, survival, and 
quality-adjusted survival. Survival estimates were based on published survival 
curves for patients who achieved and those who did not achieve a complete 
cytogenetic response after treatment with interferon-alpha.
RESULTS: The mean estimated survival with first-line imatinib therapy was 15.30 
years, compared with 9.07 years with IFN+LDAC. Undiscounted lifetime costs were 
approximately $424,600 with imatinib and $182,800 with IFN+LDAC. Using a 3% 
discount rate, the incremental survival gain with imatinib was 3.93 life-years 
and 3.89 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Incremental discounted lifetime 
costs were found to be $168,100 higher with imatinib, resulting in incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of $43,100 per life-year saved (95% confidence 
interval [95% CI], $37,600-51,100) and $43,300 per QALY (95% CI, 
$38,300-49,100).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study demonstrate that compared with 
IFN+LDAC, imatinib is a cost-effective first-line therapy in patients with newly 
diagnosed chronic-phase CML.

(c) 2004 American Cancer Society

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20694
PMID: 15493042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Cancer Invest. 2004;22(3):353-9. doi: 10.1081/cnv-200029058.

A phase II study of docetaxel in patients with metastatic carcinoid tumors.

Kulke MH(1), Kim H, Stuart K, Clark JW, Ryan DP, Vincitore M, Mayer RJ, Fuchs 
CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. matthew_kulke@dfci.harvard.edu

Twenty-one patients with metastatic carcinoid tumors were treated with 
docetaxel. Although the treatment was well tolerated, no objective radiologic 
responses were observed. Novel, more effective agents are needed for this 
disease.
BACKGROUND: Traditional combination chemotherapy regimens containing 
streptozocin, doxorubicin, and 5-fluorouracil have yielded disappointing results 
in patients with metastatic carcinoid tumors. The lack of efficacy of these 
combinations, together with their toxicity, has led to efforts to investigate 
therapeutic agents that are potentially more active and tolerable. We, 
therefore, assessed the efficacy of docetaxel in the treatment of patients with 
metastatic carcinoid tumors.
METHODS: Twenty-one patients with metastatic carcinoid tumors were treated with 
docetaxel, administered at a dose of 75 mg/m2 every three weeks. Patients were 
followed for evidence of toxicity, response, and survival.
RESULTS: Docetaxel was well tolerated in this patient population. However, no 
objective radiologic responses were noted in any of the 21 patients. Of the 13 
patients who were evaluable for biochemical responses to therapy, four (31%) 
experienced decreases in 24-hour urinary 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5HIAA) 
excretion of greater than 50%. The clinical course of the patients enrolled in 
this study was marked by a high incidence of radiologically stable disease 
(81%), a median progression-free survival time of 10 months, and a median 
overall survival time of 24 months.
CONCLUSION: Although treatment with docetaxel results in biochemical responses 
in patients with metastatic carcinoid tumors, the lack of more significant 
antitumor activity demonstrates the need for novel, more effective agents in 
this disease.

DOI: 10.1081/cnv-200029058
PMID: 15493355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Cancer Invest. 2004;22(3):368-73. doi: 10.1081/cnv-200029062.

Paclitaxel and carboplatin for recurrent or persistent cancer of the cervix.

Sit AS(1), Kelley JL, Gallion HH, Kunschner AJ, Edwards RP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Magee-Women's Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. anitabenma@yahoo.com

Comment in
    Cancer Invest. 2004;22(3):477-8.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and 
degree of toxicity of paclitaxel and carboplatin (PC) combination chemotherapy 
in patients with recurrent or persistent cervical carcinoma.
METHODS: Fifteen patients who received PC chemotherapy for recurrent or 
persistent carcinoma of the cervix at the Magee-Womens Hospital from 1994-1998 
were studied retrospectively. Demographic data, pathology, radiation treatment 
response, site of recurrence, chemotherapy response, survival rates, and 
toxicities were reviewed. Months of survival were calculated by the method of 
Kaplan-Meier from the date after initiation of chemotherapy to death or the last 
date of follow-up.
RESULTS: Fifteen patients received PC for recurrence or persistence of disease 
with a median of six courses of PC (range, four to 26). Fourteen patients 
(93.3%) had received prior radiation, and one patient had received surgery as 
the primary therapy. Four (26.7%) of 15 patients had complete response and five 
(33.3%) had partial response for an overall clinical response rate of 60%. The 
median survival of all 15 patients treated with PC was 17 months (range, four to 
39). Four patients demonstrated progression of disease while two patients had 
stable disease. Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia occurred in four patients (26.7%) while 
one patient (6.7%) suffered from sepsis. Three patients (20%) suffered from 
Grade 2 anemia and four patients (26.7%) patients developed Grade 2 or Grade 3 
neuropathy. There was no incidence of nephrotoxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Paclitaxel/carboplatin chemotherapy appears to have promising 
activity in recurrent or persistent carcinoma of the cervix with an acceptable 
toxicity profile. Due to patient convenience and tolerance, consideration should 
be given to carboplatin as an alternative regimen to cisplatin in combination 
with paclitaxel.

DOI: 10.1081/cnv-200029062
PMID: 15493357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Cancer Invest. 2004;22(3):374-82. doi: 10.1081/cnv-200029064.

A phase II evaluation of weekly paclitaxel plus carboplatin in advanced 
urothelial cancer.

Friedland DM(1), Dakhil S, Hollen C, Gregurich MA, Asmar L.

Author information:
(1)US Oncology, Inc., Houston, Texas, USA. friedlandd@msx.upmc.edu

This Phase II trial was designed to evaluate the overall objective response 
rate, complete response rate, efficacy, and safety of weekly paclitaxel (Taxol) 
and carboplatin (Paraplatin) in the treatment of advanced urothelial carcinoma. 
Thirty-three patients with measurable, unresectable, stage III-IV carcinoma of 
the urothelium were enrolled. Paclitaxel (135 mg/m2) and carboplatin (AUC=2) 
were given by intravenous (IV) infusion weekly x 6 followed by two weeks rest. 
Patients were premedicated with oral dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, and 
cimetadine (or equivalent). Patient characteristics included an Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) 0 (36%), one (36%), two 
(28%); median age 70 years (37-83); 29 (88%) male, four (12%) female; 16 (48%) 
patients had prior chemotherapy [eight postoperative (adjuvant), five 
neoadjuvant, three for metastatic disease] and eight (24%) had prior radiation 
therapy. Eight patients (24%) achieved objective responses, three complete 
responses (CR) and five partial responses (PR); one patient was not evaluable 
(patient died prior to first dose). The median duration of response was 13 
months (range, 2-29). Nine patients (27%) had stable disease (SD) and 15 
patients (45%) had progressive disease (PD). Median time to progression was 3.6 
months (range, < 1-29) and median survival was 10.3 months (range, < 1-33). 
Grade 3 and 4 toxicities included: asthenia (46%), neutropenia (36%), leukopenia 
(15%), thromboembolism (12%), diarrhea (9%), nausea and vomiting (9%), 
hyperglycemia (7%), and neuropathy (6%). Two patients died of sepsis, one death 
was treatment-related. Weekly paclitaxel plus carboplatin shows promising 
activity; however in the current study, efficacy may have been limited by the 
toxicities associated with this dose-intensive regimen in an elderly, pretreated 
patient population with poor performance status. This regimen warrants further 
study, perhaps as a three out of four week regimen or at reduced doses.

DOI: 10.1081/cnv-200029064
PMID: 15493358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2004 May-Jun;132(5-6):157-62. doi: 10.2298/sarh0406157d.

[Axillobifemoral bypass grafting].

[Article in Serbian]

Davidović LB, Mitrić MS, Kostić DM, Maksimović ZV, Cvetković SD, Cinara IS, 
Dimić AD, Ilić NS.

INTRODUCTION: Axillo-femoral bypass (AxF) means connecting the axillar and 
femoral artery with the graft that is placed subcutaneously. Usually, this graft 
is connected with contralateral femoral artery via one accessory subcutaneous 
graft, and this connection is known as axillobifemoral bypass (AxFF). This 
extra-anatomic procedure is an alternative method to the standard reconstruction 
of aortoiliac region when there are contraindications for general or local 
reasons.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper is to show early and late results of AxFF 
bypass grafting as well as to show the indications for AxFF bypass.
METHODS: The sample consisted of 37 patients. The procedure was performed in 28 
patients who suffered from aortoiliac occlusive disease and who were at high 
risk due to the comorbidity--in one patient with the rupture of juxtarenal 
aneurysm of abdominal aorta; in five patients with aortoenteric fistula, in two 
patients with latrogenic lesion of abdominal aorta and in one female patient 
with anus preternaturalis definitivus who was treated for rectovaginal fistula. 
Donor's right axillary artery was used in 26 cases (70.3%), and donor's left 
axillary artery was used in 9 cases (29.7%). Dacron graft was used in 34 
patients and Polytetrafluoroethlylene graft was used in three patients. 
Simultaneously, profundoplastic was done in four patients and femoro-popliteal 
bypass was performed in three patients. In five patients who suffered from 
aortoenteric fistula, simultaneous intervention of gastrointerstinal system has 
been done. Chi2 test was used for statistical evaluation and life table method 
was used for verification of late graft patency.
RESULTS: The rate of early postoperative mortality was 13.5%. The causes of 
death were: sepsis--1, MOFS--3, and infarct myocardium--1. The mean follow up 
period was 40.1 months, ranging from six months to 17 years. During the follow 
up period, an early graft thrombosis was identified in two and late graft 
occlusion was reported in four patients. As the cause of occlusion, the 
progression of occlusive disease of receptive artery was identified in three 
patients, while anastomotic neointimae hyperplasia of recipient artery was 
identified in one patient. Three patients died during the follow up period. As 
the cause of death, CVI was reported in two patients and malignancy of the 
urinary tract was found in one patient. The other complications were--artery 
angulation on the level of proximal anastomosis in one patient (Figure 1), false 
aneurysm in one patient, perigraft seroma in one patient and graft infection in 
three patients. Life table method has shown that cumulative rate of late graft 
patency is 80.39% after five years (Graph 1).
DISCUSSION: Our results were analyzed and compared with the results of the study 
on 283 patients who had undergone aortobifemoral bypass (AFF) operation due to 
the aortoiliac occlusive disease. This study was completed in 1995 (18). The 
results showed that there was no statistically significant differences between 
AxFF and AFF group (p > 0.05), considering early mortality rate and late graft 
patency (Graph 2). The review of mortality and late patency rate after AxFF 
bypass grafting in a world well known studies has shown the similar results 
(Table 1). CONCLUSION The authors suggest that axilobifemoral bypass is 
indicated when there are contraindications or difficulties to perform anatomic 
reconstruction due to the abdomen condition (infection, adhesion, comorbidity) 
as well as in high risk patients with low life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2298/sarh0406157d
PMID: 15493586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Nurs Times. 2004 Sep 21-27;100(38):16.

Health inequality gap must be closed.

Pierce-Hayes I(1).

Author information:
(1)Wirral Hospital NHS Trust.

PMID: 15493756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J R Soc Promot Health. 2004 Sep;124(5):210-1. doi:
10.1177/146642400412400513.

Older men ageing well.

Robertson C(1).

Author information:
(1)ActivAge Unit, Age Concern England.

DOI: 10.1177/146642400412400513
PMID: 15493776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Minerva Chir. 2004 Oct;59(5):479-87.

[The surgical treatment of gastric carcinoma. Evolution in surgical technique 
and staging in a series of 194 patients].

[Article in Italian]

Tersigni R(1), Alessandroni L, Baiano G, Mencacci R, Miceli M, Sadighi A, Sorgi 
G, Tremiterra S.

Author information:
(1)Struttura Complessa di Chirurgia Generale 1 Flajani, Azienda Ospedaliera, San 
Camillo-Forlanini, Rome. rtersigni@scamilloforlanini.rm.it

AIM: Surgery is, at present, the only potentially curative treatment for gastric 
carcinoma. The curability depends upon the extension and localization of the 
tumor and, particularly, the lymphatic involvement and the presence of distant 
metastases. The aim of this paper is to describe the personal experience during 
the last 2 decades and analyze the results of the surgical approach which has 
changed over the time.
METHODS: One-hundred and ninety-four consecutive patients have been reported 
(127 male and 67 female, with a median age of 65.8 years), affected by gastric 
carcinoma and subjected to surgical procedures from 1987 to 2000. Because of the 
wide period of time which it refers to, this study is overlapped by a radical 
change in the staging rules of gastric carcinoma, according to the publication, 
in 1997, of the 5th edition of the TNM. This has made necessary to divide the 
series into 2 different groups. The 1st group is composed of 123 patients 
(63.4%), staged according to TNM-1987; the 2(nd) group is composed of 71 
patients (36.6%) staged according to the TNM-1997. A D1 lymphadenectomy was used 
as treatment protocol until 1995. Subsequently, a D2 lymphadenectomy was 
performed in the most part of potentially curable patients. The reconstruction 
after total gastrectomy was carried out in all cases with Roux technique. In 
distal gastrectomies a Billroth 2 technique was performed in 89.3% of the cases 
and a Billroth 1 technique in 10.7% of the cases.
RESULTS: The operative mortality observed on the total of patients was 1.5% (3 
cases). With a median follow-up of 83 months (minimal 24, maximum 180 months), 
134 patients were died, 50 are alive and 10 have been lost. The total median 
survival, in the 2 groups, was 24 months. We have observed a trend to 
improvement of survival for patients with carcinoma in stage II and III operated 
after 1997.
CONCLUSION: The treatment of unresectable gastric cancer, i.e. palliative 
surgery, is the best choice when possible in comparison to other surgical 
procedures (gastroenteronastomosis, jejunostomy), endoscopic procedures 
(dilatation, endoprosthesis, laser, percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy) and 
medical therapies. In order to choose the best palliative treatment, a careful 
evaluation of the non-curability signs is necessary to avoid high risk surgical 
interventions in patients with a low expectation of life.

PMID: 15494675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Exp Oncol. 2004 Sep;26(3):185-91.

Monotherapy in advanced prostate cancer: an overview.

Baltogiannis D(1), Giannakopoulos X, Charalabopoulos K, Sofikitis N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Medical Faculty, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, 
Greece. dbaltog@cc.uoi.gr.

Prostate cancer is the second leading malignancy in men associated with an 
enormous research interest in all aspects of the disease. It is well recognized 
that the regulation of prostatic growth is a complicated biological process. 
Further more the androgenic dependence of the advanced prostate cancer is well 
know and in the last 50 years significant progresses regarding the principle of 
deprivation of androgens for the treatment of the disease occured. Prostate 
cancer is now diagnosed in earlier stages and treatment results in increased 
potential for cure or extension of overall survival. Unfortunately, every 
treatment for prostate cancer has adverse effects with negative impact in 
health-related quality of life. Surgical or pharmacological castration has a 
significant negative impact on quality of life in patients with prostate cancer 
(loss of sexuality, osteoporosis, and loss of muscle mass, e.g.). Antiandrogen 
monotherapy is considered to be a treatment in well-informed patients who wish 
to remain sexually active, can be administered orally, and is well tolerated by 
patients with prostate cancer. This review is focused on antiandrogen 
monotherapy in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer.

PMID: 15494685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Saudi Med J. 2004 Oct;25(10):1347-51.

Endocrinopathies in patients with thalassemias.

Al-Elq AH(1), Al-Saeed HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine , King Fahad Hospital of the University, Al-Khobar, 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. aalelq@yahoo.com

Thalassemia major is a hereditary disorder of hemoglobin synthesis resulting in 
severe anemia. Treatment consists of multiple blood transfusions, a complication 
of which is iron overload. Excessive iron is then deposited in almost all 
tissues but primarily in the liver, heart and the endocrine glands. Lately, 
desferrioxamine has been used as a chelating agent in an attempt to prevent the 
complications of tissue damage by iron deposition. Early introduction of the 
chelating agent to combat iron overload in vulnerable organs leads to improved 
life expectancy. However, these patients often present with multiple endocrine 
dysfunction such as growth failure, hypogonadism, abnormalities in glucose 
metabolism, hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism and less frequently 
hypoadrenalism. We briefly review the current status of endocrine gland 
abnormalities in patients with thalassemia major.

PMID: 15494799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Psychother Psychosom Med Psychol. 2004 Nov;54(11):405-12. doi: 
10.1055/s-2004-828353.

[Psychometric properties and initial validation of the questionnaire on 
differentiated assessment of addiction].

[Article in German]

Grüsser SM(1), Wöfling K, Düffert S, Mörsen C, Flor H.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Medizinische Psychologie, Zentrum für Human- und 
Gesundheitswissenschaften der Berliner Hochschulmedizin, Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin. sabine.gruesser@charite.de

The "Questionnaire on Differentiated Assessment of Addiction (QDAA)" is a 
multi-modal, selfrating instrument for the Assessment of addiction and abuse of 
psychotropic substances. The QDAA provides the diagnosis of addiction as well as 
an overview of relevant information needed for the treatment of addiction. 
Several subscales assess variables that contribute to the development and 
maintenance of addiction such as mood, stress, expectancy of drug effects, 
self-esteem, life satisfaction and coping ability. In the present study validity 
and reliability of the QDAA was tested in several dependent and non-dependent 
samples. A total of 575 non-dependent, alcohol-, heroin- and cannabis-dependent 
subjects was available for the present study. Six criteria (craving, tolerance, 
withdrawal, loss of control, addictive behavior, negative consequences), that 
form the basis of the addiction diagnosis were shown to have high internal 
consistency and can be reduced to one dimension by factor analysis. The 
resulting diagnosis of addiction is significantly correlated with the external 
criterion "dependence syndrome" of the ICD-10 by external experts. The assumed 
structure of the QDAA-subscales could be confirmed by factor analysis. In 
addition, the results of the subscale analysis provide empirical evidence for 
convergent validity. All subscales showed moderate to high internal consistency. 
The results suggest that the QDAA is a valid and reliable instrument for the 
differential assessment of substance addiction, abuse as well as relevant 
information in the context of addiction and its treatment.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-828353
PMID: 15494890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. J Pathol. 2004 Nov;204(4):407-17. doi: 10.1002/path.1648.

Congenital myopathies: diseases of the actin cytoskeleton.

Clarkson E(1), Costa CF, Machesky LM.

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK.

Congenital myopathies are clinical and genetic heterogeneous disorders 
characterized by skeletal muscle weakness ranging in severity. Three major forms 
have been identified: actin myopathy, intranuclear rod myopathy, and nemaline 
myopathy. Nemaline myopathy is the most common of these myopathies and is 
further subdivided into seven groups according to severity, progressiveness, and 
age of onset. At present, five genes have been linked to congenital myopathies. 
These include alpha-actin (ACTA1), alpha- and beta-tropomyosin (TPM3 and TPM2), 
troponin T (TNNT1), and nebulin (NEB). Their protein products are all components 
of the thin filament of the sarcomere. The mutations identified within these 
genes have varying impacts on protein structure and give rise to different forms 
of congenital myopathies. Greater understanding of muscle formation and cause of 
disease can be established through the study of the effect of mutations on the 
functional proteins. However, a major limitation in the understanding of 
congenital myopathies is the lack of correlation between the degree of 
sarcomeric disruption and disease severity. Consequently, great difficulty may 
be encountered when diagnosing patients and predicting the progression of the 
disorders. There are no existing cures for congenital myopathies, although 
improvements can be made to both the standard of living and the life expectancy 
of the patient through various therapies.

Copyright (c) 2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1002/path.1648
PMID: 15495263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J Insur Med. 2004;36(3):228-33.

Conversion of mortality ratios to a numerical rating classification for life 
insurance underwriting-revisited.

Singer RB.

Comment on
    J Insur Med. 2004;36(3):234-41.

This is a commentary requested by the J Insur Med Editor to accompany a 
reprinting in this 2004 issue of my 1988 article on "Conversion of Mortality 
Ratios to a Numerical Rating Classification for Life Underwriting" (J Insur Med 
1988;20:54-61). Topics discussed in this commentary include the distinction 
between short-term and long-term mortality follow-up in certain conditions, the 
format and the introductory text of the US Decennial Life Tables, the 
distinction between mortality rate and mortality probability, averaging 
mortality rates over a period of years, and the great value of the exemplary 
follow-up study used in the 1988 article.

PMID: 15495438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. J Insur Med. 2004;36(3):234-41.

Conversion of mortality ratios to a numerical rating classification for life 
insurance underwriting. 1988.

Singer RB.

Comment in
    J Insur Med. 2004;36(3):228-33.

PMID: 15495439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Am Acad Nurse Pract. 2004 Sep;16(9):378-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1745-7599.2004.tb00387.x.

Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome: essentials for the primary care nurse 
practitioner.

Valderrama AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. avalder@emory.edu

PURPOSE: To provide nurse practitioners with a basic understanding of the 
pathophysiology, clinical characteristics, diagnostic methods, and management of 
Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome.
DATA SOURCES: Selected research and clinical articles.
CONCLUSIONS: WPW syndrome is the most common form of ventricular preexcitation. 
The ventricular myocardium is activated earlier than expected by an accessory 
conduction pathway that allows a direct electrical connection between the atria 
and ventricles. Although many patients remain asymptomatic throughout their 
