Kevinselliott@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Recurrence of endometrial cancer in the brain is a rare event 
generally accompanied by limited life expectancy. We present an unusual case of 
long-term survival following surgical resection of an intracranial endometrial 
cancer metastasis.
CASE: The present case is a patient with FIGO stage IIB, grade III endometrial 
cancer which recurred 2 months following completion of primary therapy with an 
isolated lesion in the brain. Aggressive trimodal therapy was initiated with 
curative intent and she has remained without clinical or radiographic evidence 
of disease for more than 30 months following treatment of her recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: Aggressive multi-modal therapy is warranted in the treatment of 
isolated intracranial recurrences of endometrial cancer in carefully selected 
patients. With complete surgical resection of disease, the precise nature and 
role of adjuvant treatment has yet to be clearly defined.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2004.07.030
PMID: 15385140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2004 Sep 24;53(37):866-70.

Alcohol-attributable deaths and years of potential life lost--United States, 
2001.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Excessive alcohol consumption is the third leading preventable cause of death in 
the United States and is associated with multiple adverse health consequences, 
including liver cirrhosis, various cancers, unintentional injuries, and 
violence. To analyze alcohol-related health impacts, CDC estimated the number of 
alcohol-attributable deaths (AADs) and years of potential life lost (YPLLs) in 
the United States during 2001. This report summarizes the results of that 
analysis, which indicated that approximately 75,766 AADs and 2.3 million YPLLs, 
or approximately 30 years of life lost on average per AAD, were attributable to 
excessive alcohol use in 2001. These results emphasize the importance of 
adopting effective strategies to reduce excessive drinking, including increasing 
alcohol excise taxes and screening for alcohol misuse in clinical settings.

PMID: 15385917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Dec;125(4):369-81. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.10272.

Demographic trends and biological status of historic populations from Central 
Poland: the Ostrów Lednicki microregion.

Budnik A(1), Liczbińska G, Gumna I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Adam Mickiewicz University, 61-701 Poznań, 
Poland. ambpp@main.amu.edu.pl

The microregion of Ostrów Lednicki in the province of Wielkopolska was the 
center of the formation of the Polish State in Early Middle Ages. The analysis 
of skeletal remains and parish records from the region documented the biological 
status of inhabitants and its changes over a millennium. The study material 
comprised 424 human skeletons from an Early Medieval burial ground on Lake 
Lednica, records of 2,704 deaths from the registers of the Roman Catholic parish 
of Dziekanowice, made between 1818-1903, data on the deaths of 929,192 
inhabitants of rural areas all over the province Wielkopolska obtained from 
Prussian statistical materials for the years 1865-1900, and comparative data 
from the literature. Assuming both a stationary population model and a stable 
population model with nonzero natural increase, parameters of life tables and 
measures of opportunity for natural selection (Crow's index I(m), potential 
gross reproductive rate R(pot), and the biological state index I(bs)) were 
calculated for the Early Middle Ages and for the two periods of the 19th century 
which were characterized by different laws of land ownership and thus different 
rural economies. In the first period, peasants were tenants, whereas in the 
second, they were given freehold of the land they cultivated. Causes of death 
were also analyzed. A distinct increase in longevity from the early Middle Ages 
to the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century was found. This was 
related to a higher level of demographic development in the parish of 
Dziekanowice during the 19th century, which was achieved earlier than in other 
areas of Poland. This was confirmed by genetic measures: coefficients of exogamy 
and coefficients of kinship. The reasons were related to the historical 
prominence of this region and to its proximity to the first two capitals of the 
Polish state, Gniezno and Poznań.

2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10272
PMID: 15386259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Health Econ. 2005 May;14(5):445-55. doi: 10.1002/hec.945.

Stochastic league tables: an application to diabetes interventions in the 
Netherlands.

Hutubessy RC(1), Niessen LW, Dijkstra RF, Casparie TF, Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Global Programme on Evidence for Health Policy, World Health Organization 
(WHO), Geneva, Switzerland.

The aim of this paper is to discuss the use of stochastic league tables approach 
in cost-effectiveness analysis of diabetes interventions. It addresses the 
common grounds and differences with other methods of presenting uncertainty to 
decision-makers. This comparison uses the cost-effectiveness results of medical 
guidelines for Dutch diabetes type 2 patients in primary and secondary care. 
Stochastic league tables define the optimum expansion pathway as compared to 
baseline, starting with the least costly and most cost-effective intervention 
mix. Multi-intervention cost-effectiveness acceptability curves are used as a 
way to represent uncertainty information on the cost-effectiveness of single 
interventions as compared to a single alternative. The stochastic league table 
for diabetes interventions shows that in case of low budgets treatment of 
secondary care patients is the most likely optimum choice. Current care options 
of diabetes complications are shown to be inefficient compared to guidelines 
treatment. With more resources available one may implement all guidelines and 
improve efficiency. The stochastic league table approach and multi-intervention 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves in uncertainty analysis lead to similar 
results. In addition, the stochastic league table approach provides policy 
makers with information on affordability by budget level. It fulfils more 
adequately the information requirements to choose between interventions, using 
the efficiency criterion.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd

DOI: 10.1002/hec.945
PMID: 15386648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Health Econ. 2005 Feb;14(2):197-208. doi: 10.1002/hec.924.

QALY maximisation and people's preferences: a methodological review of the 
literature.

Dolan P(1), Shaw R, Tsuchiya A, Williams A.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK. p.dolan@sheffield.ac.uk

In cost-utility analysis, the numbers of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
gained are aggregated according to the sum-ranking (or QALY maximisation) rule. 
This requires that the social value from health improvements is a simple product 
of gains in quality of life, length of life and the number of persons treated. 
The results from a systematic review of the literature suggest that QALY 
maximisation is descriptively flawed. Rather than being linear in quality and 
length of life, it would seem that social value diminishes in marginal 
increments of both. And rather than being neutral to the characteristics of 
people other than their propensity to generate QALYs, the social value of a 
health improvement seems to be higher if the person has worse lifetime health 
prospects and higher if that person has dependents. In addition, there is a 
desire to reduce inequalities in health. However, there are some uncertainties 
surrounding the results, particularly in relation to what might be affecting the 
responses, and there is the need for more studies of the general public that 
attempt to highlight the relative importance of various key factors.

Copyright (c) 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.924
PMID: 15386656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Health Econ. 2005 Feb;14(2):107-16. doi: 10.1002/hec.922.

Public and private pharmaceutical spending as determinants of health outcomes in 
Canada.

Crémieux PY(1), Meilleur MC, Ouellette P, Petit P, Zelder M, Potvin K.

Author information:
(1)Analysis Group, Inc., Boston, MA 02199, USA. pcremieux@analysisgroup.com

Erratum in
    Health Econ. 2005 Feb;14(2):117.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2012 Dec;21(12):1477-95; discussion 1496-1501.

Canadian per capita drug expenditures increased markedly in recent years and 
have become center stage in the debate on health care cost containment. To 
inform public policy, these costs must be compared with the benefits provided by 
these drugs. This paper measures the statistical relationship between drug 
spending in Canadian provinces and overall health outcomes. The analysis relies 
on more homogenous data and includes a more complete set of controls for 
confounding factors than previous studies. Results show a strong statistical 
relationship between drug spending and health outcomes, especially for infant 
mortality and life expectancy at 65. This relationship is almost always stronger 
for private drug spending than for public drug spending. The analysis further 
indicates that substantially better health outcomes are observed in provinces 
where higher drug spending occurs. Simulations show that if all provinces 
increased per capita drug spending to the levels observed in the two provinces 
with the highest spending level, an average of 584 fewer infant deaths per year 
and over 6 months of increased life expectancy at birth would result.

Copyright (c) 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.922
PMID: 15386658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Health Econ. 2005 May;14(5):471-85. doi: 10.1002/hec.914.

Assessing generalisability by location in trial-based cost-effectiveness 
analysis: the use of multilevel models.

Manca A(1), Rice N, Sculpher MJ, Briggs AH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK. am126@york.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Health Econ. 2005 May;14(5):486.

Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) in health care is increasingly conducted 
alongside multicentre and multinational randomised controlled clinical trials 
(RCTs). The increased use of stochastic CEA is designed to account for 
between-patient sampling variability in cost-effectiveness data assuming that 
observations are independently distributed. However, between-location 
variability in cost-effectiveness may result if there is a hierarchical 
structure in the data; that is, if there is correlation in costs and outcomes 
between patients recruited in particular locations. This may be expected in 
multi-location trials given that centres and countries often differ in factors 
such as clinical practice, patient case-mix and the unit costs of delivering 
health care. A failure to acknowledge this feature may lead to misleading 
conclusions in a trial-based economic study. Multilevel modelling (MLM) is an 
analytical framework that can be used to handle hierarchical cost-effectiveness 
data. Using data from a recently conducted economic analysis, this paper shows 
how multilevel modelling can be used to obtain (a) more appropriate estimates of 
the population average incremental cost-effectiveness and associated standard 
errors compared to standard stochastic CEA; and (b) location-specific estimates 
of incremental cost-effectiveness which can be used to explore appropriately the 
variability between centres/countries of the cost-effectiveness results.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd

DOI: 10.1002/hec.914
PMID: 15386662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Health Econ. 2004 Dec;13(12):1203-10. doi: 10.1002/hec.901.

Calculation of quality adjusted life years in the published literature: a review 
of methodology and transparency.

Richardson G(1), Manca A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, UK. 
gar2@york.ac.uk

Economic evaluations alongside randomised controlled trials (RCTs) are 
increasingly being designed to prospectively collect patient-specific resource 
use and preference-based health status (utility) data. This paper examines the 
ways in which preference-based health status (utility) data are used to generate 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs). A literature review was carried out which 
identified 23 published cost utility analyses suitable for inclusion. The 
methodology employed to calculate QALYs was not always consistent, as well as 
being poorly reported. The use of different methodologies in the calculation of 
QALYs may influence the magnitude and direction of results of evaluations. 
Analysts need to be consistent and fully transparent in the methodology chosen 
to calculate QALYs.

2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.901
PMID: 15386669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Health Econ. 2005 Jan;14(1):39-53. doi: 10.1002/hec.895.

Are QALYs based on time trade-off comparable?--A systematic review of TTO 
methodologies.

Arnesen T(1), Trommald M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway. tma@fafo.no

A wide range of methods is used to elicit quality-of-life weights of different 
health states to generate 'Quality-adjusted life years' (QALYs). The 
comparability between different types of health outcomes at a numerical level is 
the main advantage of using a 'common currency for health' such as the QALY. It 
has been warned that results of different methods and perspectives should not be 
directly compared in QALY league tables. But do we know that QALYs are 
comparable if they are based on the same method and perspective?The Time 
trade-off (TTO) consists in a hypothetical trade-off between living shorter and 
living healthier. We performed a literature review of the TTO methodology used 
to elicit quality-of-life weights for own, current health. Fifty-six journal 
articles, with quality-of-life weights assigned to 102 diagnostic groups were 
included. We found extensive differences in how the TTO question was asked. The 
time frame varied from 1 month to 30 years, and was not reported for one-fourth 
of the weights. The samples in which the quality-of-life weights were elicited 
were generally small with a median size of 53 respondents. Comprehensive 
inclusion criteria were given for half the diagnostic groups. Co-morbidity was 
described in less than one-tenth of the groups of respondents. For two-thirds of 
the quality-of-life weights, there was no discussion of the influence of other 
factors, such as age, sex, employment and children. The different methodological 
approaches did not influence the TTO weights in a predictable or clear pattern. 
Whether or not it is possible to standardise the TTO method and the sampling 
procedure, and whether or not the TTO will then give valid quality-of-life 
weights, remains an open question.This review of the TTO elicited on own behalf, 
shows that limiting cost-utility analysis to include only quality life weights 
from one method and one perspective is not enough to ensure that QALYs are 
comparable.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.895
PMID: 15386674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2004 Oct;14(5):296-302. doi: 
10.1046/j.1600-0838.2003.00368.x.

Effects of resistance training during bed rest on the viscoelastic properties of 
tendon structures in the lower limb.

Kubo K(1), Akima H, Ushiyama J, Tabata I, Fukuoka H, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan. 
kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of resistance training 
on the tendon properties in knee extensors during 20 days of bed rest. Sixteen 
men were assigned to the resistance training group (BR-Tr) or the non-training, 
control group (BR-Con). Leg-press exercises were performed as five sets of 10 
repetitions at 90% of maximum load daily for 20 days during bed rest. Before and 
after bed rest, the elongation of the tendon structures of the vastus lateralis 
muscle during isometric knee extension was determined using ultrasonography, 
while subjects performed ramp isometric contraction up to the voluntary maximum, 
followed by a ramp relaxation. The relationship between estimated muscle force 
(Fm) and tendon elongation (L) was fitted to a linear regression curve, the 
slope of which was defined as stiffness. The hysteresis was calculated as the 
ratio of the area within the Fm-L loop to the area beneath the load portion of 
the curve. The stiffness decreased significantly after bed rest for BR-Con, but 
not for BR-Tr. Similarly, the hysteresis increased significantly after bed rest 
for BR-Con, but not for BR-Tr. These results suggested that the bed rest caused 
the stiffness of tendon structures to decrease and their hysteresis to increase, 
and that leg-press training prevents the deconditioning of the tendon structures 
in knee extensors.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1600-0838.2003.00368.x
PMID: 15387803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Mol Microbiol. 2004 Sep;53(5):1487-99. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2958.2004.04218.x.

A novel ERK-like, CRK-like protein kinase that modulates growth in Trypanosoma 
brucei via an autoregulatory C-terminal extension.

Ellis J(1), Sarkar M, Hendriks E, Matthews K.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, 
Manchester, M13 9PT, UK.

The protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei undergoes a complex developmental 
cycle coordinated with cell cycle control. These processes in eukaryotes are 
frequently regulated through mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and 
cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs), respectively. We have discovered a 
novel protein kinase which shares features of both ERK-type MAPKs and CDKs (T. 
brucei ERK-like, CDK-like protein kinase). This molecule, named TbECK1, is 
similar to the unusual mammalian KKIAMRE protein kinase family. Moreover, TbECK1 
possesses a long C-terminal extension reminiscent of those found in mammalian 
ERK5, ERK7 and ERK8. Expression analyses demonstrate that TbECK1 is 
constitutively expressed during the trypanosome life cycle at both RNA and 
protein level. In transgenic parasites we demonstrate that expression of a 
mutant of TbECK1 that lacks the C-terminal extension produces a slow growth 
phenotype, associated with the appearance of cells with aberrant karyotypes. 
Using this as an assay we further demonstrate that the phenotype is dependent 
upon the potential for catalytic activity of TbECK1 and on the integrity of at 
least one of the phosphorylable amino acids in its phosphorylation lip. 
C-terminal extensions are a common feature of kinetoplastid protein kinases. Our 
results demonstrate for the first time that this domain has a regulatory 
function.

Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing Ltd

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2004.04218.x
PMID: 15387824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Ann Rheum Dis. 2005 Feb;64(2):229-34. doi: 10.1136/ard.2004.025130. Epub
2004  Sep 23.

Two year maintenance of efficacy and safety of infliximab in the treatment of 
ankylosing spondylitis.

Braun J(1), Brandt J, Listing J, Zink A, Alten R, Burmester G, Gromnica-Ihle E, 
Kellner H, Schneider M, Sörensen H, Zeidler H, Sieper J.

Author information:
(1)Rheumazentrum Ruhrgebiet, Landgrafenstrasse 15, 44652 Herne, Germany. 
J.Braun@Rheumazentrum-Ruhrgebiet.de

OBJECTIVE: To obtain results of the second year extension of an original 3 month 
randomised, placebo controlled trial (and the 1 year extension study) assessing 
the use of infliximab, a monoclonal antibody to tumour necrosis factor alpha, 
for the treatment of patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS).
METHODS: Of the 54 patients with AS who completed the first year of the study, 
52 continued to receive infliximab 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks up to week 102. The 
primary end point was the proportion of patients achieving at least 50% 
improvement from baseline in the Bath AS Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) at week 
102. Other assessments included patient and physician global assessments, 
quality of life as assessed by Short Form-36, Bath AS Functional Index, Bath AS 
Metrology Index, and C reactive protein (CRP).
RESULTS: Improvement in signs and symptoms of AS seen during the first year of 
the study was sustained during the second year. Forty nine patients (71% of 69 
enrolled patients and 49/52 (94%) patients who started year 2) completed the 
study up to week 102. Thirty (58%) patients achieved at least 50% improvement 
from baseline in the BASDAI score at week 102. Scores for other efficacy 
assessments were similar at weeks 54 and 102. Median CRP levels remained low at 
weeks 54 and 102 (3.9 and 4.3 mg/l, respectively). Side effects during the 
second year of the study were similar to those of the first year of treatment 
with infliximab.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with AS treated for 2 years with infliximab 5 mg/kg 
exhibited a good and durable clinical response.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2004.025130
PMCID: PMC1755337
PMID: 15388511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. BMJ. 2004 Sep 25;329(7468):733-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7468.733.

Taking account of future technology in cost effectiveness analysis.

Salomon JA(1), Weinstein MC, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and International Health, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, 9 Bow Street, 
Cambridge MA 02138, USA. jsalomon@hsph.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    BMJ. 2004 Oct 9;329(7470):837.

Economic evaluations in health and medicine usually ignore the possibility of 
future advances in treatment. But when technological innovation is rapid such 
considerations can have major implications

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7468.733
PMCID: PMC518904
PMID: 15388618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Br J Nurs. 2004 Sep 9-22;13(16):970-5. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2004.13.16.15973.

Caring for people with a learning disability, colorectal cancer and stoma.

Black P(1), Hyde C.

Author information:
(1)The Hillingdon Hospital NHS Trust, Uxbridge, Middlesex.

Longevity in people with learning disabilities has increased substantially over 
recent years and as life expectancy increases for this population so does the 
risk of colorectal cancer. Today, with the transition from institution to the 
community for people with learning disabilities, conscientious and competent 
medical and nursing care is a necessity. This article examines autonomy, 
consent, treatment, palliative care and death relating to people with profound 
learning disabilities and challenging behaviour, who also have colorectal cancer 
and stomas. Lack of written information, knowledge, and organizational planning 
need to be addressed to bring cancer services for the patient with learning 
disabilities to the level that it is for the general population.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2004.13.16.15973
PMID: 15389140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2005 Mar;44(3):201-4. doi: 10.1002/pbc.20099.

Quality-adjusted survival: a rigorous assessment of cure after cancer during 
childhood and adolescence.

Barr RD(1), Sala A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 
rbarr@mcmaster.ca

Survivors of cancer in childhood and adolescence, while increasing gratifyingly 
in number with ever more effective therapy, have a life expectancy that is 
compromised all-too-often in both duration and value as a result of adverse 
treatment-related sequelae. Accounting for this burden of morbidity and 
mortality is essential for a proper appreciation of cure. Adjusting estimates of 
survival by measures of its quality affords a means of accomodating this 
requirement. It can be accomplished by "weighting" the length of survival 
according to preference-based assessments of health-related quality of life 
(HRQL), which allow the calculation of quality-adjusted life years. Inclusion of 
measures of HRQL in clinical trials is imperative as we reach to the ultimate 
objective; the truly cured child restored to normal health.

(c) 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.20099
PMID: 15390306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. J Aviat Med. 1949 Oct;20(5):360-4.

The life expectancy of career flyers.

RAFFERTY JA, CUTLER SJ.

PMID: 15390377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. J Insur Med (1946). 1950 Mar-May;5(2):6-11.

The life expectancy of pregnant women.

McCAIN JR.

PMID: 15422128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Time. 2004 Aug 30;164(9):40-8.

How to live to be 100.

Corliss R, Lemonick MD.

PMID: 15446726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Time. 2004 Aug 30;164(9):44-5.

Eat less, live longer?

Lemonick MD, Cray D.

PMID: 15446727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Summer;20(3):269-73. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304001072.

Cost-effectiveness of reduction mammaplasty.

Taylor AJ(1), Tate D, Brandberg Y, Blomqvist L.

Author information:
(1)University of Hull, Hull, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study is to provide a comparison of the benefits 
of reduction mammaplasty (RM) for women with heavy breasts often termed 
macromastia or breast hypertrophy (BH) surgery. The rationale is to provide 
information to allow decision-makers to make judgments about the 
cost-effectiveness of this intervention and make comparisons with other 
interventions which are commonly undertaken within publicly financed health-care 
systems.
METHODS: Data from a previous outcomes study in Sweden is re-analyzed to derive 
quality of life measures, from which a mean level of benefit outcome is derived 
and a cost per quality-adjusted life year is calculated (cost per QALY).
RESULTS: The low Cost per QALY suggests that reduction mammaplasty is 
cost-effective when compared with other treatments which are commonly 
undertaken.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors suggest that the evidence in favor of funding reduction 
mammaplasty is strong and that decision-makers review their policy in light of 
this new evidence.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304001072
PMID: 15446755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Summer;20(3):274-9. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304001084.

Management for severe Crohn's disease: a lifetime cost-utility analysis.

Jaisson-Hot I(1), Flourié B, Descos L, Colin C.

Author information:
(1)Hospices Civils de Lyon, Lyonn Cedex, France.

OBJECTIVES: Infliximab is a costly therapy for active Crohn's disease resistant 
to corticosteroids and immunosuppressive medication. The purpose of this study 
was to examine whether a treatment including infliximab (episodic re-infusions 
for relapse or maintenance therapy every 8 weeks) was relevant compared with 
conventional management (surgery and medical treatment without infliximab) for 
nonfistulizing resistant Crohn's disease.
METHODS: We performed a life-time cost-utility analysis with an analytic Markov 
decision model from the perspective of the third-party payer system. Utility 
measurement using Standard Gamble was used to adjust the survival time for each 
health state of the disease. Direct costs were estimated from standard 
management based on expert opinion. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to 
gauge the effects of uncertainty in the values assigned to variables.
RESULTS: The incremental effectiveness with infliximab therapy is .761 
Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) for an added cost ranging from 48,478.79 
euros to 596,990.35 euros, depending on treatment procedure. The incremental 
cost utility ratio expressed in euros per QALYs saved varied from 63,700.82 
euros (episodic re-infusions) to over 762,245.09 euros (maintenance therapy).
CONCLUSIONS: Infliximab therapy could be cost-effective in the case of relapse 
treatment only, whereas the marginal cost-utility ratio exceeds conventional 
benchmarks for maintenance therapy. This analysis will be supplemented by 
conducting further randomized controlled trials and prospective observational 
study, focused on the costs of illness (direct and indirect), patient 
preferences, the disease's clinical course, and infliximab safety.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304001084
PMID: 15446756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Summer;20(3):289-95. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304001102.

Using decision modeling to determine pricing of new pharmaceuticals: the case of 
neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist antiemetics for cancer chemotherapy.

Dranitsaris G(1), Leung P.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Care Ontario, Toronto, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Decision analysis is commonly used to perform economic evaluations 
of new pharmaceuticals. The outcomes of such studies are often reported as an 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained with the new 
agent. Decision analysis can also be used in the context of estimating drug cost 
before market entry. The current study used neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor 
antagonists, a new class of antiemetics for cancer patients, as an example to 
illustrate the process using an incremental cost of dollars Can20,000 per QALY 
gained as the target threshold.
METHODS: A decision model was developed to simulate the control of acute and 
delayed emesis after cisplatin-based chemotherapy. The model compared standard 
therapy with granisetron and dexamethasone to the same protocol with the 
addition of an NK-1 before chemotherapy and continued twice daily for five days. 
The rates of complete emesis control were abstracted from a double-blind 
randomized trial. Costs of standard antiemetics and therapy for breakthrough 
vomiting were obtained from hospital sources. Utility estimates characterized as 
quality-adjusted emesis-free days were determined by interviewing twenty-five 
oncology nurses and pharmacists by using the Time Trade-Off technique. These 
data were then used to estimate the unit cost of the new antiemetic using a 
target threshold of dollars Can20,000 per QALY gained.
RESULTS: A cost of dollars Can6.60 per NK-1 dose would generate an incremental 
cost of dollars Can20,000 per QALY. The sensitivity analysis on the unit cost 
identified a range from dollars Can4.80 to dollars Can10.00 per dose. For the 
recommended five days of therapy, the total cost should be dollars Can66.00 
(dollars Can48.00-dollars Can100.00) for optimal economic efficiency relative to 
Canada's publicly funded health-care system.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of decision modeling for estimating drug cost before 
product launch is a powerful technique to ensure value for money. Such 
information can be of value to both drug manufacturers and formulary committees, 
because it would facilitate negotiations for optimal pricing in a given 
jurisdiction.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304001102
PMID: 15446758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2004 Aug;70(2 Pt 1):021907. doi: 
10.1103/PhysRevE.70.021907. Epub 2004 Aug 17.

Solvable senescence model with positive mutations.

Coe JB(1), Mao Y, Cates ME.

Author information:
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 OHE, United Kingdom.

We build upon our previous analytical results for the Penna model of senescence 
to include positive mutations. We investigate whether a small but nonzero 
positive mutation rate gives qualitatively different results to the traditional 
Penna model in which no positive mutations are considered. We find that the 
high-lifespan tail of the distribution is radically changed in structure, but 
that there is not much effect on the bulk of the population. The mortality 
plateau that we found previously for a stochastic generalization of the Penna 
model is stable to a small positive mutation rate.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.70.021907
PMID: 15447515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Clin Cancer Res. 2004 Sep 15;10(18 Pt 1):6072-9. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-04-0654.

Cyclophosphamide dose intensification during induction therapy for 
intermediate-risk pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma is feasible but does not improve 
outcome: a report from the soft tissue sarcoma committee of the children's 
oncology group.

Spunt SL(1), Smith LM, Ruymann FB, Qualman SJ, Donaldson SS, Rodeberg DA, 
Anderson JR, Crist WM, Link MP.

Author information:
(1)St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and University of Tennessee College of 
Medicine, Memphis, Tennessee 38105-2794, USA. sheri.spunt@stjude.org

PURPOSE: More than half of pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma cases have 
intermediate-risk features and suboptimal outcome (3-year failure-free survival 
estimates, 55 to 76%). Dose intensification of known active agents may improve 
outcome.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: This pilot study evaluated the feasibility of dose 
intensification of cyclophosphamide in previously untreated patients ages < 21 
years with intermediate-risk rhabdomyosarcoma. Induction therapy comprised four 
3-week cycles of VAC: vincristine (V) 1.5 mg/m2 on days 0, 7, and 14; 
actinomycin D (A) 1.35 mg/m2 on day 0; and dose-intensified cyclophosphamide (C) 
on days 0, 1, and 2. The three cyclophosphamide dose levels tested were as 
follows: (a) 1.2 g/m2/dose; (b) 1.5 g/m2/dose; and (c) 1.8 g/m2/dose. 
Continuation therapy comprised nine additional cycles of VAC with 2.2 g/m2/cycle 
of C. Radiotherapy was administered at week 0 (parameningeal tumors with 
intracranial extension) or week 12 or 15 (all others).
RESULTS: Between October 1996 and August 1999, 115 eligible patients were 
enrolled. Three of 15 patients treated at dose level 2 experienced 
life-threatening dose-limiting toxicity (typhlitis +/- other severe toxicity). 
Dose level 1 was the maximum-tolerated dose, and 91 evaluable patients were 
treated at this level. The 3-year failure-free and overall survival estimates 
for patients treated at the maximum-tolerated dose were 52% (95% confidence 
interval, 41-64%) and 67% (95% confidence interval, 56-77%), respectively, at a 
median follow-up of 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: A 64% increase in the standard cyclophosphamide dosage during 
induction (to 3.6 g/m2/cycle) was tolerated. However, outcomes were similar to 
those observed at lower dosages, suggesting that alkylator dose intensification 
does not benefit patients with intermediate-risk rhabdomyosarcoma.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-04-0654
PMID: 15447992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Radiologe. 2004 Sep;44(9):819. doi: 10.1007/s00117-004-1111-z.

[Whole body MRI -- vision or reality?].

[Article in German]

Reiser M, Schönberg S.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-004-1111-z
PMID: 15448906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Semin Vasc Surg. 2004 Sep;17(3):219-23. doi: 10.1016/s0895-7967(04)00042-0.

Carotid endarterectomy: who is the high-risk patient?

Nguyen LL(1), Conte MS, Reed AB, Belkin M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 01115, USA.

The role of carotid endarterectomy in the prevention of stroke was validated by 
two randomized clinical trials, the North American Symptomatic Carotid 
Endarterectomy (NASCET) and the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study 
(ACAS). However, these trials excluded patients at high risk for perioperative 
stroke and other morbidity, raising concerns for the applicability of the trial 
results to the general population. Some have also suggested these "high-risk" 
patients are better suited for carotid artery stenting with the belief that 
stenting has lower morbidity and mortality. In this article, we review many of 
the commonly accepted high-risk factors for carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and 
examine their outcomes. High-risk patients are more common than generally 
believed and their outcomes may be the same with carotid endarterectomy as it is 
with carotid stenting. Truly "high-risk" patients with shortened life expectancy 
are best served with no intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-7967(04)00042-0
PMID: 15449244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(15):955-73. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200422150-00001.

Cost effectiveness of ramipril in patients at high risk for cardiovascular 
events : economic evaluation of the HOPE (Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation) 
study for Germany from the Statutory Health Insurance perspective.

Schädlich PK(1), Brecht JG, Rangoonwala B, Huppertz E.

Author information:
(1)InForMed GmbH-Outcomes Research and Health Economics, Ingolstadt, Germany. 
pk.schaedlich@informed.de

BACKGROUND: In the HOPE (Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation) trial, ramipril 
(compared with placebo) significantly reduced cardiovascular death and all-cause 
mortality as well as the incidence of costly cardiovascular events, such as 
myocardial infarction, revascularisation, stroke, cardiac arrest, 
hospitalisation due to heart failure and worsening angina pectoris, new-onset 
diabetes mellitus and microvascular diabetic complications.
OBJECTIVE: Data from the HOPE study were used in a cost-effectiveness analysis 
to determine the additional cost per life-year gained (LYG) when the ACE 
inhibitor ramipril was added to the current medication of patients at high risk 
for cardiovascular events. The aim was to establish the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of ramipril versus placebo from the perspective 
of the Statutory Health Insurance (SHI) provider in Germany, for both the study 
population as a whole and for the subgroup of patients with diabetes.
DESIGN: A modelling approach was used, based on secondary analysis of published 
data and retrospective application of costs. In the base-case analysis, average 
case-related expenses of the SHI were applied and LYG were quantified using the 
average of the difference between the survival rates in the ramipril and placebo 
groups during the HOPE trial. LYG beyond the trial duration were estimated by 
the method of declining exponential approximation of life expectancy.
RESULTS: After a treatment period of 4.5 years, the ICER of ramipril versus 
placebo was Euros 4074/LYG and Euros 2486/LYG (discounted at 5% per annum and in 
1998-2002 values; Euro 1 approximately USD 0.88; first quarter 2002 values) for 
the HOPE study population as a whole and the subgroup of patients with diabetes, 
respectively. To test the model's robustness, the influence of the model 
variables on the results was quantified using a deterministic model, and a 
best-case/worst-case scenario analysis. The effect of random variables was 
investigated in a Monte Carlo simulation. The acquisition cost for ramipril had 
the greatest impact on the ICER of ramipril (2.2-fold greater than the impact of 
the number of LYG). In 95% of the 10,000 simulation steps, the ICER of ramipril 
after 4.5 years of treatment was between Euros 1290 and Euros 9005 per LYG for 
the entire HOPE study population and between Euros 290 and Euros 6115 per LYG in 
the diabetic subgroup.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this evaluation suggest that ramipril is likely to be 
cost effective in secondary prevention of cardiovascular events from the 
perspective of the SHI (third-party payer) in Germany. The estimated ICER of 
ramipril compares well with other ICERs of widely accepted treatments used for 
the management of cardiovascular diseases, such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422150-00001
PMID: 15449961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2004 Oct;52(10):1688-95. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2004.52462.x.

Breast cancer screening in women aged 80 and older: results from a national 
survey.

Schonberg MA(1), McCarthy EP, Davis RB, Phillips RS, Hamel MB.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02215, USA. mschonbe@bidmc.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the national rates of mammography screening in women 
aged 80 and older and examine the relationship between health status and 
screening within the previous 2 years.
DESIGN: Population-based survey.
SETTING: United States.
PARTICIPANTS: Eight hundred eighty-two women aged 80 and older who responded to 
the 2000 National Health Interview Survey, representing an estimated 3.83 
million noninstitutionalized women nationally.
MEASUREMENTS: Screening mammography, disease burden, and functional status were 
assessed using a questionnaire.
RESULTS: Of the 882 women, 41.5% were aged 85 and older; 19.6% had two or more 
significant diseases; and 12.1% were dependent in at least one activity of daily 
living (ADL). More than half (50.8%) had received a screening mammogram within 
the previous 2 years. Women with two or more significant diseases were less 
likely to have received screening than those without significant disease, but 
the difference was not statistically significant (43.9% vs 54.0%, P=.152). Women 
dependent in at least one ADL were less likely to receive screening mammography 
than women without functional impairment (37.2% vs 55.9%, P<.001). After 
adjustment, the likelihood of screening remained lower in women with two or more 
significant diseases (adjusted odds ratio (AOR)=0.63, 95% confidence interval 
(CI)=0.40-1.05) and in women with at least one ADL dependency (AOR=0.44, 95% 
CI=0.22-0.88). Of 294 women likely to have life expectancies of less than 5 
years because of poor health, 39.4% received screening mammography.
CONCLUSION: More than half of women aged 80 and older in the United States 
receive screening mammograms. Nearly 40% of women very unlikely to benefit 
because of poor health received screening mammography.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2004.52462.x
PMID: 15450046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2004 Oct;26(4):807-12. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2004.07.014.

Intrathoracic neurogenic tumors--50 years' experience in a Japanese institution.

Takeda S(1), Miyoshi S, Minami M, Matsuda H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery Course of Interventional Medicine (E1), Graduate School 
of Medicine, Osaka University, Yamada-oka 2-2, Suita City, Osaka 565-0871, 
Japan. stakeda@toneyama.hosp.go.jp

OBJECTIVE: Intrathoracic neurogenic tumors are relatively uncommon, and there 
have been few reports regarding their entire clinical characteristics in the 
Asian population.
OBJECTIVES: We retrospectively reviewed our Japanese institutional experience of 
intrathoracic neurogenic tumors, with emphasis on the clinical spectrum.
METHODS: We analyzed the records of 146 patients with intrathoracic neurogenic 
tumors who were treated over the past 50 years. There were 60 pediatric and 86 
adult patients (74 males and 72 females).
RESULTS: There were 51 ganglioneuromas, 37 schwannomas, 30 neurofibromas, 18 
neuroblstomas, 5 gangliobastomas, and 5 others, of which 136 cases were located 
in the posterior mediastinum, 9 in the chest wall, and 1 in the lung parenchyma. 
Neurogenic tumors were most commonly seen as a pediatric mediastinal tumor 
(46.2%), as compared to 11.2% in the adult population (P<0.001). Eighty-four 
percent of adult patients and 60% of pediatric patients were asymptomatic. In 
thirteen patients (8.9%), the tumor showed an intraspinal extension, the 
so-called dumbbell-type. Overall, 20.5% of the neoplasms were malignant, 
occurring predominantly in the first 5 years of life. Complete resection was 
performed in 95.7% cases for benign tumors and 63.3% for malignant tumors, 
including a laminectomy for six cases of the dumbbell-type. There were no 
operative deaths and minimal morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: Age seemed to be the most important clinical parameter for 
distinguishing between histological type and rate of malignancy for neurogenic 
tumors. Recognition of this clinical spectrum will lead to the immediate and 
appropriate surgical intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2004.07.014
PMID: 15450577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Child Abuse Negl. 2004 Sep;28(9):967-83. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2004.03.014.

Measuring child maltreatment risk in communities: a life table approach.

Sabol W(1), Coulton C, Polousky E.

Author information:
(1)Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, 
10900 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to: (1) illustrate the application of 
life table methodology to child abuse and neglect report data and (2) 
demonstrate the use of indicators derived from the life tables for monitoring 
the risk of child maltreatment within a community.
METHOD: Computerized records of child maltreatment reports from a large, urban 
county in Ohio are cumulated for 11 years and linked for each child. Life table 
methods are used to estimate the probability that children from birth to age 10 
will be reported victims of maltreatment by age, race, and urban or suburban 
residence.
RESULTS: Using life tables, the estimates in the county of this study are that 
33.4% of African American children and 11.8% of White children will appear in 
substantiated or indicated child abuse or neglect report(s) by their 10th 
birthday. The age-specific probability of a maltreatment report is highest in 
the first year of life for both groups. The probability of a child being 
reported for a substantiated or indicated incident of maltreatment before his or 
her 10th birthday is more than three times higher for city dwellers than for 
suburbanites in the urban county studied here.
CONCLUSIONS: Life table methodology is useful for creating child well-being 
indicators for communities. Such indicators reveal that a larger portion of the 
child population is affected by maltreatment reports than would be concluded 
from examining cross-sectional rates and can be used to identify racial or 
geographic disparities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2004.03.014
PMID: 15450762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 2004 Oct;15(4):401-11. doi: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.04.004.

Evolution of treatment for metastatic spine disease.

Wu AS(1), Fourney DR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Royal University Hospital, 103 Hospital Drive, 
University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7N 0W8, Canada.

The management of patients with metastatic disease of the spine should be highly 
individualized and depends on several factors, including the clinical 
presentation, duration of symptoms, tu-mor type, anticipated radiosensitivity, 
tumor lo-cation, extent of extraspinal disease, integrity of the spinal column, 
and medical fitness and life expectancy of the patient. Early diagnosis and 
intervention are of paramount importance in improving the likelihood of 
functional neurologic recovery, with the maintenance of ambulation as the 
primary goal. Effective management of axial spinal pain involves reconstruction 
and stabilization of the spinal column. Although the ideal therapy has not been 
established, a wide range of management options is currently available.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.04.004
PMID: 15450875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 2004 Oct;15(4):413-24. doi: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.04.005.

Surgical management of cervical spinal metastasis: anterior reconstruction and 
stabilization techniques.

Liu JK(1), Apfelbaum RI, Schmidt MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, 30 North 
1900 East, Suite 3B409, Salt Lake City, Utah 84132, USA. james.liu@hsc.utah.edu

Anterior cervical corpectomy followed by reconstruction and stabilization is an 
effective strategy in the management of spinal metastasis in some patients. 
Various techniques are available in the armamentarium of the spine tumor 
surgeon. In patients with a limited life expectancy,reconstruction with PMMA 
achieves immediate stability and thus obviates the need for an external orthosis 
and allows for early mobilization. The addition of anterior cervical plate 
fixation provides extra support to prevent distraction failure. In some cases, 
posterior stabilization may be necessary to achieve adequate stability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.04.005
PMID: 15450876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 2004 Oct;15(4):443-51. doi: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.04.008.

Anterior approaches for thoracolumbar metastatic spine tumors.

Fourney DR(1), Gokaslan ZL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Royal University Hospital, 103 Hospital Drive, 
University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7N 0W8, Canada.

The management of patients with metastatic disease of the thoracolumbar spine 
should be highly individualized and depends on several factors, including the 
clinical presentation, duration of symptoms, tumor type, anticipated 
radio-sensitivity, tumor location, extent of extraspinal disease, integrity of 
the spinal column, and medical fitness and life expectancy of the patient. 
Although no single approach is always applicable, anterior approaches provide 
several advantages, including minimal removal of uninvolved bone, rapid 
extirpation of the tumor, improved hemostasis, effective reconstruction of the 
weight-bearing anterior column, short-segment fixation,and improved wound 
healing. Wider acceptance and judicious use of current surgical techniques for 
metastatic spine disease may improve the quality of life of patients too often 
denied such treatment.
