
493. Acta Med Austriaca. 2004 May;31(2):40-4.

[Cancer in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Mayrbäurl B(1), Thaler J.

Author information:
(1)IV. Interne Abteilung, Onkologie, Hämatologie und Immunologie, Klinikum 
Kreuzschwestern Wels, Wels, Osterreich. beate.marybaeurl@khwels.at

The increase in cancer incidence with increasing age is becoming more obvious 
and more important as the average age of population increases. Currently over 
50% of all cancers occur in people who are 65 and older. The clinical behaviour 
of common malignant diseases may change with age because of intrinsic variation 
of the neoplastic cells and the ability of the tumor host to support neoplastic 
growth. Therapeutic decisions should be based on an estimation of patient's life 
expectancy, functional status, comorbidity, polypharmacy, socioeconomic 
conditions, nutrition and the presence of geriatric syndromes. This review 
should give some answers to the many existing questions about cancer in the 
elderly.

PMID: 15359981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2004;107(Pt 1):104-10.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of colorectal cancer screening strategies in 
Singapore: a dynamic decision analytic approach.

Wong SS(1), Leong AP, Leong TY.

Author information:
(1)School of Computing, National University of Singapore, 3 Science Drive, 
Singapore 117543, Singapore. wongss@comp.nus.edu.sg

A dynamic decision analytic framework using local statistics and expert's 
opinions is put to study the cost-effectiveness of colorectal cancer screening 
strategies in Singapore. It is demonstrated that any of the screening 
strategies, if implemented, would increase the life expectancy of the population 
of 50 to 70 years old. The model also determined the normal life expectancy of 
this population to be 76.32 years. Overall, Guaiac Fecal Occult Blood Test 
(FOBT) is most cost effective at SGD162.11 per life year saved per person. Our 
approach allowed us to model problem parameters that change over time and study 
the utility measures like cost and life expectancy for specific age within the 
range of 50- 69 through to 70 years old.

PMID: 15360784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Dis Esophagus. 2004;17(3):270-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2004.00422.x.

Esophagectomy in a patient with AIDS.

Issa RA(1), Podbielski FJ, Fontaine JP, Connolly AE, Walsh WV, Fraire AE.

Author information:
(1)University of Massachusetts Medical School, Division of Thoracic Surgery, 
Worcester, MA, USA.

As the life expectancy of AIDS patients continues to increase due to improved 
anti-retroviral therapy less of these patients die of HIV-related illnesses. 
Dysphagia is a common complaint in AIDS patients and usually results from a 
fungal esophagitis. While cancer of the esophagus is occasionally found in AIDS 
patients, we report our experience with an AIDS patient diagnosed with a 
squamous cell esophageal malignancy who received pre-operative radiation and 
chemotherapy, followed by transhiatal esophagectomy. The patient is alive 16 
months post-operatively. The transition of HIV/AIDS from an acute fulminant 
disease to a chronic condition mandates that these patients should receive full 
and standard therapy for their esophageal malignancies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2004.00422.x
PMID: 15361104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2004 Sep-Oct;14(5):772-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1048-891X.2004.014507.x.

Long-term survival in 463 women treated with platinum analogs for advanced 
epithelial carcinoma of the ovary: life expectancy compared to women of an 
age-matched normal population.

Lambert HE(1), Gregory WM, Nelstrop AE, Rustin GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Hammersmith Hospital, London, UK.

The objective was to assess the long-term survival (5-15 years) in 463 women, 
with stages IIb-IV epithelial carcinoma of the ovary and to compare their 
survival with that of a normal population matched for age and sex. Statistical 
analysis of 463 women, with stages IIb-IV epithelial cancer of the ovary, who 
were participants in two consecutive North Thames Ovary Group randomized trials, 
which took place between 1985 and 1994, was performed. The median follow-up 
period was 10.5 years. The women were treated with debulking surgery, where 
possible, and adjuvant platinum chemotherapy. One of the randomized groups in 
the first North Thames trial also received total abdominal radiotherapy. 
Survival rates at 5, 10, and 15 years were assessed. Prognostic factors for 
long-term survival were determined using a mathematical model to separate early 
effects from late effects. The ratio of observed to expected deaths compared to 
the normal population was calculated. Overall survival at 5 years was 21% (95% 
confidence intervals 17.5-25%), at 10 years was 13.5% (95% confidence intervals 
10.5-17%), and at 15 years was 12% (95% confidence intervals 9-16%). The 
important prognostic factors for long-term survival were disease-free or minimal 
residual disease (a single remaining deposit <2 cm) at initial surgery with 
tumor grade 1 and good performance status. Compared with the normal population 
(1995 data), the ratio of observed to expected deaths after start of 
chemotherapy at 5 years was 14.1 (P < 0.001 Fisher's exact test), at 9-10 years 
4.9 (P = 0.0033, Fisher's exact test), while in the 11- to 15-year period it had 
dropped to 2.75 (P = 0.090, Fisher's exact test), which was not significantly 
different. Patients with advanced cancer of the ovary, who survive 11 years or 
longer, have a life expectancy which is very similar to that of a normal 
population of women of the same age. Women with advanced ovarian cancer have an 
improved chance of long-term survival following treatment if they present with 
minimal residual disease after primary surgical debulking, grade 1 tumors, and 
good performance status.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1048-891X.2004.014507.x
PMID: 15361183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Sep;8(37):iii, ix-xi, 1-82. doi:
10.3310/hta8370.

Rituximab (MabThera) for aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: systematic review 
and economic evaluation.

Knight C(1), Hind D, Brewer N, Abbott V.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical and cost-effectiveness of adding rituximab 
to the CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisolone) 
chemotherapy regime for adult patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
(DLBCL).
DATA SOURCES: Electronic bibliographic database.
REVIEW METHODS: Comparative studies were selected for review if they addressed 
the clinical or cost-effectiveness of adding rituximab to CHOP in people aged at 
least 18 years with DLBCL. The internal validity of the study was assessed 
through the use of the validated Jadad scoring system. Data were abstracted into 
standardised data extraction forms. Costs were estimated through resource use 
data taken from the published trial and the unpublished sponsor submission. Unit 
costs were taken from published sources, where available. An economic evaluation 
was undertaken to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of R-CHOP compared with CHOP 
alone for patients with DLBCL using data sources and methodology similar to the 
manufacturer's submission.
RESULTS: In the systematic review of effectiveness, one randomised controlled 
trial was identified. The study was, in most respects, methodologically rigorous 
and well conducted and the statistical evidence favoured the addition of 
rituximab to CHOP. The total cost of rituximab with CHOP (R-CHOP) and CHOP alone 
estimated from the model developed by ScHARR was 14,456 pounds and 5773 pounds, 
respectively, for patients aged 60 years and over, and 15,181 pounds and 7311 
pounds for patients aged less than 60 years over a 15-year time horizon. The 
ScHARR model estimated that the addition of rituximab to CHOP generated an 
additional 0.82 QALY at an extra cost of 8683 pounds compared with CHOP alone 
therapy over a 15-year time horizon, a cost/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
ratio of 10,596 pounds for patients aged 60 years or more. For patients aged 
under 60 years, 1.05 QALY were generated at an additional cost of 7870 pounds, a 
cost/QALY ratio of 7533 pounds. Assuming that the societal value of a QALY was 
30,000 pounds then R-CHOP is cost-effective compared with CHOP in the treatment 
of DLBCL.
CONCLUSIONS: In the short term, the addition of rituximab to the CHOP regimen 
increased the likelihood of a complete-response by 20% without a significant 
rise in the risk of a serious adverse event in people aged 60 years or older. 
Over a 2-year follow-up period, the intervention reduced the risk of death, 
progression or relapse by 45% and reduced the risk of death by 47% in this 
population. There is no direct evidence for the clinical effectiveness of adding 
rituximab to CHOP in the treatment of DLBCL in those aged 18-59 years, although 
data from phase I and II trials confirm its safety and efficacy in a preclinical 
setting. The cost-effectiveness modelling presented here has shown that 
rituximab in combination with CHOP chemotherapy regimen is likely to be 
considered a cost-effective treatment for DLBCL when compared with the current 
standard treatment, CHOP chemotherapy only. Analysis of quality of life (QoL) in 
the area of NHL is limited and only one cost-utility analysis for the treatment 
of CHOP in NHL was identified. Both the SCHARR and the manufacturer's models 
utilised QoL utility scores from an unpublished data source. Further research 
within this area would help to improve the robustness of QoL utility analysis 
within DLBCL and also NHL as a whole. Further clinical trials might also 
establish whether R-CHOP may replace peripheral blood stem cell transplant in 
high-risk patients and whether the doses of chemotherapy in the elderly may be 
reduced if rituximab is added to less intensive regimens.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8370
PMID: 15361313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Sep;8(36):iii-iv, ix-xi, 1-158. doi: 
10.3310/hta8360.

Review of guidelines for good practice in decision-analytic modelling in health 
technology assessment.

Philips Z(1), Ginnelly L, Sculpher M, Claxton K, Golder S, Riemsma R, Woolacoot 
N, Glanville J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To identify existing guidelines and develop a synthesised guideline 
plus accompanying checklist. In addition to provide guidance on key theoretical, 
methodological and practical issues and consider the implications of this 
research for what might be expected of future decision-analytic models.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of existing good practice guidelines was 
undertaken to identify and summarise guidelines currently available for 
assessing the quality of decision-analytic models that have been undertaken for 
health technology assessment. A synthesised good practice guidance and 
accompanying checklist was developed. Two specific methods areas in decision 
modelling were considered. The first method's topic is the identification of 
parameter estimates from published literature. Parameter searches were developed 
and piloted using a case-study model. The second topic relates to bias in 
parameter estimates; that is, how to adjust estimates of treatment effect from 
observational studies where there are risks of selection bias. A systematic 
literature review was conducted to identify those studies looking at 
quantification of bias in parameter estimates and the implication of this bias.
RESULTS: Fifteen studies met the inclusion criteria and were reviewed and 
consolidated into a single set of brief statements of good practice. From this, 
a checklist was developed and applied to three independent decision-analytic 
models. Although the checklist provided excellent guidance on some key issues 
for model evaluation, it was too general to pick up on the specific nuances of 
each model. The searches that were developed helped to identify important data 
for inclusion in the model. However, the quality of life searches proved to be 
problematic: the published search filters did not focus on those measures 
specific to cost-effectiveness analysis and although the strategies developed as 
part of this project were more successful few data were found. Of the 11 studies 
meeting the criteria on the effect of selection bias, five concluded that a 
non-randomised trial design is associated with bias and six studies found 
'similar' estimates of treatment effects from observational studies or 
non-randomised clinical trials and randomised controlled trials (RCTs). One 
purpose of developing the synthesised guideline and checklist was to provide a 
framework for critical appraisal by the various parties involved in the health 
technology assessment process. First, the guideline and checklist can be used by 
groups that are reviewing other analysts' models and, secondly, the guideline 
and checklist could be used by the various analysts as they develop their models 
(to use it as a check on how they are developing and reporting their analyses). 
The Expert Advisory Group (EAG) that was convened to discuss the potential role 
of the guidance and checklist felt that, in general, the guidance and checklist 
would be a useful tool, although the checklist is not meant to be used 
exclusively to determine a model's quality, and so should not be used as a 
substitute for critical appraisal.
CONCLUSIONS: The review of current guidelines showed that although authors may 
provide a consistent message regarding some aspects of modelling, in other areas 
conflicting attributes are presented in different guidelines. In general, the 
checklist appears to perform well, in terms of identifying those aspects of the 
model that should be of particular concern to the reader. The checklist cannot, 
however, provide answers to the appropriateness of the model structure and 
structural assumptions, as these may be seen as a general problem with generic 
checklists and do not reflect any shortcoming with the synthesised guidance and 
checklist developed here. The assessment of the checklist, as well as feedback 
from the EAG, indicated the importance of its use in conjunction with a more 
general checklist or guidelines on economic evaluation. Further methods research 
into the following areas would be valuable: the quantification of selection bias 
in non-controlled studies and in controlled observational studies; the level of 
bias in the different non-RCT study designs; a comparison of results from RCTs 
with those from other non-randomised studies; assessment of the strengths and 
weaknesses of alternative ways to adjust for bias in a decision model; and how 
to prioritise searching for parameter estimates.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8360
PMID: 15361314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Med Sci (Paris). 2004 Aug-Sep;20(8-9):809-14. doi:
10.1051/medsci/2004208-9809.

[Economic approaches to smoking].

[Article in French]

Grignon M(1), Pierrard B.

Author information:
(1)Institut de recherche et de documentation en économie de la santé (IRDES), 
10, rue Vauvenargues, 75018 Paris, France. grignon@irdes.fr

In order to assess regulator's legitimacy in discouraging people from smoking, 
economists model tobacco addiction. In this paper, we review the extent economic 
literature about tobacco consumption and tobacco addiction. Two main approaches 
are singled out. In the first section, we detail the main characteristics of the 
two main theoretical models : rational addiction on one hand, which stylises 
individual choosing now to give up their future liberty to choose whether or not 
to smoke; and health capital on the other hand, following which individuals 
trade off between current pleasure and life expectancy. Second section gives 
account of the empirical tests of these two theories, before a last section 
briefly discusses and concludes. We show that the health capital theory seems to 
pass the test better than the rational addiction model. It is important to 
discriminate between these two models, from a political economy point of view. 
Were rational addiction true, a constant and strong increase of taxes on tobacco 
would be the soundest policy to curb consumption. On the contrary, if smokers 
are trapped into addiction and can't stop without pain, then tax increase is 
imposing too much strain on them, for no result. An efficient policy would be to 
subsidise quitting programmes, or to help smokers reducing their consumption 
through partial prohibition (in public transports for instance).

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2004208-9809
PMID: 15361350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2004 Sep;15(9):999-1001. doi: 
10.1097/01.RVI.0000128793.28540.B5.

Percutaneous cystic duct stent placement for the treatment of acute 
cholecystitis resulting from common bile duct stent placement for malignant 
obstruction.

Sheiman RG(1), Stuart K.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Radiology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, 330 Brookline Avenue, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
rsheiman@caregroup.harvard.edu

Common bile duct (CBD) stent placement to relieve malignant biliary obstruction 
can occasionally cause cystic duct obstruction and acute cholecystitis. 
Cholecystostomy tube placement is often performed in patients with limited life 
expectancy but can have a significant impact on quality of life. To allow 
cholecystostomy tube removal, percutaneous metallic stent placement was 
performed across the cystic duct via the tube tract in such a patient. The 
procedure included traversal across the previously placed CBD stent. At 5-month 
follow-up, the patient remained symptom-free. In select patients who develop 
acute cholecystitis after CBD stent placement for malignant obstruction, 
percutaneous stent placement across the cystic duct may be considered a 
treatment option.

DOI: 10.1097/01.RVI.0000128793.28540.B5
PMID: 15361570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):859-72. doi: 10.1002/hec.867.

Money for health: the equivalent variation of cardiovascular diseases.

Groot W(1), Van Den Brink HM, Plug E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

This paper introduces a new method to calculate the extent to which individuals 
are willing to trade money for improvements in their health status. An 
individual welfare function of income (WFI) is applied to calculate the 
equivalent income variation of health impairments. We believe that this approach 
avoids various drawbacks of alternative willingness-to-pay methods. The WFI is 
used to calculate the equivalent variation of cardiovascular diseases. It is 
found that for a 25 year old male the equivalent variation of a heart disease 
ranges from 114,000 euro to 380,000 euro depending on the welfare level. This is 
about 10,000 euro - 30,000 euro for an additional life year. The equivalent 
variation declines with age and is about the same for men and women. The 
estimates further vary by discount rate chosen. The estimates of the equivalent 
variation are generally higher than the money spent on most heart-related 
medical interventions per QALY. The cost-benefit analysis shows that for most 
interventions the value of the health benefits exceeds the costs. Heart 
transplants seem to be too costly and only beneficial if patients are young.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.867
PMID: 15362178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):873-84. doi: 10.1002/hec.866.

A comparison of the EQ-5D and SF-6D across seven patient groups.

Brazier J(1), Roberts J, Tsuchiya A, Busschbach J.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. 
j.e.brazier@sheffield.ac.uk

As the number of preference-based instruments grows, it becomes increasingly 
important to compare different preference-based measures of health in order to 
inform an important debate on the choice of instrument. This paper presents a 
comparison of two of them, the EQ-5D and the SF-6D (recently developed from the 
SF-36) across seven patient/population groups (chronic obstructive airways 
disease, osteoarthritis, irritable bowel syndrome, lower back pain, leg ulcers, 
post menopausal women and elderly). The mean SF-6D index value was found to 
exceed the EQ-5D by 0.045 and the intraclass correlation coefficient between 
them was 0.51. Whilst this convergence lends some support for the validity of 
these measures, the modest difference at the aggregate level masks more 
significant differences in agreement across the patient groups and over severity 
of illness, with the SF-6D having a smaller range and lower variance in values. 
There is evidence for floor effects in the SF-6D and ceiling effects in the 
EQ-5D. These discrepancies arise from differences in their health state 
classifications and the methods used to value them. Further research is required 
to fully understand the respective roles of the descriptive systems and the 
valuation methods and to examine the implications for estimates of the impact of 
health care interventions.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.866
PMID: 15362179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):901-7. doi: 10.1002/hec.870.

Deriving welfare measures from discrete choice experiments: inconsistency 
between current methods and random utility and welfare theory.

Lancsar E(1), Savage E.

Author information:
(1)Business School (Economics) and Centre for Health Services Research, 
University of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. Emily.Lancsar@ncl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):909-12; discussion 919-24.
    Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):913-8; discussion 919-24.

Discrete choice experiments (DCEs) are being used increasingly in health 
economics to elicit preferences for products and programs. The results of such 
experiments have been used to calculate measures of welfare or more 
specifically, respondents' 'willingness to pay' (WTP) for products and programs 
and their 'marginal willingness to pay' (MWTP) for the attributes that make up 
such products and programs. In this note we show that the methods currently used 
to derive measures of welfare from DCEs in the health economics literature are 
not consistent with random utility theory (RUT), or with microeconomic welfare 
theory more generally. The inconsistency with welfare theory is an important 
limitation on the use of such WTP estimates in cost-benefit analyses. We 
describe an alternative method of deriving measures of welfare (compensating 
variation) from DCEs that is consistent with RUT and is derived using welfare 
theory. We demonstrate its use in an empirical application to derive the WTP for 
asthma medication and compare it to the results elicited from the method 
currently used in the health economics literature.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.870
PMID: 15362181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):909-12; discussion 919-24. doi: 10.1002/hec.869.

Deriving welfare measures in discrete choice experiments: a comment to Lancsar 
and Savage (1).

Ryan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Polwarth Building, 
Foresterhill, UK. m.ryan@abdn.ac.uk

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):901-7.

Lancsar and Savage argue that current methods of deriving welfare estimates, 
using discrete choice experiments, are inconsistent with random utility and 
welfare theory. In this paper I show that this not the case. The general formula 
proposed by Small and Rosen for estimating welfare, which Lancsar and Savage 
claim should be used, reduces to the method used by health economists for state 
of the world models. The important question then becomes when are state of the 
world models, as opposed to multiple alternative models, appropriate?

DOI: 10.1002/hec.869
PMID: 15362182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):913-8; discussion 919-24. doi: 10.1002/hec.874.

Deriving welfare measures in discrete choice experiments: a comment to Lancsar 
and Savage (2).

Santos Silva JM(1).

Author information:
(1)ISEG/Universidade Técnica de Lisboa, Portugal. jmcss@iseg.utl.pt

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2004 Sep;13(9):901-7.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.874
PMID: 15362183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(14):943-54. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200422140-00004.

The costs and benefits of community thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction 
: a decision-analytic model.

Vale L(1), Steffens H, Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, 
Scotland. l.vale@abdn.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There is evidence that the earlier a patient reaches hospital and 
receives thrombolysis, the better the outcome. The GREAT (Grampian Region Early 
Anistreplase Trial) directly addressed the issue of early thrombolysis by 
evaluating, in a randomised controlled trial, the efficacy of thrombolysis in 
the community compared with that administered in hospital.
OBJECTIVE: This paper aimed to model the cost and benefits of community compared 
with hospital thrombolysis from the UK NHS perspective, using efficacy data from 
the GREAT.
METHODS: A decision-analytic approach was used to model these two alternatives. 
Resource use and cost estimates were estimated for a single tertiary centre. 
Estimates of effectiveness in life-years were obtained from the 4-year follow-up 
for patients recruited to the GREAT, using declining exponential approximation 
of life expectancy. Costs are in pounds sterling, 2000/1 values.
RESULTS: Community thrombolysis had an average life expectancy of 12.48 years 
and hospital thrombolysis had an average life expectancy of 12.39 years. Costs 
were 361 pounds sterling for community thrombolysis and 300 pounds sterling for 
hospital thrombolysis. Community thrombolysis led to an additional 0.09 years of 
life-expectancy gained compared with hospital thrombolysis at an additional cost 
of 61 pounds sterling per patient. Therefore, the incremental cost per life-year 
gained for the community thrombolysis service over the hospital thrombolysis 
service was 667 pounds sterling. Sensitivity analysis showed that estimates of 
cost per life-year gained were most sensitive to the estimates of survival.
CONCLUSION: This model suggests that, from the UK NHS perspective, implementing 
community thrombolysis may lead to extra survival but at extra cost over 
hospital thrombolysis. Although the incremental cost per life-year is modest, 
judgements still have to be made, however, as to whether the extra benefits 
estimated are worth the additional resources required. This requires 
consideration of the local context in which the service may be introduced.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422140-00004
PMID: 15362930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J Chem Neuroanat. 2004 Sep;28(1-2):37-46. doi:
10.1016/j.jchemneu.2004.06.001.

Extrabulbar olfactory system and nervus terminalis FMRFamide immunoreactive 
components in Xenopus laevis ontogenesis.

Pinelli C(1), D'Aniello B, Polese G, Rastogi RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Second University of Naples, I-81100 Caserta, 
Italy.

The extrabulbar olfactory system (EBOS) is a collection of nerve fibers which 
originate from primary olfactory receptor-like neurons and penetrate into the 
brain bypassing the olfactory bulbs. Our description is based upon the 
application of two neuronal tracers (biocytin, carbocyanine DiI) in the 
olfactory sac, at the cut end of the olfactory nerve and in the telencephalon of 
the developing clawed frog. The extrabulbar olfactory system was observed 
already at stage 45, which is the first developmental stage compatible with our 
techniques; at this stage, the extrabulbar olfactory system fibers terminated 
diffusely in the preoptic area. A little later in development, i.e. at stage 50, 
the extrabulbar olfactory system was maximally developed, extending as far 
caudally as the rhombencephalon. In the metamorphosing specimens, the 
extrabulbar olfactory system appeared reduced in extension; caudally, the fiber 
terminals did not extend beyond the diencephalon. While a substantial 
overlapping of biocytin/FMRFamide immunoreactivity was observed along the 
olfactory pathways as well as in the telencephalon, FMRFamide immunoreactivity 
was never observed to be colocalized in the same cellular or fiber components 
visualized by tracer molecules. The question whether the extrabulbar olfactory 
system and the nervus terminalis (NT) are separate anatomical entities or 
represent an integrated system is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2004.06.001
PMID: 15363489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Fertil Steril. 2004 Sep;82 Suppl 1:S254-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.fertnstert.2004.05.027.

Oocyte donation to postmenopausal women.

Ethics Committee of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2004.05.027
PMID: 15363745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Am J Ophthalmol. 2004 Sep;138(3 Suppl):S11-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2004.04.060.

Glaucoma risk factor assessment and prevention: lessons from coronary heart 
disease.

Girkin CA(1), Kannel WB, Friedman DS, Weinreb RN.

Author information:
(1)Callahan Eye Foundation Hospital, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama 35249-0009, USA. cgirkin@uabmc.edu

PURPOSE: To determine whether multivariable risk factor assessment can be as 
successful in developing disease prevention strategies in patients with ocular 
hypertension as it has been in patients at risk for coronary heart disease 
(CHD).
DESIGN: From a literature review of the evolution of the global risk assessment 
model for CHD, parallels are drawn to the evolution of a global risk assessment 
methodology for glaucoma.
METHODS: This article summarizes the literature on global risk assessment and 
prevention of CHD in clinical practice, discusses the development of glaucoma 
risk assessment based on available trial and population data, and reviews the 
potential for prevention strategies founded on the cardiovascular disease model.
RESULTS: To improve risk assessment in glaucoma and develop disease management 
strategies for patients with ocular hypertension, it is first necessary to 
identify and quantify levels of risk associated with factors that predict 
disease progression. In addition, the incidence of glaucoma and the average 
person's life expectancy based on his or her age are needed. Finally, it is 
necessary to quantify how long it takes to develop a visual defect that affects 
quality of life once a person develops glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: The systematic application of epidemiologic data to CHD risk factor 
models provides insights into how global risk assessment can be incorporated 
into treatment recommendations for managing individuals with glaucoma. It is 
hoped that ophthalmologists can use the results of future clinical trials and 
long-term studies to develop disease prevention strategies in patients with 
ocular hypertension based on multivariable risk assessment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2004.04.060
PMID: 15364048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Drug Discov Today. 2004 Sep 15;9(18):803-11. doi:
10.1016/S1359-6446(04)03222-2.

Biomaterial challenges and approaches to stem cell use in bone reconstructive 
surgery.

Olivier V(1), Faucheux N, Hardouin P.

Author information:
(1)LR2B, Université du Littoral Côte d'Opale, INSERM ERI 002, 52 Rue du Docteur 
Calot, 62608 Berck, France.

As life expectancy increases, so does the need to treat large bone defects. New 
biomaterials combined with osteogenic cells are now being developed as an 
alternative to autogenous bone grafts. The goal is to make the stem cells adhere 
to the scaffold, and then grow to differentiate into functional osteogenic cells 
and organize into healthy bone as the scaffold degrades. Decisive improvements 
have been made in the fields of stem cell biology, 3-D scaffold fabrication and 
tissue engineering, but the ideal bone substitute that fulfils all functional 
and safety requirements has yet to be developed.

DOI: 10.1016/S1359-6446(04)03222-2
PMID: 15364068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Health Policy. 2004 Nov;70(2):137-49. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2003.08.004.

Can the value choices in DALYs influence global priority-setting?

Arnesen T(1), Kapiriri L.

Author information:
(1)Fafo Institute of Applied International Studies, P.O. Box 2947, Tøyen, 
NO-0608 Oslo, Norway. tma@fafo.no

The "disability adjusted life years" (DALYs) are increasingly used as a tool for 
decision-making and for describing the distribution of the Global Burden of 
Disease. The "DALY" combines information about mortality and morbidity, with 
several value choices such as disability weighting, age-weighting and 
discounting. These value choices imply that life years are assigned different 
value, depending on the age and the health state they are in. How robust is the 
distribution of DALYs to changes in these value choices, and are the choices 
transparent at the point of use? We calculated the burden attributed to 
"developmental disability due to malnutrition" and "major depression" with 
alternative value choices in a simple sensitivity analysis. In particular, we 
explored the relation between disability weight, health state description and 
incidence rate. The formulae and information needed was found in the World 
Health Organisation (WHO) publications using DALYs, and in a survey among 
international health workers. We found that alternative age-weights, disability 
weights and discount rate led to an inversion in the ranking of the burden of 
the two conditions. The DALY loss attributed to "developmental disability due to 
malnutrition" increased from 14 to 90%, while that of "major depression" sunk 
from 86 to 10%. The value choices currently used, tend at underestimating the 
disease burden attributed to young populations and to communicable diseases and 
this goes against the renewed efforts of the WHO of targeting diseases that are 
typical of poor populations. While the value choices may be changed, lack of 
transparency is a more profound problem. At the point of use, the number of 
DALYs attributed to a condition cannot be fully disaggregated. Hence, one cannot 
know which part of a DALY loss reflects the age group affected, the prevalence, 
the mortality rates, the disability weight assigned to it, or to how the 
condition has been defined. A more transparent and useful approach, we believe, 
would be to present the years lost due to a disease, and the years lived with a 
disease separately, without disability weights, age-weights and discounting. 
This would keep the best of the DALY approach and come closer to the aim of 
disentangling science from advocacy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2003.08.004
PMID: 15364144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2004 Sep 15;44(6):1241-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2004.06.031.

Should coronary artery bypass graft surgery patients with mild or moderate 
aortic stenosis undergo concomitant aortic valve replacement? A decision 
analysis approach to the surgical dilemma.

Smith WT 4th(1), Ferguson TB Jr, Ryan T, Landolfo CK, Peterson ED.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study utilizes Markov decision analysis to assess the relative 
benefits of prophylactic aortic valve replacement (AVR) at the time of coronary 
artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). Multiple sensitivity analyses were also 
performed to determine the variables that most profoundly affect outcome.
BACKGROUND: The decision to perform CABG or concomitant CABG and AVR (CABG/AVR) 
in asymptomatic patients who need CABG surgery but have mild to moderate aortic 
stenosis (AS) is not clear-cut.
METHODS: We performed Markov decision analysis comparing long-term, 
quality-adjusted life outcomes of patients with mild to moderate AS undergoing 
CABG versus CABG/AVR. Age-specific morbidity and mortality risks with CABG, 
CABG/AVR, and AVR after a prior CABG were based on the Society of Thoracic 
Surgeons national database (n = 1,344,100). Probabilities of progression to 
symptomatic AS, valve-related morbidity, and age-adjusted mortality rates were 
obtained from available published reports.
RESULTS: For average AS progression, the decision to replace the aortic valve at 
the time of elective CABG should be based on patient age and severity of AS 
measured by echocardiography. For patients under age 70 years, an AVR for mild 
AS is preferred if the peak valve gradient is >25 to 30 mm Hg. For older 
patients, the threshold increases by 1 to 2 mm Hg/year, so that an 85-year-old 
patient undergoing CABG should have AVR only if the gradient exceeds 50 mm Hg. 
The AS progression rate also influences outcomes. With slow progression (<3 mm 
Hg/year), CABG is favored for all patients with AS gradients <50 mm Hg; with 
rapid progression (>10 mm Hg/year), CABG/AVR is favored except for patients >80 
years old with a valve gradient <25 mm Hg.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a decision aid for treating patients with mild 
to moderate AS requiring CABG surgery. Predictors of AS progression in 
individual patients need to be better defined.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2004.06.031
PMID: 15364326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Vaccine. 2004 Sep 28;22(29-30):4044-53. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2004.03.059.

A therapeutic HIV vaccine: how good is good enough?

Walensky RP(1), Paltiel AD, Goldie SJ, Gandhi RT, Weinstein MC, Seage GR 3rd, 
Smith HE, Zhang H, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, and the Partners AIDS 
Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
rwalensky@partners.org

The goal of a therapeutic HIV vaccine is to attenuate HIV disease progression in 
those already infected. Our objective was to establish comparative efficacy and 
cost-effectiveness thresholds at which a therapeutic vaccine would make a 
valuable contribution to HIV care. Using an HIV computer simulation model, we 
compared therapeutic vaccination with HIV standard of care without vaccination. 
Input data were obtained from the literature. Base case and sensitivity analyses 
related to vaccine magnitude, penetrance, durability, and cost. In the base case 
(0.5 log magnitude, 25% penetrance, 3-year durability, and US$ 4000 per series), 
vaccination increased quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) by 0.50 months 
compared to no vaccination (cost-effectiveness ratio US$ 89,900 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY)). Increasing vaccine penetrance to 50% 
increased the projected QALE benefit to 0.91 months (cost-effectiveness ratio 
US$ 45,500/QALY). Even modestly effective therapeutic HIV vaccines may produce 
small but meaningful increases in life expectancy and compare favorably to 
alternative uses of scarce HIV care resources.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2004.03.059
PMID: 15364455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Circulation. 2004 Sep 21;110(12):1572-8. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000142047.28024.F2. Epub 2004 Sep 13.

Newly diagnosed and previously known diabetes mellitus and 1-year outcomes of 
acute myocardial infarction: the VALsartan In Acute myocardial iNfarcTion 
(VALIANT) trial.

Aguilar D(1), Solomon SD, Køber L, Rouleau JL, Skali H, McMurray JJ, Francis GS, 
Henis M, O'Connor CM, Diaz R, Belenkov YN, Varshavsky S, Leimberger JD, 
Velazquez EJ, Califf RM, Pfeffer MA.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, University of Texas Health Science Center, 6431 
Fannin, MSB 1.246, Houston, TX 77030, USA. david.aguilar@uth.tmc.edu

BACKGROUND: A prior diagnosis of diabetes mellitus is associated with adverse 
outcomes after acute myocardial infarction (MI), but the risk associated with a 
new diagnosis of diabetes in this setting has not been well defined.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We assessed the risk of death and major cardiovascular 
events associated with previously known and newly diagnosed diabetes by studying 
14,703 patients with acute MI enrolled in the VALsartan In Acute myocardial 
iNfarcTion (VALIANT) trial. Patients were grouped by diabetic status: previously 
known diabetes (insulin use or diagnosis of diabetes before MI, n=3400, 23%); 
newly diagnosed diabetes (use of diabetic therapy or diabetes diagnosed at 
randomization [median 4.9 d after infarction], but no known diabetes at 
presentation, n=580, 4%); or no diabetes (n=10,719). Patients with newly 
diagnosed diabetes were younger and had fewer comorbid conditions than did 
patients with previously known diabetes. At 1 year after enrollment, patients 
with previously known and newly diagnosed diabetes had similarly increased 
adjusted risks of mortality (hazard ratio [HR] 1.43; 95% confidence interval 
[CI], 1.29 to 1.59 and HR, 1.50; 95% CI, 1.21 to 1.85, respectively) and 
cardiovascular events (HR, 1.37; 95% CI, 1.27 to 1.48 and HR, 1.34; 95% CI, 1.14 
to 1.56).
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes mellitus, whether newly diagnosed or previously known, is 
associated with poorer long-term outcomes after MI in high-risk patients. The 
poor prognosis of patients with newly diagnosed diabetes, despite having 
baseline characteristics similar to those of patients without diabetes, supports 
the idea that metabolic abnormalities contribute to their adverse outcomes.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000142047.28024.F2
PMID: 15364810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Circulation. 2004 Sep 14;110(11 Suppl 1):II13-7. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000138345.69540.ed.

Long-term outcome of isolated coronary artery bypass surgery in patients with 
severe left ventricular dysfunction.

Appoo J(1), Norris C, Merali S, Graham MM, Koshal A, Knudtson ML, Ghali WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is indicated in patients with 
coronary artery disease and impaired ventricular function. However, earlier 
studies have suggested that prognosis of patients with severe left ventricular 
dysfunction is extremely poor. We used the APPROACH registry to derive 
contemporary estimates of prognosis associated with CABG for this high-risk 
patient population.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The study group consisted of 7841 patients who had isolated 
CABG in the province of Alberta, Canada between 1996 and 2001. Patients with 
markedly reduced left ventricular function (ejection fraction [EF] <30%, Lo EF, 
n =430) were compared with those with moderate reduction in ventricular function 
(EF 30% to 50%, Med EF, n =2581) and those with normal left ventricular function 
(EF >50%, normal [Nl] EF, n=4830). The operative mortality was higher in the 
patient group with Lo EF (4.6%) compared with Med EF and Nl EF groups (3.4% and 
1.9%, respectively, P<0.001). At 5 years, survival was 77.7% for Lo EF patients 
compared with 85.5% and 91.2% for Med EF and Nl EF patients, respectively 
(P<0.001). After controlling for other independent variables, the adjusted 
hazard ratio for death was 1.98 (95% CI, 1.49 to 2.62) for Lo EF relative to Nl 
EF. The mortality rate at 1 year was significantly lower for Lo EF patients who 
underwent CABG than it was for nonrevascularized Lo EF patients (risk-adjusted 
odds ratio, 0.36; 95% CI, 0.24 to 0.55).
CONCLUSIONS: In the modern era of cardiac surgery, CABG can be performed in Lo 
EF cases with an acceptable perioperative mortality risk. Our estimate of 5-year 
survival in this high-risk group is better than previously reported in the 
literature from earlier periods.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000138345.69540.ed
PMID: 15364831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Circulation. 2004 Sep 14;110(11 Suppl 1):II27-35. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000138193.51635.6f.

Single versus multiple internal mammary artery grafting for coronary artery 
bypass: 15-year follow-up of a clinical practice trial.

Burfeind WR Jr(1), Glower DD, Wechsler AS, Tuttle RH, Shaw LK, Harrell FE Jr, 
Rankin JS.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: The long-term clinical advantages of using routine multiple internal 
mammary artery (IMA) grafts for coronary artery bypass (CAB) are not clear. This 
study was designed to test the hypothesis that multiple IMA grafts would provide 
better 15-year outcomes when compared with single IMA and vein grafts.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between 1984 and 1987, 1067 consecutive patients undergoing 
isolated CAB were referred to 1 surgeon practicing primarily single and another 
surgeon maximizing multiple IMA grafts (clinical practice trial). A 207-patient 
subset with multiple IMAs underwent postoperative graft angiography at 1 to 32 
weeks to define initial IMA patency. Patients were followed-up yearly, and the 
groups were analyzed as (I) surgical strategy (surgeon operating) (single=413 
versus multiple=654), (II) ultimate operation performed (single=418 versus 
multiple=449), or (III) single versus multiple coronary systems revascularized 
with IMAs (single=490 versus multiple=377). Advantages of this study design were 
that an entire referral population was examined, multiple IMAs were applied to 
the entire spectrum of baseline patient risk, 15-year follow-up provided a 
complete prognostic picture, and the subgroups were potentially comparable at 
baseline. In all 3 analyses, single and multiple groups were statistically 
similar with respect to baseline, operative, and immediate postoperative 
variables. Early IMA patency was 98.5% (333/338 grafts patent), validating the 
quality of IMA procedures. Unadjusted and adjusted 15-year outcome analyses for 
I, II, and III for death, myocardial infarction, percutaneous coronary 
intervention, redo coronary bypass, and the composite of all events identified 
multiple versus single as a significant predictor of outcome for the composite 
end point in adjusted analysis III (hazard ratio=0.808; 95% CI, 0.689 to 0.948; 
P=0.009), because of a 5% to 10% absolute reduction in each of the outcome 
variables at 15 years. Moreover, >50% reduction in reoperation rate was observed 
at 15 years in every analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: At 15-year follow-up, multiple IMA grafting was associated with a 
19.2% adjusted risk reduction in death and cardiac events, caused by decreases 
in all adverse end points and fewer reoperations. These data indicate that the 
clinical advantages of maximizing IMA conduits are significant. Based on this 
information, it is suggested that multiple IMA grafting to 2 coronary systems 
should be applied liberally to patients with noncardiac risk profiles predictive 
of long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000138193.51635.6f
PMID: 15364834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Circulation. 2004 Sep 14;110(11 Suppl 1):II41-4. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000138197.07051.e7.

Effect of diabetes and associated conditions on long-term survival after 
coronary artery bypass graft surgery.

Leavitt BJ(1), Sheppard L, Maloney C, Clough RA, Braxton JH, Charlesworth DC, 
Weintraub RM, Hernandez F, Olmstead EM, Nugent WC, O'Connor GT, Ross CS; 
Northern New England Cardiovascular Disease Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Fletcher Allen Health Care, 111 Colchester Avenue, Fletcher 454, Burlington, 
VT 05401-1473, USA. bruce.leavitt@vtmednet.org

BACKGROUND: The effects of diabetes on short-term results of coronary artery 
bypass graft (CABG) surgery are known, but less is known about the long-term 
effects of diabetes and diabetic-related sequelae for patients undergoing this 
surgery. We studied the 10-year survival of nondiabetic and diabetic patients 
undergoing CABG surgery.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A prospective regional cohort study was conducted of 36,641 
consecutive isolated CABG patients in northern New England from 1992 through 
2001. Patient records were linked to the National Death Index to assess 
mortality. There were 154,140 person-years of follow-up and 5779 deaths. 
Kaplan-Meier techniques were used. Survival was stratified into three 
categories: no diabetes, diabetes without peripheral vascular disease and renal 
failure, and diabetes with peripheral vascular disease and/or renal failure. The 
overall annual incidence rate of death was 3.7 deaths per 100 person-years. 
Annual incidence rates for nondiabetic subjects and diabetic subjects were 
similar: 3.1 deaths per 100 person-years and 4.4 deaths per 100 person-years, 
respectively. The annual incidence rate for diabetic subjects with renal 
failure, peripheral vascular disease, or both was 9.4 deaths per 100 
person-years. The log-rank test showed that the survival curves were 
significantly different (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients that have diabetes without the sequelae of renal failure 
and/or peripheral vascular disease have long-term survival similar to but 
slightly less than patients without diabetes who undergo CABG surgery. Survival 
of CABG surgery patients with diabetes is greatly affected by associated 
comorbidities of peripheral vascular disease and renal failure. This knowledge 
may help guide the patient as well as the cardiologist and cardiac surgeon in 
making appropriate decisions in these critically ill patients.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000138197.07051.e7
PMID: 15364836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Circulation. 2004 Sep 14;110(11 Suppl 1):II128-32. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000138392.68841.d3.

Long-term predictors of aortic root dilation and aortic regurgitation after 
arterial switch operation.

Schwartz ML(1), Gauvreau K, del Nido P, Mayer JE, Colan SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Children's Hospital, 300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, 
Mass 02115, USA. Marcy.Schwartz@cardio.chboston.org

BACKGROUND: Neo-aortic root dilation (ARD) and neo-aortic regurgitation (AR) may 
be progressive after arterial switch operation (ASO) for d-loop transposition of 
the great arteries (dTGA). We sought to identify predictors of ARD and AR after 
ASO.
METHODS AND RESULTS: 335 patients were identified who underwent ASO for dTGA 
with intact ventricular septum or ventricular septal defect (VSD), including 
double-outlet right ventricle (DORV), before 2001 with at least 1 postoperative 
echocardiogram at our institution, at least 1 year after ASO, and no previous 
atrial switch procedure (median follow-up of 5.0 years). Probability of freedom 
from ARD was 97%, 92%, 82%, and 51%, from at least moderate AR was 98%, 97%, 
96%, and 93%, and from neo-aortic valve or root surgery was 100%, 100%, 99%, and 
95%, at 1, 2, 5, and 10 years, respectively. For patients in whom ARD developed, 
progressive dilation was not observed during late follow-up. By Kaplan-Meier 
method, independent predictors of ARD, with neo-aortic root z-score of > or 
=3.0, were previous pulmonary artery band (PAB) (P=0.002, hazard ratio [HR]=2.4) 
and later time period when ASO was performed (P<0.002, HR=19.0). Risk factor for 
at least moderate AR was age > or =1 year at ASO (P=0.002, HR=5.8), which was 
closely related to VSD repair at ASO (P<0.001) and previous PAB.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant ARD and AR continue to develop over time after ASO, but 
ARD does not tend to be progressive during late follow-up. Previous PAB was a 
significant risk factor for ARD. Older age at time of ASO, presence of VSD, and 
previous PAB were risk factors for AR.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000138392.68841.d3
PMID: 15364851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Circulation. 2004 Sep 14;110(11 Suppl 1):II169-73. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000138220.68543.e8.

Safety and efficacy of surgical ventricular restoration in unstable patients 
with recent anterior myocardial infarction.

Di Donato M(1), Frigiola A, Benhamouda M, Menicanti L.

Author information:
(1)San Donato Hospital, San Donato Milanese, Italy. marad@tin.it

BACKGROUND: The effects and efficacy of surgical ventricular restoration (SVR) 
in ischemic cardiomiopathy caused by chronic anterior myocardial infarction (MI) 
are well established. Normally, SVR is delayed at least 3 months after MI to 
allow the healing of infarcted tissue. Some patients have instability <30 days 
after anterior MI, with increased risk for morbidity and mortality.Objectives- 
This study tests the safety and efficacy of SVR in the setting of subacute 
complicated anterior MI, in terms of early and late outcome.
METHODS AND RESULTS: 74 patients (62+/-10 years) were submitted to SVR at < or 
=30 days after anterior MI for clinical instability and were retrospectively 
selected from a series of 430 patients undergoing SVR at our center, between 
1998 and 2001. The surgical indications included: angina (60%); New York Heart 
Association class 4 (62%); clinical signs of heart failure (18%); 
life-threatening arrhythmias (12%); and cardiogenic shock in 4% (or 3) patients. 
Follow-up is available for 93% of patients. All patients had coronary artery 
bypass grafting (CABG) (3.1+/-1.2) with internal mammary artery (IMA) 
utilization. An endoventricular patch was used in 17 patients (23%); direct 
ventriculotomy closure was used in the remaining patients. Operative mortality 
was 5.4% (4/74). Hemodynamic parameters improved significantly in patients with 
dilated hearts and reduced ejection fraction. Mitral regurgitation that resulted 
was significantly reduced. Survival at 3 years was 87% in the overall population 
and 85% in patients 70 years or older.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reports the largest series of patients with complicated, 
