
DOI: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.04.008
PMID: 15450879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 2004 Oct;15(4):491-501. doi: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.04.013.

Cyberknife radiosurgery for metastatic spine tumors.

Gerszten PC(1), Welch WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 200 Lothrop Street, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. gersztenpc@upmc.edu

Metastatic spine tumors affect a large number of patients each year, resulting 
in significant pain,destruction of the spinal column causing mechanical 
instability, and neurologic deficits. Standard therapeutic options include 
surgery and fractionated external beam radiotherapy. The first option can be 
associated with significant morbidity and limited local tumor control. 
Conversely, radiotherapy may provide less than optimal pain relief and tumor 
control, because the total dose is limited by the tolerance of adjacent tissues, 
such as the spinal cord. The emerging technique of spinal radiosurgery 
represents a logical extension of the current state-of-the-art radiation 
therapy. It has the potential to significantly improve local control of cancer 
of the spine, which could translate into more effective palliation and 
potentially longer survival. Spinal radiosurgery might offer improved pain 
control and a longer duration of pain control by giving larger radiobiologic 
doses.This technique also allows for the treatment of lesions previously 
irradiated using external beam radiation. Another advantage to the patient is 
that irradiation can be completed in a single day rather than several weeks, 
which is not inconsequential for patients with a limited life expectancy. In 
addition, cancer patients may have difficulty with access to a radiation 
treatment facility for prolonged daily fractionated therapy. This technique 
allows for the treatment of lesions previously irradiated using external beam 
radiation.Finally, the procedure is minimally invasive compared with open 
surgical techniques and can be performed in an outpatient setting. Similar to 
intracranial radiosurgery, stereo-tactic radiosurgery now has a feasible and 
safe delivery system available for the treatment of spinal metastatic lesions. 
The major potential benefit of radiosurgical ablation of spinal lesions is a 
relatively short treatment time in an outpatient setting combined with 
potentially better local control of the tumor with minimal risk of side effects. 
CyberKnife spinal radiosurgery offers a new and important alternative 
therapeutic modality for the treatment of spinal metastases in medically 
inoperable patients, previously irradiated sites, and for lesions not amenable 
to open surgical techniques or as an adjunct to surgery. Spinal radiosurgery is 
likely to become an essential part of any neurosurgical spine center that treats 
a large number of patients with spinal metastases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nec.2004.04.013
PMID: 15450884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Circulation. 2004 Oct 5;110(14):1920-5. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000143226.40607.71.  Epub 2004 Sep 27.

Usefulness of exercise testing in the prediction of coronary disease risk among 
asymptomatic persons as a function of the Framingham risk score.

Balady GJ(1), Larson MG, Vasan RS, Leip EP, O'Donnell CJ, Levy D.

Author information:
(1)NHLBI's Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, Mass, USA. gary.balady@bmc.org.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to determine the usefulness of exercise 
treadmill testing (ETT) among asymptomatic persons in predicting coronary heart 
disease (CHD) events over and above the Framingham CHD risk score.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Subjects included 3043 members of the Framingham Heart 
Study offspring cohort without CHD (1431 men and 1612 women; age, 45+/-9 years) 
who underwent ETT and were followed up for 18.2 years. The risk of developing 
CHD was evaluated relative to 3 exercise test variables: (1) ST-segment 
depression > or =1 mm, (2) failure to achieve target heart rate (THR) of 85% 
predicted maximum, and (3) exercise capacity. In multivariable analyses that 
adjusted for age and Framingham CHD risk score, among men, ST-segment depression 
(hazard ratio [HR], 1.88; 95% CI, 1.21 to 2.91) and failure to achieve THR (HR, 
1.70; 95% CI, 1.18 to 2.45) predicted higher CHD risk, whereas a greater 
exercise capacity predicted lower CHD risk (HR per MET, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.89 to 
0.99). Although similar HRs were seen in women, those results were not 
statistically significant. Among men with 10-year predicted risk > or =20%, 
failure to reach THR and ST-segment depression both more than doubled the risk 
of an event (HR, 2.66 and HR, 2.11, respectively), and each MET increment in 
exercise capacity reduced risk by 13% (HR, 0.87).
CONCLUSIONS: Among asymptomatic men, ST-segment depression, failure to reach 
THR, and exercise capacity during ETT provided additional prognostic information 
in age- and Framingham risk score-adjusted models, particularly among those in 
the highest risk group (10-year predicted CHD risk of > or =20%). The evaluation 
of exercise test variables in women is limited, given our sample size and the 
few CHD events in women.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000143226.40607.71
PMID: 15451778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Circulation. 2004 Oct 5;110(14):1879-84. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000143375.93288.82. Epub 2004 Sep 27.

Natural history and risk stratification of arrhythmogenic right ventricular 
dysplasia/cardiomyopathy.

Hulot JS(1), Jouven X, Empana JP, Frank R, Fontaine G.

Author information:
(1)INSERM Avenir & U252, Pitié-Salpêtrière University Hospital, 
Assistance-Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Management of patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular 
dysplasia/cardiomyopathy (ARVD/C) is complicated by the incomplete information 
on the natural history of the disease and by the lack of risk stratification for 
cardiovascular death. The aim of the study was the identification of risk 
factors related to long-term prognosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Data were collected from 130 patients (100 men; age at 
onset of symptoms, 31.8+/-14.4 years) from a tertiary center between 1977 and 
2000 who fulfilled the international standardized diagnostic criteria for 
ARVD/C. Risk factors for cardiovascular death were determined by a logistic 
regression model. After a mean follow-up of 8.1+/-7.8 years, 24 deaths were 
recorded, with a mean age at death of 54+/-19 years (annual mortality rate, 
2.3%). There were 21 deaths with a cardiovascular origin (progressive heart 
failure for 14 patients and sudden death for the remaining 7 patients). All 
patients who died had a history of ventricular tachycardia. Multivariate 
analysis showed that after adjustment for sex, history of syncope, chest pain, 
inaugural ventricular tachycardia, recurrence of ventricular tachycardia, and 
QRS dispersion, clinical signs of right ventricular failure and left ventricular 
dysfunction both remained independently associated with cardiovascular 
mortality. The combined presence of one of these risk factors and ventricular 
tachycardia identifies high-risk subjects for cardiovascular mortality, whereas 
patients without ventricular tachycardia displayed the best prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The information on the natural history of patients with ARVD 
allowed us to identify risks factors for cardiovascular mortality. An analysis 
of a large international registry is needed to refine these results.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000143375.93288.82
PMID: 15451782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Circulation. 2004 Oct 5;110(14):1926-32. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000143378.58099.8C. Epub 2004 Sep 27.

Prognostic value of systemic endothelial dysfunction in patients with acute 
coronary syndromes: further evidence for the existence of the "vulnerable" 
patient.

Fichtlscherer S(1), Breuer S, Zeiher AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine IV, Division of Cardiology, Johann W. Goethe 
University, Theodor Stern Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany. 
fichtlscherer@em.uni-frankfurt.de.

BACKGROUND: Endothelial vasodilator dysfunction may serve as a marker 
integrating the vascular risk of an individual; however, whether systemic 
vasodilator function predicts disease progression and cardiovascular event rates 
in patients with manifest acute coronary syndromes (ACS) is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In 198 patients with angiographically documented ACS, 
forearm blood flow (FBF) responses to acetylcholine (ACH; 10 to 50 microg/min) 
and sodium nitroprusside (SNP; 2 to 8 microg/min) were measured by venous 
occlusion plethysmography before hospital discharge within 5 days of an episode 
of an ACS. Cardiovascular events (cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, 
and ischemic stroke) served as outcome variables over a mean follow-up period of 
47.7+/-15.1 months. Patients who experienced cardiovascular events during 
follow-up (n=31) had a significantly reduced vasodilator response to ACH 
(P<0.05) and SNP (P<0.05). By multivariate analysis, vasodilator response to ACH 
and elevated troponin T serum levels were the only significant (P<0.05) 
independent predictors of a poor prognosis, even after adjustment for 
traditional cardiovascular risk factors, concurrent medication, invasive 
treatment strategy, and C-reactive protein serum levels. Recovery of 
endothelium-dependent vasoreactivity as assessed by repeated FBF assessment 8 
weeks after the index measurement after the ACS predicted further event-free 
survival in a subset of 78 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Systemic endothelium-dependent vasoreactivity predicts recurrence 
of instability and cardiovascular event rates in patients with ACS. Furthermore, 
the recovery of systemic endothelial function is associated with event-free 
survival. Assessment of systemic vasoreactivity, measured by a minimally 
invasive test, provides important prognostic information in addition to that 
derived from traditional risk factor assessment in patients with ACS.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000143378.58099.8C
PMID: 15451794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Circulation. 2004 Oct 12;110(15):2168-74. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000144310.04433.BE. Epub 2004 Sep 27.

N-terminal-pro-brain natriuretic peptide predicts outcome after hospital 
discharge in heart failure patients.

Bettencourt P(1), Azevedo A, Pimenta J, Friões F, Ferreira S, Ferreira A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Interna, Serviço de Medicina B-Hospital S. João, 
Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade do Porto, Unidade I&D Cardiovascular do 
Porto, Porto, Portugal. pbettfer@esoterica.pt.

BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF) is responsible for a huge burden in hospital 
care. Our goal was to evaluate the value of N-terminal-pro-brain natriuretic 
peptide (NT-proBNP) in predicting death or hospital readmission after discharge 
of HF patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We included 182 patients consecutively admitted to hospital 
because of decompensated HF. Patients were followed up for 6 months. The primary 
end point was death or readmission. Twenty-six patients died in hospital. The 
median admission NT-proBNP level was 6778.5 pg/mL, and the median level at 
discharge was 4137.0 pg/mL (P<0.001). Patients were classified into 3 groups: 
(1) decreasing NT-proBNP levels by at least 30% (n=82), (2) no significant 
modifications on NT-proBNP levels (n=49), and (3) increasing NT-proBNP levels by 
at least 30% (n=25). The primary end point was observed in 42.9% patients. 
Variables associated with an increased hazard of death and/or hospital 
readmission in univariate analysis were length of hospitalization, heart rate, 
signs of volume overload, no use of ACE inhibitors, higher NYHA class at 
discharge, admission and discharge NT-proBNP, and the change in NT-proBNP 
levels. The variation in NT-proBNP was the strongest predictor of an adverse 
outcome. Independent variables associated with an increased risk of readmission 
or death were signs of volume overload and the change in NT-proBNP levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Variations in NT-proBNP levels are related to hospital readmission 
and death within 6 months. NT-proBNP levels are potentially useful in the 
evaluation of treatment efficacy and might help clinicians in planning discharge 
of HF patients. Whether therapeutic strategies aimed to lower NT-proBNP levels 
modify prognosis warrants future investigation.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000144310.04433.BE
PMID: 15451800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Circulation. 2004 Oct 5;110(14):1909-15. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000143144.82338.36. Epub 2004 Sep 27.

Impact of prehospital thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction on 1-year 
outcome: results from the French Nationwide USIC 2000 Registry.

Danchin N(1), Blanchard D, Steg PG, Sauval P, Hanania G, Goldstein P, Cambou JP, 
Guéret P, Vaur L, Boutalbi Y, Genès N, Lablanche JM; USIC 2000 Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, 20 Rue Leblanc, 
75015 Paris, France. nicolas.danchin@egp.ap-hop-paris.fr.

BACKGROUND: Limited data are available on the impact of prehospital thrombolysis 
(PHT) in the "real-world" setting.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Of 443 intensive care units in France, 369 (83%) 
prospectively collected all cases of infarction (< or =48 hours of symptom 
onset) in November 2000; 1922 patients (median age, 67 years; 73% men) with 
ST-segment-elevation infarction were included, of whom 180 (9%) received 
intravenous thrombolysis before hospital admission (PHT). Patients with PHT were 
younger than those with in-hospital thrombolysis, primary percutaneous 
interventions, or no reperfusion therapy. Median time from symptom onset to 
hospital admission was 3.6 hours for PHT, 3.5 hours for in-hospital lysis, 3.2 
hours for primary percutaneous interventions, and 12 hours for no reperfusion 
therapy. In-hospital death was 3.3% for PHT, 8.0% for in-hospital lysis, 6.7% 
for primary percutaneous interventions, and 12.2% for no reperfusion therapy. 
One-year survival was 94%, 89%, 89%, and 79%, respectively. In a multivariate 
analysis of predictors of 1-year survival, PHT was associated with a 0.49 
relative risk of death (95% CI, 0.24 to 1.00; P=0.05). When the analysis was 
limited to patients receiving reperfusion therapy, the relative risk of death 
for PHT was 0.52 (95% CI, 0.25 to 1.08; P=0.08). In patients with PHT admitted 
in < or =3.5 hours, in-hospital mortality was 0% and 1-year survival was 99%.
CONCLUSIONS: The 1-year outcome of patients treated with PHT compares favorably 
with that of patients treated with other modes of reperfusion therapy; this 
favorable trend persists after multivariate adjustment. Patients with PHT 
admitted very early have a very high 1-year survival rate.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000143144.82338.36
PMID: 15451803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Circulation. 2004 Oct 5;110(14):1885-9. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000143160.14610.53.  Epub 2004 Sep 27.

Microvolt T-wave alternans distinguishes between patients likely and patients 
not likely to benefit from implanted cardiac defibrillator therapy: a solution 
to the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial (MADIT) II 
conundrum.

Bloomfield DM(1), Steinman RC, Namerow PB, Parides M, Davidenko J, Kaufman ES, 
Shinn T, Curtis A, Fontaine J, Holmes D, Russo A, Tang C, Bigger JT Jr.

Author information:
(1)Data Coordinating Center, The MTWA in CHF Study, PH 9-103D, Department of 
Medicine, Columbia University, 630 W 168th St, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
dmb9@columbia.edu.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2005 May 17;111(19):e299-300; author reply e299-300.
    Circulation. 2005 May 17;111(19):e299-300; author reply e299-300.

BACKGROUND: In 2003, the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services recommended 
QRS duration as a means to identify MADIT II-like patients suitable for 
implanted cardiac defibrillator (ICD) therapy. We compared the ability of 
microvolt T-wave alternans and QRS duration to identify groups at high and low 
risk of dying among heart failure patients who met MADIT II criteria for ICD 
prophylaxis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients with MADIT II characteristics and sinus rhythm had 
a microvolt T-wave alternans exercise test and a 12-lead ECG. Our primary end 
point was 2-year all-cause mortality. Of 177 MADIT II-like patients, 32% had a 
QRS duration >120 ms, and 68% had an abnormal (positive or indeterminate) 
microvolt T-wave alternans test. During an average follow-up of 20+/-6 months, 
20 patients died. We compared patients with an abnormal microvolt T-wave 
alternans test to those with a normal (negative) test, and patients with a QRS 
>120 ms with those with a QRS < or =120 ms; the hazard ratios for 2-year 
mortality were 4.8 (P=0.020) and 1.5 (P=0.367), respectively. The actuarial 
mortality rate was substantially lower among patients with a normal microvolt 
T-wave alternans test (3.8%; 95% confidence interval: 0, 9.0) than the mortality 
rate in patients with a narrow QRS (12.0%; 95% confidence interval: 5.6, 18.5). 
The corresponding false-negative rates are 3.5% and 10.2%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Among MADIT II-like patients, a microvolt T-wave alternans test is 
better than QRS duration at identifying a high-risk group and also better at 
identifying a low-risk group unlikely to benefit from ICD therapy.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000143160.14610.53
PMID: 15451804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Neurology. 2004 Sep 28;63(6):948-50. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000142231.25935.74.

The shape of things to come.

Hauser SL.

Comment on
    Neurology. 2004 Sep 28;63(6):968-74.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000142231.25935.74
PMID: 15452280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Neurology. 2004 Sep 28;63(6):1027-34. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000138425.54223.dc.

Status epilepticus after the initial diagnosis of epilepsy in children.

Berg AT(1), Shinnar S, Testa FM, Levy SR, Frobish D, Smith SN, Beckerman B.

Author information:
(1)Neuroepidemiology Group, BIOS/NIU, DeKalb, IL 60115, USA. atberg@niu.edu

OBJECTIVES: To determine the risk and predictors of status epilepticus in 
children after they have been diagnosed with epilepsy.
METHODS: In a prospective community-based cohort study of 613 children, the 
occurrence of status epilepticus after the initial diagnosis of epilepsy was 
ascertained. Parents were called every 3 months, and interval medical records 
were reviewed every 6 months. Predictors of primary interest included a history 
of status before the diagnosis of epilepsy, age at onset, underlying etiology, 
and epilepsy syndrome. Data were analyzed with chi2 tests, Kaplan-Meier 
analyses, and Cox proportional hazards models.
RESULTS: Of 613 children followed a median of 8.0 years, 58 (9.5%) had > or =1 
episode of status epilepticus during follow-up evaluation. The first episode 
occurred a median of 2.5 years after initial diagnosis (range, <1 month to 8.8 
years). A history of previous status epilepticus was strongly associated with 
subsequent status epilepticus (18/56 [32.1%] vs 40/557 [7.2%]; p < 0.0001). 
Younger age at onset and symptomatic etiology contributed independently to the 
risk of status epilepticus. Mortality was higher in children with status 
epilepticus before diagnosis, largely secondary to underlying cause.
CONCLUSIONS: Status epilepticus occurs in approximately 10% of children after 
initial diagnosis of epilepsy. Status epilepticus before initial diagnosis, 
young age at onset, and symptomatic etiology independently influence the risk of 
status epilepticus. In those without status epilepticus before diagnosis, the 
risk is modest and is realized over a prolonged period. For children at highest 
risk, maintaining abortive therapy in the home may be a reasonable precaution.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000138425.54223.dc
PMID: 15452294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Neurology. 2004 Sep 28;63(6):1059-64. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000138428.40673.83.

Warfarin, hematoma expansion, and outcome of intracerebral hemorrhage.

Flibotte JJ(1), Hagan N, O'Donnell J, Greenberg SM, Rosand J.

Author information:
(1)Stroke Service and Neurology Clinical Trials Unit, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: Warfarin increases mortality of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The 
authors investigated whether this effect reflects increased baseline ICH volume 
at presentation or increased ICH expansion.
METHODS: Subjects were drawn from an ongoing prospective cohort study of ICH 
outcome. The effect of warfarin on baseline ICH volume was studied in 183 
consecutive cases of supratentorial ICH age > or = 18 years admitted to the 
emergency department over a 5-year period. Baseline ICH volume was determined 
using computerized volumetric analysis. The effect of warfarin on ICH expansion 
(increase in volume > or = 33% of baseline) was analyzed in 70 consecutive cases 
in whom ICH volumes were measured on all subsequent CT scans up to 7 days after 
admission. Multivariable analysis was used to determine warfarin's influence on 
baseline ICH, ICH expansion, and whether warfarin's effect on ICH mortality was 
dependent on baseline volume or subsequent expansion.
RESULTS: There was no effect of warfarin on initial volume. Predictors of larger 
baseline volume were hyperglycemia (p < 0.0001) and lobar hemorrhage (p < 
0.0001). Warfarin patients were at increased risk of death, even when 
controlling for ICH volume at presentation. Warfarin was the sole predictor of 
expansion (OR 6.2, 95% CI 1.7 to 22.9) and expansion in warfarin patients was 
detected later in the hospital course compared with non-warfarin patients (p < 
0.001). ICH expansion showed a trend toward increased mortality (OR 3.5, 95% CI 
0.7 to 8.9, p = 0.14) and reduced the marginal effect of warfarin on ICH 
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Warfarin did not increase ICH volume at presentation but did raise 
the risk of in-hospital hematoma expansion. This expansion appears to mediate 
part of warfarin's effect on ICH mortality.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000138428.40673.83
PMID: 15452298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Eur J Health Econ. 2004 Dec;5(4):351-6. doi: 10.1007/s10198-004-0246-1.

Examining the quality of health economic analyses submitted to the 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Board in Sweden. The first year.

Ramsberg J(1), Odeberg S, Engström A, Lundin D.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Benefits Board, Solna, Sweden. joakim.ramsberg@lfn.se

This study assessed the quality of health economic documentation submitted to 
the Pharmaceutical Benefits Board (PBB) in Sweden. Two different instruments 
were used in the evaluation: the PBB checklist, which was constructed by the 
authors from the PBB guidelines for health economic evaluations, and the QHES, a 
validated quality assessment instrument. Some areas that seem especially 
problematic, or where the quality was particularly low are identified and 
discussed. Also, we present the cost per quality-adjusted life-year that the 
companies have presented and how this related to the PBBs decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-004-0246-1
PMID: 15452738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Eur J Health Econ. 2004 Jun;5(2):129-35. doi: 10.1007/s10198-003-0211-4.

Model for simulation of HIV/AIDS and cost-effectiveness of preventing 
non-tuberculous mycobacterial (MAC)-disease.

Hoffmann T(1), Brunner H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Cologne, Germany. thomas.hoffmann.th1@bayer-ag.de

Because most HIV-infected patients die of diseases caused by opportunistic 
pathogens, the prevention of these infections is an important clinical issue. 
Cost-containment in the healthcare system is a subject of high priority in 
public debate. Methods to determine cost-effectiveness of different therapeutic 
strategies are therefore needed to obtain valid data as the basis for decisions 
on cost reduction without a decrease in the quality of care. A disease state 
transition model based on a Markov process was developed to simulate the natural 
history of HIV infection and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Using this model survival time and treatment costs for every patient can be 
estimated and the results of alternative medications compared. We determined the 
cost-effectiveness (per life-year saved, LYS) of different strategies for 
prevention of Mycobacterium avium complex infections in AIDS patients whose 
treatment regimens include protease inhibitors. The cost-effectiveness ratios 
for treatment strategies vary from 13,510 euro to 46,152 euro per LYS without 
protease inhibitors and from 22,309 euro to 51,336 euro with protease 
inhibitors. When azithromycin, clarithromycin, and rifabutin were compared, 
azithromycin was the most cost-effective medication for preventing M. avium 
complex. The results were stable against a wide range of parameter variations 
concerning costs and incidence rates.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-003-0211-4
PMID: 15452749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Eur J Health Econ. 2004 Jun;5(2):136-42. doi: 10.1007/s10198-003-0214-1.

Potential cost-effectiveness of a family-based program in mild Alzheimer's 
disease patients.

Martikainen J(1), Valtonen H, Pirttilä T.

Author information:
(1)Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Economics, Department of Social 
Pharmacy, University of Kuopio, Finland. janne.martikainen@uku.fi

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic and progressive neurodegenerative disease 
characterized by a progressive deterioration in cognitive functions. AD will 
have a major impact on public health in the coming decades. The objective of 
this study was to evaluate the potential cost-effectiveness of a 
cognitive-behavioral family intervention (CBFI) program in patients with mild 
Alzheimer's disease in Finland. A second-order Monte Carlo technique was used to 
simulate the effectiveness of the intervention in AD patients and their informal 
caregivers over the course of 5 years. A Bayesian approach was applied to answer 
the question: how likely is it that the CBFI program is cost-effective? Based on 
existing information, the incremental net health benefit of the CBFI program is 
positive with over 0.9 probability, which indicates that the CBFI program has 
the highest probability of being optimal by providing greater net benefits than 
current practice. Furthermore, changes in the health-related quality of life of 
the caregivers were insensitive to AD patients' disease stage and settings of 
care. From the methodological point of view, the acceptability curve with a 
Bayesian approach provides a flexible way to characterize uncertainty 
surrounding cost-effectiveness parameters.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-003-0214-1
PMID: 15452750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Eur J Health Econ. 2004 Jun;5(2):188-9. doi: 10.1007/s10198-004-0226-5.

Economic evaluation of gemcitabine in the treatment of pancreatic cancer in the 
UK. How important is quality of life?

Bansback N(1), Ward S, Karnon J.

Author information:
(1)ScHARR Technology Assessment Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 40 Regent Street, S1 4DA Sheffield, UK. 
n.j.bansback@sheffield.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-004-0226-5
PMID: 15452756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2004 Oct;82(5):509-16. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0420.2004.00329.x.

Have choroidal and ciliary body melanomas changed during the period 1955-2000?

Isager P(1), Ehlers N, Overgaard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Clinical Oncology, Arhus University Hospital, 
Arhus, Denmark. isager@dadlnet.dk

PURPOSE: To establish whether the presentation of choroidal and ciliary body 
melanomas and patient survival have changed during the period 1955-2000.
METHOD: The study included 209 unselected patients (97 men, 112 women) from 
Arhus County during the period 1955-2000. The median age at treatment was 64 
years (range 26-88 years). The disease course from first symptom through 
clinical and histopathological findings to death was described in a historical 
follow-up design. Time trends were evaluated.
RESULTS: Treatment modality changed over time from enucleation to an almost 
equal distribution between enucleation and radiation brachytherapy. The age at 
treatment, or, alternatively, at diagnosis, increased significantly (p = 0.04). 
No significant time trend was seen for largest basal tumour diameter (p = 0.08) 
or tumour height (p = 0.27). The clinical and histopathological findings did not 
show any consistent time trends. No significant time trend was found for 
melanoma-specific survival (p = 0.96) or overall survival (p = 0.33).
CONCLUSION: No consistent time trends were seen in clinical and 
histopathological tumour presentation and survival in patients with choroidal or 
ciliary body melanomas. The increase in age at treatment was in line with an 
increase in life expectancy in Denmark.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2004.00329.x
PMID: 15453845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2004 Oct;18(5):723-38. doi: 
10.1016/j.berh.2004.05.012.

Relapsing polychondritis.

Gergely P Jr(1), Poór G.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Rheumatology and Metabolic Osteology, National Institute 
of Rheumatology and Physiotherapy, H-1023 Frankel Leó 38-40, Budapest, Hungary.

Relapsing polychondritis (RP) is a rare multisystem autoimmune disease of 
unknown origin characterized by recurrent episodes of inflammation and 
progressive destruction of cartilaginous tissues. Elastic cartilage of the ears 
and nose, hyaline cartilage of peripheral joints, vertebral fibrocartilage and 
tracheobronchial cartilage, as well as proteoglycan-rich structures of the eye, 
heart, blood vessels or inner ear may all be affected. In most patients RP 
manifests in a fluctuating but progressive course which eventually results in a 
significant shortening of life expectancy. The relatively uncommon occurrence, 
the unknown etiopathogenesis, the ambiguous clinical pattern, as well as the 
variety in its course and response to therapy may all contribute to the 
difficulties the physician must overcome when managing RP. Beside describing the 
main features of RP and seven clinical cases of our own, in the present review 
we focus on recent findings in the etiopathogenesis and novel treatment options.

DOI: 10.1016/j.berh.2004.05.012
PMID: 15454129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. J Insect Sci. 2002;2:12. doi: 10.1093/jis/2.1.12. Epub 2002 Jul 12.

The natural history of the arboreal ant, Crematogaster ashmeadi.

Tschinkel WR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL 
32306-4370, USA. tschinkel@bio.fsu.edu

The arboreal ant, Crematogaster ashmeadi Emery (Hymenoptera: Formicidae), is the 
most dominant arboreal ant in the pine forests of the coastal plain of northern 
Florida. The majority of pine trees harbor a colony of these ants. The colonies 
inhabit multiple chambers abandoned by bark-mining caterpillars, especially 
those of the family Cossidae, in the outer bark of living pines. They also 
inhabit ground level termite galleries in the bark, often locating the queen in 
galleries. The density of chambers and ants is highest in the base of the tree 
and drops sharply with height on the trunk. Because chambers are formed in the 
inner layer of bark, they gradually move outward as more bark layers are laid 
down, eventually sloughing off the tree's outer surface. Chambers have a mean 
lifetime of about 25 yr. The abundant chambers in pine bark are excavated by a 
small population of caterpillars and accumulate over decades. Ant colonies also 
inhabit abandoned galleries of woodboring beetles in dead branches in the crowns 
of pines. Because newly mated queens found colonies in abandoned woodboring 
beetle galleries in the first dead branches that form on pine saplings, C. 
ashmeadi is dependent on cavities made by other insects throughout its life 
cycle, and does little if any excavation of its own. Mature colonies nest 
preferentially in chambers greater than 10 cm(2) in area, a relatively rare 
chamber size. In natural pine forests, this does not seem to limit the ant's 
populations. Founding queens contain about 50% fat and lose about half of their 
dry weight during the claustral period, converting approximately half of this 
lost weight into progeny. The claustral period is about 40 to 50 days at 27 
degrees C. Mature colonies contain several tens of thousands of workers (est. up 
to 80,000), and have a life expectancy of 10 to 15 years. Each colony occupies 
an entire tree, and sometimes two trees if they are close together. Within a 
colony, there is a single queen capable of laying up to 450 eggs/day during the 
warm season. Such queens weigh 12 to 18 mg, have 50 to 60 active ovarioles and 
120 to 600 vitellogenic oocytes in their ovaries. Mature colonies begin 
producing sexual brood in late April or early May. Sexual adults are present 
from late May through June. Mating flights commence in June and most sexuals 
have left their natal nests by late July. Female sexuals are an especially large 
investment; the energetic content of a single, flight-ready female sexual is 
almost 20 times that of a worker. The newly mated queen sequesters a mean of 
2.64 x 10(6) sperm in her spermatheca, a supply that should last her for 16 
years at the observed reproductive rates.

DOI: 10.1093/jis/2.1.12
PMCID: PMC355912
PMID: 15455046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nefrologia. 2004;24(4):357-63.

[Utility of intra-access pressure].

[Article in Spanish]

Caro P(1), Delgado R, Dapena F, Aguilera A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Clínica Ruber, Madrid.

Monitoring of vascular access is essential for clinical evaluation on 
hemodialysis patients, detects early disfunction of access, allows adequate 
dialysis and decreases the morbidity associated. Although is demonstrated that 
intra-access pressure (IAP) is a good method of screening to evaluate 
arterial-venous (AV) fistulas, its utility is uncommon because its measurement 
requires a complex system. We would like to validate the utility of IAP 
monitoring using a simplified measure of IAP and its relation with other methods 
of screening in detecting stenoses prior to thromboses of AV grafts. We studied 
24 AV grafts of 24 patients during 18 months we measured arterial pressure, mean 
arterial pressure (MAP), dynamic venous pressure, IAP, Kt/v, URR, recirculation 
index (RI), access flow and color Doppler flow, dividing the patients in two 
groups, with stenoses or not, if IAP/MAP > 0.5 and stenoses > 0.50 by Doppler we 
performed arteriography and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stent if 
stenoses exits. The values of IAP, MAP, RI were higher significantly in the 
stenoses group with increase of vascular access in grafts were dilation by 
angioplasty was made. All stenoses detected with IAP were confirmed by Doppler 
and arteriography but one. We conclude that IAP is an early, useful, easy, 
effective method in detecting stenoses of AV grafts prior to thrombosis.

PMID: 15455496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2004 May-Jun;(3):3-8.

[Population health in some of the Northern regions].

[Article in Russian]

Tishuk EA, Shchepin VO, Druzhinin NP.

The conditions and dynamic changes of the most important indices related with 
population health in a number of Northern regions of the Russian Federation are 
under discussion. A conclusion is made that they are predetermined by migration 
processes, latitude effects and peculiarities of production activity.

PMID: 15455520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2004 May-Jun;(3):11-3.

[The vital potential of population during the market-reform period].

[Article in Russian]

Shapovalova MA.

Estimates of the vital potential of population in the Astrakhan Region during 
the 1990-2000 market reforms, which were obtained on the basis of the continuous 
statistic observations of the total number of births and deaths during the 
mentioned period as well as on the basis of demography tables and potential 
demography, are described in the paper. An evaluation of man's "weight", 
expressed in man-years, is defined with respect to age and sex. The below 
phenomena are typical of the reform time: prevalence of the share of female 
vital potential; functionality of the life potential of citizens aged 0 to 19 
and 20 to 59; a decreased role of the life potential of citizens aged 0 to 19 
due to a low fertility; a diminished share of the life potential among 
able-bodied men; a decreased correlation index of the life potential of men 
versus women; a growing life potential in children aged above 1 year due to the 
paradox of the mean life expectancy; an increasing life potential within the age 
range of 10 years due to a dropped birth rate in the 90-ies and to the aging 
process because of the low birth rate and, correspondingly, low children's 
mortality rate; and compensation of losses in the life potential of men and 
women primarily due to the aging process.

PMID: 15455522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Biol Res. 2004;37(2):253-61. doi: 10.4067/s0716-97602004000200012.

Effect of Mediterranean and Occidental diets, and red wine, on plasma fatty 
acids in humans. An intervention study.

Urquiaga I(1), Guasch V, Marshall G, San Martín A, Castillo O, Rozowski J, 
Leighton F.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Nutrition Laboratory, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Catholic 
University of Chile, Santiago, Chile. iurquiag@bio.puc.cl

The type of diet consumed by individuals has been associated with the 
development of some chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disease (CVD), 
cancer, diabetes, and others. Populations that consume diets rich in fruits and 
vegetables and drink wine in moderation, as the Mediterranean, have a higher 
life expectancy and less chronic diseases than other occidental populations. We 
carried out an intervention study in humans to evaluate the effect of a 
Mediterranean diet (MD), an Occidental diet (OD) and their supplementation with 
red wine, on biochemical, physiological and clinical parameters related to 
atherosclerosis and other chronic diseases. For 3 months, two groups of 21 male 
volunteers each, received either a MD or an OD; during the second month, red 
wine was added isocalorically, 240 ml/day. At days 0, 30, 60 and 90, clinical, 
physiological and biochemical evaluations were made. In this article we report 
on the results obtained in plasma fatty acids profile that includes saturated 
fatty acids (SFA), monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA), polyunsaturated fatty 
acids (PUFA), omega-6 fatty acids, omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6/omega-3 
ratio. Other results have been published previously. Plasma fatty acid 
percentages in the OD group, compared to the MD group, did not show differences 
in SFA, but the OD group showed lower levels of MUFA and omega-3 fatty acids, 
and higher levels of PUFA and omega-6 fatty acids, with a higher omega-6/omega-3 
ratio than the MD group. Wine supplementation reduced MUFA and increased PUFA in 
both dietary groups, suggesting that wine could improve a diet with a good 
omega-6/omega-3 ratio. Volunteers on MD showed a better fatty acid profile than 
those on OD, suggesting a lower cardiovascular risk. Moderate consumption of 
wine improves this profile in the MD group.

DOI: 10.4067/s0716-97602004000200012
PMID: 15455655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Biol Res. 2004;37(2):313-9. doi: 10.4067/s0716-97602004000200018.

Is the Chilean diet a Mediterranean-type diet?

Rozowski J(1), Castillo O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Diabetes, Faculty of Medicine, Pontifical 
Catholic University of Chile, Santiago, Chile. jrozowsk@med.puc.cl

Food intake in Chile has changed markedly in the last decades, showing an 
increase in fat consumption and presently a small fruit and vegetables intake. A 
parallel is made between the Chilean and Mediterranean diet (mainly the one from 
Spain, Italy, and Greece), both currently and from 50 years ago. The main 
differences and similarities are based on food availability. Although Chilean 
diet seems to be approaching the traditional Mediterranean diet of the 60's, 
there is concern about changes that are moving away from Chilean traditional 
diet and towards a western one. A new food pyramid for Chile is proposed based 
on the traditional Mediterranean-type diet.

DOI: 10.4067/s0716-97602004000200018
PMID: 15455661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2004;71(4):201-9.

[Possibilities of surgical treatment of upper cervical spine in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Czech]

Klézl Z(1), Olejárová M, Veselá M, Sedová L, Pavelka K.

Author information:
(1)Ortopedicko-traumatologické oddelení VN, Praha.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) often suffer from 
instability of the upper cervical spine. The most common instability is anterior 
atlanto-axial subluxation (AAS). Instability may lead to neurologic deficits 
from spinal cord compression and intractable pain, decreasing quality of life 
and its length.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This prospective study analyzed different fixation methods 
and the influence of atlanto-axial and occipito-cervical fusion on clinical and 
radiological outcome. 41 patients with RA with instability of the upper cervical 
spine were treated surgically for progressive instability, pain and neurological 
deficit. Average age of our patients was 52.4 years (21-76 years). At the time 
of surgery, duration of the disease was in average 18.6 years (2-47 years). 
Patients had advanced stage of the disease according to Steinbroker, on hands 
stage 3.7 and feet stage 2.9. Atlanto-axial fixation was done for AAS in 27 (24 
Magerl transarticular fixations and Brooks-Jenkins technique in 3 patients). 
Occipito-cervical fusion was done in 13 patients (3 with Ransford loop and 
sublaminar wires and 9 with CerviFix). One patient was managed in halo-cast 
fixation. Spinal fusion was performed in all patients using autologenous bone 
graft. Patients were evaluated by using Functional Rating Index (FRI), Health 
Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) and visual pain analogue scale (VAS) before and 
after surgery in set intervals, when radiological examination was also performed 
including dynamic films.
RESULTS: Three patients died in the postoperative period (3 weeks, 11 and 18 
months). 38 patients remained for follow up, which was in average 28.4 months. 
Fusion was considered when hardware was intact and patient was satisfied, no 
motion was detected on dynamic X rays or bony fusion was clearly visible. Fusion 
was assessed in 40 patients, 32 fused, 8 had fibrous non-union. 3 of these 
patients had hardware failure. 9 patients had preoperatively verified panus 
formation peridentally, which resorbed after the surgery. FRI evaluation was 
done in 40 patients, 30 improved (14 patients by more than 10 points), 6 
patients did not change and 4 worsened. The improvement after 3 and 12 months 
was statistically significant (p < 0.001). Average HAQ score decreased after 
surgery, but the change was not statistically significant (p > 0.05). Average 
VAS score decreased significantly after surgery (p < 0.05). There were 5 
hardware related complications including one vertebral artery injury. None of 
these complications required subsequent surgery nor had any influence on good 
clinical outcome.
DISCUSSION: Results of FRI and VAS show the benefit from early indication of 
surgical stabilization of upper cervical spine in patients with RA. Based on our 
experience, as well as other authors, fixation of AAS by transarticular screw 
fixation according to Magerl is the preferred method in the younger patient 
group. Once destruction of the atlanto-axial joints, lateral subluxation or 
cranial migration of the dens is present, occipito-cervical fusion using 
titanium malleable implant (CerviFix) is necessary.
CONCLUSION: Positive clinical outcomes advocate early surgical intervention as 
described in recent literature. Surgery prevents subsequent neurological damage 
life quality deterioration and shortening of life expectancy.

PMID: 15456097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Medicina (Kaunas). 2004;40(9):825-32.

[Values and goals of medicine and health care].

[Article in Lithuanian]

Jakusovaite I(1), Darulis Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy and Social Sciences, Kaunas University of Medicine, 
A. Mickeviciaus 9, 44307 Kaunas, Lithuania. filosof@kmu.lt

Discussions about the goals of medicine and health care have significantly 
increased through the last decade of the past century. This was determined by 
the highly increased extent of health care, scarce health care resources, 
fundamental changes of health care technologies and well-established market 
relationships in health care. For a long time medicine attempted to achieve 
three main goals: to save and prolong life, fight and prevent diseases, reduce 
pain and sufferings. In the result of development of medicine the previous goals 
became rather problematic. Technological progress of medicine of the second half 
of the 20th century has implemented the believing, that medicine is able to 
prolong the life of human without restrictions. Ageing population has started 
expecting from medicine not only the saving of life and health enhancement, but 
also prolonging of life, since the mentioned is tended to be more socioeconomic, 
not medical, problem. Nowadays discussion about the goals of health care comes 
from the doubts, if the questions for medicine really have medical background. 
Often the society tries to escape from number of social problems medicalizing 
them. Spiritual and social problems of human are often supposed to be as medical 
ones, thus it is crucial to separate the main goals of medicine, which represent 
its values and targets, from the secondary ones, related to social or individual 
welfare, crime, dilemmas of poverty or morality. The aim of the article is to 
reveal the key values of medicine and health care, which determine the goals of 
medicine and health care.

PMID: 15456967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Acta Biotheor. 2004;52(2):71-93. doi: 10.1023/B:ACBI.0000043437.82272.ff.

Comorbidity in psychiatric and chronic physical disease: autocognitive 
developmental disorders of structured psychosocial stress.

Wallace R(1).

Author information:
(1)The New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, NY 10027, USA. 
rdwall@ix.netcom.com

Applying a 'necessary condition' communication theory formalism roughly similar 
to that of Dretske, but focused entirely on the statistical properties of long 
sequences of signals emitted by the interacting cognitive modules of human 
biology, we explore the regularities apparent in comorbid psychiatric and 
chronic physical disorders using an extension of recent perspectives on 
autoimmune disease. We find that structured psychosocial stress can literally 
write a distorted image of itself onto child development, resulting in a life 
course trajectory to characteristic forms of comorbid mind/body dysfunction 
affecting both dominant and subordinate populations within a pathogenic social 
hierarchy.

DOI: 10.1023/B:ACBI.0000043437.82272.ff
PMID: 15456985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. J Hum Hypertens. 2005 Feb;19(2):93-102. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001781.

Treatment of systolic hypertension: spotlight on recent studies with angiotensin 
II antagonists.

Volpe M(1).

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Cardiologia, II Facoltà di Medicina e Chirurgia, Università di 
Roma La Sapienza, Rome, Italy. volpema@uniroma1.it

Systolic blood pressure has a continuous, graded, strong, independent, and 
aetiologically significant relationship to mortality from coronary heart 
disease, stroke, and all cardiovascular diseases, as well as to all-cause 
mortality and life expectancy. Angiotensin II (AII) may be intimately involved 
in the pathogenesis of systolic hypertension through multiple mechanisms, 
including decreasing the elastin content and increasing the collagen content of 
the arterial wall, thickening and fibrotic remodelling of the vascular intima, 
and proliferating smooth muscle cells in the arterial wall, resulting in 
increased thickness, stiffening, and partial loss of contractility. AII 
antagonists may therefore offer hitherto unrecognized benefits (independent of 
blood pressure) on age-related vascular damage and provide particular benefits 
in patients with systolic hypertension. Recent evidence has demonstrated that 
losartan offers cardiovascular outcomes benefits in isolated systolic 
hypertension (ISH) associated with an excellent tolerability profile. This, in 
patients with ISH, AII antagonists more facilitate systolic BP control, 
providing cardiovascular protection and offering an excellent risk-benefit 
profile.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001781
PMID: 15457205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. EMBO J. 2004 Oct 13;23(20):3918-28. doi: 10.1038/sj.emboj.7600379. Epub 2004
Sep  30.

Structural insights into the regulation of PDK1 by phosphoinositides and 
inositol phosphates.

Komander D(1), Fairservice A, Deak M, Kular GS, Prescott AR, Peter Downes C, 
Safrany ST, Alessi DR, van Aalten DM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Chemistry & Molecular Microbiology, School of Life 
Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee, Scotland, UK.

3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 (PDK1) phosphorylates and 
activates many kinases belonging to the AGC subfamily. PDK1 possesses a 
C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain that interacts with 
PtdIns(3,4,5)P3/PtdIns(3,4)P2 and with lower affinity to PtdIns(4,5)P2. We 
describe the crystal structure of the PDK1 PH domain, in the absence and 
presence of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 and Ins(1,3,4,5)P4. The structures reveal a 'budded' 
PH domain fold, possessing an N-terminal extension forming an integral part of 
the overall fold, and display an unusually spacious ligand-binding site. 
Mutagenesis and lipid-binding studies were used to define the contribution of 
residues involved in phosphoinositide binding. Using a novel quantitative 
binding assay, we found that Ins(1,3,4,5,6)P5 and InsP6, which are present at 
micromolar levels in the cytosol, interact with full-length PDK1 with nanomolar 
affinities. Utilising the isolated PDK1 PH domain, which has reduced affinity 
for Ins(1,3,4,5,6)P5/InsP6, we perform localisation studies that suggest that 
these inositol phosphates serve to anchor a portion of cellular PDK1 in the 
cytosol, where it could activate its substrates such as p70 S6-kinase and p90 
ribosomal S6 kinase that do not interact with phosphoinositides.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.emboj.7600379
PMCID: PMC524332
PMID: 15457207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Mol Microbiol. 2004 Oct;54(1):2-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2004.04321.x.

A network of net-workers: report of the Euresco conference on 'Bacterial Neural 
Networks' held at San Feliu (Spain) from 8 to 14 May 2004.

Hellingwerf KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Microbiology, Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, 
BioCentrum, University of Amsterdam, Nieuwe Achtergracht 166, NL-1018 WV 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. K.Hellingwert@science.uva.nl

In May 2004, over 100 bacteriologists from 19 different countries discussed 
recent progress in identification and understanding of individual signal 
transfer mechanisms in bacteria and in the mutual interactions between these 
systems to form a functional living cell. The meeting was held in San Feliu and 
supported by ESF and EMBO. In part through the extensive sequencing efforts of 
the past few years, the bulk of the bacterial signal transfer systems have been 
resolved and their detailed characterization is revealing such characteristics 
as signal specificity, signalling rate constants, molecular interaction 
affinities, subcellular localization, etc., which should provide a solid basis 
to a computational extension of this field of studies. In parallel, the new 
genomics techniques are providing tools to characterize the way a collection of 
such systems interact in an individual cell, to give rise to 'life'. Systems 
theory provides rational and convenient ways to bring order to the wide range of 
observables thus obtained. Ultimately, the performance of engineered design will 
have to prove whether or not we know enough about the processes involved.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2004.04321.x
PMID: 15458400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Hum Reprod. 2004 Nov;19(11):2454-6. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deh467. Epub 2004
Sep  30.

Taskforce 8: ethics of medically assisted fertility treatment for HIV positive 
men and women.

Shenfield F, Pennings G, Cohen J, Devroey P, Tarlatzis B, Sureau C; ESHRE ETHICS 
