SETTING: General practices in England and Wales.
PARTICIPANTS: The study included 401 patients with chronic headache disorder, 
predominantly migraine.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly allocated to receive up to 12 acupuncture 
treatments over 3 months or to a control intervention offering usual care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcome measures included headache score; assessment of 
Short Form 36 (SF-36) health status and use of medication at baseline, 3 months 
and 12 months; assessment of use of resources every 3 months; and assessment of 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Headache score at 12 months, the primary end-point, was lower in the 
acupuncture group than in controls. The adjusted difference between means was 
4.6. This result was robust to sensitivity analysis incorporating imputation for 
missing data. Patients in the acupuncture group experienced the equivalent of 22 
fewer days of headache per year. SF-36 data favoured acupuncture, although 
differences reached significance only for physical role functioning, energy and 
change in health. Compared with controls, patients randomised to acupuncture 
used 15% less medication, made 25% fewer visits to GPs and took 15% fewer days 
off sick. Total costs during the 1-year period of the study were on average 
higher for the acupuncture group than for controls because of the acupuncture 
practitioners' costs. The mean health gain from acupuncture during the year of 
the trial was 0.021 QALYs, leading to a base-case estimate of GBP9180 per QALY 
gained. This result was robust to sensitivity analysis. Cost per QALY dropped 
substantially when the analysis incorporated likely QALY differences for the 
years after the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggests that acupuncture leads to persisting, clinically 
relevant benefits for primary care patients with chronic headache, particularly 
migraine. It is relatively cost-effective compared with a number of other 
interventions provided by the NHS. Further studies could examine the duration of 
acupuncture effects beyond 1 year and the relative benefit to patients with 
migraine with compared to tension-type headache. Trials are also warranted 
examining the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of acupuncture in patients 
with headache receiving more aggressive pharmacological management.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8480
PMID: 15527670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2004 Nov;70(11):6643-9. doi: 
10.1128/AEM.70.11.6643-6649.2004.

Heavy-metal stress and developmental patterns of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi.

Pawlowska TE(1), Charvat I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, USA. 
tpawlows@nature.berkeley.edu

The rate of global deposition of Cd, Pb, and Zn has decreased over the past few 
decades, but heavy metals already in the soil may be mobilized by local and 
global changes in soil conditions and exert toxic effects on soil 
microorganisms. We examined in vitro effects of Cd, Pb, and Zn on critical life 
stages in metal-sensitive ecotypes of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, 
including spore germination, presymbiotic hyphal extension, presymbiotic 
sporulation, symbiotic extraradical mycelium expansion, and symbiotic 
sporulation. Despite long-term culturing under the same low-metal conditions, 
two species, Glomus etunicatum and Glomus intraradices, had different levels of 
sensitivity to metal stress. G. etunicatum was more sensitive to all three 
metals than was G. intraradices. A unique response of increased presymbiotic 
hyphal extension occurred in G. intraradices exposed to Cd and Pb. Presymbiotic 
hyphae of G. intraradices formed presymbiotic spores, whose initiation was more 
affected by heavy metals than was presymbiotic hyphal extension. In G. 
intraradices grown in compartmentalized habitats with only a portion of the 
extraradical mycelium exposed to metal stress, inhibitory effects of elevated 
metal concentrations on symbiotic mycelial expansion and symbiotic sporulation 
were limited to the metal-enriched compartment. Symbiotic sporulation was more 
sensitive to metal exposure than symbiotic mycelium expansion. Patterns 
exhibited by G. intraradices spore germination, presymbiotic hyphal extension, 
symbiotic extraradical mycelium expansion, and sporulation under elevated metal 
concentrations suggest that AM fungi may be able to survive in heavy 
metal-contaminated environments by using a metal avoidance strategy.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.70.11.6643-6649.2004
PMCID: PMC525263
PMID: 15528529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2005;19(1):39-48. doi: 10.1159/000081910. Epub 2004 Nov 3.

Trends in surgical and management outcomes in patients with aneurysmal 
subarachnoid hemorrhage in Izumo city, Japan, between 1980-1989 and 1990-1998.

Inagawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Shimane Prefectural Central Hospital, Izumo, 
Shimane 693-8555, Japan. inagawa@spch.izumo.shimane.jp

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The purpose of this community-based study was to 
evaluate temporal changes in surgical and management outcomes in patients with 
aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).
METHODS: The subjects were 358 patients with aneurysmal SAH who were treated 
during the 19-year period from 1980 to 1998 in Izumo City, Japan. We compared 
data during the 9-year period 1990-1998 (period B; 188 patients) with those 
during the 10-year period 1980-1989 (period A; 170 patients).
RESULTS: The proportion of patients 80 years of age or older or those with World 
Federation of Neurosurgical Societies grade V increased significantly (period A, 
5 and 25%; period B, 18 and 35%, respectively). The operability rate did not 
change for patients 69 years of age or younger, whereas it increased 
significantly for those 70-79 years of age (period A, 48%; period B, 72%). The 
6-month and 2-year case fatality rates in surgically treated patients decreased 
significantly (period A, 12 and 20%; period B, 2 and 8%, respectively), whereas 
they were virtually unchanged for overall management (period A, 41 and 46%; 
period B, 38 and 42%, respectively). In patients who underwent surgery, the 
incidence of permanent symptomatic vasospasm decreased from 21% during period A 
to 11% during period B, and there was no death from vasospasm in the later 
period. However, no significant difference was found in the functional outcome 
between the two periods, regardless of whether surgery was performed. The most 
important determinants of 6-month and 2-year survival rates were grade on 
admission, rebleeding and the site of the ruptured aneurysms. Age was also a 
significant predictor of the 6-month case fatality rate.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with SAH who underwent surgery, there were trends 
towards decreases in the case fatality rate and in the incidence of permanent 
symptomatic vasospasm. Nevertheless, the overall management outcome was still 
unsatisfactory, mainly because of increasing numbers of very elderly and/or 
high-risk patients. .

DOI: 10.1159/000081910
PMID: 15528883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. MMW Fortschr Med. 2004 Sep 30;146(40):25-6, 28-9.

[Radiotherapy in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Geinitz H(1), Zimmermann F.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Strahlentherapie und Radiologische Onkologie derTU 
München, Klinikum rechts der Isar. Hans.Geinitz@lrz.tu-muenchen.de

Radiotherapy in curative or palliative intent is well tolerated and effective in 
the elderly patient, too. When establishing the indication for treatment, the 
extent of concomitant diseases, the general state of health of the patient, and 
his/her life expectancy must all be taken into account. When extensive volumes 
in the head/neck, chest or abdominal areas need to be irradiated, adequate 
uptake of fluid and calories must be ensured, and electrolytes, renal parameters 
and the blood count must be closely monitored. Supporting measures should be 
applied early on.

PMID: 15529664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. MMW Fortschr Med. 2004 Sep 30;146(40):30-2.

[Medical treatment of cancer in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Bangerter M(1), Heinrich B, Brudler O.

Author information:
(1)Hämatologisch-onkologische Gemeinschafts Praxis, Augsburg. 
markus.bangerter@hop-augsburg.de

Paralleling increasing life expectancy, the number of cases of cancer in our 
population is also on the increase. The question as to whether chemotherapy for 
the treatment of a tumor in the elderly is appropriate or not, and if so what 
doses are required, depends in particular on the potentially increased toxicity 
of the drug in the old patient. The consequence is that alternative substances 
may have to be sought. When planning treatment, however, additional factors have 
to be taken into account, such as the possibility of differences in the 
physiology of the tumor in the elderly, the general state of health of the 
patient, the presence of concomitant diseases, possible interactions with other 
medications, and the patient's social environment.

PMID: 15529665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Clin Ther. 2004 Sep;26(9):1546-61. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2004.09.014.

Cost utility and budget impact of third-generation aromatase inhibitors for 
advanced breast cancer: a literature-based model analysis of costs in the 
Italian National Health Service.

Marchetti M(1), Caruggi M, Colombo G.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical Informatics, Institute for Scientific Research and 
Health Care, Pavia, Italy. marchettim@smatteo.pv.it

BACKGROUND: Third-generation aromatase inhibitors are effective alternatives to 
tamoxifen in patients with advanced breast cancer. However, their acquisition 
costs might burden fixed-budget health care systems.
OBJECTIVE: This study is a decision analysis of the clinical and economic 
consequences of alternative first-line hormone therapies for postmenopausal 
women with estrogen receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer in a real-life 
Italian health care setting.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to describe disease evolution according to 
data from previously published, randomized clinical trials. The costs incurred 
by a local community hospital in the Italian National Health Service were 
considered (year-2003 values). Clinical data were taken from previously 
published trials. A 3% discount rate was applied to both resources and 
life-years gained.
RESULTS: Based on model estimates, mean survival times with the third-generation 
aromatase inhibitors anastrozole and letrozole were 30.72 and 30.64 months, 
respectively, as opposed to 27.28 months with tamoxifen. Mean survival times 
after adjustment for quality of life were 18.84 and 18.78 months with 
anastrozole and letrozole, respectively, and 16.14 months with tamoxifen. 
Baseline analysis produced incremental cost-effectiveness ratios per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained of 10,795 Euro (95% CI, 7737 Euro-12,899 Euro) 
and 16,886 Euro (95% CI, 9117 Euro-15,465 Euro) for anastrozole and letrozole, 
respectively, compared with tamoxifen. The observed difference between the 2 
cost-utility ratios may have been mainly due to the higher acquisition costs of 
letrozole compared with anastrozole. Despite similar incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios, anastrozole and letrozole might increase the budget 
for advanced breast cancer care by 12% and 18%, respectively, based on the 
year-2003 Italian market prices of the 2 drugs.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cost-effectiveness analysis using previously published 
clinical data and year-2003 cost data from a community hospital in the Italian 
National Health Service, anastrozole and letrozole were both cost-effective 
alternatives to tamoxifen for first-line therapy of postmenopausal women with 
advanced estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2004.09.014
PMID: 15531017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Fam Pract. 2004 Dec;21(6):643-50. doi: 10.1093/fampra/cmh612. Epub 2004 Nov
5.

Cost-utility analysis of osteopathy in primary care: results from a pragmatic 
randomized controlled trial.

Williams NH(1), Edwards RT, Linck P, Muntz R, Hibbs R, Wilkinson C, Russell I, 
Russell D, Hounsome B.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, University of Wales College of Medicine, 
Cardiff University, Wescram, UK. williamsnh@cardiff.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Spinal pain is common and costly to health services and society. 
Management guidelines have encouraged primary care referral for spinal 
manipulation, but the evidence base is weak. More economic evaluations alongside 
pragmatic trials have been recommended.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to assess the cost-utility of a practice-based osteopathy 
clinic for subacute spinal pain.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed alongside a pragmatic 
single-centre randomized controlled trial in a primary care osteopathy clinic 
accepting referrals from 14 neighbouring practices in North West Wales. Patients 
with back pain of 2-12 weeks duration were randomly allocated to treatment with 
osteopathy plus usual GP care or usual GP care alone. Costs were measured from a 
National Health Service (NHS) perspective. All primary and secondary health care 
interventions recorded in GP notes were collected for the study period. We 
calculated quality adjusted life year (QALY) gains based on EQ-5D responses from 
patients in the trial, and then cost per QALY ratios. Confidence intervals (CIs) 
were estimated using non-parametric bootstrapping.
RESULTS: Osteopathy plus usual GP care was more effective but resulted in more 
health care costs than usual GP care alone. The point estimate of the 
incremental cost per QALY ratio was 3560 pounds (80% CI 542 pounds-77,100 
pounds). Sensitivity analysis examining spine-related costs alone and total 
costs excluding outliers resulted in lower cost per QALY ratios.
CONCLUSION: A primary care osteopathy clinic may be a cost-effective addition to 
usual GP care, but this conclusion was subject to considerable random error. 
Rigorous multi-centre studies are needed to assess the generalizability of this 
approach.

DOI: 10.1093/fampra/cmh612
PMID: 15531626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Circulation. 2004 Dec 7;110(23):3518-26. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000148957.62328.89. Epub 2004 Nov 7.

Long-term healthcare and cost outcomes of disease management in a large, 
randomized, community-based population with heart failure.

Galbreath AD(1), Krasuski RA, Smith B, Stajduhar KC, Kwan MD, Ellis R, Freeman 
GL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio, Tex, USA.

Erratum in
    Circulation. 2004 Dec 7;110(23):3615.
    Circulation. 2006 Jan 24;113(3):e48.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Dec 7;110(23):3506-8.
    Circulation. 2005 Jul 5;112(1):e11; author reply e11.

BACKGROUND: Because of the prevalence and expense of congestive heart failure 
(CHF), significant efforts have been made to develop disease management (DM) 
programs that will improve clinical and financial outcomes. The effectiveness of 
such programs in a large, heterogeneous population of CHF patients remains 
unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We randomized 1069 patients (aged 70.9+/-10.3 years) with 
systolic (ejection fraction 35+/-9%) or echocardiographically confirmed 
diastolic heart failure (HF) to assess telephonic DM over an 18-month period. 
Data were collected at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Survival analysis was 
performed by Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression methods. Healthcare utilization was 
defined after extensive record review, with an attempt to account for all 
inpatient and outpatient visits, medications, and diagnostic tests. We obtained 
data on 92% of the patients, from nearly 53,000 health-related encounters. Total 
cost per patient was defined by adding estimated costs for the observed 
encounters, excluding the cost of the DM. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that DM 
patients had a reduced mortality rate (P=0.037), with DM patients surviving an 
average of 76 days longer than controls. Subgroup analysis showed that DM had 
beneficial outcomes in patients with systolic HF (hazard ratio 0.62; P=0.040), 
which was more pronounced in NYHA classes III and IV. Although improvements in 
NYHA class were more likely with DM (P<0.001), 6-minute walk data from 217 
patients in whom data were available at each visit showed no significant benefit 
from DM (P=0.08). Total and CHF-related healthcare utilization, including 
medications, office or emergency department visits, procedures, or 
hospitalizations, was not decreased by DM. Repeated-measures ANOVA for cost by 
group showed no significant differences, even in the higher NYHA class groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Participation in DM resulted in a significant survival benefit, 
most notably in symptomatic systolic HF patients. Although DM was associated 
with improved NYHA class, 6-minute walk test results did not improve. Healthcare 
utilization was not reduced by DM, and it conferred no cost savings. DM in HF 
results in improved life expectancy but does not improve objective measures of 
functional capacity and does not reduce cost.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000148957.62328.89
PMID: 15531765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. S Afr J Surg. 2004 Aug;42(3):81-5.

Femoro-distal bypass surgery at Groote Schuur hospital--4-year retrospective 
study.

Mwipatayi BP(1), Jeffery PC, Motale P, Matley PJ, Immelman EJ, Kahn D, Welman 
CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Cape Town and Groote Schuur Hospital, 
Cape Town.

An analysis of the demographics and outcome of femoro-distal bypass in patients 
presenting with defined critical limb ischaemia at Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape 
Town, is presented.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted between January 1998 
and December 2001. During this period, 65 patients underwent femoro-distal 
bypass. Of these, 57 patients were analysed and 8 patients were excluded from 
the study because of incomplete medical records
RESULTS: The median age of the patients in this study was 62 years, with a 
male-to-female ratio of 34:23. Twenty-eight patients (49%) were diabetic. An 
overall 2-year mortality of 19.2% was recorded. Reversed saphenous vein graft 
(RSVG) was used in 29 legs (50.9%) and in situ vein graft (ISVG) in 19 legs 
(33.3%). There was no statistically significant difference in the graft patency 
between the two methods (p = 0.39); the 2-year cumulative patency was 40% for 
the RSVG and 39% for the ISVG. In our unit only 2 factors influenced the outcome 
of femoro-distal bypass--local sepsis in the foot and an increased early 
postoperative ankle-brachial index (p < 0.05). Diabetes mellitus, gender, age 
and race had no influence on the outcome. This study showed that the site of the 
distal anastomosis had no effect on graft patency or limb salvage. At 2 years, 
the cumulative patency and limb salvage rates were 40% and 56% respectively. Of 
the 11 grafts with stenotic lesions requiring intervention, 6 were detected 
between 18 and 24 months.
CONCLUSION: Management of critical limb ischaemia is a major part of the 
workload in our unit, with most patients undergoing primary amputation. The 
surgical outcome of femoro-distal bypass was largely influenced by local sepsis 
and early postoperative ABI. We found that more than half the stenotic lesions 
detected during graft surveillance occurred beyond 18 months postoperatively. 
This suggests that a graft surveillance programme should continue beyond 18 
months.

PMID: 15532614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. MMW Fortschr Med. 2004 Oct 7;146(41):27-8.

[A consequence of the obesity epidemic--the life expectancy of our children is 
on the decline].

[Article in German]

Hauner H.

PMID: 15532733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. MMW Fortschr Med. 2004 Oct 7;146(41):28-9, 31-2.

[Treatment of obese children and adolescents--necessity and options].

[Article in German]

Chen-Stute A(1).

Author information:
(1)Adipositas-Zentrum Oberhausen. adipositaszentrum-oberhausen@arcormail.de

The alarming increase in obesity in children and adolescents has prompted 
physicians, dietary scientists, psychologists and PT instructors to concern 
themselves with the therapeutic possibilities available, and to implement them. 
An interdisciplinary approach, the scope and time frame of which is orientated 
to the degree of obesity has proved promising. By educating parents, multimodal 
programs support attempts to change family eating and exercise habits in the 
direction of a healthier lifestyle. The interlinking of various institutions 
ranging from general practitioners to rehabilitation centers on the basis of a 
common documentation structure with the aim of offering evidence-based treatment 
over the long term would be desirable.

PMID: 15532734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. S Afr Med J. 2004 Oct;94(10):824-6.

A highly desired increase in 'healthy' longevity--what are the prospects?

Walker AR(1), Walker BF.

Author information:
(1)Human Biochemistry Research Unit, South African Institute for Medical 
Research, Johannesburg.

PMID: 15532755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Epidemiol Prev. 2004 May-Jun;28(3):174-7.

[Life expectancy as an indicator of outcome].

[Article in Italian]

Viscomi S(1), Pastore G, Dama E, Merletti F, Magnani C.

Author information:
(1)Registro tumori infantili del Piemonte, CPO Piemonte, Servizio di 
epidemiologia dei tumori, Azienda ospedaliera S. Giovanni Battista e Università 
degli studi di Torino. silvia.viscomi@cpo.it

Usually survival studies evaluate the percentage of subjects alive or 
disease-free at a given point in time (cumulative survival percentage). These 
studies require a lengthy period both for follow up and for the collection of an 
exhaustive number of cases. In addition, for cancer types with a sharp gradient 
of cumulative mortality, the estimate may be unstable. On the database of 
children with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia (ALL) collected by the Childhood 
Cancer Registry of Piedmont (CCRP) in 1979-1991, we have estimated an 
alternative time-dimensional index to estimate both patients' life expectancy of 
patient and number of years gained to death. These estimates have been compared 
in subsets of the database corresponding to different periods of diagnosis and 
efficacy of treatment. Life expectancy has been evaluated as the area under the 
survival curve, on the assumption that after a number of years since diagnosis, 
survivors have the same mortality rates of the general population. Clinicians 
are invited to take into consideration the approach described in the present 
note.

PMID: 15532875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Cas Lek Cesk. 2004;143(9):598-603.

[Results of treatment of malignant stenoses of the respiratory tract in a long 
term study].

[Article in Czech]

Marel M(1), Pekárek Z, Skácel Z, Spásová I, Víchová M, Svandová E.

Author information:
(1)klinika TRN 1. LF UK a VFN, Praha. miloslav.marel@vfn.cz

BACKGROUND: :The malignant stenoses complicate the course of the disease in 
about 50% of patients with lung tumors. Management of them can influence the 
quality of life of the afflicted. There is no general agreement about optimal 
methods of their therapy, of selection of the best methods and also there is 
only few data about survival of these patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: 130 patients with tumors stenoses of the airways were 
prospectively followed in the 1998-2003 period, 93 of them suffered from lung 
cancer. Besides other treatment of the tumor they underwent also interventional 
bronchoscopy (Nd YAG laser, electrocautery i.e.). The airways were opened 
completely in 62% of the set of patients. The interventional bronchoscopy was 
complicated in 9% of patients, 32 patients lived at the 31st December of 2003, 
98 of them had died. One year survival was 23.1%, median survival of the whole 
set of patients was 7 months. The patients with lung cancer had significantly 
worse survival than patients with other types of lung tumors, 6 months versus 10 
months. There were no significant survival differences of the whole set 
according to the achieved grade of recanalisation, or according the inclusion of 
the brachytherapy to the set of interventional methods. The patients with 
inserted stent had significantly worse prognosis than the those without 
stenting. To homogenize the study group, the subset of patients with epidermoid 
lung cancer in the stage IIIB were selected (n = 51). Significantly longer 
survival of patients with complete recanalisation, insignificant longer survival 
in patients who underwent also brachytherapy and significantly shorter survival 
in patients with stenting were proved in this subgroup of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The interventional bronchoscopy has a low rate of complications and 
in most cases it has a palliative effect. The survival of patients is more 
influenced by the extension and the type of the tumor, their general status, 
polymorbidity, age etc. than by effect or selection of interventional 
bronchoscopical methods.

PMID: 15532898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Urology. 2004 Nov;64(5):991-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.06.055.

Sexual behavior and sexual dysfunctions after age 40: the global study of sexual 
attitudes and behaviors.

Nicolosi A(1), Laumann EO, Glasser DB, Moreira ED Jr, Paik A, Gingell C; Global 
Study of Sexual Attitudes and Behaviors Investigators' Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Institute of Biomedical Technologies, National 
Research Council, Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the importance of sex and the prevalence of sexual 
dysfunction among middle-aged and older adults throughout the world. Increasing 
life expectancy has been accompanied by improvements in the health of the 
middle-aged and elderly, but little is known about how this has affected their 
sexual experience.
METHODS: Data were collected in 29 countries from 27,500 men and women aged 40 
to 80 years using a standardized questionnaire (self-completed or by interview). 
Sexual dysfunction was defined as frequent and persistent problems. They 
included early ejaculation and erectile difficulties in men, lubrication 
difficulties and pain during intercourse in women, and a lack of sexual 
interest, an inability to achieve orgasm, and a feeling of unpleasurable sex in 
both.
RESULTS: More than 80% of the men and 65% of the women had had sexual 
intercourse during the past year. Of these subjects, the most common 
dysfunctions were early ejaculation (14%) and erectile difficulties (10%) among 
the men and a lack of sexual interest (21%), inability to reach orgasm (16%), 
and lubrication difficulties (16%) among the women. Overall, 28% of the men and 
39% of the women said that they were affected by at least one sexual 
dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study indicate that sexual desire and activity 
are widespread among middle-aged and elderly men and women worldwide and persist 
into old age. The prevalence of sexual dysfunctions was quite high and tended to 
increase with age, especially in men. Although major between-country differences 
were noted, this global study revealed some clear and consistent patterns.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.06.055
PMID: 15533492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Prev Med. 2005 Feb;40(2):170-80. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.05.017.

The AMA proposal to mandate nicotine reduction in cigarettes: a simulation of 
the population health impacts.

Tengs TO(1), Ahmad S, Savage JM, Moore R, Gage E.

Author information:
(1)Health Priorities Research Group, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA. 
tengs1@netzero.com

BACKGROUND: The American Medical Association (AMA) has advocated gradually 
reducing the nicotine content of cigarettes to decrease smoking prevalence. Some 
experts have voiced concerns that smokers may "compensate" by smoking more 
cigarettes or inhaling more deeply. Further, a black market may emerge, 
perpetuating cigarette availability. Thus, it is unclear whether a federal 
mandate would result in a net increase or decrease in population health. The 
purpose of this research is to estimate the long-term health gains or losses 
that are likely to accrue to the US population if the nicotine content of 
cigarettes is gradually reduced to trace levels over a 6-year period.
METHODS: To estimate health impacts, we created the Tobacco Policy Model, a 
computer simulation model. The model simulates the US population as they age and 
change their smoking behavior over time. Secondary data for model parameters 
were obtained from publicly available sources. Population health impacts were 
measured as the change in cumulative quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) in the 
US population over 50 years.
RESULTS: Following a mandate to reduce nicotine, smoking prevalence is likely to 
decline from 23% to 5% of the population. Accordingly, a cumulative gain of 157 
million QALYs is expected over 50 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite any mortality increases due to compensatory smoking or the 
emergence of a black market, implementation of the AMA proposal would likely 
prevent the addiction of scores of new smokers and result in important gains to 
the nation's health. This research should prove useful to Congress as they 
contemplate giving the FDA the authority to regulate tobacco.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.05.017
PMID: 15533526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Circulation. 2004 Nov 16;110(20):3276-80. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000147612.59751.4C. Epub 2004 Nov 8.

Right ventricular enlargement on chest computed tomography: a predictor of early 
death in acute pulmonary embolism.

Schoepf UJ(1), Kucher N, Kipfmueller F, Quiroz R, Costello P, Goldhaber SZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
SC, USA.

BACKGROUND: In patients with acute pulmonary embolism (PE), rapid and accurate 
risk assessment is paramount in selecting the appropriate treatment strategy. 
Right ventricular (RV) enlargement on chest CT has previously been shown to 
correlate with an unstable hospital course, but its role as a predictor of death 
is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We evaluated 431 consecutive patients (mean age, 59+/-16 
years; 55% women) with acute PE confirmed by multidetector-row chest CT. With 
the use of multiplanar reformats of axial CT data, CT 4-chamber (4-CH) views 
were reconstructed and right and left ventricular dimensions (RV(D), LV(D)) were 
measured. RV enlargement, defined as RV(D)/LV(D) >0.9, was present in 276 
(64.0%; 95% CI, 59.5% to 68.6%) patients. Thirty-day mortality rate was 15.6% 
(95% CI, 11.3% to 19.9%) in patients with and 7.7% (95% CI, 3.5% to 12.0%) 
without RV enlargement (log rank, P=0.018). The hazard ratio of RV(D)/LV(D) >0.9 
for predicting 30-day death was 3.36 (95% CI, 1.13 to 9.97; P=0.029). On 
multivariable analysis, RV enlargement predicted 30-day death (hazard ratio, 
5.17; 95% CI, 1.63 to 16.35; P=0.005) after adjusting for pneumonia (hazard 
ratio, 2.95; 95% CI, 1.19 to 3.83; P=0.002), cancer (hazard ratio, 2.13; 95% CI, 
1.19 to 3.83; P=0.011), chronic lung disease (hazard ratio, 2.00; 95% CI, 1.04 
to 3.86; P=0.039), and age (hazard ratio, 1.03; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.05; P=0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with acute PE, RV enlargement on reconstructed CT 4-CH 
view helps predict early death.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000147612.59751.4C
PMID: 15533868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Med Decis Making. 2004 Nov-Dec;24(6):634-53. doi: 10.1177/0272989X04271040.

A Bayesian approach to net health benefits: an illustration and application to 
modeling HIV prevention.

Johnson-Masotti AP(1), Laud PW, Hoffmann RG, Hayat MJ, Pinkerton SD.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics Department, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. johnmas@mcmaster.ca

PURPOSE: To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of HIV prevention when costs 
and effects cannot be measured directly. To quantify the total estimation of 
uncertainty due to sampling variability as well as inexact knowledge of HIV 
transmission parameters.
METHODS: The authors focus on estimating the incremental net health benefit 
(INHB) in a randomized trial of HIV prevention with intervention and control 
conditions. Using a Bernoulli model of HIV transmission, changes in the 
participants' risk behaviors are converted into the number of HIV infections 
averted. A sampling model is used to account for variation in the behavior 
measurements. Bayes's theorem and Monte Carlo methods are used to attain the 
stated objectives.
RESULTS: The authors obtained a positive mean INHB of 0.0008, indicating that 
advocacy training is just slightly favored over the control condition for men, 
assuming a $50,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) threshold. To be 
confident of a positive INHB, the decision maker would need to spend more than 
$100,000 per QALY.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X04271040
PMID: 15534344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. J Glaucoma. 2004 Dec;13(6):450-3. doi: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000146624.31345.33.

Trabeculectomy with mitomycin-C in uveitic glaucoma associated with Behçet 
disease.

Yalvac IS(1), Sungur G, Turhan E, Eksioglu U, Duman S.

Author information:
(1)Glaucoma Department, Ankara Education and Research Hospital, Ankara, Turkey. 
iyalvac@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To determine the effect of intraoperative application of Mitomycin-C 
(MMC) with trabeculectomy in uveitic glaucoma associated with Behçet disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-six eyes of 26 patients with uveitic glaucoma 
associated with Behçet disease who underwent trabeculectomy with MMC between 
1996 and 2001 were reviewed in this retrospective, noncomparative study. 
Trabeculectomy + MMC in concentration of 0.4 mg/mL for 3 minutes was performed 
to all patients. Main outcome measures were control of IOP, the number of 
antiglaucoma medications required to achieve the desired IOP, visual acuity and 
complications. The surgical success was defined as IOP less than 22 mm Hg and 
greater than 5 mm Hg without additional further glaucoma surgery or loss of 
light perception.
RESULTS: The cumulative probability of success was 83.3% at 1 year, 76.2% at 2 
years, 70% at 3 years, 66.7% at 4 years and 62.5% at 5 years after surgery. The 
mean follow-up was 40.0+/-18.0 months. At last follow-up 23% of the patients 
required no antiglaucoma medications. Best-corrected visual acuity improved or 
remained within two lines of preoperative visual acuity in 19 eyes (73.1%). 
Glaucomatous (1 eye 3.8%) and nonglaucomatous optic atrophy (3 eyes 11.5%) was 
the most frequent reason for visual decrease (total 4 eyes 15.2%). The most 
common complications were cataract formation in 6 eyes (23.1%), bleb leakage in 
4 eyes (15.3%) and choroidal effusion in 3 eyes (11.5%). Phthisis bulbi was 
found in one (3.8%) patient.
CONCLUSION: Trabeculectomy and intraoperative application of MMC appears to 
provide long term safety and effectiveness in uveitic glaucoma associated with 
Behçet disease.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000146624.31345.33
PMID: 15534468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Med J Malaysia. 2004 Mar;59(1):112-4.

Pulmonary resection for metastatic breast cancer.

Gooi BH(1), Premnath N, Manjit S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hospital Pulau Pinang, 10990 Penang.

The management of pulmonary metastasis from breast carcinoma is challenging and 
often consists of palliation of symptoms. Surgical resection of pulmonary 
metastasis is considered inappropriate in view of the disseminated nature of the 
disease and limited life expectancy. It can however be a worthwhile option if 
imaging, including bone scans rule out metastatic disease in other part of the 
body. We report a patient with pulmonary metastasis from breast carcinoma who 
was successfully treated with pulmonary wedge resection of the metastatic 
lesion.

PMID: 15535346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Urol. 2004 Nov;172(5 Pt 2):S48-50; discussion S50-1. doi: 
10.1097/01.ju.0000141712.79986.77.

Active surveillance with selective delayed intervention: using natural history 
to guide treatment in good risk prostate cancer.

Klotz L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: This article reviews the data supporting an approach of active 
surveillance with selective delayed intervention for good risk localized 
prostate cancer. The challenge is to identify those patients who are not likely 
to experience significant progression, while offering radical therapy to those 
who are at risk.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prospective phase 2 study of active surveillance with 
selective delayed intervention was initiated in 1995. Patients were treated 
initially with surveillance, while those who had a prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) doubling time (DT) of 2 years or less, or grade progression on re-biopsy 
were offered radical intervention. The remainder were closely monitored.
RESULTS: The cohort consisted of 299 patients with good risk prostate cancer or 
intermediate risk prostate cancer in men older than 70 years. Median PSA DT was 
7.0 years and 35% of the men had a PSA DT of greater than 10 years. The majority 
of patients remain on surveillance. At 8 years overall actuarial survival was 
85% and disease specific survival was 99%.
CONCLUSIONS: Most men with favorable risk prostate cancer will die of unrelated 
causes. The approach of active surveillance with selective delayed intervention 
based on PSA DT represents a practical compromise between radical therapy in 
all, which results in overtreatment in patients with indolent disease, and 
watchful waiting with palliative therapy only, which results in under treatment 
in those with aggressive disease. Results at 8 years are favorable. Longer 
followup will be required to confirm the safety of this approach in men with 
long (greater than 15-year) life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ju.0000141712.79986.77
PMID: 15535443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Urol. 2004 Nov;172(5 Pt 2):S52-6; discussion S56-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.ju.0000141820.17959.2f.

Osteoporosis and obesity in men receiving hormone therapy for prostate cancer.

Smith MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, 
USA. smith.matthew@mgh.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: A presentation on osteoporosis, obesity and obesity related disease at 
the Conference on Innovations and Challenges in Prostate Cancer: Prevention, 
Detection and Treatment is summarized.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A focused literature review was done.
RESULTS: Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists decrease bone mineral 
density and increase fracture risk. GnRH agonists also increase weight and fat 
mass, and decrease lean body mass. Treatment related changes in body composition 
may contribute to fatigue and fracture risk. The phenotype of men with GnRH 
agonist shares some features with the insulin resistance syndrome, raising the 
possibility that GnRH may also increase the risk of diabetes mellitus and 
cardiovascular disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The routine use of GnRH agonists in men with long life expectancy 
increases the importance of understanding and preventing the unintended adverse 
effects of treatment. Some adverse effects have the potential to impact not only 
quality of life, but also noncancer mortality. Additional research is needed to 
characterize better the unintended effects of androgen deprivation therapy and 
develop optimal strategies to prevent osteoporosis, obesity and obesity related 
disease.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ju.0000141820.17959.2f
PMID: 15535444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. J Med Entomol. 2000 May;37(3):385-92. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/37.3.385.

Life tables of Toxorhynchites rutilus (Diptera: Culicidae) in nature in southern 
Florida.

Campos RE(1), Lounibos LP.

Author information:
(1)Florida Medical Entomology Laboratory, University of Florida, 200 Ninth 
Street SE, Vero Beach, FL 32962, USA.

Stage-specific survivorship curves were constructed for the immature stages of a 
native, predatory mosquito, Toxorhynchites rutilus (Coquillet), by regular 
censuses in the summer and fall of water-holding treeholes and tires. Survival 
from egg to adult ranged from 1.8 to 5.6%, and survivorship patterns were 
significantly heterogeneous between seasons and container types. The probability 
of death was highest in the first and fourth larval instars. Rainfall and 
drought were relatively unimportant risk factors during this study, but the 
probabilities of disappearance of eggs and first and fourth instars were 
significantly higher in the presence of large conspecifics, suggesting that 
cannibalism is a major source of mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/jmedent/37.3.385
PMID: 15535582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Med Entomol. 2004 Sep;41(5):982-6. doi: 10.1603/0022-2585-41.5.982.

Western equine encephalomyelitis virus infection affects the life table 
characteristics of Culex tarsalis (Diptera: Culicidae).

Mahmood F(1), Reisen WK, Chiles RE, Fang Y.

Author information:
(1)Center for Vectorborne Diseases, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
California, Davis 95616, USA.

The life table attributes of Culex tarsalis Coquillett females infected 
experimentally by feeding on 4 and 6 log10 plaque-forming units (PFU) of western 
equine encephalomyelitis virus (WEEV) per milliliter of heparinized chicken 
blood were compared with an uninfected control group. Females continually were 
offered 10% sucrose and an oviposition substrate and daily a blood meal through 
a biomembrane feeder. Mortality (dead females) and fecundity (female eggs per 
female) were monitored daily until all females died. Overall, 94% of 198 females 
in the two virus-infected groups were positive for WEEV at death when tested by 
plaque assay; the average body virus titer at death did not differ between 
groups. WEEV infection significantly altered the life table characteristics of 
Cx. tarsalis. Life expectancy at infection in days (ex), reproductive effort in 
female eggs per female per generation (Ro), and generation time (T) in days for 
the infected cohorts were significantly lower than for the uninfected controls, 
whereas the reproductive rate (rc) in female eggs per female per day was higher 
for infected than uninfected cohorts. In agreement with the WEEV infection data 
that showed similar body titers, there were few differences between the life 
table parameters for the 4 and 6 log10 PFU treatment groups. Greatest 
differences were observed for survivorship between days 17-40 when virus titers 
in infected dying females were greatest. Our data extend recent studies that 
indicate mosquito infection with encephalitis viruses has a cost of reduced life 
expectancy and fitness.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-2585-41.5.982
PMID: 15535632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Psychol Bull. 2004 Nov;130(6):920-58. doi: 10.1037/0033-2909.130.6.920.

Timing of pubertal maturation in girls: an integrated life history approach.

Ellis BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721-0033, USA. bjellis@email.arizona.edu

Life history theory provides a metatheoretical framework for the study of 
pubertal timing from an evolutionary-developmental perspective. The current 
article reviews 5 middle-level theories--energetics theory, stress-suppression 
theory, psychosocial acceleration theory, paternal investment theory, and child 
development theory--each of which applies the basic assumptions of life history 
theory to the question of environmental influences on timing of puberty in 
girls. These theories converge in their conceptualization of pubertal timing as 
responsive to ecological conditions but diverge in their conceptualization of 
(a) the nature, extent, and direction of environmental influences and (b) the 
effects of pubertal timing on other reproductive variables. Competing hypotheses 
derived from the 5 perspectives are evaluated. An extension of W. T. Boyce and 
B. J. Ellis's (in press) theory of stress reactivity is proposed to account for 
both inhibiting and accelerating effects of psychosocial stress on timing of 
pubertal development. This review highlights the multiplicity of (often 
unrecognized) perspectives guiding research, raises challenges to virtually all 
of these, and presents an alternative framework in an effort to move research 
forward in this arena of multidisciplinary inquiry.

DOI: 10.1037/0033-2909.130.6.920
PMID: 15535743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Curr Top Dev Biol. 2004;63:189-225. doi: 10.1016/S0070-2153(04)63006-7.

Life extension in the dwarf mouse.

Bartke A(1), Brown-Borg H.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Research, Department of Medicine, Southern Illinois University 
School of Medicine, Springfield, Illinois 62794, USA.

Ames dwarf mice and Snell dwarf mice lack growth hormone (GH), prolactin (PRL), 
and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), live much longer than their normal 
siblings, and exhibit many symptoms of delayed aging. "Laron dwarf mice," 
produced by targeted disruption of the GH receptor/GH-binding protein gene 
(GHR-KO mice), are GH resistant and also live much longer than normal animals 
from the same line. Isolated GH deficiency in "little" mice is similarly 
associated with increased life span, provided that obesity is prevented by 
reducing fat content in the diet. Long-lived dwarf mice share many phenotypic 
characteristics with genetically normal (wild-type) animals subjected to 
prolonged caloric restriction (CR) but are not CR mimetics. We propose that 
mechanisms linking GH deficiency and GH resistance with delayed aging include 
reduced hepatic synthesis of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), reduced 
secretion of insulin, increased hepatic sensitivity to insulin actions, reduced 
plasma glucose, reduced generation of reactive oxygen species, improved 
antioxidant defenses, increased resistance to oxidative stress, and reduced 
oxidative damage. The possible role of hypothyroidism, reduced body temperature, 
reduced adult body size, delayed puberty, and reduced fecundity in producing the 
long-lived phenotype of dwarf mice remains to be evaluated. An important role of 
IGF-1 and insulin in the control of mammalian longevity is consistent with the 
well-documented actions of homologous signaling pathways in invertebrates.

DOI: 10.1016/S0070-2153(04)63006-7
PMID: 15536017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Rev Pneumol Clin. 2004 Nov;60(5 Pt 2):3S22-6.

[Cardiorespiratory limits to the surgical treatment of lung cancer].

[Article in French]

Bellocq A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Explorations Fonctionnelles, Hôpital Tenon AP-HP, 4, rue de la 
Chine, 75020 Paris. agnes.bellocq@tnn.ap-hop-paris.fr

Cardiorespiratory co-morbidity is a predictive factor of post-surgical mortality 
and morbidity. In the case of lung cancer, the pre-therapeutic work-up must 
assess the post-surgical risks by integrating such co-morbidity. In view of 
this, predictive scores and decisional algorithms have been developed. However, 
such tools were developed and assessed only to predict post-surgical risks 
during the first or second month following resection. Till now, prediction of 
long term quality of candidates for pulmonary resection has not be studied, 
although the question has often been raised by the patient and the medical and 
surgical teams, notably in the case of cardiorespiratory limitation prior to the 
intervention. A study on the predictability of the quality of life at 6 months 
following pulmonary resection was conducted in the Tenon hospital in a cohort of 
81 patients, candidates for resection, initially selected on an MMFR lesser than 
80% of the reference. Out of the 43 patients who finally underwent resection and 
were analysed at 6 months, there were few predictive factors for the alteration 
in quality of life at 6 months following pulmonary resection, other than the 
extension of the surgical act. Conversely, this alteration did not significantly 
depend on the immediate post-surgical events and can be explained by the 
deterioration in respiratory function.

PMID: 15536348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2004 Nov;114(5):1051-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jaci.2004.08.004.

Can bacterial endotoxin exposure reverse atopy and atopic disease?

Douwes J(1), Le Gros G, Gibson P, Pearce N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health Research, Massey University, Wellington Campus, 
Private Box 756, Wellington, New Zealand. J.douwes@massey.ac.nz

Comment in
    J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2005 Jun;115(6):1325-6; author reply 1326.

Studies have shown that endotoxin exposure in childhood is associated with a 
reduced risk of atopy and atopic asthma. It is commonly assumed that these 
effects only occur in early life. However, recent epidemiologic studies suggest 
that immune deviation might take place throughout life. Assuming that the immune 
system is not fixed after the first years of life, we hypothesize that endotoxin 
exposure might not only inhibit the development of atopic sensitization and 
disease at any time throughout life but might also reverse this process. This 
novel extension of the hygiene hypothesis is primarily based on the indirect 
evidence of several epidemiologic observations showing a reduction in atopy in 
adults highly exposed to endotoxin that is unlikely to be explained by 
protective effects alone. In addition, some animal studies demonstrated the 
potential of endotoxin to downregulate pre-existing airway eosinophilia and 
hyperreactivity. However, there is currently little direct evidence that 
endotoxin might reverse atopy and allergic diseases. Observational studies and 
randomized trials to test this hypothesis could ultimately lead to the 
development of novel treatments for atopic diseases, such as allergic asthma, 
hay fever, and eczema.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2004.08.004
PMID: 15536409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Internist (Berl). 2004 Dec;45(12):1356-63. doi: 10.1007/s00108-004-1306-4.

[Oral diabetes treatment. Which substance is indicated at which time?].

[Article in German]

Hamann A(1), Morcos M, Nawroth P.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Innere Medizin I, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg. 
andreas_hamman@med.uni-heidelberg.de

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes continues to show a clear upward trend in 
Germany. In earlier days it was considered the "harmless diabetes of old age," 
but has become increasingly recognized as a disease carrying a high risk of 
vascular sequelae as well as shortening the diabetic's remaining life expectancy 
if adequate therapy is not initiated. In addition to correcting hyperglycemia, 
treatment consists in effective management of concomitant risk factors such as 
hypertension, dyslipidemia, and adiposity resulting from faulty nutrition and 
lack of exercise. In the large majority of overweight type 2 diabetics, 
metformin is the oral antidiabetic agent of first choice provided the patient 
does not exhibit renal insufficiency, which represents the most important 
contraindication. This recommendation for monotherapy of overweight type 2 
diabetics is supported by an endpoint study. In contrast, no equivalent evidence 
is available on any of the possible options for oral combination therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-004-1306-4
PMID: 15536516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


