showed that nucleotide binding caused a slight conformational change in NDPK2 
that was confined to helices alphaA and alpha2. This suggests that the presence 
of nucleotide in the active site and/or the evoked conformational change 
contributes to the recognition of NDPK2 by activated phytochrome. In vitro 
binding assays showed that only NDPK2 interacted specifically with the 
phytochrome and the C-terminal regulatory domain of phytochrome is involved in 
the interaction. A domain swap experiment between NDPK1 and NDPK2 showed that 
the variable C-terminal region of NDPK2 is important for the activation by 
phytochrome. The structure of Arabidopsis NDPK1 and NDPK2 showed that the 
isoforms share common electrostatic surfaces at the nucleotide-binding site, but 
the variable C-terminal regions have distinct electrostatic charge 
distributions. These findings suggest that the binding of nucleotide to NDPK2 
plays a regulatory role in phytochrome signaling and that the C-terminal 
extension of NDPK2 provides a potential binding surface for the specific 
interaction with phytochromes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2004.08.054
PMID: 15465053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. J Neurol Sci. 2004 Oct 15;225(1-2):11-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2004.06.009.

Impact of aerobic training on immune-endocrine parameters, neurotrophic factors, 
quality of life and coordinative function in multiple sclerosis.

Schulz KH(1), Gold SM, Witte J, Bartsch K, Lang UE, Hellweg R, Reer R, Braumann 
KM, Heesen C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Psychology and Transplantation-Center, University 
Hospital Eppendorf, Martinistrasse 52, S3520246 Hamburg, Germany.

In recent years it has become clear that multiple sclerosis (MS) patients 
benefit from physical exercise as performed in aerobic training but little is 
known about the effect on functional domains and physiological factors mediating 
these effects. We studied immunological, endocrine and neurotrophic factors as 
well as coordinative function and quality of life during an 8-week aerobic 
bicycle training in a waitlist control design. In the immune-endocrine study (1) 
28 patients were included, the coordinative extension study (2) included 39 
patients. Training was performed at 60% VO(2)max after determining individual 
exertion levels through step-by-step ergometry. Metabolic (lactate), endocrine 
(cortisol, adrendocortico-releasing hormone, epinephrine, norepinephrine), 
immune (IL-6, soluble IL-6 receptor), and neurotrophic (brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF)) parameters were compared 
from a prestudy and a poststudy endurance test at 60% VO(2)max for 30 min. In 
study (1), lowered lactate levels despite higher workload levels indicated a 
training effect. Disease-specific quality of life (as measured by the Hamburg 
Quality of Life Questionnaire for Multiple Sclerosis, HAQUAMS) significantly 
increased in the training group. No significant training effects were seen for 
endocrine and immune parameters or neurotrophins. In study (2), two out of three 
coordinative parameters of the lower extremities were significantly improved. In 
summary, low-level aerobic training in MS improves not only quality of life but 
also coordinative function and physical fitness.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2004.06.009
PMID: 15465080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Am J Med. 2004 Oct 15;117(8):618; author reply 618-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.05.021.

Cost-effectiveness of inhaled corticosteroids in chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease.

Lee TA, Weiss KB, Sullivan SD.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 2004 Mar 1;116(5):325-31.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.05.021
PMID: 15465515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Feb;34(1):207-14. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyh337. Epub 2004
Oct  1.

Contemporary patterns of Pacific Island mortality.

Taylor R(1), Bampton D, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The Pacific Island countries are at different stages of the 
demographic and epidemiological transitions. The availability of accurate and 
current mortality data is of vital importance for priority setting in health. 
Available mortality data generally underestimate death rates among both children 
and adults. In many Pacific Island populations, little is reliably known about 
levels and causes of death, particularly among adults.
METHODS: The results of two comprehensive approaches to obtaining mortality 
estimates are reported. First, a systematic review of available life expectancy 
and infant mortality information reported by countries from 1990 onwards was 
undertaken and evaluated with respect to quality, and a final "best estimate" 
was established. Methods were based on registered deaths and indirect 
demographic methods. The second approach consisted of a demographic evaluation 
of vital registration data for completeness, with death rates adjusted 
accordingly, or where vital registration was not available, the application of 
new model life table methods to generate life tables from estimates of child 
mortality, as used by the World Health Organisation (WHO).
RESULTS: This analysis reveals substantial uncertainty about mortality 
conditions in Pacific Island populations. In some countries, life expectancy 
variations of 10 years or more were recorded in the 1990s, depending on the 
source. Best approaches suggest that life expectancy (at birth) varied 
considerably, from levels of around 55-60 years in some Melanesian and 
Micronesian states to levels above 70 years in low-mortality countries. The 
principal issues with regard to uncertainty around mortality levels include 
underenumerated vital registration data; annual stochastic fluctuations in 
mortality in small populations; errors in the imputation of adult mortality from 
infant and childhood rates; implausible results from indirect demographic 
methods; use of possibly inappropriate model life tables to adjust death data or 
for indirect methods; and inadequately described and implausible projections. 
The WHO model life table method based on adjusted vital registration generally 
yielded results similar to those suggested by an evaluation of published data, 
with some exceptions, which are further discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates the urgent need to improve infrastructure, 
training, and resources for routine mortality estimation in many Pacific Island 
countries in order to better inform and evaluate health and public policy.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyh337
PMID: 15465904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Jun;34(3):529-33. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyh272. Epub 2004
Oct  1.

Commentary: The McKeown debate: time for burial.

Grundy E(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Studies, Department of Epidemiology & Population 
Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 49-51 Bedford Square, 
London WC1B 3DP, UK. emily.grundy@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Jun;34(3):515-20.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyh272
PMID: 15465905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Pediatrics. 2004 Oct;114(4):917-24. doi: 10.1542/peds.2004-0899.

Cost-effectiveness of strategies that are intended to prevent kernicterus in 
newborn infants.

Suresh GK(1), Clark RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Medical University of South Carolina Children's 
Hospital, Room 664, Neonatal Division, 165 Ashley Ave, PO Box 250917, 
Charleston, SC 29425, USA. suresh@musc.edu

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2004 Oct;114(4):1086-8.

OBJECTIVE: There is concern about an increasing incidence of kernicterus in 
healthy term neonates in the United States. Although the incidence of 
kernicterus is unknown, several potential strategies that are intended to 
prevent kernicterus have been proposed by experts. It is necessary to assess the 
costs, benefits, and risks of such strategies before widespread policy changes 
are made. The objective of this study was to determine the direct costs to 
prevent a case of kernicterus with the following 3 strategies: (1) universal 
follow-up in the office or at home within 1 to 2 days of early newborn 
discharge, (2) routine predischarge serum bilirubin with selective follow-up and 
laboratory testing, and (3) routine predischarge transcutaneous bilirubin with 
selective follow-up and laboratory testing.
METHODS: We performed an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis of the 3 
strategies compared with current practice. We used a decision analytic model and 
a spreadsheet to estimate the direct costs and outcomes, including the savings 
resulting from prevented kernicterus, for an annual cohort of 2,800000 healthy 
term newborns who are eligible for early discharge. We used a modified societal 
perspective and 2002 US dollars. With each strategy, the test and treatment 
thresholds for hyperbilirubinemia are lowered compared with current practice.
RESULTS: With the base-case assumptions (current incidence of kernicterus 1:100 
000 and a relative risk reduction [RRR] of 0.7 with each strategy), the cost to 
prevent 1 case of kernicterus was 10,321463 dollars, 5,743905 dollars, and 
9,191352 dollars respectively for strategies 1, 2, and 3 listed above. The total 
annual incremental costs for the cohort were, respectively, 202,300671 dollars, 
112,580535 dollars, and 180,150494 dollars. Sensitivity analyses showed that the 
cost per case is highly dependent on the population incidence of kernicterus and 
the RRR with each strategy, both of which are currently unknown. In our model, 
annual cost savings of 46,179465 dollars for the cohort would result with 
strategy 2, if the incidence of kernicterus is high (1:10,000 births or higher) 
and the RRR is high (> or =0.7). If the incidence is lower or the RRR is lower, 
then the cost per case prevented ranged from 4,145676 dollars to as high as 
77,650240 dollars.
CONCLUSIONS: Widespread implementation of these strategies is likely to increase 
health care costs significantly with uncertain benefits. It is premature to 
implement routine predischarge serum or transcutaneous bilirubin screening on a 
large scale. However, universal follow-up may have benefits beyond kernicterus 
prevention, which we did not include in our model. Research is required to 
determine the epidemiology, risk factors, and causes of kernicterus; to evaluate 
the effectiveness of strategies intended to prevent kernicterus; and to 
determine the cost per quality-adjusted life year with any proposed preventive 
strategy.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2004-0899
PMID: 15466085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Cancer Res. 2004 Oct 1;64(19):7092-8. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-0364.

Suppression of colorectal cancer liver metastasis and extension of survival by 
expression of apolipoprotein(a) kringles.

Yu HK(1), Kim JS, Lee HJ, Ahn JH, Lee SK, Hong SW, Yoon Y.

Author information:
(1)Mogam Biotechnology Research Institute, Yongin-city, Kyonggi-do, Republic of 
Korea.

The formation of hepatic metastases in colorectal cancer is the main cause of 
patient death. Current therapies directed at hepatic metastasis of colorectal 
cancer have had minimal impact on outcome. Therefore, alternative treatment 
strategies for liver metastasis require development. The present study was 
performed to evaluate the application of cDNA of LK68 encoding apolipoprotein(a) 
kringles IV-9, IV-10, and V as possible candidates for gene therapy treatment of 
this life-threatening disease. The murine colorectal cancer cell line CT26 was 
transduced ex vivo with LK68 cDNA via retroviral gene transfer, and an 
experimental model of hepatic metastasis was established by injecting 
LK68-expressing and control cells into the spleens of BALB/c mice. Expression of 
LK68 did not affect the growth characteristics and viability of transduced CT26 
cells in vitro. LK68 produced from CT26 cells substantially inhibited the 
migration of endothelial cells in vitro. In vivo, substantial suppression of 
liver metastasis and prolonged survival were observed in mice bearing 
LK68-expressing CT26 cells, compared with controls. LK68-expressing liver 
metastases were restricted to smaller sizes and displayed decreased microvessel 
density and increased tumor cell apoptosis. Our data collectively indicate that 
LK68 suppresses angiogenesis-dependent progression of prevascular 
micrometastases to macroscopic tumors and their growth, which are clinically 
accessible and biologically relevant therapeutic targets. We propose that 
antiangiogenic gene therapy with LK68 is a promising strategy for the treatment 
of colorectal cancer liver metastasis.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-0364
PMID: 15466205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Ann Intern Med. 2004 Oct 5;141(7):I29. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-141-7-200410050-00002.

Summaries for patients. The cost-effectiveness of screening for Chlamydia in 
women 15 to 29 years of age.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Oct 5;141(7):501-13.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-141-7-200410050-00002
PMID: 15466762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Ann Intern Med. 2004 Oct 5;141(7):501-13. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-141-7-200410050-00006.

Screening for Chlamydia trachomatis in women 15 to 29 years of age: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Hu D(1), Hook EW 3rd, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115-5924, USA.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Nov 2;141(9):744.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Oct 5;141(7):570-2.
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Feb 15;142(4):308; author reply 308-9.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Oct 5;141(7):I29.

BACKGROUND: Clinical guidelines have traditionally advised annual Chlamydia 
trachomatis screening for women younger than 25 years of age.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of recently proposed strategies for 
chlamydia screening.
DESIGN: State transition simulation model; cost-effectiveness analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature.
TARGET POPULATION: Sexually active U.S. women 15 to 29 years of age.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Modified societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Four strategies targeted to 3 specific age groups (15 to 19 
years, 15 to 24 years, and 15 to 29 years): 1) no screening, 2) annual screening 
for all women, 3) annual screening followed by 1 repeated test within 3 to 6 
months after a positive test result, and 4) annual screening followed by 
selective semiannual screening for women with a history of infection.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical events (for example, pelvic inflammatory disease, 
chronic pelvic pain, ectopic pregnancy, and infertility), lifetime costs, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Annual screening in women 15 to 29 years of age 
followed by semiannual screening for those with a history of infection was the 
most effective and cost-effective strategy. It consistently had an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio less than 25,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) compared with the next most effective strategy. When the indirect 
transmission effects of a 10-year screening program on the probability of 
infection in uninfected women (that is, per-susceptible rate of infection) were 
considered, all strategies became more cost-effective.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results were sensitive to the annual incidence 
of chlamydia, probability of persistent infection, screening test costs, and 
costs of treating long-term complications. Each variable was associated with 
threshold values beyond which screening became cost-saving. In probabilistic 
analysis, annual screening in women 15 to 29 years of age followed by semiannual 
screening for those with a history of infection had an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio less than 50,000 dollars per QALY in 99% of 
simulations.
LIMITATIONS: Uncertainty about the natural history of chlamydial infection and 
consideration of only the indirect transmission effects of C. trachomatis 
screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Annual C. trachomatis screening for all women 15 to 29 years of age 
and selective targeting of those with a history of infection for semiannual 
screening is very cost-effective compared with other well-accepted clinical 
interventions.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-141-7-200410050-00006
PMID: 15466767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Ann Intern Med. 2004 Oct 5;141(7):575; author reply 575. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-141-7-200410050-00019.

Survival versus prognosis in Alzheimer disease.

Kaldjian LC.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Apr 6;140(7):501-9.
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 Apr 6;140(7):573-4.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-141-7-200410050-00019
PMID: 15466779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2004 Oct 6;96(19):1411. doi: 10.1093/jnci/96.19.1411.

Money matters: how cost-effectiveness studies are done.

Zielinski SL.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/96.19.1411
PMID: 15467024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2004 Sep 15;114(4):988-91. doi: 
10.1097/01.prs.0000133172.28160.6f.

Effect of face lift on earlobe ptosis and pseudoptosis.

Mowlavi A(1), Meldrum DG, Wilhelmi BJ, Zook EG.

Author information:
(1)Plastic Surgery Institute, Southern Illinois University, School of Medicine, 
Springfield, Ill 62794-9653, USA. amowlavi@hotmail.com

The authors have previously described a classification system for earlobe ptosis 
and established criteria for earlobe pseudoptosis. Earlobe heights were 
characterized on the basis of anatomic landmarks, including the intertragal 
notch, the otobasion inferius (the most caudal anterior attachment of the 
earlobe to the cheek skin), and the subaurale (the most caudal extension of the 
earlobe free margin). The classification system was derived from earlobe height 
preferences as determined by a survey of North American Caucasians and 
identified the ideal free caudal segment (otobasion inferius to subaurale 
distance) measuring 1 to 5 mm (grade I ptosis). Also, earlobe pseudoptosis was 
defined by an attached cephalic segment (intertragal notch to otobasion inferius 
distance) measuring greater than 15 mm. In this study, the authors evaluated the 
effects of standard face lift surgery on earlobe ptosis and pseudoptosis by 
comparing the preoperative and postoperative earlobe height measurements from 
life-size photographs of 44 patients who underwent rhytidectomy performed by the 
senior author. The postoperative attached cephalic segment (intertragal notch to 
otobasion inferius distance, 12.22 +/- 0.364 mm) increased over its preoperative 
attached cephalic segment (intertragal notch to otobasion inferius distance, 
11.10 +/- 0.406 mm) (p = 0.041). The postoperative free caudal segment 
(otobasion inferius to subaurale distance, 6.32 +/- 0.438 mm) demonstrated only 
a trend toward decreased heights when compared with the preoperative free caudal 
segment (otobasion inferius to subaurale distance, 7.15 +/- 0.489 mm) (p = 
0.210). The incidence of pseudoptosis, defined by an attached segment 
(intertragal notch to otobasion inferius distance) greater than 15 mm, increased 
from 12.3 percent of preoperative patient earlobes to 17.3 percent of 
postoperative patient earlobes. An ideal free caudal segment (otobasion inferius 
to subaurale distance), defined by a range of 1 to 5 mm, was observed in only 
37.0 percent of postoperative earlobes versus 22.2 percent of preoperative 
earlobes. Significant increases in the attached cephalic segments (intertragal 
notch to otobasion inferius distance) following rhytidectomies correlated with 
increased incidence of earlobe pseudoptosis, as observed in 17.3 percent of 
postoperative patient earlobes. Because the free caudal segment was negligibly 
affected by rhytidectomy, a majority of earlobes (63.0 percent) demonstrated 
persistent nonoptimal free caudal segment heights (otobasion inferius to 
subaurale distance > 5 mm). Earlobe height changes can result from either 
age-related lobule ptosis (increase in free caudal segment) as previously 
described or in patients undergoing rhytidectomy (increase in attached cephalic 
segment). Therefore, ideal lobule distances along with the effects of aging and 
rhytidectomy surgery on the lobule should be discussed with patients who are 
seeking a more youthful facial appearance, so that the aging ear may be 
addressed concurrently with the aging face.

DOI: 10.1097/01.prs.0000133172.28160.6f
PMID: 15468408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Med Decis Making. 2004 Sep-Oct;24(5):536-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X04270119.

The implications of differing methods of utility assessment for patient-specific 
decision-analytic tools.

Yi MS.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 2004 Sep-Oct;24(5):504-10.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X04270119
PMID: 15468472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Acta Chir Belg. 2004 Aug;104(4):384-7.

Carotid endarterectomy in octogenarians and nonagenarians : is it worth the 
effort?

Hingorani A(1), Ascher E, Schutzer R, Tsemkhim B, Kallakuri S, Yorkovich W, 
Jacob T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Maimonides Medical 
Center, Brooklyn, New York 11219, USA.

PURPOSE: The safety, effectiveness and cost issues of carotid endarterectomy 
(CEA) in the elderly patient have been debated due to the limited life 
expectancy and presumably increased rate of complications. This is despite 
multiple reports in the literature of excellent results in this population. To 
further examine this issue, we compared characteristics of three populations who 
underwent CEA at our institution: 53-79 year old patients (youngest group), 
80-89 years old patients (middle group), and 90-98 year old patients (oldest 
group).
METHODS: Medical and financial data were obtained by retrospective review of 
hospital charts and billing records. We analyzed 266 random CEAs performed in 
251 patients in the youngest group, 280 CEAs performed in 247 patients in the 
middle group and 19 CEA in 16 patients in the oldest group performed between 
2/1/90 and 2/5/01.
RESULTS: Comparing each CEA group, there were no differences in gender (males: 
56% vs. 51% vs. 53%), incidence of preoperative symptoms (43% vs. 43% vs. 42%), 
hypertension (68% vs. 60% vs. 42%), combined perioperative death and stroke rate 
(1.8% vs. 2.1% vs. 10%) or other complications (11% vs. 10% vs. 10%). 
Significant differences (p<0.05) were noted between the groups in incidence of 
diabetes (33% vs. 51% vs. 5% in each group), and heart disease (28% vs. 38% vs. 
21%). Length of stay for admissions for CEA only were also similar in all three 
groups (2.37 days vs. 2.67 days vs. 2.36 days). A cost analysis of the earliest 
230 patients in the entire series examining hospital cost per case revealed 
similar data for the < 80 years old and > 80 year old patients ($7,842 vs. 
$9,400).
CONCLUSIONS: Carotid endarterectomy can be performed in the elderly as safely 
and cost effectively as in the younger population.

PMID: 15469147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Cardiovasc Toxicol. 2004;4(3):243-60. doi: 10.1385/ct:4:3:243.

Cardiovascular toxicity with highly active antiretroviral therapy: review of 
clinical studies.

Bozkurt B(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, and Winters Center For Heart Failure Research, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA. bbozkurt@bcm.tmc.edu

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has dramatically improved the life 
expectancy of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Specific 
toxicities cited for HAART include elevations in serum levels of total 
cholesterol and triglycerides, reduction in high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol, alterations in the distribution of body fat, increases in insulin 
resistance, and diabetes, which are major risk factors for cardiovascular 
disease (CVD). The majority of the studies examining the incidence of CV events 
demonstrated an increase in CV event rate with HAART in the HIV-infected 
population. Overall, the CVD risk appears to be greater in the HIV-infected 
population than in the general population, and the increased CV risk is 
associated with HAART, particularly with protease inhibitor use. Despite the 
relative risk (RR) for CVD being significantly high (the hazard ratio for 
myocardial infarction ranging between 1.3 and 7.1), the absolute risk for CVD 
remains low, with the CV event rates ranging between one and seven events per 
1000 person-years. Although there is general consensus that the benefits of 
HAART far outweigh toxicity-related risks of the treatment with HAART, prolonged 
survival among HIV-infected patients will likely support the use of different 
antiretroviral regimens with potentially less CV toxicity in the future.

DOI: 10.1385/ct:4:3:243
PMID: 15470272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nature. 2004 Oct 7;431(7009):633. doi: 10.1038/431633a.

The long and the short of it..

Kaplan AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/431633a
PMID: 15470407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Lancet. 2004 Oct 2-8;364(9441):1281-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)17146-8.

Voices lost: Indigenous health and human rights in Australia.

Anderson I, Loff B.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)17146-8
PMID: 15470813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Trop Gastroenterol. 2004 Apr-Jun;25(2):65-8.

Silent gallstones: a therapeutic dilemma.

Gupta SK(1), Shukla VK.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi 221005, India.

Asymptomatic gall stones are defined as stones that have not caused biliary 
colic or other biliary symptoms. Nearly two-third of patients with gall stones 
are asymptomatic. Studies of the natural history of asymptomatic gall stones 
suggest that the cumulative probability of developing biliary colic after 10 
years ranges from 15% to 25%. The incidence of other complications is much less. 
The operative mortality of elective cholecystectomy is <0.5% but increased 
mortality is seen in elderly persons (>60 year of age), particularly in those 
with complications such as acute cholecystitis. Most decision analysis studies 
do not favour prophylactic cholecystectomy for asymptomatic cholelithiasis. 
Nonetheless, many studies have listed certain criteria for carrying out elective 
cholecystectomy in asymptomatic patients. The authors, from their own experience 
and after reviewing the literature, propose the following criteria for 
cholecystectomy: life expectancy >20 years, calculi >3 cm in diameter, 
particularly in individuals in geographical regions with a high prevalence of 
gall bladder cancer or calculi <3 mm, chronically obliterated cystic duct, 
non-functioning gallbladder and calcified (porcelain) gallbladder. The 
widespread use of diagnostic abdominal ultrasonography has led to the increasing 
detection of clinically unsuspected gall stones. This, in turn, has given rise 
to a great deal of controversy regarding the optimal management of asymptomatic 
or 'silent' gall stones. While cholecystectomy is the undisputed gold standard 
treatment for symptomatic gall stones, the natural history of silent gall stones 
is not known well enough to recommend a definitive therapeutic strategy for such 
patients. The treatment options for asymptomatic or silent gall stones range 
from no treatment to selective cholecystectomy in at-risk group to elective 
cholecystectomy in all patients. There are a large number of proponents for each 
of these options so that each merits careful consideration. In this article, the 
authors examine the evidence for and against treating silent gall stones with 
the aim of providing more specific guidelines for the management of patients 
found to have asymptomatic gall stones.

PMID: 15471318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Biomed Mater Eng. 2004;14(4):487-504.

Injection biomechanics of bone cements used in vertebroplasty.

Baroud G(1), Bohner M, Heini P, Steffen T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de biomécanique, Département de génie mécanique, Université de 
Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada J1K 2R1.

The incidence of osteoporotic bone fractures is growing exponentially as the 
western population ages and as life expectancy increases. Vertebroplasty, where 
acrylic or calcium phosphate cement is injected into the weakened vertebrae to 
augment them, is an emerging procedure for treating spinal fragility fractures. 
However, cement injection is currently limited because there are no clear 
standards for a safe, reproducible and predictable procedure. The purpose of 
this paper is to examine the role that bone cements play in the underlying 
bio-mechanisms that affect the outcomes of cement injection. Our most important 
finding after combining clinical, laboratory and theoretical research is that 
the process of cement injection poses conflicting demands on bone cements. The 
cements are required to be more viscous and less viscous at the same time. The 
challenge therefore is to develop biomaterials, techniques and/or devices that 
can overcome or manage the conflicting demands on cement viscosity.

PMID: 15472396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. J Vasc Surg. 2004 Oct;40(4):691-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2004.06.039.

Patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm: are we missing the opportunity for 
cardiovascular risk reduction?

Lloyd GM(1), Newton JD, Norwood MG, Franks SC, Bown MJ, Sayers RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leicester Royal Infirmary, England. 
geraint_l@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Antiplatelet agents, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A 
reductase inhibitors (statin drugs), angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitors, and beta-adrenergic receptor blockers (beta-blockers) reduce 
cardiovascular risk and mortality in patients with specific manifestations of 
cardiovascular disease and risk factors. Occlusive arterial disease, in 
particular, coronary heart disease, is prevalent in patients with abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (AAA) and results in reduced life expectancy. The purpose of 
this study was to investigate the prevalence of cardiovascular disease and risk 
factors in patients with AAA. In particular, numbers of patients in whom 
pharmacologic therapy is indicated and numbers of patients who are receiving 
adequate treatment were determined.
METHODS: This was a prospective study of 313 patients with AAA in Leicestershire 
over the 15 months between September 2002 and December 2003.
RESULTS: Data that enabled determination of an indication for antiplatelet 
agents and statin drugs were available for 262 patients (84%), and for a 
beta-blocker and ACE inhibitor for 313 patients (100%). An antiplatelet agent 
was indicated in 242 of 262 patients (92%), a statin drug was indicated in 196 
of 262 patients (75%), a beta-blocker was indicated in 107 of 313 patients 
(34%), and an ACE inhibitor was indicated in 178 of 313 patients (57%). In 
patients with an indication, 146 of 242 patients (60%) were using an 
antiplatelet agent, 81 of 196 (41%) were using a statin drug, 41 of 313 (38%) 
were using a beta-blocker, and 69 of 313 (39%) were using an ACE inhibitor.
CONCLUSION: Cardiovascular disease, for which there is evidence for the survival 
benefit of pharmacologic risk reduction, is prevalent in patients with AAA. The 
data show that current treatment of cardiovascular risk is suboptimal and could 
be improved, with an expected reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2004.06.039
PMID: 15472596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Clin Infect Dis. 2004 Sep 15;39(6):853-60. doi: 10.1086/423183. Epub 2004
Aug  27.

Delayed progression to death and to AIDS in a Hong Kong cohort of patients with 
advanced HIV type 1 disease during the era of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy.

Wong KH(1), Chan KC, Lee SS.

Author information:
(1)Integrated Treatment Centre, Special Preventive Programme, Centre for Health 
Protection, Department of Health, Hong Kong. khwong@dhspp.net

BACKGROUND: The magnitude of the impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART) since its introduction in non-Western countries is not entirely clear. 
We studied disease progression among adult patients with advanced human 
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in the pre-HAART (i.e., 1996 and 
earlier) and HAART eras in Hong Kong.
METHODS: The cohort of patients seen at the Integrated Treatment Center (Hong 
Kong) from 1984 through mid-2003 was retrospectively examined with respect to 3 
clinical end points: death after the diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS), progression to AIDS after achieving a CD4 cell count of <200 
cells/microL, and death after achieving a CD4 cell count of <200 cells/microL.
RESULTS: A total of 581 patients with advanced HIV-1 disease had AIDS and/or a 
CD4 cell count of <200 cells/microL. The incidences of death after AIDS (52.3% 
vs. 13.6%), AIDS progression after a CD4 cell count of <200 cells/microL (47.7% 
vs. 20.9%), and death after a CD4 cell count of <200 cells/microL (38.8% vs. 
7.0%) were significantly higher among patients in the pre-HAART era than among 
those in the HAART era (P<.001 for all). On the basis of life-table analysis, 
the probabilities of death after AIDS (P<.0001), AIDS after a CD4 cell count of 
<200 cells/microL (P=.0063), and death after a CD4 cell count of <200 
cells/microL (P<.0001) diminished in the HAART era, compared with the pre-HAART 
era. Median survival after AIDS increased from 29.8 months during the pre-HAART 
era to >70 months during the HAART era (P<.001). Compared with patients in the 
pre-HAART era, adjusted hazard ratios of clinical events were 0.15 (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.08-0.26) for death after AIDS, 0.38 (95% CI, 
0.24-0.60) for AIDS after a CD4 cell count of <200 cells/microL, and 0.25 (95% 
CI, 0.15-0.40) for death after a CD4 cell count of <200 cells/microL for 
patients in the HAART era. CONCLUSIONS. The clinical outcome of patients with 
advanced HIV-1 disease in Hong Kong significantly improved during the HAART era. 
Our findings of extended durations of survival and AIDS-free status may be 
relevant to the expected health impacts associated with increased access to 
HAART in non-Western countries.

DOI: 10.1086/423183
PMID: 15472819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Qual Life Res. 2004 Sep;13(7):1177-85. doi:
10.1023/B:QURE.0000037510.17893.d2.

Quantitative assessment of changes in patients' constructs of quality of life: 
an application of multilevel models.

Lowy A(1), Bernhard J.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute for Applied Cancer Research, SIAK Coordinating Center, Bern, 
Switzerland. adam.lowy@siak.ch

It has often been proposed that quality of life (QL) instruments should account 
for potentially changing conceptualisations of QL as patients adapt to disease 
(response-shift). Most instruments do not do this, and some that do are 
relatively complicated and burdensome for patients. The extent to which patients 
reconceptualise QL is unknown, and it is unclear whether this additional 
complication is necessary. This paper reviews existing methods for assessing 
response-shift and introduces an alternative approach using multilevel models. 
The method is described using data from a cancer clinical trial, and its 
performance is evaluated in simulations. The models reveal substantial 
response-shift in these cancer patients. Simulations under the null hypothesis 
of zero response-shift confirm that the method performs correctly in terms of 
its risk of type I error, and further simulations illustrate its statistical 
power to detect pre-defined levels of response-shift. The method is a relatively 
simple extension of familiar multiple regression models and yields parameters 
with a simple interpretation, representing the changes in importance of QL 
domains over time. It can be applied to existing datasets collected with other 
analysis strategies in mind and may have application in the investigation of 
response shifts and other manifestations of adaptation.

DOI: 10.1023/B:QURE.0000037510.17893.d2
PMID: 15473496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Dec;59(12):2459-66. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.003.

Inpatient/outpatient health care costs and remaining years of life--effect of 
decreasing mortality on future acute health care demand.

Batljan I(1), Lagergren M.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, 10333 Stockholm, Sweden. 
ilija.batljan@social.ministry.se

The article introduces a method that may be used to estimate how demographic 
changes may affect future demand for inpatient/outpatient health care. The 
method is useful in order to refine estimation of demographic influence on 
demand in the process of health human resources planning. Empirical evidence 
focuses on the connection between health care costs and remaining years of life. 
We estimate the demographically determined rise in inpatient/outpatient health 
care demand in Sweden in the period 2000-2030. The increase arrived at, by means 
of our method, is circa 37% lower than estimates done with a simple 
demographical extrapolation, which does not take the decreasing mortality 
pattern into account.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.003
PMID: 15474201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2004 Nov 12;324(2):931-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.09.136.

L-carnosine reduces telomere damage and shortening rate in cultured normal 
fibroblasts.

Shao L(1), Li QH, Tan Z.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, PR China.

Telomere is the repetitive DNA sequence at the end of chromosomes, which 
shortens progressively with cell division and limits the replicative potential 
of normal human somatic cells. L-carnosine, a naturally occurring dipeptide, has 
been reported to delay the replicative senescence, and extend the lifespan of 
cultured human diploid fibroblasts. In this work, we studied the effect of 
carnosine on the telomeric DNA of cultured human fetal lung fibroblast cells. 
Cells continuously grown in 20 mM carnosine exhibited a slower telomere 
shortening rate and extended lifespan in population doublings. When kept in a 
long-term nonproliferating state, they accumulated much less damages in the 
telomeric DNA when cultured in the presence of carnosine. We suggest that the 
reduction in telomere shortening rate and damages in telomeric DNA made an 
important contribution to the life-extension effect of carnosine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.09.136
PMID: 15474517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Arch Pediatr. 2004 Oct;11(10):1197-201. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2004.05.016.

[Risks and benefits of cardiac surgery in Down's syndrome with congenital heart 
disease].

[Article in French]

Stos B(1), Dembour G, Ovaert C, Barrea C, Arape A, Stijns M, Sluysmans T.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie pédiatrique, cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc, UCL, 
10, avenue Hippocrate, 1200 Bruxelles, Belgique.

Down's syndrome is the most frequent chromosomic anomaly. Fifty percent are 
associated with a congenital heart disease. Life expectancy and quality of life 
are increasing since 15 years with improving surgical techniques.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study presents 73 patients with Down's syndrome who 
underwent a surgical repair of congenital heart disease between 1992 and 2002. 
Among them, 37 (50.6%) had a complete atrio-ventricular septal defect (AVSD) and 
36 an other anomaly.
RESULTS: Five children died in the post operative period: all had an AVSD. Two 
late deaths occurred due to extra cardiac causes during the follow up. Two 
children who underwent a repair of AVSD had to be reoperated. The majority of 
the children are doing well, without any cardiac symptom. Thirty-eight percent 
of patients with AVSD repair have a middle mitral or tricuspid regurgitation and 
three had a massive mitral or tricuspid regurgitation. One child presents 
neurological sequelae related to surgery.
CONCLUSION: Congenital heart diseases in Down's syndrome can be repaired with a 
limited risk of death. Final results are good for many children with significant 
improvement of the quality of life and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2004.05.016
PMID: 15475275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Cancer Gene Ther. 2004 Nov;11(11):721-32. doi: 10.1038/sj.cgt.7700783.

Effects of ectopic decorin in modulating intracranial glioma progression in 
vivo, in a rat syngeneic model.

Biglari A(1), Bataille D, Naumann U, Weller M, Zirger J, Castro MG, Lowenstein 
PR.

Author information:
(1)Gene Therapeutics Research Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Research 
Pavilion, Suite 5090, 8700 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90048, 
USA.

Given the failure of conventional treatments for glioblastoma, gene therapy has 
gained interest considerable in recent years. Gliomas are associated with a 
state of immunosuppression, which appears to be partially mediated by an 
increase in secretion of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) from glioma 
cells. Decorin, a small proteoglycan which can bind to and inactivate TGF-beta, 
has been successfully used as an antitumor strategy on stably transfected tumor 
cells and has been shown to cause growth suppression in neoplastic cells of 
various histological origins. In this paper, we investigated the use of gene 
therapy to deliver the decorin transgene in a site-specific manner in an 
experimental model of intracranial gliomas. Our aim was to inhibit the 
glioma-associated immunosuppressive state, and prolong the survival of 
tumor-bearing rats. We studied the effects of decorin gene transfer in the rat 
CNS-1 glioma model. To assess the effect of ectopic expression of decorin on 
glioma progression in vivo, stably transfected CNS-1 cells expressing decorin 
were implanted into the brain parenchyma of syngeneic Lewis rats. The rats 
implanted with CNS-1 cells expressing decorin survived significantly longer than 
those in the control groups which received CNS-1 cells that did not express 
decorin (P < .0001). We then investigated whether the survival observed with 
decorin expressing cells could be mimicked in vivo, using recombinant 
adenoviruses (RAds) expressing the decorin gene under the control of two 
different promoters: the human immediate-early cytomegalovirus (h-IE-CMV) and 
the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In vivo results showed that 
administration of RAd expressing the human decorin under the control of h-IE-CMV 
promoter has a small, but significant effect in prolonging the survival of 
experimental tumor bearing rats (P < .0001). Our data indicate that ectopic 
decorin expression has the potential to slow glioma progression in vivo. Our 
results also indicate that expression of decorin has to be present in all cells 
which constitute the intracranial tumor mass for the inhibition of tumor growth 
and prolongation of the life expectancy of tumor-bearing rats to be effective.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.cgt.7700783
PMCID: PMC2902255
PMID: 15475879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2004 Oct;2(10):865-7. doi: 
10.1016/s1542-3565(04)00395-7.

The wizards of odds: cost-effectiveness, Barrett's screening, and surveillance 
guidelines.

Perdue DG, Murray J, Wang KK.

Comment on
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2004 Oct;2(10):868-79.

DOI: 10.1016/s1542-3565(04)00395-7
PMID: 15476149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2004 Oct;2(10):868-79. doi: 
10.1016/s1542-3565(04)00394-5.

Cost-effectiveness model of endoscopic screening and surveillance in patients 
with gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Gerson LB(1), Groeneveld PW, Triadafilopoulos G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, California 94305-5202, USA. lgerson@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2004 Oct;2(10):865-7.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Endoscopic screening and periodic surveillance for patients 
with Barrett's esophagus has been shown to be cost-effective in patients with 
esophageal dysplasia, with treatment for esophageal cancer limited to 
esophagectomy. Most gastroenterologists refer patients with high-grade dysplasia 
for esophagectomy, and effective endoscopic therapies are available for 
nonoperative patients with esophageal cancer. The cost-effectiveness of 
screening strategies that incorporate these nonsurgical treatment modalities has 
not been determined.
METHODS: We designed a Markov model to compare lifetime costs and life 
expectancy for a cohort of 50-year-old men with chronic reflux symptoms. We 
compared 10 clinical strategies incorporating combinations of screening and 
surveillance protocols (no screening, screening with periodic surveillance for 
both dysplastic and nondysplastic Barrett's esophagus, or periodic surveillance 
for dysplasia only), treatment for high-grade dysplasia (esophagectomy or 
intensive surveillance), and treatment for cancer (esophagectomy or surgical and 
endoscopic treatment options).
RESULTS: Screening and surveillance of patients with both dysplastic and 
nondysplastic Barrett's esophagus followed by esophagectomy for surgical 
candidates with high-grade dysplasia or esophageal cancer and endoscopic therapy 
for cancer patients who were not operative candidates cost $12,140 per life-year 
gained compared to no screening. Other screening strategies, including 
strategies that had no endoscopic treatment options, were either less effective 
at the same cost, or equally effective at a higher cost.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of screening and subsequent surveillance of 
patients with dysplastic as well as nondysplastic Barrett's esophagus followed 
by endoscopic or surgical therapy in patients who develop cancer compares 
favorably to many widely accepted screening strategies for cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s1542-3565(04)00394-5
PMID: 15476150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Virology. 2004 Nov 10;329(1):40-52. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2004.07.003.

Molecular and transcriptional analysis of the temperate lactococcal 
bacteriophage Tuc2009.

Seegers JF(1), Mc Grath S, O'Connell-Motherway M, Arendt EK, van de Guchte M, 
Creaven M, Fitzgerald GF, van Sinderen D.

Author information:
(1)National Food Biotechnology Centre, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.

The genome of bacteriophage Tuc2009 consists of 38347 base pairs on which 57 
open reading frames (ORFs) were identified, divided in two oppositely 
transcribed regions. The leftward-transcribed region harbors three ORFs, two of 
which are involved in the establishment of lysogeny. The rightward-transcribed 
region contains 54 ORFs, which are assumed to be required for the lytic life 
cycle. An exception to the above organization is ORF 10, of unknown function, 
located within the rightward-transcribed region that has an orientation opposite 
to the ORFs surrounding it. Transcriptional analysis of the Tuc2009 genome 
following infection of a sensitive host revealed that most ORFs are transcribed 
in a sequential manner. ORFs that are presumed to form (part of) the genetic 
switch along with the superinfection exclusion-encoding gene are transcribed 
immediately after infection, followed by transcription of the presumed 
replication region. Subsequent to this, several small transcripts could be 
identified followed by a single 24-kb transcript. This latter transcript was 
shown to specify most of the identified structural proteins as well as two 
proteins required for host lysis. Interestingly, the 24-kb mRNA was shown to 
undergo splicing through the activity of a type I intron whose removal from the 
mRNA resulted in the formation of an ORF specifying a major structural protein. 
Primer extension analysis was employed to identify the 5' ends of mRNA 
transcripts and the genome and transcriptional data are discussed in relation to 
other lactococcal bacteriophages.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2004.07.003
PMID: 15476873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Haematologica. 2004 Oct;89(10):1157-9.

Quality of life and survival of patients with beta-thalassemia major.

Cao A.

Comment on
    Haematologica. 2004 Oct;89(10):1179-86.
    Haematologica. 2004 Oct;89(10):1187-93.

PMID: 15477196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Haematologica. 2004 Oct;89(10):1187-93.

Survival and complications in patients with thalassemia major treated with 
transfusion and deferoxamine.

Borgna-Pignatti C(1), Rugolotto S, De Stefano P, Zhao H, Cappellini MD, Del 
Vecchio GC, Romeo MA, Forni GL, Gamberini MR, Ghilardi R, Piga A, Cnaan A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Ferrara, Italy.bre@unife.it

Comment in
    Haematologica. 2004 Oct;89(10):1157-9.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Seven Italian centers reported data on survival, 
causes of death and appearance of complications in patients with thalassemia 
major. The interactions between gender, birth cohort, complications, and 
ferritin on survival and complications were analyzed.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Survival after the first decade was studied for 977 patients 
born since 1960 whereas survival since birth and complication appearance was 
studied for the 720 patients born after 1970. Better survival was demonstrated 
for patients born in more recent years (p<0.00005) and for females (p=0.0003); 
68% of the patients are alive at the age of 35 years. In the entire population 
67% of the deaths were due to heart disease.
RESULTS: There was a significant association between birth cohort and 
complication-free survival (p<0.0005). The prevalence of complications was: 
heart failure 6.8%, arrhythmia 5.7%, hypogonadism 54.7%, hypothyroidism 10.8%, 
diabetes 6.4%, HIV infection 1.7%, and thrombosis 1.1%. Lower ferritin levels 
were associated with a lower probability of heart failure (hazard ratio =3.35, 
p<0.005) and with prolonged survival (hazard ratio = 2.45, p<0.005), using a 
cut-off as low as 1,000 ng/mL.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Survival and complication-free survival of 
patients with thalassemia major continue to improve, especially for female 
patients born shortly before or after the availability of iron chelation.

PMID: 15477202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Haematologica. 2004 Oct;89(10):1269-71.
