
The achievement of molecular complete remission during treatment with imatinib 
mesylate correlates with relapse-free survival in bcr/abl-positive acute 
lymphoid leukemia patients.

Piccaluga PP, Malagola M, Amabile M, Rondoni M, Paolini S, Pane F, Russo D, 
Visani G, Baccarani M, Martinelli G.

Using quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction we 
investigated the significance of achieving molecular complete remission (CR) in 
12 patients with bcr/abl-positive acute lymphocytic leukemia treated with 
imatinib. The 6 patients who achieved molecular CR had significantly better 
relapse-free survival (RFS) than the others (9 vs 4 months) (p=0.000). Moreover, 
the 6 patients with a bcr-abl/GAPDHx100,000 ratio <2 after 4 weeks of treatment 
had significantly better RFS (10.5 vs 4 months) (p=0.004).

PMID: 15477218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Haematologica. 2004 Oct;89(10):1275-6.

Sequential chemotherapy regimens followed by high-dose therapy with stem cell 
transplantation in mantle cell lymphoma: an update of a prospective study.

Lefrère F, Delmer A, Levy V, Delarue R, Varet B, Hermine O.

This study is a long-term follow-up analysis evaluating clinical outcome of 
patients with mantle-cell lymphoma treated by the sequential CHOP and DHAP 
chemotherapy followed by autografting. The median overall survival of 81 months 
(95% CI, 66-not reached) and the median event free survival of 51 months (95% 
CI, 43-not reached) confirm the improvement in outcome obtained by such 
protocol.

PMID: 15477221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Circulation. 2004 Oct 19;110(16):2376-82. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000145158.33801.F3. Epub 2004 Oct 11.

Ongoing myocardial injury in stable severe heart failure: value of cardiac 
troponin T monitoring for high-risk patient identification.

Perna ER(1), Macin SM, Canella JP, Augier N, Stival JL, Cialzeta JR, Pitzus AE, 
Garcia EH, Obregón R, Brizuela M, Barbagelata A.

Author information:
(1)Heart Failure Clinic, Instituto de Cardiología Juana F. Cabral, Bolívar 1334, 
Corrientes, 3400, Argentina. pernaucic@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The progression of chronic heart failure (CHF) is related to ongoing 
myocyte loss, which can be detected by cardiac troponin T (cTnT). We examined 
the prevalence and prognostic value of increased cTnT concentrations in serial 
blood specimens from patients with severe CHF.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Clinical, echocardiographic, and 6-minute walk test data 
were collected prospectively at baseline and at 1 year in 115 outpatients (mean 
age, 61+/-11 years; 75% men; 62% coronary heart disease) with CHF and a left 
ventricular ejection fraction <40%. Blood samples were collected at baseline and 
at 3, 6, and 12 months of follow-up. cTnT concentrations > or =0.02 ng/mL were 
considered abnormal, and a Tn index (highest cTnT measurement/0.02 ng/mL) was 
calculated. In 62 patients (54%), cTnT was consistently <0.02 ng/mL (group 1); 
28 (24%) had a single abnormal cTnT result (group 2); and 25 (22%) had > or =2 
abnormal cTnT results (group 3). At 18 months, CHF hospitalization-free survival 
was 63%, 46%, and 17%, respectively (P=0.0001). In a Cox proportional-hazards 
model, hospitalization for worsening CHF in the previous year (HR=2.1; 95% CI, 
1.1 to 4.1), functional class III-IV (HR=2.3; 95% CI, 1.1 to 4.6), and number of 
abnormal cTnT samples (HR=1.6; 95% CI, 1.1 to 2.4) were independently associated 
with prognosis. A cTnT rise of 0.020 ng/mL in any sample was associated with an 
excess of 9% (95% CI, 1% to 18%) in the incidence of combined end point.
CONCLUSIONS: Abnormal cTnT concentrations were detected in >50% of outpatients 
with advanced CHF. This ongoing myocardial necrosis was a strong predictor of 
worsening CHF, suggesting a role of cTnT-based monitoring to identify high-risk 
patients.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000145158.33801.F3
PMID: 15477403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Circulation. 2004 Oct 19;110(16):2333-5. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000145118.55201.15. Epub 2004 Oct 11.

There is no evidence for an increase in acute coronary syndromes after 
short-term abrupt discontinuation of statins in stable cardiac patients.

McGowan MP(1); Treating to New Target (TNT) Study Group.

Author information:
(1)New England Heart Institute, 100 McGregor St, Manchester, NH 03102. 
mmcgowan@cmc-nh.org.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Oct 19;110(16):2280-2.

BACKGROUND: For a variety of reasons, many patients abruptly discontinue statin 
therapy. The present analysis was conducted to determine whether the risk of 
cardiovascular outcomes increases after withdrawal of statin therapy in a stable 
cardiac population.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In the Treating to New Target (TNT) study, 2 doses of 
atorvastatin (10 and 80 mg once daily) are being used in a double-blind 
parallel-group design. Of the 18,468 patients screened for study participation, 
16,619 entered a dietary lead-in/drug-washout period, and of these, 15,432 
eligible participants began treatment with atorvastatin 10 mg/d on an open-label 
basis. Of the subjects who entered the dietary lead-in/drug-washout period, 57% 
were receiving prior statin therapy. During the 6-week drug-washout period, 
there were 24 primary events (defined as coronary heart disease death, nonfatal 
myocardial infarction, resuscitated cardiac arrest, and fatal or nonfatal 
stroke); throughout the subsequent 8-week open-label period, there were 31 
primary events. This equated to monthly Kaplan-Meier event rates of 0.20% during 
washout and 0.26% in the open-label phase. Event rates were therefore similar 
during the 2 phases.
CONCLUSIONS: The present analysis demonstrates that short-term discontinuation 
of statin therapy in stable cardiac patients apparently does not lead to a 
clinically important increased risk of acute coronary syndromes.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000145118.55201.15
PMID: 15477411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Circulation. 2004 Oct 19;110(16):2383-8. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000145115.29952.14. Epub 2004 Oct 11.

Opposite patterns of left ventricular remodeling after coronary 
revascularization in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy: role of myocardial 
viability.

Rizzello V(1), Poldermans D, Boersma E, Biagini E, Schinkel AF, Krenning B, 
Elhendy A, Vourvouri EC, Sozzi FB, Maat A, Crea F, Roelandt JR, Bax JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Rome, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: In patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy, left ventricular (LV) 
remodeling is an important prognostic indicator. The precise relation between 
viable myocardium, revascularization, and ongoing or reversed remodeling is 
unknown and was evaluated in the present study.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 100 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy 
underwent dobutamine stress echocardiography to assess myocardial viability and 
LV geometry (volumes and shape). At a mean of 10.2 months and 4.5 years after 
revascularization, resting echocardiography was repeated to evaluate LV 
remodeling. Long-term follow-up (mean 5+/-2 years) data were obtained. According 
to dobutamine stress echocardiography, 44 patients (44%) were defined as viable 
(> or =4 viable segments) and 56 as nonviable. After revascularization, 40 
patients (43%) had ongoing LV remodeling and 53 (57%) did not (in 7 patients who 
died early after revascularization, postoperative echocardiographic evaluation 
was not available). On multivariable analysis, the number of viable segments was 
the only predictor of ongoing LV remodeling (OR 0.60, 95% CI 0.48 to 0.75; 
P<0.0001). The likelihood of LV remodeling decreased as the number of viable 
segments increased. During the follow-up, reverse remodeling was present in 
viable patients, whereas in nonviable patients, LV volumes significantly 
increased, which indicates ongoing LV remodeling. At follow-up, viable patients 
also showed a persistent improvement of heart failure symptoms and fewer cardiac 
events than nonviable patients (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy, a substantial amount of 
viable myocardium prevents ongoing LV remodeling after revascularization and is 
associated with persistent improvement of symptoms and better outcome.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000145115.29952.14
PMID: 15477413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Acta Neurol Taiwan. 2004 Jun;13(2):87-96.

[Neuropharmacoeconomics].

[Article in Chinese]

Chiu HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Shin Kong WHS Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. 
M001012@ms.skh.org.tw

Pharmacoeconomics is concerned with how to allocate drug resources among 
alternative uses efficiently and effectively. Economic evaluation is a set of 
formal quantitative methods to capture the outcomes and costs of alternate 
intervention strategies. There are four basic types of economic evaluations used 
to assess interventions, are classified on the basis of the outcomes employed: 
1. Cost minimization (CMA) is the comparison of costs of alternative 
interventions when the outcomes are assumed to be equal or similar, and the 
control intervention has been established. 2. Cost-effectiveness (CEA) is 
appropriate when the health outcomes are measured in common physical units, such 
as death or disability, or years gained or increased function, or points on 
cognitive scales. 3. Cost utility (CUA) is an extension of cost-effectiveness, 
where different types of health outcomes are weighted according to assigned 
values of 'quality of life' to produce a composite of both the physical 
measurement and the value assigned to it, e.g. quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) or disability-adjusted life years (DALY). A common denominator measure of 
effectiveness is thus the life years of expected survival, or the QALY. The 
global burden disease (GBD) researchers adopted an internationally standardized 
form of the QALY, which they called the DALY. A quality of life measure can be 
translated into a scale that ranges from a low of 0.0 (the worst possible health 
state, usually taken as death) to 1.0 (perfect health). The purpose is to make 
explicit the measurement of costs and value assigned to benefits. 4. 
Cost-benefit (CBA) analysis value health outcomes in monetary terms, often based 
on the concept of 'willingness to pay'. The common drugs used by the 
neurologists had been discussed in this article based on the point view of 
pharmacoeconomics.

PMID: 15478681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Artif Life. 2004 Fall;10(4):413-31. doi: 10.1162/1064546041766451.

A graph grammar approach to artificial life.

Kniemeyer O(1), Buck-Sorlin GH, Kurth W.

Author information:
(1)Brandenburgische Technische Universität Cottbus, Department of Computer 
Science, Chair for Practical Computer Science/Graphics Systems, P.O. Box 101344, 
D-03013 Cottbus, Germany. okn@informatik.tu-cottbus.de

We present the high-level language of relational growth grammars (RGGs) as a 
formalism designed for the specification of ALife models. RGGs can be seen as an 
extension of the well-known parametric Lindenmayer systems and contain 
rule-based, procedural, and object-oriented features. They are defined as 
rewriting systems operating on graphs with the edges coming from a set of 
user-defined relations, whereas the nodes can be associated with objects. We 
demonstrate their ability to represent genes, regulatory networks of 
metabolites, and morphologically structured organisms, as well as developmental 
aspects of these entities, in a common formal framework. Mutation, crossing 
over, selection, and the dynamics of a network of gene regulation can all be 
represented with simple graph rewriting rules. This is demonstrated in some 
detail on the classical example of Dawkins' biomorphs and the ABC model of 
flower morphogenesis: other applications are briefly sketched. An interactive 
program was implemented, enabling the execution of the formalism and the 
visualization of the results.

DOI: 10.1162/1064546041766451
PMID: 15479546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2004 Oct 15;29(20):2270-6; discussion 2277. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000142469.41565.2a.

Incidence of subsequent vertebral fracture after kyphoplasty.

Fribourg D(1), Tang C, Sra P, Delamarter R, Bae H.

Author information:
(1)Spine Institute at Saint John's Health Center, Santa Monica, California, USA. 
dave_fribourg@yahoo.com

STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective review of charts and radiographs of all 
consecutive patients who underwent kyphoplasty at the authors' center from the 
initial procedure in September 2000 to the end of the collection period in July 
2002.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The best available natural history data would 
suggest that after experiencing an osteoporotic vertebral compression fracture, 
patients have a 19% incidence of subsequent fracture in the following year when 
no surgical intervention is performed. When kyphoplasty is performed, there are 
conflicting data regarding the incidence of subsequent fracture, ranging 
anywhere from 3 to 29%. These fractures occur at adjacent levels between 30 and 
90% of the time, with no clear explanation for the wide variation in the results 
of three different studies. There are biomechanical data to suggest that 
injection of cement does increase the stiffness of the treated vertebra and that 
this increases strain on adjacent vertebrae, especially in forward bending.
METHODS: A database was created containing patient age, gender, height, weight, 
medication history, comorbidities, fracture levels, and pain level before and 
after surgery. Subsequent fractures were confirmed with radiographs and MRI. 
Statistical analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients (10 men and 28 women) were treated for 47 levels 
initially. L1 and L2 were the most common level of fracture managed initially. 
The gender, smoking and medication history, location of fracture, and number of 
fracture levels of the patients did not correlate with the risk of subsequent 
fracture. Over the follow-up period (average, 8 months), 10 patients sustained 
17 subsequent fractures. Eight patients sustained fractures in the first 2 
months after the index procedure, all with at least one fracture at an adjacent 
level. Of the 17 subsequent fractures, there were nine at the adjacent-above 
levels, four at adjacent-below levels, and four at remote levels. The remote 
fractures occurred at significantly greater time intervals after the index 
procedure (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated a higher rate of subsequent fracture after 
kyphoplasty compared with natural history data for untreated fractures. Most of 
these occurred at an adjacent level within 2 months of the index procedure. 
After this 2-month period, there were only occasional subsequent fractures, 
which occurred at remote levels. This confirms biomechanical studies showing 
that cement augmentation places additional stress on adjacent levels. Patients 
with an increase in back pain after kyphoplasty should be evaluated carefully 
for subsequent adjacent fractures, especially during the first 2 months after 
the index procedure.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000142469.41565.2a
PMID: 15480139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2004 Sep;52(4):333-52. doi: 
10.1016/s0398-7620(04)99063-3.

[Gender gap in life expectancy: the reasons for a reduction of female 
advantage].

[Article in French]

Meslé F(1).

Author information:
(1)Unité de recherche "Mortalité, santé, épidémiologie", INED, 133, boulevard 
Davout, 75980 Paris 20. mesle@ined.fr

BACKGROUND: After a large increase during the 19th and the 20th century, for two 
decades the gap in life expectancy between sexes has been reducing in most 
industrialised countries. In France, where it was specially large, it stopped 
increasing in the early 1980s and decreased in the most recent years. The paper 
investigates reasons for these recent trends in France and in the industrialised 
countries.
METHODS: Two types of data are used for analysis. Death probabilities from life 
tables are used for calculating male excess mortality by age and estimating the 
role of various age groups in life expectancy differences by sex. Sex- and 
cause-specific mortality rates from INED database for France and from WHO 
database for other countries are used to assess the part played by various 
causes of death in the gender gap and its evolution.
RESULTS: In France, the stabilisation of the gap is mainly related to the 
decrease in cardiovascular mortality for men who benefit from the same progress 
but later than women. In the most recent years, the reduction of the gap is due 
to the trend reversal of male cancer mortality which is now decreasing, 
specially because of the reduction of lung cancer mortality. In European 
countries, taken as examples (England & Wales, Sweden, Switzerland, Italy) 
cardiovascular mortality is also the main responsible for the decreasing 
differences. Conversely, in Japan, the gap is still increasing specially for 
mortality from cancer and respiratory diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: The recent gap narrowing between male and female life expectancy in 
France is not a specific case. It does not mean that female health situation is 
worsening but it is related to an acceleration of progress for males. This 
reduction will most probably go on in the next years, except if females would 
enjoy dramatic progression in old age mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0398-7620(04)99063-3
PMID: 15480291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Internist (Berl). 2004 Nov;45(11):1246-59. doi: 10.1007/s00108-004-1292-6.

[Lung transplantation. Possibilities and limitations].

[Article in German]

Gottlieb J(1), Welte T, Höper MM, Strüber M, Niedermeyer J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Pneumologie, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover. 
gottlieb.jens@mh-hannover.de

Lung transplantation is an option for patients with endstage pulmonary diseases 
without contraindications. Recent European studies showed a survival benefit for 
patients with cystic fibrosis, fibrosis and emphysema after lung 
transplantation. Early mortality has been reduced recently by surgical 
improvements. Life expectancy after lung transplantation has improved in recent 
years but is still lower than in patients with other solid organ 
transplantations. Quality of life is consistently improved but exercise 
tolerance keeps reduced in comparison to the normal population. Specific 
problems described in detail are frequent organ rejections and infections, 
airway problems and a high incidence of malignant diseases. 5-year survival 
after lung transplantation is in average 60%.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-004-1292-6
PMID: 15480521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2005 Jul;45(1):5-9. doi: 10.1002/pbc.20239.

Intravenous 6-mercaptopurine decreases salvage after relapse in childhood acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia: a report from the Children's Cancer Group study CCG 
1922.

Tolar J(1), Bostrom BC, La MK, Sather HN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology/Blood and Marrow Transplantation, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

Comment in
    Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2005 Jul;45(1):2-4.
    Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2006 May 1;46(5):660-1.

PURPOSE: To compare outcomes of patients with NCI standard risk acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who relapsed after being randomized to receive 
either oral or intravenous 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) in the Children's Cancer Group 
study CCG 1922.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: CCG 1922 accrued patients from March 1993 to August 1995. 
A total of 1,060 patients were randomly assigned to four treatment groups: oral 
6MP plus prednisone (OP), intravenous 6MP plus prednisone (IP), oral 6MP plus 
dexamethasone (OD), and intravenous 6MP plus dexamethasone (ID). During the 2nd 
through 4th month of therapy groups OP and OD were treated with 75 mg/m(2)/day 
of oral 6MP for 70 days and groups IP and ID with 1,000 mg/m(2)/week of 
intravenous 6MP over 10 hr for 11 doses. All patients received a single delayed 
intensification and all received oral 6MP in maintenance.
RESULTS: Patients randomized to oral 6MP had significantly better 5-year overall 
survival (96 +/- 1% vs. 92 +/- 1%; P = 0.008). There was, however, no 
statistically significant difference in the event-free survival (EFS). Of the 
179 patients who relapsed, 84 had a second or later event and 68 have died. 
Forty of the 84 second events were a death. Survival after relapse was 
significantly greater for patients randomized to oral 6MP during consolidation 
than those receiving intravenous 6MP (P = 0.002, log rank test) with 4-year 
survival post-relapse of 67 +/- 6% vs. 48 +/- 6%. The steroid randomization had 
no influence on outcome. Post-relapse therapy details are not available and if 
different between groups may have influenced the outcome.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with intravenous 6MP during a brief period of total 
therapy had a significant negative impact on the prognosis in childhood ALL even 
though oral 6MP was used during maintenance.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.20239
PMID: 15481062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Nurs N Z. 2003 Sep;9(8):13.

The challenges of primary health care.

Manchester A.

PMID: 15481194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Nurs N Z. 2003 Sep;9(8):19.

Health gaps: who's to blame?

Blakely T, Robson B.

PMID: 15481197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Jan;60(1):87-95. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.028.

Types of provincial structure and population health.

Young FW(1), Rodriguez E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rural Sociology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

This paper explores the potential of using large administrative units for 
studies of population health within a country. The objective is to illustrate a 
new way of defining structural dimensions and to use them in examining variation 
in life expectancy rates. We use data from the 50 provinces of Spain as a case 
study. A factor analysis of organizational items such as schools, hotels and 
medical personnel is employed to define and generate "collective" measures for 
well-known provincial types, in this case: urban, commercial, industrial and 
tourist provinces. The scores derived from the factor analysis are then used in 
a regression model to predict life expectancy. The City-centered and Commercial 
provinces showed positive correlations with life expectancy while those for the 
Tourist provinces were negative. The industrial type was nonsignificant. 
Explanations of these correlations are proposed and the advantages and 
disadvantages of this exploratory technique are reviewed. The use of this 
technique for generating an overview of social organization and population 
health is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.04.028
PMID: 15482869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2004 Nov;58(11):958-62. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.017608.

Impact of nursing home deaths on life expectancy calculations in small areas.

Williams ES(1), Dinsdale H, Eayres D, Tahzib F.

Author information:
(1)Directorate of Public Health, Adur Arun and Worthing tPCT, UK.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The drive to tackle health inequalities at the local level has 
increased interest in mortality data for small populations. There is some 
concern that nursing homes may affect measures of mortality for small 
populations, but there has been little in depth analysis of this.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Deaths between 1997 and 2001 and population figures from the 
GP register (Exeter) database and census 2001 were used to produce life 
expectancy (LE) figures for all electoral wards in West Sussex. The proportion 
of those dying within each ward that had been residents of nursing homes was 
calculated and the relation between these variables and deprivation 
investigated.
RESULTS: There was a significant linear relation between nursing home deaths and 
LE (p<0.0001), which explained 36% of variation in LE between wards. Deprivation 
accounted for around 35% of the variation in LE (p<0.0001) but was not 
correlated with nursing home deaths (p> or =0.0982). Multiple linear regression 
shows that over 60% of the variation in LE at ward level can be explained by 
both nursing home deaths and deprivation (p<0.0001) and that the two variables 
explain similar proportions of this variation. The relation between LE and 
nursing home deaths within wards grouped by deprivation suggests that the impact 
of nursing homes is strongest in deprived wards.
CONCLUSIONS: This finding has important implications for LE calculations in 
small populations. Further investigation is now needed to examine the impact of 
nursing homes in other areas, on other mortality measures, and in larger 
populations.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.017608
PMCID: PMC1732599
PMID: 15483314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2004 Oct 22;129(43):2305-10. doi:
10.1055/s-2004-835260.

[Disease modelling in diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Schramm W(1), Schöffski O, Görtz A, Liebl A.

Author information:
(1)EUMEDES, Krailling. wendelin.schramm@eumedes.org

Disease modelling increasingly plays an important role in planning and 
implementing medical decision making in diabetes care. For a general 
practitioner it is difficult to find access to application, benefit, arithmetic 
background and quality criteria of modelling. This review provides a 
comprehensive overview about the current methods in disease modelling in order 
to access quality criteria for disease modelling and modelling studies in 
diabetes care. The following criteria are essential for good quality in disease 
modelling: adequate choice of data sources, assessment of medical and economic 
data according to criteria of evidence-based medicine, reasonable time horizons, 
realistic use of discounting and inflation rates, representative target 
populations and a realistic perspective of the cost-benefit analysis. 
Furthermore, validation of disease models and the adequate use of those 
instruments are of importance.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-835260
PMID: 15483770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Health Policy. 2004 Jul;69(1):55-72. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2003.12.002.

Technical efficiency in the use of health care resources: a comparison of OECD 
countries.

Retzlaff-Roberts D(1), Chang CF, Rubin RM.

Author information:
(1)Management Science, University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, USA.

Our paper analyzes technical efficiency in the production of aggregate health 
outcomes of reduced infant mortality and increased life expectancy, using 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) health data. 
Application of data envelopment analysis (DEA) reveals that some countries 
achieve relative efficiency advantages, including those with good health 
outcomes (Japan, Sweden, Norway, and Canada) and those with modest health 
outcomes (Mexico and Turkey). We conclude the USA may learn from countries more 
economical in their allocation of healthcare resources that more is not 
necessarily better. Specifically, we find that the USA can substantially reduce 
inputs while maintaining the current level of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2003.12.002
PMID: 15484607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Kidney Int Suppl. 2004 Nov;(92):S118-20. doi:
10.1111/j.1523-1755.2004.09229.x.

Health economics studies assessing irbesartan use in patients with hypertension, 
type 2 diabetes, and microalbuminuria.

Palmer AJ(1), Rodby RA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research, Binningen/Basel, Switzerland. ap@thecenter.ch

Two studies comparing the cost-effectiveness of irbesartan to similar blood 
pressure control with standard antihypertensive medications (excluding 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and other angiotensin receptor 
blockers) in treatment of patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and 
microalbuminuria have been published to date; one in a United States setting, 
the other in a Spanish setting. Both studies were based on a Markov-based Monte 
Carlo simulation model, with the effects of irbesartan or standard blood 
pressure control taken from the Irbesartan Reduction of Microalbuminuria-2 
(IRMA-2) and the Irbesartan in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT) clinical 
trials. In both Spanish and U.S. settings, irbesartan was projected to delay the 
onset of end-stage renal disease (ESRD), reduce the cumulative incidence of 
ESRD, increase life expectancy, and reduce overall direct medical costs. 
Irbesartan treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and 
microalbuminuria may lead to major improvements in long-term patient outcomes, 
with substantial cost savings as an added bonus to third party payers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2004.09229.x
PMID: 15485404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. BMJ. 2004 Oct 16;329(7471):909-12. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7471.909.

Managing comorbidities in patients at the end of life.

Stevenson J(1), Abernethy AP, Miller C, Currow DC.

Author information:
(1)Southern Adelaide Palliative Services, Repatriation General Hospital, 700 
Goodwood Road, Daw Park, South Australia 5041, Australia.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Jan 1;330(7481):43.

Chronic conditions require careful management in patients who develop a life 
limiting illness. Doctors need to consider both the physical and psychological 
effects of treatment

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7471.909
PMCID: PMC523125
PMID: 15485977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Home Healthc Nurse. 2004 Oct;22(10):695-9. doi: 
10.1097/00004045-200410000-00009.

Using telehealth to address the nursing shortage.

Sanner T(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennsylvania Homecare Association, 20 Erford Road, Suite 115, Lemoyne, PA 
17043, USA.

For years, government officials, health administrators, and others concerned 
about long-term care have been discussing the nursing shortage. As baby boomers 
age and fewer and fewer nurses enter the workforce, there is a growing concern 
about how to deliver health-care in the 21st Century.

DOI: 10.1097/00004045-200410000-00009
PMID: 15486507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Cad Saude Publica. 2004 Sep-Oct;20(5):1141-8. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2004000500002. Epub 2004 Oct 13.

[The necessary frugality of the elderly].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ribeiro CD(1), Schramm FR.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Severino Sombra, Vassouras, Brazil. 
dimasribeiro@cremerj.com.br

Comment in
    Cad Saude Publica. 2004 Sep-Oct;20(5):1149-51; discussion 1157-9.
    Cad Saude Publica. 2004 Sep-Oct;20(5):1151-2; discussion 1157-9.
    Cad Saude Publica. 2004 Sep-Oct;20(5):1152-4; discussion 1157-9.
    Cad Saude Publica. 2004 Sep-Oct;20(5):1154-5; discussion 1157-9.
    Cad Saude Publica. 2004 Sep-Oct;20(5):1155-7; discussion 1157-9.

The purpose of this article is to reflect on the pertinence and moral legitimacy 
of basing the allocation of public resources for health on the age variable, 
considered from the perspective of the theory of "justice as equity" as 
formulated by John Rawls. After characterizing the problem of public resource 
allocation for health -- confronted with the challenge posed by population aging 
-- and briefly presenting the concept of equity adopted in this study, as well 
as discussing the approach by Norman Daniels and Daniel Callahan to resource 
allocation among different age groups, we conclude that basing resource 
allocation on the age variable may be considered ethically adequate if we 
conceive the individual's life as a limited cycle of existence formed by 
different stages (childhood, adolescence, maturity, old age, and death), during 
which the needs vary, such that the distribution of resources among different 
age groups should be based on an ethics of protection.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2004000500002
PMID: 15486651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Nurs N Z. 2004 Apr;10(3):2.

Whose poverty is it anyway.

Penney L.

PMID: 15487197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Health Care Anal. 2004 Jun;12(2):117-29. doi: 
10.1023/B:HCAN.0000041186.34205.98.

Life extension research: health, illness, and death.

Turner L(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Ethics Unit, Department of Social Studies of Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, McGill University. leigh.turner@mcgill.ca

Scientists, bioethicists, and policy makers are currently engaged in a 
contentious debate about the scientific prospects and morality of efforts to 
increase human longevity. Some demographers and geneticists suggest that there 
is little reason to think that it will be possible to significantly extend the 
human lifespan. Other biodemographers and geneticists argue that there might 
well be increases in both life expectancy and lifespan. Bioethicists and policy 
makers are currently addressing many of the ethical, social, and economic issues 
raised by life extension research. However, the emphasis on philosophical 
argument supporting or condemning efforts to increase human longevity means that 
much less attention is currently being given to the factors that might play a 
role in generating interest in efforts to increase human longevity. This 
analysis considers three factors that might play a role in heightening public 
interest in efforts to develop biomedical technologies capable of retarding or 
reversing aging processes. While discussions of life extension research can seem 
quite futuristic and impractical, there are some powerful existential factors 
that might well generate considerable public support for life extension 
strategies if effective biomedical interventions emerge. Rather than providing 
philosophical justifications supporting or condemning efforts to increase human 
longevity, this essay seeks to promote a better understanding of the factors 
generating contemporary interest in prolonging life and postponing death.

DOI: 10.1023/B:HCAN.0000041186.34205.98
PMID: 15487814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Med Klin (Munich). 2004 Aug 15;99 Suppl 1:14-20.

[Antiplatelet therapy in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD)].

[Article in German]

Diehm C(1), Lawall H, Huber R.

Author information:
(1)Klinikum Karlsbad-Langensteinbach, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der 
Universität Heidelberg, Karlsbad. Curt.Diehm@kkl.srh.de

Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is not an uncommon but a commonly neglected 
condition by many medical practitioners. Its prevalence steadily increases with 
age. In Germany almost one fifth of the patients aged > 65 years suffer from it. 
With increasing life expectancy the prevalence of PAD seems to be on the 
increase. PAD is a manifestation of diffuse and severe atherosclerosis. A very 
strong association exists between PAD and other atherosclerotic disorders such 
as coronary artery disease (CAD) and cerebrovascular disease (CVD). PAD is an 
independent predictor of high mortality in patients with CAD. Smoking, diabetes 
mellitus and advancing age are the cardinal risk factors. A relatively small 
number of PAD patients lose limbs by amputation. Most patients with PAD die of 
either heart attacks or strokes and they die of the former conditions far 
earlier than controls. Numerous authors have reported activation of the 
coagulatory system in PAD, possibly because of the diffuse pattern of the 
disease. Platelet hyperactivity in PAD may play a role in the process that leads 
to complications and disease progression. Thus, antiplatelet treatment in these 
patients may be essential to reduce their high mortality rate. Antiplatelet 
therapy for prevention of secondary vascular events is the cornerstone of 
pharmacological intervention in PAD. Based on current evidence, treating 
patients with PAD with antiplatelet drugs appears to be effective in reducing 
the risk of coronary and cerebrovascular events, in maintaining arterial and 
graft patency, and in slowing progression of disease. On the other hand, several 
studies indicated, that platelets in patients with PAD are relatively 
aspirin-resistant. The data from the CAPRIE Trial suggest a clinically and 
statistically significant better risk reduction with clopidogrel than with 
aspirin in patients with PAD. Aspirin alone should no longer be considered the 
optimal therapy for PAD.

PMID: 15487853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Oct;8(43):iii, 1-171. doi: 10.3310/hta8430.

Clinical and cost-effectiveness of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion for 
diabetes.

Colquitt JL(1), Green C, Sidhu MK, Hartwell D, Waugh N.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Southampton, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical and cost-effectiveness of continuous 
subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) compared with multiple daily injections 
(MDI) in the delivery of intensive insulin therapy for the treatment of diabetes 
mellitus.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases, references of retrieved articles and 
manufacturer submissions. Experts in the field were consulted.
REVIEW METHODS: For the systematic review of clinical and cost-effectiveness, 
studies were assessed for inclusion according to predefined criteria by two 
reviewers. Data extraction and quality assessment were undertaken by one 
reviewer and checked by a second reviewer. Data on clinical effectiveness were 
synthesised through a narrative review with full tabulation of all eligible 
studies, with meta-analysis performed where appropriate.
RESULTS: Twenty studies comparing CSII with MDI were identified. Quality was 
generally poor. In adults with Type 1 diabetes, glycated haemoglobin improved by 
0.61% (95% CI -1.29 to 0.07) in longer term studies, although this improvement 
was smaller when a study using bovine ultralente was excluded. A reduction in 
insulin dose with CSII of about 12 units per day (-11.90, 95% CI -18.16 to 5.63) 
was found in short-term studies, with smaller differences in longer term 
studies. Body weight and cholesterol levels were similar between treatments. 
Hypoglycaemic events did not differ significantly between CSII and MDI in most 
trials, but some found fewer events with CSII and one found more hypoglycaemia 
and hypoglycaemic coma with CSII. There was no consistency between the studies 
in patient preference, but progress has been made both with insulin pumps and 
injector pens since the publication of many of the older studies. No difference 
in glycated haemoglobin between CSII and MDI was found in pregnancy; one study 
found less insulin was required by patients with CSII, but two other studies 
found no significant difference. One study of adolescents found lower glycated 
haemoglobin and insulin dose with CSII whereas a second study found no 
significant difference. In CSII analogue insulin was associated with lower 
glycated haemoglobin levels than soluble insulin. No economic evaluations 
comparing CSII with MDI were identified. The estimated additional cost of CSII 
compared to MDI varies from GBP1091 per annum to GBP1680 per annum, according to 
the make of the insulin pump and the estimated life of the device. These 
estimates include the costs for the insulin pump, the consumables associated 
with delivery of CSII, and an allowance for the initial education required when 
patients switch from MDI to CSII. The largest component of the annual cost for 
CSII is the cost of consumable items (e.g. infusion sets).
CONCLUSIONS: When compared with optimised MDI, CSII results in a modest but 
worthwhile improvement in glycated haemoglobin in adults with Type 1 diabetes. 
It has not been possible to establish the longer term benefits of such a 
difference in glycated haemoglobin, although there is an expectation that it 
would be reflected in a reduction in long-term complications. More immediate 
primary benefits from CSII may be associated with an impact on the incidence of 
hypoglycaemic events and the dawn phenomenon, and greater flexibility of 
lifestyle. However, there is limited evidence on this, and information presented 
to offer context on quality-of-life is based on testimonies from those patients 
who have had a positive experience of CSII. The estimated cost to the NHS per 
year for CSII would be around GBP3.5 million in England and Wales if 1% of 
people with Type 1 diabetes used CSII, GBP10.5 million for 3%, and GBP17.5 
million for 5%. Further research should focus on wider benefits of CSII, such as 
flexibility of lifestyle and quality of life, and on the psychological impact of 
wearing a device for 24 hours every day. Research into the use of CSII in 
children of different ages is also needed.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8430
PMID: 15488165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Eat Behav. 2004 Nov;5(4):375-84. doi: 10.1016/j.eatbeh.2004.04.005.

Use of the weight efficacy lifestyle questionnaire with African American women: 
validation and extension of previous findings.

Dutton GR(1), Martin PD, Rhode PC, Brantley PJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care Research, Earl K. Long Medical Center, Louisiana 
State University, 5825 Airline Hwy, Baton Rouge, LA, USA. gdutto1@lsu.edu

While the Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire (WEL) shows promise as a 
measure of self-efficacy for eating control, there is a lack of research 
examining the psychometric properties of this measure with ethnic minorities. 
The current study examined the WEL with a sample of 144 overweight and obese 
African American females. Analyses indicated similar self-efficacy levels 
compared to predominantly Caucasian samples. Supporting the validity of the WEL, 
participants undergoing obesity treatment demonstrated modest improvement in WEL 
scores, while standard care participants showed no changes in self-efficacy over 
time. Factor analysis indicated a four-factor structure rather than the five 
factors previously found. The four-factor structure accounted for 61.85% of the 
variance. Results indicate the WEL may be a valid measure of self-efficacy for 
overweight and obese African American women, although researchers should be 
mindful of the variation in scale properties when using the WEL with this 
population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eatbeh.2004.04.005
PMID: 15488451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2004 Oct 21;1680(2):71-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbaexp.2004.08.006.

Putative tumor suppressor protein 4.1B is differentially expressed in kidney and 
brain via alternative promoters and 5' alternative splicing.

Gascard P(1), Parra MK, Zhao Z, Calinisan VR, Nunomura W, Rivkees SA, Mohandas 
N, Conboy JG.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron 
Road, Mail stop 74-157, Berkeley CA 94720, USA.

Protein 4.1B has been reported as a tumor suppressor in brain, but not in 
kidney, despite high expression in both tissues. Here we demonstrate that 
N-terminal variability in kidney and brain 4.1B isoforms arises through an 
unusual coupling of RNA processing events in the 5' region of the gene. We 
describe two transcriptional promoters at far upstream alternative exons 1A and 
1B, and show that their respective transcripts splice differentially to exon 
2'/2 in a manner that determines mRNA coding capacity. The consequence of this 
unique processing is that exon 1B transcripts initiate translation at AUG1 (in 
exon 2') and encode larger 4.1B isoforms with an N-terminal extension; exon 1A 
transcripts initiate translation at AUG2 (in exon 4) and encode smaller 4.1B 
isoforms. Tissue-specific differences in promoter utilization may thus explain 
the abundance of larger 4.1B isoforms in brain but not in kidney. In cell 
studies, differentiation of PC12 cells was accompanied by translocation of large 
protein 4.1B isoforms into the nucleus. We propose that first exon specification 
is coupled to downstream splicing events, generating 4.1B isoforms with diverse 
roles in kidney and brain physiology, and potentially unique functions in cell 
proliferation and tumor suppression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbaexp.2004.08.006
PMID: 15488987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Exp Gerontol. 2004 Sep;39(9):1423-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.06.016.

Identification of a geographic area characterized by extreme longevity in the 
Sardinia island: the AKEA study.

Poulain M(1), Pes GM, Grasland C, Carru C, Ferrucci L, Baggio G, Franceschi C, 
Deiana L.

Author information:
(1)FNRS-GéDAP, Groupe d'Etudes de Démographie Appliquée, Université Catholique 
de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgique. poulain@sped.ucl.ac.be

High prevalence and low female/male ratio for validated centenarians are 
observed in Sardinia and these findings appear to be thus far unique to this 
island. Moreover a specific region on the island is characterized by exceptional 
male longevity. We calculated the extreme longevity index (ELI), defined as the 
percentage of persons born in Sardinia between 1880 and 1900, who became 
centenarians. A gaussian smoothing method was used in order to identify the 
so-called 'Blue Zone', where longevity is concentrated in the central-eastern 
part of the island and covers all the mountainous areas of central Sardinia. The 
estimated life expectancy in the 'Blue Zone' is longer than in the remaining 
territory of the island especially for men and the male to female ratio among 
centenarians born in this area is 1.35 compared to 2.43 in the rest of Sardinia. 
The specific mechanism by which persons living in this territory were more 
likely to reach extreme longevity remains unknown but it is interesting to note 
that most of the 'longevity hot spots' identified in various regions of the 
world over the years have been located in mountainous geographical areas even if 
none of these longevity regions have been fully validated. An alternative and 
interesting hypothesis is that the high rate of inbreeding determined by 
frequent marriages between consanguineous individuals and low immigration rates 
have progressively decreased the variability of the genetic pool and facilitated 
the emergence of genetic characteristics that protect individuals from diseases 
that are major causes of mortality particularly in older individuals. Given the 
exceptionally high prevalence of male centenarians in the 'Blue Zone', it is 
reasonable to assume that either the environmental characteristics or the 
genetic factors, or both, exert their favorable effect more strongly in men than 
in women. Thus, the mechanism involved may be modulated by the hormonal milieu, 
or may be associated with genes located in the sex chromosomes.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2004.06.016
PMID: 15489066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. FEMS Yeast Res. 2004 Nov;5(2):119-25. doi: 10.1016/j.femsyr.2004.04.005.

Yeast replicative life span--the mitochondrial connection.

Jazwinski SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, 1901 Perdido Street, Box P7-2, New Orleans, LA 70112, 
USA.

Mitochondria have been associated with aging in many experimental systems 
through the damaging action of reactive oxygen species. There is more, however, 
to the connection between mitochondria and Saccharomyces cerevisiae longevity 
and aging. Induction of the retrograde response, a pathway signaling 
mitochondrial dysfunction, results in the extension of life span and 
postponement of the manifestations of aging, changing the metabolic and stress 
resistance status of the cell. A paradox associated with the retrograde response 
is the simultaneous triggering of extrachromosomal ribosomal DNA circle (ERC) 
production, because of the deleterious effect these circles have on yeast 
longevity. The retrograde response gene RTG2 appears to play a pivotal role in 
ERC production, linking metabolism and genome stability. In addition to mother 
cell aging, mitochondria are important in establishment of age asymmetry between 
mother and daughter cells. The results more generally point to the existence of 
a mechanism to "filter" damaged components from daughter cells, a form of 
checkpoint control. Mitochondrial integrity is affected by the PHB1 and PHB2 
genes, which encode inner mitochondrial membrane chaperones called prohibitins. 
The Phb1/2 proteins protect the cell from imbalances in the production of 
mitochondrial proteins. Such imbalances appear to cause a stochastic 
stratification of the yeast population with the appearance of short-lived cells. 
Ras2p impacts this process. Maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential and 
the provision of Krebs cycle intermediates for biosyntheses appear to be crucial 
elements in yeast longevity. In sum, it is clear that mitochondria lie at the 
nexus of yeast longevity and aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.femsyr.2004.04.005
PMID: 15489194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2004 Sep-Oct;38(5):423-9. doi: 
10.1177/153857440403800505.

Vascular reconstruction in limbs with malignant tumors.

Nishinari K(1), Wolosker N, Yazbek G, Zerati AE, Nishimoto IN, Penna V, Lopes A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Hospital do Câncer A.C. Camargo, São Paulo, 
Brazil. marken@uol.com.br.

Patients with tumors in limbs who undergo surgical treatment may present 
involvement of major vessels. Major arteries must be reconstructed for limb 
salvage. Major veins may be reconstructed to avoid the onset of venous 
hypertension. The objective of this study is to analyze the results from 
surgical treatment of malignant tumors associated with vascular reconstruction 
in limbs. A prospective follow-up was made of 20 patients with malignant tumors 
involving major vessels in limbs who underwent vascular reconstruction. Arterial 
and venous reconstructions were performed in 11 patients, arterial 
reconstruction in 7, and venous reconstruction in 2. The vascular substitutes 
utilized were: greater saphenous vein (21), expanded polytetrafluoroethylene 
(ePTFE) prosthesis (5), and Dacron prosthesis (5). Vascular complications 
occurred in 9 patients: 1 rupture of the arterial graft, 4 occlusions of the 
venous graft, and worsening of previous edema in 4 patients. Nonvascular 
complications occurred in 6 patients: infection (2), neurologic deficit (2), 
partial necrosis of the flap (1), and enteric fistula (1). Four patients 
presented local recurrence, and 1 of them underwent transfemoral amputation. 
Seven patients presented pulmonary metastases, of whom 4 died. Arterial 
revascularization in association with the resection of limb neoplasm is a safe 
procedure with a low rate of complications. Venous revascularization should be 
performed using an autologous substitute.

DOI: 10.1177/153857440403800505
PMID: 15490039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Osteoporos Int. 2004 Nov;15(11):897-902. doi: 10.1007/s00198-004-1627-0.
Epub  2004 May 4.

An estimate of the worldwide prevalence, mortality and disability associated 
with hip fracture.

