867. Arch Esp Urol. 2004 Sep;57(7):679-92.

[Radical prostatectomy as monotherapy for locally advanced prostate cancer 
(T3a): 12 years follow-up].

[Article in Spanish]

Isorna Martínez de la Riva S(1), Belón López-Tomasety J, Marrero Domínguez R, 
Alvarez Cruz E, Santamaría Blanco P.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Santiago de Compostela, España.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the oncological and functional results of radical 
prostatectomy as monotherapy for stage T3a prostate cancer.
METHODS: We include our initial and consecutive series of 83 patients with 
prostate cancer (studied by digital rectal examination and transrectal 
ultrasound) who had not received neoadjuvant treatment undergoing radical 
prostatectomy from July 1988 to December 2003. No patient received adjuvant 
treatment, and deferred intermittent androgen blockade was used when patients 
with biochemical progression exceeded a PSA of 4ng/ml. Up
RESULTS: After a mean follow-up of 68.7 (1-139) months: overall and specific 
survival 97.6% and 100% respectively; biochemical progression 36.1% (22 pT2 
(0%), 41 p T3a (36.6%), 13 pT3b (61.5%) and 7pT4a (100%)). Positive margins 
61.4% (41.2% unifocal with a progression rate of 23.8%). 96.4% achieved 
continence and 39.6% recovered potency. Among 30 patients with biochemical 
progression, 19 required treatment with deferred intermittent androgen blockade 
(one cycle in 10 patients, two cycles in six, and three cycles in the remaining 
three).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results support the indication of radical prostatectomy as 
single therapy without neoadjuvant treatment as a curative indication for 
locally advanced prostate cancer (T3a) whenever complete excision is expected: 
Gleason 7 T3 tumors without diffuse extension on ultrasound. 26.5% of these T3a 
patients were overstaged and resulted to be organ-confined (pT2). Ten-year 
probability of biochemical progression-free survival was 100% for pT2 and 81.9% 
for the lower risk pT3a (well or moderately-differentiated with negative 
surgical margins or unifocal). Functional results for T3a were similar to the 
ones of the clinically-localized (T2) series for both retropubic and perineal 
approaches. 30 patients had developed biochemical progression at the time of 
study closure and were free of hormonal treatment during 81.6% of the total 
follow-up time with our deferred intermittent androgen blockade treatment line, 
so that we consider we can offer it as the first treatment option for 
progression providing a maximal quality of life and allowing ulterior second 
line therapies. Patients who mainly benefited were those on progression who have 
recovered sexual function: 41.7% of potent patients after radical prostatectomy 
recovered potency again over the second phase (no treatment) of the deferred 
intermittent androgen blockade.

PMID: 15536949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. J Bone Miner Res. 2004 Dec;19(12):1933-44. doi: 10.1359/JBMR.040917. Epub
2004  Sep 20.

Evidence from data searches and life-table analyses for gender-related 
differences in absolute risk of hip fracture after Colles' or spine fracture: 
Colles' fracture as an early and sensitive marker of skeletal fragility in white 
men.

Haentjens P(1), Johnell O, Kanis JA, Bouillon R, Cooper C, Lamraski G, 
Vanderschueren D, Kaufman JM, Boonen S; Network on Male Osteoporosis in Europe 
(NEMO).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium.

Based on data searches and life-table analyses, we determined the long-term 
(remaining lifetime) and short-term (10- and 5-year) absolute risks of hip 
fracture after sustaining a Colles' or spine fracture and searched for potential 
gender-related differences. In aging men, Colles' fractures carry a higher 
absolute risk for hip fracture than spinal fractures in contrast to women. These 
findings support the concept that forearm fracture is an early and sensitive 
marker of male skeletal fragility.
INTRODUCTION: Colles' fracture occurrence has been largely ignored in public 
health approaches to identify target populations at risk for hip fracture. The 
aim of this study was to estimate the long-term and short-term absolute risks of 
hip fracture after sustaining a Colles' or spine fracture and to search for 
potential gender-related differences in the relationship between fracture 
history and future fracture risk.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To determine the long-term (remaining lifetime) and 
short-term (10- and 5-year) absolute risks of hip fracture, we applied 
life-table methods using U.S. age- and sex-specific hip fracture incidence 
rates, U.S. age-specific mortality rates for white women and men, pooled hazard 
ratios for mortality after Colles' and spine fracture, and pooled relative risks 
for hip fracture after Colles' and spine fracture, estimated from cohort studies 
by standard meta-analytic methods.
RESULTS: Our results indicate that the estimated remaining lifetime risks are 
dependent on age in both genders. In women, remaining lifetime risks increase 
until the age of 80 years, when they start to decline because of the competing 
probabilities of fracture and death. The same pattern is found in men until the 
age of 85 years, the increment in lifetime risk being even more pronounced. As 
expected, the risk of sustaining a hip fracture was found to be higher in 
postmenopausal women with a previous spine fracture compared with those with a 
history of Colles' fracture. In men, on the other hand, the prospective 
association between fracture history and subsequent hip fracture risk seemed to 
be strongest for Colles' fracture. At the age of 50, for example, the remaining 
lifetime risk was 13% in women with a previous Colles' fracture compared with 
15% in the context of a previous spine fracture and 9% among women of the 
general population. In men at the age of 50 years, the corresponding risk 
estimates were 8%, 6%, and 3%, respectively. Similar trends were observed when 
calculating 5- and 10-year risks.
CONCLUSIONS: In aging men, Colles' fractures carry a higher absolute risk for 
hip fracture than spinal fractures in contrast to women. These findings support 
the concept that forearm fracture is an early and sensitive marker of male 
skeletal fragility. The gender-related differences reported in this analysis 
should be taken into account when designing screening and treatment strategies 
for prevention of hip fracture in men.

DOI: 10.1359/JBMR.040917
PMID: 15537435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Curr Med Res Opin. 2004 Nov;20(11):1729-46. doi: 10.1185/030079904X5661.

Cost-effectiveness of detemir-based basal/bolus therapy versus NPH-based 
basal/bolus therapy for type 1 diabetes in a UK setting: an economic analysis 
based on meta-analysis results of four clinical trials.

Palmer AJ(1), Roze S, Valentine WJ, Smith I, Wittrup-Jensen KU.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research, Binningen/Basel, Switzerland. ap@thecenter.ch

BACKGROUND: A meta-analysis of results from four clinical trials in type 1 
diabetes patients showed that insulin detemir (IDet)-based basal/bolus treatment 
of type 1 diabetes led to improved HbA1c (0.15%-points lower), reduced risk of 
major hypoglycaemic events (by 2%) and reduction in body mass index (BMI) (0.26 
kg/m2) compared to protamine Hagedorn human (NPH) insulin-based basal/bolus 
therapy in type 1 patients.
METHODS: A published, validated, peer-reviewed Markov simulation model (the CORE 
Diabetes Model) projected short-term results obtained from the fixed-effects 
(weighted average) meta-analysis to long-term incidence of complications, 
improvements in quality-adjusted life years (QALY), long-term costs and the 
cost-effectiveness for IDet combinations versus NPH combinations in type 1 
diabetes patients. Probabilities of complications and HbA1c-dependent 
adjustments were derived from the DCCT and other studies. Costs of treating 
complications in the UK were retrieved from published sources. Total direct 
costs (complications + treatment costs) for each arm were projected over patient 
lifetimes from a UK National Heath Service perspective. Both costs and clinical 
outcomes were discounted at 3.5% annually.
RESULTS: Improved glycaemic control, decreased hypoglycaemic events and BMI with 
IDet-based basal/bolus therapy led to fewer diabetes-related complications, an 
increase in quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.09 years, increased total 
lifetime costs/patient of 1707 pounds sterling and an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of 19,285 pounds sterling per QALY gained. Results were 
stable under a wide range of reasonable assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Short-term improvements seen with IDet combinations versus NPH 
combinations led to decreased complications, improvements in QALYs and 
reductions in complication costs, which partially offset the additional costs of 
detemir, leading to a cost-effectiveness ratio which fell within a range 
considered to represent excellent value for money (< 35,000 pounds sterling/QALY 
gained).

DOI: 10.1185/030079904X5661
PMID: 15537473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Age Ageing. 2005 Jan;34(1):47-52. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afh232. Epub 2004 Nov
10.

Occupational therapy compared with social work assessment for older people. An 
economic evaluation alongside the CAMELOT randomised controlled trial.

Flood C(1), Mugford M, Stewart S, Harvey I, Poland F, Lloyd-Smith W.

Author information:
(1)St Bartholomew School of Nursing and Midwifery, City University, Philpot 
Street, London E1 2EA, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To compare costs and outcome of occupational therapy-led assessment 
with social worker-led assessment of older people, in terms of their 
independence and quality of life.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis alongside a randomised controlled trial. The 
analysis took viewpoints of health services and patients. The primary outcome 
measure for cost-effectiveness was dependency using the Community Dependency 
Index (CDI). Secondary outcomes included utility scores based on the EuroQoL 
(EQ-5D). Resource use was measured for each patient, from clinical records and 
from patient carer interviews at 8 months. Unit costs of health and social care 
resources were derived from local sources and national datasets. 
Cost-effectiveness was analysed using cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: There were no differences between the two arms of the trial in terms of 
cost-effectiveness. There is an apparent increase in mean cost per case for the 
occupational therapy arm but this is not statistically significant (mean 
difference in cost per case 542 pounds, 95% CI 434-1,519 pounds). Mean total 
costs of care per participant were 4,379 pounds and 3,837 pounds for the 
occupational therapy and social work arms, respectively. At best the 
intervention would improve outcomes at a cost of 14,000 pounds per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The probability of such an outcome was <50%.
CONCLUSIONS: From a policy perspective, the lack of difference in clinical and 
cost-effectiveness means that either a social work or an occupational therapy 
service is successful in making care assessments that enable an older person to 
remain in their own home.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afh232
PMID: 15537680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Curr Diab Rep. 2004 Dec;4(6):395-6. doi: 10.1007/s11892-004-0043-3.

The metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes: what has gone wrong in type 2 
diabetes care?

Waldhäusl WK.

DOI: 10.1007/s11892-004-0043-3
PMID: 15538999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Chest. 2004 Nov;126(5):1705-7. doi: 10.1378/chest.126.5.1705.

Severe obstructive sleep apnea in a patient with spinal muscle atrophy.

Puruckherr M(1), Mehta JB, Girish MR, Byrd RP Jr, Roy TM.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center 111-B, PO Box 4000, Mountain Home, TN 
37684-4000, USA. Ryland.Byrd@med.va.gov

Patients with spinal muscle atrophy (SMA) who survive to adulthood experience a 
slow, continuous loss of motor function but typically have a normal life 
expectancy. These patients, however, require vigilance on the part of their 
health-care providers to reverse treatable disorders to maintain a satisfactory 
quality of life. We report on a patient with obstructive sleep apnea and type 3 
SMA. The treatment of his sleep-disordered breathing resulted in the resolution 
of symptoms that were initially attributed to his neuromuscular disease.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.126.5.1705
PMID: 15539750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Horm Res. 2004;62 Suppl 3:42-50. doi: 10.1159/000080498.

Cardiovascular effects of growth hormone treatment: potential risks and 
benefits.

Colao A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology, Federico II 
University of Naples, Naples, Italy. colao@unina.it

Growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I are involved in heart 
development and in maintaining cardiac structure and performance. Cardiovascular 
disease has been reported to reduce life expectancy both in GH deficiency (GHD) 
and in GH excess. Patients with GHD suffer from abnormalities of left 
ventricular performance, i.e. reduced diastolic filling and impaired response to 
peak exercise. Patients with GHD also have increased intima-media thickness at 
the common carotid arteries, associated with a higher occurrence of 
atherosclerotic plaques, which may further aggravate the haemodynamic 
conditions. This may contribute to increased cardiovascular and cerebrovascular 
risk. These cardiovascular abnormalities can be reversed, at least partially, 
with GH replacement therapy. In recent years, GH therapy has been used to 
increase cardiac mass in ischaemic or dilated cardiomyopathy, but the results 
have produced contradictory data.

2004 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000080498
PMID: 15539798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Horm Res. 2004;62 Suppl 3:74-8. doi: 10.1159/000080504.

Pitfalls in the diagnosis of acromegaly.

Pokrajac-Simeunovic A(1), Trainer PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Christie Hospital, Manchester, UK.

Acromegaly is a disfiguring and disabling illness which, when inadequately 
treated, reduces life expectancy. An implication of the ability to offer 
effective treatment is the increased onus on physicians of all sorts to ensure 
acromegaly is diagnosed and treated as early as possible. To this end, criteria 
for the diagnosis of acromegaly have been proposed in the consensus statement of 
Giustina et al. However, other data suggest that the proposed criteria are not 
rigorous enough and strict adherence to the guidelines would result in failure 
to diagnose a significant number of patients. A review of published experience 
suggests that the combination of a GH nadir during an oral glucose tolerance 
test of <0.25 microg/l plus a normal age-related insulin growth factor-I level 
makes the diagnosis of acromegaly extremely unlikely.

2004 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000080504
PMID: 15539804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Am Nat. 2004 Nov;164 Suppl 5:S19-32. doi: 10.1086/424606.

The evolution of virulence when parasites cause host castration and gigantism.

Ebert D(1), Carius HJ, Little T, Decaestecker E.

Author information:
(1)Universitat Basel, Zoologisches Institut, Vesalgasse 1, 4051 Basel, 
Switzerland. dieter.ebert@unibas.ch

It has been suggested that the harm parasites cause to their hosts is an 
unavoidable consequence of parasite reproduction with costs not only for the 
host but also for the parasite. Castrating parasites are thought to minimize 
their costs by reducing host fecundity, which may minimize the chances of 
killing both host and parasite prematurely. We conducted a series of experiments 
to understand the evolution of virulence of a castrating bacterium in the 
planktonic crustacean Daphnia magna. By manipulating food levels during the 
infection of D. magna with the bacterium Pasteuria ramosa, we showed that both 
antagonists are resource-limited and that a negative correlation between host 
and parasite reproduction exists, indicating resource competition among the 
antagonists. Pasteuria ramosa also induces enhanced growth of its hosts 
(gigantism), which we found to be negatively correlated with host fecundity but 
positively correlated with parasite reproduction. Because infected hosts never 
recovered from infections, we concluded that gigantism is beneficial only for 
the parasite. Hosts, however, have evolved counteradaptations. We showed that 
infected hosts have enhanced reproduction before castration. This shift to 
earlier reproduction increases overall host fecundity and compromises parasite 
reproduction. Finally, we showed that this resource conflict is subject to 
genetic variation among host and parasite genotypes within a population and is 
therefore likely to be an important force in the coevolution of virulence in 
this system. A verbal model is presented and suggests that the adaptive value of 
gigantism is to store host resources, which are liberated after parasitic 
castration for later use by the growing parasite. This hypothesis assumes that 
infections are long lasting, that is, that they have a high life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1086/424606
PMID: 15540139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Med J Aust. 2004 Nov 15;181(10):583-4. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2004.tb06469.x.

UK health inequalities: the class system is alive and well.

Furler J, Harris E, Nutbeam D, Harris M.

Comment on
    Med J Aust. 2004 Aug 2;181(3):128.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2004.tb06469.x
PMID: 15540982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Am J Med. 2004 Nov 15;117(10):755-61. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.06.032.

Life expectancy and prognostic factors for survival in patients with 
polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia.

Passamonti F(1), Rumi E, Pungolino E, Malabarba L, Bertazzoni P, Valentini M, 
Orlandi E, Arcaini L, Brusamolino E, Pascutto C, Cazzola M, Morra E, Lazzarino 
M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, University of Pavia, 
Pavia, Italy. f.passamonti@smatteo.pv.it

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2005 May;118(5):565; author reply 565-6.

PURPOSE: To assess life expectancy and prognostic factors for survival in 
patients with polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia.
METHODS: The study sample consisted of 831 consecutive patients with 
polycythemia vera (n = 396; 4184 person-years of follow-up) or essential 
thrombocythemia (n = 435; 4304 person-years of follow-up). Mortality in each 
group was compared with the Italian population using the standardized mortality 
ratio (SMR) based on life expectancy data obtained from the Italian Institute of 
Statistics.
RESULTS: The 15-year survival was 65% in patients with polycythemia and 73% in 
those with thrombocythemia. By Cox regression analysis, the independent 
predictors of death were a history of thrombosis for polycythemia (hazard ratio 
[HR] = 2.2; P = 0.0002) and thrombocythemia (HR = 2; P = 0.01), and male sex (HR 
= 1.8; P = 0.03) for thrombocythemia. Mortality compared with the general 
population was 1.6-fold higher (P <0.001) in patients with polycythemia but was 
not increased in those with thrombocythemia (SMR = 1; P = 0.8).
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy of patients with polycythemia vera (especially if 
younger than 50 years) was reduced compared with the general population, whereas 
life expectancy of patients with essential thrombocythemia was not affected 
significantly by the disease, reflecting the more indolent nature of the 
proliferation. History of thrombosis was the main predictor of death in both 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.06.032
PMID: 15541325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Lung Cancer. 2004 Dec;46(3):333-40. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2004.05.010.

High serum YKL-40 level in patients with small cell lung cancer is related to 
early death.

Johansen JS(1), Drivsholm L, Price PA, Christensen IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Rheumatology Q, Herlev Hospital, Herlev 
Ringvej 75, Herlev DK-2730, Denmark. julia.johansen@post3.tele.dk

YKL-40, a growth factor for connective tissue cells, is secreted by cancer cells 
and macrophages. Elevated serum YKL-40 in patients with metastatic carcinoma has 
been associated with poor prognosis. We evaluated serum YKL-40 in 131 patients 
with small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Twenty-two percent of the patients with 
limited disease and 40% of the patients with extensive disease had elevated 
serum YKL-40. The median survival was 5.1 months for patients with elevated 
serum YKL-40 and 9.0 months for patients with normal serum YKL-40. Patients with 
elevated serum YKL-40 had increased hazard for death within the first 6 months 
after the start of chemotherapy compared to patients with normal serum YKL-40 
(HR = 2.06, P = 0.009). Multivariate Cox analysis including routine prognostic 
variables showed that serum YKL-40 (P = 0.02) is independent of prognostic 
variables for survival within the first 6 months. Studies are needed to 
determine the function of YKL-40 in SCLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2004.05.010
PMID: 15541818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Gut. 2004 Dec;53(12):1736-44. doi: 10.1136/gut.2003.033837.

What is the best management strategy for high grade dysplasia in Barrett's 
oesophagus? A cost effectiveness analysis.

Shaheen NJ(1), Inadomi JM, Overholt BF, Sharma P.

Author information:
(1)CB#7080, UNC-CH, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7080, USA. nshaheen@med.unc.edu

Comment in
    Gut. 2005 Aug;54(8):1204; author reply 1204.

BACKGROUND: Multiple treatment strategies for subjects with high grade dysplasia 
(HGD) in Barrett's oesophagus (BO) have been suggested. However, it is unclear 
which of these strategies provides the greatest life expectancy, and the costs 
associated with the management strategies are unknown.
AIM: To compare the efficacy and cost effectiveness of competing management 
strategies for BO with HGD.
METHODS: We created a decision analysis model in Data 4.0 to assess possible 
treatment strategies for BO with HGD. The strategies included: (1) no 
preventative strategy, (2) elective surgical oesophagectomy, (3) endoscopic 
ablation, and (4) surveillance endoscopy. The base case was a healthy 50 year 
old White male with an initial diagnosis of BO with HGD. The model allowed for 
complications of surgery, including death. Ablative therapy could cause 
stricture or perforation. Pathological misinterpretation was allowed, and 
modelled after reported rates. Estimates were derived from the literature for 
the rate of progression of HGD to cancer and for complication rates for the 
various treatment modalities. The endoscopic ablation arm was modelled as 
photodynamic therapy. Sensitivity analyses were performed over a wide range of 
cancer incidences, complication rates, and procedure costs.
RESULTS: Endoscopic ablation was the most effective strategy, yielding 15.5 
discounted quality adjusted life years (dQALY), compared with 15.0 for 
endoscopic surveillance and 14.9 for oesophagectomy. No preventative strategy 
was the most inexpensive option, yielding an average cost per quality adjusted 
life year of US dollars 54 (44) per dQALY, but resulted in high rates of cancer. 
Endoscopic surveillance dominated oesophagectomy, being both less costly and 
more effective. The condition of extended dominance occurred when comparing 
endoscopic ablation to endoscopic surveillance because, although the total costs 
of ablation were greater than those of surveillance, it was less expensive to 
buy an additional life year using endoscopic ablation than endoscopic 
surveillance. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio when moving from no 
therapy to ablative therapy was a reasonable US dollars 25 621/dQALY (21 
009/dQALY). Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that when yearly rates of 
progression to cancer from HGD exceeded 30%, oesophagectomy became the most cost 
effective option.
CONCLUSIONS: A strategy of endoscopic ablation provided the longest quality 
adjusted life expectancy for BO with HGD. Although endoscopic surveillance was 
less expensive than endoscopic ablation, it was associated with shorter 
survival. Optimal utilisation of healthcare resources may be achieved with 
endoscopic ablative therapy for BO with HGD.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.2003.033837
PMCID: PMC1774325
PMID: 15542506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Eur J Public Health. 2004 Dec;14(4):337. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/14.4.337.

Hendrikje van Andel, bristlecone pines, and why we die.

Mackenbach JP.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/14.4.337
PMID: 15542865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Eur J Public Health. 2004 Dec;14(4):422-7. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/14.4.422.

Contribution of deaths related to alcohol or smoking to the gender difference in 
life expectancy: Finland in the early 1990s.

Martelin T(1), Mäkelä P, Valkonen T.

Author information:
(1)National Public Health Institute (KTL), Department of Health and Functional 
Capacity, Helsinki, Finland. tuija.mertelin@ktl.fi

BACKGROUND: In comparison to most other countries in Western Europe, Finland 
ranks high with regard to male excess mortality. This study examined the 
contribution of smoking and alcohol to the gender difference in mortality in 
Finland during 1991-93 among the population aged 15 or over.
METHODS: The study is based on data from linked registers. The number of 
alcohol-related deaths was assessed on the basis of information included in the 
death certificate, while the conventional method of population attributable 
fraction was applied to estimate the aggregated contribution of smoking. In 
combining the effects of alcohol and smoking, three alternative assumptions of 
their overlap were used.
RESULTS: Approximately 51-56% of the gender difference of 7.6 years in the life 
expectancy at age 15 was estimated to be attributable to alcohol or smoking, 
depending on the assumption about the overlap of the contribution of alcohol and 
smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: The study confirms the important role of alcohol and smoking as a 
mechanism contributing to the difference in mortality between men and women in 
Finland.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/14.4.422
PMID: 15542881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2004 Nov 15;29(22):2501-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000145415.79761.de.

Integrated outcome assessment after anterior cervical discectomy and fusion: 
myelocompression but not adjacent instability affect patient-reported quality of 
life and cervical spine symptoms.

Kienapfel H(1), Koller M, Hinder D, Georg C, Pfeiffer M, Klose KJ, Lorenz W, 
Griss P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Philipps University Marburg, Germany. 
heino.kienapfel@vivantes.de

STUDY DESIGN: The authors conducted a cross-sectional study.
OBJECTIVE: Integrated assessment of adjacent instability (AI), myelocompression 
(MC), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) signs of myelopathy (MRISM), 
physician-assessed clinical signs and symptoms, including clinical signs of 
myelopathy (CSM), patients' self-reported symptoms and quality of life after 
anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty-four patients who had ACDF between 1986 and 1995 
received MRI scans, conventional and flexion/extension radiographs to assess 
myelocompression, MRISM, fusion, and AI. Clinical outcome was assessed using 
signs and symptoms based on selected items of Odom's criteria, Oswestry low back 
pain disability questionnaire, and the neck disability index. Patients reported 
their quality of life (QL) on a standardized instrument (Profiles of QL of 
Chronically Ill [PLC]) and by a specific validated Cervical Spine Symptom Scale 
(CSSS).
RESULTS: Myelocompression was found more frequently than expected (24%). MRISM 
were seen in 2 patients (4%). One of the 2 patients developed CSM. Fusion was 
achieved in 94% (with kyphosis in 17%). AI was found in 30%. However, only 
myelocompression but not AI was associated with statistically significant 
decreases in most QL scores (i.e., everyday capabilities, positive mood) and 
high cervical spine symptom burden (all P's < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The study results underline the need for a better understanding of 
the biomechanical changes in the adjacent unfused segments. Consensus is needed 
on postoperative follow-up guidelines, including pain management strategies. 
Future studies on the outcome of ACDF will profit from an integrated outcome 
approach, including assessments based on imaging, physicians, and patients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000145415.79761.de
PMID: 15543061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Mt Sinai J Med. 2004 Oct;71(5):314-21.

The Institute of Medicine report "Unequal Treatment": implications for academic 
health centers.

Betancourt JR(1), Maina AW.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Policy, Massachusetts General Hospital, 50 Staniford 
Street, 9th Floor, Suite 901, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: The United States has achieved dramatic improvements in overall 
health and life expectancy, largely due to initiatives in public health, health 
promotion and disease prevention. Academic health centers have played a major 
role in this effort, given their mission of engaging in research, educating 
health professionals, providing primary and specialty medical services, and 
caring for the poor and uninsured. However, national data indicate that minority 
Americans have poorer health outcomes (compared to whites) from preventable and 
treatable conditions such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, asthma, cancer 
and HIV/AIDS. Two factors contribute heavily to these racial and ethnic 
disparities in health: minorities are subjected to adverse social determinants, 
and they are disproportionately represented among the uninsured. In the last 
twenty years, however, the literature has highlighted the fact that racial and 
ethnic disparities occur not only in health, but also in health care. The 
Institute of Medicine Report, "Unequal Treatment." The Institute of Medicine 
(IOM) was asked to determine the extent of racial and ethnic disparities in 
health care. Their report, entitled "Unequal Treatment," found that racial and 
ethnic disparities in health care do exist, and that many sources, including 
health care systems, health care providers, patients and utilization managers, 
are contributors. Recommendations from "Unequal Treatment": Implications for 
Academic Health Centers. The IOM Report, "Unequal Treatment," provides a series 
of recommendations to address racial and ethnic disparities in health care, 
targeted to a broad audience (the executive summary and full IOM Report can be 
found at www.nap.edu under the search heading "Unequal Treatment"). Several of 
the recommendations speak directly to the mission and roles of academic health 
centers, and have clear and direct implications for patient care, education, and 
research. These recommendations include collecting and reporting health care 
access and utilization data by patient=s race/ethnicity, encouraging the use of 
evidence-based guidelines and quality improvement, supporting the use of 
language interpretation services in the clinical setting, increasing awareness 
of racial/ethnic disparities in health care, increasing the proportion of 
underrepresented minorities in the health care workforce, integrating 
cross-cultural education into the training of all health care professionals, and 
conducting further research to identify sources of disparities and promising 
interventions.
CONCLUSION: "Unequal Treatment" provides the first detailed, systematic 
examination of racial/ethnic disparities in health care, and provides a 
blueprint for how to address them. The report=s recommendations are broad in 
scope, yet have direct implications for academic health centers.

PMID: 15543432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2004 Nov 19;129(47):2529-34. doi:
10.1055/s-2004-835296.

[Subcutaneously tunnelled cuffed venous hemodialysis catheters in chronic renal 
failure].

[Article in German]

Brueck M(1), Waeger S, Braig G, Kramer W.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik I, Klinikum Wetzlar-Braunfels. 
Martin.Brueck@hkw.med.uni-giessen.de

BACKGROUND: Silastic cuffed catheters play an increasing role in providing 
long-term vascular access for hemodialysis. The reasons for this were related to 
increased patient age and an increased number of patients who had exhausted 
sites for vascular access. We report our experience with subcutaneously 
tunnelled cuffed hemodialysis catheters.
METHOD: From May 1, 2001 to February 28, 2003, 258 consecutive hemodialysis 
catheters were placed in 203 patients (122 men, mean age 70 +/- 12 years) as 
access for hemodialysis (1.3 catheters/patient). Catheter implantation was 
explained to all patients and a protocol consent form was signed. The catheter 
was implanted via the internal jugular, subclavian or femoral vein and the 
correct final catheter position was determined fluoroscopically. Short and 
long-term catheter-associated complications were collected from the time of 
catheter insertion until a follow up of at least 6 months after implantation.
RESULTS: The mean duration of implantation procedure was 38 +/- 12 minutes with 
an initial clinical success rate of 100 % and a periprocedural complication rate 
of 6 %. The median catheter indwell time was 9 months with a primary patency 
rate of 72 % at the end of the follow-up. Inadequate flow rate < 200 ml/min was 
noted at one per 41 patient-months but sufficient blood flow was restored in 50 
% of these patients with non- or semi-invasive interventions. Bacteremic 
episodes occurred at a rate of one episode per 16 patient-months. Catheter 
removal due to severe exit site infections or bacteremic episodes were necessary 
at one per 73 patient-months. There were no cases of bacterial endocarditis.
CONCLUSION: Subcutaneously tunnelled cuffed venous hemodialysis catheters are a 
safe und highly feasible vascular access with a low complication rate and a long 
use-life especially for elder patients with limited life expectancy, exhausted 
sites for vascular access or in case of failing hemodialysis arteriovenous 
fistulas.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-835296
PMID: 15543469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2004 Nov 19;129(47):2560; author reply 2560. doi: 
10.1055/s-2004-836072.

[Living without limits? Deutsche Medizinische Wochenschaft 16/2004 as an 
example].

[Article in German]

Gleichmann U.

Comment on
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2004 Apr 16;129(16):867.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-836072
PMID: 15543477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. NeuroRehabilitation. 2004;19(3):257-8.

Life expectancy after traumatic brain injury.

Strauss D, Shavelle RM, DeVivo MJ, Harrison-Felix C, Whiteneck GG.

Comment on
    NeuroRehabilitation. 2004;19(1):45-54.

PMID: 15543685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2004;105(7-8):281-4.

Students' research and scientific activity at the Faculty of Medicine, Comenius 
University in Bratislava.

Bernadic M(1), Mladosievicova B, Traubner P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathophysiology, Faculty of Medicine, Comenius University, 
Bratislava, Slovakia. marian.bernadic@fmed.uniba.sk

The Faculty of Medicine of the Comenius University in Bratislava commemorated 
the 85th Anniversary of its foundation. In the context of this anniversary the 
authors draw attention to an important component of the scientific life at the 
Faculty of Medicine, Comenius University--namely the Students scientific and 
research activity "SSARA." The commencement of SSARA is related to the Youth 
creativity contest. The first Faculty conference was held in 1950 as a 
all-faculty activity. One would say this conference has started the students 
scientific work at the faculty. In 1956 was the Students scientific board (SSB) 
instituted, headed by the Board of SSB. In 1967/68 a joint conference with JMF 
CU took place in Martin. At present one can say that SSARA at the Faculty of 
Medicine CU, Bratislava inspired not only faculties of CU, but also other 
faculties of the former Czechoslovakia to start with this activity. SSARA has 
become an important extension of the study and a preparation for diploma thesis. 
In consequence with application of credit forms of study we are in preparation 
of conditions allowing SSARA to become a part of optional forms of study. (Ref. 
15.)

PMID: 15543851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Curr Pharm Des. 2004;10(27):3419-29. doi: 10.2174/1381612043383070.

Can an apple a day keep the doctor away?

Raskin I(1), Ripoll C.

Author information:
(1)Biotech Center, Cook College, Rutgers University, 59 Dudley Rd., New 
Brunswick, New Jersey 08901-8520, USA. raskin@aesop.rutgers.edu

The modern pharmaceutical industry based on synthetic chemistry severed the 
historical connection between plants, food and medicines. The growing costs of 
discovering new chemical entity-based drugs through high throughput screening 
methods may yet again reconnect plants and human health at a new level of 
technological sophistication. Multi-component botanical therapeutics that 
comprise functional foods, dietary supplements and botanical drugs hold several 
advantages over conventional drugs that may earn them a more prominent place in 
the medicine of the future. They can deliver mixtures of multi-functional 
molecules with potentiating and synergistic effects and pleiotropic targeting at 
a reasonable cost and with fewer regulatory constraints. They are well suited 
for long-term disease prevention in an era of genetic testing and increased life 
expectancy. They also provide additional vehicles for delivering health and 
wellness. Technologies that address the needs of discovery, development and 
manufacturing of multi-component botanical therapeutics are emerging. They 
include computational and bioinformatics approaches, cell based gene expression 
and high-content screening systems, and phytochemical elicitation and unique 
plant cultivation / extraction methods designed to optimize the production of 
bioactives, standardize overall extract composition and assure batch-to-batch 
product consistency. Nevertheless, multi-component botanical therapeutics carry 
risks associated with potential interactions with conventional drugs and adverse 
reactions, which are difficult to detect and diagnose. They face problems of 
acceptance by the medical community and pharmaceutical industry, safety and 
efficacy validation, poor standardization and quality control, and difficulties 
in identifying active ingredients and determining their complex mode(s) of 
action. Solving these problems will accelerate the merger of grocery stores with 
pharmacies and agriculture with chemical manufacturing and provide physicians 
and patients with broader and more individualized choices for disease prevention 
and treatment.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612043383070
PMID: 15544525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Health Technol Assess. 2004 Dec;8(49):iii-iv, 1-192. doi: 10.3310/hta8490.

Generalisability in economic evaluation studies in healthcare: a review and case 
studies.

Sculpher MJ(1), Pang FS, Manca A, Drummond MF, Golder S, Urdahl H, Davies LM, 
Eastwood A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To review, and to develop further, the methods used to assess and to 
increase the generalisability of economic evaluation studies.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases.
REVIEW METHODS: Methodological studies relating to economic evaluation in 
healthcare were searched. This included electronic searches of a range of 
databases, including PREMEDLINE, MEDLINE, EMBASE and EconLit, and manual 
searches of key journals. The case studies of a decision analytic model involved 
highlighting specific features of previously published economic studies related 
to generalisability and location-related variability. The case-study involving 
the secondary analysis of cost-effectiveness analyses was based on the secondary 
analysis of three economic studies using data from randomised trials.
RESULTS: The factor most frequently cited as generating variability in economic 
results between locations was the unit costs associated with particular 
resources. In the context of studies based on the analysis of patient-level 
data, regression analysis has been advocated as a means of looking at 
variability in economic results across locations. These methods have generally 
accepted that some components of resource use and outcomes are exchangeable 
across locations. Recent studies have also explored, in cost-effectiveness 
analysis, the use of tests of heterogeneity similar to those used in clinical 
evaluation in trials. The decision analytic model has been the main means by 
which cost-effectiveness has been adapted from trial to non-trial locations. 
Most models have focused on changes to the cost side of the analysis, but it is 
clear that the effectiveness side may also need to be adapted between locations. 
There have been weaknesses in some aspects of the reporting in applied 
cost-effectiveness studies. These may limit decision-makers' ability to judge 
the relevance of a study to their specific situations. The case study 
demonstrated the potential value of multilevel modelling (MLM). Where clustering 
exists by location (e.g. centre or country), MLM can facilitate correct 
estimates of the uncertainty in cost-effectiveness results, and also a means of 
estimating location-specific cost-effectiveness. The review of applied economic 
studies based on decision analytic models showed that few studies were explicit 
about their target decision-maker(s)/jurisdictions. The studies in the review 
generally made more effort to ensure that their cost inputs were specific to 
their target jurisdiction than their effectiveness parameters. Standard 
sensitivity analysis was the main way of dealing with uncertainty in the models, 
although few studies looked explicitly at variability between locations. The 
modelling case study illustrated how effectiveness and cost data can be made 
location-specific. In particular, on the effectiveness side, the example showed 
the separation of location-specific baseline events and pooled estimates of 
relative treatment effect, where the latter are assumed exchangeable across 
locations.
CONCLUSIONS: A large number of factors are mentioned in the literature that 
might be expected to generate variation in the cost-effectiveness of healthcare 
interventions across locations. Several papers have demonstrated differences in 
the volume and cost of resource use between locations, but few studies have 
looked at variability in outcomes. In applied trial-based cost-effectiveness 
studies, few studies provide sufficient evidence for decision-makers to 
establish the relevance or to adjust the results of the study to their location 
of interest. Very few studies utilised statistical methods formally to assess 
the variability in results between locations. In applied economic studies based 
on decision models, most studies either stated their target 
decision-maker/jurisdiction or provided sufficient information from which this 
could be inferred. There was a greater tendency to ensure that cost inputs were 
specific to the target jurisdiction than clinical parameters. Methods to assess 
generalisability and variability in economic evaluation studies have been 
discussed extensively in the literature relating to both trial-based and 
modelling studies. Regression-based methods are likely to offer a systematic 
approach to quantifying variability in patient-level data. In particular, MLM 
has the potential to facilitate estimates of cost-effectiveness, which both 
reflect the variation in costs and outcomes between locations and also enable 
the consistency of cost-effectiveness estimates between locations to be assessed 
directly. Decision analytic models will retain an important role in adapting the 
results of cost-effectiveness studies between locations. Recommendations for 
further research include: the development of methods of evidence synthesis which 
model the exchangeability of data across locations and allow for the additional 
uncertainty in this process; assessment of alternative approaches to specifying 
multilevel models to the analysis of cost-effectiveness data alongside 
multilocation randomised trials; identification of a range of appropriate 
covariates relating to locations (e.g. hospitals) in multilevel models; and 
further assessment of the role of econometric methods (e.g. selection models) 
for cost-effectiveness analysis alongside observational datasets, and to 
increase the generalisability of randomised trials.

DOI: 10.3310/hta8490
PMID: 15544708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. J Biol Chem. 2005 Feb 25;280(8):6337-48. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M406319200. Epub
2004  Nov 15.

A dual role for the N-terminal region of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Hsp16.3 in 
self-oligomerization and binding denaturing substrate proteins.

Fu X(1), Zhang H, Zhang X, Cao Y, Jiao W, Liu C, Song Y, Abulimiti A, Chang Z.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Protein Engineering and Plant Genetic Engineering, 
and College of Life Science, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

The N-terminal regions, which are highly variable in small heat-shock proteins, 
were found to be structurally disordered in all the 24 subunits of Methanococcus 
jannaschii Hsp16.5 oligomer and half of the 12 subunits of wheat Hsp16.9 
oligomer. The structural and functional roles of the corresponding region 
(potentially disordered) in Mycobacterium tuberculosis Hsp16.3, existing as 
nonamers, were investigated in this work. The data demonstrate that the mutant 
Hsp16.3 protein with 35 N-terminal residues removed (DeltaN35) existed as 
trimers/dimers rather than as nonamers, failing to bind the hydrophobic probe 
(1,1'-bi(4-anilino)naphthalene-5,5'-disulfonic acid) and exhibiting no 
chaperone-like activity. Nevertheless, another mutant protein with the 
C-terminal extension (of nine residues) removed, although existing predominantly 
as dimers, exhibited efficient chaperone-like activity even at room 
temperatures, indicating that pre-existence as nonamers is not a prerequisite 
for its chaperone-like activity. Meanwhile, the mutant protein with both the N- 
and C-terminal ends removed fully exists as a dimer lacking any chaperone-like 
activity. Furthermore, the N-terminal region alone, either as a synthesized 
peptide or in fusion protein with glutathione S-transferase, was capable of 
interacting with denaturing proteins. These observations strongly suggest that 
the N-terminal region of Hsp16.3 is not only involved in self-oligomerization 
but also contains the critical site for substrate binding. Such a dual role for 
the N-terminal region would provide an effective mechanism for the small 
heat-shock protein to modulate its chaperone-like activity through oligomeric 
dissociation/reassociation. In addition, this study demonstrated that the 
wild-type protein was able to form heterononamers with DeltaN35 via subunit 
exchange at a subunit ratio of 2:1. This implies that the 35 N-terminal residues 
in three of the nine subunits in the wild-type nonamer are not needed for the 
assembly of nonamers from trimers and are thus probably structurally disordered.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M406319200
PMID: 15545279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Hypertension. 2005 Jan;45(1):92-7. doi: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000149684.01903.b8.
Epub  2004 Nov 15.

Treating osteoarthritis with cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors: what are the 
benefits of avoiding blood pressure destabilization?

Grover SA(1), Coupal L, Zowall H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care and Division of General 
Internal Medicine, The Montreal General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
steven.grover@mcgill.ca

Osteoarthritis and hypertension are highly prevalent among older Americans. 
Anti-inflammatory medications can destabilize blood pressure control. We 
estimated the decreased cardiovascular risk, premature mortality, and direct 
health care costs that could be avoided if blood pressure control is not 
destabilized among hypertensive Americans taking cyclooxygenase-2 
(COX-2)-specific inhibitors for osteoarthritis. Data from the Third National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III) provided the distribution 
of cardiovascular risk factors among American adults with osteoarthritis and 
hypertension. The Cardiovascular Disease Life Expectancy Model was used to 
estimate the impact of a 2.26% increase in systolic blood pressure on the basis 
of results of a randomized trial comparing COX-2-specific inhibitors. A similar 
analysis was completed for American adults with osteoarthritis and untreated 
hypertension (> or =140/90 mm Hg). Among 7.3 million Americans with treated 
hypertension, maintaining blood pressure control would avoid >30,000 stroke 
deaths and 2,000 coronary deaths resulting in >449,000 person years of life 
saved and 1.4 billion dollars in direct health care cost savings. When an 
additional 3.8 million Americans with untreated hypertension are considered, 
maintaining blood pressure control could prevent >47,000 stroke deaths, 39,000 
coronary deaths, and result in 668,000 person years of life saved and >2.4 
billion dollars in direct health care cost savings. We conclude that even a 
small increase in systolic blood pressure among hypertensive Americans with 
osteoarthritis may substantially increase the clinical and economic burden of 
cardiovascular disease. Maintaining blood pressure control may be associated 
with substantial benefits.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000149684.01903.b8
PMID: 15545508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Hypertension. 2005 Jan;45(1):39-45. doi: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000149106.89470.13.
 Epub 2004 Nov 15.

Novel approach to examining first cardiovascular events after hypertension 
onset.

Lloyd-Jones DM(1), Leip EP, Larson MG, Vasan RS, Levy D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, 680 N Lake Shore Dr, Suite 1120, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. 
dlj@northwestern.edu

Hypertension confers risk for multiple types of cardiovascular events, but 
competing risks for these outcomes are unknown. We estimated the competing risks 
over 12 years after hypertension onset among cases and age-, sex-, and 
examination-matched controls using competing Cox cumulative incidence and 
proportional hazards models. We included all Framingham Heart Study subjects 
examined after 1977 with new-onset hypertension who were free of cardiovascular 
disease. There were 645 men and 702 women with new-onset hypertension (mean age: 
men, 55+/-12 years; women, 59+/-12 years). Compared with matched nonhypertensive 
controls, subjects with new-onset hypertension were more likely to experience a 
cardiovascular event first rather than noncardiovascular death. Among new-onset 
hypertensives, the 12-year competing cumulative incidence of any cardiovascular 
end point as a first event in men was 24.7%, compared with 9.8% for 
noncardiovascular death (hazards ratio [HR], 2.53; 95% confidence interval [CI], 
1.83 to 3.50); in women, the competing incidences were 16.0% versus 10.1%, 
respectively (HR, 1.58; 95% CI, 1.13 to 2.20). The most common first major 
cardiovascular events were hard coronary disease (8.2%) in men and stroke (5.2%) 
in women. Type and incidence of first cardiovascular events varied by age and 
severity of hypertension at onset, with stroke predominating among older 
subjects with new-onset hypertension. After hypertension onset, cardiovascular 
events are more likely to occur first as opposed to noncardiovascular death. 
Types of initial events differ by gender, age, and severity of hypertension at 
onset. These results represent a novel approach to understanding the 
complications of hypertension and may help target therapies for patients with 
new-onset hypertension to optimize prevention strategies.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000149106.89470.13
PMID: 15545512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2005 Apr;44(4):348-57. doi: 10.1002/pbc.20219.

High dose melphalan in the treatment of advanced neuroblastoma: results of a 
randomised trial (ENSG-1) by the European Neuroblastoma Study Group.

Pritchard J(1), Cotterill SJ, Germond SM, Imeson J, de Kraker J, Jones DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Institute of Child Health, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: High dose myeloablative chemotherapy ("megatherapy"), with 
haematopoietic stem cell support, is now widely used to consolidate response to 
induction chemotherapy in patients with advanced neuroblastoma.
PROCEDURE: In this study (European Neuroblastoma Study Group, ENSG1), the value 
of melphalan myeloablative "megatherapy" was evaluated in a randomised, 
multi-centre trial. Between 1982 and 1985, 167 children with stages IV and III 
neuroblastoma (123 stage IV > 1 year old at diagnosis and 44 stage III and stage 
IV from 6 to 12 months old at diagnosis) were treated with oncovin, cisplatin, 
epipodophyllotoxin, and cyclophosphamide (OPEC) induction chemotherapy every 3 
weeks. After surgical excision of primary tumour, the 90 patients (69% of the 
total) who achieved complete response (CR) or good partial response (GPR) were 
eligible for randomisation either to high dose melphalan (180 mg per square 
meter) with autologous bone marrow support or to no further treatment.
RESULTS: Sixty-five (72%) of eligible children were actually randomised and 21 
of these patients were surviving at time of this analysis, with median follow-up 
