recent anterior MI treated with SVR. The results show that SVR is feasible, has 
acceptable in-hospital mortality, and has good early and late outcome. Further 
experience is needed to establish whether SVR, which excludes the infarcted 
region, can prevent the long-term adverse remodeling of LV dilated hearts after 
anterior infarction.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000138220.68543.e8
PMID: 15364858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Circulation. 2004 Sep 14;110(11 Suppl 1):II207-12. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000138393.99310.1c.

Cytomegalovirus infection in heart transplant recipients is associated with 
impaired endothelial function.

Petrakopoulou P(1), KÃ¼brich M, Pehlivanli S, Meiser B, Reichart B, von Scheidt 
W, Weis M.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik I, University Medical Center, 
Munich-Grosshadern, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) is initiated by allograft 
endothelial injury. We hypothesized that a major mechanism by which 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) could contribute to CAV is by dysregulation of the 
endothelial vasomotor response.
METHODS: Coronary endothelial vasomotor function was determined in 183 
consecutive patients (24+/-33 months after transplantation), and was correlated 
with recipient and donor CMV serological status before transplantation and with 
documented CMV infection episodes (CMVpp65Ag+). Serial endothelial function 
measurements were performed in a subgroup of 53 transplant recipients (1 month 
and 12 months after transplantation). The composite endpoint of cardiovascular 
related events and death during a follow-up of 66+/-41 months was analyzed based 
on the CMV serological status before transplantation.
RESULTS: The medium event-free time for CMV-negative recipients of CMV-positive 
hearts was 8.1 years compared with 13.3 years for the other groups (P<0.05). 
Distal epicardial but not microvascular endothelial function was significantly 
impaired in CMV seronegative recipients of seropositive donor hearts (n=48) 
compared with all other groups (P<0.01 versus seronegative 
recipient/seronegative donor; P<0.05 versus seropositive recipient/seronegative 
donor; P<0.05 versus seropositive recipient/seropositive donor). Distal 
epicardial endothelial dysfunction was more pronounced in heart transplant 
recipients with a history of documented CMV infection compared with patients 
without any documented CMV infection (P<0.01). In a longitudinal subgroup 
analysis, distal epicardial and microcirculatory endothelial vasomotor response 
deteriorated significantly in recipients with documented CMV infection (P<0.05 
versus baseline) but not in patients without previous CMV infection.
CONCLUSIONS: Documented CMV infection episodes in heart transplant recipients 
are associated with impaired coronary endothelial function. CMV-negative 
recipients of CMV-positive donor hearts have an impaired distal epicardial 
endothelial function and an increased incidence of cardiovascular-related events 
and death during follow-up. CMV infection may contribute to allograft failure by 
accelerating coronary endothelial dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000138393.99310.1c
PMID: 15364864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Neurology. 2004 Sep 14;63(5):901-3. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000137050.43114.42.

Salvage therapy for primary CNS lymphoma with a combination of rituximab and 
temozolomide.

Enting RH(1), Demopoulos A, DeAngelis LM, Abrey LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2005 Mar 8;64(5):934; author reply 934.

The authors evaluated the efficacy of a combination of rituximab and 
temozolomide for recurrent or refractory primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL). Fifteen 
patients with a median age of 69 years had a 53% objective response rate with 
acceptable toxicity. Median overall survival is 14 months and median progression 
free survival of responding patients is 7.7 months. This combination merits 
further study and provides a reasonable therapeutic alternative for older 
patients with progressive PCNSL.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000137050.43114.42
PMID: 15365145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Am J Nurs. 2004 Sep;104(9):40-9; quiz 50. doi:
10.1097/00000446-200409000-00022.

Palliative Care: prognostication and the chronically ill: methods you need to 
know as chronic disease progresses in older adults.

Matzo ML(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Massachusetts Graduate School of Nursing, Worcester, USA. 
mmatzo@gsinet.net

DOI: 10.1097/00000446-200409000-00022
PMID: 15365339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2004 Oct;124(8):507-17. doi:
10.1007/s00402-004-0720-3.  Epub 2004 Sep 10.

Prolonged enoxaparin therapy to prevent venous thromboembolism after primary hip 
or knee replacement. A cost-utility analysis.

Haentjens P(1), De Groote K, Annemans L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Academisch Ziekenhuis, Vrije 
Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 101, 1090 Brussels, Belgium. 
orthsp@az.vub.ac.be

BACKGROUND: Among patients undergoing elective total hip or knee replacement, 
prolonged prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin significantly reduces 
the risk of symptomatic venous thromboembolism. Whether implementing routine 
prolonged prophylaxis is cost-effective remains uncertain.
METHODS: We performed an economic modeling study to compare the costs and health 
outcomes of standard (12 days) with prolonged (42 days) enoxaparin prophylaxis 
against venous thromboembolism after elective total hip and knee replacement. 
The primary economic perspective was that of a societal healthcare payer, taking 
Belgium as a case country. We used cost-utility analysis, a form of cost 
effectiveness analysis in which costs are reported in monetary terms (euros) and 
health outcomes are converted into quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, 
thereby incorporating a measure of quality of life (utility) into the health 
outcomes. Costs for diagnosis and treatment of proximal and distal deep vein 
thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, postphlebitic syndrome, and major bleeding were 
obtained from a Delphi panel (orthopaedic surgeons) and the official 
reimbursement rates (Federal Ministry of Health). QALYs for these health 
outcomes were based on utility scores as reported in the literature. The main 
outcome measure was the incremental cost-utility ratio, reported as the 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year gained (euros/QALY). The 
incremental cost-utility ratio refers to the amount of money needed to produce 
one additional QALY. We also performed sensitivity analyses on clinical and 
economic parameters to identify important model uncertainties.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, incremental costs of prolonged prophylaxis 
amounted to 58 euros and 114 euros per patient, with an additional gain in QALY 
of 0.0083 and 0.0018 after total hip and knee replacement, respectively. Thus, a 
strategy of prolonged enoxaparin prophylaxis was associated with a cost-utility 
ratio of 6,964 euros/QALY and 64,907 euros/QALY after total hip and knee 
replacement, respectively. This tenfold difference in incremental cost-utility 
ratios between hip and knee replacement might have important practical 
implications. According to recent European guidelines, an intervention costing 
less than 20,000 euros per QALY is said to exhibit strong evidence for adoption, 
whereas one costing 20,000-100,000 euros exhibits moderate evidence for 
adoption. By current European guidelines, the cost of 6,964 euros and 64,907 
euros per QALY gained would give strong evidence for adoption of prolonged 
enoxaparin prophylaxis among total hip replacement patients, but moderate 
evidence for adoption among total knee replacement patients. Sensitivity 
analyses using 20% changes from the base-case analysis showed this outcome to be 
robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that, among patients undergoing elective 
total hip or knee replacement, prolonged enoxaparin prophylaxis leads to 
increased health benefits at increased cost. Given the additional costs that 
healthcare decision makers in Europe are usually prepared to pay for a gain in 
utility, prolonged prophylaxis with enoxaparin is cost-effective after elective 
total hip replacement, and our data provide strong evidence for adoption of 
prolonged enoxaparin prophylaxis after elective total hip replacement.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-004-0720-3
PMID: 15365714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Cell Tissue Res. 2004 Oct;318(1):81-92. doi: 10.1007/s00441-004-0972-9. Epub
 2004 Sep 8.

Histological changes of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system in aging.

Stark AK(1), Pakkenberg B.

Author information:
(1)Research Laboratory for Stereology and Neuroscience, Bispebjerg University 
Hospital, 2400 Copenhagen, NV, Denmark. forsklab@bbh.hosp.dk

Although the maximum human lifespan has not increased in recent history, average 
life expectancy has risen dramatically since the beginning of the last century. 
Lengthening of lifespan has little merit if the quality of life is not 
preserved. In the elderly, the decline in memory and cognitive abilities is of 
great concern, as is motor weakening, which increases with age. The dopaminergic 
system mediates some aspects of manual dexterity, in addition to cognition and 
emotion, and may be especially vulnerable to aging. Therefore, the aging of this 
system has both clinical and vocational aspects. This review includes studies 
quantitating age-related changes of the nigrostriatal system, with emphasis on 
the use of stereological methods, and provides tables of stereological studies 
performed in the nigrostriatal system.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-004-0972-9
PMID: 15365813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Quintessence Int. 2004 Sep;35(8):641-5.

Complex odontoma of unusual size involving the maxillary sinus: report of a case 
and review of CT and histopathologic features.

Mupparapu M(1), Singer SR, Rinaggio J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Sciences, UMDNJ: New Jersey Dental School, D-860, PO 
Box 1709, 110 Bergen Street, Newark, NJ 07101-1709, USA. mupparmu@umdnj.edu

An unusually large complex odontoma of the maxilla, occupying the entire 
maxillary sinus with expansion into the floor of the orbit and left nasal fossa, 
is reported. Although occurrences of complex odontomas are not considered rare, 
odontomas attaining extremely large sizes, especially involving the entire 
maxillary sinus with extension to the orbital floor and nasal fossae, are 
indeed, rare. In this article, the literature is reviewed to identify the common 
clinical, radiographic, and histologic characteristics of such lesions, and the 
outcome of treatment is discussed. Complex odontomas occasionally have 
significant growth potential, especially in the first two decades of life. Early 
recognition and consideration for surgical excision are key to successful 
management of this common odontogenic lesion. When odontomas extend beyond the 
alveolar process into the fascial planes, nasal fossae, paranasal sinuses, and 
orbits, computed tomography can readily demonstrate the extent and boundaries of 
the lesion.

PMID: 15366528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. World J Surg. 2004 Jun;28(6):563-9. doi: 10.1007/s00268-004-7256-0.

Cost-effectiveness of two follow-up strategies for curative resection of 
colorectal cancer: comparative study using a Markov model.

Borie F(1), Combescure C, DaurÃ¨s JP, TrÃ©tarre B, Millat B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Digestive A, HÃ´pital St. Eloi, 80 Avenue A. Fliche, 
34295 Montpellier, France. fborie@yahoo.com

The follow-up of patients with curative resection of colorectal cancer is still 
controversial. The means mobilized for postoperative monitoring come at a high 
cost. However, the modalities are neither formalized nor validated with regard 
to an improved 5-year survival rate. To compare the cost-effectiveness of both 
strategies for patient follow-up during the 7 years following curative resection 
of colorectal cancer, we performed a costeffectiveness analysis adjusted for 
quality of life. Using data from the literature and a population study, a 
simulation of follow-up on patients who had undergone curative resection of 
colorectal cancer was carried out over a 7-year period using a Markov model. Two 
Markov processes were modeled to compare the cost-effectiveness ratio adjusted 
for quality of life in patients with a follow-up in accordance with the 
recommendations of the 1998 French Consensus Conference (standard follow-up) 
with the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) assay and a simplified follow-up. The 
influence of standard follow-up on the quality-adjusted life expectancy of 
patients who had Duke's stage A and B colorectal cancer appears to be modest, 
with increases of 2.5 months and 1.3 months, respectively; it is more acceptable 
for patients who had had Duke's stage C, with an increase of 11 months. The high 
variability of cost-effectiveness ratios (> 7 years) of +/- 44,830 and 180,195 
Euro per quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), respectively) did not favor the 
standard follow-up. The cost-effectiveness ratio (> 7 years) of patients having 
had Duke's stage C colorectal cancer was 1,058 (sd: 2746) Euro per QALY and 
could favor the standard follow-up. This study showed that standard follow-up 
with CEA assay tended to preferentially improve the survival of Duke's stage C 
patients. The type of examination needed and the frequency with which it has to 
be carried out should take account of the stage, treatment for the initial 
illness, and the patient's age.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-004-7256-0
PMID: 15366746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Am J Transplant. 2004 Oct;4(10):1703-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2004.00565.x.

Cost-effectiveness of extending Medicare coverage of immunosuppressive 
medications to the life of a kidney transplant.

Yen EF(1), Hardinger K, Brennan DC, Woodward RS, Desai NM, Crippin JS, Gage BF, 
Schnitzler MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, MO, USA.

Unless they maintain Medicare status through disability or age, kidney 
transplant recipients lose their Medicare coverage of immunosuppression 3 years 
after transplantation. A significant transplant survival advantage has 
previously been demonstrated by the extension of Medicare immunosuppressive 
medication coverage from 1 year to 3 years, which occurred between 1993 and 
1995. The United States Renal Data System (USRDS) was analyzed for recipients of 
kidney transplants from 1995 to 1999. Using a Markov model, we estimated 
survival and costs of the current system of 3-year coverage compared with 
lifetime immunosuppression coverage. Results were calculated from the 
perspectives of society and Medicare. Extension of immunosuppression coverage 
produced an expected improvement from 38.6% to 47.6% in graft survival and from 
55.4% to 61.8% in patient survival. The annualized expected savings to society 
from lifetime coverage was $136 million assuming current rates of 
transplantation. Medicare would break-even compared with current coverage if the 
fraction of patients using extended coverage was <32%. The extension would be 
cost-effective to Medicare if this fraction was <91%. Extended Medicare 
immunosuppression coverage to the life of a kidney transplant should result in 
better transplant and economic outcomes, and should be considered by policy 
makers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2004.00565.x
PMID: 15367228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Value Health. 2004 Sep-Oct;7(5):554-68. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.75007.x.

Cost-effectiveness of interferon beta-1a, interferon beta-1b, and glatiramer 
acetate in newly diagnosed non-primary progressive multiple sclerosis.

Prosser LA(1), Kuntz KM, Bar-Or A, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ambulatory Care and Prevention, Harvard Medical School and 
Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, Boston, MA 02215, USA. lprosser@hms.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: To perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of three immunomodulatory 
treatments for newly diagnosed nonprimary progressive MS: interferon beta-1a, 
interferon beta-1b, and glatiramer acetate.
METHODS: We developed a state-transition model to estimate the health effects 
and costs associated with interferon beta-1a, interferon beta-1b, glatiramer 
acetate, and no treatment for hypothetical cohorts of men and women with 
non-primary progressive MS. We used the Expanded Disability Status Scale as the 
measure of disability and included both relapses and disease progression in the 
model. We evaluated treatment strategies assuming a 10-year treatment duration 
using the societal perspective. We elicited preferences for disability and 
treatment states using standard-gamble questions and modeled the disutility 
associated with treatment administration and side effects explicitly. Main 
outcome measures were net gains in quality-adjusted life expectancy and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in dollars per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained.
RESULTS: For treatment duration of 10 years for newly diagnosed non-primary 
progressive MS, interferon beta-1a yielded the largest gain in quality-adjusted 
life expectancy with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $2,200,000/QALY 
for women and $1,800,000/QALY for men, compared with no treatment. For a 5-year 
treatment duration, a "no treatment" strategy yielded more quality-adjusted life 
years than any of the treatment strategies. Cost-effectiveness ratios were 
similar for all three immunomodulatory treatments evaluated.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness results for all three immunomodulatory 
treatments for MS were unfavorable in the simulated study population under a 
wide range of assumptions. For treatment duration less than or equal to 5 years, 
expected benefits of treatment may not outweigh disutility associated with side 
effects and treatment discomfort.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.75007.x
PMID: 15367251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Value Health. 2004 Sep-Oct;7(5):627-35. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.75013.x.

Estimating survival for cost-effectiveness analyses: a case study in 
atherothrombosis.

Caro JJ(1), Ishak KJ, Migliaccio-Walle K.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, Concord, MA 01742, USA. jcaro@caroresearch.com

BACKGROUND: Economic evaluations typically require estimates of survival beyond 
the limited follow-up in clinical trials. The objective of this study was to 
demonstrate a data-driven approach to deriving these estimates.
METHODS: To provide survival estimates for analyses of the CAPRIE trial, data 
were obtained from Saskatchewan on more than 50,000 patients like those in the 
trial: diagnosed with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), myocardial infarction, 
or ischemic stroke between 1985 and 1995; follow-up to December 31, 2000. Mean 
survival was estimated by integrating the full survival curve derived by 
applying hazard functions over time. Cox proportional hazards analyses were 
carried out in each of four periods defined to ensure proportionality.
RESULTS: Adjusting for mean age in CAPRIE, mean survival ranged from 12.1 years 
after index stroke to 13.6 years after diagnosis of PAD. Comorbidities reduced 
mean survival by 1 to 2 years. Subsequent events had a marked detrimental 
effect, decreasing life-expectancy by 50% or more, and disease in multiple 
vascular beds led to survival of less than 5 years.
DISCUSSION: These analyses demonstrate the analytic methods required to 
accurately estimate survival. The trial ages were much lower than in the 
observational study. Thus, the estimates are optimistic for the general 
population.
CONCLUSIONS: Accurate valuation of interventions depends on valid survival 
estimates. These analyses confirm that survival is significantly reduced in 
patients with atherothrombotic disease, particularly with additional 
comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.75013.x
PMID: 15367257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Heart. 2004 Oct;90(10):1172-8. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2003.013102.

Comparison of outcomes after aortic valve replacement with a mechanical valve or 
a bioprosthesis using microsimulation.

Puvimanasinghe JP(1), Takkenberg JJ, Edwards MB, Eijkemans MJ, Steyerberg EW, 
Van Herwerden LA, Taylor KM, Grunkemeier GL, Habbema JD, Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Room Bd 162a, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. j.p.a.puvimanasinghe@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Mechanical valves and bioprostheses are widely used for aortic valve 
replacement. Though previous randomised studies indicate that there is no 
important difference in outcome after implantation with either type of valve, 
knowledge of outcomes after aortic valve replacement is incomplete.
OBJECTIVE: To predict age and sex specific outcomes of patients after aortic 
valve replacement with bileaflet mechanical valves and stented porcine 
bioprostheses, and to provide evidence based support for the choice of 
prosthesis.
METHODS: Meta-analysis of published results of primary aortic valve replacement 
with bileaflet mechanical prostheses (nine reports, 4274 patients, and 25,726 
patient-years) and stented porcine bioprostheses (13 reports, 9007 patients, and 
54,151 patient-years) was used to estimate the annual risks of postoperative 
valve related events and their outcomes. These estimates were entered into a 
microsimulation model, which was employed to calculate age and sex specific 
outcomes after aortic valve replacement.
RESULTS: Life expectancy (LE) and event-free life expectancy (EFLE) for a 65 
year old man after implantation with a mechanical valve or a bioprosthesis were 
10.4 and 10.7 years and 7.7 and 8.4 years, respectively. The lifetime risk of at 
least one valve related event for a mechanical valve was 48%, and for a 
bioprosthesis, 44%. For LE and EFLE, the age crossover point between the two 
valve types was 59 and 60 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Meta-analysis based microsimulation provides insight into the long 
term outcome after aortic valve replacement and suggests that the currently 
recommended age threshold for implanting a bioprosthesis could be lowered 
further.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2003.013102
PMCID: PMC1768482
PMID: 15367517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Pancreas. 2004 Oct;29(3):204-11. doi: 10.1097/00006676-200410000-00005.

Prognostic impact of cysteine proteases cathepsin B and cathepsin L in 
pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

Niedergethmann M(1), Wostbrock B, Sturm JW, Willeke F, Post S, Hildenbrand R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University-Hospital Mannheim, University of 
Heidelberg, Germany. marco.niedergethmann@chir.ma.uni-heidelberg.de

OBJECTIVES: The cysteine proteases cathepsin B (CTSB) and L (CTSL) have been 
implicated in tumor spread and metastatic formation. In pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma, the role of these proteases is not very well defined. To find 
out which cell types produce CTSB and CTSL and to evaluate the prognostic impact 
of these proteases, 70 specimens from curatively resected patients with 
pancreatic adenocarcinoma were examined by in situ hybridization and 
immunohisto-chemistry.
METHODS: Seventy patients with ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were 
studied after R0 resection with a follow-up of at least 3 years. CTSB and CTSL 
expression was performed immunohisto-chemically using polyclonal anti-CTSB and 
CTSL antibodies. To detect cell types involved in producing CTSB and CTSL as 
well as the intracellular localization of specific mRNA sequences, nonisotopic 
in situ hybridization was performed. The correlations among CTSB and CTSL 
expression, clinicopathologic parameters, and clinical outcome were analyzed.
RESULTS: The immunoreactivity was 96% for CTSB and 90% for CTSL. Positive mRNA 
signals were obtained in the cytoplasm tumor cells, macrophages, and fibroblasts 
in 77% for CTSB and 81% for CTSL, respectively. Statistical analysis showed a 
significant correlation between CTSB/CTSL expression and tumor grading (P < 
0.05) and between CTSB and lymphatic invasion (P = 0.05). Kaplan-Meier analyses 
revealed statistical significance for CTSB/CTSL expression with the survival 
after curative resection (P < 0.05). Both proteases are strong prognostic 
markers in multivariate analysis (P = 0.0001) beside UICC stage, nodal status, 
tumor size, and grading (P < 0.05). Furthermore, CTSB expression is an 
independent prognostic marker for cancer recurrence within 6 months after 
curative surgery in multivariate analysis (P = 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: CTSB and CTSL are strong and independent prognostic markers in 
resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma rather than UICC stage, TNM classification, 
or tumor grading. Furthermore, CTSB is a predictor for early recurrence after 
curative resection. These data underline the significance of tumor-associated 
proteolysis for cancer invasion and metastasis and may lead to defining 
subgroups of patients with early recurrence and poor outcome.

DOI: 10.1097/00006676-200410000-00005
PMID: 15367886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Cancer. 2004 Sep 15;101(6):1473-7. doi: 10.1002/cncr.20485.

Patterns of high-dose morphine use in a home-care hospice service: should we be 
afraid of it?

Bercovitch M(1), Adunsky A.

Author information:
(1)Tel Hashomer Hospice, The Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Israel. 
almi@sheba.health.gov.il

BACKGROUND: Management of cancer pain is one of the most important goals of 
palliative care. Relieving pain is often problematic. High doses of morphine at 
home may be required to relieve patients' pain, and is therefore feared. The 
goals of the current study were to assess the feasibility of high-dose morphine 
use at home, to characterize the patients, and to examine whether the use of 
high-dose morphine might affect their survival.
METHODS: The authors retrospectively studied the medical charts of 661 
outpatients, which were completed by a home-care hospice team. The authors 
collected data regarding demographic parameters, medical diagnosis, pain type, 
morphine dosage, use of rescue doses in addition to regular doses, use of 
coanalgesics and adjuvant treatments, and survival time as associated with 
morphine dosage. The authors also compared the data of patients receiving 
high-dose morphine with those of a group of patients receiving regular doses.
RESULTS: The authors identified 435 patients (65.8%) who received morphine for 
pain relief. Of these, 396 patients (91%) received a dose of 5-299 mg of 
morphine per day), 32 patients (7.4%) received 300-599 mg of morphine per day), 
and 7 patients (1.6%) received very high doses (> or = 600 mg of morphine per 
day). Overall, 39 patients (9%) received > 299 mg per day. Morphine dosage was 
found to be inversely correlated (r) with age (r = -0.254; P < 0.001). Male 
patients required slightly higher dosages than female patients (62.5% of 
high-dose and 71% of very high-morphine groups, respectively). Primary 
gastrointestinal (P = 0.015) and lung (P = 0.027) carcinomas, as well as 
metastatic bone disease (P = 0.001), ovarian carcinoma (P = 0.037), and brain 
tumors (P = 0.0053) were associated with higher and very higher morphine 
dosages. Adverse effects were similar in the groups receiving regular, high, and 
very high doses of morphine. The median survival of patients treated with high 
doses of morphine was 27 days and was 37 days for those treated with very high 
doses. Patients treated with low doses of morphine survived for 18 days. 
Patients not treated with morphine survived for 22 days (P = 0.001 by Mantel-Cox 
analysis; P = 0.029 by Breslow analysis).
CONCLUSIONS: The use of high and very high morphine doses at home proved safe 
and did not appear to affect the patients' life expectancy adversely. The use of 
high or very high-dose morphine should not be a barrier to providing palliative 
terminal care for home-care hospice patients.

Copyright 2004 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20485
PMID: 15368335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Am Fam Physician. 2004 Sep 1;70(5):817; discussion 817, 821.

Clarification of prostate cancer screening recommendations.

Merenstein D.

Comment on
    Am Fam Physician. 2004 Feb 1;69(3):619-20.

PMID: 15368718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Annu Rev Nurs Res. 2004;22:217-63.

Cancer in U.S. ethnic and racial minority populations.

Underwood SM(1), Powe B, Canales M, Meade CD, Im EO.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee School of Nursing, USA.

Discoveries, breakthroughs, and advances made in the area of cancer prevention 
and cancer control over the last 2 decades have led to declines in the rates of 
cancer incidence and mortality and increases in life expectancy and survival for 
many cancer patients. However, although the trends relative to cancer incidence, 
mortality, and 5-year survival for the nation as a whole have significantly 
improved, data reveal that there are significant disparities in the degree to 
which the burden of cancer that remains is borne by racial and ethnic minority 
population groups. As a practice-oriented discipline grounded in research, 
nursing could have a dominant role in efforts aimed toward eliminating the 
cancer disparities experienced by racial and ethnic population groups. Several 
reports of nursing studies have been published in the peer-reviewed literature 
that address factors associated with the cancer disparities experienced between 
and among U.S. racial and ethnic minority groups. However, given that few 
efforts have been undertaken to comprehensively review and critique this body of 
research, little is known about the scope, quality, and potential impact of this 
body of nursing science. This report presents the results of one of the first 
comprehensive reviews of nursing research undertaken to explore and address 
factors associated with the evolution of the cancer-related health disparities 
in ethnic and racial minority population groups within the United States. The 
findings reveal that, while the body of nursing research has contributed much to 
the identification and understanding of factors associated with the excess 
cancer morbidity and mortality of minority populations, in order for the 
profession to more fully contribute to the elimination of cancer-related 
disparities, there is a need for nurses to further expand and strengthen this 
base of knowledge.

PMID: 15368773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Salud Publica Mex. 2004 May-Jun;46(3):261-71.

[Outcome indicators, 2002. Information for health systems evaluation].

[Article in Spanish]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15368871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2004;188(1):109-14.

[Health duties].

[Article in French]

Aron E.

The French law dated March 4th, 2002, on patients' rights and the efficiency of 
the French health care system, astonished many health professionals, who have 
always considered patients' rights a duty. It would have been preferable to 
underline the fact that health preservation is first and foremost a social 
question based on preventive medicine. Prevention is the future of medicine, but 
can only expand when it is fully accepted by the population and by health 
professionals. We deeply regret that preventive medicine takes so little place 
in an official document aiming to improve the efficiency of health care. Worse, 
this law totally overlooks the responsibilities of patients, many of who 
currently jeopardize their own health and life expectancy with total impunity. 
Are not laws built on the twin foundations of duty and responsibility?

PMID: 15368930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Manag Care Pharm. 2004 Sep;10(5 Suppl A):S6-11. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2004.10.S5-A.S6.

Pharmacoeconomic challenges in the management of diabetic nephropathy.

Rodby RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Rush University Medical Center, 1426 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago, IL 60607, 
USA. rrodby@mindspring.com

BACKGROUND: Diabetes is the most common cause of end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD)-kidney failure to the point of requiring dialysis or a kidney transplant. 
representing 45% of all new patients enrolling into ESRD programs. Approximately 
400,000 patients in the United States have ESRD, and this number has doubled 
over the decade from 1991-2001. Dialysis is a very expensive modality costing 
more than 50,000 dollars per patient per year. Total medical spending for the 
400,000 patients with ESRD cost 22.8 billion dollars in 2001, an almost 3-fold 
increase over the same 1991-2001 decade. ESRD spending represents 6.4% of the 
total Medicare budget, a 33% increase from 4.8% in 1991. This epidemic growth in 
ESRD has led to skyrocketing utilization of health care resources.
PURPOSE: To summarize the (1) economic impact of the increased prevalence and 
costs associated with ESRD secondary to diabetes, (2) major evidence in diabetic 
nephropathy associated with the use of agents that block the 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) to delay the progression to ESRD, 
and (3) results of a recent pharmacoeconomic analysis on the economic impact of 
the use of the angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) irbesartan to block the RAAS 
in diabetic nephropathy.
RESULTS: Application of pharmacoeconomic models demonstrate that use of 
irbesartan increases mean life expectancy from months to years, depending on 
when in the course of the disease irbesartan therapy is started. Further, use of 
this agent produces these results while lowering costs, with mean savings of 
3,000 dollars to 12,000 dollars per patient.
CONCLUSION: Clinical trials show that blocking the RAAS with ARBs and 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors delays the progression of diabetic 
nephropathy to ESRD. Recent analyses using predictive models have concluded that 
the most effective strategy is to begin therapy early in disease progression.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2004.10.S5-A.S6
PMCID: PMC10437813
PMID: 15369419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2004 Sep;11(3):523-35. doi: 10.1677/erc.1.00783.

Effects of estrogen deprivation due to breast cancer treatment.

Angelopoulos N(1), Barbounis V, Livadas S, Kaltsas D, Tolis G.

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Department, Hippokrateion Hospital of Athens, Athens, Greece. 
drangelnick@hotmail.com

Breast cancer is one of the main life-threatening diseases that a woman may have 
to face during her lifetime. The increasing incidence of breast neoplasia 
reported over the last few decades has led to widespread screening of women 
resulting in early diagnosis. One common but challenging question for most 
doctors, after the surgical excision of the lesion, is determination of the 
ideal adjuvant therapy for their patients for the achievement of maximum life 
expectancy with the best quality of life. Since the beginning of the last 
century, the knowledge that breast cancer arises from hormone-responsive tissues 
has long made use of hormone-blocking agents in the beneficial treatment of 
breast neoplasia. The discovery of new molecules with endocrine actions has 
rendered the use of adjuvant therapy in a tailor-made pattern too complicated, 
as these agents have a different mode of action, different adverse effects and 
probably different indications. The aim of the present review is to clarify 
these issues, analyzing the mechanism of action of available drugs and their 
actions on specific areas of uncertainty: cognitive function, cardiovascular 
system, urogenital tract, bone metabolism, weight gain, hot flushes and 
premature menopause. Regarding the efficacy of adjuvant therapy, there has been 
particular focus on the multiple hormonal-induced consequences of each regimen 
in order to provide the clinician with the available data for choosing the ideal 
therapy for the patient.

DOI: 10.1677/erc.1.00783
PMID: 15369452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2004 Oct;38(10):765-73. doi: 
10.1080/j.1440-1614.2004.01460.x.

Medicalizing meaning: demoralization syndrome and the desire to die.

Parker M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4006, 
Australia. m.parker@uq.edu.au

Comment in
    Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2005 May;39(5):423-4; author reply 424-5.

OBJECTIVE: To critically analyse the proposed new psychiatric condition, 
demoralization syndrome, and the implications drawn by its proponents for the 
clinical-ethical status of requests by terminally ill patients for assistance to 
die.
METHOD: The diagnostic features of demoralization syndrome, a proposed new 
psychiatric disorder, recognizable particularly in palliative care settings, are 
summarized. The consequences of proposed therapeutic interventions are 
described, one of which is relief of the desperation which motivates some 
demoralized patients to consider ending their lives and to seek assistance in 
dying. The connections between the proposed condition and the desire to die are 
analysed in the context of the continuing tensions surrounding the ontological 
status and sociopolitical implications of psychiatric categories and the 
pervasive medicalization of modern life.
RESULTS: The analysis suggests that by medicalizing existential cognitions at 
the end of life, the proposed diagnostic category also normalizes a particular 
moral view concerning assistance in dying.
CONCLUSIONS: While further research into the issues described in this 
provisional syndrome may benefit some patients, the categorization of 
demoralization as a medical diagnosis is a questionable extension of 
psychiatry's influence, which could serve particular social, political and 
cultural views concerning the end of life.

DOI: 10.1080/j.1440-1614.2004.01460.x
PMID: 15369534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Brain. 2004 Nov;127(Pt 11):2427-32. doi: 10.1093/brain/awh267. Epub 2004 Sep
15.

Life expectancy in people with newly diagnosed epilepsy.

Gaitatzis A(1), Johnson AL, Chadwick DW, Shorvon SD, Sander JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, UK.

Epilepsy carries a risk of premature mortality, but little is known about life 
expectancy in people with the condition. The UK National General Practice Study 
of Epilepsy is a prospective, population-based study of people with newly 
diagnosed epilepsy. A cohort of 564 patients with definite epilepsy has been 
followed for nearly 15 years and there have been 177 deaths. These data have 
been used to estimate life expectancy of people in this cohort by employing a 
parametric survival model based on the Weibull distribution. Life expectancy in 
people with epilepsy was estimated as a function of age at, and time from, 
diagnosis according to two broad aetiological groups. These estimates were then 
compared with life expectancy in people of the same age and sex in the general 
population. Reduction in life expectancy can be up to 2 years for people with a 
diagnosis of idiopathic/cryptogenic epilepsy, and the reduction can be up to 10 
years in people with symptomatic epilepsy. Reductions in life expectancy are 
highest at the time of diagnosis and diminish with time. Our model provides 
broad estimates, but it appears that the higher mortality rates in people with 
newly diagnosed epilepsy translate into decreased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awh267
PMID: 15371287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2004 Sep 15;2004(37):pe35. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2004.37.pe35.

A century of population aging in Germany.

Hoffmann E(1), Menning S.

Author information:
(1)German Centre of Gerontology, Manfred-von-Richthofen-Strasse 2, 12101 Berlin, 
Germany. hoffmann@dza.de

The population of Germany is becoming progressively more elderly, and this 
article focuses on the causes and implications of that trend. We discuss the 
demographic processes that occurred in Germany in the second half of the 20th 
century and describe the developments that the population of Germany will 
undergo in the next 50 years, which promise to exert a profound influence on the 
economic and social future of the country.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2004.37.pe35
PMID: 15371603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Chirurg. 2004 Oct;75(10):1037-50; quiz 1051. doi: 10.1007/s00104-004-0935-4.

[Injuries of the elbow joint].

[Article in German]

Lill H(1), Voigt C.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Evangeslisches 
Diakoniewerk Friederikenstift Hannover. helmut.lill@friederikenstift.de

Injuries of the elbow joint increase along with increased athletic activity and 
life expectancy. Knowledge of anatomy and biomechanics is important for 
understanding injury patterns, specific diagnosis, and therapy. Here we classify 
the most frequent elbow injuries such as dislocation, ligamentous instability, 
and fracture of the radial head, processus coronoideus, olecranon, and distal 
humerus based on joint anatomy, biomechanics, clinical examination, and imaging. 
Specific therapies are described.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-004-0935-4
PMID: 15372174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. MMW Fortschr Med. 2004 May 20;146(21):31-2, 34, 36.

[Complications of malignant tumors--pathological fractures].

[Article in German]

Hartwig E(1), Kinzl L, Schultheiss M, Sarkar M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r Unfall-, Hand- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie UniversitÃ¤t Ulm. 
erich.hartwig@medizin.uni-ulm.de

Advances in the treatment of tumors have improved the life expectancy of cancer 
patients appreciably. As a consequence the incidence of bone metastases has also 
increased. Surgical interventions must achieve a maximal palliative effect with 
minimal morbidity and mortality. Major objectives are reduction of pain while 
preserving stability and function. Surgical treatment of primary and secondary 
bone tumors is complicated and thus also burdened with complications. However, 
interdisciplinary therapy comprising surgical resection and stabilization, 
radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy improves life expectancy and the quality of 
life of the cancer patient.

PMID: 15373081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. MMW Fortschr Med. 2004 May 20;146(21):40-2.

[Complications of malignant tumors--malignant pleural effusions].

[Article in German]

Eggeling S(1), Kaiser D.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung fÃ¼r Thoraxchirurgie, Lungenklinik Heckeshorn, Zentralklinik Emil v. 
Behring, Berlin. s.eggeling@zevb.de

Malignant pleural effusion is a complication of malignant diseases that has an 
appreciable negative impact on the patient's quality of life. In view of the 
greatly reduced life expectancy of between 3 and 12 months (median), diagnostic 
and therapeutic management must be orientated to the principles of palliation. 
Diagnostic measures comprise cytological/histological confirmation of the 
malignant effusion and, where necessary, of the underlying malignant disease and 
the extent of the intrathoracic tumor growth. In view of the tendency of 
malignant pleural effusion to relapse, pleurodesis is indicated, which is most 
effectively accomplished by video-assisted thoracoscopic talcum poudrage.

PMID: 15373083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Isr Med Assoc J. 2004 Sep;6(9):516-20.

Healthy aging around the world: Israel too?

Clarfield AM(1), Rosenberg E, Brodsky J, Bentur N.

Author information:
(1)Soroka Medical Center and Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University 
of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel. markclar@bgu.ac.il

Comment in
    Isr Med Assoc J. 2004 Sep;6(9):559.

Mortality rates have been falling at all ages, even for very old cohorts, in 
most western countries as well as in Israel. The question remains open as to 
whether morbidity rates are also decreasing, especially for Israel's elderly. 
While health is improving in almost all industrialized countries, the situation 
in Israel is not yet resolved. While the more recent cohorts of the young-old 
(65-74 years) are healthier than their predecessors, Israel's old-old (75+) may 
still be lagging behind other countries with regard to improvements in health 
status. This phenomenon is not well understood but could be explained in part by 
the more severe formative experiences of many of Israel's very elderly cohort.

PMID: 15373306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Isr Med Assoc J. 2004 Sep;6(9):527-30.

Long-term non-invasive positive pressure ventilation among cystic fibrosis 
patients awaiting lung transplantation.

Efrati O(1), Modan-Moses D, Barak A, Boujanover Y, Augarten A, Szeinberg AM, 
Levy I, Yahav Y.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Pulmonary Unit, Safra Children's hospital, Sheba Medical Center, 
Tel Hashomer, Israel. ori.efrati@sheba.health.gov.il

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary disease is the most frequent cause of morbidity and 
mortality in cystc fibrosis patients. New techniques such as non-invasive 
positive pressure ventilation have resulted in prolongation of life expectancy 
in CF patients with end-stage lung disease.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the role of NIPPV in CF patients awaiting lung 
transplantation.
METHODS: Between 1996 and 2001 nine CF patients (5 females) with end-stage lung 
disease were treated with bi-level positive airway pressure ventilation in the 
"spontaneous" mode.
RESULTS: The patients' mean age at initiation of BiPAP was 15 years (range 13-40 
years) and the mean duration of BiPAP usage was 8 months (range 3-16 months). 
Four patients underwent successful lung transplantation, three patients died 
while awaiting transplantation, and the remaining two are still on NIPPV while 
waiting for transplantation. Patients' body mass index increased significantly 
(P < 0.05) during BiPAP therapy (from 16.1 to 17.2 kg/m2). Blood pH, PaCO2, and 
bicarbonate improved significantly (from 7.31 to 7.38, 90.8 to 67.2 mmHg, and 
48.9 to 40.3 mEq/L, respectively). Pulmonary function tests were not affected by 
BiPAP usage. The patients experienced a significant alleviation in morning 
headaches and improvement in quality of sleep (P < 0.003). There were no major 
complications during BiPAP usage.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that long-term NIPPV can stabilize and improve 
physiologic parameters such as ventilation, arterial blood gases and body mass 
index, as well as subjective symptoms such as sleep pattern, daily activity 
level, and morning headaches in CF patients with end-stage lung disease. Further 
prospectively controlled studies are needed to evaluate the potential of BiPAP 
therapy and its influence on morbidity and mortality in the post-lung 
transplantation period.

PMID: 15373309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Immunohematology. 1999;15(3):108-12.

Hemochromatosis, iron, and blood donation: a short review.

Fields AC(1), Grindon AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.

Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH), an autosomal recessive disease of iron 
overload, is one of the most common inherited diseases. The candidate gene (HFE) 
for HH has been identified recently and a DNA-based test for the mutation is 
available. Treatment for HH patients with elevated iron stores include repeated 
phlebotomy. Left untreated, iron overload can lead to cirrhosis, organ failure, 
and a shortened life expectancy. In the past and present, blood collected for 
therapeutic purposes from patients with HH has been discarded. The aim of this 
article is to address whether blood collected from HH patients should be used 
for allogeneic transfusion in the future.

PMID: 15373512


548. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2004 Jul-Sep;5(3):328-33.

Fight against cancer in countries with limited resources: the post-genomic era 
scenario.

Pal SK(1), Mittal B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Lucknow-226 014 India. sanjoypal@yahoo.com

The enormous advances in science and technology in the 20th century have 
facilitated the process of globalization with the aim of a better quality of 
life for all. Paradoxically, the gap between the rich and the poor, for both 
nations and people, is constantly widening. The actual trends in human genome 
research are leading towards promising genomic medicine, but it will be 
expensive and inaccessible for many. Also, it may not offer a quick fix "cure" 
for various types of cancers. The biggest challenge before the clinicians now is 
the management of the rising incidence of cancer in developing countries, with 
little prospect of more resources becoming available to fight the disease. The 
death rate from cancer in the developing countries is set to rise at least 
3-fold by the year 2025 largely due to the increased life expectancy, 
containment of infectious diseases and changing lifestyles. It is estimated that 
about 50% of cancers are curable if they are detected early and treated 
appropriately. Screening has a major role in early diagnosis. However, in the 
developing world around 80% of cancer patients have late stage incurable disease 
when they are diagnosed. Moreover, in a developing country like India, about 70% 
of the population obtain medical help from private practitioners. Nearly half of 
those who seek medical help utilize alternative and traditional systems of 
medicine. Appalling poverty, poor hygiene and complex social dynamics, pose 
major hurdles in this regard. Many in the private sector who call themselves 
doctors have no medical degree. By 2030 tobacco is expected to kill 10 million 
people worldwide, out of which 70% of the deaths will occur in the developing 
countries. Control of usage of tobacco has still not achieved a conducive 
atmosphere. It is now realized that the research information and knowledge 
generated in the west may neither be relevant nor applicable to developing 
countries, due to differences in social and cultural attitudes, lifestyles and 
lack of sophisticated technologies. Though the sequencing of the human genome 
will have a major impact on the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, monitoring, 
and outcome of cancer, the cancer scenario in the developing countries for the 
next 20 years is likely to be more or less the same, rather than presenting a 
radically different picture. Cancer awareness and screening programs for early 
detection thus should be continue to be given utmost attention.

PMID: 15373715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2001 Nov-Dec;33(3):219-26. doi: 
10.1016/s0167-4943(01)00184-4.

Stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation: physicians' attitudes to 
anticoagulation in older people.

Vasishta S(1), Toor F, Johansen A, Hasan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Royal Gwent Hospital, Newport NP20 4SZ, UK.

