New Zealand evidence on changes in population health. Although an aging 
population is likely to lead to an increase in demand for disability support 
services, the fiscal impact of this increase may be partially offset by a shift 
from major to moderate limitations, with a consequential reduction in the 
average levels of support required.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.014910
PMCID: PMC1732857
PMID: 15252068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jul 27;101(30):10895-900. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0402857101. Epub 2004 Jul 13.

Older age becomes common late in human evolution.

Caspari R(1), Lee SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 48109-1092, 
USA. rcaspari@umich.edu

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jul 27;101(30):10847-8.
    J Hum Evol. 2005 Nov;49(5):643-5; discussion 646-9.
    J Hum Evol. 2005 Nov;49(5):650-3; discussion 654-9.

Increased longevity, expressed as number of individuals surviving to older 
adulthood, represents one of the ways the human life history pattern differs 
from other primates. We believe it is a critical demographic factor in the 
development of human culture. Here, we examine when changes in longevity 
occurred by assessing the ratio of older to younger adults in four hominid 
dental samples from successive time periods, and by determining the significance 
of differences in these ratios. Younger and older adult status is assessed by 
wear seriation of each sample. Whereas there is significant increased longevity 
between all groups, indicating a trend of increased adult survivorship over the 
course of human evolution, there is a dramatic increase in longevity in the 
modern humans of the Early Upper Paleolithic. We believe that this great 
increase contributed to population expansions and cultural innovations 
associated with modernity.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0402857101
PMCID: PMC503716
PMID: 15252198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Medicina (Kaunas). 2004;40(7):607-13.

[Economic efficiency of methadone maintenance and factors affecting it].

[Article in Lithuanian]

Vanagas G(1), Padaiga Z, Subata E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Kaunas University of Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, Vilnius University, Lithuania. vanagas@kmu.lt

Methadone maintenance is effective in reducing injection drug use, needle 
sharing, and the overall mortality associated with opiate abuse. Scientific 
literature describes that efficiency of methadone maintenance program depends on 
many factors. Our analysis is based on description of economic research methods 
and on factors affecting economic efficiency of methadone maintenance.
METHODS: Computerized Medline data base was searched by key words: "economic 
evaluation", "cost-effectiveness", "cost-utility", "methadone", "methadone 
dosage", "ancillary services", "treatment duration". Review and analysis.
RESULTS: Methadone maintenance therapy has higher economic efficiency with 
80-100 mg per day methadone dose. Doses lower than 40 mg per day are considered 
as inefficient. Some methadone programs limit treatment to 90 days or less, but 
such short treatment episodes are not likely to be cost-effective. Ancillary 
services are more cost-effective at the beginning of methadone maintenance 
program, than in the later stages of the program. Economic efficiency is higher 
when program involves more participants, than when more ancillary services are 
provided. CONCLUSIONS. Effectiveness of Methadone maintenance program affects 
methadone dosage policy, treatment duration and ancillary services.

PMID: 15252223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Aug;124(4):315-29. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.10332.

Has the transition to agriculture reshaped the demographic structure of 
prehistoric populations? New evidence from the Levant.

Eshed V(1), Gopher A, Gage TB, Hershkovitz I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Anthropology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel. veredes@post.tau.ac.il

This paper presents the demographic changes that followed the transition from a 
hunting-gathering way of life (Natufian) to an agricultural, food-producing 
economy (Neolithic) in the southern Levant. The study is based on 217 Natufian 
(10,500-8,300 BC) skeletons and 262 Neolithic (8,300-5,500 BC) skeletons. Age 
and sex identification were carried out, and life tables were constructed. A 
five-parameter competing hazard model developed by Siler ([1979] Ecology 
60:750-757) was used to smooth life-table data. No indication of increased 
mortality with the advent of agriculture was noted. On the contrary, both life 
expectancy at birth (24.6 vs. 25.5 years) and adults' mean age at death (31.2 
vs. 32.1 years) increased slightly from the Natufian to the Neolithic period 
(assuming stationary populations). Yet the transition to agriculture affected 
males and females differently: mean age at death in the Natufian was higher for 
adult females compared to adult males, while in the Neolithic, it was the 
reverse. One interpretation given to the distribution of female ages at death is 
that with the onset of the Neolithic period, maternal mortality increased as a 
result of a concomitant increase in fertility. If the adoption of agriculture in 
the Levant increased the rate of population growth at the beginning of the 
Neolithic, expectation of life may have increased dramatically.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10332
PMID: 15252860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2004 Jan-Mar;50(1):97-103. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302004000100044.

[Injury among the elderly: the challenge to integrate preventive activities in 
public and individual levels].

[Article in Portuguese]

Gawryszewski VP(1), de Mello Jorge MH, Koizumi MS.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Atlanta, USA. vilmapg@saude.sp.gov.br

BACKGROUND: In Brazil and all over the world the elderly are increasing as a 
result of the raise in life expectancy. This group still faces a significant 
risk for some diseases as well as injuries. The proposal of this study was to 
describe fatal and nonfatal injuries among people aged 60 years and older in 
Brazil.
SETTING: Brazil, the last year available was 2000.
METHODS: The data from 13,383 injury deaths and 87,177 outcomes among people 
aged 60 years and older were analyzed. The data sets were obtained from Federal 
Health Department of Brazil from Mortality System Information (from death 
certificates) and Hospitalization Information System (from discharges registered 
in public hospitals).
RESULTS: The mortality rate is 92.1/100,000 (135.3/100,000 for male and 
56.8/100,000 for female) that are higher than overall population rates, 
especially for women. The lead cause is transport accidents (27.5% of total 
injury deaths) which mortality rate is 25.3/100,000 and 48.2% are pedestrian. 
Homicides rate is 9.5/100,000, it is almost three times lower than for total 
population in Brazil. Falls rate is 14.0/100,000, it is the third place in 
injury deaths for men and women and suicide rate is 6.9/100,000, lower than 
developed countries. Opposite to mortality, falls are the major cause of 
nonfatal injuries hospitalization for both men and women, accounting for 48,940 
discharges (56.1%). Fractures are 52.8% of all injuries, especially in falls and 
transport accidents.
CONCLUSIONS: It is crucial to develop injury preventive activities in both 
public and individual level. Falls should receive emphasis in injury prevention 
efforts.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302004000100044
PMID: 15253036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Clin Mol Allergy. 2004 Jul 14;2(1):9. doi: 10.1186/1476-7961-2-9.

Management of osteoporosis.

Lewiecki EM(1).

Author information:
(1)New Mexico Clinical Research & Osteoporosis Center, 300 Oak St, NE, 
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87106, USA. LEWIECKI@aol.com

Osteoporosis or osteopenia occurs in about 44 million Americans, resulting in 
1.5 million fragility fractures per year. The consequences of these fractures 
include pain, disability, depression, loss of independence, and increased 
mortality. The burden to the healthcare system, in terms of cost and resources, 
is tremendous, with an estimated direct annual USA healthcare expenditure of 
about $17 billion. With longer life expectancy and the aging of the baby-boomer 
generation, the number of men and women with osteoporosis or low bone density is 
expected to rise to over 61 million by 2020. Osteoporosis is a silent disease 
that causes no symptoms until a fracture occurs. Any fragility fracture greatly 
increases the risk of future fractures. Most patients with osteoporosis are not 
being diagnosed or treated. Even those with previous fractures, who are at 
extremely high risk of future fractures, are often not being treated. It is 
preferable to diagnose osteoporosis by bone density testing of high risk 
individuals before the first fracture occurs. If osteoporosis or low bone 
density is identified, evaluation for contributing factors should be considered. 
Patients on long-term glucocorticoid therapy are at especially high risk for 
developing osteoporosis, and may sustain fractures at a lower bone density than 
those not taking glucocorticoids. All patients should be counseled on the 
importance of regular weight-bearing exercise and adequate daily intake of 
calcium and vitamin D. Exposure to medications that cause drowsiness or 
hypotension should be minimized. Non-pharmacologic therapy to reduce the 
non-skeletal risk factors for fracture should be considered. These include fall 
prevention through balance training and muscle strengthening, removal of fall 
hazards at home, and wearing hip protectors if the risk of falling remains high. 
Pharmacologic therapy can stabilize or increase bone density in most patients, 
and reduce fracture risk by about 50%. By selecting high risk patients for bone 
density testing it is possible to diagnose this disease before the first 
fracture occurs, and initiate appropriate treatment to reduce the risk of future 
fractures.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-7961-2-9
PMCID: PMC493281
PMID: 15253771


215. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2004 Jul 14;2004(28):pe30. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2004.28.pe30.

Sex-specific effects of interventions that extend fly life span.

Burger JM(1), Promislow DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-7223, USA. 
jmburger@uga.edujmburger@uga.edu

Genetic and environmental interventions that extend life span are a current 
focus in research on the biology of aging. Most of this work has focused on 
differences among genotypes and species. A recent study on fruit flies shows 
that life span extension because of dietary restriction can be highly 
sex-specific. Here we review the literature on sex-specific effects of 56 
genetic and 41 environmental interventions that extend life span in Drosophila 
melanogaster. We found that only one-sixth of the experiments provided 
statistical tests of differences in response between males and females, 
suggesting that sex-specific effects have been largely ignored. When measured, 
the life span extension was female-biased in 8 of 16 cases, male-biased in 5 of 
16 cases, and not significantly different in only 3 of 16 cases. We discuss 
possible explanations for the sex-specific differences and suggest various ways 
in which we might test these hypotheses. We argue that understanding sex 
differences in the response to life span-extending manipulations should lead to 
new insights about the basic mechanisms that underlie the biology of aging in 
both sexes.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2004.28.pe30
PMID: 15254318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. J Neurosurg. 2004 Jul;101(1):128-37. doi: 10.3171/jns.2004.101.1.0128.

Life span extension and reduced neuronal death after weekly intraventricular 
cyclosporin injections in the G93A transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis.

Karlsson J(1), Fong KS, Hansson MJ, Elmér E, Csiszar K, Keep MF.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Matrix Pathobiology, John A. Burns School of Medicine, 
University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii.

OBJECT: The authors investigated whether cyclosporin A (CsA), a cyclophilin 
ligand with mitochondrial permeability transition pore-blocking and 
calcineurin-inhibiting properties, affects motor function, neuronal death, and 
life span in the G93A transgenic mouse model of familial amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (FALS).
METHODS: The G93A mice received weekly intracerebroventricular injections of CsA 
(20 microg/mouse/week) starting at the age of 65 days, and physical performance 
on an exercise wheel was monitored beginning at 84 days of age. Mice were 
allowed to survive for clinical observation of body weight, hindlimb weakness, 
and life span or until a defined end stage or were killed at 110 days of age for 
histological analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with CsA significantly delayed the onset of hindlimb 
weakness and also extended the time from its onset to paralysis. The overall 
life span of CsA-treated G93A mice was significantly extended, by 12% compared 
with vehicle-treated transgenic littermates. The CsA also prolonged physical 
performance on the exercise wheel and delayed weight loss. Histologically, there 
was significant preservation of both cervical and lumbar spine motor neurons and 
also tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopaminergic substantia nigra neurons in 
110-day-old CsA-treated mice compared with their transgenic littermates. The 
local administration of CsA directly into the brain ventricles is an effective 
means of central nervous system drug delivery (because CsA does not readily 
cross the blood-brain barrier), which in this study ameliorated clinical and 
neuropathological features of FALS in G93A mice. The remarkably low intrathecal 
CsA dose required for neuroprotection reduces potential adverse effects of 
systemic immunosuppression or nephrotoxicity seen with chronic systemic delivery 
of the drug.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2004.101.1.0128
PMID: 15255263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Cell Mol Med. 2004 Apr-Jun;8(2):191-200. doi: 
10.1111/j.1582-4934.2004.tb00274.x.

Inorganic phosphate homeostasis and the role of dietary phosphorus.

Takeda E(1), Yamamoto H, Nashiki K, Sato T, Arai H, Taketani Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Institute of Health Biosciences, University 
of Tokushima Graduate School, Kuramoto-cho 3-18-15, Tokushima, 770-8503, Japan. 
takeda@nutr.med.tokushima-u.ac.jp

Inorganic phosphate (Pi) is required for cellular function and skeletal 
mineralization. Serum Pi level is maintained within a narrow range through a 
complex interplay between intestinal absorption, exchange with intracellular and 
bone storage pools, and renal tubular reabsorption. The crucial regulated step 
in Pi homeostasis is the transport of Pi across the renal proximal tubule. Type 
II sodium-dependent phosphate (Na/Pi) cotransporter (NPT2) is the major molecule 
in the renal proximal tubule and is regulated by Pi, parathyroid hormone and by 
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. Recent studies of inherited and acquired 
hypophosphatemia [X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets/osteomalacia (XLH), 
autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets/osteomalacia (ADHR) and 
tumor-induced rickets/osteomalacia (TIO)], which exhibit similar biochemical and 
clinical features, have led to the identification of novel genes, PHEX and 
FGF23, that play a role in the regulation of Pi homeostasis. The PHEX gene, 
which is mutated in XLH, encodes an endopeptidase, predominantly expressed in 
bone and teeth, but not in kidney. FGF-23 may be a substrate of this 
endopeptidase and may therefore accumulate in patients with XLH. In the case of 
ADHR mutations in the furin cleavage site, which prevent the processing of 
FGF-23 into fragments, lead to the accumulation of a "stable" circulating form 
of the peptide which also inhibits renal Pi reabsorption. In the case of TIO, 
ectopic overproduction of FGF-23 overwhelms its processing and degradation by 
PHEX, leading to the accumulation of FGF-23 in the circulation and inhibition of 
renal Pi reabsorption. Mice homozygous for severely hypomorphic alleles of the 
Klotho gene exhibit a syndrome resembling human aging, including 
atherosclerosis, osteoporosis, emphysema, and infertility. The KLOTHO locus is 
associated with human survival, defined as postnatal life expectancy, and 
longevity, defined as life expectancy after 75. In considering the relationship 
of klotho expression to the dietary Pi level, the klotho protein seemed to be 
negatively controlled by dietary Pi.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1582-4934.2004.tb00274.x
PMCID: PMC6740209
PMID: 15256067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Urologe A. 2004 Aug;43(8):930-4. doi: 10.1007/s00120-004-0638-y.

[Radical cystectomy and urinary diversion in elderly patients with increased 
comorbidity].

[Article in German]

Gschwend JE(1), Hautmann RE, Volkmer BG.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Urologische Universitätsklinik Ulm. 
juergen.gschwend@medizin.uni-ulm.de

Radical cystectomy with urinary diversion is the accepted standard of care for 
invasive bladder cancer with orthotopic neobladders. It is the preferred method 
for bladder substitution in male and female patients and even in selected 
patients with locally advanced tumors. The complication rates for orthotopic 
bladder substitutes are similar to or lower than the morbidity rates after 
conduit formation or continent cutaneous diversion. Due to progress in 
perioperative management, intensive care and surgery, cystectomy is now part of 
the classical treatment options for bladder cancer in elderly patients, with 
acceptable morbidity rates. However, the indication for cystectomy in people 
older than 75 years should be based on a rigorous preoperative risk assessment 
(ASA status) and a life expectancy of more than 2 years independent of the 
tumor. Transurethral resection alone should be proposed only to patients with a 
poor performance status.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-004-0638-y
PMID: 15257435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Rev Neurol. 2004 Jul 1-15;39(1):1-6.

[The efficiency and cost-utility ratio of interferon beta in the treatment of 
multiple sclerosis in Andalusia].

[Article in Spanish]

Medina-Redondo F(1), Herrera-Carranza J, Sanabria C, Navarro G, García-Moreno 
JM, Gamero-García MA, Páramo MD, Ruiz-Peña JL, Izquierdo G.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Farmacia, Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Sevilla, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The availability of the interferon beta in its three forms at the 
moment available in our country and of glatiramer acetate has marked a point of 
flexion in the natural history of multiple sclerosis (MS), but the high cost of 
these treatments cause that its use is questioned. In this work we have studied 
the effectiveness and efficiency of the processing with interferon beta, and the 
cost-utility of these treatments in MS in Spain has been also analyzed.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: For this work we studied 102 patients affected of RR MS, 
treated with the three interferons beta which we have available in our country. 
We used as control 330 patients who had participated in the pivotal clinical 
interferon trials with both interferon beta 1a. In these patients in addition to 
effectiveness data, we have studied the disability measured as area below curve 
and the quality of life (AVACs). We also calculated the economical costs, 
considering the relation cost-utility in our country.
RESULTS: Besides to confirm the data of effectiveness of three interferons, in 
this study a saving of 23 days/year is demonstrated what corresponds to 0.063 
AVACs. The additional cost of interferons is greater than the avoided cost until 
the fifth year of treatment in which the tendency is reversed in favor of the 
group of treated patients, if we assume that the same effectiveness that we 
found in the first years is maintained in the long term.
CONCLUSION: The use of the treatment with interferon beta is justified by its 
effectiveness, efficacy and efficiency. The additional cost of the treatment 
will be compensated in the long term if the effectiveness of the interferon beta 
is maintained.

PMID: 15257519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 Aug;88(8):982-7. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2003.039131.

Cost utility of photodynamic therapy for predominantly classic neovascular age 
related macular degeneration.

Hopley C(1), Salkeld G, Mitchell P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Vision Research, University of Sydney, Department of 
Ophthalmology, Westmead Millennium Institute, Australia.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2004 Aug;88(8):979.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Age related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of 
severe vision impairment and blindness in older people throughout the developed 
world and currently affects around 420 000 UK citizens. Choroidal 
neovascularisation (CNV) is treatable with photodynamic therapy (PDT) but is 
expensive at over pound 1200 per treatment. The aim of this study was to assess 
the cost utility of PDT for better eye, predominantly classic, subfoveal 
choroidal neovascular lesions secondary to AMD.
METHODS: Cost utility analysis (CUA) was conducted to estimate the cost 
effectiveness of PDT for scenarios involving reasonable (6/12) and poor (6/60) 
visual acuity. The models incorporated data from the Treatment of Age-related 
Macular Degeneration with PDT (TAP) Study and patient based utilities. The 
incremental CUA was based on decision analytical models, comparing treatment to 
a placebo comparator. Extensive one way sensitivity analysis of parameters was 
conducted to determine the robustness of the model. A discount rate of 6% was 
used for costs and quality adjusted life years (QALY).
RESULTS: Model 1: in people with reasonable initial visual acuity, the cost 
utility of treating applicable neovascular AMD lesions was pound 31 607 per QALY 
saved, with a sensitivity analysis range from pound 25 285 to pound 37 928. 
Model 2: in people with poor initial visual acuity, the cost utility was pound 
63 214 per QALY saved, with a sensitivity analysis range from pound 54 183 to 
pound 75 856.
CONCLUSIONS: PDT treatment is the only available treatment for some forms of 
neovascular ("wet") AMD. Under these assumptions, PDT can be considered 
moderately cost effective for those with reasonable visual acuity but less cost 
effective for those with initial poor visual acuity. These findings have 
implications for ophthalmic practice and healthcare planning.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2003.039131
PMCID: PMC1772258
PMID: 15258009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nucleic Acids Res. 2004 Jul 16;32(12):3743-51. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkh691.
Print  2004.

Frequent recombination in telomeric DNA may extend the proliferative life of 
telomerase-negative cells.

Bailey SM(1), Brenneman MA, Goodwin EH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Radiological Health Sciences, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA.

For cells on the path to carcinogenesis, the key to unlimited growth potential 
lies in overcoming the steady loss of telomeric sequence commonly referred to as 
the 'end-replication problem' that occurs with each cell division. Most human 
tumors have reactivated telomerase, a specialized reverse transcriptase that 
directs RNA-templated addition of telomeric repeats on to chromosomal termini. 
However, approximately 10% of tumors maintain their telomeres through a 
recombination-based mechanism, termed alternative lengthening of telomeres or 
ALT. Here we demonstrate that telomeric DNA undergoes a high rate of a 
particular type of recombination visualized cytogenetically as sister chromatid 
exchange (SCE), and that this rate is dependent on genotype. A novel model of 
ALT is presented in which it is argued that telomeric exchanges, if they are 
unequal and occur at a sufficiently high frequency, will allow cells to 
proliferate indefinitely without polymerase-mediated extension of telomeric 
sequence.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkh691
PMCID: PMC484178
PMID: 15258249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Health Econ. 2004 Jul;13(7):725-32. doi: 10.1002/hec.846.

Measuring inequality in self-reported health-discussion of a recently suggested 
approach using Finnish data.

Lauridsen J(1), Christiansen T, Häkkinen U.

Author information:
(1)The Econometric Group, Department of Economics, University of Southern 
Denmark, Denmark. jtl@sam.sdu.dk

Health surveys often include a general question on self-assessed health (SAH), 
usually measured on an ordinal scale with three to five response categories, 
from 'very poor' or 'poor' to 'very good' or 'excellent'. This paper assesses 
the scaling of responses on the SAH question. It compares alternative procedures 
designed to impose cardinality on the ordinal responses. These include OLS, 
ordered probit and interval regression approaches. The cardinal measures of 
health are used to compute and decompose concentration indices for 
income-related inequality in health. Results are provided using Finnish data on 
15D and the SAH questions. Further evidence emerges for the internal validity of 
a method used in a pioneering study by van Doorslaer and Jones which was based 
on Canadian data on the McMaster Health Utility Index Mark III (HUI) and SAH. 
The study validates the conclusions drawn by van Doorslaer and Jones. It 
confirms that the interval regression approach is superior to OLS and ordered 
probit regression in assessing health inequality. However, regarding the choice 
of scaling instrument, it is concluded that the scaling of SAH categories and, 
consequently, the measured degree of inequality, are sensitive to 
characteristics of the chosen scaling instrument.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.846
PMID: 15259049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Gac Med Mex. 2004 May-Jun;140(3):289-94.

[Hospital mortality at the Manuel Velasco Suárez National Institute of Neurology 
and Neurosurgery (1995-2001)].

[Article in Spanish]

Velásquez-Pérez L(1), Jiménez-Marcial ME.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Epidemiología, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y 
Neurocirugía Manuel Velasco Suárez, México. lvelasquez@innn.edu.mx

To improve health policies directed toward ameliorating quality and also to 
characterize the profile of patients who attend medical centers, it is necessary 
to determine causes of mortality in any healthcare organization.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze time-trend hospital mortality at the Manuel Velasco Suárez 
National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery (MVS-NINN) between 1995 and 
2001.
METHODS: Data were taken from database of morbidity, and mortality of MVS-NINN. 
All cases were coded by the International Classification of Disease (10th 
edition). We calculated specific rates of mortality and time-trends during a 
7-year-period.
RESULTS: When main causes of mortality were included in these analyzes, rates of 
hospital mortality at MVS-NINN showed a non-significant tendency to decrease 
during this period.
CONCLUSIONS: Decline of mortality time-trend is generally in accordance with 
increasing life expectancy of Mexican population; this increase is due to 
progress in medical knowledge and to new technological and therapeutic advances, 
especially in the third level institutions such as this institute.

PMID: 15259340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2004 Mar-Apr;27(2):129-36. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-003-0009-x.

Clinical outcome after intrahepatic venous stent placement for malignant 
inferior vena cava syndrome.

Brountzos EN(1), Binkert CA, Panagiotou IE, Petersen BD, Timmermans H, Lakin PC.

Author information:
(1)Dotter Interventional Institute, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 
97201-3098, USA. platanos@hol.gr

We evaluated the clinical outcome of malignant inferior vena cava (IVC) syndrome 
after intrahepatic IVC stent placement by retrospective analysis of 50 
consecutive patients (25 men, 25 women, age 32-83 years) with malignant IVC 
syndrome who were treated with intrahepatic stent placement. Gianturco-Rosch-Z 
(GRZ) stents (n = 45), and Wallstents (n = 5) were inserted. Clinical outcome 
was assessed from patients' records using a score based on leg swelling, 
scrotal/vulvar edema, ascites and anasarca before and after stent placement, as 
well as at last follow-up visit before death. Clinical follow-up was 
supplemented by duplex sonography in 36 patients. Inferior venocavography was 
performed in 5 patients prior to re- intervention. Follow-up time ranged from 1 
to 932 days (mean 62 days). Mean pressure gradient in the IVC was reduced from 
14 +/- 4.1 mmHg before to 2.9 +/- 3.2 mmHg after stent placement (p < 0.001). 
Four patients had stent occlusion, 2 of whom were successfully re-stented. 
Primary and secondary patency was 59% and 100%, respectively at 540 days. 
Immediate clinical data were available in 44 patients: 38 improved; 6 did not 
respond. Last follow-up visit data were available in 36 patients: 24 showed 
persistent symptom relief till death. All symptom scores were significantly 
improved after stent placement (p < 0.001) and with the exception of ascites, 
remained significantly improved (p < 0.05) until the last follow-up. Increased 
serum bilirubin was a common characteristic of clinical failures and 
recurrences. Intrahepatic IVC stent placement resulted in significant 
symptomatic relief in patients with malignant IVC syndrome. Palliation was 
effective even in patients with a very short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-003-0009-x
PMID: 15259806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Natl Black Nurses Assoc. 2003 Jun;14(1):57-65.

Eliminating structural and racial barriers: a plausible solution to eliminating 
health disparities.

Bolton LB(1), Giger JN, Georges A.

Author information:
(1)Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California, USA. Bolton@cshs.org

It is essential to critically and systematically analyze the literature to 
determine what impact the historical effects of individual and institutional 
racism have had on the prevailing health disparities across racial/ethnic groups 
including African-Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, and American 
Indians. Moreover given the historical significance of institutional racism, a 
review of health disparities across ethnic minority groups could ultimately 
ayugment understanding in order to ensure culturally competent health care to 
these vulnerable populations.

PMID: 15260000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Duke Law J. 2003 Dec;53(3):1067-110.

Transfer regulations and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Posner EA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, USA.

Recent scholarship on regulatory oversight has focused on cost-benefit analysis 
of prescriptive regulations--regulations that restrict behavior such as 
pollution--and their use to cure market failures, and has overlooked the vast 
number of transfer regulations. Transfer regulations are regulations that 
channel funds to beneficiaries. These regulations are authorized by statutes 
that establish entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security, pay 
one-time distributions to victims of misfortunes such as natural disasters and 
the 9/11 terrorist attack, and fund pork barrel spending. Cost-benefit analysis 
cannot be used to evaluate transfer regulations because all transfer regulations 
fail cost-benefit analysis; cost-effectiveness analysis, however, can be used to 
evaluate transfer regulations. Although executive orders appear to require 
agencies to use cost-effectiveness analysis to evaluate transfer regulations 
that have a large economic impact, the agencies' record is dismal. Most agencies 
fail to perform cost-effectiveness analysis, and other agencies perform 
cost-effectiveness analysis incorrectly. More vigorous Office of Management and 
Budget and, possibly, judicial review could improve the quality of distributive 
regulations.

PMID: 15260020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J Assoc Physicians India. 2003 Nov;51:1083-94.

Diabetes in old age: an emerging epidemic.

Kesavadev JD(1), Short KR, Nair KS.

Author information:
(1)Indian Institute of Diabetes, Pulayanarkotta, Trivandrum, Kerala, India.

Diabetes in the elderly is emerging as one of the most important public health 
problems of the 21st century. In developing countries, the majority of people 
with diabetes are in the age range of 45-64 years. A better understanding on the 
pathogenesis of diabetes in the aging population is required to successfully 
treat and prevent its devastating complications. Changes in body composition 
with accumulation of fat in the abdomen is a key factor in the causation of 
diabetes in the aging population. The size and strength of skeletal muscle, a 
major tissue involved in glucose metabolism, also declines leading to muscle 
weakness and a reduction in physical activity. These changes lead to marked 
reduction in energy expenditure and abdominal fat accumulation causing insulin 
resistance. Recent evidence suggests that four months of aerobic exercise can 
improve muscle oxidative capacity similarly in younger and older people, but 
that insulin sensitivity is less likely to improve in older people. It appears 
that older people need to exercise more frequently to improve their insulin 
sensitivity. Diagnosis and management of diabetes in the elderly requires 
special attention since age, genetics, body composition and lifestyle factors 
all interact. Increasing evidence suggests that postprandial hyperglycemia is 
more sensitive to diagnose diabetes in elderly people than in the young. Age 
related changes in body function and cognition demand special caution in the 
selection of hypoglycemic drugs in the elderly. Targets of diabetes therapy in 
the elderly have to be individualized, considering the age of the patient, 
remaining life-expectancy and severity of co-morbid conditions. Short acting 
insulin secretogogues are preferred to avoid prolonged and frequent 
hypoglycemia. Judicious choice of insulin sensitizers, timely introduction of 
insulin, meticulous control of hypertension and hyperlipidemia are critical to 
prevent complications.

PMID: 15260395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Drugs Aging. 2004;21(9):607-20. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200421090-00005.

Cost effectiveness of memantine in Alzheimer's disease: an analysis based on a 
probabilistic Markov model from a UK perspective.

Jones RW(1), McCrone P, Guilhaume C.

Author information:
(1)The Research Institute for the Care of the Elderly, St Martin's Hospital, 
Bath, UK.

BACKGROUND: Clinical trials with memantine, an uncompetitive moderate-affinity 
NMDA antagonist, have shown improved clinical outcomes, increased independence 
and a trend towards delayed institutionalisation in patients with moderately 
severe-to-severe Alzheimer's disease. In a randomised double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, 28-week study conducted in the US, reductions in resource 
utilisation and total healthcare costs were noted with memantine relative to 
placebo. While these findings suggest that, compared with placebo, memantine 
provides cost savings, further analyses may help to quantify potential economic 
gains over a longer treatment period.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of memantine therapy compared with 
no pharmacological treatment in patients with moderately severe-to-severe 
Alzheimer's disease over a 2-year period.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to simulate patient progression through 
a series of health states related to severity, dependency (determined by patient 
scores on the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living 
[ADCS-ADL] inventory and residential status ('institutionalisation') with a time 
horizon of 2 years (each 6-month Markov cycle was repeated four times). 
Transition probabilities from one health state to another 6 months later were 
mainly derived from a 28-week, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
clinical trial. Inputs related to epidemiological and cost data were derived 
from a UK longitudinal epidemiological study, while data on quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) were derived from a Danish longitudinal study. To ensure 
conservative estimates from the model, the base case analysis assumed drug 
effectiveness was limited to 12 months. Monte Carlo simulations were performed 
for each state parameter following definition of a priori distributions for the 
main variables of the model. Sensitivity analyses included worst case scenario 
in which memantine was effective for 6 months and one-way sensitivity analyses 
on key parameters. Finally, a subgroup analysis was performed to determine which 
patients were most likely to benefit from memantine. Informal care was not 
included in this model as the costs were considered from National Health Service 
and Personal Social Services perspective.
RESULTS: The base case analysis found that, compared with no treatment, 
memantine was associated with lower costs and greater clinical effectiveness in 
terms of years of independence, years in the community and QALYs. Sensitivity 
analyses supported these findings. For each category of Alzheimer's disease 
patient examined, treatment with memantine was a cost-effective strategy. The 
greatest economic gain of memantine treatment was in independent patients with a 
Mini-Mental State Examination score of > or =10.
CONCLUSION: This model suggests that memantine treatment is cost effective and 
provides cost savings compared with no pharmacological treatment. These benefits 
appear to result from prolonged patient independence and delayed 
institutionalisation for moderately severe and severe Alzheimer's disease 
patients on memantine compared with no pharmacological treatment.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200421090-00005
PMID: 15260515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2004 Sep;18(3):381-91. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2004.02.003.

Life extension versus improving quality of life.

Nass R(1), Thorner MO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Virginia Health System, Box 800466, 
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA.

There are two principal directions in ageing research: (i) the quest for 
understanding the mechanisms that determine the length of life and the use of 
such knowledge in order to find a potentially life extending treatment and (ii) 
the attempt to improve the quality of life in the elderly by reversing or 
preventing functional decline of different tissues without primarily extending 
life span. This chapter addresses the importance of assessing the potential 
impact of interventions on quality of life rather than extending life.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2004.02.003
PMID: 15261844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Vet Parasitol. 2004 Aug 6;122(4):253-60. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2004.04.004.

Seroprevalence of Toxoplasma gondii and Neospora caninum in captive maned wolves 
(Chrysocyon brachyurus) from southeastern and midwestern regions of Brazil.

Vitaliano SN(1), Silva DA, Mineo TW, Ferreira RA, Bevilacqua E, Mineo JR.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Imunologia, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia, Av. Pará 1720, 
Campus Umuarama, 38400-902 Uberlândia, MG, Brazil.

The main purpose of the present study was to investigate the occurrence of 
antibodies against T. gondii and N. caninum in captive maned wolves from Brazil, 
considering that little information is available at the literature about 
infections by these parasites in this wild animal. Serum samples were obtained 
from 59 maned wolves originated from six zoos and from one ecological reserve of 
the southeastern and midwestern regions of Brazil. To detect IgG antibodies 
against T. gondii, an ELISA protocol was used and the results were expressed as 
ELISA reactivity indexes (EI). Serology for N. caninum was carried out by 
indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) and cut-off titers were established at 
1:25 dilution. From the total of the analyzed samples, 44 (74.6%) were 
seropositive for T. gondii and only 5 (8.5%) for N. caninum. Seropositivity for 
T. gondii ranged from 0 to 100% in the seven different origin locals, with rates 
over 50% among the six zoos, whereas no positivity was found in the samples from 
ecological reserve. For N. caninum, seroprevalence varied from 0 to 50% in the 
different locals, with the highest rates also detected in zoos. Seroprevalence 
for T. gondii was strongly related with age, with rates significantly higher 
among adult wolves (91.7%) when compared to newborn or young animals. 
Seropositive samples for N. caninum were found predominantly in adult wolves. 
For both parasites, seroprevalence did not show a significant distinction in 
relation to gender. Although seroprevalence for T. gondii was significantly 
higher when compared to N. caninum in the Brazilian captive maned wolves tested, 
these findings reflect the great exposure of this species to T. gondii and, in 
lower extension, to N. caninum. Also, the present study demonstrated for the 
first time the presence of antibodies to N. caninum in wild life from South 
America.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2004.04.004
PMID: 15262003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Atherosclerosis. 2004 Aug;175(2):361-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2004.04.008.

Serum creatinine predicts mortality in patients with peripheral artery disease: 
influence of diabetes and hypertension.

Mlekusch W(1), Exner M, Sabeti S, Amighi J, Schlager O, Wagner O, Minar E, 
Schillinger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Angiology, Vienna General Hospital, Medical School, Waehringer 
Guertel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Patients with renal insufficiency tend to suffer from advanced 
atherosclerosis and exhibit a reduced life expectancy. We investigated the 
association of renal impairment, traditional cardiovascular risk factors and 
all-cause mortality in patients with symptomatic peripheral artery disease 
(PAD).
METHODS: We studied 515 patients with advanced PAD (intermittent claudication, n 
= 410; critical ischemia, n = 105). Cardiovascular risk profile and calculated 
glomerular filtration rate (GFR) were obtained at baseline and patients were 
followed for median 21 months (interquartile range 12 to 25) for mortality.
RESULTS: Sixty-five patients (13%) died. Cumulative survival rates at 6, 12, and 
24 months were 97%, 95%, and 89%, respectively. Adjusted hazard ratios for 
mortality according to decreasing quartiles of GFR were 1.2, 2.5, and 5.9 
compared to the highest quartile (P < 0.001). The association between renal 
impairment and mortality was independent of diabetes and hypertension, 
suggesting that decreased GFR adds to the prognostic value of traditional 
cardiovascular risk factors.
CONCLUSION: Renal impairment is associated with an increased risk for mortality 
in patients with advanced peripheral artery disease, irrespective of the 
coincidence of arterial hypertension and diabetes mellitus. This suggests that 
impaired renal function exerts an unfavorable effect on patient's outcome, 
independently of these cardiovascular and renal risk factors.

Copyright 2004 Elsevier Ireland Ltd

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2004.04.008
PMID: 15262193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Neurobiol Dis. 2004 Aug;16(3):506-15. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2004.04.012.

Improved outcome of N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin-mediated substrate reduction 
therapy in a mouse model of Sandhoff disease.

Andersson U(1), Smith D, Jeyakumar M, Butters TD, Borja MC, Dwek RA, Platt FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Glycobiology Institute, University of Oxford, 
Oxford OX1 3QU, UK.

Sandhoff disease is a severe neurodegenerative glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal 
storage disorder, currently without treatment options. One therapeutic approach 
under investigation is substrate reduction therapy (SRT). By partially 
inhibiting GSL biosynthesis, the impaired rate of GSL catabolism is balanced by 
a slower rate of influx of GSLs into the lysosome. In a previous study, we 
reported the beneficial effects of treating Sandhoff disease mice with the 
glucose analogue N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), a compound that inhibits the 
first step of GSL biosynthesis catalysed by the ceramide specific 
glucosyltransferase. NB-DNJ, however, exhibits adverse effects at high doses 
such as weight loss and GI tract distress (due to glucosidase inhibition). This 
might limit the therapeutic potential of NB-DNJ for treating diseases affecting 
the CNS where high dose therapy may be required to achieve therapeutic levels of 
the drug in the brain. In the present study, a more selective compound, the 
galactose analogue N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin (NB-DGJ), was evaluated in the 
Sandhoff disease mouse model. Treatment with NB-DGJ showed greater therapeutic 
efficacy than NB-DNJ with no detectable side effects. The ability to escalate 
the dose of NB-DGJ, leading to extended life expectancy and increased delay in 
symptom onset, demonstrates the greater therapeutic potential of NB-DGJ for the 
treatment of the human gangliosidoses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2004.04.012
PMID: 15262262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Bioinformatics. 2004 Aug 4;20 Suppl 1:i355-62. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/bth929.

Using MoBIoS' scalable genome join to find conserved primer pair candidates 
between two genomes.

Xu W(1), Briggs WJ, Padolina J, Timme RE, Liu W, Linder CR, Miranker DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Sciences, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 
78741, USA.

MOTIVATION: For the purpose of identifying evolutionary reticulation events in 
flowering plants, we determine a large number of paired, conserved DNA oligomers 
that may be used as primers to amplify orthologous DNA regions using the 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
RESULTS: We develop an initial candidate set by comparing the Arabidopsis and 
rice genomes using MoBIoS (Molecular Biological Information System). MoBIoS is a 
metric-space database management system targeting life science data. Through the 
use of metric-space indexing techniques, two genomes can be compared in O(mlog 
n), where m and n are the lengths of the genomes, versus O(mn) for BLAST-based 
analysis. The filtering of low-complexity regions may also be accomplished by 
directly assessing the uniqueness of the region. We describe mSQL, a SQL 
extension being developed for MoBIoS that encapsulates the algorithmic details 
in a common database programming language, shielding end-users from esoteric 
programming.
AVAILABILITY: Available upon request from authors.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bth929
PMID: 15262820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Circulation. 2004 Aug 3;110(5):566-70. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000137123.55051.9B.  Epub 2004 Jul 19.

Risk factors and recurrence rate of primary deep vein thrombosis of the upper 
extremities.

Martinelli I(1), Battaglioli T, Bucciarelli P, Passamonti SM, Mannucci PM.

Author information:
(1)Angelo Bianchi Bonomi Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center, Department of 
Internal Medicine and Dermatology, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, University of Milano, Italy. 
martin@policlinico.mi.it

Comment in
    Circulation. 2005 Mar 8;111(9):e118; author reply e118.

BACKGROUND: One third of cases of upper-extremity deep vein thrombosis (DVT) are 
primary, ie, they occur in the absence of central venous catheters or cancer. 
Risk factors for primary upper-extremity DVT are not well established, and the 
recurrence rate is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied 115 primary upper-extremity DVT patients and 797 
healthy controls for the presence of thrombophilia due to factor V Leiden, 
prothrombin G20210A, antithrombin, protein C, protein S deficiency, and 
hyperhomocysteinemia. Transient risk factors for venous thromboembolism were 
recorded. Recurrent upper-extremity DVT was evaluated prospectively over a 
median of 5.1 years of follow-up. The adjusted odds ratio for upper-extremity 
DVT was 6.2 (95% CI 2.5 to 15.7) for factor V Leiden, 5.0 (95% CI 2.0 to 12.2) 
for prothrombin G20210A, and 4.9 (95% CI 1.1 to 22.0) for the anticoagulant 
protein deficiencies. Hyperhomocysteinemia and oral contraceptives were not 
associated with upper-extremity DVT. However, in women with factor V Leiden or 
prothrombin G20210A who were taking oral contraceptives, the odds ratio for 
upper-extremity DVT was increased up to 13.6 (95% CI 2.7 to 67.3). The 
recurrence rate was 4.4% patient-years in patients with thrombophilia and 1.6% 
patient-years in those without thrombophilia. The hazard ratio for recurrent 
upper-extremity DVT in patients with thrombophilia compared with those without 
was 2.7 (95% CI 0.7 to 9.8).
CONCLUSIONS: Inherited thrombophilia is associated with an increased risk of 
upper-extremity DVT. Oral contraceptives increase the risk only when combined 
with inherited thrombophilia. The recurrence rate of primary upper-extremity DVT 
is low but tends to be higher in patients with thrombophilia than in those 
without.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000137123.55051.9B
PMID: 15262837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Circulation. 2004 Aug 3;110(5):501-7. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000137116.12176.A6.  Epub 2004 Jul 19.

Transcatheter device closure of congenital and postoperative residual 
ventricular septal defects.

Knauth AL(1), Lock JE, Perry SB, McElhinney DB, Gauvreau K, Landzberg MJ, Rome 
JJ, Hellenbrand WE, Ruiz CE, Jenkins KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Children's Hospital, 300 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass 
02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Our purpose was to describe a 13-year experience with patients 
undergoing transcatheter device closure of unrepaired congenital or 
postoperative residual ventricular septal defects (VSDs).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Since 1989, 170 patients (median age, 3.9 years) have 
undergone catheterization for closure of 1 or more congenital (n=92) or 
postoperative (n=78) residual VSDs using successive generations of STARFlex-type 
devices. Outcomes included echocardiographic assessment of residual flow and 
device position, assessment of VSD shunt/severity, and adverse events. Among 168 
patients in whom device implantation was performed, between 1 and 7 devices were 
placed per patient (median, 1), with multiple devices placed in 40%. There was a 
significant decrease in left-to-right shunting after device implantation 
(P<0.001) and significant improvement in VSD size/severity, and device position 
proved stable. Of 332 adverse events, 39 were related to the device and 261 were 
related to the catheterization; all but 5 occurred in the periprocedural period. 
At a median follow-up of 24 months (0 to 154 months), 14 patients had died and 
18 had device(s) explanted.
CONCLUSIONS: Congenital and postoperative VSD closure using STARFlex-type 
devices resulted in stable improvement in clinical status and decreased 
interventricular shunting. Although periprocedural events occurred frequently, 
late events caused by the device were rare. Transcatheter device closure is an 
effective management option for patients with complex muscular VSDs that are 
difficult to approach surgically and for postoperative residual VSDs.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000137116.12176.A6
PMID: 15262841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Circulation. 2004 Aug 3;110(5):508-14. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000136821.99814.43.  Epub 2004 Jul 19.

Cost-effectiveness of sirolimus-eluting stents for treatment of complex coronary 
stenoses: results from the Sirolimus-Eluting Balloon Expandable Stent in the 
Treatment of Patients With De Novo Native Coronary Artery Lesions (SIRIUS) 
