Modified Mediterranean diet and survival: EPIC-elderly prospective cohort study.

Trichopoulou A(1), Orfanos P, Norat T, Bueno-de-Mesquita B, Ocké MC, Peeters PH, 
van der Schouw YT, Boeing H, Hoffmann K, Boffetta P, Nagel G, Masala G, Krogh V, 
Panico S, Tumino R, Vineis P, Bamia C, Naska A, Benetou V, Ferrari P, Slimani N, 
Pera G, Martinez-Garcia C, Navarro C, Rodriguez-Barranco M, Dorronsoro M, 
Spencer EA, Key TJ, Bingham S, Khaw KT, Kesse E, Clavel-Chapelon F, 
Boutron-Ruault MC, Berglund G, Wirfalt E, Hallmans G, Johansson I, Tjonneland A, 
Olsen A, Overvad K, Hundborg HH, Riboli E, Trichopoulos D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology, University of Athens Medical School, 
Athens 11527, Greece. antonia@nut.uoa.gr

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 4;330(7503):1329; author reply 1329-30.
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 4;330(7503):1329; author reply 1329-30.

OBJECTIVE: To examine whether adherence to the modified Mediterranean diet, in 
which unsaturates were substituted for monounsaturates, is associated with 
longer life expectancy among elderly Europeans.
DESIGN: Multicentre, prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Nine European countries (Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, the 
Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom).
PARTICIPANTS: 74,607 men and women, aged 60 or more, without coronary heart 
disease, stroke, or cancer at enrolment and with complete information about 
dietary intake and potentially confounding variables.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Extent of adherence to a modified Mediterranean diet 
using a scoring system on a 10 point scale, and death from any cause by time of 
occurrence, modelled through Cox regression.
RESULTS: An increase in the modified Mediterranean diet score was associated 
with lower overall mortality, a two unit increment corresponding to a 
statistically significant reduction of 8% (95% confidence interval 3% to 12%). 
No statistically significant evidence of heterogeneity was found among countries 
in the association of the score with overall mortality even though the 
association was stronger in Greece and Spain. When dietary exposures were 
calibrated across countries, the reduction in mortality was 7% (1% to 12%).
CONCLUSION: The Mediterranean diet, modified so as to apply across Europe, was 
associated with increased survival among older people.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38415.644155.8F
PMCID: PMC557144
PMID: 15820966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Eur Heart J. 2005 May;26(10):1046. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi239. Epub 2005
Apr  8.

Cost-effectiveness of on-pump and off-pump bypass surgery.

Kastanioti CK, Kolettis TM, Stavridis G, Goudevenos J.

Comment on
    Eur Heart J. 2004 Dec;25(23):2077-85.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi239
PMID: 15821002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Kathmandu Univ Med J (KUMJ). 2004 Apr-Jun;2(2):157-63.

ICTs application for better health in Nepal.

Pradhan MR(1).

Author information:
(1)HealthNet Nepal. mpradhan@healthnet.org.np

Technologies with the ability to send information in a fast, efficient and cheap 
fashion--such as the Internet-can provide dramatic improvements in access to 
information, advice and care. This article explores the strengths and weaknesses 
of Internet to augment traditional health services and supply new ones. In doing 
so, it presents concrete cases in the developing world, with reference to Nepal, 
where Internet is being used for health-related activities--ranging from 
patient/doctor consultation through database services, to the management of 
epidemics.

PMID: 15821386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Child Health Alert. 2005 Apr;23:1-2.

Obesity in children--what might be its impact on life expectancy?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15822208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Med Arh. 2005;59(1):7-10.

[Laboratory-immunology indicators according as prognostic factors of patients 
with colon and rectum cancer].

[Article in Bosnian]

Maksimović S(1).

Author information:
(1)Opsta bolnica Sveti Vracevi u Bijeljini, Bosna i Hercegovina. 
sinisam@rstel.net

INTRODUCTION: The occurrence of colon and rectum cancers has risen gradually in 
the past twenty years. In order to make a precise forecast about a patient's 
life expectancy and/or treatment, the factors of prognosis and outlook are used 
in oncology. These can be classified as clinical-surgical, 
pathological-histological and laboratory-immunology.
PURPOSE OF THE WORK: To establish the significance of the laboratory-immunology 
indicators, carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA), proliferate nuclear antigen (PCNA) 
as well as Ki67 and p53 in the survival rate of patients who have colon or 
rectum cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In "Sveti Vracevi" Hospital in Bijeljina 33 patients 
suffering from cancer of the left half of the colon and rectum received 
treatment from 1st January 2000 to 1st January 2003. They all had 
immunohistochemical analysis of CEA, PCNA, Ki67 and p53.
RESULTS: The patients with positive immunohistochemical CEA, PCNA and p53 values 
had statistically shorter life expectancy in comparison with the patients with 
negative CEA, PCNA and p53 values. There was not statistically significant 
difference in the survival rate of patients with positive immunohistochemical 
Ki67 values in relation to the patients with the negative values.
CONCLUSION: Immunohistochemical analysis is not used in the routine analysis of 
colon and rectum cancers. Establishing them gives enough information on the 
patient's survival rate.

PMID: 15822675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Geriatrics. 2005 Apr;60(4):26-9.

Aging with mental retardation: increasing population of older adults with MR 
require health interventions and prevention strategies.

Fisher K(1), Kettl P.

Author information:
(1)Drexel University, College of Nursing and Health Professions, Philadelphia, 
PA, USA.

The second half of the 20th century vastly increased the life span of those with 
mental retardation (MR). Today the average life expectancy of older adults with 
MR is 66.1 years and growing. As these individuals age, they present increasing 
challenges to the clinician. Increased rates of hearing and visual impairments, 
obesity, and osteoporosis as well as high rates of dementia with associated 
psychiatric problems make care for the aging individual with MR complex. Primary 
care providers need to be aware that elders with MR will comprise an increasing 
part of their practice, and that they present with many chronic conditions.

PMID: 15823058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Int J Cardiol. 2005 Apr 20;100(2):229-40. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2004.08.042.

Management of non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: how cost-effective are 
glycoprotein IIb/IIIA antagonists in the UK National Health Service?

Palmer S(1), Sculpher M, Philips Z, Robinson M, Ginnelly L, Bakhai A, Abrams K, 
Cooper N, Packham C, Alfakih K, Hall A, Gray D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, UK. 
sjp21@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists (GPAs) represent a new class 
of drugs to prevent platelet aggregation in the acute treatment of 
non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTE-ACS). Systematic reviews have 
identified serious limitations in published cost-effectiveness analyses, 
including a lack of UK-specific studies and an absence of studies comparing 
different protocols for the use of GPAs.
METHODS: A model was developed to assess the cost effectiveness of a variety of 
protocols employing GPAs for patients presenting with NSTE-ACS in the UK. The 
perspective of the UK National Health Service was adopted, with outcomes in 
terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Four treatment strategies were 
evaluated: GPAs as part of initial medical management (Strategy 1); GPAs in 
patients with planned percutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs; Strategy 2); 
GPAs as an adjunct to the PCI procedure (Strategy 3); and no GPAs (Strategy 4). 
Baseline event rates and costs were taken from a UK observational study of ACS 
patients and relative risk reductions from GPAs were taken from a meta analysis 
of trials. Long-term costs and QALYs were estimated using data from a UK 
longitudinal study.
RESULTS: The most cost-effective use of GPAs is likely to be Strategy 1, with an 
incremental cost per QALY gained of between pound4605 to pound10,343. Focusing 
this use of GPAs only on the subgroup of patients at high risk appears to 
represent the most cost-effective use of NHS resources.
CONCLUSIONS: Medical management of patients with NSTE-ACS using GPAs is the most 
cost-effective use of resources, particularly if targeted to higher risk 
subgroups.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2004.08.042
PMID: 15823630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Med Hypotheses. 2005;64(6):1225-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2004.12.006.

The empirical relationship between longevity and physical stature may be 
obscured by unobserved genetic diversity in the optimal metabolic rate.

Sunder M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Munich, Ludwigstrasse 33/IV, 80539 
Munich, Germany. marco@econhist.de

It is hypothesized that an inheritable "optimal" metabolic rate is associated 
with the lowest attainable mortality risk, greatest attainable height (in youth) 
and a desirable body weight. Positive deviations from this rate are reflected in 
overweight and higher mortality, negative deviations in shorter stature 
(stunting), low body mass index (BMI), and higher mortality. In a heterogeneous 
population the optimal rate may differ among genotypes, and those with a higher 
optimal rate are the ones who can translate more energy intake into growth in 
height such that under optimal net-nutritional intake, they are able to reach a 
greater final adult height with a lower body mass index than genotypes with a 
lower optimal rate. Hence, the optimal height and weight - in terms of longevity 
- may differ substantially among genotypes, so that an empirical estimation of 
the relationship may be blurred in a heterogeneous society. Conversely, the 
"true" association (within genotypes) may be stronger than the measured one, 
which may have some implications for the contribution of the secular increase in 
human height to the rise in life expectancy or the optimal BMI in persons who 
experienced stunting in youth.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2004.12.006
PMID: 15823723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Scand J Public Health. 2005;33(2):151-5. doi: 10.1080/14034940510032121.

From healthy survivors to sick survivors--implications for the twenty-first 
century.

Rosén M(1), Haglund B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiology, National Board of Health and Welfare, Stockholm, 
Sweden. mans.rosen@sos.se

BACKGROUND: Hypotheses concerning compression of morbidity have gained support, 
particularly due to improved lifestyles from 1950 to date, but now the increase 
is largely due to improvements in healthcare.
METHODS: Survey data from Sweden were used to test whether the older population 
aged 65-84 years during 1995-2002 had more longstanding illnesses than the older 
population of 1980-87 or 1988-94.
RESULTS: There was an increased prevalence of many longstanding illnesses among 
the elderly in Sweden between 1988-94 and 1995-2002. The increase was especially 
pronounced among those with at least three longstanding illnesses. For diabetes, 
heart disease, and hypertension, the prevalence among elderly men increased by 
over 20%. However, those reporting these kinds of longstanding illnesses 
perceive improved health and are less restricted in their daily activities.
CONCLUSIONS: Results from Sweden indicate that many countries approaching 
Sweden's life expectancy will have an increased need for care for the oldest 
population in the future. The compression-of-morbidity hypothesis is being 
challenged, probably due to improvements in healthcare.

DOI: 10.1080/14034940510032121
PMID: 15823977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Arch Intern Med. 2005 Apr 11;165(7):749-55. doi: 10.1001/archinte.165.7.749.

Management of aortic disease in Marfan Syndrome: a decision analysis.

Kim SY(1), Martin N, Hsia EC, Pyeritz RE, Albert DA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND: Marfan syndrome is a relatively common heritable disorder of 
connective tissue that affects numerous organ systems, but the most severe 
complication is aortic aneurysm and dissection. A variety of medical and 
surgical approaches are available for managing the cardiovascular complications. 
Our objective was to compare elective composite graft surgery, elective 
valve-sparing surgery, and medical management for patients with both Marfan 
syndrome and thoracic aortic disease on the basis of life expectancy with 
differing diameters of the aortic root and rate of increase in the aortic root 
size.
METHODS: A Markov decision analysis model was constructed to compare the 2 
surgical options with watchful waiting with medical therapy.
RESULTS: For our base-case analysis of a 20-year-old patient with Marfan 
syndrome and thoracic aortic aneurysm, the aortic valve-sparing option was 
preferred. It extended life expectancy to 73.8 years compared with the medical 
treatment option (71.4 years) and with the composite graft surgery (72.7 years). 
Our results show that there is a better outcome for a patient with an aortic 
root diameter between 3.0 and 3.5 cm with early prophylactic surgery than with 
deferred or emergency surgery. Medical treatment was preferred when the aortic 
root diameter was smaller than 3.0 cm.
CONCLUSIONS: Although long-term follow-up data are not yet available, it appears 
that advances in the technique of valve-sparing surgery have made it the 
preferred option to composite graft, primarily to avoid the complications of 
anticoagulation. Our study indicates that patients who have an aortic root 
diameter of larger than 3.0 cm should be considered for prophylactic aortic 
surgery.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.165.7.749
PMID: 15824293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Int J Cancer. 2005 Sep 10;116(4):634-9. doi: 10.1002/ijc.21114.

Effects of loss of p53 and p16 function on life span and survival of human 
urothelial cells.

Shaw NJ(1), Georgopoulos NT, Southgate J, Trejdosiewicz LK.

Author information:
(1)Jack Birch Unit for Molecular Carcinogenesis, Department of Biology, 
University of York, York, United Kingdom.

Human urothelial cell carcinoma evolves via the accumulation of numerous genetic 
alterations, with loss of p53 and p16 function representing important stages in 
the development of superficial lesions and their progression to malignant 
disease. To investigate the effects of disabling either or both proteins in 
otherwise normal human urothelial cells, we performed retroviral transductions 
with a dominant negative p53 miniprotein and/or mutant cyclin-dependent kinase 4 
(CDK4R24C) in 3 independent cell lines. Although cells with disabled p53 
function showed a higher proliferation rate, inactivation of neither p53 nor p16 
function resulted in any extension of life span and the double-transductants 
failed to flourish, demonstrating that further genetic alterations are required 
to attain an immortalised phenotype. However, CDK4R24C transductants showed a 
marked increase in apoptotic susceptibility to membrane-presented CD40 ligand, 
being intermediate between normal cells (nonsusceptible) and transformed cells 
(highly susceptible). By contrast, loss of p53 function alone only slightly 
increased the apoptotic susceptibility of urothelial cells. These results 
demonstrate that loss of p16 function, while insufficient to immortalise 
urothelial cells, nevertheless renders the cells more vulnerable to apoptosis 
induced by CD40 ligation.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.21114
PMID: 15825166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Int J Psychiatry Med. 2004;34(4):391-7. doi: 10.2190/N7DL-L6PE-MKYH-4910.

Depression in children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis: case studies.

Elgudin L(1), Kishan S, Howe D.

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals of Cleveland, Ohio, USA. laraelg@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Cystic fibrosis is an autosomal recessively inherited multi-system 
disorder of children and adults characterized by the obstruction and infection 
of airways presenting as a wide variety of symptoms. It has varying degrees of 
psychological impact on patients and their families, requiring numerous 
adjustments in their life styles. Newer sophisticated medical treatments of 
cystic fibrosis has led to an increase in life expectancy; however, the same 
kind of progress has not been made in the psychological interventions available 
to treat emotional disturbances.
METHOD: We report three cases of children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis 
who were diagnosed with depression and treated with a combination of 
antidepressant medications and other psychosocial interventions.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Two of the three cases suggest that treatment with 
antidepressant medications has a positive influence on psychological outcomes. 
We further propose clinical studies to test efficacy, safety, and long-term 
effects of these medications in patients with cystic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.2190/N7DL-L6PE-MKYH-4910
PMID: 15825587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Mycoses. 2005;48 Suppl 1:84-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.2005.01109.x.

[Therapy on mycoses after simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation].

[Article in German]

Bouchard R(1), Hennings L, Jungbluth T, Klempien I, Kujath P, Bruch HP.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Chirurgie, Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, D-23538 
Lübeck, Germany. ralf.bouchard@chirurgie.uni-luebeck.de

Patients suffering from type I diabetes mellitus have a descending expectancy of 
life, after developing diabetic nephropathy and undergoing haemodialysis. After 
3 years of haemodialysis, approximately only 40% of the patients are still 
alive. The only remedy of this incurable metabolic disease is the simultaneous 
pancreas-kidney transplantation. After transplantation, fungal colonization and 
fungal infection is a serious threat for the patient's life. In this context, it 
is necessary to distinguish between colonization and invasive mycosis. In the 
case of unsuccessful antimycotic treatment, the removal of the transplanted 
organ, depending on the patient's condition, may be necessary to save the 
patient's life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.2005.01109.x
PMID: 15826294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nihon Rinsho. 2005 Apr;63(4):721-6.

[Bone loss in men under androgen-deprivation therapy for prostate cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishizaka K(1), Machida T, Yoshida K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kanto Central Hospital.

Bone is a major target tissue for sex hormones and hypogonadism is a known cause 
of male osteoporosis. Androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) for prostate cancer 
yields hypogonadotropic status and accelerates age-related decrease in bone 
mineral density. The risk for osteoporotic fractures is also increased which may 
lead to a shorter life expectancy for prostatic cancer patients. Baseline and 
follow up bone density measurement is desired for all men beginning ADT and it 
is advisable to take calcium and vitamin D as well as maintain a moderate 
exercise. Bisphosphonate is a possible treatment for those in whom osteoporosis 
develops. More data are desirable to make a guideline to prevent and treat male 
osteoporosis under ADT.

PMID: 15828242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Rev Med Suisse. 2005 Mar 9;1(10):687-90, 693.

[Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in 2005: prompt, agressive and customized].

[Article in French]

Guerne PA(1), Stingelin-Guerne S.

Author information:
(1)Département de médecine, HUG, 1211 Genève 14. 
pierre-andre-guerne@medecine.unige.ch

Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in 2005: prompt, aggressive and customized 
Rheumatoid arthritis can be extremely serious (joint destruction, functional 
loss, decrease in life expectancy). Fortunately, our therapeutic means have 
recently progressed enormously (better appreciation of efficacy and ways to use 
DMARDs combinations and new molecules such as leflunomide and anti-TNFs, 
understanding of the importance of early adequate and intensive treatments when 
necessary). Huge progresses have also been performed with regards to evaluation 
and follow-up strategies (disease activity score--DAS, health assessment 
questionnaire--HAQ), which allows us to adapt the treatment much better. The 
goal now can and must be quick and total remission of the disease in all 
patients thus avoiding as much as possible irreversible joint damages with 
accompanying morbidities.

PMID: 15828371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2005 Jan-Feb;(1):12-3.

[The life quality of population belonging to senior age groups].

[Article in Russian]

Kulikova NG.

Described in the paper are issues related with the involution time in men and 
women, who are in the second period of their mature age, and with complications 
of the mentioned time interval affecting the life quality and its expectancy and 
aggravating the risk of sudden death. It was for the first time that the authors 
undertook a complex study of men and women of the mentioned age whose involution 
was physiological or complicated; they focused attention on the criterion 
specificity of the involution disregulations of different nature affecting the 
mean life expectancy and life quality in patients. The study results verify to 
the fact that the involution period is essentially influenced not only by 
endogenous but also by exogenous factors. It is pointed out as necessary to 
promote the primary prevention and outpatient follow-up of men and women aged 
above 40 for the purpose of exposing the factors of risk of involution 
complications and for the purpose of preventing early complications observed 
during the discussed life period. It is demonstrated that this would essentially 
improve the life quality in a significant share of the nation including patients 
aged above 40.

PMID: 15828383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Lung Cancer. 2005 May;48(2):171-85. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2004.11.001. Epub
 2005 Jan 4.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of screening for lung cancer with low dose spiral CT 
(computed tomography) in the Australian setting.

Manser R(1), Dalton A, Carter R, Byrnes G, Elwood M, Campbell DA.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology and Health Service Evaluation Unit, Ground Floor 
Charles Connibere Building, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Grattan Street, Parkville, 
Vic. 3050, Australia. ManserRL@mh.org.au

INTRODUCTION: Low dose spiral computed tomography (CT) is a sensitive screening 
tool for lung cancer that is currently being evaluated in both non-randomised 
studies and randomised controlled trials.
METHODS: We conducted a quantitative decision analysis using a Markov model to 
determine whether, in the Australian setting, offering spiral CT screening for 
lung cancer to high risk individuals would be cost-effective compared with 
current practice. This exploratory analysis was undertaken predominantly from 
the perspective of the government as third-party funder. In the base-case 
analysis, the costs and health outcomes (life-years saved and quality-adjusted 
life years) were calculated in a hypothetical cohort of 10,000 male current 
smokers for two alternatives: (1) screen for lung cancer with annual CT for 5 
years starting at age 60 year and treat those diagnosed with cancer or (2) no 
screening and treat only those who present with symptomatic cancer.
RESULTS: For male smokers aged 60-64 years, with an annual incidence of lung 
cancer of 552 per 100,000, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 57,325 
dollars per life-year saved and 105,090 dollars per QALY saved. For females aged 
60-64 years with the same annual incidence of lung cancer, the 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 51,001 dollars per life-year saved and 88,583 
dollars per QALY saved. The model was used to examine the relationship between 
efficacy in terms of the expected reduction in lung cancer mortality at 7 years 
and cost-effectiveness. In the base-case analysis lung cancer mortality was 
reduced by 27% and all cause mortality by 2.1%. Changes in the estimated 
proportion of stage I cancers detected by screening had the greatest impact on 
the efficacy of the intervention and the cost-effectiveness. The results were 
also sensitive to assumptions about the test performance characteristics of CT 
scanning, the proportion of lung cancer cases overdiagnosed by screening, 
intervention rates for benign disease, the discount rate, the cost of CT, the 
quality of life in individuals with early stage screen-detected cancer and 
disutility associated with false positive diagnoses. Given current knowledge and 
practice, even under favourable assumptions, reductions in lung cancer mortality 
of less than 20% are unlikely to be cost-effective, using a value of 50,000 
dollars per life-year saved as the threshold to define a "cost-effective" 
intervention.
CONCLUSION: The most feasible scenario under which CT screening for lung cancer 
could be cost-effective would be if very high-risk individuals are targeted and 
screening is either highly effective or CT screening costs fall substantially.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2004.11.001
PMID: 15829317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Hum Mol Genet. 2005 Jun 1;14(11):1465-74. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddi156. Epub 2005
Apr  13.

Identification and characterization of a novel gene Saf transcribed from the 
opposite strand of Fas.

Yan MD(1), Hong CC, Lai GM, Cheng AL, Lin YW, Chuang SE.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, 
Taiwan, ROC.

Apoptosis is a morphologically distinct form of cell death involved in many 
physiological and pathological processes. The regulation of Fas/Apo-1 involved 
in membrane-mediated apoptosis has also been known to play crucial roles in many 
systems. More and more naturally occurring antisense RNAs are now known to 
regulate, at least in part, a growing number of eukaryotic genes. In this 
report, we describe the findings of a novel RNA transcribed from the opposite 
strand of the intron 1 of the human Fas gene. Using orientation-specific RT-PCR 
and northern blot analysis, we show that this transcript is 1.5 kb in length and 
was expressed in several human tissues and cell lines. This transcript was 
cloned by 5'- and 3'-RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends) and the 
transcription start site was determined by primer extension. This novel gene was 
named Saf. To assess the functions of Saf, Jurkat cells transfected with human 
Saf or control vector was prepared. The stable Saf-transfectant was highly 
resistant to Fas-mediated but not to TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis. Although the 
overall mRNA expression level of Fas was not affected, expression of some novel 
forms of Fas transcripts was increased in Saf-transfectant, especially the 
inhibitory soluble forms. These findings collectively suggest that Saf might 
protect T lymphocytes from Fas-mediated apoptosis by blocking the binding of 
FasL or its agonistic Fas antibody. Saf might regulate the expression of Fas 
alternative splice forms through pre-mRNA processing.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddi156
PMID: 15829500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Internist (Berl). 2005 Jun;46(6):698-705. doi: 10.1007/s00108-005-1390-0.

[Possible ways of managing cardiovascular prevention: polypharmacy, additional 
payment or application of evidence based medicine?].

[Article in German]

Gohlke H(1).

Author information:
(1)Herz-Zentrum Bad Krozingen. helmut.gohlke@herzzentrum.de

The financial balance of the health care system has changed dramatically due to 
a longer life expectancy and improved treatment options in elderly patients. 
More than 80% of cardiovascular events are lifestyle related and potentially 
preventable. Lifestyle modification is therefore the causal approach to decrease 
cardiovascular events. Improvement of nutrition and activity habits and 
prevention of cigarette smoking should start in the kindergarten, school and 
later at the workplace. A co-operation between medical societies and government 
institutions is necessary to achieve a population wide modification of lifestyle 
habits to lower the incidence of cardiovascular events in the population. 
Individual risk stratification is the basis for pharmacological prevention of 
cardiovascular events. The concept of the polypill has to be tested in 
controlled randomised studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-005-1390-0
PMID: 15830173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 2005 Jan;75(1):37-8. doi: 10.1024/0300-9831.75.1.37.

Cardiovascular mortality and alcohol consumption in Russia.

Ginter E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Bratislava, Slovak Republic. 
ginter@upkm.sk

DOI: 10.1024/0300-9831.75.1.37
PMID: 15830919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Gerontology. 2005 May-Jun;51(3):199-205. doi: 10.1159/000083994.

Is it possible to predict one-year survival in centenarians? A neural network 
study.

Tafaro L(1), Cicconetti P, Piccirillo G, Ettorre E, Marigliano V, Cacciafesta M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging Science, University La Sapienza, Rome, Italy. 
laura_tafaro@virgilio.it

BACKGROUND: Human life expectancy is constantly increasing: the challenge for 
modern geriatric medicine is to identify the means to reach successfully extreme 
longevity.
OBJECTIVE: To determine which are the survival determinants in centenarians 
using a neural network.
METHODS: Sample of 110 centenarians living in Rome, mean age 101.6 years 
(SD=1.8) with a sex ratio males:females of 1:3. We administered an extensive 
health interview (lasting 1-2 h) to each subject. The questionnaire, carried out 
according to the Geriatric Multidimensional Assessment, is made up of 100 items 
including a comprehensive health and psychosocial assessment aimed at various 
topics of general health and well-being and some scales used in geriatric 
practice. We applied several three-layered feed-forward neural networks by 
mixing in different ways the most important of the 100 items.
RESULTS: The most predicting powered net is the one constructed with 23 
variables regarding comorbidity, cardiovascular risk factors, cognitive status, 
mood, functional status and social interactions, which therefore are strictly 
related to survival in centenarians.
CONCLUSION: Survival in longevity is a complex biological phenomenon, which is 
an ideal field for using the neural network as a statistic method. The net shows 
us that the maintenance of social relationships even in presence of disability 
is of major importance for survival in the oldest old.

Copyright (c) 2005 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000083994
PMID: 15832048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Anasthesiol Intensivmed Notfallmed Schmerzther. 2005 Apr;40(4):225-9. doi: 
10.1055/s-2004-826199.

[Rigor mortis -- a definite sign of death?].

[Article in German]

Heller AR(1), Müller MP, Frank MD, Dressler J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Anästhesiologie und Intensivtherapie, 
Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus, Dresden. 
axel.heller@mailbox.tu-dresden.de

In the past years an ongoing controversial debate exists in Germany, regarding 
quality of the coroner's inquest and declaration of death by physicians. We 
report the case of a 90-year old female, who was found after an unknown time 
following a suicide attempt with benzodiazepine. The examination of the patient 
showed livores (mortis?) on the left forearm and left lower leg. Moreover, rigor 
(mortis?) of the left arm was apparent which prevented arm flexion and 
extension. The hypothermic patient with insufficient respiration was intubated 
and mechanically ventilated. Chest compressions were not performed, because 
central pulses were (hardly) palpable and a sinus bradycardia 45/min (AV-block 2 
degrees and sole premature ventricular complexes) was present. After placement 
of an intravenous line (17 G, external jugular vein) the hemodynamic situation 
was stabilized with intermittent boli of epinephrine and with sodium 
bicarbonate. With improved circulation livores and rigor disappeared. In the 
present case a minimal central circulation was noted, which could be stabilized, 
despite the presence of certain signs of death ( livores and rigor mortis). 
Considering the finding of an abrogated peripheral perfusion (livores), we 
postulate a centripetal collapse of glycogen and ATP supply in the patients left 
arm (rigor), which was restored after resuscitation and reperfusion. Thus, it 
appears that livores and rigor are not sensitive enough to exclude a vita 
minima, in particular in hypothermic patients with intoxications. Consequently a 
careful ABC-check should be performed even in the presence of apparently certain 
signs of death, to avoid underdiagnosing a vita minima. Additional ECG- 
monitoring is required to reduce the rate of false positive declarations of 
death. To what extent basic life support by paramedics should commence when 
rigor and livores are present until physician DNR order, deserves further 
discussion.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-826199
PMID: 15832242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Hum Mutat. 2005 May;25(5):468-75. doi: 10.1002/humu.20162.

A separation-free assay for the detection of mutations: combination of 
homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence and minisequencing.

Lopez-Crapez E(1), Bazin H, Chevalier J, Trinquet E, Grenier J, Mathis G.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Center, CRLC Val d'Aurelle, Montpellier, France. 
ecrapez@valdorel.fnclcc.fr

Single nucleotide primer extension reaction has been widely used in DNA testing, 
and several detection methods based on this core allelic discrimination have 
been developed. Most of the reported formats are based on a two step protocol 
involving first, a liquid phase extension reaction, then a physical separation 
process (chromatography, electrophoresis, capture on solid support, mass 
spectrometry). Here we describe a new strategy based on homogeneous 
time-resolved fluorescence (HTRF), which does not involve any separation process 
and which allows a simple "mix and measure" protocol. In this approach, a 
5'-(europium) cryptate-labeled primer is elongated by a biotinylated 
dideoxynucleoside-triphosphate, followed by the addition of a 
streptavidin-acceptor conjugate, which gives rise to a long-life fluorescence 
resonance energy transfer (FRET) signal between the cryptate donor and the 
acceptor. We present the development of HTRF technology as applied to the 
diagnosis of tumor suppressor gene p53 (TP53) mutations, and its application to 
the analysis of genomic DNA from human tumoral samples. The sensitivity of the 
reported method is compared to the corresponding fluorescent polarization assay.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.20162
PMID: 15832307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2005 Jan-Mar;68(1):81-5.

Methadone and buprenorphine maintenance therapies for patients with hepatitis C 
virus infected after intravenous drug use.

Verrando R(1), Robaeys G, Matheï C, Buntinx F.

Author information:
(1)Medisch Social Opvang Centrum, Genk, Belgium.

Heroin addiction is a chronic relapsing disease that is difficult to cure, but 
stabilisation and harm reduction can importantly increase the life time 
expectancy and the quality of life of the patient, his immediate vicinity and 
society in general. Currently, no proven effective pharmacological interventions 
are available for cocaine addiction, and treatment has to rely on existing 
cognitive behaviour therapies combined with contingency management strategies. 
Substitution therapy, however, is effective in caring for heroin addicts. 
Methadone is a synthetic opioid that counteracts withdrawal symptoms of heroin. 
Buprenorphine is a derivative of the morphine alkaloid, thebaine, and is a 
partial opioid agonist at the micro opioid receptor in the nervous system. A 
substitution treatment program effectively reduces and often eliminates heroin 
injection behaviour, rendering patients more socially stabilised. Reduction in 
the number of viral co-infections can be observed. Methadone undergoes oxidative 
biotransformation in the liver, but is also stored in the liver and released 
into the blood in unchanged form. The usual dose can be continued in patients 
with stable chronic liver disease, including advanced cirrhosis. In acute liver 
disease or acute decompensation of chronic liver disease, close clinical 
observation for signs of narcotic overdose or withdrawal is necessary. A modest 
alteration in methadone dose may be appropriate for some patients. Buprenorphine 
can cause liver dysfunction after sublingual and even more after intravenous 
administration. It is advised to follow the liver function during buprenorphine 
treatment and to warn the clients for intravenous use of buprenorphine. Neither 
methadone nor buprenorphine do influence the effect of interferon and ribavirin 
during the treatment of chronic hepatitis C patients. It may be necessary to 
increase the dosage of methadone during interferon treatment.

PMID: 15832591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Popul Trends. 2005 Spring;(119):7-15.

The demographic situation in the European Union.

Pearce D(1), Bovagnet FC.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

This article is an update of a similar article published in Population Trends 
104 and complements the article on European-wide issues in population 
statistics, published in Population Trends 118. The main areas of demography are 
covered, namely population change, population composition, fertility and 
mortality. Eurostat are currently working on a new set of population projections 
which should be available shortly, but were not completed when this article was 
drafted.

PMID: 15832598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Eur J Intern Med. 2005 Apr;16(2):97-104. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2004.11.004.

How many patients in atrial fibrillation admitted to an acute medical unit will 
benefit from oral anticoagulation? Application of the results of the major 
randomized controlled trials to 141 consecutive, unselected, elderly patients 
using a decision support computer program.

Kellett J(1).

Author information:
(1)Nenagh Hospital, Nenagh, County Tipperary, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Although several randomized, control trials (RTC) suggest that oral 
anticoagulation (OAC) benefits patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), this 
might not be true for hospitalized patients with co-morbid conditions. If the 
results of the RTCs are valid, then how many patients in AF admitted to an acute 
medical unit will benefit from OAC? METHODS: An RCT-based decision analysis 
model calculated the quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) gain from OAC for 
141 unselected consecutive patients over 65 years of age with AF admitted to an 
acute medical unit. RESULTS: If treated with aspirin, all 141 patients were 
predicted to gain QALE compared with placebo. If the quality of life adjustment 
(QoLA) on OAC was the same as placebo, then 104 patients were predicted to 
benefit from OAC compared with aspirin, while 63 patients were predicted to 
benefit at a QoLA of 0.99 (overall benefit 0.13+/-0.15 QALYs, range 0.01-0.88 
QALYs). These 63 patients were more likely to have had a stroke, diabetes, 
hypertension, heart failure or heart attack, and less likely to have impaired 
renal function than those predicted not to benefit. The 78 patients predicted 
not to benefit from OAC included 11 younger patients without heart failure, 
hypertension, diabetes or cerebrovascular disease; the remaining 67 patients, 
however, were older, more likely to have heart failure and/or renal impairment 
and were at high risk of both stroke and bleeding. CONCLUSION: An RCT-based 
decision analysis model suggests that more than half the patients in AF admitted 
to a small rural hospital with acute medical conditions are unlikely to benefit 
from OAC, while all will benefit from aspirin.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2004.11.004
PMID: 15833675


654. Eur J Intern Med. 2005 Apr;16(2):116-119. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2004.10.012.

Influence of old age on survival after prolonged mechanical ventilation.

Endeman H(1), Heeffer L, Holleman F, Westendorp RG, Hoekstra JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: While the proportion of elderly people in society is increasing, 
little is known about the influence of old age on survival after prolonged 
mechanical ventilation. METHODS: A retrospective follow-up study of 120 patients 
who had been mechanically ventilated for at least 10 days was performed with a 
follow-up of up to 5 years. In-hospital survival and post-hospital survival were 
documented. Also, the functional status of survivors was recorded. The 
predictive value of age and several other clinical and laboratory parameters for 
outcome was analyzed. RESULTS: The in-hospital survival of the 120 patients 
studied was 35%. While age below 50 years was associated with improved survival, 
age was not predictive of in-hospital survival for patients over 50 years of 
age. The post-hospital survival was 77% 1 year after discharge, with almost all 
survivors being functionally independent. Again, old age was not predictive of 
survival. CONCLUSIONS: For patients aged 50 years or older, patient age does not 
predict survival after prolonged mechanical ventilation. Even very old survivors 
have a reasonable life expectancy and regain full functional status.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2004.10.012
PMID: 15833678


655. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2005 May;76(5):700-5. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.2004.038695.

A double blind, randomised study of sildenafil citrate for erectile dysfunction 
in men with multiple sclerosis.

Fowler CJ(1), Miller JR, Sharief MK, Hussain IF, Stecher VJ, Sweeney M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Uro-Neurology, The National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Mailbox 71, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK. 
cfowler@ion.ucl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: Identifying and effectively treating erectile dysfunction (ED) can 
result in an improvement of the quality of life (QoL) in men with multiple 
sclerosis (MS).
METHODS: This randomised, double blind (DB), placebo controlled, flexible dose 
study with an open label extension (OLE) assessed efficacy, QoL, and safety of 
sildenafil citrate in men with MS and ED. Overall, 217 men received sildenafil 
(25-100 mg; n = 104) or placebo (n = 113) for 12 weeks. Efficacy was assessed by 
the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire that includes 
questions on achieving (Q3) and maintaining (Q4) an erection as well as a global 
efficacy question (GEQ). QoL was also assessed.
RESULTS: After 12 weeks, patients receiving sildenafil had higher mean scores 
for IIEF Q3 and Q4 compared with those receiving placebo (p<0.0001), and 89% 
(92/103) reported improved erections compared with 24% (27/112) of patients 
receiving placebo (p<0.0001). At the end of the OLE phase, 95% of men reported 
improved erections. Patients receiving placebo during the DB phase showed a 
nearly fourfold increase in improved erections (97% v 26%). Men receiving 
sildenafil also showed improvements in five of the eight general QoL questions 
compared with men receiving placebo (p<0.05). The total mean score for the QoL 
questionnaire improved by 43% for the sildenafil group versus 13% for the 
placebo group (p<0.0001). Treatment related AEs were predominantly mild in 
nature, and no patient discontinued due to an AE.
CONCLUSION: Sildenafil treatment for ED in men with MS was effective and well 
tolerated, and resulted in significant improvements in both general and disease 
specific QoL variables.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.2004.038695
PMCID: PMC1739638
PMID: 15834030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Diabetologia. 2005 May;48(5):868-77. doi: 10.1007/s00125-005-1717-3. Epub
2005  Apr 15.

Cost-utility analyses of intensive blood glucose and tight blood pressure 
control in type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 72).

Clarke PM(1), Gray AM, Briggs A, Stevens RJ, Matthews DR, Holman RR; UKPDS 72 
United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Old Road Campus, Headington, Oxford OX3 7LF, UK. 
philip.clarke@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: This study estimated the economic efficiency (1) of intensive 
blood glucose control and tight blood pressure control in patients with type 2 
diabetes who also had hypertension, and (2) of metformin therapy in type 2 
diabetic patients who were overweight.
METHODS: We conducted cost-utility analysis based on patient-level data from a 
randomised clinical controlled trial involving 4,209 patients with newly 
diagnosed type 2 diabetes conducted in 23 hospital-based clinics in England, 
Scotland and Northern Ireland as part of the UK Prospective Diabetes Study 
(UKPDS). Three different policies were evaluated: intensive blood glucose 
control with sulphonylurea/insulin; intensive blood glucose control with 
metformin for overweight patients; and tight blood pressure control of 
hypertensive patients. Incremental cost : effectiveness ratios were calculated 
based on the net cost of healthcare resources associated with these policies and 
on effectiveness in terms of quality-adjusted life years gained, estimated over 
a lifetime from within-trial effects using the UKPDS Outcomes Model.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life years gained (in year 
2004 UK prices) for intensive blood glucose control was 6,028 UK pounds, and for 
blood pressure control was 369 UK pounds. Metformin therapy was cost-saving and 
increased quality-adjusted life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Each of the three policies evaluated has a lower 
cost per quality-adjusted life year gained than that of many other accepted uses 
of healthcare resources. The results provide an economic rationale for ensuring 
that care of patients with type 2 diabetes corresponds at least to the levels of 
these interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-005-1717-3
PMID: 15834550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Sep;6(3):203-14. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0279-0.

Use of a decision analysis model to assess the medicoeconomic implications of 
FDG PET imaging in diagnosing a solitary pulmonary nodule.

Lejeune C(1), Al Zahouri K, Woronoff-Lemsi MC, Arveux P, Bernard A, Binquet C, 
Guillemin F.

Author information:
(1)Faculté de Médecine, Dijon, France. catherine.lejeune@u-bourgogne.fr

This study assessed the use of positron emission tomography (PET) in identifying 
and diagnosing solitary pulmonary nodules (SPNs). For this a decision analysis 
model was constructed, and three alternatives were compared: wait and watch 
(WW), PET and anatomical computed tomography (PET), and CT plus PET (CT+PET). 
Transition probabilities were estimated from published data and consultations 
with experts. Costs of diagnosis were derived from the French reimbursement 
scale, and treatment costs from a national hospital database of 
diagnosis-related groups. The base case was defined as a 65-year-old male smoker 
with a 2-cm SPN and an associated high risk of malignancy of 43%. Evaluation 
criteria included incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and the proportion of 
unnecessary operations avoided in patients without malignant SPN. For the base 
case WW was the least effective and cheapest strategy. CT+PET was more effective 
and presented lower incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (<euro>3,022 per 
life-year gained). It also was superior to PET in cost-effectiveness terms and 
resulted in 4.3% fewer unnecessary resections of benign SPN than did PET. Risk 
profile analyses performed on SPN malignancy risk showed that CT + PET remains 
the most cost-effective strategy in the range of 5.7-87%, and that WW is more 
cost-effective in the range of 0.3-5.0%. CT+PET is thus cost-effective in 
detecting malignant SPN in patients with a risk of malignity of at least 5.7% 
and may avoid inappropriate resections of benign SPN. These findings support the 
attempts to introduce a larger number of PETs in France for SPN diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0279-0
PMID: 15834623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Free Inq. 2004 Jun-Jul;24(4):27-30.

From regenerative medicine to human design: what are we really afraid of?

Stock G(1).

Author information:
(1)Program on Medicine, Technology, and Society, University of California at Los 
Angeles's School of Public Health, USA.

PMID: 15835004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J Gen Intern Med. 2005 Mar;20(3):251-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.40247.x.

Cost-effectiveness of in-home automated external defibrillators for individuals 
at increased risk of sudden cardiac death.

Cram P(1), Vijan S, Katz D, Fendrick AM.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA, USA. peter-cram@uiowa.edu 
<peter-cram@uiowa.edu>

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: In-home automated external defibrillators (AEDs) are 
increasingly recommended as a means for improving survival of cardiac arrests 
that occur at home. The current study was conducted to explore the relationship 
between individuals' risk of cardiac arrest and cost-effectiveness of in-home 
AED deployment.
