gaps in this area and opportunities to create new knowledge. Panel members 
identified sustainable programs of research established through stable linkages 
between institutions in high-income nations and those in low- and middle-income 
nations as a priority. The resulting benefits of addressing the growing burden 
of trauma and injury to communities in resource-constrained settings around the 
world would be substantial.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.039354
PMCID: PMC1449844
PMID: 15623852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Am J Public Health. 2005 Jan;95(1):103-8. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2003.029579.

Life-years gained from modern cardiological treatments and population risk 
factor changes in England and Wales, 1981-2000.

Unal B(1), Critchley JA, Fidan D, Capewell S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Dokuz Eylul University School of Medicine, 
Izmir, Turkey. belgin.unal@deu.edu.tr

OBJECTIVES: We estimated life-years gained from cardiological treatments and 
cardiovascular risk factor changes in England and Wales between 1981 and 2000.
METHODS: We used the IMPACT model to integrate data on the number of coronary 
heart disease patients, treatment uptake and effectiveness, risk factor trends, 
and median survival in coronary heart disease patients.
RESULTS: Compared with 1981, there were 68230 fewer coronary deaths in 2000. 
Approximately 925415 life-years were gained among people aged 25-84 years 
(range: 745 195-1 138 655). Cardiological treatments for patients accounted for 
approximately 194145 life-years gained (range: 142505-259225), and population 
risk factor changes accounted for approximately 731270 life-years gained (range; 
602695-879430).
CONCLUSIONS: Modest reductions in major risk factors led to gains in life-years 
4 times higher than did cardiological treatments. Effective policies to promote 
healthy diets and physical activity might achieve even greater gains.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2003.029579
PMCID: PMC1449860
PMID: 15623868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2004 Dec;42(12):680-9. doi: 10.5414/cpp42680.

Medical care for individual patients: concepts beyond evidence-based medicine.

Bonelli J(1), Felsenstein K, Prat EH, Schwarz M.

Author information:
(1)Imabe-Institute for Medical Anthropology and Bioethics, Vienna, Austria. 
bonelli@imabe.org

Todays evidence-based medicine has brought the practicing physician a vast 
amount of statistical evidence from which various stakeholders in the healthcare 
system obtain their arguments for and against the use of new therapies. 
Physicians assume an obligation to prescribe these new treatment options for 
their patients, firstly because of their eagerness to provide the best medicine, 
and secondly because of their fear of litigations. On looking at the published 
data, however, we have observed that the arguments for saving lives with a new 
treatment are not always supported by the underlying data. Sometimes the data 
show that the effect of treatment, in real terms, is only a relatively small 
gain in life-time prolongation. It is concluded that EBM-based concepts such as 
NNT (number needed to treat), absolute risk and relative risk fall short in 
ensuring real benefit for the patient. We have, therefore, put forward a 
mathematic model which takes into account the benefit of a treatment for the 
individual patient in terms of expected gain in lifetime duration. This model is 
readily applicable to published results on the clinical effects of a medical 
therapy and gives the practicing physician a useful tool for deciding whether to 
administer a medical therapy or not. By looking at the duration of treatment and 
the individual gain in lifetime expected, we have derived an effectiveness 
coefficient which can be used to categorize medical treatments into highly 
effective (close to 100%) and not effective (< 5%), and at the same time arrive 
at a cost-benefit analysis of the treatment in question. These simple concepts 
will help physicians and individual patients to make informed decisions based 
only on those medical therapies which are proven and appropriate. The model we 
have developed provides a new perspective in therapy for the individual patient 
using medicines that constitute a rational therapy i.e. a therapy that makes 
"sense" (sense-orientated medicine = SOM).

DOI: 10.5414/cpp42680
PMID: 15624284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2004 Dec;83(12):884-92. doi: 
10.1097/01.phm.0000143404.59050.11.

Long-term exercise maintenance, physical activity, and health-related quality of 
life after cardiac rehabilitation.

Izawa KP(1), Yamada S, Oka K, Watanabe S, Omiya K, Iijima S, Hirano Y, Kobayashi 
T, Kasahara Y, Samejima H, Osada N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, St. Marianna University School of 
Medicine Hospital, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine exercise maintenance rate, 
leisure-time objective physical activity level, and health-related quality of 
life in relation to exercise maintenance over the 6-mo period after a supervised 
5-mo recovery-phase cardiac rehabilitation program in acute myocardial 
infarction patients. The study also investigated whether exercise maintenance 
resulted in reproducible health-related quality-of-life outcomes comparable with 
those of the Japanese normal population.
DESIGN: This observational study comprised 109 acute myocardial infarction 
patients (89 men, 20 women; mean age, 63.5 +/- 10.1 yrs). Physiologic outcomes 
(peak oxygen uptake, handgrip, and knee-extension strength) measured at 1 and 6 
mos after acute myocardial infarction onset were compared. Completed exercise 
maintenance and health-related quality-of-life questionnaires and results of 
electronic pedometer recordings to evaluate leisure-time objective physical 
activity level were assessed 6 mos after cardiac rehabilitation.
RESULTS: The mean period from acute myocardial infarction to evaluation of 
outcomes was 18.8 +/- 3.4 mos. Ninety of 109 patients (82.6%) continued exercise 
for >6 mos after cardiac rehabilitation (exercise group); 19 patients (17.4%) 
quit exercise after cardiac rehabilitation (nonexercise group). Improvement in 
physiologic outcomes was noted at 6 mos vs. those at 1 mo, but outcomes were not 
significantly different between groups. The exercise group performed 
significantly better than the nonexercise group for leisure-time objective 
physical activity level and scored significantly higher than the nonexercise 
group for seven of eight health-related quality of life measures, attaining 
scores similar to those of the Japanese normal population.
CONCLUSIONS: At >18 mos after acute myocardial infarction, the exercise 
maintenance rate in our patients remains high, and exercise maintenance may be 
one of the factors contributing to improvement of health-related quality of life 
and leisure-time objective physical activity level.

DOI: 10.1097/01.phm.0000143404.59050.11
PMID: 15624566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Am J Psychiatry. 2005 Jan;162(1):181-3. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.162.1.181.

A pilot study of interpersonal psychotherapy for posttraumatic stress disorder.

Bleiberg KL(1), Markowitz JC.

Author information:
(1)Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, NY 10021, USA. 
klbleiberg@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: This article describes pilot testing of interpersonal psychotherapy 
adapted for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Unlike most psychotherapies 
for PTSD, interpersonal psychotherapy is not exposure-based, focusing instead on 
interpersonal sequelae of trauma.
METHOD: Fourteen consecutively enrolled subjects with chronic PTSD (DSM-IV) from 
various traumas received an open, 14-week interpersonal psychotherapy trial.
RESULTS: Treatment was well tolerated: 13 subjects (93%) completed therapy. 
After 14 weeks, 12 of 14 subjects no longer met diagnostic criteria for PTSD, 
69% responded (50% Clinician Administered PTSD Scale score decrement), and 36% 
remitted (score < or =20). Thirteen subjects reported declines in PTSD symptoms 
across all three symptom clusters. Depressive symptoms, anger reactions, and 
interpersonal functioning also improved.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating interpersonal sequelae of PTSD appears to improve other 
symptom clusters. Interpersonal psychotherapy may be an efficacious alternative 
for patients who refuse repeated exposure to past trauma. This represents an 
exciting extension of interpersonal psychotherapy to an anxiety disorder.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.162.1.181
PMID: 15625219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Med Care. 2005 Jan;43(1):79-87.

Comparison of measured utility scores and imputed scores from the SF-36 in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Kaplan RM(1), Groessl EJ, Sengupta N, Sieber WJ, Ganiats TG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, UCLA School of Public Health, Los Angeles, 
California 90095, USA. rmkaplan@ucla.edu

PURPOSE: We sought to evaluate 3 methods for imputing utility-based outcomes 
from clinical trial data measured using the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short 
Form (SF-36).
SUBJECTS: Our subjects included 131 male and 505 female adults (mean age, 55.42 
+/- 12.59 years) who were participating in a randomized clinical trial 
evaluating a new treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
MEASURES: Participants completed the SF-36, 2 versions of the Health Utilities 
Index (HUI-2 and HUI-3), the EuroQol EQ-5D, and the Health Assessment 
Questionnaire (HAQ). SF-36 scores were transformed to utility-based scores using 
4 methods developed independently by Fryback, Nichol, and Brazier.
RESULTS: All 4 imputed scores were significantly correlated with HUI-2, HUI-3, 
EQ-5D, and the disease-specific HAQ scores at baseline and at the end of the 
clinical trial period (P < 0.05). Changes in the imputed scores from baseline to 
end of study also were significantly correlated with corresponding changes in 
the measured utility scores and the HAQ score (P < 0.0001). For all imputed and 
measured scores, changes from baseline were associated with the clinical 
assessments, ACR20 and ACR50. The associations were stronger for the 
utility-based measures than the imputed indices. Both imputed and measured 
scores were sensitive to change in the clinical trial. However, mean scores for 
the HUI-3 and the Brazier VAS were significantly lower than for the other 
measures.
CONCLUSION: Imputed utility-based score estimates are significantly correlated 
with measured utility outcomes. However, the imputed measures had more 
constrained variability, showed poorer correspondence to the ACR20 and ACR50 
benchmarks, and predicted less than half of the variance in actual utility-based 
outcomes. Therefore, directly assessed, not imputed, utility-based measures 
should continue to be favored for cost-effectiveness analysis.

PMID: 15626937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2004 Nov 30;116(21-22):703-14. doi: 
10.1007/s00508-004-0258-y.

Endurance performance of the elderly mountaineer: requirements, limitations, 
testing, and training.

Burtscher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport Science, Medical Section, Innsbruck University, 
Innsbruck, Austria. Martin.burtscher@uibk.ac.at

Life expectancy has markedly increased during recent decades, resulting in a 
growing number of older individuals. Many of these elderly are turning to 
mountain sports activities in search of fun and new challenges. Although the 
scientific community has taken broad interest in the ageing process and how it 
affects physical and mental performance, little attention has focused on the 
elderly mountaineer. Mountain sports demand a relatively high degree of physical 
fitness and, because fitness and health decline with age, the risk of injury and 
death during mountain sports will increase. However, little information is 
available on fitness requirements for elderly mountaineers. This article mainly 
focuses on such requirements, and on performance limitations, assessment of 
individual performance, and training recommendations. A normal ascent rate of 
300 meters per hour (up to 3500 m) requires an altitude-dependent relative 
oxygen consumption of 18-22 ml x min(-1) x kg(-1) or an ergometric performance 
of 1.2-1.5 watt x kg(-1) below the individual anaerobic threshold. Mild 
cardiopulmonary and musculoskeletal diseases are not contraindications for 
mountain sports activities, provided the proposed fitness requirements are 
attained. A regular exercise-training program under medical and sports expert 
advice will help the elderly to achieve these fitness standards, enjoy the 
mountain environment, and prevent injuries and fatalities.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-004-0258-y
PMID: 15628639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. HEC Forum. 2004 Sep;16(3):182-96. doi: 10.1023/b:hecf.0000047576.26633.67.

Extending the life span: mythic desires and modern dangers.

Hackler C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for the Medical Humanities, University of Texas Medical Branch, 
Galveston, USA. HacklerChris@uams.edu

DOI: 10.1023/b:hecf.0000047576.26633.67
PMID: 15628791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. An Med Interna. 2004 Dec;21(12):602-6. doi: 10.4321/s0212-71992004001200009.

[Reversible dementias, do they exist?].

[Article in Spanish]

Moralejo Alonso ML(1), Fuertes Martín A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Interna II, Hospital Universitario, Salamanca. 
lmoralejo@yahoo.es

Due to the increase of the life expectancy the prevalence of the patients with 
dementia in the services of Internal Medicine is very high (30% in the patients 
with more of 80 years old). The incidence of the potentially reversible 
dementias is very different in the publications consulted (10-30%). The 
objective of these study is to know the real incidence of these dementias and 
which is the best diagnostic protocol to optimize the resources. The conclusions 
obtained in the bibliographical review it is that the effect of this type of 
dementias is minor that the mentioned (1.5-3%).

DOI: 10.4321/s0212-71992004001200009
PMID: 15628958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Circulation. 2005 Jan 18;111(2):165-72. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000151810.69732.41.  Epub 2005 Jan 3.

Cost-effectiveness of dual-chamber pacing compared with ventricular pacing for 
sinus node dysfunction.

Rinfret S(1), Cohen DJ, Lamas GA, Fleischmann KE, Weinstein MC, Orav J, Schron 
E, Lee KL, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal 
(CHUM), University of Montreal, Montreal, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Compared with single-chamber ventricular pacing, dual-chamber pacing 
can reduce adverse events and, as a result, improve quality of life in patients 
paced for sick sinus syndrome. It is not clear, however, how these benefits 
compare with the increased cost of dual-chamber pacemakers.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used 4-year data from a 2010-patient, randomized trial 
to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of dual-chamber pacing compared 
with ventricular pacing and then projected these findings over the patients' 
lifetimes by using a Markov model that was calibrated to the first 5 years of 
in-trial data. To assess the stability of the findings, we performed 1000 
bootstrap analyses and multiple sensitivity analyses. During the first 4 years 
of the trial, dual-chamber pacemakers increased quality-adjusted life expectancy 
by 0.013 year per subject at an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 53,000 
dollars per quality-adjusted year of life gained. Over a lifetime, dual-chamber 
pacing was projected to increase quality-adjusted life expectancy by 0.14 year 
with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of approximately 6800 dollars per 
quality-adjusted year of life gained. In bootstrap analyses, dual-chamber pacing 
was cost-effective in 91.9% of simulations at a threshold of 50,000 dollars per 
quality-adjusted year of life and in 93.2% of simulations at a threshold of 
100,000 dollars. Its cost-effectiveness ratio was also below this threshold in 
numerous sensitivity analyses that varied key estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with sick sinus syndrome requiring pacing, 
dual-chamber pacing increases quality-adjusted life expectancy at a cost that is 
generally considered acceptable.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000151810.69732.41
PMID: 15630030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Circulation. 2005 Jan 4;111(1):70-5. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000151308.06673.D2.

Impaired flow-mediated dilation and risk of restenosis in patients undergoing 
coronary stent implantation.

Patti G(1), Pasceri V, Melfi R, Goffredo C, Chello M, D'Ambrosio A, Montesanti 
R, Di Sciascio G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, Campus Bio-Medico University, Rome, 
Italy.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2005 Jan 4;111(1):8-10.
    Nat Clin Pract Cardiovasc Med. 2005 May;2(5):238-9.

BACKGROUND: Impaired endothelial function is a key event in the atherosclerosis 
process and predicts future cardiovascular events in subjects with and without 
coronary artery disease (CAD). We performed the first prospective study 
evaluating whether early measurement of brachial artery endothelium-dependent 
dilation (flow-mediated dilation [FMD]) after coronary stenting could predict 
occurrence of in-stent-restenosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The study population included 136 patients with 
single-vessel CAD undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with 
stenting and at least 6 months of follow-up. All patients underwent ultrasound 
detection of brachial artery reactivity 30 days after PCI; FMD was investigated 
before and after 5 minutes of occlusion of the brachial artery, and 
nitroglycerin-mediated dilation was investigated before and after administration 
of sublingual nitrates. Clinical in-stent restenosis was demonstrated in 20 
patients (15%), whereas 116 patients (85%) remained free of signs or symptoms of 
recurrent ischemia. FMD was significantly impaired in patients with restenosis 
versus those without restenosis (percent diameter variation 4.6+/-5.8% versus 
9.5+/-6.6%, P=0.002); moreover, 4% of patients with FMD > or =7% (median value) 
developed in-stent restenosis versus 28% of those with FMD <7% (P=0.0001). On 
multivariate analysis, FMD was the strongest predictor of restenosis (OR 4.5, 
95% CI 2.4 to 12.0); conversely, nitroglycerin-mediated dilation did not 
independently predict the risk of restenosis (OR 2.4, 95% CI 0.8 to 6.3).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first prospective study indicating that impaired FMD 
independently predicts occurrence of in-stent restenosis in patients undergoing 
PCI. Early evaluation of endothelial function after stenting may represent a 
useful screening tool to stratify patients according to future risk of 
restenosis.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000151308.06673.D2
PMID: 15630038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2004 Dec 1;93(49):2057-64. doi: 
10.1024/0369-8394.93.49.2057.

[Esophageal carcinoma: non-surgical therapy].

[Article in German]

Geissler M(1), Schwacha H, Eggstein S, Usadel H, Harder J, Opitz O, Arnold C, 
Grimm CF, Blum HE.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Innere Medizin, Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Freiburg.

Esophageal carcinoma is one of the most common cancers in the world. There is a 
rising incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus in Western countries. The 
present standard of care of patients with early tumors (Tis-T1 N0-N1 M0) is 
surgery and there is no role for chemo- or radiotherapy. Surgical treatment of 
stage II patients with locally resectable tumors is associated with poor 
survival figures due to an increase of regional and distant lymph node 
metastases. Adjuvant chemotherapy should be used only in the setting of clinical 
trials. The role of neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy in patients with resectable 
tumors is controversial. There is also evidence that some patients with a 
complete response after chemo-radiotherapy do not have a further benefit from 
surgical treatment. Therefore, the appropriate application of these varied 
therapeutic interventions should be performed at specialized centers. The role 
of chemotherapy and radiation is now established in locally advanced inoperable 
disease. How best to deliver these modes of therapy has yet to be defined. 
Prospective randomised trials are the only way to define the best therapeutic 
strategies for the different subgroups of patients with esophageal carcinoma. 
Progress with newer chemotherapy agents, optimal radiotherapy protocols and 
innovations are likely to improve responses to combination treatments, but may 
more importantly limit associated toxicity. Future trials should also assess 
quality of life indices as end points, that are of particular importance in 
populations with a median survival of approx, one year. Patients with stage IVb 
esophageal carcinoma have a life expectancy of less than six months and 
palliative teatment strategies should primarily aim at the improvement of tumor 
related symptoms and the maintenance of nutrition.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.93.49.2057
PMID: 15630988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Int Dent J. 2004 Dec;54(6 Suppl 1):352-60.

HIV/AIDS situation in Africa.

Ogunbodede EO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive & Community Dentistry, Faculty of Dentisty, Obafemi 
Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Nigeria. e_ogunbodede@yahoo.co.uk

The HIV/AIDS pandemic marks a severe development crisis in Africa, which remains 
by far the worst affected region in the world. Forty-two million people now live 
with HIV/AIDS of which 29.4 million (70.0%) are from sub-Saharan Africa. 
Approximately 5 million new infections occurred in 2002 and 3.5 million (70.0%) 
of these were also from sub-Saharan Africa. The estimated number of children 
orphaned by AIDS living in the region is 11 million. In 2002, the epidemic 
claimed about 2.4 million lives in Africa, more than 70% of the 3.1 million 
deaths worldwide. Average life expectancy in sub-Saharan Africa is now 47 years, 
when it would have been 62 years without AIDS. HIV/AIDS stigma is still a major 
problem despite the extensive spread of the epidemic. A complex interaction of 
material, social, cultural and behavioural factors shape the nature, process and 
outcome of the epidemic in Africa. However, too many partners and unprotected 
sex appear to be at the core of the problem, Even if exceptionally effective 
prevention, treatment and care programmes take hold immediately, the scale of 
the crisis means that the human and socio-economic toll will remain significant 
for many generations. Although 70% of people living with HIV/AIDS are in Africa, 
only 6,569 (4.7%) of the 140,736 scientific publications on HIV/AIDS, from 1981 
to 2000, are directly related to Africa. Effective responses to the epidemic 
require a multisectoral approach, including governments, the business sector and 
civil society.

PMID: 15631096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. J Biol Chem. 2005 Mar 25;280(12):11369-78. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M412603200. Epub
 2005 Jan 4.

Folding regulates autoprocessing of HIV-1 protease precursor.

Chatterjee A(1), Mridula P, Mishra RK, Mittal R, Hosur RV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Homi 
Bhabha Road, Mumbai 400 005, India.

Autoprocessing of HIV-1 protease (PR) precursors is a crucial step in the 
generation of the mature protease. Very little is known regarding the molecular 
mechanism and regulation of this important process in the viral life cycle. In 
this context we report here the first and complete residue level investigations 
on the structural and folding characteristics of the 17-kDa precursor 
TFR-PR-C(nn) (161 residues) of HIV-1 protease. The precursor shows 
autoprocessing activity indicating that the solution has a certain population of 
the folded active dimer. Removal of the 5-residue extension, C(nn) at the 
C-terminal of PR enhanced the activity to some extent. However, NMR structural 
characterization of the precursor containing a mutation, D25N in the PR at pH 
5.2 and 32 degrees C under different conditions of partial and complete 
denaturation by urea, indicate that the precursor has a high tendency to be 
unfolded. The major population in the ensemble displays some weak folding 
propensities in both the TFR and the PR regions, and many of these in the PR 
region are the non-native type. As both D25N mutant and wild-type PR are known 
to fold efficiently to the same native dimeric form, we infer that TFR cleavage 
enables removal of the non-native type of preferences in the PR domain to cause 
constructive folding of the protein. These results indicate that intrinsic 
structural and folding preferences in the precursor would have important 
regulatory roles in the autoprocessing reaction and generation of the mature 
enzyme.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M412603200
PMID: 15632156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Can J Psychiatry. 2004 Nov;49(11):753-60. doi: 10.1177/070674370404901106.

Characterizing coronary heart disease risk in chronic schizophrenia: high 
prevalence of the metabolic syndrome.

Cohn T(1), Prud'homme D, Streiner D, Kameh H, Remington G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, and Center for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario. Tony_Cohn@CAMH.net

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence and characteristics of coronary heart 
disease (CHD) risk factors in patients with chronic schizophrenia or 
schizoaffective disorder.
METHOD: We compared individual CHD risk factors and Framingham risk predictions 
in a group of 240 patients with a large national sample (Canadian Heart Health 
Survey) matched for age and sex. In addition, we compared rates of the metabolic 
syndrome (syndrome X) with recently published rates in the US adult population.
RESULTS: Compared with the reference population, Framingham 10-year risk of 
myocardial infarction was greater in the male patients (t3091 = 4.35, P < 0.001) 
but not in the female patients. Prevalence rates of the metabolic syndrome in 
the patients (42.6% of men and 48.5% of women) were approximately 2 times 
published rates in the US adult population. Further, the syndrome appears to 
occur at a younger age than in the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: These long-term patients have increased CHD risks best captured by 
the metabolic syndrome conceptualization coupled with a high rate of cigarette 
smoking. This characterization is consistent with increased cardiovascular 
morbidity and decreased life expectancy in both men and women. We underscore the 
importance of both screening for and treating potentially reversible CHD risk 
factors in schizophrenia patients.

DOI: 10.1177/070674370404901106
PMID: 15633853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Oral Rehabil. 2005 Jan;32(1):51-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2842.2004.01374.x.

Precision of fit and clinical evaluation of all-ceramic full restorations 
followed between 0.5 and 5 years.

Naert I(1), Van der Donck A, Beckers L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Oral Pathology and 
Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospitals, Catholic University Leuven, B-3000 
Leuven, Belgium. ignace.naert@med.kuleuven.ac.be

Currently CAD-CAM systems are rapidly gaining importance in dental practice as 
some of their products aim to combine aesthetics with strength and are free of 
metals. This study reports on the crown adaptation, marginal fit and clinical 
behaviour of 300 all-ceramic full coverage restorations (Procera, Gothenburg, 
Sweden) placed in one clinical centre and followed up to 5 years. The marginal 
fit and coping adaptation before and after luting was determined by direct 
measurement as well as after sectioning in a laboratory study. Three hundred 
all-ceram restorations were installed in 165 patients between 1994 and 1998. 
Before the end of 2000, patients were recalled to assess their restorations, 
using the California Dental Association quality evaluation index, their own 
appreciation, as well as the reaction towards the periodontium. The in vitro 
data revealed a mean marginal adaptation of 30 microm, before and after luting 
of the Al(2)0(3)-coping onto the tooth. However, at the deepest part of the 
chamfer, the distance increased to 135 microm. In the clinical study only one 
restoration fractured, while in 6% small porcelain infractions occurred. After 
polishing the latter, no persistent patient complaints remained. At the last 
recall visit 1.8% of the margins were rated unacceptable. Dentists rated 72 and 
78% of the restorations excellent for surface, colour and anatomic form 
respectively. Eighty-seven per cent of the patients rated their restorations 
more than 7/10 on an ordered analogue scale for aesthetics as well as for 
function.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2842.2004.01374.x
PMID: 15634302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. FASEB J. 2005 Mar;19(3):470-2. doi: 10.1096/fj.04-2550fje. Epub 2005 Jan 5.

Neonatal phenobarbital imprints overexpression of cytochromes P450 with 
associated increase in tumorigenesis and reduced life span.

Agrawal AK(1), Shapiro BH.

Author information:
(1)Laboratories of Biochemistry, University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary 
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-6048, USA.

Perinatal exposure to phenobarbital produces a range of permanent reproductive, 
growth, locomoter, and learning dysfunctions in animals as well as humans. In 
addition, the affected individuals exhibit latently expressed (i.e., 
postpubertal) above normal activity levels of hepatic multicytochrome 
P450-dependent drug metabolizing enzymes. We report that in spite of apparent 
normal health for the better part of their lives, daily administration of 
therapeutic-like doses of phenobarbital to male and female rat pups during the 
first postpartum week reduced life expectancy by approximately 20%. Necropsy at 
the time of natural death revealed an associated two- to threefold increase in 
the incidence of tumors in barbiturate-exposed rats of both sexes and a three- 
to fourfold increase in urinary tract pathologies in male rats. At 2 yr of age, 
in agreement with an overexpression of hepatic CYP2C6 and CYP2C7, both in vitro 
and in vivo drug metabolism was more rapid in the phenobarbital-imprinted male 
and female animals. Moreover, when the senescent rats were rechallenged with a 
nominal dose of the barbiturate, males and females neonatally exposed to 
phenobarbital exhibited a dramatic overinduction of multicytochrome 
P450-dependent drug metabolizing enzymes as well as an overexpression of 
individual isoforms of cytochrome P450 implicated in enhanced susceptibility to 
tumorigenesis. Our findings support the growing realization that many adult 
diseases have their origins in early life by emphasizing that unlike adults, the 
new born is "plastic," and even therapeutic drugs may produce "silent" 
programming defects that subtly, but irrevocably, jeopardize life-long 
well-being.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.04-2550fje
PMID: 15634872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Coll Antropol. 2004 Jun;28(1):317-23.

Klatskin tumor--results of surgical therapy.

Zovak M(1), Doko M, Glavan E, Hochstädter H, Roić G, Ljubicić N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Sestre milosrdnice, Zagreb, 
Croatia.

Between January 1st 1990 and December 31st 1999, 24 patients affected by 
Klatskin tumor underwent operation in our department of surgery. According to 
Bismuth's classification, there were 0 (0%) type I, 5 (21%) type II, 6 (25%) 
type IIIa, 4 (17%) type IIIb and 9 (37%) type IV tumors. Five patients (21%) 
were treated by curative resection (group I) while in 14 patients (58%) 
palliative surgical procedure was performed (group II). In 5 cases (21%) the 
extension of malignancy did not allowed any procedure (group III). Curative 
resection for malignant tumors of the hepatic duct bifurcation included wide 
tumor excision and bile duct resection at the liver hilum (with wedge hepatic 
resection in one patient) and creation of biliary-enteric anastomosis. 
Palliative surgical procedure included stent insertion. Jaundice was completely 
relieved in all patients undergoing resection, since 3 patients (21%) after 
stenting hadn't satisfactory biliary drainage. There was 1 (20%) perioperative 
death in the group 1, while in group 2, 5 patients (36%) died postoperatively. 
In this series, the mean postoperative survival of all patients was 16 months. 
The mean postoperative survival of patients undergoing localized tumor resection 
with curative intent was 38 months, in contrast to 10 months for those 
undergoing operative stent insertion. in addition, only 1 patient from group 
III, in whom only exploratory surgery were performed survived 7 months, while 
other 4 patients died in the hospital. This retrospective review suggests that 
aggressive surgical treatment could improve survival and quality of life in 
patients suffering from Klatskin tumor.

PMID: 15636089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2004 Dec;25(12):1056-61. doi: 10.1086/502343.

Screening and treatment of latent tuberculosis among healthcare workers at low, 
moderate, and high risk for tuberculosis exposure: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Salpeter SR(1), Salpeter EE.

Author information:
(1)Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, San Jose, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate cost-effective screening and treatment strategies for 
healthcare workers (HCWs) at risk for tuberculosis exposure.
DESIGN: A Markov model was developed to track three hypothetical cohorts of HCWs 
at low, moderate, and high risk for tuberculosis exposure. For those found to be 
tuberculin reactors at entry, the choice was for isoniazid treatment or no 
treatment. For those without tuberculin reactivity, the choice of screening 
intervals was 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, or 5 years. Outcomes measured were 
tuberculosis cases, death, life expectancy, and cost. Assumptions were derived 
from published data and analyses.
RESULTS: Treatment of initial reactors with isoniazid in all three risk groups 
was associated with a net savings of $14,800 to $15,700 for each tuberculosis 
case prevented. For those without evidence of infection at entry, the most 
cost-effective screening interval was 1 year for high-risk groups, 2 years for 
moderate-risk groups, and 5 years for low-risk groups, with a net savings $0.20 
to $26 per HCW per year. Screening at a more frequent interval was still 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: For HCWs found to be tuberculin reactors, treatment of their latent 
infection is to their benefit and is associated with a net cost-savings. Regular 
tuberculin screening of HCWs can be cost-effective or result in a net 
cost-savings. Each institution could use its own skin test surveillance data to 
create an optimum screening program for its employees. However, for most HCWs, a 
1-year screening interval would be a cost-effective and safe choice.

DOI: 10.1086/502343
PMID: 15636292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Stroke. 2005 Feb;36(2):360-6. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000153002.56324.8c. Epub
2005  Jan 6.

Are cost benefits of anticoagulation for stroke prevention in atrial 
fibrillation underestimated?

Miller PS(1), Andersson FL, Kalra L.

Author information:
(1)AstraZeneca, HEOR/Clinical Science, Parklands FE2 D/4, Alderley Park, SK10 
4TG UK. Paul.Miller3@astrazeneca.com

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stroke outcomes in patients with atrial fibrillation 
(AF) tend to be worse than those in patients without AF. The objective of this 
study was to evaluate whether the cost benefits of anticoagulation for stroke 
prevention in AF may currently be underestimated by existing economic models 
that do not distinguish between different stroke outcomes.
METHODS: A literature review was conducted in 3 areas: (1) studies comparing 
stroke outcomes in AF and non-AF patients; (2) studies providing long-term cost 
of stroke estimates; and (3) studies modeling the cost-effectiveness of 
anticoagulation with a vitamin K antagonist (eg, warfarin) in AF patients.
RESULTS: There is considerable evidence that stroke in AF patients has a worse 
outcome than in patients without AF, including higher mortality, severity, and 
recurrence rates, and greater functional impairment and dependency. Estimates of 
the long-term cost of stroke of different severities were between US 24,991 
dollars for a mild stroke over 5 years and US 142,251 dollars for a major 
ischemic stroke over a lifetime (2004 prices). The cost of a severe ischemic 
stroke may typically be 3-times that of mild stroke. However, cost-effectiveness 
models for anticoagulation in patients with AF have used average (not 
AF-specific) cost-of-stroke data, and most have used stroke severity 
distributions derived from clinical trials, which may differ from those in 
clinical practice.
CONCLUSIONS: Existing economic models underestimate the cost benefits of 
anticoagulation for stroke prevention because they do not adjust for poorer 
outcomes associated with cardioembolic strokes.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000153002.56324.8c
PMID: 15637326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Neuroepidemiology. 2005;24(3):129-34. doi: 10.1159/000083000. Epub 2004 Dec
30.

Mortality trends of multiple sclerosis in Spain, 1951-1997: an age-period-cohort 
analysis.

Llorca J(1), Guerrero-Alonso P, Prieto-Salceda D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of Cantabria 
School of Medicine, Santander, Spain. llorcaj@unicam.es

Trends of multiple sclerosis mortality in Spain from 1951 to 1997 are examined. 
Age-adjusted mortality strongly decreased from 3.08 per 100,000 women in 
1951-1967 to 0.59 in 1968-1980 (similar figures were obtained for men). This 
decrease seems to be due to an artifact produced by changes in codification of 
causes of death. An age-period-cohort analysis, limited to the period 1968-1997, 
showed that the mortality trend in Spain cannot be fully explained by year of 
death (period effect), but that a cohort (year of birth) effect is also 
necessary. An increase in mortality related with the cohort of birth was 
detected: people born after 1953 had double the risk of those born between 1938 
and 1947, and four times the risk of those born between 1923 and 1932. Regarding 
the period effect, there is a decrease in mortality, probably due to 
improvements in life expectancy of multiple sclerosis patients.

Copyright (c) 2005 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000083000
PMID: 15637450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Semin Neurol. 2004 Dec;24(4):375-83. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-861532.

Metastatic spinal cord compression by solid tumors.

Gabriel K(1), Schiff D.

Author information:
(1)Virginia Commonwealth University Medical Center, Department of Neurology, 
Richmond, Virginia, USA.

As the survival of cancer patients continues to improve, physicians in the 21st 
century face the challenge of early detection of metastatic spinal cord 
compression. Prompt diagnosis and intervention increase the likelihood of 
functional recovery. Because the epidural space is the most common site of 
spinal cord metastasis from solid tumors, this article will review the 
epidemiology, relevant anatomy, pathophysiology, clinical presentation, 
diagnostic evaluation, treatment, and prognosis for metastatic epidural spinal 
cord compression. Special attention will be given to the various modalities 
available for management of metastatic epidural spinal cord compression to 
maintain or restore normal spinal cord function and relieve pain. These 
treatment options will be considered according to patients' disease burden, life 
expectancy, and values. Intramedullary metastasis will be briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-861532
PMID: 15637649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Am J Med Genet A. 2005 Mar 15;133A(3):309-17. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.30560.

An epidemiological analysis of CHARGE syndrome: preliminary results from a 
Canadian study.

Issekutz KA(1), Graham JM Jr, Prasad C, Smith IM, Blake KD.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

Comment in
    Am J Med Genet A. 2005 Dec 1;139A(2):169; discussion 170-1.

CHARGE syndrome is a well-characterized clinical diagnosis with recent data 
supporting a genetic etiology. A 3-year national surveillance coordinated by the 
Canadian Pediatric Surveillance Program (CPSP) was started in September 2001. 
Physicians notified the CPSP if they had cared for individuals with CHARGE 
syndrome within their practice, and then completed a detailed reporting form. To 
date, there are 77 confirmed cases of CHARGE syndrome. The highest provincial 
prevalence of CHARGE syndrome in Canada was estimated at 1 in 8,500 live births. 
Subgroups of cases with particular clusters of anomalies were identified. In 
older individuals, bilateral posterior choanal atresia (BPCA) was predictive of 
the presence of the three other major criteria and of aortic arch anomalies. 
Individuals with CHARGE syndrome who demonstrated a less extensive phenotype 
(<or=3 major criteria) were more likely to present with minor cardiovascular 
malformations, including small atrial or ventricular septal defects (VSD) or 
patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). A significant cause of morbidity was severe 
feeding difficulty, including problems with chewing, swallowing, and 
gastroesophageal reflux, which were prevalent throughout childhood. Infant 
mortality is high in individuals with CHARGE syndrome. However, life expectancy 
has improved for those surviving their first year. Increased mortality was 
associated with distinct cardiovascular malformations or ventriculomegaly 
combined with brainstem or cerebellar anomalies. From this study, revised 
diagnostic criteria are proposed for infants, children, and adolescents to help 
identify a group of individuals who represent CHARGE syndrome with more of the 
classical features as apposed to the boarder association.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.30560
PMID: 15637722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2004 Dec;8(6):591-7. doi: 10.1188/04.CJON.591-597.

Chemotherapy in the geriatric population.

Green JM(1), Hacker ED.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL, USA. becegreen@yahoo.com

The population in America is aging, and the number of older adults who develop 
cancer continues to grow. Gerontologic considerations in the delivery of health 
care become increasingly more important as a result of these population trends. 
Factors such as physiologic age-related changes, comorbid conditions, and the 
incidence of polypharmacy contribute to the challenges of administering 
chemotherapy to older patients with cancer. Age-related physiologic changes, 
including alterations in the gastrointestinal system, renal system, body 
composition, and hematopoiesis, impact patients' ability to tolerate standard 
doses of chemotherapy. In addition, these changes increase the likelihood of 
developing severe toxicities. Comorbid conditions confound the side effects of 
chemotherapy, and the use of multiple medications places older patients with 
cancer at increased risk for developing drug interactions. Older patients with 
cancer may be more susceptible to developing toxicities from chemotherapy, and 
these toxicities may be more severe. When healthcare professionals follow 
age-appropriate standards of oncology care, chemotherapy can be safely and 
effectively administered to older patients with cancer. Oncology nurses play a 
crucial role in assessing for potential complications and managing toxicities. 
Incorporating geriatric care into oncology nurses' daily practice ensures 
quality care for older patients with cancer.

DOI: 10.1188/04.CJON.591-597
PMID: 15637954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2004 Nov;154(21-22):511-4. doi:
10.1007/s10354-004-0116-6.

[Delay in progression of dependency and need of care of dementia patients 
treated with Ginkgo special extract EGb 761].

[Article in German]

Haan J(1), Hörr R.

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Klinik, Kliniken Maria Hilf GmbH, Mönchengladbach, Deutschland.

In studies on the efficacy of antidementia drugs, a delay in symptom progression 
was often postulated based on a comparison of the change upon treatment and an 
assumed "natural" progression. Such comparisons were usually based on the 
cognitive subscore of the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-cog), using 
either the drug-placebo differences after randomized treatment or the changes 
upon active drug treatment in open-label extension studies. Considering quality 
of life, competence, cost of care, and economics of therapeutic measures, a 
delay in the progression of dependency and need of care appears to be more 
relevant than a delay in cognitive abilities not directly related to activities 
of daily living. Therefore, for dementia patients treated with the Ginkgo 
special extract EGb 761, the delay in loss of capacities needed to cope with the 
demands of daily living was estimated, based on the Geriatric Evaluation of 
Relative's Rating Instrument (GERRI). The drug-placebo differences documented 
after 26 and 52 weeks of treatment corresponded to a delay in progression by 10 
and 21 months, respectively. Regarding the subgroup with dementia of the 
Alzheimer type, the estimated delay was 16 and 25 months, respectively. It could 
thus be shown that by treatment with EGb 761 the progression of dependency and 
need of care can be slowed down, which may have an impact on costs for care, 
e.g. by delaying nursing home placement.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-004-0116-6
PMID: 15638069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. BJU Int. 2005 Jan;95(1):81-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2004.05255.x.

Improved quality of life in patients with overactive bladder symptoms treated 
with solifenacin.

Kelleher CJ(1), Cardozo L, Chapple CR, Haab F, Ridder AM.

Author information:
(1)Guy's and St. Thomas' Hospital, London, UK. Con.Kelleher@gstt.sthames.nhs.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of solifenacin succinate treatment on quality of 
life (QoL) measured in clinical trials in patients with overactive bladder 
(OAB).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: QoL data using the King's Health Questionnaire (KHQ) were 
analysed from two phase-3, 12-week studies (1984 patients) and a long-term 
extension of these studies (1637 patients) where patients received solifenacin 
for up to an additional 40 weeks (i.e. a 52-week exposure to solifenacin). The 
12-week studies were multinational, multicentre, randomized, double-blind, and 
placebo-controlled. The 10 domains from the KHQ evaluated were general health 
perception, incontinence impact, role limitations, physical limitations, social 
limitations, personal relationships, emotions, sleep/energy, severity measures, 
and symptom severity. Changes from baseline to endpoint in QoL variables were 
assessed by analysis of variance, and from pooled outcomes of the 12-week 
studies by analysis of covariance. Descriptive statistics were used to evaluate 
data in the extension study.
RESULTS: In the two 12-week studies (1033 and 857 patients), those receiving 
once-daily solifenacin had statistically significantly better QoL than those on 
placebo. Changes in the KHQ were statistically significantly (P < 0.05) 
different from placebo for both solifenacin 5 and 10 mg once daily on five of 
the 10 KHQ domains in each of the studies. Pooled data from the two 12-week 
studies showed statistically significant (P < 0.05) differences from placebo for 
both solifenacin doses in nine of the 10 domains. Improvements in QoL scores for 
solifenacin were 35-48% in nine of the 10 domains for the 1347 patients 
providing QoL data in the extension study. About two-thirds of this overall 
improvement occurred during the original 12-week study, with an additional third 
reported during the extension, with an improvement in QoL over time in patients 
treated with solifenacin.
CONCLUSIONS: Results from the KHQ in study participants in the two double-blind 
studies showed that solifenacin significantly improved the QoL in patients with 
OAB symptoms after 12 weeks of treatment, with further improvements during 
long-term administration up to 1 year. Clinical trial outcomes show a favourable 
balance of efficacy and tolerability with solifenacin; the present report 
further supports this efficacy and tolerability by providing evidence for both 
short- and long-term improvements in QoL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2004.05255.x
PMID: 15638900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Med Sci (Paris). 2005 Jan;21(1):89-94. doi: 10.1051/medsci/200521189.

[Liver transplantation in adults].

[Article in French]

Durand F(1), Belghiti J.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hépatologie et Inserm U.481, Hôpital Beaujon, 100, boulevard du 
Général Leclerc, 92110 Clichy, France. francois.durand@bjn.ap-hop-paris.fr

Liver transplantation allows to treat patients with end-stage cirrhosis as well 
as some liver malignancies (small size hepatocellular carcinoma) with a life 
expectancy exceeding 70 and 60 % at 5 years, respectively. Current 
immunosuppressive agents make it possible to prevent chronic rejection in more 
than 90 % of the patients and to preserve an excellent quality of life in most 
cases. The principal limiting factor for liver transplantation is represented by 
the scarcity of brain-dead donors. Indeed, despite the selection of those 
candidates who have the best chance of surviving after transplantation, several 
months are usually necessary for obtaining a graft and the mortality on the 
waiting list may reach 10 to 15 %. Organ shortage incited to develop 
alternatives to conventional transplantation, the most important of which are 
living donor transplantation and split liver transplantation. Living donor 
transplantation can be applied to about 20 to 30 % of candidates. Thought 
initially smaller, the partial graft regenerates and its volume is restored 
within a few weeks. The results of living donor transplantation in terms of 
survival are comparable to those of cadaveric transplantation. The risk for the 
donor has to be lower than 1 % which makes that selection must be especially 
cautious. Donors must be direct relatives or spouses. Split liver 
transplantation technique, based on the separation of a cadaveric graft into two 
functional parts transplanted in two distinct recipients, although attractive, 
is applicable to less than 25 % of the donors. Education for organ donation in 
the general population still remains a priority.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/200521189
PMID: 15639027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Clin Geriatr Med. 2005 Feb;21(1):81-92, viii. doi:
10.1016/j.cger.2004.08.009.

Building up research in palliative care: an historical perspective and a case 
for the future.

Kaasa S(1), Dale O; Pain and Palliation Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Research and Molecular Biology, The Norwegian University 
of Science and Technology, 5th Floor Kreftbygget, 7006 Trondheim, Norway. 
stein.kaasa@ntnu.no

Palliative care is a young discipline for research, though expert group opinions 
have been helpful. The lack of extended research programs addressing basic 
biological mechanisms of patients with advanced disease and short life 
expectancy nationally and internationally has created an increasingly strong 
call for research in palliative care. Obstacles and challenges include ethical 
concerns among the ill, establishment of a research agenda, the number of 
experienced researchers at the university level, lack of national and 
international leadership, and funding for palliative care research. Committed 
individuals have conducted important research, and if their efforts are combined 
with professional leadership, funding might be secured to establish the programs 
necessary to address palliative care research nationally and internationally.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2004.08.009
PMID: 15639039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Clin Geriatr Med. 2005 Feb;21(1):147-63, ix. doi:
10.1016/j.cger.2004.08.010.

The price of palliative care: toward a complete accounting of costs and 
benefits.

Boni-Saenz AA(1), Dranove D, Emanuel LL, Lo Sasso AT.

Author information:
