mortality statistics.
SETTING: Switzerland 1860-2001.
MAIN RESULTS: Indicators suggest a strong increase in the number of 
nonagenarians and centenarians in Switzerland as compared with other countries. 
The increase is mostly attributable to the decline in mortality after age 80. 
This decline started in the 1950s.
CONCLUSION: Nonagenarians and centenarians constitute a new population, which 
became sizeable after 1950 in Switzerland. There is a need to monitor this 
population with appropriate demographic and epidemiological indicators.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2003.018663
PMCID: PMC1763380
PMID: 15598723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Clin J Pain. 2005 Jan-Feb;21(1):18-26; discussion 69-72. doi: 
10.1097/00002508-200501000-00003.

Treatment expectancy affects the outcome of cognitive-behavioral interventions 
in chronic pain.

Goossens ME(1), Vlaeyen JW, Hidding A, Kole-Snijders A, Evers SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical, Clinical, and Experimental Psychology, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. m.goossens@dep.unimaas.nl

Patients' initial beliefs about the success of a given pain treatment are shown 
to have an important influence on the final treatment outcome. The aims of the 
paper are to assess determinants of patients' treatment expectancy and to 
examine the extent to which treatment expectancy predicts the short-term and 
long-term outcome of cognitive-behavioral treatment of chronic pain. This study 
employs the data of 2 pooled randomized clinical trials evaluating the 
effectiveness of cognitive-behavioral interventions for 171 patients with 
fibromyalgia and chronic low back pain. Pretreatment and posttreatment 
expectancy were measured by a short questionnaire, which was based on the 
procedure by Borkovec and Nau. Four composite outcome variables (pain coping and 
control, motoric behavior, negative affect, and quality of life) were measured 
before and after the intervention and at 12 months follow-up. Furthermore, 
several patient characteristics were taken into account. Patients with higher 
treatment expectancies significantly received less disability compensation and 
were less fearful. A regression model of 3 factors (better pain coping and 
control, active and positive interpretation of pain, and less disability 
compensation) significantly explained 10% of the variance in pretreatment 
expectancy. Pretreatment expectancy significantly predicted each of the 4 
outcome measures immediately after treatment and at 12 months follow-up. This 
study corroborates the importance of treatment expectation before entering a 
cognitive-behavioral intervention in patients with chronic musculoskeletal pain.

DOI: 10.1097/00002508-200501000-00003
PMID: 15599128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Clin Invest. 2004 Dec;114(12):1726-31. doi: 10.1172/JCI22922.

Lentivector-mediated SMN replacement in a mouse model of spinal muscular 
atrophy.

Azzouz M(1), Le T, Ralph GS, Walmsley L, Monani UR, Lee DC, Wilkes F, 
Mitrophanous KA, Kingsman SM, Burghes AH, Mazarakis ND.

Author information:
(1)Oxford BioMedicaLtd., Medwar Centre, Robert Robinson Avenue, The Oxford 
Science Park, Oxford OX4 4GA, UK. m.azzouz@oxfordbiomedica.co.uk

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a frequent recessive autosomal disorder. It is 
caused by mutations or deletion of the telomeric copy of the survival motor 
neuron (SMN) gene, leading to depletion in SMN protein levels. The treatment 
rationale for SMA is to halt or delay the degeneration of motor neurons, but to 
date there are no effective drug treatments for this disease. We have previously 
demonstrated that pseudotyping of the nonprimate equine infectious anemia virus 
(using the lentivector gene transfer system) with the glycoprotein of the 
Evelyn-Rokitnicki-Abelseth strain of the rabies virus confers retrograde axonal 
transport on these vectors. Here, we report that lentivector expressing human 
SMN was successfully used to restore SMN protein levels in SMA type 1 
fibroblasts. Multiple single injections of a lentiviral vector expressing SMN in 
various muscles of SMA mice restored SMN to motor neurons, reduced motor neuron 
death, and increased the life expectancy by an average of 3 and 5 days (20% and 
38%) compared with LacZ and untreated animals, respectively. Further extension 
of survival by SMN expression constructs will likely require a knowledge of when 
and/or where high levels of SMN are needed.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI22922
PMCID: PMC535071
PMID: 15599397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2002 Jul-Aug;36(4):263-70. doi: 
10.1177/153857440203600403.

Carotid surgery following previous carotid endarterectomy is safe and effective.

Abou-Zamzam AM Jr(1), Moneta GL, Landry GJ, Yeager RA, Edwards JM, McConnell DB, 
Taylor LM Jr, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences 
University, Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center, USA.

With the perceived high risk of repeat carotid surgery, carotid angioplasty and 
stenting have been advocated recently as the preferred treatment of recurrent 
carotid disease following carotid endarterectomy. An experience with the 
operative treatment of recurrent carotid disease to document the risks and 
benefits of this procedure is presented. A review of a prospectively acquired 
vascular registry over a 10-year period (Jan. 1990-Jan. 2000) was undertaken to 
identify patients undergoing repeat carotid surgery following previous carotid 
endarterectomy. All patients were treated with repeat carotid endarterectomy, 
carotid interposition graft, or subclavian-carotid bypass. The perioperative 
stroke and death rate, operative complications, life-table freedom from stroke, 
and rates of recurrent stenosis were documented. During the study period 56 
patients underwent repeat carotid surgery, comprising 6% of all carotid 
operations during this period. The indication for operation was symptomatic 
disease recurrence in 41 cases (73%) and asymptomatic recurrent stenosis >/=80% 
in 15 cases (27%). The average interval from the prior carotid endarterectomy to 
the repeat operation was 78 months (range 3 weeks-297 months). The operations 
performed included repeat carotid endarterectomy with patch angioplasty in 31 
cases (55%), interposition grafts in 19 cases (34%), and subclavian-carotid 
bypass in 6 cases (11%). There were three perioperative strokes with one 
resulting in death for a perioperative stroke and death rate of 5.4%. One minor 
transient cranial nerve (CN IX) injury occurred. Mean follow-up was 29 months 
(range, 1-116 months). Life-table freedom from stroke was 95% at 1 year and 90% 
at 5 years. Recurrent stenosis (>/=80%) developed in three patients (5.4%) 
during follow-up, including one internal carotid artery occlusion. Two patients 
(3.6%) underwent repeat surgery. Repeat surgery for recurrent cerebrovascular 
disease following carotid endarterectomy is safe and provides durable freedom 
from stroke. Most patients are candidates for repeat endarterectomy with 
patching, but interposition grafting is often required. These results strongly 
support the continued role of repeat carotid surgery in the treatment of 
recurrent carotid disease.

DOI: 10.1177/153857440203600403
PMID: 15599476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Herz. 2004 Dec;29(8):760-8. doi: 10.1007/s00059-004-2636-7.

[Rheumatoid arthritis, inflammation, and atherosclerosis].

[Article in German]

Hürlimann D(1), Enseleit F, Ruschitzka F.

Author information:
(1)HerzKreislauf-Zentrum, Kardiologie, UniversitätsSpital, Zürich, Schweiz.

Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have a two to five times increased risk 
of developing premature cardiovascular disease that shortens life expectancy by 
5-10 years. Traditional risk factors known to promote and accelerate the 
progression of atherosclerotic lesions however, are often absent in patients 
with RA. Many similarities have emerged between the paradigm of inflammation in 
the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and the well-established mechanisms of 
inflammation in the pathogenesis of RA. Hence it is intriguing to speculate that 
inflammation in RA is not confined to the joints but also present in the vessel 
wall. Indeed, low-grade inflammation and endothelial dysfunction play pivotal 
roles in the initiation, progression and propagation of the atherosclerotic 
process. While the healthy endothelium prevents adhesion of mononuclear cells, 
the defence mechanisms cease under the influence of cardiovascular risk factors 
and inflammation and they express adhesion molecules (selectins, vascular 
adhesion molecule-([VCAM-]1, intercellular adhesion molecule-[ICAM-]1) that 
promote the adherence of monocytes. This expression is induced by 
pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-(IL-)1beta and tumor necrosis 
factor-(TNF-)alpha, by C-reactive protein (CRP), and CD40/CD40 ligand 
interactions. As all of these factors are present at increased levels in the 
systemic circulation in RA, it appears possible that they might impact the 
endothelium as well. Further similarities include proteolytic enzymes such as 
matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) that play a role in joint destruction as well 
as in destabilization and rupture of vulnerable atherosclerotic plaques. In 
addition, coagulation factors such as increased levels of tissue factor (TF), 
van Willebrand factor (vWF) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-(PAI-)1 are 
important in both, RA and CAD. Endothelial dysfunction has shown to correlate 
with cardiovascular prognosis in several studies, which indicates its clinical 
relevance. Endothelial function measurement is performed in the coronary or 
peripheral circulation (by venous occlusion plethysmography or flow-mediated 
dilation). Recent studies have demonstrated impaired endothelial function in 
patients with RA, already at early stages of the disease. Similar results are 
found in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), indicating that 
inflammation per se may impair altering vascular function. This and more 
evidence supports the notion that inflammation plays a pivotal role in vascular 
dysfunction and may by these mechanisms explain at least part of the excess 
morbidity and mortality observed in RA and SLE. In light of the growing evidence 
of increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality mostly independent of 
traditional risk factors, treatment strategies in RA should not only aim at 
relieving symptoms and inhibiting joint destruction but should have a beneficial 
effect on the vasculature to reduce cardiovascular events. Indeed, an 
improvement in endothelial function in RA was recently demonstrated by 
anti-TNF-alpha therapy and statins. Whether and to what degree the effects of 
anti-inflammatory strategies to improve endothelial function, which although 
clinically well established is still a surrogate, translate into clinical 
benefit for our patients with rheumatologic diseases needs to be determined in 
large-scale clinical trials some of which are now already under way.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-004-2636-7
PMID: 15599672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. World J Surg. 2005 Jan;29(1):72-5. doi: 10.1007/s00268-004-7544-8.

Gallbladder carcinoma with biliary invasion: clinical analysis of the 
differences from nonbiliary invasion.

Chan KM(1), Yeh TS, Yu MC, Jan YY, Hwang TL, Chen MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, No. 5 Fu-Hsing 
Street, 333 Kwei-shan, Taoyuan, Taiwan.

Gallbladder carcinoma is the most common malignancy of the biliary tract. 
Because of a lack of specific presentations, this condition frequently is 
diagnosed only at an advanced stage. The clinical difference between gallbladder 
carcinoma with and without biliary involvement remains uncertain. This study 
recruited all patients with gallbladder carcinoma treated at Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital (Taoyuan, Taiwan) from 1987 to 2002. The sample included 120 patients 
aged 28 to 91 years (mean 65.5 +/- 12.3 years) (39 men, 81 women), whose medical 
records were reviewed retrospectively. Based on the 2002 newly revised TNM 
classification, 25, 38, 28, and 29 patients had stage I, II, III, and IV 
disease, respectively. After we excluded patients with stage I, the other 
patients were classified into two groups as follows: group I, gallbladder 
carcinoma with biliary invasion (n = 41); group II, carcinoma without biliary 
involvement (n = 54). The clinical presentations, laboratory data, operative 
methods, and outcome of these two groups were compared. The two groups did not 
differ in terms of age, sex distribution, cholelithiasis, and most clinical 
presentations. Chemistry laboratory data also identified patients in group I 
with significantly elevated liver function tests. Group II had a borderline 
tendency toward better curative resectability than group I (p = 0.09). Survival 
was significantly better for group I patients who underwent curative resection 
(n = 5) via cholecystectomy, partial hepatectomy, and bile duct resection than 
for those with noncurative resection (p < 0.05). However, long-term survival 
demonstrated that gallbladder carcinoma had the same poor prognosis in the two 
groups. In conclusion, gallbladder carcinoma with biliary invasion has been 
found to a more overt clinical presentation and abnormal laboratory data, which 
might alert clinicians to consider gallbladder carcinoma at an advanced stage or 
biliary invasion and examine the underlying disease. Generally, the outcome of 
gallbladder carcinoma is dismal, and radical curative resection combined with 
cholecystectomy, partial hepatectomy, and bile duct resection perhaps may offer 
good benefits for advanced gallbladder carcinoma. Furthermore, surgical 
resection should be performed whenever possible in patients with gallbladder 
carcinoma to increase life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-004-7544-8
PMID: 15599737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Card Fail. 2004 Dec;10(6):467-72. doi: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2004.03.003.

Impact of congestive heart failure, chronic kidney disease, and anemia on 
survival in the Medicare population.

Herzog CA(1), Muster HA, Li S, Collins AJ.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Analytical Services, Minneapolis Medical Research Foundation, 914 
South 8th Street, Suite D-206, Minneapolis, MN 55404, USA.

BACKGROUND: Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a common clinical problem in the 
elderly, yet few studies have focused on this population. In addition, 
information on mortality rates conferred by chronic kidney disease (CKD) and 
anemia in elderly patients with CHF is lacking.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A cohort of 1,136,201 patients in the 5% Medicare database, 
excluding those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), was identified for a 2-year 
period (1996-1997). Subgroups with CHF, CKD, and anemia were identified. The 
effect of each disease as an independent predictor of mortality was examined in 
a comorbidity-adjusted Cox model, with patients followed for 2 years and 
censored for death or ESRD. In the study population, 61% were women; 89% were 
white and 7% were black. Mean +/- SD age was 76.5 +/- 6.9 years. The annual 
mortality rate for patients with no CHF, CKD, or anemia was 4%. Anemia was 
associated with an annual mortality of 8%, which was the same as CKD (8%). The 
annual mortality for CHF was 13%. The highest annual mortality was found in 
patients with all 3 comorbid conditions; mortality in these patients was 23%.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly CHF patients are at high risk of death; this risk is 
magnified in the presence of CKD and anemia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2004.03.003
PMID: 15599836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Nephrology (Carlton). 2004 Dec;9 Suppl 4:S144-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1797.2004.00352.x.

Barriers to access by Indigenous Australians to kidney transplantation: the 
IMPAKT study.

Cass A(1), Devitt J, Preece C, Cunningham J, Anderson K, Snelling P, Eris J, 
Ayanian J.

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for International Health, Sydney, Australia. 
acass@thegeorgeinstitute.org

Although Indigenous Australians represent less than 2% of the national 
population, they account for 8-10% of new patients commencing treatment for 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Almost half come from remote regions lacking 
renal disease treatment services. In those regions, their incidence of ESRD is 
up to 30 times the incidence for all Australians. Kidney transplantation is the 
optimal treatment for ESRD. Compared with long-term dialysis, it results in 
better quality of life, longer life expectancy and lower costs of health care. 
Indigenous Australians with ESRD receive transplants at approximately one-third 
the rate of non-Indigenous patients. There are similar disparities in access to 
kidney transplants for Native Americans, Aboriginal Canadians and New Zealander 
Maori. The reasons for such disparities have not been studied in any detail. 
IMPAKT (Improving Patient Access to Kidney Transplantation) is an NHMRC-funded 
study, involving eight major renal units. It aims to identify the reasons for 
Indigenous Australians' poor access to transplantation. It will systematically 
examine each of the steps a new dialysis patient must negotiate in order to 
receive a transplant. Each of these steps can become a barrier.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1797.2004.00352.x
PMID: 15601407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Comput Inform Nurs. 2004 Nov-Dec;22(6):351-5. doi: 
10.1097/00024665-200411000-00011.

Computerized neuropsychiatric assessment of geriatric subjects by content 
analysis of brief samples of their speech.

Gottschalk LA(1), Kawas C, Hoang A, Bechtel RJ.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, University of California, 
Irvine, CA 92697, USA. lgottsch@uci.edu

The life expectancy of people living in the United States is increasing. Are 
very elderly individuals compromised mentally and physically in comparison to 
much younger persons? The purpose of this study was to test the efficacy of a 
computerized program applicable to the content analysis of 5-minute speech 
samples obtained from a group of individuals 90 years of age and older and to 
compare the results with those previously obtained in younger people with 
respect to their mental capacities in terms of a set of diverse neuropsychiatric 
dimensions. After obtaining informed consent from 26 elderly people, recorded 
verbal samples were elicited from each individual in response to purposely 
ambiguous instructions to talk for 5 minutes about any interesting or dramatic 
personal life experiences. The transcripts of their speech samples were 
digitized on a computer diskette and processed on the computer program. The 
computer program compared the scores obtained on each verbal sample with norms 
obtained on 15 previously validated content-analysis scales from individuals 
ranging in age from 5 to 80. The norms on these content-analysis scales are 
different for children (aged 5-10) and adults (aged 11-80). The computerized 
content-analysis scores obtained from this elderly cohort reveal plausible 
deviations from the norms for younger people.

DOI: 10.1097/00024665-200411000-00011
PMID: 15602305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2004 Nov;53(6):294-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.ancard.2004.09.002.

[Can bioprostheses be implanted at younger ages?].

[Article in French]

Maroni JP(1), Montely JM, Terdjman M, Hanania G.

Author information:
(1)Centre hospitalier général Robert-Ballanger, 93602 Aulnay-Sous-Bois, France.

The choice between mechanical prosthesis (MP) and bioprosthesis (BP) depends on 
the respective advantages and disadvantages of the two types of valves. MP 
theoretically have an indefinite life span but carry the risk of thromboembolic 
events that requires anticoagulant therapy, which itself is responsible for 
hemorrhages. BP bear a theoretically lower thromboembolic risk but have a 
limited life span that requires reintervention at a subsequent date, latter when 
the patient is older at implantation and operated on for aortic replacement. 
Actually MP is preferred before 60 years and BP after 70 years. Between 60 and 
70 years there is not consensus. The limit recommended is around 65 years for 
aortic replacement and 70 years for mitral replacement. This limit can change 
either for upper or lower limit depending on patient's life expectancy, 
technological improvements of MP as well as BP, improvements of medical follow 
up of anticoagulant therapy (either self testing or use of anti thrombin). In 
the future the age limit of implantation of BP can be lowered but MP didn't have 
their last word.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ancard.2004.09.002
PMID: 15603170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. BMJ. 2004 Dec 18;329(7480):1421-3. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7480.1421.

Effect of democracy on health: ecological study.

Franco A(1), Alvarez-Dardet C, Ruiz MT.

Author information:
(1)Observatory of Public Policies and Health, Departamento de Salud Pública, 
Universidad de Alicante, Edificio de Ciencias Sociales, APDO 99, 03080 Alicante, 
Spain.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2004 Dec 18;329(7480):1423-4.

Can political regimes be singled out as a factor affecting health? Rating 
countries by the extent of their freedom is a useful proxy for measuring the 
effects of democracy on health related variables

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7480.1421
PMCID: PMC535957
PMID: 15604165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. BMJ. 2004 Dec 18;329(7480):1423-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7480.1423.

Politics as a determinant of health.

Martyn C(1).

Author information:
(1)BMJ, London WC1H 9JR. cmartyn@bmj.com

Comment on
    BMJ. 2004 Dec 18;329(7480):1421-3.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7480.1423
PMCID: PMC535958
PMID: 15604166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. BMJ. 2004 Dec 18;329(7480):1447-50. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7480.1447.

The Polymeal: a more natural, safer, and probably tastier (than the Polypill) 
strategy to reduce cardiovascular disease by more than 75%.

Franco OH(1), Bonneux L, de Laet C, Peeters A, Steyerberg EW, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, Netherlands. o.francoduran@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Although the Polypill concept (proposed in 2003) is promising in 
terms of benefits for cardiovascular risk management, the potential costs and 
adverse effects are its main pitfalls. The objective of this study was to 
identify a tastier and safer alternative to the Polypill: the Polymeal.
METHODS: Data on the ingredients of the Polymeal were taken from the literature. 
The evidence based recipe included wine, fish, dark chocolate, fruits, 
vegetables, garlic, and almonds. Data from the Framingham heart study and the 
Framingham offspring study were used to build life tables to model the benefits 
of the Polymeal in the general population from age 50, assuming multiplicative 
correlations.
RESULTS: Combining the ingredients of the Polymeal would reduce cardiovascular 
disease events by 76%. For men, taking the Polymeal daily represented an 
increase in total life expectancy of 6.6 years, an increase in life expectancy 
free from cardiovascular disease of 9.0 years, and a decrease in life expectancy 
with cardiovascular disease of 2.4 years. The corresponding differences for 
women were 4.8, 8.1, and 3.3 years.
CONCLUSION: The Polymeal promises to be an effective, non-pharmacological, safe, 
cheap, and tasty alternative to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and increase 
life expectancy in the general population.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7480.1447
PMCID: PMC535974
PMID: 15604180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Forsch Komplementarmed Klass Naturheilkd. 2004 Dec;11(6):346-53. doi: 
10.1159/000082816.

[Pilot study for the development of a questionnaire for the measuring of the 
patients' attitude towards spirituality and religiosity and their coping with 
disease(SpREUK)].

[Article in German]

Ostermann T(1), Büssing A, Matthiessen PF.

Author information:
(1)Medizintheorie und Komplementärmedizin, Universität Witten/Herdecke, 
Deutschland.

OBJECTIVE: Life-threatening diseases are the standard situations which confront 
patients with spirituality and religiosity. Although both are wellknown factors 
in disease coping, their measurability and operationability remains a basic 
problem due to the variety of different meanings and interpretations of these 
terms. In this paper we describe the development of a questionnaire for the 
measuring of the patients' attitudes towards spirituality and religiosity and 
their disease coping (SpREUK).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: For a first evaluation, 129 patients with a mean age of 54 
years (SD 14.3) completed the questionnaire. 67% of them were women. 76% had a 
Christian denomination, 19% no denomination, and only 4% reported other 
religious traditions. 45% of the patients suffered from cancer, 18% from 
multiple sclerosis, 22% from other chronic diseases, and 15% from acute 
diseases. The questionnaire comprises 29 five-stage likert-scaled items. Apart 
from a descriptive analysis of the single items, reliability (Cronbach's alpha) 
and validity analysis (factor analysis) of the questionnaire was performed.
RESULTS: Factor analysis resulted in four dimensions: (1) 'Search for meaningful 
support', (2) 'Guidance, control and message of disease', (A) 'Support in 
relations with the external through spirituality/religiosity', and (B) 
'Stabilization of the inner condition through spirituality/religiosity'. The 
reliability of the four scales of the SpREUK questionnaire is high: Cronbach's 
alpha 0.82, 0.62, 0.89, resp. 0.74. Women had significantly higher SpREUK scores 
for scales 1 and 2 than male patients. Non-denominational patients had 
significantly lower scores in all four scales than those with a Christian 
denomination. The scores did not correlate with disease or duration of disease; 
however, there might be a positive correlation between age and the score of 
scale 2.
DISCUSSION: The impact of spirituality and religiosity on the course of disease, 
coping skills, and health-related quality of life is broadly discussed not only 
in complementary medicine. With the SpREUK questionnaire we present a reliable 
and valid instrument to measure the patients' search for meaningful support 
through spirituality/religiosity in terms of disease coping and health 
restoration. Further evaluation of this instrument is planned with a focus on 
hospitals which are affiliated with a specific denomination, as a reasonable 
extension of quality management and concept development.

DOI: 10.1159/000082816
PMID: 15604625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2004 Dec;85(12):1915-22. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2004.05.010.

A short course of cardiac rehabilitation program is highly cost effective in 
improving long-term quality of life in patients with recent myocardial 
infarction or percutaneous coronary intervention.

Yu CM(1), Lau CP, Chau J, McGhee S, Kong SL, Cheung BM, Li LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term effect of a cardiac rehabilitation and 
prevention program (CRPP) on quality of life (QOL) and its cost effectiveness.
DESIGN: Prospective, randomized controlled trial.
SETTING: University-affiliated outpatient cardiac rehabilitation and prevention 
center.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 269 patients (76% men; mean age, 64+/-11 y) with recent 
acute myocardial infarction (AMI; n=193) or after elective percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI; n=76) were randomized in a ratio of 2 to 1.
INTERVENTION: Patients received either CRPP (an 8-wk exercise and education 
class in phase 2) or conventional therapy without exercise program (control 
group). They were followed until they had completed all 4 phases of the program 
(ie, 2 y).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: QOL assessments, by using the Medical Outcomes Study 
36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) and Symptoms Questionnaire, were 
performed at the end of each phase. Direct health care cost was calculated, 
whereas cost utility was estimated as money spent (in US dollars) per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: In the CRPP group, 6 of the 8 SF-36 dimensions improved significantly 
by phase 2 and were maintained throughout the study period. Patients were less 
anxious and depressed, and felt more relaxed and contented. In the control 
group, none of the SF-36 dimensions were improved by phase 2, and bodily pain 
was increased. In phase 4, only 4 dimensions were improved. Symptoms were 
unchanged except for increased hostility score. There was a significant gain in 
net time trade-off in the CRPP group after phase 2. The direct health care 
expenses in the CRPP and control groups were 15,292 dollars and 15,707 dollars 
per patient, respectively. Therefore, the cost utility calculated was 640 
dollars saved per QALY gained. Savings attributable to CRPP were primarily 
explained by the lower rate (13% vs 26% of patients, chi2 test=3.9, P <.05) and 
cost of subsequent PCI (P =.01).
CONCLUSIONS: In an era of managing patients with coronary heart disease, a 
short-course CRPP was highly cost effective in providing better QOL to patients 
with recent AMI or after elective PCI. In addition, the improvement of QOL was 
quick and sustained for at least 2 years after CRPP.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2004.05.010
PMID: 15605326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Lik Sprava. 2004 Jul-Sep;(5-6):19-25.

[Characteristics and dynamics of morbidity among the population of down-town 
Kiev caused by the enhancement of anthropogenic chemical factors].

[Article in Ukrainian]

Mel'nychenko MH.

An analysis of state of health among people living in Kiev over 1985-2000 was 
carried out. It is determined that birth rate decreases and mortality increases 
constantly. Life expectancy decreased too. Substantial and steady tendency of 
rising most of diseases is observed in the city. Diseases of cardiovascular 
system, thyroid gland, digestive system, urogenital system and different 
neoplasm are diagnosed nowadays more frequently than earlier. Children 
population presents with more increasing respiratory diseases, illnesses of 
organs of sense, nervous system, digestive system and blood as well as social 
diseases. Atmosphere is polluted with aromatic and saturated hydrocarbons, 
carbon oxide, nitric oxide, 3-4-benzpyrene, sulphurous anhydrides. The article 
presents data concerning negative tendency in demographic situation and the 
population's state of health in Kiev and air pollution. All above mentioned 
necessitate to develop well-founded adequate prophylactic measures to improve 
the situation.

PMID: 15605814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Support Oncol. 2004 Nov-Dec;2(6 Suppl 4):5-22; quiz 23-4.

Meeting the challenges in cancer pain management.

Fine PG(1), Miaskowski C, Paice JA.

Author information:
(1)Pain Management Center at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, USA.

Improved life expectancy among patients with cancer has unfortunately resulted 
in significant increases in the number of patients experiencing chronic, 
intractable pain-neuropathic pain syndromes, in particular. Yet treatment for 
this pain is frequently suboptimal. This is due, at least partially, to the 
generalized nature of available therapeutics, which are often aimed toward 
symptom management and temporal pain properties rather than targeted directly 
toward the multiple mechanisms underlying the generation and propagation of 
pain. Although the future of pain medicine undoubtedly lies with improved 
formulations, kinetics, and metabolic characteristics, the current armamentarium 
nevertheless has proven effective in promoting beneficial outcomes and improved 
life quality in cancer patients with neuropathic pain. Novel, evidence-based 
guidelines recommend several agents for first-line consideration, including 
gabapentin, the lidocaine (5%) patch, tramadol hydrochloride, tricyclic 
antidepressants, and opioid analgesics. However, in oncology perhaps more than 
in any other field, pain is dynamic and ever-changing in response to a variety 
of factors, including chemotherapeutic, radiation, or surgical interventions. 
For this reason, patient-specific assessment and continual monitoring are 
warranted when selecting a therapeutic regimen. General considerations, 
particularly when an opioid agent is utilized, should include pharmacoclinical, 
pharmacoeconomic, and pharmacogenetic variables.

PMID: 15605922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2004 Sep-Oct;(5):27-8.

[Primary prevention of complicated involution-and-age deregulations in person 
above 40].

[Article in Russian]

Kulikova NG.

The paper focuses on issues related with the involution time in mature men and 
women, which affect negatively the life quality and life expectancy, aggravate 
the risk of unexpected death and worsen the morbidity and disablement. The 
authors convincingly demonstrate within their comprehensive case study that, 
apart from the genetic influence, social factors, like alcoholism in family, 
nicotine dependence in mother or father and family's well-being, have an 
essential impact on the development of the complicated involution period.

PMID: 15606041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2004 Sep-Oct;(5):29-34.

[The "Healthy City" program: concept, strategy, methods of shaping and 
criteria].

[Article in Russian]

Babenko AI.

The "Healthy City"program, its development methodology, main stages and criteria 
are described. The method was tested within the development of a strategy for 
the city of Novosibirsk for a period of up to 2020, which comprises elements of 
city survival systems targeted at improving the life quality, its expectancy and 
healthy young generations.

PMID: 15606042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2004 Dec;4(6):1017-35. doi: 
10.1586/14737140.4.6.1017.

Management of muscle-invasive bladder cancer in the elderly.

Basso U(1), Bassi P, Sava T, Monfardini S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Ospedale Busonera, via Gattamelata 64, 
Azienda Ospedale-University, 35100 Padova, Italy. u.basso@tin.it

Bladder cancer is rare in patients below the age of 50 years, and most patients 
are in their 60s and 70s. Radical cystectomy is the preferred approach for 
patients with localized disease in most European countries and the USA, and 
evidence is growing in favor of neoadjuvant, platinum-based chemotherapy for 
patients at high risk of local and systemic relapse. Transurethral resection 
(TUR) followed by radiotherapy with or without concomitant chemotherapy appears 
to be a reasonable alternative, particularly in the UK and Canada. However, the 
elderly pose several treatment dilemmas, including the increased risk of 
perioperative complications, the management of orthotopic neobladder or 
different types of urinary diversion, as well as the higher risk of adverse 
events caused by pelvic radiotherapy and systemic chemotherapy. Multidimensional 
parameters such as biologic prognostic factors, performance status, functional 
independence, comorbidities and cognitive function of the patient should be 
collected in order to tailor treatment to the patient's life expectancy and 
preferences. Optimized integration of TUR followed by bladder removal (or 
radiotherapy), with or without adjunctive chemotherapy, can be recommended for 
otherwise healthy patients. Palliative measures, such as TUR followed by 
external radiotherapy alone or monochemotherapy, should be reserved for 
partially impaired patients with moderate comorbidities, in order to maximize 
the balance of benefits and toxicities. This review summarizes recent data 
concerning surgery, radiotherapy and systemic chemotherapy for bladder cancer in 
the elderly, and discusses pros and cons of the currently available therapeutic 
options.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.4.6.1017
PMID: 15606330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2004 Dec;20(11-12):1271-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2004.02290.x.

Meta-analysis: Effect of hepatitis C virus infection on mortality in dialysis.

Fabrizi F(1), Martin P, Dixit V, Bunnapradist S, Dulai G.

Author information:
(1)Center for Liver and Kidney Diseases and Transplantation, Cedars-Sinai 
Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA. fabrizi@policlinico.mi.it

BACKGROUND: The natural history of hepatitis C virus infection among patients on 
long-term dialysis treatment remains incompletely understood. Efforts to 
elucidate the natural history of hepatitis C virus in this population are 
difficult because of the slowly progressive nature of hepatitis C virus with 
often an unrecognized onset in patients whose life-expectancy is substantially 
diminished by end-stage renal disease.
AIM: To conduct a systematic review of the published medical literature 
concerning the impact of hepatitis C virus infection on the survival of patients 
receiving chronic dialysis. The relative risk of mortality was regarded as the 
most reliable outcome end-point.
METHODS: We used the random effects model of DerSimonian and Laird to generate a 
summary estimate of the relative risk for mortality with hepatitis C virus 
across the published studies.
RESULTS: We identified four clinical trials (2341 unique patients); three (75%) 
of them were prospective, cohort studies; the fourth was a case-control study. 
Pooling of study results demonstrated that presence of antihepatitis C virus 
antibody was an independent and significant risk factor for death in patients on 
maintenance dialysis. The summary estimate for relative risk was 1.57 with a 95% 
confidence interval (CI) of 1.33-1.86. A test for homogeneity of the relative 
risks across the four studies gave a P-value of 0.77. As a cause of death, 
hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis were significantly more frequent 
among antihepatitis C virus-positive than -negative dialysis patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis demonstrates that antihepatitis C virus-positive 
patients on dialysis have an increased risk of mortality compared with hepatitis 
C virus-negative patients. The excess risk of death in hepatitis C 
virus-positive patients may be at least partially attributed to chronic liver 
disease with its attendant complications. Clinical trials with extended 
follow-up are currently under way to assess the effect of hepatitis C virus 
treatment on the excess risk of mortality in this population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2004.02290.x
PMID: 15606388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. N Z Med J. 2004 Dec 17;117(1207):U1215.

Indigenous disparities in disease-specific mortality, a cross-country 
comparison: New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and the United States.

Bramley D(1), Hebert P, Jackson R, Chassin M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Auckland, Auckland, 
New Zealand.

AIMS: To compare the disease-specific mortality rates of the indigenous 
populations of New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and the United States with the 
non-indigenous populations in each country.
METHODS: For New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and the United States, we compiled 
and calculated (from crude data) ethnic-specific mortality rates by primary 
cause of death in 1999 for the indigenous and non-indigenous populations in each 
country. We calculated age-adjusted mortality rates, using direct 
standardisation and weights based on the World Health Organization world 
population.
RESULTS: Australia experienced the largest relative and absolute disparities in 
life expectancy between indigenous and non-indigenous populations. For specific 
causes of death, New Zealand Maori, and Australian Aboriginals and Torres Strait 
Islanders experienced the highest levels of disparities when compared to their 
respective non-indigenous population group. Large disparities exist for 
indigenous peoples in all four countries for diabetes mortality. CONCLUSION The 
indigenous peoples of New Zealand and Australia suffer from high 
disease-specific mortality rates. The relative size of indigenous/non-indigenous 
mortality disparities are highest in New Zealand and Australia. There appears to 
be a number of common issues that adversely affect the quality of the mortality 
data that is available in the four countries. Action is required to address 
indigenous health disparities and to improve the quality of indigenous mortality 
data.

PMID: 15608808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Eur J Health Econ. 2002;3(3):156-65. doi: 10.1007/s10198-002-0110-0.

Disease progression in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Identifying the 
cost-utility of riluzole by disease stage.

Tavakoli M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management, University of St. Andrews, Fife, Scotland. 
mt@st-and.ac.uk

This study reports the results of a long-term economic evaluation of riluzole in 
the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) versus best supportive care 
in the United Kingdom. The analysis included in this contribution aims to 
provide an update of the determination of the phase of the disease that is 
prolonged by riluzole and also to assess the quality of the life extension 
offered by riluzole by taking into account the patients' utility score. 
Specifically, the analysis provides a more specific estimate of the cost-utility 
of riluzole dependent disease stage, thereby providing a useful insight of the 
cost-effectiveness of therapy. A Markov model was used to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of riluzole versus best supportive care. Transition 
possibilities and the distribution of patients by health states were taken from 
a cohort of 954 patients drawn from a large randomised, double blind, 
placebo-controlled, multicentre trial between 1992 and 1994. Costs associated 
with riluzole included the acquisition cost and bi-monthly monitoring for raised 
ALT levels. Patient assessed utilities were collected by use of the SG technique 
from two centres (King's, London and Preston) in the UK. Four distinct health 
states were used corresponding to mild, moderate, severe and terminal states. 
Applying the Markov model and extending the transitional probabilities using 
linear interpolation, the base case cost per life year gained was estimated at 
15,192 pounds while applying Standard Gamble utility scores, the base case cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was assessed at 22,086 pounds. Carrying 
out a probabilistic sensitivity analysis, the cost per QALY was estimated at 
22,236 pounds with standard deviation of 612 pounds. The results of the 
long-term analysis also show that riluzole on average increases survival in ALS 
patients by 6 months with approximately 5 months of the additional life gained 
in the early disease states, of which 4 months is spent in disease state 2, 
where quality of life is relatively high. However, the model is sensitive in the 
way in which the long-term transitional probabilities are estimated. Using 
averages of the first nine cycles, the cost per QALY would increase to 33,420 
pounds with standard deviation of 972 pounds. Thus, this analysis highlights 
some of the difficulties associated with extending the short clinical 
effectiveness data; one way forward would be to obtain long-term observations 
data for both groups.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-002-0110-0
PMID: 15609140


43. Eur J Health Econ. 2003 Sep;4(3):176-83. doi: 10.1007/s10198-003-0196-z.

Scale of reference bias and the evolution of health.

Groot W(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Health, Organisation, Policy and 
Economics, Maastricht University, The Netherlands. wim.groot@beoz.unimaas.nl

The analysis of subjective measures of well-being-such as self-reports by 
individuals about their health status is frequently hampered by the problem of 
scale of reference bias. A particular form of scale of reference bias is age 
norming. In this study we corrected for scale of reference bias by allowing for 
individual specific effects in an equation on subjective health. A random 
effects ordered response model was used to analyze scale of reference bias in 
self-reported health measures. The results indicate that if we do not control 
for unobservable individual specific effects, the response to a subjective 
health state measure suffers from age norming. Age norming can be controlled for 
by a random effects estimation technique using longitudinal data. Further, 
estimates are presented on the rate of depreciation of health. Finally, 
simulations of life expectancy indicate that the estimated model provides a 
reasonably good fit of the true life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-003-0196-z
PMID: 15609183


44. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Fall;20(4):440-8. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304001333.

Costs and effects of ultrasonography in the evaluation of palpable breast 
masses.

Flobbe K(1), Kessels AG, Severens JL, Beets GL, de Koning HJ, von Meyenfeld MF, 
van Engelshoven JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Maastricht University Hospital, The Netherlands. 
flobbe@rad.unimaas.nl

OBJECTIVE: To study the costs and effects of incorporating ultrasonography in 
the triple assessment of palpable breast masses.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was designed to compare a conventional 
strategy of performing fine-needle aspiration cytology after clinical 
examination and mammography, with three different experimental strategies of 
preceding ultrasonography. Empirical data were used from a prospective study in 
522 breasts in 492 patients with a palpable mass, including 93 malignancies. In 
strategy 1, cases with probably benign, suspect malignant, and malignant 
ultrasonography results were referred for fine-needle aspiration cytology; in 
strategy 2, benign cases were also referred for fine-needle aspiration cytology; 
and in strategy 3, ultrasonography was only performed in patients with benign 
results on clinical examination and mammography, whereas immediate fine-needle 
aspiration cytology was performed in patients with suspicious lesions. Outcome 
variables included the total costs and the expected number of life years. 
Sensitivity analysis was performed on all parameters in the model.
RESULTS: All strategies reported a similar life expectancy of 31.0 years. 
Cost-minimization demonstrated that experimental strategy 3 was the least 
expensive strategy (3013 Euro). Experimental strategy 2 was the most costly one 
(3512 Euro). Compared with the conventional strategy of immediate fine-needle 
aspiration cytology (3087 Euro), both ultrasonography strategies 1 and -3 were 
preferred.
CONCLUSIONS: Incorporating ultrasonography in the triple assessment of palpable 
breast masses can result in a reduction of the total costs for the diagnosis and 
treatment of breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304001333
PMID: 15609793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Fall;20(4):455-63. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304001357.

Cost effectiveness of tension-free vaginal tape for the surgical management of 
female stress incontinence.

Kilonzo M(1), Vale L, Stearns SC, Grant A, Cody J, Glazener CM, Wallace S, 
McCormack K.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK. 
m.kilonzo@abdn.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Stress urinary incontinence affects between 10 percent and 50 
percent of women. Surgery is commonly recommended for troublesome incontinence 
that does not respond to nonsurgical management. Tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) 
is a newer, minimal access surgical sling procedure, which is being increasingly 
adopted worldwide. The cost-effectiveness of TVT in comparison with other 
surgical procedures, particularly open colposuspension, is assessed.
METHODS: Effectiveness estimates came from a systematic review of TVT compared 
with other surgical procedures (open and laparoscopic colposuspension, 
traditional slings, and injectables). Deterministic and probabilistic analyses 
were used to assess the likelihood of TVT being cost-effective. Sensitivity 
analyses assessed the impact of changing assumptions about cure rates and costs 
for TVT, cure rates for retreatment open colposuspension, and proportions of 
women who choose retreatment.
RESULTS: Reliable estimates of relative effectiveness were difficult to derive 
because the few randomized controlled comparisons had not been optimally 
analyzed or fully reported. Results of the economic model suggested that TVT 
dominates open colposuspension (lower cost and same quality of life years 
[QALYs]) within 5 years after surgery. Stochastic analysis indicated that the 
likelihood of TVT being cost-effective was 100 percent if decision-makers are 
unwilling to pay for additional QALYs. TVT's dominance depended on the 
assumption fact that retreatment open colposuspension has lower cure rates than 
a first colposuspension.
CONCLUSIONS: Analysis based on current short-term data indicates dominance of 
TVT over open colposuspension from approximately 5 years. There is a need for 
longer-term follow-up data from methodologically rigorous randomized trials to 
provide a sounder basis for estimating the relative benefits and cost 
implications.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304001357
PMID: 15609795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Fall;20(4):469-74. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304001370.

Quitline in smoking cessation: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Tomson T(1), Helgason AR, Gilljam H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Tobacco Prevention, Stockholm Centre of Public Health, Stockholm, 
Sweden. tanja.tomson@smd.sl.se

OBJECTIVES: The cost-effectiveness of the Swedish quitline, a nation-wide, free 
of charge service, is assessed.
METHODS: The study was based on data of a sample of 1131 callers enrolled from 
February 1, 2000 to November 30, 2001. Outcome was measured as cost per quitter 
and cost per year of life saved. Cost per quitter was based on a calculation of 
the total cost of the quitline divided by the number of individuals who reported 
abstinence after 12 months. The cost per life year saved (LYS) was calculated by 
the use of data from the literature on average life expectancy for smokers 
versus quitters, the total cost of the quitline, and the cost of pharmacological 
treatment.
RESULTS: The number of smokers who used the quitline and reported abstinence 
after 1 year was 354 (31 percent). The accumulated number of life years saved in 
the study population was 2400. The cost per quitter was 1052-1360 USD, and the 
cost per life year saved was 311-401 USD. A sensitivity analysis showed that, 
for outcomes down to an abstinence rate of 20 percent, the cost per LYS rose 
modestly, from 311 to 482 USD. Discounting the cost per LYS showed the cost to 
be 135 USD for 3 percent and 283 USD for 5 percent.
CONCLUSIONS: The Swedish quitline is a cost-effective public health intervention 
compared with other smoking cessation interventions.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304001370
PMID: 15609797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2004 Fall;20(4):475-80. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462304001382.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a complementary health intervention: the case of 
smoking relapse prevention.

Chirikos TN(1), Herzog TA, Meade CD, Webb MS, Brandon TH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & 
Research Institute, Tampa, FL 33612, USA. chirikos@moffitt.usf.edu

OBJECTIVES: We assess the cost-effectiveness of smoking relapse prevention 
interventions designed to keep quitters from resuming the use of cigarettes. 
Because relapse prevention is complementary to smoking cessation efforts, the 
appropriate test of its cost-effectiveness is whether it reduces the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of smoking cessation. The major goal of the 
study is to carry out such a test.
METHODS: Data from a randomized trial that ascertained the effectiveness of 
alternative modes of smoking relapse prevention are combined with ICER estimates 
of smoking cessation to assess whether relapse prevention is cost-effective.
RESULTS: The trial produced convincing evidence that relapse prevention yields 
statistically significant reductions in the proportion of quitters who are 
smoking at 24 months postquit. The intervention effects are substantial enough 
to raise the denominator terms of the smoking cessation ICER and, thereby, 
offset the amount relapse prevention adds to cost numerator terms. In this 
