PMID: 15740166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Ann Pharmacother. 2005 Apr;39(4):610-6. doi: 10.1345/aph.1E367. Epub 2005
Mar 1.

Cost-effectiveness of fluvastatin following successful first percutaneous 
coronary intervention.

Delea TE(1), Jacobson TA, Serruys PW, Edelsberg JS, Oster G.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc. (PAI), Brookline, MA 02245-7629, USA. tdelea@pai2.com

BACKGROUND: In the LIPS (Lescol Intervention Prevention Study), fluvastatin 80 
mg/day reduced the risk of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) by 22% versus 
placebo (p = 0.01) following successful first percutaneous coronary intervention 
(PCI) in patients with stable or unstable angina or silent ischemia. The 
cost-effectiveness of such therapy is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of fluvastatin following 
successful first PCI from a US healthcare system perspective.
METHODS: We used a Markov model to estimate expected outcomes and costs of 2 
alternative treatment strategies following successful first PCI in patients with 
stable or unstable angina or silent ischemia: (1) diet/lifestyle counseling plus 
immediate fluvastatin 80 mg/day; and (2) diet/lifestyle counseling only, with 
initiation of fluvastatin 80 mg/day following occurrence of future nonfatal 
MACE. The model was estimated with data from LIPS and other published sources. 
Cost-effectiveness was calculated as the ratio of the difference in expected 
medical-care costs to the expected difference in life-years (LYs) and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) alternatively.
RESULTS: Treatment with fluvastatin following successful first PCI was found to 
increase life expectancy by 0.78 years (QALYs 0.68). Cost-effectiveness of 
fluvastatin following successful first PCI is 13 505 dollars per LY (15 454 
dollar per QALY) saved. Ratios are lower for patients with diabetes (9396 dollar 
per LY; 10 718 dollar per QALY) and those with multivessel disease (9662 dollar 
per LY; 11 076 dollar per QALY). Findings were robust with respect to changes in 
key model parameters and assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Fluvastatin therapy following PCI is cost-effective compared with 
other generally accepted medical interventions.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1E367
PMID: 15741421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2005 Feb;72(2):163-73.

The search for effective and sustainable treatments for Plasmodium falciparum 
malaria in Africa: a model of the selection of resistance by antifolate drugs 
and their combinations.

Watkins WM(1), Sibley CH, Hastings IM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, United Kingdom. bwatkins@btinternet.com <bwatkins@btinternet.com>

The extensive data on the relationship between parasite genotype and 
susceptibility to antifolate drugs can now be coupled with pharmacokinetic 
information to allow construction of models of the selection and spread of 
antifolate-resistant Plasmodium falciparum. In this report, we have modeled the 
effect on resistance selection processes of combinations of antifolate 
antimalarial drugs with artesunate and with amodiaquine under a variety of 
conditions that can be defined by the user. The model is intended to assist 
policymakers in forecasting the useful therapeutic life (UTL) for a range of 
potential combination treatments. The model is especially designed for use by 
African malaria programs so that the interactions of key variables can be 
explored and appropriate combinations of drugs can be chosen for field testing. 
The model provides some important general conclusions: 1) for optimal extension 
of UTL, combination therapy must be deployed before either constituent drug is 
used as monotherapy; 2) even short periods of monotherapy can severely limit the 
usefulness of subsequent combination therapy; and 3) that adding a second drug 
to rescue an antifolate antimalarial that is overtly failing is an inappropriate 
and ultimately wasteful exercise.

PMID: 15741553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. J Rehabil Res Dev. 2005 Jan-Feb;42(1):115-24.

Quality of life in male tracheoesophageal (TE) speakers.

Eadie TL(1), Doyle PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech and Hearing Sciences, University of Washington, 1417 NE 
42nd St., Seattle, WA 98105, USA. teadie@u.washington.edu

For this study, we determined the quality of life (QOL) in individuals who had 
undergone total laryngectomy (TL) and who used tracheoesophageal (TE) speech as 
their primary method of postlaryngectomy communication. We also descriptively 
compared present QOL outcomes with those found in an extension of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs' (VA) Laryngeal Cancer Study. Thirty laryngectomized men 
with TE speech as their primary mode of communication were recruited for 
participation in the investigation. Participants completed a general information 
form as well as the University of Michigan Head and Neck Quality of Life (HNQOL) 
instrument. Results revealed a high level of self-perceived QOL in the domains 
of communication, eating, pain, and emotion that was empirically better than 
results found in a previous study involving individuals who had undergone TL and 
who were treated in VA hospitals. Possible reasons for the improved 
self-reported QOL among individuals in the present group include use of TE 
speech for postlaryngectomy communication, a higher level of education, and 
membership in a support group. The results suggest to us that these factors 
should be considered in postlaryngectomy care in the veteran population to 
optimize rehabilitation outcomes.

PMID: 15742256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Urologe A. 2005 Jan;44(1):81-8; quiz 89-90. doi: 10.1007/s00120-004-0753-9.

[Urinary and fecal incontinence in the aged from gynecologic proctologic 
viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Tunn R(1), Gauruder-Burmester A, Leder D.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Beckenbodenzentrum, St. Hedwig Krankenhaus, Berlin, Germany. 
r.tunn@alexius.de

Three to four million women suffer from urinary incontinence (UI) in Germany. 
This number will rise further as life expectancy increases, and there is an 
annual incidence of newly occurring UI of about 1%. Two thirds of all women with 
UI suffer additional symptoms of fecal incontinence. The type of incontinence 
present is diagnosed on the basis of patients history, clinical findings, and 
functional testing. The findings should be interpreted in an age-adjusted manner 
to avoid over-rating (e.g. urethral closure pressure at rest=100-age in cm 
H(2)O). The management of elderly patients focuses on conservative approaches 
with bladder and intestinal training as well as dietary measures serving to 
counteract the age-related loss of intellectual abilities. Local estrogen 
application has a positive effect on all forms of incontinence. Surgical 
approaches aim at improving symptoms since forced restoration of incontinence in 
elderly patients frequently induces voiding disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-004-0753-9
PMID: 15742471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Lancet. 2005 Feb 26-Mar 4;365(9461):743-4. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(05)18004-0.

Russia's population crisis.

Parfitt T.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)18004-0
PMID: 15742473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Rev Environ Health. 2004 Jul-Dec;19(3-4):381-401.

Residential environment and health: a review of methodological and conceptual 
issues.

van Kamp I(1), van Loon J, Droomers M, de Hollander A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Environmental Health Research (MGO), 3720 BA Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands. irene.van.kamp@rivm.nl

Geographic patterns of poor health and mortality risk are found in most 
countries. Important health effects at the neighborhood level are mortality, 
general health, illness and disabilities, mental health, and healthcare 
utilization. Awareness of the influence of social class on health has been 
growing during the last decades. Studies show that individuals with lower 
socioeconomic status (SES) have a shorter life expectancy than do their 
'well-off' counterparts. Yet SES-related health inequalities cannot be fully 
explained by individual characteristics, and environmental qualities should be 
taken into account. Many aspects of local areas that might be related to health 
or access to opportunities to live healthily are systematically poorer in 
socially disadvantaged areas. Such factors have the potential to explain health 
differences between deprived and prosperous neighborhoods. Investigating health 
differences at the neighborhood level implies conceptual as well as 
methodological issues pertaining to selection, accumulation, multiple level 
measurement, objective features versus perceptions, and time dynamic aspects. 
This article reviews such issues and evaluates several exemplary theoretical 
approaches from the fields of public health and environmental health in their 
ability to overcome such problems.

PMID: 15742680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Am J Gastroenterol. 2005 Mar;100(3):534-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2005.41779.x.

Gambling with gastroesophageal reflux disease: should we worry about the QALY?

Moayyedi P, Talley NJ.

Comment on
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2005 Mar;100(3):524-33.

Gastroenterologists mainly deal with chronic organic and functional illnesses 
that are not life threatening but can be expensive to treat. How this compares 
with the management of other diseases that cause significant mortality is an 
important question to answer if health-care resources are to be allocated 
appropriately. Comparing health care in terms of cost per quality adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained is one approach to this problem although there are concerns 
about whose values should be elicited and how QALYs are measured.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2005.41779.x
PMID: 15743347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Am J Gastroenterol. 2005 Mar;100(3):577-80. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2005.41422.x.

Effect of a new diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus on insurance status.

Shaheen NJ(1), Dulai GS, Ascher B, Mitchell KL, Schmitz SM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Esophageal Diseases and Swallowing, University of North Carolina 
Schools of Medicine and Public Health, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.

BACKGROUND: Barrett's esophagus (BE) is associated with an increased risk of 
adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. Despite this increased risk, most cohort 
studies demonstrate that the mean life expectancy of subjects with BE is no 
different than age-matched controls. The indirect costs associated with a 
diagnosis of BE are unclear.
AIM: To assess the effect of a diagnosis of BE on insurance premiums.
METHODS: We assessed twenty national life insurance companies (10 in southern 
California, 10 in North Carolina) to determine the effect of a diagnosis of BE 
on life insurance premiums. Our base case in Los Angeles was a 36-yr-old female 
nonsmoker, and in North Carolina, a 43-yr-old Caucasian male nonsmoker, both in 
excellent health except for a diagnosis of prevalent BE with no dysplasia. The 
policy requested was a 20-yr guaranteed term life insurance in the amount of 
$1,000,000. Companies were asked for their best price exclusive of the BE, and 
also their best price when considering BE as a preexisting condition. For those 
companies not offering the "preferred" rates, the insurance representative was 
subsequently sent a physician's letter explaining BE and providing data 
substantiating a normal life expectancy in the condition. Companies were also 
asked for health insurance quotes, including premiums and deductibles, inclusive 
and exclusive of the diagnosis of BE.
RESULTS: Twenty national insurance companies were contacted. For the 43-yr-old 
man with no BE, the yearly "preferred" premium for life insurance averaged 
$1,255. The mean cost of the policies offered to the same individual with BE as 
a preexisting condition was $2,731 (p < 0.001). For the 36-yr-old female the 
base rate exclusive of BE was $517, with a range of $472-$551. After inclusion 
of the diagnosis of BE, the mean rate rose by 177%, to $1,434, with a range of 
$1,144-$1,896. Companies either refused to provide health insurance to the 
individual with BE or would not provide a quote without review of the medical 
record. None of the insurance companies changed their quoted rates after 
receiving the letter written by the physician on behalf of the individual.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the preponderance of data demonstrating a normal life 
expectancy associated with the condition, a diagnosis of BE more than doubles 
life insurance premiums, and impacts the availability of health insurance. 
Further steps to educate insurance companies about the risks associated with BE 
are warranted, and patients should understand this additional "risk" of 
endoscopic screening for BE. There are significant indirect costs associated 
with a diagnosis of BE.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2005.41422.x
PMID: 15743354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2005 May;37(5):1043-53. doi: 
10.1016/j.biocel.2004.10.006. Epub 2004 Dec 15.

The emerging role of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 in longevity.

Bürkle A(1), Brabeck C, Diefenbach J, Beneke S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Konstanz, P.O. Box X911, D-78457 
Konstanz, Germany. alexander.buerkle@uni-konstanz.de

In the present paper, the involvement of the family of poly(ADP-ribose) 
polymerases (PARPs), and especially of PARP-1, in mammalian longevity is 
reviewed. PARPs catalyse poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation, a covalent post-translational 
protein modification in eukaryotic cells. PARP-1 and PARP-2 are activated by DNA 
strand breaks, play a role in DNA base-excision repair (BER) and are survival 
factors for cells exposed to low doses of ionising radiation or alkylating 
agents. PARP-1 is the main catalyst of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation in living cells 
under conditions of DNA breakage, accounting for about 90% of cellular 
poly(ADP-ribose). DNA-damage-induced poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation also functions as a 
negative regulator of DNA damage-induced genomic instability. Cellular 
poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation capacity in permeabilised mononuclear blood cells (MNC) 
is positively correlated with life span of mammalian species. Furthermore PARP-1 
physically interacts with WRN, the protein deficient in Werner syndrome, a human 
progeroid disorder, and PARP-1 and WRN functionally cooperate in preventing 
carcinogenesis in vivo. Some of the other members of the PARP family have also 
been revealed as important regulators of cellular functions relating to 
ageing/longevity. In particular, tankyrase-1, tankyrase-2, PARP-2 as well as 
PARP-1 have been found in association with telomeric DNA and are able to 
poly(ADP-ribosyl)ate the telomere-binding proteins TRF-1 and TRF-2, thus 
blocking their DNA-binding activity and controlling telomere extension by 
telomerase.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2004.10.006
PMID: 15743677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2005 May;37(5):1084-104. doi: 
10.1016/j.biocel.2004.10.003. Epub 2004 Dec 30.

Molecular mechanisms involved in muscle wasting in cancer and ageing: cachexia 
versus sarcopenia.

Argilés JM(1), Busquets S, Felipe A, López-Soriano FJ.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Group, Departament de Bioquímica i Biologia Molecular, 
Facultat de Biologia, Universitat de Barcelona, Diagonal 645, Barcelona 08028, 
Spain. argiles@porthos.bio.ub.es

The aim of the present review is to summarize and evaluate the different 
mechanisms and catabolic mediators involved in cancer cachexia and ageing 
sarcopenia since they may represent targets for future promising clinical 
investigations. Cancer cachexia is a syndrome characterized by a marked weight 
loss, anorexia, asthenia and anemia. In fact, many patients who die with 
advanced cancer suffer from cachexia. The degree of cachexia is inversely 
correlated with the survival time of the patient and it always implies a poor 
prognosis. Unfortunately, at the clinical level, cachexia is not treated until 
the patient suffers from a considerable weight loss and wasting. At this point, 
the cachectic syndrome is almost irreversible. The cachectic state is often 
associated with the presence and growth of the tumour and leads to a 
malnutrition status due to the induction of anorexia. In recent years, 
age-related diseases and disabilities have become of major health interest and 
importance. This holds particularly for muscle wasting, also known as 
sarcopenia, that decreases the quality of life of the geriatric population, 
increasing morbidity and decreasing life expectancy. The cachectic factors 
(associated with both depletion of fat stores and muscular tissue) can be 
divided into two categories: of tumour origin and humoural factors. In 
conclusion, more research should be devoted to the understanding of muscle 
wasting mediators, both in cancer and ageing, in particular the identification 
of common mediators may prove as a good therapeutic strategies for both 
prevention and treatment of wasting both in disease and during healthy ageing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2004.10.003
PMID: 15743680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Bull World Health Organ. 2005 Feb;83(2):92-9. Epub 2005 Feb 24.

Socioeconomic differences in the burden of disease in Sweden.

Ljung R(1), Peterson S, Hallqvist J, Heimerson I, Diderichsen F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Division of Social Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Norrbacka S171-76 Stockholm, Sweden. rickard.ljung@smd.sll.se

OBJECTIVE: We sought to analyse how much of the total burden of disease in 
Sweden, measured in disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), is a result of 
inequalities in health between socioeconomic groups. We also sought to determine 
how this unequal burden is distributed across different disease groups and 
socioeconomic groups.
METHODS: Our analysis used data from the Swedish Burden of Disease Study. We 
studied all Swedish men and women in three age groups (15-44, 45-64, 65-84) and 
five major socioeconomic groups. The 18 disease and injury groups that 
contributed to 65% of the total burden of disease were analysed using 
attributable fractions and the slope index of inequality and the relative index 
of inequality.
FINDINGS: About 30% of the burden of disease among women and 37% of the burden 
among men is a differential burden resulting from socioeconomic inequalities in 
health. A large part of this unequally distributed burden falls on unskilled 
manual workers. The largest contributors to inequalities in health for women are 
ischaemic heart disease, depression and neurosis, and stroke. For men, the 
largest contributors are ischaemic heart disease, alcohol addiction and 
self-inflicted injuries.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study to use socioeconomic differences, measured 
by socioeconomic position, to assess the burden of disease using DALYs. We found 
that in Sweden one-third of the burden of the diseases we studied is unequally 
distributed. Studies of socioeconomic inequalities in the burden of disease that 
take both mortality and morbidity into account can help policy-makers understand 
the magnitude of inequalities in health for different disease groups.

PMCID: PMC2623819
PMID: 15744401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Health Econ. 2005 Jul;14(7):679-85. doi: 10.1002/hec.986.

The gap effect: discontinuities of preferences around dead.

Stalmeier PF(1), Busschbach JJ, Lamers LM, Krabbe PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology Assessment, Radboud University Nijmegen 
Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. p.stalmeier@mta.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: The assessment of health states considered to be worse than dead is 
a controversial issue.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate how health states are valued when they are close to 
dead. Differences between adjacent states are compared with the differences 
between the first positive/first negative state with death.
METHODS: A secondary analysis of the EuroQol EQ-5D data of the measurement of 
valuation and health (MVH) study was made. Visual analog scale (VAS) and time 
trade-off (TTO) preferences for 43 health states were obtained. Various subsets 
of 13 states were valued by 3395 respondents. States were rank ordered by their 
VAS and TTO values. Differences between adjacent states were calculated for the 
VAS and the positive and negative TTO values.
RESULTS: Complete data were obtained in 2997 respondents. The differences 
between the ordered VAS values were equally large. In contrast, significant gaps 
around dead were found for the positive as well as the negative TTO values.
DISCUSSION: These results are interpreted in light of a descriptive QALY model. 
This model was expanded to include utilities worse than dead. The VAS task does 
not pick up that bad states become intolerable, i.e. worse than dead, when they 
last too long, but the TTO task does. The current QALY model seems to lack 
descriptive validity for states valued worse than dead and for states with a 
maimal endurable time.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.986
PMID: 15744750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2004 Nov-Dec;8(6):265-74.

Spinal metastases: treatment evaluation algorithm.

Gasbarrini A(1), Cappuccio M, Mirabile L, Bandiera S, Terzi S, Barbanti Bròdano 
G, Boriani S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Maggiore Hospital "C.A. 
Pizzardi", Bologna, Italy.

Spinal metastases are only apparently similar lesions, considering the large 
varieties of istotypes and the spread of the primary tumor. These metastases 
develop early and are not terminal events, they have to be considered as severe 
complications because, when possible, surgical treatment can improve the history 
of the patient in terms of life expectancy and quality of life. The approach to 
these lesions should be multidisciplinary in collaboration with oncologists and 
radiotherapists, in fact the average of survival of these patients has increased 
in recent years. The evolution of anesthaesiological techniques that permit 
surgical treatments that were once considered prohibitive. The application of 
new adjuvant therapy increases the effectiveness for surgical treatment. 
Controversy exist over the most appropriate treatment for patients with 
metastatic disease of the vertebral column. The purpose of this article was to 
determine the best sequential process to arrive at the most appropriate 
treatment considering the individual general conditions and the parameters of 
the metastases. We review 269 cases in 182 patients suffering from spinal 
metastases from a solid tumour treated between 1996 and 2002. As the number of 
treatment options for metastatic spinal disease has grown, it has become clear 
that effective implementation of these treatments can only be achieved by 
multidisciplinary approach.

PMID: 15745386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Med Sci (Paris). 2005 Mar;21(3):297-301. doi: 10.1051/medsci/2005213297.

[New advances in osteoporosis nutritional prevention].

[Article in French]

Coxam V(1).

Author information:
(1)Groupe Ostéoporose, U3M, INRA Theix, 63122 Saint-Genès Champanelle, France. 
coxam@clermont.inra.fr

With the human race experiencing a progressive increase in life expectancy, we 
are facing a growing prevalence of chronic age-related conditions, among which 
osteoporosis is a generalised condition of bone, whose hallmark is increased 
bone fragility. Based on the overwhelming body of evidence emphasising that 
gonadal failure at the time of menopause causes osteopenia and the 
administration of estrogens in postmenopausal women prevents this loss, hormone 
replacement therapy (HRT) has been widely recommended. However HRT should be 
limited due to its potential adverse effects. In this light, an effort should be 
made to integrate alternative therapies of proven values to provide new options 
for women in midlife. Research in nutrition over the past 30 years has led to 
exciting and significant progress. Although the primary role of diet is to 
provide sufficient nutrients to fulfill the metabolic requirements of an 
individual, there is an emerging rationale to support the hypothesis that, by 
modulating specific target functions in the body, diet can help to achieve 
optimal health and also play an important role in reducing the risk of disease. 
Specifically, it has been recognized that human diet contains, in addition to 
essential macro- and micronutrients, a complex array of naturally occurring 
bioactive molecules, the phytochemicals, that may confer significant long-term 
health benefits. Indeed, besides calcium, micronutrients such as vitamins, 
polyphenols, phytoestrogens, trace elements or minerals remain a source for 
putative new and innovative dietary health intervention in the nutritional 
prevention of osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2005213297
PMID: 15745705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Am J Med. 2005 Mar;118(3):292-300. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.07.055.

Routine human immunodeficiency virus testing: an economic evaluation of current 
guidelines.

Walensky RP(1), Weinstein MC, Kimmel AD, Seage GR 3rd, Losina E, Sax PE, Zhang 
H, Smith HE, Freedberg KA, Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, and the Partners AIDS Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA. rwalensky@partners.org

BACKGROUND: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines recommend 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) counseling, testing, and referral for all 
patients in hospitals with an HIV prevalence of >or=1%. The 1% screening 
threshold has not been critically examined since HIV became effectively 
treatable in 1995. Our objective was to evaluate the clinical effect and 
cost-effectiveness of current guidelines and of alternate HIV prevalence 
thresholds.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis using a computer simulation 
model of HIV screening and disease as applied to inpatients in U.S. hospitals.
RESULTS: At an undiagnosed inpatient HIV prevalence of 1% and an overall 
participation rate of 33%, HIV screening increased mean quality-adjusted life 
expectancy by 6.13 years per 1000 inpatients, with a cost-effectiveness ratio of 
35,400 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Expansion of 
screening to settings with a prevalence as low as 0.1% increased the ratio to 
64,500 dollars per QALY gained. Increasing counseling and testing costs from 53 
dollars to 103 dollars per person still yielded a cost-effectiveness ratio below 
100,000 dollars per QALY gained at a prevalence of undiagnosed infection of 
0.1%.
CONCLUSION: Routine inpatient HIV screening programs are not only cost-effective 
but would likely remain so at a prevalence of undiagnosed HIV infection 10 times 
lower than recommended thresholds. The current HIV counseling, testing, and 
referral guidelines should now be implemented nationwide as a way of linking 
infected patients to life-sustaining care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.07.055
PMID: 15745728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Environ Sci. 2004;11(2):83-97.

An epidemiological study of the incidence of abnormal pregnancy in areas heavily 
contaminated with methylmercury.

Itai Y(1), Fujino T, Ueno K, Motomatsu Y.

Author information:
(1)Minamata Kyoritsu Hospital, Minamata City, Kumamoto, Japan. 
yitai@coral.ocn.ne.jp

To determine the relationship between abnormal pregnancy in humans and 
methylmercury contamination, a retrospective study was conducted on women in two 
heavily contaminated areas, Modo (area M) and Akasaki (area A). Abnormal 
pregnancy was defined as fetal death, i.e., stillbirth and spontaneous abortion. 
In area M, prior to 1956, the incidence of abnormal pregnancy among the 
respondents was 7.0%. The incidence increased to 18.1% in the period between 
1956 and 1968, when the pollution become serious. In area A, the incidence 
increased from 5.4% before 1956 to 14.2% between 1956 and 1968. In each area, 
the difference in the incidence between two periods, i.e., before and during the 
severe contamination, was statistically significant (area M, p<0.01; area A, 
p<0.001). Women living in Ikitsuki Island (area I) were selected as the control 
group. The incidence of the abnormal pregnancy in the three areas was compared 
by the birth years of mothers. Among women born between 1931 and 1940, the 
incidences were 26%, 15.1% and 13.5% in areas M, A and I, respectively. These 
women reached their reproductive age during the period of severe contamination 
in the two areas. The differences in the incidence between areas M and A and 
between areas M and I were statistically significant (areas M and A, p<0.05; 
areas M and I, p<0.01). These suggest that there is a relationship between 
methylmercury contamination and the increase in abnormal pregnancy in humans.

PMID: 15746891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Ann Hematol. 2005 Jun;84(6):347-52. doi: 10.1007/s00277-005-1006-8. Epub
2005  Mar 4.

Recent advances in hereditary hemochromatosis.

Franchini M(1), Veneri D.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Immunoematologia e Trasfusione, Azienda Ospedaliera di Verona, 
Verona, Italy.

Hereditary hemochromatosis, a very common genetic defect in the Caucasian 
population, is characterized by progressive tissue iron overload which leads to 
irreversible organ damage if it is not treated in a timely manner. Recent 
developments in the field of molecular medicine have radically improved the 
understanding of the physiopathology and diagnosis of this disease. However, 
transferrin saturation and serum ferritin are still the most reliable tests for 
identifying subjects with hereditary hemochromatosis. Therapeutic phlebotomy is 
the mainstay of the treatment of this disease and the life expectancy of these 
patients is similar to that of the normal population if phlebotomy is started 
before the onset of irreversible organ damage. In this review we discuss the 
genetics, pathophysiology, diagnosis, clinical features, and management of 
hereditary hemochromatosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-005-1006-8
PMID: 15747119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Gesundheitswesen. 2005 Feb;67(2):129-36. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-857886.

[Subjective health as predictor for mortality].

[Article in German]

Müters S(1), Lampert T, Maschewsky-Schneider U.

Author information:
(1)Technische Universität Berlin, Institut für Gesundheitswissenschaften. 
mueters@ifg.tu-berlin.de

In the last two decades self-rated health has received growing interest in 
international studies because of its consistent prediction for mortality. 
However, for Germany there are no studies confirming a long-term effect 
independent from objective health indicators in comparison of different 
follow-up. On the basis of the Life-Expectancy-Study (1984/86 - 1998) from the 
Federal Institute for Population Research it was possible to analyze the 
association between subjective health and mortality in relation to the length of 
observation. A stronger correlation between bad self-rated health and objective 
health status could be indicated because of a better prediction for mortality in 
a short-term follow-up. The evidence of a significant effect between self-rated 
health and mortality in the long-term follow-up not including the deaths from 
the short-term follow-up indicates that the mechanisms between subjective health 
and mortality are more complex than those between objective health status and 
death.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-857886
PMID: 15747202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2005 Winter;14(1):93-9. doi:
10.1017/s0963180105050103.

The age-indifference principle and equality.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicine, Law and Bioethics, School of Law, University of 
Manchester, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1017/s0963180105050103
PMID: 15747486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Lifetime Data Anal. 2005 Mar;11(1):5-27. doi: 10.1007/s10985-004-5637-1.

Multivariate parametric spatiotemporal models for county level breast cancer 
survival data.

Jin X(1), Carlin BP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, 
Mayo Mail Code 303, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455-0392, USA.

In clustered survival settings where the clusters correspond to geographic 
regions, biostatisticians are increasingly turning to models with spatially 
distributed random effects. These models begin with spatially oriented frailty 
terms, but may also include further region-level terms in the parametrization of 
the baseline hazards or various covariate effects (as in a spatially-varying 
coefficients model). In this paper, we propose a multivariate conditionally 
autoregressive (MCAR) model as a mixing distribution for these random effects, 
as a way of capturing correlation across both the regions and the elements of 
the random effect vector for any particular region. We then extend this model to 
permit analysis of temporal cohort effects, where we use the term "temporal 
cohort" to mean a group of subjects all of whom were diagnosed with the disease 
of interest (and thus, entered the study) during the same time period (say, 
calendar year). We show how our spatiotemporal model may be efficiently fit in a 
hierarchical Bayesian framework implemented using Markov chain Monte Carlo 
(MCMC) computational techniques. We illustrate our approach in the context of 
county-level breast cancer data from 22 annual cohorts of women living in the 
state of Iowa, as recorded by the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
(SEER) database. Hierarchical model comparison using the Deviance Information 
Criterion (DIC), as well as maps of the fitted county-level effects, reveal the 
benefit of our approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-004-5637-1
PMID: 15747587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Lifetime Data Anal. 2005 Mar;11(1):29-40. doi: 10.1007/s10985-004-5638-0.

Comparison between two partial likelihood approaches for the competing risks 
model with missing cause of failure.

Lu K(1), Tsiatis AA.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ 07065, USA. 
kaifeng_lu@merck.com

In many clinical studies where time to failure is of primary interest, patients 
may fail or die from one of many causes where failure time can be right 
censored. In some circumstances, it might also be the case that patients are 
known to die but the cause of death information is not available for some 
patients. Under the assumption that cause of death is missing at random, we 
compare the Goetgbebeur and Ryan (1995, Biometrika, 82, 821-833) partial 
likelihood approach with the Dewanji (1992, Biometrika, 79, 855-857) partial 
likelihood approach. We show that the estimator for the regression coefficients 
based on the Dewanji partial likelihood is not only consistent and 
asymptotically normal, but also semiparametric efficient. While the Goetghebeur 
and Ryan estimator is more robust than the Dewanji partial likelihood estimator 
against misspecification of proportional baseline hazards, the Dewanji partial 
likelihood estimator allows the probability of missing cause of failure to 
depend on covariate information without the need to model the missingness 
mechanism. Tests for proportional baseline hazards are also suggested and a 
robust variance estimator is derived.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-004-5638-0
PMID: 15747588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Lifetime Data Anal. 2005 Mar;11(1):41-59. doi: 10.1007/s10985-004-5639-z.

A distribution for multivariate frailty based on the compound Poisson 
distribution with random scale.

Moger TA(1), Aalen OO.

Author information:
(1)Section of Medical Statistics, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1122 Blindern, 
N-0317 Oslo, Norway. t.a.moger@basalmed.uio.no

Frailty models are often used to model heterogeneity in survival analysis. The 
most common frailty model has an individual intensity which is a product of a 
random factor and a basic intensity common to all individuals. This paper uses 
the compound Poisson distribution as the random factor. It allows some 
individuals to be non-susceptible, which can be useful in many settings. In some 
diseases, one may suppose that a number of families have an increased 
susceptibility due to genetic circumstances. Then, it is logical to use a 
frailty model where the individuals within each family have some shared factor, 
while individuals between families have different factors. This can be attained 
by randomizing the Poisson parameter in the compound Poisson distribution. To 
our knowledge, this is a new distribution. The power variance function 
distributions are used for the Poisson parameter. The subsequent appearing 
distributions are studied in some detail, both regarding appearance and various 
statistical properties. An application to infant mortality data from the Medical 
Birth Registry of Norway is included, where the model is compared to more 
traditional shared frailty models.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-004-5639-z
PMID: 15747589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Lifetime Data Anal. 2005 Mar;11(1):81-98. doi: 10.1007/s10985-004-5641-5.

A class of parametric dynamic survival models.

Hemming K(1), Shaw JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK. 
karla@stats.warwick.ac.uk

A class of parametric dynamic survival models are explored in which only limited 
parametric assumptions are made, whilst avoiding the assumption of proportional 
hazards. Both the log-baseline hazard and covariate effects are modelled by 
piecewise constant and correlated processes. The method of estimation is to use 
Markov chain Monte Carlo simulations: Gibbs sampling with a Metropolis-Hastings 
step. In addition to standard right censored data sets, extensions to 
accommodate interval censoring and random effects are included. The model is 
applied to two well known and illustrative data sets, and the dynamic 
variability of covariate effects investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-004-5641-5
PMID: 15747591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Lifetime Data Anal. 2005 Mar;11(1):131-42. doi: 10.1007/s10985-004-5644-2.

Multilevel mixed linear models for survival data.

Ha ID(1), Lee Y.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Information Science, Daegu Haany University, Kyungsan, 712-240, 
South Korea. idha@dhu.ac.kr

For the analysis of correlated survival data mixed linear models are useful 
alternatives to frailty models. By their use the survival times can be directly 
modelled, so that the interpretation of the fixed and random effects is 
straightforward. However, because of intractable integration involved with the 
use of marginal likelihood the class of models in use has been severely 
restricted. Such a difficulty can be avoided by using hierarchical-likelihood, 
which provides a statistically efficient and fast fitting algorithm for 
multilevel models. The proposed method is illustrated using the chronic 
granulomatous disease data. A simulation study is carried out to evaluate the 
performance.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-004-5644-2
PMID: 15747594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Prog Urol. 2004 Nov;14(5):631-8.

[Epidemiology of the ageing male].

[Article in French]

Beauchet O(1), Rossi D, Tostain J.

Author information:
(1)Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève, Département de réhabilitation et de 
gériatrie.

PMID: 15747613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2004;103:3-11.

Healthcare compunetics.

Marsh A(1), Laxminarayan S, Bos L.

Author information:
(1)VMW Solutions Ltd, 9 Northlands Rd, Whitenap, Romsey, Hampshire S051 5RU, UK. 
andy.marsh@vmwsolutions.com

Changes in life expectancy, healthy life expectancy and health seeking behaviour 
are having an impact on the demand for care. Such changes could occur across the 
whole population, or for specific groups. Changes for specific groups will be 
particularly affected by policy initiatives, while both these and wider changes 
will be affected by people's levels of engagement with their health and the 
health service itself. Levels of education, income and media coverage of health 
issues are also important. These factors could also encourage an increase in 
people caring for themselves and their families or community. People are now 
expecting a patient-centred service with safe high quality treatment, 
comfortable accommodation services, fast access and an integrated joined-up 
system. The uptake of integrated Information and Communication technologies 
(ICT) will be crucial. Healthcare Compunetics, the combination of computing and 
networking customised for medical and care, will provide the common policy and 
framework for combined multi-disciplinary research, development, implementation 
and usage.

PMID: 15747899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(2):193-206. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200523020-00010.

Memantine: a pharmacoeconomic review of its use in moderate-to-severe 
Alzheimer's disease.

Plosker GL(1), Lyseng-Williamson KA.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Memantine (Ebixa, Namenda, Axura) is an uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist 
used in the management of patients with moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease. 
It is currently the only drug approved for use in these more advanced stages of 
the disease. Significant reductions in functional and cognitive decline have 
been demonstrated with memantine relative to placebo in randomised, double-blind 
trials in this patient population. Clinical trial and postmarketing surveillance 
data indicate that the drug is generally well tolerated. Two fully published 
modelled cost-effectiveness analyses of memantine in moderate-to-severe 
Alzheimer's disease have been conducted in the UK and Finland, in which patient 
progression was simulated through health states related to dependency, 
residential setting and cognitive function. Although the specific costs included 
in the analyses varied, as did the study perspective and geographical location, 
results of the base-case analyses consistently showed that memantine was 
dominant over no pharmacological treatment. In the UK and Finnish analyses, 
memantine increased the duration of independence by 1.3 and 4.1 months, 
respectively, and the time to institutionalisation by 0.8 and 1 month. Mean 
total per-patient costs were reduced by 1963 pounds over 2 years (2003 costs) in 
the UK analysis and by 1687 eurossover 5 years (2001 costs) in the Finnish 
analysis. Memantine was also associated with a small gain in quality-adjusted 
life expectancy in the UK model. In sensitivity analyses, memantine remained 
dominant for almost all plausible changes to key variables. Memantine reduced 
total societal costs by $1090 per patient per month (1999 costs) compared with 
no pharmacological treatment over 28 weeks in a resource utilisation and cost 
analysis conducted alongside a pivotal US trial in patients with 
moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease. Results were primarily driven by 
reductions in total caregiver costs, which included the opportunity cost of time 
spent in caregiving tasks, and in direct nonmedical costs, which included the 
cost of care in a nursing home or similar institution.In conclusion, in patients 
with moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease, memantine is associated with 
significant reductions in functional and cognitive decline compared with no 
pharmacological treatment. Available pharmacoeconomic data from Europe and the 
US, despite some inherent limitations, support the use of memantine as a 
cost-effective treatment in this patient population, although definitive 
conclusions are not feasible because of limited data.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523020-00010
PMID: 15748093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2005 Mar 4;3:11. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-3-11.

Are decisions using cost-utility analyses robust to choice of SF-36/SF-12 
preference-based algorithm?

Pickard AS(1), Wang Z, Walton SM, Lee TA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Pharmacoeconomic Research, College of Pharmacy, Room 164, 833 S, 
Wood St (MC886), University of Illinois at Chicago, 60612, USA. pickard1@uic.edu

BACKGROUND: Cost utility analysis (CUA) using SF-36/SF-12 data has been 
facilitated by the development of several preference-based algorithms. The 
purpose of this study was to illustrate how decision-making could be affected by 
the choice of preference-based algorithms for the SF-36 and SF-12, and provide 
some guidance on selecting an appropriate algorithm.
METHODS: Two sets of data were used: (1) a clinical trial of adult asthma 
patients; and (2) a longitudinal study of post-stroke patients. Incremental 
costs were assumed to be 2000 dollars per year over standard treatment, and QALY 
gains realized over a 1-year period. Ten published algorithms were identified, 
denoted by first author: Brazier (SF-36), Brazier (SF-12), Shmueli, Fryback, 
Lundberg, Nichol, Franks (3 algorithms), and Lawrence. Incremental cost-utility 
ratios (ICURs) for each algorithm, stated in dollars per quality-adjusted life 
year (dollars/QALY), were ranked and compared between datasets.
RESULTS: In the asthma patients, estimated ICURs ranged from Lawrence's SF-12 
algorithm at 30,769 dollars/QALY (95% CI: 26,316 to 36,697) to Brazier's SF-36 
algorithm at 63,492 dollars/QALY (95% CI: 48,780 to 83,333). ICURs for the 
stroke cohort varied slightly more dramatically. The MEPS-based algorithm by 
Franks et al. provided the lowest ICUR at 27,972 dollars/QALY (95% CI: 20,942 to 
41,667). The Fryback and Shmueli algorithms provided ICURs that were greater 
than 50,000 dollars/QALY and did not have confidence intervals that overlapped 
with most of the other algorithms. The ICUR-based ranking of algorithms was 
strongly correlated between the asthma and stroke datasets (r = 0.60).
CONCLUSION: SF-36/SF-12 preference-based algorithms produced a wide range of 
ICURs that could potentially lead to different reimbursement decisions. 
Brazier's SF-36 and SF-12 algorithms have a strong methodological and 
theoretical basis and tended to generate relatively higher ICUR estimates, 
considerations that support a preference for these algorithms over the 
alternatives. The "second-generation" algorithms developed from scores mapped 
from other indirect preference-based measures tended to generate lower ICURs 
that would promote greater adoption of new technology. There remains a need for 
an SF-36/SF-12 preference-based algorithm based on the US general population 
that has strong theoretical and methodological foundations.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-3-11
PMCID: PMC555748
PMID: 15748287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Br J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2005 Apr;43(2):134-43. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjoms.2004.03.007.

The relation between health-related quality of life, past medical history, and 
American Society of Anesthesiologists' ASA grade in patients having primary 
operations for oral and oropharyngeal cancer.

Rogers S(1), Kenyon P, Lowe D, Grant C, Dempsey G.

Author information:
(1)Regional Maxillofacial Unit, Aintree Trust, University Hospital Aintree, 
Liverpool L91AL, UK. snrogers@doctors.org

Pre-existing medical problems have the potential to affect postoperative 
survival, complications, and health-related quality of life (QoL). Our aim was 
to explore the relation between past medical history, American Society of 
Anesthesiologists' (ASA) score, health-related QoL, and survival. We collected 
data from 278 consecutive patients with previously untreated oral and 
oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma operated on primarily from 1995 to 1999 
inclusive. Past medical history was recorded from the case notes, ASA grade from 
the anaesthetic record, and QoL was measured using the University of Washington 
Quality of Life Questionnaire (UW-QoL). Responses to questionnaires were 
received from (71%) at baseline (63%) at 6 months (73%) at 1 year, and (65%) 18 
months or longer. Past medical history was associated with lower ASA scores. At 
baseline both history and ASA scores were related to the UW-QoL. Longitudinally 
patients in ASA grade 1 or with no past history scored better in these UW-QoL 
domains. Past history did not predict survival (P = 0.83), nor did the UW-QoL 
composite score (P = 0.30), whilst ASA was associated with crude survival (P = 
0.003) and disease-specific survival (P = 0.03). When analyses were stratified 
for adjuvant radiotherapy, type of operation, size of tumour, and age then the 
relation to ASA was maintained and trends in the past history and UW-QoL 
remained not significant. ASA, which is often recorded as part of preoperative 
assessment, reflects both survival and health-related QoL, and is more useful 
than past history alone for predicting outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjoms.2004.03.007
PMID: 15749214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Haematologica. 2005 Mar;90(3):391-9.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia: novel prognostic factors and their relevance for 
risk-adapted therapeutic strategies.

Montillo M(1), Hamblin T, Hallek M, Montserrat E, Morra E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Niguarda Ca' Granda Hospital, Milan, Italy. 
ematologia@ospedaleniguarda.it

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Many years ago it was established that prompt 
treatment of early stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the stage at which 
almost two-thirds of CLL patients present, has no benefit over a management of 
watching and waiting, then treating progression. However, this fact was based on 
series treated ineffectually with chlorambucil, which were not stratified 
according to prognostic markers.
DESIGN AND METHODS: The prognosis and clinical course of CLL are heterogeneous. 
While some patients may have a normal life expectancy without requiring 
treatment, others die of drug-resistant disease as early as within two years of 
presentation. However, unlike the situation in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, there is 
no standard Prognostic Index that can be used to group patients with CLL 
according to likely outcome or to guide treatment.
RESULTS: A number of clinical and biological factors of prognostic relevance, 
which may add to the classical assessment provided by the staging systems, have 
been identified. These include clinical characteristics, such as age, gender and 
performance status, and laboratory parameters reflecting the tumor burden or 
disease activity, such as lymphocyte count, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 
increase, bone marrow infiltration pattern or lymphocyte doubling time. Recently 
more informative prognostic parameters have been identified: serum markers such 
as soluble CD23, b2-microglobulin or thymidine kinase and genetic markers of 
tumor cells, such as genomic aberrations, gene abnormalities (p53, ATM), the 
mutation status of the variable segments of the immunoglobulin heavy chain genes 
(IGVH) or surrogate markers for these factors, such as CD38 and ZAP-70.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: From the clinician's perspective the importance 
of this new knowledge is how it affects treatment. It is now possible to produce 
molecular remissions even in advanced disease using combinations of purine 
analogs and monoclonal antibodies. Moreover, potentially curative therapeutic 
modalities such as autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation are 
