BACKGROUND: Though primary care patients commonly present with rectal bleeding, 
the optimal evaluation strategy remains unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of four diagnostic strategies in 
the evaluation of rectal bleeding.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov decision model.
DATA SOURCES: Systematic review of the literature, Medicare reimbursement data, 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Cancer Registry.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients over age 40 with otherwise asymptomatic rectal 
bleeding.
TIME HORIZON: The patient's lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Modified societal perspective.
INTERVENTIONS: Watchful waiting, flexible sigmoidoscopy, flexible sigmoidoscopy 
followed by air contrast barium enema (FS+ACBE), and colonoscopy.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
colonoscopy compared with flexible sigmoidoscopy was 5,480 dollars per 
quality-adjusted year of life saved (QALY). Watchful waiting and FS+ACBE were 
more expensive and less effective than colonoscopy.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSES: The cost of colonoscopy was reduced to 1,686 
dollars per QALY when age at entry was changed to 45. Watchful waiting became 
the least expensive strategy when community procedure charges replaced Medicare 
costs, when age at entry was maximized to 80, or when the prevalence of polyps 
was lowered to 7%, but the remaining strategies provided greater life expectancy 
at relatively low cost. The strategy of FS+ACBE remained more expensive and less 
effective in all analyses. In the remaining sensitivity analyses, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of colonoscopy compared with flexible 
sigmoidoscopy never rose above 34,000 dollars.
CONCLUSIONS: Colonoscopy is a cost-effective method to evaluate otherwise 
asymptomatic rectal bleeding, with a low cost per QALY compared to other 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.40077.x
PMCID: PMC1490043
PMID: 15693933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2005 Mar;18(1):113-28. doi: 
10.1016/j.beha.2004.08.017.

Conventional allograft and autograft in low grade lymphoma.

Avivi I(1), Goldstone AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Rambam Medical 
Center, P.O. Box 9602, Haifa 31096, Israel. i_avivi@rambam.health.gov.il

In low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), while conventional chemotherapy does 
increase progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) has not been 
improved by the newer chemotherapies and advanced indolent NHL remains 
essentially incurable without allogeneic bone marrow transplant. High dose 
therapy (HDT) followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) aims to 
eradicate residual tumour cells. Nevertheless, it is still unclear if despite 
extending PFS it prolongs OS. However, even if ASCT does so, it does not 
guarantee cure and the majority of patients will eventually relapse. There is 
accumulating evidence that by using a non-contaminated graft (obtained with stem 
cell purging), OS does improve. However, data from prospective randomised trials 
comparing purged versus unpurged autografts is awaited. Nevertheless, allogeneic 
stem cell transplantation (Allo SCT) appears to provide the best/highest chances 
for cure, providing a non-contaminated graft along with a graft versus lymphoma 
(GVL) effect. However, the procedure is age limited due to its high toxicity, 
(especially in patients over 50 years), limiting this procedure to younger 
patients whose life expectancy due to disease is short. Reduced intensity SCT 
may therefore be a reasonable approach in younger patients with advanced 
disease, allowing a GVL effect with less toxicity compared with conventional 
allograft. However, data is still limited and follow-up in the majority of 
studies is relatively short, highlighting the need for longer follow-up to 
establish the role of reduced intensity SCT in low grade lymphoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beha.2004.08.017
PMID: 15694188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Curr Biol. 2005 Feb 8;15(3):267-70. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2005.01.036.

Sexual cooperation: mating increases longevity in ant queens.

Schrempf A(1), Heinze J, Cremer S.

Author information:
(1)Biologie I, Universität Regensburg, Universitätsstrasse 31, D-93040 
Regensburg, Germany.

Divergent reproductive interests of males and females often cause sexual 
conflict . Males of many species manipulate females by transferring seminal 
fluids that boost female short-term fecundity while decreasing their life 
expectancy and future reproductivity . The life history of ants, however, is 
expected to reduce sexual conflict; whereas most insect females show repeated 
phases of mating and reproduction, ant queens mate only during a short period 
early in life and undergo a lifelong commitment to their mates by storing sperm 
. Furthermore, sexual offspring can only be reared after a sterile worker force 
has been built up . Therefore, the males should also profit from a long female 
lifespan. In the ant Cardiocondyla obscurior, mating indeed has a positive 
effect on the lifetime reproductive success of queens. Queens that mated to 
either one fertile or one sterilized male lived considerably longer and started 
laying eggs earlier than virgin queens. Only queens that received viable sperm 
from fertile males showed increased fecundity. The lack of a trade-off between 
fecundity and longevity is unexpected, given evolutionary theories of aging . 
Our data instead reveal the existence of sexual cooperation in ants.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2005.01.036
PMID: 15694312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Int J Med Inform. 2005 Mar;74(2-4):79-87. doi:
10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2004.07.006.

Extending the GEM model to support knowledge extraction from textual guidelines.

Georg G(1), Séroussi B, Bouaud J.

Author information:
(1)SPIM, Inserm ERM 202, Université Paris 6, 15 Rue de l'Ecole de Médecine, 
F-75006 Paris, France. gersende.georg@spim.jussieu.fr

Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPGs) are being developed as a tool to promote 
best practice in medicine. However, the diffusion of paper guidelines has been 
shown to only have a limited impact. This is why computerization of CPGs has 
recently been suggested as a means to improve their dissemination as well as 
physicians' compliance. The Guideline Elements Model (GEM) has been proposed to 
facilitate the encoding of CPGs and support the automatic processing of 
marked-up documents. In this paper, we explore the automatic generation of a 
rule base from a textual guideline using GEM. In this study, we propose an 
extension of the GEM model that introduces additional levels of structuring 
centered on decision variables. This allows a more efficient representation of 
the decision processes, which supports the automatic generation of decision 
rules from textual guidelines. The 1999 Canadian recommendations for the 
management of hypertension have been marked-up as a GEM-encoded instance of our 
extended DTD. We derived a rule base using an XML parser to extract the relevant 
elements to instantiate the IF and THEN clauses of decision rules. The rule base 
automatically generated compares favourably with the manual generation of 
decision rules in the ASTI project. This approach is an interesting case study 
in the computerization of CPGs, as it illustrates processing steps that are 
relevant to the various aspects of CPGs life-cycle, from production to 
consultation and use.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2004.07.006
PMID: 15694612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Am J Med. 2005 Feb;118(2):198-9; author reply 199. doi: 
10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.08.026.

How can modeling best contribute to the assessment of secondary stroke 
prevention strategies?

Matchar DB, Samsa GP.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 2004 Jun 15;116(12):797-806.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.08.026
PMID: 15694909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Am J Med. 2005 Feb;118(2):199-200; author reply 200. doi: 
10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.11.013.

Creative cost-effectiveness analysis of CAPRIE data- dust in our eyes.

Eriksson P.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 2004 Jun 15;116(12):797-806.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.11.013
PMID: 15694910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2005 Jan-Feb;39(1):33-8.

Outcomes of patients with atherosclerotic upper extremity tissue loss.

Zhang WW(1), Harris LM, Shenoy SS, Hassett JM, Wall LP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University 
at Buffalo, State University of New York 14209, USA.

Severe ischemia of the upper extremity causing tissue necrosis occurs much less 
frequently than in the lower extremity. The clinical outcome of patients 
diagnosed with digital nonhealing ulcer or gangrene is largely unknown. A 
retrospective review of patients with upper extremity tissue loss was performed. 
Patients with ischemia from embolic disease, steal syndromes, and vasospastic or 
connective tissue disorders were excluded. Thirteen patients with upper 
extremity ischemic gangrene and/or nonhealing ulcers were treated from January 
1995 to June 2002. Comorbid conditions included diabetes mellitus in 10 patients 
and renal failure in 11 patients. Five patients developed bilateral upper 
extremity ischemia during the period of evaluation, while 8 had unilateral 
involvement. Nine patients had dry gangrene of a digit, 5 had nonhealing ulcers, 
and 1 patient developed wet gangrene from an ischemic ulcer. All 13 patients 
received local wound care and medical treatment with anticoagulants, calcium 
channel blockers, or antiplatelet agents. Ischemic lesions healed in 3 of the 5 
patients with conservative management. Surgical intervention was performed on 6 
patients with dry gangrene, and the patient with wet gangrene underwent 
amputation of the hand (53.8%). Two patients underwent sympathectomy without 
improvement. In the remaining 3 patients, tissue loss remained stable. Seven 
patients died within 2 years of presentation with upper extremity ischemia, with 
a survival at 24 months of only 14% by lifetable analysis. The local outcome of 
severe upper extremity ischemia is generally favorable, with good response to 
either medical management or digit amputation. However, the life expectancy of 
the patients with upper extremity ischemia from true atherosclerotic disease is 
dismal. Therefore, surgical intervention should be reserved for infection 
control or pain relief only.

PMID: 15696246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Rev Neurol. 2005 Jan 1-15;40(1):54-60.

[Non-surgical potentially reversible dementias].

[Article in Spanish]

Santos-Franco JA(1), Barquet-Platón EI, Mercado-Pimentel R, Ortiz-Velázquez RI, 
Cardona-Cabrera S, Otero-Siliceo E.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía 
Manuel Velasco Suárez, México DF, México. jorge_santos@correo.unam.mx

AIMS: In this study, we review dementias that are potentially reversible. The 
paper summarises the causes that essentially require management by medical 
means, while causes of a surgical nature will be dealt with in a second article. 
These papers attempt to avoid mistaken diagnoses and labels in patients with a 
high potential to improve their cognitive disorder and to guide us towards a 
more suitable management.
DEVELOPMENT: Dementia is a public health problem, mainly in countries with long 
life expectancy. It has an incidence of 3-11% in patients over the age of 65, 
and 20-50% in those over 85 years old. Most of them (50-70%) have Alzheimer-type 
dementia, followed by the vascular type (20%); there is a smaller percentage of 
cases of the so-called subcortical dementias and also those secondary to medical 
and/or surgical conditions that suggest potential reversibility. These latter 
cases are not easy to recognise and their incidence, depending on the series, 
ranges from 0 to 37%. Once they have been diagnosed, it is still difficult to 
state whether they will in fact turn out to be reversible. Their most common 
causes, such as deficiencies, metabolic disorders, chronic diseases, toxins, and 
so on, must be detected as early as possible, which can be done by means of 
clinical observation and use of the laboratory.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the potential to improve in patients with a diagnosis of 
reversible dementia is still subject to discussion, this brief review guides us 
in the search for their causes and their management, since late detection and 
management are very likely to be the cause of a poor progression.

PMID: 15696427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Ugeskr Laeger. 2005 Jan 10;167(2):166-8.

[Social differences in expected lifetime spent in good health in Copenhagen].

[Article in Danish]

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Iburg KM, Andersen O, Lissau I, Saelan H, Rasmussen NK.

Author information:
(1)Statens Institut for Folkesundhed, World Health Organization, Regional Office 
for Europe, København, Danmarks Statistik. hbh@niph.dk

PMID: 15697128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2005 Mar;6(1):29-32. doi: 10.1016/j.prrv.2004.11.005.

Some chronic obstructive pulmonary disease will originate in neonatal intensive 
care units.

Bentham JR(1), Shaw NJ.

Author information:
(1)Neonatal Unit, Liverpool Women's Hospital, Liverpool L8 7SS, UK.

Chronic lung disease is the most common adverse outcome in survivors of 
prematurity. These infants experience frequent hospitalisation because of 
respiratory-related illness in their first year, as well as persistent cough, 
wheeze and oxygen dependence. Although the severity of respiratory illness 
decreases and supplemental oxygen is needed less as their lungs mature, 
childhood is still complicated by persistent wheeze, cough and reduced exercise 
tolerance in comparison with their peers. Although there is little longitudinal 
follow-up data beyond adolescence, imaging studies suggest that these infants 
are highly likely to suffer with respiratory problems akin to chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease in later adulthood. The nature of their long-term 
respiratory problems, the impact of cigarette smoking and the effect on life 
expectancy are all unanswered questions that need addressing as these infants 
grow up.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prrv.2004.11.005
PMID: 15698812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. J Clin Oncol. 2005 Apr 1;23(10):2130-5. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.03.134. Epub
2005  Feb 7.

The effect of low molecular weight heparin on survival in patients with advanced 
malignancy.

Klerk CP(1), Smorenburg SM, Otten HM, Lensing AW, Prins MH, Piovella F, Prandoni 
P, Bos MM, Richel DJ, van Tienhoven G, Büller HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Center F4-139, Meibergdreef 
9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands. c.p.klerk@amc.uva.nl

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2005 Apr 1;23(10):2119-20.

PURPOSE: Studies in cancer patients with venous thromboembolism suggested that 
low molecular weight heparin may prolong survival. In a double-blind study, we 
evaluated the effect of low molecular weight heparin on survival in patients 
with advanced malignancy without venous thromboembolism.
METHODS: Patients with metastasized or locally advanced solid tumors were 
randomly assigned to receive a 6-week course of subcutaneous nadroparin or 
placebo. The primary efficacy analysis was based on time from random assignment 
to death. The primary safety outcome was major bleeding.
RESULTS: In total, 148 patients were allocated to nadroparin and 154 patients 
were allocated to placebo. Mean follow-up was 1 year. In the intention-to-treat 
analysis the overall hazard ratio of mortality was 0.75 (95% CI, 0.59 to 0.96) 
with a median survival of 8.0 months in the nadroparin recipients versus 6.6 
months in the placebo group. After adjustment for potential confounders, the 
treatment effect remained statistically significant. Major bleeding occurred in 
five (3%) of nadroparin-treated patients and in one (1%) of the placebo 
recipients (P = .12). In the a priori specified subgroup of patients with a life 
expectancy of 6 months or more at enrollment, the hazard ratio was 0.64 (95% CI, 
0.45 to 0.90) with a median survival of 15.4 and 9.4 months, respectively. For 
patients with a shorter life expectancy, the hazard ratio was 0.88 (95% CI, 0.62 
to 1.25).
CONCLUSION: A brief course of subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin 
favorably influences the survival in patients with advanced malignancy and 
deserves additional clinical evaluation.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.03.134
PMID: 15699479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 2005;8(1):22-30. doi:
10.1038/sj.pcan.4500772.

The impact of age and comorbidity on survival outcomes and treatment patterns in 
prostate cancer.

Hall WH(1), Jani AB, Ryu JK, Narayan S, Vijayakumar S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, UC Davis Cancer Center, University of 
California, Davis, 4501 X Street, Sacramento, CA 95817, USA.

The management of localized prostate cancer is based on stage, grade, PSA, and 
subjective assessment of comorbidity and life expectancy. Over the last 15 y, 
stage migration and the improved use of Gleason sum, PSA and TNM staging have 
led to many treatment options for patients with newly diagnosed localized 
prostate cancer. At the same time, advances in treatment techniques have helped 
decrease the long-term complications of surgery and radiotherapy. However, the 
importance of age and comorbidity, in survival outcomes and treatment 
decision-making has been largely overlooked. Currently, stage, grade, and PSA 
are the only quantifiable variables consistently used in research and treatment 
decision-making. Comorbidity and life expectancy have remained largely 
subjective variables. Increasing longevity and a rapidly aging population have 
made age and comorbidity increasingly important factors in clinical research and 
treatment decision-making. This article reviews the importance of age and 
comorbidity on treatment decisions and survival outcomes in prostate cancer, as 
well as their use as objectively quantifiable variables. Examples from the 
general oncology literature are given. The overview also examines validated 
comorbidity indices and advocates the use of the Charlson Comorbidity Index 
(CCI) in research outcomes and treatment decision-making in prostate cancer. 
Several clinical vignettes are provided to demonstrate the potential clinical 
utility of the CCI as applied to prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.pcan.4500772
PMID: 15700051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. J Comput Biol. 2004;11(5):787-99. doi: 10.1089/cmb.2004.11.787.

A new scoring function and associated statistical significance for structure 
alignment by CE.

Jia Y(1), Dewey TG, Shindyalov IN, Bourne PE.

Author information:
(1)Keck Graduate Institute of Applied Life Sciences, 535 Watson Drive, 
Claremont, CA 91711, USA.

A new scoring function for assessing the statistical significance of protein 
structure alignment has been developed. The new scores were tested empirically 
using the combinatorial extension (CE) algorithm. The significance of a given 
score was given a p-value by curve-fitting the distribution of the scores 
generated by a random comparison of proteins taken from the PDB_SELECT database 
and the structural classification of proteins (SCOP) database. Although the 
scoring function was developed based on the CE algorithm, it is portable to any 
other protein structure alignment algorithm. The new scoring function is 
examined by sensitivity, specificity, and ROC curves.

DOI: 10.1089/cmb.2004.11.787
PMID: 15700402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. JAMA. 2005 Feb 9;293(6):699-706. doi: 10.1001/jama.293.6.699.

Costs and effectiveness of ximelagatran for stroke prophylaxis in chronic atrial 
fibrillation.

O'Brien CL(1), Gage BF.

Author information:
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Mo 63110, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2005 Feb 9;293(6):736-9.
    JAMA. 2005 Jun 15;293(23):2860-1; author reply 2861.

CONTEXT: Recent trials have found that ximelagatran and warfarin are equally 
effective in stroke prevention for patients with atrial fibrillation. Because 
ximelagatran can be taken in a fixed, oral dose without international normalized 
ratio monitoring and may have a lower risk of hemorrhage, it might improve 
quality-adjusted survival compared with dose-adjusted warfarin.
OBJECTIVE: To compare quality-adjusted survival and cost among 3 alternative 
therapies for patients with chronic atrial fibrillation: ximelagatran, warfarin, 
and aspirin.
DESIGN: Semi-Markov decision model.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of 70-year-old patients with chronic atrial 
fibrillation, varying risk of stroke, and no contraindications to 
anticoagulation therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and costs in US 
dollars.
RESULTS: For patients with atrial fibrillation but no additional risk factors 
for stroke, both ximelagatran and warfarin cost more than 50,000 dollars per 
QALY compared with aspirin. For patients with additional stroke risk factors and 
low hemorrhage risk, ximelagatran modestly increased quality-adjusted survival 
(0.12 QALY) at a substantial cost (116,000 dollars per QALY) compared with 
warfarin. For ximelagatran to cost less than 50,000 dollars per QALY it would 
have to cost less than 1100 dollars per year or be prescribed to patients who 
have an elevated risk of intracranial hemorrhage (>1.0% per year of warfarin) or 
a low quality of life with warfarin therapy.
CONCLUSION: Assuming equal effectiveness in stroke prevention and decreased 
hemorrhage risk, ximelagatran is not likely to be cost-effective in patients 
with atrial fibrillation unless they have a high risk of intracranial hemorrhage 
or a low quality of life with warfarin.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.293.6.699
PMID: 15701911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Forum Nutr. 2005;(57):147-56. doi: 10.1159/000083787.

Vegetarian diets: what are the advantages?

Leitzmann C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutritional Sciences, University of Giessen, Giessen, Germany. 
claus.leitzmann@ernaehrung.uni-giessen.de

A growing body of scientific evidence indicates that wholesome vegetarian diets 
offer distinct advantages compared to diets containing meat and other foods of 
animal origin. The benefits arise from lower intakes of saturated fat, 
cholesterol and animal protein as well as higher intakes of complex 
carbohydrates, dietary fiber, magnesium, folic acid, vitamin C and E, 
carotenoids and other phytochemicals. Since vegetarians consume widely divergent 
diets, a differentiation between various types of vegetarian diets is necessary. 
Indeed, many contradictions and misunderstandings concerning vegetarianism are 
due to scientific data from studies without this differentiation. In the past, 
vegetarian diets have been described as being deficient in several nutrients 
including protein, iron, zinc, calcium, vitamin B12 and A, n-3 fatty acids and 
iodine. Numerous studies have demonstrated that the observed deficiencies are 
usually due to poor meal planning. Well-balanced vegetarian diets are 
appropriate for all stages of the life cycle, including children, adolescents, 
pregnant and lactating women, the elderly and competitive athletes. In most 
cases, vegetarian diets are beneficial in the prevention and treatment of 
certain diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, 
cancer, osteoporosis, renal disease and dementia, as well as diverticular 
disease, gallstones and rheumatoid arthritis. The reasons for choosing a 
vegetarian diet often go beyond health and well-being and include among others 
economical, ecological and social concerns. The influences of these aspects of 
vegetarian diets are the subject of the new field of nutritional ecology that is 
concerned with sustainable life styles and human development.

DOI: 10.1159/000083787
PMID: 15702597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Clin Exp Hypertens. 2004 Oct-Nov;26(7-8):731-8. doi: 10.1081/ceh-200032144.

Current status of hypertension control around the world.

Erdine S(1), Aran SN.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Cerrahpasa Medical School, University of Istanbul, 
Istanbul, Turkey. eserdine@superonline.com

It is well established that hypertension is an important risk factor for 
cardiovascular disease. Data from epidemiological and observational studies have 
demonstrated increasing risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, cardiovascular 
death and all cause mortality associated with high blood pressure. Despite the 
significance of the problem with respect to overall health, control of high 
blood pressure is far from being optimal. Data from the National Health and 
Nutrition Survey have shown that those achieving target blood pressure values 
less than 140/90 mmHg are only 34% of the hypertensive population. The situation 
is no better in the rest of the world and even worse in the developing 
countries. Epidemiological transition taking place in developing countries with 
a decline in communicable diseases and an increase in noncommunicable have 
resulted in an improvement in life expectancy, thus causing predictable shifts 
in causes of death. Aging of the populations, urbanization and socioeconomic 
changes in the developing world have led to an increase in the prevalence of 
hypertension, with low control rates due to scarce health resources and 
insufficient health infrastructure. Thus prevention, detection, treatment and 
control of hypertension play a crucial role in protection of cardiovascular 
disease, not only in the developed countries but also in the developing world 
and implementation of hypertension guidelines should be reinforced around the 
world.

DOI: 10.1081/ceh-200032144
PMID: 15702628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2005 Jan;54(1):26-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.ancard.2004.11.003.

[Pacemaker longevity. Replacement of the device].

[Article in French]

Deharo JC(1), Djiane P.

Author information:
(1)Unité de rythmologie, département de cardiologie, hôpital Timone Adultes, 
263, rue Saint-Pierre, 13385 Marseille cedex 05, France. 
jean-claude.deharo@ap-hm.fr

Life expectancy of patients implanted with cardiac pacemakers has largely 
increased, so that generator replacement is becoming an important part of the 
activity in most of the implanting centers. In more than 70% of the cases, the 
indication for pacemaker replacement is normal battery depletion. Since the new 
devices are more and more sophisticated and smaller, longevity optimization 
becomes a real challenge. The main determinant of pacemaker longevity is the 
output programmed for the pulse generator. It mainly depends on the output 
voltage and duration settings. The pacing impedance and the percentage of time 
with pacing are other major determinants of pacemaker longevity. Each 
manufacturer provides specific policy but the battery voltage and internal 
impedance are the more accurate and easy-to-obtain battery depletion parameters. 
The magnet rate is still frequently used but is less valuable since it can drop 
abruptly at the end of battery life. The complication rate of pacemaker 
replacement is three-fold higher than the one of first implant. Infections, skin 
erosions and lead related complications are not uncommon. The replacement should 
be systematically preceded by the checking of several points including the 
patient's pacemaker dependency, the necessity to replace or extract one or 
several leads, the venous system status, the compatibility between the new 
generator and the leads and the necessity to upgrade the pacing system or to 
change the pacemaker pocket.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ancard.2004.11.003
PMID: 15702908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2004;3(2):61-6. doi: 
10.2165/00148365-200403020-00001.

Should we maximise QALYs? : a debate with respect to peak-end evaluation.

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care and Department of Social Policy, London School of 
Economics and Political Science, London, UK. a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

DOI: 10.2165/00148365-200403020-00001
PMID: 15702942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2004;3(2):79-89. doi: 
10.2165/00148365-200403020-00004.

The use of probabilistic decision models in technology assessment : the case of 
total hip replacement.

Briggs A(1), Sculpher M, Dawson J, Fitzpatrick R, Murray D, Malchau H.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Old Road Campus, Headington, Oxford, UK. andrew.briggs@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

There is increasing recognition that decision modelling is central to health 
technology assessment and, in particular, to analyses to support formal decision 
making regarding the funding of the use of new technologies. In part, the key 
role of decision analysis stems from the need to handle multiple sources of 
uncertainty in the available evidence. The use of probabilistic decision 
analysis is a means of reflecting the parameter uncertainty in models and 
presenting this in a comprehensible manner to decision makers. In this article, 
we demonstrate the potential role of probabilistic models using the case study 
of total hip replacement surgery.A cost-effectiveness model was constructed to 
compare the Charnley and Spectron hip prostheses in terms of lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Revision rates were estimated from the 
Swedish National Total Hip Arthroplasty Register (1992-2000); the risk of 
revision with the Spectron prosthesis relative to the Charnley prosthesis was 
0.67 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.32, 1.02) for early revisions and 0.26 (95% 
CI 0.07, 0.46) for late revisions. This lower revision risk resulted in the 
Spectron generating more QALYs than the Charnley prosthesis. Based on mean costs 
and QALYs, the Spectron results in cost savings in younger patients, and 
generates incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of between pound1000 and pound16 
000 in older patient groups. The probabilistic results from the model indicated 
that, if it is assumed that decision makers are willing to pay up to pound20 000 
per additional QALY, the probability of the Spectron being the more 
cost-effective prosthesis ranged between 70% and 100%, depending on the age and 
sex of the patient.This article looks at the application of probabilistic 
decision modelling using total hip replacement as a case study to emphasis the 
need for decision models to quantify all sources of parameter uncertainty and to 
clearly distinguish parameter uncertainty from subgroup heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.2165/00148365-200403020-00004
PMID: 15702945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. N Engl J Med. 2005 Feb 10;352(6):570-85. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa042657.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for HIV in the era of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy.

Sanders GD(1), Bayoumi AM, Sundaram V, Bilir SP, Neukermans CP, Rydzak CE, 
Douglass LR, Lazzeroni LC, Holodniy M, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, NC 27715, USA. 
gillian.sanders@duke.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Feb 10;352(6):620-1.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 May 19;352(20):2137-9; author reply 2137-9.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 May 19;352(20):2137-9; author reply 2137-9.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 May 19;352(20):2137-9; author reply 2137-9.

BACKGROUND: The costs, benefits, and cost-effectiveness of screening for human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in health care settings during the era of highly 
active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) have not been determined.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model of costs, quality of life, and survival 
associated with an HIV-screening program as compared with current practice. In 
both strategies, symptomatic patients were identified through symptom-based case 
finding. Identified patients started treatment when their CD4 count dropped to 
350 cells per cubic millimeter. Disease progression was defined on the basis of 
CD4 levels and viral load. The likelihood of sexual transmission was based on 
viral load, knowledge of HIV status, and efficacy of counseling.
RESULTS: Given a 1 percent prevalence of unidentified HIV infection, screening 
increased life expectancy by 5.48 days, or 4.70 quality-adjusted days, at an 
estimated cost of 194 dollars per screened patient, for a cost-effectiveness 
ratio of 15,078 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year. Screening cost less than 
50,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year if the prevalence of unidentified 
HIV infection exceeded 0.05 percent. Excluding HIV transmission, the 
cost-effectiveness of screening was 41,736 dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year. Screening every five years, as compared with a one-time screening 
program, cost 57,138 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year, but was more 
attractive in settings with a high incidence of infection. Our results were 
sensitive to the efficacy of behavior modification, the benefit of early 
identification and therapy, and the prevalence and incidence of HIV infection.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of routine HIV screening in health care 
settings, even in relatively low-prevalence populations, is similar to that of 
commonly accepted interventions, and such programs should be expanded.

Copyright 2005 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa042657
PMID: 15703422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. N Engl J Med. 2005 Feb 10;352(6):586-95. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa042088.

Expanded screening for HIV in the United States--an analysis of 
cost-effectiveness.

Paltiel AD(1), Weinstein MC, Kimmel AD, Seage GR 3rd, Losina E, Zhang H, 
Freedberg KA, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Conn 06520-8034, USA. david.paltiel@yale.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Feb 10;352(6):620-1.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 May 19;352(20):2137-9; author reply 2137-9.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 May 19;352(20):2137-9; author reply 2137-9.

BACKGROUND: Although the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
recommend routine HIV counseling, testing, and referral (HIVCTR) in settings 
with at least a 1 percent prevalence of HIV, roughly 280,000 Americans are 
unaware of their human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. The effect of 
expanded screening for HIV is unknown in the era of effective antiretroviral 
therapy.
METHODS: We developed a computer simulation model of HIV screening and treatment 
to compare routine, voluntary HIVCTR with current practice in three target 
populations: "high-risk" (3.0 percent prevalence of undiagnosed HIV infection; 
1.2 percent annual incidence); "CDC threshold" (1.0 percent and 0.12 percent, 
respectively); and "U.S. general" (0.1 percent and 0.01 percent). Input data 
were derived from clinical trials and observational cohorts. Outcomes included 
quality-adjusted survival, cost, and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: In the high-risk population, the addition of one-time screening for HIV 
antibodies with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to current practice 
was associated with earlier diagnosis of HIV (mean CD4 cell count at diagnosis, 
210 vs. 154 per cubic millimeter). One-time screening also improved average 
survival time among HIV-infected patients (quality-adjusted survival, 220.7 
months vs. 219.8 months). The incremental cost-effectiveness was 36,000 dollars 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained. Testing every five years cost 50,000 
dollars per quality-adjusted life-year gained, and testing every three years 
cost 63,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year gained. In the CDC threshold 
population, the cost-effectiveness ratio for one-time screening with ELISA was 
38,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year gained, whereas testing every five 
years cost 71,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year gained, and testing 
every three years cost 85,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year gained. In 
the U.S. general population, one-time screening cost 113,000 dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: In all but the lowest-risk populations, routine, voluntary 
screening for HIV once every three to five years is justified on both clinical 
and cost-effectiveness grounds. One-time screening in the general population may 
also be cost-effective.

Copyright 2005 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa042088
PMID: 15703423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. N Engl J Med. 2005 Feb 10;352(6):620-1. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe048347.

Routine screening for HIV infection--timely and cost-effective.

Bozzette SA.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Feb 10;352(6):570-85.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Feb 10;352(6):586-95.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe048347
PMID: 15703428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Epidemiology. 2005 Mar;16(2):226-32. doi:
10.1097/01.ede.0000152904.95284.0f.

Mental vulnerability as a predictor of early mortality.

Eplov LF(1), Jørgensen T, Birket-Smith M, Segel S, Johansen C, Mortensen EL.

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen County Research Centre for Prevention and Health, Glostrup 
University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark. Flagaard@dadlnet.dk

BACKGROUND: Studies have demonstrated that mental vulnerability (ie, a tendency 
to experience psychosomatic symptoms or inadequate interpersonal interactions) 
is associated with various diseases. The objective of our study is to evaluate 
whether mental vulnerability is a risk factor for early mortality.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective cohort study of 3 random samples of the 
population in Copenhagen County, Denmark selected in 1976, 1982-1984, and 1991 
(n = 6435). Baseline data collection included measures of mental vulnerability, 
social factors, comorbidity, biologic risk markers (eg, blood pressure, lipid 
levels), and lifestyle factors. We determined vital status of the study sample 
through linkage to the Civil Registration System until 2001 and to the Cause of 
Death Registry until 1998. The mean follow-up time was 15.9 years for analysis 
of total mortality and 13.6 years for analysis of mortality as the result of 
natural causes. The association between mental vulnerability and survival was 
examined using Kaplan-Meir plots and Cox proportional-hazard models adjusting 
for possible confounding factors.
RESULTS: With respect to mental vulnerability, 79% of the sample was classified 
as not vulnerable, 13% as moderately vulnerable, and 8% as highly vulnerable. 
Compared with the nonvulnerable group, highly vulnerable persons showed 
increased total mortality (hazard ratio = 1.6; 95% confidence interval = 
1.3-1.9) and increased mortality from natural causes (1.6; 1.2-2.0). The 
inclusion of the mental vulnerability score as a continuous variable gave 
similar results.
CONCLUSIONS: Mental vulnerability may be an independent risk factor for 
premature mortality. The biologic mechanisms that may underlie this association 
need further exploration.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ede.0000152904.95284.0f
PMID: 15703538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2004 Jan;20(1):43-8. doi: 
10.1097/00001574-200401000-00009.

Colorectal cancer in inflammatory bowel disease.

Krok KL(1), Lichtenstein GR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Diseases, Division of Gastroenterology, 
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, University of Pennsylvania School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-4283, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Patients with inflammatory bowel disease, either Crohn 
disease or ulcerative colitis, are at an increased risk for developing 
colorectal carcinoma.
RECENT FINDINGS: Surveillance colonoscopy, although never formally evaluated in 
a prospective controlled trial, is performed in an effort to reduce this risk. 
Novel methods of detecting dysplasia are constantly being evaluated, including 
chromoendoscopy and biomarkers of carcinoma, in an attempt to stratify patients 
who are at a higher risk of developing high-grade dysplasia or carcinoma.
SUMMARY: Because of the potential impact on quality of life and life expectancy, 
an optimal strategy for reducing the risk of developing colorectal cancer in 
patients with inflammatory bowel disease needs to be defined.

DOI: 10.1097/00001574-200401000-00009
PMID: 15703619


300. Health Stat Q. 2004 Autumn;(23):75-7.

Report: Healthy life expectancy in Great Britain: 2001.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15704386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Health Stat Q. 2004 Summer;(22):5-13.

Geographical comparisons of cancer survival indicators.

Rachet B(1), Riga M, Mitry E, Romanengo M, Quinn M, Cooper N, Coleman M.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

Cancer survival statistics are needed by health authorities (HAs) to develop 
local policies and manage resources optimally. Methodological issues can affect 
the interpretation of these and similar statistics. More reliable indicators of 
cancer survival are obtained by using regional life tables, rather than a single 
national life table, to take into account background mortality. As cancer 
survival varies widely with age, age standardisation is required to improve the 
comparability of survival rates in cancer patient groups with different age 
structures. The standards based on cases diagnosed in England and Wales during 
1986-1990 provide valuable continuity with earlier published results. Estimates 
of annual rates of change in survival (based on linear regression) together with 
their statistical significance, give reliable indications of trends.

PMID: 15704389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2005;105(1):61-4.

[Cognitive potential P300 in dementia with Levy's bodies and Alzheimer's 
disease].

[Article in Russian]

Koberskaia NN, Zenkov LR, Zakharov VV, Preobrazhenskaia IS.

Neurodegenerative diseases accompanied by cognitive impairment (dementia with 
Levy's bodies--DLB and Alzheimer's disease--AD) and others) are becoming more 
widespread due to increasing population life expectancy. The paper addresses use 
of cognitive event-related potential P300 to verbal and nonverbal stimuli with 
an assessment of interhemispheric asymmetry and topographic distribution of P300 
in patients with DLB and AD comparied to age-matched healthy controls. Specific 
alterations of P300 amplitude and latency suggest a use of cognitive 
event-related potential P300 in differential diagnosis of DLB and AD.

PMID: 15704487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Med Dent Sci. 2004 Dec;51(4):179-85.

Pilot study of using GIS to visualize health status distribution: case study of 
Songjiang District, Shanghai.

Fu H(1), Umezaki M, Nakamura K, Chen P, Chen J, Shi HJ, Takano T.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, PR China. 
hfu@shmu.edu.cn

The aim of this study was to investigate the geographic variation in mortality 
indicators in Songjiang District of Shanghai under rapid change with 
urbanization. Geographic Information System (GIS) was used to visualize the 
distributions of health status and to test the extent of spatial 
auto-correlation in the indictors. In 2001, total crude mortality was 
687/100,000 for the district; the rates for the townships (N=15) in the district 
ranged from 444/100,000 to 805/100,000. GIS maps indicated that the mortality 
was higher in the marginal areas of the district. Significant positive 
auto-correlations were found in total crude mortality rates, death rate for 
infectious diseases, and death rates for digestive diseases. The measures that 
consider intra-region inequality in health needs will be required in the regions 
under urbanization.

PMID: 15704654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Health Stat Q. 2004 Winter;(24):71-82.

Life expectancy at birth by local authorities in the United kingdom, 1991-1993 
and 2001-2003.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15704813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Int J Health Geogr. 2005 Feb 10;4(1):5. doi: 10.1186/1476-072X-4-5.

From wealth to health: modelling the distribution of income per capita at the 
sub-national level using night-time light imagery.

Ebener S(1), Murray C, Tandon A, Elvidge CC.

Author information:
(1)Evidence and Information for Policy, World Health Organization, Av, Appia 20, 
1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland. ebeners@who.int.

BACKGROUND: Sub-national figures providing information about the wealth of the 
population are useful in defining the spatial distribution of both economic 
activity and poverty within any given country. Furthermore, since several health 
indicators such as life expectancy are highly correlated with household welfare, 
sub-national figures allow for the estimation of the distribution of these 
health indicators within countries when direct measurement is difficult.We have 
developed methods that utilize spatially distributed information, including 
night-time light imagery and population to model the distribution of income per 
capita, as a proxy for wealth, at the country and sub-national level to support 
the estimation of the distribution of correlated health indicators. RESULTS: A 
first set of analysis are performed in order to propose a new global model for 
the prediction of income per capita at the country level. A second set of 
analysis is then confirming the possibility to transfer the country level 
approach to the sub-national level on a country by country basis before 
underlining the difficulties to create a global or regional models for the 
extrapolation of sub-national figures when no country data set exists. 
CONCLUSIONS: The methods described provide promising results for the 
extrapolation of national and sub-national income per capita figures. These 
results are then discussed in order to evaluate if the proposed methods could 
not represent an alternative approach for the generation of consistent country 
specific and/or global poverty maps disaggregated to some sub-national level.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-072X-4-5
PMCID: PMC549533
PMID: 15705196


306. Cardiol Rev. 2005 Mar-Apr;13(2):61-8. doi:
10.1097/01.crd.0000126082.86717.12.

Management of peripheral arterial disease.

Aronow WS(1).

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Cardiology and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, New York 
Medical College/Westchester Medical Center, Valhalla, NY 10595, USA. 
WSAronow@aol.com

Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) may be asymptomatic, may be associated with 
intermittent claudication, or may be associated with critical limb ischemia. 
Coronary artery disease (CAD) and other atherosclerotic vascular disorders may 
coexist with PAD. Persons with PAD are at increased risk for all-cause 
mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and mortality from CAD. Modifiable risk 
factors such as cessation of cigarette smoking and control of dyslipidemia, 
hypertension, and diabetes should be treated. Statins reduce the incidence of 
intermittent claudication and improve exercise duration until the onset of 
intermittent claudication in persons with PAD and hypercholesterolemia. 
Antiplatelet drugs such as aspirin or clopidogrel, especially clopidogrel, and 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should be given to all persons with 
PAD. beta-Blockers should be given if CAD is present. Exercise rehabilitation 
programs and cilostazol improve exercise time until intermittent claudication. 
Indications for lower-extremity angioplasty, preferably with stenting, or bypass 
surgery are 1) incapacitating claudication in persons interfering with work or 
lifestyle; 2) limb salvage in persons with limb-threatening ischemia as 
manifested by rest pain, nonhealing ulcers, and/or infection or gangrene; and 3) 
vasculogenic impotence. However, amputation should be performed if tissue loss 
has progressed beyond the point of salvage, if surgery is too risky, if life 
expectancy is very low, or if functional limitations diminish the benefit of 
limb salvage.

DOI: 10.1097/01.crd.0000126082.86717.12
PMID: 15705252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. BMJ. 2005 Feb 12;330(7487):326. doi: 10.1136/bmj.330.7487.326-d.

Canadian life expectancy varies greatly depending on ethnic origin.

Kermode-Scott B.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.330.7487.326-d
PMCID: PMC548761
PMID: 15705678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2005 Feb 15;30(4):E103-5. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000153704.92369.f7.

Central cord syndrome after total hip arthroplasty: a patient report.

Buchowski JM(1), Kebaish KM, Suk KS, Kostuik JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.

Erratum in
    Spine. 2005 Apr 1;30(7):845. Athanasou, Nicholas [removed]; Wheeler, Kate 
[removed].

STUDY DESIGN: Case report.
OBJECTIVE: To present a patient with central cord syndrome injury after total 
hip arthroplasty performed under general endotracheal anesthesia.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Central cord syndrome, a common injury usually 
sustained as a result of an extension injury to the cervical spine, often occurs 
in geriatric patients with underlying spondylotic changes. The injury results in 
weakness and sensory changes, which are more pronounced in the upper than in the 
lower extremities. Patients with this syndrome experience variable return of 
function, but some degree of residual deficit and spasticity is likely.
