97.4+/-2.6% at 30 days, 80.4+/-6.7% at 1 year, 73.2+/-7.8% at 2 years, and 
54.9+/-16.9% at 4 years. Patients with a poor clinical health status (ASA class 
> 3) had a significantly reduced life expectancy compared with patients with 
only moderate co-morbidities (ASA class </= 3) (1-year survival rate 28.6+/-17.1 
vs. 92.6+/-6.7%, P=0.0001). Multivariable analysis revealed that a poor clinical 
health status (ASA>3) pre-operatively (HR=29.5, 95% CI 1.5-581.9, P=0.026) and 
increased age (HR=1.1, 95% CI 0.9-1.2, P=0.084) were independent determinants of 
post-interventional mortality.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular stent-graft treatment is a safe alternative for 
patients with AD. The pre-operative clinical health status of the patient is the 
most important determinant of post-interventional outcome. Careful patient 
selection is thus of particular importance.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi099
PMID: 15673541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Med Decis Making. 2005 Jan-Feb;25(1):71-80. doi: 10.1177/0272989X04273139.

Impact of generic drug entry on cost-effectiveness analysis.

Shih YC(1), Han S, Cantor SB.

Author information:
(1)Section of Health Services Research, Department of Biostatistics and Applied 
Mathematics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 
77030-4009, USA. yashih@mdanderson.org

The market share of generic drugs has grown substantially since the passage of 
the Waxman-Hatch Act, increasing from 19% in 1984 to 50% in 2001. At entry, the 
generic drugs typically are priced lower than brand-name drugs; thus, 
incorporating the impact of the generic drug entry introduces an additional 
source of uncertainty in economic models as both the timing of entry and the 
level of generic drug pricing are subject to variation. In this article, the 
authors explored the impact of generic drug entry on cost-effectiveness analyses 
of new or brand-name drugs. Using a mathematical model, they argue that failure 
to incorporate the impact of generic drug entry will underestimate the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and, thus, overstate the economic 
benefit of the new product. The authors provide 2 examples to illustrate such 
impact on short-term and long-term cost-effectiveness analyses. To better assess 
the uncertainty associated with the impact of generic drug entry, in addition to 
a deterministic analysis, they also employed a Bayesian probabilistic approach 
to analyze these examples and presented the results using cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves. They conclude that incorporating generic drug entry into 
pharmacoeconomic models will yield more accurate projections of the ICER and 
lead to better decision making.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X04273139
PMID: 15673583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Med Decis Making. 2005 Jan-Feb;25(1):82-94. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05274523.

DEALE-ing with lung cancer and heart failure.

Sondhi M(1), Goffin JR, Cohen BJ, Wong JB, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Clinical Desicion Making, Tufts-New 
England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05274523
PMID: 15673585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nucleic Acids Res. 2005 Jan 26;33(2):525-35. doi: 10.1093/nar/gki178. Print 
2005.

In vitro synthesis of uniform poly(dG)-poly(dC) by Klenow exo- fragment of 
polymerase I.

Kotlyar AB(1), Borovok N, Molotsky T, Fadeev L, Gozin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences Ramat 
Aviv, 69978 Israel. s2shak@post.tau.ac.il

In this paper, we describe a production procedure of the one-to-one double 
helical complex of poly(dG)-poly(dC), characterized by a well-defined length (up 
to 10 kb) and narrow size distribution of molecules. Direct evidence of strands 
slippage during poly(dG)-poly(dC) synthesis by Klenow exo(-) fragment of 
polymerase I is obtained by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). We 
show that the polymer extension results in an increase in the separation 
distance between fluorescent dyes attached to 5' ends of the strands in time 
and, as a result, losing communication between the dyes via FRET. Analysis of 
the products of the early steps of the synthesis by high-performance liquid 
chromatography and mass spectroscopy suggest that only one nucleotide is added 
to each of the strand composing poly(dG)-poly(dC) in the elementary step of the 
polymer extension. We show that proper pairing of a base at the 3' end of the 
primer strand with a base in sequence of the template strand is required for 
initiation of the synthesis. If the 3' end nucleotide in either poly(dG) or 
poly(dC) strand is substituted for A, the polymer does not grow. Introduction of 
the T-nucleotide into the complementary strand to permit pairing with 
A-nucleotide results in the restoration of the synthesis. The data reported here 
correspond with a slippage model of replication, which includes the formation of 
loops on the 3' ends of both strands composing poly(dG)-poly(dC) and their 
migration over long-molecular distances (microm) to 5' ends of the strands.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gki178
PMCID: PMC548336
PMID: 15673713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. J Altern Complement Med. 2004 Dec;10(6):913-5. doi: 10.1089/acm.2004.10.913.

Why choice is more important for longevity than genetics, environment and 
circumstance.

Mendelssohn S.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2004.10.913
PMID: 15673983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2005 Jan 25;2005(1):CD002230. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD002230.pub2.

Phosphodiesterase III inhibitors for heart failure.

Amsallem E, Kasparian C, Haddour G, Boissel JP, Nony P.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD002230.

BACKGROUND: In the treatment of chronic heart failure, vasodilating agents, ACE 
inhibitors and beta-blockers have shown an increase of life expectancy. Another 
strategy is to increase the inotropic state of the myocardium : 
phosphodiesterase inhibitors (PDIs) act by increasing intra-cellular cyclic AMP, 
thereby increasing the concentration of intracellular calcium, and lead to a 
positive inotropic effect.
OBJECTIVES: This overview on summarised data aims to review the data from all 
randomised controlled trials of PDIs III versus placebo in symptomatic patients 
with chronic heart failure. The primary endpoint is total mortality. Secondary 
endpoints are considered such as cause-specific mortality, worsening of heart 
failure (requiring intervention), myocardial infarction, arrhythmias and 
vertigos. We also examine whether the therapeutic effect is consistent in the 
subgroups based on the use of concomitant vasodilators, the severity of heart 
failure, and the type of PDI derivative and/or molecule. This overview updates 
our previous meta-analysis published in 1994.
SEARCH STRATEGY: Randomised trials of PDIs versus placebo in heart failure were 
searched using MEDLINE (1966 to 2004 January), EMBASE (1980 to 2003 December), 
Cochrane CENTRAL trials (The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2004) and McMaster CVD 
trials registries, and through an exhaustive handsearching of international 
abstracting publications (abstracts published in the last 22 years in the 
"European Heart Journal", the "Journal of the American College of Cardiology" 
and "Circulation").
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised controlled trials of PDIs versus placebo with 
a follow-up duration of more than three months.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: 21 trials (8408 patients) were eligible for 
inclusion in the review. 4 specific PDI derivatives and 8 molecules of PDIs have 
been considered.
MAIN RESULTS: As compared with placebo, treatment with PDIs was found to be 
associated with a significant 17% increased mortality rate (The relative risk 
was 1.17 (95% confidence interval 1.06 to 1.30; p<0.001). In addition, PDIs 
significantly increase cardiac death, sudden death, arrhythmias and vertigos. 
Considering mortality from all causes, the deleterious effect of PDIs appears 
homogeneous whatever the concomitant use (or non-use) of vasodilating agents, 
the severity of heart failure, the derivative or the molecule of PDI used.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Our results confirm that PDIs are responsible for an 
increase in mortality rate compared with placebo in patients suffering from 
chronic heart failure. Currently available results do not support the hypothesis 
that the increased mortality rate is due to additional vasodilator treatment. 
Consequently, the chronic use of PDIs should be avoided in heart failure 
patients.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002230.pub2
PMCID: PMC8407097
PMID: 15674893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None known.


221. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Dec;1032:186-90. doi: 10.1196/annals.1314.017.

Effects of self-esteem on age-related changes in cognition and the regulation of 
the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.

Pruessner JC(1), Lord C, Meaney M, Lupien S.

Author information:
(1)Douglas Hospital Research Center, FBC 1137, 6875 Boulevard LaSalle, Montreal 
QC H4H 1R3, Canada. jens@bic.mni.mcgill.ca

Epidemiological studies have demonstrated the effects of self-esteem on global 
health and life expectancy in normal aging. Endocrinological studies in humans 
have demonstrated the effects of self-esteem on basal regulation and reactivity 
of the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis. To investigate the effects of 
differences in self-esteem on age-related changes in cognitive performance and 
HPA regulation, we investigated 20 healthy elderly subjects (age range 60-84, 
mean age 69.8 y). We assessed salivary cortisol levels together with 
neuropsychological assessment, and psychological assessment for self-esteem and 
locus of control. Across the study sample, age was significantly associated with 
reductions in cognitive performance and changes in basal cortisol regulation. 
Self-esteem appeared independent of age. Defining two groups of subjects with 
high and low self-esteem, age-related changes in cognitive and endocrinological 
variables became more prominent in the low self-esteem group, whereas age no 
longer had a significant impact on the variables in the high self-esteem group. 
These data suggest an effect of self-esteem on cognitive decline with aging. It 
further suggests an effect on age-related endocrine changes in humans. These 
results are discussed with regard to potential mechanisms by which the reported 
association between self-esteem and aging could be mediated.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1314.017
PMID: 15677407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Aging Phys Act. 2005 Jan;13(1):23-33. doi: 10.1123/japa.13.1.23.

Barriers to exercise behavior among older adults: a focus-group study.

Lees FD(1), Clarkr PG, Nigg CR, Newman P.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prevention Research Center, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, RI, 
USA.

Longer life expectancy, rapid population growth, and low exercise-participation 
rates of adults 65 and older justify the need for better understanding of older 
adults' exercise behavior. The objectives of this focus-group study were to 
determine barriers to the exercise behavior of older adults. Six focus groups, 
three with exercisers and three with nonexercisers, were conducted at various 
sites throughout Rhode Island. The majority (n = 57) of the 66 individuals who 
participated were women, and all stated that they were 65 and older. Results 
from the focus-group data identified 13 barriers to exercise behavior. The most 
significant barriers mentioned by nonexercisers were fear of falling, inertia, 
and negative affect. Exercisers identified inertia, time constraints, and 
physical ailments as being the most significant barriers to exercise. 
Implications from these focus-group data can be useful in the development of 
exercise interventions for older adults, which could increase exercise 
participation.

DOI: 10.1123/japa.13.1.23
PMID: 15677833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Case Manager. 2005 Jan-Feb;16(1):48-52; quiz 53. doi: 
10.1016/j.casemgr.2004.11.005.

Enabling the transition to hospice through effective palliative care.

Bomba PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Excellus BlueCross BlueShield, Rochester, NY, USA.

The end of life has changed dramatically in recent years as life expectancies 
have increased, chronic disease rates have risen, and families, health care 
systems, and society have changed. As technology has advanced, death too often 
has become viewed by society as "failure" and even "optional." Too often, 
referral to hospice has come too late to be sufficiently effective. While 
expertise in palliation of pain and symptoms at the end of life has been 
developed, palliative care has not been well integrated with management of 
chronic diseases or incorporated into the continuum of medical management from 
health and wellness to the end of life. We can, and must, do better.

DOI: 10.1016/j.casemgr.2004.11.005
PMID: 15678024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Support Care Cancer. 2005 Jul;13(7):515-21. doi: 10.1007/s00520-004-0708-0.
Epub  2005 Jan 28.

Changes in quality of life during palliative chemotherapy for solid cancer.

Bang SM(1), Park SH, Kang HG, Jue JI, Cho IH, Yun YH, Cho EK, Shin DB, Lee JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Ghil Medical Center, Gachon Medical School, 
405-760 Incheon, South Korea. smbang@ghil.com

BACKGROUND: We conducted this prospective study to assess the changes in quality 
of life (QOL), anxiety and depression in patients receiving palliative 
chemotherapy for solid cancers.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients were eligible if they had histologically 
confirmed metastatic or recurrent cancer and a life expectancy of more than 6 
months, and were able to complete the self-administered questionnaires. The 
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life 
Questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale 
(HADS) were used to measure the effects of chemotherapy on the patients' QOL, 
anxiety and depression at baseline and three times after every three cycles of 
chemotherapy.
RESULTS: From July 2001 to October 2003, 146 patients were recruited, and of 
these 98 completed the questionnaires and 48 were withdrawn from the trial (27 
lost to follow-up, 11 withdrew consent, 5 for toxicity, 5 for progression of the 
cancer). Their median age was 58 years (range 28-78 years) and the male to 
female ratio was 1.6. Of the 146 patients, 52 had gastric cancer, 39 
non-small-cell cancer, 29 colorectal cancer, 11 breast cancer, and 15 had other 
cancers. Initial QOL scores were closely related to performance status. Compared 
with baseline, clinically meaningful relief (score decreased by more than 10) of 
symptoms such as pain and sleep disturbance was observed. There was significant 
improvement (score increased by more than 10) in the functional scales after the 
first cycle of chemotherapy, but these effects did not persist throughout the 
whole course of therapy. The incidences of probable anxiety and depression 
disorder before chemotherapy were 20% and 29%, respectively. The anxiety scores 
decreased throughout the period of intervention. Pretreatment anxiety and 
depression were negatively correlated with baseline QOL scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Palliative chemotherapy treatment in patients with solid cancer 
improved cancer-related symptoms, lessened anxiety and did not disturb the QOL 
of cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-004-0708-0
PMID: 15678347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Health Econ. 2005 Jun;14(6):643-7. doi: 10.1002/hec.971.

Is silence golden? A test of the incorporation of the effects of ill-health on 
income and leisure in health state valuations.

Sendi P(1), Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Economics, Institute for Clinical Epidemiology, Basel 
University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland. psendi@uhbs.ch

The objective of the present study was to evaluate whether people include the 
effects of ill-health on income and leisure in quality of life valuation when 
the measure is silent on both. A convenience sample of 20 health professionals 
had to rate a health status on a visual analogue scale (VAS) without being 
explicitly asked to consider the effects of ill-health on income and leisure. A 
majority of respondents (60%) does not consider income effects and 75% does 
consider the effects on leisure. Explicitly asking respondents to incorporate 
these effects lowers the valuation. Our results indicate that whatever 
separation between costs and effects is preferred, using quality of life 
measures which are silent on income and leisure, leads to either double-counting 
or ignoring real costs or effects.

Copyright 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.971
PMID: 15678519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Ann Ital Med Int. 2004 Oct-Dec;19(4):269-75.

[Fabry disease in Italy: first epidemiologic and collaborative study].

[Article in Italian]

Ricci R(1), Castorina M, Di Lillo M, Antuzzi D, Frustaci A, Parini R, Menni F, 
Furlan F, Burlina A, Burlina A, Catuogno S, Gabrielli O, Burattini I, Borsini W, 
Buchner S, Ferriozzi S, Spisni C, De Vito R, Di Rocco M, Aricò M, Pistone G, 
Bongiorno AM, Morrone A, Cavicchi C, Zammarchi E.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Pediatriche Facoltà di Medicina e Chirurgia, 
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore di Roma. r.ricci@rm.unicatt.it

The authors sought to define the prevalence of Fabry disease and to establish 
the incidence and its natural history in Italy. The aim of this study was to 
point out the first clinical signs and symptoms to perform an early diagnosis 
and hence to start a specific therapeutic treatment. Fabry disease is an inborn 
error of metabolism caused by the deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme 
alpha-galactosidase A. Fabry disease is a severe X-linked disorder presenting 
with a higher morbidity between the third and the fourth decade of life. Fabry 
disease may be confused with other diseases or completely misdiagnosed: its 
frequency is estimated worldwide to be 1:117000. In Italy, 65 patients have been 
identified by several specialized institutions; age, sex, onset of first 
clinical signs and symptoms were analyzed and reported. In conclusion, this is 
the first Italian collaborative study that allows to delineate and point out the 
clinical signs of Fabry disease to perform a correct and early diagnosis. Enzyme 
replacement therapy is now available and its early beginning can prevent renal 
and cardiac failure, improve the quality of life and life expectancy in these 
patients.

PMID: 15678707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Addiction. 2005 Feb;100(2):146-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2005.00971.x.

Russia: alcohol yesterday and today.

Nemtsov A.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2005.00971.x
PMID: 15679743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. BMC Public Health. 2005 Jan 31;5:12. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-5-12.

Comparing the clinical effectiveness of different new-born hearing screening 
strategies. A decision analysis.

Grill E(1), Hessel F, Siebert U, Schnell-Inderst P, Kunze S, Nickisch A, Wasem 
J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Munich, 
Munich, Germany. eva.grill@med.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: Children with congenital hearing impairment benefit from early 
detection and treatment. At present, no model exists which explicitly quantifies 
the effectiveness of universal newborn hearing screening (UNHS) versus other 
programme alternatives in terms of early diagnosis. It has yet to be considered 
whether early diagnosis (within the first few months) of hearing impairment is 
of importance with regard to the further development of the child compared with 
effects resulting from a later diagnosis. The objective was to systematically 
compare two screening strategies for the early detection of new-born hearing 
disorders, UNHS and risk factor screening, with no systematic screening 
regarding their influence on early diagnosis.
DESIGN: Clinical effectiveness analysis using a Markov Model.
DATA SOURCES: Systematic literature review, empirical data survey, and expert 
opinion.
TARGET POPULATION: All newborn babies. TIME SCALE: 6, 12 and 120 months.
PERSPECTIVE: Health care system. COMPARED STRATEGIES: UNHS, Risk factor 
screening (RS), no systematic screening (NS).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality weighted detected child months (QCM).
RESULTS: UNHS detected 644 QCM up until the age of 6 months (72,2%). RS detected 
393 child months (44,1%) and no systematic screening 152 child months (17,0%). 
UNHS detected 74,3% and 86,7% weighted child months at 12 and 120 months, RS 
48,4% and 73,3%, NS 23,7% and 60,6%. At the age of 6 months UNHS identified 
approximately 75% of all children born with hearing impairment, RS 50% and NS 
25%. At the time of screening UNHS marked 10% of screened healthy children for 
further testing (false positives), RS 2%. UNHS demonstrated higher effectiveness 
even under a wide range of relevant parameters. The model was insensitive to 
test parameters within the assumed range but results varied along the prevalence 
of hearing impairment.
CONCLUSION: We have shown that UNHS is able to detect hearing impairment at an 
earlier age and more accurately than selective RS. Further research should be 
carried out to establish the effects of hearing loss on the quality of life of 
an individual, its influence on school performance and career achievement and 
the differences made by early fitting of a hearing aid on these factors.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-5-12
PMCID: PMC549034
PMID: 15679901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Lancet. 2005 Jan 29-Feb 4;365(9457):434-41. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(05)17833-7.

Treatment with drugs to lower blood pressure and blood cholesterol based on an 
individual's absolute cardiovascular risk.

Jackson R(1), Lawes CM, Bennett DA, Milne RJ, Rodgers A.

Author information:
(1)Section of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Population Health, 
Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New 
Zealand. rt.jackson@auckland.ac.nz

Comment in
    Lancet. 2005 Apr 9-15;365(9467):1305-6.
    Lancet. 2005 Apr 9-15;365(9467):1306-7.
    Lancet. 2005 Apr 9-15;365(9467):1306.

In this review, we outline the rationale for targeting blood pressure and blood 
cholesterol lowering drug treatments to patients at high absolute cardiovascular 
risk, irrespective of their blood pressure or blood cholesterol levels. Because 
the specific levels of blood pressure and cholesterol are of little clinical 
relevance when considered in isolation from other risk factors, terms such as 
hypertension or hypercholesterolaemia have limited value. Separate management 
guidelines for raised blood pressure and blood cholesterol need to be replaced 
by integrated cardiovascular risk management guidelines, and absolute 
cardiovascular risk prediction scores should be used routinely. Since 
cardiovascular risk factors interact with each other, moderate reductions in 
several risk factors can be more effective than major reductions in one. An 
affordable daily pill combining low doses of various drugs could be useful for 
the many individuals with slightly abnormal cardiovascular risk factors.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)17833-7
PMID: 15680460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Feb 1;45(3):369-76. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2004.10.041.

Economic effects of prolonged clopidogrel therapy after percutaneous coronary 
intervention.

Cowper PA(1), Udayakumar K, Sketch MH Jr, Peterson ED.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research and Assessment Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, 
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA. cowpe001@mc.duke.edu

Erratum in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Jun 7;45(11):1912.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Oct 4;46(7):1376; author reply 1376-7.

OBJECTIVES: This study examined the incremental cost-effectiveness of extending 
clopidogrel therapy from one month to one year after percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI) in an unselected, heterogeneous patient population.
BACKGROUND: Clinical trials suggest that prolonging clopidogrel therapy for up 
to one year after PCI reduces downstream cardiac events. However, clopidogrel 
therapy is costly and may increase bleeding risk.
METHODS: Using decision analysis, we compared the outcomes and cost of 
prolonging clopidogrel treatment from one month to one year after PCI with the 
alternative strategy of discontinuing therapy one month after the procedure. 
Event rates were based on 3,976 PCI patients who were treated between January 
1999 and December 2001 at the Duke Medical Center and received no more than one 
month of clopidogrel after the procedure. Baseline characteristics and event 
rates were obtained from Duke clinical information systems. The effect of 
prolonged clopidogrel therapy on event rates was based on the Clopidogrel for 
the Reduction of Events During Observation (CREDO) trial per-protocol data. Unit 
costs and the effect of myocardial infarction (MI) on life expectancy were based 
on published sources.
RESULTS: Extending clopidogrel therapy from one month to one year after PCI cost 
USD 879 per patient and reduced the risk of MI by 2.6%. Assuming MI decreases 
life expectancy by two years, prolonged therapy would cost USD 15,696 per year 
of life saved. Economic attractiveness of therapy varied with baseline risk, the 
effect of prolonged therapy on MI risk, and the price of clopidogrel.
CONCLUSIONS: Prolonging clopidogrel therapy for one year after PCI is 
economically attractive, particularly in high-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2004.10.041
PMID: 15680714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Sex Transm Infect. 2005 Feb;81(1):38-40. doi: 10.1136/sti.2003.008300.

Sexual behaviour: related adverse health burden in the United States.

Ebrahim SH(1), McKenna MT, Marks JS.

Author information:
(1)National Center for HIV/AIDS, STD, TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention (CDC, Mail Stop E-46), 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA 3033, USA. 
sebrahim@cdc.gov

As part of an analysis of the burden of disease and injury in the United States, 
we identified and quantified the incidence of adverse health events, deaths, and 
disability adjusted life years (DALY) attributed to sexual behaviour. In 1998, 
about 20 million such events (7532/100 000 people) and 29 782 such deaths (1.3% 
of all US deaths) occurred, contributing to 2 161 417 DALYs (6.2% of all US 
DALYs). The majority of incident health events (62%) and DALYs (57%) related to 
sexual behaviour were among females, and curable infections and their sequelae 
contributed to over half of these. Viral infections and their sequelae accounted 
for nearly all sexual behaviour related deaths-mostly HIV/AIDS. Sexual behaviour 
attributed DALYs in the United States are threefold higher than that in overall 
established market economies.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.2003.008300
PMCID: PMC1763727
PMID: 15681721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Perspect Biol Med. 2005 Winter;48(1):42-53. doi: 10.1353/pbm.2005.0018.

Medicine and the call for a moral epistemology.

Tauber AI(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Philosophy and History of Science, Boston University, 745 
Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, MA 02215, USA. ait@bu.edu

For over a century, medicine has prided itself on its scientific orientation and 
technological accomplishments. But a conceptual crack lies at the foundation of 
contemporary medicine, one that may be characterized as a conflict between 
medicine's scientific epistemology and its moral philosophy. Moral refers to 
value, and more specifically in the clinical setting, to how facts must be 
ordered by the values attached to them. A "moral epistemology" seeks to bring 
these two domains into closer proximity. Clinical facts always reside in a 
complex array of systems that confer specific and often unique meanings to any 
finding. An integration of unsteady norms and the intuitive inference arising 
from the individuality of disease expression require that judgments order facts 
into their proper placement. And beyond this relaxed view of objectivity, 
clinical care must also incorporate judgments arising from the patient's (as 
well as the physician's) social and psychological realms that are removed from 
scientific concerns. Together, these various kinds of value judgments erect the 
scaffold of clinical care, in which a more complex moral epistemology emerges. A 
comprehensive biopsychosocial model of illness and its treatment articulates 
this integrated orientation, but until medicine embraces a philosophy that 
legitimates the full integration of facts and values, the appeal of such an 
approach will remain limited and its application ineffective.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.2005.0018
PMID: 15681878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2005 Feb;39(2):124-8.

Palliation of gastric outlet obstruction and proximal small bowel obstruction 
with self-expandable metal stents: a single center series.

Mosler P(1), Mergener KD, Brandabur JJ, Schembre DB, Kozarek RA.

Author information:
(1)Virginia Mason Medical Center, Section of Gastroenterology, Seattle, WA 
98101, USA.

BACKGROUND: Self-expandable metal stents (SEMS) are being increasingly used to 
palliate malignant stenoses of the gastric outlet and proximal small bowel. 
Accordingly, we reviewed our experience in this setting.
METHODS: Patients with gastric outlet or proximal small bowel stents were 
identified by reviewing hospital charts. Outcome criteria included survival 
data, need for reintervention, and clinical improvement.
RESULTS: A total of 52 SEMS were placed in 36 patients with nonesophageal upper 
GI stenosis. Initial stent placement was successful in 92% and clinical 
improvement documented in 75%. Mean survival of patients who eventually died was 
3.5 months. Seven patients are alive (mean follow-up, 5.0 months). Stent 
dysfunction occurred in 36% and required subsequent interventions. Biliary 
obstruction was documented in 50% of patients, 12 of whom had previously 
undergone biliary stenting and 5 who needed subsequent biliary decompression.
CONCLUSIONS: Enteral stent placement has been reported to be an effective 
alternative for palliation of high-risk surgical patients with malignant gastric 
outlet and small bowel obstruction. Considering the short life expectancy of 
these patients and significant complications including stent migration, 
perforation, biliary obstruction, and need for subsequent endoscopic, radiologic 
and surgical interventions, the authors suggest that this procedure be performed 
in experienced centers on selected patients only and that biliary decompression 
be ensured early.

PMID: 15681907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Mar;6(1):30-7. doi: 10.1007/s10198-004-0254-1.

The cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus screening for cervical cancer. A 
review of recent modelling studies.

Holmes J(1), Hemmett L, Garfield S.

Author information:
(1)PMSI Healthcare, 64 Highgate High Street, London N6 5HX, UK.

We compared findings from recent studies modelling the cost-effectiveness of 
screening for cervical cancer using human papillomavirus (HPV) testing and 
alternative strategies. Data were standardized to facilitate comparison of costs 
per life year or costs per QALY gained in six studies. Absolute changes in 
costs, life years and QALYs for each strategy were normalized to a comparison 
with no screening. Costs were standardized to US$ in 2000 values. Most models 
assume screening starts at age 18 or 20 years. Assumed prevalence of HPV ranges 
from 10% for those aged 18 years to 20% for those aged 20-25 years and drops 
substantially after age 30. All except one model assume sensitivity to LSIL of 
83% or higher. Two models distinguish the increasing specificity of HPV testing 
in older age groups (up to 95% for LSIL in women aged 55 years or older). All 
the models include consultation costs as well as screening and treatment costs, 
but costs for follow-up diagnosis and treatment vary considerably. Two models 
also include patient time costs. Despite these differences all strategies 
involving HPV testing have cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) ratios in 
the range of USD 12,400-16,600. Costs per life year vary more widely, the 
highest being USD 19,246 (annual screening with liquid cytology and HPV). 
However, excluding strategies using liquid cytology, the highest costs per life 
year for a strategy including HPV testing are under USD 14,000 (simultaneous 
conventional cytology and HPV every two years). The cost per life year for HPV 
testing alone triennially is lower than for Pap smear testing alone biennially. 
Costs per QALY are generally lower than costs per life year (given the reported 
modelling assumptions and settings). Even with inclusion of patient costs, no 
strategies involving HPV testing cost more than USD 16,600 per QALY. Adoption of 
the ACOG guidelines to include HPV testing with cytology as a screening option 
for women aged 30 years or older therefore appears to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-004-0254-1
PMID: 15682286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Md Med. 2004 Fall;5(4):36-7.

Suffering fools.

Gershen B.

Comment in
    Md Med. 2005 Winter;6(1):4.
    Md Med. 2005 Winter;6(1):4.

PMID: 15682898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Neth J Med. 2004 Nov;62(10):364-74.

Sickle cell disease; a general overview.

Schnog JB(1), Duits AJ, Muskiet FA, ten Cate H, Rojer RA, Brandjes DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St Elisabeth Hospital, Curaçao, the 
Netherlands Antilles. jschnog@wanadoo.nl

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a heterogeneous disorder, with clinical 
manifestations including chronic haemolysis, an increased susceptibility to 
infections and vaso-occlusive complications often requiring medical care. 
Patients with SCD can develop specific and sometimes life-threatening 
complications, as well as extensive organ damage reducing both their quality of 
life and their life expectancy. Proven effective treatment options for sickle 
cell patients are limited to hydroxyurea, blood transfusions and bone marrow 
transplantation. With the increasing prevalence of SCD in the Netherlands, a 
fundamental understanding of its pathophysiology and clinical syndromes is of 
importance for local medical practitioners.

PMID: 15683091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Pharm World Sci. 2004 Dec;26(6):339-45. doi: 10.1007/s11096-004-0559-2.

Pharmacoeconomic assessment of oseltamivir in treating influenza--the case of 
otherwise healthy Danish adolescents and adults.

Vindt Holm M(1), Gyldmark M, Holme Hansen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Pharmacy, The Danish University of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Universitetsparken 2, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark. mvindtholm@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the pharmacoeconomics of treating influenza with 
oseltamivir in healthy Danish adolescents and adults.
METHOD: Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses were used to compare 
oseltamivir to usual care (symptomatic treatment with over the counter (OTC) 
medicine), considering both the societal and health care payer's perspectives. 
The population group studied was otherwise healthy adolescents and adults, aged 
13 to 64. Danish data were collected to simulate results that are specific to 
Denmark. The economic model included first- and second-order Monte Carlo 
simulations. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to test the robustness of the 
analyses.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The cost-effectiveness study was expressed as gain in cost 
per day to return to normal activity, and the cost-utility study as cost per 
QALY (quality adjusted life years) gained.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective, oseltamivir was a dominant treatment 
compared to usual care. From a health care payer's perspective, the 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 12.3 euros per gain in day to return to normal 
activity and 5,063 euros/QALY gained. A sensitivity analysis leaving out 
hospitalisation, complications, and mortality showed increased 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility ratios. However, treatment with oseltamivir 
remained cost-effective, assuming a willingness to pay for health benefits at 
26,174 euros/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Pharmacoeconomic analyses of influenza treatment with oseltamivir in 
an otherwise healthy Danish adolescent/adult population show that this treatment 
saves money for society and is associated with a relatively low cost from a 
health care payer's perspective. Treatment of influenza with oseltamivir would 
be cost-effective for healthy adolescents/adults in Denmark.

DOI: 10.1007/s11096-004-0559-2
PMID: 15683104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Psychol Neuropsychiatr Vieil. 2004 Dec;2(4):275-83.

[Great-grandfathers. From their great-grandchildren's point of view].

[Article in French]

Mietkiewicz MC(1), Venditti L.

Author information:
(1)Université de psychologie Nancy 2. Marie-Claude.Mietkiewicz@univ-nancy2.fr

The extension of life expectancy results in a substantial increase in the number 
of very elderly people and four-generation families becoming commonplace. Yet, 
we know little about great-grandparents' roles and the parts they play in the 
family. The authors have taken a specific interest in great-grandfathers and in 
their great-grandchildren's viewpoint. Interviews with three independent 
great-grandfathers living at home near their descendents as well as with eight 
of their great-grandchildren aim to shed some light on the eldest's situation in 
the family. The drawings and observations of young children (aged 5 to 14), 
along with the interview of their great-grandfathers, enable the authors to 
suggest that, although the great-grandfathers' position in the genealogy is 
perfectly well grasped, their role in the family seem more difficult to define; 
doubtless, due to its tenuousness. Separated by two intervening generations, 
young children and the parents of parents of one of their own parents seem not 
to have many verbal interactions nor shared activities, even if they meet every 
day. On the other hand, because they are perceived as being the "real" old 
people, great-grandfathers likely play a part in the way young 
great-grandchildren learn about old age. Children prove their ability to pick 
out the signs of old age in their great-grandparent: changes in the physical 
appearance, difficulties in moving and sensory weaknesses; and this keen 
perception of the troubles linked with ageing introduces them to an 
understanding of human finality.

PMID: 15683983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. CMAJ. 2005 Feb 1;172(3):345-51. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.1041062.

Economic evaluation of sirolimus-eluting stents.

Shrive FM(1), Manns BJ, Galbraith PD, Knudtson ML, Ghali WA; APPROACH 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alta.

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2005 Feb 1;172(3):361-2.

BACKGROUND: Sirolimus-eluting stents have recently been shown to reduce the risk 
of restenosis among patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention 
(PCI). Given that sirolimus-eluting stents cost about 4 times as much as 
conventional stents, and considering the volume of PCI procedures, the decision 
to use sirolimus-eluting stents has large economic implications.
METHODS: We performed an economic evaluation comparing treatment with 
sirolimus-eluting and conventional stents in patients undergoing PCI and in 
subgroups based on age and diabetes mellitus status. The probabilities of 
transition between clinical states and estimates of resource use and 
health-related quality of life were derived from the Alberta Provincial Project 
for Outcome Assessment in Coronary Heart Disease (APPROACH) database. 
Information on effectiveness was based on a meta-analysis of randomized 
controlled clinical trials (RCTs) comparing sirolimus-eluting and conventional 
stents.
RESULTS: Cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained in the baseline 
analysis was Can58,721 dollars. Sirolimus-eluting stents were more 
cost-effective in patients with diabetes and in those over 75 years of age, the 
costs per QALY gained being 44,135 dollars and 40,129 dollars, respectively. The 
results were sensitive to plausible variations in the cost of stents, the 
estimate of the effectiveness of sirolimus-eluting stents and the assumption 
that sirolimus-eluting stents would prevent the need for cardiac 
catheterizations in the subsequent year when no revascularization procedure was 
performed to treat restenosis.
INTERPRETATION: The use of sirolimus-eluting stents is associated with a cost 
per QALY that is similar to or higher than that of other accepted medical forms 
of therapy and is associated with a significant incremental cost. 
Sirolimus-eluting stents are more economically attractive for patients who are 
at higher risk of restenosis or at a high risk of death if a second 
revascularization procedure were to be required.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.1041062
PMCID: PMC545758
PMID: 15684117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. CMAJ. 2005 Feb 1;172(3):361-2. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.1041486.

The dollars and sense of drug-eluting stents.

Brophy JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology and Clinical Epidemiology, McGill University Health 
Centre Technology Assessment Unit, Royal Victoria Hospital, Montréal, Que. 
james.brophy@mcgill.ca

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2005 Feb 1;172(3):345-51.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.1041486
PMCID: PMC545760
PMID: 15684119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. J Palliat Med. 2004 Dec;7(6):808-16. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2004.7.808.

Terminal care for persons with advanced dementia in the nursing home and home 
care settings.

Mitchell SL(1), Morris JN, Park PS, Fries BE.

Author information:
(1)Hebrew Rehabilitation Center for Aged Research and Training Institute, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. smithchell@mail.hrcs.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Many older persons with advanced dementia receive terminal care in 
nursing homes, others remain in the community with home care services.
OBJECTIVES: To describe and compare the end-of-life experience of persons dying 
with advanced dementia in the nursing home and home care settings.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING/SUBJECTS: Persons 65 years or older with advanced dementia who died 
within 1 year of admission to either a nursing home in Michigan between July 1, 
1998 until December 31, 2000 (n = 2730), or the state's publicly funded home and 
community-based services from October 1, 1998 until December 31, 2001 (n = 290).
MEASUREMENTS: Data were derived from the Minimum Data Set (MDS)-Nursing home 
Version 2.0 for the institutionalized sample, and the MDS-Home Care for the 
community-based sample. Variables from the MDS assessment completed within 180 
days of death were used to describe the end-of-life experiences of these two 
groups.
RESULTS: Nursing home residents dying with advanced dementia were older, had 
greater functional impairment, and more behavior problems compared to home care 
clients. Few subjects in the nursing home (10.3%) and home care (15.6%) cohorts 
were perceived to have less than 6 months to live. Only 5.7% of nursing home 
residents and 10.7% home care clients were referred to hospice. Hospitalizations 
were frequent: nursing home, 43.7%; home care, 31.5%. Pain and shortness of 
breath were common in both settings. End-of-life variables independently 
associated with nursing home versus home care included: hospice (adjusted odds 
ratio [AOR] 0.26, 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.16-0.43), life expectancy less 
than 6 months (AOR 0.31; 95% CI, 0.20-0.48), advance directives (AOR, 1.48; 95% 
CI, 1.11-1.96), pain (AOR, 0.38; 95% CI, 0.29-0.50), shortness of breath (AOR 
0.20; 95% CI (0.13-0.28), and oxygen therapy (AOR, 2.47; 95% CI, 1.51-4.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Persons dying with advanced dementia admitted to nursing homes have 
different characteristics compared to those admitted to home care services. 
Their end-of-life experiences also differ in these two sites of care. However, 
palliative care was not optimal in either setting.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2004.7.808
PMID: 15684848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Nurs Ethics. 2005 Jan;12(1):59-78. doi: 10.1191/0969733005ne758oa.

Fetuses with neural tube defects: ethical approaches and the role of health care 
professionals in Turkish health care institutions.

Doğan H(1), Sahinoglu S.

Author information:
(1)Istanbul University, Turkey. hanzadeym@yahoo.com

Neural tube defects (NTDs) are very serious malformations for the fetus, causing 
either low life expectancy or a chance of survival only with costly and 
difficult surgical interventions. In western countries the average prevalence is 
1/1000-2000 and in Turkey it is 4/1000. The aim of the study was to characterize 
ethical approaches at institutional level to the fetus with an NTD and the 
mother, and the role of health care professionals in four major centers in 
Turkey. The authors chose perinatology units of four university hospitals and 
prepared questionnaires for the responsible professionals concerning their own 
and their institution's ethical approaches to the fetus with an NTD and the 
mother. The investigation revealed that there were no institutional ethical 
frameworks or ethics committees available to professional teams in the units. 
The roles of the health care professionals and their individual decisions and 
approaches based on ethical principles are described. The ethical 
decision-making process concerning fetuses with NTDs, examples of institutional 
approaches to the topic and institutional frameworks, and the role of nurses and 
other health care professionals are all discussed, based on a literature review. 
The authors suggest that institutional ethical frameworks, ethics committees, 
professionals' ethics education and multidisciplinary teamwork should be 
established for critical situations such as fetuses with an NTD.

DOI: 10.1191/0969733005ne758oa
PMID: 15685968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Can J Public Health. 2005 Jan-Feb;96 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S13-6. doi: 
10.1007/BF03405310.

A First Nations voice in the present creates healing in the future.

MacKinnon M(1).

Author information:
(1)Romanow Joint Working Group, Research and Policy Development Unit, Assembly 
of Manitoba Chiefs, 200-260 St. Mary Avenue, Winnipeg, MB R3C 0M6. 
mmackinnon@manitobachiefs.com

This paper discusses the urgency for change and improvements in health policy 
determined by the exploding demographics and inequities in the health status of 
First Nation people. A historical overview of health services for First Nation 
clients was conducted as set out through government legislation and health and 
social policies. Until WWII ended, the federal government provided assistance to 
First Nations through Indian Affairs branches of several departments. This 
responsibility was gradually transferred to National Health and Welfare. In 
1962, the federal government established a Medical Services Branch, later 
renamed First Nations and Inuit Health Branch, and mandated to provide services 
to First Nation clients, which fell outside the provincial jurisdiction of 
health care. Initially centered on public health priorities, services have 
expanded to include primary health care, dental, mental health, environmental 
health, home and continuing care, and Non-Insured Health Benefits. The Romanow 
Report substantiated the urgency for health policy improvements voiced by many 
First Nations. However, it generalized Aboriginal issues in health care on a 
national front. Furthermore, its recommendations were specific to health care 
providers and delivery models and did not address the social and spiritual 
determinants of health, which are fundamental to a First Nations' holistic 
approach. Health planners must think holistically, considering traditional and 
westernized medicine, First Nations' values, priorities and government systems, 
and present and evolving health systems. Universities, health authorities, 
provinces and the federal government are continually developing new research and 
health models, which will also need consideration. Further, the imperative of 
involving community-level input must be recognized.

Cet article porte sur l’urgence de changer et d’améliorer les politiques 
sanitaires, étant donné l’explosion démographique observée chez les Premières 
nations et les injustices qu’elles vivent sur le plan de la santé. Nous avons 
fait un survol historique des services de santé à l’intention des Premières 
nations dans les lois et les politiques gouvernementales sur la santé et les 
services sociaux. Jusqu’à la fin de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, le gouvernement 
fédéral offrait une aide aux Premières nations par le biais des directions des 
affaires indiennes de plusieurs ministères. Cette responsabilité a 
progressivement été dévolue au ministère de la Santé nationale et du Bien-être 
social. En 1962, le gouvernement fédéral a créé une Direction générale des 
services médicaux, rebaptisée „ Direction générale de la santé des Premières 
nations et des Inuits ” (DGSPNI) par la suite, et lui a confié le mandat de 
desservir la clientèle des Premières nations, dont les soins de santé n’étaient 
pas du ressort des provinces. Articulés initialement autour de priorités de 
santé publique, les services de la DGSPNI ont été étendus aux soins de santé 
primaires, aux soins dentaires, à la santé mentale, à l’hygiène du milieu, aux 
soins à domicile et aux soins prolongés, ainsi qu’aux services de santé non 
assurés. Le rapport Romanow a confirmé l’urgence d’apporter les améliorations 
aux politiques sanitaires que réclament de nombreuses Premières nations. Le 
rapport aborde cependant les problèmes autochtones au chapitre des soins de 
santé en termes généraux et dans une optique nationale. De plus, ses 
recommandations portent spécifiquement sur les dispensateurs de soins de santé 
et les modes de prestation, en négligeant les déterminants sociaux et spirituels 
de la santé, pourtant à la base de l’approche holistique des Premières nations. 
Il faudrait que les planificateurs des services de santé aient une pensée 
holistique qui tienne compte de la médecine traditionnelle et occidentalisée, 
des valeurs, des priorités et des systèmes de gouvernement des Premières 
nations, ainsi que des systèmes de santé actuels et en devenir. Les universités, 
les autorités sanitaires, les provinces et le gouvernement fédéral élaborent 
constamment de nouveaux modèles de recherche et de santé dont il faut aussi 
tenir compte. Enfin, il faut reconnaître la nécessité absolue de solliciter 
l’apport de la communauté.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405310
PMCID: PMC6975781
PMID: 15686147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Can J Public Health. 2005 Jan-Feb;96 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S33-8. doi: 
10.1007/BF03405314.

Mortality comparisons of First Nations to all other Manitobans: a provincial 
population-based look at health inequalities by region and gender.

Martens PJ(1), Sanderson D, Jebamani LS.

Author information:
(1)Manitoba Centre for Health Policy, Department of Community Health Sciences, 
University of Manitoba, 4th Floor, Room 408, 727 McDermot Avenue, Winnipeg, MB 
R3E 3P5. Pat_Martens@cpe.umanitoba.ca

BACKGROUND: To examine inequalities in health status of Registered First Nations 
Manitobans compared to all other Manitobans.
METHODS: Three mortality indicators--premature mortality rate (PMR) defined as 
