BACKGROUND: Vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) is involved in 
leukocyte-endothelial cell interaction and has a pivotal role in inflammation. 
Whether it contributes to excessive mortality in dialysis patients remains 
uncertain. In this study, we examined circulating soluble VCAM-1 (sVCAM-1) in 
relation to different clinical and biochemical parameters, as well as mortality 
and cardiovascular events, in peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients.
METHODS: Values for serum sVCAM-1, together with C-reactive protein (CRP), 
homocysteine, albumin, lipid profile, blood hemoglobin, and indices of dialysis 
adequacy, were determined at study baseline, and echocardiography was performed 
in 160 long-term PD patients. Patients were followed up for a mean of 35 +/- 16 
(SD) months.
RESULTS: Serum sVCAM-1 levels were elevated in our continuous ambulatory PD 
(CAPD) patients and showed a negative correlation with residual glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR; P < 0.001) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol 
level (P = 0.004), but a positive correlation with left ventricular mass index 
(P = 0.025). Using Kaplan-Meier analysis, overall survival rates at 2 years were 
96.2%, 75.2%, and 50.6% for patients in the lower, middle, and upper tertiles of 
sVCAM-1 levels, respectively (P < 0.0001). Fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular 
event-free survival rates were 58.2%, 56.9%, and 19.4% for patients in the 
lower, middle, and upper tertiles, respectively (P < 0.0001). Using Cox 
regression analysis with adjustment for confounding covariates, every 100-ng/mL 
increase in sVCAM-1 level was associated with 8% (95% confidence interval, 1.03 
to 1.13) and 5% (95% confidence interval, 1.00 to 1.10) increases in risk for 
death and fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, respectively. Its 
significance for all-cause mortality remained with additional adjusting for LDL 
cholesterol level, but was lost when adjusting for residual GFR. Its association 
with cardiovascular events became insignificant when adjusting for LDL 
cholesterol level or residual GFR. Furthermore, patients with both sVCAM-1 and 
CRP levels elevated at the 50th percentile or greater were associated with the 
greatest death and fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular event rates compared with 
those with either CRP or sVCAM-1 level elevated at the 50th percentile or 
greater.
CONCLUSION: Circulating sVCAM-1 levels show an important link with residual 
renal function, LDL cholesterol level, and cardiac hypertrophy in CAPD patients. 
Furthermore, residual renal function, which correlates inversely with 
circulating sVCAM-1 level, shows an important association with all-cause 
mortality and cardiovascular events and displaces sVCAM-1 level from the models 
for all-cause mortality and future cardiovascular events in CAPD patients. 
Additional study is needed to explore possible mechanistic links between 
inflammation, soluble adhesion molecules, residual renal function, and cardiac 
hypertrophy in CAPD patients.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2004.12.012
PMID: 15806475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Forum Nutr. 2003;56:109-11.

Vital statistical implication of nutrition in Hungary.

Biró G(1).

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary. h7639bir@helka.iif.hu

PMID: 15806820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. HIV Med. 2005 Mar;6(2):57-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2005.00266.x.

There and back again: the impact of adult HIV prevalence on national life 
expectancies.

McGuire AL, Barer JM, Montaner JS, Hogg RS.

Worldwide we have seen dramatic increases in HIV prevalence and decreases in 
life expectancy over the last decade. The aim of this study was to determine the 
association between HIV prevalence and life expectancy. A strong negative 
association between adult HIV prevalence and life expectancy was observed for 
137 countries. Because high adult HIV prevalence poses the greatest threat to 
countries with limited health resources, our study supports increased efforts to 
provide antiretrovirals in these countries.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2005.00266.x
PMID: 15807710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Xenotransplantation. 2005 May;12(3):175-80. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-3089.2005.00223.x.

Reluctance of French patients with type 1 diabetes to undergo pig pancreatic 
islet xenotransplantation.

Deschamps JY(1), Roux FA, Gouin E, Saï P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Immuno-Endocrinology, ENVN, Atlanpole, 
La Chantrerie, BP 40706, 44307 Nantes Cedex 03, France. deschamps@vet-nantes.fr

Comment in
    Xenotransplantation. 2005 May;12(3):173-4.

INTRODUCTION: Type 1 diabetes could possibly be treated by transplantation of 
pig pancreatic islets. In addition to medical difficulties and ethical problems, 
social hurdles may need to be overcome. We have evaluated the attitude of 
patients with type 1 diabetes to the xenotransplantation of pig pancreatic 
islets and to the potential risks associated with such treatment.
METHODS: A survey of 214 patients with type 1 diabetes was carried out in France 
based on a multiple-choice questionnaire.
RESULTS: At first, 52.0% of these patients indicated that they would agree to 
receive pig islet xenografts. The main sources of reluctance were the ''risk of 
disease transmission'' (55.5%) and ''risks not yet identified'' (48.7%). After 
they were told of the risk of cancer or infection associated with 
immunosuppression, 74.9% of the respondents chose to refuse the transplant, 
compared with 48.0% before they heard of such risks. A 68.1% would refuse the 
xenotransplant if it would not exempt them completely from being treated by 
insulin injections. Discontinuing insulin injections was the most important 
priority for diabetic patients (73.5%), rather than limitation of 
diabetes-related complications (52.5%) or increase in life expectancy (44.0%). 
After they were informed of all of the risks associated with the procedure, 
70.5% of the respondents decided they would rather not take any risks, and said 
they would refuse pig islet transplantation.
CONCLUSION: When diabetic patients learned about potential infectious risks and 
other risks associated with immunosuppression, reluctance to undergo 
xenotransplantation gained in significance or even led to refusal of the 
procedure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3089.2005.00223.x
PMID: 15807767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Surg Neurol. 2005 Apr;63(4):394-7; discussion 397. doi: 
10.1016/j.surneu.2004.02.039.

Epidermoid cyst of the sphenoid sinus with extension into the sella turcica 
presenting as pituitary apoplexy: case report.

Sani S(1), Smith A, Leppla DC, Ilangovan S, Glick R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA. sepehr_sani@rush.edu

BACKGROUND: Epidermoids of the central nervous system are rare tumors. They are 
usually found in the fourth decade of life and most commonly off midline in the 
cerebellopontine angle. We report here a rare case of an epidermoid arising from 
the sphenoid sinus with extension into the sella and adjacent structures with 
acute onset of neurological deficit. The significance of the clinical 
presentation resembling pituitary apoplexy and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
findings is noted.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 25-year-old man presented with acute severe headache, 
diplopia, and decreased visual acuity. Examination revealed right-sided ptosis 
and paresis of the third cranial nerve on the right side. Computed tomography 
and MRI were suggestive of a slow-growing sphenoid sinus mass with extension 
into the sella. The sublabial transsphenoidal approach was used to remove the 
mass under direct visualization. The patient's neurological status improved to 
baseline both subjectively and objectively after the operation.
CONCLUSION: Epidermoids, although rare, should be considered as part of the 
differential diagnosis when evaluating lesions of sphenoid sinus or sellar 
origin.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surneu.2004.02.039
PMID: 15808736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Eur J Cancer. 2005 Apr;41(6):941-53. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2005.02.008.

Clinical trials in metastatic prostate cancer--has there been real progress in 
the past decade?

Bhandari MS(1), Petrylak DP, Hussain M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Hormone refractory prostate cancer remains a challenge. While only palliative 
treatment strategies were available for the past several decades, many promising 
agents have been investigated over the past decade. Of those the taxanes 
appeared with significant anti-tumor activity and recently, two large randomized 
controlled trials demonstrated for the first time, a survival and palliative 
benefit with docetaxel based chemotherapy. In the current era, recurrent disease 
after local treatment for localized disease is diagnosed long before evidence of 
systemic disease. With earlier institution of hormonal treatments, patients are 
becoming "hormone refractory" earlier in the course of their disease with 
considerable long life expectancy. Hence, there is a greater need than ever for 
more treatment options for this expanding group of patients. A number of new 
systemic therapies have recently emerged, based on a deeper understanding of 
prostate cancer biology. Novel chemotherapeutics such as the epothilones, 
molecularly targeted therapies against angiogenesis, the proteosome and 
endothelin receptor antagonists, as well as biological agents such as anti-sense 
oligonucleotides are being tested as part of the armamentarium. Key to progress 
in the therapy of this fatal disease is the commitment and timely enrolment of 
prostate cancer patients in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2005.02.008
PMID: 15808960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2005 May 13;330(3):797-804. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2005.03.051.

Deubiquitinating enzyme USP36 contains the PEST motif and is polyubiquitinated.

Kim MS(1), Kim YK, Kim YS, Seong M, Choi JK, Baek KH.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science and Biotechnology, Pochon CHA University, CHA 
General Hospital, Seoul 135-081, Republic of Korea.

The ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation pathway has been emphasized for the 
regulation of numerous cellular mechanisms and the significance of 
deubiquitination, mediated by deubiquitinating (DUB) enzymes, has been emerging 
as an essential regulatory step to control these cellular mechanisms. 
Previously, we demonstrated a human DUB enzyme, HeLa DUB-1, expressed in human 
ovarian cancer cells. Here, we report human USP36, which has the extension of 
the C-terminal region of HeLa DUB-1 and has conserved amino acid domains as 
previously shown in other DUBs. Human USP36, encoding a DUB enzyme, was isolated 
from ovarian cancer cells using RT-PCR and characterized. We identified DUB 
enzyme activity of USP36 by analyzing its capability to cleave the ubiquitin. 
Interestingly, structural and immunoprecipitation analyses revealed for the 
first time that USP36 contains the PEST motif and is polyubiquitinated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2005.03.051
PMID: 15809067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. J Clin Oncol. 2005 Jun 1;23(16):3819-29. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.04.569. Epub
2005  Apr 4.

Hematopoietic cell transplantation after nonmyeloablative conditioning for 
advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Sorror ML(1), Maris MB, Sandmaier BM, Storer BE, Stuart MJ, Hegenbart U, Agura 
E, Chauncey TR, Leis J, Pulsipher M, McSweeney P, Radich JP, Bredeson C, Bruno 
B, Langston A, Loken MR, Al-Ali H, Blume KG, Storb R, Maloney DG.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 1100 Fairview Avenue N, D1-100, PO 
Box 19024, Seattle, WA 98109-1024, USA.

PURPOSE: Patients with chemotherapy-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
(CLL) have a short life expectancy. The aim of this study was to analyze the 
outcome of patients with advanced CLL when treated with nonmyeloablative 
conditioning and hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-four patients diagnosed with advanced CLL were 
treated with nonmyeloablative conditioning (2 Gy total-body irradiation with [n 
= 53] or without [n = 11] fludarabine) and HCT from related (n = 44) or 
unrelated (n = 20) donors. An adapted form of the Charlson comorbidity index was 
used to assess pretransplantation comorbidities.
RESULTS: Sixty-one of 64 patients had sustained engraftment, whereas three 
patients rejected their grafts. The incidences of grades 2, 3, and 4 acute and 
chronic graft-versus-host disease were 39%, 14%, 2%, and 50%, respectively. 
Three patients who underwent transplantation in complete remission (CR) remained 
in CR. The overall response rate among 61 patients with measurable disease was 
67% (50% CR), whereas 5% had stable disease. All patients with morphologic CR 
who were tested by polymerase chain reaction (n = 11) achieved negative 
molecular results, and one of these patients subsequently experienced disease 
relapse. The 2-year incidence of relapse/progression was 26%, whereas the 2-year 
relapse and nonrelapse mortalities were 18% and 22%, respectively. Two-year 
rates of overall and disease-free survivals were 60% and 52%, respectively. 
Unrelated HCT resulted in higher CR and lower relapse rates than related HCT, 
suggesting more effective graft-versus-leukemia activity.
CONCLUSION: CLL is susceptible to graft-versus-leukemia effects, and allogeneic 
HCT after nonmyeloablative conditioning might prolong median survival for 
patients with advanced CLL.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.04.569
PMID: 15809448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Przegl Epidemiol. 2004;58(4):677-82.

[Type-2 diabetes mellitus as a cause of disability].

[Article in Polish]

Piechota G(1), Małkiewicz J, Karwat ID.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Zakład Epidemiologii Akademii Medycznej w Lublinie. 
grzespiech@poczta.onet.pl

Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disease associated with a wide range of 
comorbidities and complications, including retinopathy and loss of vision, 
nephropathy and end-stage renal disease, peripheral neuropathy, cardiovascular 
diseases, lower extremity amputations due to diabetic foot. All this long-term 
medical complications shorten life expectancy of the affected people and cause 
physical decline, which leads to disability. The importance of the problem 
results also from the prevalence of the disease. Diabetes is expected to 
increase worldwide from 135 million to 300 million people between 1995 and 2025. 
In Poland it is estimated that 2 million inhabitants have diabetes and half of 
these population is unaware of the condition. The aim of these review of the 
literature is to show all positive associations between diabetes and its 
complications leading to limitations and disability. The prevalence of the 
disability in the population of the people with diabetes is the sum of all 
diabetic complications and the process of aging. The diabetes epidemic affects 
the entire age range and the greatest absolute increase is occurring among the 
elderly. These informations suggest that the number of people at risk for 
physical limitations and disability, caused by diabetes will increase 
dramatically. If these process was not stopped, it would erode health status and 
quality of life of the great proportion of the society.

PMID: 15810510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Ugeskr Laeger. 2005 Mar 7;167(10):1174-7.

[Prediction of individual residual survival times using statistical models].

[Article in Danish]

Henderson R(1), Keiding N.

Author information:
(1)Lancaster University, Mathematics and Statistics, Storbritannien.

PMID: 15810577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 May;126(5):591-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.11.009. Epub
 2005 Jan 9.

Inactivation of p38 kinase delays the onset of senescence in rabbit articular 
chondrocytes.

Kang S(1), Jung M, Kim CW, Shin DY.

Author information:
(1)National Research Laboratory for Cell Cycle Control, Department of 
Microbiology, Dankook University College of Medicine, Cheonan 330-714, Republic 
of Korea.

Replicative senescence limits cellular proliferation in vivo and in vitro. 
Recently, other groups and we reported that p38 kinase plays a key role on the 
onset of senescence. In this study, we demonstrated that replicative senescence 
can be delayed in rabbit chondrocytes in vitro by that p38 kinase inactivation. 
We found that the activity of p38 kinase is elevated in senescent chondrocytes 
as compared to pre-senescent counterparts. To examine the role of p38 kinase on 
the onset of senescence, we inactivated the kinase pharmacologically or 
genetically using either a chemical inhibitor, SB203580, or dominant negative 
mutant forms of MKK6 and p38 (MKK6A and p38dn, respectively). We show that the 
inactivation of p38 kinase leads to the stimulation of proliferation, the 
extension of life span, and a delay in the onset of senescence, thus implying 
that p38 kinase limits the life span of rabbit articular chondrocytes in vitro.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.11.009
PMID: 15811428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Mol Aspects Med. 2005 Jun;26(3):145-67. doi: 10.1016/j.mam.2005.01.002.

Gene variants for osteoporosis and their pleiotropic effects in aging.

Ferrari SL(1), Rizzoli R.

Author information:
(1)Service of Bone Diseases, WHO Collaborating Center for Osteoporosis 
Prevention, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Geneva University 
Hospital, Switzerland. serge.ferrari@medecine.unige.ch

The prevalence of osteoporosis is raising worldwide as improving conditions of 
living and treatment of other common diseases continuously increases life 
expectancy. Thus, osteoporosis affects most women above 80 years of age and, at 
the age of 50, the lifetime risk of suffering an osteoporosis-related fracture 
approaches 50% in women and 20% in men. Numerous genetic, hormonal, nutritional 
and life-style factors contribute to the acquisition and maintenance of bone 
mass. Among them, genetic variations explain as much as 70% of the variance for 
bone mineral density (BMD) in the population. Dozens of quantitative trait loci 
(QTLs) for BMD have been identified by genome screening and linkage approaches 
in humans and mice, and more than 100 candidate gene polymorphisms tested for 
association with BMD and/or fracture. Sequence variants in the vitamin D 
receptor (VDR), collagen 1 alpha 1 chain (Col1A1), estrogen receptor alpha 
(ESR1), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and LDL receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5) genes 
were all found to be significantly associated with differences in BMD and/or 
fracture risk in multiple replication studies. Moreover, some genes, such as VDR 
and IL-6, were shown to interact with non-genetic factors, i.e. calcium intake 
and estrogens, to modulate BMD. Since these gene variants have also been 
associated with other complex disorders, including cancer and coronary heart 
disease, they may represent common genetic susceptibility factors exerting 
pleiotropic effects during the aging process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mam.2005.01.002
PMID: 15811432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Dig Dis. 2004;22(4):366-73. doi: 10.1159/000083600.

Treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis in gastric cancers.

Brigand C(1), Arvieux C, Gilly FN, Glehen O.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Generale et Digestive, Hopital Hautepierre, Strasbourg, 
France.

Peritoneal carcinomatosis may occur after curative surgery of any 
gastrointestinal carcinoma, but it is however the most frequent form of 
evolution after curative resection of gastric carcinoma and is present at the 
time of surgery in many cases. This locoregional extension of cancer has a poor 
prognosis, with a great mortality and a poor quality of life. It is sometimes 
considered of such a poor prognosis that patients do not go through any 
resection or palliative procedure. Techniques of radiotherapy, chemotherapy and 
intraperitoneal chemotherapy have been used with moderate clinical efficacy. 
Since the 1990s, intraoperative hyperthermic peritoneal chemotherapy combined 
with comprehensive cytoreductive surgery has been proposed to improve prognosis 
of patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis from gastric origin as well as 
carcinomatosis from colorectal origin or pseudomyxoma peritonei.

Copyright (c) 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000083600
PMID: 15812161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Ethics Int Aff. 2004;18(3):65-78. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-7093.2004.tb00477.x.

Toward establishing a universal basic health norm.

Acharya AK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-7093.2004.tb00477.x
PMID: 15813002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Bangladesh Med Res Counc Bull. 2004 Aug;30(2):43-50.

Analysis of Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) among arsenic victims: a 
cross-sectional study on health economics perspective.

Molla AA(1), Anwar KS, Hamid SA, Hoque ME, Haq AK.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics, University of Dhaka.

Arsenic contamination of ground water is a major public health problem in 
Bangladesh. It is estimated that more than 20 million people are potentially 
exposed to arsenic poisoning. This cross-sectional study was carried out in 
Haziganj Upazila under Chandpur district between September to December, 2001 
with the objectives to assess the socioeconomic consequences and disease burden 
in terms of Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). A total of 168 subjects 
suffering from arsenicosis were studied. Both age and disability weights were 
considered to calculate DALYs. Agricultural labour and housewives suffered more 
from the disease. A strong relationship (p<0.005) was found between duration of 
suffering and occupation of the subjects. Also, there was a strong relationship 
between age of onset and education of the study subjects (p<0.006). No deaths 
directly from arsenicosis were reported. It may be noticed that 47% of the 
patients would be living with disability for more than 51 years. A strong 
relationship exists (p<0.002) between educational level and Years Lived with 
Disability (YLDs). A total of 7930 YLDs were lost due to arsenicosis, which 
accounts for 1908 DALYs.

PMID: 15813482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Br Menopause Soc. 2005 Mar;11(1):6-11. doi: 10.1258/1362180053654475.

Diabetes and the menopause.

Khoo CL(1), Perera M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, 
UK.

As life expectancy increases, women are spending more time in the postmenopausal 
phase of life. Diabetes is one of the most common chronic diseases in the world 
and its prevalence is increasing. Type 2 diabetes mellitus is more common than 
type 1 (it accounts for 90% of all cases) and is most frequent in obese 
individuals over the age of 40 years. In this review, the main problems faced by 
postmenopausal diabetic women are examined, and hormone replacement therapy 
(HRT) in this group of women is discussed. HRT appears to decrease the incidence 
of type 2 diabetes mellitus and to improve glycaemic control; the results vary 
according to the type of HRT and the route of administration. HRT also improves 
lipid profiles and transdermal delivery seems to decrease triglyceride levels in 
particular. There are conflicting data on the effect of HRT on coronary heart 
disease (CHD); however, it may be beneficial in younger postmenopausal diabetic 
women. Cardioprotective treatment adjuncts (such as statins or low-dose aspirin) 
may be advised in diabetic women with CHD risk factors who require HRT. However, 
their prescription is currently not recommended solely for the possible 
prevention of cardiovascular disease. HRT may also protect women from 
osteoporosis in diabetes, especially in type 1 diabetes mellitus. It is 
recommended that the lowest possible effective dose is used. In postmenopausal 
diabetic women in whom HRT is not suitable, alternatives such as bisphosphonates 
may be employed. In these women, vasomotor symptoms can also be improved using 
drugs such as venlafaxine or gabapentin. Based on current data, we have proposed 
a regimen that could be used for women with diabetes.

DOI: 10.1258/1362180053654475
PMID: 15814056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. J Med Philos. 2005 Feb;30(1):1-8. doi: 10.1080/03605310590907011.

The critical turn in clinical ethics and its continuous enhancement.

McCullough LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Ethics and Health Policy, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA. mccullou@bcm.tmc.edu

Erratum in
    J Med Philos. 2005 Jun;30(3):323.

Taking the critical turn is one of the main tools of the humanities and 
inculcates an intellectual discipline that prevents ossification of thinking 
about issues and of organizational policies in clinical ethics. The articles in 
this "Clinical Ethics" number of the Journal take the critical turn with respect 
to cherished ways of thinking in Western clinical ethics, life extension, the 
clinical determination of death, physicians' duty to treat even at personal 
risk, clinical ethics at the interface of research ethics, and the pertinence of 
the Hippocratic Oath to clinical ethics. These articles challenge clinical 
ethicists to inculcate the intellectual discipline of the critical turn into 
everyday practice and continuous quality enhancement of clinical ethics.

DOI: 10.1080/03605310590907011
PMID: 15814364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. J Med Philos. 2005 Feb;30(1):27-44. doi: 10.1080/03605310590907048.

Life-extension and the Malthusian Objection.

Davis JK(1).

Author information:
(1)East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, USA. jdavies95@utk.edu

Dramatically extending the human lifespan seems increasingly possible. Many 
bioethicists object that life-extension will have Malthusian consequences as new 
Methuselahs accumulate, generation by generation. I argue for a Life-Years 
Response to the Malthusian Objection. If even a minority of each generation 
chooses life-extension, denying it to them deprives them of many years of extra 
life, and their total extra life-years are likely to exceed the total life-years 
of a majority who do not want life-extension. This is a greater harm to those 
who want extended life than the Malthusian harms to those who refuse extended 
life, both because losing an extra year of life is worse than enduring a year of 
Malthusian conditions, and because the would-be Methuselahs have more life-years 
at stake. Therefore, even if life-extension seems likely to cause severe 
overcrowding and resource shortages, that threat is not sufficient to justify 
society in restricting the development or availability of life-extension.

DOI: 10.1080/03605310590907048
PMID: 15814366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Pain Palliat Care Pharmacother. 2005;19(1):57-61.

Cost-utility analysis and quality adjusted life years.

Joish VN(1), Oderda GM.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Pharmacotherapy Outcomes Research Center, University of 
Utah Health Sciences Center, Salt Lake City, UT 84108, USA. 
vijay.joish@pharm.utah.edu

Cost utility analysis is a form of cost-effectiveness analysis in which outcomes 
are adjusted for quality and quantity of life. This type of analysis is used 
widely in Europe and is being used increasingly in the United States. This 
article provides an overview of cost utility analysis and quality adjusted life 
years, a commonly used effectiveness measure in CUA when comparing two or more 
treatments or interventions.

PMID: 15814516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Apr 6;2005(14):pe9. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.14.pe9.

Future mortality: a bumpy road to Shangri-La?

Tuljapurkar S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, 
USA. tulja@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jun 1;2005(22):pe15.

Americans are getting fatter, and it is known that increased obesity may 
increase the risk of death. Olshansky et al. have argued that this increase in 
obesity will likely slow, or even reverse, increases in life expectancy in the 
United States and perhaps save U.S. Social Security as a result. We discuss 
historical changes in the mortality rate and the reasons why other analyses 
argue that life expectancies will continue to increase. We also discuss the 
limitations of using single risk factors such as obesity as predictors of 
mortality risk. Finally, we explore the relation between risk factors and the 
long-term historical increase in human life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.14.pe9
PMID: 15814821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2005 Mar;98(3):173-4.

[Cardiac failure and life expextancy].

[Article in French]

Broustet JP.

PMID: 15816317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2005 Mar;98(3):186-91.

[End-stage heart failure: quantity or quality of life?].

[Article in French]

Delahaye F(1), Mercusot A, Carra L, Gouton M.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Louis Pradel, Bron. francois.delahaye@chu-lyon.fr

Several clinical trials testing the safety and efficacy of different positive 
inotropic agents in patients suffering form end-stage heart failure have 
confirmed that these drugs increase mortality. We nevertheless, use these agents 
regularly because of the presumption that they improve quality of life. However, 
this presumption, sound a priori, is not firmly anchored. When we prescribe 
these drugs, do we inform our patients? Do the patients ultimately decide 
whether to be treated with inotropic agents? What is the role of palliative care 
in the end-stage heart failure patient? We review the literature and reflect on 
these issues, long completely ignored, though beginning to elicit specific 
articles.

PMID: 15816320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Anticancer Res. 2005 Jan-Feb;25(1B):531-6.

Stressful and adverse life experiences in patients with breast symptoms; a 
prospective case-control study in Kuopio, Finland.

Ollonen P(1), Lehtonen J, Eskelinen M.

Author information:
(1)Department for Social and Health Affairs, State Office in Eastern Finland, 
FIN-70101 Kuopio, Finland. paula.ollonen@islh.intermin.fi

BACKGROUND: Psychosocial stress is widely thought to play a role in the 
aetiology of cancer in general and breast cancer in particular. Many studies 
have investigated the association between stressful life events and risk of 
breast cancer. However, the field of psychosocial cancer research is often 
problematic and findings have been contradictory, varying from no association to 
strong association. This inconsistency in results may be explained by the fact 
that most of the epidemiological data available come from retrospective 
case-control studies. We have conducted this case-control study with a so called 
"limited prospective study design"to reduce the potential for recall bias.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study is an extension of the Kuopio Breast Cancer 
Study. Women with breast symptoms were referred by physicians to the Kuopio 
University Hospital (Finland) and were asked to participate in this study. The 
women were interviewed and reports on adverse and stressful life events were 
obtained before any diagnostic procedures were done, so neither the investigator 
nor the subject knew the final diagnosis of breast symptoms at the time of the 
interview. The research method used was the semi-structured in-depth interview 
method. All study subjects were also asked to complete standardised 
questionnaires (Beck Depression Inventory, Spielberger Trait Inventory).
RESULTS: The clinical examination and biopsy showed breast cancer (BC) in 34 
patients, benign breast disease (BBD) in 53 patients, while 28 study subjects 
showed to be healthy (HSS). The results indicated that BC patients had had 
significantly (p=0.02) more very severe (Gr IV) and severe (Gr III) stress in 
the previous 10 years preceding the investigation than the BBD and HSS groups. 
The BC group also reported significantly more moderate or severe losses than the 
BBD or the HSS groups (p=0.0009).
CONCLUSION: The results of this study support an overall association between 
stressful life events and breast cancer risk. The biological explanation of the 
overall association might be that stress disturbs various areas of the immune 
systems predisposing to neoplasia.

PMID: 15816624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Am J Transplant. 2005 May;5(5):1090-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.00802.x.

Consequences of eliminating HLA-B in deceased donor kidney allocation to 
increase minority transplantation.

Mutinga N(1), Brennan DC, Schnitzler MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.

HLA matching contributes to the disparity in Caucasian compared to minority 
kidney transplantation. HLA-B locus matching was eliminated from kidney 
allocation to shift a projected 166 organs from Caucasians to minorities 
annually. This study estimated the economic and quality-of-life impact of this 
policy. Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using a Markov model. Data 
from the United States Renal Data System (USRDS) were used to estimate 
race-specific outcomes, patient and graft survival, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) and medical costs in U.S. dollars. The greatest benefit is expected in 
African Americans, with expected savings of US 7.5 million dollars and 243 
QALYs. Smaller cost and QALY benefits are seen in other minority groups. In 
Caucasians, a loss of 7.0 million dollars and a decrease of 967 QALYs are 
expected with the shift of organs. Overall, this policy is expected to save US 
5400 dollars for each QALY that is lost. The same increase in minority 
transplantation would be expected from increasing Caucasian donation rates by 
5.5%, or African-American donation by 29.0%, each producing large cost savings 
and QALY gains. Policies to increase minority transplants by increasing donation 
rates may prove more cost effective than the elimination of HLA-B matching from 
deceased donor kidney allocation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.00802.x
PMID: 15816891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Exp Neurol. 2005 May;193(1):53-64. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.12.012.

Seizure suppression and lack of adenosine A1 receptor desensitization after 
focal long-term delivery of adenosine by encapsulated myoblasts.

Güttinger M(1), Padrun V, Pralong WF, Boison D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich, CH-8057 
Zürich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Epilepsy Curr. 2005 Nov-Dec;5(6):241-3.

Adenosine is an important inhibitory modulator of brain activity. In a previous 
ex vivo gene therapy approach, local release of adenosine by encapsulated 
fibroblasts implanted into the vicinity of an epileptic focus, was sufficient to 
provide transient protection from seizures (Huber, A., Padrun, V., Deglon, N., 
Aebischer, P., Mohler, H., Boison, D., 2001. Grafts of adenosine-releasing cells 
suppress seizures in kindling epilepsy. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 98, 
7611-7616). Long-term seizure suppression beyond 2 weeks was precluded by 
limited life expectancy of the encapsulated fibroblasts. To study the 
feasibility for long-term seizure suppression by adenosine releasing brain 
implants, in the present contribution, mouse C2C12 myoblasts were engineered to 
release adenosine by genetic inactivation of adenosine kinase. After 
encapsulation, the myoblasts were grafted into the lateral brain ventricles of 
epileptic rats kindled in the hippocampus. While seizure activity in animals 
with wild-type implants remained unaltered, 1 week after grafting all rats with 
adenosine-releasing implants (n = 25) displayed complete protection from 
convulsive seizures and a corresponding reduction of afterdischarges in 
EEG-recordings. The duration of seizure suppression was maintained for a period 
of 3 weeks in 50% of the animals ranging to a maximum of 8 weeks in one animal. 
During the course of these experiments, adenosine A1 receptors remained 
responsive to selective agonists and antagonists indicating a lack of 
desensitization of A1 receptors after local long-term exposure to adenosine. 
Furthermore, local release of adenosine did not affect locomotor activity, 
whereas systemic application of the A1 agonist 2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine 
caused strong sedation. Thus, the local release of adenosine by cellular 
implants provides a feasible option for a potential side-effect free approach 
for the long-term treatment of focal epilepsies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.12.012
PMID: 15817264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Biol Chem. 2005 Jun 10;280(23):22091-101. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M502726200.
Epub  2005 Apr 6.

In situ photoactivation of a caged phosphotyrosine peptide derived from focal 
adhesion kinase temporarily halts lamellar extension of single migrating tumor 
cells.

Humphrey D(1), Rajfur Z, Vazquez ME, Scheswohl D, Schaller MD, Jacobson K, 
Imperiali B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.

Focal adhesion kinase (FAK), a non-receptor tyrosine kinase, mediates 
integrin-based cell signaling by transferring signals regulating cell migration, 
adhesion, and survival from the extracellular matrix to the cytoplasm. Following 
autophosphorylation at tyrosine 397, FAK binds the Src homology 2 domains of Src 
and phosphoinositide 3-kinase, among several other possible binding partners. To 
further investigate the role of phosphorylated FAK in cell migration in situ, 
peptides comprising residues 391-406 of human FAK with caged phosphotyrosine 397 
were synthesized. Although the caged phosphopeptides were stable to phosphatase 
activity, the free phosphopeptides showed a half-life of approximately 10-15 min 
in cell lysates. Migrating NBT-II cells (a rat bladder tumor cell line) were 
microinjected with the caged FAK peptide and locally photoactivated using a 
focused laser beam. The photoactivation of caged FAK peptide in 8-microm 
diameter spots over the cell body led to the temporary arrest of the leading 
edge migration within approximately 1 min of irradiation. In contrast, cell body 
migration was not inhibited. Microinjection of a non-caged phosphorylated 
tyrosine 397 FAK peptide into migrating NBT-II cells also led to lamellar 
arrest; however, this approach lacks the temporal control afforded by the caged 
phosphopeptides. Photoactivation of related phosphotyrosine peptides with 
altered sequences did not result in transient lamellar arrest. We hypothesize 
that the phosphorylated FAK peptide competes with the endogenous FAK for binding 
to FAK effectors including, but not limited to, Src and phosphoinositide 
3-kinase, causing spatiotemporal misregulation and subsequent lamellar arrest.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M502726200
PMID: 15817454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Curr Opin Oncol. 2005 May;17(3):257-60. doi:
10.1097/01.cco.0000155008.37524.8e.

Progress in detection and treatment of prostate cancer.

Ryan CJ(1), Small EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, UCSF Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of 
California, San Francisco, California, USA. ryanc@medicine.ucsf.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to highlight the most important 
developments in the diagnosis, prevention, and management of prostate cancer 
reported in the past year that have been published in the medical literature.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent research has shown that clinically meaningful prostate 
cancer can develop in patients with a PSA value <4 ng/dL and has suggested that 
'watchful waiting' approaches may not be appropriate for young patients or those 
with a life expectancy of greater than 15 years. The contribution of obesity to 
high-grade disease and a higher rate of relapse has also been described. There 
is now randomized data suggesting that adjuvant hormonal therapy for as little 
as six month's time confers a survival benefit for those receiving radiation 
therapy. Secondary hormonal manipulation with ketoconazole is now supported by 
randomized phase III data. Most importantly, this year the results of two 
randomized phase III clinical trials of chemotherapy in hormone refractory 
prostate cancer have shown that survival can be increased by 20% with the use of 
docetaxel.
SUMMARY: Recent data reported in the past year have significant implications for 
those involved in the management of prostate cancer. The results of the 
chemotherapy trials have resulted in new standards of care for this disease.

DOI: 10.1097/01.cco.0000155008.37524.8e
PMID: 15818171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg Pediatr Card Surg Annu. 2005:103-11. doi: 
10.1053/j.pcsu.2005.03.001.

Valve-sparing aortic root replacement in Marfan syndrome.

Cameron DE(1), Vricella LA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, The Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD 21287, 
USA.

Marfan syndrome is the most common inherited connective tissue disorder, 
affecting approximately 1 in 10,000 live births. The cardinal features of Marfan 
syndrome are the abnormalities of the skeleton (tall stature, arachnodactyly, 
and joint hyperelasticity), eye (lens subluxation), and aorta (root aneurysm 
with proclivity toward rupture and dissection). Aortic catastrophe accounts for 
most of the premature mortality among Marfan patients, a risk that climbs 
steeply during adolescence and results in death of half of Marfan patients by 
the age of 40 years. Most of the improvement in life expectancy that has been 
achieved in Marfan syndrome is attributable to early recognition of aortic root 
aneurysms and prophylactic replacement with composite grafts (mechanical valve 
prostheses within Dacron conduits) before rupture or dissection occurs. Despite 
the excellent early and late results with composite grafts, there has been 
growing interest in operative procedures that replace the sinuses but preserve 
the aortic valve leaflets, to avoid anticoagulation and minimize the risk of 
prosthesis-related endocarditis. These procedures are still in evolution and 
late results are not yet known, but as with mitral repair in the setting of 
myxomatous disease, valve-sparing procedures in Marfan syndrome have weathered a 
storm of initial criticism and skepticism and are steadily gaining acceptance.

DOI: 10.1053/j.pcsu.2005.03.001
PMID: 15818365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Ann Vasc Surg. 2005 May;19(3):352-60. doi: 10.1007/s10016-005-0010-8.

Percutaneous transluminal revascularization for iliac occlusive disease: 
long-term outcomes in TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus A and B lesions.

Galaria II(1), Davies MG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Center for Vascular Disease, University of 
Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA.

Percutaneous transluminal intervention for atherosclerotic iliac occlusive 
disease is now commonplace. We examine the long-term outcomes of TransAtlantic 
Inter-Society Consensus (TASC) A and B lesions. We performed a retrospective 
anonymous analysis of records from patients who underwent iliac artery 
angioplasty with or without stenting between January 1990 and June 1999. 
Indications for intervention were symptomatic claudication (77%) or critical 
ischemia (23%). Altogether, 276 patients (all men; average age 64 +/- 11 years 
range 32-87 years) underwent 394 interventions. Co-morbidities included 
hypertension (61%), hypercholesterolemia (45%), diabetes (28%), and chronic 
renal insufficiency (26%). A total of the 62% of the lesions were TASC category 
A, and the remainder were category B. Of the 394 primary interventions, 51% 
included placement of stents. Technical success (defined by < 30% residual 
stenosis) was achieved in 98% of treated vessels. The procedure-related 
mortality rate was 1.8% at 30 days and 4.7% at 90 days; the procedure-related 
complication rate was 7%. Hemodynamic success (defined as a rise in the 
ankle/branchial index > 0.15) was achieved in 82%. The average Society for 
Vascular Surgery symptom score was 3.4 +/- 0.9 before intervention, which 
improved to 1.9 +/- 0.8 following intervention. Within 3 months, 84% of patients 
demonstrated clinical improvement. Patient survival by life-table analysis was 
38% at 10 years. The cumulative assisted patency rate was 71 +/- 7% at 10 years. 
The presence of two-vessel femoral runoff, two or more patent tibial vessels, or 
both was associated with improved patency. Limb salvage was 95 +/- 2% and 87 +/- 
9% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. Using Cox proportional hazards analysis, the 
presence of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, or chronic renal insufficiency 
was associated with the occurrence of primary failure, whereas increased patency 
intervals were associated with the presence of immediate hemodynamic 
improvement. Use of a stent did not influence outcome. Endoluminal iliac 
intervention for TASC A and B lesions is a safe, durable intervention in 
patients with good femoral and tibial runoff. The presence of hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, or poor tibial runoff is associated with failure.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-005-0010-8
PMID: 15818461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Psychiatr Prax. 2005 Apr;32(3):142-50. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-834709.

[Cost-effectiveness of galantamine in a german context].

[Article in German]

Happich M(1), Schweikert B, Mühlbacher A.

Author information:
(1)GSF-Forschungszentrum für Umwelt und Gesundheit, Institut für 
Gesundheitsökonomie und Management im Gesundheitswesen, Neuherberg. 
michael.happich@gsf.de

OBJECTIVE: The application of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors seems to be 
constrained in the German health care system. We investigate the 
cost-effectiveness of the AChE inhibitor Galantamine for patients with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a German context.
METHOD: A Markov model as the decision theoretic framework is applied to compare 
two treatment scenarios (Placebo vs. Galantamine). The incremental cost-utility 
ratio based on different sources of data is calculated as decision criteria.
RESULTS: In the base case, the application of the AChE inhibitor Galantamine is 
a dominant scenario with cost savings along with gained quality adjusted life 
years. It is not cost saving from the perspective of third party payers in 
Germany. Results are sensitive regarding assumptions about efficacy of the drug 
and mortality in the analysed cohort.
CONCLUSION: The German reimbursement system places an obstacle to the 
application of Galantamine. Further research is needed to tackle uncertainties 
in the model.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-834709
PMID: 15818530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Rev Med Interne. 2005 Apr;26(4):304-14. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2004.09.010.
Epub  2004 Oct 18.

[Treatment of cancer and hematological malignancy in elderly people (Part II)].

[Article in French]

Ladoire S(1), Ghiringhelli F, Manckoundia P, Casasnovas RO, Solary E, Besancenot 
JF, Pfitzenmeyer P.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne et maladies systémiques, hôpital général, 3, rue 
du Faubourg-Raines, 21033 Dijon cedex, France. s.ladoire@caramail.com

PURPOSE: Fifty percents of cancer arise in people older than 65-year-old. Most 
clinical trials in cancer treatment are limited in patients younger than 
65-year-old. We review literature-describing particularity of cancer treatment 
in elderly patients.
CURRENT KNOWLEDGE AND KEY POINTS: Therapeutic decisions should be based on an 
estimation of the patient's life expectancy, and risks and benefits should be 
weighted up accordingly. Geriatric oncology is made of a geriatric evaluation of 
patient and of knowledge of clinical trial about elderly patients.
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND PROJECTS: We present in this issue the principle of 
geriatric evaluation and the results of recent clinical trial on elderly cancer 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2004.09.010
PMID: 15820566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Exp Gerontol. 2005 Apr;40(4):303-14. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.01.002.

Hyperglycemia, impaired glucose tolerance and elevated glycated hemoglobin 
levels in a long-lived mouse stock.

Harper JM(1), Durkee SJ, Smith-Wheelock M, Miller RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-0940, USA. jmharper@umich.edu

We have previously demonstrated that two wild-derived stocks of mice, Idaho and 
Majuro, are significantly longer-lived than mice of a control stock (DC) 
generated as a four-way cross of commonly used laboratory strains of mice. This 
study provides independent confirmation of this earlier finding, as well as 
examining serum glucose, insulin, leptin, glycated hemoglobin (GHb), cataract 
severity, and glucose tolerance levels in each of the stocks. Both the mean 
(+20%) and maximum (+13%) life span of the Idaho mice were significantly 
increased relative to the DC stock, while in the Majuro mice only maximum (+15%) 
life span was significantly increased. In addition, Majuro mice were 
hyperglycemic in both the fed and fasted states compared both to 
laboratory-derived and Idaho stocks, had significantly elevated GHb levels and 
cataract scores, and were glucose intolerant although serum insulin levels did 
not differ between stocks. Body weight and body mass index (BMI)-corrected 
leptin levels were also dramatically (1.5-3-fold) higher in the Majuro mice. The 
longevity of Id mice was not accompanied by changes in serum glucose and insulin 
levels, or glucose tolerance compared to DC controls, although GHb levels were 
significantly lower in the Idaho mice. Taken together, these findings suggest 
that neither a reduction of blood glucose levels nor an increase in glucose 
tolerance is necessary for life span extension in mice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.01.002
PMCID: PMC2924615
PMID: 15820611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. BMJ. 2005 Apr 30;330(7498):991. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38415.644155.8F. Epub 2005
Apr  8.

