an age- and sex-adjusted rate of death before age 75 years; life expectancy from 
birth; and potential years of life lost (PYLL)--are compared between Registered 
First Nations (RFN) people and all other Manitobans (AOM) by geographical areas 
of Manitoba. Data were derived from the Population Health Research Data 
Repository, linked to the federal Status Verification System (SVS) files for the 
years 1995 through 1999.
RESULTS: First Nations experienced double the PMR compared to all other 
Manitobans (6.6 versus 3.3 deaths per thousand, p < 0.05), an eight-year gap in 
life expectancy (males: 68.4 versus 76.1 years; females 73.2 versus 81.4 years), 
and over twice the PYLL (males 158.3 versus 62.5 years of life lost per 
thousand; females 103.3 versus 36.5). RFN male life expectancy was 
geographically-related (better health status in the north), and inversely 
related to the corresponding regional AOM life expectancy (r = -0.61, 9 df, 
one-tailed, p < 0.03). As regional percentage of RFN decreased, male life 
expectancy decreased (r = 0.77, 9 df, one-tailed, p < 0.003). In contrast, RFN 
female indicators showed no such relationship.
CONCLUSION: The inequality in health status between RFN and all other Manitobans 
is large, but also shows differential geographical and gender effects.

CONTEXTE: Nous avons étudié les inégalités sur le plan de la santé chez les 
membres inscrits des Premières nations manitobaines par rapport au reste de la 
population du Manitoba.
MÉTHODE: Nous avons comparé trois indices de mortalité - le taux de mortalité 
prématurée (TMP), défini comme étant le taux de décès avant 75 ans ajusté selon 
l’âge et le sexe; l’espérance de vie à la naissance; et les années potentielles 
de vie perdues (APVP) - pour les membres inscrits des Premières nations et le 
reste de la population du Manitoba selon les zones géographiques de la province. 
Les données ont été dérivées d’un registre, le Population Health Research Data 
Repository, lié au Système de vérification du statut (SVS) fédéral, pour la 
période de 1995 à 1999.
RÉSULTATS: Chez les membres des Premières nations, le TMP était le double de 
celui du reste de la population du Manitoba (6,6 c. 3,3 décès p. 1 000, p<0,05), 
l’espérance de vie était inférieure de huit ans (chez les hommes, 68,4 c. 76,1 
ans; chez les femmes, 73,2 c. 81,4 ans), et les APVP étaient plus de deux fois 
supérieures (chez les hommes, 158,3 c. 62,5 années de vie perdues p. 1 000; chez 
les femmes, 103,3 c. 36,5). Chez les hommes, l’espérance de vie des membres 
inscrits des Premières nations était liée à la zone géographique (l’état de 
santé était meilleur dans le Nord) et réciproquement liée à l’espérance de vie 
du reste de la population du Manitoba dans la zone correspondante (r = 0,61, 
degré de liberté = 9, test unilatéral, p<0,03). À mesure que le pourcentage 
régional des membres inscrits des Premières nations diminue, l’espérance de vie 
des hommes diminue (r = 0,77, degré de liberté = 9, test unilatéral, p<0,003). 
Par contre, les indices concernant les femmes inscrites des Premières nations ne 
permettent pas d’établir de tels liens.
CONCLUSION: Les inégalités entre les membres inscrits des Premières nations et 
le reste de la population du Manitoba sur le plan de l’état de santé sont 
importantes, mais elles diffèrent selon la zone géographique et le sexe.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405314
PMCID: PMC6976163
PMID: 15686151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Perspect Infirm. 2005 Jan-Feb;2(3):6-9.

The ageing population--so what?

[Article in English, French]

Desrosiers G.

PMID: 15686199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Circulation. 2005 Feb 1;111(4):405-11. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000153355.92687.FA.

Intention-to-treat analysis of pulmonary artery banding in conditions with a 
morphological right ventricle in the systemic circulation with a view to 
anatomic biventricular repair.

Winlaw DS(1), McGuirk SP, Balmer C, Langley SM, Griselli M, Stümper O, De 
Giovanni JV, Wright JG, Thorne S, Barron DJ, Brawn WJ.

Author information:
(1)Diana, Princess of Wales Children's Hospital, Birmingham Children's Hospital 
NHS Trust, Birmingham, England. davidw@chw.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Some patients with a morphological right ventricle (mRV) in the 
systemic circulation require early intervention because of progressive systemic 
ventricular dysfunction or atrioventricular valve regurgitation. They may be 
eligible for anatomic repair (correction of atrioventricular and 
ventriculoarterial discordance) but require prior training of the morphological 
left ventricle (mLV).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Forty-one patients with congenitally corrected 
transposition of the great arteries or a previous atrial switch procedure 
embarked on a protocol of pulmonary artery (PA) banding with a view to anatomic 
repair. All had an mRV in the systemic circulation and a subpulmonary mLV that 
was not conditioned by either volume or pressure load. Two patients were not 
banded, and 39 were followed up for a median of 4.3 years (range, 25 days to 
12.6 years). Sixteen patients achieved anatomic repair, with 3 in the early 
stages of the training protocol. After 2 years, 12 patients were not suitable 
for anatomic repair and persisted with palliative banding; 8 were functionally 
improved; and 4 died, underwent transplantation, or required debanding. PA 
banding improved functional class but did not improve tricuspid regurgitation in 
the long term for patients not achieving anatomic repair. mLV function was a 
critical determinant of survival with a PA band as well as survival after 
anatomic repair. Patients >16 years were unlikely to achieve anatomic repair.
CONCLUSIONS: PA banding is a safe and effective method of training the mLV 
before anatomic repair. It is also an effective palliative procedure for those 
who do not attain this goal.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000153355.92687.FA
PMID: 15687127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Circulation. 2005 Feb 1;111(4):451-8. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000153809.88286.2E.

Left heart growth, function, and reintervention after balloon aortic 
valvuloplasty for neonatal aortic stenosis.

McElhinney DB(1), Lock JE, Keane JF, Moran AM, Colan SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Children's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Mass 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Transcatheter balloon aortic valvuloplasty (BAVP) has become the 
first-line treatment for critical aortic stenosis (AS) in neonates. However, 
little is known about the growth and function of left heart structures or about 
patterns of reintervention on the left heart after neonatal BAVP.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between 1985 and 2002, 113 patients underwent neonatal BAVP 
at < or =60 days of age. There were 16 early deaths (14%), with a significant 
decrease from 1985 to 1993 (22%) to 1994 to 2002 (4%), and 6 patients had 
successful early conversion to a univentricular circulation. In the short term, 
the mean relative gradient reduction was 54+/-26%, and significant aortic 
regurgitation (AR) developed in 15% of patients. The 91 early survivors with a 
biventricular circulation were followed up for 6.3+/-5.3 years, during which 
time there was a steady increase in the frequency of significant AR. Freedom 
from moderate or severe AR was 65% at 5 years. In almost all patients with a 
baseline aortic annulus z score less than -1, the annulus diameter increased to 
within the normal range within 1 to 2 years. Similarly, left ventricular (LV) 
end-diastolic dimension z scores, which ranged from -5 to 7.5 before BAVP, 
normalized within 1 to 2 years in nearly all patients with a predilation z score 
less than -1. Among early survivors with a biventricular circulation, 
reintervention-free survival on the LV outflow tract was 65% at 1 year and 48% 
at 5 years, with younger age, higher pre- and post-BAVP gradients, and a larger 
balloon-annulus diameter ratio associated with decreased reintervention-free 
survival (P<0.01). Seventeen surgical interventions were performed on the aortic 
valve in 15 patients, including replacement in 7. Survival free from aortic 
valve replacement was 84% at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: BAVP for AS during the first 60 days of life results in short-term 
relief of AS in the majority of patients. Among early survivors, initially small 
left heart structures may be associated with worse subacute outcomes but 
typically normalize within 1 year. Reintervention for residual/recurrent AS or 
iatrogenic AR is relatively common, particularly during the first year after 
BAVP, but aortic valve replacement during early childhood is seldom necessary.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000153809.88286.2E
PMID: 15687133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Breast Dis. 1998 Aug;10(3-4):23-32. doi: 10.3233/bd-1998-103-405.

Screening mammography for women in their forties.

Berry DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistics and Decision Sciences, Duke University, ISDS Box 
90251, Durham, NC 27708-0251, USA.

Nonrandomized screening studies and some analyses of randomized data are subject 
to enormous biases. Many such analyses have the goal of showing that screening 
mammography is beneficial. They masquerade as science but are extreme examples 
of lying with statistics. Randomized trials have provided mixed results 
concerning whether screening reduces breast cancer mortality. Estimates from 
these trials are subject to a great deal more variability than traditional 
meta-analyses belie. A blanket recommendation for the screening of women in 
their forties is inappropriate, and it is a disservice to these women. Regular 
screening mammography of women in this age group is not an imperative health 
measure. If it is beneficial, its benefits are limited: taking the results of 
the randomized trials at face value, regular screening adds about five days in 
life expectancy per woman. In addition, screening has many significant risks. 
Those who are most concerned about their health will probably discount the risks 
and choose regular screening, and reasonably so. Others will eschew screening, 
also reasonably so.

DOI: 10.3233/bd-1998-103-405
PMID: 15687561


249. Breast Dis. 2001;12:83-93. doi: 10.3233/bd-2001-12109.

Special considerations when treating breast cancer in the elderly.

Schnaper LA(1), Hughes KS.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Breast Care Center, Greater Baltimore Medical Center, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.

The growing aging population of the U.S. will lead to an absolute and 
proportional increase in elderly women with breast cancer. While the underlying 
biologic characteristics of the disease will not likely change, the health 
status and life expectancy of the patients will improve. Our decisions regarding 
therapy must take into account not just the disease we are treating, but the 
characteristics of the host as well.

DOI: 10.3233/bd-2001-12109
PMID: 15687609


250. Taehan Kanho Hakhoe Chi. 2004 Dec;34(8):1402-8. doi: 
10.4040/jkan.2004.34.8.1402.

Self-care in elders with dementia: a concept analysis.

Yeom HA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester School of Nursing, NY 14620, USA. 
hyea_yeom@urmc.rochester.edu

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to analyze the concept of self-care in 
elders with dementia through a review of nursing literature and to provide more 
understanding of the definition and perspectives of the concept of self-care 
notion in elders with dementia.
METHODS: The technique developed by Walker and Avant was used as a guide in 
analyzing the concept of self-care.
RESULTS: Attributes of self-care in dementia may include a single or group of 
actions needed for sustaining life, a personal effort to maintain functional 
independence while minimizing other's assistance, an outcome behavior from the 
person's interaction with inter-personal and/or contextual environment, and a 
functional ability that may decline in parallel to cognitive impairment. 
Antecedents of self-care in dementia may include at least presence of a certain 
degree of cognitive appraisal for the self-care needs, self-willingness for the 
self-care action, spatial and visual orientation, cultural pre-conception of the 
self-care behavior, presence of environmental context/equipment available for 
self-care, and sufficient time available. The consequences may include 
sustaining of life, feel of satisfaction, achieving independence, extended life 
expectancy, increased self-confidence, decreased caregiver distress and/or 
burden, savings in health care costs.
DISCUSSION: Defining attributes and antecedents and consequences of self-care in 
dementia identified in this study provided empirical ground of a middle-range 
theory of self-care for a clinical population with dementia and generated 
possible hypotheses to be tested in future studies.

DOI: 10.4040/jkan.2004.34.8.1402
PMID: 15687781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Oncogene. 2005 Mar 24;24(13):2256-70. doi: 10.1038/sj.onc.1208413.

Antagonistic effects of telomerase on cancer and aging in K5-mTert transgenic 
mice.

González-Suárez E(1), Geserick C, Flores JM, Blasco MA.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National Cancer Centre, E-28029 Madrid, 
Spain.

Many degenerative diseases that occur with aging, as well as premature aging 
syndromes, are characterized by presenting cells with critically short 
telomeres. Telomerase reintroduction is envisioned as a putative therapy for 
diseases characterized by telomere exhaustion. K5-mTert transgenic mice 
overexpress telomerase in a wide spectrum of tissues. These mice have a higher 
incidence of both induced and spontaneous tumors, resulting in increased 
mortality during the first year of life. Here, we show that in spite of this 
elevated tumor incidence and the initial lower survival, K5-mTert mice show an 
extension of the maximum lifespan from 1.5 to 3 months, depending on the 
transgenic line, which represents up to a 10% increase in the mean lifespan 
compared to wild-type littermates. This longer lifespan is coincidental with a 
lower incidence of certain age-related degenerative diseases, mainly those 
related to kidney function and germline integrity. Importantly, these effects of 
telomerase overexpression cannot be attributed to dramatic differences in 
telomere length in aged K5-Tert mice compared to wild-type mice, as shown by 
quantitative telomeric FISH. These findings indicate that telomerase 
overexpression extends the maximum lifespan of mice.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1208413
PMID: 15688016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Omega (Westport). 2003-2004;48(2):103-14. doi: 10.2190/4j17-px0v-wq03-cgda.

Medical decision-making around the time of death of cognitively impaired nursing 
home residents: a pilot study.

Cohen-Mansfield J(1), Lipson S.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute on Aging, Hebrew Home of Greater Washington, 6121 Montrose 
Road, Rockville, MD 20852, USA. Cohen-Mansfield@hebrew-home.org

The purpose of this article is to describe the end-of-life process in the 
nursing home for three groups of cognitively-impaired nursing home residents: 
those who died with a medical decision-making process prior to death; those who 
died without such a decision-making process; and those who had a status-change 
event and a medical decision-making process, and did not die prior to data 
collection. Residents had experienced a medical status-change event within the 
24 hours prior to data collection, and were unable to make their own decisions 
due to cognitive impairment. Data on the decision-making process during the 
event, including the type of event, the considerations used in making the 
decisions, and who was involved in making these decisions were collected from 
the residents' charts and through interviews with their physicians or nurse 
practitioners. When there was no decision-making process immediately prior to 
death, a decision-making process was usually reported to have occurred 
previously, with most decisions calling either for comfort care or limitation of 
care. When comparing those events leading to death with other status-change 
events, those who died were more likely to have suffered from troubled breathing 
than those who remained alive. Hospitalization was used only among those who 
survived, whereas diagnostic tests and comfort care were used more often with 
those who died. Those who died had more treatments considered and chosen than 
did those who remained alive. For half of those who died, physicians felt that 
they would have preferred less treatment for themselves if they were in the 
place of the decedents. The results represent preliminary data concerning 
decision-making processes surrounding death of the cognitively-impaired in the 
nursing home. Additional research is needed to elucidate the trends uncovered in 
this study.

DOI: 10.2190/4j17-px0v-wq03-cgda
PMID: 15688544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Tradition. 2003 Fall;37(3):76-100.

Hazardous medical procedures.

Bleich JD.

PMID: 15688550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2004 Dec;29(6):1227-34. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-29-6-1227.

Review essay. Assisted living.

Gusmano MK(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University and International Longevity Center, USA.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-29-6-1227
PMID: 15688582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2004 Jan-Mar;108(1):61-5.

[Population aging. Current issues].

[Article in Romanian]

Zanoschi G(1), Iliescu ML.

Author information:
(1)Universitatea de Medicină şi Farmacie Gr.T. Popa Iaşi, Facultatea de 
Medicină, Disciplina de Sănătate Publică şi Management.

The aging process of the population, obviously in developed countries, involves 
many socio-economic and political changes. This demographic trend is due to the 
decreasing of birth rate and fertility rate on one hand, and, on the other hand, 
to the decrease of crude mortality and infant mortality rate. These mean that 
the rising proportion of the old people is greater cause of concern, because 
most of these people require considerable support, frequently in institutions, 
and often at public expense. Taking demographic data and trends as the starting 
point, the society has to focus on social protection and health policies in 
order to improve the quality of life for the elderly.

PMID: 15688758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Ital. 2004 Aug;24(4):204-10.

Tongue base reduction with hyoepiglottoplasty for the treatment of severe OSA.

Sorrenti G(1), Piccin O, Scaramuzzino G, Mondini S, Cirignotta F, Ceroni AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Science and Reanimation, "S Orsola-Malpighi" Hospital, 
Italy. gisorrenti@yahoo.it

Surgical treatment for retro-lingual obstruction in patients suffering from 
obstructive sleep apnea syndrome remains a problem for which there is no simple 
solution. The techniques most in use (tongue suspension, genioglossal 
advancement with hyoid suspension) are effective primarily as stabilization 
methods modifying neither tongue position, nor volume and only produce 
appreciable results when performed on non-overweight patients with respiratory 
disturbance index <40. For patients suffering from severe obstructive sleep 
apnoea syndrome in whom the most obvious morphological alteration is the 
presence of hypo-pharyngeal obstruction due to tongue base hypertrophy, who are 
overweight or suffering from moderate obesity, a surgical procedure aimed at 
reducing tongue volume and at repositioning the hyoid bone, even if invasive, 
leads to a favourable outcome. Herein, personal experience is described in a 
group of 8 patients presenting severe obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome 
incompatible with normal quality of life and normal life expectancy (mean 
respiratory disturbance index = 55.1) who underwent surgical resection of the 
tongue base with hyoepiglottoplasty. This technique, first described by 
Chabolle, differs radically from others inasmuch as it guarantees enlargement of 
the hypo-pharyngeal lumen and remodelling of the hyolingual complex. Using a 
suprahyoid cervical approach, it is possible to effect ample reduction of the 
tongue base with amplification of the hypo-pharyngeal airway without inducing 
problems as far as concerns either swallowing or speech.

PMID: 15688905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Health Policy Plan. 2005 Jan;20(1):50-9. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czi006.

The cost-effectiveness of introducing hepatitis B vaccine into infant 
immunization services in Mozambique.

Griffiths UK(1), Hutton G, Das Dores Pascoal E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vaccines and Biologicals, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue 
Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland. Griffithsu@who.int

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of introducing hepatitis B vaccine 
into routine infant immunization services in Mozambique, which took place in the 
year 2001.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was used to estimate the impact of hepatitis 
B vaccination. This model was developed for the WHO to estimate the global 
burden of disease from hepatitis B. Cost data of vaccine delivery and medical 
treatment related to hepatitis B infection were collected for the analysis.
FINDINGS: The introduction of hepatitis B vaccine has increased the annual 
budget for immunization services by approximately 56%. It is predicted that more 
than 4000 future deaths are averted annually by the intervention. In the base 
case scenario, the incremental costs per undiscounted deaths averted amount to 
US$436, and the costs per undiscounted DALY averted amount to US$36. Since the 
major impact of hepatitis B vaccination will not start to be evident for at 
least another 40 years (deaths from hepatitis B mainly occur between 40-60 years 
of age), the cost per DALY averted rises to US$47, when using a discount rate of 
3% on health effects. We found that the monovalent hepatitis B vaccine was 
considerably more cost-effective than the hepatitis B vaccine in combination 
with DTP.
INTERPRETATION: If policy makers value future health benefits equal to current 
benefits, the cost-effectiveness of infant hepatitis B vaccination is in the 
range of other primary health care interventions for which similar analysis has 
been undertaken.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czi006
PMID: 15689430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Neurorehabil Neural Repair. 2005 Mar;19(1 Suppl):64S-6S. doi: 
10.1177/1545968304274021.

Minorities and disabilities: crosscutting breakout session. Physical 
Disabilities through the Lifespan Conference.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1177/1545968304274021
PMID: 15689476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Biol Reprod. 2005 Jun;72(6):1336-43. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.104.038919.
Epub  2005 Feb 2.

Delayed motherhood decreases life expectancy of mouse offspring.

Tarín JJ(1), Gómez-Piquer V, Rausell F, Navarro S, Hermenegildo C, Cano A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Functional Biology and Physical Anthropology, Faculty of 
Biological Sciences, University of Valencia, Burjassot, 46100 Valencia, Spain. 
tarinjj@uv.es

This study analyzes the long-term effects of delayed motherhood on reproductive 
fitness and life expectancy of offspring in the mouse. Hybrid (C57BL/6JIco x 
CBA/JIco) first-generation (F1) females, either at the age of 10 or 51 wk, were 
individually housed with a randomly selected 12- to 14-wk-old hybrid male 
following a breeding pen system until females reached the end of their 
reproductive life. Reproductive fitness of second-generation (F2) females was 
tested from the age of 25 wk until the end of their reproductive life. In F2 
males, the testing period ranged from the age of 52 wk until their natural 
death. Delayed motherhood of hybrid F1 female mice was associated with a 
decreased percentage of male F3 offspring at birth and lower life expectancy and 
body weight during adulthood of F2 offspring. There was, however, no evident 
negative effect of delayed motherhood on several reproductive fitness variables 
in either male or female F2 offspring. This included between-parturition 
interval, litter size at birth and at weaning, body weight at weaning and 
preweaning mortality of F3 pups, percentage of F3 litters with at least one pup 
cannibalized, and time at which female and male F2 offspring ceased their 
reproductive life. These data clearly show that delayed motherhood in the mouse 
is associated with negative long-term effects on offspring survival.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.104.038919
PMID: 15689534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. EMBO Rep. 2005 Feb;6(2):98-102. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400339.

Who wants to live forever?

Lucke JC(1), Hall W.

Author information:
(1)Office of Public Policy and Ethics at the Institute for Molecular Bioscience, 
University of Queensland, Australia. j.lucke@imb.uq.edu.au

Real anti-ageing therapies may soon become reality. But, as yet, no one has 
asked the general public what they think about life extension

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400339
PMCID: PMC1299249
PMID: 15689934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2004 Oct;17(100):410-4.

[Gonarthrosis--epidemiology and risk factors].

[Article in Polish]

Kwiatkowski K(1).

Author information:
(1)Wojskowy Instytut Medyczny, Klinika Ortopedii, CSK MON, w Warszawie.

Gonarthrosis, due to high incidence, is a major problem for populations in the 
21st century. Gonarthrosis has been diagnosed in examinations of Egyptian 
mummies. The greatest advances in the diagnosis and treatment were made in the 
20th century. Treatment of gonarthrosis imposes a significant economic burden on 
populations of industrialised countries due to increasing life expectancy and 
intolerance of pain and disability. Gonarthrosis has many known endogenous and 
exogenous risk factors. The most important endogenous risk factors include age, 
gender, race and inborn proneness. The exogenous factors include: obesity and 
joint overuse and structure disturbances after trauma. The risk factors may 
possibly accumulate.

PMID: 15690717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Food Prot. 2005 Jan;68(1):105-10. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-68.1.105.

Shelf life extension of minimally processed cabbage and cucumber through gamma 
irradiation.

Khattak AB(1), Bibi N, Chaudry MA, Khan M, Khan M, Qureshi MJ.

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Institute for Food and Agriculture, Tarnab, Peshawar, Pakistan. 
nifa@pes.comsats.net.pk

The influence of irradiation of minimally processed cabbage and cucumber on 
microbial safety, texture, and sensory quality was investigated. Minimally 
processed, polyethylene-packed, and irradiated cabbage and cucumber were stored 
at refrigeration temperature (5 degrees C) for 2 weeks. The firmness values 
ranged from 3.23 kg (control) to 2.82 kg (3.0-kGy irradiated samples) for 
cucumbers, with a gradual decrease in firmness with increasing radiation dose (0 
to 3 kGy). Cucumbers softened just after irradiation with a dose of 3.0 kGy and 
after 14 days storage, whereas the texture remained within acceptable limits up 
to a radiation dose of 2.5 kGy. The radiation treatment had no effect on the 
appearance scores of cabbage; however, scores decreased from 7.0 to 6.7 during 
storage. The appearance and flavor scores of cucumbers decreased with increasing 
radiation dose, and overall acceptability was better after radiation doses of 
2.5 and 3.0 kGy. The aerobic plate counts per gram for cabbage increased from 3 
to 5 log CFU (control), from 1.85 to 2.93 log CFU (2.5 kGy), and from a few 
colonies to 2.6 log CFU (3.0 kGy) after 14 days of storage at 5 degrees C. A 
similar trend was noted for cucumber samples. No coliform bacteria were detected 
at radiation doses greater than 2.0 kGy in either cabbage or cucumber samples. 
Total fungal counts per gram of sample were within acceptable limits for 
cucumbers irradiated at 3.0 kGy, and for cabbage no fungi were detected after 
2.0-kGy irradiation. The D-values for Escherichia coli in cucumber and cabbage 
were 0.19 and 0.17 kGy, and those for Salmonella Paratyphi A were 0.25 and 0.29 
kGy for cucumber and cabbage, respectively.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-68.1.105
PMID: 15690810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Lifetime Data Anal. 2004 Dec;10(4):335-50. doi: 10.1007/s10985-004-4771-0.

Regression analysis of restricted mean survival time based on 
pseudo-observations.

Andersen PK(1), Hansen MG, Klein JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3, DK 2200 
Copenhagen N, Denmark. pka@biostat.ku.dk

Regression models for survival data are often specified from the hazard function 
while classical regression analysis of quantitative outcomes focuses on the mean 
value (possibly after suitable transformations). Methods for regression analysis 
of mean survival time and the related quantity, the restricted mean survival 
time, are reviewed and compared to a method based on pseudo-observations. Both 
Monte Carlo simulations and two real data sets are studied. It is concluded that 
while existing methods may be superior for analysis of the mean, 
pseudo-observations seem well suited when the restricted mean is studied.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-004-4771-0
PMID: 15690989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Lifetime Data Anal. 2004 Dec;10(4):369-88. doi: 10.1007/s10985-004-4773-y.

Frailty models for arbitrarily censored and truncated data.

Huber-Carol C(1), Vonta I.

Author information:
(1)CNRS 8145, MAP 5, UFR Biomédicale, Université René Descartes, 45, rue des 
Saints-Pères, 75 270 Paris Cedex 06, France. catherine.huber@univ-paris5.fr

In this paper, we propose a frailty model for statistical inference in the case 
where we are faced with arbitrarily censored and truncated data. Our results 
extend those of Alioum and Commenges (1996), who developed a method of fitting a 
proportional hazards model to data of this kind. We discuss the identifiability 
of the regression coefficients involved in the model which are the parameters of 
interest, as well as the identifiability of the baseline cumulative hazard 
function of the model which plays the role of the infinite dimensional nuisance 
parameter. We illustrate our method with the use of simulated data as well as 
with a set of real data on transfusion-related AIDS.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-004-4773-y
PMID: 15690991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Eur J Prosthodont Restor Dent. 2004 Dec;12(4):166-70.

A modified copy technique for obturator prostheses.

Lynch CD(1), Allen PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, University Dental School & Hospital, 
Wilton, Cork, Ireland. c.lynch@ucc.ie

Prosthodontic rehabilitation of patients following intra-oral surgical resection 
is often challenging for both the clinician and patient. With a general increase 
in life expectancy, it is reasonable that a definitive obturator prosthesis will 
need to be replaced at least once in the lifetime of a patient. The ability of a 
patient to become accustomed to such a new prosthesis is often limited by their 
increased age, and diminished neuromuscular skills and limited tissue support 
following surgical resection. The purpose of this paper is to describe a 
duplicating technique for obturator prostheses that has been adapted from 
conventional complete denture prosthodontics.

PMID: 15691190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2005 Apr;25(4):803-8. doi: 
10.1161/01.ATV.0000158310.64498.ac. Epub 2005 Feb 3.

Lymphocytes are not required for the rapid onset of coronary heart disease in 
scavenger receptor class B type I/apolipoprotein E double knockout mice.

Karackattu SL(1), Picard MH, Krieger M.

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 
02139, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI)/apolipoprotein E (apoE) 
double knockout (dKO) mice exhibit many features of human coronary heart disease 
(CHD), including occlusive coronary atherosclerosis, cardiac hypertrophy, 
myocardial infarctions, and premature death. Here we determined the influence of 
B and T lymphocytes, which can contribute to atherosclerosis, 
ischemia-reperfusion injury, and cardiomyocyte death, on pathology in dKO mice.
METHOD AND RESULTS: The lymphocyte-deficient SR-BI/apoE/recombination activating 
gene 2 (RAG2) triple knockout mice and corresponding dKO controls generated for 
this study exhibited essentially identical lipid-rich coronary occlusions, 
myocardial infarctions, cardiac dysfunction, and premature death (average 
lifespans 41.6+/-0.6 and 42.0+/-0.5 days, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: B and T lymphocytes and associated immunoglobulin-mediated 
inflammation are not essential for the development and progression of CHD in dKO 
mice. Strikingly, the dKO mice bred for this study (mixed C57BL/6xSV129xBALB/c 
background; strain 2) compared with the previously described dKO mice (75:25 
C57BL/6:SV129 background; strain 1) had a shorter mean lifespan and steeper 
survival curve, characteristics especially attractive for studying the effects 
of environmental, pharmacological, and genetic manipulations on cardiac 
pathophysiology.

DOI: 10.1161/01.ATV.0000158310.64498.ac
PMID: 15692099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Cad Saude Publica. 2005 Jan-Feb;21(1):299-309. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2005000100033. Epub 2005 Jan 28.

Evolution of uterine cervical cancer mortality from 1979 to 1998 in the State of 
Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.

Kalakun L(1), Bozzetti MC.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil. lkalakun@hcpa.ufrgs.br

A decrease in uterine cervical cancer (CC) mortality has been observed in 
developed countries. However, mortality data in Brazil suggest that CC is one of 
the most frequent causes of cancer death in women; it is the fourth cause of 
death from cancer in women in Rio Grande Sul State. A time-trend ecological 
study was performed to analyze CC mortality trends in Rio Grande do Sul from 
1979 to 1998. Data were collected from the Mortality Information System, 
Brazilian Ministry of Health (DATASUS). Standardized mortality ratios were 
calculated and linear regression was used for time-trend analysis. The impact of 
cervical cancer death on life expectancy was also estimated for the study 
population using potential years of life lost (PYLL). Standardized mortality 
ratios during the study period revealed a positive linear trend of 0.17, and the 
mean annual mortality rate was 7.58/100,000. Cervical cancer accounted for 21.9 
+/- 1.33 PYLL during the period. In conclusion, although CC is a preventable and 
curable disease, an increase is observed in mortality from this cause in Rio 
Grande do Sul State, which may suggest failure in screening programs for 
cervical cancer.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2005000100033
PMID: 15692664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Health Econ. 2005 Aug;14(8):817-29. doi: 10.1002/hec.975.

QALYs and the capability approach.

Cookson R(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Health Policy and Practice, University of East Anglia, 
UK. rc503@york.ac.uk r.cookson@uea.ac.uk

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2005 Dec;14(12):1283-6; discussion 1287-9.

This explores the applicability of Sen's capability approach to the economic 
evaluation of health care programmes. An individual's 'capability set' describes 
his freedom to choose valuable activities and states of being ('functionings'). 
Direct estimation and valuation of capability sets is not feasible at present. 
Standard preference-based methods such as willingness to pay are feasible, but 
problematic due to the adaptive and constructed nature of individual preferences 
over time and under uncertainty. An alternative is to re-interpret the QALY as a 
cardinal and interpersonally comparable index of the value of the individual's 
capability set. This approach has limitations, since the link between QALYs and 
capabilities is not straightforward. Nevertheless, the QALY approach is 
recognisable as an application of the capability approach since it pays close 
attention to functionings, through the use of survey-based multi-attribute 
health state valuation instruments, and permits conceptions of value other than 
the traditional utilitarian ones of choice, desire-fulfilment and happiness. 
Furthermore, suitably re-interpreted, it can account for (i) non-separability 
between health and non-health components of value; and suitably modified it can 
also account for (ii) process attributes of care, which may have a direct effect 
on non-health functionings such as comfort and dignity, and (iii) sub-group 
diversity in the value of the same health functionings.

(c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.975
PMID: 15693028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Minn Med. 2004 Dec;87(12):38-9.

A balanced approach to eliminating health disparities.

Davies SF(1).

Author information:
(1)Hennepin County Medical Center, USA.

PMID: 15693261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Fiziol Zh (1994). 2004;50(5):19-28.

[Human heart and endothelium functional activity depending on age and sex].

[Article in Ukrainian]

Doloman LB, Kotsiuruba AV, Kosiakova HV, Petrenko OV, Sahach VF.

The complex study ofcardio-hemodynamics and functional activity of the 
endothelium in healthy persons of different age allowed us to establish that 
aging accompanied with a gradual worsening in the endothelium functioning with 
resulting increase in peripheral vascular resistance and blood pressure as well 
as decrease in the myocardial contractile activity. Such age shifts might be 
involved in pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases, which prevalence is highly 
rises with increased age. Analysis of sex difference in the endothelium 
functioning showed a progressing lowering of the endothelium-dependent 
vasodilatory reaction to begin in the men as early as after 40 years of age. 
This leads to the decrease in the vasodilatory reserve with increase in 
peripheral vascular resistance and blood pressure. Worsening in the myocardial 
contractility in 40-year men can be also stipulated by changing in the 
endothelium synthetic activity that was evidenced by decrease in plasma levels 
of NO stable metabolites. In the women, such a lowering of the endothelium 
functional activity begins 10 years later and progresses more slowly compared to 
the men. The rate of worsening in the endothelium functioning in the men is 
twice of that in the women. Therefore, the elderly women have the endothelium to 
be 20 years "younger" than that in the elderly men, and perhaps namely this 
explains the better functioning of the cardiovascular system in the elderly 
women. So, a functional activity of the endothelium can be a main age and sex 
determinant, which stipulates well-known age and sex differences in prevalence 
of cardiovascular diseases and life expectancy. Prevention of the endothelium 
function disturbances might lead to the alignment of the differences between men 
and women in prevalence of cardiovascular diseases and life expectancy, decrease 
in general morbidity with improvement of life quality in elderly.

PMID: 15693293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2004 Dec;76(4):177-8.

A case of tumor of the penis: interstitial brachitherapy after conservative 
surgical therapy.

Malizia M(1), Ntreta M, Galuppi A, Brunocilla E, Bertaccini A, Palmieri F, 
Vitullo G, Barbieri E, Martorana G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Bologna, St. Orsola-Malpighi General 
Hospital, Italy. maliziam@libero.it

The neoplasms of the penis are extremely rare and have an incidence of 1400 new 
cases for year in the United States. Higher is the percentage of incidence in 
Africa and Asia (10-20%) and in some areas of Brasil where the cancer of the 
penis constitutes 17% of all the male tumors. In Israel this neoplasm is rare, 
less than 0.1/100000 menfor year, because in Jewish population men are 
circumcised prematurely. Recently it has been placed attention to the possible 
aetiologic role of human papillomavirus (HPV-16 and HPV-18) in penis carcinoma. 
In fact, in the tumoral cells, DNA of this virus has been found with a 
percentage that varies from the 30 to 82%. Traditional surgical approach is 
total or partial penis resection basing on the extension of the disease. This 
procedure is associated to remarkable psycosessuals problems that greatly affect 
the quality of life. We bring back a case with organ sparing conservative 
treatment.

PMID: 15693435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Ceylon Med J. 2004 Dec;49(4):139-40.

The median isn't the message.

Gould SJ.

PMID: 15693458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(1):69-75. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200523010-00006.

Q-TWiST analysis of cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, fluorouracil versus 
cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil treatment for premenopausal women 
with node-positive breast cancer.

Radice D(1), Redaelli A.

Author information:
(1)Global Outcomes Research-Oncology, Pharmacia Corporation, Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the Q-TWiST (Quality-Adjusted Time Without Symptoms and 
Toxicity) for premenopausal women with axillary node-positive breast cancer 
receiving either cyclophosphamide, epirubicin and fluorouracil (CEF) or 
cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF), using data from a phase 
III clinical trial (National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group 
[NCIC-CGT.MA5]).
METHODS: Restricted mean times by treatment group were computed at 3, 4 and 5 
years as the area under the Kaplan-Meier survival curves for the period of 
treatment-related symptomatic toxicities (TOX), disease-free survival (DFS) and 
overall survival (OS). Restricted REL (the period of relapse) and TWiST (the 
period of best possible QOL after breast cancer diagnosis) mean times were 
indirectly computed as OS minus DFS and DFS minus TOX, respectively. It was 
assumed that TWiST has a utility coefficient equal to 1. Patients' utility 
values were arbitrarily set to 0.5 for the toxicity and relapse health states. 
It was assumed that the utility scores were constant over time. A threshold 
utility sensitivity analysis was conducted allowing the trade-off between the 
two treatments to be assessed for the entire range of the utility coefficients. 
A bootstrap empirical test distribution of the Q-TWiST difference between CEF 
and CMF was constructed in order to test the statistical significance of the 
Q-TWiST difference point estimate.
RESULTS: The Q-TWiST mean differences (CEF minus CMF) were -0.37, 1.20 and 2.62 
months at 3, 4 and 5 years, respectively. Positive differences are in favour of 
the CEF arm but none of the above differences were statistically significant. 
The threshold-utility analysis confirmed the indifference of treatment choice 
with respect to the utility values, at least at 5 years. There were no 
combinations of TOX and REL utility values such that the Q-TWiST for the 
standard therapy (CMF) was greater than the Q-TWiST of the experimental 
treatment (CEF).
CONCLUSION: The computed Q-TWiST difference of 2.62 months in favour of CEF (p = 
0.492 vs CMF), while not statistically significant, is an indicator that CEF 
treatment could be a better choice from the patient's perspective than CMF after 
5 years of treatment. These results should be considered within the context of 
the methodological limitations posed by the assumptions in the study.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523010-00006
PMID: 15693729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(1):77-91. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200523010-00007.

A randomised trial of the cost effectiveness of buprenorphine as an alternative 
to methadone maintenance treatment for heroin dependence in a primary care 
setting.

Harris AH(1), Gospodarevskaya E, Ritter AJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Program Evaluation, Monash University, Melbourne, 
Australia. Anthony.harris@buseco.monahs.edu.au

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Buprenorphine offers an alternative to methadone in the 
treatment of heroin dependence, and has the advantage of allowing alternate-day 
dosing. This study is the first to examine the cost effectiveness of 
buprenorphine as maintenance treatment for heroin dependence in a primary care 
setting using economic and clinical data collected within a randomised trial.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: The study was a randomised, open-label, 12-month trial 
of 139 heroin-dependent patients in a community setting receiving individualised 
treatment regimens of buprenorphine or methadone. Those who were currently on a 
methadone program (n = 57; continuing therapy subgroup) were analysed separately 
from new treatment recipients (n = 82; initial therapy subgroup). The study took 
a broad societal perspective and included health, crime and personal costs. Data 
on resource use and outcomes were a combination of clinical records and self 
report at interview. The main outcomes were incremental cost per additional day 
free of heroin use and per QALY. An analysis of uncertainty calculated the 
likelihood of net benefits for a range of acceptable money values of outcomes. 
All costs were in 1999 Australian dollars (DollarA).
RESULTS: The estimated mean number of heroin-free days did not differ 
significantly between those randomised to methadone (225 [95% CI 91, 266]), or 
buprenorphine (222 [95% CI 194, 250]) over the year of the trial. Buprenorphine 
was associated with an average 0.03 greater QALYs over 52 weeks (not 
significant). The total cost was DollarA 17,736 (95% CI -DollarA 2981, DollarA 
38,364) with methadone and DollarA 11,916 (95% CI DollarA 7697, DollarA 16,135) 
with buprenorphine; costs excluding crime were DollarA 4513 (95% CI DollarA 
3495, DollarA 5531) and DollarA 5651 (95% CI DollarA 4202, DollarA 7100). With 
additional heroin-free days as the outcome, and crime costs included 
buprenorphine has a lower cost but less heroin-free days. If crime costs are 
excluded buprenorphine has a higher cost and worse outcome than methadone. With 
additional QALYs as the outcome, the cost effectiveness of buprenorphine is 
DollarA 39,404 if crime is excluded, but buprenorphine is dominant if crime is 
included.
CONCLUSIONS: The trial found no significant differences in costs or outcomes 
between methadone and buprenorphine maintenance in this particular setting. 
Although some of the results suggest that methadone may have a cost advantage, 
it is difficult to infer from the trial data that offering buprenorphine as an 
alternative would have a significant effect on total costs or outcomes. The 
point estimates of costs and outcomes suggest that buprenorphine may have an 
advantage in those initiating therapy. The confidence intervals were wide, 
however, and the likelihood of net benefits from substituting one treatment for 
another was close to 50%.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523010-00007
PMID: 15693730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. J Gen Intern Med. 2005 Jan;20(1):21-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.30402.x.

The association of health-related quality of life with survival among persons 
with HIV infection in the United States.

Cunningham WE(1), Crystal S, Bozzette S, Hays RD.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, 
Department of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1772, 
USA. wcunningham@mednet.ucla.edu

OBJECTIVES: Both clinical trials and observational studies of persons with HIV 
infection commonly include health-related quality of life (HRQOL) measures, but 
less is known about the relation of HRQOL to survival among persons with HIV 
since the development of effective antiretroviral treatment.
DESIGN/PARTICIPANTS: Prospective cohort study of a national probability sample 
of 2,864 adults receiving HIV care.
INDEPENDENT VARIABLES: The main independent variables were derived from the HIV 
Cost and Services Utilization Study (HCSUS) HRQOL measure, and include physical 
and mental HRQOL summary scores (divided into quartiles) constructed from the 
following items administered at baseline: physical functioning (9 items, 
alpha=0.91), role functioning (2 items, alpha=0.85), pain (2 items, alpha=0.84), 
general health perceptions (3 items, alpha=0.80), emotional well-being (7 items, 
alpha=0.90), social functioning (2 items, alpha=0.82), energy (2 items, 
alpha=0.74), and a single-item measure of disability days (days in bed for at 
least 0.5 day due to health).
MAIN OUTCOME VARIABLE: Death between January 1996 and December 1999.
ANALYSIS: Descriptive and multivariate adjusted Cox proportional hazards 
regression analysis of survival by physical and mental HRQOL.
RESULTS: By December 1999, 17% of the sample had died. In unadjusted analysis, 
persons in the higher quartiles of physical HRQOL, as well as those in the 
higher quartiles of mental HRQOL at baseline, had significantly better survival 
than those in lower quartiles. In multiple regressions controlling for a number 
of sociodemographic and clinical variables, the hazard of death for those in the 
highest quartile of physical HRQOL was one quarter of that for those in the 
lowest quartile. This difference was similar in magnitude to that observed for 
being on highly active antiretroviral therapy versus no antiretrovirals in this 
population. By contrast, there was no unique association of mental HRQOL with 
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Physical HRQOL added prognostic information over and above the 
sociodemographic and routinely available clinical data such as CD4 count and 
stage of HIV infection. Measurement of HRQOL, which is often performed to 
identify problems or assess outcomes, is also useful prognostically.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.30402.x
PMCID: PMC1490035
PMID: 15693923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. J Gen Intern Med. 2005 Jan;20(1):81-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.40077.x.

The evaluation of rectal bleeding in adults. A cost-effectiveness analysis 
comparing four diagnostic strategies.

Allen E(1), Nicolaidis C, Helfand M.

Author information:
(1)Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Portland, OR 97207, USA. 
allenel@ohsu.edu

