of transition can be taught to medical students or residents. The authors 
describe a one-week course for medical students, begun in 2001 at their 
institution, that addresses the transition for youth with special health care 
needs, emphasizing patient and family-centered care, cultural competence, and 
decision making in end-of-life issues. Cystic fibrosis, a common genetic disease 
with increasing life expectancy, is used as the model for the course. 
Involvement of interdisciplinary faculty, interviews with youth with special 
health care needs and family caregivers, readings from academic and nonacademic 
literature, and group discussions are presented as teaching methods. Key 
insights based on experience with the course are the need to include the voices 
of patients and families, the use of faculty from various professions and 
specialties to model interdisciplinary care, and the insight that problems 
specific to transition offer into contemporary health care financing. Future 
studies should measure the impact of such courses on students' knowledge of 
transition issues, and determine essential information required for physicians 
in practice.

DOI: 10.1097/00001888-200504000-00009
PMID: 15793019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2005 Mar;4(2):171-81. doi: 10.1517/14740338.4.2.171.

Benefits and risks assessment of simvastatin in familial hypercholesterolaemia.

Alonso R(1), Mata N, Mata P.

Author information:
(1)Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Lipid Clinic, Internal Medicine Department, Madrid 
28040, Spain.

Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is a frequent inherited monogenic disorder, 
associated with premature coronary artery disease. Life expectancy of FH 
patients is reduced by 15 - 30 years unless they are adequately treated with 
lipid-lowering therapy. Patients with this disorder need long-term drug therapy 
and the selection of treatment should be strongly based on its long-term safety 
and tolerability. The introduction of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A 
reductase inhibitors has changed the treatment of FH. Simvastatin 40 - 80 mg/day 
effectively reduces serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, and also 
reduces triglycerides with a modest rise in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
levels. Other potentially important effects, such as improvement of endothelial 
function, reduction of LDL oxidation and vascular inflammation, have been 
associated with simvastatin therapy in FH. In addition, simvastatin has been 
shown to abolish the progression, and even facilitate the regression of existing 
human atherosclerotic lesions. The safety and tolerability of simvastatin is 
clearly highlighted by the low rate of therapy discontinuation observed in 
several population-based clinical trials. Asymptomatic elevations in liver 
transaminase levels and myopathy are uncommon. The efficacy and tolerability of 
simvastatin at doses up to 80 mg/day are well-established, as well as its 
cost-effectiveness in the management of FH patients.

DOI: 10.1517/14740338.4.2.171
PMID: 15794711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2005 Mar;4(2):251-71. doi: 10.1517/14740338.4.2.251.

The risk/benefit of inhaled corticosteroids in chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease.

Bonay M(1), Bancal C, Crestani B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Physiologie-Explorations Fonctionnelles, Hôpital Bichat-Claude 
Bernard AP-HP, 46 rue Henri Huchard, 75877 Paris cedex 18, France.

Although inhaled corticosteroids have a well defined role in asthma therapy, 
their use remains controversial in nonasthmatic, smoking-related chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Some studies have shown an effect of 
inhaled corticosteroids on airway inflammation in COPD, but the clinical 
relevance of these results is unknown. Data from five long-term, large studies, 
provide evidence that prolonged treatment with inhaled corticosteroids does not 
modify the rate of decline of forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) in 
patients with COPD and no reversibility to short-acting beta(2)-agonists. FEV1 
was slightly improved over the first six months of treatment and lower 
reactivity in response to methacholine challenge has been observed. Improvement 
of respiratory symptoms and health status were also reported. A reduction of 
exacerbations rate was observed in two studies. No survival benefit was 
demonstrated. Two recent reports suggest that long term use of inhaled 
corticosteroids in COPD patients improves quality-adjusted life expectancy and 
is cost-effective. Combination therapy with inhaled corticosteroids and 
long-acting beta(2)-agonists have proven benefit in four long term large studies 
compared to placebo for FEV1, exacerbation rate, symptoms and health status. 
However, only two studies found that combination therapy was more effective than 
long-acting beta(2)-agonists alone for symptoms and health status improvement. 
The long term safety of inhaled corticosteroids is not known in COPD patients 
but topical adverse effects, and systemic effects such as a decrease of bone 
density of lumbar spine and femur and cutaneous adverse effects, have been 
reported after three years of treatment. However, three recent observational 
studies found a slight increase in the risk of fractures (hip, upper extremities 
and vertebral) in association with high doses of inhaled corticotherapy.

DOI: 10.1517/14740338.4.2.251
PMID: 15794718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2005 Mar;6(3):489-506. doi:
10.1517/14656566.6.3.489.

The first 5 years of clinical experience with laronidase enzyme replacement 
therapy for mucopolysaccharidosis I.

Wraith JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, Willink Biochemical Genetics Unit, 
Hospital Road, Manchester M27 4HA, UK. ed.wraith@cmmc.nhs.uk

Mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I, McKusick 25280) is caused by the deficiency or 
absence of the lysosomal enzyme, alpha-L-iduronidase (EC 3.2.1.76). This 
inherited disease causes progressive cellular, tissue and organ damage across 
the entire phenotypic spectrum. Disabling, multi-organ disease is the rule, and 
generally results in death between the first and fourth decades of life. 
Recently, laronidase (Aldurazyme) [Genzyme], a specific recombinant human 
alpha-L-iduronidase) became commercially available as long-term enzyme 
replacement therapy. Results from the Phase I/II and III extended clinical 
studies have shown that laronidase safely and effectively alleviates many 
systemic signs and symptoms of this progressive multisystemic disease. 
Clinically meaningful and sustained improvements in pulmonary function and 
functional capacity have been observed in Phase III study patients. Significant 
and sustained reductions in urinary glysosaminoglycan (GAG) excretion and 
hepatomegaly have also been observed. Improvements in sleep apnoea and joint 
range of motion occurred in patients with the most severe symptoms at baseline. 
Improvements in Disability Index scores as measured using the CHAQ and HAQ 
questionnaires were modest, which may have been related to the fact that these 
disability measuring tools are not disease-specific. Anecdotal reports of 
improvements in the performance of daily activities further add to the 
therapeutic benefits, as do case histories pointing at stabilisation or 
improvement of symptomatology in various organs, such as the eyes, heart, and 
muscles. With the availability of specific treatment, the importance of early 
recognition of the disease and appropriate therapeutic intervention has 
increased. The variability in clinical symptomatology is reviewed in detail and 
may allow for a better understanding of the diagnostic and therapeutic 
challenges. Results of the clinical trials and their initial extension periods, 
as well as the anecdotal experiences of physicians with laronidase in non-study 
settings, are discussed.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.6.3.489
PMID: 15794739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. BJU Int. 2005 Apr;95(6):751-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2005.05394.x.

Radical prostatectomy for clinically advanced (cT3) prostate cancer since the 
advent of prostate-specific antigen testing: 15-year outcome.

Ward JF(1), Slezak JM, Blute ML, Bergstralh EJ, Zincke H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Naval Medical Center, Portsmouth, VA, USA. 
jfward@mar.med.navy.mil

In the first paper in this section, authors from the Mayo Clinic describe their 
experience and 15-year outcomes in the controversial subject of radical 
prostatectomy in patients with clinical T3 prostate cancer. The findings were 
interesting in many respects, but the authors concluded that radical 
prostatectomy as part of multimodal treatment for patients with clinical T3 
disease offers cancer control and good survival rates. There follows a series of 
papers on both prostate cancer and bladder cancer, but the final paper in this 
section from the UK attempts to define the accuracy of urologists and 
oncologists in assessing patient life-expectancy. Using various methods they 
found that, rather disappointingly, doctors were poor at predicting 10-year 
survival, leading to the possible outcome that some patients may be denied 
treatment after a pessimistic assessment of life-expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To report a long-term experience with extirpative surgery in patients 
presenting with locally advanced (cT3) prostate cancer, as the best management 
of such patients remains a problem.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a single-institution retrospective study identifying 
5652 men who had radical prostatectomy (RP) for histologically confirmed 
prostate cancer since the advent of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing 
(1987-97), 15% (842) had RP for cT3 disease. The median follow-up of these men 
was 10.3 years. Cancer-specific, overall and disease-free survival was plotted 
and compared with those of patients having RP for cT2 disease during the same 
period. Perioperative morbidity, continence and erectile function rates were 
examined, with a multivariate analysis for risk factors of disease recurrence.
RESULTS: Freedom from local or systemic disease at 5, 10, and 15 years after RP 
for cT3 disease was 85%, 73% and 67%; the respective cancer-specific survival 
rates were 95%, 90% and 79%. Significantly many men who did not receive 
neoadjuvant therapy (27%) were clinically over-staged (pT2) and most men with 
pT3 disease (78%) received adjuvant therapy. The mean time to adjuvant therapy 
after RP was not significantly different between men with cT3 and cT2 disease 
(4.0 and 4.3 years). Pathological grade (> or =7), positive surgical margins, 
and nondiploid chromatin were all independently associated with a significant 
risk for clinical disease recurrence, while preoperative PSA level had little 
effect on outcome. Complications and continence rates after RP in patients with 
cT3 mirrored those in patients with cT2 disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Significantly many patients with cT3 prostate cancer are overstaged 
(pT2) in the PSA era. RP as part of a multimodal treatment strategy for patients 
with cT3 disease offers cancer control and survival rates approaching those 
achieved for cT2 disease. Pathological grade, ploidy and margin status are all 
significant predictors of outcome after RP. Complications and incontinence rates 
in patients with cT3 disease mirror those after RP for cT2 disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2005.05394.x
PMID: 15794776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. BJU Int. 2005 Apr;95(6):794-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2005.05403.x.

The assessment of patient life-expectancy: how accurate are urologists and 
oncologists?

Wilson JR(1), Clarke MG, Ewings P, Graham JD, MacDonagh R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Taunton & Somerset Hospital, Musgrove Park, Taunton, 
TA1 5DA, UK. jrmwilson@btopenworld.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the degree of accuracy, precision and consistency with 
which consultant urologists, oncologists and junior doctors predict a patient's 
10-year life-expectancy.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Eighteen doctors of varying seniority independently 
examined 70 patient case scenarios containing detailed medical histories; 13 of 
these cases were duplicate scenarios. Bland-Altman analyses were used to compare 
doctors' estimates of the probability of each hypothetical patient surviving 10 
years with that calculated using actuarial methods. Intra- and interdoctor 
reliability were also assessed.
RESULTS: Compared with actuarial estimates, doctors underestimated the 10-year 
survival probability by an overall mean of 10.8% (95% confidence interval, 
10.1-11.5%). The 18 individual doctors ranged from a mean underestimation of 
33.2% to a mean overestimation of 3.9%. Variation around these means was 
considerable for each doctor, the standard deviations being 14.5-20.9%. 
Inter-doctor reliability was 0.58, while overall intra-doctor reliability was 
0.74, but for individual doctors was 0.31-0.94. Junior doctors were less 
accurate in their predictions than the senior doctors. Five doctors tended to 
overestimate where life-expectancy was poor and underestimate where it was good.
CONCLUSIONS: Doctors were poor at predicting 10-year survival, tending to 
underestimate when compared with actuarial estimates. There was also substantial 
variability both within and between doctors. The inaccuracy, imprecision and 
inconsistency amongst the doctors in assessing patient life-expectancy is an 
important finding and has significant implications for managing patients. Many 
patients may be denied treatment after a pessimistic assessment of 
life-expectancy and (less commonly) some may inappropriately be offered 
treatment after an optimistic assessment. The particular inaccuracy in junior 
doctors compared with their senior colleagues also highlights the need for 
training. The development of a tool to assist in both training and clinical 
practice has the potential to improve doctors' decision-making and patient care.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2005.05403.x
PMID: 15794785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Zoolog Sci. 2005 Mar;22(3):333-42. doi: 10.2108/zsj.22.333.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor promotes neurite growth and survival of 
antennal lobe neurons in brain from the silk moth, Bombyx mori in vitro.

Kim JH(1), Sung DK, Park CW, Park HH, Park C, Jeon SH, Kang PD, Kwon OY, Lee BH.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Korea.

This study was conducted to investigate effects of brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor on the neurite growth and the survival rate of antennal lobe neurons in 
vitro, and secretion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor-like neuropeptide from 
brain into hemolymph in the silk moth, Bombyx mori. In primary culture of 
antennal lobe neurons with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, it promoted both a 
neurite extension of putative antennal lobe projection neurons and an outgrowth 
of branches from principal neurites of putative antennal interneurons with 
significance (p<0.05). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor also increased 
significantly a survival rate of antennal lobe neurons (p<0.05). Results from 
immunolabeling of brain and retrocerebral complex, and ELISA assay of hemolymph 
showed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor-like neuropeptide was synthesized 
by both median and lateral neurosecretory cells of brain, then transported to 
corpora allata for storage, and finally secreted into hemolymph for action. 
These results will provide valuable information for differentiation of 
invertebrate brain neurons with brain-derived neurotrophic factor.

DOI: 10.2108/zsj.22.333
PMID: 15795496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2005 Apr;24(4):474-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2003.12.013.

Quality of life after lung transplantation: a cross-sectional study.

Smeritschnig B(1), Jaksch P, Kocher A, Seebacher G, Aigner C, Mazhar S, Klepetko 
W.

Author information:
(1)General Hospital Vienna, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Vienna, 
Austria. beate.smeritschnig@akh-wien.ac.at

BACKGROUND: The increase in life expectancy has raised the importance of quality 
of life after lung transplantation, although this issue has not yet been 
systematically investigated. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to 
provide an overview of quality of life in lung transplant patients.
METHODS: Between April and July 2001, a set of 4 questionnaires were given to 
all adult, German-speaking lung transplant recipients (n = 108; response rate 
87% [n = 94]): St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), a lung-specific 
health status instrument; the Short Form-36 (SF-36), a general quality of life 
measure; the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-D) and a self-reported 
questionnaire concerning sexual functioning, physical symptoms, adverse effects 
of immunosuppression and satisfaction with outcome.
RESULTS: With regard to the SGRQ, all lung transplant recipients had 
significantly better scores, which reflected an enhanced quality of life 
compared with the reference value for patients with obstructive pulmonary 
disease (SGRQ: p < 0.001 in all sub-scales). The Hospital Anxiety and Depression 
Scale and the Mental Component Summary Scale of the SF-36 did not differ 
significantly compared with published normative data in the healthy population. 
However, the side effects of immunosuppression proved to be a major factor 
influencing the quality of life of lung transplant recipients (11% influenced 
strongly and 24% moderately). Seventy-six percent of lung transplant patients 
were highly satisfied with the transplant outcome and 92% would opt for the 
procedure again. Among all lung transplant recipients, those with cystic 
fibrosis were most satisfied (significantly) with their quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Although lung transplant patients must cope with the side effects 
of immunosuppression, they report a highly satisfying quality of life with 
regard to physical and emotional well-being and social and sexual function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2003.12.013
PMID: 15797751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Bull World Health Organ. 2005 Mar;83(3):202-9. Epub 2005 Mar 16.

World mortality 1950-2000: divergence replaces convergence from the late 1980s.

Moser K(1), Shkolnikov V, Leon DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, England. kath.moser@lshtm.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: We sought to investigate to what extent worldwide improvements in 
mortality over the past 50 years have been accompanied by convergence in the 
mortality experience of the world's population.
METHODS: We have adopted a novel approach to the objective measurement of global 
mortality convergence. The global mortality distribution at a point in time is 
quantified using a dispersion measure of mortality (DMM). Trends in the DMM 
indicate global mortality convergence and divergence. The analysis uses United 
Nations data for 1950-2000 for all 152 countries with populations of at least 1 
million in 2000 (99.7% of the world's population in 2000).
FINDINGS: The DMM for life expectancy at birth declined until the late 1980s but 
has since increased, signalling a shift from global convergence to divergence in 
life expectancy at birth. In contrast, the DMM for infant mortality indicates 
continued convergence since 1950.
CONCLUSION: The switch in the late 1980s from the global convergence of life 
expectancy at birth to divergence indicates that progress in reducing mortality 
differences between many populations is now more than offset by the scale of 
reversals in adult mortality in others. Global progress needs to be judged on 
whether mortality convergence can be re-established and indeed accelerated.

PMCID: PMC2624202
PMID: 15798844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2005;6(2):121-36. doi: 10.2165/00128071-200506020-00010.

Etanercept: a review of its use in the management of plaque psoriasis and 
psoriatic arthritis.

Goldsmith DR(1), Wagstaff AJ.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Inc., Yardley, Pennsylvania 19067, USA. demail@adis.com

Etanercept (Enbrel), a tumor necrosis factor-alpha antagonist produced by 
recombinant technology, is approved for use in the US as subcutaneous 
monotherapy in adults with moderate-to-severe psoriasis who are candidates for 
systemic therapy or phototherapy. The drug is also indicated in patients with 
psoriatic arthritis, in whom it may be used in combination with methotrexate. In 
well designed trials in patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis, short-term 
etanercept therapy (typically 25 or 50 mg twice weekly) significantly increased 
the proportion of patients achieving a 75% reduction in the Psoriasis Area and 
Severity Index score compared with placebo. Similarly, in well designed trials 
in patients with psoriatic arthritis, treatment with short-term etanercept 25 mg 
twice weekly, alone or in combination with methotrexate, improved clinical 
features of the disease, while radiographic progression of joint damage appeared 
to be significantly slowed in a nonblind 1-year extension. Short-term etanercept 
therapy was well tolerated in patients with psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis. 
Etanercept is thus a valuable new option for the treatment of patients with 
chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis (who are candidates for systemic 
therapy or phototherapy or have failed other systemic therapies) or with 
psoriatic arthritis.

DOI: 10.2165/00128071-200506020-00010
PMID: 15799687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Radiat Res. 2005 Apr;163(4):418-23. doi: 10.1667/rr3316.

Further study of prolongation of life span associated with immunological 
modification by chronic low-dose-rate irradiation in MRL-lpr/lpr mice: effects 
of whole-life irradiation.

Ina Y(1), Sakai K.

Author information:
(1)Low Dose Radiation Research Center, Central Research Institute of Electric 
Power Industry, 2-11-1 Iwado-kita, Komae, Tokyo, 201-8511, Japan.

MRL-lpr/lpr mice carry a deletion in the apoptosis-regulating Fas gene that 
markedly shortens life due to multiple severe diseases. In our previous study 
(Radiat. Res. 161, 168- 173, 2004), chronic low-dose-rate gamma irradiation of 
mice at 0.35 or 1.2 mGy/h for 5 weeks markedly prolonged the life span, 
accompanied by immunological activation. This report shows that extension of the 
irradiation period to the entire life of the mice at the same dose rates 
improved survival further. The 50% survival time for untreated mice, 134 days, 
was prolonged to 502 days by 1.2 mGy/h life-long irradiation. Also obtained were 
a time course and a radiation dose-rate response for the activation of the 
immune system as indicated by a significant increase in CD4+ CD8+ T cells in the 
thymus and CD8+ T cells in the spleen and also by a significant decrease in CD3+ 
CD45R/B220+ cells and CD45R/B220+ CD40+ cells in the spleen. Drastic 
ameliorations of multiple severe diseases, i.e. total-body lymphadenopathy, 
splenomegaly and serious autoimmune diseases including proteinuria, and kidney 
and brain-central nervous system syndromes, were found in parallel with these 
immunological activations, with lifelong low-dose-rate irradiation being more 
effective than 5-week irradiation at low dose rates.

DOI: 10.1667/rr3316
PMID: 15799698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Radiat Res. 2005 Apr;163(4):477; author reply 477. doi: 10.1667/rr3337.

Curvature in the dose response of the life span study cancer mortality data: 
comments on "effect of recent changes in atomic bomb survivor dosimetry on 
cancer mortality risk estimates" by Preston et al. (Radiat. Res. 162, 377-389, 
2004).

Walsh L, Rühm W, Kellerer AM.

Comment on
    Radiat Res. 2004 Oct;162(4):377-89.

DOI: 10.1667/rr3337
PMID: 15799706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Med Decis Making. 2005 Mar-Apr;25(2):149-57. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05275157.

The value of diagnostic information to patients with chest pain suggestive of 
coronary artery disease.

Mushlin AI(1), Kern LM, Paris M, Lambert DR, Williams G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New 
York, NY 10021, USA. aim2001@med.cornell.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2005 Mar-Apr;25(2):146.

BACKGROUND: The results of diagnostic tests often have a profound impact on the 
way patients view their health. Decision analyses and clinical guidelines do not 
routinely consider this, in part because methods are not well developed for 
measuring the value of testing to patients.
OBJECTIVES: To measure the value of stress testing to patients with chest pain 
suggestive of coronary artery disease (CAD) and to improve methods for measuring 
the value of diagnostic information.
METHODS: The authors conducted a prospective cohort study of patients with chest 
pain who were referred from 44 primary care practices for treadmill testing (N = 
320). Current health status, perceived life expectancy, anxiety, uncertainty, 
and preferences for current health states were measured before and 1 week after 
testing and receipt of the results. Patients also reported the diagnosis given 
by their physicians after testing. The authors used paired t tests to assess 
changes before and after testing.
RESULTS: Perceived life expectancy lengthened, anxiety decreased, and 
uncertainty decreased 1 week after exercise testing, compared to before (P < 
0.01). For many patients, sytoms were less bothersome after testing than before. 
There were few changes in perceptions of current health status, as measured by 
the SF-36. The authors found evidence of reassurance among patients who reported 
that CAD had been excluded and no evidence of psychological harm among patients 
who reported a new CAD diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients experienced measurable psychological benefits from 
noninvasive diagnostic testing for CAD. Similar measurements should be standard 
components of diagnostic test evaluation.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05275157
PMID: 15800299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Med Decis Making. 2005 Mar-Apr;25(2):186-98. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05275153.

Options for handling missing data in the Health Utilities Index Mark 3.

Naeim A(1), Keeler EB, Mangione CM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, UCLA Department of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-1687, USA. anaeim@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: The Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3) is a tool composed of 41 
questions, covering 8 attributes: vision, hearing, speech, ambulation, 
dexterity, emotion, cognition, and pain. Responses to these questions can define 
more than 972,000 health situations. This tool allows respondents to answer 
"Don't Know," for which there is no scoring instruction, to any given question. 
This situation creates a break in the scoring algorithm and leads to 
considerable amounts of missing data. The goal of this study is to develop 
strategies to deal with HUI3 scores for participants who have missing data.
METHODS: The authors used data from 248 individuals enrolled in the Cataract 
Management Trial, focusing on the HUI3 vision and ambulation attributes, which 
had 19% and 10% of attribute levels missing, respectively. Inspection and 
deduction were used to fill in values independent of the value of the missing 
data, then alternative analytic techniques were compared, including mean 
substitution, model scoring, hot deck, multiple imputation, and regression 
imputation.
RESULTS: Inspection and logical deduction reduced the percentage of missing 
information in the HUI3 by 49% to 87%. A comparison of analytic techniques used 
for the remaining HUI3 vision data missing demonstrated the value of building 
models based on internal response patterns and that simple analytic techniques 
fare as well as more complicated ones when the number of missing cases is small.
CONCLUSION: Analyzing the pattern of responses in cases where the attribute 
level score is missing reduces the amount of missing data and can simplify the 
analytic process for the remaining missing data.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05275153
PMID: 15800303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Med Decis Making. 2005 Mar-Apr;25(2):199-209. doi: 10.1177/0272989X04268956.

A clinically based discrete-event simulation of end-stage liver disease and the 
organ allocation process.

Shechter SM(1), Bryce CL, Alagoz O, Kreke JE, Stahl JE, Schaefer AJ, Angus DC, 
Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The optimal allocation of scarce donor livers is a contentious 
health care issue requiring careful analysis. The objective of this article was 
to design a biologically based discrete-event simulation to test proposed 
changes in allocation policies.
METHODS: The authors used data from multiple sources to simulate end-stage liver 
disease and the complex allocation system. To validate the model, they compared 
simulation output with historical data.
RESULTS: Simulation outcomes were within 1% to 2% of actual results for measures 
such as new candidates, donated livers, and transplants by year. The model 
overestimated the yearly size of the waiting list by 5% in the last year of the 
simulation and the total number of pretransplant deaths by 10%.
CONCLUSION: The authors created a discrete-event simulation model that 
represents the biology of end-stage liver disease and the health care 
organization of transplantation in the United States.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X04268956
PMID: 15800304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Surgery. 2005 Apr;137(4):411-6. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2004.11.007.

Surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis from well-differentiated 
digestive endocrine carcinomas.

Elias D(1), Sideris L, Liberale G, Ducreux M, Malka D, Lasser P, Duvillard P, 
Baudin E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Gustave Roussy 
Institute, 39 Rue Camille Desmoulins, 94805 Villejuif Cedex, France. 
elias@igr.fr

Comment in
    Surgery. 2005 Apr;137(4):417-8.

BACKGROUND: The presence of peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) in association with 
endocrine carcinomas (EC) is generally considered to have no impact on life 
expectancy, contrary to liver metastases. This study was aimed at assessing the 
actual prognostic impact of PC and to evaluate a new treatment with respect to 
survival times.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Among 111 patients undergoing surgery for progressive, 
well-differentiated EC, 37 (33%) presented a histologically proven PC, with 
synchronous liver metastases in 36 of them. The origin was ileal or appendiceal 
(carcinoid tumors) in at least 81% of cases. The patients were divided into 2 
groups. Patients in group 1 (n = 20) could not undergo complete resection of PC, 
while those in group 2 (n = 17) underwent complete cytoreductive surgery, 
followed by immediate intraperitoneal chemotherapy. Partial hepatectomy was 
performed in 65% of patients in group 2. The median follow-up was 6.9 years.
RESULTS: There was no postoperative mortality, and the morbidity rate was 47%. 
In group 1, 15 of the 20 patients died (5-year survival rate, 40.9%). Deaths 
were caused either by liver failure (60% of patients) or bowel obstruction from 
PC (40%). In group 2, six of the 17 patients died (5-year survival rate, 66.2%; 
P = .007). These patients died of liver failure (n = 4, 23.5%), bowel 
obstruction (n = 1, 5.8%), and cerebral hemorrhage (n = 1, 5.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: PC associated with EC is not a rare event; it is mainly caused by 
carcinoid tumors and is always associated with liver metastases. When present, 
PC is the direct cause of death in 40% of patients if no specific treatment is 
undertaken. Treatment of PC with maximal cytoreductive surgery and immediate 
intraperitoneal chemotherapy appears promising, even though it can only be 
considered as palliative.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2004.11.007
PMID: 15800487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. J Am Diet Assoc. 2005 Apr;105(4):616-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jada.2005.02.026.

Position paper of the American Dietetic Association: nutrition across the 
spectrum of aging.

Kuczmarski MF(1), Weddle DO; American Dietetic Association.

Author information:
(1)University of Delaware, Newark, DE, USA.

It is the position of the American Dietetic Association that older Americans 
receive appropriate care; have broadened access to coordinated, comprehensive 
food and nutrition services; and receive the benefits of ongoing research to 
identify the most effective food and nutrition programs, interventions, and 
therapies across the spectrum of aging. Food and water and nutritional 
well-being are essential to the health, self-sufficiency, and quality of life 
for the fast growing, heterogeneous, multiracial, and ethnic populations of 
older adults. Many people, as they age, remain fully independent and actively 
engaged in their communities; however, others fare less well and need more 
support. A broad array of appropriate, culturally sensitive food and nutrition 
services, physical activities, and health and supportive care customized to the 
population of older adults are necessary. National, state, and local policies 
that promote coordination and integration of food and nutrition services into 
health and supportive systems are needed to maintain independence, functional 
ability, chronic disease management, and quality of life. Dietetics 
professionals can take the lead by researching and developing national, state, 
and local collaborative networks to incorporate effectively the food and 
nutrition services across the spectrum of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jada.2005.02.026
PMID: 15800567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. J Perianesth Nurs. 2004 Dec;19(6):372-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jopan.2004.08.008.

Preparing the older adult for surgery and anesthesia.

Saufl NM(1).

Author information:
(1)Florida Hospital Memorial Division, Ormond Beach, FL, USA. saufl23@aol.com

Life expectancy in the United States has increased significantly over the past 
100 years. It has been suggested that by the year 2050, approximately 20% of the 
population may be over the age of 65. Many of these older adults will undergo 
surgery and anesthesia. Preadmission testing nurses need to be able to deal with 
the various challenges that accompany this group of patients. While many of the 
elderly are quite active, there are others with multiple disease processes that 
put them at an increased risk over the general population. It will be to the 
advantage of all involved if health care providers can develop a better 
understanding and an increased expertise in caring for the geriatric surgical 
patient. This article describes the importance of the preanesthetic nursing 
assessment and evaluation in helping to identify potential problems so that a 
plan of care to prevent those problems can be formulated and communicated to 
other members of the health care team.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jopan.2004.08.008
PMID: 15801345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Cancer Causes Control. 2004 Dec;15(10):1021-5. doi:
10.1007/s10552-004-1256-0.

The incidence of cancer in people with intellectual disabilities.

Sullivan SG(1), Hussain R, Threlfall T, Bittles AH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Genetics, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA 6027, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: During the last 50 years there have been significant improvements in 
life expectancy among people with intellectual disability (ID), and so their 
incidence of age-associated diseases, such as cancer, is rising. The aim of this 
study was to compare the rate of cancer in people with ID with that found in the 
general population.
METHODS: Information on 9409 individuals registered with the Disability Services 
Commission of Western Australia was linked to the State Cancer Registry, with 
200 cases of cancer detected over 156,729 person-years. Standardised incidence 
ratios (SIRs) and 95% confidence intervals were calculated for both sexes 
separately by 5-year age groups for the period 1982-2001. The same procedures 
were adopted in the estimation of SIRs for specific types of cancers.
RESULTS: The age-standardised incidence of all cancers in people with ID was not 
significantly different from the general population. However, males with ID were 
observed to have a significantly increased risk of leukaemia, brain and stomach 
cancers, and a reduced risk of prostate cancer, while leukaemia, corpus uteri 
and colorectal cancers were significantly higher in females.
CONCLUSIONS: Health practitioners need to be aware that with improvements in 
life expectancy the incidence of cancer in people with ID is likely to rise. 
More proactive health promotion campaigns may be needed for people with ID, who 
are likely to be poor users of screening services and whose symptoms may not be 
reported until they are in more advanced, less treatable stages of disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10552-004-1256-0
PMID: 15801486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Proc Biol Sci. 2004 Dec 7;271 Suppl 6(Suppl 6):S474-6. doi: 
10.1098/rsbl.2004.0220.

Subjective life expectancy predicts offspring sex in a contemporary British 
population.

Johns SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Biological Anthropology Research Group, Department of Anthropology, 
University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent CT2 7NS, UK. s.e.johns@kent.ac.uk

There is evidence that women who are in poor physical condition or who reside in 
deprived environments are more likely to give birth to daughters than to sons. 
Under deprived environmental conditions, or when in poor physical health, it has 
been hypothesized that parents should take into account the available resources 
and manipulate the sex of any children born. Using subjective life expectancy 
(SLE) as a measure of how an individual views their future health and 
environment, I demonstrate that there is an association between the sex of the 
first child and SLE in a sample of mothers from a contemporary British 
population (Gloucestershire, UK). SLE was a significant predictor of offspring 
sex: women who believed that they had longer to live were more likely to have 
had a male birth than women who thought they would die earlier. Detection of 
such a bias among the children of British mothers may provide evidence that the 
sex ratio under relatively affluent Western conditions can still be influenced 
by adverse environmental or poor maternal condition.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2004.0220
PMCID: PMC1810109
PMID: 15801608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 Mar 10;147(10):29, 31-2.

[The pediatric-to-adult transit clinic as a quality-securing measure in 
endocrinological diseases].

[Article in German]

Grüters A(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Kinderheilkunde und Jugendmedizin Charité Berlin. 
annette.grueters@charite.de

The establishment of structured transit clinics for pediatric patients with 
endocrinological diseases entering adulthood is a prerequisite for ensuring the 
quality of care for patients with chronic endocrine diseases. Since such 
patients have been receiving constant special pediatric care on a large scale 
only during the last 20 years, and only now is an improvement in life expectancy 
and quality of life becoming evident for the individual diseases, a 
comprehensive store of experience, or even of evaluated data, is lacking. In 
order to preserve the quality achieved in pediatric care, transitional 
structures must initially utilize the experience and results achieved in the 
pediatric setting, and adapt them to the requirements of adult patients. This is 
an ongoing process, and additional resources are required for the transition, 
e.g. for joint medical counseling and care, as also for the continuing 
utilization of non-medical pediatric services. The basis for the implementation 
of such models is, in principle, provided by the 
Gesundheitsmodernisierungsgesetz, GMG (health care modernization act), and, for 
reasons of quality control, the necessary structures should be put in place as 
quickly as possible.

PMID: 15803780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Health Stat Q. 2005 Spring;(25):18-27.

Healthy life expectancy by area deprivation: magnitude and trends in England, 
1994-1999.

Bajekal M(1).

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

This article examines the magnitude of inequalities in health by area 
deprivation using two composite indices of health expectancy, one based on a 
subjective assessment of general health status (healthy life expectancy) and the 
second on reported limiting longstanding illness (disability-free life 
expectancy). Trends in healthy life expectancy by deprivation for the period 
1994-1999 were also examined. Results show that males and females living in the 
most deprived wards spend twice as many years in poor health, both in absolute 
(years of life) and relative (proportion of life) terms, than those living in 
the least deprived wards. There was no change in the healthy life expectancy gap 
between the most and least deprived areas over the study period.

PMID: 15804166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Value Health. 2005 Mar-Apr;8(2):105-16. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.04006.x.

Cost-effectiveness of recombinant human erythropoietin for reducing red blood 
cells transfusions in critically ill patients.

MacLaren R(1), Sullivan PW.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, C238, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, 
Denver, CO 80262, USA. rob.maclaren@uchsc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of using recombinant human 
erythropoietin (rHuEPO) to reduce red blood cells (RBC) transfusions in 
intensive care unit (ICU) patients.
METHODS: Decision analysis examining costs and effectiveness of using rHuEPO 
versus not using rHuEPO in a simulated adult medical/surgical/trauma (mixed) 
ICU. Two independent cost-effectiveness models were created based on the results 
of two multicenter studies that investigated the use of rHuEPO. Base case 
assumptions and estimates of effectiveness were obtained from these two studies. 
Mean cumulative doses of rHuEPO were 190,900 units and 102,400 units for studies 
1 and 2, respectively. The models accounted for the deferral rate for allogeneic 
RBC transfusions, rHuEPO efficacy (the reduction in allogeneic RBC use), and 
adverse effects of rHuEPO and allogeneic RBC transfusions. Model estimates were 
obtained from published sources. Costs were expressed in 2002 US dollar 
(dollars) and effectiveness was measured using discounted quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). A 3% discount rate was used. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was conducted using second-order Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Incremental costs of using rHuEPO to reduce RBC transfusions amounted 
to 1918 dollars and 1439 dollars; incremental effectiveness values were 0.0563 
QALYs and 0.0305 QALYs; and the cost-effectiveness ratios were 34,088 dollars 
and 47,149 dollars per QALY for studies 1 and 2, respectively. The model was 
most sensitive to the attributable risk of nosocomial bacterial infections per 
RBC unit. rHuEPO was cost-effective in 52.0% of the Monte Carlo simulations for 
a willingness to pay of 50,000 dollars/QALY.
CONCLUSION: rHuEPO appears to be cost-effective for reducing RBC transfusions in 
heterogeneous ICU populations, assuming RBC transfusions increase the risk of 
nosocomial bacterial infections.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.04006.x
PMID: 15804319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Value Health. 2005 Mar-Apr;8(2):128-39. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.03092.x.

Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) in heart failure--a model to assess the 
economic value of this new medical technology.

Banz K(1); Eucomed CRT Steering Committee.

Author information:
(1)OUTCOMES INTERNATIONAL, Basel, Switzerland. kurt.banz@outcomes.ch

OBJECTIVES: This article describes the framework of a comprehensive European 
model developed to assess clinical and economic outcomes of cardiac 
resynchronization therapy (CRT) versus optimal pharmacological therapy (OPT) 
alone in patients with heart failure.
METHODS: The model structure is based on information obtained from the 
literature, expert opinion, and a European CRT Steering Committee. The 
decision-analysis tool allows a consideration of direct medical and indirect 
costs, and computes outcomes for distinctive periods of time up to 5 years. 
Qualitative data can also be entered for cost-utility analysis. Model input data 
for a preliminary economic appraisal of the economic value of CRT in Germany 
were obtained from clinical trials, experts, health statistics, and medical 
tariff lists.
RESULTS: The model offers comprehensive analysis capabilities and high 
flexibility so that it can easily be adapted to any European country or special 
setting. The illustrative analysis for Germany indicates that CRT is a 
cost-effective intervention. Although CRT is associated with average direct 
medical net costs of Euro 5880 per patient, this finding means that 22% of its 
upfront implantation cost is recouped already within 1 year because of 
significantly decreased hospitalizations. With 36,600 Euros the incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained is below the euro equivalent 
(41,300 Euros, 1 Euro = US1.21 dollars) of the commonly used threshold level of 
US50,000 dollars considered to represent cost-effectiveness. The sensitivity 
analysis showed these preliminary results to be fairly robust towards changes in 
key assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The European CRT model is an important tool to assess the economic 
value of CRT in patients with moderate to severe heart failure. In the light of 
the planned introduction of Diagnosis Related Group (DRG) based reimbursement in 
various European countries, the economic data generated by the model can play an 
important role in the decision-making process.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.03092.x
PMID: 15804321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Apr;45(4):690-701. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2004.12.013.

Association of physical activity with mortality in the US dialysis population.

Stack AG(1), Molony DA, Rives T, Tyson J, Murthy BV.

Author information:
(1)Regional Kidney Center, Department of Internal Medicine, Letterkenny General 
Hospital, North Western Health Board, Letterkenny, Ireland. 
austin.stack@uth.tmc.edu

BACKGROUND: It is unclear whether the protective benefits of regular physical 
activity on mortality extend to patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). We 
tested this hypothesis in a national cohort of new patients with ESRD in the 
United States.
METHODS: Data for a subset of patients (n = 2,507; 62%) from the Dialysis 
Morbidity and Mortality Wave 2 study were used to explore the associations of 
exercise and limitations in physical activity with mortality.
RESULTS: Overall, 56% of patients exercised less than once a week, whereas the 
remainder reported more frequent physical activity; 2 to 3 times/wk in 18%, 4 to 
5 times/wk in 6%, and daily exercise in 20%. Severe limitations in vigorous and 
moderate physical activities were reported by 75% and 42%, respectively. 
Mortality risks were greatest for those with severe limitations in either 
moderate (relative risk [RR], 1.72; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.44 to 2.05) 
or vigorous physical activities (RR, 1.51; 95% CI, 1.20 to 1.90) compared with 
those reporting minimal or no limitations. Conversely, mortality risks were 
lower for patients who exercised 2 to 3 (RR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.58 to 0.95) or 4 to 
5 times/wk (RR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.47 to 1.07), whereas no advantage was associated 
with daily exercise (RR, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.86 to 1.30).
CONCLUSION: Although limitations in physical activity are common among new 
patients with ESRD in the United States and correlate highly with increased 
mortality risk, this study shows an association of frequent exercise of up to 4 
to 5 times/wk with improved survival. The surprising lack of association of 
daily exercise with increased survival deserves additional study.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2004.12.013
PMID: 15806472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Apr;45(4):702-7. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.01.004.

Hyperhomocysteinemia and arteriovenous fistula thrombosis in hemodialysis 
patients.

Mallamaci F(1), Bonanno G, Seminara G, Rapisarda F, Fatuzzo P, Candela V, Scudo 
P, Spoto B, Testa A, Tripepi G, Tech S, Zoccali C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Consiglio Nazionale della Ricerche-Istituto di 
Bio-Medicina, Institute of Biomedicine, Clinical Epidemiology and 
Physiopathology of Renal Diseases and Hypertension, Reggio Calabria, Italy.

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Nov;46(5):993-4; author reply 994.

BACKGROUND: To date, the relationship between vascular access (VA) failure and 
plasma total homocysteine level has been investigated only in mixed dialysis 
populations (ie, patients with a native arteriovenous [AV] fistula or arterial 
graft), whereas almost no data exist for hemodialysis patients with a native AV 
fistula.
METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, we examined the relationship between 
plasma total homocysteine level and the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 
(MTHFR) gene and VA-related incident morbidity in a cohort of 205 hemodialysis 
patients, all with a native AV fistula.
RESULTS: During follow-up, 78 patients experienced 1 or more VA thrombotic 
episodes. Patients with incident VA thrombosis had a significantly greater 
plasma total homocysteine level compared with patients without this event (P = 
0.046). In Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, the hazard ratio for VA thrombosis 
increased in parallel with homocysteine level, such that patients in the third 
homocysteine level tertile had a relative risk for this outcome 1.72 times (95% 
CI, 1.21 to 2.24) greater than in those in the first tertile (log-rank test, 
6.81; P = 0.009). In a multiple Cox regression model, plasma total homocysteine 
level was confirmed to be an independent predictor of AV fistula outcome. Plasma 
total homocysteine level was significantly greater (P < 0.001) in patients with 
the TT genotype of the MTHFR gene than in those with the CT or CC genotype.
CONCLUSION: VA thrombosis in dialysis patients is associated with 
hyperhomocysteinemia. Intervention studies are needed to clarify whether 
decreasing plasma homocysteine concentrations may prevent VA failure in 
hemodialysis patients.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.01.004
PMID: 15806473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Apr;45(4):708-14. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2004.12.010.

Vascular access survival in children and young adults receiving long-term 
hemodialysis.

Ramage IJ(1), Bailie A, Tyerman KS, McColl JH, Pollard SG, Fitzpatrick MM.

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow, Scotland. 
ian.ramage@yorkhill.scot.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: The delivery of long-term hemodialysis therapy in children is 
complicated by smaller vascular caliber and the potential lifelong requirement 
for hemodialysis access. Various factors have resulted in the increased use of 
cuffed central venous catheters (CVLs) in preference to autologous arteriovenous 
fistulae (AVFs) and arteriovenous synthetic grafts (AVGs). The aim of this study 
is to compare CVL, AVF, and AVG survival and determine factors affecting their 
survival.
METHODS: A 20-year retrospective study was undertaken of pediatric patients 
receiving long-term hemodialysis therapy. Age, height, weight, body mass index, 
and sex were noted at each procedure, in addition to the presence of 
hypoalbuminemia, underlying diagnosis, type and site of vascular access, and 
effect of previous access surgery. The grade of operator also was noted.
RESULTS: Three hundred four vascular access procedures were performed on 114 
patients, with a median age at initial access formation of 12.0 years (range, 4 
weeks to 21.9 years). The most common procedure was CVL insertion (182 
procedures) and then AVF formation (107 procedures), with only 15 AVGs created. 
Median censored survival was 3.14 years (95% confidence interval, 1.22 to 5.06) 
for AVFs and 0.6 years (95% confidence interval, 0.20 to 1.00) for CVLs. Factors 
adversely affecting vascular access survival were younger age, trainee operator, 
presence of hypoalbuminemia, and type of access undertaken, with AVF better than 
CVL.
CONCLUSION: This study shows increased survival of AVFs over CVLs and AVGs. 
Vascular access in children and adolescents may impact on future dialysis 
accessibility and should be undertaken by those most experienced in each 
technique.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2004.12.010
PMID: 15806474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Apr;45(4):715-29. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2004.12.012.

Circulating soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule 1: relationships with 
residual renal function, cardiac hypertrophy, and outcome of peritoneal dialysis 
patients.

Wang AY(1), Lam CW, Wang M, Woo J, Chan IH, Lui SF, Sanderson JE, Li PK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Prince of Wales Hospital, Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. awang@cuhk.edu.hk

