cardiovascular disease in renal transplant recipients, aggressive treatment 
intervention for potentially modifiable factors are strongly advocated after 
transplantation. In addition to treatment intervention, risk management should 
also involve tailoring the immunosuppressive regimen to minimize both direct and 
indirect cardiovascular risks. In this article we attempted to review and 
quantify the post-transplant risk factors for cardiovascular disease as well as 
offer suggestions on optimizing the therapy or treatment strategies to minimize 
the risk of cardiovascular complications in renal transplant patients. Reduction 
of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality can improve not only the life 
expectancy and quality of life of the transplant recipients but also their graft 
function and survival.

PMID: 15732047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Health News. 2005 Feb;11(2):14-5.

Getting the most from exercising only on weekends. Daily exercise is best, but 
if you're healthy and have just weekends to stay fit, here's what you need to 
know.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15732157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Lupus. 2005;14(1):83-8. doi: 10.1191/0961203305lu2065oa.

Lupus nephritis in children.

Perfumo F(1), Martini A.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Unit, University of Genoa, Istituto G. Gaslini, Genoa, Italy.

In systemic lupus erythematosus renal involvement is more frequent in children 
than in adults. Overall, 60-80% of children with systemic lupus erythematosus 
have urinary or renal function abnormalities early in the disease course. In 90% 
of patients, renal disease occurs within two years from disease onset. 
Clinically significant renal involvement ranges from asymptomatic urinary 
findings to nephrotic syndrome and renal failure. Long-term prognosis is similar 
to that observed in adults. Treatment aspects that are peculiar to children 
include drug side-effects, such as growth inhibition induced by steroids, the 
need to consider morbidity-related issues with respect to the very long life 
expectancy of patients and the problems related to the impact of disease in 
adolescents. The recent availability of a childhood SLE definition of 
improvement and the presence of large international paediatric rheumatology 
networks should, in the future, facilitate the implementation of controlled 
clinical trials devoted to paediatric SLE.

DOI: 10.1191/0961203305lu2065oa
PMID: 15732294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2005 Jan;42(1):27-30. doi:
10.3143/geriatrics.42.27.

[Expectation of new treatments for idiopathic interstitial pneumonias].

[Article in Japanese]

Azuma A(1).

Author information:
(1)Fourth Department of Internal Medicine, Nippon Medical School.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a chronic form of idiopathic interstitial 
pneumonia, has a poor prognosis with an average life expectancy of 3-4 years 
from the time of diagnosis. Although patients with IPF have been treated with 
steroids or immunosuppressants to control the inflammation that occurs earlier 
in the course of disease, these drugs have not improved the survival of patients 
with IPF. Recently, several clinical studies of antifibrotic drugs have been 
conducted in patients with IPF. In Japan, we demonstrated that pirfenidone 
prevents deterioration of pulmonary function and significantly decreases the 
incidence of acute exacerbation of IPF in a well-designed, placebo-controlled, 
double-blind, randomized study. We have also adopted a new system for evaluation 
of dynamic pulmonary function, which involves measuring the lowest SpO2 level 
during a 6-minute walk at a constant speed and assessing the pulmonary capacity 
of patients with IPF. In a study of patients with pulmonary fibrosis associated 
with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome in the United States, pirfenidone slowed the 
decrease in %FVC in patients with a %FVC of >60%, but had no significant effects 
on patients with a %FVC of < or =60%. Large-scale clinical studies of INF-gamma 
in patients with IPF in North America and Europe have reported decreases in the 
mortality of patients with mild IPF with a FVC of >60%, although percentages of 
patients with disease status rated as 'exacerbated', 'unchanged' and 'improved' 
after treatment did not differ between the INF-gamma and placebo groups. This 
presentation reported important future strategies for the treatment of IPF.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.42.27
PMID: 15732351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Drugs Aging. 2005;22(2):95-100. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200522020-00001.

Optimising treatment of elderly patients with ovarian cancer : improving their 
enrollment in clinical trials.

Villella J(1), Chalas E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer 
Institute, Buffalo, New York 14263, USA. Jeannine.Villella@RoswellPark.org

The aging population is the fastest growing segment of our population. Over the 
last century, the average life expectancy has increased by 25 years. The 
incidence of ovarian carcinoma, seen primarily in postmenopausal women, is, 
therefore, expected to increase. The current standard treatment of ovarian 
cancer has been determined on the basis of prospective, randomised clinical 
trials carried out by cooperative groups. Sixty-one percent of new cancer cases 
occur in women >65 years of age. Despite this fact, enrollment in clinical 
trials has been exceedingly low. In turn, this causes suboptimal treatment for a 
very fatal disease. The aetiology of this is multifactorial, and strategies for 
improvement are lacking. Elderly patients may be barred from participation based 
on physician biases alone. Elderly patients may have limited access to academic 
centres where clinical trials are conducted or be excluded on the basis of 
unrealistic inclusion criteria. As physicians, it is our duty to understand the 
elderly patient and the comorbidities in this age group that may influence the 
tolerability and toxicity of conventional therapies. Therefore, it is imperative 
that we make a conscious effort to examine ways in which we may improve 
enrollment of elderly women with ovarian cancer in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200522020-00001
PMID: 15733017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Public Health. 2005 Apr;119(4):253-61. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2005.01.005.

Assessing and communicating the health and judicial impact of alcohol use.

Bellis MA(1), Hughes K, Tocque K, Hennell T, Humphrey G, Wyke S.

Author information:
(1)North West Public Health Observatory, Centre for Public Health, Faculty of 
Health and Applied Social Sciences, Liverpool John Moores University, Liverpool, 
L3 2AY, UK. m.a.bellis@livjm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Alcohol consumption places an increasing burden on health services, 
criminal justice agencies and private industry throughout the UK. Despite a 
national strategy to tackle alcohol-related harm, there remains a lack of 
epidemiology on alcohol use and related harms at local levels. Utilising 
national data sources and existing research studies, Regional Public Health 
Observatories are appropriately placed to calculate such measures and examine 
their relationship with deprivation.
METHODS: For the North West of England, borough and health locality data were 
extracted from national sources. Alcohol consumption utilised lifestyle survey 
data and estimates of related harm were calculated by applying existing alcohol 
attributable fractions to deaths, hospital episodes and crime data. Contribution 
of alcohol to reduction in life expectancy was also calculated and all measures 
were correlated with deprivation.
RESULTS: For the North West, the annual burden of alcohol was estimated at over 
3700 deaths, 56,700 hospital episodes and 71,000 crimes. Annual alcohol-related 
death rates for men varied from 0.43 to 1.17 per 1000 between Local Authorities 
and there was a six-fold variation in alcohol-related crime rate between areas. 
For males, alcohol reduced life expectancy by more than five months in the area 
worst affected. For both sexes, more deprived areas had significantly higher 
levels of alcohol-related hospital episodes, crime, and contribution to reduced 
life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Alcohol-related harm requires urgent, multi-agency attention at 
local levels throughout the UK. Applying appropriate research methods to 
national data sources provides limited but valuable local measures of alcohol 
use and its impact on health and crime. Regional Public Health Observatories can 
facilitate partnership working through such provision of national intelligence 
tailored to support local and regional action. Application of these techniques 
also helps identify additional requirements for better local intelligence on 
health-related behaviours and the necessity for consistency across local health 
and behaviour surveys.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2005.01.005
PMID: 15733684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Nurs Clin North Am. 2005 Mar;40(1):77-94. doi: 10.1016/j.cnur.2004.08.007.

Innovations in antineoplastic therapy.

Kaplow R(1).

Author information:
(1)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA. 
rkaplow@emory.edu

Cancer is a complex group of diseases. Many of the current treatment modalities 
available provide limited effectiveness and significant side effects. This 
circumstance creates a challenge for health care providers. There is great need 
for the development of innovative therapies that increase efficacy and decrease 
morbidity. In general, chemotherapeutic agents are unable to distinguish cancer 
cells from normal cells. As a result of therapy, patients may develop 
significant myelosuppression. Patients who are undergoing chemotherapy need to 
be observed for signs of hematologic and nonhematologic toxicities. Patients 
should be advised that periodic blood tests are indicated to monitor for anemia, 
neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. If myelosuppression develops, measures to 
prevent complications such as bleeding and infection are indicated. Strategies 
to combat fatigue should also be discussed. Understanding of the biology of 
cancer has increased significantly in recent years. As knowledge of the science 
grows, new therapies are developed and clinical trials are initiated to 
investigate feasibility and efficacy of agents. Many of these trials involve 
agents that target specific biologic processes of cancer. While the complexities 
of cancer treatment are prolonging the life expectancy of patients who have the 
disease, patients are presenting with increasing numbers and types of 
morbidities. Nurses need to be aware of the rationale for treatment, mechanism 
of action of the agents administered, and expected toxicities of therapies. With 
this knowledge, symptoms can be identified earlier, life-threatening sequela can 
possibly be averted, and patients and families can be educated about what to 
expect and how to make knowledgeable decisions about treatment options. 
Enhancing patients' knowledge base may also increase their adherence to 
challenging therapies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cnur.2004.08.007
PMID: 15733948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2005 Feb;14(2):529-32. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-04-0499.

A model-based comparison of breast cancer screening strategies: mammograms and 
clinical breast examinations.

Shen Y(1), Parmigiani G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Applied Mathematics, M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center University of Texas, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Box 447, Houston, TX 77030, 
USA. yshen@mdanderson.org

In screening for secondary prevention of breast cancer, clinical breast 
examination (CBE) combined with mammography may improve overall screening 
sensitivity compared with mammography alone. A systematic evaluation of the 
relative expenses and projected benefit of combining these two screening 
modalities is not presently available. We addressed this issue using a 
microsimulation model incorporating age-specific preclinical duration of the 
disease, age-specific sensitivities of the two modalities, age-specific 
incidence of the disease, screening strategy, and competing causes of mortality. 
We examined a total of 48 screening strategies, depending on the age range, the 
examination interval, and whether mammography or CBE is given at every one or 
two exam. Our results indicate that a biennial mammography can be cost-effective 
if coupled with annual CBE. For each screening interval and starting age, giving 
mammography every two exams and CBE at every exam has the lowest marginal cost 
per year of quality-adjusted life saved, whereas giving both at every exam has 
the highest. Comparing annual mammography and CBE to biennial mammography and 
annual CBE from 50 to 79, the total cost was reduced by 35%, whereas the 
marginal quality-adjusted life years only decreased by 12%. Similar reductions 
are observed for other starting ages. It is cost-effective to have a biennial 
mammography if coupled with an annual CBE. Annual mammography combined with CBE 
every 6 months will lead to a 41% increase in the quality-adjusted life years 
compared with annual mammography and CBE from 50 to 79, whereas the total cost 
increases by 30%.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-04-0499
PMID: 15734983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Diabetes Care. 2005 Mar;28(3):590-4. doi: 10.2337/diacare.28.3.590.

Diabetes and the risk of lung cancer.

Hall GC(1), Roberts CM, Boulis M, Mo J, MacRae KD.

Author information:
(1)Grimsdyke House, Ravenscroft Park, London, EN5 4ND, U.K. 
gillian_hall@gchall.demon.co.uk

OBJECTIVE: The incidence of some cancers has been reported to be higher in 
diabetic patients than in the general population. We estimated the incidence of 
lung cancer in diabetic patients and investigated the hypothesis that the rate 
of lung cancer is different in diabetic compared with nondiabetic patients.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Diabetic patients and age-, sex-, and general 
practice-matched nondiabetic control subjects were identified from U.K. 
computerized general practice records (General Practice Research Database), and 
these records searched for any incident lung cancer, demographic details, and 
smoking status. Primary lung cancer incidence was calculated and rates compared 
between diabetic patients and nondiabetic control subjects using multivariate 
Cox regression, adjusting for age, sex, and smoking. The comparison was repeated 
for incident diabetic patients followed from diagnosis and after stratifying by 
diabetic treatment.
RESULTS: The incidence of primary lung cancer in all 66,848 diabetic patients 
was 1.63 per 1,000 patient-years (95% CI 1.48-1.79) and 2.05 per 1,000 
patient-years (1.76-2.38) among diabetic patients followed from diagnosis. When 
compared with nondiabetic control subjects, the hazard ratio was 0.88 
(0.79-0.97) for all diabetic patients and 1.12 (0.95-1.34) for those followed 
from diagnosis. When observation was truncated to allow for shorter life 
expectancy, the hazard ratio for the total cohort was 0.98 (0.84-1.13), and no 
association was found with any treatment group.
CONCLUSIONS: No increased risk of lung cancer in diabetes was found. We 
hypothesize that the lower incidence may be partly due to shorter life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.28.3.590
PMID: 15735193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Tob Control. 2005 Feb;14(1):37-42. doi: 10.1136/tc.2003.005470.

Cost effectiveness of a community based research project to help women quit 
smoking.

Secker-Walker RH(1), Holland RR, Lloyd CM, Pelkey D, Flynn BS.

Author information:
(1)The Office of Health Promotion Research, University of Vermont, Burlington, 
Vermont, USA. roger.secker-walker@.uvm.edu

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of a four year, multifaceted, 
community based research project shown previously to help women quit smoking.
DESIGN: A quasi-experimental matched control design.
SETTING: Two counties in Vermont and two in New Hampshire, USA.
SUBJECTS: Women aged 18-64 years.
METHODS: Costs were the grant related expenditures converted to 2002 US dollars. 
Survey results at the end of the intervention were used to estimate the numbers 
of never smokers, former smokers, light smokers, and heavy smokers in the 
intervention and comparison counties, and 1986 life tables for populations of US 
women categorised by smoking status to estimate the gain in life expectancy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost effectiveness ratios, as dollars per life-year 
saved, for the intervention only and for total grant costs (intervention, 
evaluation and indirect costs).
RESULTS: The cost effectiveness ratio for the intervention, in 2002 US dollars 
per life-year saved, discounted at 3%, was 1156 dollars (90% confidence interval 
(CI) 567 dollars to infinity), and for the total grant, 4022 dollars (90% CI 
1973 dollars to infinity). When discounted at 5%, these ratios were 1922 dollars 
(90% CI 1024 dollars to 15,647 dollars), and 6683 dollars (90% CI 3555 dollars 
to 54,422 dollars), respectively.
CONCLUSION: The cost effectiveness ratios of this research project are 
economically attractive, and are comparable with other smoking cessation 
interventions for women. These observations should encourage further research 
and dissemination of community based interventions to reduce smoking.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2003.005470
PMCID: PMC1747988
PMID: 15735298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. J Endourol. 2005 Jan-Feb;19(1):63-7. doi: 10.1089/end.2005.19.63.

Stent-change therapy in advanced malignancies with ureteral obstruction.

Rosenberg BH(1), Bianco FJ Jr, Wood DP Jr, Triest JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, 
Michigan 48201, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To determine if patients with advanced malignancies and 
resultant ureteral obstruction who are managed with chronic ureteral stent 
changes have adequate preservation of renal function and an acceptable rate of 
complications.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted on 28 patients who 
had a stent to relieve ureteral obstruction caused by cancer.
RESULTS: During the study period, 201 stents were placed, a median of 4 (range 
1-34) per patient. The mean time from cancer diagnosis to first stent placement 
was 34 months (range 1-109 months). The median survival after the first stent 
insertion was 15.3 months (95% CI 15.1, 15.6). Seven patients had worsening 
renal function and hydronephrosis despite indwelling stents. In these patients, 
the median time from the first stent to a rising serum creatinine concentration 
was 17 months (range 1-66 months). No patient required dialysis. Eighteen 
patients developed a total of 69 urinary tract infections (mean 2.5). Eight 
patients had a total of 13 episodes of urosepsis. The median infection-free 
survival was 11.9 months (range 7.7-16.9 months). The median urosepsis-free 
survival was 28.5 months (range 9.7-47.1 months). Fourteen patients died from 
their malignancies during the study.
CONCLUSIONS: Stent-change therapy is an efficacious way to treat patients with 
advanced malignancies and ureteral obstruction, many of whom have a short life 
expectancy. All patients maintained adequate renal function to obviate dialysis. 
Most patients with stents in place will die before their renal function 
deteriorates. They may also benefit from treatment strategies designed to avoid 
the occurrence of frequent urinary infections.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2005.19.63
PMID: 15735386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Thromb Haemost. 2005 Mar;93(3):592-9. doi: 10.1160/TH04-11-0767.

Cost-effectiveness of low-molecular-weight heparin for secondary prophylaxis of 
cancer-related venous thromboembolism.

Aujesky D(1), Smith KJ, Cornuz J, Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. aujesky@swissonline.ch

Although extended secondary prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin was 
recently shown to be more effective than warfarin for cancer-related venous 
thromboembolism, its cost-effectiveness compared to traditional prophylaxis with 
warfarin is uncertain. We built a decision analytic model to evaluate the 
clinical and economic outcomes of a 6-month course of low-molecular-weight 
heparin or warfarin therapy in 65-year-old patients with cancer-related venous 
thromboembolism. We used probability estimates and utilities reported in the 
literature and published cost data. Using a US societal perspective, we compared 
strategies based on quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and lifetime costs. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of low-molecular-weight heparin compared 
with warfarin was 149,865 dollars/QALY. Low-molecular-weight heparin yielded a 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 1.097 QALYs at the cost of 15,329 dollars. 
Overall, 46% (7108 dollars) of the total costs associated with 
low-molecular-weight heparin were attributable to pharmacy costs. Although the 
low-molecular-weigh heparin strategy achieved a higher incremental 
quality-adjusted life expectancy than the warfarin strategy (difference of 0.051 
QALYs), this clinical benefit was offset by a substantial cost increment of 
7,609 dollars. Cost-effectiveness results were sensitive to variation of the 
early mortality risks associated with low-molecular-weight heparin and warfarin 
and the pharmacy costs for low-molecular-weight heparin. Based on the best 
available evidence, secondary prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin is 
more effective than warfarin for cancer-related venous thromboembolism. However, 
because of the substantial pharmacy costs of extended low-molecular-weight 
heparin prophylaxis in the US, this treatment is relatively expensive compared 
with warfarin.

DOI: 10.1160/TH04-11-0767
PMID: 15735815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Ann Vasc Surg. 2005 Mar;19(2):218-28. doi: 10.1007/s10016-004-0165-8.

Percutaneous and open renal revascularizations have equivalent long-term 
functional outcomes.

Galaria II(1), Surowiec SM, Rhodes JM, Illig KA, Shortell CK, Sternbach Y, Green 
RM, Davies MG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Center for Vascular Disease, University of 
Rochester, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is a significant cause of poorly 
controlled hypertension and progressive renal dysfunction leading to ischemic 
nephropathy and other end-organ damage. The optimal treatment of renovascular 
disease contributing to hypertension and renal dysfunction is not known. This 
study compares the anatomic and functional outcomes of both open and 
endovascular therapy for chronic, symptomatic atherosclerotic renal artery 
disease. We performed a retrospective analysis of records from patients who 
underwent renal arterial interventions, endovascular or open bypass, between 
January 1984 and January 2004. Principal indications for intervention were 
hypertension (51%), chronic renal insufficiency (13%), and hypertension and 
elevated creatinine (36%). A total of 247 patients (109 males; mean age 69 +/- 
10, range 44-89 years) underwent 314 interventions (109 open procedures; 205 
angioplasties, 71% with stent placement). There was a significant difference in 
30-day mortality (4% vs. <1%; p < 0.005) between the open and endoluminal 
groups, but not at 1, 3, or 5 years. Patients in the open group had a higher 
primary patency rate at 5 years (83 +/- 5% vs. 76 +/- 6%; p = 0.03), but 
patients in the endoluminal group had a higher assisted primary patency rate at 
5 years (92 +/- 5% vs. 84 +/- 5; p = 0.03). There was no significant difference 
between both treatment groups in cumulative freedom from presenting symptom or 
in freedom from dialysis and renal-related death. Patients who presented with 
hypertension were more likely to have shown improvement in their blood pressure 
with endoluminal intervention at 1, 3, and 5 (59 +/- 6% endoluminal vs. 83 +/- 
5% open; p = 0.01) years. From these results we conclude that open repair and 
endoluminal repair of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis have similar 
immediate and long-term functional and anatomic outcomes. Patients who present 
with hypertension may have greater benefit with an endoluminal repair.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-004-0165-8
PMID: 15735947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Public Health Rep. 2005 Jan-Feb;120(1):46-54. doi:
10.1177/003335490512000109.

Life expectancy without chronic morbidity: trends in gender and socioeconomic 
disparities.

Perenboom RJ(1), van Herten LM, Boshuizen HC, van den Bos GA.

Author information:
(1)TNO Prevention and Health, Leiden, Netherlands. rjm.perenboom@pg.tno.nl

OBJECTIVE: Life expectancy without chronic morbidity, or morbidity-free life 
expectancy (MFLE), was calculated to measure changes in population health status 
between 1989 and 2000 on the basis of gender and socioeconomic status.
METHODS: Sullivan's method was used to calculate morbidity-free life expectancy. 
Prevalence rates for chronic morbidity were derived from the Netherlands 
Continuous Health Interview Survey. Four socioeconomic groups were distinguished 
on the basis of educational level.
RESULTS: Between 1989 and 2000, total life expectancy increased for males and 
females and for all socioeconomic groups. Morbidity-free life expectancy 
decreased significantly for males (from 54.7 years to 53.9 years) and females 
(from 55.3 years to 51.0 years). The gap between males and females in MFLE has 
reversed, from 0.6 years in favor of females in 1989 to 2.9 years in favor of 
males in 2000. The gap between the upper and lower classes seems to have 
narrowed (for males from 11 years to 8.5 years and for females from 4.7 years to 
4.0 years).
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that morbidity-free life expectancy is falling 
for males and females and in all socioeconomic groups. Part of this decrease 
could be attributed to earlier diagnosis of chronic diseases. A widening gap in 
MFLE was observed between males and females in favor of males. The gap between 
the upper and lower socioeconomic groups seems to be narrowing.

DOI: 10.1177/003335490512000109
PMCID: PMC1497690
PMID: 15736331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Winter;21(1):32-9. doi: 
10.1017/s026646230505004x.

Hemodialysis for end-stage renal disease: a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
treatment-options.

Gonzalez-Perez JG(1), Vale L, Stearns SC, Wordsworth S.

Author information:
(1)University of Aberdeen, UK. j.perez@abdn.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: During 2001, over 32,000 patients in the United Kingdom received 
renal replacement therapy (RRT). Approximately half had a functioning 
transplant, with the remainder receiving dialysis therapy. The main form of 
dialysis is hemodialysis (HD), which is provided to 37.1 percent of the RRT 
population. HD is provided in three main settings: hospital (24.5 percent), 
satellite (10.9 percent), or home (1.7 percent). The objective of this study is 
to explore the cost-effectiveness of these different modalities.
METHODS: By using clinical and cost data from a systematic review, a Markov 
model was developed to assess the costs and benefits of the three different 
modalities. The model included direct health service costs and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs). Sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the robustness 
of the results.
RESULTS: Satellite HD has lower costs 46,000 pounds sterling and 62,050 pounds 
sterling at 5 and 10 years than home HD 47,660 pounds sterling and 63,540 pounds 
sterling. The total effectiveness of home HD was slightly greater than for 
satellite HD, so the incremental cost per QALY of home versus satellite HD was 
modest at 6,665 pounds sterling at 5 years and 3,943 pounds sterling at 10 
years. Both modalities dominated hospital HD.
CONCLUSIONS: Results from the study reveal that satellite HD was less costly 
than home HD, and home HD was less costly than hospital HD. The lack of robust 
data on the effectiveness and new dialysis equipment, which were not included in 
this review, throws some caution on these results. Nonetheless, the results are 
supportive of a shift from hospital HD to satellite and home HD.

DOI: 10.1017/s026646230505004x
PMID: 15736512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Winter;21(1):47-54. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462305050063.

Clinical- and cost-effectiveness of pegylated interferon alfa in the treatment 
of chronic hepatitis C: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Shepherd J(1), Brodin HF, Cave CB, Waugh NR, Price A, Gabbay J.

Author information:
(1)University of Southampton. jps@soton.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
pegylated interferon alfa (2a and 2b) combined with ribavirin in previously 
untreated patients with moderate to severe chronic hepatitis C, compared with 
the current standard treatment, which is nonpegylated interferon alfa combined 
with ribavirin.
METHODS: Systematic review and economic evaluation. A sensitive search strategy 
was applied to several electronic bibliographic databases. Relevant studies were 
critically appraised and meta-analyzed. A hypothetical cohort of 1,000 patients 
entered a Markov model and were followed up for a more than 30-year period to 
predict natural history, duration spent in each health state, and treatment 
costs.
RESULTS: Two fully published Phase III randomized controlled trials were 
included. Methodological quality was generally good. Dual therapy with pegylated 
interferon was significantly more effective than nonpegylated dual therapy with 
a pooled sustained virological response rate (SVR) of 55 percent (95 percent 
confidence interval [CI], 52-58 percent) compared with 46 percent (95 percent 
CI, 43-49 percent). The pooled relative risk of remaining infected was 0.83 (95 
percent CI, 0.76-0.91 percent). Genotype was the strongest predictor of outcome, 
with SVRs in patients with the more responsive genotypes 2 and 3 reaching up to 
80 percent. The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for 
pegylated dual therapy compared with nonpegylated dual therapy was 12,123 pounds 
sterling. The cost per QALY remained under 30,000 pounds sterling for most 
patient subgroups and in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Pegylated interferon is clinically effective, represents good value 
for the money, and is a significant advance in the treatment of this insidious 
disease.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462305050063
PMID: 15736514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Winter;21(1):55-65. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462305050075.

Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of initial combination therapy with 
interferon/peginterferon plus ribavirin in patients with chronic hepatitis C in 
Germany: a health technology assessment commissioned by the German Federal 
Ministry of Health and Social Security.

Siebert U(1), Sroczynski G; German Hepatitis C Model GEHMO Group; HTA Expert 
Panel on Hepatitis C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Informatics, Biometry, and Epidemiology, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany. usiebert@hsph.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this health technology assessment (HTA), commissioned 
by the German Federal Ministry of Health and Social Security, was to 
systematically review the evidence for the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
of antiviral treatment (AVT) with interferon (INF) or peginterferon (PegIFN) in 
combination with ribavirin (RBV) in treatment-naïve patients with chronic 
hepatitis C (CHC) and to apply these data in the context of the German 
health-care system.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search on effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of AVT and summarized results using meta-analysis and 
evidence tables. We applied the German Hepatitis C Model (GEHMO), a 
decision-analytic Markov model, to determine long-term clinical effectiveness, 
costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) of the examined 
treatment strategies. Model parameters were derived from German databases, 
published international randomized clinical trials (RCT), and a Cochrane Review.
RESULTS: Overall, nine RCTs, two HTA reports, one Cochrane review, two 
meta-analyses, and seven economic evaluations met the inclusion criteria. These 
studies indicate that PegIFN + RBV achieved the highest sustained virological 
response rates (SVR) (54-61 percent), followed by IFN + RBV (38-54 percent) and 
IFN monotherapy (11-21 percent). Based on our meta-analysis, PegIFN + RBV 
reduced cases without SVR by 17 percent compared with INF + RBV. International 
cost-effectiveness studies indicate that INF+ RBV is cost-effective when 
compared with INF monotherapy. For PegIFN + RBV, our decision analysis yielded 
an ICER of 9,800 Euros per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: This HTA suggests that initial combination therapy prolongs life, 
improves quality of life, and is cost-effective in patients with CHC. 
Peginterferon plus ribavirin is the most effective and efficient treatment among 
the examined options. However, because not all chronic hepatitis C patients will 
develop progressive liver disease, a thorough assessment of the eligibility and 
appropriateness of treatment with combination therapy must be performed in each 
individual patient.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462305050075
PMID: 15736515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Rev Prat. 2004 Dec 31;54(20):2209-10.

[Social inequalities in health: how to combine clinical and populational 
approaches].

[Article in French]

Prisse N, Postel-Vinay N, Basset B, Coquin Y, Dab W.

PMID: 15736528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Rev Prat. 2004 Dec 31;54(20):2219-20.

[Social inequalities in health. A dossier to be reopened].

[Article in French]

Aïach P(1), Fassin D.

Author information:
(1)Ecole des hautes études en sciences sociales, 75006 Paris. 
pierre.aiach@wanadoo.fr

PMID: 15736530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Adv Nurs. 2005 Mar;49(6):634-54. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2004.03338.x.

Healthy living interventions and schizophrenia: a systematic review.

Bradshaw T(1), Lovell K, Harris N.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Visiting, Coupland III, University of 
Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, UK. 
timothy.j.bradshaw@manchester.ac.uk

AIM: This paper reports a systematic review of the published and grey literature 
which has investigated the efficacy of healthy living interventions for adults 
with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizo-affective disorder.
BACKGROUND: Adults with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizo-affective 
disorder have reduced life expectancy when compared with members of the general 
population, with approximately 59% of excess mortality resulting from natural 
causes.
METHODS: The review was conducted following guidelines provided by the United 
Kingdom National Health Service Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, and using 
the Medline, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Embase, Cochrane Library, National Research 
Register, and System for Info on Grey Literature databases.
RESULTS: Sixteen studies were identified, examining four types of healthy living 
interventions: smoking cessation (n = 7), weight management (n = 5), exercise (n 
= 3) and nutritional education (n = 1). The smoking cessation, weight management 
and exercise studies showed positive outcomes in the main. The quality of the 
studies, however, was generally poor. Only two had control groups, most 
recruited small self-selected samples, six did not standardize for diagnosis, 
external validity was generally poor and no studies followed participants for 
longer than 6 months. The best quality evidence was produced by the smoking 
cessation and weight management studies, which were more methodologically robust 
and demonstrated promising outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Further research is needed to assist the development of effective 
interventions to help this client group to adopt and maintain healthier 
lifestyles. Research and practice development in this area may be an important 
role for nurses in both hospital and community settings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2004.03338.x
PMID: 15737224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Jun;34(3):623-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyi027. Epub 2005
Feb  28.

Causes of death in the Sami population of Sweden, 1961-2000.

Hassler S(1), Johansson R, Sjölander P, Grönberg H, Damber L.

Author information:
(1)Southern Lapland Research Department, Vilhelmina, Postgatan 7, SE-912 32 
Vilhelmina, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Indigenous people often have a pattern of mortality that is 
disadvantageous in comparison with the general population. The knowledge on 
causes of death among the Sami, the natives of northern Scandinavia, is limited. 
The aim of the present study was to compare gender and cause specific mortality 
patterns for reindeer herding Sami, non-herding Sami, and non-Sami between 1961 
and 2000.
METHODS: A Sami cohort was constructed departing from a group of index-Sami 
identified as either reindeer herding Sami or Sami eligible to vote for the Sami 
parliament. Relatives of index-Sami were identified in the National Kinship 
Register and added to the cohort. The cohort contained a total of 41 721 people 
(7482 reindeer herding Sami and 34 239 non-herding Sami). A demographically 
matched non-Sami reference population four times as large, was compiled in the 
same way. Relative mortality risks were analysed by calculating standardized 
mortality ratios (SMRs).
RESULTS: The differences in overall mortality and life expectancy of the Sami, 
both reindeer herding and non-herding, compared with the reference population 
were relatively small. However, Sami men showed significantly lower SMR for 
cancers but higher for external causes of injury. For Sami women, significantly 
higher SMR was found for diseases of the circulatory system and diseases of the 
respiratory system. An increased risk of dying from subarachnoid haemorrhage was 
observed among both Sami men and women.
CONCLUSIONS: The similarities in mortality patterns are probably a result of 
centuries of close interaction between the Sami and the non-Sami, while the 
observed differences might be due to lifestyle, psychosocial and/or genetic 
factors.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyi027
PMID: 15737965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Apr;34(2):461-6. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyh333. Epub 2005
Feb  28.

Who is more likely to experience common disorders: men, women, or both equally? 
Lay perceptions in the West of Scotland.

Macintyre S(1), McKay L, Ellaway A.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, 4 Lilybank 
Gardens, Glasgow G12 8RZ, UK. Sally@msoc.mrc.gla.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Gender differences in health are commonly observed by 
epidemiologists. Little is known about lay beliefs concerning the gender 
patterning of common conditions.
METHODS: Using the West of Scotland Twenty-07 Study, we analysed responses to a 
question in a postal questionnaire asking whether respondents thought men or 
women (or both equally) were more likely to have heart disease, cancer, mental 
illness, and accidents, to be fit, and to live longer. This question was 
answered by 466 females and 353 males, then aged 25, 45, and 65 yr.
RESULTS: Responses were in general in accord with epidemiological findings, but 
females had significantly lower odds than males of perceiving men as being at 
greater risk of accidents and heart disease, and higher odds than males of 
perceiving women as being at greater risk of mental illness.
CONCLUSIONS: There was a tendency for each gender to think risks were higher for 
their own sex than did the other gender. This observation needs further 
exploration, particularly in the light of the research showing 'optimistic bias' 
in relation to health, and research suggesting that socioeconomically 
disadvantaged people may be least likely to perceive socially structured health 
inequalities.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyh333
PMID: 15737979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Eur Respir J. 2005 Mar;25(3):468-73. doi: 10.1183/09031936.05.10100004.

The CFTR 3849+10kbC->T and 2789+5G->A alleles are associated with a mild CF 
phenotype.

Duguépéroux I(1), De Braekeleer M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Histologie et Cytogénétique, Faculté de Médecine et des 
Sciences de la Santé, Université de Bretagne Occidentale & INSERM-U613, F-29238 
Brest cedex 3, France.

Most cystic fibrosis (CF) transmembrane receptor mutations are rare. The French 
CF Registry offers an opportunity to study the genotype-phenotype relationship 
of these rare alleles. Since 1992, 39 CF patients carrying one copy of the 
3849+10kbC->T mutation and 88 the 2789+5G->A allele have been seen at least once 
in a CF care centre. Among them, 16 carrying the 3849+10kbC->T/Delta F508 
genotype and 34 with the 2789+5G->A/Delta F508 genotype were seen in 2000. Their 
age at diagnosis, sweat chloride concentration, anthropometric and lung function 
results, and clinical aspects were compared with those homozygous for the Delta 
F508 mutation matched for sex, age and CF care centre. Major differences, most 
of them statistically significant, in the age at diagnosis, prevalence of 
pancreatic insufficiency, and other clinical signs, anthropometric and lung 
function measures were observed between both compound heterozygote groups and 
their matched Delta F508/Delta F508 groups. The mean sweat chloride 
concentration was also lower (close to normal values) among 3849+10kbC->T/Delta 
F508 patients, but not among 2789+5G->A/Delta F508 patients. In conclusion, both 
mutations studied here are associated with a milder course of cystic fibrosis 
disease. The 3849+10kbC->T and 2789+5G->A alleles are splice site mutations, 
leading to abnormal mRNA; however, a small amount of normally spliced 
transcripts can also be detected. The presence of these small amounts of normal 
cystic fibrosis transmembrane receptor protein in these cystic fibrosis patients 
is likely to be responsible for the milder severity of disease and a better life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.05.10100004
PMID: 15738290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Mar 1;142(5):I28. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-142-5-200503010-00002.

Summaries for patients. The cost-effectiveness of strategies to prevent type 2 
diabetes.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Mar 1;142(5):323-32.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-142-5-200503010-00002
PMID: 15738446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Mar 1;142(5):323-32. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-142-5-200503010-00007.

The cost-effectiveness of lifestyle modification or metformin in preventing type 
2 diabetes in adults with impaired glucose tolerance.

Herman WH(1), Hoerger TJ, Brandle M, Hicks K, Sorensen S, Zhang P, Hamman RF, 
Ackermann RT, Engelgau MM, Ratner RE; Diabetes Prevention Program Research 
Group.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Mar 1;142(5):I28.
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Mar 1;142(5):381-3.

BACKGROUND: The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) demonstrated that 
interventions can delay or prevent the development of type 2 diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the lifetime cost-utility of the DPP interventions.
DESIGN: Markov simulation model to estimate progression of disease, costs, and 
quality of life.
DATA SOURCES: The DPP and published reports.
TARGET POPULATION: Members of the DPP cohort 25 years of age or older with 
impaired glucose tolerance.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVES: Health system and societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Intensive lifestyle, metformin, and placebo interventions as 
implemented in the DPP.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Cumulative incidence of diabetes, microvascular and 
neuropathic complications, cardiovascular complications, survival, direct 
medical and direct nonmedical costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and 
cost per QALY.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Compared with the placebo intervention, the 
lifestyle and metformin interventions were estimated to delay the development of 
type 2 diabetes by 11 and 3 years, respectively, and to reduce the absolute 
incidence of diabetes by 20% and 8%, respectively. The cumulative incidence of 
microvascular, neuropathic, and cardiovascular complications were reduced and 
survival was improved by 0.5 and 0.2 years. Compared with the placebo 
intervention, the cost per QALY was approximately 1100 dollars for the lifestyle 
intervention and $31 300 for the metformin intervention. From a societal 
perspective, the interventions cost approximately 8800 dollars and 29,900 
dollars per QALY, respectively. From both perspectives, the lifestyle 
intervention dominated the metformin intervention.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Cost-effectiveness improved when the 
interventions were implemented as they might be in routine clinical practice. 
The lifestyle intervention was cost-effective in all age groups. The metformin 
intervention did not represent good use of resources for persons older than 65 
years of age.
LIMITATIONS: Simulation results depend on the accuracy of the underlying 
assumptions, including participant adherence.
CONCLUSIONS: Health policy should promote diabetes prevention in high-risk 
individuals.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-142-5-200503010-00007
PMCID: PMC2701392
PMID: 15738451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Clin Oncol. 2005 May 20;23(15):3358-65. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.08.193. Epub
 2005 Feb 28.

Short-course versus split-course radiotherapy in metastatic spinal cord 
compression: results of a phase III, randomized, multicenter trial.

Maranzano E(1), Bellavita R, Rossi R, De Angelis V, Frattegiani A, Bagnoli R, 
Mignogna M, Beneventi S, Lupattelli M, Ponticelli P, Biti GP, Latini P.

Author information:
(1)U.O. di Radioterapia Oncologica, Azienda Ospedaliera S Maria, Via T di 
Joannuccio, 1, 05100 Terni, Italy. ernesto.maranzano@libero.it

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2005 May 20;23(15):3308-10.

PURPOSE: Hypofractionated radiotherapy (RT) is often used in the treatment of 
metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC). This randomized trial was planned to 
assess the clinical outcome and toxicity of two different hypofractionated RT 
regimens in MSCC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three hundred patients with MSCC were randomly assigned to 
a short-course RT (8 Gy x 2 days) or to a split-course RT (5 Gy x 3; 3 Gy x 5). 
Only patients with a short life expectancy entered the protocol. Median 
follow-up was 33 months (range, 4 to 61 months).
RESULTS: A total of 276 (92%) patients were assessable; 142 (51%) treated with 
the short-course and 134 (49%) treated with the split-course RT regimen. There 
was no significant difference in response, duration of response, survival, or 
toxicity found between the two arms. When short- versus split-course regimens 
were compared, after RT 56% and 59% patients had back pain relief, 68% and 71% 
were able to walk, and 90% and 89% had good bladder function, respectively. 
Median survival was 4 months and median duration of improvement was 3.5 months 
for both arms. Toxicity was equally distributed between the two arms: grade 3 
esophagitis or pharyngitis was registered in four patients (1.5%), grade 3 
diarrhea occurred in four patients (1.5%), and grade 3 vomiting or nausea 
occurred in 10 patients (6%). Late toxicity was never recorded.
CONCLUSION: Both hypofractionated RT schedules adopted were effective and had 
acceptable toxicity. However, considering the advantages of the short-course 
regimen in terms of patient convenience and machine time, it could become the RT 
regimen of choice in the clinical practice for MSCC patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.08.193
PMID: 15738534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Dev Dyn. 2005 Apr;232(4):958-68. doi: 10.1002/dvdy.20262.

JNK and ROKalpha function in the noncanonical Wnt/RhoA signaling pathway to 
regulate Xenopus convergent extension movements.

Kim GH(1), Han JK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular and Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea.

The Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway plays a critical role in wing, eye, 
and sensory bristle development of Drosophila and in convergent extension (CE) 
movements during vertebrate gastrulation. In Drosophila, Jun N-terminal kinase 
(JNK) and Rho-associated kinase (ROK) participate in RhoA-mediated PCP pathway 
during eye and wing development. In mammalian cells, Rac1 and Cdc42 but not RhoA 
are required for JNK activation by Wnt/PCP signals. However, there has been no 
evidence that Rho GTPases regulate JNK activation in Wnt/PCP pathway during 
Xenopus CE movements. Here, we report that Xenopus RhoA (XRhoA), but not Xenopus 
Cdc42 (XCdc42), is essential for JNK activation downstream of the Wnt/PCP 
pathway during Xenopus CE movements, and the phenotypic effect of loss of XRhoA 
function was rescued by Xenopus JNK1 (XeJNK1). In addition, XRhoA rescues the 
inhibition of CE movements by the DEP domain deletion mutant of Xenopus Dsh 
(Xdsh-DeltaDEP), which has dominant negative (DN) effects on JNK activation, and 
the PDZ domain deletion mutant of Xdsh (Xdsh-DeltaPDZ). Moreover, we demonstrate 
that Xenopus Rho-associated kinase alpha (xROKalpha), which is expressed mainly 
in mesoderm and ectoderm that undergo extensive cell rearrangements, regulates 
CE movements without affecting gene expression, and injection of xROKalpha 
rescued the inhibition of CE movements caused by DN XRhoA. Finally, we show that 
ROKalpha and JNK synergistically rescued embryos overexpressing DN XRhoA, which 
exhibit gastrulation defects, although ROKalpha is not required for JNK 
activation. Together, these data suggest that JNK and ROKalpha function in the 
noncanonical Wnt/RhoA pathway to regulate Xenopus CE movements.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dvdy.20262
PMID: 15739222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2005 Mar;47(3):171-6. doi: 10.1017/s0012162205000319.

Mortality and causes of death in persons with Down syndrome in California.

Day SM(1), Strauss DJ, Shavelle RM, Reynolds RJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA. 
Day@LifeExpectancy.com

This study investigated mortality and causes of death between 1988 and 1999 in 
14781 persons (6702 female) with Down syndrome in California, comparing age, 
sex, ethnicity, and other factors. Mean age at the start of follow-up was 14 
years 8 months (SD 14y 10mo). During the study period 600 persons died. The 
standardized mortality ratio (SMR) for the population was 5.5. Blacks were at 
greater risk than whites, Hispanics, or Asians (relative risk = 1.5). Mortality 
declined during the period, especially for children with congenital heart 
defects. Leukemia (SMR = 17), respiratory illnesses (SMR = 27), congenital 
anomalies (SMR = 72), and circulatory diseases (SMR = 5.3) accounted for most of 
the excess mortality. With the exception of leukemia, cancer mortality was not 
different from that of the general population.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162205000319
PMID: 15739721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2004;3(3):121-3. doi: 
10.2165/00148365-200403030-00001.

Healthcare expenditure and ageing: a comment.

Outreville JF(1).

Author information:
(1)United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Jf.Outreville@unctad.org

Comment on
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2003;2(1):9-16.

DOI: 10.2165/00148365-200403030-00001
