children (6.5+/-0.3) than Kansan mothers (5.6+/-0.2) over longer reproductive 
spans but did not significantly increase the number of surviving children 
(4.9+/-0.2 vs. 4.7+/-0.2, respectively). Families experiencing deaths vs. no 
deaths exhibit significantly longer reproductive spans, reflecting a 
significantly earlier start at childbearing and a later finish, and produce 
significantly more children (5.4+/-0.2 vs. 4.2+/-0.2). Cox regressions were run, 
and the most significant covariates to negatively affect survivorship to 15 
years were death in the family and length of the previous interbirth intervals. 
There was variation in families, but perhaps most had adequate nutrition, which 
may explain the lack of optima in fitness.

DOI: 10.1353/hub.2005.0010
PMID: 15757240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2005 Mar;23(3):135-9. doi: 10.1157/13072162.

[Blood cultures in the emergency department].

[Article in Spanish]

Cisneros-Herreros JM(1), Sánchez-González M, Prados-Blanco MT, Llanos-Rodríguez 
C, Vigil-Martín E, Soto-Espinosa de los Monteros B, Pachón-Díaza J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Enfermedades Infecciosas, Hospitales Universitarios Virgen del 
Rocío, Sevilla, Spain. cisnerosjm@telefonica.net

INTRODUCTION: Culture of emergency room blood samples is common practice, but 
open to controversy. As compared to other emergency tests, blood collection 
requires twice as much time and needs a refined technique to avoid 
contamination, and the study has no immediate diagnostic utility.
METHODS: This prospective study includes consecutive adult patients with 
positive emergency room blood cultures. We analyzed the diagnostic sensitivity 
and contamination rate of the cultures and the etiology, clinical features and 
prognosis of the bacteremias encountered.
RESULTS: During the study period, 5.2 blood cultures were indicated per 1000 
patients attended in the emergency room. The diagnostic yield (positive blood 
cultures/total cultures) was 20% and the contamination rate (contaminated blood 
cultures/total cultures) was 1%. The incidence of bacteriemia was 0.99 episodes 
per 1000 patients attended in the emergency room and 10.3 episode per 1000 
hospitalized patients. Gram-negative bacteria predominated (57%). Sepsis was the 
most frequent clinical manifestation (50%), followed by severe sepsis (40%) and 
septic shock (10%). Mortality was 22%. Diabetes mellitus and severe 
sepsis/septic shock were independent factors associated with mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Diagnostic performance and quality of emergency room blood cultures 
was high. The predominant etiology was gram-negative bacteria. Patients had a 
severe clinical presentation. Diabetes mellitus and severe sepsis and/or septic 
shock were independent prognostic factors of mortality.

DOI: 10.1157/13072162
PMID: 15757584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2005 May;44(5):670-6. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/keh584.  Epub 2005 Mar 9.

Persistent clinical response to the anti-TNF-alpha antibody infliximab in 
patients with ankylosing spondylitis over 3 years.

Braun J(1), Baraliakos X, Brandt J, Listing J, Zink A, Alten R, Burmester G, 
Gromnica-Ihle E, Kellner H, Schneider M, Sörensen H, Zeidler H, Sieper J.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Medical Center, Ruhrgebeit, Herne, Ruhr-University, Bochum, 
Germany. J.Braun@Rheumazentrum-Ruhrgebiet.de

OBJECTIVE: Infliximab, a monoclonal antibody against tumour necrosis factor 
alpha (TNF-alpha), is approved in Europe for the treatment of patients with 
active ankylosing spondylitis (AS) who have responded inadequately to 
conventional therapy. This report provides analyses from a 3-yr extension study, 
as a follow-up to both the 1- and 2-yr open label extensions of the original 
3-month randomized controlled trial of infliximab in patients with AS.
METHODS: Of the 49 patients with AS who completed the second year of the study, 
46 continued treatment with infliximab 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks up to week 156. The 
Bath AS Disease Activity Index (BASDAI), the Bath AS Functional Index, the Bath 
AS Metrology Index, patient's and physician's global assessments, quality of 
life (Short Form-36), C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation 
rate were assessed throughout the study period.
RESULTS: The improvement of signs and symptoms observed in the majority of the 
patients during the first and second year was sustained throughout the third 
year of the study. Forty-three patients (62% of the 69 patients enrolled at 
baseline and 93% of the patients who started the third year) completed week 156. 
In the intention-to-treat analysis, an ASAS '5 out of 6' and ASAS 40% response 
was seen by 46% and 50% of the patients, respectively. The scores for other 
efficacy assessments were similar to the values observed at weeks 54 and 102. 
Median CRP levels remained low (1.5 mg/l at week 156). There were no relevant 
side-effects and no discontinuation because of drug-related adverse events 
during the third year of the study.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with AS receiving infliximab for 3 yr showed a durable 
clinical response without loss of efficacy. Long-term infliximab treatment was 
well tolerated by patients in this study.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keh584
PMID: 15757965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. J Musculoskelet Neuronal Interact. 2002 Sep;2(5):457-62.

Muscle power, locomotor performance and flexibility in aging mentally-retarded 
adults with and without Down's syndrome.

Carmeli E(1), Barchad S, Lenger R, Coleman R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Ramat Aviv, Israel. elicarmeli@hotmail.com

Longer life expectancy is resulting in increasing numbers of elderly adults with 
mental retardation (MR). The objective of the study was to compare lower limb 
isokinetic muscle power, locomotor performance and flexibility of aged adult 
mentally-retarded individuals with and without Down's syndrome (DS). Nine 
subjects with MR and DS (mean age 61), and sixteen subjects with MR and without 
DS (mean age 63), performed leg power testing on a Biodex dynamometer. 
Parameters measured were dynamic torque, dynamic torque % body weight, and 
average power % body weight. Functional performance tests including "Timed 
Get-Up and Go" and flexibility were also analyzed and compared. Results indicate 
that in knee extension and flexion isokinetic power the MR group without DS 
showed significantly higher scores than the MR group with DS. The functional 
performance of elderly adults with MR and DS was significantly impaired compared 
with MR adults without DS, although no differences were observed between the two 
groups in the flexibility tests. It was concluded that muscle leg power, and 
gross motor performance of elderly mentally-retarded individuals without Down's 
syndrome is better than in those with Down's syndrome.

PMID: 15758414


483. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2005 Apr;39(4):307-17. doi: 
10.1097/01.mcg.0000155140.63510.cd.

Cystic fibrosis: an overview.

Turcios NL(1).

Author information:
(1)Saint Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ 08901, USA. 
nlturcios@saintpetersuh.com

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is one of the most common inherited disorders of white 
populations. The isolation and cloning of the gene in CF that encodes the 
production of a transport protein that acts as an apical membrane chloride 
channel, termed cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), have 
improved our understanding of the disorder's pathophysiology and has aided 
diagnosis, but has also revealed the disease's complexity. Gene replacement 
therapy is still far from being used in patients with CF, mostly because of 
difficulties in targeting the appropriate cells. Life expectancy of patients 
with this disorder has greatly improved over past decades because of better 
symptomatic treatment strategies. This article summarizes advances in 
understanding and treatment of CF.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mcg.0000155140.63510.cd
PMID: 15758625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. J Urol. 2005 Apr;173(4):1126-31. doi: 10.1097/01.ju.0000155535.25971.de.

Ability of 2 pretreatment risk assessment methods to predict prostate cancer 
recurrence after radical prostatectomy: data from CaPSURE.

Mitchell JA(1), Cooperberg MR, Elkin EP, Lubeck DP, Mehta SS, Kane CJ, Carroll 
PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Urology Outcomes Research Group, University of 
California, San Francisco, USA.

PURPOSE: Two methods widely used to predict the risk of treatment failure after 
radical prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer are the 3 level D'Amico risk 
classification and the Kattan nomogram. Although they have been previously 
validated, to our knowledge they have not been compared in a community based 
cohort. We tested the 2 instruments in the Cancer of the Prostate Strategic 
Urologic Research Endeavor (CaPSURE) database, a national registry of patients 
with prostate cancer, to assess their accuracy in a community based cohort.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Men were invited to join CaPSURE from 33 American urology 
practices, of which 30 were community based. A total of 1,701 men with localized 
prostate cancer (T1-3a) were treated with radical prostatectomy between 1989 and 
2000. Patients who received neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy were excluded. 
Recurrence was defined as 2 or more consecutive prostate specific antigen 
measurements of 0.2 ng/ml or greater, or a second treatment greater than 6 
months after surgery. Freedom from progression (FFP) was based on life table 
estimates and Kaplan-Meier curves. Risk groups were compared using a Cox 
proportional hazards model and ANOVA.
RESULTS: Based on the D'Amico classification 671 cases (39%) were classified as 
low risk, 446 (26%) were intermediate risk and 584 (34%) were high risk. 
Five-year FFP was 78%, 63% and 60% in the low, intermediate and high risk groups 
(HR 1.00, 1.87 and 2.32 respectively, p <0.0001). Mean 5-year FFP predicted by 
the Kattan nomogram in the same risk groups was 91%, 74% and 69%, respectively. 
Outcomes in the low risk group were tightly grouped about the mean but there was 
considerable dispersion of outcomes in the intermediate (30% to 98% FFP) and 
high (17% to 98%) risk groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Stratifying patients in CaPSURE into low, intermediate and high 
risk categories for disease as described by D'Amico or applying the Kattan 
nomogram resulted in statistically significant differences in predicted 5-year 
FFP. However, there was considerable overlap of outcomes between the 
intermediate and high risk groups. This analysis suggests that simply estimating 
disease recurrence by stratifying patients into low, intermediate and high risk 
groups may not provide sufficient information for predicting outcomes among 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ju.0000155535.25971.de
PMID: 15758720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Gastrointest Endosc. 2005 Mar;61(3):421-6. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(04)02757-9.

Endoscopy or surgery for malignant GI outlet obstruction?

Del Piano M(1), Ballarè M, Montino F, Todesco A, Orsello M, Magnani C, Garello 
E.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, ASO Maggiore della Carità, Corso Mazzini 18, 28100 
Novara, Italy.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2005 Aug;62(2):327; author reply 327-8.
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2005 Aug;62(2):328; author reply 328-9.

BACKGROUND: The treatment of gastroduodenal outflow obstruction (GOO) caused by 
malignant diseases represents a significant challenge. Open surgical 
gastrojejunostomy (GJ) has been the treatment of choice, but it has high 
morbidity and mortality rates. More recently, endoscopic placement of 
self-expanding metallic stents (SEMS) has been proposed and the results of 
small, preliminary studies are encouraging. This study compared technical and 
clinical success, morbidity, mortality, and hospital stay in patients undergoing 
endoscopic and surgical treatment of GOO.
METHODS: Medical records of 60 consecutive patients with GOO seen between April 
1997 and November 2002 were retrospectively reviewed. Because of extremely short 
life expectancy, 13 patients were treated by insertion of a double-lumen 
nasogastric-jejunal tube. The remaining 47 patients (28 men, 19 women; mean age 
73.5 years, range 48-92 years) with unresectable pancreatic (33), gastric (7), 
metastatic lymph nodal (4), papillary (2), and biliary (1) tumors were treated 
by placement of a SEMS (24) or open surgical GJ (23).
RESULTS: The technical success rates were similar, but clinical success was 
lower in the GJ group (92% vs. 56%, p = 0.0067). The SEMS group had a shorter 
length of hospital stay (3.0 [1.4] days vs. 24.1 [10.3], p < 0.001). Thirty-day 
mortality was 30% in the GJ group, and 0% in the SEMS group ( p = 0.004). 
Morbidity was higher in the GJ compared with the SEMS group (61% vs. 17%, p = 
0.0021). Mean survival was longer in the SEMS group (96.1 [9.6] days vs. 70.2 
[36.2] days, p = 0.0165 for a single test of hypothesis; Bonferroni correction 
for a multiple testing removes this significance), consequently, out-of-hospital 
survival was longer for the SEMS group (93.2 [9.3] days vs. 46.0 [31.5] days, p 
< 0.001). None of the endoscopic procedures required the assistance of an 
anesthesiologist or the use of an operating room.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this retrospective study suggest that SEMS insertion 
is better than surgical GJ for palliation of patients with GOO in terms of 
clinical success, morbidity, and mortality. Technical success rates were 
similar. SEMS placement should be proposed as the first-line treatment for 
relief of GOO. However, a randomized, comparative, prospective study of SEMS vs. 
laparoscopic GJ is needed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(04)02757-9
PMID: 15758914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Surg Endosc. 2005 May;19(5):710-4. doi: 10.1007/s00464-004-8815-z. Epub 2005
Mar  11.

Predictors of survival after laparoscopic radiofrequency thermal ablation of 
hepatocellular cancer: a prospective study.

Berber E(1), Rogers S, Siperstein A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid 
Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

Comment in
    Surg Endosc. 2006 Mar;20(3):533; author reply 534.

BACKGROUND: Most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are not candidates 
for hepatic resection or liver transplantation. Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) 
provides local control for unresectable HCC with minimal morbidity. The aim of 
this prospective study is to determine factors predicting survival in patients 
with HCC undergoing RFA.
METHODS: Sixty-six consecutive patients with HCC who were not candidates for a 
curative liver resection and were free of extrahepatic disease underwent 
laparoscopic RFA. The relationship between demographic, clinical, laboratory, 
and surgical parameters and survival was assessed using univariate Kaplan-Meier 
survival and multivariate Cox proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: The median Kaplan-Meier survival for all patients was 25.3 months after 
RFA. Although alfa fetal protein (AFP), bilirubin, ascites, and Child class were 
statistically significant predictors of survival by univariate analysis, only 
the Child class and AFP were independent predictors by multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study determines which patients do best after RFA and shows 
that RFA can provide significant survival for patients with unresectable HCC 
while also forming a bridge to liver transplantation. RFA has become the first 
line of treatment in the management of these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-004-8815-z
PMID: 15759186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Versicherungsmedizin. 2005 Mar 1;57(1):1-2.

[Greater life expectancy: effect on life insurance].

[Article in German]

Bartel H.

PMID: 15759806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Neurol Sci. 2005 Mar 15;229-230:121-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2004.11.012.
Epub  2004 Dec 15.

MRI identifies MCI subtypes: vascular versus neurodegenerative.

Meyer JS(1), Quach M, Thornby J, Chowdhury M, Huang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, 
USA. jmeyer@bcm.tmc.edu

As life expectancy increases worldwide, pandemics of cognitive impairment and 
dementia are emerging as major public health problems. Mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI), prodromal for dementia, is a descriptive term used for those clinical 
states showing early and subtle cognitive decline among the elderly, preceding 
the dementias. Psychometric screening combining Mini-Mental Status (MMSE) and 
Cognitive Capacity Screening (CCSE) Examinations, when combined now called CMC 
with C standing for Combined, M for MMSE, and C for CCSE, confirms diagnosis of 
MCI. Individuals identified with MCI are at increased risk for dementia of 
Alzheimer's type (DAT), vascular dementia (VAD) and other rare neurodegenerative 
dementias, including Lewy body dementia (LBD), fronto-temporal dementia (FTD) 
and Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD). Depending on different clinical 
compositions of cohorts studied, and MCI criteria used, between 19% and 50% of 
MCI progress to dementia within 3-5 years, two thirds to Alzheimer's (DAT) and 
one third to vascular types (VAD) in the United States. Not all Parkinsonians 
become demented, but PDD develops in 20-30%, however, PDD subjects were excluded 
from the present study, as were LBD and FTD. The incidence of MCI in those over 
age 70, with confirmed cognitive declines when tested 2 years later, is around 
23%, but some spontaneously improve.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2004.11.012
PMID: 15760630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Health Policy. 2005 Apr;72(1):9-23. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.06.005.

Reducing health disparities through primary care reform: the New Zealand 
experiment.

Hefford M(1), Crampton P, Foley J.

Author information:
(1)Hutt Valley District Health Board, Private Bag 31-907, Lower Hutt, New 
Zealand. loafer@clear.net.nz

New Zealand experiences significant health disparities related to both ethnicity 
and deprivation; the average life expectancy for Maori New Zealanders is 9 years 
less than for other New Zealanders. The government recently introduced a set of 
primary care reforms aimed at improving health and reducing disparities by 
reducing co-payments, moving from fee-for-service to capitation, promoting 
population health management and developing a not for profit infrastructure with 
community involvement to deliver primary care. Funding for primary care visits 
will increase by some 43% over 3 years. This paper reviews policy documents and 
enrollment and payment data for the first 15 months to assess the likely impact 
on health disparities. The policy has been successfully introduced; over half 
the New Zealand population (of four million) enrolled in new Primary Health 
Organizations within 15 months. Over 400,000 people (half of them in vulnerable 
groups) gained improved access to primary care subsidies in the first 15 months. 
The combined effect of new payment rules and the deprived nature of the minority 
populations was that the average per person payment to PHOs on behalf of Maori 
and Pacific enrollees was more than 70% greater than the per person amount for 
other ethnicities for the period. The policy is consistent with the principles 
of the Alma Alta Declaration. Barriers to successful implementation include the 
risk of middle class capture of the additional funding; the risk that 
co-payments are not low enough to improve access for the poor; PHO inexperience; 
and the small size of many PHOs. Transitional equity and efficiency issues with 
the use of aggregate population characteristics to target higher subsidies are 
being ameliorated by the introduction of low cost access based on age. A tension 
between the twin policy goals of low cost access for all, and very low cost 
access for the most vulnerable populations is identified as a continuing and 
unresolved policy issue.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.06.005
PMID: 15760695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Horm Res. 2004;62 Suppl 1:83-8. doi: 10.1159/000080764.

The challenges of reliance on insulin-like growth factor I in monitoring disease 
activity in patients with acromegaly.

Paisley AN(1), Trainer PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Christie Hospital, Manchester, UK.

Serum insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) is an important marker of disease 
activity in patients with acromegaly, and epidemiological data indicate control 
of circulating IGF-I in patients with acromegaly restores life expectancy to 
normal. Improvements in the quality of, and access to, IGF-I assays has 
encouraged monitoring of acromegaly with IGF-I, although circulating growth 
hormone (GH) and IGF-I values provide different information, so ideally both 
should be monitored. However, the introduction of the GH receptor antagonist 
pegvisomant poses new challenges. Pegvisomant binds with high affinity to GH 
receptors, thereby blocking the action of GH at the tissue level and rendering 
the hormone biologically inactive. This leaves IGF-I as the principal marker of 
disease activity. It is conceptually possible to induce a state of functional GH 
deficiency (GHD) with pegvisomant with IGF-I values within the normal range. 
With the goal of minimizing the risk of over-treatment and GHD, we have provided 
preliminary guidance on the target range for IGF-I in patients receiving 
pegvisomant based on the gender- and decade-based percentile ranges for IGF-I of 
adult patients with untreated GHD enrolled in the Pfizer International Metabolic 
Database (KIMS).

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000080764
PMID: 15761238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nurs Outlook. 2005 Jan-Feb;53(1):26-32. doi: 10.1016/j.outlook.2004.09.004.

Health insurance for type 1 diabetes mellitus: US competition and French 
coverage.

Duffy ME(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Utah College of Nursing, Salt Lake City, UT 84112-5880, USA. 
mary.duffy@nurs.utah.edu

Chronic diseases present a major challenge to individuals, health professionals, 
and policy makers. Disease burdens and fears of a lifelong condition are 
complicated by the volatility of health insurance. Individuals with type 1 
diabetes mellitus face these challenges daily. Treatment needs persist despite 
changes in individual health insurance or health plan coverage, yet this costly 
and devastating disease does not discriminate economically. The demands for care 
are the same for the under- and uninsured as they are for the fully insured. As 
life expectancy lengthens for individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus, a 
greater potential exists for significant variability in coverage. This article 
presents a review and analysis of health insurance issues among adults 18-64 
years old and extrapolates the consequences for those in the United States (US) 
with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Comparisons are made with the French health care 
system, ranked 1st by the World Health Organization in 2000.

DOI: 10.1016/j.outlook.2004.09.004
PMID: 15761397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Support Care Cancer. 2005 Sep;13(9):733-42. doi: 10.1007/s00520-005-0789-4.
Epub  2005 Mar 11.

Discussing life expectancy with terminally ill cancer patients and their carers: 
a qualitative study.

Clayton JM(1), Butow PN, Arnold RM, Tattersall MH.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology Research Unit, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. 
josephine@student.usyd.edu.au

GOALS OF WORK: There is uncertainty regarding the preferred content and phrasing 
of information when discussing life expectancy with terminally ill cancer 
patients and their carers. The objective of this study was to explore the 
various stakeholders' perceptions about these issues.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We conducted focus groups and individual interviews with 
19 patients with advanced cancer and 24 carers from three different palliative 
care (PC) services in Sydney and 22 PC health professionals (HPs) from ten 
different sites in Australia. The focus groups and individual interviews were 
audiotaped and fully transcribed. Further focus groups and/or individual 
interviews were conducted until no additional topics were raised. Participants' 
narratives were analysed using qualitative methodology.
MAIN RESULTS: Participants' suggestions regarding the content of prognostic 
discussions included: explaining uncertainty and limitations, explaining the 
process involved with making survival predictions, and avoiding being too exact. 
Those patients and carers who wanted to be given a time frame mostly wanted to 
know how long the average person with their condition would live and/or be given 
a rough range. HPs had various views regarding ways to phrase life expectancy: 
days versus weeks versus months, likelihood of the patients being alive for 
certain events, a rough quantitative range and probabilities (e.g. 10% and 50% 
survival). However, most HPs said they would rarely if ever give statistical 
information to patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This paper provides some potential strategies, words and phrases 
which may inform discussions about life expectancy. Further research is needed 
to determine the generalizability of these findings.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-005-0789-4
PMID: 15761699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Ayub Med Coll Abbottabad. 2004 Oct-Dec;16(4):48-50.

Percutaneous pinning in displaced supracondylar fracture of humerus in children.

Shoaib M(1), Sultan S, Sahibzada SA, Ali A.

Author information:
(1)Orthopedics Department, Ayub Teaching Hospital, Abbottabad, Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: Supracondylar fracture of humerus is the most common fracture in 
first decade of life. There are various treatment modalities for this fracture 
i.e closed reduction and casting, open reduction and internal fixation and 
percutaneous pinning. Study was conducted to know the outcome of Percutaneous 
Pinning in the management of displaced supracondylar fracture of humerus in 
children.
METHODS: This study was conducted at orthopedic unit of Khyber Teaching Hospital 
Peshawar from January 1996 to December 2000. Twenty children of 3-12 years age 
with displaced supracondylar fracture (Gartland type II & III) of humerus were 
included. Outcome measures were according to Flynn criteria i.e loss of elbow 
motion & carrying angle.
RESULTS: The children presenting were 14 male (70%) and 6 females (30%). The 
involved side was left in fifteen(75%) and right in five(25%) of patients. 
Nineteen patients (95%) had extension type & one patient (5%) had flexion type 
of fracture. Gartland type II were six (30%) & type III were fourteen (70%). Our 
result showed excellent outcome in thirteen (65%), good outcome in four (20 %) 
and poor outcome in three (15 %) patients.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous pinning is safe, cost effective, time saving and 
provides greater skeletal stability with excellent results.

PMID: 15762064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Int Braz J Urol. 2005 Jan-Feb;31(1):10-6. doi:
10.1590/s1677-55382005000100003.

Sarcomatoid differentiation in renal cell carcinoma: prognostic implications.

Dall'Oglio MF(1), Lieberknecht M, Gouveia V, Sant'Anna AC, Leite KR, Srougi M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Paulista School of Medicine, Federal University of Sao 
Paulo, UNIFESP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil. marcosdallogliouro@terra.com.br

INTRODUCTION: Renal cell carcinoma with sarcomatoid differentiation is a tumor 
with aggressive behavior that is poorly responsive to immunotherapy. The 
objective of this study is to report our experience in the treatment of 15 
patients with this tumor.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 15 consecutive cases of renal 
cell carcinoma with sarcomatoid differentiation diagnosed between 1991 and 2003. 
The clinical presentation and the pathological stage were assessed, as were the 
tumor's pathological features, use of adjuvant immunotherapy and survival. The 
study's primary end-point was to assess survival of these individuals.
RESULTS: The sample included 8 women and 7 men with mean age of 63 years 
(44-80); follow-up ranged from 1 to 100 months (mean 34). Upon presentation, 87% 
were symptomatic and 4 individuals had metastatic disease. Mean tumor size was 
9.5 cm (4-24) with the following pathological stages: 7% pT1, 7% pT2, 33% pT3, 
and 53% pT4. The pathological features showed high-grade tumors with tumoral 
necrosis in 87% of the lesions and 80% of intratumoral microvascular invasion. 
Disease-free and cancer-specific survival rates were 40 and 46% respectively, 
with 2 cases responding to adjuvant immunotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with sarcomatoid tumors of the kidney have a low life 
expectancy, and sometimes surgical resection associated with immunotherapy can 
lead to a long-lasting therapeutic response.

DOI: 10.1590/s1677-55382005000100003
PMID: 15763002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Chest. 2005 Mar;127(3):1006-16. doi: 10.1378/chest.127.3.1006.

Lung transplantation: disease-specific considerations for referral.

Nathan SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Lung Transplant Program, INOVA Heart and Lung Transplant Center, INOVA 
Fairfax Hospital, Falls Church, VA 22042, USA. steven.nathan@inova.com

Comment in
    Chest. 2005 Mar;127(3):705-7.

The timing of the referral and listing of patients for lung transplantation 
remains a difficult decision. Life expectancy and quality of life with and 
without transplantation are the pivotal issues that need to be considered by 
physicians and presented to prospective transplant candidates. The recognition 
of recent advances in the understanding of the various primary diseases, other 
potential therapies, and the latest posttransplant statistics are essential for 
a balanced discussion or decision about lung transplantation. This article 
provides a review of these and other pertinent issues for patients with various 
forms of advanced lung disease.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.127.3.1006
PMID: 15764787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Minerva Endocrinol. 2004 Dec;29(4):225-39.

New therapeutic options for acromegaly.

[Article in English, Italian]

Arosio M(1), Ronchi CL, Epaminonda P, di Lembo S, Adda G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Endocrine Sciences, University of Milan, Ospedale Maggiore 
IRCCS, Milan, Italy. maura.arosio@unimi.it

Acromegaly is a slowly developing disfiguring disease characterized by chronic 
growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) excess and caused 
by a pituitary somatotroph adenoma. It is associated to 2- to 3 fold increased 
mortality, compared to normal population, mostly due to cardiovascular and 
cerebro-vascular diseases, and to several co-morbid systemic illnesses, such as 
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, severe arthropathies, a specific 
cardio-myopathy, goitre, sleep-apnoea, intractable headache. The morbidity and 
excess mortality of acromegaly are usually the consequence of the metabolic 
actions of excess GH and IGF-I secretion, while only in rare patients mortality 
is due to the mass effects of the pituitary tumour. Since, serum IGF-I 
concentrations within age-adjusted normal range, and a tight GH control have to 
be achieved to normalize life-expectancy in these patients, an aggressive, and 
often multi-modality treatment is required for acromegaly. In recent years, new 
drugs, and new formulations of old drugs, have been developed that are able to 
effectively inhibit GH secretion or GH action, and may represent important 
adjuncts or even alternatives to the traditional approaches of surgery and 
radiotherapy. This review briefly summarizes the therapeutic options nowadays 
available for acromegaly. A brief note about innovative drugs under study, is 
also given.

PMID: 15765031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2004 Nov-Dec;37(6):469-75. doi: 
10.1590/s0037-86822004000600008.

[Evaluation of the polymorphisms in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene and 
the levels of folate and B12 in HIV-infected patients under antiretroviral 
therapy].

[Article in Portuguese]

Malavazi I(1), Abrão EP, Mikawa AY, Tagliavini SA, da Costa PI.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Química de Araraquara da Universidade Estadual Paulista, 
Araraquara, SP. iranmalavazi@bol.com.br

In this study we sought to investigate the B12 and folate levels regarding the 
influence of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase genotypes, immunological 
profile and antiretroviral therapy in the Brazilian HIV-infected population. The 
study group comprised 89 HIV-infected individuals and 29 blood donors. There was 
a decrease in the B12 levels in the HIV-infected group with higher TCD4+ 
lymphocyte counts. No differences in the genotype distribution for 
methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase polymorphisms between the HIV-infected 
individuals and the controls were found. HIV-infected individuals carrying the 
C677C genotype presented lower B12 levels (313.91 +/- 154.05) than those with 
the same genotype in the control group (408.27 +/- 207.69). Also, the 
antiretroviral therapy was not a source of variation of the folate and B12 serum 
levels. Further studies are needed to reanalyze the prevalence of low levels of 
folate and B12 and hyperhomocysteinemia among HIV-infected patients with regard 
to the use of HAART and the increased life expectancy of such patients.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822004000600008
PMID: 15765596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Vascular. 2004 Sep-Oct;12(5):285-92. doi: 10.1258/rsmvasc.12.5.285.

Extensive unilateral iliofemoral occlusions: durability of four techniques of 
arterial reconstructions.

Mellière D(1), Desgranges P, de Wailly GW, Roudot-Thoraval F, Allaire E, 
Becquemin JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Paris-XII, Henri-Mondor 
Hospital, Créteil, France.

In patients with long unilateral iliofemoral occlusive disease unfit for 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), most surgeons would choose some 
type of prosthetic bypass (aortounifemoral, iliofemoral or cross over). All 
these bypasses would provide excellent early results, but some may not be 
sufficient in patients with a good life expectancy who also need durable 
patency. The purpose of the study was to compare the long-term results of four 
types of arterial reconstructions. Over 20 years, 468 unilateral iliofemoral 
occlusions were treated primarily by one of the following techniques: 
aortounifemoral bypass (group 1, n = 108), iliofemoral bypass (group 2, n = 
144), crossover bypass (group 3, n = 108), and iliofemoral endarterectomy (group 
4, n = 108). Patients in group 3 presented with more severe comorbidities, and 
patients in group 4 had more superficial femoral artery occlusions. All data 
were prospectively registered after discharge and during the survey. Patency was 
assessed with duplex ultrasonography on a yearly basis. Perioperative 
complications and death rates were similar in all groups. The standard error was 
less than 10% for a period of over 10 years in all groups, except for group 3, 
in which it was more than 10% after 8 years. At 8 years, primary patency rates 
in groups 1, 2, 3, and 4 were 79%, 66%, 74%, and 89%, respectively. The 
difference was significant between group 4 and group 2 (p < .02) and group 3 (p 
< .01). Secondary patency and limb salvage rates were not significantly 
different. In this study, for an equal perioperative risk, the primary patency 
rates of iliac endarterectomies were superior to those of the other techniques, 
suggesting that these procedures should be the first choice in patients in good 
physical condition. Iliofemoral bypasses and crossover bypasses needed much more 
redo surgery. A crossover bypass should be reserved for patients who are unfit 
for an abdominal approach or who have a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1258/rsmvasc.12.5.285
PMID: 15765909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. BMC Health Serv Res. 2005 Mar 14;5(1):23. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-5-23.

Is expanding Medicare coverage cost-effective?

Franks P(1), Muennig P, Gold M.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services Research in Primary Care, Department of Family & 
Community Medicine, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA. 
pfranks@ucdavis.edu

BACKGROUND: Proposals to expand Medicare coverage tend to be expensive, but the 
value of services purchased is not known. This study evaluates the efficiency of 
the average private supplemental insurance plan for Medicare recipients.
METHODS: Data from the National Health Interview Survey, the National Death 
Index, and the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey were analyzed to estimate the 
costs, changes in life expectancy, and health-related quality of life gains 
associated with providing private supplemental insurance coverage for Medicare 
beneficiaries. Model inputs included socio-demographic, health, and health 
behavior characteristics. Parameter estimates from regression models were used 
to predict quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs associated with private 
supplemental insurance relative to Medicare only. Markov decision analysis 
modeling was then employed to calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Medicare supplemental insurance is associated with increased health 
care utilization, but the additional costs associated with this utilization are 
offset by gains in quality-adjusted life expectancy. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness of private supplemental insurance is approximately $24,000 
per QALY gained relative to Medicare alone.
CONCLUSION: Supplemental insurance for Medicare beneficiaries is a good value, 
with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio comparable to medical interventions 
commonly deemed worthwhile.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-5-23
PMCID: PMC1079833
PMID: 15766380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Mar 15;45(6):838-45. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2004.11.051.

Long-term cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel given for up to one year in patients 
with acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation.

Weintraub WS(1), Mahoney EM, Lamy A, Culler S, Yuan Y, Caro J, Gabriel S, Yusuf 
S; CURE Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. wweintr@emory.edu

Comment in
    Evid Based Cardiovasc Med. 2005 Sep;9(3):221-4.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of 
clopidogrel for up to one year after an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) without 
ST-segment elevation.
BACKGROUND: The efficacy of platelet inhibition with clopidogrel for up to one 
year after ACS was demonstrated in the Clopidogrel in Unstable angina to prevent 
Recurrent Events (CURE) trial, a randomized trial of 12,562 patients in 28 
countries that was conducted between 1998 and 2000. Patients were given 
clopidogrel (300-mg load followed by 75 mg/day) versus placebo, both in addition 
to aspirin, for a mean of nine months.
METHODS: We used patient-level clinical outcomes and resource use from the CURE 
trial and estimates of life expectancy gains as a result of the prevention of 
the clinical events of death, stroke, and myocardial infarction on the basis of 
data from external sources.
RESULTS: Excluding clopidogrel costs, average costs of hospitalizations alone 
were 325 dollars less for the clopidogrel arm (95% confidence interval -722 
dollars to 45 dollars) using diagnosis-related group-based Medicare 
reimbursement rates. When including clopidogrel costs (766 dollars greater for 
the clopidogrel arm), average total costs were 442 dollars higher for the 
clopidogrel arm (95% confidence interval 62 dollars to 820 dollars). The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) on the basis of the Framingham Heart 
Study was 6,318 dollars per life-year gained (LYG) with clopidogrel, with 94% of 
bootstrap-derived ICER estimates <50,000 dollars/LYG; based on Saskatchewan, the 
ICER was 6,475 dollars/LYG with 98% of estimates <50,000 dollars.
CONCLUSIONS: Platelet inhibition with clopidogrel in patients for up to one year 
after presentation with an acute coronary syndrome is both effective and 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2004.11.051
PMID: 15766816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Clin Radiol. 2005 Apr;60(4):479-92. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2004.10.010.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of strategies introducing FDG-PET into the 
mediastinal staging of non-small-cell lung cancer from the French healthcare 
system perspective.

Alzahouri K(1), Lejeune C, Woronoff-Lemsi MC, Arveux P, Guillemin F.

Author information:
(1)CEC-Inserm, Service d'Epidémiologie et Evaluation Cliniques, C.H.U. de Nancy, 
Nancy, France.

AIM: To determine the most cost-effective strategy using PET for mediastinal 
staging of potentially operable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
METHODS: Four decision strategies based on French NSCLC work-up practices for 
the selection of potential surgical candidates were compared, comprising CT 
only, PET for negative CT, PET for all with anatomical CT, and CT and PET for 
all cases. The medical literature was surveyed to obtain values for all 
variables of interest. Costs were assessed with reimbursements from the French 
healthcare insurance for the year 1999. Expected cost and life expectancy were 
calculated for all possible outcomes of each strategy. Sensitivity analysis was 
performed to determine the effects of changing variables on the expected cost 
and life expectancy.
RESULTS: Compared with the CT only strategy, CT and PET for all resulted in a 
relative reduction of 70% of surgery for persons with mediastinal lymph node 
metastasis. PET for all with anatomical CT was shown to be a cost-effective 
alternative to the CT only, with life expectancy increased by 0.10 years and 
expected cost savings of 61 euros. This strategy was more favourable than PET 
for negative CT. Overall, sensitivity analyses showed the robustness of the 
results.
CONCLUSION: The introduction of thoracic PET for NSCLC staging is potentially 
cost-effective in France. Further clinical investigation might help to validate 
this result.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crad.2004.10.010
PMID: 15767106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Vasc Surg. 2005 Feb;41(2):231-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2004.11.021.

Carotid endarterectomy in octogenarians: does increased age indicate "high 
risk?".

Miller MT(1), Comerota AJ, Tzilinis A, Daoud Y, Hammerling J.

Author information:
(1)Jobst Vascular Center, Toledo, OH 43606, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Clin Pract Cardiovasc Med. 2005 Aug;2(8):382-3.

OBJECTIVE: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is proven to be the most effective 
treatment for symptomatic carotid artery stenosis of 50% or greater and 
asymptomatic carotid stenosis of 60% or greater. Although the prevalence of 
carotid artery disease increases with age, most prospective and randomized 
trials have excluded patients older than 80 years, implying that they are either 
at higher procedural risk or have decreased life expectancy. Since advanced age 
(>/=80 years) has been viewed as a "high-risk" indicator for CEA, age >/=80 
years has been used as an indication for alternative treatment. The study was 
conducted to determine if age >/=80 years is related to increased morbidity, 
mortality, and length of stay in patients undergoing CEA.
METHODS: In the 12-year period from 1993 to 2004, 2217 CEAs were performed in 
1961 patients. Three hundred sixty procedures were performed in 334 patients 
>/=80 years. Demographics, presentation, risk factors, operative outcome, and 
survival were analyzed. Contemporary literature was reviewed and the results 
summarized.
RESULTS: In patients aged >/=80 years, compared with their younger cohort, there 
was no difference in stroke (1.1% vs 0.8%, P = .333) but there was a higher 
operative mortality (1.9% vs 0.8%, P = .053). The combined stroke/death rate was 
higher in octogenarians (3.1% vs 1.5%, P = .041). This difference was due to the 
greater stroke/death rate in symptomatic octogenarians vs asymptomatic 
octogenarians (6.0% vs 0.9%, P = .007). The average postoperative length of stay 
was 3.2 +/- 4.8 days for octogenarians compared with 2.4 +/- 3.5 days for their 
younger counterparts ( P < .001). Thirty-seven percent of the octogenarians were 
discharged on the first postoperative day vs 51% ( P < .001), whereas 13% 
remained hospitalized beyond 5 days vs 8% ( P = .003). Although Kaplan-Meier 
survival curves show a higher mortality in octogenarians, survival after CEA 
approaches that of the overall population. A summary of the contemporary 
literature of CEA in 2204 patients >/=80 shows an operative stroke rate of 2.23% 
and death rate of 1.28%, with a combined stroke/death rate of 3.51%.
CONCLUSION: CEA is a safe and effective procedure in the octogenarian. The 
combined stroke/death rate is increased in patients aged >/=80, indicating 
increased risk, predominantly in symptomatic patients. Although CEA risk in 
octogenarians is higher compared with a younger cohort, outcomes remain within 
acceptable national guidelines and within outcome measures known to confer 
benefit compared with best medical care. Therefore, the term "high risk" should 
not be arbitrarily applied to patients reaching the 80-year threshold. This is 
confirmed by the contemporary literature.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2004.11.021
PMID: 15768004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nat Med. 2005 Apr;11(4):429-33. doi: 10.1038/nm1205. Epub 2005 Mar 13.

Silencing mutant SOD1 using RNAi protects against neurodegeneration and extends 
survival in an ALS model.

Ralph GS(1), Radcliffe PA, Day DM, Carthy JM, Leroux MA, Lee DC, Wong LF, 
Bilsland LG, Greensmith L, Kingsman SM, Mitrophanous KA, Mazarakis ND, Azzouz M.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Biomedica Ltd, Medawar Centre, The Oxford Science Park, Oxford, OX4 
4GA, UK. s.ralph@oxfordbiomedica.co.uk

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease 
resulting in the selective death of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. 
Some familial cases of ALS are caused by dominant mutations in the gene encoding 
superoxide dismutase (SOD1). The emergence of interfering RNA (RNAi) for 
specific gene silencing could be therapeutically beneficial for the treatment of 
such dominantly inherited diseases. We generated a lentiviral vector to mediate 
expression of RNAi molecules specifically targeting the human SOD1 gene (SOD1). 
Injection of this vector into various muscle groups of mice engineered to 
overexpress a mutated form of human SOD1 (SOD1(G93A)) resulted in an efficient 
and specific reduction of SOD1 expression and improved survival of vulnerable 
motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord. Furthermore, SOD1 silencing 
mediated an improved motor performance in these animals, resulting in a 
considerable delay in the onset of ALS symptoms by more than 100% and an 
extension in survival by nearly 80% of their normal life span. These data are 
the first to show a substantial extension of survival in an animal model of a 
fatal, dominantly inherited neurodegenerative condition using RNAi and provide 
the highest therapeutic efficacy observed in this field to date.

DOI: 10.1038/nm1205
PMID: 15768029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Rev Med Chil. 2005 Jan;133(1):23-32. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872005000100004.
Epub  2005 Mar 10.

[Long-term outcome of type V lupus membranous glomerulonephritis].

[Article in Spanish]

Pastén V R(1), Massardo V L, Rosenberg G H, Radrigán A F, Roessler B E, 
Valdivieso D A, Jacobelli G S.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Inmunología Clínica y Reumatología, Escuela de Medicina de la 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

BACKGROUND: The long-term outcome of the pure form of WHO type V lupus 
membranous glomerulonephritis is apparently more benign than that of other forms 
of lupus glomerulonephritis. However 12% of such patients progress to terminal 
renal failure. The presence of proteinuria may be an indication of cytotoxic 
agents.
AIM: To study the clinical long-term outcome of WHO type V lupus membranous 
glomerulonephritis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective analysis of all kidney biopsies of a 
University Pathology Department, with the diagnosis of WHO type V lupus 
membranous glomerulonephritis. Review of medical records of patients with the 
disease and one clinical assessment of all living patients.
RESULTS: Between 1973 and 2000, 703 kidney biopsies were done to patients with 
systemic lupus erythematosus. Of these, 40 were membranous glomerulonephritis 
and in 33 patients (28 women, age range 6-71 years), data on the evolution and 
survival was obtained. Nineteen had type Va and the rest type Vb nephritis. Two 
presented with renal failure and 11 with proteinuria over 3.5 g/24 h. The median 
follow-up since the renal biopsy was 63 months (range 1-316). At the end of 
follow-up, four had a creatinine clearance of less then 15 ml/h and four a 
clearance between 15 and 29 ml/h (one of these received a renal allograft). 
Eleven (33%) patients had died, mostly due to infections. Life expectancy at 
five years with a creatinine clearance over 15 ml/h was 75%. Bad prognostic 
factors were an elevated creatinine clearance over 15 ml/h was 75%. Bad 
prognostic factors were an elevated creatinine and high blood pressure at the 
moment of the biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical outcome of these patients was bad. Twelve percent 
reached a stage of terminal renal failure. This is in contrast with the 3% 
progression to a similar stage of proliferative glomerulonephritis treated with 
i.v. cyclophosphamide. New therapies for this condition must be sought.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872005000100004
PMID: 15768147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Clin Infect Dis. 2005 Apr 15;40 Suppl 5:S270-5. doi: 10.1086/427439.

Role of liver biopsy in the evaluation of hepatitis C virus infection in HIV 
coinfection.

Sterling RK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Virginia 
Commonwealth University Medical Center, Richmond, Virginia 23298, USA. 
rksterli@hsc.vcu.edu

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) coinfection is common in patients infected with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), because the viruses share common routes of 
transmission. With the marked increase in life expectancy of HIV-infected 
patients associated with the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy, HCV 
infection has become a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in 
coinfected patients. As a result, there has been increasing attention to 
adequate assessment of HCV infection during the last several years. Unlike liver 
enzymes and HCV RNA levels, which can fluctuate widely and do not correlate with 
the severity of disease, liver biopsy has become the cornerstone in the 
evaluation of chronic HCV infection. However, there remain important questions 
and controversies related to adequately determining the histological severity of 
liver disease and the role of liver biopsy in HIV-HCV-coinfected patients.

DOI: 10.1086/427439
PMID: 15768334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Sante Publique. 2004 Dec;16(4):587-95.

[The law relating to public health policy: health objectives, plans and action 
programs].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15768746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J Biosoc Sci. 2005 Mar;37(2):143-62. doi: 10.1017/s0021932003006527.

Early marriage and early motherhood in Nepal.

Choe MK(1), Thapa S, Mishra V.

Author information:
(1)East-West Center, Honolulu, Hawaii.

This paper examines age patterns of first marriage and motherhood and covariates 
of early marriage, delayed consummation of marriage and early motherhood in 
Nepal using data from the 2000 Nepal Adolescent and Young Adult Survey (NAYA). 
