Both unmarried and married male and female youths (age 14-22) were included in 
the survey. The analysis is based on 2800 urban youths and 5075 rural youths 
with complete information on the variables examined. Proportional hazard models 
are used to estimate covariates of early marriage and early motherhood, and 
logistic regression models are used to estimate covariates of delayed 
consummation of marriage. The results show that early marriage and early 
motherhood are quite common among Nepalese women, especially in rural areas. 
Early marriage is much less common among men. Delayed consummation of marriage 
is common among very young brides, especially in rural areas. The main 
covariates associated with early marriage and early motherhood are respondent's 
education, region of residence and ethnicity. The main covariates of delayed 
consummation of marriage are age at first marriage, region of residence and 
ethnicity. The study highlights the need to focus on less educated female youths 
in the Terai region in order to reduce the reproductive and child health risks 
associated with early marriage and early childbearing.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932003006527
PMID: 15768770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Circulation. 2005 Mar 15;111(10):1233-41. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000158136.76824.04.

State of disparities in cardiovascular health in the United States.

Mensah GA(1), Mokdad AH, Ford ES, Greenlund KJ, Croft JB.

Author information:
(1)Office of the Director, Division of Adult and Community Health, National 
Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease 
Control, Mail Stop K-40, 4770 Buford Hwy NE, Atlanta, GA 30341-3717, USA. 
ghm8@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Reducing health disparities remains a major public health challenge 
in the United States. Having timely access to current data on disparities is 
important for policy and program development. Accordingly, we assessed the 
current magnitude of disparities in cardiovascular disease (CVD) and its risk 
factors in the United States.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using national surveys, we determined CVD and risk factor 
prevalence and indexes of morbidity, mortality, and overall quality of life in 
adults > or =18 years of age by race/ethnicity, sex, education level, 
socioeconomic status, and geographic location. Disparities were common in all 
risk factors examined. In men, the highest prevalence of obesity (29.2%) was 
found in Mexican Americans who had completed a high school education. Black 
women with or without a high school education had a high prevalence of obesity 
(47.3%). Hypertension prevalence was high among blacks (39.8%) regardless of sex 
or educational status. Hypercholesterolemia was high among white and Mexican 
American men and white women in both groups of educational status. Ischemic 
heart disease and stroke were inversely related to education, income, and 
poverty status. Hospitalization was greater in men for total heart disease and 
acute myocardial infarction but greater in women for congestive heart failure 
and stroke. Among Medicare enrollees, congestive heart failure hospitalization 
was higher in blacks, Hispanics, and American Indians/Alaska Natives than among 
whites, and stroke hospitalization was highest in blacks. Hospitalizations for 
congestive heart failure and stroke were highest in the southeastern United 
States. Life expectancy remains higher in women than men and higher in whites 
than blacks by approximately 5 years. CVD mortality at all ages tended to be 
highest in blacks.
CONCLUSIONS: Disparities in CVD and related risk factors remain pervasive. The 
data presented here can be invaluable for policy development and in the 
planning, implementation, and evaluation of interventions designed to eliminate 
health disparities.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000158136.76824.04
PMID: 15769763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2005 Mar 16;97(6):407-9. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dji085.

Human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and cancer: 
past, present, and future.

Engels EA, Goedert JJ.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2005 Mar 16;97(6):425-32.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/dji085
PMID: 15769998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Saudi Med J. 2005 Feb;26(2):191-200.

Health, globalization and developing countries.

Cilingiroglu N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Hacettepe University, 
Ankara, Turkey. nesrinc@hacettepe.edu.tr

In health care today, scientific and technological frontiers are expanding at 
unprecedented rates, even as economic and financial pressures shrink profit 
margins, intensify competition, and constrain the funds available for 
investment. Therefore, the world today has more economic, and social 
opportunities for people than 10 or 100 years since globalization has created a 
new ground somewhat characterized by rapid economic transformation, deregulation 
of national markets by new trade regimes, amazing transport, electronic 
communication possibilities and high turnover of foreign investment and capital 
flow as well as skilled labor. These trends can easily mask great inequalities 
in developing countries such as importation and spreading of infectious and 
non-communicable diseases; miniaturization of movement of medical technology; 
health sector trades management driven by economics without consideration to the 
social and health aspects and its effects, increasing health inequalities and 
their economic and social burden creation; multinational companies' cheap labor 
employment promotion in widening income differentials; and others. As a matter 
of fact, all these factors are major determinants of ill health. Health 
authorities of developing countries have to strengthen their regulatory 
framework in order to ensure that national health systems derive maximum benefit 
in terms of equity, quality and efficiency, while reducing potential social cost 
to a minimum generated risky side of globalization.

PMID: 15770290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2005 Sep;272(3):187-90. doi: 10.1007/s00404-004-0719-6.
 Epub 2005 Mar 16.

The time trend of breast cancer mortality in Japan.

Kono A(1), Misumi J, Misumi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Hygiene, Faculty of Medicine, Oita Medical 
University, Oita 879-5593, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The objective was to evaluate the effect of the elimination of breast 
cancer death on life expectancy in Japan.
METHODS: Time trends in the negative contribution associated with breast cancer 
were calculated.
RESULTS: There has been a marked increase in years of potential life lost (YPLL) 
associated with breast cancer among women (from 0.06 years in 1950 to 0.30 years 
in 2000). In particular, during the last decade of observation, the increase in 
YPLL from breast cancer surpassed that from lung cancer, which had previously 
demonstrated a more rapid increase. The change in mortality for all ages and the 
change in YPLL at birth from breast cancer were 328% and 377% respectively, 
while those from all cancers combined were 134% and 132% respectively. The 
contribution of breast cancer to YPLL varied from 4.2% to 8.5% of total YPLL 
associated with all cancers combined throughout the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: In recent years, there has been a rapid increase in YPLL associated 
with breast cancer. Preventive policies should be implemented to develop 
strategies aimed at reducing the rapid increase in the development of breast 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-004-0719-6
PMID: 15770513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Feb 26;149(9):449-51.

[Palliative sedation, the sympathetic alternative for euthanasia?].

[Article in Dutch]

Keizer AA, Swart SJ.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Jun 4;149(23):1299-300; author reply 1301-2.

Palliative sedation is given to relieve refractory discomfort (pain, shortness 
of breath, agitation) during the phase when life expectancy is estimated to be a 
week or less. It is a medical intervention which, although not expressly meant 
to shorten life, may well do so. There is an inherent uncertainty here which is 
the cause of considerable ethical unease. Figures show that in a limited number 
of cases palliative sedation is actually applied with the intention to hasten 
death. It may well be impossible to rid ourselves ofthis uncertainty 
conclusively.

PMID: 15771337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Feb 26;149(9):458-61.

[Palliative sedation].

[Article in Dutch]

Verhagen EH(1), Hesselmann GM, Besse TC, de Graeff A.

Author information:
(1)Integraal Kankercentrum Midden-Nederland, Postbus 19.079, 3501 DB Utrecht. 
ehverhag@ikmn.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Jun 4;149(23):1299-300; author reply 1301-2.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Jun 4;149(23):1301; author reply 1302.

Palliative sedation is the intentional lowering of the level of consciousness 
ofa patient in the last phase of life by means of the administration of 
sedatives. The objective of palliative sedation is to relieve severe physical or 
psychological suffering that is otherwise untreatable. Sedation is used in 12% 
of all patients dying in the Netherlands. Refractory delirium, dyspnoea or pain 
are the most common indications. If deep palliative sedation is used, the 
estimated life expectancy should be a few days to at most one week. Midazolam is 
used most often for continuous sedation, usually by subcutaneous infusion; if 
the response is insufficient, a combination of midazolam with levomepromazine or 
phenobarbital or monotreatment with propofol may be used. If continuous infusion 
is not desired or feasible, intermittent administration of midazolam, diazepam, 
lorazepam or chlorpromazine may be considered. Provided that it is used under 
the right circumstances, palliative sedation does not shorten life.

PMID: 15771339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Aging Cell. 2005 Apr;4(2):109-12. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2005.00149.x.

Reduced expression of frataxin extends the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Ventura N(1), Rea S, Henderson ST, Condo I, Johnson TE, Testi R.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, Box 447 
Boulder, CO 80309-0447 USA.

Defects in the expression of the mitochondrial protein frataxin cause 
Friedreich's ataxia, an hereditary neurodegenerative syndrome characterized by 
progressive ataxia and associated with reduced life expectancy in humans. 
Homozygous inactivation of the frataxin gene results in embryonic lethality in 
mice, suggesting that frataxin is required for organismic survival. 
Intriguingly, the inactivation of many mitochondrial genes in the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans by RNAi extends lifespan. We therefore investigated 
whether inactivation of frataxin by RNAi-mediated suppression of the frataxin 
homolog gene (frh-1) would also prolong lifespan in the nematode. 
Frataxin-deficient animals have a small body size, reduced fertility and altered 
responses to oxidative stress. Importantly, frataxin suppression by RNAi 
significantly extends lifespan in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2005.00149.x
PMID: 15771615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Mar 16;2005(11):pe7. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.11.pe7.

The genetic basis of aging: an evolutionary biologist's perspective.

Reznick DN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA. 
david.reznick@ucr.edu

This Perspective discusses recent progress in the study of the genetic basis of 
aging from the viewpoint of an evolutionary biologist. Work in this area has 
revealed that homologous genes and pathways play a role in determining life span 
in many different species. Because life span is a complex polygenic trait, 
however, these findings provide information about only a small portion of the 
genetic basis of this trait. Additionally, because the model organisms used to 
study aging have been exposed to similar laboratory conditions that can lead to 
unintentional artificial selection, some of the similarities among these 
organisms might have resulted from such selection. It is not yet clear whether 
the results found in model organisms will extend to organisms in a natural 
environment. A few species are known for which there are natural populations 
that differ in life span and patterns of senescence, and they should be useful 
for assessing whether the genetic mechanisms identified in the laboratory also 
operate in the wild.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.11.pe7
PMID: 15772417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nihon Rinsho. 2005 Mar;63(3):501-5.

[Genetic analysis of life-style related diseases].

[Article in Japanese]

Nagai T(1), Miki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Ehime University School of Medicine.

In our country to which the aging society was invited, life-style related 
diseases, such as cancer, ischemic cardiac disease, apoplexy, and diabetes, are 
increasing. These life-style related diseases are multi-factor diseases. And 
genetic factors, environmental factors, and aging factors are concerned. This 
genetic factors are prescribed by gene polymorphism between individuals. The 
method of identifying these gene polymorphism has two kinds, microsatellite and 
single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). If the relation of life-style related 
diseases and gene polymorphism will be solved from now on, realization of 
patient-tailored treatment according to the individual, extension of healthy 
life expectancy, improvement in quality of life, and decrease of medical 
expenses are expected.

PMID: 15773352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Rev Port Cardiol. 2005 Jan;24(1):39-47.

Quality improvement in interventional cardiology: the role of risk adjustment in 
evaluation of health outcomes.

Sousa P(1), Imperator E, Aguiar P, Gabriel HM, Correia da Cunha JA.

Author information:
(1)Escola Superior de Tecnologia da Saúde de Lisboa/Escola Nacional de Saúde 
Pública Universidade Nova de Lisboa.

BACKGROUND: The use of the methodology of adjusted risk to check the calculation 
of the differences between patients, groups and populations, as regards 
outcomes, is being used more often in the era of modern interventional 
cardiology to validate a reliable and balanced comparison of results between 
institutions and to maintain uniformity of data, criteria and definitions with a 
view to carrying out multicenter studies in this area of medicine. In this way, 
the ability to determine which variables have greater predictive value for 
adverse events that result from percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is an 
extremely important tool for clinical decisions and for risk adjustment in each 
patient, when evaluating the quality of the health care given.
METHODS AND RESULTS: this work took the research design of a case-control study. 
The data analyzed related to all patients who had undergone PCI in an 
interventional cardiology unit, during 2002 (567 patients). The group of cases 
(33) corresponds to those patients in whom a major adverse cardiac or 
cerebrovascular event (MACCE) occurred during the procedure or within a 30-day 
period. The control group (534 patients) was made up of the rest of the 
population that underwent a PCI but that remained free of events in the same 
study period. The data on the PCIs carried out was taken from the database of 
the interventional cardiology unit. Analysis of the data was based on a 
descriptive and analytical statistical treatment (SPSS 11.5) with recourse to 
contingency tables, the Pearson's chi-square test, the Fisher exact test, and 
simple and multiple logistic regression, using odds ratios (OR) as a measure of 
association. The level of significance was 0.05 and the confidence interval was 
95%. It should be noted that in the group of variables that showed greatest 
predictive value of the occurrence of an MACCE we found the following: female 
gender (OR = 1.593), advanced age (80 years, OR = 9.460), diabetes (OR = 3.063), 
chronic renal failure (OR = 3.063), depressed ejection fraction (30%, OR = 
8.475), priority at PCI (OR = 7.108), multivessel disease (OR = 1.683), type C 
lesion (OR = 2.208), acute myocardial infarction (OR = 5.045) and cardiogenic 
shock (OR = 28.169).
CONCLUSIONS: This study allowed us to identify, characterize and grade the set 
of variables that presented the strongest association with major adverse events 
that resulted from PCIs, for the population that underwent this type of 
procedure in an interventional coronary unit over the course of one year. At the 
same time, it enabled us to characterize the procedures that were carried out 
during this period, and also the demographic and clinical profile of the 
population. Although in some of the variables the OR values found were not 
statistically significant in either bivariate or multivariate analysis, we 
should point out that these variables are comparable to most results from 
similar multicenter international studies carried out with large populations. 
This type of study is an important contribution to improving the quality of 
health care given and to more efficient risk management in the field of 
interventional cardiology.

PMID: 15773665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Science. 2005 Mar 18;307(5716):1716-7. doi: 10.1126/science.307.5716.1716.

Public health. Provocative study says obesity may reduce U.S. life expectancy.

Mann CC.

DOI: 10.1126/science.307.5716.1716
PMID: 15774742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. BMJ. 2005 Mar 19;330(7492):674; author reply 674. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.330.7492.674-b.

United Kingdom back pain exercise and manipulation (UK BEAM) trial: manipulation 
alone costs more than other options so why is it recommended?

Church TR.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2004 Dec 11;329(7479):1381.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.330.7492.674-b
PMCID: PMC554960
PMID: 15775014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Clin Calcium. 2001 Mar;11(3):272-7.

[Epidemiology of periodontal diseases].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasui T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Health and Preventive Dentistry, Meikai University School 
of Dentistry.

Periodontal diseases are classified to gingivitis and periodontitis. The high 
incidence rate of gingivitis is observed during school age, and periodontitis is 
for adults. Periodontal diseases belong to the category of the 
life-style-related diseases. The 8020 activity to keep 20 teeth until 80 years 
old was proposed in order to promote quality of the life (QOL) in our country 
under long life-expectancy. Periodontitis is one of the main causes of tooth 
missing. It has been clarified that the incidence time of gingivitis and 
periodontitis as the important point of prevention, or high risk area according 
to aging. Periodontal diseases can be controlled by the adequate risk management 
and oral health promotion.

PMID: 15775517


521. MedGenMed. 2004 Dec 22;6(4):16.

Caloric restriction and life expectancy.

Armandola E(1).

Author information:
(1)European Patent Office, Munich, Germany.

PMCID: PMC1480571
PMID: 15775843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Can Respir J. 2005 Jan-Feb;12(1):19-25. doi: 10.1155/2005/612387.

Cost-effectiveness of positron emission tomography for the management of 
potentially operable non-small cell lung cancer in Quebec.

Nguyen VH(1), Peloquin S, Lacasse Y.

Author information:
(1)Agence d'évaluation des technologies et des modes d'intervention en santé, 
Montreal, Canada.

Comment in
    Can Respir J. 2005 Jan-Feb;12(1):11-2.

BACKGROUND: The potential benefits of positron emission tomography (PET) 
scanning stem from the fact that it can reduce the number of diagnostic 
examinations; particularly, the number of unnecessary thoracic surgeries.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the economic impact and cost-effectiveness of PET 
scanning in the management of potentially operable non-small cell lung cancer in 
Quebec.
METHODS: A decision tree was developed. Two strategies were compared: chest 
computed tomography (CT) alone or CT and whole-body PET. The various paths of 
each strategy were dependent on the numerous variables that were determined from 
a literature review. The costs and life expectancy were determined for each 
strategy under consideration. Life expectancy was calculated using the declining 
exponential approximation of life expectancy. Costs were obtained from the 
Quebec diagnosis-related group database and Quebec physician fee schedules.
RESULTS: The mean cost of the CT strategy was US dollars 8,455 per patient 
compared with US dollars 9,723 for the PET strategy, for a cost differential of 
US dollars 1,268. The PET strategy extended life expectancy by slightly more 
than three months (0.27 years) compared with the survival of the CT strategy. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was US dollars 4,689. Considering the 
number of new cases and the prevalence of mediastinal metastases, the budget 
impact would be US dollars 8,613,693.
CONCLUSION: The use of PET to detect local and distant metastases in non-small 
cell lung cancer is an intervention that would require an acceptable investment 
for each life-year gained.

DOI: 10.1155/2005/612387
PMID: 15776130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Reumatismo. 2005 Jan-Mar;57(1):52-6. doi: 10.4081/reumatismo.2005.52.

[The enthesopathy of vitamin D-resistant osteomalacia in adults].

[Article in Italian]

Ramonda R(1), Sfriso P, Podswiadek M, Oliviero F, Valvason C, Punzi L.

Author information:
(1)Università di Padova, Via Giustiniani 2, 35128 Padova. 
roberta.ramonda@unipd.it

A case of an adult patient with vitamin D-resistant osteomalacia or X-linked 
hypophosphatemic osteomalacia (XLH) with diffuse calcification of entheses is 
reported. XLH is the most frequent cause of rickets in developed countries. It 
is characterized by an impaired renal transport of the phosphate and mutation of 
PFEX (phosphate regulating gene, with homologies to endopeptidase on the 
X-chromosome). In childhood, the classic clinical presentation includes short 
stature and bow leg. While at this age the main radiographic features are 
characterised by rickets, in adult life they are dominated by a generalised 
calcific enthesopathy. Concerning the pathogenesis of the enthesopathic lesions 
of XLH, no convincing hypothesis has yet been made. As in our patient, the 
extension and the severity of enthesopathy seems not related to the severity of 
the biochemical changes nor to the treatment with calcitriol. The calcified 
enthesopathy is an integral part of XLH and it is possible that it is found in 
adult because many years are necessary to produce it.

DOI: 10.4081/reumatismo.2005.52
PMID: 15776147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Surg Endosc. 2005 May;19(5):697-701. doi: 10.1007/s00464-004-9116-2. Epub
2005  Mar 23.

Gallbladder cancer presenting with acute cholecystitis: a population-based 
study.

Lam CM(1), Yuen AW, Wai AC, Leung RM, Lee AY, Ng KK, Fan ST.

Author information:
(1)Central Surgical Audit Unit, Hospital Authority, Hospital Authority Building, 
147 B Argyle Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong. lamcm@hkucc.hku.hk <lamcm@hkucc.hku.hk>

BACKGROUND: The role of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) in acute cholecystitis 
remains controversial. The aim of the present study was to determine the 
incidence, clinicopathological characteristics, and outcome of patients with 
gallbladder cancer presenting with acute cholecystitis.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of patients with gallbladder 
cancer who presented with acute cholecystitis and were treated at the public 
hospitals in Hong Kong between 1998 and 2002.
RESULTS: Among 2,700 patients with acute cholecystitis managed with 
cholecystectomy (1,347 open and 1,353 LC), 63 patients (2.3%) were found to have 
gallbladder cancer. There were 44 women and 19 men with a mean age of 74.7 
(+/-12.8) years. Adenocarcinoma (90.5%) was the most common cancer. The overall 
median survival was 5 months (95% CI = 2.6-7.4). The 5-year survival rate was 
20.8%. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was attempted in 11 patients and was 
completed successfully in six of them. There was no difference between the LC 
and open groups in the complication rate, hospital mortality rate, or survival 
rate.
CONCLUSIONS: In the ethnic Chinese population of Hong Kong, the incidence of 
gallbladder cancer presenting with acute cholecystitis is higher than the same 
finding in patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy for cholelithiasis. 
Long-term survival is possible because such patients may be diagnosed at an 
early stage of the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-004-9116-2
PMID: 15776204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Surg Endosc. 2005 May;19(5):650-5. doi: 10.1007/s00464-004-9068-6. Epub 2005
Mar  23.

Technique and survival after laparoscopically assisted right hemicolectomy.

Baća I(1), Perko Z, Bokan I, Mimica Z, Petricević A, Druzijanić N, Situm M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fuer Allgemein-, Viszeral- und Unfallchirurgie, Klinikum Bremen Ost, 
Zuericher Strasse 40, D-28325, Bremen, Germany. ivo.baca@klinikum-bremen-ost.de

BACKGROUND: The role of laparoscopic colon resection in the management of colon 
cancer is still controversial. In this article, the surgical strategy and 
techniques are described, with further consideration of the oncologically 
relevant aspects.
METHODS: Between March 1993 and July 2003, we performed laparoscopic right 
hemicolectomy in 56 patients with right colon carcinoma. Average age was 74.5 
years (range, 17-92). We performed a standardized surgical procedure that 
included mobilization from the vascularized mesenteric bridges with a window 
technique, transection of the ileocolic lymphovascular pedicle, and lateral and 
proximal mobilization of the ileocecum, ascending colon, right flexure, and 
proximale transversum. After enlargement of one of the trocar incisions the 
exteriorized colon was resected and an extracorporeal anastomosis was performed 
in the standard manner.
RESULTS: There were no conversions to open. The mean operating time was 119 +/- 
38 min, the mean length of resected colon was 27.8 +/- 4.48 cm, and the average 
width of the clear margins was 6.8 +/- 5.3 cm. One patient died. Lymph nodes 
were positive in 21 patients. The 5-year survival rate in the 48 patients who 
were operated on with curative intent was 75%. We have had two local 
recurrences. The overall 5-year mortality-free fraction was 63%. Cox 
multivariate analysis showed that the mortality-prognostic factors were tumor 
stage and length of resected colon, whereas Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that 
the mortality-prognostic factors were positive lymph nodes and tumor stage.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that laparoscopic right hemicolectomy for colon 
cancer can be performed safely. Complications and recurrence rates are 
comparable to those for left-sided laparoscopic and open procedures. Therefore, 
we recommend this procedure as the method of choice. Laparoscopically treated 
patients with stage II and stage III disease have almost the same cumulative 
rate of survival.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-004-9068-6
PMID: 15776206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2005 Mar 24;130(12):629-30. doi:
10.1055/s-2005-865071.

[Cardiovascular disease in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Werdan K, Erdmann E.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-865071
PMID: 15776343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2005 Mar 24;130(12):741-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-865090.

[Aortic valve stenosis in the senium: diagnostics and therapeutic strategies].

[Article in German]

Horstkotte D(1), Hering D, Kleikamp G, Körfer R, Piper C.

Author information:
(1)Herz- und Diabeteszentrum Nordrhein-Westfalen, Kardiologische Klinik, 
Georgstrasse 11, 32545 Bad Oeynhausen. akohlstaedt@hdz-nrw.de

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-865090
PMID: 15776362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Dakar Med. 2003;48(3):202-5.

[Sickle cell disease neonatal screening. First evaluation].

[Article in French]

Mbodj M(1), Ndoye O, Diarra M, Mbaye BN, Sow Toure H, Diouf L, Gassama Seck S, 
Dhondt JL, Farriaux JP.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biophysique et de Médecine Nucléaire-UCAD.

A neonatal screening allows a preclinical diagnosis of major sickle cell 
syndromes and an early management of the affected children. That would improve 
their life quality and expectancy. The preliminary program was set up on 518 
senegalese newborn aged from 1 to 4 days, and coming from all the country ethnic 
groups. Isoelectrofocalisation is the test used on dried blood eluate and the 
positive control on citrate agar gel. 478 samples out of 518 (92.5%) have been 
analysed. Haemoglobinopathy have been found in 11.1% of cases, distributed as 
follow: heterozygoty FAS and FAC: 9%, double heterozygoty FSC: 0.2% and 
homozygoty FSS: 1.9%. Sickle cell neonatal screening should be imperatively 
implemented, with regards in economical considerations. It would be relevant to 
integrate it in a larger program including information, training and genetic 
counselling in order to avoid homozygotes birth and to lower the spread of this 
disease.

PMID: 15776632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Can J Urol. 2005 Feb;12(1):2508-9; author reply 2509-10.

Re: an economic evaluation of doxazosin, finasteride and combination therapy in 
the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia.

DiSantostefano RL, Biddle AK, Lavelle JP.

Comment on
    Can J Urol. 2004 Aug;11(4):2327-40.

PMID: 15777487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Rev Med Interne. 2005 Mar;26(3):216-25. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2004.10.021.
Epub  2004 Dec 21.

[Treatment of cancer and hematological malignancy in elderly people: 
oncogeriatrics as a discipline for the future (Part I): geriatric evaluation and 
management of solid tumors].

[Article in French]

Ghiringhelli F(1), Ladoire S, Manckoundia P, Chauffert B, Solary E, Besancenot 
JF, Pfitzenmeyer P.

Author information:
(1)Unité Inserm 517, faculté de médecine, 7, boulevard Jeanne-d'Arc, 21000 
Dijon, France. francois.ghiringhelli@wanadoo.fr

PURPOSE: Fifty percent of cancer arise in people older than 65 year-old. Most 
clinical trials in cancer treatment are limited in patients younger than 65 
year-old. We review literature describing particularity of cancer treatment in 
elderly patients.
CURRENT KNOWLEDGE AND KEY POINTS: Therapeutic decisions should be based on an 
estimation of the patient's life expectancy, and risks and benefits should be 
weighted up accordingly. Geriatric oncology is made of a geriatric evaluation of 
patient and of knowledge of clinical trial about elderly patients.
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND PROJECTS: We present in this issue the principle of 
geriatric evaluation and the results of recent clinical trial on elderly cancer 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2004.10.021
PMID: 15777583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nihon Rinsho. 2005 Feb;63 Suppl 2:659-63.

[Cost-effectiveness of the diabetes prevention program for patients with IGT].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikeda S(1), Kobayashi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Keio University School of 
Medicine.

PMID: 15779458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2005 Feb 28;53(15):1-48.

Deaths: preliminary data for 2003.

Hoyert DL(1), Kung HC, Smith BL.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents preliminary U.S. data on deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, leading causes of death, and infant mortality for the year 2003 
by selected characteristics such as age, sex, race, and Hispanic origin.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on a large number of deaths comprising 
approximately 93 percent of the demographic file and 91 percent of the medical 
file for all deaths in the United States in 2003. The records are weighted to 
independent control counts for 2003. For certain causes of death such as 
unintentional injuries, homicides, suicides, and respiratory diseases, 
preliminary, and final data differ because of the truncated nature of the 
preliminary file. Comparisons are made with 2002 final data.
RESULTS: The age-adjusted death rate for the United States decreased from 845.3 
deaths per 100,000 population in 2002 to 831.2 deaths per 100,000 population in 
2003. Age-adjusted death rates decreased between 2002 and 2003 for the following 
causes: Diseases of heart, Malignant neoplasms, Cerebrovascular diseases, 
Accidents (unintentional injuries), Influenza and pneumonia, Intentional 
self-harm (suicide), Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, and Pneumonitis due to 
solids and liquids. They increased between 2002 and 2003 for the following: 
Alzheimer's disease, Nephritis, nephrotic syndrome and nephrosis, Essential 
(primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease, and Parkinson's disease. 
Life expectancy at birth rose by 0.3 years to a record high of 77.6 years.

PMID: 15779680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Acta Cardiol. 2005 Feb;60(1):1-6. doi: 10.2143/AC.60.1.2005040.

On the sex ratio of mortality: evolution during the period 1970-1999.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Epidemiology, Capucijnenvoer 35, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
Hugo.Kesteloot@med.kuleuven.ac.be

In the industrialized world large differences between male and female 
age-specific mortality rates exist, favouring the female sex.These differences 
vary over time and depend on the type of disease. This study intends to define 
the problem by determining the male/female (M/F) ratio of mortality for 
different disease groups and 2 time periods, 1970 and 1999.

DOI: 10.2143/AC.60.1.2005040
PMID: 15779843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Kidney Int. 2005 Apr;67(4):1622-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.00245.x.

Safety and success of kidney transplantation and concomitant immunosuppression 
in HIV-positive patients.

Kumar MS(1), Sierka DR, Damask AM, Fyfe B, McAlack RF, Heifets M, Moritz MJ, 
Alvarez D, Kumar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery/Transplantation, Drexel University College of Medicine 
and Hahnemann University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA 19102, USA. ak59@drexel.edu

BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus-associated nephropathy (HIVAN) has 
become the third leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in African 
Americans, and is expected to grow exponentially. Highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART) has significantly prolonged the survival of patients with HIV 
infection. Despite the growing number of HIV-positive dialysis patients with 
prolonged life expectancy, kidney transplantation with immunosuppression has 
been declined because it is considered a waste of scarce donor kidneys due to 
potential increases in morbidity and mortality.
METHODS: The institutional review board of Drexel University College of Medicine 
and Hahnemann University Hospital approved this prospective study. The aim was 
to find out safety and success of kidney transplantation, and the effect of 
immunosuppression on HIV infection. Forty HIV-positive dialysis patients 
received kidney transplantation between February 2001 and January 2004. Patient 
inclusion criteria were maintenance of HAART, plasma HIV-1 RNA of <400 
copies/mL, absolute CD4 counts of 200 cells/muL or more. Immunosuppression was 
basiliximab induction and maintenance with cyclosporine, sirolimus, and 
steroids. HAART was continued post-transplant. Acute rejections were diagnosed 
by biopsy and treated with methylprednisolone. Surveillance biopsies were 
completed at 1, 6, 12, and 24 months, and evaluated for subclinical acute 
rejection, chronic allograft nephropathy, and HIVAN.
RESULTS: One- and 2-year actuarial patient survival was 85% and 82%, 
respectively, and graft survival was 75% and 71%, respectively. Plasma HIV-1 RNA 
remained undetectable, and CD4 counts remained in excess of 400 cells per muL 
with no evidence of AIDS for up to 2 years.
CONCLUSION: One- and 2-year graft survival is comparable to other high-risk 
populations receiving kidney transplantation. One- and 2-year patient survival 
is higher than HIV patients maintained on dialysis. Immunosuppression does not 
adversely affect HIV recipients maintained on HAART in the short term.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.00245.x
PMID: 15780120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Can J Urol. 2005 Feb;12 Suppl 1:53-7; discussion 101-2.

Active surveillance with selective delayed intervention: walking the line 
between overtreatment for indolent disease and undertreatment for aggressive 
disease.

Klotz LH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Sunnybrook & Women's College Health Sciences Centre, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: To summarize the case for active surveillance for good risk prostate 
cancer with selective delayed intervention for rapid biochemical or grade 
progression, and review the results of a large phase II experience using this 
approach.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prospective phase II study of active surveillance with 
selective delayed intervention was initiated in 1995. Patients were managed 
initially with surveillance; those who had a PSA DT of 2 years or less, or grade 
progression on rebiopsy were offered radical intervention. The remainder were 
closely monitored.
RESULTS: The cohort consists of 299 patients with good risk prostate cancer, or 
intermediate risk prostate cancer in men over 70. The median PSA doubling time 
was 7.0 years. 35% had a PSA DT > 10 years. The majority of patients remain on 
surveillance. At 8 years, overall actuarial survival is 85%, and disease 
specific survival is 99%.
CONCLUSION: Most men with favorable risk prostate cancer will die of unrelated 
causes. The approach of active surveillance with selective delayed intervention 
based on PSA DT represents a practical compromise between radical therapy for 
all (which results in overtreatment for patients with indolent disease), and 
watchful waiting with palliative therapy only (which results in undertreatment 
for those with aggressive disease). The results at 8 years are favorable. Longer 
follow up will be required to confirm the safety of this approach in men with a 
long (>15 year) life expectancy.

PMID: 15780167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Vaccine. 2005 Apr 22;23(22):2893-901. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2004.11.064.

A bacterially expressed particulate hepatitis E vaccine: antigenicity, 
immunogenicity and protectivity on primates.

Li SW(1), Zhang J, Li YM, Ou SH, Huang GY, He ZQ, Ge SX, Xian YL, Pang SQ, Ng 
MH, Xia NS.

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Cell Biology and Tumor 
Cell Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, 
China.

It was evaluated its antigenicity, immunogenicity and efficacy of a candidate 
recombinant hepatitis E virus (HEV) vaccine, referred hitherto as HEV 239 
vaccine. The vaccine peptide has a 26 amino acids extension from the N terminal 
of another peptide, E2, of the HEV capsid protein, which has been shown to 
protect monkeys against HEV infection previously. The vaccine peptide is similar 
as E2 in that: first, the vaccine peptide migrates predominantly as dimer in 
SDS-PAGE and it is dissociated into monomers by heating; second, its dimeric 
form of which predominantly recognized by HEV reactive human serum; and third, 
it shows the same pattern of reaction as E2 with a panel of eight monoclonal 
antibodies that had been raised against E2. In contrast to E2, the vaccine 
peptide aggregates to form particles of 13 nm mean radius, and consequently, it 
is more than 240 times more immunogenic than E2. Using alum as adjuvant, 
immunizing dose determined in mice was 80-250 ng for the vaccine and >60 microg 
for E2. Rhesus monkeys twice vaccinated with a 10 microg or a 20 microg 
formulation of this vaccine showed essentially the same antibody response, 
whereas the response to a 5 microg formulation was delayed but reached similar 
antibody levels. All the three vaccine formulations afford complete protection 
against infection with 10(4) genome equivalent dose of the homologous genotype 1 
virus. At higher virus dose of 10(7), the same vaccine formulation partially 
protected against the infection and completely protected against hepatitis. The 
efficacy of the vaccine was essentially the same for the homologous genotype 1 
virus and heterologous genotype 4 virus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2004.11.064
PMID: 15780738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Adolesc Health. 2005 Apr;36(4):352.e9-16. doi: 
10.1016/j.jadohealth.2004.08.010.

Suicidal behavior in the family and adolescent risk behavior.

Cerel J(1), Roberts TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York, USA. 
julie_cerel@urmc.rochester.edu

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to examine the prevalence and 
sociodemographic characteristics of adolescents exposed to suicide attempts and 
suicide deaths by a family member and to evaluate the separate associations 
between exposure to a family member's suicide attempts or suicide death and risk 
behaviors, social-emotional functioning, and family connectedness.
METHOD: We performed a cross-sectional analysis of data collected in 1995 for 
wave I of the National Longitudinal Survey of Adolescent Health (n = 5,918). The 
independent variable was the exposure to suicidal behavior by a family member 
during the past 12 months (death by suicide, suicide attempt, and no suicidal 
behavior). The dependent variables were substance use, suicidal behavior, 
violent behavior, perceived shortened life expectancy, emotional distress, and 
parental and adolescent reports of family connectedness.
RESULTS: In the year before the survey, 3.9% of adolescents experienced a family 
member's suicide attempt whereas 1.2% experienced a family member's death by 
suicide. In regression analyses adjusting for sociodemographic variables, 
adolescents who had experienced the suicide attempt of a family member were more 
likely than those with no exposure to report the following: cigarette and 
marijuana use, alcohol misuse, suicidal ideation and attempts, fighting and 
inflicting injuries, decreased life-expectancy, emotional distress, and 
decreased adolescent reports of parent-child and family connectedness. 
Adolescents who had experienced a family member's death by suicide were more 
likely to report marijuana use and alcohol misuse, suicidal ideation and 
attempts, inflicting severe injuries, and emotional distress.
CONCLUSIONS: Adolescents who have experienced suicide attempts or suicide deaths 
in the family show high levels of at-risk behaviors, most notably their own 
suicidal ideation and attempts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2004.08.010
PMID: 15780792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Lancet. 2005 Mar 19-25;365(9464):1099-104. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(05)71146-6.

Social determinants of health inequalities.

Marmot M(1).

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Health and Society, University College London, 1-19 
Torrington Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK. m.marmot@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2005 Mar 19-25;365(9464):1005-6.

The gross inequalities in health that we see within and between countries 
present a challenge to the world. That there should be a spread of life 
expectancy of 48 years among countries and 20 years or more within countries is 
not inevitable. A burgeoning volume of research identifies social factors at the 
root of much of these inequalities in health. Social determinants are relevant 
to communicable and non-communicable disease alike. Health status, therefore, 
should be of concern to policy makers in every sector, not solely those involved 
in health policy. As a response to this global challenge, WHO is launching a 
Commission on Social Determinants of Health, which will review the evidence, 
raise societal debate, and recommend policies with the goal of improving health 
of the world's most vulnerable people. A major thrust of the Commission is 
turning public-health knowledge into political action.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)71146-6
PMID: 15781105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Arch Dermatol. 2005 Mar;141(3):353-6. doi: 10.1001/archderm.141.3.353.

Mycosis fungoides-type cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and neutrophilic dermatosis.

Franck N(1), Carlotti A, Gorin I, Buffet M, Mateus C, Dupin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Hopital Tarnier-Cochin, Paris, France. 
nathalie.franck@cch.ap-hop-paris.fr

BACKGROUND: Mycosis fungoides (MF) is the most common type of cutaneous T-cell 
lymphoma (CTCL). Patients with limited patch and/or plaque disease have a normal 
life expectancy. Neutrophilic dermatosis (ND) may be associated with various 
hematologic disorders. However, its association with CTCL is exceptional and has 
been reported only twice with leukemic forms of CTCL.
OBSERVATIONS: Three patients with MF developed ND resistant to conventional 
therapies and responsible for an impaired quality of life due to constitutional 
symptoms and painful cutaneous lesions. All patients underwent an aggressive 
treatment course despite their varying initial clinical stages of MF, and all 
experienced a fatal outcome less than 18 months after the onset of ND.
CONCLUSIONS: The association of MF with ND is exceptional and carries a poor 
prognosis, but the pathophysiologic nature of this association remains unclear. 
It may involve neutrophil chemoattractant cytokine production by tumor cells. A 
triggering role of interferon alfa is also possible.

DOI: 10.1001/archderm.141.3.353
PMID: 15781676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Ann Hematol. 2005 Jun;84(6):376-82. doi: 10.1007/s00277-005-1037-1. Epub
2005  Mar 22.

Intensive chemotherapy with mitoxantrone administered as a single injection in 
patients with high-risk acute myeloid leukemia: results of the EMA 2000 trial.

Thomas X(1), Elhamri M, Chelghoum Y, Reman O, Arnaud P, Raffoux E, Le QH, 
Tavernier E, Dombret H, Michallet M.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, 69437, Lyon cedex 03, France. 
xavier.thomas@chu-lyon.fr

Following a dose-escalation study performed to assess the maximally tolerated 
dose of high-dose mitoxantrone in a single injection combined with chemotherapy, 
a phase II trial (EMA 2000 regimen) was performed in patients with refractory or 
relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) between October 2000 and December 
2003. Sixty-two patients entered the study and received mitoxantrone 45 mg/m(2) 
on day 1 in combination with cytarabine and etoposide. Overall, 39 patients 
(63%) achieved complete remission (CR). Four patients died during remission 
induction, and 19 patients had resistant disease. Median time to granulocyte and 
platelet recovery was 34 and 39 days, respectively. The predominant 
non-hematologic toxicity was infection, with 53% severe infections. Thirty-three 
of the 39 remitters received subsequent treatment consisting of maintenance 
chemotherapy courses in 17 patients, allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) 
in 7 patients, and autologous SCT in 9 patients. The median overall survival of 
the entire cohort was 8.1 months, with 18% at 2.5 years. EMA chemotherapy using 
a single injection of mitoxantrone is effective in the treatment of high-risk 
AML. CR proportion was significantly higher in patients with a first CR duration 
> or =6 months when compared with those from a control trial using standard-dose 
mitoxantrone (90 vs 70%, p=0.03).

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-005-1037-1
PMID: 15782343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Health Care Manag Sci. 2005 Feb;8(1):61-5. doi: 10.1007/s10729-005-5217-2.

A method for detecting runs of good and bad clinical outcomes on Variable 
Life-Adjusted Display (VLAD) charts.

