
An evaluation of survival of space maintainers: a six-year follow-up study.

Tulunoglu O(1), Ulusu T, Genç Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Gazi 
in Ankara, Turkey. otulunoglu@yahoo.com <otulunoglu@yahoo.com>

The aim of this study was to evaluate the median survival time of fixed and 
removable space maintainers related to age groups, gender, and their 
distribution in upper and lower dental arches. The adherence of patients to a 
periodic recall program and the success rate of different types of space 
maintainers related to different arches were also evaluated. This study included 
663 patients aged between 4-15 years old that were treated between the years of 
1997 and 2002. The patients were categorized into four main groups: lost to 
follow-up, failed, successful, and censored at the end of study. Three hundred 
forty-five space maintainers were considered lost to follow-up, 83 were 
considered failed, 206 successful, and 20 censored-at-end. The overall median 
survival time of the appliances was 6.51 months. Median survival time was 7.25 
months in the 4-6 age group, 6.35 months in the 7-12 age group, and 7.0 months 
in the 13+ age groups. Median survival time was 5.76 months in girls and 7.11 
months in boys. Median survival time of space maintainers was 7.17 months for 
maxilla and 6.69 months in the mandible. Median survival time was 5.25 months 
for space maintainers fabricated in both arches.

PMID: 15719079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2005 Feb;62(4):461-70. doi: 10.1007/s00018-004-4456-6.

Cofilin activity during insulin-like growth factor I-stimulated neuroblastoma 
cell motility.

Meyer G(1), Kim B, van Golen C, Feldman EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, 4414 Kresge III, 200 Zina 
Pitcher Place, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) is a potent stimulator of neuroblastoma 
cell motility. Cell motility requires lamellipodium extension at the leading 
edge of the cell through organized actin polymerization, and IGF-I stimulates 
lamellipodial elaboration in human neuroblastoma cells. Rac is a Rho GTPase that 
stimulates lamellipodial formation via the regulation of actin polymerization. 
In this study, we show that IGF-I-stimulated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase 
(PI-3K) activity promotes rac activation and subsequent activation of the down- 
stream effectors LIM kinase and cofilin. Overexpression of wild-type LIM kinase 
and wild-type Xenopus ADF/cofilin (XAC) suppresses IGF-I-stimulated motility in 
SH-SY5Y cells, while expression of dominant negative LIM kinase and 
constitutively active XAC increases SH-SY5Y motility in the absence of IGF-I 
stimulation. These results suggest that regulation by cofilin of actin 
depolymerization is important in the process of neuroblastoma cell motility, and 
IGF-I regulates cofilin activity in part through PI-3K, rac, and LIM kinase.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-004-4456-6
PMID: 15719172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Ugeskr Laeger. 2005 Jan 24;167(4):375-9.

[How should risk be reported?].

[Article in Danish]

Nielsen GL(1), Tage-Jensen U, Nielsen TT, Sørensen HT.

Author information:
(1)Aalborg Sygehus, Klinisk Epidemiologisk Afdeling. uxgln@aas.nja.dk

PMID: 15719559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Jan 29;149(5):226-31.

[Health and disease in the Netherlands: the Dutch National Public Health Compass 
as a source of information].

[Article in Dutch]

Treurniet HF(1), Hoeymans N, Gijsen R, Poos MJ.

Author information:
(1)Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, Centrum voor Volksgezondheid 
Toekomst Verkenningen, Postbus 1, 3720 BA Bilthoven.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Jan 29;149(5):224-5.

--The Dutch National Public Health Compass has been available on the Internet 
(www.nationaalkompas.nl) since 2001. This website, developed and managed by the 
National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, contains data and 
information on the population's health status, its determinants, prevention and 
care. The Compass brings together information from various data sources, 
research and expert opinions. --On the basis of this Compass, an overview has 
been made of the health of the Dutch population. --Both the life expectancy and 
the healthy life expectancy in the Netherlands increased after 1980. --Mortality 
from coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular accidents and lung cancer 
decreased, but they are still the most important causes of death. --Especially 
psychological disorders (alcohol dependence, anxiety disorders and depression), 
coronary heart disease and COPD are associated with a significant decrease in 
quality of life. --There are important health differences in the Netherlands 
between rich and poor, urban and rural areas, natives and immigrants. --The 
difference in life expectancy between men and women will decrease from more than 
5 years in 2000 to less than 4 years in 2020. --A permanent facility for the 
provision of accurate public-health information is of great importance. The 
collaboration of registration holders and experts in maintaining the Compass is 
and will remain essential so that an integral overview of the health of the 
Dutch population can also be made in the future.

PMID: 15719832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Curr Hematol Rep. 2005 Mar;4(2):110-6.

Iron chelation therapy.

Hershko CM(1), Link GM, Konijn AM, Cabantchik ZI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel.

Although iron chelation therapy with deferoxamine (DFO) has changed life 
expectancy in thalassemic patients, compliance with the rigorous requirements of 
long-term subcutaneous DFO infusions is unsatisfactory. This problem underlines 
the current efforts for developing alternative, orally effective chelators to 
improve compliance and treatment results. For the patient with transfusional 
iron overload in whom results of DFO treatment are unsatisfactory, several 
orally effective agents are now available. The most important of the new 
generation of oral chelators are deferiprone and ICL670. Total iron excretion 
with deferiprone is less than with DFO, but deferiprone has a better ability to 
penetrate cell membranes and may have a better cardioprotective effect than DFO. 
Current studies of the clinical efficacy and tolerability of ICL670 indicate 
that at a single oral dose of 20 mg/kg daily, it may be as effective as 
parenteral DFO used at the standard dose of 40 mg/kg daily. Combined chelation 
treatment, employing a weak chelator that penetrates cells better, and a 
stronger chelator with efficient urinary excretion, may result in improved 
therapeutic effect through iron shuttling between the two compounds. The 
efficacy of combined chelation treatment is additive and offers an increased 
likelihood of success in patients previously failing DFO or deferiprone 
monotherapy.

PMID: 15720959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Am J Cardiol. 2005 Mar 1;95(5):586-91. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2004.11.004.

Impact of dyslipidemia associated with Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy 
(HAART) on cardiovascular risk and life expectancy.

Grover SA(1), Coupal L, Gilmore N, Mukherjee J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Divisions of General Internal 
Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, The Montreal General Hospital, Department of 
Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. steven.grover@mcgill.ca

We investigated the effect of dyslipidemia associated with highly active 
antiretroviral therapy on cardiovascular risk and life expectancy among patients 
who had the human immunodeficiency virus. Dyslipidemia estimates were based on 
results from a phase 2 randomized trial that compared lipid changes after 32 
weeks of therapy with atazanavir with those with nelfinavir (each in combination 
with stavudine and lamivudine). The resultant increased coronary risk was 
estimated using Framingham risk equations, and change in life expectancy (after 
adjustment for mortality due to human immunodeficiency virus) was based on the 
cardiovascular life expectancy model, which is based on a published Markov's 
model. Levels of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
increased significantly more among patients who used nelfinavir (+24% and +28%) 
than among those who used atazanavir (+4% and +1%). This dyslipidemia increased 
the risk of coronary disease by 50% over 10 years. The absence of dyslipidemia 
was estimated to preserve life expectancy 0.15 to 1.53 additional years 
depending on a patient's age, gender, and other risk factors. There are 
increasing reports of dyslipidemia and cardiovascular events associated with 
highly active antiretroviral therapy. Significant increases in blood lipid 
levels observed with some protease inhibitors are associated with an increase in 
calculated 10-year coronary risk. Accordingly, minimizing dyslipidemia 
associated with highly active antiretroviral therapy may preserve life 
expectancy among adults who have the human immunodeficiency virus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2004.11.004
PMID: 15721096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Methods Enzymol. 2005;391:314-29. doi: 10.1016/S0076-6879(05)91018-5.

Drug delivery by lipid cochleates.

Zarif L.

Drug delivery technology has brought additional benefits to pharmaceuticals such 
as reduction in dosing frequency and side effects, as well as the extension of 
patient life. To address this need, cochleates, a precipitate obtained as a 
result of the interaction between phosphatidylserine and calcium, have been 
developed and proved to have potential in encapsulating and delivering small 
molecule drugs. This chapter discusses the molecules that can be encapsulated in 
a cochleate system and describes in detail the methodology that can be used to 
encapsulate and characterize hydrophobic drugs such as amphotericin B, a potent 
antifungal agent. Some efficacy data in animal models infected with candidiasis 
or aspergillosis are described as well.

DOI: 10.1016/S0076-6879(05)91018-5
PMID: 15721389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Mar;40(1):183-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.12.014.

Production of recombinant amyloid-beta peptide 42 as an ubiquitin extension.

Lee EK(1), Hwang JH, Shin DY, Kim DI, Yoo YJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology 
(GIST), Gwangju 500-712, Republic of Korea.

Amyloid-beta peptide 42 (Abeta42) mediates neuronal degeneration in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). We sought to produce recombinant Abeta42 as an ubiquitin 
extension. A synthetic oligonucleotide encoding Abeta42 was constructed and 
cloned as an extended polypeptide of hexahistidine-tagged ubiquitin (H(6)Ub) 
using the pET vector. Isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside induction of 
transformed Escherichia coli resulted in the production of large amounts of 
insoluble H(6)Ub-Abeta42 fusion protein. H(6)Ub-Abeta42 was solubilized in 8 M 
urea and applied to a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid affinity column for 
purification. Column washing removed the urea and soluble H(6)Ub-Abeta42 was 
eluted, indicating that covalently attached ubiquitin prevented Abeta42 from 
aggregating. Abeta42 was cleaved from H(6)Ub using recombinant yeast ubiquitin 
hydrolase-1 (YUH-1) and purified using reverse-phase chromatography. The 
recombinant Abeta42 prepared in this study has the same toxic effect on human 
neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells comparing with chemically synthesized, commercial 
one. The peptide yield was more than 4 mg/L culture, indicating this ubiquitin 
fusion technique is an attractive method for production of aggregation-prone 
peptides such as Abeta42.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.12.014
PMID: 15721787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Apr;126(4):481-90. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.10.004.
Epub  2004 Dec 8.

Imminent approaches towards molecular interventions in ageing.

Wadhwa R(1), Deocaris CC, Widodo N, Taira K, Kaul SC.

Author information:
(1)Gene Function Research Center, National Institute of Advanced Industrial 
Science and Technology (AIST), 1-1-1 Higashi, Tsukuba Science City 305-8562, 
Japan.

Ageing is an innate feature of living organisms. Sensational progress in its 
molecular understanding in the last decade has culminated into a highly complex 
picture. Emerging from this complexity are the distinctive roles of some of the 
tumor suppressor pathways including p53 and pRB in maintenance of senescence 
phenotype, and telomere maintaining pathways in its escape. We discuss here the 
current scenario of molecular ageing and the use of modern approaches for its 
intervention in culture system, at least. Many of the tools we describe here are 
the newly emergent functional RNA tools that are proved to be fruitful in 
decoding the human genome. These post-genomic technologies will help us in the 
discovery of gene targets for interventions aiming to improve the quality at 
later years of life beyond their mere algebraic extension.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.10.004
PMID: 15722107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Econ Hum Biol. 2005 Mar;3(1):17-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2004.10.001. Epub
2004  Dec 13.

Mortality and socio-economic differences in Denmark: a competing risks 
proportional hazard model.

Munch JR(1), Svarer M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Economics, University of Copenhagen, Studiestraede 6, DK-1455 
Copenhagen K, Denmark. jakob.roland.munch@econ.ku.dk

This paper explores how mortality is related to such socio-economic factors as 
education, occupation, skill level and income for the years 1992-1997 using an 
extensive sample of the Danish population. We employ a competing risks 
proportional hazard model to allow for different causes of death. This method is 
important as some factors have unequal (and sometimes opposite) influence on the 
cause-specific mortality rates. We find that the often-found inverse correlation 
between socio-economic status and mortality is to a large degree absent among 
Danish women who die of cancer. In addition, for men the negative correlation 
between socio-economic status and mortality prevails for some diseases, but for 
women we find that factors such as being married, income, wealth and education 
are not significantly associated with higher life expectancy. Marriage increases 
the likelihood of dying from cancer for women, early retirement prolongs 
survival for men, and homeownership increases life expectancy in general.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2004.10.001
PMID: 15722260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Econ Hum Biol. 2005 Mar;3(1):97-122. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2004.12.003.

Mortality recovery and stabilization in Kazakhstan, 1995-2001.

Becker CM(1), Urzhumova DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0097, USA. 
cbecker@econ.duke.edu

This paper documents both the extraordinary rise in mortality that accompanied 
economic deterioration in the former Soviet Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as 
the far more tentative recovery. Kazakhstan's multi-ethnic population also makes 
it possible to identify a large mortality disadvantage for those--especially 
working-age males--who are not of Kazakh ethnicity. There are also stark 
regional differences--mortality decline is underway in many areas with 
substantial economic recovery, while elsewhere there has been no discernable 
improvement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2004.12.003
PMID: 15722264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Econ Hum Biol. 2005 Mar;3(1):123-37. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2005.01.002.

The Jewish-Arab divide in life expectancy in Israel.

Chernichovsky D(1), Anson J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Systems Management, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, 
Beer Sheva, Israel. dov@mail.bgu.ac.il

Life expectancy at birth in Israel in 2001 was 77.7 years for males and 81.6 
years for females among Jews, and 74.5 and 77.8 years for males and females, 
respectively, among Israeli Arabs. In spite of vast improvements in health 
conditions of the two populations since Israel's statehood in 1948, persistent 
disparities in life expectancy between the two groups have challenged the 
Israeli socialized health care system. These disparities are influenced 
primarily by differences between the two population groups in infant and child 
mortality rates. This early study suggests that the distribution of life 
expectancy across localities in Israel reflects the distribution of those 
localities' socio-economic condition index (not including health and medical 
care), and the distribution of medical services. The positive association 
between life expectancy and the index is pronounced, however, only within the 
Jewish population but not among Arabs. While there may be no significant 
difference in life expectancy among Jews and Arabs living in poorer communities, 
there are fewer Arabs living in relatively affluent communities. Thus, 
persistent higher concentration of poverty among Arabs than among Jews has 
sufficed to maintain the gap in life expectancy between them. In addition, 
however, there are population-specific effects: wealth and education are more 
protective among Jews than among Arabs, while medical services are more 
protective among Arabs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2005.01.002
PMID: 15722265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2005 Mar;112(3):393-413. doi: 
10.1007/s00702-004-0191-2. Epub 2004 Jul 28.

Aspects of ageing in chronic cerebral oligaemia. Mechanisms of degeneration and 
compensation in rat models.

Plaschke K(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Anaesthesia, University of Heidelberg, Germany. 
konstanze_plaschke@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Increasing life expectancy has raised health problems with respect to 'normal' 
ageing and particularly to age-related disorders. Cerebral oligaemia may become 
a stress factor during ageing, leading to functional and structural 
deterioration in the brain. Therefore, the use of adequate reproducible animal 
models is crucial to study the age-related changes in global cerebral oligaemia 
as a risk factor for cognitive disturbances. Chronic animal models with 2- or 
4-vessel occlusions may have clinical relevance for patients with a high risk of 
cerebral vessel stenosis or occlusion, e.g. for patients with uni- or bilateral 
stenosis of the carotid arteries or for patients with dementia. Because cerebral 
oligaemia may be an additional stress factor during "normal" ageing we conducted 
studies in young, adult and senescent animals with respect to functional and 
structural changes in the brain. Using rat models of permanent cerebral vessel 
occlusions, long-lasting cerebral oligaemia led to: i) disturbed cerebral energy 
state, ii) discrete changes in neuropathology, iii) moderate cerebral blood flow 
reduction and iv) marked deterioration in animal behavior. In addition, these 
findings suggest that many neuronal properties are preserved as compared to 
acute oligaemia as a result of adaptive mechanisms and that a series of 
interdependent factors regulate brain ageing. The challenge to understand the 
effects of ageing represents a "new frontier" in research, both to prevent 
degenerative diseases and to reduce their consequences. New aspects of the role 
of rat models of permanent cerebral oligaemia are considered. These numerous 
multifactorial approaches are essential to understand the process of ageing and 
age-related brain disorders. The more we learn about it, the more we realize how 
to achieve "successful" and "adaptative" ageing. In this contribution we have 
discussed some of those mechanisms of adaptation and compensation during ageing 
and subsequent to chronic stress conditions (cerebral oligaemia) related to the 
vascular system. In the future, these findings could lead to new neuroprotective 
strategies for counteracting degenerative changes in ageing and in 
age-associated chronic brain diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-004-0191-2
PMID: 15723158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Curr Med Chem. 2005;12(3):297-310. doi: 10.2174/0929867053363261.

Chemotherapy of breast cancer in the elderly.

Rossi A(1), Colantuoni G, Maione P, Ferrara C, Airoma G, Barzelloni ML, Castaldo 
V, Gridelli C.

Author information:
(1)U.O. Oncologia Medica, Azienda Ospedaliera S.G. Moscati, Avellino, Italy.

Breast cancer arises in about 48% of patients older than 65 years and more than 
30% occurs in those over 70 years being the leading cause of cancer-related 
death in women older than 65. Elderly patients tolerate chemotherapy poorly 
compared to their younger counterpart because of progressive reduction of organ 
function and comorbidities related to age. For this reason, the elderly have 
been excluded from or underrepresented in most cancer studies and, in clinical 
practice, they often receive inadequate and untested treatments. For adjuvant 
chemotherapy, a low percentage of patients over 70 years of age were included in 
few trials and always in a proportion much lower than the prevalence of cancer 
in that age group. Adjuvant chemotherapy, preferably including an anthracycline 
especially in patients with HER-2/neu-positive tumours, seems to be beneficial 
in older women who have substantial risk of dying of breast cancer. To date even 
if there is no specifically randomised study, single-agent chemotherapy probably 
might be considered a reasonable treatment for advanced breast cancer in the 
elderly. One of the actual main field of clinical research in the treatment of 
breast cancer is the role of targeted therapies. Chronologic age is a risk 
factor for toxicities such as myelosuppression and mucositis, and older patients 
may require more supportive care. In order to plan medical treatment in breast 
cancer elderly patients is mandatory to practice a comprehensive geriatric 
assessment that includes evaluation of comorbidities, functional dependence, 
socio-economic, emotional and cognitive conditions, an estimate of life 
expectancy and recognition of frailty. The authors review the literature 
regarding age-specific chemotherapeutic issues in the management of breast 
cancer elderly patients.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867053363261
PMID: 15723620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Circulation. 2005 Mar 8;111(9):1106-13. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000157146.86758.BC.  Epub 2005 Feb 21.

Cost-effectiveness of eplerenone compared with placebo in patients with 
myocardial infarction complicated by left ventricular dysfunction and heart 
failure.

Weintraub WS(1), Zhang Z, Mahoney EM, Kolm P, Spertus JA, Caro J, Ishak J, 
Goldberg R, Tooley J, Willke R, Pitt B.

Author information:
(1)Emory University, 1256 Briarcliff Rd, Suite 1N, Atlanta, GA 30306, USA. 
wweintr@emory.edu

Comment in
    Circulation. 2005 Aug 2;112(5):e74.
    Evid Based Cardiovasc Med. 2005 Sep;9(3):225-7.
    Evid Based Cardiovasc Med. 2005 Sep;9(3):225-6, 228-9.

BACKGROUND: In the Eplerenone Post-Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure 
Efficacy and Survival Study (EPHESUS), aldosterone blockade with eplerenone 
decreased mortality in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction and 
heart failure after acute myocardial infarction. The present study was performed 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of eplerenone compared with placebo in these 
patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 6632 patients with left ventricular systolic 
dysfunction and heart failure after acute myocardial infarction were randomized 
to eplerenone or placebo and followed up for a mean of 16 months. The coprimary 
end points were all-cause mortality and the composite of cardiovascular 
mortality/cardiovascular hospitalization. The evaluation of resource use 
included hospitalizations, outpatient services, and medications. Eplerenone was 
priced at the average wholesale price, 3.60 dollars per day. Survival beyond the 
trial period was estimated from data from the Framingham Heart Study, the 
Saskatchewan Health database, and the Worcester Heart Attack Registry. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness of eplerenone in cost per life-year and 
quality-adjusted life-year gained compared with placebo was estimated. The 
number of life-years gained with eplerenone was 0.1014 based on Framingham (95% 
CI, 0.0306 to 0.1740), 0.0636 with Saskatchewan (95% CI, 0.0229 to 0.1038), and 
0.1337 with Worcester (95% CI, 0.0438 to 0.2252) data. Cost was 1391 dollars 
higher over the trial period in the eplerenone arm (95% CI, 656 to 2165) because 
of drug cost. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 13,718 dollars per 
life-year gained with Framingham (96.7% under 50,000 dollars per life-year 
gained), 21,876 dollars with Saskatchewan, and 10,402 dollars with Worcester.
CONCLUSIONS: Eplerenone compared with placebo in the treatment of heart failure 
after acute myocardial infarction is effective in reducing mortality and is 
cost-effective in increasing years of life by commonly used criteria.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000157146.86758.BC
PMID: 15723981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Arch Surg. 2005 Feb;140(2):165-8. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.140.2.165.

Impact of advanced age on weight loss and health benefits after laparoscopic 
gastric bypass.

St Peter SD(1), Craft RO, Tiede JL, Swain JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Mayo Clinic Scottsdale, Scottsdale, AZ 85259, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Advanced age is considered a relative contraindication to primary 
bariatric surgery at some institutions. As life expectancy is steadily 
increasing and quality of life is improving in our elderly population, we may 
need to reconsider the health benefits that obese elderly patients can obtain 
from bariatric surgery. Therefore, we examine the operative outcomes, weight 
loss, reduction of comorbidities, and medication requirements in patients older 
than 60 years compared with those younger than 60 years undergoing laparoscopic 
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass.
HYPOTHESIS: The null hypothesis tested in this study is that patients older than 
60 years who undergo laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass experience a medical 
benefit not significantly different from that experienced by younger patients in 
terms of the number of medications and comorbid conditions.
METHODS: The number of preoperative and postoperative comorbid conditions and 
the medications required for those conditions were compared between consecutive 
patients older than 60 years and those younger than 60 years who underwent 
Roux-en-Y laparoscopic gastric bypass. Early operative outcomes were also 
assessed.
RESULTS: Analysis of 110 patients younger than 60 years compared with 20 
patients older than 60 years revealed no difference in complication rate or 
length of hospital stay. Younger patients lost more weight and had a 
significantly greater reduction in body mass index. Younger patients also 
demonstrated more complete resolution of comorbid conditions, although this 
difference was not significant. Older patients, who had more comorbid conditions 
requiring more medication at the time of surgery, experienced a greater 
medication reduction during follow-up, although this was not statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients of advanced age can safely undergo laparoscopic Roux-en-Y 
gastric bypass. Younger patients can be expected to demonstrate greater weight 
loss and experience more complete resolution of their comorbid conditions. Older 
patients demonstrated greater overall reduction in medication requirements. 
Therefore, patients older than 60 years can be considered good candidates for 
obesity surgery and can be expected to enjoy substantial health benefits similar 
to those experienced by younger patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.140.2.165
PMID: 15723998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Eur Radiol. 2005 Apr;15(4):702-7. doi: 10.1007/s00330-004-2574-z. Epub 2005
Feb  22.

Right ventricular function late after total repair of tetralogy of Fallot.

van Straten A(1), Vliegen HW, Hazekamp MG, de Roos A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Albinusdreef 2, 
2333 Leiden, The Netherlands. A.van_Straten@lumc.nl

Over the past decades, life expectancy in patients with congenital heart disease 
has increased dramatically. However, serious complications may develop late 
after total repair in infancy. These complications are usually the result of 
longstanding pulmonary regurgitation, which leads to dilatation of the right 
ventricle and an increased risk for severe arrhythmias. Therefore lifelong 
follow-up in these patients is required. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging is 
the current imaging tool of choice because it offers superior imaging quality 
and enables accurate quantification of functional parameters such as flow 
volumes and systolic and diastolic performance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-004-2574-z
PMID: 15726380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2004;6(3):121-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2004.tb00212.x.

Early function of splinted implants in maxillas and posterior mandibles, using 
Brånemark System Tiunite implants: an 18-month prospective clinical multicenter 
study.

Vanden Bogaerde L(1), Pedretti G, Dellacasa P, Mozzati M, Rangert B, Wendelhag 
I.

Author information:
(1)vanden.randi@libero.it

BACKGROUND: Immediate or early loading of implants placed in maxillas and 
posterior mandibles has been a concern as bone density is often low in these 
areas, making it difficult to establish good initial implant stability. By 
adapting implant design and insertion protocols, however, high initial implant 
stability may be achieved in these regions. Further, a modified implant surface 
texture has been proved to help in maintaining stability during the initial 
healing period.
PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to investigate the clinical 
performance of oxidized titanium implants (TiUnite, Nobel Biocare AB, 
Gothenburg, Sweden) when used for early function in the maxilla and in the 
posterior mandible, locations where the bone density often is low. A further aim 
was to evaluate the marginal bone level at oxidized implants and compare it with 
that of machined-surface implants used in a previous study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-one patients were consecutively included in the 
study, and 37 edentulous areas in maxillas and posterior mandibles were treated. 
Bruxism and uncontrolled periodontal disease were exclusion criteria. Temporary 
prostheses were generally placed within 9 days but not after 16 days from 
implant placement. A previous study applying the same study design and clinical 
protocol but using machined-surface implants was used for comparisons.
RESULTS: Of the 111 implants installed, 1 failed, giving an overall survival 
rate of 99.1% after 18 months. The prosthesis survival was 100%. The marginal 
bone resorption was 0.8 mm (standard deviation [SD], 1.0), as opposed to 1.6 mm 
(SD, 1.3) in the previous study with machined-surface implants, but was not 
statistically significantly different (p = .10).
CONCLUSION: The present clinical protocol (aiming at high primary stability) and 
the use of oxidized titanium implants for early functional loading in the 
maxilla and the posterior mandible resulted in a high implant survival rate and 
a favorable marginal bone level during a follow-up of 18 months. The difference 
in marginal bone resorption between the oxidized implants in the present study 
and the machined implants from a previous investigation with the same study 
design was not statistically significant.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2004.tb00212.x
PMID: 15726846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 Jan 20;147(3):27-9, 31.

[Management of patients with chronic renal failure].

[Article in German]

Lang D(1), Kosch M, Schaefer RM.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik D, Klinikum der Westfälischen 
Wilhelms-Universität, Münster.

Terminal renal failure has an incidence of approximately 60 persons per million 
population, and is on the increase. Victims suffer from an appreciably 
compromised quality of life and life expectancy. The financial burden on the 
health service imposed by the need for renal replacement therapy (dialysis or 
renal transplantation) is considerable. To achieve a therapeutic impact, the 
underlying kidney disease, as well as the factors driving progression and injury 
need to be identified as early as possible. Of particular importance in this 
connection is the rigorous management of arterial hypertension with the use of 
ACE inhibitors, dietetic measures and normalization of hemoglobin levels.

PMID: 15727110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Neurosurg Focus. 2003 Feb 15;14(2):e3. doi: 10.3171/foc.2003.14.2.4.

Therapy of glioblastoma multiforme improved by the antimutagenic chloroquine.

Briceño E(1), Reyes S, Sotelo J.

Author information:
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit, National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery of 
Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico.

OBJECT: Therapy of malignant tumors is frequently curtailed by the emergence of 
chemoresistant cell clones. Experimentally, the authors have demonstrated that 
chemotherapy for glioma in rats is markedly improved by the administration of 
the antimutagenic quinacrine. They studied the effects of chloroquine, an 
antimutagenic with an optimal pharmacological profile for human use, as adjuvant 
for the treatment of patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).
METHODS: In a prospective controlled randomized trial, 18 patients with GBM 
underwent standard treatment with surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy; nine 
received an additional 150-mg dose of chloroquine daily starting 1 day after 
surgery and continued through the observation period. Nine matched patients were 
included as controls. Neuroimaging studies and clinical response were 
periodically compared. The follow-up period ranged from 24 to 50 months. 
Survival time was defined as the main outcome measure. Survival was 
significantly longer in chloroquine-treated patients than in controls (33 +/- 5 
and 11 +/- 2 months, respectively [p < 0.0002]). At the end of the observation 
period, four patients (46%) treated with chloroquine were alive, two had 
evidence of tumor remission after 2 years; in another two, tumor recurrence 
developed after 2 and 4 years of remission, respectively. No control patient 
survived more than 22 months after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic administration of chloroquine greatly enhanced the response 
of GBM to antineoplastic treatment. Because the cytotoxicity of chloroquine on 
malignant cells is negligible, these favorable results appear mediated by its 
strong antimutagenic effect that precludes the appearance of resistant clones 
during radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.3171/foc.2003.14.2.4
PMID: 15727424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Am J Public Health. 2005 Mar;95(3):420-2. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.044503.

Implementation of a smoke-free policy on school premises and tobacco control as 
a priority among municipal health promotion activities: nationwide survey in 
Japan.

Kayaba K(1), Wakabayashi C, Kunisawa N, Shinmura H, Yanagawa H.

Author information:
(1)Professor of Public Health and Epidemiology, Department of Health and Social 
Services, Saitama Prefectural University, 820 Sannomiya, Koshigaya, Saitama 
343-8540 Japan. kayaba-kazunori@spu.ac.jp

We conducted a nationwide survey to evaluate the effect of implementing a 
smoke-free policy in municipalities that forbid teachers to smoke on school 
premises. Questionnaires were mailed to 3207 municipalities throughout Japan. 
After we adjusted for population size and the standardized mortality ratio for 
male lung cancer, we found that assigning a high priority to tobacco control in 
municipal health promotion activities was significantly associated with 
implementation of school tobacco-control policies (odds ratio = 1.50, 95% 
confidence interval=1.24, 1.81).

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.044503
PMCID: PMC1449194
PMID: 15727969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Braz J Psychiatry. 2004 May;26 Suppl 1:S7-10. doi: 
10.1590/s1516-44462004000500003. Epub 2005 Jan 4.

[The social and health burden of alcohol abuse].

[Article in Portuguese]

Meloni JN(1), Laranjeira R.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Pesquisa em Alcool e Drogas, Departamento de Psiquiatria, EPM, 
UNIFESP, Brazil. jnmeloni@uol.com.br

Based on the recent report on alcohol-related health and social burdens issued 
by the World Health Organization (WHO), this paper explores and discusses the 
evidence in support of the view that concerns about alcohol consumption extend 
far beyond consideration of personal and family health consequences, but should 
be considered in the context of major socio-political and public health 
priorities. The global findings of the WHO report are first discussed, followed 
by analysis of the specific findings regarding the burden of alcohol problems in 
Brazil. The social burden of alcohol problems is quantified by applying a 
unifying methodology which incorporates outcomes for alcohol-related violence, 
family problems, child abuse, public disorder, lost productivity, and other 
consequences. By analyzing the epidemiological date on alcohol-related morbidity 
and mortality data from each continental region and sub-region, and 
cross-tabulating data on average consumed volume and patterns of consumption, 
the burden of disease are estimated for the various regions of the world. The 
final results provide a comparative analysis of risk, basically using a 
representative indicator of number of productive years lost because of illness 
or premature mortality due to alcohol consumption ("DALYs" -- Disability 
Adjusted Life Years). The DALYs global value in 2000 was 4% of world mortality, 
with this rate predicted to increase as global alcohol consumption increases. 
Variations among various regions in the planet are critically analyzed on 
predictive factors.

DOI: 10.1590/s1516-44462004000500003
PMID: 15729436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2005 Jul;262(7):592-4. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-004-0808-y. Epub 2005 Feb 23.

A rare case of nasal glioma in the sphenoid sinus of an adult presenting with 
meningoencephalitis.

Chau HN(1), Hopkins C, McGilligan A.

Author information:
(1)Royal Sussex County Hospital, Brighton, UK. hanychau@hotmail.com

Nasal gliomas are rare embryologic development defects that commonly present 
shortly after birth. Very few cases have ever been reported in adults. Of those 
presenting in adult life, most were casual findings in patients with no 
symptoms. Rare localizations have been described in the nasopharynx, soft 
palate, orbital cave and scalp. We present an unusual case of a 56-year-old man 
who initially presented with meningoencephalitis and was found to have nasal 
glioma in the sphenoid sinus. Having discussed their embryology and histology, 
we conclude that MRI scanning is the preferred method of investigation. However, 
radiological evaluation preoperatively should not lead to any sense of security 
if no bony defect (and thus, the possibility of intracranial extension) is 
demonstrated. Extirpation via a functional surgical approach is the treatment of 
choice to prevent deformities in the facial bones. This can range from direct 
incision over the gliomata to removal transnasally by endoscopy or using a 
lateral rhinotomy approach depending on the location, size and involvement of 
the glioma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-004-0808-y
PMID: 15729549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Isr Med Assoc J. 2005 Feb;7(2):95-8.

Pregnancies and outcome in women with cystic fibrosis.

Barak A(1), Dulitzki M, Efrati O, Augarten A, Szeinberg A, Reichert N, Modan D, 
Weiss B, Miller M, Katzanelson D, Yahav Y.

Author information:
(1)National Cystic Fibrosis Center, Safra Children's Hospital, Sheba Medical 
Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel. ashbar@netvision.net.il

BACKGROUND: Along with the increased life expectancy in cystic fibrosis and the 
remarkable progress in its management and therapy, issues of female fertility 
and pregnancy are frequently raised. These include infertility, severity of lung 
disease, pancreatic insufficiency, poor nutritional status, glucose intolerance 
and diabetes, drug safety, and long-term maternal and neonatal outcome.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the experience of our CF center in the management of CF 
pregnant woman from 1977 to 2004.
METHODS: We analyzed 27 years of records (1977-2004) of the national CF registry 
of all CF women who wished to conceive and became pregnant.
RESULTS: Eight CF women (mean age 24 +/- 4.5 years) who wished to conceive had 
11 pregnancies and delivered 12 neonates. The pregestational results of forced 
expiratory volume per 1 second varied significantly among patients (59 +/- 23%), 
yet most (10/11) stayed stable throughout the pregnancy course. Maternal 
deterioration in CF condition occurred in only one mother, necessitating 
cesarean section. In 9 of the 11 pregnancies the women were 
pancreatic-insufficient. Of the 11 pregnancies, 2 CF women had diabetes mellitus 
and 3 developed gestational diabetes. One pregnancy occurred in a mother with a 
transplanted lung. Of the 12 neonates, 3 were preterm and one was born with 
esophageal atresia. No miscarriages, terminations or neonatal mortalities 
occurred. Although most of the CF mothers had FEV1 below 55% before pregnancy, 
the maternal and neonatal outcome was favorable and lung function tests 
generally remained stable.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that pregnancy in CF is feasible with a positive 
maternal and neonatal outcome. Early participation of the CF physician in the 
wish of the CF woman to reproduce is required. The integration of an intensive 
multidisciplinary approach during pregnancy, which includes close follow-up of 
maternal and fetal condition by the various specialists, should ensure an 
optimal outcome.

PMID: 15729959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2004 Nov;16(5):295-301. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892004001100001.

[Trends in mortality from ischemic heart disease and acute myocardial infarction 
in Costa Rica, 1970-2001].

[Article in Spanish]

Araya MR(1), Padilla SG.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Costarricense de Investigación y Enseñanza en Nutrición y Salud 
(INCIENSA), San José, Costa Rica. mrosello@inciensa.sa.cr

OBJECTIVE: To describe epidemiologic trends in mortality from cardiovascular 
diseases (CVD), ischemic heart disease (IHD), and acute myocardial infarction 
(AMI) in Costa Rica, by sex and geographic region, between 1970 and 2001.
METHODS: We performed a descriptive study of mortality from CVD, IHD, and AMI in 
Costa Rica between 1970 and 2001. Information was obtained from the Central 
American Population Center's database. Mortality data for IHD and AMI between 
1970 and 2001 were analyzed in accordance with the latest revision of the 
International Classification of Diseases (ICD). Costa Rica's territory was 
divided into the following regions: the metropolitan area (8 cantons), the 
semi-urban area of Valle Central (18 cantons), the rural area of Valle Central 
(17 cantons), the semi-urban lowlands (12 cantons), and the rural lowlands (26 
cantons). Mortality trends by quinquennia (between 1970 and 1999) and for the 
2000-2001 biennium were examined in the form of crude mortality rates per 100 
000 inhabitants for each cause or group of causes, by age, sex, and year of 
death. All rates were adjusted for sex, age, year of death, and geographic 
region through the direct method of standardization, using the population of 
Latin America in 1960 as the standard population.
RESULTS: Mortality from CVD dropped by an average of 33% (46.6% among women and 
20.2% among men), while mortality from IHD rose by an average of 18.4% (6.1% 
among women and 28.4% among men). The adjusted mortality rate for AMI among men 
rose by 12.8% over the study period and dropped slightly by 4.4% among women. 
Mortality from CVD, IHD, and AMI was greater in men than in women during the 
entire study period. Mortality rates for IHD and AMI rose in semi-urban and 
urban areas, especially in the rural lowlands, where they increased with respect 
to the 1995-1999 rates by 123.9% and 76.9%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A reduction in mortality from CVD was noted. The largest rates were 
seen among men and in persons 75 years of age or older. The largest increases in 
mortality rates from IHD and AMI were seen in semi-urban and rural areas, among 
men, and in persons 75 years of age or older. Special attention should be paid 
to risk factors for CVD, such as smoking, arterial hypertension, overweight and 
obesity, sedentary habits, and an unhealthy diet.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892004001100001
PMID: 15729977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Health Estate. 2005 Feb;59(2):51-3.

Medical device uptake challenged.

Rayfield J.

Hailed as the most important initiative to date between Government and the 
medical devices industry, the recently published Healthcare Industries Task 
Force report sets out a programme of action aimed at benefiting patients through 
the introduction of leading-edge medical technology. Jason Rayfield reports.

PMID: 15730001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Neurosurgery. 2005 Mar;56(3):537-45; discussion 537-45. doi: 
10.1227/01.neu.0000153907.43563.ff.

Percutaneous retrogasserian glycerol rhizotomy in the treatment of tic 
douloureux associated with multiple sclerosis.

Pickett GE(1), Bisnaire D, Ferguson GG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, 
University of Western Ontario and the London Health Sciences Centre, London, 
Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) have a relatively high 
incidence of tic douloureux (TD) and often do not tolerate medical therapy well. 
The minimally invasive nature of percutaneous retrogasserian glycerol rhizotomy 
(PRGR) renders it ideal for first-line surgical treatment of TD. We sought to 
ascertain the benefits of PRGR in patients with MS and to determine whether 
hypalgesia after PRGR correlates with efficacy.
METHODS: We assessed 97 glycerol procedures performed in 53 patients followed 
prospectively for treatment of TD associated with MS. Factors assessed included 
degree of pain relief, postoperative hypalgesia, procedural morbidity, 
medication use, time to pain recurrence, and number and type of subsequent 
procedures.
RESULTS: Complete pain relief was obtained in 78% of patients after the initial 
glycerol injection, and partial relief was obtained in 13% of patients. 
Long-term follow-up (mean, 81 mo) demonstrated a recurrence rate of 59%, with a 
mean time to recurrence of 17 months. Actuarial recurrence rates were 50% at 12 
months and 60% at 24 months. Twenty-four patients underwent a second or 
subsequent PRGR for recurrent pain and achieved similar rates of pain relief and 
time to recurrence. Facial sensory loss was associated with a higher likelihood 
of pain relief (P < 0.05), with longer time to pain recurrence (P < 0.05), and 
with decreased use of medication after surgery (P < 0.01.)
CONCLUSION: PRGR is an effective, low-morbidity surgical procedure in the 
management of TD complicating MS. The presence of facial sensory loss after PRGR 
is associated with prolonged efficacy.

DOI: 10.1227/01.neu.0000153907.43563.ff
PMID: 15730580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2005 Mar;115(3):891-909. doi: 
10.1097/01.prs.0000153220.66955.39.

Prophylactic mastectomy: indications, options, and reconstructive alternatives.

Spear SL(1), Carter ME, Schwarz K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic Surgery, Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, DC 
20007, USA. spears@gunet.georgetown.edu

Prophylactic mastectomy continues to be a controversial procedure as a 
preventive tool against breast cancer. Recent research and other scientific 
advances, however, have refocused attention on better risk estimation, evidence 
of efficacy, and improvements in reconstruction. The recently discovered genetic 
markers BRCA1 and BRCA2 have become increasingly important in determining risk; 
a BRCA1-positive patient's risk of developing breast cancer by the age of 65 is 
estimated at 50 percent to 80 percent. BRCA1- and BRCA2-positive breast cancers 
also tend to be higher grade and occur in younger women (making mammography less 
effective). Genetically linked breast cancers are usually estrogen receptor 
negative, making them less susceptible to chemoprevention. Various predictive 
models and recommendations by experts in the field are also available for 
today's clinicians to ascertain who should be genetically tested. The benefit of 
bilateral prophylactic mastectomy, although difficult to estimate, can be 
evaluated by looking at the incidence of breast cancer in studies of patients 
who have previously undergone prophylactic mastectomy. The estimated risk 
reduction from these studies is 80 percent to 95 percent. Similarly, life 
expectancy is believed to be increased from 2.9 to 5.3 years. The psychological 
benefits include a 70 percent rate of satisfaction and a decrease in emotional 
concern over developing breast cancer by 74 percent of women who underwent 
prophylactic mastectomy. Although reconstruction results may vary, most patients 
have been very satisfied and some may achieve cosmetic results that are better 
than their preoperative situation. Patient selection for specific types of 
reconstruction after prophylactic mastectomy and the decision to proceed should 
be based on surgical risk and the likelihood of a good outcome. The choice of 
mastectomy incision should consider the size of the breast, preexisting scars, 
patient risk factors, and the planned method and goal of reconstruction. The 
authors propose certain guidelines based on degree of ptosis and cup size when 
planning prophylactic mastectomies with reconstruction. In certain cases, a 
nipple-sparing mastectomy may provide cosmetic advantages that could outweigh 
the additional oncologic risk.

DOI: 10.1097/01.prs.0000153220.66955.39
PMID: 15731693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. G Ital Nefrol. 2004 Jan-Feb;21 Suppl 26:S53-66.

[Cardiovascular disease after renal transplantation].

[Article in Italian]

Montanaro D(1), Gropuzzo M, Tulissi P, Boscutti G, Risaliti A, Baccarani U, 
Adani GL, Sainz M, Bresadola F, Mioni G.

Author information:
(1)Struttura Operativa Complessa di Nefrologia e Dialisi, Azienda Ospedaliera S. 
Maria della Misericordia, Udine. montanaro.domenico@aoud.sanita.fvg.it

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality following 
renal transplantation. Because many renal transplant recipients die with 
functioning grafts, deaths resulting from cardiovascular disease have became an 
increasingly important cause of graft loss, particularly after the first 
post-transplantation year. Moreover, a contribution of some cardiovascular risk 
factors to renal allograft dysfunction has been demonstrated. A number of 
observational studies suggest that cardiovascular disease is more common in 
renal transplant patients than in the general population. The excessive risk for 
cardiovascular disease is related to a high prevalence and accumulation of 
atherogenic risk factors before and after transplantation. Hypertension, 
post-transplantation diabetes and hyperlipidemia are well-recognized risk 
factors for the development of cardiovascular events after renal transplantation 
and are strongly associated with immunosuppressive therapy. Progressive renal 
dysfunction may also influence the risk of cardiovascular complications after 
renal transplantation. The elevated risk may also be caused by non- traditional 
risk factors such as anaemia, adhesion molecules, hyperhomocysteinemia, 
microinflammatory state, abnormal coagulation and oxidative stress. To prevent 
post-transplantation cardiovascular disease it is crucial to define the 
etiological risk factors. Some risk factors can be modified, and for some of 
these, there is strong evidence from studies in the general population that 
intervention improves survival. Given the significant morbidity and mortality of 
