becoming safer. Clinical trials of effective treatment stratified by more 
reliable prognostic markers are surely now warranted.

PMID: 15749671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. J Biol Chem. 2005 Apr 29;280(17):17187-95. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M501250200. Epub
 2005 Mar 4.

Mechanism of human SIRT1 activation by resveratrol.

Borra MT(1), Smith BC, Denu JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.

The NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase family, Sir2 (or sirtuins), is important 
for many cellular processes including gene silencing, regulation of p53, fatty 
acid metabolism, cell cycle regulation, and life span extension. Resveratrol, a 
polyphenol found in wines and thought to harbor major health benefits, was 
reported to be an activator of Sir2 enzymes in vivo and in vitro. In addition, 
resveratrol was shown to increase life span in three model organisms through a 
Sir2-dependent pathway. Here, we investigated the molecular basis for Sir2 
activation by resveratrol. Among the three enzymes tested (yeast Sir2, human 
SIRT1, and human SIRT2), only SIRT1 exhibited significant enzyme activation ( 
approximately 8-fold) using the commercially available Fluor de Lys kit 
(BioMol). To examine the requirements for resveratrol activation of SIRT1, we 
synthesized three p53 acetylpeptide substrates either lacking a fluorophore or 
containing a 7-amino-4-methylcoumarin (p53-AMC) or rhodamine 110 (p53-R110). 
Although SIRT1 activation was independent of the acetylpeptide sequence, 
resveratrol activation was completely dependent on the presence of a covalently 
attached fluorophore. Substrate competition studies indicated that the 
fluorophore decreased the binding affinity of the peptide, and, in the presence 
of resveratrol, fluorophore-containing substrates bound more tightly to SIRT1. 
Using available crystal structures, a model of SIRT1 bound to p53-AMC peptide 
was constructed. Without resveratrol, the coumarin of p53-AMC peptide is 
solvent-exposed and makes no significant contacts with SIRT1. We propose that 
binding of resveratrol to SIRT1 promotes a conformational change that better 
accommodates the attached coumarin group.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M501250200
PMID: 15749705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Psychooncology. 2006 Jan;15(1):31-43. doi: 10.1002/pon.920.

Quality of life and current coping in young adult survivors of childhood cancer: 
positive expectations about the further course of the disease were correlated 
with better quality of life.

Stam H(1), Grootenhuis MA, Caron HN, Last BF.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Psychosocial Department, Emma Children's Hospital, Academic 
Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, G8-224 Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. h.stam@amc.uva.nl

OBJECTIVES: As a result of advances in the treatment of childhood cancer many 
patients who may previously have had a limited life expectancy, are now 
surviving into adulthood. More insight is needed into the long-term adjustment 
of young adult survivors of childhood cancer. The purpose of this study was to 
(1) assess health-related quality of life (HRQoL), and (2) to explore the role 
of cognitive coping in relation to HRQoL.
METHODS: HRQoL of 353 Dutch young adult survivors of childhood cancer was 
compared with HRQoL of 507 peers. Linear regression analyses predicted 
survivors' HRQoL by cognitive coping, independent of the impact of demographics 
and medical variables.
RESULTS: Survivors reported a lower HRQoL than their peers. Health status was 
the best predictor of the Physical Component Scale of the RAND-36; health status 
and cognitive coping contributed almost equally well to the Mental Component 
Scale. The explanatory value of cognitive coping could mainly be attributed to 
the use of predictive control strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: Because current coping seemed to be an important predictor of 
HRQoL, interventions directed at the coping strategies of survivors should be 
useful. The strong association between predictive coping and HRQoL stresses the 
importance of focusing at having positive expectations about the further course 
of the disease.

Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.920
PMID: 15751002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Ginekol Pol. 2004 Dec;75(12):966-70.

[Delayed delivery in multiple gestations--a case report and review of the 
literature].

[Article in Polish]

Preis K(1), Ciach K, Swiatkowska-Freund M.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Połoznictwa, Gdańsk. kpreis@amg.gda.pl

The incidence of multiple pregnancies increases with concomitant increased risk 
in maternal and fetal complications. Delayed delivery is still a rare occurrence 
in the literature despite advances in reproductive medicine and increasing 
number of multiple gestations. Authors report a case of delayed delivery in a 
dichorionic, diamniotic twin pregnancy. A 28-year-old woman delivered her first 
twin in the 25th week of gestation, 4 weeks after the preterm rupture of 
membranes. The newborn died on the first day of life due to prematurity. 
Cervical cerclage was performed, patient received antibiotics, corticosteroids 
and tocolytics. The second twin was successfully delivered by cesarean section 
in the 28th week of pregnancy, 18 days after the first twin was born. The baby 
was discharged home in good condition on the 64th day after the delivery. The 
conclusion was, that using tocolysis, antenatal steroids to stimulate lung 
maturation, antibiotics and cervical cerclage after delivery of the first fetus 
we can improve the life-expectancy of the retained fetus. Delayed delivery is a 
reasonable option for patients with multifetal pregnancies and premature 
delivery of the first baby or preterm rupture of membranes in the second 
trimester.

PMID: 15751220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. World Hosp Health Serv. 2004;40(4):36-9.

The World Health Channel: an innovation for health and development.

McConnell H(1), Haile-Mariam T, Rangarajan S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Sustainable Health Education and Development.

The issues of the digital divide and of accessing health information in areas of 
greatest need has been addressed by many. It has been a key component of the 
discussion of the World Summit for the Information Society and also the focus of 
an important new initiative, the Global Review for Health Information. Only 
approximately 1 in 700 people in Africa have internet access compared to a rate 
worldwide of approximately 10%. Access to essential health information and 
knowledge management for health care has been deemed a priority for the 
development of health systems and for the care of patients in areas with limited 
resources, prompting recent efforts by international organisations and by both 
governmental and non-governmental agencies (see Godlee et al, 2004 and 
McConnell, 2004). Health care in developing countries can be limited by many 
different resources: lack of health care workers with sufficient training, lack 
of diagnostic equipment, lack of treatment facilities or essential 
pharmaceuticals; and lack of education or expertise in many relevant areas. Much 
of the health care done in developing countries is by local lay persons or 
practitioners or by volunteers working with a variety of NGOs. These volunteers 
are often very dedicated young people with a vision of health-for-all that is 
often frustrated in the limited time they are able to spend in these areas and 
further constrained by meager resources (including availability of appropriate 
information). The availability of medical expertise and consultation depends 
largely on the geographical location of the health practitioner and of the 
patient as well as the level of integration with local practitioners and extent 
of outside agency involvement. Futhermore, there are often many NGOs working 
simultaneously on similar projects in the same region without knowledge of each 
other's activities. Often this occurs simply because a lack of communication 
exists between organisations, resulting in unnecessary duplication of effort. 
The availability of medical expertise and consultation depends largely on the 
geographical location of the health practitioner and of the patient as well as 
the level of integration with local practitioners and extent of outside agency 
involvement. The health care worker in developing countries is frequently faced 
with a paucity of information appropriate to the clinical situations on hand as 
well as a lack of locally available expertise. The lack of access to health care 
and other vital resources is one factor in the much lower (by approximately 1/3) 
life expectancy in the least developed countries campared to industrialised 
nations. In many developing countries there is only one doctor for 5-10,00 
people, compared to a ratio of 1:200 in many developed countries. Textbooks, if 
they exist, may be 10-20 years out of date and are often directed more at the 
needs of developed countries. There is thus a growing need for wider 
availability of training and information on health care in developing countries 
and support for health care workers. There is also a need for increased 
communication and collaboration between governmental and non-governmental 
organisations working in international health to share education, resources and 
to coordinate efforts in areas supporting improved health care delivery. In 
recognition of this, the Institute for Sustainable Health Education and 
Development (www.ished.org) is launching the World Health Channel (WHC) in the 
spring of 2005 in collaboration with WorldSpace. This will allow access to 
critical health information in developing countries and place the emphasis on 
issues important for clinical care for front line health workers in these areas.

PMID: 15751552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Antivir Ther. 2005;10(1):41-52.

Optimal frequency of CD4 cell count and HIV RNA monitoring prior to initiation 
of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected patients.

Kimmel AD(1), Goldie SJ, Walensky RP, Losina E, Weinstein MC, Paltiel AD, Zhang 
H, Freedberg KA; Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. akimmel@partners.org

CONTEXT: Guidelines regarding the frequency of CD4 cell count and HIV RNA 
monitoring in HIV-infected patients vary, with recommended strategies ranging 
from every 2 to every 6 months.
OBJECTIVE: To determine optimal CD4 cell count and HIV RNA monitoring frequency 
in HIV-infected patients prior to antiretroviral therapy initiation.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness (CE) analysis using an HIV simulation model 
incorporating CD4 cell count and HIV RNA as immunological and virological 
predictors of clinical outcomes.
SETTING: Hypothetical clinical setting.
PATIENTS: Simulated cohort based on initial clinical presentation of 
HIV-infected patients in the US.
INTERVENTION: CD4 cell count and HIV RNA monitoring at frequencies ranging from 
every 2 to 24 months prior to antiretroviral initiation, as well as accelerated 
monitoring frequencies as CD4 cell counts approach a specified treatment 
threshold.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy and costs.
RESULTS: For patients presenting with median CD4 cell count 546/mm3 and median 
HIV RNA 4.8 log10 copies/ml, incremental CE ratios ranged from 
US$37800/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for a constant testing 
frequency of every 18 months compared with every 24 months, to US$303300/QALY 
gained for a constant testing frequency of every 2 months compared with every 4 
months when starting treatment at a CD4 cell count of 350/mm3. Monitoring every 
12 months until a warning CD4 cell count threshold of 450/mm3 followed by every 
3 months until 350/mm3 had an incremental CE ratio of US$74700/QALY gained. When 
starting antiretroviral therapy at CD4 cell count 200/mm3, monitoring every 12 
months until 300/mm3 followed by every 2 months until treatment initiation 
yielded an incremental CE ratio of US$52200/QALY gained compared with the next 
best strategy. Increasing monitoring frequency as CD4 cell counts approached a 
treatment threshold yielded greater incremental clinical benefit for less cost 
than strategies using a constant frequency.
CONCLUSIONS: Monitoring HIV-infected patients every 12 months until 100 CD4 
cells/mm3 prior to a specified treatment threshold followed by more frequent 
monitoring every 2 or 3 months until antiretroviral therapy initiation is both 
more effective and cost-effective than the current standard of care.

PMID: 15751762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed. 2005 Apr;21(2):93-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0781.2005.00150.x.

UVA-1 cold light therapy in the treatment of atopic dermatitis: 61 patients 
treated in the Leiden University Medical Center.

Polderman MC(1), Wintzen M, le Cessie S, Pavel S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands. M.C.A.Polderman@lumc.nl

BACKGROUND: UVA-1 has been shown to be effective in the treatment of patients 
with atopic dermatitis. However, its optimal therapeutic conditions are not yet 
fully established.
METHODS: In an open prospective study we retrospectively compared the effect of 
4 weeks therapy (32 patients) with the effect of the usual 3 weeks therapy (29 
patients) in patients with atopic dermatitis, using a medium dose UVA-1 cold 
light (45 J/cm2), 5 days a week.
RESULTS: Scoring atopic dermatitis index (SCORAD) and dermatology life quality 
index (DLQI) quality of life indexes improved significantly during both 3 and 4 
weeks UVA-1. Patients who were treated for 4 weeks showed a superior improvement 
of the SCORAD index [23.12 points, 95% confidence interval (CI) 16.09-30.16, vs. 
13.32 points, 95% CI 5.61-21.04, P = 0.059], and the DLQI (5.41 points, 95% CI 
2.38-7.88, vs. 3.86 points, 95% CI 1.88-5.84, P = 0.360), compared with patients 
who were treated for 3 weeks. However, the differences did not reach statistical 
significance. Only patients who were treated for 4 weeks were able to maintain 
their improvement 6 weeks after therapy. In both groups 50% of patients had 
intermittently used mild topical corticosteroids in the follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: Extension of UVA-1 therapy from 3 to 4 weeks results in a clinically 
relevant improvement of the outcome, and more prolonged therapeutic effects, 
measured by the SCORAD index.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0781.2005.00150.x
PMID: 15752127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2005 Mar 15;61(4):1054-61. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.07.713.

Cost-effectiveness of radiation therapy following conservative surgery for 
ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast.

Suh WW(1), Hillner BE, Pierce LJ, Hayman JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan Health System, Ann 
Arbor, MI, USA. wsuh@lroc.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of radiation therapy (RT) in patients 
with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) after breast-conserving surgery (BCS).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A Markov model was constructed for a theoretical cohort 
of 55-year-old women with DCIS over a life-time horizon. Probability estimates 
for local noninvasive (N-INV), local invasive (INV), and distant recurrences 
were obtained from National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) 
B-17. Utilities for eight nonmetastatic health states were collected from both 
healthy women and DCIS patients. Direct medical (2002 Medicare fee schedule) and 
nonmedical costs (time and transportation) of RT were ascertained.
RESULTS: For BCS + RT vs. BCS alone, the estimated N-INV and INV rates at 12 
years were 9% and 8% vs. 16% and 18%, respectively. The incremental cost of 
adding RT was 3300 US dollars despite an initial RT cost of 8700 US dollars due 
to higher local recurrence-related salvage costs incurred with the BCS alone 
strategy. An increase of 0.09 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) primarily 
reflected the lower risk of INV with RT, resulting in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 36,700 US dollars/QALY. Sensitivity analyses 
revealed the ICER to be affected by baseline probability of a local recurrence, 
relative efficacy of RT in preventing INV, negative impact of an INV on quality 
of life, and cost of initial RT. Cost of salvage BCS + RT and source of 
utilities (healthy women vs. DCIS patients) influenced the ICER albeit to a 
lesser degree.
CONCLUSIONS: Addition of RT following BCS for patients with DCIS should not be 
withheld because of concerns regarding its cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.07.713
PMID: 15752884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Crit Care Med. 2005 Mar;33(3):547-55. doi:
10.1097/01.ccm.0000155990.35290.03.

Five-year survival, quality of life, and individual costs of 303 consecutive 
medical intensive care patients--a cost-utility analysis.

Graf J(1), Wagner J, Graf C, Koch KC, Janssens U.

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinic I, University Hospital Aachen, Aachen, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To assess long-term survival, health-related quality of life, and 
associated costs 5 yrs after discharge from a medical intensive care unit.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Medical intensive care unit of a German university hospital.
PATIENTS: Three hundred and three consecutive patients with predominantly 
cardiovascular and pulmonary disorders admitted between November 1997 and 
February 1998 with an intensive care unit length of stay >24 hrs.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Demographic data, Simplified Acute Physiology 
Score II, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment, simplified Therapeutic 
Intervention Scoring System, and individual intensive care unit and hospital 
costs were prospectively recorded. Primary outcomes included 5-yr survival, 
functional status, health-related quality of life (Medical Outcome Short Form, 
SF-36), effective costs per survivor, and costs per life year and per 
quality-adjusted life year gained. Of 303 patients, 44 (14.5%) died in the 
hospital. Among the remaining 259 patients, 190 (73%) survived the 5-yr follow 
up and 173 patients (91%) completed the questionnaire. Baseline demographics 
including gender, age, Simplified Acute Physiology Score II, Sequential Organ 
Failure Assessment, simplified Therapeutic Intervention Scoring System, and 
admission diagnosis were similar between hospital and long-term survivors (p > 
.05 for all). The health status index of those patients surviving the 5-yr 
follow-up was 0.88, independent of patients' severity of illness. The average 
effective costs per survivor were 8.827 for intensive care unit costs and 14.130 
for intensive care unit and hospital costs. Mean costs per life year and per 
quality-adjusted life year gained amounted to 19.330 and 21.922 , respectively. 
Increasing severity of illness was associated with higher costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the severity of illness and the patients' outcome, the 
costs associated with both life year and quality-adjusted life year gained were 
within generally accepted limits for other potentially life-saving treatments.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ccm.0000155990.35290.03
PMID: 15753746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Mar;45(3):565-71. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2004.11.014.

Dialyzer membrane permeability and survival in hemodialysis patients.

Chauveau P(1), Nguyen H, Combe C, Chêne G, Azar R, Cano N, Canaud B, Fouque D, 
Laville M, Leverve X, Roth H, Aparicio M; French Study Group for Nutrition in 
Dialysis.

Author information:
(1)Département de Néphrologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire and Université 
Bordeaux 2, Bordeaux, France. ph.chauveau@wanadoo.fr

BACKGROUND: We previously showed that nutritional protein concentrations were 
predictive of outcome, whereas variables reflecting body composition and 
dialysis dose were not, in a 30-month prospective follow-up of 1,610 
hemodialysis patients. Information on dialysis membrane and erythropoietin use 
had to be evaluated in an additional follow-up.
METHODS: A subset of 650 patients from the initial cohort of 1,610 was analyzed 
for survival in a 2-year extension of follow-up. Detailed data were collected: 
demographics; cause of renal failure; time on dialysis therapy; type of 
membrane; erythropoietin treatment; body mass index (BMI); predialysis albumin, 
prealbumin, and bicarbonate levels; and outcome. Normalized protein catabolic 
rate (nPCR), dialysis adequacy, and lean body mass were computed from 
predialysis and postdialysis urea and creatinine values.
RESULTS: Patient characteristics were age of 61 +/- 16 years, 58% men, BMI of 
22.7 +/- 4.4 kg/m2 , time on dialysis therapy of 102 +/- 73 months, and 8.8% had 
diabetes. Dialysis parameters were duration of 247 +/- 31 minutes, Kt/V of 1.4 
+/- 0.3, and nPCR of 1.2 +/- 0.3 g/kg/d. Albumin level was 3.73 +/- 0.53 g/dL 
(37.3 +/- 5.3 g/L), and prealbumin level was 31 +/- 8 mg/dL. The survival rate 
was 78.7% after 2 years. Survival was influenced by age, presence of diabetes, 
use of high-flux membrane, and serum albumin level, but not other variables, 
including Kt/V and prealbumin level. Two-year variations in values for urea, 
creatinine, and weight were predictive of survival in univariate, but not 
multivariate, analyses.
CONCLUSION: In patients on dialysis therapy for a long period, better survival 
was observed when high-flux dialysis membranes were used.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2004.11.014
PMID: 15754279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2004 Nov;17(101):457-62.

[Effect of palliative chemotherapy with topoisomerase inhibitor on the quality 
of life and survival of patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma].

[Article in Polish]

Bucior J(1), Ziółko E, Tomczyk A, Sosada K, Knopik J, Kempiński M.

Author information:
(1)Oddział Kliniczny Chorób Wewnetrznych Slaskiej AM w Katowicach.

Among several topoisomerase I inhibitors topotecan is worth taking into account 
because of its little toxicity, good tolerance and quick excretion. The study 
compared functioning of bone marrow, liver and kidneys during and after the 
treatment, as well as survival period and quality of life of patients treated 
with topotecan and patients who underwent symptomatic treatment. 35 patients 
aged 43-71 of both sexes, with advanced stage of large intestine cancer (IV 
grade in TNM scale) were included in the study. 20 hospitalized patients were 
administered topotecan, topoisomerase I inhibitor, intravenously in 5-day 
courses (1.5 mg/m2 of body surface daily) repeated 5 times with 21-day 
intervals. Before the beginning of therapy and after it the following were 
conducted: medical check-ups as well as surveys and test research including 
groups of somatic and vegetative symptoms connected with the disease (based on 
the questionnaire QLQ-C30). 15 patients with the similar stage of the disease 
who had not agreed to palliative treatment with chemotherapy were treated only 
symptomatically. Applying antineoplastic treatment with topotecan contributes to 
the extension of the survival time by 4 months on average, and mortality during 
and after the treatment is lower than in the group of patients with the 
symptomatic treatment only. Antineoplastic treatment improves the quality of 
life and delays the disease progression. The quality of life is better until the 
preterminal period of the disease and enables patients maintaining motor 
activity and independence.

PMID: 15754631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Int J Prosthodont. 2005 Jan-Feb;18(1):34-9.

5-year follow-up of a prospective clinical study on various types of core 
restorations.

Creugers NH(1), Mentink AG, Fokkinga WA, Kreulen CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Function and Prosthetic Dentistry, College of Dental 
Science, University Medical Centre Nijmegen, University of Nijmegen, Nijmegen 
6500 HB, The Netherlands. n.creugers@dent.umcn.nl

PURPOSE: This study tested whether: (1) the survival rate of cast post-and-core 
restorations is better than the survival of direct post-and-core restorations 
and post-free all-composite cores; and (2)the survival of these buildup 
restorations is influenced by the remaining dentin height after preparation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a clinical trial, 18 operators made 319 core 
restorations in 249 patients. The restorations involved were: (1) cast 
post-and-core restorations; (2) direct post and composite core restorations; and 
(3) post-free all-composite cores. All restorations were made under single 
porcelain-fused-to-metal crowns. Treatments were allocated after dentin height 
assessment using balanced drawing. Failures were registered during a 5-year 
period.
RESULTS: Fifteen restorations failed during the follow-up period. Five failures 
occurred during the first month; they were considered to be independent from 
clinical aging and excluded from further survival assessments. The overall 
survival was 96%+/-2%. No difference was found between the survivals of the 
different types of restorations. The factor "remaining dentin height" appeared 
to have a significant effect on the survival of post-and-core restorations 
(98%+/-2% survival for "substantial dentin height" vs 93%+/-3% for "minimal 
dentin height").
CONCLUSION: The type of post and core was not relevant with respect to survival. 
The amount of remaining dentin height after preparation influenced the longevity 
of a post-and-core restoration.

PMID: 15754890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Int J Prosthodont. 2005 Jan-Feb;18(1):40-1.

A 5-year prospective clinical study on core restorations without covering 
crowns.

Creugers NH(1), Kreulen CM, Fokkinga WA, Mentink AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Function and Prosthetic Dentistry, College of Dental 
Science, University Medical Centre Nijmegen, University of Nijmegen, Nijmegen 
6500 HB, The Netherlands. n.creugers@dent.umcn.nl

PMID: 15754891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Adv Gerontol. 2004;15:7-13.

[The differences and regularities of life-span dynamics for human and animal 
populations].

[Article in Russian]

Krementsova AV.

The dynamics of mortality of several generations of man, Wistar rats and line 
Canton-S fruit flies Drosophila melanogaster was investigated. The result was, 
that the correlation between sample mean and sample variance was negative for 
man, positive for flies and was absent for rats. To fit the survival curve we 
chose two-parametric Gompertz function. Starting from Strehler-Mildwan 
correlation (linear correlation between Gompertz function parameters), we 
obtained theoretical dependence between life-span mean and variance. This 
dependence had complex shape and points, corresponding to different species were 
situated at different segments of this curve that is corresponding to the 
various sign of correlation between these characteristics. Increasing of the 
mean man life-span attribute usually to advances in medicine and social 
environment. Associated with this the decreasing of the life-span variance, as 
it follows from this paper, depends on parameter point location on parametric 
plane, i.e. from biological feature of species.

PMID: 15754949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Adv Gerontol. 2004;15:14-22.

[Are Nobel prize winners gettting older? Mathematical analysis of age and life 
span of the Nobel prize winners, 1901-2003].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN, Mikhal'skiĭ AI.

Data on the distribution by the age of 647 Nobel prizewinner in physics, 
chemistry, physiology or medicine, economics and literature and time dynamics of 
the age during 1901-2003 are presented in the paper. The mean survival and the 
expected life span of the prizewinners was also calculated. The mean life span 
of the Nobelists in natural sciences steadily increases from the first to the 
fourth quartile of the 20th century. The rate of the prizewinners selected at 
the age of 61 and more years increases from the 23% at 1901-1925 to 53.1% at 
1975-2003, whereas the rate of the winners selected before the age of 40 years 
decreases from 19% to 2.7% during the same period. Analysis of available data on 
the Nobel Prizes for chemistry or physiology or medicine has shown that the 
majority of the Prizes was awarded to researcher discovered his main results at 
the age of 31-40 (41.8% and 47.4%, correspondingly). The mean interval between a 
discovery and a selection for Nobel Prize in chemistry increases from 12.6 years 
in 1901-1925 to 23.7 years in 1975-2003, whereas corresponding parameters for 
prizewinners in physiology or medicine increases from to 16.9 to 20.1 years. The 
mean life span of deceased Nobelists is 77.8 years, varying from 76.0 years in 
chemists to 84.8 years in economists. The mean life span after the selection is 
20.3 years (from 13.6 years in writers to 24.6 in physicists). The expected life 
span after the selection adjusted by the age and the year of the selection of 
the Nobelists in physics, chemistry, economics and literature in 1959-1999 
failed to reveal any increase, whereas the life expectancy of the prizewinners 
in physiology or medicine is increased as compared with the male population of 
USA.

PMID: 15754950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Adv Gerontol. 2004;15:23-9.

[Historical dynamics of age-related mortality: 1. Evolution of the specific 
lifespan of the Finnish population].

[Article in Russian]

Mamaev VB, Tsarin AA, Minenkova EA.

Historical dynamics of parameters of age-related mortality of Finnish men and 
women for the period 1952 to 2000 is studied. The Gompertz equation is found to 
describe age-related mortality of men quite exactly during the historical 
interval 1952 to 1989. From 1990 to 2000 for men and during the entire interval 
for women the Gompertz-Makeham equation is more exact. The constant component of 
mortality is found to be increasing since 1990 for men and since 1980 for women. 
The presence of the Strehler-Mildvan correlation is shown. There are 3 evidently 
separated periods: 1) from 1952 to 1971, 2) from 1972 to 1980, 3) from 1981 to 
2000. The correlation has the highest value in the 1st and 3rd periods. During 
the 2nd, transitional, period the correlation value is minimal. An opinion is 
expressed that it's not correct to treat the incline coefficient of correlation 
dependence as a specific lifespan since it takes on different values even for a 
single country, though the values are stable during certain historical periods.

PMID: 15754951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Adv Gerontol. 2004;15:30-5.

[Analysis of the life span distribution mode in 128 successive generations of D. 
melanogaster].

[Article in Russian]

Izmaĭlov DM, Obukhova LK.

A large body of experimental data consisting of 116 samples (sets) of individual 
life span (LS) values of D. melanogaster from the same laboratory strain 
Canton-S was analyzed. In total, 10180 Drosophila flies (5100 females and 5080 
males) were studied. Each of 58 pairs of samples belonged to a definite 
generation in a continuous succession where every next generation was an 
offspring of the preceding one. Mathematical simulation made it possible to 
demonstrate that both the normal (Gaussian) and Gompertz distributions were 
equally good approximations of the experimental data. Both of them adequately 
described the LS distributions in laboratory populations of D. melanogaster. The 
confidence intervals for absolute deviations of the theoretical distributions 
from experimental ones were small (4-5%). In other words, the approximation 
error was no more than 5% in either case. The estimation of the dependence of 
approximation quality on the LS in the original (experimental) population showed 
that the normal distribution was preferable, because, in this case the absolute 
deviation from the experimental distribution was independent of the LS in the 
original population.

PMID: 15754952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Adv Gerontol. 2004;15:36-50.

[Numerical modeling of ideal cohorts of aging organisms obeying the 
Gompertz-Makeham law in association with the Strehler-Mildwan correlation].

[Article in Russian]

Golubev AG.

The Gompertz-Makeham law (-dn/dt x l/n(t)=C+lambdae(gammat)) so as other genuine 
laws of Nature is strictly applicable only to ideal objects (populations and 
cohorts) analogously to laws of mechanics or thermodynamics, which are exactly 
true only for such physical abstractions as mass points or ideal gases. 
Therefore, a biologically meaningful interpretation of the parameters of this 
law is likely to be more important for understanding the aging process than 
devising of alternative analytical descriptions of biodemographic processes for 
the sake of a better fit only. Numerical modeling of ideal cohorts of aging 
organisms obeying the Gompertz-Makeha law makes it possible to differentiate 
possible real and apparent changes in mortality patterns that occur in human 
history and in evolution and are observed in gerontological experiments and to 
demonstratively show such effects as the dependency of longevity upon population 
size, the evolutionarily important possibility of reciprocal changes in the mean 
and maximal longevity, or detection of apparent changes in negatively correlated 
aging rate and vitality when the Makeham term is ignored, which is usual in 
demography. The basic difference between the Makeham term Cand Gompertz term 
lambdae(gammat) is suggested to be not that the former is constant, whereas the 
latter is age-dependent, but that the former comprises the contributions of 
inherently irresistible stresses to mortality, whereas the latter comprises the 
contributions of resistible stresses to mortality and shows how changes in the 
ability to resist them is translated into changes in mortality.

PMID: 15754953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Adv Gerontol. 2004;15:91-5.

[Effect of selenium on reactions of elderly rats affected by low doses of 
radiochemical exposures].

[Article in Russian]

Kondrat'eva AV, Kovan'ko EG, Liutinskiĭ SI, Ivanov SD.

The 18-months-old female rats received with drinking water Hg2(NO3) in 
concentration of 1 mkg/l in account to metal and a preparation of selenium 
"Neoselen" (Na2SeO2) in concentration of 1.3 ml/kg/day, respectively, during 1 
month before and 1 month after single gamma-irradiations with 25 cGy doses. Are 
established early (through 24 h after an irradiation) cytologic and genotoxic 
reactions in leukocytes of blood, and also hematological, biochemical reactions 
and changes of the content and frame DNA of leukocytes of blood in 30 day after 
an irradiation? Features of action of low doses of radiation in a combination to 
ions of mercury and their combination with a preparation of selenium are 
revealed. Communication of postradiating effects--changes of indexes of DNA of 
leukocytes of blood with reduction of life expectancy of animals is shown. The 
data are received, permissive to draw the conclusion, that the preparation of 
selenium in utilised concentrations, essentially not influencing on lifetime at 
low doses of radiation--mercury affecting is capable to improve quality of life 
of elderly animals

PMID: 15754959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Adv Gerontol. 2004;15:96-100.

[Clinical parameters of the course of metabolic syndrome in advanced age].

[Article in Russian]

Balliuzek MF.

The proposed principles of classification of metabolic syndrome are critically 
considered, as they do not take into account peculiarities of its clinical 
course in patients of advanced and senile age. Results of examination are 
presented of two groups of patients of the cardiological profile, who were long 
observed under conditions of a departmental outpatient clinic. In the first 
group, evaluated were the incidence and the degree of severity of symptoms 
characterizing disturbances in systems of carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, 
peculiar to metabolic syndrome, as well as the incidence and severity of 
arterial hypertension and obesity. It has been established that these symptoms 
are more frequent in various combinations as a picture of the "incomplete" 
syndrome and have different incidence in the older and younger age groups. Among 
patients with the "complete" set of characters of the metabolic syndrome there 
also takes place the statistically significant polymorphism of its clinical 
manifestations, which allows suggesting effects of mechanism of compensation and 
mutual aggravation. Peculiarities of manifestations of symptoms of the metabolic 
syndrome in patients of the elderly group make it possible to identify 
prognostically favorable and unfavorable forms of the course of the syndrome 
and, accordingly, to optimize the therapeutic and preventive programs.

PMID: 15754960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Hum Biol. 2004 Aug;76(4):623-41. doi: 10.1353/hub.2004.0061.

Worldwide variation in life-span sexual dimorphism and sex-specific 
environmental mortality rates.

Teriokhin AT(1), Budilova EV, Thomas F, Guegan JF.

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Etudes sur le Polymorphisme des Micro-Organismes, CEPM/UMR CNRS-IRD 
9926, Institut de Recherches pour le Développement, BP 64501, 34394 Montpellier 
Cédex 5, France.

In all human populations mean life span of women generally exceeds that of men, 
but the extent of this sexual dimorphism varies across different regions of the 
world. Our purpose here is to study, using global demographic and environmental 
data, the general tendency of this variation and local deviations from it. We 
used data on male and female life history traits and environmental conditions 
for 227 countries and autonomous territories; for each country or territory the 
life-span dimorphism was defined as the difference between mean life spans of 
women and men. The general tendency is an increase of life-span dimorphism with 
increasing average male-female life span; this tendency can be explained using a 
demographic model based on the Makeham-Gompertz equation. Roughly, the life-span 
dimorphism increases with the average life span because of an increase in the 
duration of expressing sex- and age-dependent mortality described by the second 
(exponential) term of the Makeham-Gompertz equation. Thus we investigated the 
differences in male and female environmental mortality described by the first 
term of the Makeham-Gompertz equation fitted to the data. The general pattern 
that resulted was an increase in male mortality at the highest and lowest 
latitudes. One plausible explanation is that specific factors tied to extreme 
latitudes influence males more strongly than females. In particular, alcohol 
consumption increases with increasing latitude and, on the contrary, infection 
pressures increase with decreasing latitude. This finding agrees with other 
observations, such as an increase in male mortality excess in Europe and 
Christian countries and an increase in female mortality excess in Asia and 
Muslim countries. An increase in the excess of female mortality may also be due 
to increased maternal mortality caused by an increase in fertility. However, 
this relation is not linear: In regions with the highest fertility (e.g., in 
Africa) the excess of female mortality is smaller than in regions with 
relatively lower fertility (e.g., in Asia). A possible explanation of this 
phenomenon is an evolutionary adaptation of women to the pressures of extremely 
high fertility by means of some reduction of their maternal mortality.

DOI: 10.1353/hub.2004.0061
PMID: 15754977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2005 Mar 8;3:12. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-3-12.

Patient-reported outcome and quality of life instruments database (PROQOLID): 
frequently asked questions.

Emery MP(1), Perrier LL, Acquadro C.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Research Trust, 27 rue de la Villette, 69003 Lyon, France. 
mpemery@mapi.fr

The exponential development of Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO) measures in 
clinical research has led to the creation of the Patient-Reported Outcome and 
Quality of Life Instruments Database (PROQOLID) to facilitate the selection 
process of PRO measures in clinical research. The project was initiated by Mapi 
Research Trust in Lyon, France. Initially called QOLID (Quality of Life 
Instruments Database), the project's purpose was to provide all those involved 
in health care evaluation with a comprehensive and unique source of information 
on PRO and HRQOL measures available through the Internet.PROQOLID currently 
describes more than 470 PRO instruments in a structured format. It is available 
in two levels, non-subscribers and subscribers, at http://www.proqolid.org. The 
first level is free of charge and contains 14 categories of basic useful 
information on the instruments (e.g. author, objective, original language, list 
of existing translations, etc.). The second level provides significantly more 
information about the instruments. It includes review copies of over 350 
original instruments, 120 user manuals and 350 translations. Most are available 
in PDF format. This level is only accessible to annual subscribers. PROQOLID is 
updated in close collaboration with the instruments' authors on a regular basis. 
Fifty or more new instruments are added to the database annually.Today, all of 
the major pharmaceutical companies, prestigious institutions (such as the FDA, 
the NIH's National Cancer Institute, the U.S. Veterans Administration), dozens 
of universities, public institutions and researchers subscribe to PROQOLID on a 
yearly basis. More than 800 users per day routinely visit the database.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-3-12
PMCID: PMC555954
PMID: 15755325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Anadolu Kardiyol Derg. 2005 Mar;5(1):46-52.

[Cardiovascular manifestations and treatment in Marfan syndrome].

[Article in Turkish]

Erentuğ V(1), Polat A, Kirali K, Akinci E, Yakut C.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Cardiovascular Surgery, Koşuyolu Heart Education and Training 
Hospital, Istanbul 81020, Turkey. verentug@kosuyolu.gov.tr

Marfan syndrome is a dominantly inherited connective tissue disease 
characterized by cardiovascular, skeletal and ocular manifestations, which was 
firstly described by Antoine Marfan in 1896. The underlying disorder is a 
mutation, which impairs fibrillin synthesis and is associated with the FBN-1 
gene on the 15th chromosome. Ghent Nosology is used for diagnosis. The 
progressive dilatation of the proximal aorta leading to dissection and rupture 
is the typical feature of the disease. Aortic aneurysm and aortic rupture are 
the lethal complications of the disorder. Increased life expectancy depends on 
the control and the prevention of the cardiovascular complications. The most 
frequent cardiovascular manifestation is the mitral valve involvement. The 
principal pathologic findings on the mitral valve are annular dilatation, 
fibromyxomatous changes of the leaflets and chordae, elongation and rupture of 
chordae and deposition of calcium. Prolapsus occurs in 80% of the cases. 
Elective surgery with optimal timing is associated with increased survival. In 
the follow-up of patients after surgery for aortic aneurysm and dissection, 
serial imaging studies in order to detect a new onset aneurysm or dissection on 
different sites of the aorta are essential.

PMID: 15755703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2005 Feb;38(1):60. doi: 10.1007/s00391-005-0272-3.

Geriatric care at the EU level? How to join?

Rurik I.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-005-0272-3
PMID: 15756488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Lancet. 2005 Mar 5-11;365(9462):819-20.

A crucial time for Afghanistan's fledgling health system.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15756724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Eur J Epidemiol. 2005;20(1):37-47. doi: 10.1007/s10654-004-5192-9.

Association of alcohol consumption to mortality and person-years of life lost in 
Switzerland--measuring the impact of some methodological options.

Gutjahr E(1), Gmel G.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute for the Prevention of Alcohol and Drug Problems (SIPA), 
Lausanne, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: The present study is designed to estimate the health impact of 
alcohol consumption in terms of the number of deaths and person-years of life 
lost (PYLL) in Switzerland. To that end, three hypothetical situations have been 
compared to the current situation used as a reference. The underlying question 
was: how many deaths and person-years of life lost would be avoided if all 
individuals were: (1) non-drinkers, (2) low drinkers only or (3) both (either 
abstainers or low level drinkers)?
METHODS: Etiological fractions of alcohol-related health consequences by age and 
gender were applied to the officially reported numbers of deaths to estimate the 
total number of deaths and PYLL.
RESULTS: Depending upon the hypothetical situation, the estimated number of 
alcohol-related deaths varied between an overall net protective and an overall 
net causal effect: in situation (1), there would occur 730 additional deaths in 
reference to the current situation (+1.2% of the total alcohol-related mortality 
in Switzerland), whereas in situation (2) there would be 3460 deaths less 
(-5.5%). Thus, the current situation in Switzerland would be preferable compared 
to a society, in which no one drinks alcohol. A society, however, in which every 
individual drinks at low levels, would be preferable to the current situation. 
The corresponding figures for PYLL are 23,596 vs. 29,229 (6.4% vs. 7.9% of total 
PYLL).
CONCLUSIONS: The hypothetical situation decisively impacts on the number of 
deaths attributable to alcohol. In contrast, it has much less influence on the 
number of alcohol-related PYLL. Thus, mortality is at least a questionable 
indicator of alcohol-related health outcomes. The study also indicated that more 
lives and PYLL were saved in the low-risk situation than in the abstinence 
situation. Public health policies should not concentrate on the promotion of 
abstinence.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-004-5192-9
PMID: 15756903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Eur J Epidemiol. 2005;20(1):49-57. doi: 10.1007/s10654-004-9557-x.

Contributions of mortality changes by age group and selected causes of death to 
the increase in Japanese life expectancy at birth from 1950 to 2000.

Yoshinaga K(1), Une H.

Author information:
(1)Research Laboratory for Social Medicine, School of Medicine, Fukuoka 
University, Japan. yosinaga@fukuoka-u.ac.jp

The purpose of this study is to analyze contributions of mortality change by age 
group and selected causes of death to the increase in life expectancy at birth 
from 1950 to 2000 in Japan, which has the longest longevity in the world. Using 
mortality data from Japanese vital statistics from 1950 to 2000, we analyzed 
contributions of mortality change by age group and selected causes of death to 
the increase in life expectancy at birth by the method of decomposition of 
changes and calculated age-adjusted death rates for selected causes of death. 
Gastroenteritis, tuberculosis and pneumonia largely contributed to an increase 
in life expectancy in childhood and in the young in the 1950s and 1960s. The 
largest contributing disease changed from tuberculosis and pneumonia in earlier 
decades to cerebrovascular diseases in the 1970s. The largest contributing age 
group also shifted to older age groups. Age-adjusted death rate for 
cerebrovascular diseases in 2000 was one fifth of the 1965 level. 
Cerebrovascular diseases contributed to an increase in life expectancy at birth 
of 2.9 years in males and 3.1 years in females from 1970 to 2000. In the 1990s, 
the largest contributing age group, both among males and among females, was the 
75-84 age group. Of the selected causes of death, heart diseases other than 
ischemic heart disease became the largest contributor to the increase in life 
expectancy at birth. Unlike cerebrovascular diseases, cancer and ischemic heart 
disease contributed little to change in life expectancy at birth over the past 
50 years. In conclusion, although mortality from ischemic heart disease has not 
increased since 1970 and remained low compared with levels in western countries, 
mortality from cerebrovascular diseases has dramatically decreased since the 
mid-1960s in Japan. This gave Japan the longest life expectancy at birth in the 
world. It is necessary to study future trends in life expectancy at birth in 
Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-004-9557-x
PMID: 15756904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Eur J Epidemiol. 2005;20(1):89-101. doi: 10.1007/s10654-004-9478-8.

Validation of a decision model for preventive pharmacological strategies in 
postmenopausal women.

Perreault S(1), Levinton C, Laurier C, Moride Y, Ste-Marie LG, Crott R.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
sylvie.perreault@umontreal.ca

BACKGROUND: Benefits and risks of a combined hormone replacement therapy (HRT) 
based on randomized clinical trial emerged on various disease endpoints in 2002. 
The Women's Health Initiative (WHI) provides an important health answer for 
healthy postmenopausal women, such as do not use combined HRT to prevent chronic 
disease, because of the elevated risk of coronary artery disease (CHD), stroke 
and venous thromboembolism. In March 2004, the NIH stopped the drugs in the 
estrogen-alone trial after finding an increase risk of stroke and no effect, 
neither an increase or a decrease, on risk of CHD after an average of 7 years in 
the trial. On the other hand, raloxifene, which does not seem to significantly 
increase the risk of cardiovascular events and could retain skeletal benefits 
without stimulating endometrial and breast tissue, requires decision-makers 
since no current data on these disease clinical endpoints have been published.
OBJECTIVE: To construct a multi-disease model based on patient-specific risk 
factor profiles, and to validate the multi-disease model with several tools of 
internal and external validities.
METHODS: A Markov state model was developed. The risks of these various diseases 
(including coronary artery disease, stroke, hip fracture and breast cancer) are 
derived from published hazards proportional models which take into account 
significant risk factors. Canadian-specific rates and data sources for these 
transition probabilities are derived from published studies and Canadian Health 
Statistics. The validation of our model were based on several tools of internal 
and external validities, such as Canadian life expectancy, population-based 
incidence rate of diseases, clinical trials and other published life expectancy 
models.
RESULTS: First, presumably, small changes in the lifetime probability of dying 
support the hypothesis that the disease states operate in a largely independent 
fashion. For instance, the difference in the probability of dying from a 
particular disease by the complete elimination of a selected disease, such as 
CHD, stroke or breast cancer, ranged from 0.2 to 2.2% of difference in the 
lifetime probability of dying of these diseases. Second, we demonstrated that 
the model adequately predicted the Canadian population lifetable and 
disease-incidence rates from population-based data among women from 45 to 75 
years old. The predictions of the model were cross-checked from non-source data, 
such as predicted outcomes versus observed outcomes from results of clinical 
trials. Predicted relative risks of CHD event, breast cancer and hip fracture 
fell in the reported 95% confidence interval of clinical trials. Finally, 
predicted treatment benefits are comparable with those of published life 
expectancy models.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study demonstrated that this multi-disease 
model, including coronary artery disease, stroke, hip fracture and breast 
cancer, is a valid model to predict the impact on life expectancy or number of 
events prevented for preventive pharmacological interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-004-9478-8
PMID: 15756909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Hum Biol. 2004 Oct;76(5):667-87. doi: 10.1353/hub.2005.0010.

Reproductive measures, fitness, and migrating Mennonites: an evolutionary 
analysis.

Stevenson JC(1), Everson PM, Grimes M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Western Washington University, Bellingham, WA 
98225-9083, USA.

Given the same reproductive span, more children with shorter interbirth 
intervals and less parental attention per child should not do as well. There 
should be intermediate optima in family sizes, but only two studies have 
demonstrated optima. The goal here is to determine whether the relationship 
between fitness and fertility is linear and whether this relationship masks 
underlying variation in reproductive behaviors in a Mennonite congregation that 
lived in two disease settings, Prussia/Russia vs. Kansas. The relationships 
between children born and fitness were determined by calculating linear and 
quadratic regressions for total, Prussia/Russia vs. Kansas, and families with 
deaths vs. families with no deaths for total, Prussia/Russia, and Kansas. 
Variation was examined in terms of measures of reproductive success and 
reproductive span. Comparisons were made by t tests with Bonferroni correction. 
Regressions demonstrate equally well that the more children women bear, the 
higher the reproductive success, whether in the harsher disease ecology of rural 
Prussia/Russia or in less challenging rural Kansas and whether the women 
experience deaths or not. Prussian/Russian mothers bore significantly more 
