its efficacy over time.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4401(04)80010-x
PMID: 15651494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Popul Trends. 2004 Winter;(118):6-16.

Interim 2003-based national population projections for the United Kingdom and 
constituent countries.

Shaw C(1).

Author information:
(1)Government Actuary's Department, UK.

The 2003-based national population projections, carried out by the Government 
Actuary in consultation with the Registrars General, and using essentially the 
same underlying assumptions as for the previous 2002-based projections, show the 
population of the United Kingdom rising from 59.6 million in 2003, passing 60 
million during 2005, to reach 65.7 million by 2031. Longer-term projections 
suggest the population will peak around 2050 at nearly 67 million and then very 
gradually start to fall. The population will become older with the median age 
expected to rise from 38.4 years in 2003 to 43.3 years by 2031. In 2003, there 
were around 700 thousand (six per cent) more children aged under 16, than people 
of state pensionable age. However, from 2007, the population of pensionable age 
is projected to exceed the number of children.

PMID: 15651576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Apr;60(7):1571-82. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.08.034.

A comparison of generic, indirect utility measures (the HUI2, HUI3, SF-6D, and 
the EQ-5D) and disease-specific instruments (the RAQoL and the HAQ) in 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Marra CA(1), Woolcott JC, Kopec JA, Shojania K, Offer R, Brazier JE, Esdaile JM, 
Anis AH.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, Centre 
for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health Research 
Institute, 717-828 West 10th Ave, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6Z 1Y6. 
cmarra@interchange.ubc.ca

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a common, chronic disease where health-related 
quality of life (HRQL) is one of the main goals of therapy. As such, instruments 
used to measure HRQL in RA must be able to discriminate across RA severity. The 
two basic categories of instruments used to measure HRQL are generic instruments 
and disease-specific instruments. Generic instruments can be further subdivided 
into preference-based measures which yield both single and multi-attribute 
utility values anchored at zero (death) and 1.00 (perfect health) as a measure 
of HRQL. The scores from these types of instruments can be integrated into 
cost-utility analyses as the weightings for quality adjusted life years. We 
assessed the construct validity of utility scores from four generic 
preference-based measures (the Health Utilities Index 2 and 3 (HUI2, HUI3), the 
EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D), and the Short Form 6-D (SF-6D) and disease specific measures 
(the Rheumatoid Arthritis Quality of Life Questionnaire (RAQoL) and the Health 
Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ)) in a sample of 313 RA patients in British 
Columbia, Canada. We also estimated the minimally important differences (MID) 
for each of the measures. Generally, as anticipated, the disease-specific 
measures were better able to discriminate across groups with higher RA severity; 
however, utility scores from each of the scales also appeared to discriminate 
well across RA severity categories. The MID values agreed with those previously 
reported in the literature for the HUI2, SF-6D and the HAQ and provided new 
information for the HUI3, EQ-5D and the RAQoL. We conclude that the all of the 
preference-based utility measures that were evaluated appear to adequately 
discriminate across levels of RA severity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.08.034
PMID: 15652688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. J Biol Chem. 2005 Apr 8;280(14):13560-7. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M414670200. Epub
2005  Jan 14.

SIRT3, a mitochondrial sirtuin deacetylase, regulates mitochondrial function and 
thermogenesis in brown adipocytes.

Shi T(1), Wang F, Stieren E, Tong Q.

Author information:
(1)United States Department of Agriculture/Agricultural Research Service 
Children's Nutrition Research Center, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College 
of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

SIRT3 is one of the seven mammalian sirtuin homologs of the yeast Sir2 gene, 
which mediates the effect of caloric restriction on life span extension in yeast 
and Caenorhabditis elegans. Because adipose tissue is essential in energy 
homeostasis and also plays a role in life span determination, we decided to 
investigate the function of sirtuin members in fat. We report here that murine 
SIRT3 is expressed in brown adipose tissue and is localized on the mitochondria 
inner membrane. Caloric restriction activates SIRT3 expression in both white and 
brown adipose. Additionally, cold exposure up-regulates SIRT3 expression in 
brown fat, whereas elevated climate temperature reduces the expression. Enforced 
expression of SIRT3 in the HIB1B brown adipocytes enhances the expression of the 
uncoupling protein PGC-1alpha, UCP1, and a series of mitochondria-related genes. 
Both ADP-ribosyltransferase and deacetylase activities of SIRT3 are required for 
this action. Furthermore, the SIRT3 deacetylase mutant exhibits a dominant 
negative effect by inhibiting UCP1 expression. This inhibitive effect can be 
abolished by the coexpression of PGC-1alpha, indicating a major role of 
PGC-1alpha in the SIRT3 action. In addition, SIRT3 stimulates CREB 
phosphorylation, which reportedly activates PGC-1alpha promoter directly. 
Functionally, sustained expression of SIRT3 decreases membrane potential and 
reactive oxygen species production while increasing cellular respiration. 
Finally, SIRT3, along with genes related to mitochondrial function, is 
down-regulated in the brown adipose tissue of several genetically obese mice. In 
summary, our results demonstrate that SIRT3 activates mitochondria functions and 
plays an important role in adaptive thermogenesis in brown adipose.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M414670200
PMID: 15653680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Biophys J. 2005 Apr;88(4):2737-44. doi: 10.1529/biophysj.104.052811. Epub
2005  Jan 14.

Single-molecule measurements of the persistence length of double-stranded RNA.

Abels JA(1), Moreno-Herrero F, van der Heijden T, Dekker C, Dekker NH.

Author information:
(1)Kavli Institute of Nanoscience, Faculty of Applied Sciences, Delft University 
of Technology, 2628 CJ Delft, The Netherlands.

Over the past few years, it has become increasingly apparent that 
double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) plays a far greater role in the life cycle of a cell 
than previously expected. Numerous proteins, including helicases, polymerases, 
and nucleases interact specifically with the double helix of dsRNA. To 
understand the detailed nature of these dsRNA-protein interactions, the 
(bio)chemical, electrostatic, and mechanical properties of dsRNA need to be 
fully characterized. We present measurements of the persistence length of dsRNA 
using two different single-molecule techniques: magnetic tweezers and atomic 
force microscopy. We deduce a mean persistence length for long dsRNA molecules 
of 63.8 +/- 0.7 nm from force-extension measurements with the magnetic tweezers. 
We present atomic force microscopy images of dsRNA and demonstrate a new method 
for analyzing these, which yields an independent, yet consistent value of 62 +/- 
2 nm for the persistence length. The introduction of these single-molecule 
techniques for dsRNA analysis opens the way for real-time, quantitative analysis 
of dsRNA-protein interactions.

DOI: 10.1529/biophysj.104.052811
PMCID: PMC1305369
PMID: 15653727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2005 Feb;76(2):234-9. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.2003.031930.

Risk-benefit analysis of the treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms.

Vindlacheruvu RR(1), Mendelow AD, Mitchell P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Newcastle General Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine under what circumstances repair of unruptured 
intracranial aneurysms may be beneficial.
METHODS: A life expectancy analysis of patients with unruptured aneurysms with 
and without repair based on prospective data from the International Study of 
Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms (ISUIA).
RESULTS: Life years are lost at all ages by repairing anterior circulation 
aneurysms under 7 mm in diameter in patients with no history of a subarachnoid 
haemorrhage from another aneurysm (incidental). For all other aneurysms the 
number of life years saved by repair is dependent on the patient's age at the 
time when repair is undertaken. Between 2 and 40 years are saved by repairing 
aneurysms in patients aged 20 years. These benefits fall to 0 when remaining 
life expectancy falls below 15-35 years, corresponding to the age range of 45-70 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: Repair of unruptured aneurysms benefits patients harbouring them by 
improving life expectancy except in certain circumstances. The exceptions are 
patients with remaining life expectancy less than 15-35 years or aged 45-70 
(depending on aneurysm size and location) and patients with aneurysms of the 
anterior circulation under 7 mm in diameter with no history of a previous 
subarachnoid haemorrhage. These results are based on the findings of the ISUIA 
and are dependent on their accuracy.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.2003.031930
PMCID: PMC1739514
PMID: 15654039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Science. 2005 Jan 14;307(5707):208-9; author reply 208-9. doi: 
10.1126/science.307.5707.208.

Inflammation and life-span.

Caruso C, Candore G, Colonna-Romano G, Lio D, Franceschi C.

Comment on
    Science. 2004 Sep 17;305(5691):1736-9.

DOI: 10.1126/science.307.5707.208
PMID: 15655081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Blood Purif. 2004;22 Suppl 2:55-9. doi: 10.1159/000081876.

Preparation of ultrapure dialysate in Japan--clinical usefulness and short-term 
future.

Sato T(1), Kurosawa A, Kurihara T, Kurosawa T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Dialysis, Sumiyoshi Clinic Hospital, Ibaraki, 
Japan. taka.sato48@h8.dion.ne.jp

In 1994, the water quality standard of dialysate and substitution fluid for 
on-line HDF was established by the Kyushu Society for HDF. On the other hand, 
with the widespread use of high-flux membrane, reverse filtration and reverse 
diffusion became evident, and purification of the dialysate has become essential 
even for usual hemodialysis. By using ultrapure dialysate, new blood 
purification methods can be performed, such as internal filtration-enhanced 
hemodialysis, on-line HDF, and on-line HF. As a result, various clinical effects 
have been reported, such as improvement in anemia and in chronic inflammatory 
reactions. Suppression of complications involving long-term dialysis is 
expected, and even the prolongation of life expectancy. By using ultrapure 
dialysate as substitution fluid for saline solution, a fully automated dialysis 
machine has been developed. Furthermore, if fully automated consoles can be made 
smaller in size, they will contribute to the widespread use of home 
hemodialysis.

Copyright (c) 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000081876
PMID: 15655325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Br J Cancer. 2005 Jan 31;92(2):241-5. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602321.

Years of life lost (YLL) from cancer is an important measure of population 
burden--and should be considered when allocating research funds.

Burnet NG(1), Jefferies SJ, Benson RJ, Hunt DP, Treasure FP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, 
Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 2QQ, UK. ngb21@cam.ac.uk

Recently, cancer mortality has been compared to research spending by the 
National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI), whose research budget is 
approximately pound sterling 250 million. The analysis shows a mis-match between 
mortality and research spending. As well as crude mortality rates, other 
measures of cancer burden should be considered because they contribute 
additional information. 'Years of life lost' (YLL) summed over each individual 
dying after a diagnosis of cancer represents a population-based mortality 
indicator of the impact of that disease on society. Years of life lost divided 
by the number of deaths for each cancer site produces an additional statistic, 
the average years of life lost (AYLL), which is a measure of the burden of 
cancer to the individual patient. For 17 cancer sites where data are available, 
four tumour sites have a rather large difference in mortality, comparing YLL to 
crude mortality. Years of life lost shows the population burden from cancers of 
the ovary, cervix, and CNS to be rather larger than suggested by crude 
mortality, despite screening programmes for cervix cancer. Using YLL, the 
underprovision of funding for lung cancer research is similar to that reported 
using percentage mortality. Breast cancer and leukaemia receive a relatively 
higher research spend than the population burden of these cancers, and the 
spending on leukaemia is quite extreme. Prostate cancer has a low per cent YLL 
but attracts a moderate amount of research spending. The use of AYLL as an 
indicator of individual cancer burden considerably changes the ranking of the 
mortality from different tumours. The mean AYLL is 12.5 years. Prostate cancer 
has the lowest AYLL, only 6.1 years; brain tumour patients have the highest, at 
just over 20 years. Comparing AYLL to research spending suggests four 
'Cinderella' cancer sites with high individual cancer burden but low research 
spending: CNS tumours, cervix and kidney cancers, and melanoma. Breast cancer 
and leukaemia have roughly average AYLL but a considerable excess of research 
spending. YLL emphasises the discrepancy between research spending and 
mortality, and may be helpful for decisions concerning research support. Average 
years of life lost measures the burden to individual patients and may be helpful 
where individuals' needs are relevant, such as palliative care. As well as crude 
mortality, more subtle and comprehensive calculations of mortality statistics 
would be useful in debates on research funding and public health issues.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602321
PMCID: PMC2361853
PMID: 15655548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Tech Coloproctol. 2004 Nov;8 Suppl 1:s19-21. doi: 10.1007/s10151-004-0101-5.

Priority of resection in concomitant abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and 
colorectal cancer (CRC): review of the literature and experience of our clinic.

Kiskinis D(1), Spanos C, Melas N, Efthimiopoulos G, Saratzis N, Lazaridis I, 
Gkinis G.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Aristotle University, Papageorgiou General, 
Kalamaria, Thessaloniki 551 33, Greece.

The concomitant occurrence of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and colorectal 
cancer (CRC), although rare, always represents a therapeutic dilemma. The 
incidence of coexistence ranges between 0.49 and 2.1%. Both lesions should be 
treated to achieve best life expectancy. But the main controversy revolves 
around whether to treat them simultaneously or as staged procedures. In our 
institution, we treated seven cases of concomitant AAA and CRC. In five of them, 
synchronous conventional resection was preferred. In the latest two, which we 
present, endovascular aortic repair was chosen. No graft infection was 
documented.

DOI: 10.1007/s10151-004-0101-5
PMID: 15655618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Oncology (Williston Park). 2004 Nov;18(13 Suppl 8):51-5.

Pemetrexed in gastric cancer.

Sobrero A(1), Caprioni F, Fornarini G, Mammoliti S, Comandini D, Baldo S, Decian 
F.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica Ospedale San Martino, Genova, Italy. 
alberto.sobrero@hsanmartino.liguria.it

Gastric cancer is a major clinical challenge, with poor overall prognosis and 
limited life expectancy for patients with advanced disease. Even with surgery 
and other modalities, palliation is often difficult. Improvement of response 
rates has evolved with the development of standard regimens and those 
incorporating newer chemotherapy agents, such as oral fluoropyrimidines, the 
taxanes, camptothecins, novel platinums (eg, oxaliplatin [Eloxatin]), and 
antifolates (eg, pemetrexed [Alimta]). Ongoing trials with these regimens aim 
toward improving survival, as well as improving the safety profile. It is hoped 
that in conjunction with molecular research in the pathogenesis of gastric 
cancer and development of targeted therapies in this disease, these trial data 
might lead to the evolution of treatment strategies that could prove effective.

PMID: 15655938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2004 Sep-Dec;6(3):235-52. doi: 
10.1590/s0124-00642004000300002.

[Trends of mortality caused by infectious diseases in Cartagena de Indias, 
Colombia, 1995-2000: a measure of the epidemiological transition].

[Article in Spanish]

Guzmán NR(1), de la Hoz Restrepo F.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Investigaciones Economicas y Sociales, Facultad de Ciencias 
Económicas, Universidad de Cartagena. nalvis@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: Mortality is a definition of, strictly populational nature, 
different from the concepts of death and decease which reflect the loss of an 
individ ual biological life. Therefore, mortality expresses the dynamics of 
deaths along time and space, and only allows for comparisons at this level. Th 
present study was aimed at describing the tendency of mortality caused b 
infectious diseases in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, during the perio 
1995-2000, with the purpose of evidencing the epidemiological transition.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The databases of the mortality registers of Cartagena de 
Indias between 1995 and 2000 were taken as reference. The im pact of mortality 
was measured by the sum of Years of Potential Life Lost (YPLL) for each group of 
death causes. To adjust for the temporal preference for the assessment of YPLL a 
discount rate of 3% was applied in this study. The computerized GESMOR 
application was used for estimating YPLL, analyzing the mortality reported in 
the registers using the 9th and 10th versions of the International 
Classification of Diseases (ICD) to establish the basic causes of death.
RESULTS: A mean of 3,506 annual deaths occurred during the period studied, 
generating on average 60,311 YPLL, which gives a rate of 71.5 YPLL per 1000 
inhabitants. This represents a 16% increase which can be explained by an 
increase in the number of deaths in the lower age groups. For 1995, there was a 
predominance of group II non-infectious diseases causes (41.9%), followed by 
group I (30.2%). For the year 2000, the proportional distribution of mortality 
between the different groups of causes changed, causes in group I constituting 
the main explanation for causes of YPLL (52.9%). Non-infectious diseases 
occupied the second place (31.2%). These changes can be explained by the 
importance of perinatal causes of death, which increased from 14.2% of YPLL in 
1995 to 32.7% in 2000.
DISCUSSION: It is evident that the greater weight of infectious, maternal, 
perinatal and nutritional diseases, the slower then the national average 
decrease in child mortality rates, the greater load of mortality in the male 
sex, the stability of the group of accidents and injuries at the expense of 
intentional injuries during the period studied, have caused a stagnation of the 
epidemiological transition and the instauration of the prolonged polarized 
model.

DOI: 10.1590/s0124-00642004000300002
PMID: 15656065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Healthc Leadersh Rep. 2004 Nov;12(11):1-11.

World without end? As America's lifespan continues to grow, so does its 
reluctance of facing the inevitable. The healthcare industry is caught in the 
middle.

Lott J(1).

Author information:
(1)Healthcare Association of Southern California, USA. jlott@hasc.org

PMID: 15656154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Surgery. 2004 Dec;136(6):1267-74. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2004.06.057.

Gastric carcinoid tumors in multiple endocrine neoplasia-1 patients with 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome can be symptomatic, demonstrate aggressive growth, 
and require surgical treatment.

Norton JA(1), Melcher ML, Gibril F, Jensen RT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Stanford University Medical Center, 300 Pasteur Drive, 
Stanford, CA 94305-5651, USA.

BACKGROUND: Gastric carcinoid tumors occur in 15% to 50% of patients with 
multiple endocrine neoplasia-1/Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (MEN-1/ZES) but are 
thought to be benign. We report 5 patients with MEN-1/ZES with symptomatic, 
aggressive gastric carcinoid tumors that required surgical procedures.
METHODS: This was a retrospective chart review.
RESULTS: Each patient had MEN-1/ZES. Each patient had innumerable gastric 
carcinoid tumors with symptoms. The fasting gastrin level was 47,000 pg/mL 
(normal, <200 pg/mL); the basal acid output was 79 mEq/hr (n = 3), and the age 
at surgical exploration was 47 +/- 6 years, with a duration of MEN-1 of 21 +/- 3 
years and of ZES of 15 +/- 2 years. All patients had elevated 5-HIAA or 
serotonin levels. Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy showed increased stomach 
uptake in 4 patients (80%). Four patients had a total gastrectomy; 4 patients 
had lymph node metastases removed, and 3 patients had liver metastases resected. 
One patient who did not have a total gastrectomy had liver carcinoid metastases.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that gastric carcinoid tumors in patients 
with longstanding MEN-1/ZES may be symptomatic, aggressive, and metastasize to 
the liver. With increased long-term medical treatment and life expectancy, these 
tumors will become an important determinant of survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2004.06.057
PMID: 15657586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Eur J Hum Genet. 2005 Apr;13(4):401-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201360.

Cascade testing in familial hypercholesterolaemia: how should family members be 
contacted?

Newson AJ(1), Humphries SE.

Author information:
(1)Medical Ethics Unit, Imperial College London, London, UK. 
a.newson@imperial.ac.uk

Cascade testing or screening provides an important mechanism for identifying 
people at risk of a genetic condition. For some autosomal dominant conditions, 
such as familial hpercholesterolaemia (FH), identifying relatives allows for 
significant health-affecting interventions to be administered, which can extend 
a person's life expectancy significantly. However, cascade screening is not 
without ethical implications. In this paper, we examine one ethically 
contentious aspect of cascade screening programmes, namely the alternative 
methods by which relatives of a proband can be contacted. Should the proband be 
invited to contact his or her family members, or should the screening programme 
contact family members directly? We argue that direct contact is an ethically 
justifiable method of contact tracing in cascade screening for FH. Not only has 
this method already been utilised without adverse effects, an examination of the 
ethical arguments against it shows these are unsubstantiated. We describe 
several criteria that, if met, will allow an appropriate balance to be struck 
between maximising the efficiency of family tracing and respecting the interests 
of probands and their relatives.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201360
PMID: 15657617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Dis Colon Rectum. 2004 Dec;47(12):2070-5. doi: 10.1007/s10350-004-0743-4.

Review of survival curves for colorectal cancer.

Platell CF(1), Semmens JB.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery, Fremantle Hospital, Fremantle, Western 
Australia. cplatell@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

PURPOSE: Actuarial and Product Limited (i.e., Kaplan-Meier) estimates of 
survival are commonly used in the literature to describe outcomes in patients 
treated for cancer. Terms such as cancer-specific and cancer-free survival are 
frequently quoted, although often without clear definitions. This study was 
designed to compare survival estimates using the Kaplan-Meier method on the same 
population of patients but using different definitions of what constitutes an 
event. This was to highlight some of the variation that can occur when different 
techniques are used to perform these calculations.
METHODS: Data were obtained from a prospective database that had recorded all 
patients presenting with colorectal cancer from 1996 to 2002. Using this 
information, we calculated the 1) overall (all-cause mortality), 2) 
cancer-specific, 3) cancer-free, 4) recurrence-free, and 5) relative survival 
(and 95 percent confidence intervals) at five years postpresentation.
RESULTS: The study included 497 patients with a mean age of 68 years, and a 
male-to-female ratio of 1.3:1. They were followed for a mean of 2.2 years 
(standard deviation, +/-1.1), with 50 patients (10.1 percent) followed for more 
than five years. The various survivals at five years were: 1) overall survival, 
55.6 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 49.1-62.1 percent), 2) 
cancer-specific survival, 67 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 60.9-73.1 
percent), 3) cancer-free survival, 49.9 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 
43.6-56.2 percent), 4) recurrence-free survival, 43.5 percent (95 percent 
confidence interval, 37.2-49.8 percent), and 5) relative survival, 73.4 percent 
(95 percent confidence interval, 65.4-81.4 percent).
CONCLUSIONS: The five-year survival calculations for this group of patients with 
colorectal cancer varied by as much as 30 percent depending on how the data was 
censored. This highlights that there needs to be a clear and accountable 
definition on how survival curves are calculated and presented in the literature 
to allow for meaningful interpretation and comparisons.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-004-0743-4
PMID: 15657656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Dis Colon Rectum. 2004 Dec;47(12):2120-30. doi: 10.1007/s10350-004-0725-6.

Azathioprine or ileocolic resection for steroid-dependent terminal ileal Crohn's 
disease? A Markov analysis.

Kennedy ED(1), Urbach DR, Krahn MD, Steinhart AH, Cohen Z, McLeod RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Medicine, University of Toronto, the Samuel 
Lunenfield Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study was to determine whether initial 
azathioprine therapy, followed by ileocolic resection if azathioprine fails, or 
initial ileocolic resection without a trial of azathioprine is the preferred 
treatment strategy in steroid-dependent, terminal ileal Crohn's disease.
METHODS: A Markov, decision analytic model was developed to simulate a 36-month 
course for a patient with steroid-dependent, terminal ileal Crohn's disease who 
would initially take azathioprine or have ileocolic resection. Clinically 
important outcomes in the model included side effects and effectiveness of 
azathioprine and postoperative complications, mortality, and recurrence 
following ileocolic resection. The probabilities and utilities for these 
variables were derived from previously published studies.
RESULTS: Initial azathioprine therapy offered a relatively small benefit of 0.45 
quality-adjusted life-months over initial ileocolic resection. The model was 
sensitive to utility for being symptom-free on azathioprine and utility for 
being symptom-free postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS: Initial azathioprine therapy and initial ileocolic resection are 
both reasonable treatment strategies in this setting. The preferred treatment 
strategy is highly dependent on the quality of life that can be achieved with 
each treatment option. Therefore, individual response and symptom control with 
each treatment must be strongly considered in this treatment decision.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-004-0725-6
PMID: 15657664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Aging Cell. 2005 Feb;4(1):13-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00141.x.

Biodemographic analysis of male honey bee mortality.

Rueppell O(1), Fondrk MK, Page RE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, NC 
27402-6170, USA. olav_rueppell@uncg.edu

Biodemographic studies of insects have significantly enhanced our understanding 
of the biology of aging. Eusocial insects have evolved to form different groups 
of colony members that are specialized for particular tasks and highly dependent 
on each other. These different groups (castes and sexes) also differ strongly in 
their life expectancy but relatively little is known about their mortality 
dynamics. In this study we present data on the age-specific flight activity and 
mortality of male honey bees from two different genetic lines that are 
exclusively dedicated to reproduction. We show that males initiating flight at a 
young age experience more flight events during their lifetime. No (negative) 
relation between the age at flight initiation and lifespan exists, as might be 
predicted on the basis of the antagonistic pleiotropy theory of aging. 
Furthermore, we fit our data to different aging models and conclude that overall 
a slight deceleration of the age-dependent mortality increase at advanced ages 
occurs. However, mortality risk increases according to the Gompertz-Makeham 
model when only days with flight activity (active days) are taken into account. 
Our interpretation of the latter is that two mortality components act on honey 
bee males during flight: increasing, age-dependent deaths (possibly from 
wear-and-tear), and age-independent deaths (possibly due to predation). The 
overall mortality curve is caused by the interaction of the distribution of age 
at foraging initiation and the mortality function during the active (flight) 
lifespan.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00141.x
PMCID: PMC2441913
PMID: 15659209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Aging Cell. 2005 Feb;4(1):31-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00140.x.

Stochastic dietary restriction using a Markov-chain feeding protocol elicits 
complex, life history response in medflies.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P, Müller HG, Wang JL, Zhang Y, Harshman L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. 
jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

Lifespan in individually housed medflies (virgins of both sexes) and daily 
reproduction for females were studied following one of 12 dietary restriction 
(DR) treatments in which the availability of high-quality food (yeast-sugar 
mixture) for each fly was based on a Markov chain feeding scheme--a stochastic 
dietary regime which specifies that the future dietary state depends only on the 
present dietary state and not on the path by which the present state was 
achieved. The stochastic treatments consisted of a combination of one of four 
values of a 'discovery' parameter and one of three values of a 'persistence' 
parameter. The results supported the hypotheses that: (i) longevity is extended 
in most medfly cohorts subject to stochastic DR; and (ii) longevity is more 
affected by the patch discovery than the patch persistence parameter. One of the 
main conclusions of the study is that, in combination with the results of 
earlier dietary restriction studies on the medfly, the results reinforce the 
concept that the details of the dietary restriction protocols have a profound 
impact on the sign and magnitude of the longevity extension relative to ad 
libitum cohorts and that a deeper understanding of the effect of food 
restriction on longevity is not possible without an understanding of its effect 
on reproduction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9728.2004.00140.x
PMCID: PMC2398687
PMID: 15659211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2005 Feb;20(2):101-5. doi: 10.1002/gps.1260.

Biomarkers for apoptosis in Alzheimer's disease.

Ankarcrona M(1), Winblad B.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Neurotec, Section of Experimental Geriatrics, Novum, 
Huddinge, Sweden. maria.ankarcrona@neurotec.ki.se

Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects millions of people worldwide and the number of 
AD cases will increase with increased life expectancy. Today there is no cure 
for this devastating and always lethal disease and therefore it is of great 
interest for patients, relatives and societies to find new drugs that can hinder 
the disease process. During the progression of AD a substantial amount of 
neurons degenerate in the brain. The mechanisms of cell death involved in AD 
have not been fully elucidated. However, there are several reports showing that 
neurons die partly by apoptosis in the AD brain. Drugs blocking apoptosis could 
therefore be potentially useful for early prevention of neuronal cell death. 
Biomarkers for apoptosis should be important tools in the evaluation of drug 
effects and in the diagnostics of AD. Here we review the current knowledge in 
the field and discuss potential biomarkers for apoptosis in AD.

2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.1260
PMID: 15660410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(2 Suppl 2):25-36. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-200422002-00004.

The effects of pharmaceutical consumption and obesity on the quality of life in 
the organization of economic cooperation and development (OECD) countries.

Frech HE 3rd(1), Miller RD Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 
93106, USA. frech@econ.ucsb.edu

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to validate our earlier work on life 
expectancy with more recent data and, more importantly, to extend it to examine 
quality of life, not only the length of life.
DESIGN AND SETTING: The analysis focuses on the production of health, 
disaggregating healthcare into pharmaceutical consumption and other healthcare. 
Going beyond our earlier work, measures of health include life expectancy and 
disability-adjusted life expectancy (DALE). Also, we consider the impact of 
obesity. The sample was 18 Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development 
(OECD) countries. The measure of pharmaceutical consumption is the best that is 
available for these countries.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: Confirming our earlier work, pharmaceutical 
consumption has a positive and statistically significant effect on life 
expectancy at 40 and 60 years (significant at the 0.05 level, based on a 
two-tailed test). The effects are slightly larger than in the earlier work. 
Turning to DALE, pharmaceutical consumption has a positive and statistically 
significant effect at birth and at 60 years (significant at the 0.05 and 0.01 
levels, respectively), based on a two-tailed test. The effects on DALE are 
larger than the effects on life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased pharmaceutical consumption helps improve quality of life, 
as well as life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422002-00004
PMID: 15660475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(2 Suppl 2):51-64. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-200422002-00006.

Impediments to the diffusion of innovative medicines in Europe.

Schöffski O(1).

Author information:
(1)Chair for Health Management, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany. 
oliver@schoeffski.de

The pharmaceutical industry has developed many innovative medicines, which are 
able to extend the life expectancy of patients to increase their quality of life 
and often to reduce expenditures in the health care sector as a whole. Although 
these medicines are available in principle for all eligible patients throughout 
Europe, not everyone receives adequate treatment. There is a huge difference 
between a possible optimal treatment and the treatment delivered to the patient. 
In some cases patients are not treated at all; in some cases they only receive 
outdated medicines (e.g. with lower effectiveness and/or more severe side 
effects); and in some cases the prescribed dosages of the innovative drugs are 
too low to be effective. This study gives an overview of the shortfalls in 
provision of state-of-the-art medicines in selected European countries for about 
20 of the most relevant diseases. The following five different groups of factors 
can be identified as leading to this insufficient diffusion of medicines and are 
discussed in this text: (i) patient-related factors; (ii) healthcare 
professional-related factors; (iii) industry-related factors; (iv) 
system-related (long-term) factors; and (v) policy-related (short-term) factors. 
It must be clear that these shortages are not isolated cases but general trends 
in Europe, which have to be discussed in public.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422002-00006
PMID: 15660477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2005 Jan-Feb;39(1-2):44-54. doi: 
10.1080/j.1440-1614.2005.01509.x.

Assessing cost-effectiveness of drug interventions for schizophrenia.

Magnus A(1), Carr V, Mihalopoulos C, Carter R, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Services, Melbourne Vic., Australia. 
anne.magnus@dhs.vic.gov.au

OBJECTIVE: To assess from a health sector perspective the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of eight drug treatment scenarios for established 
schizophrenia.
METHOD: Using a standardized methodology, costs and outcomes are modelled over 
the lifetime of prevalent cases of schizophrenia in Australia in 2000. A 
two-stage approach to assessment of health benefit is used. The first stage 
involves a quantitative analysis based on disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
averted, using best available evidence. The robustness of results is tested 
using probabilistic uncertainty analysis. The second stage involves application 
of 'second filter' criteria (equity, strength of evidence, feasibility and 
acceptability) to allow broader concepts of benefit to be considered.
RESULTS: Replacing oral typicals with risperidone or olanzapine has an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 48,000 Australian dollars and 
92,000 Australian dollars/DALY respectively. Switching from low-dose typicals to 
risperidone has an ICER of 80,000 Australian dollars. Giving risperidone to 
people experiencing side-effects on typicals is more cost-effective at 20,000 
Australian dollars. Giving clozapine to people taking typicals, with the worst 
course of the disorder and either little or clear deterioration, is 
cost-effective at 42,000 Australian dollars or 23,000 Australian dollars/DALY 
respectively. The least cost-effective intervention is to replace risperidone 
with olanzapine at 160,000 Australian dollars/DALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on an 50,000 Australian dollars/DALY threshold, low-dose 
typical neuroleptics are indicated as the treatment of choice for established 
schizophrenia, with risperidone being reserved for those experiencing moderate 
to severe side-effects on typicals. The more expensive olanzapine should only be 
prescribed when risperidone is not clinically indicated. The high cost of 
risperidone and olanzapine relative to modest health gains underlie this 
conclusion. Earlier introduction of clozapine however, would be cost-effective. 
This work is limited by weaknesses in trials (lack of long-term efficacy data, 
quality of life and consumer satisfaction evidence) and the translation of 
effect size into a DALY change. Some stakeholders, including SANE Australia, 
argue the modest health gains reported in the literature do not adequately 
reflect perceptions by patients, clinicians and carers, of improved quality of 
life with these atypicals.

DOI: 10.1080/j.1440-1614.2005.01509.x
PMID: 15660705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Public Health. 2005 Mar;119(3):159-66. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2004.05.018.

Health status and the challenges for prevention in The Netherlands.

Treurniet HF(1), Hoeymans N, Gijsen R, Poos MJ, van Oers JA, Thien WM.

Author information:
(1)Department for Public Health Forecasting, National Institute for Public 
Health and the Environment, PO Box 1, 3720 BA Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
henriette.treurniet@rivm.nl

In 2002, the third Public Health Status and Forecasts report was published, 
containing up-to-date information about Dutch public health and health care. A 
striking finding was that although life expectancy (LE) in The Netherlands 
increased between 1980 and 2000, the LE of men is rising less rapidly than the 
European Union (EU) average. The LE of Dutch women is stagnating and has now 
fallen below the EU average. These and many other unfavourable trends in the 
health status of the Dutch population were found to be largely due to unhealthy 
behaviour. One of the policy recommendations therefore was to strengthen the 
investments in prevention in order to reverse the stagnation in health status. 
In response to the findings, the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport published 
the National Prevention Paper. This Paper states that the Ministry, within the 
existing prevention policy, will pay more attention to healthy behaviour, 
stressing the responsibility of citizens as well as the societal responsibility 
of other parties, such as business communities, schools, health insurers and 
care suppliers. The prevention of specific diseases (diabetes, psychosocial 
problems, heart diseases, cancer, musculosceletal disorders, asthma and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease) has been given priority status. In this article, 
we present the major findings regarding the health status of the Dutch 
population and discuss the implications for prevention policy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2004.05.018
PMID: 15661124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. DNA Repair (Amst). 2005 Mar 2;4(3):351-7. doi: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2004.10.009.

Severe growth retardation and short life span of double-mutant mice lacking Xpa 
and exon 15 of Xpg.

Shiomi N(1), Mori M, Kito S, Harada YN, Tanaka K, Shiomi T.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Radiation Safety, National Institute of Radiological 
Sciences, 4-9-1 Anagawa, Inage-ku, Chiba 263-8555, Japan.

In addition to xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), mutations in the human XPG gene cause 
an early onset of Cockayne syndrome (CS) in some patients (XP-G/CS) with 
characteristics, such as growth retardation and a short life span. In the 
previous studies, we generated four Xpg mutant mice with two different 
C-terminal truncations, null, or a base substitution mutation to identify the 
protein region that causes the onset of CS, and found that the CS-causing 
mutations, null or a deletion of the last 360 amino acids, completely inhibited 
the NER activity of mouse XPG (Xpg), but the non-CS-causing mutations, XpgD811A 
(base substitution that eliminates the nuclease activity of Xpg) or XpgDeltaex15 
(deletion of the exon 15 corresponding to the last 183 amino acids), resulted in 
the retention of residual NER activity. To understand why mutations that 
completely eliminate the NER activity of Xpg cause CS but those that abolish the 
nuclease activity without totally eliminating the NER activity of Xpg do not 
result in CS, we made a series of Xpg mutant mice with Xpa-null mutant allele 
and found that mice with the non-CS-causing deletion mutation (XpgDeltaex15) 
exhibited the CS phenotype when XPA was also absent but the base substitution 
mutation (XpgD811A) that eliminated the Xpg nuclease activity did not. These 
results indicate that Xpg has a second function, beside NER, and that the 
disruption of this second function (deletion of the last 183 amino acids) when 
combined with an NER defect causes CS. When we compared amino acid sequences 
corresponding to the exon 15 of Xpg, a significant homology was conserved among 
vertebrates, but not in Drosophila and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. These 
observations suggest that the second function of XPG may be conserved only in 
vertebrates and CS symptoms may occur in its absence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2004.10.009
PMID: 15661658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Gig Sanit. 2004 Nov-Dec;(6):8-10.

[A problem of health monitoring in preventive medicine].

[Article in Russian]

Zakharchenko MP.

PMID: 15662905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Int J Paediatr Dent. 2005 Jan;15(1):20-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-263X.2005.00599.x.

Hypomineralized molars and incisors of unknown origin: treatment outcome at age 
18 years.

Mejàre I(1), Bergman E, Grindefjord M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Dentistry, Eastman Dental Institute, Stockholm, 
Sweden. ingegerd.mejare.eastman@swipnet.se

OBJECTIVE: To assess the outcome of treatment of hypomineralized molars and 
incisors of unknown aetiology (MIH) in 18-year-olds.
DESIGN: A follow-up study including clinical examination, panoramic radiography 
and intraoral photos.
SAMPLE AND METHOD: Seventy-six individuals treated at the Eastman Dental 
Institute in Stockholm during 1978-2001 with the diagnosis MIH. Severity of 
enamel defects in molars and incisors, prevalence and distribution of extracted 
molars, type, quality and median duration of restorations, periradicular 
condition of affected molars, dental occlusion and space closure in cases of 
extraction, as well as the individual's satisfaction with the treatment, were 
assessed.
RESULTS: Severe defects with enamel surface breakdown in all four molars 
occurred in 42% of the individuals and 29% had at least one incisor with 
yellow/brown opacity in the enamel. At follow up, 42% of the individuals had at 
least one molar extracted; 18% had all four molars extracted. The median 
duration of the molar restorations (n = 153) was 5 years. Of the individuals 
with restored molars, 48% had at least one unacceptable restoration. 
Periradicular pathology was observed in three molars. The sagittal relations did 
not differ between individuals with and without extraction of molars. Space 
closure was acceptable in 87% of the individuals with extracted molars. Eighty 
percent were satisfied with the treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Extraction of molars with severe enamel defects gave good or 
acceptable results in a majority of the patients while conservative restorative 
treatment resulted in a need for additional treatment in approximately half of 
the patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-263X.2005.00599.x
PMID: 15663441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Ther Apher Dial. 2004 Dec;8(6):468-73. doi:
10.1111/j.1774-9987.2004.00192.x.

Renal cell carcinoma detected by screening shows better patient survival than 
that detected following symptoms in dialysis patients.

Ishikawa I(1), Honda R, Yamada Y, Kakuma T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kanazawa Medical 
University, Kahoku, Ishikawa 920-0293, Japan. ishikawa@kanazawa-med.ac.jp

There is an apparent advantage to early or incidental diagnosis of renal cell 
carcinoma in the general population. We investigated whether the prognosis of 
dialysis patients with renal cell carcinoma is better if renal cell carcinoma is 
detected by screening of patients without symptoms rather than by examination 
after the appearance of the symptoms. Two groups in which renal cell carcinomas 
were detected by screening (N = 721) and by symptoms (n = 76) were compared. The 
model tested consisted of patient age and duration of dialysis in addition to 
the detection by screening or symptoms. Cox proportional hazard model was used 
to compare survival rates between the groups. The hazard ratio of death from all 
causes in patients with renal cell carcinoma detection by screening was 0.653 
and the risk of death was reduced by 35%, compared with that in the group with 
detection due to symptoms. Moreover, the 50% survival rate in the group detected 
by symptoms was 80 months and the ratio of those detected by screening was 119 
months. Therefore, screening provided a survival benefit of 39 months (3.3 
years) in death from all causes after adjustment for age and duration of 
dialysis. The survival rate was best in young patients with a short duration of 
dialysis and renal cell carcinoma detected by screening. In dialysis patients 
with renal cell carcinoma, the survival rate in the group detected by screening 
was better than that in the group detected by symptoms. Especially, there was a 
large effect of screening for renal cell carcinoma in the young dialysis 
patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1774-9987.2004.00192.x
PMID: 15663546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Semin Dial. 2005 Jan-Feb;18(1):22-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2005.18105.x.

Should the target hemoglobin for patients with chronic kidney disease treated 
with erythropoietic replacement therapy be changed?

Berns JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Renal, Electrolyte, Hypertension Division, University 
of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 191041, USA. 
bernsj@uphs.upenn.edu

Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO, epoetin) revolutionized the treatment 
of anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) when it was approved for 
use in the United States in 1989. Among dialysis patients, the mean hemoglobin 
(Hb) in patients undergoing dialysis rose from 7-8 g/dl prior to 1989 to 11-12 
g/dl today. Among patients with CKD not on dialysis, epoetin use has not been as 
broadly applied as among dialysis patients, and although the mean Hb level in 
this patient population has increased, the impact has been less than in patients 
on dialysis. The optimal treatment target for epoetin remains controversial. 
Consistent with clinical practice guidelines, current practice in dialysis 
patients in the United States aims to maintain a target Hb of 11-12 g/dl, a 
level that is still well below the normal range. Debate centers on whether the 
current Hb target is too low and whether the target range is too narrow. Quality 
of life clearly improves in many individuals as Hb rises into the normal range 
from lower levels. In retrospective studies, higher Hb levels have been 
associated with lower risks of hospitalization and mortality. However, one 
large, prospective clinical trial has raised concern about normalizing Hb in 
hemodialysis patients with cardiac disease, and other prospective studies have 
not yet provided convincing evidence of significant benefits from normalizing Hb 
in dialysis-dependent and non-dialysis-dependent patients with CKD. A relative 
lack of information on non-dialysis-dependent patients with CKD and changes in 
fiscal policies regulating reimbursement for epoetin have contributed to 
uncertainty as to the best practices for anemia management in patients with CKD. 
There is increasing interest in the potential benefits of broadening the current 
target Hb range or eliminating an upper limit altogether and instead 
establishing a minimum Hb goal. While some extension of the upper limit of the 
currently recommended target Hb range might appear to be reasonable, the extent 
to which this should be extended, the benefits, risks, and costs of maintaining 
higher Hb levels in patients with CKD, and whether target Hb levels should be 
different in different CKD patient groups remains to be determined. Future 
efforts are likely to focus on selecting patient populations most likely to 
benefit from normalizing Hb, while adjusting the range of a subnormal Hb target 
for others.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2005.18105.x
PMID: 15663760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. J Am Coll Surg. 2005 Feb;200(2):270-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2004.09.045.

Are bariatric surgical outcomes worth their cost? A systematic review.

Salem L(1), Jensen CC, Flum DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-6410, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2004.09.045
PMID: 15664103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Br J Ophthalmol. 2005 Feb;89(2):165-8. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2004.046037.

Augmented trabeculectomy in paediatric glaucoma.

Ehrlich R(1), Snir M, Lusky M, Weinberger D, Friling R, Gaton DD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Campus, Petah 
