[The detection of plasmid pCAMBIA1301 in transgenic rice by arrayed primer 
extension].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao XL(1), Yang JB, Jing FX, Zhao JL.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology Chinese Academy 
of Science1 Shanghai, 200050, China. gxl_now@mail.sim.ac.cn

Biochip technology which had emerged from the fusion of biotechnology and 
micro/nanofabrication technology at the end of 1980s has been widely used in 
life science, medicine, clinical diagnosis, drug development, agriculture, 
environmental protection and strategies. DNA microarray (also call gene chip, 
DNA chip), one kind of biochips, is small chip containing many oligonucleotide 
probes. It can hybridize with labelled sample, making it possible to detect 
large numbers of oligonucleotides at one time. So DNA microarray can overcome 
the disadvantage of traditional hybridization technology such as complexity, low 
automation, poor efficiency and quantity of molecules detected. This paper 
describes a new method to detect transgenic plant with gene chip. We have 
developed a novel arrayed-primer extension technique. It combines hybridization 
and PCR in one step, while ordinary DNA microarray needs two separate steps. 
Therefore our method provide a feasibility to detect long DNA fragment .

PMID: 15843358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Mutagenesis. 2005 May;20(3):209-16. doi: 10.1093/mutage/gei027. Epub 2005
Apr  20.

Assessment of the genotoxic potential of nitric oxide-induced guanine lesions by 
in vitro reactions with Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I.

Nakano T(1), Asagoshi K, Terato H, Suzuki T, Ide H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical and Life Sciences, Graduate School of Science, 
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan.

It has been suggested that carcinogenesis associated with chronic inflammation 
involves DNA damage by nitric oxide (NO) and other reactive species secreted 
from macrophages and neutrophils. The guanine moiety of DNA reacts with NO, 
yielding two major deamination products: xanthine (Xan) and oxanine (Oxa). Oxa 
reacts further with polyamines and DNA binding proteins to form cross-link 
adducts. In the present study, we characterized the structure of the cross-link 
adducts of Oxa with spermine (Oxa-Sp). Spectrometric analysis of Oxa-Sp adducts 
showed that they are ring-opened adducts of Oxa covalently bonded to the 
terminal amino (major product) and internal imino (minor product) groups of 
spermine. To assess genotoxic potential, Xan, Oxa, Oxa-Sp and an abasic (AP) 
site were site specifically incorporated into oligonucleotide templates. These 
lesions differentially blocked in vitro DNA synthesis catalyzed by DNA 
polymerase I Klenow fragment (Pol I Kf). The relative efficiency of translesion 
synthesis was G (1) > Oxa (0.19) > Xan (0.12) > AP (0.088) > Oxa-Sp (0.035). 
Primer extension assays with a single nucleotide and Pol I Kf revealed that 
non-mutagenic dCMP was inserted most efficiently opposite Xan and Oxa, with the 
extent of primer elongation being 65% for Xan and 68% for Oxa. However, 
mutagenic nucleotides were also inserted. The extent of primer elongation for 
Xan was 16% with dTMP and 14% with dGMP, whereas that for Oxa was 49% with dTMP. 
For Oxa-Sp, mutagenic dAMP (13%) was preferentially inserted. Accordingly, when 
generated in vivo, Xan and Oxa would constitute moderate blocks to DNA synthesis 
and primarily elicit G:C to A:T transitions when bypassed, whereas Oxa-Sp would 
strongly block DNA synthesis and elicit G:C to T:A transversions.

DOI: 10.1093/mutage/gei027
PMID: 15843389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Ann Rheum Dis. 2005 Nov;64(11):1595-601. doi: 10.1136/ard.2004.034777. Epub
2005  Apr 20.

Cardiovascular admissions and mortality in an inception cohort of patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis with onset in the 1980s and 1990s.

Goodson N(1), Marks J, Lunt M, Symmons D.

Author information:
(1)ARC Epidemiology Unit, Stopford Building, University of Manchester, Oxford 
Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

BACKGROUND: There is increased cardiovascular disease mortality in rheumatoid 
arthritis. This may reflect an increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease or 
an increased case fatality in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
OBJECTIVES: To examine whether rheumatoid patients with disease onset in the 
1980s-1990s have increased mortality, and to compare cardiovascular admission 
rates in rheumatoid patients with those of the general population.
METHODS: An inception cohort of 1010 rheumatoid patients attending Stockport 
rheumatology clinics between 1981 and 1996 was followed up to December 2002 
through the Office for National Statistics. Standardised mortality ratios (SMR) 
were calculated for all-cause and cause specific mortality, using the population 
of Stockport as reference. Cardiovascular disease admission rates were 
ascertained for a subgroup of patients using national hospital episode 
statistics; standardised cardiovascular disease admission rates (SAR) and SMRs 
were calculated for this subgroup.
RESULTS: 470 patients (48%) died during a median follow up of 11.4 years. 
All-cause mortality was increased in men (SMR = 1.45 (95% confidence interval, 
1.22 to 1.71)) and women (SMR = 1.84 (1.64 to 2.05)), as was cardiovascular 
disease mortality in men (SMR = 1.36 (1.04 to 1.75) and women (SMR = 1.93 (1.65 
to 2.26)). No difference in cardiovascular disease admission rates was observed 
in men (SAR 1.20 (0.89 to 1.58) or women (SAR = 1.10 (0.88 to 1.36)), despite 
excess cardiovascular disease mortality in this subgroup.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with rheumatoid arthritis have reduced life expectancy and 
excess cardiovascular disease mortality. Nevertheless, standardised admission 
rates for cardiovascular disease were not raised. This suggests either that 
cardiovascular disease in rheumatoid arthritis has a higher case fatality than 
in the general population or that it often goes unrecognised before the fatal 
event.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2004.034777
PMCID: PMC1755282
PMID: 15843450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. J Laryngol Otol. 2005 Mar;119(3):169-74. doi: 10.1258/0022215053561521.

Treatment considerations for head and neck cancer in the elderly.

Genden EM(1), Rinaldo A, Shaha AR, Clayman GL, Werner JA, Su√°rez C, Ferlito A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA.

As life expectancy increases, surgeons can expect an increasing number of 
geriatric patients. In turn, the number of elderly patients presenting with head 
and neck cancer is likely to increase. Management of this subpopulation has 
become a source of debate because there is a paucity of randomized data 
regarding the effect of age on treatment response and morbidity associated with 
the treatment of head and neck cancer. The management of head and neck cancer in 
the elderly depends on the patient's age and general condition, the stage of 
disease, the effects of treatment on quality of life (such as speech and 
swallowing), patient and family wishes, and active physician participation in 
continued care. Elderly patient's comorbid conditions need appropriate attention 
especially if surgery is to be undertaken. The aim of this review is to examine 
the current literature in an attempt to develop an approach to the treatment of 
the elderly patient with head and neck cancer and to define the pertinent issues 
that require further study.

DOI: 10.1258/0022215053561521
PMID: 15845185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Hum Reprod. 2005 May;20(5):1430; author reply 1430-1. doi: 
10.1093/humrep/deh752.

Ethics of assisted reproduction for HIV concordant couples.

Taylor GP.

Comment on
    Hum Reprod. 2004 Nov;19(11):2454-6.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deh752
PMID: 15845603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. J Endocrinol. 2005 May;185(2):207-22. doi: 10.1677/joe.1.05847.

Postmenopausal hormone therapy: from monkey glands to transdermal patches.

Davis SR(1), Dinatale I, Rivera-Woll L, Davison S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (CECS), Monash University, Victoria, Australia. 
Susan.Davis@med.monash.edu.au

The climacteric is not a condition of the modern age, although with increased 
life expectancy over the centuries, more women will experience this 
physiological transition. As women are living longer there is a greater 
expectation that good health will be maintained through to the late decade. Thus 
the potential long-term adverse health consequences of using hormonal therapies 
(HTs) to alleviate menopausal symptoms are of considerable concern for women and 
medical practitioners. This concern is often the basis for a decision whether or 
not to use HT. We have reviewed the history of knowledge of the menopause and 
the development of HT for the treatment of climacteric complaints. We have also 
summarised the current evidence for specific benefits and risks of HT. Data 
indicate that postmenopausal HT is appropriate for the management of vasomotor 
symptoms, but that HT should not be prescribed for the prevention of 
cardiovascular disease or dementia. HT does prevent bone loss and osteoporotic 
fracture; however, use for this purpose remains controversial. The risk of 
breast cancer with HT varies according to the preparation used, such that 
oestrogen without concurrent progestin appears to convey little, or possibly 
even no significant breast cancer risk. There is insufficient information 
regarding the long-term use of non-oral HT, low-dose HT or novel compounds such 
as tibolone or the selective oestrogen receptor modulators with respect to 
breast cancer and cardiovascular risk for specific recommendations to be made.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.1.05847
PMID: 15845914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. BMJ. 2005 Apr 23;330(7497):954-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.330.7497.954.

Who needs health care--the well or the sick?

Heath I(1).

Author information:
(1)Caversham Group Practice, London NW5 2UP. iona.heath@dsl.pipex.com

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 4;330(7503):1330-1.
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 4;330(7503):1331-2.
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 4;330(7503):1331.
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 4;330(7503):1331.
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 4;330(7503):1331.

Shifting drug spending from the worried well in developed countries to those 
with treatable disease in poorer nations will benefit the health of everyone

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.330.7497.954
PMCID: PMC556345
PMID: 15845979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. BMJ. 2005 Apr 23;330(7497):963; discussion 964-5. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.330.7497.963-a.

Managing chronic diseases: end of life is more than death.

White P.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2005 Mar 19;330(7492):611-2.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.330.7497.963-a
PMCID: PMC556376
PMID: 15845984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2005 Apr;192(4):1153-61. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2004.10.600.

Routine hepatitis C virus screening in pregnancy: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Plunkett BA(1), Grobman WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether routine hepatitis 
C virus screening in pregnancy is cost-effective.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision tree with Markov analysis was developed to compare 3 
approaches to asymptomatic hepatitis C virus infection in low-risk pregnant 
women: (1) no hepatitis C virus screening, (2) hepatitis C virus screening and 
subsequent treatment for progressive disease, and (3) hepatitis C virus 
screening, subsequent treatment for progressive disease, and elective cesarean 
delivery to avert perinatal transmission. Lifetime costs and quality-adjusted 
life years were evaluated for mother and child.
RESULTS: In our base case, hepatitis C virus screening and subsequent treatment 
of progressive disease was dominated (more costly and less effective) by no 
screening, with an incremental cost of 108 US dollars and a decreased 
incremental effectiveness of 0.00011 quality-adjusted life years. When compared 
with no screening, the marginal cost and effectiveness of screening, treatment, 
and cesarean delivery was 117 US dollars and 0.00010 quality-adjusted life 
years, respectively, which yields a cost-effectiveness ratio of 1,170,000 US 
dollars per quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: The screening of asymptomatic pregnant women for hepatitis C virus 
infection is not cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2004.10.600
PMID: 15846195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Nature. 2005 Apr 21;434(7036):987-94. doi: 10.1038/nature03483.

Molecular mechanisms of kinetochore capture by spindle microtubules.

Tanaka K(1), Mukae N, Dewar H, van Breugel M, James EK, Prescott AR, Antony C, 
Tanaka TU.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, Wellcome Trust Biocentre, 
Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

For high-fidelity chromosome segregation, kinetochores must be properly captured 
by spindle microtubules, but the mechanisms underlying initial kinetochore 
capture have remained elusive. Here we visualized individual 
kinetochore-microtubule interactions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by regulating 
the activity of a centromere. Kinetochores are captured by the side of 
microtubules extending from spindle poles, and are subsequently transported 
poleward along them. The microtubule extension from spindle poles requires 
microtubule plus-end-tracking proteins and the Ran GDP/GTP exchange factor. 
Distinct kinetochore components are used for kinetochore capture by microtubules 
and for ensuring subsequent sister kinetochore bi-orientation on the spindle. 
Kar3, a kinesin-14 family member, is one of the regulators that promote 
transport of captured kinetochores along microtubules. During such transport, 
kinetochores ensure that they do not slide off their associated microtubules by 
facilitating the conversion of microtubule dynamics from shrinkage to growth at 
the plus ends. This conversion is promoted by the transport of Stu2 from the 
captured kinetochores to the plus ends of microtubules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature03483
PMID: 15846338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Isr Med Assoc J. 2005 Apr;7(4):252-6.

Cardiovascular disease prevention and treatment in patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus.

Magen E(1), Elbirt D, Sthoeger Z.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Immunology, Allergy and Neve-Or AIDS Center, Kaplan Medical Center, 
Rehovot, Israel.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy has dramatically improved the quality of 
life and life expectancy of patients with human immunodeficiency virus. However, 
the prolonged use of HAART leads to severe metabolic adverse events. Both HIV 
infection and HAART can cause changes in lipid and glucose metabolism as well as 
elevation of blood pressure, promoting the development of atherosclerosis. 
Cardiovascular diseases have become a major cause of mortality among 
HIV-infected subjects who respond well to antiretroviral therapy. Nevertheless, 
a proper lifestyle and pharmacologic intervention can improve cardiovascular 
risk factors in the HIV-treated population and significantly reduce healthcare 
investments in the treatment of future cardiovascular complications in this 
population. In this review we summarize the current knowledge of CVD prevention 
and treatment in HIV patients.

PMID: 15847207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Arch Esp Urol. 2005 Mar;58(2):115-9. doi: 10.4321/s0004-06142005000200004.

[Adrenal carcinoma: 7 year disease free survival after complete primary tumor 
resection and repeated resection of local-regional and distant recurrences. 
Review after one case with poor initial life expectancy].

[Article in Spanish]

Ram√≠rez Plaza CP(1), Santoyo Santoyo J, Dom√≠nguez L√≥pez ME, Eloy-Garc√≠a Carrasco 
C, Cobo Dols M, Su√°rez Mu√±oz MA, Fern√°ndez Aguilar JL, de la Fuente Perucho A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirug√≠a General y Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Regional 
Universitario de M√°laga Carlos Haya, M√°laga, Espa√±a. cprptot@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: We report the case of a female patient with adrenal carcinoma who 
had undergone surgery and presented with local-regional and distant recurrences, 
emphasizing the importance of the aggressive surgical treatment to achieve 
long-term survival which is unexpected sometimes. Currently, it represents the 
gold standard and all cases should be reported to stimulate other groups to work 
in this line.
METHODS/RESULTS: We report the case of a 29-year-old female patient who 
consulted for left flank pain, being diagnosed of an adrenal tumor by 
radiological tests; she underwent surgical excision of a left adrenal carcinoma 
(stage II). Later on she presented with local-regional recurrences (2 times) and 
distant metastases (liver) undergoing excision in three procedures. Currently, 
the patient is alive and free of disease 7 years after diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Adrenal cancer recurrences have been considered lethal in the 
short-term. Nevertheless, an aggressive surgical approach of local recurrences 
and metastasic disease may significantly prolong patient's survival and, 
sometimes, leave the patient disease free several years after the diagnosis of 
the primary tumor.

DOI: 10.4321/s0004-06142005000200004
PMID: 15847268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Am J Hum Biol. 2005 May-Jun;17(3):341-54. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20124.

Body mass index and old-age survival: a comparative study between the Union Army 
Records and the NHANES-I Epidemiological Follow-Up Sample.

Su D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and The Center for Population Economics, The 
University of Chicago GSB, 5807 S. Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60637, 
USA. dsu@cpe.uchicago.edu

On the basis of a historical review of the BMI trend among white male Americans 
since the late 19th century, this paper investigates the association between BMI 
measured at age 50-59 years and survival in the subsequent 18 years of follow-up 
through a comparative study between the Union Army Records (n = 1,238) and the 
1971-1975 National Health and Nutritional Examination Survey Epidemiological 
Follow-up Sample (n = 861). A descriptive analysis of the trend in BMI suggests 
that the age-adjusted average BMI among adult white males has increased from 
22.8 in the late 19th century to 28.0 in the year of 2000. The corresponding 
increase in the age-adjusted percentage of obesity is from 2.5% to 28.2%. Given 
the significant increase in BMI, it becomes important to evaluate how the 
BMI-mortality association has changed since the 19th century, and what 
implications these changes might have to mortality in the future. The results 
from the Cox proportional hazard analysis indicate that as the average BMI at 
population level increases, the optimal BMI in terms of survival increases, 
rather than stable. With the whole American population moving into a higher BMI 
regime, the optimal BMI in terms of old-age survival for white male Americans 
has experienced a substantial upward shift, from 20.6-23.6 in the late 19th 
century to 22.7-27.3 in the early 1970s. Mortality differentials across BMI 
quintiles have become more salient since the late 19th century. There is still 
good potential for old-age mortality to further decline. However, to what extent 
this potential can be developed will partially depend on the future trend in the 
prevalence of obesity.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20124
PMID: 15849698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Am J Hematol. 2005 May;79(1):36-42. doi: 10.1002/ajh.20339.

Prevalence and risk factors for heart disease among males with hemophilia.

Kulkarni R(1), Soucie JM, Evatt BL; Hemophilia Surveillance System Project 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Human Development, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, Michigan, USA.

There have been conflicting reports in the literature about the protective 
effect of hemophilia on the occurrence of ischemic heart disease (IHD). 
Circulatory disease has been reported as the second most common cause of death 
in persons with hemophilia in the United States. In addition to diabetes and 
hypertension, high levels of FVIII, as may occur during factor concentrate 
infusions, may increase IHD risk in this population. To estimate the prevalence 
of heart disease and examine factors associated with IHD and other heart 
diseases among persons with hemophilia, we analyzed data collected from the 
medical records of 3,422 males with hemophilia living in six U.S. states from 
1993 to 1998. Heart disease cases were ascertained from among 2,075 persons who 
were hospitalized at least once during the 6-year period. Of these, 48 were 
diagnosed with IHD and 106, with other types of heart disease. The age-specific 
prevalence of IHD ranged from 0.05% in those under 30 years to 15.2% in those 60 
years or older. Hospital discharge rates in males with hemophilia with IHD and 
other types of heart disease were lower compared to rates in age-matched U.S. 
males. In our cohort, as in the general population, IHD was independently 
associated with age, hypertension, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia. Other heart 
diseases were associated with HIV infection, hypertension, hemophilia B, and 
diabetes. In summary, persons with hemophilia have unique risk factors such as 
infusion of factor concentrates and infection with HIV that may predispose them 
to heart disease as their life expectancy increases.

2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.20339
PMID: 15849761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Rev Cubana Med Trop. 2002 May-Aug;54(2):127-33.

[Studies on preadult and adult forms of Anopheles nu√±eztovari (D√≠ptera: 
Culicidae) Gabaldon 1940 in an originally malarial area in M√©rida state, 
Venezuela].

[Article in Spanish]

Rojas JE(1), Milano MS, Avila IG.

Author information:
(1)Direcci√≥n de Malariolog√≠a y Saneamiento Ambiental, Venezuela.

Pre-adult and adult forms of Anopheles nu√±eztovari were studied and some 
variables of larval breeding from females captured and fed on human bait were 
described. The production of adult anopheles was 46,5% together with sufficient 
number of larvae to carry out any bioassay for studies of antilarval methods. 
The entomological evaluation of adults revealed that Anohpheles nu√±eztovari 
predominance was 65% over other anopheles existing in the area, with a 
blood-sucking activity covering the whole night while peaks are reached near 
midnight. Average bite habit was set at 22,7 mosquitoes per man-hour and the 
highest average of bites (40,4%) occur at 10 to 11pm; the life expectancy at 
birth of 12 days and infestivity of 7 days are values compatible with Plasmodium 
transmission. The blood-sucking habit of this species also showed that 56,3% of 
females rest at home before biting whereas 32% of anopheles remained home with 
full stomach after biting, which indicates an important change in this vector's 
behaviour in the studied area.

PMID: 15849939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Biomed Sci Instrum. 2005;41:19-24.

Analysis of stiffness reduction in varying curvature ankle foot orthoses.

Braund M(1), Kroontje D, Brooks J, Self B, Aaron G, Bearden K.

Author information:
(1)United States Airforce Academy, USA.

Ankle foot orthoses (AFO) are often used for patients who cannot generate a 
strong enough extension moment at the knee to allow functional gait. Orthotists 
often cut out portions of the AFO around the malleoli in order to improve 
comfort. There has been some question as to how this affects the stress 
distribution around the orthosis, the fatigue performance of the device, and the 
AFOs stiffness. To examine this, three orthoses were constructed with differing 
curvatures cut out of the malleolar regions. Photoelastic coatings were placed 
on the most stiff and least stiff orthoses, and the stress distributions while 
wearing the device were examined. A fixture was created to test the orthosis, 
and the stress distribution while loaded in the fixture closely matched the 
distribution with actual wear. These orthoses were then tested in fatigue for 
500,000 cycles at 5 Hz in displacement control. Initial displacements were set 
to provide maximum loads of 45 lbs. The displacement settings for the stiffest 
orthosis were 0.4 to 0.6 inches of deflection; the load decreased from 44 lbs to 
28 lbs after the final cycle. The least stiff displacement varied from 1.3 to 
1.5 inches, and the load value changed from 46 lbs to 35 lbs. The data will be 
useful in guiding orthotists in building AFOs, particularly when shaving 
portions of the AFO for comfort. Excessive shaving may seriously degrade the 
performance of the device, especially after longer life cycles.

PMID: 15850076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 2005 May;72(5):343-50. doi: 
10.1016/j.plefa.2005.01.002.

A defect in the activity of Delta6 and Delta5 desaturases may be a factor 
predisposing to the development of insulin resistance syndrome.

Das UN(1).

Author information:
(1)UND Life Sciences, 1083 Main Street, Walpole, MA 02081, USA. 
undurti@hotmail.com

GLUT-4 (glucose transporter) receptor, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), 
interleukins-6 (IL-6), daf-genes and PPARs (peroxisomal proliferation activator 
receptors) play a role in the development of insulin resistance syndrome and 
associated conditions. But, the exact interaction between these 
molecules/factors and the mechanism(s) by which they produce insulin resistance 
syndrome is not clear. I propose that a defect in the activity of the enzymes 
Delta6 and Delta5 desaturases that are essential for the formation of long chain 
metabolites of essential fatty acids, linoleic acid and alpha-linolenic acid, is 
a factor in the development of insulin resistance syndrome. Long chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs) increase cell membrane fluidity and 
enhance the number of insulin receptors and the affinity of insulin to its 
receptors; suppress TNF-alpha, IL-6, macrophage migration inhibitory factor 
(MIF) and leptin synthesis; increase the number of GLUT-4 receptors, serve as 
endogenous ligands of PPARs, modify lipolysis, and regulate the balance between 
pro- and anti-oxidants, and thus, play a critical role in the pathogenesis of 
insulin resistance. In the nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, the protein encoded 
by daf-2 is 35% identical to the human insulin receptor; daf-7 codes a 
transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) type signal and daf-16 enhances 
superoxide dismutase (SOD) expression. Melatonin has anti-oxidant actions 
similar to daf-16, TGF-beta and SOD. Calorie restriction enhances the activity 
of Delta6 and Delta5 desaturases, melatonin production, decreases daf-2 
signaling, free radical generation, and augments anti-oxidant defenses that may 
explain the beneficial effect of diet control in the management of obesity, 
insulin resistance, and type II diabetes mellitus. These evidences suggest that 
the activities of Delta6 and Delta5 enzymes play a critical role in the 
expression and regulation of GLUT-4, TNF-alpha, IL-6, MIF, daf-genes, melatonin, 
and leptin by modulating the synthesis and tissue concentrations of LCPUFAs. 
Caloric restriction delays ageing by activating Sir 2 deacetylase in yeast, and 
expression of Sir 2 (SIRT1) in human cells. Both insulin and insulin-like growth 
factor-1 (IGF-1) attenuated this response. SIRT1 sequesters the proapoptotic 
factor Bax, prevents stress-induced apoptosis of cells, and thus, prolongs 
survival. In addition, SIRT1 repressed PPAR-gamma, and overexpression of SIRT1 
attenuated adipogenesis, and upregulation of SIRT in differentiated fat cells 
triggered lipolysis and loss of fat, events that are known to attenuate insulin 
resistance and prolong life span. It remains to be seen whether LCPUFAs have a 
regulatory role in SIRT1 expression and control Sir 2 deacetylase activity. 
Thus, calorie restriction or reduced food intake has a role not only in the 
pathobiology of insulin resistance, but also in other associated conditions such 
as obesity, type II diabetes mellitus, ageing, and longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plefa.2005.01.002
PMID: 15850715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Prev Med. 2005 Jun;40(6):712-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.09.012.

A simple lifestyle score predicts survival in healthy elderly men.

Spencer CA(1), Jamrozik K, Norman PE, Lawrence-Brown M.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Western Australia, Clifton St, 
Nedlands, Western Australia 6907, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Although improvements in life expectancy have been attributed in 
part to the adoption of a more prudent lifestyle, few studies have examined the 
association of lifestyle with survival, using several lifestyle factors 
simultaneously, in a healthy elderly population.
METHODS: We investigated the association of health related behaviors with 
mortality in 7989 men aged 65 to 83 years participating in a population-based 
trial in Perth, Western Australia, by calculating a lifestyle score as a simple 
tally of how many of eight prudent behaviors each individual followed.
RESULTS: Invitations to screening produced a corrected response of 70.5%. Out of 
a possible score of 8, 46% of men had a score of less than 5. Within 5 years, a 
total of 703 men (9%) had died from any cause. The hazard ratio in men with a 
low lifestyle score was 1.3 [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.1-1.5] compared 
with men with a score of 5 or more.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifestyle remains an important predictor of mortality even in old 
age. Survival in older men without a history of cardiovascular disease can 
potentially be enhanced by promoting a healthy lifestyle.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.09.012
PMID: 15850869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Heart Rhythm. 2005 Mar;2(3):270-5. doi: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2004.12.021.

Cost-effectiveness of physiologic pacing: results of the Canadian Health 
Economic Assessment of Physiologic Pacing.

O'Brien BJ(1), Blackhouse G, Goeree R, Healey JS, Roberts RS, Gent M, Connolly 
SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Heart Rhythm. 2005 Mar;2(3):276.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
physiologic pacemakers.
BACKGROUND: The Canadian Trial of Physiologic Pacing (CTOPP) was a large 
randomized trial that evaluated the efficacy of physiologic pacing compared with 
ventricular pacing. CTOPP also included a prospective cost-effectiveness 
substudy.
METHODS: Resource usage and costs were collected from a subset of 472 patients 
(of 1,094) who received a physiologic pacemaker and 586 (of 1,474) who received 
a ventricular pacemaker. Costs included initial pacemaker implantation and all 
health care follow-up costs over a follow-up of 5.2 years. Costs are reported in 
2004 Canadian dollars (1 Canadian dollar = 0.76 US dollars), with adjustments 
for censoring. Incremental cost-effectiveness was estimated as the ratio of the 
difference (treatment-control) in mean cost to the difference in life expectancy 
(mean survival), with costs and effects discounted at 3% per year.
RESULTS: Over a mean follow-up of 3.1 years, physiologic pacing was associated 
with a gain of 0.01 life-years. This benefit increases to 0.25 life-years in the 
subgroup of patients with an intrinsic (unpaced) heart rate < or =60 bpm. 
Physiologic pacing was more expensive than ventricular (16,833 Canadian dollars 
vs 13,857 US dollars), largely because of the increased cost of dual-chamber 
devices. Among all substudy patients, the incremental cost-effectiveness of 
physiologic pacing is 297,600 Canadian dollars per life-year gained; however, 
this value falls to 16,343 Canadian dollars in patients with an intrinsic heart 
rate >60.
CONCLUSIONS: In the short term, a strategy of routine implantation of 
physiologic pacemakers is not cost-effective by currently accepted standards. 
The selective use of these devices in patients likely to be pacemaker dependent 
appears to be cost-effective. Further studies with longer follow-up and which 
consider the benefit of reducing nonfatal cardiac events would be valuable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2004.12.021
PMID: 15851317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Acad Med. 2005 May;80(5):484-8. doi: 10.1097/00001888-200505000-00017.

Medical students' knowledge of the U.S. health care system and their preferences 
for curricular change: a national survey.

Agrawal JR(1), Huebner J, Hedgecock J, Sehgal AR, Jung P, Simon SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
jagrawal@partners.org

PURPOSE: To measure medical students' knowledge of central issues in the U.S. 
health care system and to understand their perception of the importance and 
quality of health policy curricula at their medical schools.
METHOD: A questionnaire was developed using facts from recent national and 
international health reports to test students' knowledge of health policy. The 
instrument, containing 14 questions about health policy and four questions about 
school curriculum on health policy, was mailed to a national probability sample 
of 516 first-year and 847 fourth-year students in the United States. Chi-square 
and t tests were used to compare the responses of first- and fourth-year 
students.
RESULTS: A total of 295 first-year (57%) and 475 fourth-year students (56%) 
responded. Nearly all respondents were aware of the adverse health consequences 
for the uninsured, but 40% of first- and fourth-year students underestimated the 
numbers of uninsured in the United States. Thirty-two percent of respondents 
incorrectly answered that the United States had the highest life expectancy of 
any nation, and 27% were not aware that the United States has the highest health 
cost per-person of any nation. First- and fourth-year students performed 
similarly on knowledge questions. Ninety-six percent of respondents felt that 
knowledge of health policy is important to their career, and 54% expressed 
dissatisfaction with the health policy curriculum in medical school.
CONCLUSION: Medical students have significant gaps in knowledge concerning the 
U.S. health care system. Most students perceive that these deficiencies are not 
adequately addressed in the medical school curriculum.

DOI: 10.1097/00001888-200505000-00017
PMID: 15851463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Aging Phys Act. 2004 Oct;12(4):511-24. doi: 10.1123/japa.12.4.511.

Leg-extension strength and chair-rise performance in elderly women with 
Parkinson's disease.

P√§√§suke M(1), Ereline J, Gapeyeva H, Joost K, M√µttus K, Taba P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Exercise Biology and Physiotherapy, University of Tartu, 51014 
Tartu, Estonia.

The lower extremity performance in elderly female patients with mild to moderate 
Parkinson's disease (PD; n = 12) and controls (n = 16) was compared. Isometric 
dynamometry and force-plate measurements were used. PD patients had lower (p < 
.05) bilateral (BL) maximal isometric leg-extension force (MF), BL isometric MF 
relative to body mass, and maximal rate of isometric force development than 
control participants. BL strength deficit was greater (p < .05) in PD patients 
than in controls. A significantly longer chair-rise time and lower maximal rate 
of vertical-ground-reaction-force development while rising from a chair was 
found in PD patients than in controls. These findings suggest that elderly women 
with PD have lowered voluntary isometric force-generation capacity of the 
leg-extensor muscles. Reduced BL leg-extension strength might contribute to the 
difficulty of individuals with PD to rise from a chair.

DOI: 10.1123/japa.12.4.511
PMID: 15851823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2005 May 1;39(1):69-77. doi: 
10.1097/01.qai.0000160406.08924.a2.

Cost-effectiveness of enfuvirtide in treatment-experienced patients with 
advanced HIV disease.

Sax PE(1), Losina E, Weinstein MC, Paltiel AD, Goldie SJ, Muccio TM, Kimmel AD, 
Zhang H, Freedberg KA, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease and the Partners AIDS Research Center, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
psax@partners.org

OBJECTIVE: Enfuvirtide (ENF) has been shown to improve short-term virologic 
responses when given to highly treatment-experienced patients with advanced HIV 
disease. Because of the high cost of ENF compared with other antiretroviral 
agents, our objectives were to determine the potential long-term clinical impact 
and cost-effectiveness of ENF in these patients.
METHODS: We used a computer simulation model of HIV disease to project life 
expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, cost, and cost-effectiveness of 
ENF in treatment-experienced patients. Input data were from the T-20 versus 
Optimized Regimen Only (TORO) 1 and 2 trials, 2 studies comparing ENF plus an 
optimized background regimen (OBR) with an OBR alone.
RESULTS: ENF plus an OBR increased projected discounted quality-adjusted life 
expectancy from 45.4 months with an OBR alone to 54.9 months, a difference of 
9.5 quality-adjusted life-months. At the current annual ENF cost of US 18,500 
dollars per year (in 2001 US dollars), the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
for ENF plus an OBR was US 69,500 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
compared with an OBR alone. When 48-week virologic suppression rates for ENF 
plus an OBR were varied from a 50% reduction to a 250% increase in the 
suppression rate attributable to ENF, gains in quality-adjusted life expectancy 
ranged from 4.5 to 25.9 quality-adjusted life-months compared with an OBR alone, 
with cost-effectiveness ratios ranging from US 97,900 dollars per QALY to US 
52,300 dollars per QALY gained. If ENF is continued after the HIV RNA level 
returns to the pretreatment baseline, the cost-effectiveness ratio increases to 
US 168,200 dollars per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In highly treatment-experienced patients, ENF plus an OBR provides 
substantial gains in quality-adjusted life expectancy compared with an OBR 
alone. Although ENF plus an OBR is less cost-effective than other commonly used 
interventions in HIV disease, its use may be justified, given the poor prognosis 
of these patients and their otherwise limited options for antiretroviral 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.qai.0000160406.08924.a2
PMID: 15851916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Int J Obes (Lond). 2005 Aug;29(8):975-82. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0802947.

Cost-effectiveness of orlistat for the treatment of overweight and obese 
patients in Ireland.

Lacey LA(1), Wolf A, O'shea D, Erny S, Ruof J.

Author information:
(1)Lacey Solutions Ltd, Dublin, Ireland. loretto@laceysolutions.ie

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of orlistat plus a 
calorie-controlled diet compared with a calorie-controlled diet alone for the 
treatment of overweight and obese patients in Ireland.
DESIGN: Economic modelling techniques using published international efficacy 
data and Irish cost data were used to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
orlistat in obese patients when only responders to treatment (ie achieve 5% 
weight loss after 3 months of treatment) continue orlistat after 3 months. The 
model incorporated known relationships between weight loss and quality of life 
(utility) gain, and weight loss and reduction in risk of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) 
to predict the impact of weight loss on quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs) 
gained and on the onset of T2DM. The costs associated with each treatment arm 
included the acquisition cost of orlistat, cost of a calorie-controlled dietary 
programme and monitoring and treatment costs associated with T2DM. An Irish 
health-care perspective was taken for the analysis, based on 2003 costs.
SUBJECTS: Weight loss data on 1386 patients from five pivotal orlistat clinical 
trials with at least 12 months duration were pooled (two American and three 
primarily European studies). All the studies were randomized, 
placebo-controlled, multicentre trials with a similar design. The inclusion 
criteria were BMI > or =28 kg / m(2), age > or =18 y, no diagnosed T2DM and the 
ability to lose 2.5 kg in weight during the introductory period.
MEASUREMENTS: Cost effectiveness was modelled from these data and presented as 
incremental cost per QALY.
RESULTS: When orlistat treatment plus a calorie-controlled diet was compared 
with a calorie-controlled diet alone, the incremental cost per year was euro 
478. The number needed to treat (NNT) to gain one QALY was estimated to be 35. 
The incremental cost per QALY gained was within the range considered 
cost-effective at euro 16,954. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated an incremental 
cost per QALY of euro 11,000-35,000 under a variety of assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model suggests that orlistat is effective and cost-effective in 
obese patients, if after 3 months of treatment, only treatment responders 
continue treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0802947
PMID: 15852050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Ultraschall Med. 2005 Apr;26(2):94-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-867133.

[Gleanings--(what does Asklepios mean? No mythology of ancient medicine].

[Article in German]

K√∂hlmeier M.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-867133
PMID: 15852182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Rays. 2004 Oct-Dec;29(4):407-11.

Preoperative assessment and risk factors in the surgical treatment of lung 
cancer: the role of age.

Onder G(1), D'Arco C, Fusco D, Bernabei R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Gerontologiche, Geriatriche e Fisiatriche, Centro 
Medicina dell'Invecchiamento Universit√† Cattolica Sacro Cuore, Policlinico "A. 
Gemelli", Roma, Italy. graziano_onder@rm.unicatt.it

The incidence of lung cancer in the elderly is increasing in Western countries. 
This disease represents the second leading cause of cancer death in this age 
group and it is also responsible for a substantial increment in morbidity and 
health care costs. Several studies suggested that age per se should not be 
considered a risk factor for surgical mortality and morbidity in lung cancer 
patients and access to surgical treatment should not be denied only on the basis 
of age. Indeed, advanced age may represent an indicator of several factors such 
as comorbidity or poor physical performance which in turn can increase surgical 
risk and dramatically reduce life expectancy. Therefore, a careful preoperative 
assessment of these factors, with particular regard to comorbid conditions (such 
as cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases or secondary malignancy) is necessary 
in older adults. In consideration of the need of a multidisciplinary assessment 
to identify comorbidities and operative risk a close collaboration between 
pneumologists, radiologists, oncologists, thoracic surgeons, anesthesiologists, 
cardiologists, geriatric specialists, physical therapists is highly recommended.

PMID: 15852727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Fogorv Sz. 2005 Feb;98(1):21-5.

[Use of questionnaires in screening for risk factors in the dental care of 
elderly patients].

[Article in Hungarian]

Koz√°k L(1), Abr√°m E, Kivovics P.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Fogorvos-tudom√°nyi Kar, Fogp√≥tl√°stani Klinika, Budapest.

The medical and dental history is one of the crucial part of the routine dental 
practice. According to a survey performed in 2001 27% of the total Hungarian 
population was above the age of 60. The prognosis forecasts an increasing 
tendency in life expectancy and an even higher percentage of elderly population 
in the foreseeable future. Due to the increasing life expectancy the risk for 
complications of common dental treatments is also increasing. More care and 
attention should be paid to anticipate the occurrence of sudden complications 
during dental treatment that might also be a life threatening condition. In 1941 
the American Dental Association drew up a questionnaire based on the risk groups 
established by the American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA). In 1993 K.J.M. 
de Jong et al. presented the results of their experience with the clinical 
application of these questionnaires. Based on their studies the Dental Working 
Group of the Health Committee of the European Council recommended the European 
application of this questionnaire. The major objective of our investigation was 
to evaluate how this questionnaire--developed by ASA--can assist the proper 
registration of the medical history in dental practice. Our survey also 
investigated how the risk groups distributed among the subjects. The data of 207 
randomly selected individuals from the patient pool of the Dental Faculty of 
Semmelweis University were processed. The data of risk groups distribution is 
outlined here: ASAI:35,8%, ASAII:24%, ASAIII:17%, ASAIV:23,2%. In the age group 
60+ the following distributions were obtained: ASAI:20,9%, ASAII:13,2%, 
ASAIII:24,2%, and ASAIV:41,7%. The results of this survey also confirmed that 
the occurrence of ASAIII and ASAIV risk scores increased in the age of 60+. 
Consequently the number of patients whose treatment plan should be modified due 
to health risk factors is also increasing. It can be stated that the ASA 
classification is appropriate to inform the dentist about the general physical 
status and health problems of the patients that may influence the dental 
treatment.

PMID: 15853200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Expert Rev Neurother. 2004 Jul;4(4):633-40. doi: 10.1586/14737175.4.4.633.

Metastases to the brain: current management perspectives.

Nathoo N(1), Toms SA, Barnett GH.

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumor Institute, Department of Neurosurgery, Taussig Cancer Center, The 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. nathoon@ccf.org

Brain metastases are ten-times more common than primary brain tumors and are a 
common complication in patients with systemic cancer. The most common sources of 
brain metastases are lung and breast cancers, although in 15% of patients, the 
primary site is unknown. Optimal treatment is dependant upon tumor location, 
size, number of tumors and status of the systemic disease. Currently, management 
of brain metastases with surgery, radiotherapy and stereotactic radiosurgery is 
known to improve the quality of life and even life expectancy for selected 
patients. Techniques under investigation include focal radiation techniques, 
magnetic resonance imaging guided thermal ablation of metastases, drug delivery 
modes that bypass the blood-brain barrier and novel drug and molecular 
therapeutics. Efforts are ongoing to understand the molecular biology of brain 
metastases.

DOI: 10.1586/14737175.4.4.633
PMID: 15853582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2005 Mar;3(2):271-84. doi:
10.1586/14779072.3.2.271.

Mitral regurgitation: overview of current surgical techniques and future 
developments.

Mantovani V(1), Sala A.

Author information:
(1)University of Insubria, Department of Cardiac Surgery, Ospedale di 
Circolo-Fondazione Macchi, Viale Borri 57, 21100 Varese, Italy. 
vitmantovani@hotmail.com

Mitral regurgitation is a complex disease with many different etiologies, 
underlying dysfunctions and histologic alterations. Surgical correction of this 
condition dramatically improves the life expectancy and life quality of affected 
patients. The structure of the mitral valve lends itself to many surgical 
techniques. The purpose of this review is to offer readers an overview on this 
subject.

DOI: 10.1586/14779072.3.2.271
PMID: 15853601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Curr HIV Res. 2005 Apr;3(2):133-45. doi: 10.2174/1570162053506964.

Inpatient care of the HIV infected patient in the highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART) era.

Pulvirenti JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Cook County Hospital, 637 South Wood Street, 
Durand Building, Chicago, IL, USA. joseph.pulvirenti@hektoen.org

The inpatient presentation of the HIV infected patient has changed over the 
years. From the early years when patients presented with accumulating 
opportunistic infections that led to an early demise to the HAART era with 
reports of dramatic decreases in opportunistic infections and improvements in 
life expectancy, the evolution of inpatient HIV care has been a challenge to the 
clinician. In the HAART era the presentation of the HIV inpatient has 
diversified and in many ways is more challenging than the management of the HIV 
inpatient in the pre-HAART era. We will discuss the changing dynamics of HIV 
inpatient care from socioeconomic changes to changes in the presentation and 
reasons for hospitalization.

DOI: 10.2174/1570162053506964
PMID: 15853719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2005 Jun;20(6):1103-9. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfh802.
Epub  2005 Apr 26.

Cost-effectiveness of irbesartan in diabetic nephropathy: a systematic review of 
published studies.

Palmer AJ(1), Tucker DM, Valentine WJ, Roze S, Gabriel S, Cordonnier DJ.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, B√ºndtenmattstrasse 40, 4102 Binningen, 
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2005 Jun;20(6):1038-41.

BACKGROUND: To review published studies on the cost-effectiveness of the use of 
irbesartan for treatment of advance overt nephropathy in patients with type 2 
diabetes and hypertension.
METHODS: Articles were identified based on a search of the PubMed databases 
using the keywords 'irbesartan', 'ESRD', 'cost-effectiveness', 'nephropathy' and 
'costs', and by personal communication with the authors. Only studies published 
in the last 10 years were included. All costs data from the cost-effectiveness 
studies were inflated to 2003 Euros using published governmental conversion 
tables.
RESULTS: Seven published studies were identified, spanning the following country 
settings: the US, Belgium and France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Spain, and the 
UK. In each, the same pharmacoeconomic model was adapted using country-specific 
data to project and evaluate the clinical and cost outcomes of the treatment 
arms of the Irbesartan in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT) (irbesartan, 
amlodipine or standard blood pressure control). Mean time to onset of ESRD was 
8.23 years for irbesartan, 6.82 years for amlodipine and 6.88 years for the 
control (values were the same for Belgium, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy and 
Spain as transition probabilities for progression to ESRD were all derived from 
the IDNT). Mean cumulative incidence of ESRD was 36% with irbesartan, 49% with 
amlodipine and 45% with control treatment. Treatment with irbesartan was 
projected to improve life expectancy compared to both amlodipine and control in 
all seven published studies. Analysis of total lifetime costs showed that 
irbesartan treatment was cost saving compared to the other two treatment 
