Author information:
(1)Sociedad Española de Nutrición Comunitaria.

In the last 20 years, Public Health Nutrition focused mainly on the qualitative 
aspects which may influence the onset of chronic diseases, quality of life, 
physical and mental performance and life expectancy. This applied knowledge 
organised as part of preventive and health promotion programs led to the 
development of Community Nutrition. The aim of Community Nutrition actions is to 
adequate lifestyles related to food consumption patterns in order to improve the 
quality of life and contribute to health promotion of the population in the 
community where programs and services are delivered. Key functions to develop in 
a Community Nutrition Unit consist in the identification and assessment of 
nutrition problems in the community as well as the design, implementation and 
evaluation of intervention programs by means of appropriate strategies. These 
should aim at different populations groups and settings, such as work places, 
schools, high risk groups or the general public. Nowadays, Community Nutrition 
work efforts should focus on three main aspects: nutrition education in schools 
and in the community; food safety and food security and the development and 
reinforcement of food preparation skills across all age groups. Social catering 
services, either in schools, the work place or at the community level, need to 
ensure adequate nutritional supply, provide foods contributing to healthy eating 
practices as well as to enhance culinary traditions and social learning. Food 
safety and food security have become a top priority in Public Health. The 
concepts referes to the availability of food safe and adequate as well as in 
sufficient amount in order to satisfy nutrition requirements of all individuals 
in the community. Social changes along new scientific developments will 
introduce new demands in Community Nutrition work and individual dietary 
counselling will become a key strategy. In order to face new challenges, 
community nutrition pactitioners require a high quality profesional training.

PMID: 15584466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2004;188(3):491-505; discussion 505-6.

[Sickle cell disease in childhood in 2004].

[Article in French]

Girot R(1), Bégué P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie, Hôpital Tenon 4, rue de la Chine, 75020 Paris.

Sickle cell disease is a genetic autosomal recessive disease of hemoglobin. The 
disease results from a mutation of the sixth codon of the beta-globin gene, 
which induces the synthesis of an abnormal hemoglobin called hemoglobin S (HbS). 
The polymerisation of deoxy HbS molecules causes a chronic hemolytic anemia and 
vaso-occlusive phenomena. The disease affects mainly people from West Indies and 
Sub Saharan Africa. Due to recent movements of these populations over the past 
years, sickle cell disease has spread across all continents. Painful crises, 
severe infections such as septicemia, meningitis, osteomyelytis, acute anemia 
episodes, and severe vaso-occlusive events, mainly neurological, are the most 
frequent complications affecting children. Recent progresses in the care of 
patients have deeply modified the prognosis. The mean life expectancy of 
patients is now above 40 years. The conventional treatment includes antibiotics 
and immunizations, analgesics, and blood transfusion. The effects of chronic 
blood transfusion, hydroxyurea and bone marrow transplantation are the subject 
of current comparative evaluations.

PMID: 15584658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Respir Care Clin N Am. 2004 Dec;10(4):563-79. doi:
10.1016/j.rcc.2004.06.004.

Living lobar lung transplantation.

Bowdish ME(1), Barr ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Southern California and 
Childrens Hospital Los Angeles, 1520 San Pablo Street, Suite 4300, Los Angeles, 
CA 90033, USA.

A constant awareness of the risk to the living donors must be maintained with 
any live-donor organ transplantation program, and comprehensive short- and 
long-term follow-up should be strongly encouraged to maintain the viability of 
these potentially life-saving programs. There has been no perioperative or 
long-term mortality following lobectomy for living lobar lung transplantation, 
and in the authors' series the perioperative risks associated with donor 
lobectomy are similar to those seen with standard lung resection. These risks 
might increase if the procedure were offered on an occasional basis and not 
within a well-established program. Further long-term outcome data, similar to 
data for live-donor renal and liver transplantation, are needed. Therefore, the 
authors still favor performing living lobar lung transplantation only for the 
patient with a clinically deteriorating condition. They believe that prospective 
donors should be informed of the morbidity associated with donor lobectomy and 
the potential for mortality, as well of potential recipient outcomes in regard 
to life expectancy and quality of life after transplantation. A major question 
regarding lobar lung transplantation that has been unanswered during the last 
decade has been defining when a potential recipient is too ill to justify 
placing two healthy donors at risk of donor lobectomy. Recipient age, gender, 
indication for primary transplant, prehospitalization status, preoperative 
steroid usage, relationship of donor to recipient, and the presence or absence 
of rejection episodes postoperatively do not seem to influence overall 
mortality. Patients receiving mechanical ventilation preoperatively and those 
undergoing retransplantation after either a previous cadaveric or lobar lung 
transplantation have significantly elevated odds ratios for postoperative death. 
The authors therefore recommend caution in these subgroups of patients. This 
experience is similar to the cadaveric experience in which intubated patients 
have higher I-year mortalities and patients undergoing retransplantation have 
decreased 3- and 5-year survival. A similar experience with a smaller number of 
lobar transplants has been reported by the Washington University group. Despite 
the high-risk patient population, this alternative procedure has been life 
saving in severely ill patients who would die or become unsuitable recipients 
before a cadaveric organ becomes available. Although cadaveric transplantation 
is preferable because of the risk to the donors, living lobar lung 
transplantation should continue to be used under properly selected 
circumstances. Although there have been no deaths in the donor cohort, a risk of 
death between 0.5% and 1% should be quoted pending further data. These 
encouraging results are important if this procedure is to be considered as an 
option at more pulmonary transplant centers in view of the institutional, 
regional, and intra- and international differences in the philosophical and 
ethical acceptance of the use of organs from live donors for transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rcc.2004.06.004
PMID: 15585183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Environ Values. 1999 Aug;8(3):287-323. doi: 10.3197/096327199129341842.

The moral status of beings who are not persons: a casuistic argument.

Wetlesen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, University of Oslo, 0315 Oslo, Norway. 
jon.wetlesen@filosofi.uio.no

This paper addresses the question: Who or what can have a moral status in the 
sense that we have direct moral duties to them? It argues for a biocentric 
answer which ascribes inherent moral status value to all individual living 
organisms. This position must be defended against an anthropocentric position. 
The argument from marginal cases propounded by Tom Regan and Peter Singer for 
this purpose is criticised as defective, and a different argument is proposed. 
The biocentric position developed here is related to that of Albert Schweitzer 
and Paul F. Taylor, but rejects their assumption of equal inherent value for all 
living organisms. It argues instead for equal moral status value for moral 
persons and agents, and gradual moral status value for nonpersons, depending on 
their degree of similarity with moral persons. Mary Ann Warren's recent book on 
Moral Status is also discussed. The argument is constructed as a casuistic 
argument, proceeding by analogical extension from persons to nonpersons. The 
meta-ethical question of its pragmatic validity is discussed.

DOI: 10.3197/096327199129341842
PMID: 15586461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Med Care. 2004 Nov;42(11):1125-31. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200411000-00012.

A comparison of four indirect methods of assessing utility values in rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Marra CA(1), Esdaile JM, Guh D, Kopec JA, Brazier JE, Koehler BE, Chalmers A, 
Anis AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Utility scores can be assessed indirectly using preference-based 
instruments and used as weightings for quality-adjusted life years in economic 
analyses. It is not clear whether available instruments yield similar results or 
what domains of health are contributing to the overall score in a sample of 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
SUBJECTS: Our study included 313 individuals with rheumatologist-confirmed RA.
MEASURES: A self-completed survey that permitted scoring of 4 indirect utility 
instruments (the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 and 3 (HUI-2 and HUI-3), the 
EuroQoL (EQ-5D), and the Short Form 6D (SF-6D) was the basis of our study.
RESULTS: Mean (standard deviation) global utility scores were 0.63 (0.24) for 
the SF-6D, 0.66 (0.13) for the EQ-5D, 0.71 (0.19) for the HUI-2, and 0.53 (0.29) 
for the HUI-3 (P = 0.02 by repeated-measures analysis of variance). The 
intraclass correlation across all the indices was 0.67 (95% confidence interval 
0.62-0.71). Bland-Altman plots revealed that agreement among instruments was 
poor at lower utility values. In this elderly RA sample, all of the global 
utilities mostly measured functional ability and pain.
CONCLUSIONS: There are significant differences in utilities obtained from 
different indirect methods. Agreement among the instruments was moderate but 
poorer at lower utilities. It is unlikely that these utility values, if used as 
the weightings for quality-adjusted life years, would result in comparable 
estimates.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200411000-00012
PMID: 15586840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Med Care. 2004 Nov;42(11):1132-42. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200411000-00013.

A randomized multicenter trial to evaluate simple utility elicitation techniques 
in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Schünemann HJ(1), Armstrong D, Degl'innocenti A, Wiklund I, Fallone CA, Tanser 
L, Van Zanten SV, Heels-Ansdell D, El-Dika S, Chiba N, Barkun AN, Austin P, 
Guyatt GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 
University at Buffalo, State University of New York, Buffalo, New York, USA. 
schuneh@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Despite recommendations that patients rating their own health using 
utility and preference measures such as the feeling thermometer (FT) and 
standard gamble (SG) should also rate hypothetical marker states, little 
evidence supports marker state use. We evaluated whether the administration of 
marker states improves measurement properties of the FT and SG.
METHODS: We randomized 217 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease to 
complete the FT (self-administered) and SG with marker states (FT+ / SG+, n = 
112) or without marker states (FT- / SG-, n = 105) before and after 4 weeks of 
treatment with a proton pump inhibitor, esomeprazole. Patients also completed 
other health-related quality of life instruments.
RESULTS: The use of marker states did not influence baseline utility scores (FT+ 
0.66, FT- 0.68; SG+ 0.77, SG- 0.78, on a scale from 0 [dead] to 1.0 [full 
health]). Improvement after therapy was 0.21 in FT+ and 0.15 in FT- (both P < 
0.001; difference between FT+ and FT- = 0.06, P = 0.02). Improvement in SG+ was 
0.07 (P < 0.001) and 0.06 in SG- (P = 0.003) (difference between SG+ and SG- = 
0.01, P = 0.63). Correlations with other health-related quality of life scores 
were generally stronger, with some statistically significant differences in 
correlations, for FT+ compared with FT-, but tended to be weaker for SG+ 
compared with SG-.
CONCLUSION: The administration of marker states improved the responsiveness and 
validity of the FT but not of the SG. Decisions about administering marker 
states should depend on whether the FT and SG is of primary interest and the 
importance of optimal validity and responsiveness relative to competing 
objectives such as efficiency.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200411000-00013
PMID: 15586841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. New Atlantis. 2004 Winter;4:37-42.

Methuselah and us.

Schaub D(1).

Author information:
(1)Loyola College, Maryland, USA.

PMID: 15586963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. New Atlantis. 2004 Winter;4:42-6.

Restless souls.

Lawler PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Berry College, USA.

PMID: 15586964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. New Atlantis. 2004 Winter;4:48-65.

Imagining the future.

Levin Y(1).

Author information:
(1)The New Atlantis, Ethics and Public Policy Center, 1015 Fifteenth Street, 
N.W., Suite 900, Washington, DC 20005, USA.

PMID: 15586965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2004 Oct 12;53(5):1-115.

Deaths: final data for 2002.

Kochanek KD(1), Murphy SL, Anderson RN, Scott C.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, National Center For Health Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics, 
Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2002 data on U.S. deaths and death rates 
according to demographic and medical characteristics such as age, sex, Hispanic 
origin, race, marital status, educational attainment, injury at work, State of 
residence, and cause of death. Trends and patterns in general mortality, life 
expectancy, and infant and maternal mortality are also described. A previous 
report presented preliminary mortality data for 2002.
METHODS: In 2002 a total of 2,443,387 deaths were reported in the United States. 
This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on the 
death certificates. Funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, 
and coroners complete death certificates. Original records are filed in the 
State registration offices. Statistical information is compiled into a national 
database through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the National Center 
for Health Statistics (NCHS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Causes 
of death are processed in accordance with the International Classification of 
Diseases Tenth Revision (ICD-10).
RESULTS: The age-adjusted death rate for the United States in 2002 was 845.3 
deaths per 100,000 standard population, representing a decrease of 1.1 percent 
from the 2001 rate and a record-low historical figure. Life expectancy at birth 
rose by 0.1-year to a record high of 77.3 years. Considering all deaths, 
age-specific death rates rose only for those under 1 year, and declined for a 
number of age groups including those 1-4 years, 25-34 years, 55-64 years, 65-74 
years, 75-84 years, and 85 years and over. The 15 leading causes of death in 
2002 remained the same as in 2001. Heart disease and cancer continued to be the 
leading and second leading causes of death, together accounting for over half of 
all deaths. The infant mortality rate in 2002 increased to 7.0 compared with a 
rate of 6.8 in 2001.
CONCLUSIONS: Generally, mortality patterns in 2002 were consistent with 
long-term trends. Life expectancy in 2002 increased again to a new record level. 
The age-adjusted death rate declined to a record low historical figure. However, 
the infant mortality rate increased in 2002. The infant mortality rate has 
either decreased or remained level each successive year through 2001 since 1958. 
Trends for homicide and injury at work were interrupted due to the terrorist 
deaths that occurred September 11, 2001. The homicide rate decreased 
significantly from 2001 to 2002 and dropped to the 14th leading cause of death. 
Deaths due to injury at work also declined significantly during this period.

PMID: 15587328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. N Z Bioeth J. 2002 Jun;3(2):22-6.

Revisiting the fair innings argument.

Dunlop W(1).

Author information:
(1)Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.

Debate regarding the 'fair inning argument' has not always focused on that 
argument's most plausible formulation. The aim of this paper is to make 
substantial progress toward stating that argument in its most plausible form. 
Only when this is done can we confidently assess the fair innings argument.

PMID: 15587495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. J Health Econ. 2004 Jul;23(4):695-735. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.09.006.

Biases from omitted risk effects in standard gamble utilities.

Pope R(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for European Integration Studies (ZEI), University of Bonn, Walter 
Flex Strasse 3, D-53113 Bonn, Germany. robin.pope@uni-bonn.de

Utilities elicited under the "probability equivalence" version of the standard 
gamble procedure systematically exaggerate the utility increments of expensive 
health interventions that bring the recipient towards full health. Switching to 
the alternative "certainty equivalence" version would introduce the reverse 
bias. The biases arise from anticipated pre- and post-decision risk effects that 
expected utility theory omits. To include these risk effects, partition the 
future by changes in knowledge into: (1) pre-choice periods; (2) the pre-outcome 
future before the chosen act's outcome becomes known; and (3) the more distant 
post-outcome future, when that outcome will have become known.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.09.006
PMID: 15587695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. J Health Econ. 2004 Jul;23(4):737-59. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.11.001.

An economic analysis of life expectancy by gender with application to the United 
States.

Leung MC(1), Zhang J, Zhang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Decision Sciences and Managerial Economics, Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong.

This paper presents an economic model to explain the behavior of life expectancy 
of both sexes. It explicitly examines the relationship between the gender gap in 
life expectancy and the gender gap in pay. It shows that as the latter narrows 
over the course of economic development, the former may initially expand but 
will eventually shrink. Simulation results from our model accord with the 
behavior of life expectancy for both sexes since the 1940s in the United States.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2003.11.001
PMID: 15587696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Rejuvenation Res. 2004 Fall;7(3):165-7. doi: 10.1089/rej.2004.7.165.

Three self-evident life-extension truths.

de Grey AD.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2004.7.165
PMID: 15588515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Bone. 2004 Dec;35(6):1240-6. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2004.07.016.

Effect of aging on the toughness of human cortical bone: evaluation by R-curves.

Nalla RK(1), Kruzic JJ, Kinney JH, Ritchie RO.

Author information:
(1)Materials Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 
University of California, Berkeley CA 94720, USA.

Age-related deterioration of the fracture properties of bone, coupled with 
increased life expectancy, is responsible for increasing incidence of bone 
fracture in the elderly, and hence, an understanding of how its fracture 
properties degrade with age is essential. The present study describes ex vivo 
fracture experiments to quantitatively assess the effect of aging on the 
fracture toughness properties of human cortical bone in the longitudinal 
direction. Because cortical bone exhibits rising crack-growth resistance with 
crack extension, unlike most previous studies, the toughness is evaluated in 
terms of resistance-curve (R-curve) behavior, measured for bone taken from wide 
range of age groups (34-99 years). Using this approach, both the ex vivo 
crack-initiation and crack-growth toughness are determined and are found to 
deteriorate with age; the initiation toughness decreases some 40% over 6 decades 
from 40 to 100 years, while the growth toughness is effectively eliminated over 
the same age range. The reduction in crack-growth toughness is considered to be 
associated primarily with a degradation in the degree of extrinsic toughening, 
in particular, involving crack bridging in the wake of the crack.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2004.07.016
PMID: 15589205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Int J Cardiol. 2004 Dec;97 Suppl 1:103-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ijcard.2004.08.014.

What is new in the Marfan syndrome?

Nollen GJ(1), Mulder BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Academic Medical Center, Room B2-240, Meibergdreef 
9, Amsterdam 1105 AZ, The Netherlands.

The Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder of connective tissue, 
caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene on chromosome 15. More than 500 mutations 
have been identified and almost all are unique to an affected individual or 
family. Genotype--phenotype correlations in the Marfan syndrome have been 
complicated by the large number of unique mutations reported, as well as by 
clinical heterogeneity among individuals with the same mutation. A relatively 
unknown cardiovascular manifestation of Marfan syndrome is dilatation of the 
main pulmonary artery. Of 50 patients with Marfan syndrome, MR imaging showed in 
74% patients an enlarged pulmonary artery root above the upper limit of normal. 
Aortic elasticity determined by measurement of local distensibility and flow 
wave velocity with MR imaging is decreased in non-operated patients with Marfan 
syndrome. Aortic distensibility of the thoracic descending aorta appeared to be 
the strongest predictor for descending aortic complications. Over the past 30 
years improvement of diagnostic modalities and aggressive medical and surgical 
therapy, have resulted in considerable improvement of life expectancy of 
patients with Marfan syndrome. Further studies are needed to investigate the 
role of modulating genes and genotype--phenotype correlations. Long-term 
follow-up studies may reveal the prognostic significance of aortic elasticity 
and may identify patients at risk of aortic complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2004.08.014
PMID: 15590086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Haematologica. 2004 Dec;89(12):1468-75.

Clinical significance of soluble p53 protein in B-cell chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia.

Del Principe MI(1), Del Poeta G, Venditti A, Buccisano F, Maurillo L, Marini R, 
Cox MC, Panetta P, Suppo G, Degan M, Bruno A, Gattei V, Amadori S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Università Tor Vergata, Ospedale S.Eugenio, Rome, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: p53 status and CD38 antigen are biological factors 
influencing response to therapy and clinical course in B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). This study tests the hypothesis that soluble p53 
alone and in association with CD38 can enucleate B-CLL subsets at worse 
prognosis.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Wild and mutant forms of p53 protein were evaluated in 197 
B-CLL patients at diagnosis or before progression by an immunoenzymatic method 
in plasma using an anti-p53 monoclonal antibody. CD38 expression was analyzed by 
a multicolor flow cytometric assay.
RESULTS: Higher levels of both soluble p53 (sp53) and CD38 were significantly 
correlated with intermediate and high Rai stages, with higher 
beta2-microglobulin and soluble CD23 values, determined at diagnosis. Shorter 
overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were both observed in 
sp53+ and CD38+ patients (p<0.0001). Simultaneous positivity or negativity for 
sp53 and CD38 identified two subsets of patients, the former with a worse 
prognosis and the latter with a better prognosis with regard to PFS (p<0.0001) 
and OS (p<0.0001). The predictive value of sp53 and CD38 was retained among the 
patients within the intermediate Rai risk group.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: sp53 and CD38 together with ZAP-70 were 
confirmed to be independent prognostic factors in multivariate analysis. With 
regard to PFS, ZAP-70, sp53 and CD38 were confirmed to be independent prognostic 
factors. Concerning OS, ZAP-70, CD38 and age (< or > 60 years) were independent 
prognostic factors whereas sp53 showed only a tendency towards statistical 
significance.

PMID: 15590397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Haematologica. 2004 Dec;89(12):1484-91.

Phase II study of fludarabine and alpha-interferon in patients with low-grade 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Morris GJ(1), Millenson MM, Padavic-Shaller K, Wang H, Rogatko A, Clyde J, Boyd 
RL, Yeslow G, Halbherr T, Schilder RJ, Smith MR.

Author information:
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, 333 Cottman Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) remains 
incurable with standard dose chemotherapy. Nucleoside analogs such as 
fludarabine are effective, but even when used as initial therapy, the median 
duration of remission ranges from only 16 to 24 months. Interferon (IFN) is also 
active and has been investigated both by incorporating it into the chemotherapy 
regimen and/or as maintenance therapy, where it may prolong remission. We 
designed a phase II trial of alternating fludarabine and IFNalpha2a to determine 
response rate, time to progression and toxicity of this regimen in patients with 
advanced stage low-grade NHL or mantle cell lymphoma.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Patients had received 0-2 prior regimens that did not 
include nucleoside analogs or IFN and had adequate organ function. Fludarabine 
was administered intravenously at 25 mg/m2/day for 5 days once every 6 weeks 
with IFN in weeks 4 and 5 at 3x10(6) U/m2 subcutaneously three times weekly for 
6 doses. Treatment continued in responders for 2 cycles past maximal response 
(minimum 6 cycles). No maintenance was given.
RESULTS: Between 1994 and 1999, 31 patients were accrued and were evaluable for 
toxicity, with 29 eligible for evaluation of response. Toxicity was primarily 
myelosuppression, with grade 3 neutropenia in 12 patients and grade 4 
thrombocytopenia in one patient. The overall response rate was 51.7% (15/29), 
including 6 complete and 9 partial responses. With a median follow-up of 35.6 
months, the median overall survival was 60.8 months, and the median time to 
disease progression (TTP) was 12.6 months. Of the 15 responding patients, 
treatment-naive patients had a median response duration of 39.6 months with a 
median TTP of 42.1 months, while the median response duration was 5.2 months 
with a median TTP of 14.5 months in patients who had received prior treatment 
(p=0.0065 and 0.0374, respectively).
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: This schedule of alternating fludarabine with 
IFN does not seem to increase response rate appreciably, but there are some 
prolonged responses, particularly in previously untreated patients. Given the 
non-overlapping toxicities of IFN with those of chemotherapy and antibody-based 
therapeutics, there may be a role for combination therapies, especially if the 
biological basis of response to IFN can be elucidated.

PMID: 15590399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Med Philos. 2004 Dec;29(6):641-6. doi: 10.1080/03605310490882984.

Reconsidering wisdom, keywords, concepts, and models.

Lustig BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Religious Studies, Rice University, Houston, TX 77005, USA. 
alustig@rice.edu

DOI: 10.1080/03605310490882984
PMID: 15590512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Med Philos. 2004 Dec;29(6):651-64. doi: 10.1080/03605310490883000.

Quality of life: the contested rhetoric of resource allocation and end-of-life 
decision making.

Nantais D(1), Kuczewski M.

Author information:
(1)Weston Jesuit School of Theology, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. 
nantaisd@udmercy.edu

The term"quality of life" has a long history in the bioethics literature. It is 
usually used in one of two contexts: in resource allocation discussions in the 
hope of arriving at an objective measure of the worth of an intervention; and in 
end-of-life discussions as a concept that can justify the forgoing of 
life-sustaining treatment. In both contexts, the term has valid uses as it is 
meant to measure the efficacy of a treatment. However, the term has the 
unfortunate rhetorical problem that it often seems to be a judgment on the life 
of a human being. As such, it is highly inflammatory. We suggest that a return 
to a rhetoric that suggests a judgment on the treatment rather than the person 
is needed.

DOI: 10.1080/03605310490883000
PMID: 15590514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2004 Dec;11(5):331-5. doi: 10.1080/09286580490904529.

Cost-effectiveness: how do we avoid making a difficult science incomprehensible?

Frick K, Kymes S, Jacobson G.

DOI: 10.1080/09286580490904529
PMID: 15590580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Ann Pharmacother. 2005 Jan;39(1):51-7. doi: 10.1345/aph.1E115. Epub 2004 Dec
8.

Analysis of aspirin-associated risks in healthy individuals.

Hur C(1), Simon LS, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Institute for Technology Assessment and 
Gastrointestinal Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114-4719, 
USA. chur@mgh-ita.org

BACKGROUND: Aspirin therapy is widely accepted for patients with documented 
cardiovascular disease, but there is a growing trend among healthy individuals 
to use aspirin as primary prevention for both cardiovascular disease and cancer.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of the complications of aspirin therapy on 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) in healthy individuals.
METHODS: A computer-based decision-analytic model was constructed. In this 
model, healthy individuals taking aspirin were assumed to receive no advantages 
from the aspirin, but were at risk of developing its associated complications. 
Individuals took 325 mg of enteric-coated aspirin every day until death, 
discontinuing therapy only if an aspirin-induced complication occurred. The 
analysis was performed from a societal perspective, starting at age 50 years. 
Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In the absence of any beneficial effect, aspirin reduced QALYs by 0.03 
per individual. Unadjusted life expectancy was decreased by 0.04 years (2 wk). 
Lifetime aspirin use cost an average of $460/healthy person. The total 
complication rate over a lifetime of aspirin therapy was 6.79%, with a mortality 
rate of 0.18%. Alternatively stated, there was one complication for every 15 
individuals treated and one death for every 556 individuals treated. Extensive 
sensitivity analysis showed the range of results possible when varying age, 
gender, length of follow-up, and other key parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Assuming no benefits, aspirin therapy in healthy individuals leads 
to a small reduction in QALYs at an overall low cost per person. However, 
approximately 1 in 15 individuals will experience an aspirin-induced 
complication and 1 in 556 individuals will die.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1E115
PMID: 15590881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Gut. 2005 Jan;54(1):97-102. doi: 10.1136/gut.2004.039123.

Cost effectiveness of a new strategy to identify HNPCC patients.

Kievit W(1), de Bruin JH, Adang EM, Severens JL, Kleibeuker JH, Sijmons RH, 
Ruers TJ, Nagengast FM, Vasen HF, van Krieken JH, Ligtenberg MJ, Hoogerbrugge N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology, University Medical Centre Nijmegen, 417 
Human Genetics, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Distinguishing hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) 
from non-hereditary colorectal cancer (CRC) can increase the life expectancy of 
HNPCC patients and their close relatives.
AIM: To determine the effectiveness, efficiency, and feasibility of a new 
strategy for the detection of HNPCC, using simple criteria for microsatellite 
instability (MSI) analysis of newly detected tumours that can be applied by 
pathologists. Criteria for MSI analysis are: (1) CRC before age 50 years; (2) 
second CRC; (3) CRC and HNPCC associated cancer; or (4) adenoma before age 40 
years.
METHODS: The efficacy and cost effectiveness of the new strategy was evaluated 
against current practice. Decision analytic models were constructed to estimate 
the number of extra HNPCC mutation carriers and the costs of this strategy. The 
incremental costs and gain in life expectancy for a HNPCC mutation carrier were 
evaluated by Markov modelling. Feasibility was explored in five hospitals.
RESULTS: Using the new strategy, 2.2 times more HNPCC patients can be identified 
among a CRC population compared with current practice. This new strategy was 
found to be cost effective with an expected cost effectiveness ratio of 3801 per 
life year gained. When including the group of siblings and children, the cost 
effectiveness ratio became 2184 per life year gained. Sensitivity analysis 
showed these findings to be robust.
CONCLUSIONS: MSI testing in a selection of newly diagnosed CRC patients was 
shown to be cost effective and a feasible method to identify patients at risk 
for HNPCC who are not recognised by family history.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.2004.039123
PMCID: PMC1774368
PMID: 15591512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. BMJ. 2004 Dec 11;329(7479):1355-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.329.7479.1355.

Post-communist transition and health in Europe.

McKee M, Fister K.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):234-5.
    BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):234.
    BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):235.
    BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):235.
    BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):236.
    BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):237.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.329.7479.1355
PMCID: PMC535436
PMID: 15591540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Mayo Clin Womens Healthsource. 2005 Jan;9(1):3.

Surgeon experience impacts breast cancer survival.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15592161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Transpl Int. 2004 Nov;17(10):562-73. doi: 10.1007/s00147-004-0771-y. Epub
2004  Nov 5.

Paediatric liver transplantation--a review based on 20 years of personal 
experience.

Otte JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Unité de Chirurgie pédiatrique-Service de Transplantation Abdominale, 
Université Catholique de Louvain, Cliniques Saint-Luc, Avenue Hippocrate 10, 
1200, Brussels, Belgium. otte@chex.ucl.ac.be

Comment in
    Transpl Int. 2005 Jun;18(6):755-6.

The natural history of most liver diseases requiring liver replacement in 
children is well known, and the potential of this therapy has been ascertained 
regarding life expectancy, which currently exceeds 90% in the long term. The 
timing of liver transplantation must be anticipated, to reduce the physical, 
psychological and mental impact of chronic liver diseases. Several studies show 
evidence that the best long-term results with regard to patient and graft 
survival are obtained with grafts procured from relatively young donors. Since 
the shortage of post-mortem liver donors will most likely worsen, further 
development of live, related-donor transplantation can be expected. The main 
progress to come will concern immunosuppression, taking advantage of the 
immunological privilege of the liver. Protocols are under development for 
induction of operational tolerance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00147-004-0771-y
PMID: 15592713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Cancer. 2005 Jan 15;103(2):320-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.20756.

Prediction of survival in patients with metastases in the spinal column: results 
based on a randomized trial of radiotherapy.

van der Linden YM(1), Dijkstra SP, Vonk EJ, Marijnen CA, Leer JW; Dutch Bone 
Metastasis Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
The Netherlands. y.m.linden@skf-rif.nl

BACKGROUND: Adequate prediction of survival is important in deciding on 
treatment for patients with symptomatic spinal metastases. The authors reviewed 
342 patients with painful spinal metastases without neurologic impairment who 
were treated conservatively within a large, prospectively randomized 
radiotherapy trial. Response to radiotherapy and prognostic factors for survival 
were studied.
METHODS: The data base of the Dutch Bone Metastasis Study was used. Response to 
treatment and prognostic factors for overall survival (OS) were studied using a 
Cox regression model. A scoring system was developed to predict OS.
RESULTS: Responses were noted in 73% of patients. In 3% of patients, spinal cord 
compression was reported a mean of 3.5 months after randomization. The median OS 
was 7 months, and significant predictors for survival were Karnofsky performance 
score, primary tumor (multivariate analysis; both P < 0.001), and the absence of 
visceral metastases (multivariate analysis; P = 0.02). A scoring system based on 
these predictors was developed, and 34% of patients were in Group A (median OS = 
3.0 months), 48% of patients were in Group B (median OS = 9.0 months), and 18% 
of patients were in Group C (median OS = 18.7 months). Group C was comprised of 
patients with breast carcinoma, a good performance, and no visceral metastases.
CONCLUSIONS: Most patients with spinal metastases have a limited life expectancy 
and should be treated with caution regarding surgical procedures. Radiotherapy 
is a safe and effective, noninvasive treatment modality for pain. The new 
scoring system will enable physicians to select patients who may survive long 
enough to benefit from more radical treatment.

(c) 2004 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20756
PMID: 15593360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Del Med J. 2002 Dec;74(12):479-80.

The cause of American longevity can be seen in your mirror.

Rocca PV.

PMID: 15595322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Neurology. 2004 Dec 14;63(11):2028-33. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000145798.61383.39.

IV immunoglobulins as add-on treatment to methylprednisolone for acute relapses 
in MS.

Sorensen PS(1), Haas J, Sellebjerg F, Olsson T, Ravnborg M; TARIMS Study Group.

Author information:
(1)MS Research Unit, Department of Neurology 2082, Copenhagen University 
Hospital, Rigshospitalet, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark. pss@rh.dk

OBJECTIVE: To investigate if IV immunoglobulins (IVIg) in combination with 
methylprednisolone make recovery from a relapse faster and more complete than 
methylprednisolone alone. Design/
METHODS: The authors studied 76 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who had an 
acute relapse with involvement of visual function, upper limb motor function, or 
gait, and with onset of symptoms between 24 hours and 14 days before. Patients 
were treated with either IVIg 1 g/kg or placebo (0.1% human albumin), given 24 
hours before treatment with IV methylprednisolone 1 g on 3 consecutive days.
RESULTS: Both groups improved, but the authors observed no significant 
difference between IVIg and placebo patients regarding the primary endpoint, the 
mean change in the Z-score of the individually chosen targeted neurologic 
deficit (the most affected system) from baseline to 12 weeks (p = 0.89). A 
slightly better, but not significant remission was seen in the IVIg group in 
global scores, i.e., Expanded Disability Status Scale (p = 0.23) and Multiple 
Sclerosis Impairment Scale (p = 0.24), and in time to next relapse (p = 0.22).
CONCLUSIONS: The results do not justify routine application of IV 
immunoglobulins as add-on therapy to IV methylprednisolone in the treatment of 
acute multiple sclerosis attacks.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000145798.61383.39
PMID: 15596745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Neurology. 2004 Dec 14;63(11):2084-90. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000145763.68284.15.

Evaluation of HIV RNA and markers of immune activation as predictors of 
HIV-associated dementia.

Sevigny JJ(1), Albert SM, McDermott MP, McArthur JC, Sacktor N, Conant K, 
Schifitto G, Selnes OA, Stern Y, McClernon DR, Palumbo D, Kieburtz K, Riggs G, 
Cohen B, Epstein LG, Marder K.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University and The Taub Institute, New York, NY 10032, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether baseline levels of plasma and CSF HIV RNA, tumor 
necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), 
matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), or macrophage colony stimulating factor 
(M-CSF) are predictors of incident HIV-associated dementia (HIVD) in a cohort 
with advanced HIV infection.
METHODS: A total of 203 nondemented subjects with CD4 lymphocyte counts less 
than 200/muL, or <300/microL but with cognitive impairment, underwent semiannual 
neurologic, cognitive, functional, and laboratory assessments. HIVD and minor 
cognitive motor disorder (MCMD) were defined using American Academy of Neurology 
criteria. The cumulative incidence of HIVD was estimated using Kaplan-Meier 
curves. Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to examine the 
associations between biologic variables and time to HIVD, adjusting for age, 
sex, years of education, duration of HIV infection, type of antiretroviral use, 
premorbid IQ score, and presence of MCMD.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up time of 20.7 months, 74 (36%) subjects reached 
the HIVD endpoint. The dementia was mild in 70% of cases. The cumulative 
incidence of HIVD was 20% at 1 year and 33% at 2 years. Highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) was used by 73% of subjects at baseline. A plasma 
HIV RNA level was undetectable in 23% of subjects and a CSF HIV RNA level was 
undetectable in 48% of subjects. In adjusted analyses, neither plasma nor CSF 
HIV RNA levels (log10) were associated with time to HIVD; log10 levels of plasma 
TNFalpha (HR 3.07, p = 0.03) and CSF MCP-1 (HR = 3.36, p = 0.06) tended to be 
associated with time to HIVD.
CONCLUSION: The lack of association between baseline plasma and CSF HIV RNA 
levels and incident dementia suggests highly active antiretroviral therapy may 
be affecting CNS viral dynamics, leading to lower HIV RNA levels, and therefore 
weakening the utility of baseline HIV RNA levels as predictors of HIV-associated 
dementia.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000145763.68284.15
PMID: 15596754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Neurology. 2004 Dec 14;63(11):2159-61. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000145599.06491.71.

Neoplastic meningitis-related encephalopathy: prognostic significance.

Chamberlain MC(1), Tsao-Wei D, Groshen S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, USC/Norris Cancer Center, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, USA. ChambeMC@moffitt.usf.edu

Two cohorts of 20 patients diagnosed with neoplastic meningitis (NM) with or 
without encephalopathy were matched with respect to age, sex, primary tumor, and 
performance status. Median survival was 10 weeks (range 6 to 20 weeks) in the 
cohort with NM-related encephalopathy compared to 24 weeks (range 8 to 40 weeks) 
in the cohort without NM-related encephalopathy (p < 0.001). NM-related 
encephalopathy is a clinical variable that predicts for poor survival in 
patients with NM.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000145599.06491.71
PMID: 15596770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Infection. 2004 Dec;32(6):369-71. doi: 10.1007/s15010-004-6604-1.

HAART-prolonged life of HIV-infected patients should not be shortened by 
hepatitis C.

Horster S(1), Goebel FD.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Infectious Diseases, Medical Policlinic, Ludwig Maximilian 
University Munich, Pettenkoferstr. 8a, D-80336 Munich, Germany.

As highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART) prolongs the life of 
HIV-infected individuals and reduces mortality associated with opportunistic 
infections, liver diseases have become a major challenge in the management of 
these patients. up to 45% of deaths of persons with HIV are related to endstage 
liver disease, some of which might have been avoided with a less hesitant 
approach to hepatitis C treatment in the setting of HIV/ hepatitis C (HCV) 
coinfection.

DOI: 10.1007/s15010-004-6604-1
PMID: 15597230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Cancer. 2005 Feb 1;103(3):501-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.20784.

Short-term, medium-term, long-term, and lifetime risks of developing and dying 
of breast carcinoma in a Westernized Chinese population: Evidence from Hong Kong 
between 1976 and 2000.

Leung GM(1), Thach TQ, Chan E, Foo W, Meng O, Fielding R, Lam WW, Hedley AJ, 
Wong CM, Lam TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: Estimates of lifetime and shorter-term risks of developing and dying 
of breast carcinoma are useful translational statistics for risk communication; 
however, these statistics are unknown for Chinese women, who account for 
one-fifth of the world's female population. In the current study, the authors 
examined age-specific 5-year, 10-year, 20-year, and lifetime risks of breast 
carcinoma incidence and disease-related mortality among Hong Kong women.
METHODS: Multiple-decrement life tables were constructed by applying 
age-specific incidence and mortality rates obtained from cross-sectional data to 
a hypothetic birth cohort. Incidence, mortality, and population data from 1976 
through 2000 were used.
RESULTS: For Hong Kong women in the period 1996-2000, the overall lifetime risk 
of developing invasive breast carcinoma was 5.7% (1 in 17), compared with 10.6% 
(1 in 9) for U.S. Asian/Pacific Islander women and 14.5% (1 in 7) for U.S. white 
women. The lifetime breast carcinoma-related mortality risk for Hong Kong women 
in that same period was 1.7% (1 in 58). For women age 50 years, the 5-, 10-, and 
20-year risks of developing breast carcinoma were 0.6% (1 in 172), 1.1% (1 in 
87), and 2.1% (1 in 47), respectively. The absolute lifetime probability of 
developing breast carcinoma increased from 3.81% (1 in 26) during the period 
1976-1980 to 5.73% (1 in 17) during the period 1996-2000; 44.5% of this change 
can be attributed to the increased longevity of women in the latter time period, 
and the remaining 55.5% can be ascribed to a secular rise in breast carcinoma 
incidence.
CONCLUSIONS: As China becomes more Westernized, the authors expect that the 
risks of developing and dying of breast carcinoma for Chinese women will become 
more similar to the corresponding risks for Western women. The current data from 
Hong Kong, the most Westernized Chinese community, appear to support this 
conclusion.

(c) 2004 American Cancer Society

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.20784
PMID: 15597378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Sci Am. 2004 Dec;291(6):120.

Why is life expectancy longer for women than it is for men?

Desjardins B(1).

Author information:
(1)Demography Department, University of Montreal.

PMID: 15597989


19. J Fam Health Care. 2004;14(5):125-7.

What do we know about... eating for a healthy active lifestyle?

Stear S.

Increasing evidence points to the key role of exercise in enhancing the quality 
of life and life expectancy. In this article a registered sport and exercise 
nutritionist examines the nutritional aspects of fuelling physical activity, 
including the importance of a balanced diet and of taking carbohydrates before 
and after exercise.

PMID: 15598010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2005 Jan;59(1):31-7. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2003.018663.

Nonagenarians and centenarians in Switzerland, 1860-2001: a demographic 
analysis.

Robine JM(1), Paccaud F.

Author information:
(1)Group Health and Demography, University of Montpellier 1, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To explore the rapid rise of the extremely old population, 
showing the magnitude of the increase and identifying demographic mechanisms 
underlying this increase.
DESIGN: Demographic analysis using census data, yearly population estimates, and 
