sense, smoking relapse prevention tends to pay for itself.
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking relapse prevention is a highly cost-effective addition to 
current efforts to curb cigarette consumption. Complementary health 
interventions of this sort should be assessed by different methods than those 
commonly found in the cost-effectiveness literature.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462304001382
PMID: 15609798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. BMC Cancer. 2004 Dec 20;4:94. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-4-94.

An electronic application for rapidly calculating Charlson comorbidity score.

Hall WH(1), Ramachandran R, Narayan S, Jani AB, Vijayakumar S.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Davis, Department of Radiation Oncology, UC Davis 
Cancer Center, 4501 X Street, G126, Sacramento, CA 95817, USA. 
william.hall@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu <william.hall@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu>

BACKGROUND: Uncertainty regarding comorbid illness, and ability to tolerate 
aggressive therapy has led to minimal enrollment of elderly cancer patients into 
clinical trials and often substandard treatment. Increasingly, comorbid illness 
scales have proven useful in identifying subgroups of elderly patients who are 
more likely to tolerate and benefit from aggressive therapy. Unfortunately, the 
use of such scales has yet to be widely integrated into either clinical practice 
or clinical trials research.
METHODS: This article reviews evidence for the validity of the Charlson 
Comorbidity Index (CCI) in oncology and provides a Microsoft Excel (MS Excel) 
Macro for the rapid and accurate calculation of CCI score. The interaction of 
comorbidity and malignant disease and the validation of the Charlson Index in 
oncology are discussed.
RESULTS: The CCI score is based on one year mortality data from internal 
medicine patients admitted to an inpatient setting and is the most widely used 
comorbidity index in oncology. An MS Excel Macro file was constructed for 
calculating the CCI score using Microsoft Visual Basic. The Macro is provided 
for download and dissemination. The CCI has been widely used and validated 
throughout the oncology literature and has demonstrated utility for most major 
cancers. The MS Excel CCI Macro provides a rapid method for calculating CCI 
score with or without age adjustments. The calculator removes difficulty in 
score calculation as a limitation for integration of the CCI into clinical 
research. The simple nature of the MS Excel CCI Macro and the CCI itself makes 
it ideal for integration into emerging electronic medical records systems.
CONCLUSIONS: The increasing elderly population and concurrent increase in 
oncologic disease has made understanding the interaction between age and 
comorbid illness on life expectancy increasingly important. The MS Excel CCI 
Macro provides a means of increasing the use of the CCI scale in clinical 
research with the ultimate goal of improving determination of optimal treatments 
for elderly cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-4-94
PMCID: PMC545968
PMID: 15610554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2005 Jan;6(1):47-57. doi:
10.1007/s11864-005-0012-3.

Overview of the management of differentiated thyroid cancer.

Fernandes JK(1), Day TA, Richardson MS, Sharma AK.

Author information:
(1)The Medical University of South Carolina, 96 Jonathan Lucas Street, Clinical 
Sciences Building, Suite 816, PO Box 250624, Charleston, SC 29425, USA. 
fernanjk@musc.edu

Thyroid cancer is an uncommon tumor accounting for roughly 1% of all new 
malignancies. Differentiated (ie, papillary or follicular) thyroid carcinoma is 
usually asymptomatic, and frequently appears as a solitary thyroid nodule but 
few show cervical lymphadenopathy or metastasis to lung, bone, or liver. Fine 
needle aspiration (FNA) is recommended in the initial diagnostic test. Depending 
on the size of the lesion and other associated risk factors, most patients are 
treated with total or near total thyroidectomy. Postoperative radioiodine 
ablation is performed when tumor has a potential for recurrence. Recurrence 
rates and cancer-specific mortality is decreased by suppressing thyroid 
stimulating hormone (TSH). Long-term surveillance and follow-up with physical 
examination every 3 to 6 months for 2 years and then annually if patient remains 
cancer free. Whole body iodine scans are done every 12 months for follow-up 
until one negative scan (either withdrawal of thyroid hormone or rhodium complex 
-TSH). Thyroglobulin measurements (with antithyroglobulin antibodies) and 
ultrasound neck are suggested at 6 and 12 months and then annually if disease 
free.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-005-0012-3
PMID: 15610714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Jan;126(1):35-41. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.09.017.

Dietary restriction, mortality trajectories, risk and damage.

Partridge L(1), Pletcher SD, Mair W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, Darwin Building, Gower 
Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK. l.partridge@ucl.ac.uk

Restriction of food intake extends lifespan in evolutionarily diverse organisms, 
including mammals. Dietary restriction (DR) also delays the appearance of 
ageing-related damage and pathology and keeps organisms in a youthful state for 
longer. DR has hence been suggested to lower the rate of ageing. Analysis of 
mortality rates can be used to test this idea. During ageing, mortality rates in 
general increase, approximately exponentially. Lifespan can be extended either 
by a reduction in the rate of increase in mortality rate with age or a lowering 
of the initial rate of mortality. A reduction in the slope of a mortality 
trajectory has generally been taken to indicate that the rate of ageing has been 
lowered. Data on the effects of temperature on mortality in Drosophila are in 
accordance with this idea. Lowered temperature extends lifespan solely by 
lowering the slope of the mortality trajectory and flies with a hotter thermal 
history have permanently elevated death rates. In contrast, lowering of the 
initial rate of mortality has been taken to leave the rate of ageing unaffected. 
In Drosophila and in mice, but not in rats, DR extends lifespan by lowering the 
initial mortality rate. In Drosophila, the effect of DR is acute, and mortality 
rate switches rapidly between DR and control values with the corresponding 
changes in nutritional regime. DR in Drosophila therefore has no impact upon the 
rate of ageing. Possible mechanisms by which DR can both delay damage and 
pathology and yet act acutely to determine mortality rates are discussed. In 
rodents, some phenotypes associated with DR, including microarray profiles, show 
rapid switching with changed nutritional regime, pointing to potentially acute 
effects of DR in mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.09.017
PMID: 15610760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Jan;126(1):43-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.09.022.

Diverse aging rates in metazoans: targets for functional genomics.

Austad SN(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center, Barshop Institute for Longevity 
and Aging Studies, SCTBM Bldg. Room 3.100, 15355 Lambda Drive, San Antonio, TX 
78245, USA. austad@uthscsa.edu

Aging, or senescence, has typically been measured by demographic analysis, which 
has its merits but is blind to key aspects of functional development and 
deterioration. If one uses demographic analyses, however, the approach providing 
most insight is the analysis of age-specific mortality. The continuing increase 
in DNA sequencing power combined with emerging computational techniques will 
allow in the near future detailed investigation of mechanisms of aging in 
diverse species beyond the typical laboratory bestiary. A comparative approach 
of this sort needs to consider, in addition to simple longevity, the effects of 
phylogeny and body size on the species in question. Insight may be gained from 
the study of species exhibiting accelerated aging relative to more "typical" 
species. These naturally short-lived species, such as several small shrews and 
marsupials, avoid the worry inherent in "accelerated aging" genotypes of common 
models, which is that they are only short-lived because of some idiosyncratic 
pathology unrelated to general aging. A case of special interest that has yet to 
be seriously investigated is the domestic dog, in which selective breeding has 
produced phenotypes within the same species that age at two-fold different 
rates. Exceptionally long-lived species offer exceptional opportunities to 
discover whether there are few or many ways to create long-lived organisms. 
Slow-aging species with the most to offer include bats and naked mole-rats. 
Perhaps no fundamental question in biology is more intriguing that why and how 
nature has produced such a dazzling array of aging rates. The development of 
functional genetics over the next several decades promises to lead us toward an 
answer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2004.09.022
PMID: 15610761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Gerontologist. 2004 Dec;44(6):731-8. doi: 10.1093/geront/44.6.731.

Revisiting the biomedicalization of aging: clinical trends and ethical 
challenges.

Kaufman SR(1), Shim JK, Russ AJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health and Aging, Box 0646, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA 94143-0646, USA. Kaufman@itsa.ucsf.edu

Developments in the realms of medical innovation and geriatric clinical 
intervention impact our understanding of the nature of late life, the 
possibilities for health in advanced age, medical decision making, and family 
responsibility in ways that could not have been predicted 15 years ago. This 
essay begins to map new forms of biomedicalization in the U.S. and to underscore 
their emergence in a new ethical field. We suggest that a new kind of ethical 
knowledge is emerging through "routine" clinical care, and we offer examples 
from the following interventions: cardiac procedures, kidney dialysis, and 
kidney transplant. This new ethical knowledge is characterized by the difficulty 
of saying "no" to life-extending interventions, regardless of age. We explore 
the intensification of the biomedicalization of old age through a discussion of 
three features of the new ethical field: (a) the ways in which routine medical 
care overshadows choice; (b) the transformation of the technological imperative 
to a moral imperative; and (c) the coupling of hope with the normalization and 
routinization of life-extending interventions. We argue that societal 
expectations about longevity and standard medical care come together today in a 
shifting ethics of normalcy, with unexplored socio-cultural ramifications.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/44.6.731
PMCID: PMC2367129
PMID: 15611209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Med Mal Infect. 2004 Jun;34(6):239-45. doi: 10.1016/j.medmal.2004.03.005.

[A 2004 update on treatment and prophylaxis of opportunistic infections in the 
course of HIV disease. Part 1: Pneumocystosis and protozoiasis].

[Article in French]

Lacombe K(1), Girard PM.

Author information:
(1)Service des maladies infectieuses et tropicales, hôpital Saint-Antoine, 184, 
rue du Faubourg-Saint-Antoine, 75012 Paris, France. 
karine.lacombe@sat.ap-hop-paris.fr

Remarkable progress has been made in antiretroviral therapeutics, as well as in 
the prophylaxis and treatment of opportunistic infections, since the beginning 
of the AIDS epidemic. The patient's life expectancy and quality of life have 
consequently improved, thanks to better management of opportunistic diseases. 
The introduction of protease inhibitors-containing regimen (i.e. Highly Active 
Antiretroviral Therapy or HAART), since 1996, has drastically reduced the 
incidence of opportunistic infections by restoring immunity. The large panel of 
antiretroviral drugs responsible for frequent sustained viral and immune 
responses has thus allowed a new definition of guidelines for the prophylaxis 
and treatment of opportunistic infections. A better use of prophylactic drugs 
should help reduce the risk of drug-related toxicity and pharmaceutical 
interactions. It should also decrease the cost of HIV management and eventually 
increase compliance to treatment and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medmal.2004.03.005
PMID: 15612356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Med Mal Infect. 2004 Jun;34(6):246-56. doi: 10.1016/j.medmal.2004.03.006.

[Treatment and prophylaxis of opportunistic infections in the course of HIV 
disease: a state of the art in 2004. Part 2: Viral, fungal and bacterial 
infections].

[Article in French]

Lacombe K(1), Girard PM.

Author information:
(1)Service des maladies infectieuses et tropicales, hôpital Saint-Antoine, 184, 
rue du Faubourg-Saint-Antoine 75012 Paris, France. 
karine.lacombe@sat.ap-hop-paris.fr

Remarkable progress has been made in antiretroviral therapeutics, as well as in 
the prophylaxis and treatment of opportunistic infections, since the beginning 
of the AIDS epidemic. The patient's life expectancy and quality of life have 
consequently improved, thanks to better management of opportunistic diseases. 
The introduction of protease inhibitors-containing regimen (i.e. highly active 
antiretroviral therapy or HAART), since 1996, has drastically reduced the 
incidence of opportunistic infections by restoring immunity. The large panel of 
antiretroviral drugs responsible for frequent sustained viral and immune 
responses has thus allowed a new definition of guidelines for the prophylaxis 
and treatment of opportunistic infections. A better use of prophylactic drugs 
should help to reduce the risk of drug-related toxicity and pharmaceutical 
interactions. It should also decrease the cost of HIV management and eventually 
increase compliance to treatment and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medmal.2004.03.006
PMID: 15612357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(17):1097-107. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200422170-00001.

Reconciliation of economic concerns and health policy: illustration of an equity 
adjustment procedure using proportional shortfall.

Stolk EA(1), van Donselaar G, Brouwer WB, Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Rotterdam, Erasmus MC Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. stolk@bmg.eur.nl

Economic evaluations have become an important and much used tool in aiding 
decision makers in deciding on reimbursement or implementation of new healthcare 
technologies. Nevertheless, the impact of economic evaluations on reimbursement 
decisions has been modest; results of economic evaluations do not have a good 
record in predicting funding decisions. This is usually explained in terms of 
fairness; there is increasing awareness that valuations of QALYs may differ when 
the QALYs accrue to different patients. The problem, however, is that these 
equity concerns often remain implicit, and therefore frustrate explicitness and 
transparency in evidence-based decision making. It has been suggested that a 
so-called equity adjustment procedure may (partially) solve this problem. 
Typically this would involve the application of so-called equity weights, which 
can be used to recalculate the value of QALY gains for different patients. This 
paper explores such an equity adjustment procedure, using the equity concept of 
proportional shortfall. Proportional shortfall assumes that measurement of 
inequalities in health should concentrate on the fraction of QALYs that people 
lose relative to their remaining life expectancy, and not on the absolute number 
of QALYs lost or gained. It is the ratio of QALYs lost over the QALYs remaining. 
This equity concept combines elements of two popular but conflicting notions of 
equity: fair innings and severity-of-illness. We applied the concept of 
proportional shortfall to ten conditions and tentatively explored how an equity 
adjustment procedure using proportional shortfall might affect priority setting. 
Our equity adjustment procedure lowered the cost-effectiveness threshold when a 
condition was relatively mild. Because the proportional shortfall caused by the 
ten conditions differed considerably, the equity-adjustment procedure 
discriminated strongly between the ten conditions, and this experiment provided 
a good opportunity to explore the impact of equity adjustment for healthcare 
reimbursement decisions. In conclusion, our results suggest that equity can be 
measured and that integration of equity concerns into an economic evaluation 
improves the fit between economic models and reimbursement decisions. It is 
recommended that cost-effectiveness driven health policy systems consider equity 
adjustments.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422170-00001
PMID: 15612829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(17):1153-65. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200422170-00005.

Cost effectiveness of raloxifene in the treatment of osteoporosis in Sweden: an 
economic evaluation based on the MORE study.

Borgström F(1), Johnell O, Kanis JA, Oden A, Sykes D, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. fredrik.b@healtheconomics.se

BACKGROUND: The Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) study showed 
that treatment with raloxifene reduces the risk of vertebral fracture and breast 
cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.
OBJECTIVE: Based on the MORE study the aim of the present study was to assess 
the cost effectiveness of raloxifene (compared with no treatment) for the 
treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women in Sweden.
DESIGN: A revised version of a previously developed computer simulation model 
was used. The impact of the risk-reducing effect of raloxifene on vertebral 
fractures and breast cancer on cost effectiveness was analysed using a clinical 
and a morphometric definition of vertebral fracture. Benefits of raloxifene 
treatment were measured in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and life-years 
gained. The study estimated the cost effectiveness mainly from a healthcare 
perspective but the cost effectiveness taking a societal perspective was also 
analysed.
RESULTS: Intervention costs (in Swedish kronor [SEK] and euros [euro], year 2001 
values) in postmenopausal women with a relative risk of vertebral fracture of 2 
were SEK372000 (euro40000), SEK303000 (euro33000) and SEK263000 (euro28000) per 
QALY for women aged 60, 70 and 80 years, at start of treatment, respectively, 
when the clinical vertebral definition was used. The cost effectiveness using a 
clinical morphometric vertebral fracture definition was similar to the cost 
effectiveness using a clinical vertebral fracture definition.
CONCLUSIONS: In relation to accepted threshold values for cost per QALY in 
Sweden, this model indicates, with its underlying assumptions and data, that 
raloxifene (compared with no treatment) is cost effective for the treatment of 
postmenopausal women at an increased risk of vertebral fracture, from the 
Swedish healthcare and societal perspectives.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200422170-00005
PMID: 15612833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Kidney Int Suppl. 2005 Jan;(93):S52-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.09312.x.

Irbesartan is projected to be cost and life saving in a Spanish setting for 
treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and microalbuminuria.

Palmer AJ(1), Annemans L, Roze S, Lapuerta P, Chen R, Gabriel S, Carita P, Rodby 
RA, de Zeeuw D, Parving HH, De Alvaro F.

Author information:
(1)CORE-Center for Outcomes Research, 4102 Binningen/Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to project the cumulative incidence of 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD), life expectancy, and costs in a Spanish setting 
of treating patients with diabetes, hypertension, and microalbuminuria with 
either standard hypertension treatment alone or standard hypertension treatment 
plus irbesartan 300 mg daily.
METHODS: A peer-reviewed, published Markov model that simulated progression from 
microalbuminuria to nephropathy, doubling of serum creatinine, ESRD, and 
all-cause mortality in patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and 
microalbuminuria was adapted to a Spanish setting. Two strategies were compared: 
(1) irbesartan versus (2) standard hypertension care with comparable blood 
pressure control; both began in diabetic hypertensive subjects with 
microalbuminuria. Cumulative incidence of ESRD, costs, and life expectancy were 
projected for a hypothetical cohort of 1000 subjects. Future costs and life 
expectancy were discounted at 3% yearly. A 25-year time horizon and third party 
payer perspective were used.
RESULTS: When compared to standard blood pressure control, irbesartan was 
projected to reduce the cumulative incidence of ESRD from (mean +/- standard 
deviation) 24 +/- 1% to 9 +/- 2%, save 11,082 +/- 2,996 euro, and add 1.40 +/- 
0.27 life years per treated patient. The superiority of irbesartan over standard 
care was robust under a wide range of plausible assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Treating patients with hypertension, microalbuminuria, and type 2 
diabetes with irbesartan was projected to reduce the incidence of ESRD, extend 
life, and reduce costs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.09312.x
PMID: 15613069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2004 Dec;27(12):1625-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.2004.00695.x.

Influence of basic heart rate and sex on heart rate turbulence in healthy 
subjects.

Schwab JO(1), Eichner G, Veit G, Schmitt H, Lewalter T, Lüderitz B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine-Cardiology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany. 
joerg.schwab@ukb.uni-bonn.de

Acceleration and deceleration of the heart rate after the occurrence of a 
ventricular premature complex is characterized as heart rate turbulence (HRT). 
Two parameters quantify heart rate turbulence: onset and slope. The 
physiological properties have not been clarified in a large cohort of persons 
yet. This study evaluated properties of HRT, and focused on the influence of 
basic heart rate and sex on HRT. Using a special protocol, 95 persons were 
studied prospectively. HRT and its physiological properties were determined in 
95 persons using Holter ECGs. The authors found 24% with a turbulence onset 0% 
and 5% with a turbulence slope <2.5 ms/RRI. Mean heart rate during Holter 
differed significantly between women and men (745 vs 817 ms, P < 0.0001). A 
linear, weighted regression model revealed that an increased heart rate before a 
ventricular premature complex is associated with a decreased turbulence onset (P 
< 0.0001). Turbulence slope was attenuated by basic heart rate only in men (P = 
0.0022). On the contrary, the study detected no influence of the basic heart 
rate on turbulence slope in women (P = 0.0015 for the comparison between women 
and men). Basic heart rate and sex show an influence on HRT and should be 
considered when using HRT for noninvasive risk stratification.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.2004.00695.x
PMID: 15613125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Transplantation. 2004 Dec 27;78(12):1704-10. doi: 
10.1097/01.tp.0000149787.97288.a2.

Procuring organ donors as a health investment: how much should we be willing to 
spend?

Mendeloff J(1), Ko K, Roberts MS, Byrne M, Dew MA.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Public Health, Department of Health Policy and Management, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA. jmen@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Transplantation. 2004 Dec 27;78(12):1711-2.
    Transplantation. 2005 Dec 15;80(11):1636-7.

BACKGROUND: This paper examines the benefits and costs that accrue when a 
cadaveric organ donor is procured. We estimate the cost per quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) for donor procurement. Our objective was not only to see 
whether organ procurement is a "good" health investment, but also to clarify how 
much it is worth spending to obtain additional donors.
METHODS: We calculated the average number of kidney, heart, and liver 
transplants that a typical cadaveric donor generates. Relying primarily on 
reviewing the published literature, we estimated for each organ type the average 
number of QALYs that transplants add and the average medical costs they 
generate. We multiplied per organ benefits and costs by the number of organs 
from the typical donor, and summed the results to calculate the cost per QALY 
from procuring an additional donor. We conducted extensive sensitivity analyses 
of the assumptions.
RESULTS: Our central estimate indicates that the typical donor generates about 
13 QALYs at an added medical cost of about $214,000, a cost of approximately 
$16,000 per QALY. Our high estimate is approximately $57,000.
CONCLUSIONS: The implications of these findings depend upon how we choose to 
value QALYs. Most analysts agree that a figure of $100,000 is reasonable. At 
this value, the benefit obtained from one added donor would be $1.3 million (13 
x $100,000) while the medical costs would be $214,000. The implication is that 
we should be willing to spend up to $1,086,000 ($1.3 million - $214,000) to 
obtain one more donor.

DOI: 10.1097/01.tp.0000149787.97288.a2
PMID: 15614139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Transplantation. 2004 Dec 27;78(12):1711-2. doi: 
10.1097/01.tp.0000149978.51100.3a.

The economics of deceased donor transplantation: a microcosm of health care.

Hunsicker LG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Iowa Health Care, Iowa City, Iowa 
52242, USA. lawrence-hunsicker@uiowa.edu

Comment on
    Transplantation. 2004 Dec 27;78(12):1704-10.

DOI: 10.1097/01.tp.0000149978.51100.3a
PMID: 15614140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Surgery. 2005 Jan;137(1):42-7. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2004.05.043.

Palliation of malignant rectal obstruction with self-expanding metal stents.

Hünerbein M(1), Krause M, Moesta KT, Rau B, Schlag PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Surgical Oncology, Charité Campus Bach, 
Robert-Roessle-Hospital and Helios Hospital Berlin, Lindenberger Weg 80, 13125 
Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Surgical management of patients with metastatic or recurrent rectal 
cancer remains controversial. Self-expanding metal stents are increasingly used 
for palliative treatment of advanced tumors, although long-term results are not 
yet available.
METHODS: Between 1996 and 2003, 521 patients underwent surgery for rectal 
neoplasms. In the same time period, self-expanding metal stents were used for 
palliation of 34 patients with malignant rectal obstruction and incurable 
disease. The outcome of the patients was analyzed retrospectively.
RESULTS: Rectal stents were successfully placed in 33 of 34 patients (97%) 
without major complications. Early failure occurred in 7 patients (21%) because 
of stent migration, pain, or incontinence. Long-term success with a mean patency 
of 5.3 months was observed in 26 patients (79%), but restenting was required in 
2 patients. Despite the initial success of stenting, a colostomy was created in 
2 other patients after 3.4 months and 9.2 months because of incontinence and 
rectovesical fistula. Overall, 6 of 33 patients (18%) underwent palliative 
surgery because of early complications (n = 4) or long-term failure of stent 
treatment (n = 2).
CONCLUSIONS: Self-expanding metal stents are useful to avoid a colostomy in 
selected patients with incurable rectal cancer and limited life expectancy. 
Nonetheless, a considerable number (18%) of patients will require surgical 
palliation because of failure of stent treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2004.05.043
PMID: 15614280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Neurosurg Rev. 2005 Jul;28(3):226-8. doi: 10.1007/s10143-004-0367-0. Epub
2004  Dec 22.

Glioblastoma in irradiated elderly patients: two case reports.

Piccirilli M(1), di Norcia V, Frati A, Salvati M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgical Sciences-Neurosurgery, University La Sapienza, 
Rome, Italy.

We report our experience with two elderly patients with histologically proven 
diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme who were treated 25 and 18 years earlier 
for tinea capitis and scalp cutaneous hemangioma respectively in the same areas 
where the glioblastoma multiforme had grown. These pathologies were benign, and 
nowadays can be treated with alternative approaches rather than radiotherapy. 
Radiotherapeutic treatment should be carefully considered before using it in 
young patients with benign pathologies who have a long life expectancy and 
subsequently a higher risk of developing radio-induced malignant lesions. 
Radio-induced gliomas are typical of patients younger than the ones with 
"spontaneous" glioblastomas; however, the subjects of our study were elderly (78 
and 72 years).

DOI: 10.1007/s10143-004-0367-0
PMID: 15614578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Health Stat Q. 2004 Spring;(21):2-3.

Population estimates.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15615147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Health Stat Q. 2004 Spring;(21):67-9.

Annual update: mortality statistics 2001: general.

Gastrell J(1).

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

This update reviews the 2001 annual reference volume Mortality Statistics: 
general, series DH1 no 34, which was published in December 2003. It outlines the 
data available in this publication and gives examples of the information that 
can be found in it, including: life expectancy; geographical variation; seasonal 
variation; deaths by place of occurrence; deaths by marital status; and type of 
death certification.

PMID: 15615153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Int J Hematol. 2004 Nov;80(4):336-40. doi: 10.1532/ijh97.e0407.

Echocardiographic and electrocardiographic prognostic factors of heart failure 
in young patients with beta-thalassemia major: a 10-year (1995--2004) follow-up.

Chrysohoou C(1), Panagiotakos DB, Barbetseas Y, Brilli S, Lambrou S, Karagiorga 
M, Ladis VA, Pitsavos C, Stefanadis C.

Author information:
(1)First Cardiology Clinic, School of Medicine, University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece. chrysohoou@usa.net

Despite intense iron-chelation therapy, the life expectancy of patients with 
beta-thalassemia major (beta-TM) is still limited by the occurrence of heart 
failure. In the present study, we sought to evaluate the prognostic significance 
of several clinical factors on the outcome of heart failure or arrhythmias in 
patients with beta-TM. The study group consisted of 131 consecutive young 
patients with beta-TM (71 men aged 21+/-4 years, 60 women aged 22+/-5 years) who 
were initially examined during 1995. The clinical and vital statuses of all 
patients were biannually reviewed from 1995 to 2004. Cox proportional hazards 
models were used to evaluate the association of the occurrence of death or 
nonfatal events due to heart failure or arrhythmias with clinical factors 
(systolic and diastolic blood pressures), echocardiographic factors (left and 
right ventricular diameters, left atrial and aortic root dimensions, left 
ventricular ejection fraction), electrocardiographic factors (T-wave inversion 
in leads V1-V3, QRS duration, heart rate), and serum ferritin levels, after 
controlling for age, sex, and body mass index. During the follow-up, 11 men 
(16%) and 5 women (8%) had an event (men versus women, P = .212). The 
age-adjusted event rate was 16 events per 913 person-years (2%). The presence of 
T-wave inversion in right precordial leads (hazard ratio = 3.06; 95% confidence 
interval [CI], 1.1-8.8), increased heart rate (hazard ratio = 1.28; 95% CI, 
1.03-1.58), decreased aortic root diameter (hazard ratio = 0.84; 95% CI, 
0.73-0.96), and decreased ejection fraction (hazard ratio per 1% change = 0.95; 
95% CI, 0.91-0.99) were associated with a higher risk for a cardiac event. We 
revealed that the presence of T-wave inversions, increased heart rate, low 
ejection fraction of the left ventricle, and decreased aortic root diameter 
appear to confer higher risk for cardiac events in young patients with beta-TM.

DOI: 10.1532/ijh97.e0407
PMID: 15615258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2004 Oct;5(10):816-23.

[Clinical medicine and experimental biology: toward a new alliance].

[Article in Italian]

Visioli O(1).

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Cardiologia, Università degli Studi, Brescia. 
visioli@med.unibs.it

PMID: 15615353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. J Cell Sci. 2005 Jan 1;118(Pt 1):7-18. doi: 10.1242/jcs.01620.

The molecular machinery of autophagy: unanswered questions.

Klionsky DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental 
Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. klionsky@umich.edu

Autophagy is a process in which cytosol and organelles are sequestered within 
double-membrane vesicles that deliver the contents to the lysosome/vacuole for 
degradation and recycling of the resulting macromolecules. It plays an important 
role in the cellular response to stress, is involved in various developmental 
pathways and functions in tumor suppression, resistance to pathogens and 
extension of lifespan. Conversely, autophagy may be associated with certain 
myopathies and neurodegenerative conditions. Substantial progress has been made 
in identifying the proteins required for autophagy and in understanding its 
molecular basis; however, many questions remain. For example, Tor is one of the 
key regulatory proteins at the induction step that controls the function of a 
complex including Atg1 kinase, but the target of Atg1 is not known. Although 
autophagy is generally considered to be nonspecific, there are specific types of 
autophagy that utilize receptor and adaptor proteins such as Atg11; however, the 
means by which Atg11 connects the cargo with the sequestering vesicle, the 
autophagosome, is not understood. Formation of the autophagosome is a complex 
process and neither the mechanism of vesicle formation nor the donor membrane 
origin is known. The final breakdown of the sequestered cargo relies on 
well-characterized lysosomal/vacuolar proteases; the roles of lipases, by 
contrast, have not been elucidated, and we do not know how the integrity of the 
lysosome/vacuole membrane is maintained during degradation.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.01620
PMCID: PMC1828869
PMID: 15615779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Drug News Perspect. 1998 Mar;11(2):104-10. doi: 10.1358/dnp.1998.11.2.863682.

Phospholipase A2 activating protein induces tumor regression.

Goddard DH(1), Bomalaski JS, Clark MA.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Medicine, Long Island College Hospital, Brooklyn, New York 11201, 
USA.

There has been increasing interest in attempts to harness the body's normal 
inflammatory response mediated through the eicosanoid pathway to treat tumors. 
Accumulating data indicate that the growth of several different cancers is 
modulated by a group of pro-inflammatory bioactive lipids, the best known of 
which are the eicosanoids. Eicosanoid pathway constituents modulate cell 
function in several important ways, and an agent that activates PLA(2) and 
up-regulates LTB(4) levels could be expected to be an effective cytotoxic tumor 
agent, especially if it stimulated NK cells. PLAP is a 28-kDa polypeptide that 
is a member of the WD-repeat protein, G-protein-transducin superfamily. The 
pro-inflammatory properties of PLAP have been elucidated using a number of 
different approaches. PLAP has been found in inflamed tissues and synovial fluid 
from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Based on knowledge of PLAP as a 
pro-inflammatory agent, its capacity to modulate the immune response and the 
role of the inflammatory and immune responses in immune surveillance, the role 
of PLAP in cancer therapy was explored. Significant tumor regression was 
observed 72 hours following a single treatment with PLAP in an animal air pouch 
model of glioma. PEG-PLAP treatment increased the life expectancy of animals 
with Lewis lung cancer, and in preliminary studies in MTVL breast tumors in 
mice, PLAP treatment resulted in a similar increase in life expectancy. These 
findings suggest that PLAP holds promise as a potential therapy for cancer, and 
warrants further study.

(c) 1998 Prous Science. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1358/dnp.1998.11.2.863682
PMID: 15616658


69. J Nutr Educ Behav. 2004 Nov-Dec;36(6):282-9. doi:
10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60396-5.

Emic perspectives of body weight in overweight and obese white women with 
limited income.

Parker S(1), Keim KS.

Author information:
(1)Oklahoma Cooperative Extension Service, Family and Consumer Sciences, 
Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK 74078, USA. steph.parker@okstate.edu

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to develop an understanding of body 
weight from emic perspectives of limited-income overweight and obese white 
women.
DESIGN: In-depth individual interviews, including the use of contour drawings 
and body dissatisfaction parameters.
SETTING: All methods were conducted in the homes of the research participants.
PARTICIPANTS: A purposeful sample of limited-income white women (N=25), ages 19 
to 44 years.
PHENOMENA OF INTEREST: Personal perceptions of attractiveness, health, body 
weight, and body dissatisfaction.
ANALYSIS: Transcripts were analyzed using content analysis. Triangulation of 
data was achieved by comparing data elicited by different methods in different 
sections of the interview.
RESULTS: Disordered eating habits were common and considered consequences of 
social, economic, and familial pressures. Food was often used as a means of 
coping with life pressures. Social and economic barriers were identified as 
impeding the adoption of more healthful lifestyles. Weight loss was a low 
priority owing to financial, emotional, familial, and health care constraints.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Multidisciplinary programs addressing financial, 
emotional, and nutritional concerns may be the most effective for weight 
management among white limited-income women. Additional research is necessary to 
verify the results of this study with larger samples.

DOI: 10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60396-5
PMID: 15617610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. J Health Econ. 2005 Jan;24(1):33-54. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2004.03.004.

A semi-separable utility function for health profiles.

Guerrero AM(1), Herrero C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.

Under expected utility, the individual preferences over lotteries on health 
profiles can be represented either by a multiplicative utility function, when 
mutual utility independence is claimed, or, an additive one (known as QALY), 
when it is claimed additive independence. In this paper, we impose a weaker 
condition, i.e., utility independence with respect to the initial health states 
of an individual decision maker, initial independence, and we derive a 
semi-separable utility function. In addition, we assess its parameters by a 
Standard Gamble procedure. Our results could be useful in cost-utility analysis 
for carrying out health care program evaluations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2004.03.004
PMID: 15617787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Acad Med. 2005 Jan;80(1):62-5. doi: 10.1097/00001888-200501000-00015.

Viewpoint: on wondering.

Barondess JA(1).

Author information:
(1)The New York Academy of Medicine, 1216 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10029-5293, 
USA. jbarondess@nyam.org

Wondering is a cousin of curiosity and the parent of inventiveness. Almost 
everything learned in the course of professional education and in the processes 
of professional life has been discovered or developed because of wondering. A 
host of creative individuals once wondered in ways that made today's medicine 
possible, and make the medicine of tomorrow feasible. Wondering is also integral 
to clinical decision making in general, to diagnosis, therapeutic choices, and 
management priorities. It is central to broader themes and to opportunities to 
seek the larger issues of which the daily problems of clinical practice and 
research are manifestations. Oddly enough, it is important to decide to wonder 
in this way to harvest its benefits. It is useful to identify one or two big 
things to wonder about from time to time to use as bases for the development of 
fractals of interest and professional growth. The author discusses in depth two 
such opportunities for wondering, both of which concern issues that underlie the 
immediate clinical event: (1) why individuals' health, disease outcomes, and 
life expectancy vary, and (2) why disease patterns change. He concludes that 
developing a capacity for wondering exercises the mind and the spirit, broadens 
the horizon, and in the long run is not only good for the doctor but also for 
his or her patients, for patients to come, and for the health of the profession 
itself, because it opens the door to change.

DOI: 10.1097/00001888-200501000-00015
PMID: 15618095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2004 Dec 22;2004(51):nf114. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2004.51.nf114.

Natural foods.Wild-like pattern of feast and famine extends Medfly life span.

Davenport RJ.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2004.51.nf114
PMID: 15618133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Chirurg. 2005 Feb;76(2):131-8. doi: 10.1007/s00104-004-0990-x.

[Cardiac surgery in elderly patients].

[Article in German]

Baraki H(1), Karck M, Haverich A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- Thorax- und Gefässchirurgie, Medizinische Hochschule 
Hannover. baraki@exch.thg.mh-hannover.de

Due to demographic changes in average life expectancy, the age of patients 
undergoing cardiac surgery is increasing. We have reviewed the literature to 
analyse whether and how far octogenarians benefit from cardiac surgical 
procedures. Different studies analysed the outcome of patients in different age 
groups after cardiac surgery. Octogenarians can undergo cardiac surgical 
procedures at a reasonable risk. The perioperative mortality and other 
postoperative complications are strongly dependent on comorbidities rather than 
on patients' age. Elderly patients benefit from improved functional status and 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-004-0990-x
PMID: 15619065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. BMC Public Health. 2004 Dec 24;4:66. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-4-66.

Global patterns of healthy life expectancy in the year 2002.

Mathers CD(1), Iburg KM, Salomon JA, Tandon A, Chatterji S, Ustün B, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Evidence and Information for Policy, World Health Organization, Avenue Appia, 
Geneva, Switzerland. mathersc@who.int

BACKGROUND: Healthy life expectancy--sometimes called health-adjusted life 
expectancy (HALE)--is a form of health expectancy indicator that extends 
measures of life expectancy to account for the distribution of health states in 
the population. The World Health Organization reports on healthy life expectancy 
for 192 WHO Member States. This paper describes variation in average levels of 
population health across these countries and by sex for the year 2002.
METHODS: Mortality was analysed for 192 countries and disability from 135 causes 
assessed for 17 regions of the world. Health surveys in 61 countries were 
analyzed using new methods to improve the comparability of self-report data.
RESULTS: Healthy life expectancy at birth ranged from 40 years for males in 
Africa to over 70 years for females in developed countries in 2002. The 
equivalent "lost" healthy years ranged from 15% of total life expectancy at 
birth in Africa to 8-9% in developed countries.
CONCLUSION: People living in poor countries not only face lower life 
expectancies than those in richer countries but also live a higher proportion of 
their lives in poor health.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-4-66
PMCID: PMC547900
PMID: 15619327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Ageing Res Rev. 2005 Jan;4(1):41-53. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2004.09.001. Epub
2004  Nov 28.

The role of ubiquinone in Caenorhabditis elegans longevity.

Rodríguez-Aguilera JC(1), Gavilán A, Asencio C, Navas P.

Author information:
(1)Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, 
Ctra. Utrera Km. 1, E-41013 Seville, Spain.

Aging is an irreversible physiological process that affects all living 
organisms. Different mutations in the insulin signaling pathway and caloric 
restriction have been shown to retard aging in Caenorhabditis elegans. In 
addition, mutations or RNAi silencing of components of the respiratory chain 
results in the modification of adult life span. Another class of genes that 
affect life span in C. elegans is the clock (clk) genes. Particularly 
interesting is clk-1, which encodes an enzyme required for ubiquinone (coenzyme 
Q, CoQ) biosynthesis. Down-regulation by RNAi silencing of the genes required 
for ubiquinone biosynthesis also extends life span in C. elegans, and CoQ 
supplied in the diet also affects nematode longevity in both clk-1 and wild-type 
strains. Although there are many aspects that can be considered in aging, we 
focus this review on the role of CoQ in the longevity of C. elegans. We will 
review the current information about the biosynthesis of CoQ and its dietary 
supplementation related to the extension of life span. We will also analyze the 
function of CoQ in the electron transport chain and reactive oxygen species 
production in the context of aging. We hypothesize that the role of CoQ on 
longevity of C. elegans supports the oxidative damage theory of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2004.09.001
PMID: 15619469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Br J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2005 Feb;43(1):23-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjoms.2004.08.020.

Survey of oral rehabilitation in a consecutive series of 130 patients treated by 
primary resection for oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma.

Rogers SN(1), Panasar J, Pritchard K, Lowe D, Howell R, Cawood JI.

Author information:
(1)Regional Maxillofacial Unit, University Hospital Aintree, Aintree Trust, 
Liverpool L9 1AL, UK. snrogers@doctors.org.uk

The purpose of this study was to investigate the use of oral rehabilitation in a 
group of patients who had primary resection of oral and oropharyngeal squamous 
cell carcinoma. Of 132 consecutive patients operated on for previously untreated 
disease between January 1995 and June 1997, 130 were recruited. The University 
of Washington Quality of Life questionnaire was completed on the day before 
operation at 6 and 12 months, and at last review. A larger similar dataset was 
used to predict survival. Twenty-eight patients (22%) were seen by the oral 
rehabilitation team. The median (IQR) time from operation to start of treatment 
was 12 months (6-21). The median (IQR) time from beginning to end of 
rehabilitation was 14 months (5-49). Patients with larger tumours (P=0.06) and 
patients who were edentulous with dentures in the maxilla (P=0.07) were most 
likely to be seen for oral rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjoms.2004.08.020
PMID: 15620770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Lancet Neurol. 2005 Jan;4(1):21-31. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(04)00963-9.

Epidemiology and aetiology of epilepsy in sub-Saharan Africa.

Preux PM(1), Druet-Cabanac M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroepidemiology and Tropical Neurology (EA 3174), Limoges, 
France. preux@unilim.fr <preux@unilim.fr>

Data on the incidence of and prognosis for epilepsy in sub-Saharan Africa are 
scarce, but prevalence data show that epilepsy is two or three times more common 
than in industrialised countries in non-tropical areas. The high prevalence of 
epilepsy and low life expectancy indicate that incidence is high. Relative 
contributions of each cause of epilepsy are difficult to determine. Only a few 
case-control studies have been done in sub-Saharan Africa. Infections, in 
particular cysticercosis in its endemic areas, cause most cases of epilepsy. The 
implementation of studies to accurately determine the causes of epilepsy in 
sub-Saharan Africa is urgently required. Such studies will help to lower the 
incidence of epilepsy in this region and better understand the aetiology of 
epilepsy in other areas.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(04)00963-9
PMID: 15620854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Ann Thorac Surg. 2005 Jan;79(1):21-8; discussion 21-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2004.06.107.

Flap valve double patch closure of ventricular septal defects in children with 
increased pulmonary vascular resistance.

Novick WM(1), Sandoval N, Lazorhysynets VV, Castillo V, Baskevitch A, Mo X, Reid 
RW, Marinovic B, Di Sessa TG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center, 
Memphis, Tennessee, USA. ichfno@aol.com

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Feb;81(2):788; author reply 788-9.

BACKGROUND: Closure of a large ventricular septal defect (VSD) in children with 
elevated pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) is associated with significant 
morbidity and mortality. Sophisticated medications and circulatory assist 
devices may not be available to assist in the care of children with elevated PVR 
undergoing VSD closure. We designed a fenestrated flap valve double VSD patch to 
decrease the morbidity and mortality associated with the closure of a large VSD 
in this high-risk group.
METHODS: Ninety-one children (median age 4.0 +/- 3.1 years) with a large VSD and 
elevated PVR (10.5 +/- 4.9 Wood units) underwent double patch VSD closure. The 
routine VSD patch was fenestrated (4 to 8 mm), and on the left ventricular side 
of the patch, a second smaller patch was attached to the upper third of the 
fenestration before VSD patch placement.
RESULTS: Fifty-six children with a VSD as the primary lesion, 16 with complete 
atrioventricular canal, 10 with double outlet right ventricle/VSD, 2 with 
interrupted aortic arch/VSD, 2 with truncus arteriosus, and 1 each with 
transposition/VSD, corrected transposition/VSD, total anomalous pulmonary venous 
connection/VSD, VSD/left pulmonary artery atresia, and aortopulmonary window 
underwent operation; the overall early mortality rate was 7.7% (7 of 91). There 
have been 7 late deaths: 2 VSD and 5 complex defects.
CONCLUSIONS: Closure of a large VSD with elevated PVR can be performed with 
reasonable mortality and morbidity.
