Tiqva 49 100, Israel. ehrlichy@netvision.net.il

AIMS: To report the experience with trabeculectomy augmented with mitomycin C 
and 5-fluorouracil for the treatment of paediatric glaucoma.
METHODS: Retrospective, interventional case series design was used. The sample 
included 17 children (29 eyes) with primary (19 eyes) or secondary (10 eyes) 
glaucoma who were treated with augmented trabeculectomy as the primary procedure 
between 1990 and 2002. Data were collected on age and family history, 
preoperative and end of follow up intraocular pressure, cup/disc ratio 
(evaluated by drawing), visual acuity, complications, and post-surgery 
treatment.
RESULTS: Patient age at surgery ranged from 1 month to 8 years; most patients (n 
= 14, 82.3%) were aged less than 1 year (range 1 month-8 months, mean 3.95 (SD 
2.56) months); three patients (17.7%) were aged 3, 5, and 8 years. The duration 
of follow up was 3-120 months (mean 46 months). Intraocular pressure 
significantly improved from 21 mm Hg to 60 mm Hg (mean 33.1 (10) mm Hg) before 
surgery to 6-26 mm Hg (mean 17.1 (6) mm Hg) after, (p <0.0001). There was no 
significant change in cup/disc ratio: 0.1-0.8 (mean 0.42 (0.26)) before and 
0.1-1.0 (mean 0.511 (0.27)) after (p = 0.45). In 22 eyes (75.8%), intraocular 
pressure was controlled at less than 20 mm Hg and the cup/disc ratio remained 
stable or improved. The life table success rate for intraocular pressure control 
remained stable at 86% at the 12, 24, and 36 months and after 48 months 
decreased to 53%. There was no significant difference in the life table results 
between primary and secondary glaucoma. 14 eyes (48.2%) had a visual acuity 
better than 20/120 by the end of follow up. Repeated surgery was necessary in 
eight eyes (27.5%), and additional antiglaucoma treatment in 13 (44.8%). 
Complications included retinal detachment 1 year after surgery, choroidal 
detachment, and blebitis (one eye each).
CONCLUSIONS: Augmented trabeculectomy with mitomycin C and 5-fluorouracil may 
serve as the primary procedure in a selected group of paediatric patients with 
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2004.046037
PMCID: PMC1772527
PMID: 15665346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2004 Nov;13(9):1019-32. doi: 
10.1089/jwh.2004.13.1019.

Health and sociodemographic factors associated with body weight and weight 
objectives for women: 2000 behavioral risk factor surveillance system.

Mack KA(1), Anderson L, Galuska D, Zablotsky D, Holtzman D, Ahluwalia I.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Injury 
Prevention and Control, Division of Unintentional Injury, Atlanta, Georgia 
30341, USA. kmack@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: The increasing body mass index (BMI) of women in the United States 
gives rise to concerns about associated comorbid conditions and decreases in 
life expectancy. Also of concern are underweight women, especially as the result 
of an eating disorder or undernutrition.
METHODS: Data from a national sample of women aged > or =18 years (n = 98,387) 
are used to examine the relationship between health and sociodemographic factors 
(diabetes, physical activity, self-rated health, smoking status, weight loss 
attempts, age, and education) and body weight (BMI, desired weight). Models are 
stratified by race.
RESULTS: Roughly 70% of the women in each race/ethnic group (72.0% white women, 
68.3% black women, 69.4% Hispanic women) wanted to weigh less, and just under 
one half of the women were actively trying to lose weight. A notable percentage 
of women who were classified as obese indicated that they were at their ideal 
weight and desired no weight change. Most women had not received advice from a 
health professional in the past year regarding their weight, and most were not 
engaging in the optimally recommended level of physical activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Results document the range of satisfaction with current weight 
among adult women and capture low levels of health practitioner involvement in 
issues of weight. Perception of weight, combined with BMI, will need to be 
assessed to determine how best to proceed toward an ideal weight and 
satisfaction with that weight.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2004.13.1019
PMID: 15665659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Acta Diabetol. 2004 Sep;41(3):85-90. doi: 10.1007/s00592-004-0149-8.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus is becoming the most common type of diabetes in school 
children.

Pontiroli AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, San Paolo Hospital, 1-20142 Milan, Italy. 
Antonio.Pontiroli@unimi.it

Obesity, now an epidemic in the USA, northern Europe, and Italy, is associated 
with several co-morbidities that shorten life expectancy, in particular type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM), arterial hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. The impact 
of obesity on mortality is evident in all ages, and is especially strong in 
young persons. Obesity, especially visceral obesity, associated with a sedentary 
lifestyle, is among the strongest risk factors for T2DM, and a diagnosis of T2DM 
seems to increase linearly as a function of duration of obesity. The 
pathogenesis of T2DM is based on a dual defect, i.e. increased insulin 
resistance coupled with defective insulin release. The main abnormality in 
obesity is increased insulin resistance, while insulin release, even though 
defective compared with body needs, is usually abundant. The incidence of 
obesity among children aged 6-16 years is now even greater than that among 
adults: in Italy, figures up to 30% have been reported. As in adults, obesity is 
a cause, among children, of arterial hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, 
hyperlipidemia, non-alcoholic-steato hepatitis, sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), and 
orthopedic, psychological, and social problems. Together with an increase in 
body weight, there is an increase of visceral fat. Obesity in children has also 
led to a tremendous increase in the prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance 
(IGT); the percentages span from 25% in a multiethnic cohort in the USA, to 4% 
in Italian Caucasians. Management of obesity and of T2DM in children has to face 
the issue of poor compliance; there is consensus that dietary treatment of obese 
T2DM children is a failure, so that drugs are required; the only drug evaluated 
in a formal trial is metformin, that behaves in terms of efficacy and of minor 
side effects as in adults. In conclusion, obesity in children is not pure 
obesity, but is accompanied by co-morbidities that cluster to form the 
"metabolic syndrome" just like in the adults. If this epidemics continues and is 
not properly challenged, in the next decades we will face an epidemic of early 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s00592-004-0149-8
PMID: 15666574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Coll Antropol. 2004 Dec;28(2):943-50.

Five reasons why inbreeding may have considerable effect on post-reproductive 
human health.

Rudan I(1), Campbell H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Statistics, Epidemiology and Medical Informatics, 
School of Public Health "Andrija Stampar", School of Medicine, University of 
Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia. irudan@hotmail.com

As the genetic architecture of common complex diseases of late onset is emerging 
through intensive research, it is intriguing to assess the predicted effect of 
inbreeding on those diseases. In this paper, we propose five reasons why we 
believe inbreeding may have a considerable effect on post-reproductive human 
health. (i) The joint effect of inbreeding depression on all polygenic 
quantitative phenotypes that confer risk for late-onset diseases is predicted to 
be multiplicative rather than additive. (ii) The "genetic load" of rare 
"Mendelian" variants with large deleterious effects in post-reproductive adults 
is unknown, but could be much greater than expected as these variants were 
invisible to selection through human history. (iii) Deleterious effects 
resulting from autozygosity in hundreds of affected rare recessive variants of 
small effect under common disease/rare variant (CD/RV) hypothesis could result 
in epistatic effects that could jointly impair capacity to compensate against 
environmental risks. (iv) Heterozygote advantage in loci under balancing 
selection could be reduced by inbreeding. (v) Published empirical evidence in 
animals and humans consistently report large inbreeding effects on late-onset 
traits. Since inbreeding is common in many populations and the effects of 
inbreeding depression could substantially contribute to disease burden and 
reduced life expectancy we believe there is now a clear need for further genetic 
epidemiological research in humans to investigate this issue.

PMID: 15666632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Krankenpfl Soins Infirm. 2004;97(12):15-7.

["Participation" is the magic word].

[Article in German]

Bachl M.

PMID: 15666665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Harefuah. 2004 Dec;143(12):895-8, 909.

[Pancreas transplantation in insulin dependent diabetic patients].

[Article in Hebrew]

Nakash R(1), Ben Haim M, Katz P, Yahnin T.

Author information:
(1)Transplants Unit, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center. 
richnak@tasmc.health.gov.il

Successful transplantation of the pancreas as a whole organ, or as isolated 
islet cells, is the only treatment that achieves a stable normoglycemia as a 
result of insulin secretion and renewal of serum glucose levels control systems. 
Nowadays, one year patient survival after pancreas transplantation is above 90%, 
while functioning grafts are observed in 84% of combined pancreas kidney and in 
70% of isolated pancreas transplantations. Type I insulin dependent diabetic 
patients aged 45 or less with severe diabetic nephropathy, without immediate 
life saving cardiovascular risk, highly motivated and well informed achieve the 
best results. Namely, these results include euglycemia without exogenous 
insulin, improvement of secondary complications of diabetes, protection of the 
kidney graft, and longer life expectancy with better quality of life, as 
compared to dialyzed diabetic patients.

PMID: 15666711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Urology. 2005 Jan;65(1):83-9; discussion 89-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.urology.2004.07.042.

Alfuzosin 10 mg once daily in the management of acute urinary retention: results 
of a double-blind placebo-controlled study.

McNeill SA(1), Hargreave TB, Roehrborn CG; Alfaur study group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, Scotland, United 
Kingdom. alan.mcneill@luht.scot.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Curr Urol Rep. 2005 Jul;6(4):241-2.

OBJECTIVES: To study the impact of alfuzosin 10 mg once daily (OD) on the 
outcome of a trial without catheter (TWOC) after a first episode of acute 
urinary retention (AUR) related to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and the 
subsequent management of BPH in these patients.
METHODS: A total of 360 patients underwent emergency catheterization and were 
blindly randomized to alfuzosin 10 mg OD or placebo for 3 days (first phase). 
All patients with successful TWOC, regardless of treatment, were then again 
blindly randomized to alfuzosin 10 mg OD or placebo for 6 months (second phase). 
The need for BPH surgery (primary endpoint) was assessed after 1, 3, and 6 
months of treatment.
RESULTS: Alfuzosin significantly increased the successful TWOC rate (146 of 236, 
61.9%) compared with placebo (58 of 121, 47.9%; P = 0.012). In the second phase, 
14 (17.1%) of the 82 alfuzosin-treated patients versus 20 (24.1%) of the 83 
placebo-treated patients required BPH surgery, 5 (36%) of 14 versus 13 (65%) of 
20 within 1 month, and 8 (57%) of 14 versus 17 (85%) of 20 within 3 months of 
treatment. Emergency surgery because of AUR relapse was the main cause of 
failure in both groups (11 [78.6%] of 14 in the alfuzosin group and 16 [80.0%] 
of 20 in the placebo group). Compared with placebo, alfuzosin improved the 
Kaplan-Meier survival rates by 9.6% (P = 0.04), 11.4% (P = 0.04), and 8.3% (P = 
0.20), with surgical risk reductions of 61%, 52%, and 29% at 1, 3, and 6 months 
of treatment, respectively. High prostate-specific antigen values and the 
post-TWOC residual urine volume significantly increased the risk of AUR relapse 
and BPH surgery. Alfuzosin 10 mg OD was well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: Alfuzosin 10 mg OD increased the likelihood of successful TWOC in 
men with a first episode of spontaneous AUR and should be continued beyond the 
acute phase, as it reduced the need for BPH surgery during a 6-month treatment 
period.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.07.042
PMID: 15667868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Urology. 2005 Jan;65(1):91-4. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.053.

Approach to management of clinically localized prostate cancer in patients with 
human immunodeficiency virus.

Levinson A(1), Nagler EA, Lowe FC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Columbia University College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, New York, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the approach to management of localized prostate cancer 
(PCa) in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the highly active 
antiretroviral therapy era.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed on 10 HIV-positive patients who 
recently presented with elevated prostate-specific antigen levels and clinically 
localized PCa.
RESULTS: At the diagnosis of PCa, the average patient was 54.0 years old, had 
been HIV positive for 8.75 years, had a CD4 count of 417, a prostate-specific 
antigen level of 9.2 ng/mL, and a Gleason score of 6. Eight of the patients had 
risk factors for PCa--either African-American descent (n = 6) or a positive 
family history (n = 2). The treatment was laparoscopic radical prostatectomy in 
1, potency-preserving androgen deprivation in 1, cryosurgery in 1, brachytherapy 
in 2, observation in 2, and external beam radiotherapy in 3.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening of all HIV-positive men should be initiated at age 40 if 
they have either a positive family history of prostate cancer or are of 
African-American descent. Asymptomatic HIV-positive patients should be offered 
all therapeutic PCa treatment options.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.053
PMID: 15667871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Urology. 2005 Jan;65(1):95-100. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.044.

Influence of body mass index on biochemical outcome after permanent prostate 
brachytherapy.

Merrick GS(1), Butler WM, Wallner KE, Galbreath RW, Allen Z, Lief JH, Adamovich 
E.

Author information:
(1)Schiffler Cancer Center, Wheeling Hospital, Wheeling, West Virginia 
26003-6300, USA. gmerrick@wheelinghospital.com

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the impact of body mass index (BMI) on the 8-year 
biochemical outcome after permanent prostate brachytherapy with or without the 
addition of supplemental external beam radiotherapy and/or androgen deprivation 
therapy (ADT).
METHODS: From April 1995 through February 2001, 686 consecutive patients 
underwent brachytherapy using either palladium-103 or iodine-125 for clinical 
Stage T1b-T3aNxM0 (2002 American Joint Committee on Cancer) prostate cancer. No 
patient underwent seminal vesicle biopsy or pathologic lymph node staging. The 
median follow-up was 59.5 months. The evaluated BMI subgroups were less than 25, 
25.0 to 29.9, 30.0 to 34.9, and 35 or more kg/m2. Biochemical progression-free 
survival was defined by a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level of 0.4 ng/mL or 
less after a nadir. The clinical, treatment, and dosimetric parameters evaluated 
for biochemical progression-free survival included BMI, patient age, clinical T 
stage, Gleason score, preimplant PSA level, risk group, percentage of positive 
biopsies, isotope, use of supplemental external beam radiotherapy, use of ADT, 
prostate volume, planning volume, percentage of target volume receiving 100%, 
150%, and 200% of the prescribed dose, minimal percentage of dose covering 90% 
of the target volume, tobacco use, and the presence of hypertension and 
diabetes.
RESULTS: For the entire group, the actuarial 8-year biochemical progression-free 
survival rate was 95.8%, 95.6%, 94.1%, and 100% for patients in BMI categories 
less than 25, 25.0 to 29.9, 30.0 to 34.9, and 35 or more kg/m2, respectively. In 
hormone-naive and hormone-manipulated patients free of biochemical progression, 
the median post-treatment PSA level was less than 0.1 ng/mL. When integrated 
across risk groups and ADT use, BMI had no statistically significant impact on 
biochemical progression-free survival. At last follow-up, 5 patients (0.7%) had 
died of metastatic prostate cancer. In multivariate Cox regression analysis, 
pretreatment PSA level, Gleason score, clinical stage, percentage of positive 
biopsies, ADT use, and tobacco status, but not BMI, were statistically 
significant predictors of 8-year biochemical progression-free survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostate brachytherapy results in a high probability of 8-year 
biochemical progression-free survival for low, intermediate, and high-risk 
patients. When integrated across risk groups and hormonal status, BMI had no 
statistically significant influence on biochemical progression-free survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.044
PMID: 15667872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Urology. 2005 Jan;65(1):114-9. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.037.

Comparison of late rectal toxicity from conventional versus three-dimensional 
conformal radiotherapy for prostate cancer: analysis of clinical and dosimetric 
factors.

Lee CM(1), Lee RJ, Handrahan DL, Sause WT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah 84143, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To compare late rectal toxicity (LRT) after definitive radiotherapy 
(DR) and salvage radiotherapy (SR) in prostate cancer using conventional (CONV) 
or three-dimensional conformal (3-D) techniques.
METHODS: The outcomes and clinical factors of 212 patients with Stage T1a-T4 
prostate cancer were evaluated (separated into DR and SR groups). The median 
prescribed dose was 66, 74, 66, and 70 Gy, for the CONV-DR, 3-D-DR, CONV-SR, and 
3-D-SR groups, respectively. LRT was scored using both Radiation Therapy 
Oncology Group (RTOG) and modified RTOG and Late Effects Normal Tissue 
(mRTOG/LENT) scales.
RESULTS: The 4-year biochemical relapse-free survival rate was 83% for all 
patients, with a trend toward improvement in the 3-D groups (78% CONV and 85% 
3-D, P = 0.12). One patient (1%) in the CONV group and 24 (24%) in the 3-D group 
experienced grade 2 or worse LRT by the mRTOG/LENT scale. Patients undergoing DR 
experienced grade 2 or worse LRT of 1% versus 21% (P = 0.003) for the CONV and 
3-D groups, respectively. Patients undergoing SR experienced grade 2 or worse 
LRT of 0% versus 40% for the CONV and 3-D groups, respectively. The following 
variables correlated significantly with LRT on both univariate and multivariate 
analyses: prescribed radiation dose (P <0.0001), percentage of rectal volume 
receiving 60 Gy (P <0.005), and percentage of rectal volume receiving 70 Gy (P 
<0.001). The pretreatment clinical factors, when added to the dosimetric data, 
were not statistically significant on multivariate analysis (P >0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The prescribed radiation dose and percentage of rectal volume 
treated to 60 or 70 Gy had statistically significant correlations with increased 
LRT. The rate of grade 2 or worse LRT was greater for patients undergoing SR 
than for those undergoing DR. We believe that continued close attention to 
dosimetric variables is imperative for future studies of dose escalation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.037
PMID: 15667875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Urology. 2005 Jan;65(1):126-30. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.041.

Combination of docetaxel, estramustine phosphate, and zoledronic acid in 
androgen-independent metastatic prostate cancer: efficacy, safety, and clinical 
benefit assessment.

Efstathiou E(1), Bozas G, Kostakopoulos A, Kastritis E, Deliveliotis C, Antoniou 
N, Skarlos D, Papadimitriou C, Dimopoulos MA, Bamias A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Therapeutics, University of Athens School of Medicine, 
Haidari, Athens, Greece.

OBJECTIVES: Docetaxel is an effective agent for the treatment of 
androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC). Its combination with estramustine 
phosphate (EMP) has shown promising results in AIPC but the toxicity remains 
considerable. In an effort to minimize toxicity, we designed an every-2-week 
docetaxel administration regimen with a 3-day low-dose EMP regimen. Patients 
with bone metastases also received zoledronic acid.
METHODS: A total of 54 patients with AIPC received docetaxel at 45 mg/m2 and EMP 
(140 mg orally every 8 hours for nine doses) every 2 weeks. Zoledronic acid was 
administered at 4 mg every 28 days.
RESULTS: Of the 49 assessable patients, 22 (45%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
31% to 60%) had a prostate-specific antigen response. Of 24 patients with 
measurable disease, 9 (38%, 95% CI 19% to 59%) had a response to therapy (one 
complete response and eight partial responses). The median time to progression 
was 4.4 months (95% CI 2.7 to 6), and overall survival was 13.3 months (95% CI 9 
to 17.6). Toxicity was mild, with only 5 cases of grade 3 or 4 toxicity. The 
pain score improved by 1 point in 21 (54%) of 39 symptomatic patients, and 14 
(40%) of 38 patients who used analgesics discontinued analgesic consumption by 
the end of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of an every-2-week regimen of docetaxel, EMP, and 
zoledronic acid is an effective, well-tolerated regimen that results in 
symptomatic improvement in a significant proportion of patients with AIPC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.041
PMID: 15667877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Urology. 2005 Jan;65(1):176-80. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.025.

HER2 protein overexpression and gene amplification in upper urinary tract 
transitional cell carcinoma: systematic analysis applying tissue microarray 
technique.

Langner C(1), Gross C, Rehak P, Ratschek M, Rüschoff J, Zigeuner R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria. 
cord.langner@meduni-graz.at

OBJECTIVES: To investigate HER2 (c-erbB-2) protein overexpression and HER2 gene 
amplification in upper urinary tract transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) with 
respect to its association with tumor grade and stage, as well as the prognostic 
significance.
METHODS: A total of 53 consecutive TCC specimens were analyzed 
immunohistochemically (HercepTest) and with fluorescence in situ hybridization 
applying a tissue microarray technique.
RESULTS: Overall, HER2 immunoreactivity (expression) was detected in 28 of 53 
TCC specimens and tended to be stronger in high-stage (8 [36%] of 22 pT1 versus 
20 [65%] of 31 pT2-T3; P = 0.06) and high-grade (11 [39%] of 28 low-grade versus 
17 [68%] of 25 high-grade; P = 0.054) tumors. Weak overexpression (HercepTest 
score 2+) was seen in 9 cases (17%) and was associated with angioinvasion (P = 
0.02) and had independent prognostic significance with respect to 
metastasis-free survival (risk ratio 9.6; P = 0.03). Low HER2 amplification was 
present in four TCC specimens (9%), with HER2/chromosome 17 ratios of 2.03, 
2.77, 2.91, and 3.39, and polysomy of chromosome 17 was present in another 3 
cases (7%). HER2 amplification and/or polysomy of chromosome 17 prevailed in 
high-stage (0 [0%] of 20 pT1 versus 7 [27%] of 26 pT2-T3; P = 0.01) and 
high-grade (1 [4%] of 24 low-grade versus 6 [27%] of 22 high-grade; P = 0.04) 
tumors, but lacked independent prognostic significance. Of nine TCC specimens 
with weak HER2 overexpression (HercepTest score 2+), 3 (33%) showed low HER2 
amplification and two others had polysomy of chromosome 17.
CONCLUSIONS: HER2 overexpression and HER2 gene amplification were infrequent in 
our series. Thus, only a small number of patients with upper urinary tract TCC 
might benefit from HER2-targeted (Herceptin) cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2004.08.025
PMID: 15667899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Int J Qual Health Care. 2005 Feb;17(1):23-30. doi: 10.1093/intqhc/mzh086.

Development of the multi-attribute Pediatric Asthma Health Outcome Measure 
(PAHOM).

Chiou CF(1), Weaver MR, Bell MA, Lee TA, Krieger JW.

Author information:
(1)Cerner Health Insights, Beverly Hills, CA 90212, USA. cchiou@amgen.com

OBJECTIVE: To develop a multi-attribute outcome measure for children with asthma 
that allows for the calculation of quality-adjusted life years in 
cost-effectiveness studies and can also be used to assign preference weights to 
asthma-symptom-free days.
STUDY DESIGN: A literature review and two interviewer-administered surveys.
SETTING: Homes or community centers of participants in Seattle, United States.
MAIN MEASURE: Visual analog scale (VAS), standard gamble (SG), and relative risk 
attitude equation techniques were used to estimate two sets of preference 
weights for 10 health states. The PAHOM was used to record health states of 
pediatric asthma patients.
RESULTS: A total of 94 subjects provided complete responses without any 
illogical ratings to VAS questions and 101 provided the same to SG questions. 
The VAS preference weights of the health states range from a maximum of 1 for 
perfect health to a minimum of 0.03 for severe asthma symptoms, emotional 
problems, and activity limitations. Those based on the relative risk attitude 
equation constructed with both VAS and SG preference weights range from 1 to 
0.06. The mean PAHOM scores of pediatric asthma patients based on VAS and 
converted SG preference weights were 0.70 and 0.83, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The PAHOM calendar can be used to identify asthma patients' health 
outcomes, to calculate the preference weights of asthma patients' health states, 
and to estimate the number of symptom-free days. These factors make the PAHOM a 
promising instrument for use in effectiveness and cost-effectiveness studies in 
children with asthma.

DOI: 10.1093/intqhc/mzh086
PMID: 15668307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Neurology. 2005 Jan 25;64(2):241-5. doi: 10.1212/01.WNL.0000149513.82332.5C.

Physical activity and the association with sporadic ALS.

Veldink JH(1), Kalmijn S, Groeneveld GJ, Titulaer MJ, Wokke JH, van den Berg LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology of the Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, 
University Medical Center Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2005 Sep 27;65(6):972-3; author reply 972-3.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether lifetime physical activity during work and leisure 
time is associated with an increased risk of developing ALS and to determine the 
association between physical activity and duration or age at onset of disease.
METHODS: Patients referred to our clinic during the 1-year period 2001 to 2002 
who had definite, probable, or possible ALS according to El Escorial criteria, 
without a familial history of ALS, were asked to participate in the study. A 
case-control study was performed taking into account all occupational and 
leisure time activities of patients (n = 219) and controls (n = 254). 
Multivariate analysis included confounding factors (sex, age, level of 
education, body mass index, alcohol use, and smoking). Three quantitative 
measures of cumulative physical activity were calculated: until 1 year before 
the onset of disease (total physical activity), the last 10 years before the 
onset of disease (late physical activity), and until the age of 25 (early 
physical activity). In addition, a systematic review of all published data is 
presented.
RESULTS: Smoking and alcohol use were independently associated with ALS (current 
smoking increased risk, OR = 1.8, 95% CI = 1.0 to 3.0, p = 0.03, ever/current 
alcohol use decreased risk, OR = 0.6, 95% CI = 0.3 to 0.9, p = 0.04). No 
significant association with occupational or leisure time physical activity was 
found (all ORs < or = 1.7), which was in agreement with most studies with the 
highest level of evidence in the systematic review. Higher leisure time 
activities were associated with an earlier age at onset: activity levels before 
age of 25 (p < 0.001, 7 years earlier), and activity during the last 10 years (p 
< 0.001, 3 years earlier).
CONCLUSIONS: There is no association between physical activity and the risk of 
developing ALS.

DOI: 10.1212/01.WNL.0000149513.82332.5C
PMID: 15668420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. AIDS. 2005 Jan 28;19(2):127-35. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200501280-00004.

HIV-1 Tat inhibits neprilysin and elevates amyloid beta.

Rempel HC(1), Pulliam L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Aging is a risk factor for amyloid beta (Abeta) accumulation and 
dementia. Since highly active antiretroviral therapies have effectively 
lengthened the life expectancy of individuals infected with HIV-1, we 
investigated the affect of HIV-1 Tat, a viral transactivating transcription 
factor, on Abeta degradation in the brain by neprilysin (NEP), a neuronal 
endopeptidase.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Using neural cell membrane fractions from human brain 
aggregates, Tat inhibition of NEP activity was assessed in a fluorescence assay. 
Following treatment with Tat, conditioned medium of human brain aggregate 
cultures was assayed for Abeta1-40 by ELISA. We evaluated the potential 
consequence of Tat inhibition of NEP by immunostaining cortex sections from 
postmortem human brain for Abeta.
RESULTS: In an in vitro assay, Tat inhibited NEP activity by 80%. The 
cysteine-rich domain of Tat was essential for NEP inhibition. Recombinant Tat 
added directly to brain cultures, resulted in a 125% increase in soluble Abeta. 
Postmortem human brain sections from patients with HIV-1 infection (n = 14; 
31-58 years old) had a significant increase in Abeta, compared to controls (n = 
5; 30-52 years old). Correlative analysis identified a statistically significant 
relationship between Abeta load and duration of HIV-1 seropositive status.
CONCLUSION: We have shown that Tat, which is found in the brains of patients 
with HIV-1 infection, inhibits the Abeta-degrading enzyme, NEP. Abeta staining 
was significantly increased in human brain sections from individuals with HIV-1 
infection compared to controls. These results have important implications for 
individuals living and aging with HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200501280-00004
PMID: 15668537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2005 Sep;262(9):722-30. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-004-0890-1. Epub 2005 Jan 25.

Drainage of retro-parapharyngeal abscess: an additional indication for 
endoscopic sinus surgery.

Nicolai P(1), Lombardi D, Berlucchi M, Farina D, Zanetti D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University of Brescia, Piazza Spedali 
Civili 1, 25123, Brescia, Italy. pieronicolai@virgilio.it

Deep neck abscesses are life-threatening conditions, in early stages preferably 
treated by intravenous antibiotic therapy; in advanced stages, surgical drainage 
is mandatory. We report two cases of retro-parapharyngeal abscess with prevalent 
retronasopharyngeal extension in two men aged 60 and 82, both of whom underwent 
transnasal endoscopic drainage. The main surgical steps were incision of the 
posterior pharyngeal mucosal wall, widening of the incision, drainage of 
purulent collection and careful dissection and removal of the necrotic tissue. 
The first patient, with an abscess associated with chronic otitis media and 
presenting hypoglossal nerve palsy, quickly recovered from pharyngodinia, 
otalgia and trismus. Twenty-six months after surgery, he is symptom-free, with 
hemitongue atrophy due to denervation as the only residual sign. The second 
patient, affected by skull base osteomyelitis secondary to malignant external 
otitis, after a first successful drainage, underwent a second endoscopic 
procedure for the reoccurrence of an abscess in the contralateral 
retroparapharyngeal space. Twelve months after the first surgery, the patient 
reported an improvement of symptoms, except for persistent dysphonia related to 
vagal nerve palsy. At follow-up MR, another abscess was detected in the left 
retro-parapharyngeal space. In selected cases of abscess, transnasal endoscopic 
drainage may be an effective alternative to external approaches. Minimal 
morbidity, the absence of cervical or palatal scars and a short hospitalization 
time can be considered as important advantages in comparison to external 
approaches. Patients with abscess secondary to skull base osteomyelitis require 
close imaging surveillance because of the difficulty of definitive control of 
the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-004-0890-1
PMID: 15668811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Aging Male. 2004 Sep;7(3):227-35. doi: 10.1080/13685530400004116.

The Philippine Male Aging Survey.

Reyes JA 3rd(1), Tan DA, Quimpo JA, Tan-Garcia J, Garcia LA, Gonzaga FP, 
Torralba TP, Lim-Abrahan MA, de la Rosa MT, Santos MS; PhiSSAM Male Aging Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)St Luke's Medical Center, Extension, Quezon City, Philippines.

The aging male is fast becoming a global concern. The problem is predicted to 
become a major health issue that should be addressed immediately in order to 
prevent disability, morbidity, and, more importantly, mortality. As part of its 
commitment to increase awareness and create interest in the care of Filipino 
aging males, The Philippine Society for the Study of the Aging Male Foundation, 
Inc. (PhiSSAM), a multi-specialty society established in 2000, embarked on a 
survey among Filipino physicians to determine their knowledge, attitudes, and 
practices regarding male aging. Results showed that the majority of doctors 
(about 87%) thought that men may experience andropause. Most would diagnose 
patients based on symptoms alone, while only 20-30% used testosterone levels to 
make a diagnosis of andropause. Decreased libido and less strong erections were 
the symptoms very closely associated with low testosterone. Of those doctors 
responding, 89% agreed that andropause can affect the quality of a man's life as 
much as menopause can affect a female; only 38% had already 
prescribed/instituted treatment for andropause. Of the 62% non-prescribers, 58% 
said they were either very likely or fairly likely to institute treatment in the 
future if there were more clinical trials, more medical information, and more 
information on drugs. Major concerns on testosterone replacement therapy 
included prostate cancer, benign prostatic hypertrophy, and heart disease. The 
findings in this pilot survey indicate a need among the doctors in the 
Philippines for education about andropause and the available treatments.

DOI: 10.1080/13685530400004116
PMID: 15669542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2004;6(2):61-74. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2004.tb00028.x.

One-stage surgery and early loading of three implants for maxillary 
overdentures: a 1-year report.

Payne AG(1), Tawse-Smith A, Thomson WM, Duncan WD, Kumara R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Rehabilitation, School of Dentistry, University of Otago, 
Dunedin, New Zealand. alan.payne@stonebow.otago.ac.nz

BACKGROUND: Maxillary implant overdentures opposing mandibular two-implant 
overdentures are an underused treatment option for edentulous patients. Fewer 
implants, simple surgery, and short healing periods may increase patients' 
acceptance of this treatment concept.
PURPOSE: To determine implant success, after overdenture loading, of three 
narrow-diameter roughened-surface implants placed in edentulous maxillas, using 
a one-stage surgical procedure, a 12-week healing period, and opposing 
mandibular two-implant overdentures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty edentulous participants with mandibular two-implant 
overdentures were allocated to two groups with similar implant systems. Each 
group had three narrow-diameter roughened-surface implants placed into their 
edentulous maxillas in a one-stage surgical procedure. Standardized intraoral 
radiography and implant stability tests were performed sequentially at surgery, 
at 12 weeks (prior to loading), and at 64 weeks (after 1 year of loading with 
maxillary overdentures).
RESULTS: One hundred seventeen implants were placed in 39 participants. After 1 
year of loading, 15 implants had failed in 11 patients, 4 implants have been 
"put to sleep" in 3 patients, and 1 patient has died. Data on marginal bone loss 
and resonance frequency analysis showed no significant differences between the 
implant systems. The mean marginal bone loss was 1.30 mm (+/- 0.44 mm) from 
surgery to 12 weeks and 0.32 mm (+/- 0.48 mm) between 12 and 64 weeks with 
loading. The mean implant stability quotient and resonance frequency values 
showed a statistically significant improvement over time, at 56.05 (5,891 Hz), 
57.54 (5,981 Hz), and 60.88 (6,167 Hz) at surgery, 12 weeks, and 64 weeks, 
respectively. The overall success rate for all implants combined was 81%, and 
the cumulative survival rate was 84.61%.
CONCLUSION: In patients with mandibular two-implant overdentures, three 
narrow-diameter roughened-surface implants can be placed in the edentulous 
maxilla, using a one-stage surgical procedure, and can be loaded within 12 weeks 
with overdentures for 1 year.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2004.tb00028.x
PMID: 15669706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2004;6(2):82-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2004.tb00030.x.

A 5-year prospective follow-up study of implant-supported fixed prostheses in 
patients subjected to maxillary sinus floor augmentation with an 80:20 mixture 
of bovine hydroxyapatite and autogenous bone.

Hallman M(1), Zetterqvist L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Public Health Service, Gävle, 
Sweden. mats.hallman@lg.se

BACKGROUND: Prospective long-term follow-up studies evaluating the use of bone 
substitutes to enable dental implant placement and integration are rare.
PURPOSE: This study was undertaken to evaluate the survival rate of dental 
implants placed 6 months after maxillary sinus floor augmentation using a 
mixture of 80% bovine hydroxyapatite (BH) and 20% autogenous bone (AB).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Twenty patients subjected to 30 maxillary sinus floor 
grafting procedures using fibrin glue and an 80:20 mixture of BH and AB to 
enable placement of dental implants 6 months later were followed for 5 years of 
functional loading. Clinical and radiographic examinations of the grafts and 
implants were performed.
RESULTS: After 5 years of functional loading with fixed bridges, 15 of 108 
implants had been lost, giving a cumulative survival rate of 86%. The mean 
marginal bone loss after 5 years was 1.3 +/- 1.1 mm.
CONCLUSION: Grafting of the maxillary sinus with a mixture of BH and AB and 
later placements of turned implants could be performed with predictable 
long-term results. All but one of the patients who were observed had functional 
fixed bridges after 5 years of functional loading.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2004.tb00030.x
PMID: 15669708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Diabetes Educ. 2004 Jul-Aug;30(4):558, 560, 562 passim. doi: 
10.1177/014572170403000407.

Practical challenges of individualizing diabetes care in older patients.

Huang ES(1), Gorawara-Bhat R(1), Chin MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois 60637, USA.

DOI: 10.1177/014572170403000407
PMID: 15669776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Reprod Biomed Online. 2004 Dec;9(6):673-9. doi:
10.1016/s1472-6483(10)61779-8.

Implications of systemic malignancies on human fertility.

Agarwal A(1), Said TM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Advanced Research in Human Reproduction, Infertility, and Sexual 
Function, Glickman Urological Institute and Department of Obstetrics-Gynecology, 
The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. agarwaa@ccf.org

Cancer patients have now longer life expectancy due to improved treatment 
modalities. As the mortality rate decreased and the survival rate increased, the 
consequences of cancer treatment in terms of impaired fertility became more 
frequently encountered. The objective of this review is to highlight fertility 
issues associated with systemic malignancies. Systemic malignancies lead to 
deterioration of human fertility directly or indirectly as a result of cytotoxic 
treatment regimens. A variety of measures may be used to decrease the incidence 
of fertility decline that occurs. Gamete cryopreservation represents a widely 
accepted method for fertility preservation in cancer patients. In addition, 
other procedures such as germ cell transplantation and ovarian cryopreservation, 
which are currently being developed, are expected to make significant 
contribution in these cases. However, there are some ethical issues that should 
be considered before offering patients any of these options.

DOI: 10.1016/s1472-6483(10)61779-8
PMID: 15670419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Radiology. 2005 Feb;234(2):415-22. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2342032061.

Cost-effectiveness of whole-body CT screening.

Beinfeld MT(1), Wittenberg E, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for Technology Assessment, 101 
Merrimac St, 10th Floor, Boston, MA 02114-4724, USA.

PURPOSE: To make preliminary estimates of the effectiveness (in life-years) and 
cost-effectiveness (in costs per life-year) of whole-body computed tomographic 
(CT) screening.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Costs and effectiveness (in life-years) of onetime 
whole-body CT screening relative to those of no screening were calculated by 
using a decision-analytic model. It was assumed that any benefits from screening 
were due to earlier detection of disease and improvement in survival relative to 
survival with routine care. Eight conditions were included in the model: 
ovarian, pancreatic, lung, liver, kidney, and colon cancer; abdominal aortic 
aneurysm; and coronary artery disease. Costs of the screening examination, 
follow-up tests, and patient care were estimated. The base-case analysis was 
performed for a hypothetical cohort of 500 000 self-referred asymptomatic 
50-year-old men. For sensitivity analyses, the age and sex of the cohort were 
varied. Results were expressed in 2001 U.S. dollars per life-year gained.
RESULTS: Compared with routine care, whole-body CT screening provided minimal 
gains in life expectancy (0.016 6 years or 6 days) at an average additional cost 
of 2513 dollars per patient, or an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 151 
000 dollars per life-year gained. Most patients (90.8%) had at least one 
positive finding, but only 2.0% had disease; work-up in patients with a 
false-positive result of screening accounted for 32.3% of total costs (1720 
dollars of 5332 dollars). Results were sensitive to the prevalence of disease, 
the effect of screening on stage of disease at diagnosis, the specificity of 
screening, and the costs of follow-up for false-positive findings.
CONCLUSION: Even with assumptions favorable to whole-body CT, implementation of 
onetime screening would not be cost-effective compared with currently funded 
medical interventions; follow-up for false-positive findings would add a 
substantial financial burden to the health care system.

(c) RSNA, 2005.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2342032061
PMID: 15670999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Med Food. 2004 Winter;7(4):456-61. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2004.7.456.

Hepatoprotective role of ferulic acid: a dose-dependent study.

Rukkumani R(1), Aruna K, Suresh Varma P, Padmanabhan Menon V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Annamalai University, 
Annamalainagar, Tamilnadu, India.

Alcohol use is contributing to an unprecedented decline in life expectancy. 
Damage to the liver after ethanol administration is a well-known phenomenon. 
Free radical mechanisms have been proposed to play a part in ethanol-induced 
liver toxicity. Ingestion of diets rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) 
along with alcohol is known to result in enhanced liver damage. The present work 
is aimed at evaluating the protective role of ferulic acid, a naturally 
occurring plant component, on alcohol- and PUFA-induced liver toxicity. Three 
different doses of ferulic acid (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg of body weight) were 
administered to rats given alcohol, heated PUFA (DeltaPUFA), and alcohol + 
DeltaPUFA. Influence of ferulic acid on alcohol-and PUFA-induced liver damage 
was evaluated by analyzing the activities of the liver marker enzymes alkaline 
phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, alanine transaminase, and aspartate 
transaminase. The activities of these liver marker enzymes were increased in the 
alcohol, DeltaPUFA, and alcohol + DeltaPUFA groups but were decreased 
significantly on treatment with ferulic acid. The low dose (10 mg/kg of body 
weight) was not effective, but both 20 mg and 40 mg/kg of body weight were found 
to be effective. The 20 mg/kg of body weight dose was found to be more effective 
than 40 mg/kg of body weight (the high dose). The administration of ferulic acid 
to normal rats did not produce any harmful effects. Thus our results show that 
ferulic acid is an effective anti-hepatotoxic agent without side effects and may 
be a good candidate in the current search for a natural hepatoprotective agent.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2004.7.456
PMID: 15671689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2004 Oct;13(8):926-38. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2004.13.926.

An analysis of the determinants of maternal mortality in sub-Saharan Africa.

Buor D(1), Bream K.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Social Sciences, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and 
Technology, Kumasi, Ghana. danielburo@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To establish what population characteristics affect the high maternal 
mortality rate in the sub-Saharan Africa region and to propose possible 
solutions to reduce this rate.
METHODS: This study is a secondary analysis of existing data sources from the 
World Bank, the World Health Organization (WHO), as well as direct and indirect 
sources from UNAIDS, the United Nations, Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), 
Macro International, and national statistical offices. Instead of looking at 
continentwide or individual nation models, it develops a regional model. 
Sociodemographic population variables are used as independent variables to 
predict the dependent variable, maternal mortality. Additionally, a new 
country-specific political stability independent variable is introduced into the 
model. Data from 28 sub-Saharan African countries are used. Bivariate 
correlations are used to establish associations among the variables, whereas 
cross-tabulations, using Kendall's tau-c values, and regression lines are used 
to establish impacts.
RESULTS: In the sub-Saharan Africa region, births attended by skilled health 
personnel and life expectancy at birth strongly correlate with maternal 
mortality. Gross national product (GNP) per capita and health expenditure per 
capita also have strong association with maternal mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The availability of skilled delivery personnel, life expectancy, 
national economic wealth, and health expenditure per capita predict the maternal 
mortality rate of a country. Based on these findings, it is recommended that 
structural arrangements be made to train skilled health personnel to take care 
of maternal health problems. In view of the high cost of training physicians, 
middle-level health personnel may offer an affordable alternative to handle 
emergency obstetrical cases to address the shortage of physicians. In addition, 
the allocation of adequate resources to the health sector could improve maternal 
mortality. The economic wealth of a country and life expectancy at birth are 
less modifiable through short-term specific interventions. Additionally, it is 
recommended that country-specific interventions are needed to correct the 
problem of lack of critical data for analysis.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2004.13.926
PMID: 15671708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Thyroid. 2004 Nov;14(11):933-45. doi: 10.1089/thy.2004.14.933.

Radioiodine or surgery for toxic thyroid adenoma: dissecting an important 
decision. A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Vidal-Trecan GM(1), Stahl JE, Eckman MH.

Author information:
(1)Département de Santé publique, CHU Cochin-Port Royal, Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Université René Descartes, Paris, France. 
gwenaelle.Vidal-Trecan@univ-paris5.fr

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost effectiveness of therapeutic strategies for toxic 
thyroid adenoma.
DESIGN: Markov state transition decision analytic model.
SETTING: Ambulatory and inpatient.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of 40- year-old women with toxic thyroid adenomas. 
Patient age was varied in sensitivity analyses. Data on the prevalence of 
coincident thyroid cancer, complications, and treatment efficacies were derived 
from a systematic review of the literature.
INTERVENTIONS: Thyroid lobectomy after a 3 month-course of antithyroid drugs 
(ATDs), high-dose (<555 MBq) radioactive iodine (RAI), low-dose (>555 MBq) RAI, 
and lifelong ATDs.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Outcomes were measured in quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). Costs were estimated from the health care system perspective. 
Future costs and effectiveness were discounted at 3% per year. For a 40- 
year-old woman, surgery was the most effective, while low-dose RAI was the least 
costly. The marginal cost-effectiveness of surgery versus low-dose RAI was 
$13,183 per QALY. Surgery was less costly and more effective than lifelong ATDs. 
RAI was more effective than surgery if surgical mortality exceeded 0.90% 
(base-case 0.001%). Surgery provided relatively inexpensive gains (<$50,000 per 
QALY) in quality-adjusted life expectancy in patients less than 74 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS: For most patients less than 60 years of age, surgery is an 
effective strategy with a reasonable cost. However, for any given patient, 
surgical mortality, therapeutic costs and preference must be considered in 
choosing an appropriate therapy.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2004.14.933
PMID: 15671772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Br J Radiol. 2005 Jan;78(925):34-8. doi: 10.1259/bjr/79694026.

Radiation risk and cost-benefit analysis of a paediatric radiology procedure: 
results from a national study.

Pettersson HB(1), Fälth-Magnusson K, Persliden J, Scott M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Physics, IMV, University of Linköping, S-581 85 
Linköping, Sweden.

A national study was performed to investigate radiation doses and associated 
risks to patients during X-ray fluoroscopy-guided small intestinal biopsies in 
the investigation of coeliac disease. Thermoluminescent dosemeters (TLD) and 
questionnaires were sent to 42 of the 43 paediatric departments in Sweden 
performing these biopsies. During the study period (2 x 3 weeks) 257 biopsies 
were recorded, representing about 10% of annually performed paediatric 
investigations. The results show that the absorbed dose during biopsy ranged 
from 0.04 mGy to 23.8 mGy (mean 1.87 mGy). The fluoroscopy time ranged from 2 s 
to 663 s (mean 60 s). The collective dose from the procedure amounts to 4.7 
manSv year(-1). Thus, the annual excess cancer mortality, including severe 
hereditary effects, can be estimated at 0.6-0.7 cases per year. However, 
significant dose saving can be obtained by proper choice of sedation and biopsy 
equipment.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/79694026
PMID: 15673527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Eur Heart J. 2005 Mar;26(5):489-97. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi099. Epub 2005
Jan  26.

Endovascular stent-graft treatment of aortic dissection: determinants of 
post-interventional outcome.

Eggebrecht H(1), Herold U, Kuhnt O, Schmermund A, Bartel T, Martini S, Lind A, 
Naber CK, Kienbaum P, Kühl H, Peters J, Jakob H, Erbel R, Baumgart D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, West-German Heart Centre Essen, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Hufelandstrasse 55, 45122 Essen, Germany. 
holger.eggebrecht@uni-essen.de

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2005 Mar;26(5):431-2.

AIMS: To investigate the results of endovascular stent-graft placement for the 
treatment of patients with type B aortic dissection (B-AD).
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 38 patients (62+/-10 years, 32 male) with acute 
(n=10) and chronic (n=28) type B-AD were treated with endovascular stent-grafts. 
The implantation procedure was successful in all patients. Peri-procedural 
non-fatal complications occurred in four (11%) patients. Overall, 4/38 (11%) 
patients died during the in-hospital period. Patients undergoing stent-graft 
placement for acute AD had a significantly higher in-hospital mortality than 
patients with chronic AD (40 vs. 0%, P=0.001). During a median follow-up of 18 
(1-57) months, there were six additional deaths. Overall survival rates were 
