Sherlaw-Johnson C(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Operational Research Unit, Department of Mathematics, University 
College London, UK. c.sherlaw-johnson@ucl.ac.uk

In recent years there has been a growing need for effective monitoring of 
clinical outcomes. Two techniques for continuous monitoring that have emerged 
almost simultaneously are the Variable Life-Adjusted Display (VLAD) and 
risk-adjusted cumulative sum charts (CUSUM). The VLAD provides clinicians and 
management with an easily understandable overview of outcome history and is now 
in routine use in several hospitals. Although it can indicate runs of good and 
bad outcomes, unlike the CUSUM, it does not provide a quantitative means for 
assessing whether they merit investigation. This paper introduces a scheme for 
applying control limits from CUSUM charts onto the VLAD, thus enhancing its role 
as an effective monitoring tool.

DOI: 10.1007/s10729-005-5217-2
PMID: 15782513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Mil Med. 2005 Feb;170(2):154-7.

Primary care providers' attitudes toward prostate cancer risk factors at a 
Veterans Affairs health care facility.

Ruff PA(1), Marotte JB, Terris MK.

Author information:
(1)Section of Urology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA 30904, USA.

OBJECTIVE: We asked what factors influence primary care providers' decision to 
screen patients for prostate cancer.
METHODS: A survey completed by 175 Veterans Affairs primary care providers 
queried whether patient anxiety, family history, race, and other assorted risk 
factors increased their likelihood of screening for prostate cancer. Subsequent 
questions assessed the degree to which various factors, such as age, 
comorbidities, and lack of interest, decreased their likelihood of screening.
RESULTS: The African American race increased the tendency for screening for 
84.6%, followed by a family history of prostate cancer for 73.3%. Life 
expectancy of less than 5 years substantially decreased the tendency to screen 
for only 42.3%. Only 28% thought that age of more than 75 years was a deterrent 
to screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Veterans Affairs primary care providers recognize the need to 
aggressively screen African Americans and men with a family history of prostate 
cancer. However, they often screen men with a limited life expectancy or 
advanced age.

PMID: 15782838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Demography. 2005 Feb;42(1):1-22. doi: 10.1353/dem.2005.0002.

The role of public health improvements in health advances: the twentieth-century 
United States.

Cutler D(1), Miller G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Harvard University and National Bureau of Economic 
Research (NBER), 1875 Cambridge Street, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. 
dcutler@fas.harvard.edu

Mortality rates in the United States fell more rapidly during the late 
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries than in any other period in American 
history. This decline coincided with an epidemiological transition and the 
disappearance of a mortality "penalty" associated with living in urban areas. 
There is little empirical evidence and much unresolved debate about what caused 
these improvements, however. In this article, we report the causal influence of 
clean water technologies--filtration and chlorination--on mortality in major 
cities during the early twentieth century. Plausibly exogenous variation in the 
timing and location of technology adoption was used to identify these effects, 
and the validity of this identifying assumption is examined in detail. We found 
that clean water was responsible for nearly half the total mortality reduction 
in major cities, three quarters of the infant mortality reduction, and nearly 
two thirds of the child mortality reduction. Rough calculations suggest that the 
social rate of return to these technologies was greater than 23 to 1, with a 
cost per person-year saved by clean water of about dollar 500 in 2003 dollars. 
Implications for developing countries are briefly considered.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2005.0002
PMID: 15782893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Demography. 2005 Feb;42(1):23-49. doi: 10.1353/dem.2005.0003.

Long-range trends in adult mortality: models and projection methods.

Bongaarts J(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Council, 1 Dag Hammarskjold Plaza, New York, NY 10017, USA. 
jbongaarts@popcouncil.org

In the study reported here, I had two objectives: (1) to test a new version of 
the logistic model for the pattern of change over time in age-specific adult 
mortality rates and (2) to develop a new method for projecting future trends in 
adult mortality. A test of the goodness of fit of the logistic model for the 
force of mortality indicated that its slope parameter is nearly constant over 
time. This finding suggests a variant of the model that is called the shifting 
logistic model. A new projection method, based on the shifting mortality model, 
is proposed and compared with the widely used Lee-Carter procedure.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2005.0003
PMID: 15782894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2005 May;20(5):974-80. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfh735.
Epub  2005 Mar 22.

Beneficial effect of early initiation of lipid-lowering therapy following renal 
transplantation.

Holdaas H(1), Fellström B, Jardine AG, Nyberg G, Grönhagen-Riska C, Madsen S, 
Neumayer HH, Cole E, Maes B, Ambühl P, Logan JO, Staffler B, Gimpelewicz C; 
ALERT Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Rikshospitalet, Sognsvannsvn 20, Oslo 0072, Norway. 
hallvard.holdaas@rikshospitalet.no

BACKGROUND: Renal transplant recipients have a significantly reduced life 
expectancy, largely due to premature cardiovascular disease. The aim of the 
current analysis was to investigate the importance of time of initiation of 
therapy after transplantation, on the benefits of statin therapy.
METHODS: 2102 renal transplant recipients with total cholesterol levels of 
4.0-9.0 mmol/l were randomly assigned to treatment with fluvastatin (n = 1050) 
or placebo (n = 1052) and followed for a mean time of 5.1 years. The end-points 
were major cardiac events. The average median time from transplantation to 
randomization was 4.5 years (range: 0.5-29 years).
RESULTS: In patients starting treatment with fluvastatin <4.5 years after renal 
transplantation, the incidence of cardiac events was 4.6% over 5.1 years vs 9.2% 
in those on placebo (P = 0.007). Fluvastatin significantly reduced the risk of 
cardiac death and non-fatal myocardial infarction by 56% [risk ratio (RR): 0.44; 
95% confidence interval (95% CI): 0.26-0.74; P = 0.002]. In a more detailed 
analysis patients were grouped into 2-year intervals (since the last 
transplantation). The frequency of cardiac death and non-fatal myocardial 
infarction was reduced by 3.2%, 5.1%, 9.6% and 8.2% with fluvastatin treatment 
as compared to 6%, 10.4%, 13.4% and 9.6% with placebo when treatment was 
initiated at 0-2, 2-4, 4-6 and >6 years, respectively. The risk reduction for 
patients initiating therapy with fluvastatin at years 0-2 (compared with >6 
years) following transplantation was 59% (RR: 0.41; 95% CI: 0.18-0.92; P = 
0.0328). This is also reflected in total time on renal replacement therapy: in 
patients in the first quartile (<47 months) fluvastatin use was associated with 
a risk reduction of 64% compared with 19% for patients in the fourth quartile 
(>120 months) (P = 0.033).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data support an early introduction of fluvastatin therapy in a 
population of transplant recipients at high risk of premature coronary heart 
disease.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfh735
PMID: 15784644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. N Engl J Med. 2005 Mar 17;352(11):1135-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe058009.

Deadweight?--The influence of obesity on longevity.

Preston SH.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 16;352(24):2555; author reply 2556-7.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 16;352(24):2555; author reply 2556-7.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 16;352(24):2555-6; author reply 2556-7.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Mar 17;352(11):1138-45.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe058009
PMID: 15784667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. N Engl J Med. 2005 Mar 17;352(11):1138-45. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsr043743.

A potential decline in life expectancy in the United States in the 21st century.

Olshansky SJ(1), Passaro DJ, Hershow RC, Layden J, Carnes BA, Brody J, Hayflick 
L, Butler RN, Allison DB, Ludwig DS.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago 60612, USA. sjayo@uic.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Mar 17;352(11):1135-7.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 16;352(24):2555; author reply 2556-7.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 16;352(24):2556.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 16;352(24):2556.

Forecasts of life expectancy are an important component of public policy that 
influence age-based entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare. 
Although the Social Security Administration recently raised its estimates of how 
long Americans are going to live in the 21st century, current trends in obesity 
in the United States suggest that these estimates may not be accurate. From our 
analysis of the effect of obesity on longevity, we conclude that the steady rise 
in life expectancy during the past two centuries may soon come to an end.

Copyright 2005 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsr043743
PMID: 15784668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 2005;(34):104-6. doi:
10.1093/jncimonographs/lgi008.

Cancer and fertility: ethical and legal challenges.

Robertson JA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Law School, 727 East Dean Keeton St., Austin, TX 78705, 
USA. jrobertson@mail.law.utexas.edu

Preserving the fertility of younger cancer patients requires coordinated efforts 
and attention to ethical issues by oncologists and fertility specialists. 
Although sperm is easily stored, freezing eggs or ovarian tissue is still 
experimental and should not be offered except as part of an experimental 
protocol. When gametic material is stored for later use, written directives for 
posthumous use may be given effect, and subsequently born children may be 
recognized as legal offspring of the deceased. Concerns about the welfare of 
offspring resulting from an expected shortened life span of the parent are not 
sufficient reason to deny cancer survivors assistance in reproducing.

DOI: 10.1093/jncimonographs/lgi008
PMID: 15784837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Gen Virol. 2005 Apr;86(Pt 4):1229-1238. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.80277-0.

Genotype-level variation in lifetime breeding success, litter size and survival 
of sheep in scrapie-affected flocks.

Chase-Topping ME(1), Kruuk LEB(2)(1), Lajous D(3), Touzeau S(4), Matthews L(1), 
Simm G(5), Foster JD(6), Rupp R(3), Eychenne F(3), Hunter N(6), Elsen JM(3), 
Woolhouse MEJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Tropical Veterinary Medicine (CTVM), Royal (Dick) School of 
Veterinary Studies, University of Edinburgh, Easter Bush, Roslin, Midlothian 
EH25 9RG, UK.
(2)Institute of Cell, Animal and Population Biology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh EH9 3JT, UK.
(3)Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Station d'Amélioration 
Génétique des Animaux, BP 27, 31326 Castanet-Tolosan Cedex, France.
(4)Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Unité de Mathématiques et 
Informatique Appliquées, 78352 Jouy-en-Josas Cedex, France.
(5)Sustainable Livestock Systems Group, Scottish Agricultural College, Bush 
Estate, Penicuik, Midlothan EH26 0PH, UK.
(6)Institute for Animal Health, Neuropathogenesis Unit, Ogston Building, West 
Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JF, UK.

Five different sheep flocks with natural outbreaks of scrapie were examined to 
determine associations between individual performance (lifetime breeding 
success, litter size and survival) and scrapie infection or PrP genotype. 
Despite different breed composition and forces of infection, consistent patterns 
were found among the flocks. Regardless of the flock, scrapie-infected sheep 
produced on average 34 % fewer offspring than non-scrapie-infected sheep. The 
effect of scrapie on lifetime breeding success appears to be a function of 
lifespan as opposed to fecundity. Analysis of litter size revealed no overall or 
genotype differences among the five sheep flocks. Survival, however, depends on 
the individual's scrapie status (infected or not) and its PrP genotype. 
Susceptible genotypes appear to perform less well in lifetime breeding success 
and life expectancy even if they are never affected with clinical scrapie. One 
possible explanation for these results is the effect of pre-clinical scrapie. 
Additional evidence supporting this hypothesis is discussed.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.80277-0
PMID: 15784917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Am Heart Hosp J. 2003 Winter;1(1):91-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1541-9215.2003.02090.x.

The AbioCor totally implantable replacement heart.

Samuels L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Hahnemann University Hospital, 
Philadelphia, PA 19102, USA. SamuelsLE@aol.com

The AbioCor artificial heart (Abiomed, Inc., Danvers, MA) represents the latest 
technologic advancement in the quest for a total heart replacement system. The 
AbioCor is an electric heart with fully implantable components. The Food and 
Drug Administration approved a clinical trial in January 2001. The clinical 
trial was designed as an initial feasibility study to determine the safety and 
efficacy of this first generation system. The study criteria include end-stage 
adult heart failure patients who are not transplant candidates. These patients 
have biventricular failure with a predicted 30-day life expectancy of less than 
30%. On July 2, 2001 the first AbioCor device was implanted. Six other patients 
have undergone implantation to date. Four of the seven have been successful as 
defined by the study parameters of 60-day survival with improved quality of 
life. Two patients were discharged from the hospital. Outpatient activities were 
possible in four patients. There have been no device malfunctions and no 
device-related infections. The trial is active and enrollment is ongoing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1541-9215.2003.02090.x
PMID: 15785182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2005 Mar;222(3):248-51. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-858004.

Optic atrophy as a sign of wolfram syndrome.

Dedes W(1), Wildberger H, Landau K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Zurich, Switzerland. 
wasiliki.dedes@usz.ch

BACKGROUND: The hallmark of Wolfram syndrome -- an extremely rare autosomal 
recessive disorder -- is the association of juvenile onset diabetes mellitus 
with optic atrophy. Additional symptoms such as deafness and diabetes insipidus 
may develop.
HISTORY AND SIGNS: An 18-year-old man suffered progressive visual loss over the 
last seven years. Severe optic atrophy with extensive cupping and slightly 
elevated intraocular pressure in both eyes were found. Perimetry revealed 
peripheral defects with paracentral scotomas. ERG results excluded tapetoretinal 
degeneration; visual evoked responses were delayed. At the age of nine the 
patient had been diagnosed with diabetes mellitus type I and neurosensory 
deafness, seven years later a beginning hypogonadism was found.
THERAPY AND OUTCOME: Wolfram syndrome is a progressive degenerative disorder 
with reduced life expectancy. Treatment is symptomatic.
CONCLUSIONS: Wolfram syndrome should be considered in every patient who presents 
with optic atrophy and juvenile onset diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-858004
PMID: 15785992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. G Ital Nefrol. 2005 Jan-Feb;22 Suppl 31:S125-7.

[Early kidney-pancreas transplantation in type 1 diabetics prevents 
hemodialysis].

[Article in Italian]

Bonucchi D(1), Malaguti V, Ganci S, Savazzi AM, Calzolari G, Cimino S, Caruso F, 
Ferrari F, Albertazzi A.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Nefrologia, Dialisi e Trapianto Renale, Azienda Ospedaliera 
Policlinico, Modena - Italy. bonucchi.decenzio@policlinico.mo.it

BACKGROUND: The life-expectancy of type 1 diabetics (T1D) on dialysis is still 
shorter than that of non-diabetics. Pancreas transplantation (PT) in its 
different modalities should be considered as a life-saving procedure.
METHODS: We analyzed our referral activity of T1D to PT from 1992. Since 2002, 
we have created a kidney and diabetes out-patient clinic devoted to the 
prevention of diabetic nephropathy and to the early referral of suitable T1D to 
combined kidney- pancreas transplantation (KPT) and isolated pancreas (PTA).
RESULTS: In the last 14 yrs, 25 T1D underwent KP in our district (620000 
inhabitants). At the beginning, KPT was performed abroad, but then the borders 
were closed. After stopping in the mid 1990s, KP activity restarted addressing 
preemptive KPT and PTA. Currently, only one patient is on dialysis while 
awaiting KPT. Four T1D were evaluated and excluded from the list on medical 
grounds; two patients are on the list and a further two patients are currently 
under evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of a cooperative network among dialysis and 
transplant centers, supported by devoted out-patient clinics allowed the 
effective prevention of the dialysis requirement in T1D. Out-patient clinics 
devoted to diabetic nephropathy should play a pro-active role in preemptive KP, 
including the 'new' option of islet transplantation according to the Edmonton 
protocol.

PMID: 15786385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. G Ital Nefrol. 2005 Jan-Feb;22 Suppl 31:S60-9.

[A good vascular access allows an effective treatment].

[Article in Italian]

Ferrari G(1), Talassi E, Baraldi C, Baruffaldi M, Tarchini R, Galli F, Arienzo 
A, Pacchioni R.

Author information:
(1)Struttura Complessa di Nefrologia e Dialisi, Azienda Ospedaliera 'Carlo 
Poma', Mantova - Italy. dialisi.mantova@ospedalemantova.it

Vascular access (VA) for dialysis is defined as the 'Achilles heel', but also 
the 'Cinderella' of dialysis, indicating the poor consideration of the problem 
whether in the surgical environment, or in incomprehensible way in that 
nephrologic. It can only aspire to the definition 'Fundamental detail'. However, 
presupposed effective dialysis is a blood flow rate of 300-350 mL/min. Good VA 
must be easy to prepare, long lasting, free from complications, and 
aesthetically acceptable and economical. The arteriovenous fistula (AVF) of 
Cimino and Brescia, from 1966, represents the gold standard and the model of 
comparison for other systems, more technologically advanced. It must be 
programmed with an adapted margin (1-2 months) to allow maturation and access 
certainty for the first puncture, and never carried out sooner than 14 days from 
the operation. It is known from hemodynamic studies that the good functional 
flow of the new fistula can already regain 400-500 ml/min in the first week, 
with cardiological implications like the increase in cardiac throw, in ejection 
fraction and in the cardiac index. Health workers, patients and dialysis staff 
must follow a continuous educational program to protect the VA and avoid 
'routine and absent-minded management', a basis for its premature failure. The 
nephrologist must take the responsibility upon himself not to carry out 'medical 
malpractice'. In the Dialysis Center of Mantova, the VA 'road map' previews all 
patients (young and old, affections from mono or pluropathology), first the 
fistula to the wrist, then the cephalic proximal. It follows the basilic vein 
transposition, the vascular graft to the arm or to the groin, as an alternative 
to peritoneal dialysis. The permanent central venous catheter (CVCp) is the last 
choice in patients with reduced life expectancy, heart failure, neoplastic 
patients with vascular patrimony destroyed by chemotherapy and ischemic lesions 
produced by the fistula. There were 180 afferent prevailing patients at the 
Mantova Dialysis Center . The natural fistula rate was 91%, grafts 7% and CVCps 
2%. Between 2000 and 31 March 2004 we prepared 367 VAs. Average patient age was 
65 yrs, range 20-90 yrs; 59% male and 41% female. Eighty-eight percent of 
operations were performed by the nephrologist (distal fistula, rescue and 
cephalic proximal) and 12% by the vascular surgeon (basilic vein transposition, 
graft in PTFE stretch to the arm and to the groin and permanent catheter in the 
jugular vein). The fistula with native veins was the better solution, the graft 
must be prepared after the exhaustion of natural possibilities, and the CVCp, 
for serious complications (inadequate flow and infections), must be the last 
alternative.

PMID: 15786405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Ethn Dis. 2005 Winter;15(1 Suppl 1):S1-74-5.

Health and disease in a changing Arab world 2000/2025/2050: global, 
environmental, and climate change and emerging diseases.

Khogali M(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Department, American University of Beirut, Lebanon.

PMID: 15787050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Milbank Q. 2005;83(1):5-39. doi: 10.1111/j.0887-378X.2005.00334.x.

Mortality of white Americans, African Americans, and Canadians: the causes and 
consequences for health of welfare state institutions and policies.

Kunitz SJ(1), Pesis-Katz I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Rochester, 
Rochester, NY 14642, USA. Stephen_Kunitz@urmc.rochester.edu

The life expectancy of African Americans has been substantially lower than that 
of white Americans for as long as records are available. The life expectancy of 
all Americans has been lower than that of all Canadians since the beginning of 
the 20th century. Until the 1970s this disparity was the result of the low life 
expectancy of African Americans. Since then, the life expectancy of white 
Americans has not improved as much as that of all Canadians. This article 
discusses two issues: racial disparities in the United States, and the 
difference in life expectancy between all Canadians and white Americans. Each 
country's political culture and institutions have shaped these differences, 
especially national health insurance in Canada and its absence in the United 
States. The American welfare state has contributed to and explains these 
differences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0887-378X.2005.00334.x
PMCID: PMC2690387
PMID: 15787952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Eur J Public Health. 2005 Feb;15(1):20-5. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cki106.

Health expectancy in Denmark, 1987-2000.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

BACKGROUND: While life expectancy quantifies average length of life, health 
expectancy represents the average lifetime in different health states and offers 
the possibility to evaluate quality of life with respect to health. The purpose 
of the study was to estimate changes in health expectancy in Denmark from 1987 
to 2000 and to assess theories about the relation between increased total 
lifetime and lifetime in various health states.
METHODS: Data on health status derived from the Danish Health Interview Surveys 
carried out in 1987, 1991, 1994 and 2000 were combined with life-table data. 
Expected lifetime in selfrated good health, life expectancy without longstanding 
illness and disabilityfree life expectancy were estimated by Sullivan's method.
RESULTS: In 1987, the life expectancy of a 65-year-old man was 14.1 years, 8.9 
years of which were expected to be disabilityfree. In 2000, life expectancy had 
increased to 15.0 years, 11.3 years of which were disabilityfree. Thus, life 
expectancy had increased by 0.9 years, whereas disabilityfree life expectancy 
had increased by 2.4 years. Among 65-year-old women, life expectancy had 
increased by 0.2 years and disabilityfree life expectancy by 1.1 years. Expected 
lifetime in selfrated good health had also improved, but the trend in life 
expectancy without longstanding illness went in the opposite direction, and 
expected lifetime with longstanding illness had increased.
CONCLUSION: The recent rise in life expectancy in Denmark after many years of 
stagnation appears to be accompanied by generally improved health status among 
the elderly, but health expectancy trends depend on the health indicator chosen.
KEY POINTS: Health expectancy expresses average lifetime in various states of 
health. The study examines changes in expected lifetime in selfrated good 
health, lifetime without longstanding illness and lifetime without longterm 
disability. Among 65-year-olds the percentage of disabilityfree life expectancy 
increased from 63.4% to 74.9% for men and from 55.6% to 61.0% for women between 
1987 and 2000. Health status among elderly Danes has apparently improved, but 
secular trends in health expectancy depend on the choice of health indicator.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cki106
PMID: 15788799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Ann Hematol. 2005 Jun;84(6):368-75. doi: 10.1007/s00277-005-1035-3. Epub
2005  Mar 24.

Microsatellite instability is not an uncommon finding in adult de novo acute 
myeloid leukemia.

Nomdedéu JF(1), Perea G, Estivill C, Lasa A, Carnicer MJ, Brunet S, Aventín A, 
Sierra J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. jnomdedeu@hsp.santpau.es

To investigate the biologic relevance of microsatellite instability (MSI) in de 
novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML), 102 consecutive adult patients were analyzed 
by using a panel of seven microsatellites (BAT25, BAT26, D13S1267, D13S174, 
D2S123, D5S346 and Mdf15). Frame-shift mutations in the repetitive sequences in 
the coding region of MSH3, MSH6, BAX, TGFBRII and IGFRII were also investigated 
by using a fluorescent PCR-based assay. Methylation-specific PCR was used to 
determine the methylation status of hMLH1 in MSI+ cases. MSH3, MSH6 and MLH1 
expression was also analyzed in 68 cases by means of real-time quantitative PCR. 
MSI was detected in 20 cases: 14 cases had MSI-high (instability of at least two 
microsatellite markers) and 6 cases corresponded to MSI-low (a single 
polymorphic marker with instability). Six MSI+ cases showed an associated MLL 
rearrangement (p=0.002). No single case showed a mutation in the repetitive 
sequences of the MSH3, MSH6, BAX, TGFBRII and IGFRII genes. Most samples 
displayed low mRNA levels of the repair genes. hMLH1 promoter was 
hypermethylated in five MSI+ cases. Overall survival analysis revealed no 
adverse effect of MSI positivity. These results suggest that MSI may be a common 
biologic finding in de novo AML.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-005-1035-3
PMID: 15789228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Surg Endosc. 2005 May;19(5):643-9. doi: 10.1007/s00464-004-8921-y. Epub 2005
Mar  28.

Laparoscopic colectomy for colon adenocarcinoma: an 11-year retrospective review 
with 5-year survival rates.

Jacob BP(1), Salky B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laparoscopic Surgery, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 5 East 
98th Street, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Comment in
    Surg Endosc. 2006 Jun;20(6):996-7.

BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic colectomy for the management of colon cancer remains a 
controversial therapeutic option, especially when the outcomes are compared with 
the historically accepted survival data and recurrence rates after open surgery. 
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 5-year overall and disease-free 
survival rates after laparoscopic colon resection for invasive colon 
adenocarcinoma.
METHODS: A total of 129 patients underwent consecutive laparoscopic colectomies 
for colon adenocarcinoma (between April 1992 and 2004 January) by a single 
surgeon at a single institution. Records were analyzed retrospectively and 
follow-up data was obtained. The Student t-test, Cox regression analysis, and 
Kaplan-Meier survival data were used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: After patients with noninvasive disease on final pathology were 
excluded, the study population comprised 88 patients who underwent laparoscopic 
colectomies for invasive colon cancer with > 2 years of follow-up. Of these 
cases, 81 (93%) were amenable for complete follow-up at 11years (41 women and 40 
men; mean age, 76 years). Mean follow-up was 61 months. There was one 
perioperative death (1.2%), and the overall postoperative morbidity rate was 
13.6%. The average number of lymph nodes harvested was 10.1 (+/-6). There were 
no port site recurrences. The Kaplan-Meier survival data were as follows for 
5-year overall survival and 5-year disease-free survival, respectively stage I 
(n = 34) 89% and 89%; stage II (n = 22), 65% and 59%; stage III (n = 19), 72% 
and 67%; stages I-III combined, (n = 75), 77% and 73%.
CONCLUSIONS: For this specific cohort of patients undergoing curative 
laparoscopic colectomies for invasive colon adenocarcinoma, the mean follow-up 
was > 5 years. Overall survival and disease-free survival for stage I, II, and 
III colon cancer as well as for stages I-III combined are favorable and 
comparable to historically acceptable open colectomy survival rates. Overall 
survival and disease-free survival after laparoscopic colectomy for invasive 
colon cancer is no worse, and perhaps better than, the previously reported rates 
for the same procedure done by an open technique.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-004-8921-y
PMID: 15789256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2005 Apr 1;130(13):792-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-865091.

[BENEFIT Kidney--significance of a nephrology screening at intervention outset 
and therapy success].

[Article in German]

Riegel W(1), Hahn K, Kreutz R, Weber M, Zidek W, Schmieder R.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik III, Klinikum Darmstadt. W.Riegel@klinikum-darmstadt.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Early specialist care of patients with renal disease, 
including timely and planned onset of dialysis, determine the course of the 
disease, quality of life, hospitalization and life expectancy. A multi-centre 
enquiry by standardized questionnaire was undertaken to define and analyse 
medical care of newly dialysis-requiring patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data on 551 patients in five different regions of Germany 
who for the first time required renal replacement treatment were prospectively 
collected between July 2002 and March 2003. Documentation of history, clinical 
findings and biochemical tests was done on consecutive patients with a 
standardized questionnaire, until the desired number of cases was reached.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients (55.4% males) was 64.8 years. 30.7% had 
diabetes mellitus, 22.3% arterial hypertension/nephrosclerosis and 16.9% 
glomerulonephritis/vasculitis. Early predominantly nephrological care had been 
undertaken in 38.7% of patients. 59.0% were cared for almost exclusively by 
their general practitioner until the time when dialysis was started. 229 
patients (41.6%) were referred to specialist (nephrologists) only when dialysis 
had become necessary. The onset of dialysis was at the right time in only 50.5% 
of this group. Comparing the care given by nephrologists with that by general 
practitioners, elective (i.e. planned) dialysis was begun in 81.0% vs. 48.0% 
(p<0.05). Hospitalization in the two groups was 54.5% vs. 83.7% (p<0.05), the 
duration of hospital stay 11.4 vs. 17.4 days (p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Fewer than 40% of patients with chronic renal disease in preterminal 
renal failure (stage IV) were under the care of nephrologists. The lower the 
degree of nephrological care the more frequent was there a delay in the onset of 
dialysis treatment. The incidence and the duration of hospital stay was longer. 
Structured treatment pathways and incentives need to be formulated to reduce the 
incidence of wrong or substandard treatment of patients with impaired renal 
function.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-865091
PMID: 15789300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Cancer. 2005 May 1;103(9):1965-75. doi: 10.1002/cncr.21011.

Fostering coping and nurturing hope when discussing the future with terminally 
ill cancer patients and their caregivers.

Clayton JM(1), Butow PN, Arnold RM, Tattersall MH.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology Research Unit, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia. josephine@student.usyd.edu.au

BACKGROUND: It is challenging for clinicians to foster coping and allow hope 
when discussing prognosis and end-of-life (EOL) issues with terminally ill 
cancer patients and their caregivers. To the authors' knowledge, little research 
evidence is currently available to guide clinical practice.
METHODS: The authors conducted focus groups and individual interviews with 19 
patients with far advanced cancer and 24 caregivers from 3 palliative care (PC) 
services in Sydney, and 22 PC health professionals (HPs) from around Australia. 
The focus groups and individual interviews were audiotaped and fully 
transcribed. Additional focus groups or individual interviews were conducted 
until no additional topics were raised. The participants' narratives were 
analyzed using qualitative methodology.
RESULTS: All participant groups believed there were ways of fostering coping and 
nurturing hope when discussing prognosis and EOL issues. Themes identified from 
the transcripts regarding ways of helping patients with a limited life 
expectancy to cope were: 1) emphasize what can be done (namely: a) control of 
physical symptoms; b) emotional support, care, and dignity; and c) practical 
support), 2) explore realistic goals, and 3) discuss day-to-day living. Two 
additional themes were identified regarding ways of fostering hope: the balance 
between truth telling and nurturing hope, and the spectrum of hope. All these 
themes were raised by the patients, caregivers, and HPs. However, there were 
some differences of opinion within the three participant groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study demonstrated that most 
participants believed there were ways of fostering coping and maintaining hope 
and that HPs have a role in facilitating this with terminally ill cancer 
patients and their caregivers.

(c) 2005 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.21011
PMID: 15789360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Ambio. 2005 Feb;34(1):11-9.

Comparative health impact assessment of local and regional particulate air 
pollutants in Scandinavia.

Forsberg B(1), Hansson HC, Johansson C, Areskoug H, Persson K, Järvholm B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå University, Sweden. 
bertil.forsberg@envmed.umu.se

The ongoing program Clean Air for Europe (CAFE) is an initiative from the EU 
Commission to establish a coordinated effort to reach better air quality in the 
EU. The focus is on particulate matter as it has been shown to have large impact 
on human health. CAFE requested that WHO make a review of the latest findings on 
air pollutants and health to facilitate assessments of the different air 
pollutants and their health effects. The WHO review project on health aspects of 
air pollution in Europe confirmed that exposure to particulate matter (PM), 
despite the lower levels we face today, still poses a significant risk to human 
health. Using the recommended uniform risk coefficients for health impact 
assessment of PM, regardless of sources, premature mortality related to 
long-range transported anthropogenic particles has been estimated to be about 
3500 deaths per year for the Swedish population, corresponding to a reduction in 
life expectancy of up to about seven months. The influence of local sources is 
more difficult to estimate due to large uncertainties when linking available 
risk coefficients to exposure data, but the estimates indicate about 1800 deaths 
brought forward each year with a life expectancy reduction of about 2-3 months. 
However, some sectors of the population are exposed to quite high locally 
induced concentrations and are likely to suffer excessive reductions in life 
expectancy. Since the literature increasingly supports assumptions that 
combustion related particles are associated with higher relative risks, further 
studies may shift the focus for abatement strategies. CAFE sets out to establish 
a general cost effective abatement strategy for atmospheric particles. Our 
results, based on studies of background exposure, show that long-range 
transported sulfate rich particles dominate the health effects of PM in Sweden. 
The same results would be found for the whole of Scandinavia and many countries 
influenced by transboundary air pollution. However, several health studies, 
including epidemiological studies with a finer spatial resolution, indicate that 
engine exhaust particles are more damaging to health than other particles. These 
contradictory findings must be understood and source specific risk estimates 
have to be established by expert bodies, otherwise it will not be possible to 
find the most cost effective abatement strategy for Europe. We are not happy 
with today's situation where every strategy to reduce PM concentrations is 
estimated to have the same impact per unit change in the mass concentration. 
Obviously there is a striking need to introduce more specific exposure variables 
and a higher geographical resolution in epidemiology as well as in health impact 
assessments.

PMID: 15789513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Qual Life Res. 2005 Feb;14(1):207-19. doi: 10.1007/s11136-004-3928-3.

Responsiveness of generic health-related quality of life measures in stroke.

Pickard AS(1), Johnson JA, Feeny DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois 
at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60610, USA. pickard1@uic.edu

OBJECTIVE: To compare five preference-based generic measures of health-related 
quality of life (HRQOL) in terms of change scores, correlations among change 
scores, responsiveness, and quality adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained.
DESIGN: Observational longitudinal cohort study where clinical measures and 
self-assessed HRQOL measures were administered to stroke patients at baseline 
and at 6 months. Patients were categorized as 'stable', 'some improvement' and 
'large improvement' using the Barthel Index, Modified Rankin Scale (MRS), and 
Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). For each group, 
paired t-tests and variants of effect size were used to compare the 
responsiveness of preference-based HRQOL summary scores, including the EQ-5D VAS 
and index-based score, SF-6D, and Health Utilities Index (HUI) Mark 2 (HUI2) and 
Mark 3 (HUI3) overall utility scores.
RESULTS: Ninety-eight of 124 (79%) patients completed the 6-month follow-up. 
Change scores of the EQ-Index, HUI2, and HUI3 were strongly correlated with 
changes in the Barthel Index and MRS, while the EQ-5D VAS had higher correlation 
with CES-D change scores than the other measures. The SF-6D, HUI3, and EQ-Index 
were generally more responsive than the HUI2 and EQ-5D Visual analogue scale 
(EQ-VAS). QALY estimates based on the EQ-5D index and HUI3 were twice as large 
as estimates based on the SF-6D and HUI2.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study may assist in informing the selection of 
a preference-based generic HRQOL measure, although choice will also depend on 
study goals and context. We would caution against the generalization of the 
study results on responsiveness to conditions when more subtle change is 
expected.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-004-3928-3
PMID: 15789955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Hum Reprod. 2005 May;20(5):1135-43. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deh889. Epub 2005
Mar  24.

Life table (survival) analysis to generate cumulative pregnancy rates in 
assisted reproduction: are we overestimating our success rates?

Daya S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, McMaster University, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada. dayas@mcmaster.ca

The variability in the numbers of treatment cycles couples may undertake with 
assisted reproductive technology (ART) and the length of time they may have to 
wait between successive cycles of treatment make the evaluation of treatment 
efficacy and prognosis complicated. The cumulative pregnancy rate using the life 
table method of analysis is being used more frequently to estimate the 
effectiveness of treatment. Although this approach is valid in some areas of 
infertility research, its use in ART is not appropriate, because the factors 
necessary for the analysis (particularly the scale for measuring the passage of 
time and lack of informative censoring) are not satisfied. Consequently, an 
overestimation of the effect of treatment is produced that may lead to biased 
decision making. Although there is no easy solution to this problem, several 
options for summarizing the outcome data are offered: pregnancy rate per cycle, 
time-limited analysis using proportions, conservative cycle-based cumulative 
pregnancy rate and real-time-based cumulative pregnancy rate. In this manner, 
more realistic information can be generated to counsel patients, evaluate the 
efficacy of treatments, compare rates among centres and guide the formulation of 
policies for infertility management and resource allocation.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deh889
PMID: 15790603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2005 Mar;32(3):351-63.

Cost-effectiveness of letrozole versus tamoxifen as first-line hormonal therapy 
in treating postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer in Japan.

Okubo I(1), Kondo M, Toi M, Ochiai T, Miki S.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Comprehensive Human Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki, Japan.

The objective of this study is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of letrozole 
compared with tamoxifen as first-line therapy in post-menopausal women with 
advanced breast cancer in Japan. A Markov analytical model was developed to 
estimate life-year (LY) expectancies, using key transition probabilities 
obtained from the results of a multinational phase III trial, a literature 
review and a Japanese medical expert panel. Direct medical costs were estimated, 
from the payer's perspective, using the expected resource utilization provided 
by the expert panel, the medical fee table and drug tariff under the national 
health insurance system. The expected overall life-years (LYs) obtained were 
3.68 years for letrozole arm and 3.09 years for tamoxifen arm, showing 
incremental LYs of 0.59 years in patients receiving letrozole. The total 
expected costs were 3,644,588 yen (33,133 US dollars) for letrozole arm and 
3,322,111 yen (30,201 US dollars) for tamoxifen arm, resulting in a mean 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 546,571 yen (4,969 US dollars) 
per life-year gained, while the 5 th percentile of ICER showed letrozole 
dominating tamoxifen and the 95th percentile was 2,310,593 yen (21,005 US 
dollars). The results suggest that letrozole is a clinically beneficial and 
cost-effective treatment option when compared with tamoxifen in first-line 
therapy for advanced breast cancer in Japan.

PMID: 15791818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Exp Appl Acarol. 2005;35(3):183-95. doi: 10.1007/s10493-004-3940-x.

Influence of diet on life table parameters of Iphiseius degenerans (Acari: 
Phytoseiidae).

Vantornhout I(1), Minnaert HL, Tirry L, De Clercq P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Agrozoology, Department of Crop Protection, Faculty of 
Agricultural and Applied Biological Sciences, Ghent University, Coupure Links 
653, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium. Isabelle.Vantornhout@UGent.be

Abstract. Studies on the reproduction, longevity and life table parameters of 
Iphiseius degenerans (Berlese) were carried out under laboratory conditions of 
25 +/- 1 degree C, 75 +/- 5% RH and 16L:8D h. As food sources for the predatory 
mite, Ricinus communis L. pollen, all stages of the spider mite Tetrranchus 
urticae Koch, Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande) larvae, and Ephestia 
kuehniella Zeller eggs were selected. All diets were accepted as food by the 
adult mites. Female longevity ranged from 29.5 to 42.4 days, the highest value 
was recorded on a diet of Ephestia eggs. The highest percentage of females 
escaping the experimental arena was observed on the diet consisting of thrips 
larvae. The highest oviposition rate (1.9 eggs/female.day) was recorded when the 
predator was fed on spider mites on an artificial substrate. For other diets, 
oviposition rates ranged from 1.0 to 1.3 eggs/female.day. The intrinsic rate of 
natural increase (r(m)) of I. degenerans varied between 0.015 and 0.142 
females/female x day. The diet consisting of castor bean pollen resulted in the 
highest population growth whereas the diet on spider mites brushed off onto a 
bean leaf arena resulted in the slowest population growth. This can be explained 
by the inability of the predator to cope with the webbing of T. urticae, and the 
high escape rate of the progeny when reared on spider mites. The percentage of 
females in the offspring ranged from 40 to 73%.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-004-3940-x
PMID: 15792099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Exp Appl Acarol. 2005;35(3):197-213. doi: 10.1007/s10493-004-4186-3.

Biology and phenology of the eriophyid mite, Floracarus perrepae, on its native 
host in Australia, Old World climbing fern, Lygodium microphyllum.

Ozman SK(1), Goolsby JA.

Author information:
(1)CRC for Tropical Plant Protection and Departnent of Zoology and Entomology, 
University of Queensland, 4072, St. Lucia, Queensland, Australia. 
sozman@omu.edu.tr

The biology and phenology of the eriophyid mite, Floracarus perrepae Knihinicki 
and Boczek, a potential biological control agent of Lygoditon microphyllun 
(Cav.) R. Br., was studied in its native range--Queensland, Australia. F. 
perrepae forms leaf roll galls on the subpinnae of L. mnicrophyllum. It has a 
simple biology, with females and males produced throughout the year. The 
population was female biased at 10.5 to 1. The immature development time was 8.9 
+/- 0.1 and 7.0 +/- 0.1 days; adult longevity was 30.6 +/- 1.6 and 19.4 +/- 1.2 
days and mean fecundity per female was 54.5 +/- 3.2 and 38.5 +/- 1.6 eggs at 21 
and 26 degrees C, all respectively. Field studies showed that the mite was 
active year round, with populations peaking when temperatures were cool and soil 
moisture levels were highest. Two species of predatory mites, Tarsonemus sp. and 
a species of Tydeidae, along with the pathogen Hirsutella thompsonii, had 
significant effects on all life stages of F. perrepae. Despite high levels of 
predators and the pathogen, F. perrepae caused consistent damage to L. 
microphyllum at all the field sites over the entire 2 years of the study.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-004-4186-3
PMID: 15792100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Exp Appl Acarol. 2005;35(3):215-22. doi: 10.1007/s10493-004-5082-6.

Effects of azadirachtin on the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae 
(Acari: Tetranychidae).

Martínez-Villar E(1), Sáenz-De-Cabezón FJ, Moreno-Grijalba F, Marco V, 
Pérez-Moreno I.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Agricultura y Alimentación, Universidad de La Rioja, C/ Madre 
de Dios, 51, 26006-Logroño, Spain.

Effects of sublethal azadirachtin exposure to the biological performance of 
Tetranychius urticae Koch was studied under laboratory conditions. Bioassay was 
used to asses the effect of different concentrations of azadirachtin on 
longevity, fecundity, fertility, and offspring development. Azadirachtin (64 and 
128 ppm) affected fecundity and mortality but had no effect on fertility and 
offspring development. A subsequent life-table study with 80 ppm of azadirachtin 
found that the compound caused a reduction of 50% in survival to adult stage. 
The peak of reproduction was reached at 5 days causing a decrease in the mean 
fecundity to almost eight times than of untreated females. The net reproductive 
rate (R0), the intrinsic rate of increase (r(m)), and the finite rate of 
increase (lambda) of treated females were lower. Treatment showed a negative 
value of r(m), resulting in a declining population. These results suggest that 
azadirachtin could be incorporated in Integrated Pest Management (IPM) 
programmes of T. urticae.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-004-5082-6
PMID: 15792101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Ann Fr Anesth Reanim. 2005 Mar;24(3):249-54. doi:
10.1016/j.annfar.2004.12.027.

[Unilateral spinal anaesthesia in elderly patient for hip trauma: a pilot 
study].

[Article in French]

Khatouf M(1), Loughnane F, Boini S, Heck M, Meuret P, Macalou D, Mertes PM, 
Bouaziz H.

Author information:
(1)Service d'anesthésie-réanimation chirurgicale, hôpital central, 29, avenue du 
Maréchal de Lattre-de-Tassigny, 54035 Nancy cedex, France.

INTRODUCTION: Fractured neck of femur is encountered more frequently as life 
expectancy increases. All anaesthetic techniques aim to avoid deleterious fall 
in arterial blood pressure. The haemodynamic effects of hypobaric unilateral 
spinal anaesthesia have been rarely assessed in patients over 80 year's old. 
This study aims to do that in a prospective manner.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-five patients were enrolled. Following a preload 
with HES 240/0.576 % (Hesteril) (5 ml/kg) and the administration of an 
iliofascial block, patients were placed in the lateral decubitus position, 
operative side uppermost. 3.5 ml of 0.12% hypobaric bupivacaine was administered 
intrathecally at a rate of 0.25 ml/second. Patients were kept in position for 15 
minutes. Systolic, mean and diastolic arterial pressures, heart rate, SaO2 % and 
ephedrine consumption were recorded at five minutes intervals as was the rate of 
onset, height and duration of sensory and motor block and extent of 
bilateralization. Patient and surgeon satisfaction scores were also recorded.
RESULTS: No significant changes in systolic, mean and diastolic pressures, or 
SaO2 % occurred. Median onset times of sensory and motor block were 8+/-5 and 
16+/-7 minutes on the operative side and 30+/-15 and 36+/-15 minutes on the 
contralateral side in those with bilateralization, respectively. The maximum 
height of sensory block was T6 for sept patients, T8 for huit patients and 
T8-T10 for the remainder. Mean duration of sensory and motor block was 134+/-26 
and 119+/-24 minutes on the operative side and 100+/-26 and 98+/-25 minutes on 
the contralateral side, respectively. In 12 patients (48%) bilateralization of 
their block occurred. Patients and surgeons rated the technique highly.
CONCLUSION: Hypobaric unilateral spinal anaesthesia is a simple technique, 
produces satisfactory operative conditions and induces very little haemodynamic 
change in the elderly population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annfar.2004.12.027
PMID: 15792557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Acad Med. 2005 Apr;80(4):352-5. doi: 10.1097/00001888-200504000-00009.

A course on the transition to adult care of patients with childhood-onset 
chronic illnesses.

Hagood JS(1), Lenker CV, Thrasher S.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama School of Medicine, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Department of Pediatrics, AL, USA. JHagood@peds.uab.edu

Children with special health care needs born today have a 90% chance of 
surviving into adulthood, making their transition to adult systems of care an 
issue that will affect almost all physicians. However, many adult generalists 
and specialists are not familiar with the management of chronic diseases that 
begin in childhood. While the public health system has made transition to 
appropriate adult care a priority, and many specialty organizations have 
endorsed this concept, there are no published studies addressing how the concept 
