elastic rod with spontaneous torsion and curvatures and subjected to external 
force and torque. Our results based on an analytic formalism show that the 
extension of a helical rod may undergo a one-step discontinuous transition with 
increasing stretching force. This agrees quantitatively with experimental 
observations for a helix in a chemically defined lipid concentrate. The larger 
the twisting rigidity, the larger the jump in the extension. The effect of 
torque on the jump is, however, dependent on the value of the spontaneous 
torsion. In contrast, increasing the spontaneous torsion encourages the 
continuous variation of the extension. An "over-collapse" behavior is observed 
for the rod with asymmetric bending rigidity, and an intrinsic asymmetric 
elasticity under twisting force is found.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.71.052801
PMID: 16089580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Value Health. 2005 Jul-Aug;8(4):462-70. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00037.x.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of rituximab combined with chop for treatment of 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

Best JH(1), Hornberger J, Proctor SJ, Omnes LF, Jost F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

PURPOSE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness from a French payer perspective of 
CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) alone compared 
with CHOP plus rituximab (R-CHOP) for treatment of patients with diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma.
METHODS: Mean patient survival, days of hospitalization, and chemotherapy costs 
during treatment were estimated from a Phase III trial in France, Belgium, and 
Switzerland. Survival during the trial was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier 
method; survival beyond the trial period was projected based on mortality rates 
from the Scottish and Newcastle Lymphoma Group database. French 
diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment schedules were applied to trial data to 
estimate cost of adverse events and drug administration. We estimated survival 
and cost-effectiveness [the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained] from 4 years (median clinical trial follow-up period) to 15 
years, discounted at a fixed annual rate of 3%. We used published patient 
preferences. We converted currency to euros, based on 2003 exchange rates.
RESULTS: R-CHOP resulted in a 20.6% relative increase in complete response rate 
(absolute increase from 63% to 76%), and a 31% decrease in risk of death at 4 
years (95% CI 8-49%). Over a 15-year time horizon, mean overall survival (OS) 
duration was estimated to be 6.90 years for R-CHOP and 5.74 years for CHOP, a 
mean increase in OS of 1.16 years (or 1.07 QALYs). Total direct medical costs 
were 13,170 euro higher with R-CHOP, with an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of 12,259 euro per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: R-CHOP significantly increases mean OS up to 4 years compared with 
CHOP, and its cost-effectiveness ratio compares favorably with other oncology 
treatments in widespread use.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00037.x
PMID: 16091023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. JAMA. 2005 Aug 10;294(6):716-24. doi: 10.1001/jama.294.6.716.

Clinical practice guidelines and quality of care for older patients with 
multiple comorbid diseases: implications for pay for performance.

Boyd CM(1), Darer J, Boult C, Fried LP, Boult L, Wu AW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Md, USA. cyboyd@jhmi.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2005 Aug 10;294(6):741-3.
    JAMA. 2006 Jan 4;295(1):33-4; author reply 34-5.
    JAMA. 2006 Jan 4;295(1):33; author reply 34-5.
    JAMA. 2006 Jan 4;295(1):34; author reply 34-5.

CONTEXT: Clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) have been developed to improve the 
quality of health care for many chronic conditions. Pay-for-performance 
initiatives assess physician adherence to interventions that may reflect CPG 
recommendations.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the applicability of CPGs to the care of older 
individuals with several comorbid diseases.
DATA SOURCES: The National Health Interview Survey and a nationally 
representative sample of Medicare beneficiaries (to identify the most prevalent 
chronic diseases in this population); the National Guideline Clearinghouse (for 
locating evidence-based CPGs for each chronic disease).
STUDY SELECTION: Of the 15 most common chronic diseases, we selected 
hypertension, chronic heart failure, stable angina, atrial fibrillation, 
hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus, osteoarthritis, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and osteoporosis, which are usually managed in primary care, 
choosing CPGs promulgated by national and international medical organizations 
for each.
DATA EXTRACTION: Two investigators independently assessed whether each CPG 
addressed older patients with multiple comorbid diseases, goals of treatment, 
interactions between recommendations, burden to patients and caregivers, patient 
preferences, life expectancy, and quality of life. Differences were resolved by 
consensus. For a hypothetical 79-year-old woman with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, type 2 diabetes, osteoporosis, hypertension, and 
osteoarthritis, we aggregated the recommendations from the relevant CPGs.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Most CPGs did not modify or discuss the applicability of their 
recommendations for older patients with multiple comorbidities. Most also did 
not comment on burden, short- and long-term goals, and the quality of the 
underlying scientific evidence, nor give guidance for incorporating patient 
preferences into treatment plans. If the relevant CPGs were followed, the 
hypothetical patient would be prescribed 12 medications (costing her 406 dollars 
per month) and a complicated nonpharmacological regimen. Adverse interactions 
between drugs and diseases could result.
CONCLUSIONS: This review suggests that adhering to current CPGs in caring for an 
older person with several comorbidities may have undesirable effects. Basing 
standards for quality of care and pay for performance on existing CPGs could 
lead to inappropriate judgment of the care provided to older individuals with 
complex comorbidities and could create perverse incentives that emphasize the 
wrong aspects of care for this population and diminish the quality of their 
care. Developing measures of the quality of the care needed by older patients 
with complex comorbidities is critical to improving their care.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.294.6.716
PMID: 16091574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2005 Jul;117(13-14):468-79. doi: 
10.1007/s00508-005-0393-0.

Trends in educational and occupational differentials in all-cause mortality in 
Austria between 1981/82 and 1991/92.

Doblhammer G(1), Rau R, Kytir J.

Author information:
(1)Empirical Social Research, Department of Economics and Social Sciences, 
Faculty of Business Administration, University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany.

Comparative international studies regularly find an increase in mortality 
differentials by education and socioeconomic group. We are interested in whether 
the same is true for Austria, a country for which no previous comparable study 
exists. On the basis of linked death and census records for the Austrian 
population in the years 1981/82 and 1991/92, we observed a widening gap in 
educational and occupational differentials of Austrian men in relative and 
absolute mortality from all causes. The increase was restricted to ages 50 to 
74, whereas mortality differentials at younger and older ages were unchanged or 
slightly lower. The growing gap resulted from increasing mortality advantages 
for men with tertiary education, the highest educational group. Their absolute 
mortality and relative mortality risks decreased faster than those of all other 
educational groups. Educational differentials among women remained unchanged.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-005-0393-0
PMID: 16091874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Pediatr Ann. 2005 Jul;34(7):539-45. doi: 10.3928/0090-4481-20050701-11.

Pulmonary management of the patient with muscular dystrophy.

Kalra M(1), Amin RS.

Author information:
(1)Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA. 
maninder.kalra@cchmc.org

Pulmonary involvement is common in patients with muscular dystrophy, and routine 
screening for evidence of respiratory muscle dysfunction should be performed. 
Testing for respiratory muscle strength, as well as an assessment for 
sleep-disordered breathing, should be obtained in consultation with a 
specialist. Adequate airway clearance and correction of impaired ventilation are 
the key components of pulmonary management in this group of patients. Also, 
special emphasis on airway clearance is recommended during upper respiratory 
infections, as well as in the postoperative period. Early initiation of 
ventilatory support has been shown to result in longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3928/0090-4481-20050701-11
PMID: 16092628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Curr Opin Oncol. 2005 Sep;17(5):474-8. doi:
10.1097/01.cco.0000174036.46785.8f.

Aerodigestive cancers in HIV infection.

Haigentz M Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Oncology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center, 111 East 210th Street, Hoffheimer Room 100, 
Bronx, NY 10467, USA. mhaigent@montefiore.org

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Aerodigestive (lung, head and neck) cancers are among the 
most prevalent and deadly neoplasms worldwide, and the incidence rates are 
rising. Given the improvements in life expectancy of persons with HIV/AIDS when 
treated with highly active antiretroviral agents, persons with HIV infection are 
therefore increasingly likely to develop these malignancies. This chapter 
focuses on the epidemiology of these malignancies and reviews the most recent 
literature and current understanding of the causes and treatment of these 
malignancies in HIV-positive populations.
RECENT FINDINGS: Aerodigestive neoplasms in patients with HIV infection are 
associated with younger age at diagnosis, cigarette smoking, advanced stage at 
presentation, and a more aggressive clinical course. The causes of these 
cancers, aside from the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol 
exposure, are not clear. Although these neoplasms are non-AIDS defining, factors 
that might contribute to risk include HIV-related immunosuppression and 
co-infection with high-risk human papillomavirus subtypes.
SUMMARY: With continued improvements in therapies for HIV, the expected increase 
in incidence and mortality of persons with HIV infection from aerodigestive 
malignancies will likely become a major public health concern. Given the younger 
age of HIV-infected patients with these malignancies and the apparently higher 
rates of smoking among HIV-positive individuals, aggressive smoking cessation 
efforts should be directed to this high-risk population.

DOI: 10.1097/01.cco.0000174036.46785.8f
PMID: 16093799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2005 Sep;17(5):568-73. doi: 
10.1097/01.bor.0000169364.69066.1e.

Outcome in juvenile onset systemic lupus erythematosus.

Ravelli A(1), Ruperto N, Martini A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Pediatria, Università di Genova, Unità Operativa Pediatria 
II, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico G. Gaslini, Italy. 
angeloravelli@ospedale-gaslini.ge.it

Comment in
    Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2005 Sep;17(5):566-7.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Over the past 2 decades, there has been a marked improvement 
in survival among patients with juvenile-onset systemic lupus erythematosus. As 
a result of the increased life expectancy, children and adolescents with 
systemic lupus erythematosus are now faced with considerable morbidity resulting 
from sequelae of disease activity, side effects of medications, and comorbid 
conditions. This morbidity affects physical and psychosocial well-being. 
Therefore, the need is increasing for monitoring the development of irreversible 
organ damage and the effect of the disease and its treatment on daily life. This 
review summarizes the recent advances in the investigation on survival, 
accumulated damage, and health-related quality of life in patients with 
juvenile-onset systemic lupus erythematosus.
RECENT FINDINGS: The 5-year survival rate of patients with juvenile-onset 
systemic lupus erythematosus approaches 100%, and the 10-year survival rate is 
close to 90%. The development of cumulative organ damage has been observed in 
50-60% of patients. Children and adolescents with systemic lupus erythematosus 
have been found to have poorer health-related quality of life, particularly in 
the physical domain, and lower socioeconomic achievements than their healthy 
peers.
SUMMARY: The prolongation of the life span of patients with juvenile-onset 
systemic lupus erythematosus has been accompanied by a substantial risk of 
damage accumulation and has not been paralleled by an improvement in 
health-related quality of life. This problem highlights the need of measuring 
cumulative organ damage and health-related quality of life in the long-term 
follow-up of patients with juvenile-onset systemic lupus erythematosus and of 
designing new treatments and treatment strategies that are aimed not only at 
improving control of disease activity but also at minimizing the development of 
nonreversible damage.

DOI: 10.1097/01.bor.0000169364.69066.1e
PMID: 16093835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Pediatr Orthop B. 2005 Sep;14(5):375-80. doi: 
10.1097/01202412-200509000-00012.

Outcomes and complications of elastic stable intramedullary nailing for forearm 
fractures in children.

Jubel A(1), Andermahr J, Isenberg J, Issavand A, Prokop A, Rehm KE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma, Hand and Reconstructive Surgery, University Hospital of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. axeljubel@t-online.de

This prospective study investigated medium-term outcomes for 51 children treated 
from 1997 to 2001 for displaced diaphyseal forearm fractures with elastic stable 
intramedullary nailing. Forty-three patients included achieved excellent/good 
functional results at an average follow-up of 38 months. Four patients required 
open fracture-manipulation at surgery. Complications included eight cases of 
soft-tissue irritation at nail-insertion site (three required shortening 
procedures), two temporary radial nerve branch injuries, four minimal rotational 
mobility deficits, one 10 degrees elbow extension deficit after splinting, and 
five small keloid scars. All patients were pain-free, without limitations in 
activities for daily life or sport/play activities by 12 months after hardware 
removal. Elastic stable intramedullary nailing is appropriate therapy for these 
injuries.

DOI: 10.1097/01202412-200509000-00012
PMID: 16093951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Ir J Med Sci. 2005 Apr-Jun;174(2):9-13. doi: 10.1007/BF03169122.

Renal transplantation in the elderly--the Irish experience.

Giblin L(1), Hollander M, Little D, Hickey D, Donohoe J, Walshe JJ, Dorman A, 
O'Kelly P, Conlon PJ.

Author information:
(1)Irish Renal Transplant Registry, Department of Nephrology, Beaumont Hospital, 
Beaumont Road, Dublin 9.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this paper was to evaluate patient and kidney graft 
survival rates in renal transplant recipients and compare the outcomes between 
the different patient age groups.
METHODS: A retrospective review of all adult renal transplants performed at 
Beaumont Hospital between the years 1986-2001 was carried out. Patients were 
defined as 'elderly' if they were 65 years of age or older and 'younger' if less 
than 65 years at the time of transplantation. Patient and transplant graft 
survival rates were analysed for each age group.
RESULTS: Data were analysed on 1462 'younger' patients and 105 'elderly' renal 
transplant recipients. Estimated patient survival at 1, 5 and 10 years were 96%, 
87% and 74% in the younger patient group compared to 85%, 59% and 33% in the 
elderly group. The adjusted graft survival rates (adjusted for death due to 
other causes and with a functioning graft in situ) for the younger group were 
89%, 77% and 64% at one, five and ten years respectively, while for the elderly 
group, adjusted one, five and ten year survival rates were 89%, 83% and 70% 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the elderly have a shorter life expectancy than the 
younger population they do benefit from renal transplantation similar to the 
younger recipients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03169122
PMID: 16094906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J R Soc Promot Health. 2005 Jul;125(4):168-71. doi:
10.1177/146642400512500409.

A catastrophe in the 21st century: the public health situation in South Africa 
following HIV/AIDS.

Walker AR(1), Walker BF, Wadee AA.

Author information:
(1)Human Biochemistry Research Unit, School of Pathology of the University of 
the Witwatersrand, and National Health Laboratory Service, P.O. Box 1038, 
Johannesburg, South Africa. alexander.walker@nhls.ac.za

During the early 1900s, African populations in South Africa were subject to very 
widespread infections which especially affected the young. This resulted in high 
mortality rates and a low life expectancy of 20-25 years. By the mid-century, 
mortality rates from infections had decreased considerably. Moreover, the 
occurrences of non-communicable diseases, even in urban areas, remained very 
low. In the 1970s, the proportion of Africans aged 50 or over that reached 70 
years was 38.5%, higher than that in the juxtaposed white population, which was 
35.5%. And by 1985, the life expectancy of Africans reached 61 years for males 
and 63 years for females, probably the highest in sub-Saharan African 
populations. Since then, however, the African continent has been devastated by 
the AIDS epidemic. In 2001, HIV was responsible for the death of a third of the 
African population in South Africa, but even higher proportions prevailed in 
Botswana and in Tanzania. The calamitous advent of the HIV infection has caused 
major falls in life expectancy, in the case of Africans in South Africa reducing 
this to just 43 years. With little hope of meaningful changes occurring in 
sexual habits or of an early vaccine becoming available, the infection's high 
morbidity/mortality burden is likely to continue.

DOI: 10.1177/146642400512500409
PMID: 16094927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Acta Odontol Scand. 2005 Feb;63(1):36-42. doi: 10.1080/00016350510019711.

Developing a scale for measuring expectancy of retaining natural teeth for life 
and comparison of results obtained using a global item and a multi-item scale of 
measurement.

Haugejorden O(1), Klock KS, Trovik TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Sciences-Community Dentistry, Aarstadveien 17, NO-5009 
Bergen, Norway. ola.haugejorden@odont.uib.no

OBJECTIVE: To develop and test a scale for measuring expectancy of retaining 
teeth for life and to compare the estimates when using a global item with those 
obtained with a multi-item scale of measurement.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The design of the study was cross-sectional selected and 
random sample surveys using a self-administered questionnaire or interview. 
There were two groups of patients and a national sample aged 16-79 years 
(n=1274); response rate 64%. The main results pertain to dentate subjects in a 
global group (n=615) and in a scale group (n=609). The outcome measure was 
expectancy of retaining natural teeth for life. Results. When using the global 
item, 92% (95% CL 89.8, 94.1) of the respondents believed they would definitely 
or possibly retain their natural teeth for life, significantly higher than the 
81% (95% CL 77.6, 84.0) obtained with the 4-item conditional scale. Cronbach's 
alpha was 0.89 for the 4-item scale and the test-retest reliability moderate 
(kappa = 0.51; 0.77 for +/-1). The adults' belief in retaining teeth for life 
was significantly associated with having a live-in partner (p = 0.009) when the 
global question was the dependent variable; and sex (p = 0.000) and education (p 
= 0.004) when the 4-item scale was the dependent variable. Explained variance 
was 3.8% and 4.5%, respectively. Conclusions. The internal reliability of the 
4-item scale was high. A significantly lower proportion of people reported 
belief in retaining natural teeth for life when employing the 4-item conditional 
scale than when the unconditional global question was used.

DOI: 10.1080/00016350510019711
PMID: 16095061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Health Technol Assess. 2005 Aug;9(33):1-58, iii. doi: 10.3310/hta9330.

Cost-effectiveness and safety of epidural steroids in the management of 
sciatica.

Price C(1), Arden N, Coglan L, Rogers P.

Author information:
(1)Pain Clinic, Royal South Hants Hospital, Southampton, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the clinical effectiveness of epidural steroid 
injections (ESIs) in the treatment of sciatica with an adequately powered study 
and to identify potential predictors of response to ESIs. Also, to investigate 
the safety and cost-effectiveness of lumbar ESIs in patients with sciatica.
DESIGN: A pragmatic, prospective, multicentre, double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled trial with 12-month follow-up was performed. Patients were 
stratified according to acute (<4 months since onset) versus chronic (4-18 
months) presentation. All analyses were performed on an intention-to-treat basis 
with last observation carried forward used to impute missing data.
SETTING: Rheumatology, orthopaedic and pain clinics in four participating 
centres: three district hospitals and one teaching hospital in the south of 
England.
PARTICIPANTS: Total of 228 patients listed for ESI with clinically diagnosed 
unilateral sciatica, aged between 18 and 70 years, who had a duration of 
symptoms between 4 weeks and 18 months.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients received up to three injections of epidural steroid and 
local anaesthetic (active), or an injection of normal saline into the 
interspinous ligament (placebo).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome measure was the Oswestry Disability 
Questionnaire (ODQ); measures of pain relief and psychological and physical 
function were collected. Health economic data on return to work, analgesia use 
and other interventions were also measured. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
were calculated using the SF-6D, calculated from the Short Form (SF-36). Costs 
per patient were derived from figures supplied by the centres' finance 
departments and a costings exercise performed as part of the study. A 
cost-utility analysis was performed using the SF-36 to calculate costs per QALY.
RESULTS: ESI led to a transient benefit in ODQ and pain relief, compared with 
placebo at 3 weeks (p = 0.017, number needed to treat = 11.4). There was no 
benefit over placebo between weeks 6 and 52. Using incremental QALYs, this 
equates to and additional 2.2 days of full health. Acute sciatica seemed to 
respond no differently to chronic sciatica. There were no significant 
differences in any other indices, including objective tests of function, return 
to work or need for surgery at any time-points. There were no clinical 
predictors of response, although the trial lacked sufficient power to be 
confident of this. Adverse events were uncommon, with no difference between 
groups. Costs per QALY to providers under the trial protocol were 44,701 pounds 
sterling. Costs to the purchaser per QALY were 354,171 pounds sterling. If only 
one ESI was provided then costs per QALY fell to 25,745 pounds sterling to the 
provider and 167,145 pounds sterling to the purchaser. ESIs thus failed the QALY 
threshold recommended by the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE).
CONCLUSIONS: Although ESIs appear relatively safe, it was found that they confer 
only transient benefit in symptoms and self-reported function in a small group 
of patients with sciatica at substantial costs. ESIs do not provide good value 
for money if NICE recommendations are followed. Additional research is suggested 
into the epidemiology of radicular pain, producing a register of all ESIs, 
possible subgroups who may benefit from ESIs, the use of radiological imaging, 
optimal early interventions, analgesic agents and nerve root injections, the use 
of cognitive behavioural therapy in rehabilitation, improved methods of 
assessment, a comparative cost-utility analysis between various treatment 
strategies, and methods to reduce the effect of scarring and inflammation.

DOI: 10.3310/hta9330
PMID: 16095548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Kyobu Geka. 2005 Jul;58(8 Suppl):729-33.

[Lung cancer in elderly patients: lung cancer and lung function].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanita T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Iwate Medical University, Morioka, Japan.

The incidence of bronchogenic carcinoma is increasing as life expectancy rises. 
With increase in the aged population in Japan, the number of patients suffering 
from lung cancer and candidates for lung resections are increasing. In this 
paper, the author lists up indispensable procedures for diagnosis, namely, lung 
function tests, unilateral pulmonary arterial occlusion test and exercise 
tolerance test. The cut-offs for identifying candidates for elderly patients for 
lung resections can be applied the same cut-offs for younger patients. Also the 
author indicates the importance of postoperative management for lung lobe 
resections. In order to prevent postoperative problems such as congestive heart 
failure that might be a fetal complication, the most useful check values after 
the lung surgery for elderly patients are rate of transfusion and urine volume. 
In conclusion, when elderly patients assert their rights to undergo lung 
surgery, we, the thoracic surgeons, should reply their requests under the equal 
quality of safe surgery as that for younger patients. Besides, it is desirable 
that even elderly patients, over 80 years old, who undergo lung surgery should 
guarantee their quality of daily life after surgery.

PMID: 16097627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(8):791-802. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200523080-00005.

Societal discounting of health effects in cost-effectiveness analyses: the 
influence of life expectancy.

Polinder S(1), Meerding WJ, van Exel J, Brouwer W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC/University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. s.polinder@erasmusm.nl

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy and decreasing marginal valuation of 
additional QALYs over time may serve as a basis for discounting future health 
effects from a societal perspective. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that 
societal time preference for health is related to perceived future life 
expectancy.
METHODS: A sample of 223 people from the general population prioritised 
healthcare programmes with differential timing of health benefits and costs from 
a societal perspective. Furthermore, we asked respondents to estimate future 
life expectancy.
RESULTS: The relationship between future life expectancy and time preference for 
health is ambiguous. We observed that people who expected a higher future life 
expectancy elicited higher discount rates for health effects than those with 
lower life expectancy growth expectations for all four time periods (5, 10, 20 
and 40 years into the future), but the differences were never significant. On 
average, providing explicit information on growth in life expectancy did 
significantly alter discount rates in the expected direction but, on an 
individual level, the results were rather inconsistent. We observed a 
significantly stronger time preference (i.e. higher discount rates) for health 
effects than for costs. As commonly observed, discount rates for health and 
money decreased with time delay following a hyperbolic function.
CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that it is troublesome to elicit societal discount 
rates empirically, especially rates that are in line with the theoretical 
arguments on societal discounting. The influence of life expectancy remains 
ambiguous, but there seems to be at least some positive relationship between 
growth in life expectancy and discount rates that deserves additional attention.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523080-00005
PMID: 16097841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(8):851-3; author reply 853. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-200523080-00009.

Incorporation of uncertainty in health economic modelling studies.

Nuijten M.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2004;22(12):759-69.
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(6):529-36.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523080-00009
PMID: 16097845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Health Policy. 2005 Sep 28;74(1):77-84. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.12.009.  Epub 2005 Jan 19.

Can we estimate the 'social' value of a QALY? Four core issues to resolve.

Smith RD(1), Richardson J.

Author information:
(1)University of East Anglia, UK. richard.smith@uea.ac.uk

There is growing interest in estimating the 'societal' willingness to pay (WTP) 
for a quality adjusted life year (QALY) to help public health system 
decision-makers determine whether a health care programme should/not be 
undertaken. However, there is a lack of clarity in this debate concerning four 
core issues: (i) is 'social' WTP simply the sum of 'individual' WTP; (ii) will 
'individual' WTP map directly into 'social' WTP; (iii) is 'personal' income the 
appropriate budget constraint; (iv) should WTP be adjusted for ability to pay? 
This paper outlines the relevance and importance of each of these issues in the 
hope of encouraging a wider debate on the core issues that empirical studies 
will have to explore to discover whether such a value may be obtained.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.12.009
PMID: 16098414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Curr Opin Immunol. 2005 Oct;17(5):480-5. doi: 10.1016/j.coi.2005.07.019.

Memory T cell homeostasis and senescence during aging.

Akbar AN(1), Fletcher JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Molecular Pathology, Division of Infection and 
Immunity, University College London, UK. aakbar@ucl.ac.uk

Human memory T cell pools proliferate and differentiate at varying rates that 
are determined by the frequency of lifelong antigenic re-encounter with 
different specific antigens. An important question concerning immunity is 
whether certain specific pools of memory T cells are driven to exhaustion in 
elderly subjects, a pertinent point in view of increasing human life expectancy. 
An emerging consensus is that cytomegalovirus (CMV), a beta-herpesvirus with a 
prevalence of 60-90% worldwide, is an agent that induces specific T cells to 
extreme differentiation. The question that begs to be answered is whether this 
can explain why CMV seropositivity and the presence of highly differentiated 
CMV-specific T cells are included in a cluster of immune parameters that have 
been shown recently to predict the early mortality of elderly humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coi.2005.07.019
PMID: 16098721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. J Relig Aging. 1986 Fall-Winter;3(1-2):47-61. doi: 10.1300/j491v03n01_05.

Biomedical ethics in the year 2000: O = f(H.E.F.).

Chambers CD(1), Pribble KS, Harter MT.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Administration, Ohio University, USA.

The elderly are disproportionate consumers of health care resources. The major 
burden for these health care costs is being borne by the public. As more and 
more of our elderly live longer and consume even more of these finite resources, 
access to these resources will be restricted and they will be placed at ever 
increasing levels of risk. The history, current status, and future "projections" 
for elderly health and health care access are presented.

DOI: 10.1300/j491v03n01_05
PMID: 16100828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Curr Top Med Chem. 2005;5(8):797-803. doi: 10.2174/1568026054637674.

Potency-scaled partitioning in descriptor spaces with increasing dimensionality.

Bajorath J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science Informatics, B-IT International Center for 
Information Technology, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-University Bonn, 
Görresstrasse 13, D-53113 Bonn, Germany. bajorath@bit.uni-bonn.de

Erratum in
    Curr Top Med Chem. 2005;5(12):1187.

Partitioning algorithms are described that operate in chemical reference spaces 
formed by combinations of binary-transformed molecular descriptors and aim at 
the identification of potent hits in ligand-based virtual screening. One of 
these approaches depends on mapping of consensus positions of compound activity 
sets in descriptor spaces followed by step-wise extension of the dimensionality 
of these spaces and re-mapping of activity-dependent consensus positions. 
Dimension extension is carried out to increase the discriminatory power of 
descriptor combinations and distinguish database compounds from potential hits. 
This method was originally named Dynamic Mapping of Consensus positions (DMC) 
and subsequently extended in order to take different potency levels of known 
active molecules into account and increase the probability of recognizing potent 
database hits. The extension was accomplished by adding potency scaling to DMC 
calculations, and the resulting approach was termed POT-DMC. Results of 
comparisons of DMC and POT-DMC calculations on different classes of active 
compounds with substantially varying potency levels support the validity of the 
POT-DMC approach.

DOI: 10.2174/1568026054637674
PMID: 16101419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Curr Mol Med. 2005 Aug;5(5):455-65. doi: 10.2174/1566524054553496.

New developments in the field of cystic kidney diseases.

Witzgall R(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Regensburg, Institute for Molecular and Cellular Anatomy, 
Germany. ralph.witzgall@vkl.uni-regensburg.de

For quite some time the field of polycystic kidney disease has led a life at the 
fringe of kidney research, but with the cloning of the PKD1 and many other genes 
this situation has dramatically changed. Polycystic kidney disease often is a 
syndromic disease affecting a variety of organs in addition to the kidney. Most 
of the proteins involved in polycystic kidney disease have been localized to the 
primary cilium, an extension at the apical membrane of renal tubular epithelial 
cells, which may serve chemo- and mechanosensory functions. It is speculated 
that primary cilia and their associated proteins play a role in determining the 
proper tubular geometry.

DOI: 10.2174/1566524054553496
PMID: 16101475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Mol Microbiol. 2005 Sep;57(5):1177-81. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2958.2005.04760.x.

Taking shape: control of bacterial cell wall biosynthesis.

Stewart GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, Life Sciences Center, University of 
Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211-7310, USA.

The characteristic shape of a bacterial cell is a function of the three 
dimensional architectures of the cell envelope and is determined by the balance 
between lateral wall extension and synthesis of peptidoglycan at the division 
septum. The three dimensional patterns of cell wall synthesis in the bacterium 
Bacillus subtilis is influenced by actin-like proteins that form helical coils 
in the cell and by the MreCD membrane proteins that link the cytoskeletal 
elements with the penicillin-binding proteins that carry out peptidoglycan 
synthesis. Recent genetic studies have provided important clues as to how these 
proteins are arranged in the cell and how they function to regulate cell shape.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2005.04760.x
PMID: 16101993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Alcohol Alcohol. 2005 Nov-Dec;40(6):549-55. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agh192. Epub
 2005 Aug 15.

Economic evaluation of interventions for problem drinking and alcohol 
dependence: cost per QALY estimates.

Mortimer D(1), Segal L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Faculty of Business and Economics, Monash 
University, VIC 3800, Australia. duncan.mortimer@buseco.monash.edu.au

AIMS: To compare the performance of competing and complementary interventions 
for prevention or treatment of problem drinking and alcohol dependence. To 
provide an example of how health maximising decision-makers might use 
performance measures such as cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) league 
tables to formulate an optimal package of interventions for problem drinking and 
alcohol dependence.
METHODS: A time-dependent state-transition model was used to estimate QALYs 
gained per person for each intervention as compared to usual care in the 
relevant target population.
RESULTS: Cost per QALY estimates for each of the interventions fall below any 
putative funding threshold for developed economies. Interventions for problem 
drinkers appear to offer better value than interventions targeted at those with 
a history of severe physical dependence.
CONCLUSIONS: Formularies such as Australia's Medicare should include a 
comprehensive package of interventions for problem drinking and alcohol 
dependence.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agh192
PMID: 16103034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):I22. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00002.

Summaries for patients. The outcomes and costs of diabetes prevention with a 
diet and exercise program or metformin: a computer model.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):251-64.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00002
PMID: 16103465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):I28. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00003.

Summaries for patients. Estimating outcome in patients with HIV-related 
lymphoma.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):265-73.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00003
PMID: 16103466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):I33. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00004.

Summaries for patients. Association of quality of care with survival of elderly 
managed care patients.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):274-81.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00004
PMID: 16103467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):251-64. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00006.

Clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness of strategies for managing people at 
high risk for diabetes.

Eddy DM(1), Schlessinger L, Kahn R.

Author information:
(1)Archimedes Project, Kaiser Permanente, Oakland, California, USA. 
eddyaspen@yahoo.com

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):301-2.
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):303-4.
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Jan 3;144(1):66-7; author reply 67-8.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):I22.

BACKGROUND: Lifestyle modification can forestall diabetes in high-risk people, 
but the long-term cost-effectiveness is uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effects of the lifestyle modification program used in 
the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) on health and economic outcomes.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using the Archimedes model.
DATA SOURCES: Published basic and epidemiologic studies, clinical trials, and 
Kaiser Permanente administrative data.
TARGET POPULATION: Adults at high risk for diabetes (body mass index >24 kg/m2, 
fasting plasma glucose level of 5.2725 to 6.9375 mmol/L [95 to 125 mg/dL], 
2-hour glucose tolerance test result of 7.77 to 11.0445 mmol/L [140 to 199 
mg/dL]).
TIME HORIZON: 5 to 30 years.
PERSPECTIVE: Patient, health plan, and societal.
INTERVENTIONS: No prevention, DPP's lifestyle modification program, lifestyle 
modification begun after a person develops diabetes, and metformin.
MEASUREMENTS: Diagnosis and complications of diabetes.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Compared with no prevention program, the DPP 
lifestyle program would reduce a high-risk person's 30-year chances of getting 
diabetes from about 72% to 61%, the chances of a serious complication from about 
38% to 30%, and the chances of dying of a complication of diabetes from about 
13.5% to 11.2%. Metformin would deliver about one third the long-term health 
benefits achievable by immediate lifestyle modification. Compared with not 
implementing any prevention program, the expected 30-year cost/quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) of the DPP lifestyle intervention from the health plan's 
perspective would be about 143,000 dollars. From a societal perspective, the 
cost/QALY of the lifestyle intervention compared with doing nothing would be 
about 62,600 dollars. Either using metformin or delaying the lifestyle 
intervention until after a person develops diabetes would be more 
cost-effective, costing about 35,400 dollars or 24,500 dollars per QALY gained, 
respectively, compared with no program. Compared with delaying the lifestyle 
program until after diabetes is diagnosed, the marginal cost-effectiveness of 
beginning the DPP lifestyle program immediately would be about 201,800 dollars.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Variability and uncertainty deriving from the 
structure of the model were tested by comparing the model's results with the 
results of real clinical trials of diabetes and its complications. The most 
critical element of uncertainty is the effectiveness of the lifestyle program, 
as expressed by the 95% CI of the DPP study. The most important potentially 
controllable factor is the cost of the lifestyle program. Compared with no 
program, lifestyle modification for high-risk people can be made cost-saving 
over 30 years if the annual cost of the intervention can be reduced to about 100 
dollars.
LIMITATIONS: Results depend on the accuracy of the model.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifestyle modification is likely to have important effects on the 
morbidity and mortality of diabetes and should be recommended to all high-risk 
people. The program used in the DPP study may be too expensive for health plans 
or a national program to implement. Less expensive methods are needed to achieve 
the degree of weight loss seen in the DPP.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00006
PMID: 16103469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):265-73. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00007.

A prognostic index for systemic AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma treated in the 
era of highly active antiretroviral therapy.

Bower M(1), Gazzard B, Mandalia S, Newsom-Davis T, Thirlwell C, Dhillon T, Young 
AM, Powles T, Gaya A, Nelson M, Stebbing J.

Author information:
(1)The Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, London, United Kingdom. 
m.bower@imperial.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Apr 18;144(8):620.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):I28.

BACKGROUND: The established International Prognostic Index for lymphomas has not 
included patients with systemic AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
OBJECTIVE: To establish the most appropriate prognostic index for use in 
patients with systemic AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
DESIGN: A prospective study involving univariate and multivariable analyses of 
patients with AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma whose data were used to examine 
standard and new criteria for survival after diagnosis.
SETTING: The Chelsea and Westminster cohort of HIV-1-infected persons.
PATIENTS: 9621 HIV-positive patients, 111 in whom AIDS-related non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma was treated after 1996, in the era of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART).
INTERVENTION: Cox proportional hazards regression analysis to determine the 
prognostic significance of multiple clinicopathologic variables.
RESULTS: Survival of patients with AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma has 
increased in the HAART era (log-rank chi-square, 9.23; P = 0.002). Univariate 
analyses using the established International Prognostic Index factors of age, 
tumor stage, lactate dehydrogenase level, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
performance status, and number of extranodal sites were confirmed to be 
significant variables. Regression modeling for patients in whom disease was 
diagnosed after 1996 revealed only 2 independent predictors of death: 
International Prognostic Index risk group and CD4 cell count. These predictors 
yielded 4 internally validated risk strata with predicted 1-year survival rates 
of 82%, 47%, 20%, and 15% (P < 0.001). Prognostic risk scores in the highest 
quartile yielded a likelihood ratio for death of 7.90 (hazard ratio, 1.0), 
whereas a prognostic score less than 1.0 yielded a likelihood ratio of 0.23 
(hazard ratio, 0.15 [95% CI, 0.06 to 0.33]).
LIMITATIONS: The sample was small, and different HAART regimens were used.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma that was 
diagnosed in the era of HAART, application of the International Prognostic Index 
remains useful. The addition of CD4 cell count provides further independent 
prognostic information. Patients who present with AIDS-related non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma and a low CD4 cell count have a poor prognosis; this information can be 
used to guide therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00007
PMID: 16103470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):274-81. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00008.

Quality of care is associated with survival in vulnerable older patients.

Higashi T(1), Shekelle PG, Adams JL, Kamberg CJ, Roth CP, Solomon DH, Reuben DB, 
Chiang L, MacLean CH, Chang JT, Young RT, Saliba DM, Wenger NS.

Author information:
(1)RAND Health, Santa Monica, California 90407-2138, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):305-6.
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Feb 7;144(3):219; author reply 219-20.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):I33.

BACKGROUND: Although assessment of the quality of medical care often relies on 
measures of process of care, the linkage between performance of these process 
measures during usual clinical care and subsequent patient outcomes is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the link between the quality of care that patients 
received and their survival.
DESIGN: Observational cohort study.
SETTING: Two managed care organizations.
PATIENTS: Community-dwelling high-risk patients 65 years of age or older who 
were continuously enrolled in the managed care organizations from 1 July 1998 to 
31 July 1999.
MEASUREMENTS: Quality of care received by patients (as measured by a set of 
quality indicators covering 22 clinical conditions) and their survival over the 
following 3 years.
RESULTS: The 372 vulnerable older patients were eligible for a mean of 21 
quality indicators (range, 8 to 54) and received, on average, 53% of the care 
processes prescribed in quality indicators (range, 27% to 88%). Eighty-six (23%) 
persons died during the 3-year follow-up. There was a graded positive 
relationship between quality score and 3-year survival. After adjustment for 
sex, health status, and health service use, quality score was not associated 
with mortality for the first 500 days, but a higher quality score was associated 
with lower mortality after 500 days (hazard ratio, 0.64 [95% CI, 0.49 to 0.84] 
for a 10% higher quality score).
LIMITATIONS: The observational design limits causal inference regarding the 
effect of quality of care on survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Better performance on process quality measures is strongly 
associated with better survival among community-dwelling vulnerable older 
adults.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00008
PMID: 16103471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):301-2. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00011.

Trying to predict the future for people with diabetes: a tough but important 
task.

Engelgau MM.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 16;143(4):251-64.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-4-200508160-00011
PMID: 16103474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Thorac Surg Clin. 2005 Aug;15(3):353-68. doi:
10.1016/j.thorsurg.2005.04.002.

The spectrum of pulmonary symptoms due to gastroesophageal reflux.

Sontag SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Hospital, Building 1, Room B321 (151B3) Hines, IL 60141, 
USA. Stephen.Sontag@med.va.gov

Most asthmatics have GER, and the evidence is strong that GER plays an important 
role in some patients who have asthma. Despite sophisticated study methods and 
technologically advanced diagnostic tests, the results of published studies on 
mechanisms have failed to provide a diagnostic test with a degree of certainty 
great enough to identify which patients have GER-induced or GER-exacerbated 
asthma and which patients will respond to antireflux therapy. The difficulties 
involved in establishing a definite cause-and-effect relationship between GER 
and asthma are real. Even positive results on such direct tests as sputum 
inspection and scintigraphic monitoring, both of which establish reflux into the 
tracheobronchial tree, do not necessarily establish cause or effect and cannot 
be used to predict outcomes. Ambulatory esophageal pH testing can suggest, but 
cannot prove, the diagnosis of GER-induced asthma, and pH testing cannot be 
relied on safely to make clinical decisions. A trial of a proton pump inhibitor 
(PPI) is indicated to assess if asthma improves subjectively and objectively, 
but the dose must be high enough to prevent even silent esophageal acid 
