
Author information:
(1)London School of Economics.

Women, on average, live longer than men, though sex differences in mortality 
vary from country to country and over time. This study includes a description of 
recent changes in life expectancies at different ages, followed by a more 
detailed analysis of death rates by age in selected countries. Additionally it 
provides a historical perspective on the sex differences in mortality in France 
and England and Wales. Possible explanations for the differences among countries 
are explored using trends in mortality by cause of death.

PMID: 15962725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Health Stat Q. 2005 Summer;(26):17-22.

Review of sources and methods to monitor healthy life expectancy.

Breakwell C(1), Bajekal M.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

This article presents the rationale for proposed changes in the methods used to 
calculate Healthy Life Expectancy (HLE). HLE is currently calculated for Great 
Britain and England based on data from the General Household Survey (GHS). The 
proposed revisions have been prompted by three sets of changes reflecting 
improvements to sources and methods. Changes in GHS methodology and survey 
coverage which affect estimates of the rates of ill-health in the 
noninstitutional population. Availability of data from the 2001 Census to update 
estimates of the ill-health rates and the size of the institutional population. 
Inclusion of data from the Continuous Household Survey of Northern Ireland 
(CHS-NI) to produce a HLE estimate for the UK.

PMID: 15962726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Prev Chronic Dis. 2005 Jul;2(3):A15. Epub 2005 Jun 15.

Revisions to chronic disease surveillance indicators, United States, 2004.

Pelletier AR(1), Siegel PZ, Baptiste MS, Maylahn C.

Author information:
(1)Maine Bureau of Health, 286 Water St, Key Bank Plaza, 8th Floor, 11 State 
House Station, Augusta, ME 04333-0011, USA. andrew.pelletier@maine.gov

To allow public health officials to uniformly define, collect, and report 
chronic disease data, Indicators for Chronic Disease Surveillance was released 
by the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists in 1999. This 
publication provided standard definitions for 73 indicators developed by 
epidemiologists and chronic disease program directors at the state and federal 
levels. The indicators were selected because of their importance to public 
health and the availability of state-level data. This report describes the 
latest revisions to the chronic disease indicators published in 2004. The 
revised set of 92 indicators includes 24 for cancer; 15 for cardiovascular 
disease; 11 for diabetes; 7 for alcohol; 5 each for nutrition and tobacco; 3 
each for oral health, physical activity, and renal disease; and 2 each for 
asthma, osteoporosis, and immunizations. The remaining 10 indicators cover such 
overarching conditions as poverty, education, and life expectancy. Although 
multiple states have used the indicators, wider adoption depends on increased 
epidemiology capacity at the state level and improved access to surveillance 
data.

PMCID: PMC1364524
PMID: 15963317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Jun 21;45(12):2022-5. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2005.02.077.

The growing mismatch between patient longevity and the service life of 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillators.

Hauser RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation, 920 East 28th Street, Ste. 300, 
Minneapolis, MN 55407, USA. rhauser747@aol.com

Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) are lifesaving devices. Over 
100,000 patients received ICDs in 2004 at a cost of $2 billion for the pulse 
generators alone. Because of expanded indications and coverage by Medicare, the 
number of ICD implantations and replacements is expected to increase 
dramatically during the next decade. The average ICD patient at our institution 
now lives nearly 10 years after the procedure. However, the service life of 
pulse generators has decreased from 4.7 +/- 1 year for single-chamber units to 
4.0 +/- 1 year for dual-chamber devices. This mismatch between patient longevity 
and the service life of ICDs poses a significant clinical and economic burden 
that must be addressed. One near-term solution is for manufacturers to provide 
devices with larger batteries so that most patients can have an ICD pulse 
generator that lasts a lifetime. For the long-term, more robust or renewable 
energy sources are needed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.02.077
PMID: 15963404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Math Biosci. 2005 Aug;196(2):187-97. doi: 10.1016/j.mbs.2005.04.004.

Lifesaving explains mortality decline with time.

Finkelstein MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical Statistics, University of the Free State, P.O. Box 
339, 9300 Bloemfontein, Republic of South Africa. FinkelM.SCI@mail.uovs.ac.za

Mortality rates of human populations in developed countries are declining with 
time. We show that this effect can be explained via a 'lifesaving' methodology. 
Our approach is based on considering a non-homogeneous Poisson process of 
potentially harmful events. Each of these events can be 'cured' with a given 
probability or can result in a termination of the Poisson process (death) with a 
complementary probability. A lifesaving ratio, defining the corresponding 
relative increase in life expectancy for homogeneous and heterogeneous 
populations is analyzed. Some generalizations are discussed. Several simple 
examples are considered.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mbs.2005.04.004
PMID: 15963535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Dec;61(12):2568-76. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.04.038.
Epub  2005 Jun 15.

Income inequality, poverty, and population health: evidence from recent data for 
the United States.

Ram R(1).

Author information:
(1)Economics Department, Illinois State University, Normal, IL 61790-4200, USA. 
rram@ilstu.edu

In this study, state-level US data for the years 2000 and 1990 are used to 
provide additional evidence on the roles of income inequality and poverty in 
population health. Five main points are noted. First, contrary to the suggestion 
made in several recent studies, the income inequality parameter is observed to 
be quite robust and carries statistical significance in mortality equations 
estimated from several observation sets and a fairly wide variety of 
specificational choices. Second, the evidence does not indicate that 
significance of income inequality is lost when education variables are included. 
Third, similarly, the income inequality parameter shows significance when a race 
variable is added, and also when both race and urbanization terms are entered. 
Fourth, while poverty is seen to have some mortality-increasing consequence, the 
role of income inequality appears stronger. Fifth, income inequality retains 
statistical significance when a quadratic income term is added and also if the 
log-log version of a fairly inclusive model is estimated. I therefore suggest 
that the recent skepticism articulated by several scholars in regard to the 
robustness of the income inequality parameters in mortality equations estimated 
from the US data should be reconsidered.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.04.038
PMID: 15963618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Eur Urol. 2005 Aug;48(2):258-67; discussion 267-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.eururo.2005.04.021.

The efficacy of different follow-up strategies in clinical stage I 
Non-seminomatous Germ Cell Cancer: a Markov simulation study.

Spermon JR(1), Hoffmann AL, Horenblas S, Verbeek AL, Witjes JA, Kiemeney LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center, P.O. Box 
9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands. spermon@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: There is no universally accepted standard protocol for surveillance 
of patients with clinical stage I Non Seminomatous Germ Cell Tumors (CS I 
NSGCT). Prospective studies to compare different follow-up policies have not 
been performed, even though a great deal of time and resources is spent in 
surveillance. In this study, we constructed a Markov model to evaluate the 
impact of different follow-up strategies on disease-specific mortality (DSM) and 
life expectancy (LE) of patients with CS I NSGCT.
METHODS: A discrete time non-homogeneous semi-Markov model was used to simulate 
different follow-up strategies for a hypothetical population of CS I NSGCT 
patients. Estimates of the model parameters were based on the literature. Output 
parameters were DSM and LE. Three different strategies were compared: (1) the 
intensive The Netherlands Cancer Institute/Antoni van Leeuwenhoek hospital 
(NCI/AvL) protocol; (2) the European Association of Urology (EAU) protocol; and 
(3) a hypothetical minimal protocol (i.e. follow-up limited to the first two 
years). Furthermore, we evaluated the impact of abdominal CT scans and chest 
X-rays on DSM.
RESULTS: Comparing with the EAU protocol (DSM: 3.05%; LE: 53.3 years), the 
intensive NCI/AvL protocol leads to a 1.2% lower DSM and a 6 months higher LE 
(DSM: 1.81%; LE: 53.9 years). The hypothetical follow-up scenario during the 
first two years shows a DSM of 6.83% and an LE of 51.4 years. Abdominal CT scans 
of the retroperitoneal lymph nodes appear to be important, while chest X-rays 
have little impact on DSM.
CONCLUSION: A follow-up policy limited to the first two years will result in an 
unacceptable high percentage of death from disease (6.83%). The relatively small 
benefit of an intensive follow-up protocol as proposed by the NCI/AvL, compared 
to that of the EAU, must be weighed against its economic and psychological 
costs. Our model suggests that CT-scanning is essential for a low DSM, whereas 
the large number of X-rays seem to have little additional effect.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2005.04.021
PMID: 15964134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol Ther. 2005 Jun;10(2):85-94. doi: 
10.1177/107424840501000202.

Pharmacotherapy of congestive heart failure in elderly patients.

Burger PC(1), Brunner-La Rocca H.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Cardiology, University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland.

With longer life expectancy, as well as better survival rates after myocardial 
infarction, the population of elderly patients with congestive heart failure 
steadily increases. Large, randomized, placebo-controlled studies have shown 
significant beneficial effects for several classes of drugs 
(angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, 
beta-blockers, aldosterone antagonists) in patients with congestive heart 
failure. In most of these studies, however, elderly patients were either 
excluded or represented only a minority of the study population. Therefore, the 
treatment benefit for the large population of patients aged 65 and older is 
still not very well documented. In this paper, we critically review the current 
literature with regard to outcome of heart failure therapy in this particular 
subpopulation.

DOI: 10.1177/107424840501000202
PMID: 15965559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Z Rheumatol. 2005 Jun;64(5):353-8. doi: 10.1007/s00393-005-0638-3.

[Reducing toxicity of methotrexate with folic acid].

[Article in German]

Harten P(1).

Author information:
(1)pharten11@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Methotrexate is considered to have the best ratio of efficacy to 
toxicity of the disease modifying antirheumatic drugs. Recently it has been 
shown to enhance the life expectancy of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Some 
30-60% of RA patients discontinue MTX treatment within 1 year because of 
side-effects. In this review, the current data about supplementation with folate 
or folinic acid and their effect on the toxicity and efficacy of low-dose 
methotrexate therapy are analysed.
METHODS: A Medline search was performed using "folate", "folic acid", "folinic 
acid", "homocysteine", "methotrexate", "cardiovascular", "heart infarction" and 
"rheumatoid arthritis" as search terms. The relevant literature was reviewed and 
other papers referred to as references were explored.
CONCLUSION: Both folate and folinic acid reduce methotrexate toxicity and the 
discontinuation rate, and decrease methotrexate-induced hyperhomocysteinemia. 
Folate is less expensive, more secure and easier to handle than folinic acid. 
The efficacy of methotrexate probably decreases slightly, but the benefit 
outweighs the risk. Folate supplementation should, therefore, be routinely 
prescribed to every patient taking low-dose methotrexate.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-005-0638-3
PMID: 15965822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. J Am Dent Assoc. 2005 May;136(5):572, 574. doi:
10.14219/jada.archive.2005.0214.

A concern that cannot weight.

Glick M.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.2005.0214
PMID: 15966640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Cancer Treat Rev. 2005 Aug;31(5):380-402. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2005.04.012.

Cancer in the older person.

Carreca I(1), Balducci L, Extermann M.

Author information:
(1)University of Palermo School of Medicine, Italy.

Cancer in the older person is an increasingly common problem, due to the 
progressive prolongation of the life-expectancy of the Western population. This 
article reviews the mechanisms associating aging and cancer, age-related changes 
in cancer biology, assessment of the older person to estimate life-expectancy, 
treatment tolerance, and medical and social conditions that may interfere with 
cancer treatment, effectiveness of cancer prevention and cancer treatment in 
older individuals. A comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) is commonly used 
to predict life-expectancy and functional reserve and to unearth conditions that 
may jeopardize cancer prevention and treatment. In the interest of cost and 
time, shortened forms of CGA are being explored. Chemoprevention of cancer is a 
promising form of prevention that at present has no conclusive clinical 
indications. Early diagnosis of breast and colon cancer through screening of 
asymptomatic patients at risk may be beneficial for individuals with a 
life-expectancy of 5 years or longer. Early detection of lung cancer in 
ex-smokers is undergoing clinical trials, as this disease is becoming more and 
more common. Age should not prevent appropriate treatment of cancer in older 
individuals, especially in those with adequate life-expectancy and functional 
reserve. The National Cancer Center Network (NCCN) has issued a series of 
guidelines to minimize the toxicity and promote the effectiveness of cancer in 
older patients. Important interventions include prevention of neutropaenic 
infections with filgrastim and peg-filgrastim, prevention of anaemia with 
epoietin or darbepoietin, and prevention and early management of mucositis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2005.04.012
PMID: 15967582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2005 Jun 28;102(26):9276-81. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0503688102. Epub 2005 Jun 20.

Degrees and kinds of selection in spontaneous neoplastic transformation: an 
operational analysis.

Rubin H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Life Sciences Addition, University 
of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-3200, USA. hrubin@berkeley.edu

Spontaneous neoplastic transformation develops within days in the NIH 3T3 line 
of cells through differential inhibition of their proliferation under contact 
inhibition. A small fraction of the population continues to multiply after 
saturation density is reached and is selected to progressively increase 
saturation density in successive rounds of confluence. The degree of selection 
at confluence depends on the extent of proliferation of some cells in a 
heterogeneous population. The development of transformed foci is an extension of 
the same selective process that increases saturation density. The expression of 
the foci is enhanced with increases in the saturation density of the surrounding 
cells. Transformation is also induced by moderately reducing the concentration 
of calf serum in the medium during low-density passages, which allows selection 
of cells that require less growth factor. Further stepwise reductions in serum 
increase the degree of transformation. Contact inhibition and reduction in serum 
concentration select for the same phenotype of cell that increases saturation 
density and generates transformed foci. There is mounting evidence that 
selection is a major factor in the development of common epithelial tumors of 
humans, but it extends over decades rather than days, and the in vivo 
microenvironment selects from more stable populations of cells than those in 
culture. The many progressive levels of increased saturation density and 
transformed focus formation suggest that a very large number of genes 
participate in neoplastic development. The operational model of variation and 
selection presented here may aid in understanding chemical carcinogenesis and 
cancer recurrence after chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0503688102
PMCID: PMC1166625
PMID: 15967983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Sep;6(3):253-60. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0299-9.

Measuring health-related utility: why the disparity between EQ-5D and SF-6D?

Bryan S(1), Longworth L.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Facility, School of Public Policy, University of Birmingham, 
UK. s.bryan@bham.ac.uk

There remains considerable disagreement concerning the preferred generic 
utility-based measure of health-related quality of life for use in constructing 
quality-adjusted life years. The recent appearance (in a published form) of a 
new measure, the SF-6D, has highlighted this issue. The SF-6D and EQ-5D have 
many similarities, but marked variation has been shown in the results generated 
by the two instruments. The study reported here is an exploration of why such 
divergent results exist. There are two possible explanations: variation in the 
descriptive component of the instruments and variation in the values applied to 
health states. The results suggest two important conclusions. First, the SF-6D 
can describe severe health states, including states that (according to the EQ-5D 
scoring algorithm) are viewed as worse than the state of being 'dead'. Second, 
much of the large discrepancy between the results generated using the two 
instruments appears to stem from very different valuations being placed on 
similar health states.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0299-9
PMID: 15968563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Health Care Anal. 1999;7(2):153-65. doi: 10.1023/a:1009437104347.

Ethical issues in the economic assessment of health care technologies.

Moatti J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of the Mediterranean, Marseilles, South Eastern France.

This paper challenges traditional views which oppose health economics and 
medical ethics by arguing that economic assessment is a necessary complement to 
medical ethics and can help to improve public participation and democratic 
processes in choices about resource allocation for health care technologies. In 
support of this argument, four points are emphasized: (1) Most current 
biomedical ethical debates implicitly deal with economic issues of resource 
allocation. (2) Clinical decisions, which usually respect the Hippocratic code 
of ethics, are nevertheless influenced by economic incentives and constraints. 
(3) Economic assessment is concerned with both efficiency and equity and 
potential trade-offs between the two, which means that ethical judgements are 
always embedded in welfare economics. (4) The real debate is not between 
economics on the one side and medical ethics on the other. Rather it is between 
different ethical conceptions of social justice and the contrasting approaches 
they entail to reconciling individual interests and preferences with collective 
goods and welfare.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009437104347
PMID: 15968969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Health Care Anal. 1999;7(2):167-75. doi: 10.1023/A:1009489122094.

Towards cost-value analysis in health care?

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, P.O. Box 4404 Torshov, N-0403 Oslo, 
Norway.

By describing societal value judgements in health care in numerical terms one 
may in theory increase the precision of guidelines for priority setting and 
allow decision makers to judge more accurately the degree to which different 
health care programs provide societal value for money. However, valuing health 
programs in terms of QALYs disregards salient societal concerns for fairness in 
resource allocation. A different kind of numerical valuation of medical 
interventions, that incorporates concerns for fairness, is described. The 
usefulness to decision makers of such numerical information remains to be 
tested.

DOI: 10.1023/A:1009489122094
PMID: 15968970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2005 Jun-Jul;23(6):331-4. doi: 10.1157/13076171.

[Comprehensive guidelines translate research findings into clinical policy for 
HIV-infected transplant candidates and recipients].

[Article in Spanish]

Roland ME, Stock PG.

DOI: 10.1157/13076171
PMID: 15970164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2005 Jun-Jul;23(6):335-9. doi: 10.1157/13076172.

[Prevalence of HIV-1-infection in dialysis units in Spain and potential 
candidates for renal transplantation: results of a Spanish survey].

[Article in Spanish]

Barril G(1), Trullás JC, González-Parra E, Moreno A, Bergada E, Jofre R, 
Martínez-Ara J, de Sequera P, Oliver JA, Arrieta J, Miró JM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Hospital Universitario La Princesa, Madrid, Spain. 
gbarril@wanadoo.es

INTRODUCTION: Patients with HIV infection and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
have improved their survival in the last few years. HIV infection is not 
considered a contradiction for renal transplantation, but little experience 
exists in renal transplantation in HIV infected individuals. There is no 
information about the prevalence of HIV infection in Spanish patients under 
renal replacement therapies (RRT).
METHODS: A survey was performed in Spanish dialysis units during 2004. The 
objective was to study the prevalence and characteristics of HIV infection in 
patients under RRT in Spain. We also aimed to know how many of them met the 
Spanish criteria to be included on the renal transplantation waiting list.
RESULTS: HIV prevalence was 1.15% (95%CI 0.85-1.45) of 4,962 patients who were 
under RRT, mostly under hemodialysis and, less commonly, peritoneal dialysis. 
The most frequent risk factor for HIV infection was parenteral drug use (58%). 
The most common causes of ESRD were glomerulonephritis (44%). The median time 
under RRT was 46 months. Coinfections with hepatitis C (60%) and B (7%) were 
found. Thirty-four percent of patients had a history of aids-defining events. 
Eighty-six percent were under HAART. The median CD4 cell count was 333 cells/.l 
and the viral load was undetectable in 68%. Of 40 patients with a completed 
clinical questionnaire, 9 (22.5%) met the Spanish criteria for renal 
transplantation.
CONCLUSION: HIV prevalence in patients under RRT in Spain is 1.15% (0.85%-1.45%) 
and 22.5% percent of these patients met the Spanish criteria to be included on a 
renal transplantation waiting list.

DOI: 10.1157/13076172
PMID: 15970165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2005 Jun-Jul;23(6):363-74. doi:
10.1157/13076177.

[Renal transplantation in patients with HIV infection].

[Article in Spanish]

Trullás JC(1), Miró JM, Barril G, Ros S, Burgos FJ, Moreno A, Mazuecos A, 
Alvarez-Vijande R, Oppenheimer F, Carmen Sánchez M, Blanco JL, Tuset M, 
Torre-Cisneros J, Polo R, González J.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Clínic-IDIBAPS, Universidad de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

The prevalence of human immunodeficience virus (HIV) infection among patients 
under renal replacement therapy varies, with estimates of 1% for Europe and 1.5% 
for the United States. Survival in HIV infected individuals receiving renal 
replacement therapy has improved since the introduction of high activity 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Current experience in renal transplantation in 
HIV-infected patients in the United States indicates that the three-year 
survival rate is similar to that of HIV-negative transplant recipients, with 
virological and immunological control of the infection by HAART and no increase 
in the number of opportunistic infections or tumors. The criteria for selecting 
renal transplantation candidates in this population are the following: no 
aids-defining events, CD4 cells > 200 cells/.l and undetectable viral load under 
HAART. In Spain, where most of these patients are former drug abusers, a 
two-year period of abstinence from cocaine and heroine abuse is also required, 
although patients can be participating in the methadone program. The main 
problems in the post-transplantation period have been interactions between HAART 
and immunosuppressive drugs, management of hepatitis C virus (HCV) coinfection 
and the high rate of acute rejection. To date, seven such renal transplantations 
have been performed in Spain, with favorable patient and graft survival and no 
progression to aids.

DOI: 10.1157/13076177
PMID: 15970170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Sep;61(6):1256-66. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.01.022.
Epub  2005 Mar 3.

Self-reported health as a cultural health determinant in Arab and Jewish 
Israelis MABAT--National Health and Nutrition Survey 1999-2001.

Baron-Epel O(1), Kaplan G, Haviv-Messika A, Tarabeia J, Green MS, Kaluski DN.

Author information:
(1)Israel Center for Disease Control, Ministry of Health, Tel Hashomer, Israel. 
ornaepel@research.haifa.ac.il

Subjective health (SH) status serves as a measure of health in many studies of 
health-related issues as it is a good predictor of mortality, morbidity, and use 
of health services. The measure is used in many population groups. However, the 
degree to which it measures the same condition in different ethnic groups is not 
clear. Within Israel's first National Health and Nutrition Survey (MABAT) 
conducted during 1999-2001, face-to-face interviews were held with 3222 Israeli 
interviewees, 2379 Jews and 843 Arabs, aged between 25-64 years. Respondents 
reported their SH, co-morbidity, and other socioeconomic characteristics. Arabs 
reported higher levels of SH than Jews. In logistic regression analysis, 
co-morbidity was a much stronger correlate of poorer SH in the Arab than in the 
Jewish population. The association between socioeconomic variables depended on 
ethnic group and sex. The findings indicate that SH in Jews and Arabs does not 
necessarily have the same meaning in relation to objective measures of health, 
and caution should be exercised in the use of this measure in different 
population groups with different cultures. Arabs tend to evaluate health better 
than Jews even though life expectancy is lower and morbidity and mortality are 
higher in the former population group. Yet diagnosis of a disease increases the 
frequency of reporting lower SH, more in Arabs than in Jews.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.01.022
PMID: 15970235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Cyst Fibros. 2005 Aug;4 Suppl 2:3-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2005.05.005.

Infection and inflammation in cystic fibrosis: a short review.

Heijerman H(1).

Author information:
(1)Haga Teaching Hospital, Adult CF Center, Department of Pulmonology, Leyweg 
275, 2545 CH, The Hague, The Netherlands. H.Heijerman@Hagaziekenhuis.nl

In most patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) life expectancy is limited due to a 
progressive loss of functional lung tissue. Already very early in life a 
persistent neutrophylic inflammation can be demonstrated in the airways. The 
cause of this inflammation, the role of CFTR and different CF specific bacteria 
like Pseudomonas aeruginosa are not well understood. This short review 
summarises the current understanding and hypothesis of the origin of this 
complicated process of inflammation and infection. Better understanding of this 
process may lead to the development of new treatment modalities of CF lung 
disease and consequent improvement of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2005.05.005
PMID: 15970469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Med Care. 2005 Jul;43(7):736-49. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000172050.67085.4f.

A national catalog of preference-based scores for chronic conditions in the 
United States.

Sullivan PW(1), Lawrence WF, Ghushchyan V.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado School of Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research 
Program, Denver, Colorado 80262, USA. Patrick.Sullivan@UCHSC.edu

BACKGROUND: The variability in preferences used in quality-adjusted life-years 
estimation jeopardizes the comparability of cost-effectiveness analyses and has 
led the Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine (the PCEHM) to call 
for a catalog of "off-the-shelf" preference weights associated with conditions 
that can be used by health researchers without the burden of collecting primary 
data.
OBJECTIVE: The current research responds to the call by developing a nationally 
representative catalog of preference-based scores for chronic conditions and 
associated sociodemographic characteristics.
METHODS: The authors report the EQ-5Dindex scores of chronic conditions and 
associated sociodemographic characteristics in the nationally representative 
Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS). Chronic conditions were coded using 
"quality priority conditions" (QPC) and clinical classification categories 
(CCC). OLS, Tobit, and censored least absolute deviations (CLAD) regression 
models were used to provide condition estimates adjusted for age, comorbidity, 
gender, race, ethnicity, income, and education.
RESULTS: Unadjusted and adjusted EQ-5Dindex scores for each QPC and CCC code are 
presented. EQ-5Dindex scores for older age categories were lower than younger 
categories, female scores were lower than males, certain racial groups had lower 
scores than others, and EQ-5Dindex scores were higher for individuals with 
higher education and income levels.
CONCLUSION: The preference-based chronic condition scores reported in this 
research are nationally representative and may be useful to researchers to 
calculate quality-adjusted life-years for cost-effectiveness analyses and 
population-based burden of illness studies without the difficulty of primary 
data collection. Further research is necessary to validate these scores in 
condition-specific studies.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000172050.67085.4f
PMID: 15970790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2005 Jun;192(6):1905-12; discussion 1912-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajog.2005.02.052.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of prenatal population-based fragile X carrier 
screening.

Musci TJ(1), Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, California Pacific Medical Center, 
San Francisco, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of a widespread prenatal 
population-based fragile X carrier screening program.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision tree was designed comparing screening versus not 
screening for the fragile X mental retardation protein 1 premutation in all 
pregnant women. Baseline values included a prevalence of fragile X mental 
retardation protein 1 premutations of 3.3 per 1000, a premutation expansion rate 
of 11.3%, and a 99% sensitivity of the screening test. The cost of the screening 
test was varied from 75 US dollars to 300 US dollars. A sensitivity analysis of 
the probabilities, utilities, and costs was performed.
RESULTS: The screening strategy would lead to the identification of 80% of the 
fetuses affected by fragile X annually. Assuming the cost of 95 US dollars per 
test and only one child, the program would be cost effective at 14,858 US 
dollars per quality-adjusted life-year. The screening strategy remained cost 
effective up to 140 US dollars per test and 1 child per woman or for 2 children 
per woman up to a cost of 281 US dollars per test.
CONCLUSION: Population-based screening for the fragile X premutation may be both 
clinically desirable and cost effective. Prospective pilot studies of this 
screening modality are needed in the prenatal setting.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2005.02.052
PMID: 15970847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Rev Med Chil. 2005 May;133(5):575-82. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872005000500010.
Epub  2005 Jun 17.

[Potentially productive years of life lost among adults in Metropolitan 
Santiago. Is there an improvement in equality?].

[Article in Spanish]

Sánchez H(1), Albala C, Lera L.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Salud Pública y Nutrición, Instituto de Nutrición y Tecnología en 
Alimentos, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile. hsanchez@inta.cl

BACKGROUND: Potentially productive years of life lost (PPYLL) is an impact 
measure that illustrates the lost that a society suffers as a consequence of 
deaths of young people or premature deaths.
AIM: To study the evolution of PPYLL in adults in the periods 1994-1996 and 
1999-2001, according to sex, income quintiles and main diagnostic groups in the 
communities of Metropolitan Santiago.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Ecological study analyzing the population of Metropolitan 
Santiago, that represents 36% of the national population. A total of 87,969 
deaths in people aged 20 to 79 years were analyzed.
RESULTS: There is a greater amount of PPYLL among the poorest quintiles and men 
represent the higher number of PPYLL. In the different analyzed periods, all 
quintiles experienced a reduction in PPYLL. According to diagnosis, endocrine 
diseases experienced the greater decrease between periods, followed by 
respiratory disease. Noteworthy was the increase of PPYLL due to infectious 
diseases. PPYLL due to digestive diseases was 2.3 higher in the poorest 
quintile, as compared with the wealthiest quintile (20/20 ratio). The ratio for 
traumatic disease was 1.8.
CONCLUSIONS: When comparing both periods, there is a net gain of potentially 
productive years of life in all income quintiles and in both genders.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872005000500010
PMID: 15970983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Respir Care. 2005 Jul;50(7):956-63; discussion 963-4.

Cost-effectiveness issues in ventilator-associated pneumonia.

Solomkin JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Trauma and Critical Care, University of Cincinnati Medical 
Center, PO Box 670558, 231 Albert Sabin Way, Cincinnati, Ohio 45267-0558, USA. 
solomkjs@uc.edu

Ventilator-associated pneumonia has attracted considerable interest as a subject 
of clinical efficacy assessment research. This article summarizes 
recommendations made by the United States Public Health Service Panel on 
Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine and by a panel convened by the 
American Thoracic Society to address economic analyses in critical care. The 
following recommendations are made for the performance of cost-efficacy studies 
in ventilator-associated pneumonia. For mortality-based studies, only data from 
prospective and blinded randomized trials are suitable for analysis. For 
cost-minimization studies, observational studies may be useful but should use 
rigorous matching schemes. Estimates for the quality of life of patients 
surviving an episode of ventilator-associated pneumonia should be based on the 
disease that required mechanical ventilation or compared to data available for 
survivors of the respiratory distress syndrome, whichever diagnosis provides a 
lessened quality of life. Within an individual intensive care unit the greatest 
cost savings come from constructing a cohesive and unified approach to many 
issues seen in the unit.

PMID: 15972115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2005 Jul;185(1):19-22. doi: 10.2214/ajr.185.1.01850019.

Survival analysis.

Stolberg HO(1), Norman G, Trop I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, McMaster University Medical Centre, 1200 Main St. W, 
Hamilton, ON, L8N 3Z5 Canada.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.185.1.01850019
PMID: 15972392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 May;60(5):549-55. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.5.549.

Counting the calories: the role of specific nutrients in extension of life span 
by food restriction.

Piper MD(1), Mair W, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, Darwin Building, Gower 
Street, London, WC1E 6BT, UK.

Reduction of food intake without malnourishment extends life span in many 
different organisms. The majority of work in this field has been performed in 
rodents where it has been shown that both restricting access to the entire diet 
and restricting individual dietary components can cause life-span extension. 
Thus, for insights into the mode of action of this intervention, it is of great 
interest to investigate the aspects of diet that are critical for life span 
extension. Further studies on the mechanisms of how food components modify life 
span are well suited to the model organism Drosophila melanogaster because of 
its short life span and ease of handling and containment. Therefore, we 
summarize practical aspects of implementing dietary restriction in this 
organism, as well as highlight the major advances already made. Delineation of 
the nutritional components that are critical for life-span extension will help 
to reveal the mechanisms by which it operates.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.5.549
PMID: 15972601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 May;60(5):556-65. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.5.556.

An immune risk phenotype, cognitive impairment, and survival in very late life: 
impact of allostatic load in Swedish octogenarian and nonagenarian humans.

Wikby A(1), Ferguson F, Forsey R, Thompson J, Strindhall J, Löfgren S, Nilsson 
BO, Ernerudh J, Pawelec G, Johansson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Natural Science and Biomedicine, School of Health sciences, 
Jönköping University, Sweden.

In the previous OCTO longitudinal study, we identified an immune risk phenotype 
(IRP) of high CD8 and low CD4 numbers and poor proliferative response. We also 
demonstrated that cognitive impairment constitutes a major predictor of 
nonsurvival. In the present NONA longitudinal study, we simultaneously examine 
in a model of allostatic load IRP and compromised cognition in 4-year survival 
in a population-based sample (n = 138, 86-94 years). Immune system measurements 
consisted of determinations of T-cell subsets, plasma interleukin 6 and 
cytomegalovirus and Epstein-Barr virus serology. Interleukin 2 responsiveness to 
concanavalin A, using data from the previous OCTO (octogenarians) immune study, 
hereafter OCTO immune, was also examined. Cognitive status was rated using a 
battery of neuropsychological tests. Logistic regression indicated that the IRP 
and cognitive impairment together predicted 58% of observed deaths. IRP was 
associated with late differentiated CD8+CD28-CD27- cells (p < .001), decreased 
interleukin 2 responsiveness (p < .05) and persistent viral infection (p < .01). 
Cognitive impairment was associated with increased plasma interleukin 6 (p < 
.001). IRP individuals with cognitive impairment were all deceased at the 
follow-up, indicating an allostatic overload.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.5.556
PMID: 15972602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 May;60(5):566-73. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.5.566.

Predictors of transitions in vitality: the italian longitudinal study on aging.

Minicuci N(1), Marzari C, Maggi S, Noale M, Senesi A, Crepaldi G.

Author information:
(1)CNR-Institute of Neuroscience, Section of Padova-Aging, c/o Clinica Medica 1, 
Via Giustiniani, 2, 35128 Padova, Italy. nadia.minicuci@unipd.it

It is widely acknowledged that there is a strong need to identify which 
modifiable risk factors predict healthy aging to use this information as the 
scientific basis for systematic interventions. Data from a 4-year longitudinal 
study on aging among 5632 older Italians were used. The definition of vitality 
was based on both cognitive and physical status, and the envisaged transitions 
were: positive or nonpositive stable, positive or negative transition, lost, and 
deceased. Predictors associated with different vitality trajectories were 
investigated by multinomial logistic analysis with a six-level outcome. Age and 
educational level were predictors of being "positive stable," whereas the other 
factors behaved differently according to comparison group. For example, being 
overweight is a common predictor except when compared to the deceased group, as 
is depressive symptomatology except when compared to the "positive transition" 
group. Interventions are warranted to reduce social inequalities, promote 
adequate body weight, and prevent and treat depressive symptoms.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.5.566
PMID: 15972603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 May;60(5):574-87. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.5.574.

Disentangling the genetic determinants of human aging: biological age as an 
alternative to the use of survival measures.

Karasik D(1), Demissie S, Cupples LA, Kiel DP.

Author information:
(1)Hebrew Rehabilitation Center for Aged, Research and Training Institute, 1200 
Centre Street, Boston, MA 02131, USA. karasik@mail.hrca.harvard.edu

The choice of a phenotype is critical for the study of a complex genetically 
regulated process, such as aging. To date, most of the twin and family studies 
have focused on broad survival measures, primarily age at death or exceptional 
longevity. However, on the basis of recent studies of twins and families, 
biological age has also been shown to have a strong genetic component, with 
heritability estimates ranging from 27% to 57%. The aim of this review is 
twofold: first, to summarize growing consensus on reliable methods of biological 
age assessment, and second, to demonstrate validity of this phenotype for 
research in the genetics of aging in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.5.574
PMCID: PMC1361266
PMID: 15972604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Am J Epidemiol. 2005 Jul 15;162(2):183-92. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwi179. Epub 2005
 Jun 22.

Predictors of self-reported confidence ratings for adult recall of early life 
sun exposure.

Relova AS(1), Marrett LD, Klar N, McLaughlin JR, Ashbury FD, Nishri D, Theis B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive Oncology, Cancer Care Ontario, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Use of self-reported confidence ratings may be an efficient method for assessing 
recall bias. In this exploratory application of the method, the authors examined 
the relation between case-control status and self-reported confidence ratings. 
In 2002 and 2003, melanoma cases (n = 141) and controls (n = 143) aged 20-44 
years residing in Ontario, Canada, estimated the amounts of time they had spent 
outdoors in summer activities when they were 6-18 years of age and indicated 
their confidence in the accuracy of each estimate. The generalized estimating 
equations extension of logistic regression was used to examine dichotomized 
confidence ratings (more confident vs. less confident) for activities reported 
for ages 6-11 years and 12-18 years. Types of activity were associated with more 
confident reporting for both age strata; as the number of stable outdoor 
activity periods (total number of similar outdoor periods within each activity) 
reported by respondents increased, confidence decreased. Cumulative time spent 
outdoors was also associated with more confidence but reached statistical 
significance only for the age stratum 12-18 years. There was no statistically 
significant association between case-control status and self-reported confidence 
for either age stratum (6-11 years: odds ratio = 0.91; 12-18 years: odds ratio = 
1.32), which suggests an absence of recall bias for reported time spent 
outdoors.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwi179
PMID: 15972935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Ann Surg. 2005 Jul;242(1):10-9. doi: 10.1097/01.sla.0000167761.70021.4d.

Systematic appraisal of the role of metallic endobiliary stents in the treatment 
of benign bile duct stricture.

Siriwardana HP(1), Siriwardena AK.

Author information:
(1)Hepatobiliary Unit, Department of Surgery, Manchester Royal Infirmary, 
Manchester, UK.

Comment in
    Ann Surg. 2006 Jul;244(1):164-5.

OBJECTIVE: To carry out a systematic appraisal of the current status of the use 
of metallic endobiliary stents in the treatment of benign biliary strictures.
METHODS: A computerized search of the MEDLINE and EMBASE databases identified 37 
studies providing detailed clinical course data on outcome of metallic 
endobiliary stent placement in 400 patients. Pooled data were examined for 
etiology of stricture, indications for stent placement, procedure-related 
complications, and outcome with reference to stent patency.
RESULTS: The median (range) number of patients per report was 8 (2-54) with a 
median recruitment period of 44 (9-126) months. The most frequent indications 
were postoperative biliary strictures in 123 (31%), stenosed biliary-enteric 
anastomoses in 79 (20%), and biliary strictures following liver transplantation 
in 88 (22%). During a median follow up of 31 (1-111) months, 139 (35%) stents 
occluded, and there are little patency data beyond 2 years after deployment, 
with 99 (25%) known to be patent at 3 years from stent placement.
CONCLUSIONS: These pooled data on 400 patients constitute the largest collective 
report to date on the use of metallic endobiliary stents for benign biliary 
strictures. The results show a critical lack of data on long-term patency such 
that at the present time, metallic endobiliary stents should not be used for 
benign stricture in those patients with a predicted life expectancy greater than 
2 years.

DOI: 10.1097/01.sla.0000167761.70021.4d
PMCID: PMC1357699
PMID: 15973096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Rev Neurol. 2005 Jun 16-30;40(12):705-10.

[Cost-utility analysis of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis treatment with 
azathioprine or interferon beta in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Rubio-Terrés C(1), Domínguez-Gil Hurlé A.

Author information:
(1)HERO Consulting, Health Economics and Research of Outcomes, Virgen de 
Aránzazu 21, E-28034 Madrid, Spain. carlosrubio1@wanadoo.es

AIM: To carry out a cost-utility analysis of the treatment of 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) with azathioprine (Imurel) or beta 
interferon (all, Avonex, Rebif and Betaferon).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Pharmacoeconomic Markov model comparing treatment options 
by simulating the life of a hypothetical cohort of women aged 30, from the 
societal perspective. The transition probabilities, utilities, resource 
utilisation and costs (direct and indirect) were obtained from Spanish sources 
and from bibliography. Univariant sensitivity analyses of the base case were 
performed.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, the average cost per patient (euros in 2003) 
of a life treatment, considering a life expectancy of 53 years, would be 
620,205, 1,047,836, 1,006,014, 1,161,638 and 968,157 euros with Imurel, all 
interferons, Avonex, Rebif and Betaferon, respectively. Therefore, the saving 
with Imurel would range between 327,000 and 520,000 euros approximately. The 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) obtained with Imurel or interferons would be 
10.08 and 9.30, respectively, with an average gain of 0.78 QALY per patient 
treated with Imurel. The sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of the 
base case. The cost of one additional QALY with interferons would range between 
413,000 and 1,308,000 euros approximately in the hypothetical worst scenario for 
Imurel.
CONCLUSIONS: For a typical patient with RRMS, treatment with Imurel would be 
more efficient than interferons and would dominate (would be more efficacious 
with lower costs) beta interferon.

PMID: 15973634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. West Indian Med J. 2001 Mar 1-4;50 Suppl 1:15-6.

Emerging epidemic of diabetes mellitus.

Bajaj JS.

PMID: 15973807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2004 Sep;20(5):641-5.

[An important mission for microbiologists in the new century-cultivation of the 
unculturable microorganisms].

[Article in Chinese]

Chiao JS(1).

Author information:
