occurring through extension and withdrawal of motor nerve terminals in 
conjunction with changes in the distribution of acetylcholine receptors at the 
muscle endplate. However, relatively little is known about the fundamental 
processes by which nerve terminals are remodelled. These dynamic processes are 
likely to be driven by molecular motors. Previously, we have implicated myosins 
IIA and IIB as opposing motors influencing neuronal growth cone dynamics. Using 
confocal microscopy of neuromuscular junction preparations colabelled for myosin 
II isoforms and nerve terminal or muscle endplate markers, we demonstrate that 
both myosin IIA and myosin IIB are localized in nerve terminals. We propose 
roles for these motor proteins in junctional stabilization and destabilization.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-200508010-00002
PMID: 16012337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2005 Apr;53(2):111-25. doi: 
10.1016/s0398-7620(05)84582-1.

[Disability-adjusted life years: an instrument for defining public health 
priorities?].

[Article in French]

Granados D(1), Lefranc A, Reiter R, Grémy I, Spira A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Santé publique et d'Epidémiologie, Atelier Parisien de Santé 
Publique, CHU Bicêtre, 78, rue du Général-Leclerc, 94275 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre 
Cedex.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this paper is the study of a health indicator 
allowing surveillance and evaluation of the overall health of the Paris 
population, and providing information to help prioritize possible choices among 
preventive and curative actions. Moreover, comparison between results obtained 
for Paris with a global health indicator, "Disability-adjusted life years" 
(DALYs) and available bibliographical data will enable clarifying some points 
about summary measures of health.
METHODS: The method used is that of the Global Burden of Disease. It allows a 
ranking of diseases using an indicator called DALYs. This indicator integrates 
mortality and morbidity components by summing expected years of life lost due to 
premature mortality and calculated years of healthy life lost. DALYs were 
calculated using local mortality data and published regional disabilities tables 
from the World Health Organisation (WHO).
RESULTS: There were a total of 242 061 DALYs for Paris for the year 1999. The 
six leading specific causes are: alcoholic psychosis and dependence (accounting 
for 6.5% of the total), lung cancers (5.7%), ischaemic hearth disease (4.8%), 
depression (4.4%), dementias (4.2%), and arthritis (3.9%). Men contributed the 
majority of DALYs for the first three. For four of the six leading causes, the 
majority of DALYs came from years lived with disability, rather than mortality. 
Only for lung cancer and ischaemic hearth disease was the majority of DALYs from 
years of life lost by mortality.
CONCLUSION: The results for Paris are used to illustrate how DALYs can 
illuminate debates about public health priorities. Such data can inform the 
population about health condition and provide decision makers with global health 
indicators. The next step will be to estimate the DALYs from local morbidity 
data when available, and compare these results to those based on the World 
Health Organisation tables, which are not sensitive to local results other than 
those due to mortality. Future steps include further evaluation and development 
of this method for surveillance, assessment and evaluation of public health 
actions. However, some of the results obtained with this indicator underline the 
limits of this kind of analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0398-7620(05)84582-1
PMID: 16012371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Vasc Surg. 2005 Jul;42(1):55-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.03.015.

Brachiocephalic reconstruction II: operative and endovascular management of 
single-vessel disease.

Takach TJ(1), Duncan JM, Livesay JJ, Krajcer Z, Cervera RD, Gregoric ID, Ott DA, 
Frazier OH, Reul GJ, Cooley DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Texas Heart Institute, Houston, 77225, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Although the surgical management of brachiocephalic disease is well 
established, evolving endovascular techniques present new options for treatment. 
We explored the potential benefits and drawbacks of these interventions in terms 
of outcome.
METHODS: From 1966 to 2004, 391 consecutive patients (43.7% male; mean age, 61.9 
years) with single-vessel brachiocephalic disease were treated with either 
operative bypass (group A; n = 229) or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and 
stenting (group B; n = 162).
RESULTS: All patients were asymptomatic after surgery or endovascular 
intervention. Group A and group B had similar operative mortality (0.9% vs 0.6%) 
and stroke (1.3% vs 0%) rates. However, 5 years after the procedure, group A had 
significantly better freedom from graft or intervention failure (92.7% +/- 2.1%) 
than did group B (83.9% +/- 3.7%; P = .03, Kaplan-Meier analysis; P = .001, Cox 
regression analysis). At 10 years, group A had the following rates of actuarial 
freedom from specific events: death, 73.7% +/- 4.6%; myocardial infarction, 
84.2% +/- 3.6%; stroke, 91.4% +/- 3.4%; graft failure, 88.1% +/- 3.3%; coronary 
revascularization, 69.8% +/- 5.1%; and other vascular operation, 70.7% +/- 4.6%. 
Endovascular intervention involved less initial cost (mean savings, $8787 per 
procedure), was less invasive, and did not necessitate general anesthesia. On 
satisfaction questionnaires, 96.5% of patients receiving an endovascular 
intervention and 95.1% of patients receiving operative bypass for single-vessel 
brachiocephalic disease subjectively rated their treatment as "good" or "very 
good."
CONCLUSIONS: Operative bypass and endovascular intervention for single-vessel 
brachiocephalic disease are both associated with acceptably low operative 
morbidity and mortality. Operative bypass produces significantly better mid-term 
freedom from graft or intervention failure than endovascular intervention and 
produces excellent long-term freedom from failure. Endovascular intervention 
offers tangible benefits regarding cost, level of invasiveness, and subjective 
patient satisfaction. Undetermined are the differences between the procedures 
regarding long-term durability, patterns of failure, efficacy as an adjunct to 
coronary artery bypass grafting, need for anticoagulation, efficacy as treatment 
for complex (multivessel) disease, and long-term cost.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.03.015
PMID: 16012452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Vasc Surg. 2005 Jul;42(1):122-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.03.029.

Thoracic outlet syndrome: pattern of clinical success after operative 
decompression.

Altobelli GG(1), Kudo T, Haas BT, Chandra FA, Moy JL, Ahn SS.

Author information:
(1)Gonda (Goldschmied) Vascular Center, University of California at Los Angeles, 
90095, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the pattern of clinical results in patients with 
neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome (N-TOS) after operative decompression and 
longitudinal follow-up.
METHODS: From May 1994 to December 2002, 254 operative sides in 185 patients 
with N-TOS were treated by the same operative protocol: (1) transaxillary first 
rib resection and the lower part of scalenectomy for the primary procedure with 
or without (2) the subsequent upper part of scalenectomy with supraclavicular 
approach for patients with persistent or recurrent symptoms. This retrospective 
cohort study included 38 men and 147 women with an age range of 19 to 80 years 
(mean, 40 years). Evaluated were primary success, defined as uninterrupted 
success with no procedure performed, and secondary success, defined as success 
maintained by the secondary operation after the primary failure. Success was 
defined as > or =50% symptomatic improvement judged by the patient using a 
10-point scale, returning to preoperational work status, or both.
RESULTS: Follow-up was 2 to 76 months (mean, 25 months). Eighty sides underwent 
a secondary operation for the primary clinical failure. No technical failures 
and no deaths occurred < o =30 days after the operations. The complication rate 
was 4% (13/334) and consisted of 7 pneumothoraxes, 3 subclavian vein injuries, 1 
nerve injury, 1 internal mammary artery injury, and 1 suture granuloma. Of 254 
operative sides, the primary and secondary success was 46% (118/254) and 64% 
(163/254). Most the primary failures (90%, 122/136) and the secondary failures 
(66%, 23/35) occurred < or =18 months after the respective operation.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term results of operations for TOS in this study were much 
worse than those initially achieved, and most of the primary and secondary 
failures occurred < or =12 months of the respective operations. A minimum of 
18-month follow-up on patients and standardized definition of the outcomes are 
necessary to determine the true effectiveness and outcome of operative treatment 
of N-TOS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.03.029
PMID: 16012461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2005 Jun 30;125(13):1844-7.

[When should nursing home residents be transferred to hospital?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Ranhoff AH(1), Linnsund JM.

Author information:
(1)ahranhoff@yahoo.no

BACKGROUND: Nursing home residents are old persons with chronic diseases, 
functional impairment and often dementia. Acute illness is common and nursing 
home staff often has to consider transfer to hospital.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The aim was to find why nursing home residents are 
transferred to hospital and to discuss when such transfers are appropriate. The 
results are taken from the literature.
RESULTS: No studies are reporting the reasons why nursing home residents in 
Norway are transferred to hospital. Hip fracture, pneumonia, stroke, chest pain, 
cardiac failure and anaemia are the most common causes of hospital admissions 
among the very oldest, in our experience also from nursing homes. Hospital 
transfer can be appropriate for: 1) diagnostic work up, 2) medical treatment to 
avoid death and functional impairment, and 3) palliative care. Admission for hip 
fracture and serious anaemia will improve survival and function if the patient 
is not dying from other diseases. Admission for pneumonia, stroke and acute 
coronary syndrome may improve survival and function for patients without 
advanced dementia and with some life expectancy. Transfer for palliative care 
will benefit the patient only if nursing home care is insufficient. Medical 
services and knowledge about palliative care should be increased; guidelines for 
hospitalisation and end-of-life decisions are recommended.

PMID: 16012558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Int J Mol Med. 2005 Aug;16(2):237-43.

SIRT1 is critical regulator of FOXO-mediated transcription in response to 
oxidative stress.

Kobayashi Y(1), Furukawa-Hibi Y, Chen C, Horio Y, Isobe K, Ikeda K, Motoyama N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Research, National Institute for Longevity Sciences, 
National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Obu, Aichi 474-8522, Japan.

Forkhead transcription factor, DAF-16, regulates genes that contribute both to 
longevity and resistance to various stresses in C. elegans. We and others have 
reported that members of the FOXO, mammalian homologs of DAF-16, also regulate 
genes related to stress resistance, such as GADD45. The NAD-dependent protein 
deacetylase, SIR2, is required for life span extension in yeast induced by 
caloric restriction, which also increases longevity in a wide variety of other 
organisms, including mammals. Sir2.1, a homolog of yeast SIR2, also extends life 
span by acting in a DAF-16 signaling pathway in C. elegans. We demonstrate that 
mammalian SIRT1 (Sir2alpha) physiologically interacts with FOXO. Acetylation of 
FOXO4, by the transcriptional coactivator p300, counteracted transcriptional 
activation of FOXO4 by p300. In contrast, mammalian SIRT1 was found to bind to 
FOXO4, catalyze its deacetylation in an NAD-dependent manner, and thereby 
increase its transactivation activity. The activity of FOXO4 is suppressed or 
enhanced by SIRT1 inhibitor, nicotinamide, or its activator, resveratrol, 
respectively. In response to oxidative stress, FOXO accumulates within the 
nucleus and induces GADD45 expression. FOXO-mediated GADD45 induction is 
markedly impaired in the cell, which depleted SIRT1 expression by 
RNA-interference. These results indicate that mammalian SIRT1 plays a pivotal 
role for FOXO function via NAD-dependent deacetylation in response to oxidative 
stress, and thereby may contribute to cellular stress resistance and longevity.

PMID: 16012755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Int J Legal Med. 2006 Mar;120(2):121-6. doi: 10.1007/s00414-005-0007-4. Epub
 2005 Jul 13.

The impact of economic progress and modernization in medicine on the 
ossification of hand and wrist.

Schmeling A(1), Schulz R, Danner B, Rösing FW.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Rechtsmedizin, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Hittorfstr. 
18, 14195 Berlin, Germany. andreas.schmeling@charite.de

One of the main criteria used for age estimations of young living subjects is 
the developmental status of the ossification of hand bones. The impact of 
economic progress and modernization in medicine on ossification rates in a given 
population still requires further clarification. We selected 36 samples from 
literature for which the ossification status had been determined with the 
Greulich-Pyle method and analyzed specific economic data (per capita income) and 
demographic data (life expectancy at birth) as parameters of modernization. To 
describe the influence of these parameters on the rate of ossification, we 
performed a regression analysis and found that a relatively high level of 
economic progress and modernization in medicine coincides with high ossification 
rates, while relatively low modernization seems to delay ossification. When 
performing age estimations, the expert opinion should therefore pay attention to 
the issue of different modernization levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00414-005-0007-4
PMID: 16012824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Przegl Epidemiol. 2005;59(1):125-34.

[Measures of burden of disease--new indicators of the health situation].

[Article in Polish]

Wvsocki MJ(1), Sakowska I, Car J.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Promocji Zdrowia i Szkolenia Podyplomowego PZH. mjwysocki@pzh.gov.pl

The objective of this paper is to present an initial information on the 
construction and usefulness of new indicators of population health situation 
(Human Development Index - HDI, Disability Adjusted Life Years - DALY and other 
indices). Some of these indicators are referred in the literature as the 
measures of disease burden. These measures are discussed here in the context of 
problems related to health inequalities, epidemiological transformation and 
concept of Lalonde's health fields.

PMID: 16013418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2005 Jun;6(6):354-60.

[Medical-legal evaluation of cardiac transplantation].

[Article in Italian]

Molisso C(1), Giorleo C, Molisso V.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Cardiologia, Centro Polispecialistico Medico-Legale INPS per la 
Regione Campania, Napoli. molissociro@virgilio.it

Heart transplantation is a curative surgical-medical procedure capable of 
radically modifying the prognosis of patients in the terminal phase who are 
non-responsive to other treatments and whose life expectancy is < 1 year, thus 
greatly increasing survival and distinctly improving their quality of life. The 
authors illustrate the numerous welfare and social security services, guaranteed 
by our Social Security System for such patient categories, with an overview of 
damage parameters within the medical-legal field, encompassing areas of civil 
responsibility. They therefore illustrate the changes, determined by the graft, 
on the patient's quality of life, while considering both the psycho-physical 
aspect and the family, social and working relationships before finally 
elaborating medical-legal guidelines for the assessment of such patients, for 
both biological damage and in their capacity for work, based on the 
pathophysiology of the transplanted heart.

PMID: 16013426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Health Care Anal. 2005 Jun;13(2):129-36. doi: 10.1007/s10728-005-4476-x.

Age and the allocation of organs for transplantation: a case study.

Hackler C(1), Hester DM.

Author information:
(1)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, Arkansas 72205, 
USA. HacklerChris@uams.edu

What role should age play in the allocation of organs for transplantation? 
Historically, older patients have not been listed as candidates for 
transplantation on the assumption that greater benefit could be obtained by 
favoring younger candidates, raising questions of equity and age discrimination. 
At the same time, organs offered for donation by the very old are frequently 
rejected because of concerns about length of viability. We examine a local case 
that challenges these practices: the liver from an elderly donor was 
successfully transplanted into an older patient. After exploring some of the 
potential problems with such a solution, we propose creating a second pool of 
organs from the very old for transplantation into older candidates, thus 
expanding the number of organs available, saving additional lives, and including 
the elderly more visibly in our transplant system.

DOI: 10.1007/s10728-005-4476-x
PMID: 16013526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Kidney Int. 2005 Aug;68(2):456-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.00423.x.

Nephroprotection by antifibrotic and anti-inflammatory effects of the 
vasopeptidase inhibitor AVE7688.

Gross O(1), Koepke ML, Beirowski B, Schulze-Lohoff E, Segerer S, Weber M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Medical Faculty University of Cologne, 
Cologne General Hospital, Merheim Medical Center, Cologne, Germany. 
oliver.gross@uni-koeln.de

BACKGROUND: Chronic renal disease substantially increases the risk of 
cardiovascular events and death. Vasopeptidase inhibitors are known to show a 
strong antihypertensive effect. In the present study, we investigated the 
nephroprotective potential of the vasopeptidase inhibitor AVE7688 beyond its 
antihypertensive effects in a mouse model of progressive renal fibrosis.
METHODS: COL4A3 -/- mice received 25 mg AVE7688 per kg body weight. Treatment 
was initiated in week 4 (early) and week 7 (late). Eight mice per group were 
sacrificed after 7.5 or 9.5 weeks, and serum levels of urea, systemic blood 
pressure, and proteinuria were measured. Renal tissue was investigated by 
routine histology, electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and Western 
blotting. Lifespan until death from renal fibrosis was monitored.
RESULTS: Lifespan of treated mice increased by 143% (early therapy) and by 53% 
(late therapy) compared to untreated animals (172 +/- 19 vs. 109 +/- 15 vs. 71 
+/- 6 days, P < 0.01). Untreated COL4A3 -/- mice did not develop severe 
hypertension (mean systolic blood pressure 116 +/- 14 vs. 111 +/- 9 mm Hg in 
wild-type mice), and both therapies mildly reduced systemic blood pressure (107 
+/- 13 and 105 +/- 14 mm Hg, data not significant). AVE7688 decreased 
proteinuria from 12 +/- 3 g/L in untreated mice to 2 +/- 1 g/L (early) and to 4 
+/- 1 g/L (late therapy, P < 0.05), as well as serum-urea from 247 +/- 27 to 57 
+/- 10 and to 105 +/- 20 mmol/L (P < 0.05). Extent of fibrosis, inflammation, 
and profibrotic cytokines was reduced by AVE7688 therapy.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate a strong nephroprotective effect of the 
vasopeptidase inhibitor in this animal model of progressive renal fibrosis. 
Besides the antihypertensive action of AVE7688, its antifibrotic, 
anti-inflammatory, and antiproteinuric effects demonstrated in the present study 
may serve as an important therapeutic option for chronic inflammatory and 
fibrotic diseases in man.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.00423.x
PMID: 16014022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Int J Equity Health. 2005 Jul 13;4:11. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-4-11.

Defining and measuring gender: a social determinant of health whose time has 
come.

Phillips SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Queen's University, 220 Bagot St, Kingston, 
Ontario K7L 5E9, Canada. phillip@post.queensu.ca

This paper contributes to a nascent scholarly discussion of sex and gender as 
determinants of health. Health is a composite of biological makeup and 
socioeconomic circumstances. Differences in health and illness patterns of men 
and women are attributable both to sex, or biology, and to gender, that is, 
social factors such as powerlessness, access to resources, and constrained 
roles. Using examples such as the greater life expectancy of women in most of 
the world, despite their relative social disadvantage, and the disproportionate 
risk of myocardial infarction amongst men, but death from MI amongst women, the 
independent and combined associations of sex and gender on health are explored. 
A model for incorporating gender into epidemiologic analyses is proposed.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-4-11
PMCID: PMC1180842
PMID: 16014164


129. Ugeskr Laeger. 2005 Jun 13;167(24):2613-5.

[Alternatives to cholecystectomy].

[Article in Danish]

Qvist N(1), Larsen TK, de Muckadell OB.

Author information:
(1)Kirurgisk Afdeling A, Odense Universitetshospital, DK-5000 Odense C. 
famqvist@dadlnet.dk

Watchful waiting is the most important alternative to cholecystectomy in 
patients with uncomplicated gallstone disease. Symptom relief occurs in a large 
percentage of the patients, and the risk of developing complications is 
relatively small. However, in patients with a long life expectancy the 
cumulative risk may be significant, which must be taken into consideration. 
Extracorporal shock wave lithotripsy and medical treatment play a very small 
role in the treatment, and only on very special indications. The results of 
these methods are relatively poor and associated with a high recurrence rate.

PMID: 16014209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Eur J Public Health. 2005 Dec;15(6):601-6. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cki024. Epub
2005  Jul 13.

The total lifetime health cost savings of smoking cessation to society.

Rasmussen SR(1), Prescott E, Sørensen TI, Søgaard J.

Author information:
(1)DSI Danish Institute for Health Services Research, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
srr@dsi.dk

BACKGROUND: Smoking cessation has major immediate and long-term health benefits. 
However, ex-smokers' total lifetime health costs and continuing smokers' costs 
remain uncompared, and hence the economic savings of smoking cessation to 
society have not been determined.
METHODS: The economic effects of smoking cessation in a lifetime perspective 
have been examined by comparing the health costs of continuing smokers and 
ex-smokers by quantity of daily tobacco consumption, age, gender and disease 
group, while taking differences in life expectancy and the reductions in 
relative risks after cessation into account.
RESULTS: The total lifetime health cost savings of smoking cessation are highest 
at the younger ages. Although the economic savings vary with age at quitting, 
gender and quantity of daily tobacco consumption, all ex-smoking men and women 
who quit smoking at the age of 35 to 55 years generate sizeable total lifetime 
cost savings. At older ages, the total lifetime health cost savings of smoking 
cessation are of little economic consequence to the society. The total, direct 
and productivity lifetime cost savings of smoking cessation in moderate smokers 
who quit smoking at the age of 35 years are 24,800 euros, 7600 euros, and 17,200 
euros in men, and 34,100 euros, 12,200 euros, and 21,800 euros in women, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifetime health cost savings of smoking cessation to society are 
substantial at younger ages, in terms of both direct and productivity costs.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cki024
PMID: 16014659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Ann Rheum Dis. 2006 Feb;65(2):201-8. doi: 10.1136/ard.2004.032565. Epub 2005
Jul  13.

Markov model into the cost-utility over five years of etanercept and infliximab 
compared with usual care in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis.

Boonen A(1), van der Heijde D, Severens JL, Boendermaker A, Landewé R, Braun J, 
Brandt J, Sieper J, van der Linden S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, University 
Hospital Maastricht, PO Box 5800, 6202 AZ Maastricht, Netherlands. 
aboo@sint.azm.nl

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-utility of etanercept and infliximab 
compared with usual care in active ankylosing spondylitis.
METHODS: A Markov model over five years with cycle times of three months was 
computed. Patients included all had active disease, defined as Bath ankylosing 
spondylitis disease activity index (BASDAI) >or=4 and could reach low disease 
activity, defined as BASDAI <4. Non-response to tumour necrosis factor alpha 
(TNFalpha) inhibitors was always followed by cessation of treatment. Response to 
TNFalpha inhibitors could be followed at any time by either relapse to BASDAI 
>or=4, leading to cessation of treatment, or toxicity, leading to cessation of 
treatment if major. Probabilities for efficacy, relapse, and toxicity were 
derived from two European randomised controlled trials. Utilities and costs 
assigned to the BASDAI disease states were derived from a two year observational 
Dutch cohort. In sensitivity analyses probabilities of effectiveness, toxicity, 
costs, and utilities were varied.
RESULTS: Over five years the total quality adjusted life years varied from 2.57 
to 2.89 for usual care, compared with 3.13 to 3.42 and 3.07 to 3.35 for 
etanercept or infliximab. Cumulative costs were between 49,555 to 69,982 for 
usual care compared with 59,574 to 91,183 or 28,3330 to 106,775 for etanercept 
and infliximab. This resulted in incremental cost-utility ratios varying between 
42,914 and 123,761 per QALY for etanercept compared with usual care and 67,207 
to 237,010 for infliximab. The model was sensitive to drug prices.
CONCLUSION: Etanercept and infliximab have large clinical effects in ankylosing 
spondylitis. The present model suggests the high drug costs restricts efficient 
use in all patients who have a BASDAI >4. The validity of the model is limited 
by insufficient insight in the natural course of the disease and long term 
effectiveness and toxicity of TNFalpha inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2004.032565
PMCID: PMC1798006
PMID: 16014677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jul 13;2005(28):pe15. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.28.er1.

Misdirection on the road to Shangri-La.

Olshansky SJ(1), Carnes BA, Hershow R, Passaro D, Layden J, Brody J, Hayflick L, 
Butler RN, Allison DB, Ludwig DS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, The University of Illinois, 
Chicago, IL 60612, USA. sjayo@uic.edu

Will life expectancy in the United States rise or fall in this century? The 
implications of either scenario are far reaching. We contend that the rise of 
childhood obesity in the United States in the past three decades has been so 
dramatic that it will soon lead to higher than expected death rates at middle 
ages and a possible decline in life expectancy by midcentury. The most 
detrimental health and longevity effects will not be seen for decades--a 
phenomenon that cannot be detected by current methods used to forecast life 
expectancy or estimate the number of deaths currently attributable to obesity. 
This scenario contrasts sharply with the views of mathematical demographers who 
generate forecasts by relying on the assumption that the U.S. pattern of 
longevity will follow that of other longer lived nations and on the 
extrapolation of historical trends in life expectancy into the future.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.28.er1
PMID: 16014974


133. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 2005 Jul-Aug;14(4):200-2, 204. doi: 
10.1111/j.1076-7460.2005.04210.x.

Ethical issues in the management of geriatric cardiac patients.

Basta LL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1076-7460.2005.04210.x
PMID: 16015061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. World J Gastroenterol. 2005 Jul 21;11(27):4206-9. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v11.i27.4206.

Thermo-chemo-radiotherapy for advanced bile duct carcinoma.

Kamisawa T(1), Tu Y, Egawa N, Karasawa K, Matsuda T, Tsuruta K, Okamoto A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan Komagome Hospital, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. kamisawa@cick.jp

AIM: Complete resection of the bile duct carcinoma is sometimes difficult by 
subepithelial spread in the duct wall or direct invasion of adjacent blood 
vessels. Nonresected extrahepatic bile duct carcinoma has a dismal prognosis, 
with a life expectancy of about 6 mo to 1 year. To improve the treatment results 
of locally advanced bile duct carcinoma, we have been conducting a clinical 
trial using regional hyperthermia in combination with chemoradiation therapy.
METHODS: Eight patients complaining of obstructive jaundice with advanced 
extrahepatic bile duct underwent thermo-chemo-radiotherapy (TCRT). All tumors 
were located in the upper bile duct and involved hepatic bifurcation, and 
obstructed the bile duct completely. Radiofrequency capacitive hyperthermia was 
administered simultaneously with chemotherapeutic agents once weekly immediately 
following radiotherapy at 2 Gy. We administered heat to the patient for 40 min 
after the tumor temperature had risen to 42 degrees C. The chemotherapeutic 
agents employed were cis-platinum (CDDP, 50 mg/m(2)) in combination with 
5-fluorouracil (5-FU, 800 mg/m(2)) or methotrexate (MTX, 30 mg/m(2)) in 
combination with 5-FU (800 mg/m(2)). Number of heat treatments ranged from 2 to 
8 sessions. The bile duct at autopsy was histologically examined in three 
patients treated with TCRT.
RESULTS: In respect to resolution of the bile duct, there were three complete 
regression (CR), two partial regression (PR), and three no change (NC). Mean 
survival was 13.2+/-10.8 mo (mean+/-SD). Four patients survived for more than 20 
mo. Percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage (PTBD) tube could be removed in 
placement of self-expandable metallic stent into the patency-restored bile duct 
after TCRT. No major side effects occurred. At autopsy, marked hyalinization or 
fibrosis with necrosis replaced extensively bile duct tumor and wall, in which 
suppressed cohesiveness of carcinoma cells and degenerative cells were sparsely 
observed.
CONCLUSION: Although the number of cases is rather small, TCRT in the treatment 
of locally advanced bile duct carcinoma is promising in raising local control 
and thus, long-term survival.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v11.i27.4206
PMCID: PMC4615443
PMID: 16015690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Ethics Intellect Disabil. 2002 Fall;7(1):1-3.

On the value of a life with mental retardation: Keene v. Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Inc.

Vitello SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Rutgers-The State University of New Jersey, USA.

PMID: 16018104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Oncol Manag. 2005 Spring;14(2):35-8.

Cancer chemotherapy in elderly cancer patients.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, 
Tampa, FL 33612, USA. balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

Older patients may benefit from chemotherapy to an extent comparable with that 
of younger patients if some proper precautions are taken. These include 
selection of the patients on the basis of life expectancy and tolerance of 
treatment, prophylactic use of hemopoietic growth factors for moderately toxic 
chemotherapy (cytoxan, adriamycin, oncovin [vincristine], prednisone [CHOP] and 
CHOP-like regimens), adjustment of the first treatment dose to the glomerula 
filtration rate, maintenance of hemoglobin levels > or = 12 g/dL, and selection 
of agents with a more favorable toxicology profile. This approach is outlined in 
the National Cancer Center Network guidelines for the management of cancer in 
the older person.

PMID: 16018197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Magy Seb. 2005 Feb;58(1):29-33.

[Curative surgical treatment of inoperable pancreatic cancer after neoadjuvant 
therapy].

[Article in Hungarian]

Arkosy P(1), Sasi SL, Enyedi A, Szántó J, András C, Sápy P.

Author information:
(1)arkosyp@freemail.hu

In the treatment of pancreatic cancer only curative resection increases the life 
expectancy. Radical resection is a high risk operation, but it can be performed 
with low peri-operational mortality in specialist surgical centres. At the time 
of diagnosis most patients are in stage (TMN of pancreatic cancer UICC 1997) III 
or IV, thus curative resection cannot be performed. Neo-adjuvant therapy shrinks 
the tumour in 60-70%, giving new hope for the patients. In this paper authors 
present two cases of pancreatic cancer resections. Palliative operations were 
performed in patients with inoperable pancreatic cancer. Later neo-adjuvant 
chemotherapy was performed--in these cases it meant chemotherapy--and after that 
a second, this time curative procedure was performed.

PMID: 16018598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Lung Cancer. 2005 Oct;50(1):91-6. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2005.05.012.

A phase II study of paclitaxel in advanced bronchioloalveolar carcinoma (EORTC 
trial 08956).

Scagliotti GV(1), Smit E, Bosquee L, O'Brien M, Ardizzoni A, Zatloukal P, 
Eberhardt W, Smid-Geirnaerdt M, de Bruin HG, Dussenne S, Legrand C, Giaccone G; 
European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Lung Cancer 
Group (LCG).

Author information:
(1)University of Tovino, Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, S. 
Luigi Hospital, Regione Gonzole 10, Orbassano (Torino) 10043, Italy. 
giorgio.scagliotti@unito.it

PURPOSE: The incidence of bronchioloalveolar carcinoma (BAC) has risen steadily 
over the last decades along with the increasing frequency of adenocarcinomas. 
BAC is relatively resistant to commonly used chemotherapy regimens. A phase II 
study with single agent paclitaxel in patients with stages IIIB, IV or recurrent 
BAC was performed.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Patients with BAC with at least one target bidimensionally 
measurable lesion staged as unresectable stages IIIB, IV or recurrent disease, 
not previously irradiated; ECOG performance status 0-2; life expectancy greater 
than 3 months; age range between 18 and 75, received paclitaxel at a dose of 200 
mg/m2 i.v. as 3h continuous infusion on day 1 every 21 days. Treatment was 
continued until progression or up to a maximum of six cycles.
RESULTS: Nineteen patients were eligible. Median number of cycles was 3 (range 
0-6); 35% of patients received the planned six cycles of chemotherapy. One 
patient died of unrelated cause before the start of treatment. Both 
hematological and non-hematological toxicities were generally mild. Only one 
partial response (PR) was observed among the 18 eligible patients who started 
protocol treatment, with a response rate of 5.6% (95% CI: 0.1-27.3%). After an 
independent review, two PR were confirmed, for a response rate of 11.1% (95% CI: 
1.4-34.7%); nine patients had stable disease (50.0%), three patients had 
progressive disease (11.1%) and four patients were not assessable (22.2%). 
Median survival was 8.6 months (95% CI: 5.8-14.5) and 1-year survival was 35.0% 
(95% CI: 14.1-55.8). Median progression free survival for all patients was 2.2 
months (95% CI: 1.5-6.0). The study was terminated due to the low response rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Paclitaxel as single agent in stages IIIB-IV BAC was well tolerated 
and manageable but of limited efficacy. BAC should not be excluded from trials 
of new forms of chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2005.05.012
PMID: 16019107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Hematology. 2005 Apr;10(2):145-9. doi: 10.1080/10245330500065771.

Hereditary hemochromatosis.

Franchini M(1), Veneri D.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Immunoematologia e Trasfusione, Azienda Ospedaliera di Verona, 
Verona, Italy. massimo.franchini@mail.azosp.vr.it

Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a disorder of iron metabolism characterized 
by a progressive tissue iron overload which leads to an irreversible organ 
damage if it is not treated timely. The recent developments in the field of 
molecular medicine have radically changed the physiopathology and the diagnosis 
of this disease. However, transferrin saturation and serum ferritin are still 
the most reliable tests for the detection of subjects with HH. Therapeutic 
phlebotomy is the mainstay of the treatment of HH. If phlebotomy is started 
before the onset of irreversible organ damages, the life expectancy of these 
patients is similar to that of normal population.

DOI: 10.1080/10245330500065771
PMID: 16019461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Leuk Lymphoma. 2005 Jun;46(6):823-31. doi: 10.1080/10428190500080348.

The role of rHuEpo in low-risk myelodysplastic syndrome patients.

Rigolin GM(1), Castoldi G.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Section, Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Ferrara, 
Italy. rglgmt@unife.it

Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are clonal disorders of the haemopoietic stem 
cell characterized by peripheral cytopenias that are the result of abnormal 
haemopoietic differentiation and maturation. Approximately 90% of MDS patients 
present with anemia at the beginning or during the course of the disease and 
often require transfusions. The rationale for treating anemic MDS patients with 
recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo), alone or in combination with other 
growth factors, is based on the possibility of overcoming the defective 
proliferation and maturation of erythroid precursors through the inhibition of 
bone marrow apoptosis, the enhancement of the differentiation of preleukemic 
progenitor cells or the stimulation of the growth of residual normal 
haematopoietic cells. Clinical trails have shown that rHuEpo, alone or in 
combination with recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, is a 
useful drug for the treatment of anemia in low-risk MDS patients, and the same 
trials have identified patients who are more likely to respond to maximize 
benefits, to minimize adverse effects, and to avoid misuse or abuse. However, 
further research is required to determine whether this treatment has any real 
impact on quality of life and on life expectancy, thus allowing recommendations 
to be made about rHuEpo use in MDS patients with a degree of certainty.

DOI: 10.1080/10428190500080348
PMID: 16019526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Scand J Urol Nephrol Suppl. 2005 May;(216):94-110. doi: 
10.1080/03008880510030969.

Epidemiology and statistical methods in prediction of patient outcome.

Bostwick DG(1), Adolfsson J, Burke HB, Damber JE, Huland H, Pavone-Macaluso M, 
Waters DJ.

Author information:
(1)Bostwick Laboratories, Richmond, Virginia 23294, USA. 
bostwick@bostwicklaboratories.com

Substantial gaps exist in the data of the assessment of risk and prognosis that 
limit our understanding of the complex mechanisms that contribute to the 
greatest cancer epidemic, prostate cancer, of our time. This report was prepared 
by an international multidisciplinary committee of the World Health Organization 
to address contemporary issues of epidemiology and statistical methods in 
prostate cancer, including a summary of current risk assessment methods and 
prognostic factors. Emphasis was placed on the relative merits of each of the 
statistical methods available. We concluded that: 1. An international committee 
should be created to guide the assessment and validation of molecular 
biomarkers. The goal is to achieve more precise identification of those who 
would benefit from treatment. 2. Prostate cancer is a predictable disease 
despite its biologic heterogeneity. However, the accuracy of predicting it must 
be improved. We expect that more precise statistical methods will supplant the 
current staging system. The simplicity and intuitive ease of using the current 
staging system must be balanced against the serious compromise in accuracy for 
the individual patient. 3. The most useful new statistical approaches will 
integrate molecular biomarkers with existing prognostic factors to predict 
conditional life expectancy (i.e. the expected remaining years of a patient's 
life) and take into account all-cause mortality.

DOI: 10.1080/03008880510030969
PMID: 16019761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. J Nurs Educ. 2005 Jun;44(6):253-6. doi: 10.3928/01484834-20050601-03.

Isolation followed by integration: a model for development of a separate 
geriatric course.

Wallace M(1), Lange J, Grossman S.

Author information:
(1)Fairfield University School of Nursing, Fairfield, Connecticut 06824, USA. 
mwallace@mail.fairfield.edu

Because of the growing population of older adults in America, nursing faculty 
throughout the United States have been consistently challenged during the past 
decade to use the most appropriate methods to strengthen geriatric content in 
baccalaureate nursing programs. The question of whether to integrate content 
throughout the curriculum or offer a stand-alone geriatric nursing course has 
been explored extensively, but no ultimate conclusion has been found. With the 
support of a grant for geriatric curriculum integration from the John A. 
Hartford Foundation, one university began the journey to integrate geriatric 
nursing curriculum throughout all baccalaureate nursing courses. However, at a 
curriculum evaluation meeting held halfway through the grant period, faculty 
expressed the need to have concentrated content earlier in the program that 
could serve as a foundation on which to build geriatric knowledge. Faculty 
unanimously voted to create a geriatric nursing course to be offered to students 
during their second year of baccalaureate study.

DOI: 10.3928/01484834-20050601-03
PMID: 16021801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. J Nurs Educ. 2005 Jun;44(6):286-90. doi: 10.3928/01484834-20050601-10.

Integrating long-term care concepts into baccalaureate nursing education: the 
road to quality geriatric health care.

Scott-Tilley D(1), Marshall-Gray P, Valadez A, Green A.

Author information:
(1)Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, School of Nursing, Lubbock, 
Texas 79430-6221, USA.

Increased numbers of aging Americans requires that today's health care 
professionals be grounded in education that focuses on patient-centered care of 
older adults. The growing demand for competent geriatric nurses in West Texas, 
led the School of Nursing (SON) at Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center 
(TTUHSC) to conduct an in-depth analysis of its baccalaureate curriculum to 
determine how, when, and where care of older adults was being addressed. A task 
force appointed by the SON subsequently chose, as a blueprint for curricular 
redesign, Older Adults: Recommended Baccalaureate Competencies and Curricular 
Guidelines for Geriatric Nursing Care (American Association of Colleges of 
Nursing & the John A. Hartford Foundation Institute for Geriatric Nursing, 
2000). This article describes how the SON task force planned and implemented a 
new and strengthened geriatric core in its curricula.

DOI: 10.3928/01484834-20050601-10
PMID: 16021808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 2004;72(9-10):415-9.

[Cost of pharmacologic treatment and their determinants in ambulatory care of 
cystic fibrosis patients].

[Article in Polish]

Stelmach I(1), Korzeniewska A, Stelmach W.

Author information:
(1)Oddział Kliniczny Interny Dzieciecej i Alergologii IP UM w Lodzi. 
interna@wss.zgierz.pl

Life expectancy of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients has improved following the 
introduction of modem therapies. Length of life has been most important 
determinant of cost of medical care in each population. The aim of this study 
was to evaluate the cost of pharmacologic treatment and their determinants 
served by patients and medical insurance. Medical records of our CF center 
patients from year 2003 were analysed. The annual cost of pharmacologic 
treatment in our patients in 2003 averaged PLN 26595.91; of total costs 74% were 
from DNase, 7% from drugs classified as "other", 6.2% from pancreatic enzymes. 
Individual annual costs served by patients averaged from PLN 979.67 to 10805.57 
(mean PLN 6059.63). Mean annual cost "per patient" served by medical insurance 
averaged PLN 26595.91; 70% of costs were from DNase, 15% from inhaled 
corticosteroids and bronchodilators. 68% of drug costs were served by medical 
insurance, 32% by patient. We found significant correlation between cost served 
by patients (p1), by medical insurance (p2) and age (p1, p2<0.0001) and severity 
of disease--defined based on percent expected FEV1 (p1=0.006; p2=0.001). 
Severity of disease and patients age were important determinants of 
pharmacologic treatment cost in CF patients.

PMID: 16021997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Econ Entomol. 2005 Jun;98(3):1024-31. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-98.3.1024.

Spatial and temporal distribution of induced resistance to greenbug (Homoptera: 
Aphididae) herbivory in preconditioned resistant and susceptible near isogenic 
plants of wheat.

Weng Y(1), Michels GJ Jr, Lazar MD, Rudd JC.

Author information:
(1)Texas A&M University Agricultural Research and Extension Center, 6500 
Amarillo Boulevard West, Amarillo, TX 79106, USA.

Interactions between biotype E greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rodani), and two 
near isogenic lines of the greenbug resistance gene Gb3 of wheat, Triticum 
aestivum L., were examined for 62 d after infestation. By comparing aphid 
performance and host responses on control and greenbug-preconditioned plants, we 
demonstrated that systemic resistance to greenbug herbivory was inducible in the 
resistant genotype with varying intensities and effectiveness in different parts 
of the plants. Preconditioning of susceptible plants resulted in modification of 
within-plant aphid distribution and reduction of cumulative greenbug densities, 
but it showed no effect on reducing greenbug feeding damage to host plant. 
Preconditioning of resistant plants altered greenbug population dynamics by 
reducing the size and buffering the fluctuation of the aphid population. 
Preconditioning in the first (oldest) leaf of the resistant plant had no 
phenotypically detectable effect in the stem and induced susceptibility locally 
in the first leaf within the first 2 d after infestation. The 
preconditioning-induced resistance reduced greenbug density, delayed aphid 
density peaks and extended the life of younger leaves in resistant plants. 
Expression of induced resistance was spatially and temporally dynamic within the 
plant, which occurred more rapidly, was longer in duration, and stronger in 
intensity in younger leaves. Host resistance gene-mediated induced resistance 
was effective in lowering greenbug performance and reducing damage from greenbug 
herbivory in host plants. Results from this study supported the optimal defense 
theory regarding within-plant defense allocation.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-98.3.1024
PMID: 16022335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Risk Anal. 2005 Jun;25(3):695-709. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2005.00610.x.

Approximations and heuristics for the "cause-modified" life table.

Brand KP(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Management, and the McLaughlin Centre for Population Health Risk 
Assessment, Institute of Population Health, University of Ottawa, One Stewart 
Street, Ottawa, Canada, K1N 6N5. brand@management.uottawa.ca

Life-table analysis can help to gauge the lifetime impacts that accrue from 
modifications to (age-specific) baseline mortality. Modifications of interest 
include those stemming from risk-factor-related exposures or from interventions. 
The specific algorithm used in these analyses can be called a cause-modified 
life table (a generalization of the cause-deleted life table). The author 
presents an approach for approximating that algorithm and uses it to obtain 
remarkably simplified expressions for approximating three indices of common 
interest: life-years lost (LYL), excess lifetime risk ratio (ELRR), and risk of 
exposure-induced death (REID). These efforts are restricted to the special case 
of multiplicative increases to baseline mortality (modeled as an excess rate 
ratio, ERR). The simplified expressions effectively "break open" what is often 
treated as a "black-box" calculation. Several insights result. For a practical 
range of risk factor impacts (ERRs), each index can be related to the ERR as a 
function of a baseline summary statistic and a "characteristic number" specific 
to the population and cause of interest. Conveniently, those numbers help form 
"rules of thumb" for translating among the three indices and suggest heuristics 
for extrapolating indices across populations and causes of death.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2005.00610.x
PMID: 16022701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Health Technol Assess. 2005 Jul;9(27):iii-iv, ix-xi, 1-158. doi: 
10.3310/hta9270.

Cost-effectiveness of alternative strategies for the initial medical management 
of non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome: systematic review and 
decision-analytical modelling.

Robinson M(1), Palmer S, Sculpher M, Philips Z, Ginnelly L, Bowens A, Golder S, 
Alfakih K, Bakhai A, Packham C, Cooper N, Abrams K, Eastwood A, Pearman A, 
Flather M, Gray D, Hall A.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Institute for Health, University of Leeds, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To identify and prioritise key areas of clinical uncertainty 
regarding the medical management of non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome 
(ACS) in current UK practice.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases. Consultations with clinical advisors. Postal 
survey of cardiologists.
REVIEW METHODS: Potential areas of important uncertainty were identified and 
'decision problems' prioritised. A systematic literature review was carried out 
using standard methods. The constructed decision model consisted of a short-term 
phase that applied the results of the systematic review and a long-term phase 
that included relevant information from a UK observational study to extrapolate 
estimated costs and effects. Sensitivity analyses were undertaken to examine the 
dependence of the results on baseline parameters, using alternative data 
sources. Expected value of information analysis was undertaken to estimate the 
expected value of perfect information associated with the decision problem. This 
provided an upper bound on the monetary value associated with additional 
research in the area.
RESULTS: Seven current areas of clinical uncertainty (decision problems) in the 
drug treatment of unstable angina patients were identified. The agents concerned 
