(1)Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Shanghai Institute for Biological 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200032, China.

The present review summarizes the recent advances in cultivating the so-called 
recalcitrant microorganisms in various natural environments. Firstly, the use of 
new electron donors and acceptors reveals a list of unique and previously 
unrecognized physiotypes (Table 1), and the growth supporting reactions include 
oxidation of phosphite, arsenite, soil humic substances, benzene, Fe (II) and 
aryl-halides. The novel pure cultures obtained include: Desulfatogenum 
phosphitoxidans, lithochemotrophic arsenite oxidizing bacteria, Dechloromonas 
agitata, Dechalosoma suillum, and various Proteobacteria capable of decomposing 
soil humic substances anaerobically. Secondly, the adaption of nutrient-poor 
media (down to 1/100 of the traditional concentration), including sea water, 
soil extract and extension of natural habitats (insect hind-gut, submarine hot 
vent) are extremely rewarding. For example, cultivation of the ubiquitous SAR11 
marine bacterioplankton clade reveals a phylum, small in cell size and genome, 
but dominating in ocean surface, thus constituting a huge biomass on earth. In 
addition, the nanosized hyperthermophilic Archaeon from a submarine hot vent, 
represents an unknown phylum, and because of its symbiotic living with 
Ignicocous cells, it is named Nanoarchaeum equitans. Its genome size is only 
500kb, the smallest for prokaryote. Considering its hyperthermic living 
environment and small genome, N. equitans may possibly still a primitive form of 
microbial life and affords an advantageous culture for the study of life origin 
and evolution on earth. Thirdly, several novel isolation techniques have been 
developed such as gel microdrop encapsulation and diffusion chamber, both with 
the advantages of high-throughout operation and simulating to certain extent of 
the natural environment, thus allowing growth synergy based on cross-feeding to 
occur. Finally, it should be noted that the cultivation of unculturable 
microorganisms mentioned in this review does not require expensive and 
sophisticated equipments and most of the techniques can be adapted in our 
laboratory at home.

PMID: 15973982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2004 Nov;1(4):295-306. doi: 10.2174/1567205043331965.

Molecular mechanisms, emerging etiological insights and models to test potential 
therapeutic interventions in Alzheimer's disease.

Pillay NS(1), Kellaway LA, Kotwal GJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Virology, University of Cape Town School of Medicine 
Anzio Road, Observatory 7925, Cape Town, South Africa.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common cause of dementia, resulting from 
accumulated beta-amyloid protein deposits in the brain. As the population ages 
the incidence of AD is also on the rise. The incidence is very high in the 
developed countries where life expectancy is high, but it is also rising rapidly 
in the developing countries. Caring for patients suffering from AD is a major 
economic burden. The mechanisms underlying the neuropathology of AD are slowly 
being unravelled. Here we explore the many models and theories, which have been 
proposed over the years. We then discuss a potential therapeutic agent, vaccinia 
virus complement control protein (VCP), involved in modulating the complement 
system in AD. VCP has been shown in in vitro studies to block the complement 
activation caused by the beta peptide. Traumatic injuries to the brain are well 
known risk factors associated with the development of AD. VCP can also enhance 
functional recovery resulting from traumatic brain injury and may be able to 
slow the progression of traumatic brain injury to AD. Here we describe 
strategies for testing this hypothesis and evaluating other agents such as VCP.

DOI: 10.2174/1567205043331965
PMID: 15975058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jun 22;2005(25):pe18. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.25.pe18.

Endothelial progenitor cell therapy for atherosclerosis: the philosopher's stone 
for an aging population?

Kravchenko J(1), Goldschmidt-Clermont PJ, Powell T, Stallard E, Akushevich I, 
Cuffe MS, Manton KG.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA. 
krauchanka@cds.duke.edu

Much of the increased risk for atherosclerosis progression with age may be a 
result of age-related declines in the capacity of precursor cells to repair 
damage in the arterial endothelium. To estimate the impact of progenitor cell 
therapy for atherosclerosis on cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality, life 
expectancy, and survival, as compared with the lifetime control of conventional 
risk factors, we modeled the health effects of bone marrow-derived endothelial 
progenitor cell therapy using data from the 1950 to 1996 follow-up of the 
Framingham Heart Study. To model cardiovascular disease mortality, we assumed 
that progenitor cell therapy was applied at age 30, with the effect assumed to 
be a 10-year delay in atherosclerosis progression. Age projections were 
constructed analytically using the stochastic process model for risk factor 
dynamics and mortality and microsimulation techniques. We considered three types 
of interventions: (i) keeping risk factors within selected limits to model 
current clinical recommendations; (ii) an age shift of 10 years to model the 
effects of progenitor cell therapy; and (iii) elimination of a competing risk 
(such as cancer). Our study suggests that progenitor cell therapy might increase 
life expectancy in the population as much as the complete elimination of cancer 
(in females, an additional 3.67 versus 3.37 years; in males, an additional 5.94 
versus 2.86 years, respectively).

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.25.pe18
PMID: 15975898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. BMJ. 2005 Jun 25;330(7506):1507; author reply 1507-8. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.330.7506.1507-a.

Health inequalities under New Labour: difference in findings is due to 
geographical coverage.

Bajekal M, Baker A.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2005 Apr 30;330(7498):1016-21.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.330.7506.1507-a
PMCID: PMC558495
PMID: 15976428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Gastroenterol Nurs. 2005 May-Jun;28(3 Suppl):S4-9. doi: 
10.1097/00001610-200505001-00002.

The role of hepatitis C support groups.

Cormier M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Massachusetts Medical Center, Worcester, Massachusetts 01655, 
USA. cormiM01@ummhc.org

Chronic hepatitis C infection has become the most common blood-borne pathogen in 
the United States, affecting an estimated 4 million Americans. The diagnosis of 
chronic hepatitis C carries with it threats to quality of life and life 
expectancy. Furthermore, the label of chronic hepatitis C encumbers the 
individual with concerns about contagiousness, social isolation, altered role 
function, stigmatization, loss of control, and the uncertainty and anxiety 
inherent in any chronic illness. These factors have a significant emotional 
effect on the affected individual and his or her family. Although biomedical 
research continues to seek new therapies for hepatitic C virus and methods of 
prevention and control, our health and social systems also must develop 
strategies to facilitate adjustment, provide education and caring, and enhance 
well-being. Abundant research supports the premise that social support 
facilitates patient well-being and contributes to health and health promotion 
through interpersonal interactions. Gastroenterology nurses are well positioned 
to facilitate improved outcomes in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus by 
initiating interventions designed to enhance existing sources of social support 
or to promote new ones. Development of psychosocial interventions, such as 
support groups, aimed at maintaining or fostering social support, may improve 
health outcomes and promote a higher health-related quality of life for persons 
living with chronic hepatitis C virus.

DOI: 10.1097/00001610-200505001-00002
PMID: 15976560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2005 Jul;4(7):569-80. doi: 10.1038/nrd1777.

Ageing and metabolism: drug discovery opportunities.

Curtis R(1), Geesaman BJ, DiStefano PS.

Author information:
(1)Elixir Pharmaceuticals, One Kendall Square, Building 1000, Cambridge, MA 
02139, USA.

There has recently been significant progress in our understanding of the 
mechanisms that regulate ageing, and it has been shown that changes in single 
genes can dramatically extend lifespan and increase resistance to many diseases. 
Furthermore, many of these genes belong to evolutionarily conserved pathways 
that also control energy metabolism. In this review, we describe the shared 
molecular machinery that regulates ageing and energy metabolism. Although drugs 
to slow ageing face severe regulatory hurdles, it is likely that an 
understanding of ageing pathways will help to identify novel drug targets to 
treat metabolic disorders and other age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nrd1777
PMID: 15976816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Biol Res. 2005;38(1):31-9. doi: 10.4067/s0716-97602005000100005.

Fertility and life expectancy of the predator Supputius cincticeps (Heteroptera: 
Pentatomidae) exposed to sublethal doses of permethrin.

Zanuncio TV(1), Zanuncio JC, Serrão JE, Medeiros RS, Pinon TB, Sediyama CA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36571-000 
Viçosa, State of Minas Gerais, Brasil. zanuncio@ufv.br

The stinkbug Supputius cincticeps (Stål) (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae) can be 
found in agricultural and forest ecosystems feeding primarily on larvae of 
Coleoptera and Lepidoptera, where it can be exposed to insecticide applications. 
This study therefore aimed to evaluate the reproductive potential of S. 
cincticeps after exposition to sublethal doses of permethrin (5.74 x 10(-3), 
5.74 x 10(-2), 5.74 x 10(-1), 5.74 and 57.44 ppb) through the use of a fertility 
life table. The development cycle of this predator was determined in order to 
calculate its net reproductive rate (R0), the infinitesimal (rm) and finite 
(lambda) rates of increase in addition to mean generation time (T). The net 
reproductive (18.31), infinitesimal (rm) (0.050) and finite (lambda) (1.051) 
rates of increase were higher, while generation time (57.93 days) was shorter 
for S. cincticeps exposed to 5.74 x 10(-1) ppb of permethrin than in the 
control. This indicates a higher rate of population increase of this predator 
when exposed to this permethrin dose.

DOI: 10.4067/s0716-97602005000100005
PMID: 15977408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 2005 Jun;106(6):385-9.

[Review and evaluation of limited resection for early lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwasaki A(1), Shirakusa T.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Fukuoka University, 
Fukuoka, Japan.

Limited resection for early lung cancer has been associated with significantly 
higher local recurrence rates based on previous reports such as those from lung 
cancer study groups. On the other hand, a few groups demonstrated that patients 
with small peripheral cancer who undergo limited resection have comparable 
survival rates with those who undergo lobectomy. Recent advances in radiologic 
investigation and pathologic analysis have broadened the indications for limited 
resection. Since the introduction of the adenocarcinoma classification by 
Noguchi surgery for localized bronchioloalveolar carcinoma has focused on 
limited resection. Caution is necessary when performing wedge resection even if 
10 mm or less in diameter and in compromised segmentectomy for early lung 
cancer. Although limited resection is still controversial intentional 
segmentectomy for localized bronchioloalveolar carcinoma or less than 20 mm or 
less in diameter may be recommended without evidence-based medicine. It is 
important to accumulate further evidence clarifying the survival and function 
benefits of limited resection. New therapeutic modalities for limited surgery 
for small-sized lung cancer may increase patient life expectancy.

PMID: 15977581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Curr Urol Rep. 2005 Jul;6(4):263-70. doi: 10.1007/s11934-005-0019-0.

Acute urinary retention in men: the risks and outcomes with medical therapy.

Hargreave TB(1), McNeill AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Edinburgh University, Western General hospital, 
Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK. tbhargreave@btinternet.com

This paper is restricted to the discussion of the relatively modern disorder of 
sudden painful inability to urinate in older men. It was not a common medical 
problem until the 19th century when, in developed countries, male life 
expectancy increased to beyond 60 years; it remains an uncommon problem in those 
developing countries where male life expectancy remains low, particularly in 
some sub-Saharan African countries where male life expectancy is only 44.8 
years.

DOI: 10.1007/s11934-005-0019-0
PMID: 15978225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2005 Sep;62(1):11-6. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2005.02.011.

Toxicity and hazard assessment of fipronil to Daphnia pulex.

Stark JD(1), Vargas RI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Washington State University, Puyallup Research and 
Extension Center, 98371, USA. starkj@wsu.edu

Hazard assessments based on two measures of toxicity were conducted for the 
water flea, Daphnia pulex (Leydig) exposed to the insecticide, fipronil. The 
measures of toxicity obtained were 48 h acute lethal concentration estimates, 
and a direct measure of population growth rate, the 10-day instantaneous rate of 
increase (r(i)). Additionally, life tables were developed after exposure to 
several concentrations to tease out the apparent sublethal effects of this 
insecticide to D. pulex. The acute LC(50) was estimated to be 0.0156 
(0.0088-0.083) mg/L. In the 10-day population growth rate study, extinction of 
D. pulex populations occurred after exposure to 0.08 mg/L of fipronil, which was 
equivalent to the 48 h acute LC(75). The NOEC and LOEC for population size after 
a 10-day exposure to fipronil were 0.03 and 0.05 mg/L, respectively. An expected 
environmental concentration (EEC) in freshwater lakes/ponds based on an 
application rate of 250 mg ai/ha (recommended rate for use in Tephritid fruit 
fly control programs) was estimated to be 0.00017 mg/L. Hazard assessments were 
developed by dividing the EEC by the LC(50) and NOEC for population size. The 
assessments based on the LC(50) and NOEC for population size were 0.011 and 
0.0057, respectively, indicating that fipronil does not pose a hazard to D. 
pulex when applied at the rates recommended for control of Tephritid fruit 
flies. Life tables were developed after exposure to two insecticide 
concentrations and a control. Exposure to 0.015 mg/L, the approximate 48 h acute 
LC(50), resulted in only a slight decrease in the net reproductive rate (R(o)), 
birth rate (b), and intrinsic rate of increase (r(m)) and an increase in 
generation time (T), death rate (d), and doubling time (DT) compared to the 
control. Exposure to 0.03 mg/L, the approximate 48 h acute LC(60), and NOEC in 
the 10-day study, resulted in a 57% decline in the net reproductive rate, a 
1.45-fold decrease in birth rate, a 1.5-fold decrease in the intrinsic rate of 
increase, a 6-day increase in generation time, a 4-fold increase in death rate, 
and a 1.5-fold increase in doubling time. The stable age distribution (after 60 
days) of D. pulex changed after exposure to fipronil. Increasing concentrations 
of fipronil resulted in a decrease in the percentage of individuals in the 
first, second, third, and fourth juvenile stages, an increase in the adult 
stage, and no change in the adolescent stage. These results indicate that 
certain concentrations of fipronil approaching the LC(50) can negatively affect 
population parameters of D. pulex, but that EECs, at least for fruit fly 
control, should be lower than the concentration necessary to cause damage.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2005.02.011
PMID: 15978286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Health Policy. 2005 Aug;73(2):172-82. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.11.008.
Epub  2005 Jan 7.

Caring externalities in health economic evaluation: how are they related to 
severity of illness?

Jacobsson F(1), Carstensen J, Borgquist L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Society, Linköping University, 581 83 Linköping, 
Sweden. freja@ihs.liu.se

In health economic evaluations, altruistic preferences in the form of caring 
externalities, i.e. that people care about others' health, is usually not taken 
into account. In this study we examined how people value their own and others' 
health. This pilot study was carried out by letting people answer willingness to 
pay (WTP) questionnaires where internal WTP (own health) and altruistic WTP 
(others' health) were isolated and examined. A common method used in health 
economic evaluations is cost-utility analysis, which is based on the 
maximisation of QALYs. QALY maximisation may be appropriate if altruistic 
preferences are non-existent or if they are linear in relation to internal 
preferences (QALYs gained). We found evidence for the existence of altruistic 
preferences and that these preferences were relatively higher for severe health 
states (and lower for mild states of health) compared to internal preferences, 
i.e. when severity of illness increased, the relative increase in caring was 
higher concerning others than oneself. The difference was statistically 
significant (P<0.001). Our results indicate that more attention and resources 
should be directed to severe health states, as compared to mild health states, 
than advocated by internal preferences in order to obtain more efficient 
resource allocation in the health care sector.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.11.008
PMID: 15978960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Oral Oncol. 2005 Sep;41(8):828-34. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2005.04.004.

Oral cancer: the association between nation-based alcohol-drinking profiles and 
oral cancer mortality.

Petti S(1), Scully C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, G. Sanarelli, University, La Sapienza, 
Rome, Italy. stefano.petti@uniroma1.it

Comment in
    J Evid Based Dent Pract. 2007 Jun;7(2):75-6.

The unclear association between different nation-based alcohol-drinking profiles 
and oral cancer mortality was investigated using, as observational units, 20 
countries from Europe, Northern America, Far Eastern Asia, with cross-nationally 
comparable data. Stepwise multiple regression analyses were run with male 
age-standardised, mortality rate (ASMR) as explanatory variable and annual adult 
alcohol consumption, adult smoking prevalence, life expectancy, as explanatory. 
Large between-country differences in ASMR (range, 0.88-6.87 per 100,000) were 
found, but the mean value was similar to the global estimate (3.31 vs. 3.09 per 
100,000). Differences in alcohol consumption (2.06-21.03 annual litres per 
capita) and in distribution between beverages were reported. Wine was the most 
prevalent alcoholic beverage in 45% of cases. Significant increases in ASMR for 
every litre of pure ethanol (0.15 per 100,000; 95 CI, 0.01-0.29) and spirits 
(0.26 per 100,000; 95 CI, 0.03-0.49), non-significant effects for beer and wine 
were estimated. The impact of alcohol on oral cancer deaths would be higher than 
expected and the drinking profile could affect cancer mortality, probably 
because of the different drinking pattern of spirit drinkers, usually consuming 
huge alcohol quantities on single occasions, and the different concentrations of 
ethanol and cancer-preventing compounds such as polyphenols, in the various 
beverages.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2005.04.004
PMID: 15979385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Perit Dial Int. 2005 May-Jun;25(3):238-9.

Both sides now: disclosure of prognosis on dialysis.

Mendelssohn DC(1).

Author information:
(1)Humber River Regional Hospital, Weston, Ontario, Canada. 
dmendelssohn@hrrh.on.ca

Comment on
    Perit Dial Int. 2005 May-Jun;25(3):269-73.

PMID: 15981771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Perit Dial Int. 2005 May-Jun;25(3):269-73.

Nephrologists should voluntarily divulge survival data to potential dialysis 
patients: a questionnaire study.

Fine A(1), Fontaine B, Kraushar MM, Rich BR.

Author information:
(1)Section of Nephrology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. 
afine@sbgh.mb.ca

Comment in
    Perit Dial Int. 2005 May-Jun;25(3):238-9.

BACKGROUND: For many dialysis patients, survival is no different than with 
certain cancers. Yet, it appears that most nephrologists do not give detailed 
information about survival prior to obtaining informed consent for chronic 
dialysis. There are no published data on whether patients wish to be so 
informed.
OBJECTIVE: To assess whether patients would want voluntary disclosure by their 
physician of their survival should they need dialysis, and if so, why?
METHOD: A questionnaire was completed by 100 general nephrology patients during 
their first visit to a nephrologist.
RESULTS: The vast majority of patients (97%) would want to be given 
life-expectancy information, and for the physician to do so without having to be 
prompted. Furthermore, the majority of patients would want as much information 
as possible, both good and bad.
CONCLUSIONS: Virtually all patients want, and therefore should receive from 
their physician, prognostic information about dialysis to facilitate informed 
decision-making. This is in accordance with current practice guidelines.

PMID: 15981775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Treat Endocrinol. 2003;2(5):347-56. doi: 10.2165/00024677-200302050-00006.

Influence of growth hormone on cardiovascular health and disease.

Colao A(1), Di Somma C, Vitale G, Filippella M, Lombardi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology, Federico II 
University, Naples, Italy. colao@unina.it

Experimental and clinical studies indicate that growth hormone (GH) and 
insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) are involved in heart development. Impaired 
cardiovascular function, as recently demonstrated, could potentially reduce life 
expectancy both in GH deficiency (GHD) and excess. Patients with childhood- or 
adult-onset GHD may have both cardiac structural and functional abnormalities, 
i.e. reduced cardiac mass, reduced diastolic filling, and impaired left 
ventricular response to peak exercise. In addition, GHD patients may present 
with an increase in vascular intima-media thickness and a higher occurrence of 
atheromatous plaques that can further aggravate the hemodynamic conditions and 
contribute to the increased cardiovascular and cerebrovascular risk. However, 
some evidence has been provided to show that cardiovascular abnormalities can be 
partially reversed after somatropin (recombinant GH) therapy in patients with 
GHD. Recently, somatropin administration was shown to induce improvement in 
hemodynamics and clinical status in some patients with heart failure. Although 
these data need to be confirmed in more extensive studies, such promising 
results open new perspectives for somatropin therapy. The role of GH 
secretagogues in heart failure is still unknown.

DOI: 10.2165/00024677-200302050-00006
PMID: 15981951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Int Fam Plan Perspect. 2005 Jun;31(2):54-62. doi: 10.1363/3105405.

Siblings' premarital childbearing and the timing of first sex in three major 
cities of Cote d'Ivoire.

Diop-Sidibe N(1).

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health/Center for Communication 
Programs, Baltimore, MD, USA. nsidibe@jhuccp.org

CONTEXT: The association between youths' sexual and reproductive attitudes and 
behaviors and those of their peers and parents has been documented; however, 
information on siblings' influence is scarce, especially for developing 
countries.
METHODS: Data on 1,395 female and 1,242 male survey respondents aged 15-24 from 
three cities in Côte d'Ivoire were analyzed. Life-table analysis was conducted 
to examine respondents' probability of remaining sexually inexperienced 
according to siblings' history of premarital childbearing. Cox multivariate 
regressions were used to estimate respondents' relative risks of sexual debut by 
age 17 and by age 24.
RESULTS: At any age between 15 and 24 years, the life-table probability of 
remaining sexually inexperienced was typically lower among persons who had at 
least one sibling with a premarital birth than among those who had no such 
sibling. In general, among those with at least one sibling who had had a 
premarital birth, the probability was lower if the sibling or siblings and the 
respondent were of the same gender rather than opposite genders, and the 
probability was lowest among those who had a brother and a sister with a history 
of premarital childbearing. In the multivariate analysis for males, having one 
or more brothers only, or having at least one brother and at least one sister, 
with a history of premarital childbearing was associated with increased relative 
risks of being sexually experienced by ages 17 and 24. No such association was 
found for females.
CONCLUSION: Programs that seek to reduce premarital sexual activity among young 
people should develop strategies that take into account the potential influence 
of siblings.

DOI: 10.1363/3105405
PMID: 15982946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Hypertension. 2005 Aug;46(2):280-6. doi: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000173433.67426.9b. 
Epub 2005 Jun 27.

Blood pressure in adulthood and life expectancy with cardiovascular disease in 
men and women: life course analysis.

Franco OH(1), Peeters A, Bonneux L, de Laet C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. o.francoduran@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Hypertension. 2005 Aug;46(2):261-2.

Limited information exists about the consequences of hypertension during 
adulthood on residual life expectancy with cardiovascular disease. We aimed to 
analyze the life course of people with high blood pressure levels at age 50 in 
terms of total life expectancy and life expectancy with and without 
cardiovascular disease compared with normotensives. We constructed multistate 
life tables for cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction, and stroke using 
data from 3128 participants of the Framingham Heart Study who had their 50th 
birthday while enrolled in the study. For the life table calculations, we used 
hazard ratios for 3 transitions (healthy to death, healthy to disease, and 
disease to death) by categories of blood pressure level and adjusted by age, 
sex, and confounders. Irrespective of sex, 50-year-old hypertensives compared 
with normotensives had a shorter life expectancy, a shorter life expectancy free 
of cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction, and stroke, and a longer life 
expectancy lived with these diseases. Normotensive men (22% of men) survived 7.2 
years (95% confidence interval, 5.6 to 9.0) longer without cardiovascular 
disease compared with hypertensives and spent 2.1 (0.9 to 3.4) fewer years of 
life with cardiovascular disease. Similar differences were observed in women. 
Compared with hypertensives, total life expectancy was 5.1 and 4.9 years longer 
for normotensive men and women, respectively. Increased blood pressure in 
adulthood is associated with large reductions in life expectancy and more years 
lived with cardiovascular disease. This effect is larger than estimated 
previously and affects both sexes similarly. Our findings underline the 
tremendous importance of preventing high blood pressure and its consequences in 
the population.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000173433.67426.9b
PMID: 15983235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Hypertension. 2005 Aug;46(2):261-2. doi: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000173425.50869.a9. 
Epub 2005 Jun 27.

Does blood pressure control contribute to a more successful aging?

Benetos A.

Comment on
    Hypertension. 2005 Aug;46(2):280-6.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000173425.50869.a9
PMID: 15983236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. HIV Clin Trials. 2005 Mar-Apr;6(2):92-102. doi: 10.1310/REJM-TAFW-0A7T-97UA.

Cost-effectiveness of enfuvirtide for treatment-experienced patients with HIV in 
Italy.

Hornberger J(1), Green J, Wintfeld N, Cavassini M, Rockstroh J, Giuliani G, De 
Carli C, Lazzarin A.

Author information:
(1)The SPHERE Institute / Acumen, LLC, 1415 Rollins Road, Suite 110, Burlingame, 
CA 94010, USA. jhornberger@acumen-llc.com

BACKGROUND: Enfuvirtide (ENF) plus an optimized background (OB) antiretroviral 
regimen delays virological failure (VF), reduces HIV-1 viral load, and increases 
CD4 count compared with OB only in pretreated patients.
PURPOSE: To forecast long-term outcomes, costs, and cost-effectiveness of ENF+OB 
vs. OB in the Italian health care system.
METHOD: A Markov model was developed and clinical trial results on viral 
suppression and CD4 count were linked with data from HAART-era studies of the 
risk of AIDS-defining events (ADEs) and death. Resource data were obtained from 
Italian sources on direct medical costs. Cost-effectiveness was computed as the 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) saved.
RESULTS: Patients receiving ENF+OB were projected to experience a mean time to 
virological failure of 1.0 years vs. 0.5 years for OB and mean time to 
immunological failure of 3.1 years vs. 1.3 years for OB. Life expectancy and 
QALYs were greater for ENF+OB than OB by 1.8 and 1.5 years, respectively. Total 
lifetime medical cost was euro 126,487 for ENF+OB and euro 84,416 for OB, a 
difference of euro 42,071 due to the cost of ENF itself (euro 18,400) and the 
medical costs associated with additional life expectancy (euro 23,671). The 
incremental cost-effectiveness of ENF+OB was euro 23,721 per life year (euro 
28,669 per QALY).
CONCLUSION: ENF+OB is predicted to increase life expectancy at a cost per life 
year that is comparable to many well-accepted therapies in Europe.

DOI: 10.1310/REJM-TAFW-0A7T-97UA
PMID: 15983893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Jul;46(1):26-34. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.04.002.

Fenoldopam mesylate in early acute tubular necrosis: a randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial.

Tumlin JA(1), Finkel KW, Murray PT, Samuels J, Cotsonis G, Shaw AD.

Author information:
(1)Emory University School of Medicine, Renal Division, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. 
jtumlin@emory.edu

BACKGROUND: Acute tubular necrosis (ATN) occurs commonly in critically ill 
patients and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Fenoldopam is 
a dopamine receptor alpha1-specific agonist that increases renal blood flow in 
patients with kidney failure. We hypothesized that administration of low-dose 
fenoldopam during early ATN would decrease the need for dialysis therapy and/or 
incidence of death at 21 days.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, clinical trial in 155 patients with early ATN. Patients were 
considered eligible for enrollment if serum creatinine level increased to 50% 
greater than admission levels within 24 hours and mean arterial pressure was 
greater than 70 mm Hg. Patients were randomly assigned to the administration of 
placebo or fenoldopam for 72 hours.
RESULTS: Overall, 22 of 80 patients (27.5%) in the fenoldopam group reached the 
primary end point compared with 29 of 75 patients (38.7%) in the placebo group 
(P = 0.235). This 11% absolute reduction in the primary end point was not 
statistically significant (P = 0.23). Similarly, there was no difference in the 
incidence of dialysis therapy between patients randomly assigned to fenoldopam 
(13 of 80 patients; 16.25%) versus the placebo group (19 of 75 patients; 25.3%; 
P = 0.163). Moreover, there was no statistically significant difference in 
21-day mortality rates between the 2 groups (fenoldopam, 13.8% versus placebo, 
25.3%; P = 0.068). In secondary analyses, fenoldopam tended to reduce the 
primary end point in patients without diabetes and postoperative cardiothoracic 
surgery patients with early ATN (fenoldopam patients without diabetes, 14 of 54 
patients [25.9%] versus placebo patients without diabetes, 23 of 52 patients 
[44.2%]; P = 0.048) and postoperative cardiothoracic patients (6 of 34 patients 
[17.6%] versus 14 of 36 patients [38.8%]; P = 0.049). Conversely, fenoldopam did 
not improve the primary end point in patients with diabetes or those with acute 
renal failure from other causes. A larger multicenter trial using separate 
randomizations for patients with and without diabetes will be needed to 
determine the efficacy of fenoldopam mesylate in specific subpopulations with 
ATN.
CONCLUSION: Fenoldopam does not reduce the incidence of death or dialysis 
therapy in intensive care unit patients with early ATN.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.04.002
PMID: 15983954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Jul;46(1):86-93. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.03.020.

Comparison of surgically removed cardiac valves of patients with ESRD with those 
of the general population.

Kajbaf S(1), Veinot JP, Ha A, Zimmerman D.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have increased vascular 
and valvular calcification compared with the general population. Recently, 44% 
of renal transplant recipients were found to have vascular calcification of the 
medial layer of the inferior epigastric artery that was associated with 
deposition of bone matrix proteins. Similar findings have been reported for 
native and bioprosthetic cardiac valves surgically removed from patients without 
ESRD.
METHODS: To determine whether valvular calcification in patients with ESRD is 
similar to that in patients without ESRD, we retrospectively examined surgically 
excised native cardiac valves of all hemodialysis patients and compared them 
pathologically with those of matched controls without renal failure. Valves were 
examined by using routine stains and immunohistochemistry for markers to 
endothelial cells, macrophages, B and T lymphocytes, alkaline phosphatase, 
osteopontin, and bone morphogenic protein 4.
RESULTS: Histologically, 7 of 10 valves from patients with ESRD had moderate to 
severe inflammation compared with 1 of 10 valves from control patients. Patients 
with ESRD had more endothelial cells/vascularity (P = 0.002) and macrophages (P 
= 0.069). There was no difference between the 2 groups with respect to B and T 
lymphocytes, alkaline phosphatase, osteopontin, or bone morphogenic protein 4.
CONCLUSION: The noncollagenous proteins bone morphogenic protein and osteopontin 
have been shown in surgically removed cardiac valves of patients with ESRD and 
the general population. However, valvular calcification in patients with ESRD is 
associated with enhanced inflammation, consistent with the previously reported 
greater C-reactive protein levels in this patient population and their increased 
risk for death.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.03.020
PMID: 15983961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Jul;46(1):128-35. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.03.015.

Hypokalemia in Chinese peritoneal dialysis patients: prevalence and prognostic 
implication.

Szeto CC(1), Chow KM, Kwan BC, Leung CB, Chung KY, Law MC, Li PK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Prince of Wales Hospital, The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong, China. ccszeto@cuhk.edu.hk

BACKGROUND: Abnormal potassium metabolism may contribute to the increased 
cardiac morbidity and mortality seen in dialysis patients. We studied the 
pattern of serum potassium levels in a cohort of Chinese peritoneal dialysis 
(PD) patients.
METHODS: We studied serum potassium levels of 266 PD patients during 3 
consecutive clinic visits. Dialysis adequacy, residual renal function, and 
nutritional status also were assessed. Patients were followed up for 33.7 +/- 
20.7 months.
RESULTS: Mean serum potassium level was 3.9 +/- 0.5 mEq/L (mmol/L). Five 
patients (1.9%) had an average serum potassium level less than 3 mEq/L (mmol/L), 
whereas 54 patients (20.3%) had a serum potassium level less than 3.5 mEq/L 
(mmol/L). Serum potassium levels correlated with overall Subjective Global 
Assessment score (r = 0.276; P < 0.001) and serum albumin level (r = 0.173; P = 
0.005) and inversely with Charlson comorbidity score (r = -0.155; P = 0.011). 
There was no correlation between serum potassium level and daily PD exchange 
volume, total Kt/V, urine volume, or residual glomerular filtration rate. By 
means of multivariate analysis with Cox proportional hazard model to adjust for 
confounders, serum potassium level was an independent predictor of actuarial 
patient survival. PD patients with hypokalemia (serum potassium < 3.5 mEq/L 
[mmol/L]) had significantly worse actuarial survival (hazard ratio, 1.79; 95% 
confidence interval, 1.12 to 2.85; P = 0.015) than those without hypokalemia 
after adjusting for confounding factors.
CONCLUSION: Hypokalemia is common in Chinese PD patients. Serum potassium level 
was associated with nutritional status and severity of coexisting comorbid 
condition. Furthermore, hypokalemia was an independent predictor of survival in 
PD patients. Additional studies may be needed to investigate the benefit of 
potassium supplementation for PD patients with hypokalemia.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.03.015
PMID: 15983966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Bone Miner Metab. 2005;23 Suppl:81-3. doi: 10.1007/BF03026329.

Epidemiology of osteoporosis in Japan.

Fujiwara S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Studies, Radiation Effects Research Foundation (RERF), 
5-2 Hijiyama Park, Minami-ku, Hiroshima 732-0815, Japan. fujiwara@rerf.or.jp

DOI: 10.1007/BF03026329
PMID: 15984420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Palliat Med. 2005 Jun;19(4):334-42. doi: 10.1191/0269216305pm1018oa.

The last days of life of nursing home patients with and without dementia 
assessed with the palliative care outcome scale.

Brandt HE(1), Deliens L, van der Steen JT, Ooms ME, Ribbe MW, van der Wal G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing Home Medicine and Institute for Research in Extramural 
Medicine (EMGO Institute), VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

The aim of this study was to assess the Palliative care Outcome Scale (POS) for 
terminally ill nursing home (NH) patients in the Netherlands.
METHODS: A prospective observational study of patients with a life-expectancy of 
six weeks or less in 16 Dutch NHs. NH staff rated the patient characteristics 
and measured palliative care with the POS, including items on physical, 
psychosocial, informational, spiritual and practical aspects.
RESULTS: POS nonscores (not applicable; unknown) were mainly found in the 
psychosocial and spiritual domains, particularly in patients with dementia. Mean 
scores for non-demented patients and patients with dementia were favourable for 
the majority of the POS items.
CONCLUSION: According to the NH staff, fairly good quality care was provided, 
but the psychosocial and spiritual aspects of care need to be addressed more in 
the last days of the dying NH patient's life. The results indicate that the POS 
is an appropriate instrument to assess not only cancer patients, but also 
non-cancer and (moderately) severely demented patients.

DOI: 10.1191/0269216305pm1018oa
PMID: 15984506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Blood. 2005 Oct 1;106(7):2559-65. doi: 10.1182/blood-2005-02-0564. Epub 2005
Jun  28.

Sustained response and long-term safety of eculizumab in paroxysmal nocturnal 
hemoglobinuria.

Hill A(1), Hillmen P, Richards SJ, Elebute D, Marsh JC, Chan J, Mojcik CF, 
Rother RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, LS1 
3EX, United Kingdom. anitahill@nhs.net

Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is a hematologic disorder 
characterized by clonal expansion of red blood cells (RBCs) lacking the ability 
to inhibit complement-mediated hemolysis. Eculizumab, a humanized monoclonal 
antibody that binds the C5 complement protein, blocks serum hemolytic activity. 
This study evaluated the long-term safety and efficacy of eculizumab in 11 
patients with PNH during an open-label extension trial. After completion of an 
initial 12-week study, all patients chose to participate in the 52-week 
extension study. Eculizumab, administered at 900 mg every 12 to 14 days, was 
sufficient to completely and consistently block complement activity in all 
patients. A dramatic reduction in hemolysis was maintained throughout the study, 
with a decrease in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels from 3110.7 IU/L before 
treatment to 622.4 IU/L (P = .002). The proportion of PNH type III RBCs 
increased from 36.7% at baseline to 58.4% (P = .005). The paroxysm rate of days 
with gross evidence of hemoglobinuria per patient each month decreased from 3.0 
during screening to 0.2 (P < .001) during treatment. The median transfusion rate 
decreased from 1.8 U per patient each month before eculizumab treatment to 0.3 U 
per patient each month (P = .001) during treatment. Statistically significant 
improvements in quality-of-life measures were also maintained during the 
extension study. Eculizumab continued to be safe and well tolerated, and all 
patients completed the study. The close relationship between sustained terminal 
complement inhibition, hemolysis, and symptoms was demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2005-02-0564
PMID: 15985537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Pediatr Res. 2005 Jul;58(1):46-52. doi: 10.1203/01.PDR.0000163617.01673.9A.
Epub  2005 Jun 27.

Neonatal glucocorticosteroid treatment causes systolic dysfunction and 
compensatory dilation in early life: studies in 4-week-old prepubertal rats.

Bal MP(1), de Vries WB, van der Leij FR, van Oosterhout MF, Berger RM, Baan J, 
van der Wall EE, van Bel F, Steendijk P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Leiden University Medical Center, 2300 RC Leiden, 
The Netherlands.

Glucocorticosteroid treatment is widely used to prevent chronic lung disease in 
premature infants. Recent studies in adult rats, treated with dexamethasone in 
the neonatal period, report negative long-term effects on the heart and severely 
reduced life expectancy. We treated neonatal rats with dexamethasone and studied 
cardiac function after 4 wk (prepubertal age) to investigate whether the late 
effects as previously described are preceded by detectable alterations in 
cardiac function at a younger age. Male rat pups (n = 12) were injected 
intraperitoneally with dexamethasone on d 1, 2, and 3 (0.5, 0.3, and 0.1 mug/g) 
of life. Control pups (n = 10) received saline. At 4 wk the animals were 
anesthetized, and a pressure-conductance catheter was introduced into the left 
ventricle to measure pressure-volume loops. Cardiac function was measured and 
pressure-volume relations were determined to quantify intrinsic systolic and 
diastolic function. Subsequently, hearts were excised for histologic 
examination. Compared with saline-treated animals, dexamethasone-treated rats 
had a reduced ventricular weight (270 +/- 40 versus 371 +/- 23 mg, p < 0.001) 
and reduced systolic function (end-systolic elastance: 1.24 +/- 0.43 versus 2.50 
+/- 1.39 mm Hg/muL, p = 0.028). Cardiac output was maintained and end-diastolic 
volume was increased (84 +/- 23 versus 59 +/- 19 microL, p = 0.012) indicating a 
state of compensatory dilatation. Heart rate, diastolic function, and systemic 
vascular resistance were unchanged. Neonatal dexamethasone treatment causes 
cardiac alterations that can be detected in the prepubertal period and that may 
precede severe cardiac dysfunction later in life. If our findings are confirmed 
in humans, this may have consequences for a large patient population and cardiac 
screening at young age may be indicated to enable secondary prevention.

DOI: 10.1203/01.PDR.0000163617.01673.9A
PMID: 15985685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 2005 Sep;57(3):151-63.

Vascular access complications in daily dialysis: a systematic review of the 
literature.

Shurraw S(1), Zimmerman D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.

Patients treated for end stage renal disease (ESRD) have a shorter life 
expectancy and a poorer quality of life than the general population. In an 
attempt to improve outcomes for this patient population, a few novel therapeutic 
approaches have been undertaken. With hemodialysis, an increase in dialysis 
frequency and/or time has been associated with improvements in anemia, left 
ventricular hypertrophy, hypertension, hyperphosphatemia, nutrition and quality 
of life. Yet, access to these promising hemodialysis modalities has remained 
limited. The reasons for this are numerous, but one concern is the potential for 
more frequent vascular access complications with the increased frequency of 
cannulation for an arteriovenous fistula/graft and connection for a central 
venous catheter. In this systematic review of the literature, we identified all 
published studies that included 10 or more patients on daily hemodialysis and 
reported quantitative data pertaining to vascular access complications. Twelve 
studies met our inclusion criteria. The overall complication rates associated 
with vascular access do not appear to be increased and are perhaps even 
decreased with daily compared to conventional thrice-weekly hemodialysis. 
Arteriovenous fistulas are the vascular access of choice for daily hemodialysis; 
however, a non-statistically significant increased complication rate for these 
accesses was reported in 2 North American studies. The reasons for this are 
unclear and require further research.

PMID: 15986014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2005 Jun;80(6):331-8. doi: 
10.4321/s0365-66912005000600006.

[Orbital rhabdomyosarcoma: difficulties with European treatment protocol].

[Article in Spanish]

Olivier Pascual N(1), Calvo JM, Abelairas Gómez JM.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain. nurolpa@msn.com

PURPOSE, MATERIAL AND METHODS: To present the experience in management of 
orbital rhabdomiosarcoma over 21 years in our centre. Review of the 12 cases of 
paediatric rhabdomiosarcoma and results of treatment in terms of mortality and 
morbidity comparing our results with other studies.
RESULTS/CONCLUSION: Management of orbital rhabdomyosarcoma following the 
European Protocol leads to poor results compared with the American protocol. 
Early radiotherapy and complete tumoral excision could play a role in management 
of this tumour

DOI: 10.4321/s0365-66912005000600006
PMID: 15986273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2005 Jun 1;94(22):943-8. doi:
10.1024/0369-8394.94.22.943.

[Chronic pancreatis and pancreatic carcinoma in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Otte M(1).

Author information:
(1)Allgemeines Krankenhaus Wandsbek, II. Medizinische Abteilung, Abteilung für 
Gastroenterologie und Stoffwechselkrankheiten, Hamburg.

Chronic pancreatitis is mostly caused by heavy alcohol consumption and is 
characterized by the onset of symptoms in the fourth and fifth decade. Beginning 
in patients older than 65 years of age is rare. Leading symptom is recurrent or 
persisting abdominal pain which is missed only in approximately 5% of the cases. 
Chronic pancreatitis is classified as idiopathic if there is no anamnesis of 
alcohol abuse or some rare specific causes. The Idiopathic Chronic Senile 
Pancreatitis (ICSP) is a subset of the non-alcoholic pancreatitis and is 
characterized by advanced age at the time of first manifestation. Although life 
expectancy especially in chronic alcoholic pancreatitis is reduced, there are 
many patients who reach older age. The natural history in all forms of chronic 
pancreatitis shows a decrease in pain and the manifestation of exocrine and 
endocrine insufficiency as late complications. Especially in the elderly loss of 
weight may occur with steatorrhea and pancreatic diabetes mellitus as the 
dominating clinical problem of chronic pancreatitis. If pain persists treatment 
is symptomatically with analgesics. The possibility of causal surgery or the 
indication for endoscopic treatment of painful chronic pancreatitis should be 
proven in every single case. Standard pancreatin treatment consisting of large 
amounts of enzymes will abolish maldigestion. Pancreatic diabetes requires often 
insulin, there is a tendency to hypoglycaemia. In contrast to chronic 
pancreatitis cancer of the pancreas is a typical and frequent disease of the 
elderly. The prognosis is bad and one year life expectancy is just about 11%. 
One of the reasons is, that the diagnosis is found lately because early symptoms 
are missing. Specific symptoms like pain, weight loss or jaundice occur lately. 
In suspicion of pancreatic cancer a lot of methods of morphological diagnostic 
are available such as CT, MRCP, ultrasound, ERCP and PET, in addition the 
specific tumor markers CA 19-9 and CEA. After diagnostic is completed, curative 
resection is possible in only a low percentage of all cases. Old age is no 
contraindication for surgery, prognosis and the risk of surgery don't differ to 
other age groups. In most cases palliative therapy is the only possible option 
because of an advanced tumor stage. Sufficient pain therapy, endoscopic stenting 
in case of obstructive jaundice or gastroenterostomy in case of duodenal are 
useful interventions.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.94.22.943
PMID: 15986640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Demography. 2005 May;42(2):189-214. doi: 10.1353/dem.2005.0011.

Sex differences in morbidity and mortality.

Case A(1), Paxson C.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health and Wellbeing, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, 
USA.

Women have worse self-rated health and more hospitalization episodes than men 
from early adolescence to late middle age, but are less likely to die at each 
age. We use 14 years of data from the U.S. National Health Interview Survey to 
examine this paradox. Our results indicate that the difference in self-assessed 
health between women and men can be entirely explained by differences in the 
distribution of the chronic conditions they face. This is not true, however, for 
hospital episodes and mortality. Men with several smoking-related 
conditions--including cardiovascular disease and certain lung disorders--are 
more likely to experience hospital episodes and to die than women who suffer 
from the same chronic conditions, implying that men may experience more-severe 
forms of these conditions. While some of the difference in mortality can be 
explained by differences in the distribution of chronic conditions, an equally 
large share can be attributed to the larger adverse effects of these conditions 
on male mortality. The greater effects of smoking-related conditions on men's 
health may be due to their higher rates of smoking throughout their lives.

