

236. J Water Health. 2005 Jun;3(2):101-7.

An estimation of the global burden of disease due to skin lesions caused by 
arsenic in drinking water.

Fewtrell L(1), Fuge R, Kay D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research into Environment and Health, 5 Quakers Coppice, Crewe 
Gates Farm, Crewe, Cheshire CW1 6FA, UK. Lorna@creh.demon.co.uk

The global burden of disease due to skin lesions caused by arsenic in drinking 
water was estimated by combining country-based exposure data with selected 
exposure-response relationships derived from the literature. Populations were 
considered to be exposed to elevated arsenic levels if their drinking water 
contained arsenic concentrations of 50 microg I(-1) or greater. Elevated arsenic 
concentrations in drinking water result in a significant global burden of 
disease, even when confining the health outcome to skin lesions. The burden of 
disease was particularly marked in the World Health Organization (WHO) 
comparative risk assessment (CRA) 'Sear D' region, which includes Bangladesh, 
India and Nepal. Unsurprisingly, Bangladesh was the worst affected country with 
143 disability adjusted life years (DALYs) per 1,000 population. Although this 
initial estimate is subject to a large degree of uncertainty, it does represent 
an important first step in allowing the comparison of the problem relating to 
elevated arsenic in drinking water to other environmental health outcomes.

PMID: 16075937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2005;4(1):37-46. doi: 
10.2165/00148365-200504010-00006.

Using value of information analysis to inform publicly funded research 
priorities.

Ginnelly L(1), Claxton K, Sculpher MJ, Golder S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. lg116@york.ac.uk

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this article is to demonstrate the application and 
feasibility of using value of information analysis to help set priorities for 
research as part of the UK National Health Service (NHS) Health Technology 
Assessment Programme. Probabilistic decision analysis and value of information 
methods were applied to a research topic under consideration by the National 
Coordinating Centre for Health Technology Assessment (NCCHTA), in the UK. The 
case study presented considers whether long-term, low-dose antibacterial 
treatment of recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs) in children is effective 
and cost effective compared with short-term antibacterial therapy.
METHODS: A probabilistic decision-analytic model was developed, within which 
evidence from published sources was synthesised. Eight subgroups were considered 
and defined in terms of sex and presence of vesico-ureteral reflux (VUR). Costs 
were assessed from an NHS perspective, and benefits were expressed as 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Simulation methods were used to determine 
the probability that alternative therapies would be cost effective at a range of 
threshold values that the NHS may attach to an additional QALY. Value of 
information analysis was used to quantify the cost of uncertainty associated 
with the decision about which therapy to adopt, which indicates the maximum 
value of future research. The feasibility and practicality of using value of 
information methods to help inform research prioritization was evaluated.
RESULTS: At a threshold value for an additional QALY of 30,000 pound , long-term 
antibacterial treatment may be regarded as cost effective for all eight patient 
groups. There was, however, substantial uncertainty surrounding the choice of 
antibacterial.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: The use of value of information methods was feasible and 
could inform research prioritization for the NHS. In the context of this 
specific decision faced by the NHS, the results show that long-term low-dose 
antibacterials for preventing recurrent UTIs may be cost effective, based on 
current evidence. However, the analysis suggests that further primary research 
with longer follow-up may be worthwhile, particularly for girls with no VUR.

DOI: 10.2165/00148365-200504010-00006
PMID: 16076237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2005 Sep;68(17-18):1485-96. doi: 
10.1080/15287390590967423.

Estimation of burden of lead for offspring of female lead workers: a 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) assessment.

Chuang HY(1), Chao KY, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University Hospital, and School of Public Health, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan-ROC.

This study demonstrates an empirical example that uses quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) as a common metric for occupational health assessment to measure the 
utility loss of potential lead-exposed children delivered by female 
lead-battery-exposed workers. A set of nationwide health examination data was 
used for 1726 lead workers. Among them, there were 649 female workers. The 
numbers of offspring from female lead workers were estimated by multiplying the 
age-specific fertility rate (ASFR) by the number of workers in each age stratum. 
The quality of life assessment for these offspring was assumed impaired by 
increased absorption of lead using a measure of utility for quality of life that 
was adapted from Rosser's index of health-related quality of life. The total 
utility loss was calculated by summing up the loss of QALY for these expected 
offspring. Dose-response and exposure assessments were based on their mothers' 
blood lead levels. It was estimated that more than 38 babies were delivered in 1 
yr. There would be 19 babies born with blood lead levels over 30 microg/dl, and 
about 17 babies with blood lead between 10 and 29 microg/dl. The expected 
utility loss of the babies was estimated to be about 216 QALY, of which 51.6 
QALY was attributed to the babies with moderate blood lead level, while that of 
high blood lead was 164.4 QALY. An effective industrial hygiene program to 
reduce blood lead to 5, 10, and 15 microg/dl in female lead-exposed workers 
would decrease the utility loss to 169.5, 126.8, and 92.3 QALY, respectively, in 
the offspring. An alternative policy of raising the age of female workers by 5 
or 10 yr before employment would also reduce the loss to 174.6 or 107.4 QALY. 
Data suggest that an effective industrial hygiene program should be implemented, 
and the use of QALY as a common metric for comparative assessment of 
occupational health policy may be feasible.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390590967423
PMID: 16076761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Blood. 2005 Dec 15;106(13):4027-33. doi: 10.1182/blood-2005-04-1508. Epub
2005  Aug 2.

How I treat venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer.

Prandoni P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, 2nd Chair of Internal Medicine, 
University of Padua, Via Ospedale Civile 105, 35128-Padua, Italy. 
paoloprandoni@tin.it

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a frequent complication in cancer patients and 
represents an important cause of morbidity and mortality. Especially in patients 
who have a poor life expectancy, preventing death from pulmonary embolism is the 
mainstay of treatment. Critically ill patients should promptly be administered 
thrombolytic drugs. Except for selected patients requiring aggressive therapy, 
the initial VTE treatment should be conducted with either adjusted-dose 
unfractionated heparin or fixed-dose low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH). LMWHs 
have the potential to greatly simplify the initial treatment of VTE, making the 
treatment of suitable patients feasible in an outpatient setting. During 
anticoagulant therapy, cancer patients have a 2- to 4-fold higher risk of 
recurrent VTE and major bleeding complications when compared with noncancer 
patients. The long-term administration of LMWH should be considered as an 
alternative to anti-vitamin K drugs in patients with advanced disease and in 
those with conditions limiting the use of oral anticoagulants. Prolongation of 
anticoagulation should be considered for as long as the malignant disorder is 
active. The evidence of lowered cancer mortality in patients on LMWH has 
stimulated renewed interest in these agents as antineoplastic drugs and raises 
the distinct possibility that cancer and thrombosis share common mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2005-04-1508
PMID: 16076870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Physiol Pharmacol. 2005 Mar;56 Suppl 2:77-88.

Physiological ageing: role of p53 and PARP-1 tumor suppressors in the regulation 
of terminal senescence.

Wesierska-Gadek J(1), Ranftler C, Schmid G.

Author information:
(1)Cell Cycle Regulation Group, Department of Medicine I, Institute of Cancer 
Research, Vienna Medical University, Vienna, Austria. 
Jozefa.Gadek-Wesierski@meduniwien.ac.at

Ageing of organisms is among the most complex processes currently known. 
Understanding the molecular mechanism of physiological ageing is one of the most 
essential issues in biology and medicine because it is not possible to predict 
when and how a certain individual will start ageing. In the past centuries human 
life expectancies increased. Extension of life span is associated with increased 
susceptibility to a number of chronic diseases. Insight into the cellular and 
molecular targets of the ageing process would offer the opportunity to prevent 
at least some of the destructive processes. In the present paper the involvement 
of two tumor suppressor proteins: wild-type p53 and poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase-1 
(PARP-1) in the regulation of cellular senescence and physiological ageing was 
reviewed. Moreover, the interaction and cross-talk between p53 and PARP1-1 was 
discussed.

PMID: 16077192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Keio J Med. 2005 Jun;54(2):85-94. doi: 10.2302/kjm.54.85.

Latest advances in antiaging medicine.

Grossman T(1).

Author information:
(1)Frontier Medical Institute, Golden, Colorado, USA. terry@kurzweiltech.com

Rapid progress is being made in our ability to modify the aging process. Rather 
than serving as a period of debility and decreasing health, for many people, the 
later years of life are becoming a period of continued productivity, 
independence and good health. Progress is also being made in increasing average 
lifespan. The leading causes of death (cardiovascular disease, cancer, lung 
disease, diabetes) are the end result of decades-long processes. With current 
knowledge, it is possible to delay the onset of these diseases. This can be 
assisted by lifestyle choices incorporating healthful diet, exercise, stress 
management, and nutritional supplementation. Emerging genomics technology will 
allow individuals to establish personalized programs, while early detection of 
heart disease and cancer will contribute to longevity. Biotechnological 
therapies involving stem cells, recombinant DNA, proteomics, therapeutic cloning 
and gene-based therapies are expected to play major roles in promoting 
successful aging. We are at the threshold of artificial intelligence (AI) and 
nanotechnology (NT). AI will allow for a merging of our biological thinking with 
advanced forms of non-biological intelligence to vastly expand our ability to 
think, create and experience. NT will ultimately allow us to build devices able 
to build molecules much like our current cellular machinery does, one atom at a 
time. It is the goal of today's antiaging medicine to forestall disease and 
aging long enough for people to utilize the powerful biotechnology and 
nanotechnology therapies that will be developed over the decades ahead. These 
future therapies have the potential to greatly extend longevity.

DOI: 10.2302/kjm.54.85
PMID: 16077258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2005 Aug;130(2):295-302. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2004.11.001.

Reorganization of cytoskeletal proteins and prolonged life expectancy caused by 
hepatocyte growth factor in a hamster model of late-phase dilated 
cardiomyopathy.

Kondoh H(1), Sawa Y, Fukushima N, Matsumiya G, Miyagawa S, Kitagawa-Sakakida S, 
Memon IA, Kawaguchi N, Matsuura N, Matsuda H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Osaka University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: It has been postulated recently that changes in cytoskeletal and 
sarcolemmal proteins initiate a final common pathway for contractile dysfunction 
in dilated cardiomyopathy. In ischemic cardiomyopathy, hepatocyte growth factor 
plays an important role in reorganizing the impaired cytoskeletal proteins in 
several cell types. We have tested the hypothesis that hepatocyte growth factor 
might improve life expectancy through modification of the molecular process that 
contributes to impairment in dilated cardiomyopathy.
METHODS: Adult male 27-week-old BIO TO-2 hamsters, which show moderate cardiac 
remodeling, were divided into treatment groups that received (1) 
hemagglutinating virus of Japan liposomes containing human hepatocyte growth 
factor cDNA (H group), (2) culture medium (C group), or (3) sham operation (S 
group).
RESULTS: After the operation, echocardiography demonstrated that the enlarged 
left ventricular end-systolic dimension and decreased fractional shortening were 
significantly attenuated in the H group compared with the C group. There was 
significantly less myocardial fibrosis in the H group compared with the C group. 
Immunohistochemical analysis showed alpha-dystroglycan and alpha- and 
beta-sarcoglycan expression in the basement membrane beneath the cardiomyocytes 
in the H group, whereas no expression of these proteins was seen in the C group. 
The 40-week survival was significantly better in the H group than in the C and S 
groups.
CONCLUSION: An improved survival associated with transient reorganization of the 
cytoskeletal proteins and reduction in myocardial fibrosis was achieved by 
hepatocyte growth factor treatment in an adult hamster model of dilated 
cardiomyopathy. The results suggest a therapeutic potential of hepatocyte growth 
factor in the treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2004.11.001
PMID: 16077390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Can J Public Health. 2005 Mar-Apr;96 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S45-61. doi: 
10.1007/BF03403702.

The embodiment of inequity: health disparities in aboriginal Canada.

Adelson N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, York University, Toronto, ON. nadelson@yorku.ca

Health disparities are, first and foremost, those indicators of a relative 
disproportionate burden of disease on a particular population. Health inequities 
point to the underlying causes of the disparities, many if not most of which sit 
largely outside of the typically constituted domain of "health". The literature 
reviewed for this synthesis document indicates that time and again health 
disparities are directly and indirectly associated with social, economic, 
cultural and political inequities; the end result of which is a disproportionate 
burden of ill health and social suffering upon the Aboriginal populations of 
Canada. In analyses of health disparities, it is as important to navigate the 
interstices between the person and the wider social and historical contexts as 
it is to pay attention to the individual effects of inequity. Research and 
policy must address the contemporary realities of Aboriginal health and 
well-being, including the individual and community-based effects of health 
disparities and the direct and indirect sources of those disparities.

Les disparités sur le plan de la santé sont, d’abord et avant tout, les 
indicateurs d’un fardeau de maladie relatif disproportionné imposé à une 
population particulière. Les inégalités en matière de santé font ressortir les 
causes principales des disparités, dont un grand nombre–sinon la 
plupart–dépassent largement le domaine habituel que constitue la « santé ». Plus 
particulièrement, la documentation examinée en vue de rédiger le document de 
synthèse indique que maintes et maintes fois, les disparités sur le plan de la 
santé résultent directement et indirectement des inégalités sociales, 
économiques, culturelles et politiques, dont le résultat final est d’imposer un 
fardeau disproportionné de mauvaise santé et de souffrances sociales aux 
populations autochtones du Canada. Dans les analyses de ces disparités, il est 
important d’explorer tout le champ des relations entre les individus et les 
contextes sociaux et historiques plus larges, tout comme il convient de prêter 
attention aux effets individuels des iniquités. La recherche et les politiques 
doivent se pencher sur les réalités contemporaines de la santé et du bien-être 
des Autochtones, dont les effets individuels et communautaires des disparités 
sur le plan de la santé et leurs causes directes et indirectes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03403702
PMCID: PMC6975716
PMID: 16078555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Clin Infect Dis. 2005 Sep 1;41(5):634-53. doi: 10.1086/432579. Epub 2005 Jul
29.

Epidemiology and outcome of zygomycosis: a review of 929 reported cases.

Roden MM(1), Zaoutis TE, Buchanan WL, Knudsen TA, Sarkisova TA, Schaufele RL, 
Sein M, Sein T, Chiou CC, Chu JH, Kontoyiannis DP, Walsh TJ.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Oncology Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Zygomycosis is an increasingly emerging life-threatening infection. 
There is no single comprehensive literature review that describes the 
epidemiology and outcome of this disease.
METHODS: We reviewed reports of zygomycosis in the English-language literature 
since 1885 and analyzed 929 eligible cases. We included in the database only 
those cases for which the underlying condition, the pattern of infection, the 
surgical and antifungal treatments, and survival were described.
RESULTS: The mean age of patients was 38.8 years; 65% were male. The prevalence 
and overall mortality were 36% and 44%, respectively, for diabetes; 19% and 35%, 
respectively, for no underlying condition; and 17% and 66%, respectively, for 
malignancy. The most common types of infection were sinus (39%), pulmonary 
(24%), and cutaneous (19%). Dissemination developed in 23% of cases. Mortality 
varied with the site of infection: 96% of patients with disseminated disease 
died, 85% with gastrointestinal infection died, and 76% with pulmonary infection 
died. The majority of patients with malignancy (92 [60%] of 154) had pulmonary 
disease, whereas the majority of patients with diabetes (222 [66%] of 337) had 
sinus disease. Rhinocerebral disease was seen more frequently in patients with 
diabetes (145 [33%] of 337), compared with patients with malignancy (6 [4%] of 
154). Hematogenous dissemination to skin was rare; however, 78 (44%) of 176 
cutaneous infections were complicated by deep extension or dissemination. 
Survival was 3% (8 of 241 patients) for cases that were not treated, 61% (324 of 
532) for cases treated with amphotericin B deoxycholate, 57% (51 of 90) for 
cases treated with surgery alone, and 70% (328 of 470) for cases treated with 
antifungal therapy and surgery. By multivariate analysis, infection due to 
Cunninghamella species and disseminated disease were independently associated 
with increased rates of death (odds ratios, 2.78 and 11.2, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Outcome from zygomycosis varies as a function of the underlying 
condition, site of infection, and use of antifungal therapy.

DOI: 10.1086/432579
PMID: 16080086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Clin Infect Dis. 2005 Sep 1;41(5):738-43. doi: 10.1086/432621. Epub 2005 Jul
22.

Differences between infectious diseases-certified physicians and general 
medicine-certified physicians in the level of comfort with providing primary 
care to patients.

Fultz SL(1), Goulet JL, Weissman S, Rimland D, Leaf D, Gibert C, 
Rodriguez-Barradas MC, Justice AC.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, CT 06516, USA.

BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related mortality has decreased 
because of highly active antiretroviral therapy. As the life expectancy of 
HIV-infected patients has increased, the management of comorbid disease in such 
patients has become a more important concern. We examined the level of comfort 
self-reported by experts in HIV medicine with prescribing medications to 
HIV-infected patients for hyperlipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, and 
depression.
METHODS: As part of a larger project (the Veterans Aging Cohort Study), 
physicians at infectious diseases (ID) clinics and physicians at general medical 
(GM) clinics were asked to complete a survey requesting information about 
demographic characteristics, training and certification received, and 
self-reported comfort with prescribing medications for patients with 
hyperlipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, and/or depression. Comfort was rated 
using a 5-point Likert scale, with scores of 4-5 classified as "comfortable."
RESULTS: Of 150 attending physicians surveyed, 51 (34%) were ID certified, 33 
(22%) were GM certified but practicing at an ID clinic, and 66 were GM certified 
and practicing at a GM clinic. Comorbid conditions were common among 
HIV-infected patients treated at the ID clinics (22% of these patients had 
hyperlipidemia, 17% had diabetes, 40% had hypertension, and 27% had depression). 
However, comfort with treating these conditions was less among physicians at the 
ID clinic. For example, comfort treating patients with hyperlipidemia was 
greater for GM-certified physicians at GM clinics than for GM-certified 
physicians and ID-certified physicians at ID clinics (98% vs. 73% and 71%, 
respectively; P < .0001 for trend). A similar pattern was seen for treating 
patients with diabetes and hypertension (P < .0001). Comfort with treating 
patients with depression was generally lower, particularly among physicians at 
ID clinics (P < .0001).
CONCLUSIONS: We found that ID-certified physicians and GM-certified physicians 
at ID clinics reported less comfort prescribing medications for common comorbid 
conditions, compared with generalist physicians at GM clinics, despite a 
substantial prevalence of these conditions at the ID clinics. Methods are needed 
to increase physicians' level of comfort for prescribing treatment and/or to 
facilitate referral to other physicians for treatment.

DOI: 10.1086/432621
PMID: 16080098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. J Appl Biomech. 2005 May;21(2):129-42. doi: 10.1123/jab.21.2.129.

Comparison of elasticity of human tendon and aponeurosis in knee extensors and 
ankle plantar flexors in vivo.

Kubo K(1), Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Life Science, University of Tokyo, Komaba 3-8-1, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, 
Japan.

The purposes of this study were to compare the elasticity of tendon and 
aponeurosis in human knee extensors and ankle plantar flexors in vivo and to 
examine whether the maximal strain of tendon was correlated to that of 
aponeurosis. The elongation of tendon and aponeurosis during isometric knee 
extension (n = 23) and ankle plantar flexion (n = 22), respectively, were 
determined using a real-time ultrasonic apparatus, while the participants 
performed ramp isometric contractions up to voluntary maximum. To calculate the 
strain values from the measured elongation, we measured the respective length of 
tendon and aponeurosis. For the knee extensors, the maximal strain of 
aponeurosis (12.1 +/- 2.8 %) was significantly greater than that of the patella 
tendon (8.3 +/- 2.4 %), p < 0.001. On the contrary, the maximal strain of 
Achilles tendon (5.9 +/- 1.4 %) was significantly greater than that of 
aponeurosis in ankle plantar flexors (2.7 +/- 1.4 %), p < 0.001. Furthermore, 
for both knee extensors and ankle plantar flexors there was no significant 
correlation between maximal strain of tendon and aponeurosis. These results 
would be important for understanding the different roles of tendon and 
aponeurosis during human movements and for more accurate muscle modeling.

DOI: 10.1123/jab.21.2.129
PMID: 16082014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Pharmacol Sci. 2005 Aug;98(4):439-49. doi: 10.1254/jphs.fp0050078. Epub
2005  Aug 5.

Effects of [5-(2-methoxy-5-fluorophenyl)furan-2-ylcarbonyl]guanidine (KR-32560), 
a novel sodium/hydrogen exchanger-1 inhibitor, on myocardial infarct size and 
ventricular arrhythmias in a rat model of ischemia/reperfusion heart injury.

Park JW(1), Roh HY, Jung IS, Yun YP, Yi KY, Yoo SE, Kwon SH, Chung HJ, Shin HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biochemistry, Division of Life Science, College of 
Biomedical and Health Science, Konkuk University, Chungju 380-701, Korea.

The cardioprotective effects of the novel sodium/hydrogen exchanger-1 (NHE-1) 
inhibitor KR-32560 {[5-(2-methoxy-5-fluorophenyl)furan-2-ylcarbonyl]guanidine} 
were studied in an anesthetized rat model of 30-min ischemia / 2.5-h reperfusion 
heart injury. KR-32560 (0.01 - 1 microM) dose-dependently inhibited 
NHE-1-mediated rabbit platelet swelling induced by intracellular acidification. 
KR-32560 at 0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg (i.v. bolus, given 10 min before ischemia) reduced 
infarct size from 65.9% (control) to 49.7% and 32.7%, respectively, while 
reducing the extension of myocardial injury (mm(3)/g of left heart weight) from 
405.1 (control) to 302.9 and 185.4, respectively (all P<0.05 vs control). 
KR-32560 dose-dependently reduced the total number of ventricular premature 
beats (VPBs) during ischemia from 510.2 (control) to 353.8 and 134.2 beats (all 
P<0.05, n = 6), while reducing ventricular tachycardia (VT) incidence from 49.3 
(control) to 26.8 and 4.3 and VT duration from 249.2 s (control) to 150.5 and 
26.7 s (all P<0.05, n = 6). KR-32560 dose-dependently reduced ventricular 
fibrillation (VF) incidence from 19.0 (control) to 9.2 and 1.2 and VF duration 
from 88.0 s to 34.5 and 2.8 s (all P<0.05, n = 6). KR-32560 also exerted similar 
effects on reperfusion arrhythmias, except for VPBs. These results indicate that 
KR-32560 may exert significant cardioprotective effects in ischemia/reperfusion 
heart injury.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.fp0050078
PMID: 16082174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Arthritis Rheum. 2005 Aug 15;53(4):494-501. doi: 10.1002/art.21330.

Reductions in health-related quality of life in patients with ankylosing 
spondylitis and improvements with etanercept therapy.

Davis JC(1), van der Heijde D, Dougados M, Woolley JM.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. 
jdavis@medicine.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) on patient 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) relative to both the general US and 
chronically-ill populations, and to evaluate whether etanercept therapy can 
reverse impairments in HRQOL due to AS.
METHODS: Two AS patient populations were evaluated: patients with AS from a US 
clinical trial who were randomized to receive either etanercept (n = 20) or 
placebo (n = 20) for 16 weeks, and placebo-treated patients from a multinational 
sample who subsequently received etanercept (n = 129) during a 48-week, 
open-label extension study. A sample from the US general population and patients 
with other medical conditions derived from the National Survey of Functional 
Health Status were used as comparators to evaluate the relative impact of active 
AS on HRQOL, as measured by the Short Form 36 (SF-36) questionnaire.
RESULTS: At baseline, patients with AS in both the US and multinational samples 
had significantly lower scores than the US general population on all 8 SF-36 
scales. Compared with patients with other medical conditions, patients with AS 
had the lowest scores in the physical domains--Physical Functioning, Role 
Physical, and Bodily Pain. Impairments in SF-36 scores for psychosocial domains, 
such as Social Functioning, Role Emotional, and Mental Health, were somewhat 
less pronounced in patients with AS. Treatment with etanercept significantly 
improved the HRQOL of patients with AS on all 8 SF-36 scales, especially in the 
same physical domains that showed the greatest impairments prior to treatment 
(Physical Functioning, Role Physical, and Bodily Pain).
CONCLUSION: Patients with active AS despite conventional therapy have 
significantly reduced HRQOL across a wide range of domains. These reductions are 
most pronounced in the physical domains and exceed those seen in many other 
chronic diseases. Etanercept therapy significantly improves patient HRQOL, 
indicating that decrements in HRQOL due to AS may be at least partly reversible.

DOI: 10.1002/art.21330
PMID: 16082640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Exp Appl Acarol. 2005;36(1-2):1-14. doi: 10.1007/s10493-005-2381-5.

Influence of selected fruit tree pollen on life history of Euseius stipulatus 
(Acari: Phytoseiidae).

Bouras SL(1), Papadoulis GT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Zoology and Entomology, Agricultural University of 
Athens, 75 lera Odos St., 11855 Athens, Greece. bouras@aua.gr

Euseius stipulatus (Athias-Henriot) is a predatory mite widespread in the 
Mediterranean region considered to be important for the biological control of 
spider mites in citrus orchards. Development, survival and reproduction of this 
phytoseiid mite feeding on seven commercially obtained pollen were studied under 
constant laboratory conditions (20 +/- 1 degrees C, RH 65 +/- 5%, photoperiod 
16L: 8D h). Mites were kept individually at rearing units with ample quantity of 
almond (Prunus amygdalus Batch), apple (Malus domestica Borkh), apricot (Prunus 
armeniaca L.), cherry (Prunus avium L.), pear (Pyrus communis L.), plum (Prunus 
domestica L.) and walnut (Juglans regia L.) pollen as food source. Developmental 
time from egg to adult varied between the several pollen tested from 8.38 
+/-0.08 to 9.58 +/- 0.11 days for females and from 8.23 +/-0.12 and 9.07 +/-0.12 
days for males. Female longevity varied from 11.53 +/- 1.22 to 51.38 +/- 2.45 
days, while fecundity ranged from 22.84 +/- 2.30 to 43.61 +/- 3.78 eggs/female. 
The predator was unable to reproduce when feeding on walnut pollen. Data were 
submitted to life table analysis and values of the intrinsic rate of increase 
were derived, ranging from 0.079 to 0.146 (day(-1)). The cumulative Weibull 
function that was used to describe the age specific survival of females produced 
excellent fits to the survival data. Results show that almond, plum, cherry and 
apricot pollen possess higher nutritional value for E. stipulatus than pear and 
apple pollen and thus may contribute in sustaining and increasing the predator 
population in field conditions. Walnut pollen can be utilized by the predator 
only to survive during short periods of time when principal or alternative food 
sources are scarce.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-005-2381-5
PMID: 16082919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. J Med Assoc Thai. 2004 Sep;87 Suppl 2:S95-9.

The pectoralis major myocutaneous flap: applications and complications in head 
and neck reconstruction.

Wadwongtham W(1), Isipradit P, Supanakorn S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

Ninety-six pectoralis major myocutaneous flaps were used in the head and neck 
reconstruction of 93 patients who underwent extirpation of cancer. The 
utilization of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap included 50 tongue 
replacements, 19 hypopharynx and pharyngoesophageal closure, 11 oral mucosal 
closure and external skin replacement, 7 soft tissue coverage of the 
reconstruction plate, 3 soft tissue protection of the great vessels at the neck 
and 6 correction of the wound breakdown from failure of the other flap 
reconstruction. The major complication, which included total flap loss, partial 
skin paddle loss, orocutaneous fistula, dehiscence and plate exposure, was 
17.7%. The overall complication rate was 54.2% and most of them were healed by 
conservative management. The pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is feasible and 
reliable for immediate reconstruction of various defects in the head and neck 
area. The pectoralis major myocutaneous flap should be the suitable flap for the 
advanced-staged cancer patient with a limited life expectancy.

PMID: 16083170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Am J Med. 2005 Aug;118(8):850-7. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2005.03.001.

Lifetime implications and cost-effectiveness of using finasteride to prevent 
prostate cancer.

Zeliadt SB(1), Etzioni RD, Penson DF, Thompson IM, Ramsey SD.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Wash 98109, USA.

PURPOSE: We estimate the lifetime implications of daily treatment with 
finasteride following the results of the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial 
(PCPT). In this trial, prostate cancer prevalence was reduced by 25%; however, 
an increase in the number of high-grade tumors among the treatment group 
necessitates the long-term projection of the likely benefits and costs.
METHODS: We use a Markov decision analysis model with data from the trial, the 
SEER program, and published literature. The model measures the cost per 
life-year and cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained for a cohort of 
men age 55 years who initiate preventive treatment with finasteride.
RESULTS: Finasteride is associated with a gain of 6 life-years per 1000 men 
treated at an incremental cost of 1660000 dollars per life-year gained. The 
quality-adjusted analysis results in 46 QALYs gained per 1000 men treated at an 
incremental cost of 200000 dollars per QALY gained, due primarily to the 
favorable effects of finasteride on benign prostatic hyperplasia. Under the 
assumption that the increase in high-grade tumors observed among finasteride 
treated men is a pathologic artifact, the incremental costs are 290000 dollars 
per life-year gained and 130000 dollars per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost burden associated with finasteride is substantial, while 
its survival benefit is small and only realized many years after initiating 
treatment. To achieve an incremental cost below 100000 dollars per QALY gained, 
the price of finasteride must be reduced by 50% from its current average 
wholesale price and finasteride must be shown to prevent high-grade as well as 
low-grade disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2005.03.001
PMID: 16084177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2005 Sep-Oct;41(2):183-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2005.02.001. Epub 2005 Apr 18.

Colon resection in elderly patients: comparison of data of a single surgical 
department with collective data from the Czech Republic.

Gürlich R(1), Maruna P, Kalvach Z, Peskova M, Cermak J, Frasko R.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Department, Institute for Clinical and Experimental Medicine, 
Vídenská 1958/9, 140 21 Praha 4, Czech Republic; 1st Faculty of Medicine, 
Charles University, U Nemocnice 2, 128 08 Prague 2, Czech Republic. 
robert.gurlich@ikem.cz

Colorectal cancer is predominantly a disease of elderly people, since over 70% 
of cases occur in those aged 65 years or older. Clinicians have to frequently 
decide whether major surgery is justified in elderly patients with a limited 
life expectancy. Our retrospective study was aimed to compare outcomes of 
primary surgery for colorectal cancer in the elderly patient population. The 
evaluated data were collected from the 1st Department of Surgery, Charles 
University, and from all over the Czech Republic. Patients were divided into 
three groups: the young-old (21-59 years), the older-old (60-69 years), and the 
oldest-old (>69 years) patients. In the collective data the youngest and the 
oldest groups differ significantly in the rate of early postoperative 
complications (12.3% versus 17.6%, p<0.001). The number of complications 
associated with the emergency procedures was twice as high compared to elective 
surgery in all groups (p<0.001). There was no correlation between age and length 
of hospital stay in the single surgery department. These data suggest that major 
oncology procedures may be undertaken in older patients in whom operative risk 
is reasonable, with acceptable rates of complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2005.02.001
PMID: 16085070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 2005 Sep;34(3):643-58, ix. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecl.2005.04.004.

Hormonal and metabolic consequences of childhood obesity.

Artz E(1), Haqq A, Freemark M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes, Duke University Medical 
Center, Box 3080, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

It is apparent that chronic illnesses such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular 
disease originate in childhood. Obesity in childhood and adolescence hastens 
their development, enhances their rates of progression, increases the risks of 
severe complications, and if persistent, reduces life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecl.2005.04.004
PMID: 16085164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. DNA Repair (Amst). 2005 Nov 21;4(11):1295-305. doi: 
10.1016/j.dnarep.2005.06.014. Epub 2005 Aug 8.

The mechanism of base excision repair in Chlamydiophila pneumoniae.

Liu X(1), Liu J.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences and Technology, Shanghai Jiaotong University, No. 
1954 Hua-Shan Road, Shanghai 200030, China.

Repair of damaged DNA is of great importance in maintaining genome integrity, 
and there are several pathways for repair of damaged DNA in almost all 
organisms. Base excision repair (BER) is a main process for repairing DNA 
carrying slightly damaged bases. Several proteins are required for BER; these 
include DNA glycosylases, AP endonuclease, DNA polymerase, and DNA ligase. In 
some bacteria the single-stranded specific exonuclease, RecJ, is also involved 
in BER. In this research, six Chlamydiophila pneumoniae (C. pneumoniae) genes, 
encoding uracil DNA glycosylase (CpUDG), endonuclease IV (CpEndoIV), DNA 
polymerase I (CpDNApolI), endonuclease III (CpEndoIII), single-stranded specific 
exonuclease RecJ (CpRecJ), and DNA ligase (CpDNALig), were inserted into the 
expression vector pET28a. All proteins, except for CpDNALig, were successfully 
expressed in E. coli, and purified proteins were characterized in vitro. C. 
pneumoniae BER was reconstituted in vitro with CpUDG, CpEndoIV, CpDNApolI and E. 
coli DNA ligase (EcDNALig). After uracil removal by CpUDG, the AP site could be 
repaired by two BER pathways that involved in the replacement of either one 
(short patch BER) or multiple nucleotides (long patch BER) at the lesion site. 
CpEndoIII promoted short patch BER via its 5'-deoxyribophosphodiesterase 
(5'-dRPase) activity, while CpRecJ had little effect on short patch BER. The 
flap structure generated during DNA extension could be removed by the 
5'-exonuclease activity of CpDNApolI. Based on these observations, we propose a 
probable mechanism for BER in C. pneumoniae.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2005.06.014
PMID: 16085468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2005 
Aug;48(8):899-905. doi: 10.1007/s00103-005-1105-7.

[Physical activity, sport and successful aging].

[Article in German]

Mechling H(1).

Author information:
(1)Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn und Deutsche Sporthochschule, 
Köln. mechling@uni-bonn.de

The reasons for the increasing significance of physical activity and sports in 
the aging process and in higher ages are related to the socio-economic 
background. The biocultural context of the socio-demographic development, the 
understanding of sport for the elderly and successful aging is dealt with 
comprehensively. The main focus of the contribution is on the relationship 
between physical activity and life expectancy, physical fitness level, and 
cognitive and psychical health.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-005-1105-7
PMID: 16086201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. World J Surg. 2005 Sep;29(9):1093-100. doi: 10.1007/s00268-005-1130-6.

Should we deny surgery for malignant hepato-pancreatico-biliary tumors to 
elderly patients?

Petrowsky H(1), Clavien PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Visceral and Transplant Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, 
Raemistrasse 10, 8091 Zurich, Switzerland.

Malignant hepato-pancreatico-biliary (HPB) tumors have their highest incidence 
within the sixth to eighth decades of life. The aging of the world population 
has resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of elderly patients considered 
for resection of malignant HPB tumors. Because elderly patients are more likely 
to have more co-morbidities, cognitive impairment, and decreased life 
expectancy, the benefit and appropriateness of these procedures must be 
scrutinized for geriatric patients. Therefore, many surgeons have compared the 
perioperative and long-term outcome of hepatic and pancreatic resections for 
elderly and younger patients. In most series the elderly population was defined 
by an age of 70 years or older. The results demonstrate that hepatic resection 
for hepatocellular carcinoma and colorectal liver metastases can be safely 
performed in well-selected elderly patients with long-term outcome comparable to 
younger patients. Similar findings are also reported for pancreatic resection in 
elderly patients with either ampullary or pancreatic cancer. Although the 
survival benefit of pancreatico-duodenectomy is limited in all age groups, the 
absence of competitive therapy justifies this procedure as the sole curative 
option in younger as well as older patients. Data on resection of gallbladder 
cancer and hilar bile duct cancer in the elderly are sparse, but there is 
evidence from large series on resection of these types of tumors that advanced 
age per se is not a risk factor for reduced outcome. Therefore, surgical options 
should not be denied to elderly patients with a malignant HPB tumor, and the 
evaluation should include surgeons expert in HPB surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-005-1130-6
PMID: 16086216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Mol Imaging Biol. 2005 Sep-Oct;7(5):351-60. doi: 10.1007/s11307-005-0012-5.

Cost-effectiveness of positron emission tomography in breast cancer.

Sloka JS(1), Hollett PD, Mathews M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, 
Newfoundland A1B 4S1, Canada. p97jss@mun.ca

PURPOSE: In this study, we used quantitative decision tree modeling to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of a positron emission tomography (PET)-based management 
scenario for breast cancer in Canada.
PROCEDURES: Two patient management scenarios were compared (with and without 
PET). A metaanalysis of studies for the accuracy of PET in staging breast cancer 
was conducted. Life expectancies were calculated. Management costs were 
determined from previous cost-effective analyses, management costs from our 
institutions, and recently published Canadian cost estimates of various 
procedures.
RESULTS: A cost savings of $695 per person is expected for the PET strategy, 
with an increase in life expectancy (7.4 days), when compared with the non-PET 
strategy. This cost savings remained in favor of the PET strategy when subjected 
to a sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of a PET management strategy for the staging of breast 
cancer is expected to remain economically viable in Canada under various 
economic conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s11307-005-0012-5
PMID: 16086227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Can J Psychiatry. 2005 Jun;50(7):389-97.

Cost-utility of 2 maintenance treatments for older adults with depression who 
responded to a course of electroconvulsive therapy: results from a decision 
analytic model.

Aziz M(1), Mehringer AM, Mozurkewich E, Razik GN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. 
azizme@ucmail.uc.edu

OBJECTIVE: The prevalence of major depressive disorder (MDD) in 
community-dwelling elderly populations is 1% to 3%. After initial treatment of 
the acute phase of depression, only about 25% to 30% of elderly patients remain 
well after 1 to 3 years of follow-up. Previous studies suggested that patients 
who received maintenance electroconvulsive therapy (MECT) demonstrated lower 
relapse rates, a better subjective sense of well-being, and lower health care 
costs at 12-month follow-up. This study provides a cost-utility analysis of 2 
maintenance treatments for recurrent depression in elderly patients.
METHOD: We used a Markov decision model to compare maintenance pharmacotherapy 
(MPT) with MECT in a theoretical cohort of elderly individuals with MDD who 
responded to an initial course of ECT. We estimated total costs and total 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for each strategy as well as the cost per 
QALY.
RESULTS: The model produced a cost per patient of dollar 436,102 for MPT and 
dollar 281,356 for MECT. The MPT strategy yielded 7.55 QALYs and the MECT 
strategy yielded 11.43 QALYs. Therefore, MPT cost dollar 57,762 per QALY and 
MECT cost dollar 24,616 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Our model suggests that MECT may be more cost-effective than MPT in 
the maintenance treatment of older adults with depression who have responded to 
a course of acute ETC.

PMID: 16086536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Am Heart J. 2005 Aug;150(2):330-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.09.055.

Inhospital and 1-year mortality of patients who develop worsening renal function 
following acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction.

Goldberg A(1), Hammerman H, Petcherski S, Zdorovyak A, Yalonetsky S, Kapeliovich 
M, Agmon Y, Markiewicz W, Aronson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Rambam Medical Center, and Rappaport Medical 
School, Haifa, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have emphasized the prognostic value of baseline 
creatinine or estimated creatinine clearance in the setting of acute coronary 
syndromes. However, the prevalence and prognostic significance of worsening 
renal function (WRF) in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction 
are unknown.
METHODS: We studied 1038 patients presenting with acute ST-elevation infarction. 
WRF was defined as an increase of > or =0.5 mg/dL in creatinine level at any 
point during hospital stay. The relation between WRF and subsequent inhospital 
and 1-year mortality was analyzed by use of multivariate logistic regression and 
Cox proportional hazards models, respectively, controlling for covariates.
RESULTS: WRF occurred in 98 (9.6%) patients during hospital stay. Baseline renal 
dysfunction (calculated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min) and WRF were 
strong independent predictors of inhospital mortality (adjusted odds ratios 2.8, 
95% CI 1.3-5.9; and 11.4, 95% CI 6.6-19.5, respectively). In a Cox multivariate 
analysis, both baseline renal dysfunction (adjusted hazard ratio 2.8, 95% CI 
1.6-4.9) and WRF (adjusted hazard ratio 7.2, 95% CI 4.9-10.4) remained 
independent predictors of 1-year mortality. WRF provided incremental prognostic 
value toward the prediction of 1-year mortality when added to clinical risk 
predictors and baseline renal function. The increased mortality associated with 
impaired baseline renal function was largely caused by events occurring in 
patients with WRF.
CONCLUSION: WRF occurring during admission for ST-elevation myocardial 
infarction is a powerful and independent predictor of inhospital and 1-year 
mortality. Small elevations of serum creatinine may serve as a simple marker to 
identify patients at a very high risk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.09.055
PMID: 16086939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Acad Radiol. 2005 Aug;12(8):980-6. doi: 10.1016/j.acra.2005.04.013.

Management of patients with "ex vacuo" pneumothorax after thoracentesis.

Ponrartana S(1), Laberge JM, Kerlan RK, Wilson MW, Gordon RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Division of Interventional Radiology, University of 
California, San Francisco, 94143, USA.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: To determine clinical outcome in patients who 
developed "ex vacuo" pneumothorax following thoracentesis and to assess the 
benefit of chest tube placement for this complication.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed records of 282 patients who 
underwent 437 thoracenteses at a single institution during a 6-year period. We 
identified 34 patients (12.1%) who developed a pneumothorax following 39 
thoracenteses (8.8%) and then identified a subset of patients with pneumothorax 
"ex vacuo" defined as a moderate to large hydropneumothorax or small 
pneumothorax persisting for more than 3 days. Patient charts were reviewed to 
document the treatment strategy employed and subsequent clinical outcome, which 
included length of hospital stay, resolution of pneumothorax, reaccumulation of 
pleural effusion, and overall survival.
RESULTS: Ten patients developed "ex vacuo" pneumothroax following thoracentesis. 
None complained of significant worsening of symptoms following thoracentesis. 
Seven patients were treated by observation alone and 3 patients underwent tube 
thorocostomy. A decrease in size of the pneumothorax was observed in only 3 
patients, none of whom had a chest tube placed. Effusion completely 
reaccumulated in 7 patients. All 10 patients died during the follow-up period; 
the mean survival was 157 days (range: 13-402 days). Survival among patients 
treated by observation was 191.4 days versus 71.7 days for patients receiving 
chest tubes.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy for most patients who develop "ex vacuo" 
pneumothorax following therapeutic thoracentesis is short (<6 months). Chest 
tube placement is not necessary in asymptomatic patients and is unlikely to 
provide clinical benefit.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acra.2005.04.013
PMID: 16087092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Nov;126(11):1206-12. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.06.009.

Antioxidants do not explain the disparate longevity between mice and the 
longest-living rodent, the naked mole-rat.

Andziak B(1), O'Connor TP, Buffenstein R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, City College of New York, 138th St. and Convent 
Avenue, New York, NY 10031, USA.

The maximum lifespan of naked mole-rats (NMRs; Heterocephalus glaber) is greater 
than that of any other rodent. These hystricognaths survive in captivity >28 
years, eight-times longer than similar-sized mice. The present study tested if 
NMRs possess superior antioxidant defenses compared to mice and if age-related 
interspecies changes in antioxidants were evident. Activities of Cu/Zn 
superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn, SOD), Mn SOD, catalase and cellular glutathione 
peroxidase (cGPx) were measured in livers of physiologically equivalent 
age-matched NMRs (30, 75 and 130 months) and CB6F1 mice (4, 12 and 18 months). 
In mice, Mn SOD activity increased with age, while the activity of catalase and 
cGPx declined. None of the antioxidants changed with age in mole-rats. cGPx 
activity of NMRs was 70-times lower (p < 0.0001) than in mice, and resembled 
that of cGPx knock-out animals. NMRs may partially compensate for the lower cGPx 
when compared to mice, by having moderately higher activities of the other 
antioxidants. It is nonetheless unlikely that antioxidant defenses are 
responsible for the eight-fold longevity difference between these two species. 
Maintenance of constant antioxidant defenses with age in NMRs concurs with 
previous physiological data, suggesting delayed aging in this species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.06.009
PMID: 16087218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2005 Jun;30(3):327-65; discussion 367-73. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-30-3-327.

When health policy is the problem: a report from the field.

Spitz B(1), Abramson J.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, USA.

We often think of health policy and health services research as offering 
solutions to cost, quality, and access problems. Many of us see health policy as 
simply ineffective. But any activity that has the power to cure can also do 
harm. Is it possible that the health policy enterprise has contributed to the 
very problems it has been attempting to eliminate? We argue that it has. 
Reasonable assumptions have led to a series of solutions that have provided 
political cover for those vested in the status quo. This process is nonpartisan, 
with those of us on the left and the right unintentionally and inadvertently 
contributing to the problems we are so committed to solving.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-30-3-327
PMID: 16089109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2005 May;71(5 Pt 1):052801. doi: 
10.1103/PhysRevE.71.052801. Epub 2005 May 20.

Elasticity and stability of a helical filament.

Zhou Z(1), Lai PY, Joós B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics and Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, Tamkang 
University, Tamsui, Taiwan 251, Republic of China. zzhou@mail.tku.edu.tw

Erratum in
    Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2006 Mar;73(3 Pt 2):039910.

We derive the general shape equations in terms of Euler angles for a uniform 
