regimens, due to the associated reduction in ESRD cases. Cost savings with 
irbesartan became evident very early; after 2-3 years of treatment in most 
settings.
CONCLUSIONS: Modelling studies based on the IDNT published to date suggest that 
irbesartan treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertension and advanced 
nephropathy is both life- and cost-saving compared to amlodipine or control.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfh802
PMID: 15855214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Am J Public Health. 2005 May;95(5):844-50. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.040907.

Disparities in indigenous health: a cross-country comparison between New Zealand 
and the United States.

Bramley D(1), Hebert P, Tuzzio L, Chassin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Mount Sinai Medical School, NY, USA. 
dale.bramley@waitematadhb.govt.nz <dale.bramley@waitematadhb.govt.nz>

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 2006 Jan;96(1):8; author reply 8-9.

OBJECTIVES: We compared the health statuses of the indigenous populations of New 
Zealand and the United States with those of the numerically dominant populations 
of these countries.
METHODS: Health indicators compared included health outcome measures, preventive 
care measures, modifiable risk factor prevalence, and treatment measures.
RESULTS: In the case of nearly every health status indicator assessed, 
disparities (both absolute and relative) were more pronounced for Maoris than 
for American Indians/Alaska Natives. Both indigenous populations suffered from 
disparities across a range of health indicators. However, no disparities were 
observed for American Indians/Alaska Natives in regard to immunization coverage.
CONCLUSIONS: Ethnic health disparities appear to be more pronounced in New 
Zealand than in the United States. These disparities are not necessarily 
intractable. Although differences in national health sector responses exist, New 
Zealand may be well placed in the future to evaluate the effectiveness of new 
strategies to reduce these disparities given the extent and quality of 
Maori-specific health information available.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.040907
PMCID: PMC1449267
PMID: 15855464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Int J Clin Pract. 2005 Mar;59(3):376-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2004.00246.x.

Acute myocardial infarction and rescue percutaneous transluminal coronary 
angioplasty in a young HIV-infected patient.

Saporito F(1), Micari A, Raffa S, Cerrito M, Micari G, Grassi R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine and Pharmacology, University 
of Messina School of Medicine, Messina, Italy. francosaporito@tiscali.it

We report a case of acute myocardial infarction in an HIV-infected patient 
without significant coronary artery disease (CAD) risk factors. The patient 
underwent rescue percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), with a 
successful outcome. We presume a possible pathogenetic role of anti-retroviral 
therapy and/or direct viral action on ischaemic heart disease progression. We 
propose that the current approach to management of AIDS-affected patients needs 
close monitoring for CAD risk factors and symptoms, to improve prognosis and 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2004.00246.x
PMID: 15857340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Clin Genet. 2005 Jun;67(6):468-75. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2005.00448.x.

Demented flies? Using Drosophila to model human neurodegenerative diseases.

Michno K(1), van de Hoef D, Wu H, Boulianne GL.

Author information:
(1)Program in Developmental Biology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

The success of biomedical research in the past few decades has led to dramatic 
improvements in human health and, as a result, increased life expectancy. An 
unexpected consequence, however, has been an increase in the number of 
age-related diseases and, in particular, neurodegenerative diseases. Despite 
their prevalence, a therapeutic void exists in part due to an incomplete 
understanding of the biochemical pathogenesis of these diseases. A powerful 
method that can be used to understand the basic mechanisms underlying 
neurodegenerative diseases is to generate animal models based on manipulating 
the expression of single genes that are disease causative. This approach has 
been facilitated by the fact that many neurodegenerative diseases are inherited 
as autosomal dominant traits such that expression of the mutant gene in a model 
organism might be expected to recapitulate the disease. During the past few 
years, the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has emerged as a powerful tool to 
model human neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we describe the various approaches 
utilized to create fly models of human neurodegenerative disease, and how they 
can aid in our understanding of disease pathogenesis and facilitate drug 
discovery and testing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2005.00448.x
PMID: 15857410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Epilepsia. 2005 May;46(5):751-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.52704.x.

Cost-effectiveness of first-line antiepileptic drug treatments in the developing 
world: a population-level analysis.

Chisholm D(1); WHO-CHOICE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health System Financing, and Department of Mental Health and 
Substance Abuse, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. 
ChisholmD@who.int

PURPOSE: To establish the population-level costs and cost-effectiveness of 
first-line antiepileptic drug (AED) treatments for reducing the treatment gap in 
developing countries.
METHODS: A population model was applied to nine World Health Organization (WHO) 
developing subregions to estimate the impact of four first-line AEDs in the 
primary care management of (ICD-10 defined) idiopathic epilepsy and epileptic 
syndromes: phenobarbitone (PB), phenytoin (PHT), carbamazepine (CBZ), and 
valproic acid (VPA). The efficacy of treatment was gauged in terms of 
improvements to both disability and recovery, subsequently adjusted for 
treatment coverage, response, and adherence. Total population-level treatment 
effects (measured in disability-adjusted life years or DALYs averted) and 
treatment costs (measured in international dollars; IUS dollars) were combined 
to form ratios of cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Across nine developing WHO subregions, extending AED treatment coverage 
to 50% of primary epilepsy cases would avert between 150 and 650 DALYs per one 
million population (equivalent to 13-40% of the current burden), at an annual 
cost per capita of IUS dollars 0.20-1.33. Older first-line AEDs (PB, PHT) were 
most cost-effective on account of their similar efficacy but lower acquisition 
cost (IUS dollars 800-2,000 for each DALY averted).
CONCLUSIONS: A significant proportion of the current burden of epilepsy in 
developing countries is avertable by scaling-up the routine availability of 
low-cost AEDs. Critical factors in the successful implementation of such a 
scaled-up level of service delivery, apart from renewed political support and 
investment, relate to appropriate training and continuity of drug supply.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2005.52704.x
PMID: 15857443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2005 Jun;16(6):1859-65. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2004121092. Epub
2005  Apr 27.

Impact of cadaveric renal transplantation on survival in patients listed for 
transplantation.

Oniscu GC(1), Brown H, Forsythe JL.

Author information:
(1)Transplant Unit, The New Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, Little France 
Crescent, Old Dalkeith Road, Edinburgh, EH16 4SA United Kingdom. 
gabriel@oniscu.fsnet.co.uk

The aim of this study was to assess the magnitude of the survival benefit of 
renal transplantation compared with dialysis in patients selected for 
transplantation in Scotland. Longitudinal study of survival and mortality risk 
in all adult patients (1732) listed for a first transplant between January 1, 
1989, and December 31, 1989, in Scotland. A time-dependent Cox regression 
analysis adjusted for comorbidity, sociodemographic and geographic factors, 
primary renal disease, time on dialysis, and year of listing compared the risk 
of death for patients receiving a first cadaveric transplant versus all patients 
on dialysis listed for transplantation. After adjustment for the covariates, the 
relative risk (RR) of death during the first 30 days after transplantation was 
1.35 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.63 to 2.86) compared with patients on 
dialysis (RR = 1). The long-term RR (at 18 mo) for the transplant recipients was 
0.18 (95% CI, 0.08 to 0.42) when compared with patients on dialysis (RR = 1). 
This lower long-term risk of death was present in all patients undergoing 
transplantation, irrespective of their age group or primary renal disease. 
Similar results were seen when survival with a transplant was censored for graft 
failure. The projected life expectancy with a transplant was 17.19 yr compared 
with only 5.84 yr on dialysis. Despite an initial higher risk of death, 
long-term survival for patients who undergo transplantation is significantly 
better compared with patients who are listed but remain on dialysis. A 
successful transplant triples the life expectancy of a listed renal failure 
patient.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2004121092
PMID: 15857921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Radiology. 2005 May;235(2):711-2; author reply 712-3. doi: 
10.1148/radiol.2352041817.

Conventional angiography remains an important tool for measurement of carotid 
arterial stenosis.

Derdeyn CP.

Comment on
    Radiology. 2004 Oct;233(1):101-12.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2352041817
PMID: 15858110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Apr 27;2005(17):pe11. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.17.pe11.

The art and science of anti-aging therapies.

Trojanowski JQ(1), Jedrziewski MK, Johnson B, Whitaker LA.

Author information:
(1)Institute on Aging and the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. 
trojanow@mail.med.upenn.edu

A meeting entitled "The Art and Science of Anti-Aging Therapies: Convergence of 
Theory and Practice" took place on 18 and 19 March 2005 at the University of 
Pennsylvania School of Medicine. The symposium was held for health care 
professionals, researchers, and consumers to provide them with information about 
current trends in anti-aging therapies. The program, which combined medical, 
surgical, and nonpharmacological approaches to healthy successful aging, gave 
attendees the opportunity to make sense of the issues at hand and to sort out 
safe treatments from perilous quick fixes.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.17.pe11
PMID: 15858213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Cancer Pract. 1995 Nov-Dec;3(6):351-5.

Do people with cancer postpone death to celebrate special occasions?

Brown JK(1), Knapp TR.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 
14214, USA.

Several researchers have claimed that a connection exists between deathdays and 
birthdays or other special occasions. Some people, especially women, appear to 
postpone death until after their birthdays or other special occasions to 
celebrate these events one more time. The purpose of this retrospective study 
was to determine if a deathday-birthday or deathday-Christmas connection was 
evident in cancer-related deaths. Data were obtained from the Rochester (New 
York) Regional Tumor Registry (N = 2566), the New York State Cancer Registry (N 
= 50,562), and the Ohio State Department of Health (N = 73,907) for three 
samples of individuals who died from cancer. Only a few deathday-birthday 
connections were evident. However, these connections were not replicated across 
states and years.

PMID: 15859165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Ann Ital Med Int. 2005 Jan-Mar;20(1):28-38.

[Paraneoplastic syndromes: pathogenetic theories, clinical aspects and 
therapeutic approach].

[Article in Italian]

Ngonga GF(1), Ferrari D, Lorusso L, Gasparetto C, Neznama E, D'Abramo M, 
Ricevuti G.

Author information:
(1)UO di Neurologia, AO Mellino Mellini di Chiari, BS.

Paraneoplastic syndromes are uncommon diseases with different pathogenesis and 
clinical manifestations, correlated with neoplasms but not due to the tumor, 
metastasis or other distant effects. The aim of the present article is to 
describe the main paraneoplastic syndromes (neurological, endocrine-metabolic, 
rheumatological, osteo-articular, dermatological, hematological, vascular and 
nephrological), the associated pathogenetic theories (theory of the common 
embryonal sketches, theory of reactivation of the information and autoimmune 
theory) and the most important therapeutic approaches, on the basis of the 
literature. Experimental works, reviews and clinical observations, in some cases 
still in progress, regarding the described syndromes, their pathogenesis and 
their therapeutic approach have been examined. No meta-analyses regarding 
paraneoplastic syndromes have been published in the literature. The better 
described pathogenesis is the autoimmune one, characteristic of neurological, 
nephrologic and some dermatologic syndromes, for which the clinical and 
laboratory findings have been well supported. The pathogenetic theories 
associated with the other syndromes have been correlated on the basis of the 
literature. Paraneoplastic syndromes are important because their identification 
permits an early diagnosis of tumors and rapid treatment, with a largely 
improved prognosis and life expectancy for the patient. They often represent the 
only signal of a silent neoplasm; sometimes they precede the tumor itself. More 
studies are necessary for a better definition of their clinical aspects and 
pathogenesis and to delineate standard guidelines for a diagnostic-therapeutic 
approach to these diseases.

PMID: 15859392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Huan Jing Ke Xue. 2005 Jan;26(1):168-72.

[Loss of life expectancy analysis for cancer risk in Tianjin area].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang Y(1), Hu JY, Tao S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Earth Surface Processes, College of Environmental Sciences, 
Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

Loss of Life Expectancy was proposed as the single metric for health risk 
assessment. Based on the statistical data of population in Tianjin, it was 
calculated that the unit cancer risk (10(-5)) equivalents to 58.47 and 66.82 
minutes of life expectancy loss for male and female, respectively. The results 
depend strongly on the background rate of cancer, with little response for 
associated parameters.

PMID: 15859431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. JAAPA. 2005 Apr;18(4):45-6, 48, 51-2. doi: 10.1097/01720610-200504000-00006.

Medical management of the adult patient with Down syndrome.

Galley R(1).

Author information:
(1)La Familia Medical Center, Santa Fe, NM, USA.

Longer life expectancy and relative independence among people with Down syndrome 
mean a unique ambulatory population for the family practice setting. How can you 
best address the medical needs of these patients?

DOI: 10.1097/01720610-200504000-00006
PMID: 15859488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. J Palliat Med. 1999 Winter;2(4):397-402. doi: 10.1089/jpm.1999.2.397.

Quality of life in advanced ovarian cancer: identifying specific concerns.

Houck K(1), Avis NE, Gallant JM, Fuller AF Jr, Goodman A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA. khouck@partners.org

PURPOSE: To identify issues affecting the quality of life (QoL) in women 
receiving palliative therapy for ovarian cancer.
METHODS: Twenty women with advanced recurrent ovarian cancer were interviewed to 
establish what issues affect QoL. All patients were receiving palliative 
chemotherapy or other palliative therapy in the department of Gynecologic 
Oncology at the Massachusetts General Hospital, and were felt to have a life 
expectancy of 1 year or less by best clinical estimate.
RESULTS: Twenty patients with an average age of 56.7 years participated. 
Psychosocial issues were more common than physical ones, and patients were more 
likely to mention issues that positively impact on QoL rather than those with a 
negative effect. Most patients noted that a sense of hope, enhanced appreciation 
for day to day life, and a strong support system had a significantly positive 
effect on QoL. Issues negatively impacting QoL included fear of their disease 
(90%) and concern for family and friends (100%), particularly children. Most 
common physical symptoms impacting QoL included fatigue (100%) and anorexia 
(55%).
CONCLUSIONS: Little research has been done into QoL issues for ovarian cancer 
patients receiving palliative care. Available QoL studies tend to focus on the 
physical aspects of a disease or its treatment. This pilot study suggests that 
women with advanced, recurrent ovarian cancer feel that psychosocial issues play 
a greater role in determining QoL than do physical issues. Further QoL studies 
for these patients should include assessment of psychosocial realms. This 
information can then be used to design interventions to improve QoL.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.1999.2.397
PMID: 15859780


731. J Palliat Med. 1998 Fall;1(3):277-83. doi: 10.1089/jpm.1998.1.277.

Radionuclide therapy for palliation of pain due to osteoblastic metastases.

Hellman RS(1), Krasnow AZ.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA.

Beta-emitting, bone-seeking radiopharmaceuticals, administered systemically, 
represent a good alternative or adjuvant to external beam radiotherapy for 
palliation of painful osteoblastic bone metastases. The most frequently used 
radiopharmaceutical for this purpose is strontium 89, followed by samarium 153 
ethylenediaminetetramethylene phosphonate, and infrequently phosphorus 32 
orthophosphate. Prior to consideration for radionuclide therapy, recent bone 
scans should be evaluated in order to determine if the patient has painful 
osteoblastic lesions likely to respond to therapy. Approximately 70% of patients 
with prostate and breast cancer will have a reduction in pain in response to 
radionuclide therapy, beginning within 2 to 4 weeks and lasting between 2 and 6 
months. Patients who are expected to live 3 or more months are more likely to 
benefit than patients with shorter duration life expectancy. Hematosuppression 
is the chief side effect of radionuclide therapy, with leukopenia and 
thrombocytopenia more likely to be clinically significant than anemia. Relative 
contraindications for treatment include osteolytic lesions, pending spinal cord 
compression or pathologic fracture, preexisting severe myelosuppression, urinary 
incontinence, inability to follow radiation safety precautions, and severe renal 
insufficiency.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.1998.1.277
PMID: 15859838


732. J Palliat Med. 1998 Spring;1(1):65-72. doi: 10.1089/jpm.1998.1.65.

Management of malignant bowel obstruction in advanced cancer: a brief review.

Rousseau P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics and Extended Care, VA Medical Center, Phoenix, 
Arizona 85310, USA.

Malignant bowel obstruction is an odious complication of numerous malignancies, 
most notably ovarian and colorectal cancers. It reduces quality of life and 
promotes considerable physical and emotional suffering, precluding a peaceful 
and comfortable death and deterring appropriate familial bereavement. Palliative 
management of bowel obstruction includes operative and nonoperative strategies, 
with therapeutic selection based on patient preference and anticipated life 
expectancy. Available therapies include laparotomy, enteral intubation, 
intravenous and subcutaneous hydration, parenteral nutrition, and pharmacologic 
agents.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.1998.1.65
PMID: 15859873


733. Int J Cardiol. 2005 May 11;101(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2004.03.066.

Treatment of refractory angina pectoris.

Gowda RM(1), Khan IA, Punukollu G, Vasavada BC, Nair CK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Long Island College Hospital, Brooklyn, NY, USA.

Refractory angina pectoris is defined as Canadian Cardiovascular Society class 
III or IV angina, where there is marked limitation of ordinary physical activity 
or inability to perform ordinary physical activity without discomfort, with an 
objective evidence of myocardial ischemia and persistence of symptoms despite 
optimal medical therapy, life style modification treatments, and 
revascularization therapies. The patients with refractory angina pectoris may 
have diffuse coronary artery disease, multiple distal coronary stenoses, and or 
small coronary arteries. In addition, a substantial portion of these patients 
cannot achieve complete revascularization and continue to experience residual 
anginal symptoms that may impair quality of their life and increase morbidity. 
This represents an end-stage coronary artery disease characterized by a severe 
myocardial insufficiency usually with impaired left ventricular function. As the 
life expectancy is increasing, patients with angina pectoris refractory to 
conventional antianginal therapeutics are a challenging problem. We review the 
nonconventional therapies to treat the refractory angina pectoris, including 
pharmacotherapy, therapeutic angiogenesis, transcutaneus electrical nerve and 
spinal cord stimulation, enhanced external counterpulsation, surgical 
transmyocardial laser revascularization, percutaneous transmyocardial laser 
revascularization, percutaneous in situ coronary venous arterializations, and 
percutaneous in situ coronary artery bypass. These therapies are not supported 
by a large body of data and have only a complementary role; therefore, the 
aggressive traditional and proven treatment of angina pectoris should be 
continued along with these therapies, used on an individual basis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2004.03.066
PMID: 15860376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. BMJ. 2005 Apr 30;330(7498):1016-21. doi: 10.1136/bmj.330.7498.1016.

Health inequalities and New Labour: how the promises compare with real progress.

Shaw M(1), Davey Smith G, Dorling D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 2PR. 
Mary.Shaw@bristol.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 25;330(7506):1507; author reply 1507-8.
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 25;330(7506):1507; author reply 1507-8.

Inequalities in health between rich and poor areas of Britain widened in the 
1980s and 1990s, and the current government has repeatedly expressed its 
intention to reduce these inequalities. In this article, however, the authors 
report that inequalities in life expectancy have continued to widen, alongside 
widening inequalities in income and wealth, and argue that more potent and 
redistributive policies are needed

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.330.7498.1016
PMCID: PMC557156
PMID: 15860830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 May;45(5):903-11. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.01.038.

The long-term prognosis of renal transplantation in patients with lupus 
nephritis.

Moroni G(1), Tantardini F, Gallelli B, Quaglini S, Banfi G, Poli F, Montagnino 
G, Meroni P, Messa P, Ponticelli C.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Nefrologia e Dialisi, Centro Trasfusionale e di Immunologia dei 
Trapianti IRCCS, Ospedale Maggiore Milano, Italy. gmoroni@policlinico.mi.it

BACKGROUND: Few data are available about the long-term outcome of renal 
transplantation in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
METHODS: Between June 1982 and 2004, a total of 33 adults with lupus nephritis 
received 35 kidney allografts. Outcomes of these grafts and those of 70 controls 
matched for age, sex, and donor source who underwent transplantation during the 
same period were compared.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up after renal transplantation was 91 +/- 59 months for 
patients with lupus and 90 +/- 64 months for controls. Actuarial 15-year patient 
(80% versus 83%) and death-censored graft survival rates (69% versus 67%) were 
not significantly different between patients with lupus and controls. Risks for 
acute and chronic rejection, arterial hypertension, and infection were not 
different between the 2 groups. Mean serum creatinine levels also were similar 
in the 2 groups at the last follow-up visit. Intravascular thrombotic events 
occurred in 9 patients with SLE (26%) and 6 controls (8.6%; P = 0.038). In the 
SLE group, 6 of 7 antiphospholipid (aPL) antibody-positive versus 3 of 17 aPL 
antibody-negative patients experienced thrombotic events ( P = 0.015). 
Recurrence of lupus nephritis was documented in 3 renal grafts (8.6%), but no 
graft was lost because of recurrent lupus nephritis.
CONCLUSION: Long-term patient and graft survival probabilities were similar in 
patients with SLE and matched controls. The risk for thrombotic complications 
was greater in patients with SLE, particularly aPL-positive patients. Nephritis 
recurred in less than 10% of patients with SLE and did not influence graft 
survival.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.01.038
PMID: 15861356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Aust Fam Physician. 2005 Apr;34(4):213.

Things are not always as they seem.

Parsons J.

PMID: 15861734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Clin Ter. 2004 Nov-Dec;155(11-12):547-52.

[Old age: ethical and psychological perspectives].

[Article in Italian]

Binetti P(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento per l'innovazione educativa e didattica, campus Bio-Medico, 
Roma, Italia.

PREMISED: The extension of the average life and the contraction of the births 
have generated a negative evaluation of the future social models. The old age is 
seen more as a problem than as possible resource, more as something to be 
frightened from than something belonging to all of us.
ANALYSIS OF THE PROBLEM: The current study aims at overturning this negative 
point of view that sees senility as a continuous recourse to Medicine and not as 
a progressive resource investment, seems to be dominating today the relation of 
care witch seems the old aged needing is a connection point in dialogue among 
generation opens new possibilities of interaction. For this reason it is 
important to understand the meaning of senility for the cognitive point of view 
grasping the elements of specific richness that are important to keep obtaining 
a new point of view of the old age.
CONCLUSION: Bioethics and psychology can help induce to think that senility is 
that phase of life in which the subject nevertheless all the psycho-physical 
limitations, individualises the answer to important questions of life and death, 
that are removed when the pragmatic realization is more pursuing.

PMID: 15861970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. J Biomech. 2005 Jun;38(6):1213-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2004.06.012.

In vivo passive mechanical properties of the human gastrocnemius muscle belly.

Muraoka T(1), Chino K, Muramatsu T, Fukunaga T, Kanehisa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan. muraoka@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of the present study was to determine the in vivo passive mechanical 
properties, including the length below the slack length, of the gastrocnemius 
muscle (GAS) belly in humans. Transverse ultrasound images of the medial head of 
the GAS were taken in 11 subjects during passive knee extension from 80 degrees 
to 5 degrees with a constant ankle joint angle of 10 degrees (0 degrees is the 
neutral ankle position: positive values for dorsiflexion). The change in passive 
ankle joint moment (Mp), which is produced only by the GAS length change, was 
also measured during passive knee extension. The onset of Mp during passive knee 
extension was found to be 43+/-8 degrees (mean+/-SD) when the baseline of the Mp 
was set at the average Mp in the range of 55-60 degrees where the Mp was almost 
constant (SD<0.03 Nm). At this onset, the muscle fascicle length of the GAS (Lf) 
was 46+/-7 mm (slack length; Lfs). Lf at 80 degrees was 6+/-4 mm (13+/-6%) less 
than the Lfs, and Lf at 5 degrees was 12+/-5 mm (27+/-11%) greater than the Lfs. 
The passive force-resisting compression of the GAS did not produce a 
dorsiflexion moment in the joint angle range adopted. The passive ankle joint 
moment increased linearly with Lf (coefficient of determination (R2)=0.85-0.96), 
and the slopes of the relationships between Lf and Mp, and between the relative 
Lf to Lfs and Mp were 0.093+/-0.038 Nm/mm and 0.043+/-0.021 Nm/%Lfs. The 
findings of the present study can be implemented in musculoskeletal modeling, 
which would provide a more accurate evaluation of the passive mechanical 
properties of muscle during movement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2004.06.012
PMID: 15863105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2005
Jun;191(6):529-34.  doi: 10.1007/s00359-005-0620-1. Epub 2005 Apr 29.

Parasitoid wasp affects metabolism of cockroach host to favor food preservation 
for its offspring.

Haspel G(1), Gefen E, Ar A, Glusman JG, Libersat F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Zlotowski Center for Neuroscience, Ben-Gurion 
University of the Negev, P.O. Box 653, Beer-Sheva, 84105, Israel.

Unlike predators, which immediately consume their prey, parasitoid wasps 
incapacitate their prey to provide a food supply for their offspring. We have 
examined the effects of the venom of the parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa on 
the metabolism of its cockroach prey. This wasp stings into the brain of the 
cockroach causing hypokinesia. We first established that larval development, 
from egg laying to pupation, lasts about 8 days. During this period, the 
metabolism of the stung cockroach slows down, as measured by a decrease in 
oxygen consumption. Similar decreases in oxygen consumption occurred after 
pharmacologically induced paralysis or after removing descending input from the 
head ganglia by severing the neck connectives. However, neither of these two 
groups of cockroaches survived more than six days, while 90% of stung 
cockroaches survived at least this long. In addition, cockroaches with severed 
neck connectives lost significantly more body mass, mainly due to dehydration. 
Hence, the sting of A. compressa not only renders the cockroach prey helplessly 
submissive, but also changes its metabolism to sustain more nutrients for the 
developing larva. This metabolic manipulation is subtler than the complete 
removal of descending input from the head ganglia, since it leaves some 
physiological processes, such as water retention, intact.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-005-0620-1
PMID: 15864597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Int J Soc Psychiatry. 2005 Mar;51(1):71-82. doi: 10.1177/0020764005053283.

On the relationship between cultural values and preferences and affective health 
in Nepal.

Furr LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Louisville, Kentucky 40292, USA. 
allenfurr@Louisville.edu

BACKGROUND: The westernization of developing countries has improved physical 
health and life expectancy. Modernization, however, is believed to have 
injurious effects on mental health. Some research suggests that the effects of 
modernization vary, hurting some but benefiting others. Economic disparity is 
usually presumed to cause the mental health problems. The purpose of this study 
was to determine if aspects of westernization other than economic status 
predicted depression scores in a sample of adults occupying similar economic 
stations in Nepal.
METHODS: Survey data were collected from 276 teachers in Nepal. The 
questionnaire was administered in Nepali. Statistical tests sought to determine 
the relationship between scores on a measure of depression and having a western 
cultural orientation.
RESULTS: Bivariate and multi-variate analyses indicate that a higher western 
orientation was associated with lower depression scores. Non-traditional 
attitudes towards the Nepalese caste system and gender political equality 
predicted lower depression scores. Attitudes regarding gender economic equality 
and a preference for western music and film and English language were not 
associated with depression scores.
CONCLUSION: Findings suggest that the relationship between modernization and 
psychological well-being are contextual.

DOI: 10.1177/0020764005053283
PMID: 15864977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Scand J Surg. 2005;94(1):59-66. doi: 10.1177/145749690509400115.

Four or twelve months' follow-up in the evaluation of functional outcome after 
hip fracture surgery?

Heikkinen T(1), Jalovaara P.

Author information:
(1)University of Oulu, University Hospital of Oulu, Department of Orthopaedic 
and Trauma Surgery, Finland.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: As a rule, follow-up for at least one year is recommended 
for fracture studies. This is considered the shortest reliable interval. Still, 
in the case of hip fractures of the elderly, shorter follow-up might be more 
practical, since the life expectancy of these patients is often short. The aim 
of this study was to see if a short four months follow-up period would be 
acceptable in hip fracture surveys.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Information on 196 consecutive non-pathological hip 
fracture patients aged 50 years or over (mean 79 years) was collected using a 
standardised hip fracture audit concentrating on functional measurements at 
admission and at four and twelve months' follow-ups.
RESULTS: 167 patients were alive at four months and 152 and at one year. The 
patients who died between four and twelve months had poorer functional capacity 
in the four- month evaluation than those who survived one year. The analysis of 
repeated measures, including only the patients alive at the last follow-up, 
showed that residential status, use of walking aids and 6 out of 10 and ADL 
variables (bathing, toileting, shopping, household activities, doing laundry, 
banking) did not change significantly. Walking ability and the rest 4 ADL 
variables (dressing, eating, food preparation, use of transportation) improved 
and pain decreased.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to high mortality and age-related deterioration of functioning, 
no steady state i.e. "final result" is ever reached after hip fracture in the 
elderly. Four-month follow-up is justified as the shortest possible period, 
because the socioeconomically most important variable, i.e. place of living, and 
most of the ADL functions do not change significantly after that.

DOI: 10.1177/145749690509400115
PMID: 15865120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Am J Med. 2005 May;118(5):503-14. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.12.009.

Cost-effectiveness of prophylactic low molecular weight heparin in pregnant 
women with a prior history of venous thromboembolism.

Johnston JA(1), Brill-Edwards P, Ginsberg JS, Pauker SG, Eckman MH.

Author information:
(1)The Health Services Research and Development Service, Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. johnstonja@lilly.com

PURPOSE: Women with a history of prior venous thromboembolism have an increased 
risk for recurrence during pregnancy. Although thromboprophylaxis reduces this 
risk, recent evidence suggests that, in many cases, prophylaxis can be safely 
withheld because the estimated recurrence risk is very low. The balance of risks 
and benefits in women with different recurrence risks has not been examined.
METHODS: We developed a Markov state transition decision analytic model to 
compare prophylactic low molecular weight heparin to expectant management for 
pregnant women with a single prior venous thromboembolism. A lifetime time 
horizon and societal perspective were assumed. Input data were obtained by 
literature review. Outcomes were expressed as U.S. dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: For "low-risk" women with a prior venous thromboembolism associated 
with a transient risk factor and no known thrombophilic condition (recurrence 
risk 0.5%), expectant management was both more effective and less costly than 
prophylaxis. For "high-risk" women with prior idiopathic venous thromboembolism 
or known thrombophilic condition (recurrence risk 5.9%), prophylaxis was 
associated with a reasonable cost-effectiveness ratio (USD 38,700 per QALY) 
given a risk of bleeding complications <1.0% (base case 0.5%).
CONCLUSION: For low-risk women with prior venous thromboembolism, expectant 
management during pregnancy leads to better outcomes than administration of 
prophylactic low molecular weight heparin. For high-risk women, antepartum 
thromboprophylaxis is a cost-effective use of resources.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.12.009
PMID: 15866253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Am J Med. 2005 May;118(5):565; author reply 565-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.12.026.

Is life expectancy of polycythemia vera patients clearly different from that of 
the general population?

Kiladjian JJ, Bernard JF, Fenaux P.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 2004 Nov 15;117(10):755-61.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2004.12.026
PMID: 15866263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Lancet. 2005 Apr 30-May 6;365(9470):1520-1. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(05)66433-1.

Extending the benefits of deworming for development.

Savioli L(1), Engels D, Endo H.

Author information:
(1)Parasitic Diseases and Vector Control, WHO, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland. 
saviolil@who.int

Comment on
    Lancet. 2005 Apr 30-May 6;365(9470):1561-9.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)66433-1
PMCID: PMC7137133
PMID: 15866291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Lancet. 2005 Apr 30-May 6;365(9470):1561-9. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(05)66457-4.

Reassessment of the cost of chronic helmintic infection: a meta-analysis of 
disability-related outcomes in endemic schistosomiasis.

King CH(1), Dickman K, Tisch DJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health and Diseases, Wolstein 4126, Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio 44106-7286, USA. chk@cwru.edu

Comment in
    Lancet. 2005 Apr 30-May 6;365(9470):1520-1.

BACKGROUND: Schistosomiasis is one of the world's most prevalent infections, yet 
its effect on the global burden of disease is controversial. Published 
disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) estimates suggest that the average effect 
of schistosome infection is quite small, although this is disputed. To develop 
an evidenced-based reassessment of schistosomiasis-related disability, we did a 
systematic review of data on disability-associated outcomes for all forms of 
schistosomiasis.
METHODS: We did structured searches using EMBASE, PUBMED, and Cochrane 
electronic databases. Published bibliographies were manually searched, and 
unpublished studies were obtained by contacting research groups. Reports were 
reviewed and abstracted independently by two trained readers. All randomised and 
observational studies of schistosomiasis morbidity were eligible for inclusion. 
We calculated pooled estimates of reported disability-related effects using 
weighted odds ratios for categorical outcomes and standardised mean differences 
for continuous data.
FINDINGS: 482 published or unpublished reports (March, 1921, to July, 2002) were 
screened. Of 135 selected for inclusion, 51 provided data for 
performance-related symptoms, whereas 109 reported observed measures of 
disability-linked morbidities. Schistosomiasis was significantly associated with 
anaemia, chronic pain, diarrhoea, exercise intolerance, and undernutrition.
INTERPRETATION: By contrast with WHO estimates of 0.5% disability weight 
assigned to schistosomiasis, 2-15% disability seems evident in different 
functional domains of a person with schistosomiasis. This raised estimate, if 
confirmed in formal patient-preference studies, indicates a need to reassess our 
priorities for treating this silent pandemic of schistosomiasis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)66457-4
PMID: 15866310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Anal Biochem. 2005 Jun 1;341(1):77-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2005.03.015.

MagSNiPer: a new single nucleotide polymorphism typing method based on single 
base extension, magnetic separation, and chemiluminescence.

Kakihara F(1), Kurebayashi Y, Tojo Y, Tajima H, Hasegawa S, Yohda M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, 2-24-16, Naka-cho, Koganei, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan.

We have developed a new method for typing single nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs), MagSNiPer, based on single base extension, magnetic separation, and 
chemiluminescence. Single base nucleotide extension reaction is performed with a 
biotinylated primer whose 3' terminus is contiguous to the SNP site with a 
tag-labeled ddNTP. Then the primers are captured by magnetic-coated beads with 
streptavidin, and unincorporated labeled ddNTP is removed by magnetic 
separation. The magnetic beads are incubated with anti-tag antibody conjugated 
with alkaline phosphatase. After the removal of excess conjugates by magnetic 
separation, SNP typing is performed by measuring chemiluminescence. The 
incorporation of labeled ddNTP is monitored by chemiluminescence induced by 
alkaline phosphatase. MagSNiPer is a simple and robust SNP typing method with a 
wide dynamic range and high sensitivity. Using MagSNiPer, we could perform SNP 
typing with as little as 10(-17) mol of template DNA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2005.03.015
PMID: 15866530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Transplant Proc. 2005 Apr;37(3):1443-5. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2005.02.049.

Pancreas islet transplantation in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus after 
kidney transplantation.

Gonzalez Molina M(1), Alonso A, Briones R, Fernandez N, Caballero A, Miranda JM, 
Navarro A, Castro MJ, Burgos D, Cabello M, Sola E, Escaño A, Muñoz J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Hospital Carlos Haya, Malaga, Spain. 
cotraspa.hch.sspa@juntadeandalucia.es

Erratum in
    Transplant Proc. 2005 Jul-Aug;37(6):2894. Navarro, A [added]; Castro, MJ 
[added]; Sola, E [added]; Aranda, J [removed]; De la Fuente, A [removed].

Diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease have a high mortality rate. A 
combined kidney-pancreas transplant is associated with greater life expectancy. 
Pancreas islet transplantation is an alternative involving a lower degree of 
morbidity. We present two patients, of 41 and 37 years of age, with a long 
history of diabetes mellitus (C-peptide negative), both with a previous kidney 
transplant, who had been treated with 22 and 28 U of insulin/d, respectively. 
Both patients had frequent episodes of unawareness hypoglycemia. Pancreatic 
islets were infused to a total of 7809 and 19,180 IE/kg, respectively. Basal 
posttransplant C peptide levels were 2.9 and 1.3 ng/mL. After the implant, one 
patient required occasional doses of insulin, and the other patient more than 
50% reduced dose. After the first implant neither patient had any episodes of 
unawareness hypoglycemia. HbA1c at 4 months were 6.2% and 6.9%. There were no 
transplant-related complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2005.02.049
PMID: 15866632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Pediatrics. 2005 May;115(5):e600-14. doi: 10.1542/peds.2004-2127.

Quality-adjusted life-years lack quality in pediatric care: a critical review of 
published cost-utility studies in child health.

Griebsch I(1), Coast J, Brown J.

Author information:
(1)MRC Health Services Research Collaboration, Department of Social Medicine, 
University of Bristol, Whiteladies Road, Bristol BS8 2PR, United Kingdom. 
Ingolf.Griebsch@bristol.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Cost-utility analysis in which health benefits are quantified in 
terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) has now become the standard type of 
cost-effectiveness analysis. These studies are potentially influential in 
determining the extent of funding for particular pediatric interventions, and so 
their methodologic quality is extremely important. The objective of this study 
was twofold: first, to critically appraise published cost-utility analyses of 
interventions in child and adolescent health care in terms of the methods used 
to derive QALYs and, second, to discuss unresolved methodologic issues that are 
pertinent to the measurement of QALYs in pediatric populations.
METHODS: A comprehensive search using computerized databases (including Medline, 
Embase, Econlit, and databases specific to economic evaluation), Web searches, 
and citation tracking was undertaken to identify cost-utility studies of 
interventions that were aimed at those who were younger than 16 years and 
published before April 2004. The methods of individual studies were compared 
with the recognized published guidelines of the US Panel on Cost-Effectiveness 
in Health and Medicine and the National Institute for Clinical Excellence in 
England and Wales, which recommend the use of a generic health state 
classification system (eg, Health Utility Index, EuroQol-5D), a choice-based 
valuation method (eg, standard gamble or time trade-off) and preferences of the 
general public in estimating QALYs. Studies therefore were categorized and 
evaluated according to the methods used to describe the health state, the 
valuation technique, and source of preferences.
RESULTS: Fifty-four studies were reviewed, 34 (63%) of which were published in 
the past 5 years. A generic health status classification instrument was used in 
22 (35%) cases; the remainder developed study-specific health state descriptions 
or elicited preferences directly from patients or proxies. In 3 (5%) cases, 
sources were unclear. Preference weights were elicited using choice-based 
techniques in 28 (42%) cases, either as tariffs for health status classification 
instruments (17 cases) or by directly valuing health state descriptions or 
patient health (11 cases). Preferences of the general public were used in only 
23 (37%) cases. Four studies aggregated QALYs for mother/child or parents/child 
pairs without giving any theoretical justification. Although there was an 
increasing tendency for studies to use generic health status classification 
instruments, choice-based methods, and preferences of the general public, the 
majority of studies still did not adhere to these standard recommendations even 
in the period between January 2000 and March 2004. Despite increasing 
standardization in the methods advocated for economic evaluation over the past 
10 years, there remains extensive variation in the actual methods used by 
researchers to calculate QALYs for children and adolescents. It is unclear 
whether these results suggest poor practice or a set of positive (or reactive) 
choices made by analysts in a methodologically uncertain area in which specific 
guidance is lacking regarding how to address the complexities of pediatric 
outcomes within the QALY framework. Many aspects of QALY measurement in children 
are not yet fully developed. In particular, there is (1) a lack of appropriate 
health state classification instruments that take account of the dynamics of 
child development, (2) a lack of health state classification instruments for use 
in children and infants who are younger than 5 years, and (3) the need to 
understand fully the role of proxies for measuring and valuing child health. 
Additional research efforts are also required to develop methods that account 
for the health benefits of parents or caregivers of the child and to consider 
the implications of combining different forms of utility measurement in 
childhood and adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS: Although variations from standard recommendations may be 
attributable to poor practice among researchers who are either unaware of these 
recommendations or choose not to follow them, they could equally be the result 
of attempts to make research more rigorous and more defensible than it might be 
if the standard recommendations were followed. There are 4 potential approaches 
to conducting cost-utility analysis in pediatric populations: (1) the explicit 
development of a generic instrument designed to be applicable across both child 
and adult populations (likely to be difficult in practice), (2) insistence on 
use of a generic instrument developed for adults, (3) the use of generic 
instruments specifically developed for children without being concerned about 
comparability with interventions aimed at adults, and (4) abandoning attempts to 
use single outcome measures that combine mortality with quality weights. In the 
absence of a clear way forward, it is suggested that an expert panel be convened 
to debate and further consider these potential solutions and recommendations for 
best practice and future research. In the interim, comparisons of the relative 
cost-effectiveness reported as cost per QALY gained across interventions for 
different diseases and populations should be treated with extreme caution.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2004-2127
PMID: 15867026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Pediatrics. 2005 May;115(5):1220-32. doi: 10.1542/peds.2004-2514.

Cost-effectiveness of conjugate meningococcal vaccination strategies in the 
United States.

Shepard CW(1), Ortega-Sanchez IR, Scott RD 2nd, Rosenstein NE; ABCs Team.

Author information:
(1)Division of Viral Hepatitis, National Center for Infectious Diseases, US 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd, MS G37, Atlanta, GA 
30333, USA. cvs8@cdc.gov

CONTEXT: The US Food and Drug Administration approved a meningococcal conjugate 
A/C/Y/W-135 vaccine (MCV-4) for use in persons aged 11 to 55 years in January, 
2005; licensure for use in younger age groups is expected in 2 to 4 years.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate and compare the projected health and economic impact of 
MCV-4 vaccination of US adolescents, toddlers, and infants.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis from a societal perspective based on data 
from Active Bacterial Core Surveillance (ABCs) and other published and 
unpublished sources. Sensitivity analyses in which key input measures were 
varied over plausible ranges were performed.
SETTING AND PATIENTS: A hypothetical 2003 US population cohort of children 11 
