
869. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Spring;21(2):194-202.

Cost-effectiveness of nutritional counseling for obese patients and patients at 
risk of ischemic heart disease.

Olsen J(1), Willaing I, Ladelund S, Jørgensen T, Gundgaard J, Sørensen J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Services Research and Technology Assessment, 
University of Southern Denmark, Winsløwparken, Denmark. jeo@cast.sdu.dk

OBJECTIVES: Obesity and dyslipidemia are risk factors for ischemic heart 
disease, and prevention and treatment in primary care can reduce these risks. 
The objective of this cost-effectiveness analysis was to compare the costs and 
effects (in terms of life years gained) of providing nutritional counseling by a 
general practitioner (GP) or a dietician.
METHODS: A total of 60 GPs, who accepted to participate, were randomized either 
to give nutritional counseling or to refer patients to a dietician for 
counseling. The life years gained was estimated using a Cox regression model. 
Costs were estimated on the basis of registered use of time (dieticians) or 
agreed salaries (GPs).
RESULTS: The effect of nutritional counseling comparing GPs and dieticians is 
greatest when counseling is performed by a GP--0.0919 years versus 0.0274 years. 
These effects appear to be moderate, but they are significant. It is also proven 
that the GP group was the most cost-effective-the cost of gaining 1 extra life 
year was estimated to be 8213 DKK compared with the dietician group, for which 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was estimated to be 59,987 DKK.
CONCLUSIONS: The effects were moderate, but other studies of other patient 
groups and interventions report effects within the same magnitude. The GP group 
was the most cost-effective, but it must be concluded that both counseling 
strategies were relatively cost-effective. Even though the cost of gaining an 
extra life year was estimated to be 59,987 DKK in the dietician group, this 
might be an acceptable price.

PMID: 15921059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Haematologica. 2005 May;90(5):643-8.

Filgrastim-mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cells versus bone marrow 
transplantation for treating leukemia: 3-year results from the EBMT randomized 
trial.

Schmitz N(1), Beksac M, Bacigalupo A, Ruutu T, Nagler A, Gluckman E, Russell N, 
Apperley J, Szerm J, Bradstock K, Buzyn A, Schlegelberger B, Matcham J, Gratwohl 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, AK St Georg, Lohmuehlenstrasse 5, 20099 Hamburg, 
Germany. norbert.schmitz@ak-stgeorg.lbk-hh.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Allogeneic peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) 
are now widely used as the source of hematopoietic stem cells for 
transplantation. However, it is still not clear which patients should receive 
mobilized PBPC or bone marrow cells to reconstitute hematopoiesis after 
myeloablative conditioning. The aim of this study is to present 3-year-follow-up 
data on outcome (incidence and severity of chronic graft-versus-host disease 
(GVHD), overall survival (OS) and leukemia-free survival (LFS) after a PBPC 
transplant (PBPCT) or a bone marrow transplant (BMT).
DESIGN AND METHODS: Data on 350 patients with leukemia were collected in a 
multicenter, randomized study initiated by the EBMT. The patients were 
randomized to receive filgrastim-mobilized PBSCT or BMT from an HLA-identical 
donor.
RESULTS: At a median follow-up of 3 years, significantly more patients 
transplanted with PBPC than with bone marrow developed chronic GVHD (73% vs 55%, 
p=0.003) and extensive chronic GvHD (36% vs 19%, p=0.002). The higher incidence 
and greater severity of chronic GvHD had little impact on the patient's 
performance status or survival. OS was 58% for PBPCT recipients versus 65% among 
those undergoing BMT. LFS was 56% for PBPCT recipients versus 60% for BMT 
recipients.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Patients transplanted with PBPC from an 
HLA-identical sibling develop more chronic GvHD than those transplanted with 
bone marrow, but the final impact of this difference is unclear. Longer 
follow-up is necessary to characterize the impact of chronic GvHD on quality of 
life, leukemia-free survival and overall survival.

PMID: 15921379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Haematologica. 2005 May;90(5):706-7.

CD221 (IGF-1R) is aberrantly expressed in multiple myeloma, in relation to 
disease severity.

Bataille R, Robillard N, Avet-Loiseau H, Harousseau JL, Moreau P.

We investigated the expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (CD221) 
in normal, reactive and malignant plasma cells. We show that CD221 is aberrantly 
expressed on human myeloma cells, that higher levels of CD221 are observed in 
patients and human myeloma cell lines with the most aggressive 14q32 
translocations, and that CD221 expression has a negative prognostic impact in 
patients with multiple myeloma.

PMID: 15921396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Eur J Heart Fail. 2005 Jun;7(4):572-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2004.06.006.

Quality-of-life measurement in chronic heart failure: do we take account of the 
patient perspective?

Dunderdale K(1), Thompson DR, Miles JN, Beer SF, Furze G.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Rehabilitation, Scunthorpe General Hospital, Scunthorpe, DN15 7BH, 
UK. Karen.dunderdale@nlg.nhs.uk

The modern management of chronic heart failure has led to improved life 
expectancy, functioning and health-related quality of life (HRQL). HRQL measures 
the effects of an illness or a treatment from the patient's perspective. It is 
now recognised that the patient's perspective is as legitimate and valid as the 
clinician's in monitoring health care outcomes. Although there are a number of 
quality-of-life measures, which can be separated into two types-generic and 
disease specific-many have been developed, with little or no account being taken 
of the patient's perspective. Because most of the widely used measures are not 
patient centred, they may lack sensitivity and specificity in determining those 
aspects of HRQL important to individual patients. This paper reviews the use of 
quality-of-life assessment tools in the evaluation of patients with heart 
failure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2004.06.006
PMID: 15921797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Econ Hum Biol. 2005 Jul;3(2):271-95. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2005.04.006.

Toward generation XL: anthropometrics of longevity in late 20th-century United 
States.

Sunder M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Munich, Ludwigstrasse 33/IV, 80539 
Munich, Germany. marco@econhist.de

All-cause and cause-specific mortality among white U.S. men and women are 
analyzed using the NHANES I data (1971-1975) and epidemiologic follow-up to 
1992, to examine the effect of physical stature on mortality, controlling for 
other confounding variables within a discrete-time framework. We find an 
association between mortality and both body mass index (BMI) and height, but the 
height effect is sensitive with respect to the age range under consideration. 
Although the resulting minimum-mortality BMI is higher than the widely accepted 
healthy range, the recent increase in weight implies that further gains in life 
expectancy are unlikely to derive from the anthropometry-mortality relationship.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2005.04.006
PMID: 15921967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Clin Ther. 2005 Apr;27(4):377-92. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2005.04.006.

Tiotropium bromide: a new long-acting bronchodilator for the treatment of 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Koumis T(1), Samuel S.

Author information:
(1)International Drug Information Center, Arnold & Marie Schwartz College of 
Pharmacy and HealthSciences, Long Island University, Brooklyn, New York 11201, 
USA. tina.koumis@liu.edu

BACKGROUND: Tiotropium bromide is a new inhaled anticholinergic agent approved 
for once-daily, long-term maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
OBJECTIVE: This article reviews the pharmacology, pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic properties, clinical efficacy, tolerability, and cost of 
tiotropium therapy in patients with COPD.
METHODS: The MEDLINE (1966-October 2004), Iowa Drug Information Service 
(1966-October 2004), and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts (1970-November 
2004) databases were searched for original research and review articles 
published in English. The search terms were tiotropium, Ba 679 BR, and 
HandiHaler. Reference lists from these articles were also consulted, as was 
selected information provided by the manufacturer of tiotropium. All relevant 
identified studies were included in the review, with preference given to Phase 
II/III trials. Pharmacoeconomic studies were limited to those conducted in the 
United States.
RESULTS: Tiotropium is a nonselective anticholinergic agent that exhibits 
kinetic receptor selectivity for the muscarinic M1 and M3 receptors. After 
inhalation, tiotropium has an onset of action within 30 minutes, a peak effect 
within 3 to 4 hours, and a > or = 24-hour duration of action that allows 
once-daily dosing. In clinical trials, patients receiving tiotropium 18 microg 
QD had significant improvements in trough, peak, and mean forced expiratory 
volume in 1 second (FEV1), dyspnea, and health-related quality of life, as well 
as fewer COPD exacerbations and hospitalizations, compared with patients 
receiving placebo and ipratropium (all, P < 0.05). Improvement in FEV1 was also 
significantly greater in patients who received tiotropium compared with those 
who received salmeterol (P < 0.05), although the number of exacerbations and 
extent of health resource use were comparable between groups. Dry mouth was the 
most commonly reported adverse effect. One analysis found tiotropium to be 
cost-effective compared with ipratropium.
CONCLUSIONS: Tiotropium offers several advantages over ipratropium in the 
management of COPD. Long-term (> 1 year) studies are necessary to determine the 
impact of tiotropium on disease progression and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2005.04.006
PMID: 15922812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Eur J Heart Fail. 2005 Aug;7(5):852-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2005.01.019.

Different prognostic impact of systolic function in patients with heart failure 
and/or acute myocardial infarction.

Thune JJ(1), Carlsen C, Buch P, Seibaek M, Burchardt H, Torp-Pedersen C, Køber 
L; DIAMOND investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, B2141, The Heart Centre, University Hospital of 
Copenhagen, Rigshospitalet, Blegdamsvej 9, DK-2100 Copenhagen O, Denmark. 
jjt@heart.dk

AIMS: To study the prognostic importance of left ventricular systolic function 
in patients with heart failure (HF) and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with 
respect to the presence of prior heart failure and known ischemic heart disease.
METHODS: In 13,084 consecutive patients diagnosed with either AMI or HF, a 
medical history and an echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular systolic 
function by wall motion index (WMI) were obtained. Patients were divided into 
four groups: AMI with or without a history of HF, and primary HF (no recent AMI) 
with or without a history of ischemic heart disease (IHD). Mortality was 
assessed after nine years of follow-up.
RESULTS: WMI stratified patients according to all-cause mortality in all four 
groups of patients (p<0.0001). For a decrease in WMI of 0.3 (corresponding to a 
decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction of 0.1), the hazard ratio was 
1.61 (95% CI: 1.48-1.76) for AMI patients without prior HF, 1.43 (1.38-1.48) for 
AMI patients with prior HF, 1.26 (1.22-1.30) for primary HF patients with IHD 
and 1.23 (1.18-1.27) for HF patients without IHD.
CONCLUSION: WMI stratifies patients with IHD and/or HF according to risk of 
all-cause death. The presence of HF attenuates the prognostic power of WMI.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2005.01.019
PMID: 15923139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2005 Oct;289(4):H1373-80. doi: 
10.1152/ajpheart.00304.2005. Epub 2005 May 27.

AIDS-related vasculopathy: evidence for oxidative and inflammatory pathways in 
murine and human AIDS.

Baliga RS(1), Chaves AA, Jing L, Ayers LW, Bauer JA.

Author information:
(1)Center of Cardiovascular Medicine, 700 Children's Drive, Columbus, OH 43205, 
USA.

Increased life expectancy of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive 
patients has led to evidence of complications apparently not directly related to 
immunodeficiency or opportunistic infection, including increased cardiovascular 
risk. We tested the hypothesis that vascular dysfunction occurs in the murine 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) model and evaluated potential 
mechanisms in murine AIDS tissues and relevant human HIV/AIDS vascular tissues. 
We also investigated endothelial activation and/or endothelial protein nitration 
and their association with time-dependent vascular dysfunction. At 1 and 5 wk of 
murine AIDS, statistically significant decreases in KCl contractility and 
time-dependent contractile deficits in response to phenylephrine were observed. 
The maximal response (E(max)) was reduced by approximately 40% at 10 wk, and 
EC(50) values were significantly changed: 102 +/- 7.3 ng for control vs. 190 +/- 
37 and 130 +/- 22 ng at 5 and 10 wk, respectively (P < 0.05). 
Endothelium-dependent relaxation to ACh was decreased (EC(50) = 120 +/- 27 and 
343 +/- 94 nM for control and at 10 wk, respectively), whereas the response to 
an exogenous nitric oxide donor, sodium nitroprusside, remained unchanged, 
suggesting a specific endothelial dysfunction. Histochemical investigations of 
the same vascular tissues as well as corresponding coronary endothelium showed 
an increase in protein 3-nitrotyrosine, intercellular adhesion molecule, and 
nitric oxide synthase isoforms 2 and 3. These findings were corroborated in 
concurrent experiments in a cohort of well-cataloged human cardiac microvascular 
tissues. We have demonstrated, for the first time, a specific functional 
vasculopathy with endothelial involvement in a murine model of AIDS that was 
also associated with and correlated to increased oxidative stress and specific 
endothelial activation. This finding was echoed in a relevant population of 
human HIV/AIDS patients. Research into sources and intracellular targets of 
oxidants in this disease could provide important mechanistic insights and may 
reveal new therapeutic opportunities for this increasingly important 
cardiovascular disease state.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.00304.2005
PMID: 15923317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. FASEB J. 2005 Jun;19(8):892-7. doi: 10.1096/fj.04-3541rev.

The epidemiological revolution of the 20th century.

De Flora S(1), Quaglia A, Bennicelli C, Vercelli M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, Via A. Pastore 1, I-16132 
Genoa, Italy. sdf@unige.it

Until 100 years ago the epidemiological scenario of human diseases had 
substantially remained unchanged. The 20th century has been characterized by a 
fantastic advance in life expectancy and by a shift from infectious to chronic 
degenerative diseases as prevailing causes of death. As an example of the 
epidemiological revolution in a developed country, we reconstructed, year by 
year from 1901 to 2000, the situation in Italy. Reference to the situation in 
other countries is also made. Both crude and age-adjusted mortality data were 
made available for males and females. A new turning point became evident in the 
second half of the 20th century with the decline of mortality for cardiovascular 
diseases and, more recently, for tumors. This review discusses the roots and 
rationale for these epidemiological changes. The discoveries made in the area of 
biomedical sciences, the progress in preventive and curative medicine, and the 
improvement of hygienic conditions have been so spectacular that 1 million lives 
are saved every year in Italy as compared with the late 19th century.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.04-3541rev
PMID: 15923399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Tob Control. 2005 Jun;14 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):i23-7. doi:
10.1136/tc.2003.005546.

Reducing health disparity in Taiwan: quantifying the role of smoking.

Cheng TY(1), Wen CP, Tsai SP, Chung WS, Hsu CC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy Research, National Health Research Institutes, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of smoking disparities on health disparities, in 
terms of gap in life expectancy, in Taiwan cities and counties.
METHODS: Using the decomposition method of life expectancy, the contribution of 
each disease category to the life expectancy gap was quantitatively expressed as 
the number of years of life. The smoking attributable fraction (SAF) was 
calculated for each city and county based on their respective smoking prevalence 
and relative risk for each smoking related disease. The smoking attributable gap 
(SAG) in life expectancy between two sites is the sum of the difference in SAF 
between two sites for each smoking related disease multiplied by the number of 
years this disease contributed to the life expectancy gap.
RESULTS: Significant health and smoking disparities were present among the 23 
cities and counties in Taiwan. These health disparities and smoking disparities 
were highly correlated (R2 = 0.3676). Generally, the health gap increased with 
increasing smoking disparity. The disparity in smoking prevalence and intensity 
among cities and counties in Taiwan was responsible for up to 19% of the health 
disparity. The health disparity is also highly correlated (R2 = 0.3745) with SAG 
in life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Reducing smoking is important to health, and reducing the smoking 
disparity is also important for reducing the health disparity observed in 
Taiwan. The larger the health disparity is, the more important the smoking 
attributable disparity could be. The reduction of smoking disparities could be a 
realistic and cost effective way toward reducing health disparities.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2003.005546
PMCID: PMC1766179
PMID: 15923443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Tob Control. 2005 Jun;14 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):i62-70. doi:
10.1136/tc.2004.007963.

Smoking attributable medical expenditures, years of potential life lost, and the 
cost of premature death in Taiwan.

Yang MC(1), Fann CY, Wen CP, Cheng TY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Care Organization Administration, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan. mcy@ha.mc.ntu.edu.tw

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the smoking attributable medical expenditures and 
productivity loss of people aged 35 and over in Taiwan in 2001 from a societal 
viewpoint.
METHODS: A prevalence based approach was used to estimate smoking attributable 
costs. Epidemiological parameters were obtained from two follow up studies and 
government statistics. Data on medical care utilisation and expenditure were 
extracted from the National Health Insurance claim data.
RESULTS: Total smoking attributable medical expenditures (SAEs) amounted to USD 
397.6 million, which accounted for 6.8% of the total medical expenditures for 
people aged 35 and over. Mean annual medical expenditures per smoker was USD 70 
more than that of each non-smoker. Smoking attributable years of potential life 
lost (YPLL) totalled to 217,761 years for males and 15,462 years for females, 
and the corresponding productivity loss was USD 1371 million for males and USD 
18.7 million for females.
CONCLUSION: Medical expenditures attributable to smoking accounted for 6.8% of 
the total medical expenditure of people aged 35 and over for the year 2001 in 
Taiwan. Corresponding YPLL and productivity loss also demand that actions be 
taken to fight cigarette smoking.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2004.007963
PMCID: PMC1766172
PMID: 15923452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Jun;28(3):217-22. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000145986.78542.44.

Five-year results of a phase II trial of hyperfractionated radiotherapy and 
concurrent daily cisplatin chemotherapy for stage III non-small-cell lung 
cancer.

Keene KS(1), Harman EM, Knauf DG, McCarley D, Zlotecki RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, FL 32610-0385, USA.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 5-year results for a phase II 
trial of hyperfractionated radiotherapy (RT) and concurrent daily cisplatin 
chemotherapy. Between August 1994 and December 1999, 63 patients with stage IIIA 
and stage IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer were treated with RT to a dose of 69.6 
Gy at 1.2 Gy twice daily with daily cisplatin at 6 mg/m. Thirty-seven patients 
elected to receive consolidation carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy. 
Recurrence and survival outcomes were evaluated by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Acute 
and late side effects were scored by the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 
grading system. Radiographic complete or partial tumor response was achieved in 
34 of 63 (54%) of cases. Median absolute survival was 20.1 months. Median time 
to local recurrence and distant metastases were 10.6 and 8.6 months, 
respectively. Overall survival rates were 57%, 35%, and 23% at 1, 3, and 5 
years, respectively. Survival was significantly greater for patients receiving 
consolidation chemotherapy (50% versus 20% at 3 years). Only 5 patients (7%) 
experienced Grade 3 or 4 esophagitis. There were 16 cases of Grade 1 or 2 
pneumonitis; steroid therapy resolved symptoms in 9 patients. This regimen of 
hyperfractionated RT and chemotherapy achieved significant response, and 5-year 
survival rates with acceptable toxicity.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000145986.78542.44
PMID: 15923791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Jun;28(3):234-41. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000156920.11091.12.

A phase II study of alternating cycles of split course radiation therapy and 
gemcitabine chemotherapy for inoperable pancreatic or biliary tract carcinoma.

Lin LL(1), Picus J, Drebin JA, Linehan DC, Solis J, Strasberg SM, Tan B, 
Thorstad WL, Myerson R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Because of increased toxicity, full doses of gemcitabine and radiation therapy 
cannot routinely be given concurrently. The purpose of the present study was to 
determine the toxicity and response to treatment with full-dose gemcitabine 
given between cycles of split-course radiation therapy (nonconcurrent treatment) 
for inoperable periampullary adenocarcinoma. Treatment consisted of 3 6 week 
courses for a total of 18 weeks: 1000 mg/m gemcitabine intravenous bolus once a 
week x 2 weeks; 1 week break; 2 weeks of radiation therapy (1.8 Gy per 
fraction); 1 week break x 3. The total dose of radiation consisted of 45 Gy to 
the tumor + regional nodes followed by a 5.4-Gy boost. Patients were restaged at 
week 15 and at the completion of all treatment. Patients underwent resection if 
there was sufficient response. A total of 42 patients (40 pancreatic, 1 
gallbladder, 1 biliary tract) were enrolled between March 1999 and July 2002. 
All but 2 medically inoperable patients had evidence of major vessel 
involvement. Median age was 63 years (range, 40-80 years). All patients were 
evaluable for response. There were 10 objective partial responses (24%). Six 
responders underwent resection with a mean survival of 18 months. Mean survival 
for all 42 patients was 10.3 months (range, 2.0-32.5 months; median, 9.5 
months). Four patients experienced grade 3 or 4 gastrointestinal toxicity. 
Alternating cycles of split-course radiotherapy and gemcitabine chemotherapy 
permits the delivery of full doses of both modalities with acceptable tolerance. 
Despite the prolongation in radiation treatment time because of split-course 
treatment, patients with sufficient response were able to undergo resection.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000156920.11091.12
PMID: 15923794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Jun;28(3):295-300. doi: 
10.1097/01.coc.0000156919.04133.98.

On the apparent failure of adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy to improve survival for 
women with uterine sarcomas confined to the uterus.

Dusenbery KE(1), Potish RA, Argenta PA, Judson PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology-Radiation Oncology, University of 
Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA. dusen001@umn.edu

Despite numerous studies documenting reduction of pelvic relapses after adjuvant 
pelvic radiotherapy stage I and II uterine sarcomas, improved survival remains 
unproven. This retrospective report analyzes patterns of failure, survival, and 
toxicity in 42 women with stage I and 7 patients with stage II uterine sarcomas 
treated from 1972 through 1998 to identify patients likely to benefit from 
pelvic or abdominal radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Four of these patients also 
received adjuvant chemotherapy. There were 20 leiomyosarcomas, 18 homologous 
mixed mullerian tumors, and 11 heterologous mixed mullerian tumors. Disease-free 
survivals for mixed mullerian tumors were 65% at 5 years and 61% at 15 years. 
Disease-free survivals for leiomyosarcomas were 40% at 5 years and 40% at 15 
years. There were 14 distant only, 5 distant and abdominal, 1 abdominal, 1 
distant and pelvic, and 2 unknown initial sites of failure. Acute toxicity was 
acceptable as measured by a median 1-kg weight loss from radiotherapy and a 2% 
rate of failure to complete therapy. Chronic toxicity consisted of 3 small bowel 
obstructions and 1 sigmoid colon obstruction. In conclusion, the efficacy of 
adjuvant pelvic radiation is demonstrated by the absence of any isolated pelvic 
failures. Although the frequent occurrence of peritoneal failures suggests a 
role for prophylactic abdominal radiation for mixed mullerian tumors, more 
effective systemic therapy is necessary to substantially increase the chance of 
cure for women with early-stage uterine sarcomas.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000156919.04133.98
PMID: 15923804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Jun;28(3):301-9. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000156921.28880.e1.

Long-term follow up of high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell rescue 
in adults with Ewing tumor.

Laurence V(1), Pierga JY, Barthier S, Babinet A, Alapetite C, Palangié T, de 
Pinieux G, Anract P, Pouillart P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Curie, Paris, France.

Ewing tumors remain of poor prognosis, with 5-year overall survival of 55% to 
65% in localized patients and not exceeding 25% in primarily metastatic disease. 
Several reports, mainly in children, have reported that some patients with 
poor-risk Ewing tumors may benefit from high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) with 
autologous stem cell rescue. This retrospective study analyzed 46 patients 
treated in our institution between 1987 and 2000 for localized or primary 
metastatic Ewing tumors by HDCT followed by stem cell rescue. Median follow up 
was 7.1 years. Median age was 21 years (range, 15-46 years). Twenty-two percent 
of patients had metastases at diagnosis. The tumor site was axial in 56% of 
patients. Median tumor size was 9.5 cm. The treatment regimen consisted of 
induction chemotherapy, local treatment, maintenance chemotherapy, and 
consolidation HDCT based on alkylating agents. No toxic death was observed in 
the intensive therapy phase. Five-year overall survival and progression-free 
survival were 63 +/- 7.7% and 47 +/- 7.6%, respectively. Pejorative prognostic 
factors in this population were metastases at diagnosis (5-year overall survival 
34% vs.71%, P = 0.017) and poor pathologic response (5-year overall survival 44% 
vs.77%, P = 0.03). This retrospective study shows a high long-term survival rate 
with high-dose chemotherapy in adults.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000156921.28880.e1
PMID: 15923805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Jun;28(3):310-6. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000158441.96455.31.

Adjuvant radiation therapy for resectable retroperitoneal soft tissue sarcoma: 
the University of Florida experience.

Zlotecki RA(1), Katz TS, Morris CG, Lind DS, Hochwald SN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, Florida 32610-0385, USA. zlotera@ufl.edu

BACKGROUND: In the management of retroperitoneal sarcomas it is necessary to 
achieve local control to ensure survival. The role of adjuvant radiation therapy 
(RT), either pre- or postoperative, remains controversial.
METHODS: Outcomes for 40 patients with retroperitoneal sarcoma treated with 
surgery and postoperative RT (n = 25) or preoperative RT (n = 15) were analyzed 
for variables prognostic for local control, survival, and associated 
complications.
RESULTS: Patterns of failure for patients treated by resection and postoperative 
RT were local (n = 4), local and distant (n = 3), and distant (n = 3). The 
failure patterns for preoperative RT cases were local (n = 2), local and distant 
(n = 2); and distant (n = 4). Median time to local recurrence in the 
postoperative and preoperative RT series were 1 year and 2.5 years respectively. 
The margin status was predictive for local control (P = 0.0065) and survival (P 
= 0.0012), regardless of treatment sequence. Absolute 5-year survival was 12% 
with positive margins versus 69% if negative. Histologic grade was indicative of 
the risk for distant metastasis (low grade 8% vs high grade 64%; P = 0.1373), 
and significantly predicted 5-year absolute survival (low grade 77% vs high 
grade 34%; P = 0.0267). Postoperative RT was associated with significant 
complications (infection, hemorrhage, and bowel obstruction--2 cases each).
CONCLUSION: Compared with the surgery-alone series, adjuvant RT appears to 
improve the probability of local control. Preoperative RT may be the preferred 
sequence potentially to improve tumor resectability and local-regional control 
with less risk of complications than with postoperative RT.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000158441.96455.31
PMID: 15923806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Br J Community Nurs. 2005 May;10(5):205-6, 208-12. doi: 
10.12968/bjcn.2005.10.5.18048.

Preventing and managing catheter-associated urinary tract infections.

Godfrey H(1), Fraczyk L.

Author information:
(1)Facutly of Health and Social Care, University of the West of England, 
Bristol. helen.godfrey@uwe.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Community Nurs. 2005 Jul;10(7):312; author reply 312.

Since the Foley catheter was introduced in the 1930s it has become one of the 
primary sources of hospital acquired infections and long term urinary catheters 
used in community based patients account for some 4% of community nurses' time. 
This burden is likely to increase given the projected rise in life expectancy 
and size of the ageing population. This article considers the current literature 
around indwelling urinary catheterization and its management with a focus on 
long term catheterization in the community. The authors discuss contemporary 
strategies to manage or prevent CAUTI that are based on best practice 
guidelines. However, it is clear from the dearth of empirical evidence that 
there is an urgent need to establish well constructed research studies to 
investigate the prevalence of long term urinary catheterization in the community 
and the prevention and management of CAUTI.

DOI: 10.12968/bjcn.2005.10.5.18048
PMID: 15923986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Methods Inf Med. 2005;44(2):342-7.

The future profile of health promotion and disease prevention in Japan: based on 
the study of seniors over age 75.

Hinohara S(1), Doba N.

Author information:
(1)St. Luke's International Hospital, 9-1 Akashi-cho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0044, 
Japan. shjosler@mrj.biglobe.ne.jp

OBJECTIVES: One of the serious challenges for Japanese healthcare is the aging 
population. Analysis of health evaluation data, especially of the elderly over 
75 years, is considered very important. In view of this prolonged life 
expectancy in Japan, our government started the new campaign of Healthy Japan 
21, of which details are described, and also we will demonstrate the general 
profile of our perspective cohort study program concerning the new elder 
citizens in Japan.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Our group has started a health evaluation program for those 
apparently healthy new elder citizens over the age of 75. A ten-year cohort 
study is in progress, which is designed to accumulate health check-up data 
annually. The study collects information on physical well being, as well as 
information on the individual's lifestyle, and social, emotional and spiritual 
environment. Such health appraisal is of primary importance. Preliminary results 
will be demonstrated with their special implications in clinical and 
epidemiological significance. The degree of frailty of the individual was also 
carefully evaluated, so that we can learn about the QOL of the seniors in Japan.
CONCLUSIONS: At the present stage, we can only report a part of our study 
including the mental and spiritual environments of the individual. This kind of 
outcome study will give us some insights concerning the natural progress of 
frailty in the apparently healthy elderly.

PMID: 15924204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. BJOG. 2005 Jun;112(6):820-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2005.00555.x.

Cost-effectiveness of different treatment strategies with intrapartum antibiotic 
prophylaxis to prevent early-onset group B streptococcal disease.

Akker-van Marle ME(1), Rijnders ME, Dommelen P, Fekkes M, Wouwe JP, 
Amelink-Verburg MP, Verkerk PH.

Author information:
(1)TNO Prevention and Health, Department of Social Pediatrics and Child and 
Youth Health Care, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2006 Mar;113(3):357-9; author reply 360-1.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the costs and effects of different treatment strategies 
with intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent early-onset group B 
streptococcal (GBS) disease in the Netherlands. The treatment strategies include 
a risk-based strategy, a screening-based strategy, a combined 
screening/risk-based strategy and the current Dutch guideline.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis based on decision model.
SETTING: Obstetric care system in the Netherlands.
POPULATION/SAMPLE: Hypothetical cohort of 200,000 neonates.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was used to compare the costs and effects of 
different treatment strategies with no treatment. Baseline estimates were 
derived from literature and a survey among parents of children affected by GBS 
disease. The analysis was performed from a societal perspective, and costs and 
effects were discounted at a percentage of 3%. Main outcome measures Cost per 
quality adjusted of life-year (QALY).
RESULT: The risk-based strategy will prevent 352 cases of early-onset GBS for 
5.0 million Euros, indicating a cost-effectiveness ratio of 7600 Euros per QALY 
gained. The combined screening risk-based strategy has comparable results. The 
current Dutch guideline resulted in lower effects for higher costs. The 
screening-based strategy shows the highest reduction in cases of early-onset 
GBS, however, at a cost-effectiveness ratio of 59,300 Euros per QALY gained. 
Introducing the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test may lead to a more 
favourable cost-effectiveness ratio.
CONCLUSION: In the Dutch system, the combined screening/risk-based strategy and 
the risk-based strategy have reasonable cost-effectiveness ratios. If it becomes 
feasible to add the PCR test, the cost-effectiveness of the combined 
screening/risk-based strategy may even be more favourable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2005.00555.x
PMID: 15924544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. BMC Public Health. 2005 May 30;5:55. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-5-55.

Increase of mild disability in Japanese elders: a seven year follow-up cohort 
study.

Okochi J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Coordination, Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, Kyushu University, Maidashi 3-1-1, Fukuoka, 812-8582 Japan. 
PXU14045@nifty.ne.jp

BACKGROUND: Japan has the highest life expectancy in the world. In a 2002 census 
government report, 18.5% of Japanese were 65 years old and over and 7.9% were 
over 75 years old. In this ageing population, the increase in the number of 
dependent older persons, especially those with mild levels of disability, has 
had a significant impact on the insurance budget. This study examines the 
increase of mild disability and its related factors.
METHODS: All community-dwelling residents aged 65 and over and without 
functional decline (n = 1560), of Omishima town, Japan, were assessed in 1996 
using a simple illustrative measure, "the Typology of the Aged with 
Illustrations" to establish a baseline level of function and were followed 
annually until 2002. The prevalence and incidence of low to severe disability, 
and their association with chronic conditions present at the commencement of the 
study, was analyzed. A polychotomous logistic regression model was constructed 
to estimate the association of each chronic condition with two levels of 
disability.
RESULTS: An increase in mild functional decline was more prevalent than severe 
functional decline. The accumulation of mild disability was more prominent in 
women. The major chronic conditions associated with mild disability were chronic 
arthritis and diabetes in women, and cerebrovascular accident and malignancy in 
men.
CONCLUSION: This study showed a tendency for mild disability prevalence to 
increase in Japanese elders, and some risk factors were identified. As mild 
disability increasingly prevalent, these findings will help determine priorities 
for its prevention in Japanese elders.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-5-55
PMCID: PMC1175092
PMID: 15924625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2005 Aug;15(4):399-409. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2005.04.009.

Size of burden of schizophrenia and psychotic disorders.

Rössler W(1), Salize HJ, van Os J, Riecher-Rössler A.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric University Hospital, Militärstrasse 8, CH-8021 Zurich, 
Switzerland. roessler@spd.unizh.ch

Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder characterised by fundamental 
disturbances in thinking, perception and emotions. More than 100 years of 
research have not been able to fully resolve the puzzle that schizophrenia 
represents. Even if schizophrenia is not a very frequent disease, it is among 
the most burdensome and costly illnesses worldwide. It usually starts in young 
adulthood. Life expectancy is reduced by approximately 10 years, mostly as a 
consequence of suicide. Even if the course of the illness today is considered 
more favourable than it was originally described, it is still only a minority of 
those affected, who fully recover. The cumulative lifetime risk for men and 
women is similar, although it is higher for men in the age group younger than 40 
years. According to the Global Burden of Disease Study, schizophrenia causes a 
high degree of disability, which accounts for 1.1% of the total DALYs 
(disability-adjusted life years) and 2.8% of YLDs (years lived with disability). 
In the World Health Report [The WHO World Health Report: new understanding, new 
hope, 2001. Geneva], schizophrenia is listed as the 8th leading cause of DALYs 
worldwide in the age group 15-44 years. In addition to the direct burden, there 
is considerable burden on the relatives who care for the sufferers. The 
treatment goals for the moment are to identify the illness as early as possible, 
treat the symptoms, provide skills to patients and their families, maintain the 
improvement over a period of time, prevent relapses and reintegrate the ill 
persons into the community so that they can lead as normal a life as possible.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2005.04.009
PMID: 15925493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Pediatr Clin North Am. 2005 Jun;52(3):669-93, v. doi:
10.1016/j.pcl.2005.03.001.

Immunizations in the United States: a rite of passage.

Cohn AC(1), Broder KR, Pickering LK.

Author information:
(1)National Immunization Program, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA.

Today, vaccination is a cornerstone of pediatric preventive health care and a 
rite of passage for nearly all of the approximately 11,000 infants born daily in 
the United States. This article reviews the US immunization program with an 
emphasis on its role in ensuring that vaccines are effective, safe, and 
available and highlights several new vaccines and recommendations that will 
affect the health of children and adolescents and the practice of pediatric 
medicine in future decades.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcl.2005.03.001
PMCID: PMC7119020
PMID: 15925657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Int J Obes (Lond). 2005 Sep;29(9):1011-29. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803005.

Health consequences of obesity in the elderly: a review of four unresolved 
questions.

Zamboni M(1), Mazzali G, Zoico E, Harris TB, Meigs JB, Di Francesco V, Fantin F, 
Bissoli L, Bosello O.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, University of Verona, Verona, Italy. 
mauro.zamboni@univr.it

Obesity prevalence is growing progressively even among older age groups. 
Controversy exists about the potential harms of obesity in the elderly. Debate 
persists about the relation between obesity in old age and total or 
disease-specific mortality, the definition of obesity in the elderly, its 
clinical relevance, and about the need for its treatment. Knowledge of 
age-related body composition and fat distribution changes will help us to better 
understand the relationships between obesity, morbidity and mortality in the 
elderly. Review of the literature supports that central fat and relative loss of 
fat-free mass may become relatively more important than BMI in determining the 
health risk associated with obesity in older ages. Weight gain or fat 
redistribution in older age may still confer adverse health risks (for earlier 
mortality, comorbidities conferring independent adverse health risks, or for 
functional decline). Evaluation of comorbidity and weight history should be 
performed in the elderly in order to generate a comprehensive assessment of the 
potential adverse health effects of overweight or obesity. The risks of obesity 
in the elderly have been underestimated by a number of confounders such as 
survival effect, competing mortalities, relatively shortened life expectancy in 
older persons, smoking, weight change and unintentional weight loss. 
Identification of elderly subjects with sarcopenic obesity is probably 
clinically relevant, but the definition of sarcopenic obesity, the benefits of 
its clinical identification, as well as its relation to clinical consequences 
require further study. Studies on the effect of voluntary weight loss in the 
elderly are scarce, but they suggest that even small amounts of weight loss 
(between 5-10% of initial body weight) may be beneficial. In older as well as in 
younger adults, voluntary weight loss may help to prevent the adverse health 
consequences of obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803005
PMID: 15925957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Hosp Outlook. 2005 Feb-Mar;8(1):9.

Medicare Hospital Trust Fund increases life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 15926378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Sep;126(9):960-6. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.016.

Rapid and reversible induction of the longevity, anticancer and genomic effects 
of caloric restriction.

Spindler SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, 
USA. spindler@ucr.edu

It is widely held that caloric restriction (CR) extends lifespan by preventing 
or reducing the age-related accumulation of irreversible molecular damage. In 
contrast, our results suggest that CR can act rapidly to begin life and health 
span extension, and that its rapid genomic effects are closely linked to its 
health effects. We found that CR begins to extend lifespan and reduce cancer as 
a cause of death within 8 weeks in older mice, apparently by reducing the rate 
of tumor growth. Further, 8 weeks of CR progressively reproduces nearly three 
quarters of the genomic effects of long-term CR (LTCR) in liver. Fewer of the 
genomic effects of LTCR are rapidly reproduced by the initiation of CR in the 
heart, but the changes produced are keys to cardiovascular health. Thus, the 
genomic effects of CR may be established more rapidly in mitotic than in 
postmitotic tissues. Most of the genomic effects of LTCR dissipate 8 weeks after 
switching to a control diet. Consistent with these results, others have shown 
that acute CR rapidly and reversibly reduces the short-term risk of death in 
Drosophila to that of LTCR treated flies. Further, in late adulthood, acute CR 
partially or completely reverses age-related alterations of liver, brain and 
heart proteins. CR also rapidly and reversibly mitigates biomarkers of aging in 
adult rhesus macaques and humans. These data argue that highly conserved 
mechanisms for the rapid and reversible enhancement of life- and health-span 
exist for mitotic and postmitotic tissues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.016
PMID: 15927235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Circulation. 2005 May 31;111(21):2850-7. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.511659.

Twenty-five-year experience with the Björk-Shiley convexoconcave heart valve: a 
continuing clinical concern.

Blot WJ(1), Ibrahim MA, Ivey TD, Acheson DE, Brookmeyer R, Weyman A, Defauw J, 
Smith JK, Harrison D.

Author information:
(1)International Epidemiology Institute, Rockville, MD, USA. blotw@iei.ws

Comment in
    Circulation. 2005 May 31;111(21):2717-9.

BACKGROUND: The first Björk-Shiley convexoconcave (BSCC) prosthetic heart valves 
were implanted in 1978. The 25th anniversary provided a stimulus to summarize 
the research data relevant to BSCC valve fracture, patient management, and 
current clinical options.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Published and unpublished data on the risks of BSCC valve 
fracture and replacement were compiled, and strategies for identifying 
candidates for prophylactic valve reoperation were summarized. By December 2003, 
outlet strut fractures (OSFs), often with fatal outcomes, had been reported in 
633 BSCC valves (0.7% of 86,000 valves implanted). Fractures still continue to 
occur, but average rates of OSFs in 60 degrees valves are now <0.1% per year. 
OSF risk varies markedly by valve characteristics, especially valve angle and 
size, with weaker effects associated with other manufacturing variables. OSF 
risks are mildly lower among women than men but decline sharply with advancing 
age. The risks of valve replacement typically greatly exceed those of OSF. By 
comparing individualized estimated risks of OSF versus valve replacement, 
guidelines have been developed to identify the small percentage of BSCC patients 
(mostly younger men) who would be expected to have a gain in life expectancy 
should reoperative surgery be performed.
CONCLUSIONS: Twenty-five years after the initial BSCC valve implants, fractures 
continue to occur. Continued monitoring of BSCC patients is needed to track and 
quantify risks and enable periodic updating of guidelines for patients and their 
physicians.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.511659
PMID: 15927993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2005 Jun;18(6):265-71. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzi028.
Epub  2005 May 31.

Biased mutation-assembling: an efficient method for rapid directed evolution 
through simultaneous mutation accumulation.

Hamamatsu N(1), Aita T, Nomiya Y, Uchiyama H, Nakajima M, Husimi Y, Shibanaka Y.

Author information:
(1)Tsukuba Research Institute, Novartis Pharma KK, Ohkubo 8, Tsukuba 300-2611, 
Japan.

We have developed an efficient optimization technique, 'biased 
mutation-assembling', for improving protein properties such as thermostability. 
In this strategy, a mutant library is constructed using the overlap extension 
polymerase chain reaction technique with DNA fragments from wild-type and 
phenotypically advantageous mutant genes, in which the number of mutations 
assembled in the wild-type gene is stochastically controlled by the mixing ratio 
of the mutant DNA fragments to wild-type fragments. A high mixing ratio results 
in a mutant composition biased to favor multiple-point mutants. We applied this 
strategy to improve the thermostability of prolyl endopeptidase from 
Flavobacterium meningosepticum as a case study and found that the proportion of 
thermostable mutants in a library increased as the mixing ratio was increased. 
If the proportion of thermostable mutants increases, the screening effort needed 
to find them should be reduced. Indeed, we isolated a mutant with a 1200-fold 
longer activity half-life at 60 degrees C than that of wild-type prolyl 
endopeptidase after screening only 2000 mutants from a library prepared with a 
high mixing ratio. Our results indicate that an aggressive accumulation of 
advantageous mutations leads to an increase in the quality of the mutant library 
and a reduction in the screening effort required to find superior mutants.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzi028
PMID: 15928005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Theol Today. 2004 Jan;60(4):479-96. doi: 10.1177/004057360406000403.

Ethical implications of prolonged lives.

Chapman AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Science and Human Rights Program, American Association for the Advancement of 
Science, USA.

DOI: 10.1177/004057360406000403
PMID: 15929230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Rejuvenation Res. 2005 Summer;8(2):77-8. doi: 10.1089/rej.2005.8.77.

"The rate of aging": a counterproductively undefinable term.

de Grey AD.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2005.8.77
PMID: 15929713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Rejuvenation Res. 2005 Summer;8(2):110-22. doi: 10.1089/rej.2005.8.110.

An interview with William B. Hurlbut. Interview by Vicki Glaser.

Hurlbut WB.

Comment in
    Rejuvenation Res. 2005 Fall;8(3):129-30.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2005.8.110
PMID: 15929719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Am J Gastroenterol. 2005 Jun;100(6):1330-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2005.41526.x.

Secondary sclerosing cholangitis: a comparison to primary sclerosing 
cholangitis.

Gossard AA(1), Angulo P, Lindor KD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA.
