The "Time trade-off" (TTO), is the most widely used method to "quality adjust" 
life years for "QALYs" in cost utility analysis. In this paper we ask if it is 
theoretically likely that the TTO is valid for this use. The TTO consists in a 
trade off between longevity and quality of life. Firstly, we argue that it is 
impossible to control for all factors that may influence one's willingness to 
sacrifice lifetime. Secondly, that longevity and quality of life are too closely 
interrelated for the hypothetical trade off to reveal real preferences. Thirdly, 
that the TTO handles the value of a life year inconsistently because it 
simultaneously assumes that it changes (as an outcome measure) and that it 
doesn't change (as a currency unit). Lastly, we ask whether the difficulties 
stem from an inherent contradiction in trying to quantify quality of life. The 
problems theoretical validity an internal consistency, contrast the use of the 
results as exact measurements. We conclude that cost utility analysis based on 
TTO cannot be trusted as a tool for setting priorities in health.

DOI: 10.1136/mh.29.2.81
PMID: 15884191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Optometry. 2005 May;76(5):293-301. doi: 10.1016/s1529-1839(05)70312-2.

Choroidal metastasis: case reports and review of the literature.

Chong JT(1), Mick A.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco VA Medical Center, San Francisco, California, USA. 
jtsou@swmail.sw.org

BACKGROUND: Choroidal metastases are recognized as the most common intraocular 
malignancy. Their diagnosis has become more common due to increased emphasis on 
comprehensive eye examinations for cancer patients and the improved life 
expectancy of patients with metastatic disease. They are most prevalent in 
female patients with breast cancer and male patients with lung cancer.
METHODS: A thorough fundus examination, coupled with the use of A-scan and 
B-scan ultrasonography, will aid in their diagnosis. There are many ways of 
treating these tumors, including radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and 
monitoring.
CASE REPORTS: Two case reports of patients diagnosed with choroidal metastases 
are discussed. Case 1 involved a patient with lung cancer who manifested a large 
bullous exudative retinal detachment due to an underlying choroidal metastasis. 
Case 2 dealt with treatment of a patient with metastatic transitional cell 
cancer who manifested a shallow exudative retinal detachment caused by a 
choroidal metastasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to progress of chemotherapeutic medications, the number of 
patients who manifest choroidal metastases will continue to increase. It is 
essential for the practitioner to be able to recognize this disease process to 
prevent visual loss and institute referral for proper treatment for metastatic 
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1529-1839(05)70312-2
PMID: 15884419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. BMC Health Serv Res. 2005 May 10;5:35. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-5-35.

Cost-effectiveness of recommended nurse staffing levels for short-stay skilled 
nursing facility patients.

Ganz DA(1), Simmons SF, Schnelle JF.

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program, Veterans Affairs Greater Los 
Angeles Health Care System and University of California, Los Angeles, 911 
Broxton Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA. dganz@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: Among patients in skilled nursing facilities for post-acute care, 
increased registered nurse, total licensed staff, and nurse assistant staffing 
is associated with a decreased rate of hospital transfer for selected diagnoses. 
However, the cost-effectiveness of increasing staffing to recommended levels is 
unknown.
METHODS: Using a Markov cohort simulation, we estimated the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of recommended staffing versus median staffing in patients 
admitted to skilled nursing facilities for post-acute care. The outcomes of 
interest were life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness of recommended staffing versus 
median staffing was $321,000 per discounted quality-adjusted life year gained. 
One-way sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the cost-effectiveness ratio was 
most sensitive to the likelihood of acute hospitalization from the nursing home. 
The cost-effectiveness ratio was also sensitive to the rapidity with which 
patients in the recommended staffing scenario recovered health-related quality 
of life as compared to the median staffing scenario. The cost-effectiveness 
ratio was not sensitive to other parameters.
CONCLUSION: Adopting recommended nurse staffing for short-stay nursing home 
patients cannot be justified on the basis of decreased hospital transfer rates 
alone, except in facilities with high baseline hospital transfer rates. 
Increasing nurse staffing would be justified if health-related quality of life 
of nursing home patients improved substantially from greater nurse and nurse 
assistant presence.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-5-35
PMCID: PMC1145183
PMID: 15885148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Sep;126(9):913-22. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.012.

Overview of caloric restriction and ageing.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Barshop Center for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, 7703 Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX 78229-3900, USA. 
masoro@aol.com

It has been known for some 70 years that restricting the food intake of 
laboratory rats extends their mean and maximum life span. In addition, such life 
extension has been observed over the years in many other species, including 
mice, hamsters, dogs, fish, invertebrate animals, and yeast. Since this 
life-extending action appears to be due to a restricted intake of energy, this 
dietary manipulation is referred to as caloric restriction (CR). CR extends life 
by slowing and/or delaying the ageing processes. The underlying biological 
mechanism responsible for the life extension is still not known, although many 
hypotheses have been proposed. The Growth Retardation Hypothesis, the first 
proposed, has been tested and found wanting. Although there is strong evidence 
against the Reduction of Body Fat Hypothesis, efforts have recently been made to 
resurrect it. While the Reduction of Metabolic Rate Hypothesis is not supported 
by experimental findings, it nevertheless still has advocates. Currently, the 
most popular concept is the Oxidative Damage Attenuation Hypothesis; the results 
of several studies provide support for this hypothesis, while those of other 
studies do not. The Altered Glucose-Insulin System Hypothesis and the Alteration 
of the Growth Hormone-IGF-1 Axis Hypothesis have been gaining favor, and data 
have emerged that link these two hypotheses as one. Thus, it may now be more 
appropriate to refer to them as the Attenuation of Insulin-Like Signaling 
Hypothesis. Finally, the Hormesis Hypothesis may provide an overarching concept 
that embraces several of the other hypotheses as merely specific examples of 
hormetic processes. For example, the Oxidative Damage Attenuation Hypothesis 
probably addresses only one of likely many damaging processes that underlie 
aging. It is proposed that low-intensity stressors, such as CR, activate ancient 
hormetic defense mechanisms in organisms ranging from yeast to mammals, 
defending them against a variety of adversities and, when long-term, retarding 
senescent processes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.012
PMID: 15885745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Radiother Oncol. 2005 May;75(2):179-85. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2005.03.006.

Economic evaluation of proton radiation therapy in the treatment of breast 
cancer.

Lundkvist J(1), Ekman M, Ericsson SR, Isacsson U, Jönsson B, Glimelius B.

Author information:
(1)Medical Management Centre, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. 
jonas.l@healtheconomics.se

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Proton beam therapy offers potential clinical advantages 
compared with conventional radiation therapy for many cancer patients. The 
benefits are mainly a result of a more favourable dose distribution. The 
treatment cost with proton radiation is higher than for conventional radiation, 
mainly due to the large investment cost of building a proton therapy facility. 
It is therefore important to evaluate whether the medical benefits of proton 
therapy are large enough to justify the higher treatment costs, compared with 
conventional radiation therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of proton therapy in the treatment 
of 55-year old women with left-sided breast cancer was assessed. A Markov cohort 
simulation model was used to simulate the life of patients diagnosed with breast 
cancers and treated with radiation. Cost and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) 
were the primary outcome measures.
RESULTS: The study found a cost per QALY gained of 67,000 Euro for the base case 
analysis of an average breast cancer patient. The cost per QALY gained would, 
however, be considerably lower if a population with high-risk of developing 
cardiac disease was treated. Sensitivity analyses showed that the results were 
stable and that the risk of cardiac disease was the most important parameter.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that proton therapy for breast cancer can be 
cost-effective if appropriate risk groups are chosen as targets for the therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2005.03.006
PMID: 15885828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Vasc Surg. 2005 May;41(5):741-51; discussion 751. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2005.01.055.

Cost-effectiveness of different screening strategies for abdominal aortic 
aneurysm.

Wanhainen A(1), Lundkvist J, Bergqvist D, Björck M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Uppsala University Hospital, SE-371- 85 Uppsala, 
Sweden. andwan@algonet.se

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2005 Dec;42(6):1244; author reply 1245.

OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this study was to develop a simulation model 
to assess the cost-effectiveness of different screening strategies for abdominal 
aortic aneurysms (AAAs) in men.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was conducted for different 
screening strategies in terms of age (60, 65, or 70 years) and risk profiles 
(all men or specific high-risk groups) of the screened population, and 
rescreening after 5 or 10 years. These data were analyzed in a Markov simulation 
cohort model.
RESULTS: The cost per life year gained for different screening strategies ranged 
from US 8,309 dollars to US 14,084 dollars and was estimated at US 10,474 
dollars when 65-year-old men were screened once. Screening 60-year-old men was 
equally cost-effective, with the advantage of more life years gained. We 
demonstrated a trade-off between high prevalence of AAA and lower life 
expectancy, eliminating the expected benefits of screening high-risk groups such 
as smokers (US 10,695 dollars) or cardiovascular patients (US 10,392 dollars). 
Assuming general population utility resulted in a cost per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained of US 13,900 dollars, whereas a hypothetical 5% reduction in 
utility among men with a screening-detected AAA raised the cost per QALY gained 
to US 75,100 dollars.
CONCLUSION: This Markov model, which was based on a systematic review of the 
literature, supplied information on the estimated cost-effectiveness of 
different screening strategies. Screening men for AAA may be cost-effective in 
the long-term. Different screening strategies and quality-of-life effects 
related to screening for AAA need to be evaluated in future clinical studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.01.055
PMID: 15886653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. N Z Med J. 2005 May 6;118(1214):U1443.

Valuing prevention: discounting health benefits and costs in New Zealand.

Milne R(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Population Health, 
University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. rj.milne@auckland.ac.nz

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 2005 Jul 29;118(1219):U1600.

PMID: 15886738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2005 
May;48(5):513-4. doi: 10.1007/s00103-005-1049-y.

[The geriatric patient -- medical entitlements and reality].

[Article in German]

Willich SN.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-005-1049-y
PMID: 15887059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2005 
May;48(5):586-92. doi: 10.1007/s00103-005-1043-4.

[The remarkable rise in life expectancy and how it will affect medicine].

[Article in German]

Vaupel JW(1), V Kistowski KG.

Author information:
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für demografische Forschung, Rostock. jwv@demogr.mpg.de

Life expectancy has increased at a steady pace in industrialized countries over 
the last 160 years. A slowdown is not evident: Since 1950 the number of people 
celebrating their 100th birthdays has at least doubled each decade. This 
increase in survival is the result of economic developments, social improvements 
and advances in medicine. Although the belief that old-age mortality is 
intractable remains widespread, life expectancy is not approaching a limit. 
Rather, the evidence suggests that ageing is plastic and that survival can be 
extended by various genetic changes and non-genetic interactions. Increases in 
life expectancy are largely attributed to improvements in old-age survival. It 
is a reasonable scenario that life expectancy will rise further in coming 
decades, supported by advances in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of 
age-related diseases. If the trend continues, life expectancy in Germany will 
rise to over 90 years in the first half of this century. Many official 
forecasts, however, have assumed lower figures which can have severe 
consequences both for public and private decision making.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-005-1043-4
PMID: 15887070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 Apr 7;147(14):55-6.

[The 10-minute office visit. Untreated acromegaly shortens life expectancy. You 
must be able to state the suspected diagnosis].

[Article in German]

Biering H(1), Strasburger CJ.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik mit Schwerpunkt Gastroenterologie, Hepatologie und 
Endokrinologie, Universitätsklinikum Charité, Berlin. henrik.biering@charite.de

PMID: 15887688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2005 May 20;130(20):1277. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-868715.

[Curtailment of life expectancy by obesity].

[Article in German]

Bertz H(1).

Author information:
(1)Sektion Ernährungsmedizin und Diätetik, Universitätsklinik Freiburg Med I, 
Freiburg. bertz@mm11.ukl.uni-freiburg.de

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-868715
PMID: 15889327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Lancet Infect Dis. 2005 May;5(5):253. doi: 10.1016/s1473-3099(05)70088-8.

Zimbabwe's reversal of fortune.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/s1473-3099(05)70088-8
PMID: 15889465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Clin Psychiatry. 2005 May;66(5):559-63. doi: 10.4088/jcp.v66n0503.

A 4-fold risk of metabolic syndrome in patients with schizophrenia: the Northern 
Finland 1966 Birth Cohort study.

Saari KM(1), Lindeman SM, Viilo KM, Isohanni MK, Järvelin MR, Laurén LH, 
Savolainen MJ, Koponen HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oulu, PO Box 5000, 90014 Oulu, 
Finland. kaisa.saari@oulu.fi

OBJECTIVE: Schizophrenia is associated with a shortened life expectancy and 
increased somatic comorbidity with, e.g., cardiovascular disorders. One major 
risk factor for these disorders is the metabolic syndrome, which has been 
reported to have a higher frequency in schizophrenic patients. Our objective was 
to study the prevalence of metabolic syndrome in a population-based birth 
cohort.
METHOD: The study sample consisted of 5613 members of the Northern Finland 1966 
Birth Cohort who participated in the field study from 1997 to 1998. Subjects 
were divided into 4 diagnostic categories (DSM-III-R): (1) schizophrenia (N = 
31), (2) other functional psychoses (N = 22), (3) nonpsychotic disorders (N = 
105), and (4) no psychiatric hospital treatment (N = 5455, comparison group). 
Subjects were assessed for the presence of metabolic syndrome according to the 
criteria of the National Cholesterol Education Program.
RESULTS: The prevalence of metabolic syndrome was higher in subjects with 
schizophrenia compared with the comparison group (19% vs. 6%, p = .010). The 
prevalence of metabolic syndrome in subjects with other psychoses was 5%. After 
controlling for sex, the results of logistic regression analysis showed that the 
risk of metabolic syndrome in schizophrenia was 3.7 (95% CI = 1.5 to 9.0).
CONCLUSIONS: The high prevalence of metabolic syndrome in schizophrenia even at 
such a relatively young age underscores the need to select antipsychotic 
medications with no or little capability to induce metabolic side effects. Also, 
developing comprehensive efforts directed at controlling weight and diet and 
improving physical activity are needed.

DOI: 10.4088/jcp.v66n0503
PMID: 15889940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2005 May;3(3):453-63. doi:
10.1586/14779072.3.3.453.

Dyslipidemia and lipid-lowering therapy in the elderly.

Deedwania P(1), Volkova N.

Author information:
(1)VACCHCS/UCSF Cardiology division, 2615 E. Clinton Avenue, Fresno, CA 93703, 
USA. deed@ucsfresno.edu

According to the current evidence, the fastest growing proportion of patient 
populations seeking healthcare is those over 65 years of age. Coronary artery 
disease and subclinical atherosclerosis are highly prevalent in this group of 
patients and are strongly linked to dyslipidemia, a well-established risk factor 
for atherosclerosis. Treating dyslipidemia in this group of patients requires 
specific knowledge and understanding of common dyslipidemias and the relative 
safety of various pharmacologic agents in the presence of possible multiple 
comorbidities. Lifestyle modification remains the first step in the treatment of 
dyslipidemia; however, it can be difficult to sustain and achieve acceptable 
compliance in the elderly and it is best used in combination with drug therapy. 
Statins are widely accepted as the first-line therapy. Several recent studies 
have demonstrated that statins are safe and effective in the elderly. However, 
it is important to note that there is very limited data regarding the effects of 
dyslipidemia treatment on morbidity and mortality in patients over 85 years of 
age. In summary, the clinicians must recognize that the presence of dyslipidemia 
in the elderly poses substantial risk of coronary events and stroke. The 
available evidence has demonstrated that in most elderly patients who are at 
increased risk for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, treatment of 
dyslipidemia with appropriate therapy reduces the risk, and when used carefully 
with close monitoring for safety, the treatment is generally well tolerated. 
With increasing life expectancy, it is critical for physicians to recognize the 
importance of detection and treatment of dyslipidemia in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1586/14779072.3.3.453
PMID: 15889973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Ai Zheng. 2005 May;24(5):596-9.

[Multivariate prognostic analysis in gastric carcinoma patients after radical 
operation].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhan YQ(1), Sun XW, Li W, Chen YB, Xu L, Guan YX, Li YF, Xu DZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Abdominal Surgery, Cancer Center, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510060, P.R.China. yq_zhan@21cn.com

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: Whether received radical operation is an important 
prognostic factor of gastric carcinoma. But the long-term efficacies of radical 
operation on different patients are not the same. This study was to investigate 
prognostic factors of gastric carcinoma.
METHODS: Clinical data of 405 patients with gastric carcinoma, received radical 
operation from Jan. 1985 to Dec. 1995 in Cancer Center of Sun Yat-sen 
University, were analyzed retrospectively. Life table method was used to analyze 
survival rate, Wilcoxon test was used for statistical comparison, and Cox 
regression model was used for multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: The 5-year overall survival rate was 43.4%. The 5-year survival rates 
of patients in pathologic TNM (pTNM) stage I, II, III, and IV were 75.6%, 58.7%, 
28.0%, and 18.4%, respectively (P < 0.01). The 5- year survival rates of 
patients with tumor sizes of less than 2.0 cm, 2.0-3.9 cm, 4.0-5.9 cm, 6.0-7.9 
cm, and no less than 8.0 cm were 82.0%, 57.4%, 43.7%, 38.7%, and 26.9%, 
respectively (P < 0.05). In addition, the 5-year survival rate was higher in 
patients with perioperative chemotherapy than in patients without perioperative 
chemotherapy (47.2% vs. 37.8%, P < 0.05). Univariate analysis showed that 
perioperative chemotherapy, Borrmann type, tumor size, pathologic type, and pTNM 
stage were prognostic factors of gastric carcinoma. Multivariate analysis showed 
that pTNM stage, tumor size, and perioperative chemotherapy were independent 
prognostic factors of gastric carcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS: pTNM stage, tumor size, and perioperative chemotherapy are the most 
significant factors influencing prognosis of gastric carcinoma patients after 
radical operation. Perioperative chemotherapy contributes to enhance survival 
rate of gastric carcinoma patients.

PMID: 15890105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2005;72(2):105-10.

[Combined atlantoaxial fractures].

[Article in Czech]

Stulík J(1), Vyskocil T, Sebesta P, Kryl J.

Author information:
(1)Spondylochirurgické oddelení FN Motol, Praha.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Combined fractures of the atlas and epistropheus account 
for 3 % of all acute injuries to the cervical spine. In relation to all C1 and 
C2 injuries this is 43 % and 16 %, respectively. The aim of this study is to 
evaluate a group of patients with combined C1-C2 fractures and to suggest an 
effective therapeutic procedure.
MATERIAL: In the years 1996 to 2003, a total of 16 patients with trauma to the 
atlantoaxial complex were treated at the Orthopedic Department of the Third 
Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, Prague (1996-2001) and the Department 
of Spinal Surgery of the University Hospital in Motol, Prague (2001-2003). These 
injuries included a combined fracture of the dens (Anderson and D'Alonzo type 
II) and of the atlas posterior arch in six patients, a type II dens fracture 
combined with Jefferson fracture in two patients, a type III fracture of the 
dens with a lateral mass fracture in two patients, hangman's fracture with 
posterior arch fracture in three patients, a type II fracture of the dens with 
anterior arch fracture in one patient, a fracture of the C2 body with Jefferson 
fracture in one patient and a fracture of the C2 body with fracture of the 
lateral mass in one patient. Two patients were treated conservatively and 14 
underwent surgery. On admission neurological deficit was found in five patients.
METHODS: Fourteen patients were operated on. Direct osteosynthesis of the dens, 
with motion in the atlantoaxial complex preserved, was performed in five 
patients. Seven patients underwent C1-C2 fixation that, in one, involved the 
C1-C3 segments; five patients were treated by Harms fixation with polyaxial 
screws from the posterior approach, two by the Magerl or Gallie techniques and 
one patient required occipito-cervical fixation of C0-C2. The patient with a 
hangman's fracture combined with fracture of the atlas posterior arch was 
treated by discectomy of C2-C3, tricortical graft from the iliac crest and plate 
application. The patients used Philadelphia collars for 6 to 12 weeks according 
to the type of injury and their bone quality.
RESULTS: Three patients (two undergoing direct osteosynthesis of the dens and 
one with occipito-cervical fixation) reported intermittent upper neck pain that 
required taking analgesics. The patient treated by occipito-cervical fixation 
repeatedly complained of restriction of rotational head movement by about 50 %. 
Radiograms of the cervical spine in both flexion and extension taken at 12- to 
14-week follow-up all showed stable C0-C1 and C1-C2 segments. In the five 
patients undergoing direct osteosynthesis of the dens, complete bony union was 
found on X-ray and CT examination by 6 to 24 weeks postoperatively. Similarly, 
full instrumented fusion was achieved by 12 to 24 weeks postoperatively in the 
seven patients treated by dorsal fixation. The patient with anterior C2-C3 
fixation showed, on X-ray images, a completely remodeled segment at 24 weeks 
after surgery. There was one intraoperative complication involving management of 
profuse bleeding from the venous plexus along the greater occipital nerve. No 
other complications related to the surgical procedure were recorded and no 
injury to the spinal cord, nerve roots or the vertebral artery was observed. 
None of the patients experienced any deterioration of neurological findings 
during the early postoperative period. One patient had to undergo resuturing of 
the operative wound from the posterior approach, because of subcutaneous 
necrosis that had failed to heal. No instrumentation failure or infection, 
regarded as late complications, were recorded.
DISCUSSION: At our Department we prefer early operative treatment involving 
spondylodesis in the shortest segment possible, with special emphasis on 
preserving rotational C1-C2 movement. Therefore, in some cases, we use only 
temporary stabilization with removal of instrumentation after 3 to 4 months. In 
this group the most frequent fractures were those combined with type II 
fractures of the dens. In such cases we always prefer direct osteosynthesis of 
the dens or, if this is not possible, the Harms technique of C1-C2 fixation, 
possibly only temporary. We believe, in agreement with Guilot and Fesser, that a 
potential failure of conservative therapy may result in a longer convalescent 
period and that patients should always be informed about these issues. In 
contrast to Guilot and Fesser we treat combined hangman's fractures from the 
anterior approach, by discectomy, tricortical graft and plate application.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined atlantoaxial fractures are serious, life-threatening 
injuries which, because of their diversity, require an individual approach to 
each patient. Early surgery is recommended with increasing frequency, 
particularly in the cases with persisting dislocation or instability. At the 
same time it is necessary to ensure that motion restriction of the cervical 
spine be minimal.

PMID: 15890142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Gene. 2005 Jul 18;354:22-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2005.03.040.

The retrograde response links metabolism with stress responses, 
chromatin-dependent gene activation, and genome stability in yeast aging.

Jazwinski SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, 1901 Perdido St., Box P7-2, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA. 
sjazwi@lsuhsc.edu

Yeast can be used as a model to understand the impact mitochondria have on aging 
in higher organisms. Mitochondrial dysfunction increases with replicative age in 
yeast, and this is associated with the induction of the retrograde response. 
This intracellular signaling pathway from the mitochondrion to the nucleus 
results in changes in the expression of metabolic and stress genes, which adapt 
the yeast cell to the loss of tricarboxylic acid cycle activity by providing 
alternate anaplerotic sources of biosynthetic precursors. The induction of the 
retrograde response increases longevity. Paradoxically, it also leads to the 
production of extrachromosomal ribosomal DNA circles, which cause yeast demise. 
The deleterious effects of these circles are mitigated by the retrograde 
response, which increases longevity in part due to this effect and partly due to 
other activities. Rtg2p is the retrograde signal transducer proximal to the 
mitochondrion, and it interacts with several proteins in relaying the retrograde 
signal to the transcription factor Rtg1p-Rtg3p. Rtg2p also suppresses ribosomal 
DNA circle production. When it is engaged in retrograde signaling, it cannot 
fulfill the latter role. The SAGA-like SLIK complex is one of the protein 
complexes in which Rtg2p has been found. This histone acetyltransferase, 
transcriptional co-activator complex contains Gcn5p, and it potentiates the 
activation of retrograde responsive genes. SLIK complex integrity, and in 
particular Gcn5p, are needed for retrograde response extension of life span. 
Thus, the retrograde response through SLIK links metabolism, stress responses, 
chromatin-dependent gene regulation, and genome stability in yeast aging. Gene 
regulatory phenomena akin to the retrograde response also operate in human 
cells, which display both common and cell-type specific changes in gene 
expression on loss of mitochondrial function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2005.03.040
PMID: 15890475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2005 Jun 1;62(2):392-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.10.003.

Acute gastrointestinal, genitourinary, and dermatological toxicity during 
dose-escalated 3D-conformal radiation therapy (3DCRT) using an intrarectal 
balloon for prostate gland localization and immobilization.

Woel R(1), Beard C, Chen MH, Hurwitz M, Loffredo M, McMahon E, Ching J, Lopes L, 
D'Amico AV.

Author information:
(1)Joint Center for Radiation Therapy, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
rwoel@lroc.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: We determined the acute gastrointestinal (GI), genitourinary (GU), and 
dermatologic (D) toxicity during dose-escalated three-dimensional conformal 
radiation therapy (3DCRT). A modified intrarectal balloon (Medrad) was used for 
prostate gland localization and immobilization.
METHODS: Forty-six men with clinical category T1c to T3a, and at least one 
high-risk feature (PSA >10, Gleason > or =7, or MRI evidence of extracapsular 
extension or seminal vesical invasion) comprised the study cohort. Treatment 
consisted of hormonal therapy and 4-field 3DCRT using an intrarectal balloon for 
the initial 15 of 40 treatments. Planning treatment volume dose was 72 Gy (95% 
normalization). A Mantel-Haenzel Chi-square test compared the distribution of 
GU, GI, and D symptoms at baseline and at end of treatment (EOT).
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the 2 time points in the 
proportion of patients with bowel symptoms (p = 0.73), tenesmus (p = 0.27), 
nocturia (p = 1.00), or GU urgency (p = 0.40). However, there was a significant 
decrease in GU frequency (70% vs. 50%, p = 0.46) as a result of medical 
interventions and a significant increase in hemorrhoidal irritation (4% vs. 20%, 
p = 0.02) and anal cutaneous skin reaction (0% vs. 70%, p < 0.001). By 3 months 
after EOT compared to baseline, there was no significant difference in the 
proportion of patients experiencing hemorrhoidal bleeding (4% vs. 8%, p = 0.52), 
requiring intervention for hemorrhoidal symptoms (7% vs. 5%, p = 0.8), or 
experiencing persistent anal cutaneous skin reaction (0% vs. 3%, p = 0.31).
CONCLUSION: Dose-escalated 3DCRT using an intrarectal balloon for prostate 
localization and immobilization was well tolerated. Acute GU, GI, and D symptoms 
resolved with standard dietary or medical interventions by the EOT or shortly 
thereafter.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.10.003
PMID: 15890580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2005 Jun 1;62(2):514-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.10.005.

Comparison of 1 x 8 Gy and 10 x 3 Gy for functional outcome in patients with 
metastatic spinal cord compression.

Rades D(1), Stalpers LJ, Hulshof MC, Borgmann K, Karstens JH, Koning CC, Alberti 
W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany. Rades.Dirk@gmx.net

PURPOSE: Since life expectancy is markedly reduced in patients with metastatic 
spinal cord compression (MSCC), a short and effective radiation schedule is 
desired. This study investigates a reduction of the overall treatment time to 
only one day by comparing 1 x 8 Gy to the multi-fractionated 10 x 3 Gy for 
functional outcome.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Data of 204 patients, treated for MSCC with either 1 x 8 
Gy (n = 96) or 10 x 3 Gy (n = 108), were analyzed retrospectively. Motor 
function and ambulatory status were evaluated before and up to 24 weeks after 
RT. A multivariate analysis (nominal regression) was performed including 
radiation schedule, performance status, age, irradiated vertebra, and relevant 
prognostic factors (histology, ambulatory status, time of developing motor 
deficits). Improvement of motor deficits was selected as basic category and 
compared with no change and deterioration.
RESULTS: Univariate analysis showed no significant difference between the 
schedules for post-treatment motor function and ambulatory rates. Multivariate 
analysis demonstrated a significant effect on functional outcome for the 
prognostic factors, but not for the radiation schedule (p = 0.853 for no change, 
p = 0.237 for deterioration).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest the two fractionation schedules to be comparably 
effective for functional outcome. Thus, 1 x 8 Gy should be considered for 
patients with a poor survival prognosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.10.005
PMID: 15890595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Stroke. 2005 Jun;36(6):1291-3. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000166055.52742.2b. Epub
 2005 May 12.

Screening for obstructive sleep apnea in stroke patients: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Brown DL(1), Chervin RD, Hickenbottom SL, Langa KM, Morgenstern LB.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. devinb@med.umich.edu

Comment in
    Stroke. 2005 Jun;36(6):1293-4.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is common after acute 
ischemic stroke and predicts poor stroke recovery, but whether screening for OSA 
and treatment by continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) improves 
neurological outcome is unknown. We used a cost-effectiveness model to estimate 
the magnitude of benefit that would be necessary to make polysomnography (PSG) 
and OSA treatment cost-effective in stroke patients.
METHODS: A decision tree modeled 2 alternative strategies: PSG followed by 3 
months of CPAP for those found to have OSA versus no screening. The primary 
outcome was the utility gained through OSA screening and treatment in relation 
to 2 common willingness-to-pay thresholds of $50,000 and $100,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: Screening resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$49,421 per QALY. Screening is cost-effective as long as the treatment of stroke 
patients with OSA by CPAP improves patient utilities by >0.2 for a 
willingness-to-pay of $50,000 per QALY and 0.1 for a willingness-to-pay of 
$100,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: A clinical trial assessing the effectiveness of CPAP in improving 
stroke outcome is warranted from a cost-effectiveness standpoint.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000166055.52742.2b
PMID: 15890999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2005 May;27(5):267-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.mph.0000165805.90813.72.

Cavoatrial tumor extension in children with wilms tumor: a retrospective review 
of 17 children in a single center.

Akyüz C(1), Emir S, Büyükpamukçu N, Atahan L, Cağlar M, Kutluk T, Büyükpamukçu 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine, 
Ankara, Turkey.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical characteristics and treatment 
results of 17 children with cavoatrial tumor extension of Wilms tumor. Of the 
360 Wilms tumors diagnosed between 1980 and 2000, 17 patients with intracaval 
thrombus were identified from the medical records at the pediatric oncology 
department of Hacettepe University. The following data were collected and 
reviewed: age, sex, presenting symptoms, tumor site, presence of anaplasia, 
stage, associated congenital anomalies, localization of tumor thrombus, 
radiologic findings, type and duration of preoperative chemotherapy, response to 
preoperative chemotherapy, recurrences, and survival. The frequency of 
cavoatrial extension in this group was 4.7% (15 in the inferior vena cava and 2 
in the right atrium). Fourteen patients received preoperative chemotherapy 
consisting of two-drug regimen (vincristine and actinomycin D) ranging from 1 to 
12 weeks (median 4 weeks). Since intravascular invasion is often asymptomatic, a 
careful radiologic examination to detect tumor thrombus before surgery is 
essential. There is no need for aggressive surgery in the presence of tumor 
thrombus. It may be resolved by preoperative chemotherapy. Surgical removal of 
the thrombus should be considered in the presence of life-threatening tumor 
thrombosis at diagnosis and in patients who had residual thrombus after 
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mph.0000165805.90813.72
PMID: 15891562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Med Hypotheses. 2005;65(1):8-16. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2004.12.025.

The sweet thing about Type 1 diabetes: a cryoprotective evolutionary adaptation.

Moalem S(1), Storey KB, Percy ME, Peros MC, Perl DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Box 1134, New York, 
NY 10029, USA. sharon.moalem@mssm.edu

The reasons for the uneven worldwide distribution of Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
have yet to be fully explained. Epidemiological studies have shown a higher 
prevalence of Type 1 diabetes in northern Europe, particularly in Scandinavian 
countries, and Sardinia. Recent animal research has uncovered the importance of 
the generation of elevated levels of glucose, glycerol and other sugar 
derivatives as a physiological means for cold adaptation. High concentrations of 
these substances depress the freezing point of body fluids and prevent the 
formation of ice crystals in cells through supercooling, thus acting as a 
cryoprotectant or antifreeze for vital organs as well as in their muscle tissue. 
In this paper, we hypothesize that factors predisposing to elevated levels of 
glucose, glycerol and other sugar derivatives may have been selected for, in 
part, as adaptive measures in exceedingly cold climates. This cryoprotective 
adaptation would have protected ancestral northern Europeans from the effects of 
suddenly increasingly colder climates, such as those believed to have arisen 
around 14,000 years ago and culminating in the Younger Dryas. When life 
expectancy was short, factors predisposing to Type 1 diabetes provided a 
survival advantage. However, deleterious consequences of this condition have 
become significant only in more modern times, as life expectancy has increased, 
thus outweighing their protective value. Examples of evolutionary adaptations 
conferring selection advantages against human pathogens that result in 
deleterious effects have been previously reported as epidemic pathogenic 
selection (EPS). Such proposed examples include the cystic fibrosis mutations in 
the CFTR gene bestowing resistance to Salmonella typhi and hemochromatosis 
mutations conferring protection against iron-seeking intracellular pathogens. 
This paper is one of the first accounts of a metabolic disorder providing a 
selection advantage not against a pathogenic stressor alone, but rather against 
a climatic change. We thus believe that the concept of EPS should now include 
environmental factors that may be nonorganismal in nature. In so doing we 
propose that factors resulting in Type 1 diabetes be considered a result of 
environmental pathogenic selection (EnPS).

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2004.12.025
PMID: 15893109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Autoimmun Rev. 2005 Apr;4(4):242-6. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2004.11.008. Epub
2004  Dec 14.

Socioeconomic factors in lupus erythematosus.

Meller S(1), Homey B, Ruzicka T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Heinrich-Heine University, Moorenstr. 5, D-40225 
Düsseldorf, Germany. Stephan.Meller@uni-duesseldorf.de

For a long time, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) was considered a potentially 
deadly disease. Since the introduction of immunosuppressive therapy, the life 
expectancy and the quality of life of patients suffering from lupus 
erythematosus has been dramatically improved. Today, the 5-year survival rate 
for SLE varies between 50% and 95%. Still, not all patients benefit equally from 
medical advances. Ethnic and/or socioeconomic minorities show severely 
disadvantageous prognosis or outcome in various studies. A substantial reduction 
in the quality of life as well as unemployment are other frequent side effects 
of this disease. Vocational handicaps related to discoid lupus erythematodes 
(DLE) was seen in nearly 45% of the patients. Therefore, the management of lupus 
erythematosus patients requires interdisciplinary cooperation between 
physicians, psychologists and social workers. The major aim of this article is 
to summarize the history of lupus erythematosus on the one and the other hand to 
consider the role of the socioeconomic factors influencing the prognosis of 
systemic and cutaneous lupus erythematosus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2004.11.008
PMID: 15893719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Sep;126(9):951-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.015.

Dietary restriction in rodents--delayed or retarded ageing?

Merry BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Liverpool, Crown Street, 
Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK. bm01@liv.ac.uk

Dietary restriction (DR) feeding increases survival significantly in strains of 
rats and mice. There remains however, the question as to whether these two 
species are always responding in an identical manner to the feeding regime. 
Enhanced survival can be achieved either through a set-point effect, where there 
is a change in the elevation of the Ln age-specific mortality rate or, by a 
decrease in the slope of the Ln age-specific mortality rate that results in a 
significant increase in the time to double the rate of mortality. It is only the 
second response that is evidence of a slower rate of ageing. These two possible 
responses to DR feeding may confound attempts to identify the biochemical 
mechanisms underlying the effect of DR on survival. A general lack of 
consistency is evident in the data and this is apparent when evaluating the free 
radical hypothesis of ageing in this model. Further, this hypothesis as 
currently viewed may be too simplistic to explain the variety and complexity of 
the ageing phenotype. What may be more important is not oxidative macromolecular 
damage but the slow transition to this cellular endpoint through the slow 
development of oxidative stress and the role it plays in modifying cell gene 
expression profiles.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.015
PMID: 15893804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Sep;126(9):1011-6. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.021.

Food restriction, evolution and ageing.

Kirkwood TB(1), Shanley DP.

Author information:
(1)Henry Wellcome Laboratory for Biogerontology Research, Institute for Ageing 
and Health, University of Newcastle, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 6BE, UK. 
Tom.Kirkwood@ncl.ac.uk

The food restriction model for life extension is nearing "three-score and 10" 
years of age and remains in good shape, preserving much of the mystique of its 
youth. Although originally described for laboratory rodents, recent work shows 
that food restriction also appears to slow ageing processes in a range of other 
animal species, raising the question of whether this response represents some 
generalised evolutionary adaptation, perhaps a strategy to cope with periods of 
famine. If the food restriction response does have an adaptive basis, this would 
suggest that specific gene regulatory processes have evolved to shape the 
organism's physiological response to food restriction. It will then be important 
to investigate how these are organised and whether the same or different factors 
are at play in the various species in which food restriction extends life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.021
PMID: 15893805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Health Policy. 2006 Jan;75(2):178-86. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.03.011.

Life expectancy and health care expenditures: a new calculation for Germany 
using the costs of dying.

Breyer F(1), Felder S.

Author information:
(1)Fachbereich Wirtschaftswissenschaften, Universität Konstanz, Fach D 135, 
D-78457 Konstanz, Germany. friedrich.breyer@uni-konstanz.de

Some people believe that the impact of population ageing on future health care 
expenditures will be quite moderate due to the high costs of dying. If not age 
per se but proximity to death determines the bulk of expenditures, a shift in 
the mortality risk to higher ages will not affect lifetime health care 
expenditures as death occurs only once in every life. We attempt to take this 
effect into account when we calculate the demographic impact on health care 
expenditures in Germany. From a Swiss data set, we derive age-expenditure 
profiles for both genders, separately for persons in their last 4 years of life 
and for survivors, which we apply to the projections of the age structure and 
mortality rates for the German population between 2002 and 2050 as published by 
the Statistische Bundesamt. In the extreme case, we assume that morbidity is 
compressed at the end of life in such a way that a 60-year old in 2050 is as 
healthy as a 56-year old today if his life expectancy is 4 years higher. We 
calculate that at constant prices, per-capita health expenditures of Social 
Health Insurance would rise from 2596 Euro in 2002 to between 2959 Euro and 3102 
Euro in 2050 when only the age structure of the population changes and 
everything else remains constant at the present level, and to between 5232 Euro 
and 5485 Euro with a technology-driven exogenous cost increase of 1% per annum. 
A "naïve" projection based only on the age distribution of health care 
expenditures, but not distinguishing between survivors and decedents, yields 
values of 3217 Euro and 5688 Euro for 2050, respectively. Thus, the error of 
excluding the "costs of dying" effect is small compared with the error of 
underestimating the financial consequences of expanding medical technology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.03.011
PMID: 15893848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Am J Prev Med. 2005 Jun;28(5):415-23. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2005.02.009.

Assessing the burden of disease in the United States using disability-adjusted 
life years.

McKenna MT(1), Michaud CM, Murray CJ, Marks JS.

Author information:
(1)National Center for HIV/STD/TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA. mtm1@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVES: Burden of disease studies have been implemented in many countries 
using the disability-adjusted life year (DALY) to assess major health problems.
METHODS: We applied methods developed by the World Bank and World Health 
Organization (WHO) to data specific to the United States to compute DALYs. We 
compared the results of this analysis to international estimates published by 
WHO for developed and developing regions of the world.
RESULTS: In the mid-1990s, the leading sources of premature death and disability 
in the United States, as measured by DALYs, were cardiovascular conditions, 
breast and lung cancers, depression, osteoarthritis, diabetes mellitus, and 
alcohol use and abuse. In addition, motor vehicle-related injuries and the HIV 
epidemic exacted a substantial toll on the health status of the U.S. population, 
particularly among racial/ethnic minorities. The major sources of death and 
disability in these latter populations were more similar to patterns of burden 
in developing rather than developed countries.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis provides the first detailed, comprehensive estimates 
using DALYs of the fatal and nonfatal conditions that exact large health burdens 
in the United States.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2005.02.009
PMID: 15894144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Ann Oncol. 2005 Jun;16(6):915-22. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdi195. Epub 2005 May
13.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of breast cancer adjuvant treatment: FEC 50 versus 
FEC 100 (FASG05 study).

Bonneterre J(1), Bercez C, Bonneterre ME, Lenne X, Dervaux B.

Author information:
(1)Centre Oscar Lambret, Lille, France. j-bonneterre@o-lambret.fr

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to assess the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the FEC 100 compared with the FEC 50 in the 
FASG05 trial.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using a 
multi-state Markov process model. Relevant clinical data introduced into the 
model were obtained from 10-year follow-up of the clinical trial FASG05. 
Survival curves for each health state were assessed by survival parametric 
model. The model allowed assessments from the start of adjuvant chemotherapy 
until death. The costs of adjuvant treatment and follow-up were estimated. The 
costs of recurrence were evaluated from the medical records of 146 patients. A 
prospective survey was performed on a cohort of 87 patients to quantify the 
resources external to the hospital (including cost of transportation). The 
inpatient costs were evaluated using the French diagnosis-related groups. The 
ambulatory costs were assessed using the French nomenclature. Costs were 
expressed in 2002 Euro (), according to the French societal perspective. The 
ICER assessed the cost of one additional life year saved. A discount rate of 5% 
per year was used for cost, and alternatively 0%, 3% and 5% for effectiveness. 
We validated the results with a probabilistic sensitivity analysis incorporating 
parametric and non-parametric bootstraps, and with the acceptability curves.
RESULTS: The mean total discounting cost of adjuvant treatments was 11 465 for 
FEC 50 and 13 815 for FEC 100; the mean total discounting cost of recurrences 
was 14 636 and 13 503, respectively. According to the discount rate of 
effectiveness, the life expectancy was 16.5, 11.4 and 9.3 years for FEC 50 and 
18.4, 12.5 and 10.2 years for FEC 100. The ICER (cost per life year saved) were 
642, 1084 and 1460, respectively. The probability according to which FEC 50 is 
strictly dominated by FEC 100 was 0.15.
CONCLUSION: The clinical benefit of FEC 100 generates a negligible cost increase 
when compared with FEC 50.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdi195
PMID: 15894546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Rev Saude Publica. 2005 Apr;39(2):211-6. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102005000200011.  Epub 2005 May 9.

[Population statistics of Triatoma rubrovaria in laboratory].

[Article in Spanish]

Oscherov EB(1), Bar ME, Damborsky MP, Milano AM.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales y Agrimensura, Universidad Nacional 
del Nordeste, Corrientes, Argentina. ebosche@exa.unne.edu.ar

OBJECTIVE: To obtain T. rubrovaria population parameters in order to describe 
its demographic characteristics.
METHODS: The study was carried out in the laboratory of Arthropods, Corrientes, 
Argentina, from October 2000 to February 2003. Eggs were grouped to form five 
100-egg cohorts. Insects were fed on chickens (Gallus domesticus). The cohorts 
were monitored weekly and kept under controlled temperature (28 +/- 3 degrees C) 
and relative humidity (63 +/- 10%). A life table was constructed and other vital 
statistics were calculated and recorded.
RESULTS: Higher mortality was recorded in the first through the fourth nymphal 
stadium. A constant decrease was seen from the fifth nymphal instar. Life 
expectancy dropped linearly after overcoming the critical stages. Adults mean 
survival was 50.2 weeks. The first oviposition was after 40.6 weeks. The 
fecundity was 859.6 eggs with an average 22.8 eggs per female. The reproductive 
period was 37.7 weeks. The generation time was 55.3 weeks and the net 
reproduction rate was 133.7. The intrinsic rate of weekly increment was 0.088. 
In a stable age distribution the population would be composed of 25.3% eggs, 
