
OBJECTIVES: The natural history of secondary sclerosing cholangitis (SSC) is 
ill-defined. In order to better determine the natural history of this condition, 
we retrospectively reviewed data from the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. 
We also compared the natural history of patients diagnosed with SSC to a cohort 
with a diagnosis of primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC).
METHODS: We used a computer-assisted search to identify patients with a 
diagnosis of SSC seen from 1992 to 2002. The diagnosis was confirmed by chart 
review and information about age, gender, etiology, therapy, and clinical course 
was sought. We excluded those presumed SSC patients who had a history of 
inflammatory bowel disease, those with malignancy at the time of diagnosis, and 
those who had undergone liver transplantation prior to the diagnosis of SSC. 
Patients with PSC matched for age, gender, and serum bilirubin level served as 
disease controls.
RESULTS: We identified 31 patients, average age 57, (range 28-79). The causes of 
SSC included surgical trauma from cholecystectomy (13 patients), intraductal 
stones (12 patients), recurrent pancreatitis (4 patients), and abdominal injury 
(2 patients). Nine patients with SSC ultimately required liver transplantation 
and 4 patients have died. When compared to matched patients with PSC, the 
survival free of transplant was significantly shortened (p<0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: When the long-term outcome of SSC patients was compared to matched 
PSC controls, the SSC patients had a poorer outcome. The natural history of SSC 
is characterized by a shortened life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2005.41526.x
PMID: 15929765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. BMC Med Genet. 2005 Jun 1;6:24. doi: 10.1186/1471-2350-6-24.

Impact of HFE genetic testing on clinical presentation of hereditary 
hemochromatosis: new epidemiological data.

Scotet V(1), Le Gac G, Mérour MC, Mercier AY, Chanu B, Ka C, Mura C, Nousbaum 
JB, Férec C.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U 613 Génétique Moléculaire et Génétique Epidémiologique, Brest, 
France. virginie.scotet@univ-brest.fr

BACKGROUND: Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a common inherited disorder of 
iron metabolism in Northern European populations. The discovery of a candidate 
gene in 1996 (HFE), and of its main mutation (C282Y), has radically altered the 
way to diagnose this disease. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of 
the HFE gene discovery on the clinical presentation and epidemiology of HH.
METHODS: We studied our cohort of 415 patients homozygous for the C282Y allele 
and included in a phlebotomy program in a blood centre in western Brittany, 
France.
RESULTS: In this cohort, 56.9% of the patients were male and 21.9% began their 
phlebotomy program before the implementation of the genetic test. A significant 
decrease in the sex ratio was noticed following implementation of this DNA test, 
from 3.79 to 1.03 (p < 10(-5)), meaning that the proportion of diagnosed females 
relatives to males greatly increased. The profile of HH patients at diagnosis 
changed after the DNA test became available. Serum ferritin and iron values were 
lower and there was a reduced frequency of clinical signs displayed at 
diagnosis, particularly skin pigmentation (20.1 vs. 40.4%, OR = 0.37, p < 0.001) 
and hepatomegaly (11.0 vs. 22.7%, OR = 0.42, p = 0.006). In contrast, fatigue 
became a more common symptom at diagnosis (68.0 vs. 51.2%, OR = 2.03, p = 
0.004).
CONCLUSION: This study highlights the importance of the HFE gene discovery, 
which has simplified the diagnosis of HH and modified its clinical presentation 
and epidemiology. This study precisely measures these changes. Enhanced 
diagnosis of HFE-related HH at an early stage and implementation of phlebotomy 
treatment are anticipated to maintain normal life expectancy for these patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2350-6-24
PMCID: PMC1180708
PMID: 15929798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Health Technol Assess. 2005 Jun;9(22):1-160. doi: 10.3310/hta9220.

A systematic review and economic evaluation of alendronate, etidronate, 
risedronate, raloxifene and teriparatide for the prevention and treatment of 
postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Stevenson M(1), Jones ML, De Nigris E, Brewer N, Davis S, Oakley J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To establish the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
selective oestrogen receptor modulators, bisphosphonates and parathyroid hormone 
(subject to licensing) for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and the 
prevention of osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases.
REVIEW METHODS: Studies that met the review's entry criteria were eligible for 
inclusion in the meta-analyses provided that they reported fracture incidence in 
terms of the number of patients suffering fractures. Meta-analysis was carried 
out using the random-effects model. A model was constructed to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of osteoporosis interventions. The model calculated the 
number of fractures that occurred and provided the costs associated with 
osteoporotic fractures, and the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). In 
addition, the conditions of breast cancer and coronary heart disease (CHD) were 
modelled, as some interventions have been shown to affect the risk of these 
conditions.
RESULTS: Ninety randomised controlled trials (RCTs) met the inclusion criteria. 
They related to the five interventions (alendronate, etidronate, risedronate, 
raloxifene and teriparatide) and to five comparators (calcium, calcium plus 
vitamin D, calcitriol, hormone replacement therapy and exercise), as well as 
placebo or no treatment. All five interventions have been shown to reduce the 
risk of vertebral fracture in women with severe osteoporosis with adequate 
calcium intakes. However, none of these drugs has been demonstrated, by direct 
comparison, to be significantly more effective than either each other or the 
other active interventions reviewed in this report. The intervention costs of 
treating all osteoporotic women, for a period of 5 years, were in the region of 
pound 900-1500 million for alendronate, etidronate, risedronate and raloxifene. 
The cost per QALY ratios fell dramatically with age. Assuming the risks of a 
woman with severe osteoporosis at the threshold of osteoporosis, no treatment 
had a cost per QALY below pound 35,000 at 50 years of age. At 60 years of age, 
the cost per QALY of raloxifene was pound 26,000 assuming no impact on hip 
fractures, and pound 31,000 assuming an adverse effect. However, these results 
are driven by the effect on breast cancer and the assumptions made regarding 
this disease state. No other intervention had a cost per QALY below pound 
35,000. When analyses were conducted assuming that the fracture risk is doubled 
at each site, alendronate and risedronate had cost per QALY ratios below pound 
30,000 at all ages. For women at the threshold of osteoporosis, without a prior 
fracture and aged 70 years, the cost per QALY of the three bisphosphonates 
ranged from pound 34,000 to pound 41,000. Raloxifene had a cost per QALY of 
pound 23,000, assuming no effect on hip fracture, given assumptions regarding 
breast cancer. At 80 years of age, the cost per QALY of alendronate and 
risedronate was below pound 20,000. This was true for etidronate when 
incorporating observational data, but the value rose to pound 69,000 when only 
RCT data were used. No other intervention had a cost per QALY below pound 
35,000. It was assumed that doubling the risk of fracture for women without a 
prior fracture would give results similar to patients at the threshold of 
osteoporosis with a prior fracture.
CONCLUSIONS: Of the five interventions, only raloxifene appeared to reduce the 
risk of vertebral fracture in postmenopausal women unselected for low bone 
mineral density (BMD). However, as the full data have not been made public, 
there is some uncertainty regarding this result. None of the five interventions 
has been shown to reduce the risk of non-vertebral fracture in women unselected 
for low BMD. All of the proposed interventions provided gains in QALYs compared 
with no treatment in women with sufficient calcium and vitamin D intakes. The 
size of the QALY gain for each intervention was strongly related to the age of 
the patient. The estimated costs varied widely for the interventions. These net 
costs were markedly different by age, with some interventions becoming 
cost-saving at higher age ranges in patients with a prior fracture. Areas for 
future research include: the evidence base for the efficacy of fracture 
prevention in the very elderly, reanalysis of raloxifene using a dedicated 
breast cancer and CHD model, and more trials considering the cost-effectiveness 
of teriparatide.

DOI: 10.3310/hta9220
PMID: 15929857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Pediatrics. 2005 Jun;115(6):1519-28. doi: 10.1542/peds.2004-0247.

Factors associated with sensorineural hearing loss among survivors of 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy.

Fligor BJ(1), Neault MW, Mullen CH, Feldman HA, Jones DT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology and Communication Disorders, Children's Hospital 
Boston, 300 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
brian.fligor@childrens.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: To endeavor to explain why some graduates of extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation (ECMO) therapy develop sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) whereas 
others do not, to study the variability seen in the degree of SNHL, to attempt 
to explain why some graduates with SNHL experience progressive worsening whereas 
others do not, and to describe the time course of the onset of SNHL on the basis 
of identified risk factors.
DESIGN: A retrospective chart review with proportional-hazards regression 
analysis to identify specific risk factors for SNHL from a list of patient and 
treatment variables.
SETTING: Children's Hospital Boston, a pediatric tertiary-care facility and ECMO 
center.
PATIENTS: Neonatal ECMO graduates born in 1986-1994 who survived to discharge 
and underwent audiologic evaluations (n = 111) and a random sample of ECMO 
graduates who survived to discharge and did not undergo audiologic evaluations 
(n = 30).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Audiologic data, including the presence or absence of SNHL, 
the severity of SNHL at the most recent evaluation, the stability or progressive 
worsening of hearing (with the first evaluation compared with the most recent 
evaluation), and the occurrence of delayed-onset SNHL.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine (26%) of 111 ECMO graduates who underwent audiologic 
testing had SNHL at the last evaluation. Of these 29 subjects with SNHL, 21 
(72%) had progressive SNHL, of whom 14 (48%) had delayed-onset SNHL. The age of 
identification of SNHL ranged from 4 months to 8 years 11 months. Factors 
identified with proportional-hazards regression analyses as being associated 
significantly with the time to onset of SNHL were a primary diagnosis of 
congenital diaphragmatic hernia (hazard ratio: 2.60), length of ECMO therapy 
(hazard ratio: 7.18), and number of days children received aminoglycoside 
antibiotics (hazard ratio: 5.56). Kaplan-Meier "time-to-event" curves were 
constructed to illustrate the time course of onset of SNHL, as affected by each 
of the variables identified as significant risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings illustrate the need for early, routine, audiologic 
evaluations throughout childhood for all ECMO graduates. Children at even 
greater risk for developing SNHL because of a history of congenital 
diaphragmatic hernia, prolonged ECMO therapy, and/or a lengthy course of 
aminoglycoside antibiotic therapy should be monitored even more closely 
throughout childhood, depending on the child's individual risk indicators, as 
suggested here. On the basis of these risk indicators, efforts can be made to 
minimize the risk of hearing loss while a child is being treated with ECMO. In 
addition, these risk indicators can assist with counseling families of ECMO 
graduates regarding the child's specific risk of developing SNHL and how it can 
be managed should it occur.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2004-0247
PMID: 15930212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Pediatrics. 2005 Jun;115(6):1675-84. doi: 10.1542/peds.2004-2509.

Pertussis in adolescents and adults: should we vaccinate?

Lee GM(1), Lebaron C, Murphy TV, Lett S, Schauer S, Lieu TA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Child Health Care Studies, Department of Ambulatory Care and 
Prevention, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02215, USA. grace_lee@hphc.org

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2005 Nov;116(5):1263; author reply 1263-4.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of reported pertussis among adolescents, adults, and 
young infants has increased sharply over the past decade. Combined acellular 
pertussis vaccines for adolescents and adults are available in Canada, 
Australia, and Germany and may soon be considered for use in the United States.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the potential health benefits, risks, and costs of a 
national pertussis vaccination program for adolescents and/or adults.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND POPULATION: The projected health states and immunity levels 
associated with pertussis disease and vaccination were simulated with a Markov 
model. The following strategies were examined from the health care payer and 
societal perspectives: (1) no vaccination; (2) 1-time adolescent vaccination; 
(3) 1-time adult vaccination; (4) adult vaccination with boosters; (5) 
adolescent and adult vaccination with boosters; and (6) postpartum vaccination. 
Data on disease incidence, costs, outcomes, vaccine efficacy, and adverse events 
were based on published studies, recent unpublished clinical trials, and expert 
panel input.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cases prevented, adverse events, costs (in 2004 US 
dollars), cost per case prevented, and cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) saved.
RESULTS: One-time adolescent vaccination would prevent 30800 cases of pertussis 
(36% of projected cases) and would result in 91000 vaccine adverse events (67% 
local reactions). If pertussis vaccination cost $15 and vaccine coverage was 
76%, then 1-time adolescent vaccination would cost $1100 per case prevented (or 
$1200 per case prevented) or $20000 per QALY (or $23000 per QALY) saved, from 
the societal (or health care payer) perspective. With a threshold of $50000 per 
QALY saved, the adolescent and adult vaccination with boosters strategy became 
potentially cost-effective from the societal perspective only if 2 conditions 
were met simultaneously, ie, (1) the disease incidence for adolescents and 
adults was > or =6 times higher than base-case assumptions and (2) the cost of 
vaccination was less than $10. Adult vaccination strategies were more costly and 
less effective than adolescent vaccination strategies. The results were 
sensitive to assumptions about disease incidence, vaccine efficacy, frequency of 
vaccine adverse events, and vaccine costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine pertussis vaccination of adolescents results in net health 
benefits and may be relatively cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2004-2509
PMID: 15930232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jun 1;2005(22):pe15. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.22.pe15.

Misdirection on the road to Shangri-La.

Olshansky SJ(1), Carnes BA, Hershow R, Passaro D, Layden J, Brody J, Hayflick L, 
Butler RN, Ludwig DS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Illinois at 
Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. sjayo@uic.edu

Comment on
    Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Apr 6;2005(14):pe9.

Will life expectancy in the United States rise or fall in this century? The 
implications of either scenario are far reaching. We contend that the rise of 
childhood obesity in the United States in the past three decades has been so 
dramatic that it will soon lead to higher than expected death rates at middle 
ages and a possible decline in life expectancy by midcentury. The most 
detrimental health and longevity effects will not be seen for decades--a 
phenomenon that cannot be detected by current methods used to forecast life 
expectancy or estimate the number of deaths currently attributable to obesity. 
This scenario contrasts sharply with the views of mathematical demographers who 
generate forecasts by relying on the assumption that the U.S. pattern of 
longevity will follow that of other longer lived nations and on the 
extrapolation of historical trends in life expectancy into the future.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.22.pe15
PMID: 15930369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2005 Jun;87(6):1253-9. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.D.02152.

Cost-utility analyses in orthopaedic surgery.

Brauer CA(1), Rosen AB, Olchanski NV, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, 718 
Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA. cbrauer@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: The rising cost of health care has increased the need for the 
orthopaedic community to understand and apply economic evaluations. We 
critically reviewed the literature on orthopaedic cost-utility analysis to 
determine which subspecialty areas are represented, the cost-utility ratios that 
have been utilized, and the quality of the present literature.
METHODS: We searched the English-language medical literature published between 
1976 and 2001 for orthopaedic-related cost-utility analyses in which outcomes 
were reported as cost per quality-adjusted life year. Two trained reviewers 
independently audited each article to abstract data on the methods and reporting 
practices used in the study as well as the cost-utility ratios derived by the 
analysis.
RESULTS: Our search yielded thirty-seven studies, in which 116 cost-utility 
ratios were presented. Eleven of the studies were investigations of treatment 
strategies in total joint arthroplasty. Study methods varied substantially, with 
only five studies (14%) including four key criteria recommended by the United 
States Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine. According to a 
reader-assigned measure of study quality, cost-utility analyses in orthopaedics 
were of lower quality than those in other areas of medicine (p = 0.04). While 
the number of orthopaedic studies has increased in the last decade, the quality 
did not improve over time and did not differ according to subspecialty area or 
journal type. For the majority of the interventions that were studied, the 
cost-utility ratio was below the commonly used threshold of $50,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year for acceptable cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of limitations in methodology, the current body of 
literature on orthopaedic cost-utility analyses has a limited ability to guide 
policy, but it can be useful for setting priorities and guiding research. Future 
research with clear and transparent reporting is needed in all subspecialty 
areas of orthopaedic practice.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.D.02152
PMID: 15930533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Nat Rev Genet. 2005 Jun;6(6):488-501. doi: 10.1038/nrg1617.

Haemophilia A: from mutation analysis to new therapies.

Graw J(1), Brackmann HH, Oldenburg J, Schneppenheim R, Spannagl M, Schwaab R.

Author information:
(1)GSF-National Research Centre for Environment and Health, Institute of 
Developmental Genetics, D-85764 Neuherberg, Germany. graw@gsf.de

Haemophilia is caused by hundreds of different mutations and manifests itself in 
clinical conditions of varying severity. Despite being inherited in monogenic 
form, the clinical features of haemophilia can be influenced by other genetic 
factors, thereby confounding the boundary between monogenic and multifactorial 
disease. Unlike sufferers of other genetic diseases, haemophiliacs can be 
treated successfully by intravenous substitution of coagulation factors. 
Haemophilia is also the most attractive model for developing gene-therapy 
protocols, as the normal life expectancy of haemophiliacs allows the side 
effects of gene therapy, as well as its efficiency, to be monitored over long 
periods.

DOI: 10.1038/nrg1617
PMID: 15931172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Int J Health Serv. 2005;35(2):291-311. doi: 10.2190/W6NF-5XX2-7HH1-J608.

What's killing Americans in the prime of life?

Jenkins CD(1), Runyan DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 
27599-7435, USA. dpjenk@earthlink.net

This article compares health outcomes in the United States with those prevailing 
in other nations, in terms of survival during the prime of life, ages 15 to 59 
years. To seek to explain U.S. mortality excesses, age-gender-cause-specific 
mortality rates are compared for the United States and nine economically 
comparable nations, using World Health Organization national survival statistics 
(life tables) and age-gender-specific mortality rates by major causes. 
Additional data were drawn from the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics. 
Compared with other nations in the WHO's mortality database, in the United 
States 15-year-old girls rank 38th and 15-year-old boys rank 34th in their 
likelihood of reaching age 60. U.S. adults ages 15 to 64 years have higher total 
mortality than those in the nine other developed nations selected for the study 
(and in more nations as well), for both genders and for all the five decades of 
life considered. The authors identify the specific causes of excess U.S. 
mortality. Despite huge expenditures for medical care, U.S. citizens have 
embarrassingly high death rates during the prime of life. Nine issues are 
highlighted that may illuminate ways to improve health in the United States.

DOI: 10.2190/W6NF-5XX2-7HH1-J608
PMID: 15932008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. BMJ. 2005 Jun 4;330(7503):1297. doi: 10.1136/bmj.330.7503.1297.

Cost utility analysis of co-prescribed heroin compared with methadone 
maintenance treatment in heroin addicts in two randomised trials.

Dijkgraaf MG(1), van der Zanden BP, de Borgie CA, Blanken P, van Ree JM, van den 
Brink W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics (J1B-216) Academic 
Medical Centre, University of Amsterdam, PO Box 22700, 1100 DE Amsterdam, 
Netherlands. m.g.dijkgraaf@amc.uva.nl

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost utility of medical co-prescription of heroin 
compared with methadone maintenance treatment for chronic, treatment resistant 
heroin addicts.
DESIGN: Cost utility analysis of two pooled open label randomised controlled 
trials.
SETTING: Methadone maintenance programmes in six cities in the Netherlands.
PARTICIPANTS: 430 heroin addicts.
INTERVENTIONS: Inhalable or injectable heroin prescribed over 12 months. 
Methadone (maximum 150 mg a day) plus heroin (maximum 1000 mg a day) compared 
with methadone alone (maximum 150 mg a day). Psychosocial treatment was offered 
throughout.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: One year costs estimated from a societal perspective. 
Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) based on responses to the EuroQol EQ-5D at 
baseline and during the treatment period.
RESULTS: Co-prescription of heroin was associated with 0.058 more QALYs per 
patient per year (95% confidence interval 0.016 to 0.099) and a mean saving of 
12,793 euros (8793 pounds sterling, 16,122 dollars) (1083 to 25,229 euros) per 
patient per year. The higher programme costs (16 222 euros; lower 95% confidence 
limit 15,084 euros) were compensated for by lower costs of law enforcement (- 
4129 euros; upper 95% confidence limit - 486 euros) and damage to victims of 
crime (- 25,374 euros; upper 95% confidence limit - 16,625 euros). The results 
were robust for the use of national EQ-5D tariffs and for the exclusion of the 
initial implementation costs of heroin treatment. Completion of treatment is 
essential; having participated in any abstinence treatment in the past is not.
CONCLUSIONS: Co-prescription of heroin is cost effective compared with treatment 
with methadone alone for chronic, treatment resistant heroin addicts.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.330.7503.1297
PMCID: PMC558200
PMID: 15933353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Onkologie. 2005 Jun;28(6-7):361-6. doi: 10.1159/000085661. Epub 2005 Jun 2.

Prostate cancer relapse after therapy with curative intention: a diagnostic and 
therapeutic dilemma.

Gronau E(1), Goppelt M, Harzmann R, Weckermann D.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik, Klinikum Augsburg, Germany. eckart.gronau@dgn.de

Prostate cancer is the most common malignant disease and second in causes of 
cancer death among men in Western Europe and North America. Despite improved 
surgical and irradiation techniques tumor relapse after curatively intended 
therapy is not uncommon. Due to the difficulty in discriminating local and 
systemic progression, it is often difficult to decide what this means for the 
patient and what kind of second-line treatment has to be given. Modern imaging 
techniques (MRI with endorectal coil, Choline-PET-CT, ProstaScint-Scan) are used 
for diagnosis of prostate cancer relapse. Nevertheless, early detection of local 
tumor relapse and likewise the detection of disseminated tumor cells often 
fails. To differentiate between local and systemic progression, prognostic 
factors of the primary tumor (grading, surgical margins, infiltration of the 
seminal vesicles, lymph node metastases) and PSA kinetics are used. The time 
from initial treatment to biochemical relapse and PSA doubling time are of 
highest prognostic relevance. Local progression allows second-line local 
treatment with potentially curative results (local irradiation after radical 
prostatectomy, salvage-surgery / cryotherapy / HIFU after irradiation), while in 
the case of systemic progress a palliative systemic therapy (hormonal treatment, 
chemotherapy, bisphosphonates) is indicated. Before deciding on the most 
appropriate therapy, prognostic factors and the patient's individual situation 
(co-morbidity, life expectancy, individual wishes) should be taken into account.

DOI: 10.1159/000085661
PMID: 15933426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Surgery. 2005 Jun;137(6):632-8. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2005.02.001.

Maintained normalization of cardiovascular dysfunction 5 years after 
parathyroidectomy in primary hyperparathyroidism.

Nilsson IL(1), Aberg J, Rastad J, Lind L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Södersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden. 
inga-lena.nilsson@sodersjukhuset.se <inga-lena.nilsson@sodersjukhuset.se>

BACKGROUND: Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) has been associated with 
premature death in cardiovascular diseases. Short-term prospects for 
normalization of cardiovascular derangements have been described after 
parathyroidectomy. This study explores long-term effects of parathyroidectomy on 
cardiovascular functions in pHPT.
METHODS: Thirty consecutive patients with pHPT were reexamined 1 and 5 years 
after parathyroidectomy, together with 30 matched controls, with 
echocardiography and a bicycle exercise test.
RESULTS: Serum calcium was normal in all patients and control subjects at 
follow-up. The maximal blood pressure during the exercise was higher before 
parathyroidectomy (median 223 [range, 200-268] mm Hg vs 202 [165-277] mm Hg, P < 
.05) but not 5 years after (230 [155-270] mm Hg vs 219 [165-252] mm Hg. The 
ST-segment depression diminished from -1.4 (-8.3-0) to -0.8 (-3.3-0) mm 1 year 
after parathyroidectomy and further to -0.1 (-3.3-0.0) mm after 5 years but was 
unchanged in the control group. The number of ventricular extrasystolic beats at 
exercise testing in the pHPT group before parathyroidectomy was higher than in 
the control group (1 [0-340] vs 0 [0-3]). The isovolemic relaxation time at rest 
was prolonged before parathyroidectomy (mean 100 +/- 17 ms [SD] vs 89 +/- 14 ms, 
P < .05).
CONCLUSION: Parathyroidectomy can induce long-lasting improvement in regulation 
of blood pressure, left ventricular diastolic function, cardiac irritability 
(ventricular extrasystolic beats), and other signs of myocardial ischemia, with 
potential implications for the postoperative life expectancy of patients with 
pHPT who have undergone parathyroidectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2005.02.001
PMID: 15933631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Tenn Med. 2005 May;98(5):200.

It's time to change the system.

Jenkins T.

PMID: 15934524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 May 5;147(18):25-8.

[How to recognize POAD? The diagnosis of peripheral occlusive arterial disease 
in the physician's office].

[Article in German]

Wilde CJ(1), Donath A, Keck N, Wilde J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für vaskuläre und endovaskuläre Chirurgie, Evangelisches Krankenhaus 
Unna. wilde@ihrEKUnna.de

Peripheral occlusive arterial disease (POAD) encompasses all stenotic and 
occlusive changes affecting the aorta and arteries supplying the extremities, 
and in 90% of the cases is due to atherosclerosis. In the majority of patients 
the lower extremities are involved, andonly every third patient has symptoms. 
Apart from its significance as an independent disease entity, POAD is also an 
important coincidence marker, in particular for coronary heart disease. For the 
diagnostic clarification of POAD, a stepped strategy is recommended, including 
clinical function testing, such as an exercise treadmill test. Doppler 
sonography and determination of the Doppler pressure index (ankle-brachial 
index) make possible a noninvasive accurate staging. Color-coded duplex 
sonography and imaging procedures provide further information, and are 
indispensable for establishing the indication for interventional measures.

PMID: 15934584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Sci Am. 2005 Jun;292(6):70-7. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0605-70.

Obesity: an overblown epidemic?

Gibbs WW.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0605-70
PMID: 15934655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Sep;126(9):938-50. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.023.

Dietary restriction in Drosophila.

Partridge L(1), Piper MD, Mair W.

Author information:
(1)UCL Centre for Research on Ageing, Department of Biology, University College 
London, London WC1E 6BT, UK. l.partridge@ucl.ac.uk

The fruit fly Drosophila is a useful organism for the investigation of the 
mechanisms by which dietary restriction (DR) extends lifespan. Its relatively 
short generation time, well-characterised molecular biology, genetics and 
physiology and ease of handling for demographic analysis are all major 
strengths. Lifespan has been extended by DR applied to adult Drosophila, by 
restriction of the availability of live yeast or by co-ordinate dilution of the 
whole food medium. Lifespan increases to a maximum through DR with a progressive 
dilution of the food and then decreases through starvation as the food is 
diluted further. Daily and lifetime fecundities of females are reduced by food 
dilution throughout the DR and starvation range. Standard Drosophila food 
ingredients differ greatly between laboratories and fly stocks can differ in 
their responses to food dilution, and a full range of food concentrations should 
therefore be investigated when examining the response to DR. Flies do not alter 
the time that they spend feeding in response to DR. Both mean and maximum 
lifespan are extended by DR. The nutrients critical for the response to DR in 
Drosophila require definition. The extension of lifespan in response to DR is 
very much greater in females than in males. Two nutrient-sensing pathways, the 
insulin/IGF-like and TOR pathways, have been implicated in mediating this 
response of lifespan to DR in Drosophila, as have two protein deacetylases, 
dSir2 and Rpd3, although the precise nature of this interaction remain to be 
characterised. Although female fecundity is reduced by DR, the response of 
lifespan to DR appears normal in sterile females, possibly implying that reduced 
fecundity is not necessary for extension of lifespan by DR. There is no 
reduction in metabolic rate or in the rate of generation of superoxide and 
hydrogen peroxide from isolated mitochondria in response to DR. DR acts acutely 
and rapidly (within 48 h) to reduce the mortality of flies that are fully fed to 
the level found in animals exposed to DR throughout life. This rapid mortality 
rate recovery provides a powerful framework within which to further investigate 
the mechanisms by which DR extends lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.023
PMID: 15935441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2006 Mar;54(2):55-7. doi: 10.1016/j.patbio.2005.04.003.
 Epub 2005 Jun 2.

Sir2, caloric restriction and aging.

Frankel S, Rogina B.

DOI: 10.1016/j.patbio.2005.04.003
PMID: 15935564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. J Pediatr Surg. 2005 May;40(5):755-62. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2005.01.037.

Neonatal short bowel syndrome: a cohort study.

Wales PW(1), de Silva N, Kim JH, Lecce L, Sandhu A, Moore AM.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, The Research Institute, The Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G 1X8. paul.wales@sickkids.ca

BACKGROUND: To date, our knowledge of morbidity and mortality in neonatal short 
bowel syndrome (SBS) is based on individual case series. Shortcomings of the 
published literature include long patient recruitment time, selection bias, 
variable SBS definitions, failure to account for gestational age, and incomplete 
follow-up. By applying more rigorous methodology, our aim was to determine 
outcomes of SBS neonates compared with a control group of neonates without SBS.
METHODS: A cohort study of all neonates with abdominal pathology requiring 
laparotomy between January 1, 1997, and December 31, 1998, with observation 
through July 1, 2001. Short bowel syndrome was defined as patients requiring 
parenteral nutrition for more than 42 days or residual small bowel length of 
less than 25% predicted by gestational age. Student's t test, Mann-Whitney U 
test, and chi2 were used where appropriate. Kaplan-Meier curves were used to 
determine cumulative survival. Covariates important in the development of SBS 
were examined using forward step-wise logistic regression.
RESULTS: There were 175 patients (with SBS = 40, without SBS = 135) with a mean 
gestational age of 30.7 +/- 4.6 weeks vs 35.9 +/- 4.8 weeks, respectively (P < 
.0005). The patients with SBS suffered significantly more morbidity than the 
group without SBS in all categories of investigation (surgical complications, 
septic events, central venous line complications, duration to adaptation and 
parenteral nutrition independence, cholestasis and liver failure, and duration 
of hospitalization). The case fatality rate was 37.5% in patients with SBS vs 
13.3% in patients without SBS (P = .001). Most of the deaths were caused by 
liver failure or sepsis and occurred within 1 year from the date of surgery. 
Presence of an ileostomy (exp(B) = 12.29; P < .0005) and a residual small bowel 
length less than 50% of the original length (exp(B) = 26.84; P < .0005) were the 
only 2 variables in a logistic regression analysis found to be independently 
associated with the development of SBS.
CONCLUSION: This cohort study clearly illustrates the tremendous morbidity 
experienced by infants with SBS relative to other surgical neonates. Accurate 
estimates of the morbidity associated with SBS enables clinicians to 
appropriately counsel parents, allocate resources and initiate therapeutic 
trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2005.01.037
PMID: 15937809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Health Serv J. 2005 May 26;115(5957):20-1.

The HSJ debate. Quality-adjusted life years are too rigid a yardstick for the 
NHS.

Bosanquet N(1), Rawlins M.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College London.

PMID: 15938328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2005 May-Jun;13(3):208-17. doi: 
10.5435/00124635-200505000-00007.

Total hip arthroplasty in sickle cell hemoglobinopathies.

Jeong GK(1), Ruchelsman DE, Jazrawi LM, Jaffe WL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, NYU-Hospital for Joint Diseases 
Orthopaedic Institute, New York, NY 10003, USA.

Advances in medical treatment have led to improved life expectancy in patients 
with sickle cell hemoglobinopathies. Improved life expectancy has, in turn, led 
to an increasing number of patients with osteonecrosis requiring total hip 
arthroplasty. Patient evaluation begins with understanding the extent of the 
disease process and the patient's musculoskeletal manifestations (ie, pyogenic 
infection, marrow hyperplasia, osteonecrosis). A multidisciplinary approach to 
implementing effective preoperative treatment strategies increases the 
likelihood of a successful surgical outcome. Intraoperatively, consideration of 
bone stock, bone quality, and method of component fixation may help minimize the 
risk of eccentric reaming, perforation or fracture of either the acetabulum or 
the femur, and loosening. The optimal mode of acetabular and femoral fixation in 
these patients has not been conclusively determined, but recent results of 
cementless total hip arthroplasty have been encouraging. Although patients with 
sickle cell disease are at increased risk of medical and surgical complications, 
total hip arthroplasty in the appropriately selected patient can provide 
significant pain relief, restoration of function, and patient satisfaction.

DOI: 10.5435/00124635-200505000-00007
PMID: 15938609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Chemosphere. 2005 Aug;60(6):753-61. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2005.04.024.

Human exposure and health risk of alpha-, beta-, gamma- and 
delta-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCHs) in Tianjin, China.

Yang Y(1), Tao S, Wong PK, Hu JY, Guo M, Cao HY, Coveney RM Jr, Zuo Q, Li BG, 
Liu WX, Cao J, Xu FL.

Author information:
(1)College of Environmental Sciences, Laboratory for Earth Surface Processes, 
Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

The dynamic exposures to HCHs of individuals born between the years 1913 and 
1993 in Tianjin have been simulated by connecting a fugacity model (IV) with a 
multimedia exposure model. Ingestion is the most important pathway for human 
beings to take up HCHs, and concentrations in the human body correlate with body 
weight changes. Accumulations of HCHs were derived assuming that the degradation 
in human body behaved linearly. The health risk of exposure to HCHs was measured 
using cancer risk and loss of life expectancy (LLE), and LLE was modified from 
its original definition to incorporate a dynamic calculation that takes 
variances in exposure into account. Monte-Carlo simulations were run to analyze 
the uncertainties of the model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2005.04.024
PMID: 15939453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Heart. 2006 Jan;92(1):5-7. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2005.066316. Epub 2005 Jun 6.

Are drug eluting stents really worth the money?

Thomas M.

Comment on
    Heart. 2006 Jan;92(1):68-74.

The cost effectiveness of drug eluting stents is being called into question. But 
is this fair in the light of all the available clinical data?

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2005.066316
PMCID: PMC1860980
PMID: 15939723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Psychiatr Serv. 2005 Jun;56(6):649-51. doi: 10.1176/appi.ps.56.6.649.

Psychopharmacology: the need for effectiveness trials to inform evidence-based 
psychiatric practice.

Lagomasino IT(1), Dwight-Johnson M, Simpson GM.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California Keck School of Medicine, 2020 Zonal Avenue, 
IRD 218, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA. lagomasi@usc.edu

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ps.56.6.649
PMID: 15939939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 May 21;149(21):1144-9.

[Pathophysiology and treatment of sickle-cell disease].

[Article in Dutch]

van Beers EJ(1), Peters M, Biemond BJ.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Hematologie, Academisch Medisch Centrum/Universiteit van Amsterdam, 
Postbus 22.660, 1100 DD Amsterdam.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Sep 3;149(36):2024; author reply 2024.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Feb 25;150(8):462-3.

Sickle-cell disease is a hereditary haemoglobinopathy caused by a mutation in 
the beta-globin gene. The disease is characterised by recurrent vaso-occlusive 
crises resulting in severe organ damage and a sharply reduced life expectancy. 
The formation of haemoglobin-S polymers in hypoxic conditions plays a pivotal 
role in sickle-cell disease and produces the characteristic phenotype of 
sickle-shaped erythrocytes that promote vasoocclusion. Endothelial cell 
activation, enhanced erythrocyte and leukocyte adhesion, vasoconstriction and 
coagulation activation play an important role in vaso-occlusive crises. 
Treatment of pain and hydration remain the main interventions in the management 
ofvaso-occlusive crises. Hydroxyurea has been shown to prevent vaso-occlusive 
crises by increasing the amount of foetal haemoglobin. Allogeneic stem-cell 
transplantation is the only curative therapy. However, transplantation-related 
mortality, graft-versus-host disease and the limited availability of 
HLA-identical donors restrict this therapeutic option.

PMID: 15940917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Manag Care Interface. 2005 May;18(5):25-6.

How can pharmacoeconomics be more useful?

Kozma CM.

PMID: 15941186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. J Am Chem Soc. 2005 Jun 15;127(23):8441-52. doi: 10.1021/ja042592h.

Biochemical investigation of pikromycin biosynthesis employing native penta- and 
hexaketide chain elongation intermediates.

Aldrich CC(1), Beck BJ, Fecik RA, Sherman DH.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2216, USA.

The unique ability of the pikromycin (Pik) polyketide synthase to generate 12- 
and 14-membered ring macrolactones presents an opportunity to explore the 
fundamental processes underlying polyketide synthesis, specifically the 
mechanistic details of chain extension, keto group processing, acyl chain 
release, and macrocyclization. We have synthesized the natural pentaketide and 
hexaketide chain elongation intermediates as N-acetyl cysteamine (NAC) 
thioesters and have used them as substrates for in vitro conversions with 
engineered PikAIII+TE and in combination with native PikAIII (module 5) and 
PikAIV (module 6) multifunctional proteins. This investigation demonstrates 
directly the remarkable ability of these monomodules to catalyze one or two 
chain extension reactions, keto group processing steps, acyl-ACP release, and 
cyclization to generate 10-deoxymethynolide and narbonolide. The results reveal 
the enormous preference of Pik monomodules for their natural polyketide 
substrates and provide an important comparative analysis with previous studies 
using unnatural diketide NAC thioester substrates.

DOI: 10.1021/ja042592h
PMID: 15941278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Mech Ageing Dev. 2005 Sep;126(9):923-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.013.

Calorie restriction and SIR2 genes--towards a mechanism.

Guarente L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. leng@mit.edu

Calorie restriction is the first and most compelling example of life extension 
in mammals. Much speculation about how CR works has focused on ideas of what 
causes aging. Since these causes themselves are much disputed, I have instead 
focused my thinking on lessons from simple model organisms, which have emerged 
from recent genetic studies. These findings can now be integrated with numerous, 
elegant studies on CR over the decades, which provide a treasure trove of 
information about physiological changes that are elicited by this regimen. In 
this paper, I present data showing that the SIR2 gene is a strong candidate to 
regulate CR in the simple model organisms, such as yeast and Drosophila. I then 
summarize what is known about the mammalian Sirt1 as it relates to physiological 
changes during CR, and discuss how this mechanism may impact on life span, as 
well as diseases of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.03.013
PMID: 15941577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Hypertens. 2005 Jul;23(7):1425-31. doi:
10.1097/01.hjh.0000173527.73179.f5.

Cost effectiveness of losartan in patients with hypertension and LVH: an 
economic evaluation for Sweden of the LIFE trial.

Jönsson B(1), Carides GW, Burke TA, Dasbach EJ, Lindholm LH, Dahlöf B; LIFE 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. Bengt.Jonsson@HHS.SE

OBJECTIVE: Evaluate the cost effectiveness of losartan compared with atenolol 
from a Swedish national health system perspective.
DESIGN: The Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction in hypertension study 
(LIFE) was a double-masked, randomized trial of losartan versus atenolol in 9193 
patients with essential hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) 
ascertained by electrocardiography. Losartan reduced the primary composite end 
point of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction (MI), or stroke by 13% (P = 
0.021) and reduced the risk of stroke by 25% (P = 0.001), despite a comparable 
degree of blood pressure control.
METHODS: Life years gained was estimated by combining the absolute risk 
reduction in stroke with the life years gained by preventing stroke. 
Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained was estimated by combining the 
absolute risk reduction in stroke with the QALYs gained by preventing stroke. 
QALYs were estimated by weighting life years by health-related quality of life 
(QoL), as measured with visual analogue scale (VAS) data collected in the trial. 
Net costs were defined as the total of study medication cost, stroke-related 
costs, and costs of increased survival. Costs are in 2003 Swedish prices. All 
costs and effects were discounted at a 3% annual rate.
RESULTS: Prevention of a stroke resulted in a gain of 5.7 life years and 4.3 
QALYs. As a consequence, losartan treatment resulted in a per patient increase 
of 0.092 life years [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.038, 0.146] and 0.069 QALYs 
(95% CI: 0.028, 0.109) as compared with atenolol treatment. Losartan reduced 
direct stroke-related cost per patient by 1141 euros due to a lower cumulative 
incidence of stroke for losartan at 5.5 years (4.9%) as compared with atenolol 
(6.5%) (95% CI of difference: 0.7, 2.5). The reduction in stroke-related cost 
offset 80% of the added cost of losartan drug therapy. After inclusion of study 
medication cost, net cost per patient was 289 euros higher for losartan than 
atenolol. The net cost per QALY gained for losartan was 4188 euros (37,813 SEK), 
which is well within common Swedish benchmark upper values (200-500,000 SEK) for 
accepted cost-effective interventions.
CONCLUSION: Based on the results from the LIFE trial, treatment with losartan 
compared with atenolol, in hypertensive patients with LVH, is a cost-effective 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000173527.73179.f5
PMID: 15942467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. New Dir Youth Dev. 2005 Spring;(105):121-9, 13-4. doi: 10.1002/yd.111.

Activities, engagement, and emotion in after-school programs (and elsewhere).

Vandell DL(1), Shernoff DJ, Pierce KM, Bolt DM, Dadisman K, Brown BB.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA.

Experiences that are deeply engaging and enjoyable, engender full concentration, 
and present a balance between challenge and skill promote children's 
development. This chapter describes a study that sought to identify the kinds of 
settings and activities that foster engagement and, by extension, positive youth 
development. The after-school experiences of 191 ethnically diverse youth living 
in three states, some of whom participated in after-school programs and some of 
whom did not, were studied. Youth were equipped with logbooks and watches that 
were programmed to signal at random times. When signaled, youth recorded their 
location, social partners, activity, and feelings. The study found pervasive 
differences in the experiences at programs and elsewhere. Youth spent more time 
in academic and arts enrichment, organized sports and physical activities, 
community service, and homework at programs versus elsewhere, and they spent 
less time eating and watching TV at programs. They also reported higher levels 
of motivation, engagement, and positive affect at programs. At the same time, 
there were few differences in activities, emotions, effort, or motivation of 
program participants and nonparticipants when both groups were elsewhere. The 
similarities in these experiences while elsewhere suggest that the program 
context, not differences in youth characteristics or interests, was responsible 
for the feelings of engagement that were reported at programs.

DOI: 10.1002/yd.111
PMID: 15943140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. J Endovasc Ther. 2005 Jun;12(3):306-11. doi: 10.1583/04-1490MR2.1.

Extension of dissection in stent-graft treatment of type B aortic dissection: 
lessons learned from endovascular experience.

Fattori R(1), Lovato L, Buttazzi K, Di Bartolomeo R, Gavelli G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital S. Orsola, Bologna, Italy. 
ross@med.unibo.it

Comment in
    J Endovasc Ther. 2005 Oct;12(5):620-1.

Endovascular treatment is becoming the most important treatment modality in the 
complex management of type B dissection, providing benefits to both acute and 
chronic patients. Growing technical experience and improving stent-graft devices 
have resulted in better patient outcome and expanded clinical indications. 
Nevertheless, similar to any treatment option, this less invasive method has its 
inherent risks. Several cases of iatrogenic dissection have been reported in the 
literature, underlying the need for guidelines to minimize this risk and improve 
procedural safety. Extension of the dissection after endovascular repair of type 
B dissection does not appear to be device-specific, but related primarily to 
aortic wall alterations or adverse anatomy that arise most frequently in 
hypertensive patients or those with challenging aortic configuration. An 
accurate examination of the aortic wall and dissection anatomy and careful 
intraprocedural device manipulation and balloon molding may help avoid this 
potentially life-threatening complication.

DOI: 10.1583/04-1490MR2.1
PMID: 15943505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. J Endovasc Ther. 2005 Jun;12(3):405-10. doi: 10.1583/04-1425.1.

Multiple HIV-related aneurysms: open and endovascular treatment.

Heikkinen MA(1), Dake MD, Alsac JM, Zarins CK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Stanford University, Medical Center, Stanford, 
California 94305-5642, USA. mheik@netti.fi

PURPOSE: To report successful endovascular repair of thoracic aortic aneurysms 
in 2 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
CASE REPORTS: Thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) were found in a 
60-year-old woman 1 year after she was diagnosed with HIV. Because of pain and 
risk of rupture, the AAA was repaired with conventional open techniques in 
February 1997, while the thoracic aneurysm was excluded in a staged procedure 
using a homemade endograft delivered through a 10-mm conduit sewn to the aortic 
tube graft. Two months later, new aneurysms were found in the superficial 
femoral arteries bilaterally; both were excised and replaced with vein grafts. 
After 7 years, the patient is well and no longer takes antiretroviral 
medication. Surveillance imaging shows continued patency of the stent-graft 
without evidence of leak or migration. In a more contemporary case, a 
46-year-old man was found to have 5 focal aneurysms in the aorta; the most 
