DOI: 10.1353/dem.2005.0011
PMID: 15986983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Demography. 2005 May;42(2):243-58. doi: 10.1353/dem.2005.0012.

Three dimensions of the survival curve: horizontalization, verticalization, and 
longevity extension.

Cheung SL(1), Robine JM, Tu EJ, Caselli G.

Author information:
(1)INSERM/Démographie et Santé, Val d'Aurelle, Parc Euromédecine, 34298 
Montpellier 5, France. SLKCheung@valdorel.fnclcc.fr

Three dimensions of the survival curve have been developed: (1) 
"horizontalization," which corresponds to how long a cohort and how many 
survivors can live before aging-related deaths significantly decrease the 
proportion of survivors; (2) "verticalization," which corresponds to how 
concentrated aging-related ("normal") deaths are around the modal age at death 
(M); and (3) "longevity extension," which corresponds to how far the highest 
normal life durations can exceed M. Our study shows that the degree of 
horizontalization increased relatively less than the degree of verticalization 
in Hong Kong from 1976 to 2001. After age normalization, the highest normal life 
durations moved closer to M, implying that the increase in human longevity is 
meeting some resistance.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2005.0012
PMID: 15986985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Demography. 2005 May;42(2):259-73. doi: 10.1353/dem.2005.0018.

The age pattern of first-birth rates among U.S. women: the bimodal 1990s.

Sullivan R(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Group in Sociology and Demography, University of California, 
Berkeley, 2232 Piedmont Avenue, Berkeley, CA 94720-2120, USA. 
rachsull@demog.berkeley.edu

Between 1990 and 2002, the age pattern of Type I first-birth rates (i.e., the 
hazard of a first birth) among U.S. women was bimodal. This pattern, driven by 
changing differential fertility patterns among racial and ethnic groups, reached 
its apex at the mid-1990s and had almost vanished by the decade's end. Research 
on first-birth timing has tended to focus on Type II first-birth rates and 
therefore has failed to identify this larger, bimodal pattern. This article 
presents the benefits of using Type I rates, documents the emergence of the 
bimodal pattern via two new measures of bimodality, and uses a decomposition 
analysis to discuss the pattern's causes.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2005.0018
PMID: 15986986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Gen Intern Med. 2005 Jun;20(6):487-96. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.0116.x.

Toward optimal screening strategies for older women. Costs, benefits, and harms 
of breast cancer screening by age, biology, and health status.

Mandelblatt JS(1), Schechter CB, Yabroff KR, Lawrence W, Dignam J, Extermann M, 
Fox S, Orosz G, Silliman R, Cullen J, Balducci L; Breast Cancer in Older Women 
Research Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Georgetown University Medical Center, Lombardi 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Washington, DC, USA. tdm3@georgetown.edu

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2005 Jun;20(6):552-3.

CONTEXT: Optimal ages of breast cancer screening cessation remain uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate screening policies based on age and quartiles of life 
expectancy (LE).
DESIGN AND POPULATION: We used a stochastic model with proxies of age-dependent 
biology to evaluate the incremental U.S. societal costs and benefits of biennial 
screening from age 50 until age 70, 79, or lifetime.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Discounted incremental costs per life years saved (LYS).
RESULTS: Lifetime screening is expensive (151,434 dollars per LYS) if women have 
treatment and survival comparable to clinical trials (idealized); stopping at 
age 79 costs 82,063 dollars per LYS. This latter result corresponds to costs 
associated with an LE of 9.5 years at age 79, a value expected for 75% of 
79-year-olds, about 50% of 80-year-olds, and 25% of 85-year-olds. Using actual 
treatment and survival patterns, screening benefits are greater, and lifetime 
screening of all women might be considered (114,905 dollars per LYS), especially 
for women in the top 25% of LE for their age (50,643 dollars per LYS, life 
expectancy of approximately 7 years at age 90).
CONCLUSIONS: If all women receive idealized treatment, the benefits of 
mammography beyond age 79 are too low relative to their costs to justify 
continued screening. However, if treatment is not ideal, extending screening 
beyond age 79 could be considered, especially for women in the top 25% of life 
expectancy for their age.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.0116.x
PMCID: PMC1490138
PMID: 15987322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Gen Intern Med. 2005 Jun;20(6):552-3. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.41012.x.

The use of life expectancy in cancer screening guidelines. Moving with caution 
from model-based evidence to evidence-based guidelines.

Lantz PM, Ubel PA.

Comment on
    J Gen Intern Med. 2005 Jun;20(6):487-96.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1497.2005.41012.x
PMCID: PMC1490128
PMID: 15987335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2005 Jul 1;54(25):625-8.

Annual smoking-attributable mortality, years of potential life lost, and 
productivity losses--United States, 1997-2001.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Smoking harms nearly every organ of the body, causing many diseases and reducing 
quality of life and life expectancy. This report assesses the health 
consequences and productivity losses attributable to smoking in the United 
States during 1997-2001. CDC calculated national estimates of annual 
smoking-attributable mortality (SAM), years of potential life lost (YPLL) for 
adults and infants, and productivity losses for adults. The findings indicated 
that, during 1997-2001, cigarette smoking and exposure to tobacco smoke resulted 
in approximately 438,000 premature deaths in the United States, 5.5 million 
YPLL, and 92 billion dollars in productivity losses annually. Implementation of 
comprehensive tobacco-control programs as recommended by CDC can reduce smoking 
prevalence and related mortality and health-care costs.

PMID: 15988406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2001 Oct;6(2):303-15. doi: 10.1517/14728214.6.2.303.

Drugs targeted against protein kinases.

Kumar CC(1), Madison V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumour Biology, Schering-Plough Research Institute, 2015 
Galloping Hill Road, Kenilworth, NJ 07033, USA. chandra.kumar@spcorp.com

Current treatments for cancer (surgery, radiation and chemotherapy) are 
successful for early stage localised disease but have severe side effects. New 
treatments are needed to increase the cure rate and life expectancy of patients. 
With the discovery of oncogenes, tumour suppressor genes and an understanding of 
their role in the development of the malignant disease, a new era of therapy has 
begun. Cancer is a manifestation of deregulated signalling pathways that mediate 
cell growth and programmed cell death. Protein kinases are essential elements in 
these signalling pathways. In the US, Novartis launched Gleevec (imantinib, 
STI-571) in May 2001 as the first anticancer drug whose mechanism of action is 
kinase inhibition. In Phase I trials, 23/24 patients with chronic myelogenous 
leukaemia (CML) had complete remissions and the drug is relatively non-toxic. 
Herceptin (trastuzumab) is a monoclonal antibody (mAb) against a member of the 
growth factor receptor family (HER-2/neu) that was launched in 1998 by Genentech 
for the treatment of breast cancer. Trastuzumab has an excellent antitumour 
profile, particularly when used in combination with doxorubicin and paclitaxol. 
These drugs are pioneering the treatment of cancer based on the molecular 
understanding of the disease. Numerous drugs that target growth factor receptors 
and their signalling pathways are in advanced clinical trials. Herein, 
antibodies against receptors and small molecule inhibitors of kinases in 
signalling pathways will be summarised. Inter-disciplinary preclinical studies 
have identified chemicals that target specific kinases. We believe that clinical 
studies of these agents will yield new anticancer agents that target specific 
diseases and that are less toxic than current agents.

DOI: 10.1517/14728214.6.2.303
PMID: 15989528


59. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 1997 Dec;6(12):1853-65. doi: 
10.1517/13543784.6.12.1853.

Docetaxel: a new active agent in the therapy of metastatic breast cancer.

Fumoleau P(1), Seidman AD, Trudeau ME, Chevallier B, Ten Bokkel Huinink WW.

Author information:
(1)Centre Régional de Lutte contre le Cancer Nantes Atlantique-Site Hospitalier 
Nord, Boulevard Jacques Monod, 44805 St Herblain Cédex, France.

Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women, accounting for about 18% 
of female cancers, and over half a million new cases are diagnosed worldwide 
each year. Its incidence increases with age and is currently rising. Although 
the increased availability of screening programs has allowed earlier detection 
and treatment of primary breast cancers, many patients relapse with metastases 
after apparently successful treatment of their primary tumor and over 15,000 
women in the UK and about 50,000 in the USA die from advanced disease each year. 
The natural course of breast cancer is very variable even after the development 
of metastases, and depends on a variety of tumor characteristics and prognostic 
factors. This is reflected in the large number of treatments currently employed. 
However, despite this wide choice and considerable research over the years, 
treatment of metastatic breast cancer (MBC) prolongs average survival times only 
slightly. Current therapy is aimed at achieving a balance between producing 
maximal tumor shrinkage to produce the most effective possible palliation of 
symptoms, and minimizing adverse effects. Anticancer chemotherapy is the 
preferred option in patients who do not respond to hormones, those with 
hormone-independent tumors, those with aggressive breast cancer subtypes. A 
variety of anticancer chemotherapy regimens, using both single and combined 
agents, have been shown to be effective in achieving tumor regression in MBC. 
Anthracyclines (doxorubicin, epirubicin) are the most active of the established 
monotherapies, typically producing response rates of 50-60% during initial 
(first-line) treatment for metastatic disease, but being effective in fewer than 
25% of patients requiring second-line therapy. The drawbacks of anthracyclines 
include dose-limiting cumulative cardiotoxicity and the development of resistant 
tumor clones after the use of anthracyclines for adjuvant or first-line therapy, 
especially if subsequent courses are required within a year. The success of 
these established chemotherapeutic agents depends greatly on the number and 
location of metastatic sites. Lymph node and soft tissue secondaries tend to 
respond well, while visceral metastases (especially in the liver) carry a 
particularly poor prognosis despite treatment. The outlook for patients with 
metastases involving more than two organ systems is also bleak. Although some 
patients can live for years with metastatic disease, the average survival time 
in patients with MBC is 18-24 months, while in those with liver metastases, life 
expectancy averages only 6 months. High-dose anticancer chemotherapy with 
granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) or autologous bone marrow 
transplantation has allowed the dose intensity of anthracyclines to be 
increased, and has improved the response rate to about 70% in selected patients 
with MBC. However, this approach has not been proven to improve survival, 
involves the risk of greater toxicity and drug-related mortality, and patients 
with reduced clearance of anthracyclines due to hepatic dysfunction from liver 
metastases may not be suitable candidates. A number of new anticancer agents 
have also recently been introduced in an attempt to improve on the performance 
and avoid the tolerability problems associated with anthracyclines. Among these, 
antitubulin agents (taxoids and vinorelbine) have shown highly promising 
activity in MBC. This paper reviews the preclinical, phase I and phase II data 
for one taxoid, docetaxel. Docetaxel (Taxotere) belongs to the taxoid class of 
cytotoxic agents, the development of which began more than 20 years ago. In 
1971, paclitaxel (Taxol) was identified as the active compound of the crude 
extract of the bark of the Pacific Yew tree Taxus brevifolia. However, at that 
time the development of paclitaxel was hampered because of the limited source of 
the drug and difficulties with isolation, extraction and formulation. The second 
active taxoid, docetaxel, was isolated by Potier et al. in 1986. Docetaxel is 
prepared from a non-cytotoxic precursor, extracted from the needles of the 
European Yew tree Taxus baccata, that is condensed with a chemically-synthesized 
side-chain. As the docetaxel precursor is freely available because of the 
regenerating capacity of the needles the development of docetaxel has thus been 
rapid.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.6.12.1853
PMID: 15989586


60. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2005 Jun-Jul;28(6):337-46. doi: 10.1157/13076352.

[Screening the at-risk population for squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus].

[Article in Spanish]

Nicolás Pérez D(1), Quintero E, Parra Blanco A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de Canarias, La Laguna, 
Santa Cruz de Tenerife, España.

Together with adenocarcinoma, epidermoid esophageal carcinoma is the most 
clinically important neoplasm of the esophagus. Because of the low incidence of 
epidermoid esophageal carcinoma in the general population, strategies for its 
early diagnosis are not a priority compared with other neoplasms. However, 
because survival is low when the disease is diagnosed in symptomatic patients 
(less than 20% at 5 years), methods for its early diagnosis should be 
investigated. The use of cytology or Lugol chromoendoscopy in countries with a 
high incidence of epidermoid carcinoma or in individuals at increased risk 
(mainly alcoholics and smokers) has allowed early diagnosis and potentially 
curative treatment, substantially increasing life expectancy in this group of 
patients. These results should stimulate the evaluation and eventual 
implementation of programs to achieve early diagnosis and therefore greater 
survival in patients with epidermoid esophageal carcinoma in Western countries.

DOI: 10.1157/13076352
PMID: 15989816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Med Clin (Barc). 2005 Jun 25;125(4):121-6. doi: 10.1157/13076949.

[Impact of age and comorbidity on survival and toxicity of irradiated prostate 
cancer patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Ferrer González F(1), Casas Duran F, Biete Solà A.

Author information:
(1)Institut d'Oncologia Radioteràpica, IMAS, Avda. Sant Josep de la Muntanya 12, 
08024 Barcelona, Spain. fferrerg@imas.imim.es

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2005 Jun 25;125(4):140-2.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: We intended to assess the impact of age on radiation 
outcome in patients treated for prostate cancer with 2D planning radiation 
therapy in clinical practice at the Hospital Clínic of Barcelona Radiation 
Oncology Department.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: One hundred eighty three patients, treated from November 
1993 to April 1999, were included. Median follow-up was 41.8 months and median 
age was 70 years old. Median dose to prostate was 70 Gy. Univariate 
(Kaplan-Meier with log rank test comparison) and multivariate analysis (Cox's 
regression models) were done to assess the effect of age on toxicity and to 
study prognostic factors for disease control, survival and radiation treatment 
toxicity.
RESULTS: Five years disease free survival probability was 61.94%, with an 
overall survival probability of 82.83%. Although comorbidity increased 
significantly with age, reduced overall survival by a factor of 0.4, from 94.85% 
to 78.55% at 5 years. No differences were seen with regard to age in acute or 
late toxicity. Five years toxicity free probability was 66.46%.
CONCLUSIONS: Comorbidities decrease life expectancy in prostate cancer patients 
treated with radiation. Age does not necessarily suppose an increased risk of 
late toxicity for selected patients.

DOI: 10.1157/13076949
PMID: 15989851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Med Clin (Barc). 2005 Jun 25;125(4):140-2. doi: 10.1157/13076940.

[Treatment with curative intention of prostate cancer depending on age and life 
expectancy].

[Article in Spanish]

Ojea Calvo A.

Comment on
    Med Clin (Barc). 2005 Jun 25;125(4):121-6.

DOI: 10.1157/13076940
PMID: 15989855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Respir Med. 2006 Feb;100(2):367-70. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2005.05.010. Epub
2005  Jun 28.

Recurrence of pulmonary intravascular bronchoalveolar tumor with mediastinal 
metastasis 20 years later.

Chen TM(1), Donington J, Mak G, Berry GJ, Ruoss SJ, Rosen GD, Upadhyay D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Stanford University Medical 
Center, 300 Pasteur Drive, Room H3143, Stanford, CA 94305-5236, USA.

Pulmonary intravascular bronchoalveolar tumor (IVBAT) also recognized as 
pulmonary epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, is a rare malignant vascular tumor 
of unknown etiology. IVBAT is a tumor of multicentric origin and the lungs are 
rarely involved, with only about 60 cases of pulmonary IVBAT described in the 
literature. The prognosis is unpredictable, with life expectancy ranging from 1 
to 15 years. We report an unusual case of pulmonary IVBAT that recurred in the 
lung with metastasis to the mediastinum.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2005.05.010
PMID: 15990286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Neuroepidemiology. 2005;25(3):153-62. doi: 10.1159/000086680. Epub 2005 Jun
29.

Mortality in dementia.

Guehne U(1), Riedel-Heller S, Angermeyer MC.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fur Psychiatrie der Universitat Leipzig, Deutschland. 
uta.guehne@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

The objective of this work is to provide a review of the mortality risk in 
dementia and potential influencing factors. In order to do so, studies on 
mortality in dementia based on population-based samples of the last 15 years 
published in PubMed, Web of Science and PSYNDEXplus were considered. Without 
exception, all types of dementia are associated with a considerably increased 
mortality risk. Moreover, the risk of death rises with advancing severity of the 
disorder. Often, a more favorable course of the disease can be found in 
Alzheimer's disease. Further questions, such as the influence of age and sex, 
cannot be answered conclusively. Very little information can be found on aspects 
concerning comorbidity, APOE polymorphism or depressive symptomatology.

Copyright 2005 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000086680
PMID: 15990446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Am Heart J. 2005 Apr;149(4):592-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.05.060.

INvestigation of STEnt grafts in patients with type B Aortic Dissection: design 
of the INSTEAD trial--a prospective, multicenter, European randomized trial.

Nienaber CA(1), Zannetti S, Barbieri B, Kische S, Schareck W, Rehders TC; 
INSTEAD study collaborators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology and Internal Medicine Department, Rostock University, 
Germany. christoph.nienaber@med.uni-rostock.de

PURPOSE: This study describes the design of an ongoing randomized trial 
initiated to compare the 2-year outcome of uncomplicated type B aortic 
dissection when treated by endovascular implantation of a Medtronic Talent stent 
graft adjunctive to best medical treatment versus best medical treatment alone.
METHODS: Patients older than 18 years with type B aortic dissection as diagnosed 
by computed tomography or magnetic resonance angiography are randomized to 
either a thoracic aortic endoprosthesis and antihypertensive treatment, called 
"stent grafting," or a tailored antihypertensive treatment, called "medical 
treatment." Only patients in a clinically stable condition and without 
spontaneous thrombosis of the false lumen after 14 days of the index dissection 
are considered eligible for study inclusion.
RESULTS: Primary outcome measure is all-cause mortality. Secondary outcome 
variables include conversion to stent and/or surgery, induced thrombosis of the 
false lumen, cardiovascular morbidity, aortic expansion (>5 mm/y of maximum 
diameter including true and false lumina), quality of life, and length of 
intensive care unit and hospital stay. The study design calls for 136 patients 
to be randomized and monitored for 24 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The INSTEAD trial is the first randomized trial investigating the 
role of endoluminal treatment of uncomplicated type B aortic dissection. By the 
end of December 2004, 125 patients were randomized, accounting for 92% of the 
target. Final results of the INSTEAD trial should be available in 2006.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.05.060
PMID: 15990739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Am Heart J. 2005 Apr;149(4):650-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.11.015.

Factors affecting bleeding risk during anticoagulant therapy in patients with 
atrial fibrillation: observations from the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up 
Investigation of Rhythm Management (AFFIRM) study.

DiMarco JP(1), Flaker G, Waldo AL, Corley SD, Greene HL, Safford RE, Rosenfeld 
LE, Mitrani G, Nemeth M; AFFIRM Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, Va 22908, USA. jpd4h@virginia.edu

BACKGROUND: Stroke and systemic thromboembolism are serious problems for 
patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), but their incidence can be substantially 
reduced by appropriate anticoagulation. Bleeding is the major complication of 
anticoagulant treatment, and the relative risks for bleeding vs stroke must be 
considered when starting anticoagulation.
METHODS: The AFFIRM trial included patients with AF and at least one risk factor 
for stroke, randomly assigning them to either a rate-control or rhythm-control 
strategy. All patients were initially treated with warfarin. The incidence of 
protocol-defined major and minor bleeding was documented during follow-up. 
Variables associated with bleeding were determined using a Cox proportional 
hazards model, using baseline and time-dependent covariates.
RESULTS: The 4060 patients in the AFFIRM trial were followed for an average of 
3.5 years. Major bleeding occurred in 260 patients, an annual incidence of 
approximately 2% per year, with no significant difference between the 
rate-control and rhythm-control groups. Increased age, heart failure, hepatic or 
renal disease, diabetes, first AF episode, warfarin use, and aspirin use were 
significantly associated with major bleeding. Minor bleeding was common in both 
treatment arms, with 738 patients reporting this problem in one or more visits.
CONCLUSIONS: Bleeding is a significant problem that complicates management of 
patients with AF. Risk factors for bleeding can be identified, and knowledge of 
these risk factors can be used to plan therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.11.015
PMID: 15990748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Am Heart J. 2005 Apr;149(4):689-94. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.05.061.

Two-year clinical follow-up of 90Sr/90 Y beta-radiation versus placebo control 
for the treatment of in-stent restenosis.

Silber S(1), Popma JJ, Suntharalingam M, Lansky AJ, Heuser RR, Speiser B, 
Teirstein PS, Bass T, O'Neill W, Lasala J, Reisman M, Sharma SK, Kuntz RE, Bonan 
R; START Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Dr. Mueller Hospital, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: It is an ongoing concern that intracoronary brachytherapy may 
possibly just delay the problem of in-stent restenosis ("late catch up"). For 
gamma-radiation, 3 placebo-controlled studies have shown the maintenance of the 
initially positive effect after 2 years, but similar data do not exist for 
beta-radiation. STents And Restenosis Trial (START) was the first 
placebo-controlled randomized trial for in-stent restenosis with beta-radiation; 
herein, we report the 2-year clinical follow-up.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Two hundred and forty-four patients were randomized to 
active treatment, 232 patients to placebo (nonactive source train) treatment. 
The primary end point of efficacy was target vessel revascularization (TVR); 
primary safety end point was any major adverse cardiac event (MACE) at 8 months 
and 2 years. Two-year clinical outcome in patients receiving brachytherapy was 
based on 195 of 244 original patients (79.9%) and in the placebo arm on 183 of 
232 original patients (78.9%). TVR was significantly reduced by 25%; from 36.6% 
(placebo) to 27.5% (brachytherapy) remained significant after 2 years (RR .7 
[.57-.98], 95% CI -9.2 [-17.5-0.8]). The Kaplan-Meier analysis for TVR and MACE 
showed improvement beginning approximately 90 days after radiation and remained 
almost constant for the 2 following years. Freedom from TVR was significantly 
increased from 62.4% +/- 3.8% to 71.6% +/- 3.3% (P = .027) and freedom from MACE 
from 58.9% +/- 3.7% to 68.0% +/- 3.4% (P = .035).
CONCLUSIONS: The START trial shows for the first time that the initial 
beneficial effects of intracoronary brachytherapy with beta-radiation using 90 
Sr/ 90 Y are maintained at 2-year clinical follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.05.061
PMID: 15990754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Am Heart J. 2005 Apr;149(4):737-43. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.06.030.

A propensity score analysis of the impact of angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors on long-term survival of older adults with heart failure and 
perceived contraindications.

Ahmed A(1), Centor RM, Weaver MT, Perry GJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Ala 35294-2041, USA. aahmed@uab.edu

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study is to determine the association between 
discharge use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in patients with 
perceived contraindications to these drugs and 4-year post-discharge survival 
among hospitalized older adults discharged alive with a primary discharge 
diagnosis of systolic heart failure.
BACKGROUND: Perceived contraindications to the use of ACE inhibitors are often 
associated with underuse of these life-saving drugs.
METHODS: Chronic renal insufficiency, hypotension, hyperkalemia, and severe 
aortic stenosis were conditions perceived as contraindications. Using a 
multivariable logistic regression model, we at first determined propensity 
scores for receipt of ACE inhibitors for each patient. Bivariate and 
multivariable Cox proportional hazard analyses were used to determine crude and 
adjusted risks of 4-year mortality compared with patients without perceived 
contraindications who were discharged on an ACE inhibitor (referent group).
RESULTS: Compared with the referent group, patients with perceived 
contraindications who were not discharged on an ACE inhibitor had a significant 
2-fold increase in the risk of 4-year mortality (adjusted hazard ratio [HR] = 
2.33, 95% CI = 1.30-4.19). Patients with perceived contraindications who were 
discharged on ACE inhibitors had a non significant 23% higher risk of 4-year 
mortality (versus the referent group) (adjusted HR = 1.23, 95% CI = 0.71-2.13).
CONCLUSION: Discharge use of ACE inhibitors was associated with significant 
long-term survival benefit in patients considered to have contraindication to 
these drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2004.06.030
PMID: 15990761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Appl Nurs Res. 2005 May;18(2):74-6. doi: 10.1016/j.apnr.2005.02.005.

Patient preferences and cost-utility analysis.

Elnitsky CA(1), Stone P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs, Health Services Research and Development 
Service, Washington, DC 20242, USA. c.elnitsky@cox.net

This column discusses patient preference measures and their application in cost 
utility analysis. A variety of methods of eliciting patient preferences by use 
of generic utility measures are described. Practical issues in the use of 
utility measures are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apnr.2005.02.005
PMID: 15991103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Int J Health Plann Manage. 2005 Apr-Jun;20(2):89-98. doi: 10.1002/hpm.800.

Applying DALY to assessing national health insurance performance: the 
relationship between the national health insurance expenditures and the burden 
of disease measures in Iran.

Russel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Secretariat of Disaster and Risk Management Committee, Ministry of Health and 
Medical Education (MOHME), Hafez Street, Tehran, Iran. russel332@yahoo.com

The Iranian government has considered using DALYs as an indicator to prioritize 
health service expenditures to reduce the burden of disease for the public. A 
cross-sectional study was designed to compare several measures of the burden of 
disease with the actual amounts of national health insurance (NHI) expenditures, 
in one province of Iran (Semnan) for a period of 2 months (September 2000 and 
February 2001). Furthermore, on the basis of the research findings, a 
questionnaire was designed and distributed to stakeholders at local and national 
levels to explore their ideas about the gap between the expenditures of the 
diseases group and their burden. A semi-structured interview was conducted to 
elicit participants' views on the research findings. The results of this study 
have revealed that, currently, there is no strong relation between the NHI 
expenditures and DALY (r = 0.41, p = 0.09), but that there are stronger 
relationships between the amounts of NHI reimbursements with YLL (r = 0.52, p < 
0.05), mortality (r = 0.67, p < 0.01) and hospital days (r = 0.90, p < 0.01). 
Comparing each group of disorders' DALY with the resources allocated to them 
(cost per DALY) it was shown that diabetes mellitus, musculoskeletal diseases, 
maternal conditions, sense organ disorders received considerably generous 
funding; and, perinatal conditions, congenital abnormalities, nutritional 
deficiencies were relatively under-funded. The qualitative research results 
showed that the majority of respondents agreed that the differences presently 
existing between disorders' burden and NHI expenditures cannot be justified; 
and, further, that reducing the overall burden of disease must be one of the 
most important objectives for the NHI.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.800
PMID: 15991456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2005 Jun;54(3):127-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.ancard.2005.04.005.

[Mild aortic stenosis and coronary bypass surgery].

[Article in French]

Chauvel C(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinique Saint-Augustin, 114, avenue d'Arès, 33000 Bordeaux, France. 
cchauvel@club-cardio.org

The presence of mild to moderate aortic stenosis in a patients scheduled for 
coronary bypass surgery poses difficult problems with respect to the optimal 
therapeutic strategy. The first step is obviously to obtain a precise 
quantification of the degree of stenosis. Whenever possible, confrontation with 
previous echo examinations will provide an idea of the speed with which aortic 
stenosis progresses. The cardiologist, together with the cardiac surgeon, will 
have to carefully balance the operative risk and the risk of a second 
intervention. The patient's age will be central in the discussion, as it is a 
major determinant of life expectancy after the initial intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ancard.2005.04.005
PMID: 15991467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 2005;(5):1-8.

[Contemporary medical and demographic situation in Russia].

[Article in Russian]

Izmerov NF, Tikhonova GI, Iakovleva TP.

The article presents data on public health state in Russia over past years. 
Analysis of medical, demographic parameters, morbidity values proves continuing 
deterioration of public health state in Russia.

PMID: 15991710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Clin Prostate Cancer. 2005 Jun;4(1):31-7. doi: 10.3816/cgc.2005.n.009.

Clinical benefit of zoledronic acid for the prevention of skeletal complications 
in advanced prostate cancer.

Saad F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Centre Hospitalier de l'Universite de Montreal, 
Hopital Notre-Dame, Montreal, Quebec H2L 4M1, Canada. fred.saad@videotron.ca

Men with prostate cancer are at high risk of developing bone metastases that can 
lead to clinically significant skeletal morbidity. Recently, a randomized, 
placebo-controlled, phase III trial in 422 men with hormone-refractory prostate 
cancer and bone metastases demonstrated that zoledronic acid (4 mg every 3 
weeks) significantly reduced the incidence and onset of skeletal complications 
and provided significant long-term reductions in bone pain compared with 
placebo. Patients received zoledronic acid for a 15-month core phase, with the 
option to continue therapy for 9 more months on the extension phase. To evaluate 
the continuing benefit of long-term zoledronic acid therapy, retrospective 
exploratory analyses were conducted based on the incidence of skeletal-related 
events (SREs; defined as pathologic bone fracture, spinal cord compression, 
surgery or radiation therapy to bone, or change in antineoplastic therapy for 
bone pain) occurring only during the extension phase of this trial. Quality of 
life parameters included assessment with the Brief Pain Inventory. Similar to 
results reported for the 15-month core phase and the entire 24-month study, the 
9-month extension phase demonstrated that zoledronic acid significantly reduced 
the percentage of patients with an SRE (P = 0.017), prolonged the median time to 
first SRE (P = 0.036), reduced the annual incidence of SREs by 52% (P = 0.016), 
and reduced the risk of SREs by 53% (P = 0.022) compared with placebo. 
Furthermore, zoledronic acid was safe and well tolerated. Therefore, zoledronic 
acid provides long-term continuing clinical benefit for men with prostate cancer 
and bone metastases and represents a new therapeutic option for this population.

DOI: 10.3816/cgc.2005.n.009
PMID: 15992459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Clin Prostate Cancer. 2005 Jun;4(1):45-9. doi: 10.3816/cgc.2005.n.011.

Active surveillance for prostate cancer with selective delayed definitive 
therapy.

Eastham JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021, USA. easthamj@mskcc.org

Patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer face a daunting 
variety of management choices, including conservative management, brachytherapy, 
external-beam irradiation therapy with or without neoadjuvant hormonal therapy, 
as well as surgery. As we have learned to characterize the nature of each 
cancer, we can now "risk-adjust" treatment decisions. Physicians have long 
sought to guide patients through these choices based on their best judgment 
about the threat posed by the cancer, the effectiveness of treatment, the side 
effects of therapy, and the life expectancy of the patient. Today, many patients 
wish to participate more actively in decisions about their care, weighing the 
risks of treatment-related complications and the anxiety of living with an 
untreated or uncontrolled cancer. Patient utilities measure the value patients 
place on a health state, such as living with cancer or becoming incontinent, 
allowing quantitative assessments of risks and benefits of different therapeutic 
options specific for each patient's own preferences and the nature of his cancer 
and life expectancy. As early detection programs for prostate cancer expand, men 
are being diagnosed with prostate cancer earlier in its natural history. Some of 
these cancers may not require immediate treatment but rather a period of active 
surveillance with definitive curative therapy being administered only if there 
are signs of cancer progression. This review summarizes our current 
understanding of active surveillance with selective delayed definitive therapy.

DOI: 10.3816/cgc.2005.n.011
PMID: 15992461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Jul 5;46(1):15-20. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.03.047.

Sustained benefit 20 years after reperfusion therapy in acute myocardial 
infarction.

van Domburg RT(1), Sonnenschein K, Nieuwlaat R, Kamp O, Storm CJ, Bax JJ, 
Simoons ML.

Author information:
(1)Thoraxcenter, Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
r.vandomburg@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVES: The goal of this research was to clarify whether the benefit of 
reperfusion therapy for myocardial infarction was sustained long-term and to 
assess the gain in life expectancy by reperfusion therapy.
BACKGROUND: Reperfusion therapy in acute myocardial infarction reduces infarct 
size and increases hospital survival.
METHODS: We analyzed the 20-year outcome of 533 patients (mean age 56 years; 82% 
men) who were randomized to either reperfusion therapy or conventional therapy 
during the years 1981 to 1985.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 21 years (range 19 to 23 years). At follow-up, 101 
patients (36%) of the 269 patients allocated to reperfusion treatment and only 
71 patients (26%) of the 264 conventionally treated patients were alive (p = 
0.02). The cumulative 10-, 15-, and 20-year survival rates were 69%, 48%, and 
37% after reperfusion therapy and 59%, 38%, and 27% in the control group, 
respectively (p = 0.005). Life expectancy of the reperfusion group was 15.2 
years versus 12.4 years in the conventionally treated group (p < 0.0001). 
Myocardial re-infarction and subsequent coronary interventions were more 
frequent after reperfusion therapy, particularly during the first year. In 
multivariable analysis, reperfusion therapy was an important independent 
predictor of lower mortality at long-term follow-up (hazard ratio 0.7; 95% 
confidence interval 0.6 to 0.8). Other independent predictors of mortality were 
age, impaired left ventricular function, multivessel disease, infarct size, and 
inability to perform an exercise test at the time of discharge.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study demonstrating sustained (20-year) improved 
survival after reperfusion therapy. The gain in life expectancy was almost three 
years, representing about one-third of the life-years lost by myocardial 
infarction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.03.047
PMID: 15992629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jun 29;2005(26):nf48. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.26.nf48.

Will we find biomarkers of aging?

Davenport RJ.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.26.nf48
PMID: 15994208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jun 29;2005(26):nf50. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.26.nf50.

How can we craft a better theory to explain the evolution of aging?

Leslie M.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.26.nf50
PMID: 15994210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jun 29;2005(26):pe19. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.26.pe19.

Metabolomics: opening another window into aging.

Kristal BS(1), Shurubor YI.

Author information:
(1)Dementia Research Service, Burke Medical Research Institute, White Plains, NY 
10605, USA. bkristal@burke.org

Metabolomics is based on the simultaneous analysis of multiple 
low-molecular-weight metabolites from a given sample. As such, metabolomics 
seeks the most up-to-date information about the state of interaction between an 
organism and its environment. The ability to use metabolomics approaches for 
classification and mechanistic studies may influence and augment our ability to 
study and address the aging process scientifically and clinically.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.26.pe19
PMID: 15994213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jun 29;2005(26):pe20. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.26.pe20.

Reactive oxygen species and aging: evolving questions.

Dugan LL(1), Quick KL.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, 
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. ladugan@ucsd.edu

Over the past 50 years, reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been investigated as 
putative mediators of the process of aging. As specific genes and pathways that 
are involved with ROS homeostasis have been linked to aging in lower organisms, 
such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila, the questions of how ROS regulate 
aging in higher organisms, and whether they do so to the same extent as in lower 
organisms, have emerged.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.26.pe20
PMID: 15994214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Gut. 2006 Sep;55(9):1332-8. doi: 10.1136/gut.2005.064774. Epub 2005 Jun 30.

Cost effectiveness of interferon alpha or peginterferon alpha with ribavirin for 
histologically mild chronic hepatitis C.

Grieve R(1), Roberts J, Wright M, Sweeting M, DeAngelis D, Rosenberg W, 
Bassendine M, Main J, Thomas H.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, Keppel St, London WC1E 7HT, UK. richard.grieve@lshtm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: For patients with mild chronic hepatitis C the cost effectiveness of 
antiviral therapy is unknown.
AIMS: To assess whether antiviral therapy (either interferon alpha or 
peginterferon alpha combined with ribavirin) is cost effective at a mild stage 
compared with waiting and only treating those cases who progress to moderate 
disease.
PATIENTS: Cases with mild chronic hepatitis C.
METHODS: A cost effectiveness model which estimates long term costs and outcomes 
for patients with mild chronic hepatitis C. The model uses effectiveness and 
cost data from the UK mild hepatitis C randomised controlled trial, combined 
with estimates of disease progression and cost from observational studies.
RESULTS: Antiviral treatment at a mild rather than a moderate stage improved 
outcomes measured by quality adjusted life years (QALYS) gained. The mean cost 
per QALY gained from antiviral treatment with interferon alpha-2b and ribavirin, 
compared with no treatment at a mild stage, was 4535 pounds sterling (7108 
dollars) for patients with genotype non-1 and 25,188 pounds sterling (39,480 
dollars) for patients with genotype 1. Providing peginterferon alpha-2b and 
ribavirin at a mild rather than a moderate stage was also associated with a gain 
in QALYS; the costs per QALY gained were 7821 pounds sterling (12,259 dollars) 
for patients with genotype non-1 and 28,409 pounds sterling (44,528 dollars) for 
patients with genotype 1.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with chronic hepatitis C, it is generally more cost 
effective to provide antiviral treatment at a mild rather than a moderate 
disease stage. For older patients (aged 65 years or over) with genotype 1, 
antiviral treatment at a mild stage is not cost effective.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.2005.064774
PMCID: PMC1860032
PMID: 15994216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Med Ethics. 2005 Jul;31(7):373-5. doi: 10.1136/jme.2005.012906.

It's not NICE to discriminate.

Harris J.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2005 Dec;31(12):683-4; discussion 685-8.
    J Med Ethics. 2006 Jul;32(7):373-7; discussion 378-80.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2005.012906
PMCID: PMC1734179
PMID: 15994352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Science. 2005 Jul 1;309(5731):83. doi: 10.1126/science.309.5731.83.

How much can human life span be extended?

Couzin J.

DOI: 10.1126/science.309.5731.83
PMID: 15994529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Bacteriol. 2005 Jul;187(14):4813-21. doi: 10.1128/JB.187.14.4813-4821.2005.

Enhancement of glutamine utilization in Bacillus subtilis through the GlnK-GlnL 
two-component regulatory system.

Satomura T(1), Shimura D, Asai K, Sadaie Y, Hirooka K, Fujita Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Science and Biotechnology, 
Fukuyama University, Higashimura-cho, Hiroshima, Japan.

During DNA microarray analysis, we discovered that the GlnK-GlnL (formerly 
YcbA-YcbB) two-component system positively regulates the expression of the 
glsA-glnT (formerly ybgJ-ybgH) operon in response to glutamine in the culture 
medium on Northern analysis. As a result of gel retardation and DNase I 
footprinting analyses, we found that the GlnL protein interacts with a region 
(bases -13 to -56; +1 is the transcription initiation base determined on primer 
extension analysis of glsA-glnT) in which a direct repeat, TTTTGTN4TTTTGT, is 
present. Furthermore, the glsA and glnT genes were biochemically verified to 
encode glutaminase and glutamine transporter, respectively.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.187.14.4813-4821.2005
PMCID: PMC1169493
PMID: 15995196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. EMBO Rep. 2005 Jul;6 Spec No(Suppl 1):S30-4. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400427.

Youthful prospects for human stem-cell therapy. In another few decades, revised 
attitudes toward stem cells could lead to disease prevention and life extension.

Rosenthal N(1).

Author information:
(1)Mouse Biology Unit, EMBL Monterotondo Outstation, Italy. 
rosenthal@embl-monterotondo.it

In another few decades, revised attitudes towards stem cells could lead to 
disease prevention and life extension

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400427
PMCID: PMC1369275
PMID: 15995658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Prim Prev. 2005 Jul;26(4):345-62. doi: 10.1007/s10935-005-5392-2.

Cost-effectiveness of a community-level HIV risk reduction intervention for 
women living in low-income housing developments.

Johnson-Masotti AP(1), Pinkerton SD, Sikkema KJ, Kelly JA, Wagstaff DA.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, USA. johnmas@mcmaster.ca

We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis of a multi-site community-level HIV 
prevention trial that enrolled women living in 18 low-income housing 
developments in 5 U.S. cities. A mathematical model of HIV transmission was used 
to estimate the number of HIV infections averted and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) saved by the community-level intervention, based on data obtained from 
community-wide sexual behavior surveys at baseline and 12-month follow-up. 
Results indicated that the intervention prevented approximately 1 infection per 
3500 women reached by the intervention, at a total cost of 174,845 dollars. The 
cost per QALY saved by the intervention was 37,433 dollars and the cost per HIV 
infection averted was 732,072 dollars. The community-level intervention was 
moderately cost-effective in comparison with other HIV prevention programs for 
at-risk women. Synergistic approaches to HIV prevention that combine 
community-level sexual norm change interventions with more intensive risk 
reduction programs for high-risk women are needed. EDITORS' STRATEGIC 
IMPLICATIONS: The authors present a promising and efficient community-level HIV 
prevention approach, with effects beyond the limited scope of individual or 
small group interventions. This paper represents an example of how an analysis 
of cost-effectiveness can provide policymakers with information needed for 
difficult decisions about prevention resource allocations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10935-005-5392-2
PMID: 15995803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Strahlenther Onkol. 2005 Jul;181(7):463-7. doi: 10.1007/s00066-005-1391-x.

Radiation exposure of extracranial organs at risk during stereotactic linac 
radiosurgery.

Maarouf M(1), Treuer H, Kocher M, Voges J, Gierich A, Sturm V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Stereotactic and Functional Neurosurgery, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. m.maarouf@uni-koeln.de

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stereotactic radiosurgery of intracranial tumors and 
vascular malformations can be performed by either a linear accelerator (Linac) 
or gamma knife. The aim of this first study on patients was to determine the 
radiation exposure of organs at risk and assess the risk for late effects 
including secondary tumors and/or hereditary disorders after stereotactic Linac 
radiosurgery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thermoluminescent dosimetry (TLD) measurements were done 
on 21 consecutively admitted patients with various intracranial lesions 
scheduled for Linac radiosurgery. The TLD chips were placed on the eyelid, 
thyroid, breast and the regions of the ovary or testes.
RESULTS: The mean doses in organs at risk were 276 +/- 200 mGy (eye lens), 155 
+/- 83 mGy (thyroid), 47 +/- 22 mGy (breast), 20 +/- 12 mGy (ovary), and 9 +/- 3 
mGy (testes). The doses decreased significantly with a larger distance from the 
isocenter.
CONCLUSION: The absorbed doses to the extracranial organs at risk in patients 
undergoing Linac radiosurgery were very low, ranging from 0.025% (testes) to 
0.76% (eye lens) of the mean maximum target dose (36 Gy). Nevertheless, while 
