
DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.06.034
PMID: 16051408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Science. 2005 Sep 16;309(5742):1861-4. doi: 10.1126/science.1113611. Epub
2005  Jul 28.

HST2 mediates SIR2-independent life-span extension by calorie restriction.

Lamming DW(1), Latorre-Esteves M, Medvedik O, Wong SN, Tsang FA, Wang C, Lin SJ, 
Sinclair DA.

Author information:
(1)Paul F. Glenn Laboratories for the Biological Mechanisms of Aging, Department 
of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA.

Comment in
    Science. 2005 Nov 18;310(5751):1124-5.
    Science. 2006 Jun 2;312(5778):1312; author reply 1312.

Calorie restriction (CR) extends the life span of numerous species, from yeast 
to rodents. Yeast Sir2 is a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+-dependent 
histone deacetylase that has been proposed to mediate the effects of CR. 
However, this hypothesis has been challenged by the observation that CR can 
extend yeast life span in the absence of Sir2. Here, we show that 
Sir2-independent life-span extension is mediated by Hst2, a Sir2 homolog that 
promotes the stability of repetitive ribosomal DNA, the same mechanism by which 
Sir2 extends life span. These findings demonstrate that the maintenance of DNA 
stability is critical for yeast life-span extension by CR and suggest that, in 
higher organisms, multiple members of the Sir2 family may regulate life span in 
response to diet.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1113611
PMID: 16051752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Science. 2005 Jul 29;309(5735):698. doi: 10.1126/science.309.5735.698d.

Getting the right info out to the public.

Rapp J.

Comment on
    Science. 2005 May 6;308(5723):770-1.

DOI: 10.1126/science.309.5735.698d
PMID: 16051770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Gerontologist. 2005 Aug;45(4):438-44. doi: 10.1093/geront/45.4.438.

The impact of obesity on active life expectancy in older American men and women.

Reynolds SL(1), Saito Y, Crimmins EM.

Author information:
(1)USF School of Aging Studies, 4202 E. Fowler Ave., MHC 1344, Tampa, FL 33620, 
USA. sreynold@cas.usf.edu

PURPOSE: The purpose of this article is to estimate the effect of obesity on 
both the length of life and length of nondisabled life for older Americans.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Using data from the first 3 waves of the Asset and Health 
Dynamics Among the Oldest Old (AHEAD) survey, this article develops estimates of 
total, active, and disabled life expectancy for obese and nonobese older men and 
women. We used the Interpolation of Markov Chains (IMaCh) method to estimate the 
average number of years obese and nonobese older persons can expect to live with 
and without activity of daily living (ADL) disability.
RESULTS: Our findings indicate that obesity has little effect on life expectancy 
in adults aged 70 years and older. However, the obese are more likely to become 
disabled. This means that obese older adults live both more years and a higher 
proportion of their remaining lives disabled.
IMPLICATIONS: The lack of significant differences in life expectancy by obesity 
status among the old suggests that obesity-related death is less of a concern 
than disability in this age range. Given steady increases in obesity among 
Americans at all ages, future disability rates may be higher than anticipated 
among older U.S. adults. In order to reduce disability among future cohorts of 
older adults, more research is needed on the causes and treatment of obesity and 
evaluations done on interventions to accomplish and maintain weight loss.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/45.4.438
PMID: 16051906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. AIDS. 2005 Aug 12;19(12):1299-308. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000180101.80888.c6.

Clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of co-trimoxazole prophylaxis in patients 
with HIV/AIDS in Côte d'Ivoire: a trial-based analysis.

Yazdanpanah Y(1), Losina E, Anglaret X, Goldie SJ, Walensky RP, Weinstein MC, 
Toure S, Smith HE, Kaplan JE, Freedberg KA; Global AIDS Policy Model 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Service Universitaire des Maladies Infectieuses et du Voyageur, Centre 
Hospitalier de Tourcoing, Faculté de Médecine de Lille, France. 
yyazdan@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: In 2000, WHO/UNAIDS recommended co-trimoxazole prophylaxis for 
persons at early stages of HIV infection (WHO stage > or = 2) in sub-Saharan 
Africa.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of alternative strategies for 
initiation of co-trimoxazole in Côte d'Ivoire.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis with an HIV simulation model using clinical 
and cost data from a randomized trial of co-trimoxazole in HIV-infected adults.
METHODS: The study included HIV-infected patients in Côte d'Ivoire, with median 
age 33 years. Thirty-four percent were classified as WHO stage 2, 59% as stage 
3, and 7% as stage 4. The mean CD4 cell count was 331 x 10(6) cells/l. The 
interventions were no prophylaxis, clinical criteria-based co-trimoxazole 
initiation (early: WHO stage > or = 2; late: WHO stage > or = 3), CD4-based 
co-trimoxazole initiation (< 500, < 200, < 50 x 10(6) CD4 cells/l). The outcome 
measures were life expectancy, lifetime costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The most effective strategy, initiation of co-trimoxazole prophylaxis 
at WHO stage > or = 2, increased undiscounted life expectancy by 5.2 months, 
discounted life expectancy by 4.4 months, and lifetime costs by US dollars 60, 
compared with no prophylaxis. Delaying prophylaxis initiation until WHO stage 
>or = 3 was less costly and less effective. All CD4-based strategies were 
dominated. The incremental cost-effectiveness of early versus late 
co-trimoxazole prophylaxis initiation was US dollars 200/year of life gained. 
Results were stable despite wide variations in plausible assumptions about 
bacterial resistance and the prophylaxis efficacy on co-trimoxazole-resistant 
strains.
CONCLUSIONS: For HIV-infected adults in Côte d'Ivoire, co-trimoxazole 
prophylaxis is reasonably cost-effective and most effective if initiated when 
WHO stage > or = 2. Early co-trimoxazole prophylaxis will prevent complications 
prior to antiretroviral therapy initiation and should be considered an essential 
component of care for early HIV in sub-Saharan Africa.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000180101.80888.c6
PMID: 16052085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Arthritis Rheum. 2005 Aug;52(8):2272-6. doi: 10.1002/art.21219.

Long-term followup of health status in patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis 
after high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation.

Teng YK(1), Verburg RJ, Sont JK, van den Hout WB, Breedveld FC, van Laar JM.

Author information:
(1)Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: High-dose chemotherapy (HDC) followed by autologous hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a new treatment for patients with severe, 
refractory rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The present study was undertaken to assess 
the health status of patients with severe RA over a long-term followup period 
after treatment with HDC + HSCT.
METHODS: Health status and utility scores were assessed in 8 patients before and 
after treatment with HDC + HSCT. Patients were followed up for 5 years 
posttransplantation. Health status was assessed by the Health Assessment 
Questionnaire (HAQ), the RAND-36 version of the Short Form 36 (SF-36) health 
survey, and the Arthritis Impact Measurement Scales (AIMS). Utility scores were 
calculated using the EuroQol (EQ-5D) questionnaire and the SF-36-derived utility 
index (called the SF-6D), from which quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were 
derived.
RESULTS: Most measures of health status improved compared with baseline in the 
first 2 years posttransplantation, notably HAQ and AIMS scores and scores on the 
functional status, general health, and health change summary scales of the 
RAND-36 version of the SF-36. Utility scores derived from the EQ-5D 
questionnaire and the SF-6D also increased significantly after transplantation. 
This was reflected in the 0.28 QALYs gained compared with baseline. For a 
putative 50-year-old RA patient with a life expectancy of 20 years, a threshold 
analysis revealed that HDC + HSCT yielded more QALYs than conventional therapy 
when treatment-related mortality (TRM) was <2.8%.
CONCLUSION: HDC + HSCT temporarily increased the functionality and health status 
of patients with severe, refractory RA. With a reported TRM of 1.3%, HDC + HSCT 
can be considered a realistic treatment option for patients with severe RA.

DOI: 10.1002/art.21219
PMID: 16052541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Zhejiang Univ Sci B. 2005 Aug;6(8):832-7. doi: 10.1631/jzus.2005.B0832.

Cloning, expression, purification, and characterization of LC-1 ScFv with GFP 
tag.

Lu M(1), Gong XG, Yu H, Li JY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biologic Macromolecule and Enzyme Engineering, School of Life 
Science, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China. sc9910@hotmail.com

Total RNA was isolated from the hybridoma cell line (LC-1), which secretes 
anti-lung adenocarcinoma monoclonal antibody, and was transferred into cDNA. 
Based on the FR1 (framework region 1) and FR4 conserved regions of LC-1 gene, 
the variable regions of heavy chain (Vh) and light chain (Vl) were amplified, 
and the Vh and modified Vl were connected to single chain Fv (ScFv) by SOE-PCR 
(splice overlap extension PCR). The modified ScFv was fused with green 
fluorescent protein (GFP) and introduced into E. coli JM109. The fusion protein 
induced by IPTG (Isopropylthiogalactoside) was about 57000 on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel 
(10% Sds Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis), and primarily manifested as 
inclusion bodies. The renatured protein purified by Ni-NTA Superflow resins 
showed ability to bind to antigen on SPC-A-1 lung adenocarcinoma. In addition, 
the induced host cells fluoresced bright green under 395 nm wavelength, which 
indicated that the expected protein with dual activity was expressed in the 
prokaryotic system. The ScFv with GFP tag used in this research can be applied 
as a new reagent to detect immunological dye, and provide a feasible way to 
detect adenocarcinoma in a clinical setting.

DOI: 10.1631/jzus.2005.B0832
PMCID: PMC1389867
PMID: 16052719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Nefrologia. 2005;25(3):213-6.

[Some aspects of cost analysis in renal transplantation].

[Article in Spanish]

Ortega Montoliu T, Ortega Suárez F.

PMID: 16053001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nefrologia. 2005;25(3):250-7.

[Systemic arterial hypertension in primary chronic glomerulonephritis: 
prevalence and its influence on the renal prognosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Quirós PL(1), Ceballos M, Remón C, Hernández Romero MC, Benavides B, Pérez 
Pérez-Ruilópez MA, Lozano A, Aznar E, Rivero M, Fernández Ruiz E.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario Puerto Real. pedroquiros@ono.com

Nowadays, glomerulonephritis is one of the most common causes of End-stage Renal 
Disease and starting point of dialysis in Spain. Several factors may influence 
negatively in this prognosis; among them, we may show up the systemic arterial 
hypertension. Though its prevalence in the glomerulonephritis is considered 
higher than in other nephropathies, with variations among series, probably due 
to difference in ages, in geographical areas, in histological types, in time on 
evolution of the nephritis ... and because it is difficult to distinguish if the 
hypertension is a consequence of the nephritis or a consequence of the renal 
failure that can be present in several cases. In the same way, its negative 
influence in the renal prognosis may be influenced more by this renal failure, 
which can be its cause when it is quite severe, than by the hypertension itself. 
Our aims were to analyse, on the one hand the prevalence of hypertension in the 
394 patients diagnosed of primary glomerulonephritis by means of a renal biopsy 
during two decades in the Bay of Cadiz, as well as its influence in the renal 
prognosis since the moment of the diagnosis, even with the absence of severe 
renal failure. We gathered demographic, clinical, analytical and histological 
data, as well as the situation of the renal function and the survival period of 
it at the end of each patient study. For the analysis prognosis and renal 
survival, Kaplan-Meier curves and the long-rank test were used. Of the 394 
patients, 247 are men and 147 are women, with an average age of 36.7 +/- 17.7 
years old. The global prevalence of hypertension was 39%, with a higher 
frequency in older patients. The gathered rate of renal survival for 
hypertensive patients was 54%, 28%, 20% and 4% at 5, 10, 15 and 20 years 
respectively; while for non-hypertensive patients, it was 83%, 75%, 66% and 62% 
for the same periods of time (p < 0.001). This worse tendency for hypertensive 
patients is observed too in each particular histological type, especially in the 
IgA nephropathy and membranous nephropathy. These results were the same for the 
patients who did not have severe renal failure in the moment of the biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypertension is a common fact in the primary glomerulonephritis, 
which also conditions, in an important way, the renal prognosis itself in a long 
term, from the moment of diagnosis and even before the existence of a 
significant renal failure.

PMID: 16053006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Altern Ther Health Med. 2005 Jul-Aug;11(4):54-8.

Dementia wander garden aids post cerebrovascular stroke restorative therapy: a 
case study.

Detweiler MB(1), Warf C.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric Service, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Salem, Virginia, USA.

An increasing amount of literature suggests the positive effects of nature in 
healthcare. The extended life expectancy in the US and the consequent need for 
long-term care indicates a future need for restorative therapy innovations to 
reduce the expense associated with long-term care. Moving carefully selected 
stroke patients' sessions to the peaceful setting of a dementia wander garden, 
with its designed paths and natural stimuli, may be beneficial. Natural settings 
have been shown to improve attention and reduce stress--both important therapy 
objectives in many post-stroke rehabilitation programs. In this case study, 
using the dementia wander garden for restorative therapy of a non-dementia 
patient was a novel idea for the restorative therapy group, which does not have 
a horticultural therapy program. The dementia wander garden stage of the 
post-stroke rehabilitation helped the patient through a period of treatment 
resistance. The garden provided both an introduction to the patient's goal of 
outdoor rehabilitation and a less threatening environment than the long-term 
care facility hallways. In part because the patient was less self-conscious 
about manifesting his post-stroke neurological deficits, falling, and being 
viewed as handicapped when in the dementia wander garden setting, he was able to 
resume his treatment plan and finish his restorative therapy. In many physical 
and mental rehabilitation plans, finding a treatment modality that will motivate 
an individual to participate is a principal goal. Use of a dementia wander 
garden may help some patients achieve this goal in post-stroke restorative 
therapy.

PMID: 16053122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Endourol. 2005 Jul-Aug;19(6):693-701. doi: 10.1089/end.2005.19.693.

Transrectal high-intensity focused ultrasound in the treatment of localized 
prostate cancer.

Rebillard X(1), Gelet A, Davin JL, Soulie M, Prapotnich D, Cathelineau X, Rozet 
F, Vallancien G.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Beausoleil, Montpellier, France.

The literature concerning the efficacy and safety of transrectal high-intensity 
focused ultrasound (HIFU) for the treatment of localized prostate cancer still 
comprises a relatively small number of articles. The main studies have been 
published by four teams using an apparatus available in Europe for several 
years. The recently presented results of the European Multicentre Study and the 
study by Gelet and associates based on 242 patients with a follow-up of more 
than 1 year show that HIFU is a valid alternative for the management of 
welldifferentiated and moderately differentiated localized prostate cancer with 
an initial PSA </=15 ng/mL in men with a life expectancy >10 years. In two 
studies, the combination of transurethral resection of the prostate and HIFU 
limited the risk of postoperative urinary retention without inducing a higher 
complication rate. In a series of patients presenting recurrence after 
external-beam radiotherapy, HIFU was found to be a useful therapy, with >80% 
negative biopsies. The best indications for HIFU are men over the age of 65, 
those who are not candidates for radical prostatectomy, obese patients, or 
patients with comorbidities likely to make surgery more difficult. The learning 
curve for this technique is relatively short, between 10 and 15 patients, for 
urologists experienced in transrectal ultrasonography. One of the advantages of 
HIFU is that it can be repeated in the case of recurrence or to re-treat a 
prostatic site, it involves no radiation, and patients do not suffer from 
long-term irritative urinary symptoms.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2005.19.693
PMID: 16053358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2005 May-Jun;17(5-6):379-86. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892005000500010.

[Life expectancy with functional disability in elderly persons in São Paulo, 
Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Camargos MC(1), Perpétuo IH, Machado CJ.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Demografia, UFMG, CEDEPLAR, Brazil. mirela@cedeplar.ufmg.br

OBJECTIVE: For persons 60 years of age or older living in the city of São Paulo, 
Brazil, in the year 2000 to estimate four characteristics: (1) life expectancy 
free of functional disability, (2) life expectancy with functional disability, 
(3) life expectancy with functional disability but without dependence, and (4) 
life expectancy with functional disability and dependence.
METHODS: The estimates of the four characteristics were calculated by means of a 
life table constructed based on the method proposed by Sullivan. The basic data 
used for the calculations were the elderly population estimated for the city of 
São Paulo as of mid-2000, obtained from the demographic censuses of 1991 and 
2000, and deaths in the elderly population, obtained from the State Data 
Analysis System Foundation (Fundação Sistema Estadual de Análise de Dados, or 
SEADE) of the state of São Paulo. The prevalences of functional disability and 
of functional dependence were calculated based on data concerning activities of 
daily living collected in the city of São Paulo as part of a project called 
Health, Well-being, and Aging in Latin America and the Caribbean (the "SABE 
project"). The activities of daily living considered were: dressing, eating, 
bathing, using the bathroom, lying down on the bed and getting up from it, and 
walking across a room. Functional disability was defined as difficulty in 
performing one or more of the activities of daily living. Dependence was defined 
as the need for help in performing at least one of the activities of daily 
living.
RESULTS: In 2000, 60-year-old men from the city of São Paulo could expect to 
live, on average, 17.6 years, of which 14.6 years (83%) would be free of 
functional disability. Women of the same age could expect to live 22.2 years, of 
which 16.4 years (74%) would be free of functional disability. Men would have a 
functional disability and be dependent on others for 1.6 years (9%), while the 
comparable period for women would be 2.5 years (11%).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite their longer life expectancy, the women faced more years 
with functional disability. The number of years with functional disability and 
dependence was also higher for the women. Public policies should take into 
account the differing needs of elderly women and of elderly men as well as other 
specific characteristics of this older population.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892005000500010
PMID: 16053648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Cell Metab. 2005 Feb;1(2):145-52. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2005.01.005.

Targeted expression of the human uncoupling protein 2 (hUCP2) to adult neurons 
extends life span in the fly.

Fridell YW(1), Sánchez-Blanco A, Silvia BA, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology, School of Medicine, 
University of Connecticut Health Center, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, 
Connecticut 06030, USA.

The oxidative stress hypothesis of aging predicts that a reduction in the 
generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) will decrease 
oxidative damage and extend life span. Increasing mitochondrial proton 
leak-dependent state 4 respiration by increasing mitochondrial uncoupling is an 
intervention postulated to decrease mitochondrial ROS production. When human 
UCP2 (hUCP2) is targeted to the mitochondria of adult fly neurons, we find an 
increase in state 4 respiration, a decrease in ROS production, a decrease in 
oxidative damage, heightened resistance to the free radical generator paraquat, 
and an extension in life span without compromising fertility or physical 
activity. Our results demonstrate that neuronal-specific expression of hUCP2 in 
adult flies decreases cellular oxidative damage and is sufficient to extend life 
span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2005.01.005
PMID: 16054055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Cell Metab. 2005 Jul;2(1):35-42. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2005.06.004.

C. elegans tubby regulates life span and fat storage by two independent 
mechanisms.

Mukhopadhyay A, Deplancke B, Walhout AJ, Tissenbaum HA.

In C. elegans, similar to in mammals, mutations in the tubby homolog, tub-1, 
promote increased fat deposition. Here, we show that mutation in tub-1 also 
leads to life span extension dependent on daf-16/FOXO. Interestingly, function 
of tub-1 in fat storage is independent of daf-16. A yeast two-hybrid screen 
identified a novel TUB-1 interaction partner (RBG-3); a RabGTPase-activating 
protein. Both TUB-1 and RBG-3 localize to overlapping neurons. Importantly, RNAi 
of rbg-3 decreases fat deposition in tub-1 mutants but does not affect life 
span. We demonstrate that TUB-1 is expressed in ciliated neurons and undergoes 
both dendritic and ciliary transport. Additionally, tub-1 mutants are chemotaxis 
defective. Thus, tub-1 may regulate fat storage either by modulating transport, 
sensing, or responding to signals in ciliated neurons. Taken together, we define 
a role for tub-1 in regulation of life span and show that tub-1 regulates life 
span and fat storage by two independent mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2005.06.004
PMID: 16054097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Lancet Oncol. 2005 Aug;6(8):581-8. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(05)70254-0.

What survival benefits do premenopausal patients with early breast cancer need 
to make endocrine therapy worthwhile?

Thewes B(1), Meiser B, Duric VM, Stockler MR, Taylor A, Stuart-Harris R, Links 
M, Wilcken N, McLachlan SA, Phillips KA, Beith J, Boyle F, Friedlander ML.

Author information:
(1)Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Sydney, Australia. b.thewes@unsw.edu.au

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2005 Aug;6(8):542-4.

BACKGROUND: Adjuvant endocrine therapies such as tamoxifen, goserelin, and 
oophorectomy improve survival for premenopausal women diagnosed with early-stage 
breast cancer. However, these treatments often result in menopausal symptoms, 
sexual dysfunction, permanent infertility, or the need to delay pregnancy. We 
aimed to quantify the survival gains that premenopausal patients with 
early-stage breast cancer require to justify the side-effects and inconvenience 
of adjuvant endocrine treatments.
METHODS: Participants consisted of 102 women who had been diagnosed with 
early-stage (stage I-II) breast cancer 6-60 months previously, who were aged 40 
years or younger at diagnosis, and who had been treated for a minimum of 3 
months with endocrine therapy (67 with tamoxifen alone, seven with goserelin 
alone, and 28 with tamoxifen and goserelin or oophorectomy). 76 patients also 
received chemotherapy, and 75 received radiotherapy. Participants attended a 
face-to-face patient-preference interview, in which they were presented with 
four hypothetical clinical scenarios that were used to quantify the gains in 
survival rate and life expectancy that women judged necessary to make their 
endocrine therapy worthwhile. They also completed a questionnaire on standard 
psychological measures.
FINDINGS: About half of participants thought that adjuvant endocrine therapy was 
worthwhile for an absolute gain in survival of 2% from a baseline of either 65% 
or 85%, and for a gain in life expectancy of 3 months from a baseline of 5 years 
and of 6 months for a baseline of 15 years. Women who had had more severe 
endocrine side-effects required larger gains to make endocrine therapy 
worthwhile (univariate p=0.02, multivariate p=0.04).
INTERPRETATION: Modest gains in survival are sufficient to make adjuvant 
endocrine treatment worthwhile for premenopausal women with early-stage breast 
cancer. Knowing and incorporating what women think should enhance shared 
decision-making.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(05)70254-0
PMID: 16054569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Eur Respir J. 2005 Aug;26(2):223-33. doi: 10.1183/09031936.05.00122004.

A dynamic population model of disease progression in COPD.

Hoogendoorn M(1), Rutten-van Mölken MP, Hoogenveen RT, van Genugten ML, Buist 
AS, Wouters EF, Feenstra TL.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 
1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. e.hoogendoorn@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2005 Aug;26(2):189.
    Eur Respir J. 2006 Jan;27(1):240-1; author reply 241-2.

To contribute to evidence-based policy making, a dynamic Dutch population model 
of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) progression was developed. The 
model projects incidence, prevalence, mortality, progression and costs of 
diagnosed COPD by the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung 
Disease-severity stage for 2000-2025, taking into account population dynamics 
and changes in smoking prevalence over time. It was estimated that of all 
diagnosed COPD patients in 2000, 27% had mild, 55% moderate, 15% severe and 3% 
very severe COPD. The severity distribution of COPD incidence was computed to be 
40% mild, 55% moderate, 4% severe and 0.1% very severe COPD. Disease progression 
was modelled as decline in forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) % 
predicted depending on sex, age, smoking and FEV1 % pred. The relative mortality 
risk of a 10-unit decrease in FEV1 % pred was estimated at 1.2. Projections of 
current practice were compared with projections assuming that each year 25% of 
all COPD patients receive either minimal smoking cessation counselling or 
intensive counselling plus bupropion. In the projections of current practice, 
prevalence rates between 2000-2025 changed from 5.1 to 11 per 1,000 inhabitants 
for mild, 11 to 14 per 1,000 for moderate, 3.0 to 3.9 per 1,000 for severe and 
from 0.5 to 1.3 per 1,000 for very severe COPD. Costs per inhabitant increased 
from 1.40 Euro to 3.10 for mild, 6.50 Euro to 9.00 for moderate, 6.20 Euro to 
8.50 for severe and from 3.40 Euro to 9.40 for very severe COPD (price level 
2000). Both smoking cessation scenarios were cost-effective with minimal 
counselling generating net savings. In conclusion, the chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease progression model is a useful instrument to give detailed 
information about the future burden of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and 
to assess the long-term impact of interventions on this burden.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.05.00122004
PMID: 16055869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Can J Clin Pharmacol. 2005 Winter;12(1):e10-21. Epub 2005 Jan 7.

The value of medicines in Canada.

Han D, Wang EC.

Comment in
    Can J Clin Pharmacol. 2005 Winter;12(1):e22-7.

Spending on drugs has become a target for cost-containment measures because of 
its continual growth, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of overall 
healthcare expenditures. However, considering drug spending in isolation from 
other healthcare components neglects the benefit of drugs to Canada's healthcare 
system, society and economy. Drugs, when used appropriately as part of overall 
disease management, have increased life expectancy and quality of life, have 
avoided more costly alternatives such as hospitalisation and surgery, and have 
decreased worker absenteeism and increased their productivity. Current evidence 
suggests that drugs represent good value for money and are an integral part of a 
cost-effective and sustainable healthcare system. Cost-containment measures 
should focus on appropriate use of medications and improving adherence to 
therapeutic regimens for optimal patient outcomes.

PMID: 16055940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Rev Esc Enferm USP. 2005 Jun;39(2):154-63. doi:
10.1590/s0080-62342005000200005.

[Taking care of persons handicapped by cerebral vascular accident at home: the 
familial caregiver activity].

[Article in Portuguese]

Perlini NM(1), Mancussi e Faro AC.

Author information:
(1)Docente do Departamento de Ciências da Saúde da Universidade Regional do 
Noroeste do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul - UNIJUi. perlin@unijui.tche.br

An exploratory descriptive and quantitative study aimed at identifying and 
describing the activity of relatives in charge of caring at home for people 
incapacitated by cerebral vascular accident. The sample was comprised of 35 
family caregivers, most of them women, wives or daughters. The care given is 
directly related to the degree of incapacity of the person who is being cared 
for. The orientation received indicated no commitment of professionals for the 
continuity of the care. The caregivers learn in daily practice how to care, 
based on observation and assistance to nursing during the internment period. The 
difficulties are related to physical effort, to lack of information and fear, to 
the embarassment and the shame of handling someone else's body. The study 
focuses on the need for preparation for hospital discharge, emphasizes the 
family as a concrete space for care; and observed an increase in life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1590/s0080-62342005000200005
PMID: 16060302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. J Insur Med. 2005;37(2):101-9.

Life expectancy--a commentary on this life table variable.

Singer RB.

In 1992, I wrote an article on a method of modifying the Decennial US Life Table 
to accommodate any pattern of excess mortality expressed in terms of excess 
death rate (EDR), for the specific purpose of calculating the reduced life 
expectancy, e. I believe this was the first article published in the Journal of 
Insurance Medicine (JIM) that dealt specifically with life expectancy as an 
index of survival and risk appraisal, never used in the classification of extra 
mortality risk in applicants for life insurance. In this commentary, I discuss 
the 1989-91 US Decennial Life Table in detail. I link the subject matter of the 
1992 article with several more recent articles that also focus on the utility of 
life expectancy in underwriting structured settlement annuities and preparing 
reports on life expectancy for an attorney in a tort case. A few references are 
given for further reading on life table methodology and its use in the most 
accurate estimate of life expectancy, given the inherent limitations of the life 
table and the limited duration of follow-up studies.

PMID: 16060540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. J Insur Med. 2005;37(2):110-9.

A method of relating life expectancy in the U.S. population life table to excess 
mortality.

Singer RB.

PMID: 16060541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Occup Health Psychol. 2005 Jul;10(3):210-24. doi:
10.1037/1076-8998.10.3.210.

Finances and well-being: a dynamic equilibrium model of resources.

Gorgievski-Duijvesteijn MJ(1), Bakker AB, Schaufeli WB, van der Heijden PG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. gorgievski@fsw.eur.nl

This study of 513 Dutch farmers tested a dynamic equilibrium model of resources 
(an extension of the conservation of resources theory; S. E. Hobfoll, 1989, 
1998, 2001). With structural equation modeling, the advantages of a 3-wave 
longitudinal design were comprehensively used, such as addressing bidirectional 
causal effects and within-individual vs. between-individual change. This allowed 
for a careful analysis of the management function of resources in the stress 
process. Results showed that well-being had stronger within-person stability 
than finances. Increased levels of financial problems temporarily increased 
psychological distress but not self-reported illness. Conversely, farmers with 
higher stable baselines of psychological distress also had higher baselines of 
self-reported illness and experienced more negative changes in their financial 
situation.

Copyright (c) 2005 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/1076-8998.10.3.210
PMID: 16060725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Health Policy. 2006 May;76(3):346-58. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.06.017.
Epub  2005 Aug 2.

Calculation of prefectural disability-adjusted life expectancy (DALE) using 
long-term care prevalence and its socioeconomic correlates in Japan.

Kurimori S(1), Fukuda Y, Nakamura K, Watanabe M, Takano T.

Author information:
(1)Health Promotion/International Health, Division of Public Health, Graduate 
School of Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-8519, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were: (1) to determine the disability 
weight, "utility", for calculation of disability-adjusted life expectancy (DALE) 
using the prevalence of long-term care; (2) to calculate prefectural DALE; and 
(3) to clarify the relation between DALE and area socioeconomic conditions in 
Japan.
METHODS: Disability utility by care level (support and levels I-V) of long-term 
care insurance was determined by a survey of 236 professionals with four 
standard utility measures: EuroQol-5D, time trade-off, standard gamble, and 
visual analogue scale. DALE at age 65 (DALE65) and age-adjusted weighted 
disability prevalence (WDP) of 47 prefectures were calculated using the 
determined utilities, prevalence of long-term care, and life tables. The 
relationships of DALE and WDP to mortality from major causes and socioeconomic 
indicators were examined by correlation analysis.
RESULTS: The determined utilities were: support, 0.78; level I, 0.68; level II, 
0.64; level III, 0.44; level IV, 0.34; and level V, 0.21. The prefectural DALE65 
ranged from 17.11 to 15.29 years for men and from 20.21 to 18.42 years for 
women. Strong correlations were found between DALE65 and mortality for both 
sexes. Male DALE65 was correlated with no socioeconomic indicators, while female 
DALE65 was correlated with some indicators. WDP was positively associated with 
indicators representing socioeconomic disadvantage, such as unemployment rate 
and percentage of elderly single households.
CONCLUSIONS: The socioeconomic correlates of DALE and WDP suggested that 
favorable socioeconomic policies, in addition to a decrease in mortality from 
major causes, will contribute to significant extension of the independence 
period in the elderly. The method proposed here encourages the practical use of 
health expectancy in health policy, especially at local and regional levels.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.06.017
PMID: 16061303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2005 Dec;30(6):632-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2005.06.010.  Epub 2005 Aug 1.

Emergency endovascular repair for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms: 
feasibility and comparison of early results with conventional open repair.

Alsac JM(1), Desgranges P, Kobeiter H, Becquemin JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Henri-Mondor University Hospital, Créteil, 
France. jmalsac@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To assess the feasibility of endovascular aortic repair (EVAR) on 
patients presenting with a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in a 
teaching hospital, and to compare there post-operative outcomes with 
contemporaneous patients treated with open repair (OR).
METHODS: A series of consecutive of patients presenting ruptured AAA with 
retro/intraperitoneal haematoma were included in the study. EVAR was attempted 
whenever possible. In all other cases (severe haemodynamic instability, adverse 
anatomy, device unavailability), ruptured AAA were treated by OR.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven patients were enrolled between January 2001 and July 2004. 
Seventeen (46%) patients were treated using adapted designed aortoiliac 
endografts (eight bifurcated, eight aorto-uniiliac, one iliac extension). Twenty 
(54%) patients unfit for EVAR because of severe haemodynamic instability (n=8), 
adverse anatomical configuration (n=7), or unavailability of an appropriate 
endograft (n=5) were treated by OR. Twenty-seven (73%) had a retrospective 
suitable anatomy for EVAR. Three early conversions from EVAR to OR were 
performed. Blood loss, operating time, and intensive care stay were 
significantly decreased in EVAR patients (respectively: 156 min+/-60, 1520 
ml+/-1175, 3 days for EVAR; vs. 222 min+/-82, 3075 ml+/-1750, 13 days for OS; 
P<.01). The 30-day mortality rate was 23.5% for EVAR vs. 50% for OR (P=0.09).
CONCLUSION: EVAR of ruptured AAA is feasible for selected patients based on 
haemodynamic and morphologic criteria, and should be associated with improved 
immediate outcomes as compared with OR. These results should be tempered by the 
fact that these patients have heavy comorbidities which explains the absence of 
difference in mid-term mortality rates between the two groups, but should also 
encourage surgical institutions that are managing such life-threatening 
emergencies to introduce EVAR as part of their therapeutic arsenal for ruptured 
AAA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2005.06.010
PMID: 16061405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Med Decis Making. 2005 Jul-Aug;25(4):387-97. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05278432.

Perioperative management of patients on oral anticoagulants: a decision 
analysis.

Dunn AS(1), Wisnivesky J, Ho W, Moore C, McGinn T, Sacks HS.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA. andrew.dunn@mountsinai.org

BACKGROUND: To better inform clinicians on the optimal management of patients on 
oral anticoagulation who need to undergo surgery or invasive procedures, the 
authors performed a decision analysis examining whether a perioperative 
aggressive or minimalist strategy results in greater quality-adjusted survival.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was created comparing withholding warfarin 
(minimalist strategy) to withholding warfarin and administering treatment-dose 
subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) or intravenous heparin 
perioperatively (aggressive strategy). The base-case analysis examined a 
hypothetical 60-year-old hypertensive individual with mechanical aortic valve 
replacement undergoing major abdominal surgery. A probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was performed using a Monte Carlo simulation with quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) as the outcome. Secondary analyses examined patients with a 
mechanical mitral valve and atrial fibrillation. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed for each variable.
RESULTS: Under the base-case scenario, the minimalist strategy was preferred for 
78% of trials in the Monte Carlo simulation, with a mean benefit of 0.003 years 
(95% confidence interval, -0.005 years to 0.011 years). Sensitivity analyses 
based on point estimates indicate that the aggressive strategy is preferred when 
the annual stroke rate is >5.6% or the increase in postoperative major bleeding 
induced by heparin is <2.0%; however, the benefit is small over the range of 
plausible values.
CONCLUSIONS: For most patients with a mechanical aortic valve or atrial 
fibrillation undergoing major surgery, a minimalist strategy of simply 
withholding oral anticoagulation provides similar QALE as an aggressive strategy 
of administering perioperative subcutaneous LMWH or intravenous heparin. The 
aggressive therapy provides greater QALE for patients at higher risk of stroke 
(e.g., mechanical mitral valves), although the benefit is small.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05278432
PMID: 16061890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Med Decis Making. 2005 Jul-Aug;25(4):429-36. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05276853.

Can we better prioritize resources for cost-utility research?

Neumann PJ(1), Rosen AB, Greenberg D, Olchanski NV, Pande R, Chapman RH, Stone 
PW, Ondategui-Parra S, Nadai J, Siegel JE, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
pneumann@hsph.harvard.edu.

PURPOSE: We examined 512 published cost-utility analyses (CUAs) in the U.S. and 
other developed countries from 1976 through 2001 to determine: 1) the types of 
interventions studied; 2) whether they cover diseases and conditions with the 
highest burden; and, 3) to what extent they have covered leading health concerns 
defined by the Healthy People 2010 report.
DATA AND METHODS: We compared rankings of the most common diseases covered by 
the CUAs to rankings of U.S. disease burden. We also examined the extent to 
which CUAs covered key Healthy People 2010 priorities.
RESULTS: CUAs have focused mostly on pharmaceuticals (40%) and surgical 
procedures (16%). When compared to leading causes of DALYs, the data show 
overrepresentation of CUAs in cerebrovascular disease, diabetes, breast cancer, 
and HIV/AIDS, and underrepresentation in depression and bipolar disorder, 
injuries, and substance abuse disorders. Few CUAs have targeted Healthy People 
2010 areas, such as physical activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Published CUAs are associated with burden measures, but have not 
covered certain important health problems. These discrepancies do not alone 
indicate that society has been targeting resources for research inefficiently, 
but they do suggest the need to formalize the question of where each CUA 
research dollar might do the most good.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05276853
PMID: 16061895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Med Decis Making. 2005 Jul-Aug;25(4):460-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05276854.

The QALY model and individual preferences for health states and health profiles 
over time: a systematic review of the literature.

Tsuchiya A(1), Dolan P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Well-being in Public Policy, School of Health and Related 
Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. a.tsuchiya@sheffield.ac.uk

The numbers of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained are increasingly being 
used to represent the gains in individual utility from treatment. This requires 
that the value of a health improvement to an individual is a simple product of 
gains in quality of life and length of life. The article reports on a systematic 
review of the literature on 2 issues: whether the value of a state is affected 
by how long the state lasts, and by states that come before or after it. It was 
found that individual preferences over health are influenced by the duration of 
health states and their sequence. However, although there is much variation 
across individual respondents, the assumptions tend to hold much better when 
valuations are aggregated across respondents, which is encouraging for economic 
evaluations that rely on using average (mean or median) values.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05276854
PMID: 16061898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Aug;28(4):411-4. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000158489.82482.2b.

Palliative surgery for advanced cancer: lessons learned in patient selection and 
outcome assessment.

Miner TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brown Medical School, Rhode Island Hospital, 
Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA. TMiner@USASURG.org

INTRODUCTION: When considering the appropriate and effective use of palliative 
procedures, a surgeon is often confronted with a full range of multidisciplinary 
treatment options and technical considerations that could potentially relieve 
some of the symptoms of an advanced malignancy. Practitioners must often 
deliberate over complex choices that can greatly impact a patient's final days.
METHODS: Advances in the understanding of surgical palliation are reviewed with 
emphasis on elements required for sound clinical decision making.
RESULTS: Palliation of complications from advanced cancer demands the highest 
level of surgical judgment. Although consideration of risk in terms of 
treatment-related toxicity, morbidity and mortality is an important part of the 
surgical decision making process. Attention to this element should not be the 
sole factor in making decisions about palliative therapy. Decisions are best 
made on endpoints such as the probability of symptom resolution, the impact on 
overall quality of life, pain control, and cost effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Regardless of the anatomic site and cause leading to the need for 
palliative intervention, deliberations over surgical palliation must consider 
the medical condition and performance status of the patient, the extent and 
prognosis of the cancer, the availability and success of nonsurgical management, 
and the individual patient's quality and expectancy of life. Therapy for 
symptoms must remain flexible and individualized to continually meet the 
patient's unique and ever changing needs.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000158489.82482.2b
PMID: 16062085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Rev Med Chil. 2005 Jun;133(6):729-36. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872005000600017.
Epub  2005 Jul 22.

[A personal view of endocrinology in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Jadresic A(1).

Author information:
(1)alfredojadresic@vtr.net

In a short historical review of the outstanding changes occurred in the whole of 
endocrinology and particularly in Chile over the last 60 years -with the 
background of an infant mortality drop from 200 per thousand in 1940 to 8 per 
thousand today and a mean life expectancy increase from 42 to 76 years- the 
author outlines major achievements in this country. He comments on the use in 
former days of biological tests on urine extract to measure hormones for 
diagnostic procedures replaced by hormone determinations in blood by 
radioimmunoassays; today's medication with synthetic hormones instead of 
opotherapeutic preparations obtained from organ extracts; the identification of 
new hormones, receptors and new knowledge that enables us to understand the role 
of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators, the interaction of neurological, 
endocrine and immunological systems and the involvement of stress in various 
diseases. Finally the description of DNA and the international cooperative 
project to establish the human genome map with unpredictable potential 
applications in medicine. The author underlines the importance of collaborative 
work in all branches of medicine, often making cooperation more effective than 
competition. The enormous expansion of biological information demands that 
direct application of scientific knowledge to clinical medicine is prevented as 
being insufficient for an optimal clinical judgment, since a 
bio-psychosociological perspective of the patient and the doctor's clinical 
experience are essential factors in the doctor-patient relationship.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872005000600017
PMID: 16075140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Adv Gerontol. 2005;16:7-13.

[Regional differentiation of ageing characteristics in Russia].

[Article in Russian]

Safarova GL, Kosolapenko NG, Arutiunov VA.

Regional differences in ageing characteristics in Russia have been studied. A 
number of ageing characteristics (e.g. the proportion of population aged 60 or 
over, ageing index, old-age dependency ratio) have been computed for Russia and 
Federal Districts based on the 2002 census data. A significant regional 
differentiation of ageing process has been demonstrated. All considered ageing 
characteristics have minimal values for The Far East Federal District and 
maximal--for The Central Federal District. Regional heterogeneity should be 
taken into account when elaborating effective socio-economic policies.

PMID: 16075671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Adv Gerontol. 2005;16:14-20.

On maximum human life span: interdisciplinary approach about its limits.

Ruiz-Torres A(1), Beier W.

Author information:
(1)University Research Institute of Gerontology and Metabolism, Madrid, Spain. 
iuigm.hlpr@salud.madrid.org

BACKGROUND: This is a theoretical approach on the question on how much maximally 
may extend the life of human individual. The starting point of this work was the 
biological consideration of two changes in human characteristics which took 
place during the last century up to now, namely human beings lived remarkably 
longer and are becoming taller.
METHODS: Demography data and Gompertz deduced mathematics, either related to 
growth or survival, were the two columns on which the basis of this study has 
been supported. Respective equations were adapted to the purpose searched 
applying parameters of. normal body growth and cell growth in vitro. Having 
individual age on the abscisse, that of its crossing point with ordinate value 
indicates the age in which no more cell activity should exist, either of 
proliferation or migration.
RESULTS: Despite rising life expectancy, whose extrapolation leads to remarkable 
enhance for future values, life span calculations with the help of our 
mathematic models do not indicate an extent beyond the limit of 120 years. 
Nevertheless hypothetically there is the exception of prolonging life out of the 
mentioned limit when growth and ageing would be proportional interrelated. 
Furthermore, when proliferation results of in vitro smooth muscle cell cultures 
were related to age of donor, its linear regression crosses the x-axis at an age 
of 110.16 years (mean value of different procedures of measurement) . This limit 
is not far from that using other cell activity parameters as migration (117.7 
years when cessation) or such state of senescent (98 years when all cells 
involved). Nevertheless with the help of Gompertz equation putting growth in the 
ordinate (proliferation activity) instead mortality and donor age in the x-axis, 
the follow up of the curve is similar to that known of survival up to the age of 
80. But this procedure does not seem adequate to obtain information on the limit 
of life potential because of later this curve becomes very flat reaching the end 
at age around 180; this seems not to be real but due to an artefact. Finally 
IGF-1 prolongs the cessation ( x-axis crossing point) of cell growing activity 
up to donor age of around 126.4 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Human life span seems to be limited up to around 120 years, but 
growth process modulating factors could theoretically enhance it.

PMID: 16075672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Health Serv J. 2005 Jul 21;115(5965):32-3.

Regional focus: North West. Citizen claim.

Shepherd S.

PMID: 16075913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
