
437. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I299-303. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.524074.

Survival benefit of exclusive use of in situ arterial conduits over combined use 
of arterial and vein grafts for multiple coronary artery bypass grafting.

Nishida H(1), Tomizawa Y, Endo M, Kurosawa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, The Heart Institute of Japan, Tokyo 
Women's Medical University, Tokyo 162-8666, Japan. snishida@hij.twmu.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate mortality after coronary 
artery bypass grafting (CABG) comparing the use of only in situ arterial grafts 
with the use of arterial and venous conduits.
METHODS AND RESULTS: From April 1985 to March 1999, 1159 patients with 
multivessel disease underwent elective, isolated, primary, multiple CABG with at 
least one in situ arterial conduit. Patients who were on chronic dialysis, had 
active malignant disease, or had free arterial conduits were excluded. The 
long-term results were compared between 532 patients who had CABG using only in 
situ arterial conduits (group A; mean follow-up, 7.8 years) and 627 patients who 
underwent CABG using in situ arterial conduits and saphenous vein grafts (group 
B; mean follow-up, 10.3 years). Actuarial survival and freedom from cardiac 
death were determined by the Kaplan-Meier method. Propensity score was included 
in the Cox multivariable regression model for adjustment of selection bias. 
Survival at 10 years after surgery was 81.4% in group A and 76.9% in group B 
(P=0.11). Freedom from cardiac death at 10 years was 93.4% in group A and 90.4% 
in group B. Hazard ratio for cardiac death was significantly lower in group A 
(0.61; 95% confidence interval, 0.38 to 1.00; P=0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that the exclusive use of in situ arterial grafts 
in CABG achieves significantly better long-term survival compared with combined 
use of arterial and vein grafts.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.524074
PMID: 16159835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I311-6. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.525022.

Improved survival in asymptomatic diabetic patients with high-risk SPECT imaging 
treated with coronary artery bypass grafting.

Sorajja P(1), Chareonthaitawee P, Rajagopalan N, Miller TD, Frye RL, Hodge DO, 
Gibbons RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Mayo 
Foundation, Rochester, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation trial 
demonstrated that symptomatic diabetics with multivessel coronary artery disease 
had a survival advantage with initial coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) 
versus percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). No published study has examined 
different treatments and outcome in asymptomatic diabetics.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This study group consisted of 826 asymptomatic diabetics 
(age 62+/-12 years; 76% men) without known coronary artery disease who had 
abnormal myocardial perfusion during stress single photon emission computed 
tomography (SPECT). SPECT images were classified as low-, intermediate-, and 
high-risk. Early revascularization (CABG or PCI < or =4 months after SPECT) was 
performed in 76 patients. Survival (follow-up, 5.3+/-3.3 years) was compared in 
patients treated with CABG, PCI, or medical therapy. Revascularization (CABG or 
PCI) was performed in 54 of 261 patients with high-risk scans and was 
independently associated with improved survival (chi2=4.55; P=0.03 after 
multivariate adjustment). Subset analysis demonstrated that the survival 
advantage was confined to patients treated with CABG (n=39), with a 5-year 
survival CABG at 85%, PCI at 72%, and medical therapy at 67% (P=0.02 for 3 
groups). Although CABG was associated with better survival, mortality remained 
high (3% per year). There was no survival advantage by treatment for patients 
with less-severe SPECT abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS: These nonrandomized data suggest that CABG improves survival in 
asymptomatic diabetic patients with high-risk SPECT, although revascularization 
was performed infrequently in these patients. These results parallel those of 
the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation trial in symptomatic 
diabetic patients.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.525022
PMID: 16159837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I351-7. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.526780.

The impact of preoperative thrombolysis on long-term survival after coronary 
artery bypass grafting.

Toumpoulis IK(1), Anagnostopoulos CE, Katritsis DG, DeRose JJ Jr, Swistel DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia 
University, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is frequently used after 
thrombolytic therapy. However, there is little information regarding long-term 
survival in this setting. The purpose of the present study was to compare the 
long-term survival of patients subjected to CABG after thrombolysis to those 
without thrombolysis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied 3760 consecutive patients with isolated CABG 
between 1992 and 2002. CABG patients without thrombolysis were compared with 
those who were treated with thrombolysis within 7 days before CABG. Groups were 
compared by Cox proportional hazard models and Kaplan-Meier survival plots. The 
propensity for thrombolysis was determined by logistic regression analysis, and 
each patient with thrombolysis was then matched to 5 patients without 
thrombolysis. One hundred ninety-six patients (5.2%) were treated with 
thrombolysis. Patients with thrombolysis were more likely to be male, younger, 
and with higher rates of unstable angina, emergency operation, recent or 
transmural myocardial infarction, preoperative intraaortic balloon pump, 
hemodynamic instability, shock, intravenous nitroglycerine, left-ventricular 
hypertrophy, sustained ventricular arrhythmia, and higher EuroSCORE. There were 
no differences in early outcome between matched groups, but the 5-year actuarial 
survival was higher in patients with thrombolysis (90.3+/-2.2% versus 
78.5+/-1.6%; P=0.0007). After adjustment for all factors, the hazard ratio of 
long-term mortality for patients with thrombolysis was 0.54 (95% CI, 0.36 to 
0.81; P=0.003) and, if deaths during the first 12 months were excluded, 0.46 
(95% CI, 0.27 to 0.76; P=0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients subjected to CABG within 7 days after thrombolysis 
demonstrated increased long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.526780
PMID: 16159845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I366-70. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.526012.

Risk-adjusted short- and long-term outcomes for on-pump versus off-pump coronary 
artery bypass surgery.

Williams ML(1), Muhlbaier LH, Schroder JN, Hata JA, Peterson ED, Smith PK, 
Landolfo KP, Messier RH, Davis RD, Milano CA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, NC 27703, USA.

BACKGROUND: Surgeons have adopted off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting 
(OPCAB) in an effort to reduce the morbidity of surgical revascularization. 
However, long-term outcome of OPCAB compared with conventional coronary artery 
bypass grafting (CABG) remains poorly defined.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using logistic regression analysis and proportional hazards 
modeling, short-term and long-term outcomes (perioperative mortality and 
complications, risk-adjusted survival, and survival/freedom from 
revascularization) were investigated for patients who underwent OPCAB (641 
patients) and CABG-cardiopulmonary bypass (5026 patients) from 1998 to 2003 at 
our institution. For these variables, follow-up was 98% complete. OPCAB patients 
were less likely to receive transfusion (odds ratio for OPCAB, 0.80; P=0.037), 
and there were trends toward improvement in other short-term outcomes compared 
with CABG-cardiopulmonary bypass. Long-term outcomes analysis demonstrated no 
difference in survival, but OPCAB patients were more likely to require repeat 
revascularization (OPCAB hazard ratio, 1.29; P=0.020).
CONCLUSIONS: OPCAB patients were less likely to receive transfusion during their 
hospitalization for surgery but had higher risk for revascularization in 
follow-up. These results highlight the need for a large randomized, controlled 
trial to compare these 2 techniques.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.526012
PMID: 16159847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I390-5. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.524975.

Ross procedure in infants and toddlers followed into childhood.

Williams IA(1), Quaegebeur JM, Hsu DT, Gersony WM, Bourlon F, Mosca RS, Gersony 
DR, Solowiejczyk DE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of New 
York, New York, NY 10032, USA. iib6@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: The Ross procedure is commonly used to treat aortic valve disease in 
pediatric and adult patients. For infants, data are limited regarding survival, 
reintervention, autograft growth, and function.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The Ross procedure was performed in 27 infants <18 months 
of age (median age 5.7 months). All patients had congenital aortic stenosis 
(AS); associated lesions included subAS (n=9), supravalvular AS (n=2), 
coarctation (n=5), and interrupted aortic arch (n=2). Median follow-up was 6.1 
years (range 0.2 to 12.9). There were 3 early deaths and no late deaths. Freedom 
from reintervention for homograft dysfunction was 87% at 8 years; freedom from 
autograft reintervention was 100%. Follow-up echocardiograms were available in 
17 patients. Estimated peak autograft gradient was 55 mm Hg in one patient and 
<10 mm Hg in 16. Mild autograft insufficiency was seen in 4 patients; 13 had 
none. Autograft diameter was measured early postoperatively and at latest 
follow-up. The mean z score increased from 0.63 to 3.2 (P<0.01) at the annulus 
and from 0.26 to 2.2 (P<0.01) at the sinus. In a subgroup, the mean autograft z 
score increased significantly from the postoperative period to 1 year for both 
the annulus (0.72 to 3.2, P<0.01) and the sinus (0.26 to 2.2, P<0.01), but 
remained unchanged thereafter.
CONCLUSIONS: The Ross procedure effectively relieves AS in infants. Homograft 
reintervention occurred in 13% within 8 years. No patient developed significant 
autograft insufficiency or required autograft reintervention during the 
follow-up period. Dilatation of the autograft occurred during the first year 
after surgery and stabilized thereafter.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.524975
PMID: 16159852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I402-8. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.525188.

Mitral valve repair for functional mitral regurgitation in end-stage dilated 
cardiomyopathy: role of the "edge-to-edge" technique.

De Bonis M(1), Lapenna E, La Canna G, Ficarra E, Pagliaro M, Torracca L, Maisano 
F, Alfieri O.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Department, San Raffaele University Hospital, Via Olgettina 
60, 20132 Milan, Italy. michele.debonis@hsr.it

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to assess the results of mitral valve (MV) 
repair in functional mitral regurgitation because of end-stage dilated 
cardiomyopathy (DCM).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Seventy-seven patients with end-stage idiopathic (26 
patients) or ischemic (51 patients) DCM underwent MV repair for functional 
mitral regurgitation (3 to 4+/4+). Fifty-eight patients (75.3%) were in New York 
Heart Association class III, and 19 (24.6%) were in IV. In 23 patients (29.8%) 
with a coaptation depth <1 cm, an isolated undersized annuloplasty was used. In 
the remaining 54 (70.1%), with a coaptation depth > or =1 cm, the "edge-to-edge" 
technique was associated with the annuloplasty. In most of the cases (88.3%), a 
complete rigid/semirigid ring was used. Concomitant coronary artery bypass graft 
was performed in 39 patients (50.6%). Hospital mortality was 3.8% (3 of 77). 
Actuarial survival was 90.7+/-3.64%, and freedom from cardiac events was 
81.8+/-7.96% at 2.7 years. At a mean follow-up of 18.4+/-9.8 months (range, 1 
month to 5 years) New York Heart Association class improved from 3.4+/-0.4 to 
1.4+/-0.6 (P<0.0001). Mitral repair failure (recurrence of MR > or =3+/4+) was 
documented in 7 patients (9%): 2 in the edge-to-edge (2 of 54, 3.7%) and 5 in 
the isolated annuloplasty group (5 of 23, 21.7%) (P=0.03). Freedom from repair 
failure at 1.5 years was 95.0+/-3.4% and 77+/-12.1%, respectively (P=0.04). The 
absence of the edge-to-edge was the only predictor of repair failure (P=0.03). 
When residual MR was absent or mild, a reverse left ventricular remodeling was 
clearly documented.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with end-stage DCM, MV repair is feasible with low 
hospital mortality and important symptomatic improvement. The association of the 
edge-to-edge technique to the undersized annuloplasty can significantly improve 
the durability of the repair.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.525188
PMID: 16159854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I443-7. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.526046.

Aortic valve replacement and concomitant mitral valve regurgitation in the 
elderly: impact on survival and functional outcome.

Barreiro CJ(1), Patel ND, Fitton TP, Williams JA, Bonde PN, Chan V, Alejo DE, 
Gott VL, Baumgartner WA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, The Johns Hopkins Medical Institution, 
Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

BACKGROUND: The impact of mitral regurgitation (MR) on elderly patients (> or = 
70 years) undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement (AVR) is not clearly 
defined. This study investigates the long-term effects of preoperative, moderate 
MR on survival and functional outcome in elderly AVR patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A retrospective review identified 408 consecutive elderly 
patients who underwent isolated AVR from January 1983 to February 2004. The 
pathologic etiology of MR was determined on preoperative echocardiogram, and 
patients were stratified into no/mild MR (Group I; n = 338) versus moderate MR 
(Group II; n = 70). Follow-up was 95.1% complete. Functional outcome was 
evaluated using the Short Form-12 questionnaire. On univariate analysis, Groups 
I and II differed in incidence of previous myocardial infarction (13.9% versus 
28.6%; P = 0.004), hyperlipidemia (18.7% versus 33.3%; P = 0.009), and 
congestive heart failure (50.0% versus 70.0%; P = 0.002). On multivariate 
analysis, moderate MR was an independent risk factor impacting long-term 
survival (P = 0.04). Actuarial survival at 1, 5, and 10 years for Group I was 
93.8%, 73.3%, and 40.1% versus 92.3%, 58.2%, and 14.6% for Group II (P = 0.04). 
Available postoperative echocardiograms for Group II (n = 37) demonstrated 
improvement in MR in 81.8% of functional MR patients. However, MR persisted or 
worsened in 65.4% of patients with intrinsic mitral valve disease (myxomatous, 
calcific, or ischemic MR). Functional outcomes showed 77% of Group I versus 
78.6% of Group II rated their health as good to excellent post-AVR.
CONCLUSIONS: Moderate MR is an independent risk factor impacting long-term 
survival in elderly patients undergoing AVR. Therefore, patients with intrinsic 
mitral valve disease should be considered for concomitant MV surgery.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.526046
PMID: 16159860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I65-72. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.524934.

Biventricular assist device utilization for patients with morbid congestive 
heart failure: a justifiable strategy.

Tsukui H(1), Teuteberg JJ, Murali S, McNamara DM, Buchanan JR, Winowich S, 
Stanford E, Mathier MA, Cadaret LM, Kormos RL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, McGowan Institute for Regenerative 
Medicine, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The rationale for the use of a biventricular assist device (BiVAD) 
for morbid congestive heart failure (MCHF) has been questioned because of 
historically unacceptable rates of postimplant and post-transplant mortality as 
well as perceived barriers to their outpatient management.
METHODS AND RESULTS: All patients who received a Thoratec BiVAD from January 
1990 to December 2003 at the University of Pittsburgh were studied 
retrospectively. There were a total of 73 patients (32% ischemic, 21% 
idiopathic, and 47% other) who had a BiVAD implanted. Before implantation, 100% 
were on > or =1 inotropic agent, and 77% had an intra-aortic balloon pump. 
Overall survival was 69%; 42 patients (84%) received cardiac transplantation, 5 
patients (10%) were weaned, and 3 (6%) remained supported on BiVAD. If the 14 
patients with postcardiotomy failure and acute myocardial infarction with shock 
are excluded, the overall survival improves to 75%. Five-year actuarial survival 
after heart transplantation was 58%. Of the 29 patients implanted before 2000, 
the 4-month actuarial freedom from driveline infections, bloodstream infections, 
and neurological events was 10%, 54%, and 48%, respectively, whereas the rates 
of these events for the 44 patients implanted after 2000 improved to 70%, 79%, 
and 80%, respectively. Since 2000, 21 (48%) patients were discharged from the 
hospital, of whom 38% went to an outpatient residence, 33% to a skilled nursing 
facility, and 29% to home. Once discharged, > or =1 readmission occurred in 45% 
and > or =2 readmissions in 48%.
CONCLUSIONS: BiVAD support for MCHF has an acceptable overall mortality and 
survival to transplantation. Morbidity has been significantly reduced in the 
past 4 years, and management as an outpatient is achievable.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.524934
PMID: 16159867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Med Decis Making. 2005 Sep-Oct;25(5):493-510. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05280559.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of new pharmaceuticals in epilepsy in adults: 
the results of a probabilistic decision model.

Hawkins N, Epstein D, Drummond M, Wilby J, Kainth A, Chadwick D, Sculpher M.

Epilepsy currently affects more than 400,000 people in the United Kingdom and 
2.3 million in the United States. Drug therapy is the mainstay of treatment for 
patients with epilepsy, but therapies vary widely in their mechanism of action 
and acquisition cost. This article describes a decision model developed for the 
National Institute for Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom. It compares 
the long-term cost-effectiveness of drugs licensed in adults for use in 3 
situations: monotherapy for newly diagnosed patients, monotherapy for refractory 
patients, and combination therapy for refractory patients. The analysis 
separately considers the treatment of partial and generalized seizures. The full 
range of pharmaceutical therapies feasibly used in the UK health system was 
included in the analysis. The analysis showed that, on the basis of existing 
evidence, for newly diagnosed patients with partial seizures, carbamazepine and 
valproate are likely to be the most cost-effective mono-therapies. Carbamazepine 
is likely to be the most cost-effective 2nd-line monotherapy for refractory 
patients, and oxcarbazepine would probably be the most cost-effective adjunctive 
therapy for refractory patients if the willingness to pay for additional health 
benefits is greater than 18,000 pounds per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). 
For patients with generalized seizures, valproate is most likely to be 
cost-effective for newly diagnosed patients. For refractory patients, adjunctive 
topiramate is more cost-effective than monotherapy alone if the willingness to 
pay for additional health benefits is greater than 35,000 pounds per QALY. There 
is, however, considerable uncertainty regarding these results. Some of the 
methodological features of the study will be of value in designing 
cost-effectiveness analyses of other therapies for chronic conditions. These 
include the methods used to deal with the absence of head-to-head trial data and 
the need to reflect time dependency in Markov transition probabilities.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05280559
PMID: 16160206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Med Decis Making. 2005 Sep-Oct;25(5):520-33. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05280561.

Analytic choices in economic models of treatments for rheumatoid arthritis: What 
makes a difference?

Drummond MF(1), Barbieri M, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York, YO10 5DD, 
United Kingdom. chedir@york.ac.uk

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2005 Sep-Oct;25(5):485-6.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the analytic judgments, data, and assumptions of 
different models used in the economic evaluation of infliximab, one of a new 
class of drugs for rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: A detailed assessment was made of 4 models, 1 submitted (in a 
reimbursement dossier) by the manufacturer, 1 produced by an independent 
academic group, and 2 recently published in the literature. Factors considered 
included the key data inputs, assumptions about the sequencing of treatments for 
RA, the methods used to calculate health utilities, and the estimation of cost 
offsets.
RESULTS: Two of the 4 models, although embodying different methodological 
approaches, gave fairly similar results (approximately 25,000 pounds- 35,000 
pounds cost per additional quality-adjusted life year [QALY] gained). The other 
2 models, both by an independent academic group, gave much higher estimates, 
ranging from 50,000 pounds to 60,000 pounds to more than 100,000 pounds per 
additional QALY. The differences appeared to depend mainly on differences in 
model structure, the assumptions about the positioning of infliximab in the 
treatment sequence, and the relationship between Health Assessment Questionnaire 
(HAQ) states and QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Economic models of treatments for RA incorporate different key data 
inputs and analytic judgments. However, convergence was observed in some of the 
estimates produced by the models, particularly when adjustments were made for 
some of the differences in input parameters. Nevertheless, differences in the 
choice of model structure and in key assumptions also had a major impact on 
results. Therefore, more discussion is needed to reach a consensus on some of 
these methodological issues.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05280561
PMID: 16160208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. J Clin Psychopharmacol. 2005 Oct;25(5):427-34. doi: 
10.1097/01.jcp.0000177553.59455.24.

Pharmacogenetic testing in the clinical management of schizophrenia: a 
decision-analytic model.

Perlis RH(1), Ganz DA, Avorn J, Schneeweiss S, Glynn RJ, Smoller JW, Wang PS.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacogenomics Research Program, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts 
General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
rperlis@partners.org

Clinical application of pharmacogenetic testing has been proposed as a means of 
improving treatment outcomes in psychiatry. The identification of a putative 
genetic test for better clozapine response in schizophrenia offers an 
opportunity to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of such testing. The authors 
performed a cost-effectiveness analysis of a genetic test that may identify 
individuals with greater likelihood of responding to clozapine treatment. We 
modeled a target population of schizophrenia patients in an acute psychotic 
episode, using a lifetime time horizon and societal perspective. Outcome 
measures included life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, costs, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness. Effects of variations in testing parameters were 
also examined. For a 30-year-old with schizophrenia, applying the 
pharmacogenetic test and treating those predicted to respond to clozapine with 
clozapine-first cost US $47,705 per additional quality-adjusted life-year, 
compared with treating all patients with conventional agents and reserving 
clozapine for treatment-resistant patients. In 1-way sensitivity analyses, test 
sensitivity and cost had the greatest impact on the incremental 
cost-effectiveness. We conclude that pharmacogenetic tests may achieve utility 
in clinical psychiatry, although their cost-effectiveness depends on several 
clinical parameters. More consistent reporting of test parameters such as 
sensitivity and specificity would greatly facilitate assessment of future 
pharmacogenetic studies.

DOI: 10.1097/01.jcp.0000177553.59455.24
PMID: 16160617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Health Econ. 2005 Sep;14(Suppl 1):S133-49. doi: 10.1002/hec.1032.

Analysing the impact of health-care system change in the EU member 
states--Germany.

Wörz M(1), Busse R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Management, Berlin University of Technology, 
Germany. markus.woerz@tu-berlin.de

The core of the German health-care system is the statutory health insurance 
(SHI). Coverage of the SHI has remained fairly constant at about 90% whereas the 
rest of the population is insured for the most part with private health 
insurance. The primary goal of health-care reforms since the 1990s has been to 
contain the expenditure of the SHI. The primary measures to do this have been 
the introduction of budgets and a shift of expenditure towards private 
households mainly in the form of benefit exclusions and increased co-payments. 
So far these measures did not have a negative effect on broad outcome measures 
such as life expectancy, which continued to rise, and self-assessed health of 
the population, which remained stable in the period 1992--2002. Besides cost 
containment another leitmotif of reform have been attempts to increase 
competition both between sickness funds and providers of care. These two strands 
of reforms also affected the incentive structures for both insurers and 
providers in various ways which this article describes. The immediate future of 
health-care reform will concern the mode of financing of the SHI which centres 
on the question if contributions proportional to income shall be maintained or 
if there shall be a radical shift towards flat-rate health premiums.

Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1032
PMID: 16161188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. J Vector Borne Dis. 2005 Jun;42(2):45-53.

Life-table analysis of Anopheles malaria vectors: generational mortality as tool 
in mosquito vector abundance and control studies.

Okogun GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, 
Edo State, Nigeria. graokogun@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Vector control will for sometime remain a primary 
weapon in the war against vector borne diseases. Malaria is of paramount 
importance in this with its associated high morbidity and mortality especially 
in sub-Saharan Africa. This study on generational mortality associated factors 
in Anopheles mosquitoes life-table analysis was designed to investigate the 
fecundity, levels of mortality and mortality associated factors at the aquatic 
stages of anopheline malaria vectors.
METHODS: Mortality associated factors were investigated at the eggs, I and II 
instar larval, III and IV instar larval and pupal stages of two anopheline 
species--Anopheles pseudopunctipennis (Theobald) and An. gambiae life-cycles in 
screen cages. Adult male and female mosquitoes were membrane filter-fed and 
algae in culture medium formed the bulk of food substances for the larval stage. 
Environmental temperature of culture media, pH and some associated 
physio-chemical factors were also determined.
RESULTS: Results showed significant mortality rates at various aquatic stages. 
Infertility, cannibalism and environmental factors were the major factors 
responsible for mortality at the egg, larval and pupal stages respectively.
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSION: The aquatic stages of Anopheles mosquito mortality 
factor K and the mortality factors at the various stages investigated k1, k2, k3 
and k4 are discussed. Our recommendations include further studies on the 
possible genetic modification of predacious An. pseudopunctipennis larvae and/or 
its modification for the production of sterile/infertile eggs as possible 
alternatives in the reduction and control of anopheline malaria burden.

PMID: 16161700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2005 Jul-Aug;20(4):569-77.

Dental implant failure rates and associated risk factors.

Moy PK(1), Medina D, Shetty V, Aghaloo TL.

Author information:
(1)Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of California at Los Angeles, 
School of Dentistry, Los Angeles, California, USA.

PURPOSE: To guide treatment planning by analyzing the rates of dental implant 
failure to determine associated risk factors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All consecutively treated patients from January 1982 
until January 2003 were included in a retrospective cohort study, as defined in 
the hierarchy of evidence for dental implant literature. Data regarding gender, 
age, implant location, bone quality, bone volume, and medical history were 
recorded. Correlations between these data and implant survival were calculated 
to establish relative risk (RR) ratios.
RESULTS: Increasing age was strongly associated with the risk of implant 
failure. Compared to patients younger than 40 years, patients in the 60-to-79 
age group had a significantly higher risk of implant failure (RR = 2.24; P < 
.05). Gender, hypertension, coronary artery disease, pulmonary disease, steroid 
therapy, chemotherapy, and not being on hormone replacement therapy for 
postmenopausal women were not associated with a significant increase in implant 
failure. Smoking (RR = 1.56), diabetes (RR = 2.75), head and neck radiation (RR 
= 2.73), and postmenopausal estrogen therapy (RR = 2.55) were correlated with a 
significantly increased failure rate. Overall, implant failure was 8.16% in the 
maxilla and 4.93% in the mandible (P < .001).
DISCUSSION: Patients who were over age 60, smoked, had a history of diabetes or 
head and neck radiation, or were postmenopausal and on hormone replacement 
therapy experienced significantly increased implant failure compared with 
healthy patients.
CONCLUSION: Overall, dental implant failure is low and there are no absolute 
contraindications to implant placement. Conditions that were found to be 
correlated with an increased risk of failure should be considered during 
treatment planning and factored into the informed consent process.

PMID: 16161741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2005 Jul-Aug;20(4):610-20.

Inferior alveolar nerve transposition in conjunction with implant placement.

Ferrigno N(1), Laureti M, Fanali S.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Implantology and Biomaterials, School of Dental Medicine, University 
of Chieti G D'Annunzio, Italy. ferrigno.n@tiscali.it

PURPOSE: The aim of this prospective study was to determine the incidence of 
neurosensory disturbance and the cumulative survival and success rates of ITI 
solid-screw implants placed in conjunction with an inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) 
transposition technique.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 46 ITI implants were placed in 15 patients following 
transposition of the IAN. In 4 patients nerve transpositioning was performed 
bilaterally, so a total of 19 IAN mobilization surgeries were performed. 
Neurosensory dysfunction was objectively evaluated by using light touch (LT), 
pain (PT), and 2-point discrimination (2-DT) tests. In addition, patients were 
asked to answer a short questionnaire to investigate individual feelings of 
discomfort and advantages related to this surgical technique. The mean follow-up 
period was 49.1 months (range, 12 to 78 months).
RESULTS: The cumulative implant survival and success rates were 95.7% and 90.5%, 
respectively. Only 2 implants were lost. Neurosensory disturbance (ie, 
disturbance registered by the LT, PT, and 2-DT tests) was experienced in 4 of 19 
cases. However, at the time of data analysis (12 to 78 months after surgery), 
all patients indicated that they would go through the surgery again.
DISCUSSION: The IAN transposition technique, when used in the severely atrophied 
posterior mandible, allowed placement of implants with adequate length and good 
initial stabilization. All patients felt that they had received significant 
benefits from their new prostheses.
CONCLUSION: Based on the results of the present study, it can be concluded that 
lateral nerve transposition can be used as a surgical procedure to enable ITI 
implant placement in the severely resorbed posterior mandible.

PMID: 16161746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Expert Rev Neurother. 2005 Sep;5(5):663-70. doi: 10.1586/14737175.5.5.663.

Magnetic resonance markers for early diagnosis and progression of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Kantarci K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street, SW, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA. kantarci.kejal@mayo.edu

With increasing life expectancy, the early diagnosis and treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease has become critical in sustaining a healthy society. 
Noninvasive markers of disease progression starting from the earliest stages of 
pathologic involvement are required for determining the effectiveness of 
putative disease-modifying therapies that are under development. Cross-sectional 
and longitudinal studies indicate that magnetic resonance-based volume 
measurements of atrophy are potential markers of the progression of Alzheimer's 
disease, starting from the preclinical stages. Other magnetic resonance 
techniques that are sensitive to the different aspects of Alzheimer's disease 
pathology, such as biochemical ((proton) magnetic resonance spectroscopy), 
microstructural (diffusion magnetic resonance imaging), functional (functional 
magnetic resonance imaging) and blood flow (perfusion magnetic resonance 
imaging) changes, have not been as extensively studied longitudinally. Recent 
efforts of imaging amyloid plaques with magnetic resonance imaging generate the 
prospect for in vivo imaging of the pathologic substrate of Alzheimer's disease 
in the future. In order for magnetic resonance modalities to qualify as 
surrogate markers for early diagnosis and progression of Alzheimer's disease, 
multicenter longitudinal studies are needed.

DOI: 10.1586/14737175.5.5.663
PMID: 16162090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Am J Transplant. 2005 Oct;5(10):2410-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.01034.x.

Screening to prevent polyoma virus nephropathy: a medical decision analysis.

Kiberd BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
bryce. kiberd@dal.ca

Polyomavirus nephropathy (PVN) is an emerging medical dilemma in kidney 
transplantation. Methods to screen before clinical disease are available and 
early immunosuppression reduction may change the natural history of progression. 
However, the consequences of an increase in rejection may limit the benefits. In 
a simulation model a 'screen' versus 'no-screen' strategy was compared. Baseline 
PVN cumulative incidence was assumed to be 4%. Patients with PVN were modeled to 
have 4-fold higher risk of graft loss. In the screen strategy, patients positive 
for blood DNA PCR had their immunosuppression reduced. This pre-emptive change 
was modeled to reduce progression to overt PVN by 80%. Therapy reduction was 
associated with a 10% risk of precipitating acute rejection and greater risk of 
chronic allograft loss. In the baseline case, screening saved 1912 dollars 
(discounted) and produced 0.020 more quality adjusted life years (QALYs) than 
not screening. Screening resulted in decreased net QALYs if the false positive 
viremia rate was >9.5% and the PVN incidence was <2.1%. Much of the cost savings 
of screening relate to savings from immunosuppression reduction in the screened 
arm. Screening may well be cost-effective if not cost saving in centers with 
high PVN rates. There remain significant areas of uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.01034.x
PMID: 16162189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Seizure. 2005 Oct;14(7):497-503. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2005.08.006. Epub
2005  Sep 12.

South Asians and epilepsy: exploring health experiences, needs and beliefs of 
communities in the north of England.

Ismail H(1), Wright J, Rhodes P, Small N, Jacoby A.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Bradford Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, St 
Lukes Hospital, Extension Block C, West Yorkshire, Bradford BD5 0NA, UK. 
hanif.ismail@bradfordhospitals.nhs.uk

PURPOSE: To examine the beliefs and experiences of South Asians with epilepsy 
and the extent of provision of appropriate information and accessible services 
for them by health professionals.
METHODS: Qualitative interviews with 30 South Asians with epilepsy, 16 carers 
and 10 health professionals. In addition, two focus groups were held with 16 
South Asians without epilepsy recruited from community centers. The interview 
sample was divided by religious groupings (Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims). Fieldwork 
was conducted in Bradford and Leeds (England).
RESULTS: Beliefs that epilepsy is caused by spirit possession (Muslims) or 
attributable to sins committed in a past life (Sikhs and Hindus) were reported 
as being widely held among South Asians living both in the UK and the Indian 
subcontinent, although few informants themselves subscribed to such views. 
Compliance with conventional medication was high; however, those who experienced 
seizures most often were most likely to turn to traditional South Asian 
therapies. Most informants used both treatments simultaneously. The main issues 
regarding the provision of services were: lack of appropriate information and 
advice; language and communication barriers; problems in interaction with health 
professionals. Also discussed were the potential merits of attending support 
groups. Greatest dissatisfaction was expressed in relation to primary care, 
whereas the highest praise was reserved for specialist epilepsy nurses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show both similarities and differences between 
participants' experiences, where gender, age or other aspects of personal 
biography can be as important as religion, culture or country of origin. 
Furthermore, the impact of being diagnosed with epilepsy can be exacerbated by 
structural impediments to accessing information and appropriate services.

DOI: 10.1016/j.seizure.2005.08.006
PMID: 16162413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Chest. 2005 Sep;128(3):1086-7. doi: 10.1378/chest.128.3.1086.

Quality, quantity, or both? Life after lung transplantation.

Snyder LD, Palmer SM.

Comment on
    Chest. 2005 Sep;128(3):1371-8.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.128.3.1086
PMID: 16162687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Chest. 2005 Sep;128(3):1364-70. doi: 10.1378/chest.128.3.1364.

A new treatment strategy for advanced idiopathic interstitial pneumonia: 
living-donor lobar lung transplantation.

Date H(1), Tanimoto Y, Goto K, Yamadori I, Aoe M, Sano Y, Shimizu N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer and Thoracic Surgery (Surgery II), Okayama University 
Graduate School of Medicine and Dentistry, 2-5-1 Shikata-Cho, Okayama 700-8558, 
Japan. hdate@nigeka2.hospital.okayama-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Among patients awaiting cadaveric lung transplantation, patients 
with idiopathic interstitial pneumonia (IIP) have been demonstrated to have the 
highest mortality rate. Contraindications to cadaveric lung transplantation 
include current high-dose systemic corticosteroid therapy because it may 
increase airway complications and various types of infection.
STUDY OBJECTIVES: To analyze the effect of living-donor lobar lung 
transplantation (LDLLT) for patients with advanced IIP including those receiving 
high-dose systemic corticosteroids.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis.
SETTING: Okayama University Hospital and Okayama Medical Center.
PATIENTS: We report on the first nine patients (seven female and two male; age 
range, 13 to 55 years) with advanced IIP receiving LDLLT. All nine patients had 
a very limited life expectancy, and eight patients were dependent on systemic 
corticosteroid therapy as high as 50 mg/d of prednisone. LDLLT was performed 
under cardiopulmonary bypass using two lower lobes donated by two healthy 
relatives.
RESULTS: There were no airway complications in the 18 bronchial anastomoses. 
There was one early death (11%) due to severe acute rejection. Eight patients 
(89%) are currently alive with a follow-up period of 10 to 48 months. Their 
vital capacity reached 2.03 +/- 0.20 L (mean +/- SEM), 71.4% of predicted at 1 
year. All 18 donors have returned to their previous lifestyles. Excised lungs 
were pathologically diagnosed as usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) in six cases 
and fibrotic nonspecific interstitial pneumonia (NSIP) in three cases.
CONCLUSIONS: These early follow-up data support the option of LDLLT in patients 
with advanced IIP, including UIP and fibrotic NSIP, who would die soon 
otherwise. Current high-dose systemic corticosteroid therapy is not a 
contraindication in LDLLT.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.128.3.1364
PMID: 16162730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Chest. 2005 Sep;128(3):1431-5. doi: 10.1378/chest.128.3.1431.

Clinical efficacy and safety of thoracoscopic talc pleurodesis in malignant 
pleural effusions.

Kolschmann S(1), Ballin A, Gillissen A.

Author information:
(1)St. George Medical Center, Robert-Koch-Hospital, Nikolai-Rumjanzew-Str 100, 
D-04207 Leipzig, Germany. steffen.kolschmann@web.de

STUDY OBJECTIVES: In patients with disseminated neoplastic disease, recurrent 
pleural effusion is frequently observed. The purpose of this study was to 
determine the long-term efficacy and safety of pleurodesis by thoracoscopic talc 
poudrage (TTP) in malignant pleural effusions (MPEs).
METHODS: We report a consecutive series of 102 patients (45 women, 57 men; 20 to 
83 years of age) who underwent medical thoracoscopy and TTP for recurrent MPE 
between 1999 and 2001. Thoracoscopy was performed utilizing local anesthesia and 
IV sedation (medical thoracoscopy). For pleurodesis, an average of 8 g of 
sterile talc powder was used. One hundred eighty-day follow-up was completed for 
all patients, and outcome measures included time to recurrence of the effusion 
and survival. Efficacy was judged by clinical examination, chest radiograph, 
and/or thoracic ultrasound examination. Procedure-related complications were 
documented.
RESULTS: The most common primary neoplasms were lung cancer (n = 48), breast 
cancer (n = 16), and malignant pleural mesothelioma (n = 10). Twenty-eight 
patients had other types of tumors, including renal cell carcinoma, ovarian 
carcinoma, GI tumors, prostate, malignant lymphoma, and unknown primary cancer. 
At the end of the primary observation period of 180 days, 38 of 46 surviving 
patients (82.6%) had a successful pleurodesis. Type of primary neoplasm had no 
significant influence on success rate. The 30-day mortality rate was 16.7% (n = 
17). Survival curves after 180 days showed significant differences, with best 
survival in mesothelioma and shortest life expectancy in lung cancer (p = 
0.005). Adverse effects included empyema in one case and malignant invasion of 
the scar. No episode of talc-induced ARDS was observed.
CONCLUSION: Thoracoscopic talc pleurodesis is a safe and effective method to 
stop recurrent MPEs. Lasting pleural symphysis is obtained.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.128.3.1431
PMID: 16162739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Gut. 2005 Oct;54(10):1501-2. doi: 10.1136/gut.2005.075820.

An alternative to prophylactic colectomy for colon cancer prevention in HNPCC 
syndrome.

Vasen HF, de Vos Tot Nederveen Cappel WH.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.2005.075820
PMCID: PMC1774714
PMID: 16162958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Clin J Sport Med. 2005 Sep;15(5):401-2. doi:
10.1097/01.jsm.0000180017.37265.ae.

Low-dose extracorporeal shock wave therapy for previously untreated lateral 
epicondylitis.

Lebrun CM(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Western Ontario London, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of low-energy extracorporeal shock 
wave therapy (ESWT) in the treatment of previously untreated lateral 
epicondylitis.
DESIGN: Randomized double-blind (patient and outcome assessor) controlled trial 
with power to show a clinically important difference in success rate between 
groups at the 0.05 level. Block randomization was stratified by unilateral or 
bilateral epicondylitis.
SETTING: Community study at the University of Calgary.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants were recruited by poster advertisements in 
physicians' offices, fitness and sports centers, and postsecondary education 
institutions, and by e-mail to faculty and staff at those institutions. 
Inclusion criteria were tenderness over the lateral epicondyle and common 
extensor origin tendons that worsened with resisted wrist extension and hand 
grip and with elbow extension, forearm pronation, and wrist palmar flexion; 
presence of lateral epicondylitis for > or =3 weeks and <1 year; willingness to 
discontinue bracing; and age > or =18 years. Participants (mean age, 46 years; 
mean duration of symptoms, 21 weeks; 62% men) were informed that the purpose of 
the study was to compare 2 different treatment protocols.
INTERVENTION: After telephone screening eligible persons were examined by 1 
physician. All 60 participants were taught a single forearm extensor stretch (4 
repetitions held for 20 seconds, 4 times per day). Persons in the active ESWT 
were assigned to 3 treatments, 1 per week for 3 weeks. In each session, 2000 
pulses of 0.03 to 0.17 mJ/mm2, depending on the participant's pain tolerance, 
were administered. The sham treatment group was administered the lowest dose 
buffered by an air pad, on the same schedule.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome measure was treatment success or 
failure. Success was defined as > or =50% relief of pain overall from baseline, 
measured on a 10-cm visual analogue scale, with a maximum pain score of 4.0 cm, 
and no use of pain medication for lateral epicondylitis for 2 weeks before the 
8-week evaluation. Bilaterally affected patients had to fulfill the success 
criteria for both arms. Change in quality of life and pain-free grip strength 
were also evaluated. Analysis was by intention to treat, including 4 patients 
(7%) lost to follow-up.
MAIN RESULTS: The proportions of treatment successes in the sham ESWT and the 
active ESWT were 31% and 39% (P = 0.533). Mean differences pretreatment to 
posttreatment in median overall pain scores for the more painful elbow were a 
reduction of 0.9 cm (SD, 0.4; 95% CI, 0.1-1.8) for the sham ESWT group compared 
with a reduction of 1.5 cm (SD, 0.5; CI, 0.5-2.4) for the active treatment 
group. Changes in pain-free grip strength and minimal changes for both groups in 
quality of life did not differ between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose ESWT did not have a clinically important effect in 
reducing pain, improving quality of life, or increasing pain-free grip strength 
in middle-aged patients with previously untreated unilateral or bilateral 
lateral epicondylitis.

DOI: 10.1097/01.jsm.0000180017.37265.ae
PMID: 16163005


460. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2004 Jun;2(6):358-60.

Ethical issues in phase I clinical trials.

Daugherty CK(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, IL, USA.

PMID: 16163205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2004 Jul;2(7):457-65.

Aging and cancer.

Misra D(1), Seo PH, Cohen HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

A substantial increase in the number of elderly people in the populations of 
developed nations in the coming years has been projected. Persons 65 years and 
older are at significantly higher risk of developing cancer when compared to 
younger individuals. There is a resulting increase in cancer incidence as well 
as mortality in this advanced age group. It is important to know how changes in 
physiological reserve and functional status in elderly patients, polypharmacy 
issues, comorbidities, and other age-related problems can affect cancer 
prognosis and management. Elderly patients are not adequately represented in 
clinical trials, thus creating a relative lack of information related to 
specific issues about elderly cancer patients and their care. Nevertheless, 
there is a substantial amount of guidance available, and in this review we will 
address selected issues of importance when considering the approach to the older 
cancer patient.

PMID: 16163222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Ann Nucl Med. 2005 Jul;19(5):393-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03027404.

Should mediastinoscopy actually be incorporated into the FDG PET strategy for 
patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma?

Hayashi K(1), Abe K, Yano F, Watanabe S, Iwasaki Y, Kosuda S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, National Defense Medical College, Tokorozawa, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Incorporating mediastinoscopy (MS) into the PET-based strategy for 
non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) patients might be cost-effective because 
MS can allow unnecessary thoracotomies to be avoided. The objective of our study 
was to assess the cost-effectiveness of incorporating MS into a PET strategy for 
NSCLC patients.
METHODS: To determine life expectancy (LE), quality adjusted life years (QALY), 
and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), a decision-tree sensitivity 
analysis was designed for histopathologically confirmed NSCLC patients with M0 
disease, based on the three competing strategies of chest CT only vs. PET + CT 
vs. PET + CT + MS. A simulation of 1000 NSCLC patients was created using 
baselines of other relevant variables in regard to sensitivity, specificity, 
mortality, LE, utilities and cost from published data. One-way sensitivity 
analyses were performed to determine the influences of mediastinal metastasis 
prevalence on LE, QALY and ICER.
RESULTS: The LE and QALY per patient in the CT only strategy, PET + CT strategy 
and PET + CT + MS strategy were 4.79 and 4.35, 5.33 and 4.93 and 5.68 and 5.33 
years, respectively, with a 20% prevalence of mediastinal metastasis. The ICERs 
were 906.6 yen x 10(3) (7555 US dollars)/QALY/patient at a 20% mediastinal 
metastasis prevalence, and 2194 yen x 10(3) (18,282 US dollars)/QALY/patient at 
a 50% prevalence, but exceeded 5280 yen x 10(3) (44,000 US dollars)/QALY/ 
patient at 80%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study quantitatively showed the CT + PET + MS strategy in place 
of the PET + CT strategy in managing NSCLC patients to be cost-effective. MS 
should be incorporated into the PET + CT strategy for NSCLC patients except in 
those highly suspected of having mediastinal disease on chest CT or PET.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03027404
PMID: 16164196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Hinyokika Kiyo. 2005 Aug;51(8):553-7.

[Treatment for locally advanced bladder cancer in elderly patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishiyama H(1).

Author information:
(1)The Departments of Urology, Kyoto University, Graduate School of Medicine.

As the life expectancy of Japanese population has been increasing, how best to 
treat invasive bladder cancer in elderly patients has become a new problem. 
Generally standard treatment for locally advanced invasive bladder cancer is 
thought to be radical cystectomy, but that for elderly patients is still 
controversial due to frequent presence of comorbid diseases. Here, we debate the 
merits and demerits of radical cystectomy and bladder preservation for elderly 
patients with locally advanced invasive bladder cancer. First, we presented the 
treatment outcome of 1131 patients with invasive bladder cancer who underwent 
radical cystectomy in Japan, to clarify the characteristics of invasive bladder 
cancer of elderly patients and to determine whether age had an impact on the 
clinical or functional results. Furthermore, to clarify the indication of the 
bladder preservation for elderly patients, we reviewed the results of recent 
trials. Several new trials of chemoradiotherapy have shown high response rates 
with low local morbidity but high systemic morbidity requiring dose reductions 
or treatment delay. This regimen may prove to be effective for inoperable 
patients and may be proposed as conservative treatment for patients with 
complete responses to the initial course of chemoradiation. Although 
chemoradiation shows promise, more trials are needed to clarify the morbidity 
and mortality rates of chemoradiation for elderly patients.

PMID: 16164272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Hinyokika Kiyo. 2005 Aug;51(8):561-3.

[Watchful waiting for elderly patients with localized prostate cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

