Papagelopoulos PJ(1), Mavrogenis AF, Galanis EC, Kelekis NL, Wenger DE, Sim FH, 
Soucacos PN.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Orthopedics, Athens University Medical School, Athens, 
Greece.

Image-guided percutaneous thermal ablation is a safe and effective method to 
reduce pain in patients with painful bone tumors. Computed tomography-guided 
radiofrequency or laser ablation is the modality of choice for most osteoid 
osteomas. Radiofrequency or laser thermal ablation also offers an alternative 
method for palliation of localized, painful osteolytic metastatic lesions. Pain 
can be reduced and neural damage prevented, improving the quality of life for 
patients with cancer who often have multimorbid conditions and limited life 
expectancy. A multidisciplinary approach that includes orthopedic surgeons, 
neurosurgeons, medical and radiation oncologists, and interventional 
radiologists is essential to manage these patients.

DOI: 10.3928/0147-7447-20050601-11
PMID: 16138468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 Aug 18;147(33-34):50-1.

[Intensive LDL lowering to under 80 mg/dl: hypercholesteremia patients with 
stable coronary disease and diabetes profit especially significantly].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16138640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Sep 6;46(5):761-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.03.073.

Long-term cost effectiveness of early and sustained dual oral antiplatelet 
therapy with clopidogrel given for up to one year after percutaneous coronary 
intervention results: from the Clopidogrel for the Reduction of Events During 
Observation (CREDO) trial.

Beinart SC(1), Kolm P, Veledar E, Zhang Z, Mahoney EM, Bouin O, Gabriel S, 
Jackson J, Chen R, Caro J, Steinhubl S, Topol E, Weintraub WS.

Author information:
(1)Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to evaluate the long-term cost effectiveness of a 
clopidogrel loading strategy before percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) 
followed by continued treatment for one year.
BACKGROUND: The Clopidogrel for the Reduction of Events During Observation 
(CREDO) trial, a randomized trial of 2,116 patients, showed the effectiveness of 
antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel 300 mg before PCI and 75 mg daily for one 
year afterward compared with placebo load and placebo days 29 to 365 in reducing 
the combined risk of death, myocardial infarction, and stroke. All patients 
received clopidogrel on days 1 to 28 and aspirin on days 1 to 365.
METHODS: All hospitalizations were assigned a diagnosis-related group. 
Associated costs were estimated three ways (including professional costs): 1) 
Medicare costs, 2) MEDSTAT costs, and 3) blend with Medicare for those age > or 
= 65 years and MEDSTAT for those age <65 years. Clopidogrel 75 mg cost 3.22 
dollars. Life expectancy in trial survivors was estimated using external data. 
Confidence intervals were assessed by bootstrap.
RESULTS: The primary composite end point occurred in 89 (8.45%) clopidogrel 
patients and in 122 (11.48%) placebo patients (relative risk reduction [RRR] 
26.9%; 95% confidence interval [CI] 3.9% to 44.4%). The number of life-years 
gained (LYG) with clopidogrel was 0.1526 (95% CI 0.0263 to 0.2838) using 
Framingham data and 0.1920 (95% CI 0.054 to 0.337) using Saskatchewan data. 
Average total costs were 664 dollars higher for the clopidogrel arm (95% CI -461 
dollars to 1,784 dollars). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) 
based on Framingham data ranged from 3,685 dollars/LYG to 4,353 dollars/LYG, 
with over 97% of bootstrap-derived ICER estimates below 50,000 dollars/LYG. The 
ICERs based on Saskatchewan data were 2,929 dollars/LYG to 3,460 dollars/LYG, 
with over 98% of estimates below 50,000 dollars/LYG.
CONCLUSIONS: Platelet inhibition with clopidogrel loading before PCI followed by 
therapy for one year is highly cost effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.03.073
PMID: 16139122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2006 Mar;71(3):272-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2005.07.005. Epub 2005 Aug 31.

Risk factors for major limb amputations in diabetic foot gangrene patients.

Miyajima S(1), Shirai A, Yamamoto S, Okada N, Matsushita T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Osaka Koseinenkin Hospital, 4-2-78, Fukushima-ku, 
Fukushima, Osaka 553-0003, Japan. ms8472@fw.okn.gr.jp

We analyzed the clinical picture of diabetic foot lesion patients to investigate 
the risk factors for major limb amputations. The subjects were 210 diabetic foot 
lesion patients treated at our department over the past 9 years. The mean 
follow-up period was 604.5 [standard deviation (S.D.) 451.2] days with a median 
value of 492 days. There were 113 men and 97 women. By the final follow-up day, 
18 underwent bypass surgeries (9%) and 13 skin grafts (6%), while 110 patients 
(52%) finally required limb amputation. The breakdown was 45 major amputations 
above or below the knee and 65 minor amputations of the toes or metatarsals. The 
outcomes of the major amputations were retrospectively analyzed by group. The 
blood glucose control was poor in all 45 major amputees, and their mean HbA1c 
(8.80%) was higher than that in the minor or non-amputation group (7.79%, P = 
0.035). In the major amputation group, two patients had loss of vision due to 
retinopathy, and 30 patients received long-term hemodialysis due to nephropathy. 
The rate of arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO) was higher in the major amputation 
group than in the minor or non-amputation group, and arteriography showed 
significantly high rates of multiple stenosis. Multivariate analysis of these 
results by the proportional hazard model showed that ASO with multiple stenosis 
(hazard ratio 3.23, 95% CI: 1.12-5.10), hemodialysis (2.14, 95% CI: 1.17-3.44), 
and HbA1c (1.20, 95% CI: 1.03-1.41) were independent risk factors for major 
amputation. The 3-year survival rate was 24.1% in the major amputation group and 
93.0% in the minor or non-amputation group, and the life expectancy was 
significantly lower for the major amputees than the minor or non-amputees 
(P<0.0001). Together with early detection and treatment of foot lesions, good 
blood glucose control and early management of systemic complications such as 
nephropathy and arteriosclerosis are considered important to avoid major 
amputations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2005.07.005
PMID: 16139385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Addict Behav. 2006 Jul;31(7):1133-43. doi: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2005.08.006.
Epub  2005 Aug 31.

Is beer the drink of choice for women with alcohol use problems? --Positive 
alcohol outcome expectancies as a function of beverage type.

Devoulyte K(1), Stewart SH, Theakston JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Dalhousie University, Life Science Centre, 1355 
Oxford Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada B3H 4J1. kdevouly@dal.ca

The primary goal of this study was to evaluate whether women with alcohol 
problems report differences in their strength of endorsement of specific 
positive outcome expectancies as a function of alcoholic beverage type. 
Fifty-four participants completed the Beverage Expectancy Questionnaire (BEQ) 
that assessed five specific positive outcome expectancies across three different 
beverage types (i.e., wine, beer, hard liquor). Participants endorsed the 
strongest expectancies of Social/Sexual Enhancement, Global Positive Affect and 
Relaxation in the beer-specific context as compared to the wine-specific 
context. Levels of consumption were significantly higher overall for hard liquor 
than for wine in the sample as a whole. Quantity of wine drinking was predicted 
by wine-specific Arousal and Personality Transformation expectancies; quantity 
of beer drinking was predicted by beer-specific Arousal expectancies; quantity 
of hard liquor consumption was predicted by hard liquor-specific Personality 
Transformation, Relaxation, and Arousal expectancies. Clinical implications of 
the findings and future research directions are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2005.08.006
PMID: 16139433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Maturitas. 2005 Nov 15;52 Suppl 1:S46-52. doi:
10.1016/j.maturitas.2005.06.014.  Epub 2005 Sep 1.

Management of post-menopausal vaginal atrophy and atrophic vaginitis.

Castelo-Branco C(1), Cancelo MJ, Villero J, Nohales F, Juliá MD.

Author information:
(1)Institut Clínic de Ginecologia, Obstetrícia i Neonatología, Hospital Clínic, 
Facultad de Medicina, University of Barcelona, Villarroel 170, 08036 Barcelona, 
Spain. castelo@medicina.ub.es

The involution of the female genital tract seems to reflect a built-in 
biological life expectancy, inter-related with the 
hypothalamic-hypophyseal-ovarian axis. Lower levels of oestradiol have a number 
of adverse effects, including on the lower urinary tract. The major universal 
change is vaginal atrophy. The vaginal mucosa becomes thinner and dry, which can 
produce vaginal discomfort, dryness, burning, itching, and dyspareunia. The 
vaginal epithelium may become inflamed, contributing to urinary symptoms such as 
frequency, urgency, dysuria, incontinence, and/or recurrent infections. 
Moreover, it has been suggested that reduced oestrogen levels may affect 
periurethral tissues and contribute to pelvic laxity and stress incontinence. In 
association with hypoestrogenemia, changes in vaginal pH and vaginal flora may 
predispose post-menopausal women to urinary tract infection. Treatment to date 
has been based on local hormonal therapy, in the form of vaginal creams, tablets 
or suppositories. Other routes of hormone administration have also proved to be 
successful. Both local and systemic administration are both effective in 
maturation of the vaginal epithelium. However, despite the fact that the 
benefits of oestrogen replacement in preventing vaginal atrophy and reducing the 
incidence of related symptoms are well established, such therapy is 
contraindicated in some women and is not an acceptable option for others. 
Furthermore, the optimal HT administration route, the dosage regimen, and 
non-hormonal alternatives for improving symptoms and quality of life of the 
post-menopausal female population, have not been well studied. This review 
focuses on the changes involved in vaginal aging and efforts to present a 
synopsis of the pathophysiology and therapy of atrophic vaginitis and vaginal 
atrophy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2005.06.014
PMID: 16139449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Clin Plast Surg. 2005 Oct;32(4):453-61, v. doi: 10.1016/j.cps.2005.05.001.

Understanding medical decision making in hand surgery.

Myers J(1), McCabe SJ.

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, Department of Epidemiology and Public 
Health, Division of Biostatistics, New Haven, CT, USA.

The practice of medicine takes place in an environment of uncertainty. Expected 
value decision making, prospect theory, and regret theory are three theories of 
decision making under uncertainty that may be used to help us learn how patients 
and physicians make decisions. These theories form the underpinnings of decision 
analysis and provide the opportunity to introduce the broad discipline of 
decision science. Because decision analysis and economic analysis are 
underrepresented in upper extremity surgery, the authors believe these are 
important areas for future research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cps.2005.05.001
PMID: 16139619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Exp Gerontol. 2005 Oct;40(10):784-92. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.07.009. Epub
 2005 Sep 1.

The effect of diet, sex and mating status on longevity in Mediterranean fruit 
flies (Ceratitis capitata), Diptera: Tephritidae.

Davies S(1), Kattel R, Bhatia B, Petherwick A, Chapman T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, Darwin Building, Gower 
Street, London, UK.

Dietary Restriction (DR) extends lifespan in a range of model organisms such as 
yeast, flies and worms suggesting it is a 'public' mechanism for longevity 
extension. Lifespan extension has also been reported in the Mediterranean fruit 
fly (medfly), Ceratitis capitata in response to various types of dietary 
manipulation, however, the responses can be complex. There are also reported 
differences in the responses of medfly and Drosophila melanogaster longevity to 
DR, but it is not clear to what extent these are due to differences in feeding 
protocols or to what extent they reflect real biological differences. In order 
to investigate this, we applied a DR feeding protocol similar to that used in 
many D. melanogaster studies and tested for effects on male and female virgin 
and mated medfly longevity. Our results show a clear effect of DR and a cost of 
reproduction for both sexes. Female flies lived significantly longer than male 
flies at all food levels, indicating minimal interactions between diet and sex 
in determining longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.07.009
PMID: 16139979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Int J Obstet Anesth. 2005 Oct;14(4):351-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ijoa.2005.02.002.

Management of pregnancy in a patient with beta thalassaemia major.

Butwick A(1), Findley I, Wonke B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, St. George's Hospital, London, UK.

beta thalassaemia is one of the world's most wide-spread monogenetic disorders. 
Advances in the management of beta thalassaemia major by extensive blood 
transfusions and chelation therapy have improved survival of patients into adult 
life. Due to the prolonged life expectancy and improvements in quality of life, 
pregnancy has now become an important issue for patients and clinicians. We 
report a case of a pregnant patient with beta thalassaemia major who underwent a 
successful caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia. The multidisciplinary 
approach to management of beta thalassaemia major and pregnancy is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijoa.2005.02.002
PMID: 16140004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2005 Sep;87(9):1965-71. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.D.02440.

Survival following total hip replacement.

Barrett J(1), Losina E, Baron JA, Mahomed NN, Wright J, Katz JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Dartmouth 
Medical School, Evergreen Building, Suite 300, 46 Centerra Parkway, Lebanon, NH 
03766, USA. jane.a.barrett@dartmouth.edu

BACKGROUND: Several studies have shown that patients who undergo total hip 
replacement live longer than control subjects, but the reason for this apparent 
protective effect is not clear. The purpose of our investigation was to assess 
whether the association had the characteristics of a causal relationship or 
whether it might appear to be due to comorbidity or other factors.
METHODS: We compared survival over a six-year period for 28,469 Medicare 
enrollees who had elective primary total hip replacement in 1996 and a control 
group from the general Medicare population, matched 5:1 on year of birth, sex, 
race, and whether the Medicaid program paid the Medicare premium (a proxy for 
low income). For both the patients treated with total hip replacement and the 
control subjects, we used Medicare hospital claims to ascertain comorbidity, 
that is, whether the patient had had any of sixteen serious discharge diagnoses 
in the year prior to the total hip replacement (or an equivalent date for the 
controls). The survival patterns for the total hip arthroplasty and control 
cohorts were compared with use of proportional hazards regression for three 
follow-up periods: the first ninety days after surgery (or an equivalent date 
for the controls), ninety days to five years after surgery, and more than five 
years after surgery.
RESULTS: The total hip replacement cohort had less comorbidity than the 
controls, with an approximately 30% lower prevalence for most serious diseases. 
Sex, age, Medicaid eligibility, and earlier serious comorbid diagnoses were 
important predictors of survival, but, even in analyses that adjusted for these 
variables, the total hip replacement cohort had better long-term survival than 
the controls. The patients who had a total hip replacement had a higher rate of 
mortality than the controls immediately after surgery, but, by three months 
postoperatively, the mortality rate for the patients was well below that for the 
controls. The overall rate of survival during the first ninety days was 
comparable for the two groups. From three months to five years after surgery, 
the mortality rate for the patients who had a total hip replacement was only 
two-thirds of that for the controls. After five years, the mortality rates for 
the two groups appeared to be converging.
CONCLUSIONS: Total hip replacement recipients survive longer than do matched 
controls in the Medicare population. The very rapid emergence of the lower 
mortality rate suggests that it is due to the selection of low-risk patients for 
elective surgery. However, our admittedly crude adjustment for comorbidity did 
not diminish the protective effect, so some effect of the procedure itself 
cannot be ruled out.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.D.02440
PMID: 16140810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Eur J Public Health. 2006 Feb;16(1):31-5. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cki166. Epub
2005  Sep 1.

The European Common Agricultural Policy on fruits and vegetables: exploring 
potential health gain from reform.

Veerman JL(1), Barendregt JJ, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC--University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. j.veerman@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Consumption of fruits and vegetables is associated with a reduced 
risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer. The European Union Common 
Agricultural Policy keeps prices high by limiting the availability of fruits and 
vegetables. This policy is at odds with public health interests. We assess the 
potential health gain for the Dutch population of discontinuing EU withdrawal 
support for fruits and vegetables.
METHODS: The maximum effect of the reform was estimated by assuming that a 
quantity equivalent to the amount of produce withdrawn in recent years would be 
brought onto the market. For the calculation of the effect of consumption change 
on health we constructed a multi-state life table model in which consumption of 
fruits and vegetables is linked to ischaemic heart disease, stroke, and cancer 
of the oesophagus, stomach, colorectum, lung and breast. Uncertainty is 
quantified using Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: The reform would maximally increase the average consumption of fruits 
and vegetables by 1.80% (95% uncertainty interval 1.12-2.73), with an ensuing 
increase in life expectancy of 3.8 (2.2-5.9) days for men and 2.6 (1.5-4.2) days 
for women. The reform is also likely to decrease socio-economic inequalities in 
health.
CONCLUSION: Ending EU withdrawal support for fruits and vegetables could result 
in a modest health gain for the Dutch population, though uncertainty in the 
estimates is high. A more comprehensive examination of the health effects of the 
EU agricultural policy could help to ensure health is duly considered in 
decision-making.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cki166
PMID: 16141300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Diabetes Metab. 2005 Jun;31(3 Pt 1):221-32. doi:
10.1016/s1262-3636(07)70189-1.

Diabetes: a major co-morbidity of cystic fibrosis.

Costa M(1), Potvin S, Berthiaume Y, Gauthier L, Jeanneret A, Lavoie A, Levesque 
R, Chiasson J, Rabasa-Lhoret R.

Author information:
(1)Research Group on Diabetes and Metabolic Regulation, Research Centre, Centre 
hospitalier de l'université de Montréal (CHUM).

Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) is a frequent complication of cystic 
fibrosis, its prevalence increases with age of patient and is close to 30% at 
the age of 30 years. As life expectancy greatly increases, the number of cystic 
fibrosis patients developing diabetes will increase too. CFRD shares some 
features with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, initial phase is characterised by 
postprandial hyperglycaemia followed by a progression toward insulin deficiency. 
Insulin deficiency is an essential factor in the development of diabetes with an 
additional contribution of insulin resistance. Systematic screening with an oral 
glucose tolerance test is recommended from the age of 14 years because clinical 
signs of CFRD are often confused with signs of pulmonary infection and CFRD 
occurrence is associated with weight and pulmonary function deterioration. In 
observational studies CFRD diagnosis is associated with a significant increase 
in mortality, while treatment allow correction of weight and lung deterioration 
suggesting that CFRD has a significant impact on CF evolution. Microvascular 
complications are recognised, although paucity of data does not permit a clear 
description of their natural history. Annual screening for microvascular 
complication is recommended. There is no evidence by now that CF patients 
develop macrovascular complications. The only recommended pharmacological 
treatment is insulin therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1262-3636(07)70189-1
PMID: 16142013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. J Chir (Paris). 2005 May-Jun;142(3):150-9. doi:
10.1016/s0021-7697(05)80882-8.

[Digestive surgery in the elderly].

[Article in French]

Duron JJ(1), Duron E, Maneglia R.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Générale, Hôpital de la Pitié Salpetrière, Paris. 
jean-jacques.duron@psl.ap-hop-paris.fr

The dramatic increase in digestive surgery among patients of advanced age is the 
logical consequence of the aging population demographics in developed countries. 
Surgery in the aged is not fundamentally different, but it demands precise and 
tailored assessment and management of surgical indications and surgical and 
anesthetic techniques. Advanced age is not a contraindication to even major 
digestive surgery, but every effort must be made to avoid urgent operations by 
attention to pre-existing symptoms which are all-too-often neglected in the 
aged. Intensive care may help to shorten the hospital stay which should ideally 
occupy only a minor portion of the numbered days of the patient (whose life 
expectancy may be significantly longer than one may intuitively foresee).

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-7697(05)80882-8
PMID: 16142077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Mal Vasc. 2005 Jul;30(3):144-9. doi: 10.1016/s0398-0499(05)83831-4.

[Contra indications of sclerotherapy, update 2005].

[Article in French]

Guex JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)jj.guex@wanadoo.fr

BACKGROUND: Modern sclerotherapy, using ultrasound guidance and foam 
sclerosants, is a reference treatment of varices of the lower limbs. Like all 
other techniques it should be employed in the safest, precisely described and 
reproducible conditions. Therefore, its contra indications must be clearly 
known.
METHODS: Contra indications of sclerotherapy can be defined in legal notices 
provided by the manufacturers in compliance with regulatory standards, developed 
empirically, extrapolated from theoretical mechanisms, or analyzed from 
controlled studies.
RESULTS: Contra indications can be patient-, method-, or sclerosing 
agent-related. Legal notices (France) are different for the different available 
sclerosing agents, and often outdated. We can note principally: 
hypersensitivity, fever, phlebitis, childhood, and pregnancy. Chromated glycerin 
should be avoided in patients with chronic renal insufficiency. Intra-arterial 
injections are prohibited (obviously), and the treatment of huge veins as well. 
Association with disulfirame is contra indicated. We must of course add: bed 
rest, severe systemic diseases, poor patient understanding, needle phobia, short 
life expectancy, late stage cancer, known allergy to the sclerosing agent, and 
treatment with tamoxifen. Previous medical history of deep vein thrombosis and 
thrombophilia could be theoretical contra indications and are currently under 
evaluation. Oral anticoagulation is not a contra indication provided the 
situation is stable and the causal disease is not a contra indication in itself. 
Pregnancy is not usually a period when sclerotherapy is useful or urgent, 
according to some authors it can be carried out anyway. In children, 
sclerotherapy of venous malformation is now a reference treatment. Thanks to 
progress in ultrasound guided sclerotherapy with foam, the size of the veins is 
no more an issue, neither is a difficult access to the varix.
CONCLUSIONS: Sclerotherapy is now based on seriously documented evidence. It is 
safe and efficient. Its contra indications are exceptional, usually 
non-specific. It can be used safely for fragile or elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0398-0499(05)83831-4
PMID: 16142178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Int Urol Nephrol. 2005;37(2):243-5. doi: 10.1007/s11255-004-7971-3.

End-to-end ureteral anastomosis: a simple alternative to cutaneous ureterostomy 
in selected patients.

Panella P(1), Pepe P, Motta L, D'Arrigo L, Savoca F, Candiano G, Pennisi M, 
Aragona F.

Author information:
(1)Urology Unit, Cannizzaro Hospital, Catania, Italy, panellapaolo@tiscali.it

End-to-end of terminal ureteral segments seems to be a good alternative to 
terminal cutaneous ureterostomy in very selected cases (patients with short 
life-expectancy or when it is impossible to utilize the bowel for urinary 
diversion).
BACKGROUND: An end-to-end ureteral anastomosis (UA) drained by a single 
percutaneous nephrostomy is proposed as an alternative to permanent cutaneous 
ureterostomy.
METHODS: In eight patients who underwent radical cystectomy, an end-to-end UA 
was realized. All patients had an advanced pelvic neoplasm and/or severe 
comorbidities with a short life-expectancy.
RESULTS: End-to-end UA is a very simple intervention, well tolerated by the 
patient that requires only the periodic substitution of the nephrostomy.
CONCLUSIONS: In very selected cases (patients with short life-expectancy, 
advanced disease) end-to-end UA is a quick and easy way to divert the urine 
after bladder removal.

DOI: 10.1007/s11255-004-7971-3
PMID: 16142550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Z Gastroenterol. 2005 Sep;43(9):1051-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-858281.

Ursodeoxycholic acid in the therapy for primary biliary cirrhosis: effects on 
progression and prognosis.

Leuschner U(1), Manns MP, Eisebitt R.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik der Johann Wolfgang Goethe Universität, Frankfurt am 
Main, Germany. U.Leuschner@em.uni-Frankfurt.de

The effects in clinical studies of UDCA on the endpoints "death" or 
"pre-transplantation survival" can only be shown when UDCA therapy is started in 
an early disease phase, preferably in stage I but no later than stage II, and is 
then continued into stages III/IV, or preferably stage IV. The reasons for this 
lie in the observation that, in stages I/II, no patient suffers from progressive 
disease that irrevocably leads to death or transplantation, while a measurable 
effect of UDCA, as is true for other drugs and other hepatic diseases, continues 
to dwindle and finally disappears as patients progress through the fibrotic and 
cirrhotic stages III and IV. Hence, administration of UDCA must begin in the 
phase of progressive inflammation (stages I and II) and the outcome documented 
after many years of long-term therapy. This requires very large, probably 
unattainable, patient collectives. Whether it is justified to administer placebo 
to one-half of these patients over such an extended period of time represents a 
profound ethical dilemma. Because these arguments were not considered in the two 
meta-analyses cited above or in any other study, they do not allow a definitive 
statement on the life expectancy of patients on UDCA therapy. On the other hand, 
it is possible using generally accepted, independent prognostic variables and 
mathematical models, whose limitations are well-known and must be considered, to 
predict with a high degree of accuracy the disease course of treated and 
untreated patients and calculate their life expectancy and/or 
pre-transplantation survival. Because UDCA exerts a significant positive effect 
on the most important prognostic markers for PBC, such as serum bilirubin, 
piecemeal necroses, histological disease progression, ascites and edema, and 
apparently the scores for pruritus and fatigue, this permits us to demonstrate 
not only a decrease in the incidence of transplantation but also to calculate a 
prolongation in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-858281
PMID: 16142614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Rheumatol. 2005 Sep;32(9):1755-9.

Non-inflammatory joint pain in patients with inflammatory bowel disease is 
prevalent and has a significant impact on health related quality of life.

Palm Ø(1), Bernklev T, Moum B, Gran JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Østfold Hospital, Sarpsborg, Norway. 
Oyvind.Palm@so-hf.no

OBJECTIVE: To describe the prevalence and characteristics of non-inflammatory 
joint pain (NIJP) in patients with chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and 
its impact on patients' health related quality of life (HRQOL).
METHODS: In a population based cohort, 521 patients (80%) were clinically 
investigated 6 years after onset of IBD. NIJP was defined as a history of joint 
pain during the last 3 months prior to examination and the absence of 
concomitant signs or symptoms of inflammatory or degenerative joint disease or 
chronic pain syndromes. HRQOL was registered by the generic Medical Outcome 
Study Short Form 36 (SF-36) and by the disease specific IBDQ.
RESULTS: NIJP was reported by 85 (16%) patients and significantly more often in 
conjunction with Crohn's disease (CD, 22%) compared to ulcerative colitis (UC, 
14%). The prevalence of NIJP was similar in men and women. No correlation with 
extension of intestinal disease, use of systemic medication, or frequency of 
surgery was found. NIJP exerted significant impact on HRQOL measured by SF-36 
and IBDQ.
CONCLUSIONS: NIJP occurs frequently in IBD and more often in CD than in UC. NIJP 
significantly alters HRQOL and should be taken into account in trials estimating 
outcome in IBD and in clinical practice by attending clinicians.

PMID: 16142874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2005 Sep;24(9):1231-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2004.08.008.

Does heart transplantation confer survival benefit in all risk groups?

Luckraz H(1), Sharples LD, Charman SC, Tsui SS, Wallwork J, Parameshwar J, Large 
SR.

Author information:
(1)The Transplant Unit, Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, United Kingdom. 
HeymanLuckraz@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Over 50,000 heart transplants have been performed in the last 3 
decades. The global shortage of donor organs and the relaxation of candidate 
selection criteria over time has resulted in recent controversy about the 
benefits of heart transplantation for some risk groups. We assessed the survival 
benefit acquired in the Papworth Hospital heart transplant population overall, 
taking into account resuscitated marginal donors and high-risk recipients.
METHODS: All heart transplant patients listed between 1979 and June 2002 were 
analyzed (n = 1,212). Of these, 931 cardiac transplantations were done, 
including the use of 126 marginal donors. High-risk recipients (n = 163) were 
defined as patients being in the hospital, on intravenous inotropic drugs, 
and/or with a high transpulmonary gradient (>15 mm Hg). Using Cox regression 
with transplantation as a time-dependent covariate, we assessed the survival 
benefit of transplantation. In our model we assumed that after transplantation 
the initial risk of death is high relative to continued waiting, followed by an 
exponential decline in risk. The crossover point (COP) is the time at which the 
risk of death after transplantation is equal to that of continued waiting (i.e., 
the relative risk is 1). The equity point (EP) determines the time at which the 
early post-operative risk is offset by the later period of lower risk and, 
therefore, the time at which transplantation has a survival advantage.
RESULTS: Overall, the COP was at 54 days and EP at 141 days. In the marginal 
donor sub-group, COP was achieved at 32 days with EP at 72 days, indicating a 
survival benefit. The difference in the COP and EP between the borderline donor 
and normal donor sub-groups was not statistically significant. Post-transplant 
survival was not significantly different from recipients of normal cardiac 
allografts (p = .43). Likewise, for the high-risk recipient group, the COP and 
EP were at 72 and 203 days. Although post-op survival was significantly shorter 
than the normal-risk group, both groups achieved survival benefits.
CONCLUSION: Heart transplantation provides survival benefit in these risk groups 
of recipients in our population. This is a reflection of our active donor 
management protocol and rigorous donor and recipient selection process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2004.08.008
PMID: 16143238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2005 Sep;24(9):1275-83. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2004.10.012.

A cost-effectiveness and cost-utility study of lung transplantation.

Vasiliadis HM(1), Collet JP, Penrod JR, Ferraro P, Poirier C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McGill University, Quebec, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Life-threatening complications and expensive posttransplantation 
medical care raises the issue whether lung transplantation (L-Tx) is cost 
effective. We studied, from a health care system perspective, the cost 
effectiveness (C/E) and cost utility (C/U) of L-Tx in a Canadian setting.
METHODS: An incremental C/E and C/U analysis of L-Tx, compared with the waiting 
list (WL), was carried out on 124 patients accepted into the Quebec L-Tx WL 
(1997-2001). Survival was presented in mean life-years (LYs). Utility, assessed 
with the standard gamble, was used in computing the quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY). Different person-time experiences were simulated. Costs (95% confidence 
interval), in US dollars, were discounted at 5%.
RESULTS: The mean LYs and QALYs gained were 0.57 (0.36-0.78) and 0.62 
(0.36-0.78), respectively. The cost per patient without Tx was 1102 dollars (856 
dollars-1348 dollars) per month. The L-Tx program induced a screening cost of 
6208 dollars per patient. The cost of the L-Tx procedure (n = 91) was 31,815 
dollars (25,301 dollars-44,816 dollars). The post-Tx cost per month in the 
first, second, third, and fourth year was 1809 dollars dollars (1187 
dollars-2446 dollars), 1060 dollars (703 dollars-1478 dollars), 1128 dollars 
(519 dollars-1735 dollars), and 626 dollars (495 dollars-758 dollars), 
respectively. The projected C/E and C/U of the L-Tx program, assessed on the 
basis of pre- and post-Tx extrapolations, reached 40,048 dollars and 46,631 
dollars, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: L-Tx in this Canadian setting yielded a benefit in mean LYs and 
QALYs gained. Although the program is expensive, the C/E and C/U ratios for some 
patient groups prove to be an acceptable cost for the benefits observed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2004.10.012
PMID: 16143245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Hum Evol. 2005 Nov;49(5):643-5; discussion 646-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.04.011. Epub 2005 Sep 6.

Paleodemography, grandmothering, and modern human evolution: a comment on 
Caspari and Lee (2004).

Minichillo T.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jul 27;101(30):10895-900.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.04.011
PMID: 16143366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2005 Nov;62(21):2460-76. doi: 10.1007/s00018-005-5190-4.

Small heat shock proteins: molecular structure and chaperone function.

Sun Y(1), MacRae TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, N.S. B3H 4J1, Canada.

Small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) associate with nuclei, cytoskeleton and 
membranes, and as molecular chaperones they bind partially denatured proteins, 
thereby preventing irreversible protein aggregation during stress. sHSP monomers 
consist of a conserved alpha-crystallin domain of approximately 90 amino acid 
residues, bordered by variable amino- and carboxy-terminal extensions. The sHSPs 
undergo dynamic assembly into mono- and poly-disperse oligomers where the rate 
of disassembly affects chaperoning. The alpha-crystallin domain contains several 
beta-strands organized into two beta-sheets responsible for dimer formation, the 
basic building block of most sHSPS. The amino-terminal extension modulates 
oligomerization, subunit dynamics and substrate binding, whereas the flexible 
carboxy-terminal extension promotes solubility, chaperoning and oligomerization, 
the latter by inter-subunit linkage. Crystallization studies have revealed sHSP 
structure and function. Additionally, site-directed mutagenesis, biophysical 
investigations, functional studies and the discovery of relationships between 
mutated sHSPs and diseases have illuminated the role of sHSP within cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-005-5190-4
PMID: 16143830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Pflege Z. 2005 Aug;58(8):471.

[Humans moving toward a life expectancy of 100 years].

[Article in German]

Balzer K.

PMID: 16144149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Cell Sci. 2005 Oct 1;118(Pt 19):4353-64. doi: 10.1242/jcs.02567. Epub 2005
Sep  6.

Distinct cytoskeletal modulation and regulation of G1-S transition in the two 
life stages of Trypanosoma brucei.

Tu X(1), Mancuso J, Cande WZ, Wang CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of California, 600 16th 
Street, San Francisco, CA 94143-2280, USA.

Procyclic-form Trypanosoma brucei is arrested in G1 phase with extended and/or 
branched posterior morphology when expression of its cdc2-related kinases 1 and 
2 (CRK1 and CRK2) is knocked down by RNA interference. Transmission electron 
microscopy indicated that the mitochondrion in the cell is also extended and 
branched and associated with cortical microtubules in each elongated/branched 
posterior end. This posterior extension is apparently driven by the growing 
microtubule corset, as it can be blocked by rhizoxin, an inhibitor of 
microtubule assembly. In the bloodstream form of T. brucei, however, a knockdown 
of CRK1 and CRK2 resulted only in an enrichment of cells in G1 phase without 
cessation of DNA synthesis or elongated/branched posterior ends. A triple 
knockdown of CRK1, CRK2 and CycE1/CYC2 in the bloodstream form resulted in 15% 
of the cells arrested in G1 phase, but no cells had an abnormal posterior 
morphology. The double and triple knockdown bloodstream-form cells were 
differentiated in vitro into the procyclic form, and the latter thus generated 
bore the typical morphology of a procyclic form without an extended/branched 
posterior end, albeit arrested in the G1 phase as the bloodstream-form 
precursor. There is thus a major distinction in the mechanisms regulating G1-S 
transition and posterior morphogenesis between the two life stages of T. brucei.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.02567
PMID: 16144864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Menopause. 2005 Sep-Oct;12(5):623-9. doi:
10.1097/01.GME.0000156347.54144.AC.  Epub 2005 Sep 1.

Pilot study of menopause symptoms in a clinic population.

Schnatz PF(1), Banever AE, Greene JF, O'Sullivan DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The University of Connecticut School 
of Medicine, Farmington, CT, USA. pschnat@harthosp.org

OBJECTIVE: Studies analyzing menopause symptoms have primarily focused on white 
women of higher socioeconomic status. With an aging population and a longer life 
expectancy, we can anticipate a significant rise in women presenting with 
menopause symptoms and issues related to quality of life. It is important to 
know whether current data regarding menopause symptoms are applicable to all 
women seeking care.
DESIGN: Data from the first 80 consecutive women, predominantly Hispanic and of 
lower socioeconomic status, presenting to the Women's Life Center at Hartford 
Hospital were analyzed for demographic and socioeconomic variables, depression, 
factors related to quality of life, and menopause symptoms.
RESULTS: Although hot flashes (63.8%) and night sweats (55.1%) occurred at a 
frequency similar to that reported in the literature, mood swings (77.9%), 
decrease in energy (75.9%), sleeping problems (73.4%), and memory problems 
(67.1%) were the four most common symptoms. Although there were many symptoms 
that could impact negatively on their quality of life, 82.3% felt that it was 
wonderful to be alive during menopause, 73% were satisfied with their life, and 
the cumulative depression score did not fall into the depressed category.
CONCLUSIONS: This sample of predominantly Hispanic women of lower socioeconomic 
status experienced negative quality-of-life-related symptoms at a much higher 
frequency than has been previously reported. The menopause years, although 
feared by many, can be a wonderful time in a woman's life. Whether the 
differences identified are due to ethnicity, socioeconomic factors, or a 
combination of the two has yet to be determined.

DOI: 10.1097/01.GME.0000156347.54144.AC
PMID: 16145318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Ann Univ Mariae Curie Sklodowska Med. 2004;59(2):44-51.

Causes and effects of zygomatico-orbital and zygomatico-maxillo-orbital 
fractures managed by open reduction and rigid internal fixation.

Dziadek H(1), Cieślik T.

Author information:
(1)Chair and Department of Maxillofacial Surgery in Zabrze Silesian Medical 
University of Katowice.

Progressive violence, the quickening pace of life and transport facilities' 
development have as a consequence an increased number of traumas. Midface 
fractures involving zygomatic bone fractures take one of the leading positions 
in the total number of traumas. It seems appropriate to study the causes and the 
effects of zygomatico-orbital and zygomatico-maxillo-orbital fractures managed 
by open reduction and rigid internal fixation at the present time of the medical 
service being reformed and economic rules being included in the treatment. The 
analysis of the economic consequences of midface traumas and their causes as 
well as the search for the influence of social and cultural changes on fracture 
management was the aim of the study. Histories of 61 injured patients treated by 
open reduction and rigid internal fixation in 1st Department of Maxillofacial 
Surgery of the Silesian Medical University in Zabrze between 1996 and 2001 were 
studied. Patients' sex, the most frequent trauma causes and their disposition in 
different age groups were taken into consideration. It was observed that certain 
symptoms of the fracture tend to coexist with high energy traumas (traffic 
accidents, violent assaults). The influence of injury's extension on the 
prolongation of hospitalization time was emphasized. It was concluded that 
assaults and traffic accidents are the most frequent and devastating causes of 
zygomatico-orbital and zygomatico-maxillo-orbital fractures. The fractures 
usually involve men aged from 21 to 40 years. The rapid growth of violence and 
the pace of life have in recent times necessitated the general use of advanced 
and expensive operating techniques in injured patients recently. The break in 
social and professional activity of injured individuals and the scale of the 
problem indicate the necessity of change in medical service financing.

PMID: 16146047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Am J Ther. 2005 Sep-Oct;12(5):425-30. doi:
10.1097/01.mjt.0000141605.27943.8d.

Local treatment pattern versus trial-based data: a cost-effectiveness analysis 
of drotrecogin alfa (activated) in the treatment of severe sepsis in Sweden.

Hjelmgren J(1), Persson U, Tennvall GR.

Author information:
(1)IHE, The Swedish Institute for Health Economics, Lund, Sweden. jh@ihe.se

Three methodological approaches were applied to analyze whether the 
cost-effectiveness of drotrecogin alfa (activated) (Xigris) as an adjunct to 
standard care compared with standard care alone is a cost-effective alternative 
for the treatment of Swedish patients with severe sepsis and organ dysfunction. 
Health-economic model simulations were applied to (1) Swedish treatment pattern 
data, (2) international trial data and local unit prices, and (3) Swedish local 
patient data combined with trial age structure to adjust for differences in the 
age structure between the trial and the Swedish patient sample. The 
methodological approach had no effect on the overall conclusion that the 
intervention was cost-effective in the treatment of Swedish patients with severe 
sepsis and organ dysfunction. However, the cost-effectiveness ratios were 
sensitive to the approach applied. The results indicate the importance of 
collecting not only information on local prices but also information about 
treatment pattern and patient characteristics when conducting country-specific 
health-economic model applications.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mjt.0000141605.27943.8d
PMID: 16148428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2005 Oct;16(5):543-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.mol.0000180166.08196.07.

The role of fatty acid binding proteins in metabolic syndrome and 
atherosclerosis.

Makowski L(1), Hotamisligil GS.

Author information:
(1)Sarah W. Stedman Nutrition and Metabolism Center, Department of Medicine, 
Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, and Nutrition, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, NC 27704, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The global prevalence of obesity is increasing epidemically. 
Obesity causes an array of health problems, reduces life expectancy, and costs 
over US dollar 100 billion annually. More than a quarter of the population 
suffers from an aggregation of co-morbidities, including obesity, 
atherosclerosis, insulin resistance, dyslipidemias, coagulopathies, 
hypertension, and a pro-inflammatory state known as the metabolic syndrome. 
Patients with metabolic syndrome have high risk of atherosclerosis as well as 
type 2 diabetes and other health problems. Like obesity, atherosclerosis has 
very limited therapeutic options.
RECENT FINDINGS: Fatty acid binding proteins integrate metabolic and immune 
responses and link the inflammatory and lipid-mediated pathways that are 
critical in the metabolic syndrome. This review will highlight recent studies on 
fatty acid binding protein-deficient models and several fatty acid binding 
protein-mediated pathways specifically modified in macrophages, cells that are 
paramount to the initiation and persistence of cardiovascular lesions.
SUMMARY: Adipocyte/macrophage fatty acid binding proteins, aP2 and mal1, act at 
the interface of metabolic and inflammatory pathways. These fatty acid binding 
proteins are involved in the formation of atherosclerosis predominantly through 
the direct modification of macrophage cholesterol trafficking and inflammatory 
responses. In addition to atherosclerosis, these fatty acid binding proteins 
also exert a dramatic impact on obesity, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes and 
fatty liver disease. The creation of pharmacological agents to modify fatty acid 
binding protein function will provide tissue or cell-type-specific control of 
these lipid signaling pathways, inflammatory responses, atherosclerosis, and the 
other components of the metabolic syndrome, therefore offering a new class of 
multi-indication therapeutic agents.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mol.0000180166.08196.07
PMCID: PMC3904771
PMID: 16148539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2005 Oct;17(10):1123-4. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-200510000-00018.

Advanced hepatocellular carcinoma associated with cystic fibrosis.

Kelleher T(1), Staunton M, O'Mahony S, McCormick PA.

Author information:
(1)The Liver Unit, St Vincent's University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

Advances in the treatment of the respiratory complications of cystic fibrosis, 
including the availability of lung transplantation have led to a greater 
awareness of the manifestations of liver disease in up to 40% of patients with 
Cystic Fibrosis (CF). We report the case of an 18 year old female with CF who 
presented with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma and no prior clinical evidence 
of chronic liver disease. Hepatocellular carcinoma is usually the most severe 
manifestation of advanced cirrhosis although its development in non-cirrhotic 
cases of chronic liver disease has been reported. With the increasing life 
expectancy of CF patients it is likely that more unusual hepatic complications 
of this disease may be identified. Greater awareness may perhaps lead to earlier 
diagnosis in those at risk.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-200510000-00018
PMID: 16148560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. J Hypertens. 2005 Oct;23(10):1785-6. doi:
10.1097/01.hjh.0000182106.64393.65.

Physical activity but no cholesterol-lowering for the elderly: probably not.

Neal B.

Comment in
    J Hypertens. 2005 Dec;23(12):2327.

Comment on
    J Hypertens. 2005 Oct;23(10):1803-8.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000182106.64393.65
PMID: 16148596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. J Hypertens. 2005 Oct;23(10):1803-8. doi:
10.1097/01.hjh.0000179512.71018.40.

Role of modifiable risk factors in life expectancy in the elderly.

Benetos A(1), Thomas F, Bean KE, Pannier B, Guize L.

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Investigations Préventives et Cliniques (IPC), Paris, and Department 
of Geriatrics, Medical School of Nancy, Nancy, France. benetos@ipc.asso.fr

Comment in
    J Hypertens. 2005 Oct;23(10):1785-6.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of 'modifiable' 
risk factors, assessed between the ages of 60 and 70 years, in late survival.
DESIGN: The study population included subjects aged 60-70 years, who had a 
standard health examination at the IPC Center, and who could potentially reach 
the age of 80 years for men and 85 years for women at the end of the follow-up 
period.
METHODS: The role of 'modifiable' risk factors was assessed by comparing 
subjects who died before the age of 80 years for men (n=1333) and before 85 
years for women (n=543) to subjects who survived beyond these ages (3681 men, 
1910 women). Multivariate analyses were conducted to determine which parameters 
were independently associated with survival to an advanced age.
RESULTS: The multivariate analysis showed a decreased probability of late 
survival with higher pulse pressure (P<0.0001), higher heart rate (P<0.002), 
higher glycemia (P<0.0034), and an increased probability with regular physical 
activity (P<0.0001). A significant interaction between heart rate and gender 
(P<0.01) was observed, indicating that heart rate was a predictor of late 
survival in men but not in women. Body mass index, cholesterol and triglyceride 
levels, and diastolic blood pressure and tobacco smoking were not associated 
with late survival in this population.
CONCLUSIONS: A systematic search for certain risk factors in an elderly patient 
can have a significant impact on late survival and can lead to the establishment 
of priority goals, such as increasing physical activity and reducing blood 
pressure, heart rate and glycemia.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000179512.71018.40
PMID: 16148602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Handchir Mikrochir Plast Chir. 2005 Aug;37(4):223-9. doi:
10.1055/s-2005-865906.

