proximal descending thoracic aneurysm increased 2 cm in 2 weeks. The two 
thoracic aneurysms were successfully excluded using 2 Excluder stent-grafts. At 
7 months, he was doing well, and the aneurysm had shrunk 11 mm.
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular and open treatment of HIV-related aneurysms is 
possible, with excellent long-term results. Patients with long-life expectancy 
should be treated according to the same guidelines as patients without HIV.

DOI: 10.1583/04-1425.1
PMID: 15943519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Reprod Domest Anim. 2005 Jun;40(3):250-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1439-0531.2005.00595.x.

The use of an open-freezing system with self-seeding for cryopreservation of 
mouse ovarian tissue.

Maltaris T(1), Dimmler A, Müller A, Binder H, Hoffmann I, Kohl J, Siebzehnrübl 
E, Beckmann MW, Dittrich R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Erlangen University Hospital, 
Erlangen, Germany.

Chemoradiotherapy in young women with cancer has substantially improved life 
expectancy in these patients, but these treatments often cause infertility. One 
method of preserving fertility is to cryopreserve ovarian tissue. In this study, 
an automatic open-vessel freezing system with self-seeding was tested for 
cryopreservation of murine ovarian tissue; the mouse is a species widely used in 
human and veterinary medical research. The freezing system concerned, is used 
for cryopreservation of oocytes and embryos in Europe. Twenty severe combined 
immunodeficiency (SCID) mice were ovariectomized. The ovarian tissue was either 
directly transplanted heterotopically into the neck muscle (group 1, n = 6) or 
cryopreserved after equilibration with 1.5 M dimethylsulphoxide and propanediol. 
After thawing, the tissue was transplanted in SCID mice (group 2, n = 6). Before 
and after thawing, a part of the ovarian tissue was examined with the LIVE/DEAD 
fluorescent viability staining. The count of follicles revealed intact (fresh 
24.1%/thawed 21.7%), impaired (fresh 35.1%/thawed 35.4%), and dead follicles 
(fresh 40.8%/thawed 42.9%). The healthy follicular loss because of the 
cryopreservation was 10.0%. All recipient mice were killed after 3 weeks. 
Transplanted ovarian tissue was found macroscopically in all mice. Histological 
examination showed several growing follicles in all developmental phases in both 
groups of SCID mice [group 1 (fresh grafts): 315 +/- 76.3 (mean +/- SD); group 2 
(cryopreserved grafts): 237 +/- 63.4]. These results demonstrate that the use of 
an open-freezing system allows the survival of cryopreserved mouse ovarian 
tissue.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0531.2005.00595.x
PMID: 15943700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Biol Reprod. 2005 Oct;73(4):703-12. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.105.042796. Epub
 2005 Jun 8.

Expression of estrogen receptor ESR1 and its 46-kDa variant in the gubernaculum 
testis.

Staub C(1), Rauch M, Ferrière F, Trépos M, Dorval-Coiffec I, Saunders PT, 
Cobellis G, Flouriot G, Saligaut C, Jégou B.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U625, GERHM, IFR 140, Campus de Beaulieu, Univ Rennes I, Bretagne, 
France.

Testicular descent corresponds to migration of the testis from the abdominal 
cavity to the scrotum and is essential for proper functioning of the testis. 
Recent advances in the characterization of estrogen receptor (ESR) subtypes and 
isoforms in various tissues prompted us to study ESRs within the gubernaculum 
testis, a structure involved in testicular descent. In the rat gubernaculum, we 
searched for ESR alpha (Esr1) and beta (Esr2) and for the androgen receptor 
(Ar), androgens being known to regulate testicular descent. Reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed that Esr1, Esr2, and 
Ar mRNAs were all expressed in the gubernaculum. Using PEETA (Primer extension, 
Electrophoresis, Elution, Tailing, and Amplification), we established that all 
Esr1 leader exons, previously identified in other organs, such as the uterus and 
pituitary, were transcribed in the gubernaculum, with the major form being O/B. 
The RNA protection assays, RT-PCR, and Western blot experiments revealed that 
isoform-specific mRNA transcripts generated by alternative splicing of the 
C-leader sequence on coding exons 1 and 2 of the Esr1 gene gave the 46- and 
66-kDa ESR1 proteins. The ESR1 and AR proteins were found to colocalize in the 
parenchymal cells of the gubernaculum early in development, whereas AR also was 
strongly expressed in the muscular cells, both during fetal and postnatal life. 
The ESR2 protein was weakly expressed, principally in the muscular cells, but 
only once testicular descent had occurred. The levels of the 46-kDa ESR1 variant 
(ER46) exceeded those of the 66-kDa ESR1 form (ER66) at periods when the 
gubernaculum developed. Conversely, the 66-kDa form appears to predominate 
clearly when the gubernaculum growth was low or completed. The possible role of 
estrogens on the modulation of the androgen-dependent growth of the gubernaculum 
and, more widely, on testicular descent is discussed.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.105.042796
PMID: 15944240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2005 Jun 8;2005(23):pe17. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2005.23.pe17.

Why females live longer than males: control of longevity by sex hormones.

Viña J(1), Borrás C, Gambini J, Sastre J, Pallardó FV.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiología, Facultad de Medicina, Avenida Blasco Ibáñez 17, 
46010 Valencia, Spain. jose.vina@uv.es

Females live longer than males in many species, including humans. We have traced 
a possible explanation for this phenomenon to the beneficial action of 
estrogens, which bind to estrogen receptors and increase the expression of 
longevity-associated genes, including those encoding the antioxidant enzymes 
superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. As a result, mitochondria from 
females produce fewer reactive oxygen species than those from males. 
Administering estrogens has serious drawbacks, however--they are feminizing (and 
thus cannot be administered to males) and may increase the incidence of serious 
diseases such as uterine cancer in postmenopausal women. Phytoestrogens, which 
are present in soy or wine, may have some of the favorable effects of estrogens 
without their undesirable effects. Study of gender differences in longevity may 
help us to understand the basic processes of aging and to devise practical 
strategies to increase the longevity of both females and males.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2005.23.pe17
PMID: 15944465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. J Vasc Surg. 2005 Jun;41(6):926-30. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.02.024.

The impact of aortic endografts on renal function.

Alsac JM(1), Zarins CK, Heikkinen MA, Karwowski J, Arko FR, Desgranges P, 
Roudot-Thoraval F, Becquemin JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Stanford University Hospital, Calif, USA. 
jmalsac@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact on late postoperative renal function of 
suprarenal and infrarenal fixation of endografts used to treat infrarenal 
abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of 277 patients treated from 2000 to 2003 with 
three different endografts at two clinical centers. Five patients on dialysis 
for preoperative chronic renal failure were excluded. Group IF of 135 patients 
treated with an infrarenal device (Medtronic AneuRx) was compared with group SF 
of 137 patients treated with a suprarenal device (106 Cook Zenith and 31 
Medtronic Talent). Renal function was evaluated by calculating preoperative and 
latest postoperative creatinine clearance (CrCl) using the Cockcroft formula. 
Patients who developed a >20% decrease in CrCl were considered to have 
significantly impaired renal function.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in patient age, sex, aneurysm 
size, preoperative risk factors, dose of intra- and postoperative contrast, or 
baseline CrCl (IF: 69.3 mL/min, SF: 71.7 mL/min, P = .4). Follow-up time of 12.2 
months was the same in both groups. CrCl decreased significantly during the 
follow-up period in both groups (IF: 69.3 mL/min to 61.7 mL/min, P < .01; SF: 
71.7 mL/min to 64.9 mL/min, P < .03). Postoperative CrCl (IF: 61.7 mL/min, SF: 
64.9 mL/min, P = .3), and the rate of CrCl decrease during the follow-up period 
(IF: -10.9%, SF: -9.5%, P = .2) was not different between the two groups. The 
number of patients with a >20% decrease in CrCl was not different between the 
two groups (IF: n = 35 [25.9%], SF: n = 41 [29.9%], P = .46). However, the 
magnitude of decrease in CrCl in patients with renal impairment was greater in 
patients treated with suprarenal fixation endografts (SF: -39%) compared with 
those treated with infrarenal endografts (IF: -31%, P = .005). This greater 
degree of renal impairment was not due to identifiable differences in 
preoperative risk factors, age, or baseline CrCl. No patients in these series 
required dialysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Regardless the type of endograft used, there is a 10% decrease in 
CrCl in the first year after endovascular aneurysm repair. Suprarenal fixation 
does not seem to increase the likelihood of postoperative renal impairment. 
Decline in renal function over time after endovascular aortic repair is probably 
due to multiple factors, and measures known to be effective in protecting 
kidneys should be considered for these patients. Long-term follow-up with 
measurement of CrCl, along with renal imaging and regular blood pressure 
measurements, should be performed to detect possible late renal dysfunction. 
Prospective studies comparing suprarenal versus infrarenal fixation are needed 
to confirm those results.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.02.024
PMID: 15944586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Vasc Surg. 2005 Jun;41(6):936-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.03.021.

The value of duplex surveillance after open and endovascular popliteal aneurysm 
repair.

Stone PA(1), Armstrong PA, Bandyk DF, Keeling WB, Flaherty SK, Shames ML, 
Johnson BL, Back MR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, University of South Florida 
College of Medicine, Tampa, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine the clinical value of 
vascular laboratory surveillance after open or endovascular repair of popliteal 
aneurysm by analysis of the frequency and nature of secondary interventions 
performed.
METHODS: Over an 8-year period, 55 popliteal artery aneurysms were repaired in 
46 men (mean age, 72 years) by aneurysm ligation and bypass grafting (vein, 37; 
prosthetic, 7), endoaneurysmorrhaphy and interposition grafting (prosthetic, 3; 
vein, 1), or endograft exclusion (n = 7). Indications for intervention included 
aneurysm thrombosis with critical limb ischemia (n = 8), symptomatic (n = 10) or 
asymptomatic (n = 37), >1.75 cm popliteal aneurysm with mural thrombus. 
Catheter-directed thrombolysis was used in three limbs to restore aneurysm and 
tibial artery patency before open repair. Duplex ultrasound surveillance was 
performed after repair to identify residual and acquired lesions. Life-table 
analysis was used to estimate repair site intervention-free (primary) and 
assisted-primary patency.
RESULTS: During a mean 20-month follow-up interval, 20 secondary procedures were 
performed in 18 (31%) limbs to repair duplex-detected graft stenosis (n = 10), 
repair site thrombosis (n = 5), vein graft aneurysm (n = 3), graft entrapment (n 
= 1), or type 1 endoleak (n = 1). Primary patency was 76% and 68% at 1 and 3 
years, and was uninfluenced by tibial artery runoff status or type of bypass 
conduit. Open (n = 12) or endovascular (n = 8) secondary procedures were 
performed on 15 (12 vein, 3 prosthetic) bypass grafts, 2 endografts, and 1 
interposition graft. Mean time to repair graft stenosis (11 months) was shorter 
than to repair of vein graft aneurysm (37 months). Assisted-primary patency was 
93% and 88% at 1 and 3 years; redo bypass grafting was required and successful 
in five limbs. Limb salvage was 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: One third of popliteal artery aneurysms repaired by open or 
endovascular procedures required a secondary intervention within 2 years of 
repair. Repair-site surveillance using duplex ultrasound was able to identify 
lesions that threaten patency, which resulted in excellent assisted patency and 
limb preservation rates when corrected.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.03.021
PMID: 15944589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Nature. 2005 Jun 9;435(7043):811-3. doi: 10.1038/nature03593.

Average remaining lifetimes can increase as human populations age.

Sanderson WC(1), Scherbov S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony 
Brook, New York 11794-4384, USA. wsanderson@notes.cc.sunysb.edu

Increases in median ages, the most commonly used measure of population ageing, 
are rapid in today's wealthier countries, and population ageing is widely 
considered to be a significant challenge to the well-being of citizens there. 
Conventional measures of age count years since birth; however, as lives 
lengthen, we need to think of age also in terms of years left until death or in 
proportion to the expanding lifespan. Here we propose a new measure of ageing: 
the median age of the population standardized for expected remaining years of 
life. We show, using historical data and forecasts for Germany, Japan and the 
United States, that although these populations will be growing older, as 
measured by their median ages, they will probably experience periods in which 
they grow younger, as measured by their standardized median ages. Furthermore, 
we provide forecasts for these countries of the old-age dependency ratio 
rescaled for increases in life expectancy at birth. These ratios are forecasted 
to change much less than their unscaled counterparts, and also exhibit periods 
when the population is effectively growing younger.

DOI: 10.1038/nature03593
PMID: 15944703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Health Econ. 2005 Dec;14(12):1283-6; discussion 1287-9. doi:
10.1002/hec.1002.

QALYs and capabilities: a comment on Cookson.

Anand P(1).

Author information:
(1)Economics Discipline, The Open University, UK. p.anand@open.ac.uk

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2005 Aug;14(8):817-29.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1002
PMID: 15945038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2005 Jul;65(3):405-11. doi: 10.1002/ccd.20458.

Endovascular stenting of nonmalignant superior vena cava syndrome.

Sheikh MA(1), Fernandez BB Jr, Gray BH, Graham LM, Carman TL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Medicine, Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

Superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome is associated with advanced malignancy of the 
chest. Extensive experience is published in the literature regarding the use of 
endovascular intervention for symptomatic relief in these individuals with 
limited survival. Symptomatic SVC obstruction may occur from benign conditions 
that may not alter life expectancy. There are few data regarding endovascular 
therapy in this setting. We retrospectively analyzed our experience using 
endovascular intervention for benign SVC obstruction in 19 patients. In our 
series, the mean age was 46.4 years; 58% were female and 14/19 cases were due to 
an intravascular device. All patients experienced symptomatic relief. Median 
follow-up was 28.8 months. Three patients required secondary procedures to 
maintain patency. Four patients had procedural complications, which did not 
affect the outcomes. One patient died from complications of anticoagulation at 
24 months. Endovascular procedures aimed at relieving SVC stenosis seem to be 
effective in patients with benign disease.

DOI: 10.1002/ccd.20458
PMID: 15945106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Int J Circumpolar Health. 2005 Apr;64(2):170-83. doi:
10.3402/ijch.v64i2.17970.

Language policies: instruments in cultural development and well-being.

Winsa B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Finnish, Stockholm University, Sweden. 
birger.winsa@finska.su.se

OBJECTIVES: To measure social capital in one multilingual region of northern 
Sweden. Earlier studies have neglected the language aspect of social capital 
development. To map cultural production (song, literature, theatre) in 
Meänkieli, Finnish, Saami and Swedish in the Swedish Torne Valley.
METHODS: Statistical comparison of regions. Cultural statistics from electronic 
libraries are related to language policies, density of voluntary associations, 
unemployment, sickness and life expectancy. Lists of voluntary associations from 
municipality authorities.
STUDY DESIGN: The multilingual region contains five municipalities which are 
related to each other. Two monolingual regions are cited as references for the 
study: Finnish Torne Valley and parts of county Västerbotten.
RESULTS: Pajala has the best institutionalisation of the former vernacular 
Meänkieli. Saami gains best institutional support in Kiruna. Gällivare has the 
weakest interest to maintain any minority language, whereas Haparanda promotes 
Finnish in education and administration. Overtorneå has some interest in Finnish 
and Meänkieli. Cultural production corresponds with the institutionalisation of 
Meänkieli and Saami and develops best in Pajala and Kiruna. Haparanda and 
especially Gällivare have weak cultural activities in Meänkieli, Finnish, Saami 
and Swedish. Finnish is a common, formal, administrative language in Haparanda, 
but is only occasionally used in cultural domains. However, the monolingual 
regions have higher cultural production and seem to have denser networks of 
voluntary associations. Since the 1980s, the cultural index is highest in the 
multilingual region.
CONCLUSIONS: Former discriminative language policies have, most likely, 
hamperered development of the civil society in the multilingual region, which 
has seemingly had an influence on unemployment and well-being. The monolingual 
region has less unemployment, (earlier) better health and better life expectancy 
for males. There are, however, indications that the revitalisation of the 
minority language effects positively on socio-economic conditions.

DOI: 10.3402/ijch.v64i2.17970
PMID: 15945287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Oncology (Williston Park). 2005 Apr;19(5):597-602.

Management of advanced colorectal cancer in older patients.

Lichtman SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Commack, New 
York, New York 11725, USA. lichtmas@mskcc.org

Many elderly individuals have substantial life expectancy, even in the setting 
of significant illness. There is evidence to indicate that elderly individuals 
derive as much survival benefit as younger patients from standard chemotherapy 
approaches in advanced colorectal cancer. Effective treatments should not be 
withheld from older patients on the basis of age alone. Treatment decisions 
should be based on functional status, presence of comorbidities, and 
consideration of drug-specific toxicities that can be exacerbated in older 
individuals due to decreased functional reserve. Infusional and weekly 
fluorouracil (5-FU) regimens are better tolerated than bolus and monthly 
regimens. Oral capecitabine (Xeloda) reduces the frequency of a number of 
toxicities compared with bolus 5-FU, including stomatitis, a particularly 
debilitating toxicity in many elderly patients. The effectiveness and 
tolerability of oxaliplatin and irinotecan (Camptosar) appear to be similar in 
older and younger patients. Older patients can also receive bevacizumab 
(Avastin), although caution is warranted in those with cardiovascular disease. 
Overall survival in metastatic colorectal cancer improves with the availability 
of multiple effective chemotherapeutic agents. The full range of effective 
therapies in advanced colorectal cancer should be extended to elderly patients.

PMID: 15945341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Neurosurg Spine. 2005 May;2(5):564-73. doi: 10.3171/spi.2005.2.5.0564.

Surgical management of spinal metastases: analysis of prognostic factors during 
a 10-year experience.

North RB(1), LaRocca VR, Schwartz J, North CA, Zahurak M, Davis RF, McAfee PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, School of Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21287-7881, USA. RNorth@jhmi.edu

OBJECT: Refinement of surgical techniques, especially anterior approaches, for 
the management of spinal metastases has improved patient outcomes, despite the 
fact that a complete analysis of the prognostic factors that would inform 
patient selection has not been undertaken. The authors sought to identify such 
prognostic factors for neurological outcome and life expectancy in patients with 
spinal metastases.
METHODS: The authors used Kaplan-Meier techniques, log-rank comparisons, and a 
multivariate model stratified by tumor type to identify prognostic factors for 
duration of ability to walk and survival in patients who underwent surgical 
treatment for spinal metastases during a decade when all current treatment 
options were available. Preoperatively, 53 (87%) of the 61 patients in the study 
population suffered neurological symptoms (for example, weakness) and 52 (85%) 
were ambulatory. Postoperatively, 59 (97%) were ambulatory. Most patients who 
survived 6 months (81%) remained ambulatory, as did 66% of those alive at 1.6 
years. The median postoperative survival was 10 months. The risk factors for 
loss of ambulation were preoperative loss of ambulatory ability, recurrent or 
persistent disease after primary radiotherapy of the operative site, a procedure 
other than corpectomy, and tumor type other than breast cancer. Prognostic 
factors for reduced survival were surgical intervention extending over two or 
more spinal segments, recurrent or persistent disease after primary radiotherapy 
involving the operative site, diagnosis other than breast cancer, and a cervical 
spinal procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this analysis allowed the authors to create a simple 
prognostic factor scoring system that can be applied to individual patients. The 
positive experience derived from this study supports an expanded role for the 
surgical treatment of metastatic spinal disease.

DOI: 10.3171/spi.2005.2.5.0564
PMID: 15945430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2005 Jun;12(2):273-80. doi: 10.1677/erc.1.00892.

Life expectancy in differentiated thyroid cancer: a novel approach to survival 
analysis.

Links TP(1), van Tol KM, Jager PL, Plukker JT, Piers DA, Boezen HM, Dullaart RP, 
de Vries EG, Sluiter WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University Hospital Center Groningen, P.O. Box 
30.001, 9700 RB Groningen, The Netherlands. t.p.links@int.umcg.nl

In differentiated thyroid carcinoma 10-year survival rates amount to 80-95%. 
Because age at diagnosis varies widely, these survival rates strongly depend on 
age at presentation. The aim of the present study was to analyse the 
attributable risk factors, including therapy per se, on survival in thyroid 
cancer after proper adjustment for the baseline mortality rate in the general 
population and to elucidate the adverse treatment effects on survival. Initial 
treatment in 504 patients consisted of thyroidectomy and 131I ablation. 
High-dose 131I was administered for residual disease. Patients in complete 
remission underwent an annual physical examination and thyroglobulin 
measurements during TSH suppression. Survival time was studied after 
transformation to standardised survival time to adjust for the baseline 
mortality rate in the general population. Median follow-up since diagnosis was 9 
years. The 10-year overall survival was 83% and disease-specific survival 91%. 
After initial treatment, persistent disease occurred in 75 patients (15%). In 
univariate analysis, T4, N1, M1 status and Hürthle cell type were prognostic for 
persistent and recurrent disease. Age was not prognostic for recurrent disease 
in multivariate analysis. The standardised survival time was not altered in 
disease-free patients. However, patients with persistent disease had a median 
standardised survival time of only 0.60 (95% confidence interval 0.47;0.72), 
ranging from 0 to above 1, independent of initial tumour status or age. The 
cumulative proportion of persistent disease was at least 20% of the whole group. 
Disease-free patients after thyroid carcinoma have a normal residual life span. 
In contrast, in cases of persistent disease the life expectancy ranges widely 
with its median being reduced to 60%. Overall, treatment including radioiodine 
is safe but unsuccessful in 20% of the patients. Age is not a disease-specific 
risk factor and should not be used as an independent factor in treatment 
algorithms.

DOI: 10.1677/erc.1.00892
PMID: 15947102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. BMJ. 2005 Jun 11;330(7504):1382-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.330.7504.1382.

Prognosis without treatment as a modifier in health economic assessments.

Camidge R(1), Walker A, Oliver JJ, Nussey F, Maxwell S, Jodrell D, Webb DJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh EH4 2XU. 
drcamidge@talk21.com

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Jun 11;330(7504):1340-1.

How long someone has to live intuitively seems important in rationing decisions. 
Incorporating it into economic assessments, as described here, could make 
decisions fairer

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.330.7504.1382
PMCID: PMC558296
PMID: 15947403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Eur Spine J. 2005 Nov;14(9):910-4. doi: 10.1007/s00586-005-0924-4. Epub 2005
Jun  10.

Commentary on the prevention of paralysis after traumatic spinal cord injury in 
humans: the neglected factor--urgent restoration of spinal cord circulation.

Crock HV(1), Yoshizawa H, Yamagishi M, Crock MC.

Author information:
(1)ccrock@bigpond.net.au

Although advances in the management of spinal injuries during the past 60 years 
have led to greatly increased life expectancy for paralysed patients, most 
remain disabled. Around the world, spinal injury centres have become specialized 
rehabilitation units, where staff accepts the inevitability of persisting 
paralysis. In part, this pessimism has been based on incorrect information about 
the anatomy and function of the circulation of the spinal cord. Since the 
publication of accurate descriptions of the segmental nature of spinal 
vasculature, research and clinical data suggest that reversal or prevention of 
paralysis after spinal injury may be possible in many patients. These improved 
outcomes will depend on the recognition that urgent correction of cord blood 
supply in patients with traumatic spinal injury is critical to the long-term 
results of treatment. The creation of specialist spinal units within trauma 
centres for the urgent treatment of patients following spinal injury will 
require considerable logistical change, but has the potential to lead to a 
revolution in spinal care, driven by the knowledge that spinal cord function can 
often be saved.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-005-0924-4
PMID: 15947996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Psychother Psychosom Med Psychol. 2005 Jun;55(6):291-7. doi: 
10.1055/s-2004-834748.

[Between self-determination and role abdication: opinions about euthanasia -- 
results of a study of Thuringians palliative tumour patients].

[Article in German]

Leppert K(1), Hausmann C, Dye L, van Oorschot B, Köhler N, Schweitzer S, 
Steinbach K, Anselm R, Strauss B.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Medizinische Psychologie, Universitätsklinikum Jena. 
Karena.Leppert@med.uni-jena.de

This study reports the degree to which terminally ill tumour patients wish to be 
involved in medical decisions about their care and death. In addition, the study 
aimed to examine euthanasia from the patient's perspective. 272 tumour patients 
with a life expectancy of less that 1 year took part in a face to face survey. 
The survey examined attitudes, beliefs and desires with respect to euthanasia, 
where one would like to die and who should be present as well as attitudes to 
advance directives. The majority of tumour patients (75 %) wanted to die at home 
and in the presence of family members (90 %). A multidimensional scaling 
analysis generated two clusters which were interpreted as self-other 
determination and integration-non-integration as a patient within the health 
system. The central theme for the tumour patients is to protect their autonomy 
in the decision making process at the end of their lives. Desires expressed by 
these tumour patients did not reflect public discussions about active, passive 
or indirect assisted suicide. The results demonstrate that doctors should 
communicate especially sensitively with tumour patients and their relatives.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-834748
PMID: 15948049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Can Dent Assoc. 2005 May;71(5):331.

A look at the (near) future based on the (recent) past - how our patients have 
changed and how they will change.

MacEntee M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Health Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver. macentee@interchange.ubc.ca <macentee@interchange.ubc.ca>

Remedies for dental diseases have been in use for as long as 4,000 years, and 
various materials and methods have been used over the millennia. Dentistry 
continues to change in response to changes in the age distribution, origins, 
financial means and health of the population, as well as to changes within the 
profession itself. The Canadian population is very unevenly distributed 
geographically and ethnically. Furthermore, it is aging rapidly and life 
expectancy is increasing. Although the average income of Canadians has 
increased, the increase was unevenly distributed, and the gap between rich and 
poor continues to expand. There has been a steady rise in the number of 
Canadians with dental insurance, although the proportion of the population with 
insurance varies from one province to another. Not surprisingly, people with 
dental insurance compared to those without are more frequent users of dental 
services. The rate of caries attack has diminished in industrialized countries, 
but people are keeping their teeth longer, so caries will remain a significant 
public health problem, particularly among elderly people. In addition, smoking 
tobacco is strongly associated with periodontal disease; thus, there should be 
more action within the dental community in support of smoking cessation 
programs. The composition of the dental care community is also changing. The 
ratios of dentists and dental hygienists to the population have increased, the 
services offered by dental technicians have expanded greatly, and the services 
offered by denturists have also increased as these services gain more widespread 
acceptance. Use of dental services in Canada remains reasonably broad; however, 
denture-wearers continue to regard uncomfortable dentures as a normal part of 
aging. The pattern of uneven distribution of disease and access to service 
remains the major challenge facing the dental profession.

PMID: 15949255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Accid Anal Prev. 2005 Jul;37(4):761-6. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2005.03.016.

Different quantitative measures of the impact of injury deaths on the community 
in the Guangxi Province, China.

Lam LT(1), Yang L, Liu Y, Geng WK, Liu DC.

Author information:
(1)The Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children, Locked Bag 4001 Westmead, Sydney, 
NSW 2145, Australia. lawrencl@chw.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Injury has been identified as a major health problem in China. 
Different quantitative measures based on the concept of years of potential life 
lost have been derived for assessing the burden of injury and other diseases. 
However, few studies have been conducted to compare the usefulness of these 
measures in terms of providing practical information. This study aims to examine 
the utility of different measures in assessing the impact of injury to Chinese 
society.
METHODS: This is a population-based epidemiological study utilising surveillance 
and fielded-gathered data. Data are obtained from the disease surveillance 
information system and record on each death certificate. The mortality rates, 
years of potential life lost (YPLL), potentially years of productive life lost 
(PYPLL), and the valued years of potential life lost (VYPLL) are calculated and 
compared for deaths due to injury and other major diseases. Data on different 
causes of injury were analysed in the same manner.
RESULTS: In comparison to other causes of death, injury deaths had the highest 
annual rates of YPLL (1265.1 years/100,000 persons), PYPLL (517.8 years/100,000 
persons), and VYPLL (378.6 years/100,000 persons). Premature deaths due to 
injury provided the only positively valued VYPLL among all major causes of 
death. Among the injury deaths, motor vehicle traffic-related death caused the 
largest YPLL (13,274 years), PYPLL (5461 years), and VYPLL (3064 years).
CONCLUSION: In considering the burden of deaths to society, mortality rate only 
is an insufficient measure. The age, the years of overall life and expected 
productivity and related economic consequences have to be taken into 
consideration. As an indicator of the economic impact and burden of premature 
deaths to society, the VYPLL seems to be an advantageous utility. Injury posts 
the greatest public health problem to the developing economy of China.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2005.03.016
PMID: 15949464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Appetite. 2005 Oct;45(2):127-36. doi: 10.1016/j.appet.2005.03.012.

Relationships between the Food Expectancy Questionnaire (FEQ) and the Food 
Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ).

Reid M(1), Bunting J, Hammersley R.

Author information:
(1)School of Human and Life Sciences, University of Surrey, Roehampton, 
Holybourne Avenue, London SW15 4JD, UK. m.reid@roehampton.ac.uk

The outcome expectancies of 250 respondents were examined using the Food 
Expectancy Questionnaire (FEQ), comparing expectancies about four different 
foods: fruit, vegetables, chocolate and sweets and plain biscuits. These 
expectancies were related to diet as assessed by a Food Frequency Questionnaire. 
As with alcohol expectancies [Jones, B. T., Corbin, W. & Fromme, K. (2001). A 
review of expectancy theory and alcohol consumption. Addiction, 96, 57-72], on 
which this research was modelled, positive and negative outcomes were the main 
factors for all foods, accounting jointly for between 33 and 40% of expectancy 
variance in factor analysis and predicting as much as 16% of the variance in 
relevant food intake measures by linear regression. Expected positive and 
negative outcomes of eating were predominantly immediate psychological 
after-effects, rather than including orosensory experiences, or longer-term 
effects on health or well-being. Other expectancies varied from food to food. 
FEQ expectancies for different foods have similar factor structure and were 
related to self-reported diet, the FEQ therefore shows promise as a means of 
modelling cognitions about eating.

DOI: 10.1016/j.appet.2005.03.012
PMID: 15949872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Trends Biochem Sci. 2005 Jun;30(6):297-303. doi: 10.1016/j.tibs.2005.04.010.

A window of opportunity: timing protein degradation by trimming of sugars and 
ubiquitins.

Lederkremer GZ(1), Glickman MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Research and Immunology, George Wise Faculty of Life 
Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel. gerardoL@taunex.tau.ac.il

Of the many post-translational modifications of proteins, ubiquitination and 
N-glycosylation stand out because they are polymeric additions. In contrast to 
single-unit modifications, the fate of the modified protein is determined by the 
dynamic equilibrium of polymerization versus depolymerization, rather than by 
the initial addition itself. Notably, it is the trimming of sugar chains and 
elongation of polyubiquitin that target the protein to degradation. Recent 
research suggests that, for each process, special receptors recognize chains 
that reach an appropriate length and commit the conjugated substrate for 
proteasomal disposal. We propose that the 'magic numbers' are loss of at least 
three mannose residues from the initial chain, or extension to at least four 
ubiquitins. Although these processes are compartmentalized to either side of the 
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane, some proteins are sequentially subjected to 
both because they transverse this membrane for ER-associated degradation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tibs.2005.04.010
PMID: 15950873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Oct;34(5):1144-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyi121. Epub 2005
Jun  10.

Beyond reproduction: women's health in today's developing world.

Raymond SU(1), Greenberg HM, Leeder SR.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Global Health and Economic Development, The Earth Institute 
and Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: The concept of women's health is tethered strongly to reproductive 
health. At present, international attention and resources are focused on 
obstetric events and, recently, HIV/AIDS because of the significance of these 
problems in the least developed nations. This limited concept of women's health, 
however, is decreasingly relevant to the global community, and needs to be 
revisited in the light of decreasing fertility and increasing life expectancy in 
many countries where it was previously applicable. It should be expanded to 
embrace the full spectrum of health experienced by women, and preventive and 
remedial approaches to the major conditions that afflict women. Allocation of 
health service resources should be aligned with the epidemiological realities of 
these threats to women's health.
METHODS: Cause of death data for women aged 15-34 years and 35-44 years were 
examined for nine less developed countries. Deaths associated with pregnancy and 
child birth, and HIV were compared with deaths due to three chronic disease 
categories (cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes). The women's health 
research literature for developing countries appearing in the American Journal 
of Public Health and British Medical Journal was also examined.
RESULTS: In seven out of the nine countries, among women aged 15-34 years, 
chronic diseases caused over 20% of deaths, while reproductive causes and HIV 
together accounted for approximately 10% of deaths, in all countries except in 
India. Among women aged 35-44 years, in all but India, chronic diseases 
accounted for over four times the deaths attributable to reproductive causes and 
HIV. The causes of death were not related to the level of development in these 
countries as measured by GNI PPP. Papers pertaining to women's health published 
in public health and medical research journals focused principally on 
reproduction.
CONCLUSIONS: Extending the definition of women's health to include a concern for 
chronic diseases is critical if the needs of women in less developed nations are 
to be met. In less developed countries, chronic disease is the most important 
cause of female death even during childbearing years and for women with young 
families. Development agencies and private philanthropy must begin to fund the 
studies that will further refine our understanding of the role of chronic 
diseases in women's health in the developing world.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyi121
PMID: 15951356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Med Decis Making. 2005 May-Jun;25(3):308-20. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05276852.

Is antibiotic prophylaxis for bacterial endocarditis cost-effective?

Agha Z(1), Lofgren RP, VanRuiswyk JV.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Zablocki 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53295, USA. zia@mcw.edu

BACKGROUND: Antibiotic prophylaxis for bacterial endocarditis is recommended by 
the American Heart Association (AHA) before undergoing certain dental 
procedures. Whether such antibiotic prophylaxis is cost-effective is not clear. 
The authors' objective is to estimate the cost-effectiveness of predental 
antibiotic prophylaxis in patients with underlying heart disease.
METHODS: The authors conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov 
model to compare cost-effectiveness of 7 antibiotic regimens per AHA guidelines 
and a no prophylaxis strategy. The study population consisted of a hypothetical 
cohort of 10 million patients with either a high or moderate risk for developing 
endocarditis.
RESULTS: Prophylaxis for patients with moderate or high risk for endocarditis 
cost $88,007/quality-adjusted life years saved if clarithromycin was used. 
Prophylaxis with amoxicillin and ampicillin resulted in a net loss of lives. All 
other regimens were less cost-effective than clarithromycin. For 10 million 
persons, clarithromycin prophylaxis prevented 119 endocarditis cases and saved 
19 lives.
CONCLUSION: Predental antibiotic prophylaxis is cost-effective only for persons 
with moderate or high risk of developing endocarditis. Contrary to current 
recommendations, our data demonstrate that amoxicillin and ampicillin are not 
cost-effective and should not be considered the agents of choice. Clarithromycin 
should be considered the drug of choice and cephalexin as an alternative drug of 
choice. The current published guidelines and recommendations should be revised.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05276852
PMID: 15951458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Med Decis Making. 2005 May-Jun;25(3):321-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05276955.

Optimal allocation of testing dollars: the example of HIV counseling, testing, 
and referral.

Walensky RP(1), Weinstein MC, Smith HE, Freedberg KA, Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston 02114, USA. rwalensky@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Health screening programs can be represented as a pathway of 
sequential processes: offering a test, obtaining consent, conducting the test, 
providing results, and linking to appropriate care. Using the example of HIV 
testing, the authors explore the optimal targeting of funds within this pathway.
METHODS: The authors develop a microsimulation of HIV testing services and 
decompose the likelihood that an unidentified HIV-infected person will receive 
care into the probability of testing [P(test)] and the probability of follow-up 
[P(follow)] defined as returning for results and linking to care. The authors 
examine the clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of alternative investments in 
these component probabilities.
RESULTS: At 1% undiagnosed HIV prevalence, cost-effectiveness ratios for HIV 
testing cluster around $33,000/QALY (quality-adjusted life year) gained. A 
program with a yield of 0.16 via P(test)=0.20 and P(follow)=0.80 has a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $32,900/QALY compared with $36,300/QALY for a 
program where P(test)=0.80 and P(follow)=0.20. Interventions that improve the 
probability of success in later stages in the testing pathway [P(follow)] are 
more cost-effective than investments devoted to earlier stages [P(test)].
CONCLUSIONS: Equivalent pathway outcomes in a screening program do not confer 
equal value. Limited screening resources are best targeted toward returning for 
results and linkage among those already identified with disease rather than 
offering testing to additional people.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05276955
PMID: 15951459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Med Decis Making. 2005 May-Jun;25(3):330-40. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05276859.

The cost-effectiveness of raising the legal smoking age in California.

Ahmad S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Planning, Policy and Design, University of California, Irvine, 
CA, USA. sajjad@miami.edu

Given evidence that most smokers start smoking before the age of 18 and that 
smokers who start earlier in life are less likely to quit, policies that reduce 
or delay initiation could have a large impact on public health. Raising the 
legal minimum purchase age of cigarettes to 21 may be an effective way for 
states to reduce youth smoking by making it harder for teens to buy cigarettes 
from stores and by reducing the number of legal buyers they encounter in their 
normal social circles. To inform the ongoing debate over this policy option in 
California, this study provides an evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of 
raising the state's legal smoking age to 21. Costs and benefits were estimated 
from a societal perspective using a dynamic computer simulation model that 
simulates changes to the California population in age, composition, and smoking 
behavior over time. Secondary data for model parameters were obtained from 
publicly available sources. Population health impacts were estimated in terms of 
smoking prevalence and the change in cumulative quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) to the California population over a 50-year period. Economic impacts 
were measured in monetary terms for medical cost savings, cost of law 
enforcement, and cost of checking identification. Compared to a status quo 
simulation, raising the smoking age to 21 would result in a drop in teen (ages 
14-17) smoking prevalence from 13.3% to 2.4% (82% reduction). The policy would 
generate no net costs, in fact saving the state and its inhabitants a total of 
$24 billion over the next 50 years with a gain of 1.47 million QALYs compared to 
status quo. This research should prove useful to California's policy makers as 
they contemplate legislation to raise the state's legal smoking age.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05276859
PMID: 15951460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Med Decis Making. 2005 May-Jun;25(3):341-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05276858.

How much does it cost to change the behavior of health professionals? A 
mathematical model and an application to academic detailing.

Gandjour A(1), Lauterbach KW.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. afschin.gandjour@medizin.uni-koeln.de

Several strategies have shown to be effective at enhancing the implementation of 
research findings in daily practice. These implementation strategies improve the 
delivery of preventive or therapeutic care by successfully educating health 
professionals. On the other hand, little is known about the costs of these 
implementation strategies. The goal of this article is to present a mathematical 
model that predicts implementation costs by using published data. As an 
important feature, the model portrays the relationship between the degree of 
treatment underuse and implementation costs. Two application examples of 
outreach programs for the prevention of stroke and coronary disease analyze the 
relevance of implementation costs with respect to the cost-effectiveness ratio 
and total costs. They demonstrate that implementation costs may have little 
impact on the cost-effectiveness ratio but may nevertheless be relevant to a 
3rd-party payer who needs to stay within the budget and ensure that care is 
provided to a large underserved population. The model and its consideration of 
implementation costs may contribute to a more efficient use of health care 
resources.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05276858
PMID: 15951461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Clin J Pain. 2005 Jul-Aug;21(4):317-22. doi:
10.1097/01.ajp.0000125267.40304.57.

A prospective cost-effectiveness study of trigeminal neuralgia surgery.

Pollock BE(1), Ecker RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery and the Division of Radiation Oncology, 
Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. pollock.bruce@mayo.edu

OBJECTIVES: Approximately 8000 patients with trigeminal neuralgia undergo 
surgery each year in the United States at an estimated cost exceeding $100 
million. We compared 3 commonly performed surgeries (microvascular 
decompression, glycerol rhizotomy, and stereotactic radiosurgery) to evaluate 
the relative cost-effectiveness of these operations for patients with idiopathic 
trigeminal neuralgia.
METHODS: Prospective nonrandomized trial at a tertiary referral center from July 
1999 to December 2001. One hundred twenty-six consecutive patients underwent 153 
operations (microvascular decompression, n=33; glycerol rhizotomy, n=51; 
stereotactic radiosurgery, n=69). Preoperative characteristics were similar 
between the groups with respect to sex, pain location, duration of pain, and 
atypical features. Facial pain outcomes were classified as excellent (no pain, 
no medications), good (no pain, reduced medications), fair (>50% pain 
reduction), and poor. The cost per quality adjusted pain-free year was compared 
between the groups. Mean follow-up was 20.6 months.
RESULTS: Patients having microvascular decompression more commonly achieved and 
maintained an excellent outcome (85% and 78% at 6 and 24 months) compared with 
glycerol rhizotomy (61% and 55%, P=0.01) and stereotactic radiosurgery (60% and 
52%, P<0.01). No difference was detected between glycerol rhizotomy and 
stereotactic radiosurgery (P=0.61). The cost per quality adjusted pain-free year 
was $6,342, $8,174, and $8,269 for glycerol rhizotomy, microvascular 
decompression, and stereotactic radiosurgery, respectively. Reduction in the 
average cost of morbidity and additional surgeries to zero did not make either 
microvascular decompression or stereotactic radiosurgery more cost-effective 
than glycerol rhizotomy. Both microvascular decompression and stereotactic 
radiosurgery would be more cost-effective than glycerol rhizotomy if the cost of 
additional surgeries after glycerol rhizotomy increased 79% and 83%, 
respectively.
DISCUSSION: This analysis supports the practice of percutaneous surgeries for 
older patients with medically unresponsive trigeminal neuralgia. At longer 
follow-up intervals, microvascular decompression is predicted to be the most 
cost-effective surgery and should be considered the preferred operation for 
patients if their risk for general anesthesia is acceptable. More data are 
needed to assess the role that radiosurgery should play in the management of 
patients with trigeminal neuralgia.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ajp.0000125267.40304.57
PMID: 15951649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Epidemiology. 2005 Jul;16(4):556-62. doi:
10.1097/01.ede.0000165392.35273.d4.

Age at menopause, cause-specific mortality and total life expectancy.

Ossewaarde ME(1), Bots ML, Verbeek AL, Peeters PH, van der Graaf Y, Grobbee DE, 
van der Schouw YT.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: A later menopause has been associated with a decreased 
cardiovascular risk but with an increased risk for breast and endometrial 
cancer. The net effect on mortality is unclear. We determined the association of 
age at menopause with longevity and with the balance between cardiovascular and 
cancer mortality.
METHODS: We analyzed data from a breast cancer screening cohort comprising 
12,134 postmenopausal women followed for an average of 17 years. We used Cox 
proportional hazards models and life tables to calculate the life expectancy of 
an average Dutch woman at age 50.
RESULTS: During 204,024 person-years, there were 2607 deaths, of which 963 were 
due to cardiovascular diseases and 812 due to cancer. Ischemic heart disease 
risk decreased with a later menopause (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.98 per year; 95% 
confidence interval = 0.96-0.99), but the risk of fatal uterine or ovarian 
cancer increased (1.07 per year; 1.01-1.12). A later menopause was associated 
with longer overall survival; HR for total mortality was 0.98 per year 
(0.97-0.99). Life expectancy in women with menopause after age 55 was 2.0 years 
longer than those with menopause before age 40. Adjustment for potential 
confounders did not materially change the results.
CONCLUSIONS: Age-adjusted mortality is reduced 2% with each increasing year of 
age at menopause. In particular, ischemic heart disease mortality is 2% lower. 
Although the risk of death from uterine or ovarian cancer is increased by 5%, 
the net effect of a later menopause is an increased lifespan.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ede.0000165392.35273.d4
PMID: 15951675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. J Artif Organs. 2005;8(1):67-70. doi: 10.1007/s10047-004-0278-4.

Long-term outcomes using vascular grafts sealed with fragmented autologous 
adipose tissue for aortoiliac occlusive disease.

Yamazaki I(1), Karube N, Soma T, Noishiki Y, Ichikawa Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Saiseikai Yokohama Nanbu Hospital, 
3-2-10 Kounandai, Kounan-ku, Yokohama, 234-8503, Japan. pxc02607@nifty.ne.jp

The aim of this study was to test the safety and efficacy of fragmented 
autologous adipose tissue (FAT) grafts for revascularization in aortoiliac 
occlusive disease. Twenty-seven patients with atherosclerotic aortoiliac 
occlusive disease underwent surgical treatment using FAT grafts. A piece of 
adipose connective tissue was obtained from the operative wound, cut into small 
pieces, and pressed into the wall of a fabric vascular prosthesis. Cumulative 
primary patency rates were 92% at 1 year, 92% at 3 years, and 86% at 6 years. 
Cumulative secondary patency rates were 96%, 96%, and 90% for the same 
intervals. In this clinical study, the FAT grafts demonstrated good long-term 
patency rates and no particular problems. This is the first clinical report of 
