
Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Economics, Kyoto University. furukawa@XQD.biglobe.ne.jp

OBJECTIVE: From a financial viewpoint, it is important that international 
medical care and cooperation in recipient countries by NGOs or governments of 
donor countries, and health promotion carried out by recipient countries' 
governments, are carried out efficiently. In this paper, we performed analysis 
of factors that determine life expectancy and infant mortality rates in 
recipient countries, in consideration of the socioeconomic environment.
METHODS: We used data from World Development Indicators 2002 and 2003, published 
by the World Bank, and Human Development Indicators 2002, published by the 
United Nations Development Programme. We analyzed 68 countries classified as 
middle and low income countries by the World Bank, because complete data for 
these countries were available. We used life expectancy and infant mortality 
rates as health indicators and did multiple regression analysis; with these 
indicators as dependent variables, and with socioeconomic environmental data as 
independent variables. Furthermore, we undertook multiple regression analysis 
after carrying out group divisions of the countries according to the numbers of 
refugees, birthrates, and expenditures on armaments.
RESULTS: We ascertained the following points. 1) For improving health of people 
in recipient countries, it is important to secure safe drinking water, improve 
literacy, and increase income and the possibility of access to basic medicines. 
2) For countries where there are a lot of refugees, it is important to increase 
the measles vaccine inoculation rate. 3) In countries where there are few 
refugees, life expectancy will be prolonged by as much as three years if the 
measles vaccine inoculation rate increases by just 10%. 4) In countries with a 
high armaments expenditure rate in proportion to GNI, it is important to secure 
access to sanitary toilet facilities. 5) Life expectancy in countries tends to 
shorten if life expectancy in their neighboring countries is short. 6) The rate 
of public health expenditures in proportion to GDP has no affect on health. 7) 
If the literacy rate rises 10%, life expectancy will be prolonged by about 1.2 
years and the infant mortality rate will decrease about 6%.
CONCLUSION: Though improvement of the socioeconomic environment is more 
effective for improving life expectancy and infant mortality rates in recipient 
countries than medical conditions, the effectiveness differs according to the 
number of refugees, the birthrate and expenditures on armaments.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.60.335
PMID: 16130908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2005 Sep;53(9 Suppl):S299-303. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53494.x.

Future longevity-demographic concerns and consequences.

Kinsella KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Division, International Programs Center, Bureau of the Census, 
Washington Plaza 2, Rm. 312, Washington, DC 20233, USA. 
kevin.g.kinsella@census.gov

One of gerontology's most intense and ongoing debates centers around the future 
shape of the human survival curve. Is average life expectancy destined to peak 
between the ages of 85 and 90, as some would argue, or will new ways be found to 
sustain the dramatic increase in life expectancy that unfolded during the 20th 
century? This article considers issues inherent in projecting the number of 
tomorrow's older people, with a focus on the future course of mortality. 
Although overall mortality declined in most countries during the past century, 
the decline has been irregular and has reversed in some countries because of 
unforeseen epidemics, cause-specific changes, and sociopolitical upheavals. On 
the positive side, scientists have identified several promising findings; 
mortality trajectories at very old ages may decline, old-age mortality can be 
altered by social interventions, the number of centenarians is exploding, new 
chemical entities have a demonstrable effect on life expectancy, and there has 
been a linear increase in worldwide record-setting life expectancy during the 
past 160 years. New projections made by the United Nations peer, for the first 
time, 300 years into the future. These projections foresee a rise of about 25 
years in life expectancy at birth in North America over the next 3 centuries, 
which some experts today believe to be quite conservative. It is important to 
recognize the inherent uncertainty in life expectancy projections and how 
assumptions of future mortality change must-from a policy perspective-be 
considered in conjunction with potential concomitant changes in fertility and 
migration.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53494.x
PMID: 16131357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2005 Sep;53(9 Suppl):S308-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53496.x.

The compression of morbidity hypothesis: a review of research and prospects for 
the future.

Mor V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Brown University Medical School, Providence, 
RI 02912, USA. Vincent_More@brown.edu

Cross-national evidence for the validity of the compression of morbidity 
hypothesis originally proposed by Fries is generally accepted. Generational 
improvements in education and the increased availability of adaptive 
technologies and even medical treatments that enhance quality of life have 
facilitated continued independence of older persons in the industrialized world. 
Whether this trend continues may depend upon the effect of the obesity epidemic 
on the next generation of older people.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53496.x
PMID: 16131359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2005 Sep;53(9 Suppl):S310-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53497.x.

Aging in the United Kingdom and Europe--a snapshot of the future?

Carpenter GI(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services Studies, University of Kent, Canterbury, UK. 
G.I.Carpenter@kent.ac.uk

The implications for society of increasing life span to 120 years can only be 
guessed, but comparing the diversity of responses to aging in different 
countries may give insights into the possible effect. A European Union-funded 
study of the recipients of community care services in 11 European countries 
illustrates how such studies can help identify some of the issues. The study, 
made possible by the availability of a multidimensional standardized assessment 
for community care, illustrates how diversity of social and political history 
and culture results in widely different patterns of dependency in those cared 
for at home, different levels of formal care, and informal caregiver burden. 
There is wide variation in living arrangements, marital status, and dependency 
between countries. The average age of recipients of community care is 
approximately 82, regardless of the average age of the national population. In 
Italy, which has the oldest population in Europe, dependency in people supported 
at home in extended families is high, with little formal care and significant 
levels of informal caregiver burden. In contrast the Nordic countries have lower 
levels of dependency and greater proportions of people with no informal 
caregiver. In Germany, informal caregiver burden may be related to the 
regulatory mechanisms rather than dependency and levels of formal care. With a 
life expectancy of 120, it will be these 80-year-olds who will be caring for 
their parents. Although humankind is resourceful, it will require a unified 
approach to aging to overcome the challenging diversity in our societies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53497.x
PMID: 16131360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2005 Sep;53(9 Suppl):S317-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53499.x.

Extraordinary longevity: individual and societal issues.

Louria DB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, University of 
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, New Jersey Medical School, 30 Bergen 
Street, Newark, NJ 07107, USA. louriado@umdnj.edu

The likelihood of substantial increases in average life spans and the potential 
for profound longevity increases (to 100, 110, or 120 years on average) raises a 
host of societal issues. These include huge increases in the number of old and 
very old persons, the likelihood of a massive increase in health expenditures 
for the population aged 65 and older, the potential for outliving financial 
resources, challenges to the viability of Social Security and pensions, concerns 
about quality of life, and possible intergenerational antagonisms. If marked 
increases occur in average life spans worldwide, several billions could be added 
to world population at eventual stability, and that could become a 
sustainability issue. To prepare for what is likely to be our demographic future 
requires a major shift in thinking about this type of complex issue; we must 
change from a simple linear to a much broader systems approach. Changes in 
retirement age, strengthening (but then replacing) the Social Security system, 
retaining older persons in the labor force, mandating retirement savings during 
working years, and many other actions must be considered in a debate that should 
start now about life span increase and the future; if we dawdle, we risk the 
consequences of being unprepared for the dramatic demographic changes that are 
likely to occur in the coming decades.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53499.x
PMID: 16131362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. BMC Health Serv Res. 2005 Aug 30;5:58. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-5-58.

The cost-effectiveness of early noninvasive ventilation for ALS patients.

Gruis KL(1), Chernew ME, Brown DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA. kgruis@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Optimal timing of noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) 
initiation in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is unknown, but 
NIPPV appears to benefit ALS patients who are symptomatic from pulmonary 
insufficiency. This has prompted research proposals of earlier NIPPV initiation 
in the ALS disease course in an attempt to further improve ALS patient quality 
of life and perhaps survival. We therefore used a cost-utility analysis to 
determine a priori what magnitude of health-related quality of life (HRQL) 
improvement early NIPPV initiation would need to achieve to be cost-effective in 
a future clinical trial.
METHODS: Using a Markov decision analytic model we calculated the benefit in 
health-state utility that NIPPV initiated at ALS diagnosis must achieve to be 
cost-effective. The primary outcome was the percent utility gained through NIPPV 
in relation to two common willingness-to-pay thresholds: 50,000 dollars and 
100,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: Our results indicate that if NIPPV begun at the time of diagnosis 
improves ALS patient HRQL as little as 13.5%, it would be a cost-effective 
treatment. Tolerance of NIPPV (assuming a 20% improvement in HRQL) would only 
need to exceed 18% in our model for treatment to remain cost-effective using a 
conservative willingness-to-pay threshold of 50,000 dollars per QALY.
CONCLUSION: If early use of NIPPV in ALS patients is shown to improve HRQL in 
future studies, it is likely to be a cost-effective treatment. Clinical trials 
of NIPPV begun at the time of ALS diagnosis are therefore warranted from a 
cost-effectiveness standpoint.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-5-58
PMCID: PMC1208883
PMID: 16131401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2005 Sep;438:215-20. doi: 
10.1097/01.blo.0000170721.07088.2e.

Function and health status in surgically treated bone metastases.

Talbot M(1), Turcotte RE, Isler M, Normandin D, Iannuzzi D, Downer P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.

In a prospective study, we evaluated if surgery substantially improved 
functional and quality of life outcomes in patients with nonspinal bone 
metastases. Sixty-seven patients were followed up prospectively. The Short 
Form-36, the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society 1987 form, the Musculoskeletal Tumor 
Society 1993 form, and the Toronto Extremity Salvage Score were administered 
preoperatively and 6 weeks and 3 months postoperatively. Fifty percent of the 
patients had pathologic fractures. Intramedullary nailing was done in 36 
patients, prosthetic replacement was done in 24 patients, and plating was done 
in five patients. The average postoperative survival was 8 months. At 6 weeks, 
13 patients had died and seven were lost to followup. Twenty-one percent of 
patients had complications, although only 4.5% needed additional surgery. The 
patients' Musculoskeletal Tumor Society 1987 form, Musculoskeletal Tumor Society 
1993 form, and Toronto Extremity Salvage Score scores improved at 6 weeks and 3 
months postoperatively. There were no improvements in the Short Form-36 mental 
and physical summary scales of the patients. The number of patients using pain 
medication did not decrease. Patients had functional improvements after surgical 
treatment of bone metastases, even patients with a limited life expectancy. 
Future prospective studies should anticipate a high rate of attrition with this 
population from death and loss to followup.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic study, Level I (high quality prospective study-all 
patients were enrolled at the same point in their disease with > or = 80% 
followup of enrolled patients). See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete 
description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1097/01.blo.0000170721.07088.2e
PMID: 16131894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Urologe A. 2005 Sep;44(9):997-1004, 1006-7. doi: 10.1007/s00120-005-0879-4.

[PSA recurrence after primary curative therapy--local or systemic? When is a 
second curative therapy still possible?].

[Article in German]

Wirth MP(1), Engelhardt FM.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie am Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus 
der Technischen Universität Dresden.

PSA recurrence after primary curative therapy for localized prostate cancer is a 
common problem. Further curative treatment is only reasonable in the case of 
local recurrence. Therefore, minimizing the likelihood of metastatic disease is 
crucial. So far, imaging techniques cannot distinguish between local recurrence 
and distant metastasis. It is therefore reasonable to orientate on PSA kinetics 
and pathological criteria. Histologic confirmation of suspected local recurrence 
after radical prostatectomy before salvage therapy is not required. However, 
after initial radiation therapy histologic confirmation of suspected isolated 
local recurrence should be obtained. The optimal treatment for a PSA recurrence 
depends on the initial therapy and the life-expectancy of the patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-005-0879-4
PMID: 16133232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Childs Nerv Syst. 2006 Mar;22(3):300-4. doi: 10.1007/s00381-005-1199-0. Epub
 2005 Aug 19.

Primary giant congential infantile fibrosarcoma of the scalp: case report and 
review of literature.

Muzumdar D(1), Michaud J, Ventureyra EC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario, Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada.

CASE REPORT: A primary giant infantile fibrosarcoma of the scalp in a 
6-month-old boy is reported. He presented with a rapidly enlarging right 
paramedian parietal scalp swelling since birth. There were no signs of raised 
intracranial tension. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the brain revealed a 
large vascular scalp tumor extending over the posterior frontal and parietal 
region bilaterally crossing the midline. There was no intracranial extension. 
Carotid angiography revealed an extremely vascular tumor supplied by the 
external carotid artery branches. The tumor was completely resected through a 
curvilinear scalp incision. Histology was consistent with diagnosis of an 
infantile fibrosarcoma. The patient had an uneventful course and received no 
postoperative adjuvant therapy. MR imaging of the brain at follow-up after 5 
years showed no evidence of recurrence of tumor. At follow-up after 10 years, he 
is asymptomatic and leading an active life.
DISCUSSION: The pathology and management of primary scalp fibrosarcoma is 
discussed, and the relevant literature is briefly reviewed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-005-1199-0
PMID: 16133274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Osteoporos Int. 2005 Dec;16(12):1883-93. doi: 10.1007/s00198-005-1956-7.
Epub  2005 Aug 31.

Potential cost-effective use of spine radiographs to detect vertebral deformity 
and select osteopenic post-menopausal women for amino-bisphosphonate therapy.

Schousboe JT(1), Ensrud KE, Nyman JA, Kane RL, Melton LJ 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Park Nicollet Health Services, Minneapolis, MN, USA. schouj@parknicollet.com

Prevalent vertebral deformities are predictive of future clinical fractures 
independent of bone density. We used a Markov model with eight health states to 
estimate from the societal perspective the cost-effectiveness of using spine 
radiographs to identify postmenopausal women age 60 or older with one or more 
vertebral deformities and then treat them with anti-resorptive drug therapy to 
prevent fractures. We compared three strategies: 5 years of amino-bisphosphonate 
(alendronate) therapy for all, 5 years of alendronate therapy for only those 
with prevalent a radiographic vertebral deformity or no initial alendronate 
treatment. Lifetime direct medical and indirect costs, quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs) and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were tracked. 
For women with one or more prevalent vertebral deformities, the costs per QALY 
gained ranged from 5,084 dollars (for an 80 year old with a T-score of -2.4) to 
61,192 dollars (for a 60 year old with a T-score of -1.0). For women without 
prevalent vertebral deformity, the costs per QALY gained ranged from 41,897 
dollars (for a 60 year old with a T-score of -2.4) to 166,219 dollars (for an 80 
year old with a T-score of -1.0). These results were modestly sensitive to 
reasonable changes in fracture rates, disutility, discount rates and assumptions 
about the accuracy of spinal radiographs for detecting vertebral deformity. 
Assuming a societal willingness to pay per QALY gained of 50,000 dollars, the 
strategy of performing spine radiographs in post-menopausal osteopenic women 
with T-scores at or below -1.5 and treating those with 1 or more prevalent 
vertebral deformities is likely to be cost-effective. However, further research 
on the accuracy of vertebral deformity ascertainment from routine clinical 
radiographs and on the efficacy of amino-bisphosphonate drugs for reducing the 
risk of non-vertebral fractures in osteopenic women is needed to define more 
precisely the subset of osteopenic post-menopausal women in whom use of spinal 
radiographs is most cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-005-1956-7
PMID: 16133649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2005 Aug;38(4):233-41. doi: 10.1007/s00391-005-0317-7.

[Ethical dimension of generation solidarity].

[Article in German]

Pohlmann S(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor für Soziale Gerontologie, Fachhochschule München-Munich University 
of Applied Sciences, Am Stadtpark 20, 81243 München, Germany. 
stefan.pohlmann@fhm.edu

Safeguarding mutual support between generations is vital in an aging society and 
leads inevitably to a number of sociopolitical challenges. Not only material 
solidarity, but also immaterial transfers within and outside the family are 
called for. But in order to develop a sustainable idea of generational 
solidarity, the traditional definitions of generations on the one hand and of 
solidarity on the other should be questioned. The following contribution 
describes main aspects of generational relations and brings up concepts of event 
based generations and horizontal solidarity for discussion. In the light of a 
demographic ethic, prerequisites for a promising cohesion between adults with 
and without children are derived.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-005-0317-7
PMID: 16133751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2005 Aug;38(4):256-61. doi: 10.1007/s00391-005-0320-z.

[Self-responsibility as a component of quality-oriented care-reflections on 
further development of nursing care insurance].

[Article in German]

Gohde J(1).

Author information:
(1)Präsident des Diakonischen Werks der EKD, Diakonisches Werk der EKD e. V., 
Reichensteiner Weg 24, 14195 Berlin, Germany. gohde@diakonie.de

Further development of nursing care insurance must consider both ethical aspects 
and scarcity of resources. An economy that serves human life has two principal 
targets: safeguarding the basis of existence and extension of the fulfillment of 
life. From an ethical perspective welfare and personal responsibility have to be 
equilibrated by promoting individuality and self-responsibility and maintaining 
relatives' willingness to become a caregiver. Discussing the role of prevention 
and rehabilitation in nursing care it is argued that the legally committed 
primacy of prevention and rehabilitation over care has still not been put into 
practise due to unresolved problems at the interface of health insurance and 
nursing care insurance as well as at the interface of inpatient and outpatient 
providers. Moreover, it seems necessary to strengthen prevention and 
rehabilitation in the context of care. A comprehensive understanding of 
individual demands for help, support, and care requires a revision of the common 
definition of need for care in terms of activities of daily living which 
neglects particularly psycho-social needs. Case management is a suitable 
approach to provide adequate and coordinated support as a prerequisite for 
quality of life in people in need for care. Overcoming compartmentalization of 
inpatient and outpatient sectors and crosslinking of services are described as 
essential challenges for future provision of nursing care insurance. 
Intensification of counseling and advice for patients and relatives, extension 
and diversification of local providers, upgrading of ambulant services, daily 
care and short-term care, diversification of nursing homes and other housing 
arrangements, further development of hospices and palliative care, and 
acceptance of institutions for the elderly as indispensable components of the 
future care system are discussed as specific tasks in the further development of 
nursing care insurance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-005-0320-z
PMID: 16133754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Neurochem. 2005 Nov;95(4):962-73. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2005.03425.x.
Epub  2005 Aug 31.

Mitochondrial medicine: neuroprotection and life extension by the new 
amphiphilic nitrone LPBNAH acting as a highly potent antioxidant agent.

Poeggeler B(1), Durand G, Polidori A, Pappolla MA, Vega-Naredo I, Coto-Montes A, 
Böker J, Hardeland R, Pucci B.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung fuer Stoffwechselphysiologie, Institut fuer Zoologie, Anthropologie 
und Entwicklungsbiologie der Georg August Universitaet Goettingen, Goettingen, 
Germany. bpoegge@gwdg.de

The search for effective treatments that prevent oxidative stress associated 
with premature ageing and neurodegenerative diseases is an important area of 
neurochemical research. As age- and disease-related oxidative stress is 
frequently associated with mitochondrial dysfunction, amphiphilic antioxidant 
agents of high stability and selectivity that target these organelles can 
provide on-site protection. Such an amphiphilic nitrone protected human 
neuroblastoma cells at low micromolar concentrations against oxidative damage 
and death induced by exposure to the beta-amyloid peptide, hydrogen peroxide and 
3-hydroxykynurenine. Daily administration of the antioxidant at a concentration 
of only 5 mum significantly increased the lifespan of the individually cultured 
rotifer Philodina acuticornis odiosa Milne. This compound is unique in its 
exceptional anti-ageing efficacy, being one order of magnitude more potent than 
any other compound previously tested on rotifers. The nitrone protected these 
aquatic animals against the lethal toxicity of hydrogen peroxide and doxorubicin 
and greatly enhanced their survival when co-administered with these oxidotoxins. 
These findings indicate that amphiphilic antioxidants have a great potential as 
neuroprotective agents in preventing the death of cells and organisms exposed to 
enhanced oxidative stress and damage.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2005.03425.x
PMID: 16135084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. J Clin Oncol. 2005 Sep 1;23(25):6072-82. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.08.104.

Survival in patients operated on for pathologic fracture: implications for 
end-of-life orthopedic care.

Nathan SS(1), Healey JH, Mellano D, Hoang B, Lewis I, Morris CD, Athanasian EA, 
Boland PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Ave, 
New York, NY 10021, USA.

PURPOSE: Life expectancy is routinely used as part of the decision-making 
process in deciding the value of surgery for the treatment of bone metastases. 
We sought to investigate the validity of frequently used indices in the 
prognostication of survival in patients with metastatic bone disease.
METHODS: The study prospectively assessed 191 patients who underwent surgery for 
metastatic bone disease. Diagnostic, staging, nutritional, and hematologic 
parameters cited to be related to life expectancy were evaluated. 
Preoperatively, the surgeon recorded an estimate of projected life expectancy 
for each patient. The time until death was recorded.
RESULTS: Kaplan-Meier survival analyses indicated that the survival estimate, 
primary diagnosis, use of systemic therapy, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
(ECOG) performance status, number of bone metastases, presence of visceral 
metastases, and serum hemoglobin, albumin, and lymphocyte counts were 
significant for predicting survival (P < .004). Cox regression analysis 
indicated that the independently significant predictors of survival were 
diagnosis (P < .006), ECOG performance status (P < .04), number of bone 
metastases (P < .008), presence of visceral metastases (P < .03), hemoglobin 
count (P < .009), and survival estimate (P < .00005). Diagnosis, ECOG 
performance status, and visceral metastases covaried with surgeon survival 
estimate. Linear regression and receiver-operator characteristic assessment 
confirmed that clinician estimation was the most accurate predictor of survival, 
followed by hemoglobin count, number of visceral metastases, ECOG performance 
status, primary diagnosis, and number of bone metastases. Nevertheless, survival 
estimate was accurate in predicting actual survival in only 33 (18%) of 181 
patients.
CONCLUSION: A better means of prognostication is needed. In this article, we 
present a sliding scale for this purpose.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.08.104
PMID: 16135474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. J Clin Oncol. 2005 Sep 1;23(25):6240-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.06.866.

Prognostic factors in advanced cancer patients: evidence-based clinical 
recommendations--a study by the Steering Committee of the European Association 
for Palliative Care.

Maltoni M(1), Caraceni A, Brunelli C, Broeckaert B, Christakis N, Eychmueller S, 
Glare P, Nabal M, Viganò A, Larkin P, De Conno F, Hanks G, Kaasa S; Steering 
Committee of the European Association for Palliative Care.

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care Unit, Department of Medical Oncology, Morgagni-Pierantoni 
Hospital, Via Forlanini, 34, 47100 Forlì, Italy. ma.maltoni@ausl.fo.it

PURPOSE: To offer evidence-based clinical recommendations concerning prognosis 
in advanced cancer patients.
METHODS: A Working Group of the Research Network of the European Association for 
Palliative Care identified clinically significant topics, reviewed the studies, 
and assigned the level of evidence. A formal meta-analysis was not feasible 
because of the heterogeneity of published studies and the lack of minimal 
standards in reporting results. A systematic electronic literature search within 
the main available medical literature databases was performed for each of the 
following four areas identified: clinical prediction of survival (CPS), biologic 
factors, clinical signs and symptoms and psychosocial variables, and prognostic 
scores. Only studies on patients with advanced cancer and survival < or = 90 
days were included.
RESULTS: A total of 38 studies were evaluated. Level A evidence-based 
recommendations of prognostic correlation could be formulated for CPS (albeit 
with a series of limitations of which clinicians must be aware) and prognostic 
scores. Recommendations on the use of other prognostic factors, such as 
performance status, symptoms associated with cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome 
(weight loss, anorexia, dysphagia, and xerostomia), dyspnea, delirium, and some 
biologic factors (leukocytosis, lymphocytopenia, and C-reactive protein), 
reached level B.
CONCLUSION: Prognostication of life expectancy is a significant clinical 
commitment for clinicians involved in oncology and palliative care. More 
accurate prognostication is feasible and can be achieved by combining clinical 
experience and evidence from the literature. Using and communicating prognostic 
information should be part of a multidisciplinary palliative care approach.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.06.866
PMID: 16135490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Eur Respir J. 2005 Sep;26(3):465-73. doi: 10.1183/09031936.05.00047805.

Cost-effectiveness of isoniazid chemoprevention in close contacts.

Diel R(1), Nienhaus A, Schaberg T.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, c/o Institute for Medical Sociology, Heinrich Heine 
University, Post box 101007, D-40001 Düsseldorf, Germany. 
Roland.Diel@uni-duesseldorf.de

The aim of the present study was to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis in 
young and middle-aged adults with latent tuberculosis (TB) infection in Germany. 
A Markov model simulated the progression of 20- and 40-yr-old close contacts of 
active TB cases over 20 yrs. Health and economic outcomes of isoniazid (INH) 
chemoprevention versus no intervention were compared. The analysis determined 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio in terms of cost per quality-adjusted 
life year and the difference between numbers of TB cases and of TB-related 
deaths. INH chemoprevention prevented 79% of expected TB cases in both age 
groups, and saved 9,482 and 9,142 in the lower and higher age groups, 
respectively, per case prevented. Quality-adjusted life expectancy was slightly 
extended by 8 days in the lower age group and 7 days in the higher age group, at 
a cost saving of 417 and 375, respectively, per person. Annual savings were 
20,862 and 18,742 per 1,000 contacts, respectively. The number needed to be 
treated to prevent one TB case in the lower age group was 23 and 25 in the 
higher age group. The programme also prevented three TB-related deaths in the 
younger and two in the older cohort. The results are highly sensitive to 
treatment-cost assumptions. In conclusion, isoniazid chemoprevention in Germany 
is a highly cost-effective approach for reducing the burden of tuberculosis in 
recently converted young and middle-aged adults.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.05.00047805
PMID: 16135730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2005 Sep 1;30(17):1989-97. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000176332.67849.ea.

Cost-effectiveness of single-level anterior cervical discectomy and fusion for 
cervical spondylosis.

Angevine PD(1), Zivin JG, McCormick PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Columbia University, New York, New York 
10032, USA.

STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis with retrospective cost analysis and 
literature review.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative cost-effectiveness of anterior cervical 
discectomy and fusion (ACDF) with autograft, allograft, and allograft with 
plating for single-level anterior cervical spondylosis.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: There are several accepted methods of surgically 
treating single-level cervical spondylosis anteriorly. No study has clearly 
demonstrated the superiority of one method over the alternatives. The techniques 
may differ in their operative risks and resource use, perioperative 
complications, short-term outcome, and long-term outcome and complications. 
Formal cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) provides a structure for analyzing many 
variables and comparing different treatment outcomes. Sensitivity analysis is 
used to test the robustness of the model and to determine variables that have 
significant effects on the results. Future areas of research and refinements of 
the CEA model can be developed from these findings.
METHODS: A retrospective review of hospital charges was performed for 78 
patients who underwent single-level ACDF with allograft alone or ACDF with 
allograft and plating (ACDFP). The charges were converted to estimated costs for 
fiscal year 2000 using the ratio of costs to charges method. A CEA model was 
developed consisting of a decision-analysis model for the first year postsurgery 
and a Markov model for the next 4 years after surgery. Probabilities and outcome 
utilities were estimated from the literature. Outcome was measured in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental CEA was performed. Several 
variables were tested in one-way sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Compared with ACDF with autograft, ACDF with allograft offered an 
improvement in quality of life at a cost of 496 dollars per QALY. ACDFP provided 
additional gains in quality of life compared with ACDF with allograft at a cost 
of 32,560 dollars per QALY in the base case analysis. In sensitivity analysis, 
these estimates varied between 417 dollars and 741 dollars per QALY and between 
19,090 dollars per QALY and domination of ACDFP by ACDF with allograft, 
respectively. The results were most sensitive to assumptions regarding 
differences in the length of the postoperative recovery period.
CONCLUSIONS: ACDF with allograft offers a benefit relative to ACDF with 
autograft at a cost of 496 dollars per QALY. ACDFP has a benefit relative to 
ACDF with allograft at an approximate cost of 32,560 dollars per QALY. CEA 
provides a method for comparing the benefits and risks of these three 
procedures. Further research needs to be performed regarding these procedures, 
particularly examining the postoperative recovery period.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000176332.67849.ea
PMID: 16135991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Br J Cancer. 2005 Sep 5;93(5):590-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602683.

Mammographic screening before age 50 years in the UK: comparison of the 
radiation risks with the mortality benefits.

Berrington de González A(1), Reeves G.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK Epidemiology Unit, University of Oxford, Gibson Building, 
Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford OX2 6HE, UK. aberring@hsph.edu

Mammographic screening before age 50 years is less effective than at older ages 
and the associated radiation risks are higher. We estimated how many breast 
cancer deaths could be caused and how many could be prevented by a decade of 
annual two-view mammographic screening starting at ages 20, 30 and 40 years, 
respectively, in the UK; for all women, and for women with first-degree 
relatives affected with breast cancer. We extrapolated from a radiation risk 
model to estimate the number of radiation-induced breast cancer deaths, and used 
results from randomised trials, which suggest a reduction in breast cancer 
mortality of 10-20% in women invited to screening before age 50 years, to 
estimate the number of deaths that could be prevented. The net change in breast 
cancer deaths was defined as the number of radiation-induced deaths minus the 
number of prevented deaths. For all women, assuming a reduction in mortality 
from screening of 20%, a decade of annual screening was estimated to induce more 
deaths than it prevents if started at age 20 years and at age 30 years (net 
increase = 0.86 and 0.37 breast cancer deaths, respectively, per 1000 women 
screened). The corresponding estimate for screening starting at age 40 years was 
a net decrease of 0.46 deaths/1000 women screened and a zero net change assuming 
a 10% mortality reduction. Results for women with first-degree relatives with 
breast cancer were generally in the same direction but, because their background 
incidence rates are higher, the net increases or decreases were greater. In 
conclusion, our estimates suggest that a decade of annual two-view mammographic 
screening before age 40 years would result in a net increase in breast cancer 
deaths, and that starting at age 40 years could result in a material net 
decrease only if breast cancer mortality is reduced by about 20% or more in 
women screened. Although these calculations were based on a number of uncertain 
parameters, in general, the conclusions were not altered when these parameters 
were varied within a feasible range.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602683
PMCID: PMC2361593
PMID: 16136033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Harv Health Lett. 2005 Jun;30(8):5.

The best hip. People are clamoring for the ceramic-on-ceramic hip that Jack 
Nicklaus received, but they're expensive.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16136676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2005;7 Suppl 1:S1-12. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2005.tb00069.x.

Simplified treatment of the atrophic posterior maxilla via immediate/early 
function and tilted implants: A prospective 1-year clinical study.

Calandriello R(1), Tomatis M.

Author information:
(1)roberto@calandriello.com

BACKGROUND: Posterior maxillae are often difficult to treat owing to the sinus 
antrum. Placing implants in remaining bone regions in the atrophic maxilla, 
without performing sinus grafting, is a challenge. Immediate function adds to 
this challenge.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to suggest and evaluate a simplified 
treatment concept for the rehabilitation of the atrophic maxilla using tilted 
implants subjected to immediate/early function.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighteen patients were included in the study. Sixty 
implants were placed to support 19 fixed partial or full-arch prostheses. 
Immediate/early function was applied. The patients were followed for a minimum 
of 1 year after prosthesis connection. Stability measurements and radiographic 
evaluation of the change of the marginal bone level were performed.
RESULTS: One axial and one tilted implant failed in one patient, giving a 
cumulative survival rate of 96.7%. No failure of provisional prostheses 
occurred. The mean marginal bone resorption recorded after 1 year was low (0.82 
mm for axial implants and 0.34 mm for tilted implants).
CONCLUSION: The results of the present study suggest that tilted implants placed 
in immediate function may be a viable treatment approach for the rehabilitation 
of the atrophied maxilla. Simplified treatment procedures, reduced surgical 
invasion, shorter treatment time, and reduced costs constitute some of the 
benefits for the patient and the clinician.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2005.tb00069.x
PMID: 16137082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2005;7 Suppl 1:S52-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2005.tb00075.x.

Immediate occlusal loading of Brånemark System TiUnite implants placed 
predominantly in soft bone: 4-year results of a prospective clinical study.

Glauser R(1), Ruhstaller P, Windisch S, Zembic A, Lundgren A, Gottlow J, 
Hämmerle CH.

Author information:
(1)Department for Fixed Prosthodontics and Dental Materials, University of 
Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. glauser@zzmk.unizh.ch

BACKGROUND: Immediate occlusal implant loading has been documented as a viable 
treatment option for various indications. However, most of the available studies 
reported on the short-term outcome of this treatment modality.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this prospective clinical study was to document, on a 
long-term basis, the outcome of immediate occlusally loaded Brånemark System Mk 
IV TiUnite (Nobel Biocare AB, Göteborg, Sweden) implants placed to support fixed 
reconstructions in various regions of the jaws.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-eight patients received a total of 51 fixed 
prosthetic reconstructions, all of which were connected on the day of implant 
insertion. Twenty restorations replaced single teeth, 30 were fixed partial 
dentures, and 1 was a full-arch fixed lower restoration. These prostheses were 
supported by 102 Brånemark System Mk IV TiUnite implants (38 maxillary and 64 
mandibular), the majority of which were placed in posterior regions (88%) and 
mainly in soft bone (76%). Resonance frequency measurements and marginal 
periimplant soft tissue evaluations were conducted during the course of the 
study. Furthermore, radiographic examinations were performed at the time of 
prosthesis delivery and at the 1- and 6-month and 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-year 
follow-up visits. This report summarizes the results after 4 years of loading.
RESULTS: Three maxillary implants were removed, although stable, in one patient 
at the 8-week follow-up owing to postoperative infection in the adjacent guided 
bone regeneration area. No implants were lost further on. This resulted in a 
cumulative implant success rate of 97.1% after 4 years of prosthetic loading. 
The mean marginal bone remodeling after 4 years of function was 1.3 +/- SD 0.9 
mm. At 4 years, absence of marginal plaque and bleeding on probing was reported 
for 87% and 69% of the sites, respectively, thereby remaining unchanged since 
the 1-year follow-up. On average, the interproximal soft tissue fill increased 
for both mesial and distal papillae from scores of 1.4 +/- 1.1 and 1.0 +/- 1.1, 
respectively, at the preoperative assessment to 2.0 +/- 0.8 and 1.7 +/- 0.8, 
respectively, at the 4-year assessment.
CONCLUSION: The applied immediate loading protocol, in combination with a 
slightly tapered implant design and a modified implant surface texture, was 
shown to be a successful treatment alternative in regions exhibiting soft bone.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2005.tb00075.x
PMID: 16137088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Kinderkrankenschwester. 2005 Aug;24(8):323-31.

[Overweight in children, adolescents and adults. Obesity from the viewpoint of 
nutrition medicine].

[Article in German]

Frankenbach T(1).

Author information:
(1)Gesundheitszentrum Dr. Wusthofen, Fachbereich Ernährung, Bad Salzschlirf. 
thomas.a.frankenbach@he.fh-fulda.de

PMID: 16137140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Aust J Physiother. 2005;51(3):141-9. doi: 10.1016/s0004-9514(05)70020-9.

Impact of adhesive capsulitis and economic evaluation of high-grade and 
low-grade mobilisation techniques.

van den Hout WB(1), Vermeulen HM, Rozing PM, Vliet Vlieland TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. Hout@LUMC.nl

The purpose of this study was to estimate the impact of adhesive capsulitis on 
costs and health and to compare the cost-utility of high-grade and low-grade 
mobilisation techniques. In a randomised controlled trial, 92 patients with 
adhesive capsulitis received either high-grade mobilisation techniques or 
low-grade mobilisation techniques and were followed for one year. Outcome 
measures were quality adjusted life years (QALYs) according to the Short Form 6D 
(SF-6D) and societal costs estimated from cost questionnaires. Estimated costs 
and QALYs in both randomisation groups were similar, except for the number of 
treatment sessions (18.6 for high-grade mobilisation techniques versus 21.5 for 
low-grade mobilisation techniques), with an estimated cost difference of 105 
euros in favour of high-grade mobilisation techniques (p = 0.001, 95% CI 43 
euros to 158 euros). In the entire sample, the average valuation of health 
improved from 0.597 at baseline to 0.745 after a year. The burden due to 
adhesive capsulitis was estimated at 0.048 QALY and 4,521 euros per patient. 
About half these costs were due to absenteeism which, during the first quarter, 
amounted to 38% of the total working hours. In conclusion, the cost-utility 
analysis does not allow for an evidence-based recommendation on the preferred 
treatment. Based on the clinical outcome measures, high-grade mobilisation 
techniques are still preferred to low-grade mobilisation techniques. The 
estimated substantial burden, both to the patient and to society, suggests that 
effective early treatment of adhesive capsulitis is warranted to attempt to 
accelerate recovery.

DOI: 10.1016/s0004-9514(05)70020-9
PMID: 16137239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. J Gastrointest Surg. 2005 Sep-Oct;9(7):965-72. doi: 
10.1016/j.gassur.2005.04.011.

Prophylactic cholecystectomy in transplant patients: a decision analysis.

Kao LS(1), Flowers C, Flum DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, LBJ General Hospital, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas 77026, USA. Lillian.S.Kao@uth.tmc.edu

Prophylactic laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed in solid organ 
transplant patients with asymptomatic cholelithiasis. Modeled, decision analytic 
techniques were used to evaluate the different management strategies for 
asymptomatic cholelithiasis in cardiac and pancreas/renal transplant recipients. 
The clinical outcomes of expectant management, pretransplantation prophylactic 
cholecystectomy, and posttransplantation prophylactic cholecystectomy were 
analyzed for each population. The probabilities and outcomes were derived form a 
pooled analysis of published studies. One- and two-way sensitivity and cost 
analyses were performed. Prophylactic posttransplantation cholecystectomy is 
favored for cardiac transplant recipients with asymptomatic cholelithiasis, 
resulting in 5:1000 deaths versus 80:1000 for pretransplantation cholecystectomy 
and 44:1000 for expectant management. In distinction, expectant management for 
asymptomatic cholelithiasis is favored in pancreas/renal transplant patients, 
resulting in 2:1000 deaths compared with 5:1000 for prophylactic 
cholecystectomy. After heart transplantation, a strategy of routine, 
prophylactic cholecystectomy is anticipated to result in a cost savings of 
$17,779 per quality-adjusted life-year. Prophylactic posttransplantation 
cholecystectomy is the preferred management strategy for cardiac transplant 
patients with incidental gallstones, resulting in decreased mortality and 
significant cost savings per quality-adjusted life-year. Expectant management is 
the preferred strategy for pancreas and/or kidney transplant recipients with 
asymptomatic cholelithiasis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gassur.2005.04.011
PMID: 16137593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Exp Gerontol. 2005 Nov;40(11):841-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.06.015. Epub
2005  Aug 30.

Metabolism in the Caenorhabditis elegans Mit mutants.

Rea SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Campus Box 447, 
Boulder, CO 80309-0447, USA. srea@colorado.edu

Erratum in
    Exp Gerontol. 2006 Mar;41(3):338.

In many eukaryotes oxidative phosphorylation via the mitochondrial electron 
transport chain provides the major means of ATP production. Complete removal of 
this capacity often results in premature death. Recent studies using the 
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans are surprising because they have revealed that 
disruption of many of the key components of the normal mitochondrial 
energy-generating machinery do not result in death, rather they result in adult 
life span extension. Such mutants have been collectively termed Mit mutants. In 
this short review, the potential use of alternate metabolic pathways for energy 
generation by Mit mutants will be considered. The effects of using such pathways 
on residual mitochondrial functionality, reactive radical species production, 
and longevity will also be explored.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.06.015
PMID: 16137850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2005 Sep 1;30(17 Suppl):S76-83. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000175185.46433.7a.

Instrumented transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion with bioresorbable polymer 
implants and iliac crest autograft.

Coe JD(1), Vaccaro AR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Spinal Deformity and Injury, Los Gatos, CA 95032, USA. 
jcoe@jcoemd.com

STUDY DESIGN: Twenty-seven patients underwent instrumented transforaminal lumbar 
interbody fusion (TLIF) procedures using bioresorbable implants as interbody 
spacers. The greater than 2-year clinical and radiographic results of this 
series are presented along with as a review of relevant preclinical and 
preliminary clinical studies of bioresorbables.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical suitability of bioresorbable implants used 
as interbody spacers in spinal fusion surgery applications, particularly in the 
TLIF procedure.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Bioresorbable technology has been in clinical use by 
surgeons of a variety of specialties for over 35 years. The use of bioresorbable 
implants in spine surgery, however, has only been widely investigated in the 
last several years. The use of slowly degrading bioresorbable implants has the 
potential for load sharing during fusion when used for interbody applications, 
retaining imaging quality after fusion, obviating later implant removal, 
providing biologic barriers as well as other various applications. Animal 
studies and early clinical series with the use of these materials for a variety 
of indications have been encouraging.
METHODS: This study evaluates the use of bioresorbable polymer spacers 
manufactured with a 70:30 copolymer of poly-L-lactide and D,L-lactide as 
interbody spacers in 27 of 31 patients with 2 years or more follow-up who 
underwent instrumented TLIF for primarily degenerative indications.
RESULTS: At a mean of 31.9 months follow-up, 25 patients (92.6%) were judged to 
have solid fusions and 22 patients (81.5%) had good to excellent results. Three 
patients (11.1%) experienced complications, none of which were directly or 
indirectly attributable to the use of the bioresorbable polymer implant. Only 
one implant in 1 patient (3.7%) demonstrated mechanical failure on insertion, 
and that patient exhibited no clinical sequelae.
CONCLUSIONS: Bioresorbable implants have significant potential for use in spine 
surgery. This potential is realized in this first published clinical series 
using bioresorbable implants as interbody spacers with a minimum follow-up of 2 
years, significantly exceeding the biologic "life expectancy" (12-18 months) of 
the implant material. Both the clinical and radiographic results of this study 
support the use of interbody devices manufactured from bioresorbable polymers 
for structural interbody support in the TLIF procedure.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000175185.46433.7a
PMID: 16138070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2005 Sep;38(9):1417-22. doi: 
10.1590/s0100-879x2005000900017. Epub 2005 Aug 26.

Umbilical cord blood and neonatal endothelin-1 levels in preterm newborns with 
and without respiratory distress syndrome.

Benjamin AC(1), Silveira RC, Procianoy RS.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Departamento de Pediatria, Federal do 
Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Increased pulmonary vascular resistance in preterm newborn infants with 
respiratory distress syndrome is suggested, and endothelin-1 plays an important 
role in pulmonary vascular reactivity in newborns. We determined umbilical cord 
blood and neonatal (second sample) levels of endothelin-1 in 18 preterm newborns 
with respiratory distress syndrome who had no clinical or echocardiographic 
diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension and 22 without respiratory distress syndrome 
(gestational ages: 31.4 +/- 1.6 and 29.3 +/- 2.3 weeks, respectively). Umbilical 
cord blood and a second blood sample taken 18 to 40 h after birth were used for 
endothelin-1 determination by enzyme immunoassay. Median umbilical cord blood 
endothelin-1 levels were similar in both groups (control: 10.9 and respiratory 
distress syndrome: 11.4 pg/mL) and were significantly higher than in the second 
sample (control: 1.7 pg/mL and respiratory distress syndrome: 3.5 pg/mL, P < 
0.001 for both groups). Median endothelin-1 levels in the second sample were 
significantly higher in children with respiratory distress syndrome than in 
control infants (P < 0.001). There were significant positive correlations 
between second sample endothelin-1 and Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology and 
Perinatal Extension II (r = 0.36, P = 0.02), and duration of mechanical 
ventilation (r = 0.64, P = 0.02). A slower decline of endothelin-1 from birth to 
40 h of life was observed in newborns with respiratory distress syndrome when 
compared to controls. A significant correlation between neonatal endothelin-1 
levels and some illness-severity signs suggests that endothelin-1 plays a role 
in the natural course of respiratory distress syndrome in preterm newborns.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2005000900017
PMID: 16138226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Orthopedics. 2005 Jun;28(6):563-8. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-20050601-11.

Minimally invasive techniques in orthopedic oncology: radiofrequency and laser 
thermal ablation.

