Plasmodium berghei alpha-tubulin II: a role in both male gamete formation and 
asexual blood stages.

Kooij TW(1), Franke-Fayard B, Renz J, Kroeze H, van Dooren MW, Ramesar J, 
Augustijn KD, Janse CJ, Waters AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, Malaria Group, Leiden University Medical Centre, 
Albinusdreef 2, 2333 ZA Leiden, The Netherlands.

Plasmodium falciparum contains two genes encoding different isotypes of 
alpha-tubulin, alpha-tubulin I and alpha-tubulin II. alpha-Tubulin II is highly 
expressed in male gametocytes and forms part of the microtubules of the axoneme 
of male gametes. Here we present the characterization of Plasmodium berghei 
alpha-tubulin I and alpha-tubulin II that encode proteins of 453 and 450 amino 
acids, respectively. alpha-Tubulin II lacks the well-conserved three amino acid 
C-terminal extension including a terminal tyrosine residue present in 
alpha-tubulin I. Investigation of transcription by Northern analysis and RT-PCR 
and analysis of promoter activity by GFP tagging showed that alpha-tubulin I is 
expressed in all blood and mosquito stages. As expected, alpha-tubulin II was 
highly expressed in the male gametocytes, but transcription was also observed in 
the asexual blood stages, female gametocytes, ookinetes and oocysts. Gene 
disruption experiments using standard transfection technologies did not produce 
viable parasites indicating that both alpha-tubulin isotypes are essential for 
the asexual blood stages. Targeted modification of alpha-tubulin II by the 
addition of the three C-terminal amino acids of alpha-tubulin I did not affect 
either blood stage development nor male gamete formation. Attempts to modify the 
C-terminal region by adding a TAP tag to the endogenous alpha-tubulin II gene 
were not successful. Introduction of a transgene, expressing TAP-tagged 
alpha-tubulin II, next to the endogenous alpha-tubulin II gene, had no effect on 
the asexual blood stages but strongly impaired formation of male gametes. These 
results show that alpha-tubulin II not only plays an important role in the male 
gamete but is also expressed in and essential for asexual blood stage 
development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molbiopara.2005.07.003
PMID: 16115694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Soc Sci Med. 2006 Mar;62(5):1205-14. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.07.008.
Epub  2005 Aug 22.

Anxiolytic-hypnotic drug use associated with trust, social participation, and 
the miniaturization of community: a multilevel analysis.

Johnell K(1), Lindstr√∂m M, Melander A, Sundquist J, Eriksson C, Merlo J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Family Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. 
Kristina.Johnell@klinvet.ki.se

The concept of social capital has gained wide interest in public health research 
in recent years. However, we suggest a concept that was introduced and developed 
by Fukuyama, named "miniaturization of community", as an alternative to that of 
social capital. The concept of miniaturization of community emphasizes that a 
high level of social participation can be accompanied by a low level of trust, 
both at the individual and at the community level, which may in turn result in 
social disorder and lack of social cohesion. When society becomes more 
disordered, people may tend to feel more insecure and anxious. Use of 
anxiolytic-hypnotic drugs (AHDs) could under such circumstances be a coping 
strategy. In this study, we first wanted to investigate whether the contextual 
component of the miniaturization of community concept (i.e. area high social 
participation and low trust) is associated with individual AHD use, over and 
above individual characteristics. Secondly, we aimed to study whether people 
living in the same municipality share a similar probability of AHD use, after 
adjusting for individual characteristics, and if so, how large this contextual 
phenomenon is. We used data on 20,319 women and 17,850 men aged 18-79 years from 
58 municipalities in six regions in central Sweden, who participated in the Life 
& Health year 2000 postal survey. We applied multilevel logistic regression 
analysis with individuals at the first level and areas at the second level. Our 
results suggest that living in an area with a high level of miniaturization of 
community seems to be associated with individual AHD use, beyond people's 
individual characteristics including their own level of social participation and 
trust. The concept of miniaturization of community may be an extension of the 
classic concept of social capital and may increase our understanding of 
contextual effects on health.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.07.008
PMID: 16115711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. DNA Repair (Amst). 2005 Nov 21;4(11):1314-24. doi:
10.1016/j.dnarep.2005.07.002.  Epub 2005 Aug 22.

Accelerated aging pathology in ad libitum fed Xpd(TTD) mice is accompanied by 
features suggestive of caloric restriction.

Wijnhoven SW(1), Beems RB, Roodbergen M, van den Berg J, Lohman PH, Diderich K, 
van der Horst GT, Vijg J, Hoeijmakers JH, van Steeg H.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health and the Environment, Laboratory of 
Toxicology, Pathology and Genetics, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

Trichothiodystrophy (TTD) patients with a mutation in the XPD gene of nucleotide 
excision repair (NER) have a short life span and show various features of 
premature aging, thereby linking DNA damage to the aging process. Xpd(TTD) 
mutant mice share many features with TTD patients, including a shorter life 
span, accompanied by a segmental progeroid phenotype. Here we report new 
pathology features supportive to the premature aging phenotype of Xpd(TTD) mice. 
Strikingly, accelerated aging pathology is accompanied by signs suggestive of 
caloric restriction (CR), a condition usually linked to retardation of 
age-related pathology and life extension. Accelerated aging symptoms in Xpd(TTD) 
mice are most likely due to accumulation of endogenously generated DNA damage 
and compromised transcription leading to cell death, whereas CR symptoms may 
reflect the need of Xpd(TTD) mice to reduce metabolism (ROS production) in an 
attempt to extend their life span. Our current findings in Xpd(TTD) mice further 
strengthen the link between DNA damage, repair and aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2005.07.002
PMID: 16115803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. J Clin Oncol. 2005 Sep 20;23(27):6607-12. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.14.308. Epub
 2005 Aug 22.

Euthanasia and depression: a prospective cohort study among terminally ill 
cancer patients.

van der Lee ML(1), van der Bom JG, Swarte NB, Heintz AP, de Graeff A, van den 
Bout J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, Faculty Social Sciences, Utrecht 
University, Utrecht, the Netherlands. m.l.vanderlee@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2006 Jul 1;24(19):3211-2; author reply 3212-3.

PURPOSE: To study the association between depression and the incidence of 
explicit requests for euthanasia in terminally ill cancer patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A prospective cohort study was conducted on 138 
consecutive cancer patients with an estimated life expectancy of 3 months or 
less, in the period between September 1999 and August 2003. At inclusion, 
participants completed the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. To identify 
"depressed mood" we used a cutoff score of 20. Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox 
regression analyses were used to assess the association between depressed mood 
and the risk of a request for euthanasia.
RESULTS: Of 138 patients, 32 patients had depressed mood at inclusion. Thirty 
patients (22%) made an explicit request for euthanasia. The risk to request 
euthanasia for patients with depressed mood was 4.1 times higher than that of 
patients without depressed mood at inclusion (95% CI, 2.0 to 8.5).
CONCLUSION: Depression in cancer patients with an estimated life expectancy of 
less than 3 months is associated with a higher likelihood to request for 
euthanasia. The question of whether depressed mood can adequately be treated in 
this terminally ill population, and if so, whether it would lower the incidence 
of requests for euthanasia needs further investigation.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.14.308
PMID: 16116147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Med Care. 2005 Sep;43(9):921-8. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000173600.53788.13.

Valuation of arthritis health states across ethnic groups and between patients 
and community members.

Souchek J(1), Byrne MM, Kelly PA, O' Malley K, Richardson M, Pak C, Nelson H, 
Suarez-Almazor ME.

Author information:
(1)Houston Center for Quality of Care and Utilization Studies, Michael E. 
DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. 
jsouchek@bcm.tmc.edu

OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine differences in valuation of health by 
individuals from different ethnic backgrounds and between patients and community 
members.
RESEARCH DESIGN: We surveyed 193 community members identified by random-digit 
dialing (ie, 64 white, 65 black, and 64 Hispanic) and 198 patients with 
osteoarthritis (OA), 66 per ethnic group, drawn sequentially from clinic lists 
of an outpatient institution.
MEASURES: Participants were interviewed and asked to rate 2 scenarios describing 
arthritis (mild and severe) using visual analog scale (VAS), standard gamble 
(SG), and time trade-off (TTO). Differences were adjusted for cohort, age, 
gender, and education.
RESULTS: Members of the public had higher preference scores for the 2 health 
states than patients (SG severe state: 0.77 public, 0.66 patients; SG mild 
state: 0.90 public, 0.84 patients). The difference score between the mild and 
severe states was smaller for black than white subjects (P < 0.001) by SG and 
TTO. Scores for Hispanics and whites did not differ. Preference scores increased 
with age (SG, TTO).
CONCLUSIONS: Significant differences were observed in the valuation of health 
between members of the public and patients, among ethnic groups, and in relation 
to educational status and age, with the difference between utilities of health 
states being a more efficient measure of preference than the utility of a single 
state. Utilities elicited through valuation of hypothetical health scenarios are 
dependent on sociodemographic traits, experience of disease, and method used. 
These findings suggest that utilities cannot be used interchangeably across 
populations, with implications for economic analyses.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000173600.53788.13
PMID: 16116357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Heart Valve Dis. 2005 Jul;14(4):486-92.

Seventeen-year experience with the St. Jude medical biocor porcine 
bioprosthesis.

Myk√©n PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden. pia.myken@swipnet.se

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Bioprostheses in heart surgery have been 
investigated in recent years to reduce the long-term anticoagulant 
administration associated with mechanical devices. Positive results have been 
achieved, particularly in elderly patients who have a supposed delayed 
fibrocalcification and reduced life expectancy. Herein are reported 17-year data 
on the ongoing long-term study of the Biocor porcine prosthetic heart valve, an 
improved bioprosthesis with reduced stiffness and improved flexibility of the 
valve cusps designed to resolve issues of reduced lifespan of previous 
biological valves.
METHODS: Data were presented for 1,455 patients who underwent aortic valve 
replacement (AVR) or mitral valve replacement (MVR) in Sweden with 
glutaraldehyde-preserved Biocor bioprostheses between 1983 and 2000. Follow up 
after surgery was evaluated on alternate years using hospital records, 
interviews, questionnaires and the Cox regression model of multivariate 
analysis.
RESULTS: At 17 years, the cumulative follow up was 6,540 and 989 patient-years 
(pt-yr) for AVR and MVR, respectively. Late mortality accounted for 357 (28%) 
and 65 (38%) patients, respectively, and actuarial survival was 28.2% and 35.4%, 
respectively. Thromboembolic events occurred in 82 AVR (1.25%/pt-yr) and 18 MVR 
(1.82%/pt-yr) patients, respectively, with freedom from thromboembolism 
decreasing with age; 181 AVR and 44 MVR patients received anticoagulants. 
Reoperations due to structural valve deterioration (SVD) were required in 63 AVR 
and nine MVR patients. Freedom from reoperation due to SVD increased with age in 
both groups; actuarial freedom from reoperation was 73.9% and 81.3%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Seventeen-year data confirm the low incidence of valve-related 
complications and improved valve durability reported at the 15-year follow up 
after both AVR and MVR using Biocor porcine bioprostheses.

PMID: 16116875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Servir. 2005 Jul-Aug;53(4):175-84.

[Health services: a center in human community].

[Article in Portuguese]

Santos AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa.

PMID: 16117444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. RETRACTED ARTICLE

J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2005 Sep;3 Suppl 2:S36-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1610-0387.2005.04397.x.

[Demographic development of the population].

[Article in German]

Diepgen TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Abt. Klinische Sozialmedizin mit Schwerpunkt Berufs- und Umweltdermatologie 
des Universit√§tsklinikums Heidelberg, Germany. 
thomas.diepgen@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Retraction in
    J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2012 Oct;10(10):773.

During the last century the median life expectation age was lengthened about 30 
years in Germany. According to recent prognoses this trend will continue over 
the next decades. Not only the number of people older than 60 years but also its 
percentage within the population was and will be increasing dramatically. This 
has important socio-economic, political and health-economic consequences. The 
increasing older population has an important impact on Dermatology. The 
incidence of many skin diseases is increasing with age due to life long exposure 
(e. g. UV-light), and aging processes are affecting the skin, its functions and 
immunology. Last not least, the distinction between skin disease and "cosmetic" 
skin problems has changed in the past decades in our society. Even a small 
reduction in the threshold of what the public and health professionals regard as 
a skin complaint worthy of medical attention could lead to a large increase in 
future dermatology service requirements. The demographic changes in our society 
are becoming an important issue in dermatological health care research.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1610-0387.2005.04397.x
PMID: 16117743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Rocz Akad Med Bialymst. 2005;50 Suppl 1:133-6.

Quality of life after surgical treatment of thyroid gland diseases.

Wojewoda B(1), Juzwiszyn J, Rosi≈Ñczuk-Tonderys J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Specialities, Faculty of Public Health, Wroc≈Çaw 
Medical University, Poland.

PURPOSE: The aim of the work is to rate different factors specifying quality of 
life after surgical treatment of thyroid gland diseases.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Research was carried out on 93 people with recognition of 
nodular goitre treated surgically during the period 2000-2003 in 2nd Department 
of General and Oncological Surgery in Wroc≈Çaw. 83 women and 10 men aged 
approximately 48 took part in the research. The research was carried out with a 
help of analysis of medical documentation as well as QL questionnaire including 
25 features (clinical, emotional, social). The results of the QL research were 
prepared on the basis of "SyntMed" Computer Medical Diagnostics programme 
(Krefft method). Every patient was given a certain QL quantity in the 0-1 range 
together with the importance of diagnostic features, indicating the strength of 
influence of the feature on QL quantity.
RESULTS: The strongest influence on QL index had the following diagnostic 
features: subjective opinion of the quality of life (0.674), sensation of fear 
in connection with the health condition (0.631), physical efficiency (0.565). 
Among clinical features the strongest influence had a feeling of palpitation 
(0.405). It was certified that together with the extension of the post-operation 
period medium value of QL index increases. The most frequent clinical problems 
mentioned by the tested patients were: sleeping disorder (66.6%), nervousness 
(37.6%), sweating (36.5%), palpitation (24.7%). 36.6% of the tested patients are 
afraid of a setback and 77.4 % of them are worried about their health condition. 
The treatment did not have an influence on planning the future, sexuality and 
social life. 59.1% of the tested patients defined their present health condition 
as satisfactory.

PMID: 16119647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Ann Thorac Surg. 2005 Sep;80(3):825-31. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2005.03.064.

Prognosis after aortic valve replacement with the Carpentier-Edwards pericardial 
valve: use of microsimulation.

Puvimanasinghe JP(1), Takkenberg JJ, Eijkemans MJ, Steyerberg EW, van Herwerden 
LA, Grunkemeier GL, Habbema JD, Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. j.p.a.puvimanasinghe@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: The second-generation Carpentier-Edwards pericardial valve (Edwards 
Lifesciences LLC, Irvine, CA) is widely used for aortic valve replacement. 
However, knowledge on the long-term outcomes of patients after valve 
implantation is incomplete. We used microsimulation to calculate the long-term 
outcome of any given patient after aortic valve replacement with the 
Carpentier-Edwards pericardial valve.
METHODS: A meta-analysis of 8 reports on aortic valve replacement with the 
Carpentier-Edwards pericardial valve (2,685 patients; 12,250 patient years) was 
used to estimate the hazards of valve-related events other than structural 
valvular deterioration. Structural valvular deterioration was described by 
age-dependent Weibull curves calculated from 18-year follow-up, premarket 
approval, Carpentier-Edwards pericardial primary data. These estimates provided 
the input data for the parameters of the microsimulation model, which was then 
used to calculate the outcomes of patients of different ages after valve 
implantation. The model estimates of survival were validated using two external 
data sets.
RESULTS: The Weibull analysis estimated a median time to reoperation for 
structural valvular deterioration ranging from 18.1 years for a 55-year-old male 
to 23.2 years for a 75-year-old male. For a 65-year-old male, microsimulation 
calculated a life expectancy and event-free life expectancy of 10.8 and 9.1 
years, respectively. The lifetime risk of at least one valve-related event was 
38% and that of reoperation due to structural valvular deterioration 17%, 
respectively, for this patient. The model estimates of survival showed good 
agreement with external data.
CONCLUSIONS: Microsimulation provides detailed insight into the long-term 
prognosis of patients after aortic valve replacement. The Carpentier-Edwards 
pericardial valve performs satisfactorily and offers a low lifetime risk of 
reoperation due to structural valvular deterioration, especially for elderly 
patients requiring aortic valve replacement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2005.03.064
PMID: 16122436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Diabetes Forecast. 2005 Aug;58(8):56.

Exercise for long life.

Meyers L.

PMID: 16124105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Am J Occup Ther. 2005 Jul-Aug;59(4):446-56. doi: 10.5014/ajot.59.4.446.

Comparison of test of infant motor performance (TIMP) item responses among 
children with cerebral palsy, developmental delay, and typical development.

Barbosa VM(1), Campbell SK, Smith E, Berbaum M.

Author information:
(1)Pathways Center for Children with Disability, 1335 S. Prairie Street, #2007, 
Chicago, Illinois 60605, USA. vanessambarbosa@yahoo.com

Impairment of children's motor performance might limit participation in family 
and community life. Therefore, identification of motor impairments is important 
in support of early intervention to prevent limitations in children's 
occupational performance. The purpose of this paper is to examine item 
performance on the Test of Infant Motor Performance (TIMP) in a group of infants 
later diagnosed as having cerebral palsy (CP), developmental delay, or typical 
development. Particularly, we aimed to determine if specific TIMP items have a 
strong relationship at particular ages with the presence of a later diagnosis of 
CP. Exploratory graphic representation and Rasch differential item analysis were 
employed to investigate each individual TIMP item's behavior in discriminating 
among children with different outcomes. Items discriminating among the three 
outcome groups included: hand to mouth, neck control, rolling, and pull to sit 
items, particularly at ages term, 9 weeks, and 12-13 weeks corrected age. 
Children with CP presented "advanced" performance in items using extension 
patterns and slow development or regression in items requiring antigravity and 
balanced used of flexion-extension patterns of muscle activity.

DOI: 10.5014/ajot.59.4.446
PMID: 16124211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Exp Gerontol. 2005 Aug-Sep;40(8-9):694-706. doi:
10.1016/j.exger.2005.07.003.

Enhanced anti-oxidant protection of liver membranes in long-lived rats fed on a 
coenzyme Q10-supplemented diet.

Bello RI(1), G√≥mez-D√≠az C, Bur√≥n MI, Alca√≠n FJ, Navas P, Villalba JM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biolog√≠a Celular, Fisiolog√≠a e Inmunolog√≠a, Facultad de 
Ciencias, Universidad de C√≥rdoba, Campus Rabanales, Edificio Severo Ochoa, 3a 
planta; 14014 C√≥rdoba, Spain.

Coenzyme Q10 supplementation increases life-span of rats fed on a diet enriched 
with polyunsaturated fatty acids (Quiles, J.L., Ochoa, J.J., Huertas, J.R., 
Mataix, J., 2004b. Coenzyme Q supplementation protects from age-related DNA 
double-strand breaks and increased lifespan in rats fed on a PUFA-rich diet. 
Exp. Gerontol. 39, 189-194). Our study was set as a first attempt to establish a 
mechanistic link between life span extension and CoQ10 supplementation. When 
rats were fed on a PUFAn-6 plus CoQ10 diet, levels of CoQ10 were increased in 
plasma membrane at every time point compared to control rats fed on a 
PUFAn-6-alone diet. Ratios of CoQ9 to CoQ10 were significantly lower at every 
time point in both liver plasma membranes and homogenates of CoQ10-supplemented 
animals. CoQ10 supplementation did not affect cytosolic NAD(P)H:quinone 
oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), which increased significantly with aging, but plasma 
membrane-bound NQO1 decreased significantly in the CoQ10-supplemented group at 
12 months, when maximal incorporation of exogenous CoQ10 was observed. Neither 
aging nor the diet affected NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase levels. 
Glutathione-dependent anti-oxidant activities such as cytosolic 
glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and microsomal Se-independent glutathione 
peroxidase decreased with aging and supplementation with CoQ10 attenuated this 
decay. 2,2' Azobis amidinopropane (AAPH)-induced oxidation of membranes was 
significantly higher in aged rats, and supplementation with CoQ10 also inhibited 
this increase. Consistent with higher CoQ10 levels and enhanced anti-oxidant 
protection, plasma membrane Mg2+-dependent neutral sphingomyelinase was 
inhibited by dietary CoQ10 in aged rats. Our results support the involvement of 
thiol-dependent mechanisms in the potentiation of the anti-oxidant capacity of 
membranes in CoQ10-supplemented rats, further supporting the potentially 
beneficial anti-oxidative role of dietary CoQ10 during aging. The possibility 
that a decreased CoQ9/CoQ10 ratio in animals fed on the PUFAn-6-rich plus CoQ10 
diet could also influence longevity is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.07.003
PMID: 16125350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2005 Oct;26(10):488-95. doi:
10.1016/j.tips.2005.08.008.

Gene-transfer technology: a preventive neurotherapy to curb obesity, ameliorate 
metabolic syndrome and extend life expectancy.

Kalra SP(1), Kalra PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, College of Medicine, University of Florida 
McKnight Brain Institute, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA. skalra@mbi.ufl.edu

Leptin insufficiency at crucial target sites in the hypothalamic circuitries 
that integrate energy intake and expenditure underlies abnormal rates of fat 
accumulation. The payload of this "fat burden" is metabolic syndrome, a cluster 
of life-threatening metabolic afflictions, and a shorter lifespan. Currently 
available therapies employed to combat obesity have disadvantages such as poor 
compliance for lifestyle modification or transient effectiveness and undesirable 
side-effects of pharmacological interventions. Recent studies suggest that 
neurotherapy comprising a single central administration of recombinant 
adeno-associated virus vector encoding the leptin gene severely depletes fat and 
ameliorates the major symptoms of metabolic syndrome for extended periods in 
rodents. These persistent benefits avert the deleterious impact of the "fat 
burden" and extend life expectancy. Thus, the novel approach of central 
gene-transfer technology has distinct advantages over current therapies and has 
the potential to correct or slow the progression of inherited or acquired 
hypothalamic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tips.2005.08.008
PMID: 16125798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Health Policy. 2006 Jul;77(2):233-43. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.07.014.
Epub  2005 Aug 26.

Economic evaluation of HIV screening in pregnant women attending antenatal 
clinics in India.

Kumar M(1), Birch S, Maturana A, Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, AB, Canada. manojk2@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: With prevalence of HIV rising in pregnant women in India, pediatric 
HIV/AIDS is emerging as a public health problem. We evaluated the additional 
costs to the health care system and the additional health outcomes of 
introducing a voluntary primary care HIV screening program for pregnant women in 
India.
METHODS: The analysis was conducted from the government perspective. We analyzed 
two scenarios: a programme of universal screening nation-wide and a programme of 
screening restricted to high prevalence states. Health benefits were measured by 
the number of perinatal HIV cases prevented and the reduction in the potential 
years of life lost (PYLL).
FINDINGS: Nation-wide screening would cost the government Rs. 254.78 million and 
would prevent 9880 cases of perinatal HIV resulting in savings of 131,700 life 
years (average cost per HIV case prevented Rs. 25,787; per year reduction in 
PYLLs Rs. 1935). Implementing the program in only the high prevalence states 
would achieve 45% of these reductions in cases and life years lost at only 20% 
of this cost, at an average of Rs. 12,091 per HIV case prevented or Rs. 907 per 
year reduction in PYLLs (44 Indian rupees = 1 US dollar). In sensitivity 
analysis, the cost of the program was influenced mainly by antenatal coverage, 
the cost of the HIV test, the lifetime costs of treatment of a HIV infected 
child and the overhead costs.
CONCLUSIONS: We provide an estimate of the additional costs and health effects 
of two approaches to introducing HIV screening among pregnant women in India. 
Decision-makers would have to demonstrate that the resources used for its 
implementation would result in more health benefits than from the alternative 
uses of those resources.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.07.014
PMID: 16126300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Eur Urol. 2005 Dec;48(6):885-94. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2005.06.019. Epub
2005  Jul 18.

Guidelines on testicular cancer.

Albers P(1), Albrecht W, Algaba F, Bokemeyer C, Cohn-Cedermark G, Horwich A, 
Klepp O, Laguna MP, Pizzocaro G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Klinikum Kassel GmbH M√∂nchebergstr. 41-43, Kassel, 
Germany. albers@klinikum-kassel.de

OBJECTIVE: To up-date the 2001 version of the EAU testicular cancer guidelines.
METHODS: A non-structured literature review until January 2005 using the MEDLINE 
database has been performed. Literature has been classified according to 
evidence-based medicine levels.
RESULTS: Testicular cancer is a highly curable disease. Excellent cure rates 
have been achieved by standardization of treatment, interdisciplinary 
management, and tremendous success in performing clinical trials. Currently, the 
aims of testicular cancer treatment are as follows: for patients with low-stage 
disease, a reduction in treatment is proposed to improve long-term toxicity in 
these patients with unaltered life expectancy; for about 10% of patients with 
advanced disease and poor prognosis, intensification of treatment (including 
high-dose chemotherapy and new drugs as well as aggressive surgical approaches) 
is being investigated to improve long-term cure rates.
CONCLUSION: Guidelines will improve clinical practice only if they are regularly 
updated. This update presents the state-of-the-art management of testicular 
cancer patients in 2005.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2005.06.019
PMID: 16126333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Biomed Pharmacother. 2005 Sep;59(8):469-73. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2005.07.004.

Prolonged survival of end-stage AIDS patients immunized with therapeutic HIV 
vaccine V-1 Immunitor.

Metadilogkul O(1), Jirathitikal V, Bourinbaiar AS.

Author information:
(1)Occupational and Environmental Medicine Association of Thailand, Bangkok 
10400, Thailand.

Death, rather than surrogate markers, is a single and most straightforward 
clinical endpoint, defining unequivocally the merit of a therapeutic 
intervention. As there is still neither a cure for AIDS nor a vaccine to prevent 
HIV infection, an AIDS diagnosis remains associated with a death sentence. V-1 
Immunitor (V1) is an experimental, oral, therapeutic AIDS vaccine licensed as a 
dietary supplement. As part of a charity program V1 has been offered at Wat Phra 
Baht Nam Phu--a Buddhist hospice for end-stage AIDS patients. Out of 117 
approached individuals, 53 decided to take V1 and 64 declined the treatment. 
Patients in both groups did not differ in age, gender, or severity of disease. 
All patients were in WHO terminal stage 4 at study entry and had received 
similar palliative care. None of the patients had received conventional 
antiviral drugs. At 9 weeks the last two patients in the non-V1 group died. In 
contrast, 56.6% (30/53) in the V1 group remained alive. Kaplan-Meier survival 
analysis showed that median short-term survival time for non-treated and treated 
patients was 4 and 10 weeks, respectively. The difference was statistically 
significant by Wilcoxon signed rank test (P=0.000089). Patients who remained 
alive were followed until the last patient died at 142 weeks. Based on the main 
outcome, i.e. time to death, patients on V1 had a 15.8 times longer life 
expectancy than the control group (P<0.000001). Observed results are encouraging 
and V1 needs to be tested in controlled clinical trials as a life-saving 
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2005.07.004
PMID: 16126364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Ann Oncol. 2005 Nov;16(11):1786-94. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdi370. Epub 2005
Aug  26.

Patients' preferences for adjuvant chemotherapy in early breast cancer: what 
makes AC and CMF worthwhile now?

Duric VM(1), Stockler MR, Heritier S, Boyle F, Beith J, Sullivan A, Wilcken N, 
Coates AS, Simes RJ.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney,Camperdown, NSW 2050, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Studies of women who had adjuvant chemotherapy for early breast 
cancer 10-20 years ago showed that many judged small benefits sufficient to make 
it worthwhile. Indications, regimens and supportive care have changed. We sought 
the preferences of contemporary women who received similar chemotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety-seven consecutive consenting women who completed 
adjuvant chemotherapy for early breast cancer 3-34 months previously were 
interviewed. Preferences were elicited with a structured, scripted interview 
using the trade-off method. Women were presented with four hypothetical 
scenarios based on known life expectancies (5 and 15 years) and survival rates 
(65% and 85% at 5 years) without adjuvant chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Improvements of an additional year in life expectancy or 3% in survival 
rates were judged sufficient to make adjuvant chemotherapy worthwhile by 68-84% 
of women. Half the women judged 1 day or 0.1% sufficient to make adjuvant 
chemotherapy worthwhile. Recollections of better well-being during adjuvant 
chemotherapy, having dependants and having a friend or relative who died from 
cancer were independently associated with judging smaller benefits sufficient to 
make adjuvant chemotherapy worthwhile (all P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Preferences were highly variable, but the benefits judged 
sufficient to make adjuvant chemotherapy worthwhile were even smaller than those 
found in previous studies. Preferences were influenced by factors other than 
direct benefits and harms of chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdi370
PMID: 16126738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2006 Mar 1;173(5):475-82. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.200505-840OE. Epub 2005 Aug 26.

Cystic fibrosis since 1938.

Davis PB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine 
at Rainbow Babies' and Children's Hospital, Cleveland OH 44106, USA. 
pamela.davis@case.edu

Cystic fibrosis (CF) was distinguished from celiac disease in 1938. Then, it was 
a pathologic diagnosis, life expectancy was approximately 6 months, and the 
autosomal recessive disease was believed to arise from abnormal mucus plugging 
exocrine ducts. Death often occurred from lung infection. Discovery of the sweat 
electrolyte defect in 1953 and standardization of the sweat test in 1959 allowed 
identification of milder cases, and CF was no longer considered only a disorder 
of mucus. In 1955, establishment of centers with programs of aggressive, 
comprehensive care initiated striking improvement in longevity. The pillars of 
care established then (attention to nutrition, airway clearance, treatment of 
lung infection) remain today. In 1983, chloride transport was identified as the 
basic physiologic CF defect, accompanied by increased sodium reabsorption. In 
1980, we learned that inflammation contributes independently to lung disease and 
constitutes an independent therapeutic target. In 1989, the discovery of the CF 
gene demonstrated the basic defect to be in a cAMP-regulated chloride channel. 
This afforded new diagnostic tests, opportunities for research, and prospects 
for using the gene as therapy. Since then, substantial advances in basic and 
clinical research catalyzed therapeutic improvements: median survival age now 
exceeds 30 years. The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation center network provides not 
only opportunity to conduct clinical trials but also means to disseminate new 
therapies. In the future, treatments directed at the basic defect can be 
expected, with concomitant improvements in morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.200505-840OE
PMID: 16126935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Jun;1051:64-71. doi: 10.1196/annals.1361.047.

Cancer-associated myositis: clinical features and prognostic signs.

Ponyi A(1), Constantin T, Garami M, Andr√°s C, T√°llai B, V√°ncsa A, Gergely L, 
Dank√≥ K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology, Third Department of Internal Medicine, 
Medical and Health Science Center, University of Debrecen, Moricz Zs Krt 22, 
4004 Debrecen, Hungary. ponyi@gyer2.sote.hu

Idiopathic inflammatory myositis is characterized by progressive weakness of the 
proximal muscles. There is a higher risk of malignancy than in the normal 
population. The aim of this study was to evaluate the frequency of malignancy 
among 251 myositis patients. We also compared clinical and immunological 
characteristics of cancer-associated myositis with primary myositis. There were 
no malignancies among polymyositis, overlap, or juvenile myositis patients. 
Twenty-two of ninety dermatomyositis patients also had a malignant disease. 
Patients with cancer-associated dermatomyositis were significantly older than 
primary myositis patients and had more severe cutaneous and muscle symptoms. 
Dysphagia and diaphragmatic involvement were more frequent among 
cancer-associated patients, while extramuscular features were less frequent. 
After successful treatment of the malignancy, we were able to manage myositis 
symptoms. One-year survival rate was significantly better in primary 
dermatomyositis patients. The subset of cancer-associated myositis differs from 
primary myositis in many aspects of its clinical and immunological features. 
Prognosis and life expectancy in cancer-associated myositis patients is 
determined by the underlying malignant disease. Therefore, age- and sex-specific 
examinations for detection of an underlying malignancy are important in the 
management of patients with dermatomyositis.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1361.047
PMID: 16126945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 Aug;60(8):1013-6. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.8.1013.

Estimates of active and disabled life expectancy based on different assessment 
intervals.

Gill TM(1), Allore H, Hardy SE, Holford TR, Han L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT 06504, USA. gill@ynhh.org

BACKGROUND: Although disability in activities of daily living (ADLs) is a highly 
dynamic process, analytic strategies for estimating active and disabled life 
expectancy have assumed stability in ADL function between periodic surveys 
spanning 12--24 months or have used interval estimation or instantaneous rates 
based on long assessment intervals. We performed a prospective cohort study to 
compare estimates of active and disabled life expectancy based on traditional 
assessment intervals of 1--2 years with those based on more frequent assessments 
at 1-month intervals.
METHODS: Participants included 754 initially nondisabled community-dwelling 
persons, aged 70 years or older, who were interviewed monthly for 4 years to 
ascertain ADL disability. Estimates of active and disabled life expectancy were 
calculated using an increment-decrement life table for assessment intervals of 1 
month, 1 year, and 2 years.
RESULTS: For each of five age groups, the monthly assessment strategy yielded 
the highest values for active life expectancy and the lowest values for disabled 
life expectancy. The 95% confidence intervals for these values, however, 
overlapped the corresponding point estimates for the annual and biennial 
strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: Accurate estimates of active and disabled life expectancy may be 
obtained from epidemiologic studies that assess ADL function no more frequently 
than every other year.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.8.1013
PMID: 16127105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 Aug;60(8):1028-34. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.8.1028.

Trends in disability and disability-free life expectancy among elderly people in 
Spain: 1986-1999.

Sagardui-Villamor J(1), Guallar-Castill√≥n P, Garc√≠a-Ferruelo M, Banegas JR, 
Rodr√≠guez-Artalejo F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medeicine and Public health, Universidad Aut√≥noma de 
Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: This paper examines recent trends in the prevalence of disability 
and disability-free life expectancy in the population aged 65 years and older in 
Spain.
METHODS: Data were drawn from two National Disability, Impairment and Handicap 
Surveys conducted in 1986 and 1999. Only severe disability was studied, and 
disabilities overcome through use of external technical aids were included.
RESULTS: In the period 1986--1999, a relative annual decline of 3.7% in overall 
disability was observed for men. The decline was somewhat less marked in women, 
participants aged 75 years and older, and those with the lowest educational 
level. In men, there was a relative annual decline of just over 3% in walking 
and hearing disabilities, of under 1% in seeing and cognitive disabilities, and 
a slight rise in self-care disability. Trends among women were similar, though 
self-care disability rose by 1.78%. In the period 1986--1999, total and 
disability-free life expectancy rose across all age groups in both sexes. Among 
men aged 65 years, the proportion of life expectancy with disability fell from 
42.1% in 1986 to 21.6% in 1999; the comparable figures for women were 49.8% in 
1986 and 30.6% in 1999. Indeed, a reduction in life expectancy with disability 
was observed even among persons aged 80 years and older.
CONCLUSION: From 1986 through 1999, prevalence of severe disability among 
Spanish elderly persons decreased substantially, and the duration of life with 
disability was compressed between a later onset and the time of death. Among 
women, however, self-care disability--the type of disability requiring most 
social resources for its attention--underwent a sharp rise.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.8.1028
PMID: 16127108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 Aug;60(8):1046-51. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.8.1046.

Frailty index as a measure of biological age in a Chinese population.

Goggins WB(1), Woo J, Sham A, Ho SC.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Department of Community and Family Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: The concept of a frailty index, developed in Canadian elderly 
populations as an indicator of biological age as opposed to chronological age, 
was tested in an elderly Chinese population to determine whether it is 
applicable in a different ethnic and cultural setting.
METHODS: A data set including 62 physical, psychological, and socioeconomic 
variables from a cohort of 2,032 persons 70 years and older (999 men, 1,033 
women) was used. The distribution of the index was evaluated using the 
Cramer-von Mises goodness-of-fit test, and multiple linear regression was used 
to assess its relationship with age and sex. A biological age for each 
participant was calculated based on an inverse regression of age on mean frailty 
index and sex. The Cox proportional hazards regression model was used to assess 
the ability of biological age to predict death.
RESULTS: The distribution of the frailty index most closely resembled a Weibull 
distribution. The frailty index increased with age until the mid-80s, when it 
leveled off, and was higher in women than men for each age group. The 
distribution of biological age is wider than that for chronological age, and it 
strongly predicted death. Women had an estimated 20% lesser chance of dying at a 
given time than did men of the same chronological age and degree of frailty.
CONCLUSIONS: The study confirms the robustness of the concept and method of 
calculating the frailty index developed in elderly Canadian populations. It also 
suggests that the sex difference in life expectancy may have an underlying 
genetic basis independent of frailty.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.8.1046
PMID: 16127111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Saudi Med J. 2005 Aug;26(8):1203-7.

Postoperative life expectancy in gastric cancer patients and its associated 
factors.

Zeraati H(1), Mahmoudi M, Kazemnejad A, Mohammed K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modarres 
University, PO Box 14115-111, Tehran, Iran. zeraatih@tums.ac.ir

OBJECTIVE: In recent years, the patterns of mortality have changed in Iran, and 
cancers are playing a greater role in this regard in this country. Various 
reports indicate that gastric cancer is highly prevalent; it is the second most 
common cancer in men, and fourth in the general population. The purpose of this 
study was to determine the 5-year survival rate of gastric cancer patients who 
had undergone surgical treatment at one of the most important cancer treatment 
centers, the Iran Cancer Institute, and to assess its associated factors.
METHODS: Three hundred and thirty patients with gastric cancer who had been 
admitted to and operated on at the Iran Cancer Institute, Iran between January 
1996 and April 2000 were enrolled in this study. The patients' life expectancy 
after surgery was determined, and its relationship with variables of age at the 
time of surgery, gender, and factors related to the disease such as the cancer 
site, pathologic type, stage, presence of metastasis, and sites of metastases 
were assessed.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival rate in the studied patients was 23.6%, and the 
median life expectancy was 19.9 months. Univariate analysis showed that gender, 
cancer site, and pathologic type did not affect life expectancy significantly. 
However, the 5-year survival rate significantly decreases with age. As expected, 
those involved with metastasis had a significantly lower 5-year survival rate, 
and the disease stage significantly affected the patients' life expectancy 
(p<0.001). The Cox proportional hazards model was used to assess the effect of 
different variables simultaneously, and it showed that age, lymph node 
metastasis, and disease stage influenced the rate of survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Gastric cancer patients in Iran have a low 5-year survival rate. 
One of the most important reasons seems to be delayed consultation and 
diagnosis. Most patients are seen first with the disease in the late stages. At 
this point, most have lymph node and liver metastasis, which makes treatment 
even more complex. Thus, it is necessary to employ mass media for extensive 
public education about the early warning signs of the disease and performing 
periodic examinations.

PMID: 16127513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. J Health Econ. 2005 Sep;24(5):891-906. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2005.03.002.
Epub  2005 Apr 19.

Life expectancy and the value of early detection.

Howard DH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Rollins School of Public Health, 
Emory University, 1518 Clifton Road NE, Room 610, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. 
david.howard@emory.edu

This paper presents a model of the benefits and costs of early detection of 
asymptomatic disease as they vary by age. The benefits of early detection tend 
toward zero as the risk of death from competing causes increases. Costs per 
detected case also decline with age, assuming that disease incidence rises with 
age, but are always strictly positive. On balance, there is always an age limit 
beyond which the costs associated with early detection outweigh the benefits. 
Application of the model to prostate cancer screening suggests that early 
detection above age 70 or so is not cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2005.03.002
PMID: 16129128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Am J Geriatr Pharmacother. 2005 Jun;3(2):77-86. doi: 
10.1016/j.amjopharm.2005.05.002.

Cost-effectiveness of memantine for moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease in 
Sweden.

J√∂nsson L(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Health Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. linus.j@healtheconomics.se

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease entails enormous costs for society and impairs 
quality of life for patients and caregivers.
OBJECTIVE: This study estimated the cost-effectiveness of memantine in the 
treatment of patients with moderately severe to severe cognitive impairment from 
Alzheimer's disease in Sweden.
METHODS: The study was based on published data from several sources, including a 
randomized controlled trial of memantine versus placebo and a longitudinal 
observational study of Alzheimer's disease patients in Sweden. Costs were 
estimated from the public payer's perspective, including direct costs but 
excluding costs of informal care, and resource utilization data were taken from 
the observational study. Cost-effectiveness was quantified as quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained from treatment with the use of previously published 
utility weights. A Markov simulation model was constructed, incorporating the 
effect of treatment on cognitive function, physical dependence related to 
activities of daily living, and institutionalization. Costs and effects for 
treated and untreated patients were estimated for 5 years (10 cycles). In the 
base-case analysis, treatment costs were added for 2 years, but the effect on 
transition probabilities was applied only for the first year of treatment.
RESULTS: Compared with no treatment, memantine treatment was predicted to be 
associated with lower costs of care, longer time to dependence and 
institutionalization, and gains in QALYs. Treatment was estimated to decrease 
formal care costs by 123,600 Swedish kronor (SEK) and, after taking into account 
the cost of memantine, to lead to net cost savings of 100,528 SEK per patient. 
Treated patients gained 0.148 QALY over the 5-year simulation.
CONCLUSIONS: From a public payer's perspective, the observed effect of memantine 
on cognitive and physical function is predicted to translate into economic 
benefits that offset the added treatment cost. Treatment is also predicted to 
delay institutionalization, improve independence, and increase QALYs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjopharm.2005.05.002
PMID: 16129384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. CMAJ. 2005 Aug 30;173(5):476-7. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.050948.

Smoking and premature mortality: reflections on the contributions of Sir Richard 
Doll.

Jha P(1), Zatonski WA.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Sciences, University of Toronto, Centre for Global Health 
Research, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ont.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.050948
PMCID: PMC1188178
PMID: 16129863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Rev Enferm. 2005 Jul-Aug;28(7-8):27-30.

[Professional development and specialization in nursing at the service of 
citizens].

[Article in Spanish]

S√°nchez Naranjo C(1).

Author information:
(1)Ministerio de Sanidad, Madrid.

Political, economical and social changes which are continuously occurring in 
today's society have a decisive influence on health. Of particular importance 
are those changes related to the aging of the population, morbidity and the 
prevalence of chronic diseases which create significant health problems which in 
turn present significant challenges to curative type medicine. Scientific and 
technological advances permit a higher degree of sophistication for treatments, 
increasing life expectancy while at the same time posing questions which must be 
answered.

PMID: 16130687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 2005 Jul;60(3):335-44. doi: 10.1265/jjh.60.335.

[Factor analysis of attributive determinants for life expectancy and infant 
mortality rate with recipient country data in consideration of socioeconomic 
environment].

[Article in Japanese]

Furukawa M(1).
