were clopidogrel, low molecular weight heparin, hirudin and intravenous 
glycoprotein antagonists (GPAs). Twelve published clinical guidelines for 
unstable angina or non-ST elevation ACS were identified, but few contained 
recommendations about the specified decision problems. The postal survey of 
clinicians showed that the greatest disagreement existed for the use of small 
molecule GPAs, and the greatest uncertainty existed for decisions relating to 
the use of abciximab (a large molecule GPA). Overall, decision problems 
concerning the GPA class of drugs were considered to be the highest priority for 
further study. Selected papers describing the clinical efficacy of treatment 
were divided into three groups, each representing an alternative strategy. The 
strategy involving the use of GPAs as part of the initial medical management of 
all non-ST elevation ACS was the optimal choice, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 5738 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) compared with no use of GPAs. Stochastic analysis showed that if the 
health service is willing to pay 10,000 pounds per additional QALY, the 
probability of this strategy being cost-effective was around 82%, increasing to 
95% at a threshold of 50,000 pounds per QALY. A sensitivity analysis including 
an additional strategy of using GPAs as part of initial medical management only 
in patients at particular high risk (as defined by age, ST depression or 
diabetes) showed that this additional strategy was yet more cost-effective, with 
an ICER of 3996 pounds per QALY compared with no treatment with GPA. Value of 
information analysis suggested that there was considerable merit in additional 
research to reduce the level of uncertainty in the optimal decision. At a 
threshold of 10,000 pounds per QALY, the maximum potential value of such 
research in the base case was calculated as 12.7 million pounds per annum for 
the UK as a whole. Taking account of the greater uncertainty in the sensitivity 
analyses including clopidogrel, this figure was increased to approximately 50 
million pounds.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests the use of GPAs in all non-ST elevation ACS 
patients as part of their initial medical management. Sensitivity analysis 
showed that virtually all of the benefit could be realised by treating only 
high-risk patients. Further clarification of the optimum role of GPAs in the UK 
NHS depends on the availability of further high-quality observational and trial 
data. Value of information analysis derived from the model suggests that a 
relatively large investment in such research may be worthwhile. Further research 
should focus on the identification of the characteristics of patients who 
benefit most from GPAs as part of medical management, the comparison of GPAs 
with clopidogrel as an adjunct to standard care, follow-up cohort studies of the 
costs and outcomes of high-risk non-ST elevation ACS over several years, and 
exploring how clinicians' decisions combine a normative evidence-based decision 
model with their own personal behavioural perspective.

DOI: 10.3310/hta9270
PMID: 16022802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Ethnopharmacol. 2005 Oct 3;101(1-3):249-57. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2005.04.037.

Suppressive effect of Zedoariae rhizoma on pulmonary metastasis of B16 melanoma 
cells.

Seo WG(1), Hwang JC, Kang SK, Jin UH, Suh SJ, Moon SK, Kim CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Internal Medicine, College 
of Oriental Medicine, Dongguk University and National Research Laboratory for 
Glycobiology, Sukjang-Dong 707, Kyungju City, Kyungbuk 780-714, Republic of 
Korea.

The inhibitory effect of Curcuma zedoaria Roscoe (WE-CZ) on experimental 
pulmonary metastasis of B16 melanoma cells was investigated. The intake of WE-CZ 
at doses of 250 and 500 mg/kg for 6 weeks from 2 weeks before tumor inoculation 
significantly reduced the number of metastatic surface nodules in the lung, 
resulting in an extended life span. When the duration of WE-CZ intake was 
examined, survival time was not affected by pre-intake before B16 melanoma cell 
inoculation and was slightly extended by post-intake after B16 melanoma cell 
inoculation, although the life span was prolonged by intake throughout the 
experiment. To address the mechanism underlying the anti-metastatic effect of 
WE-CZ, we examined the issue of whether WE-CZ modulated macrophage function, 
which is involved in killing tumor cells. The intake of WE-CZ for 6 weeks 
increased nitric oxide (NO) production by macrophages following stimulation with 
lipopolysaccharide in a dose-dependent manner. The elevated NO was found to 
serve as a cytotoxic mediator against B16 melanoma cells in co-culture with 
macrophages. On the contrary, B16 melanoma-conditioned medium reduced NO 
production by macrophages. However, WE-CZ treatment significantly reversed the 
reduction in NO production by the conditioned medium. These findings indicate 
that WE-CZ possesses anti-migratory effects on B16 melanoma cells and that the 
macrophage function-modulating activity by WE-CZ appears to underlie its 
anti-metastatic activity, which leads to a decrease in the number of lung 
metastatic surface nodules and the extension of life span. These results suggest 
that WE-CZ may play important roles in the inhibition of cancer metastasis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2005.04.037
PMID: 16023317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Neuroimage. 2005 Dec;28(4):815-26. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2005.06.014.
Epub  2005 Jul 14.

Self-esteem, locus of control, hippocampal volume, and cortisol regulation in 
young and old adulthood.

Pruessner JC(1), Baldwin MW, Dedovic K, Renwick R, Mahani NK, Lord C, Meaney M, 
Lupien S.

Author information:
(1)McConnell Brain Imaging Center, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada. jens@bic.mni.mcgill.ca

Self-esteem, the value we place on ourselves, has been associated with effects 
on health, life expectancy, and life satisfaction. Correlated with self-esteem 
is internal locus of control, the individual's perception of being in control of 
his or her outcomes. Recently, variations in self-esteem and internal locus of 
control have been shown to predict the neuroendocrine cortisol response to 
stress. Cumulative exposure to high levels of cortisol over the lifetime is 
known to be related to hippocampal atrophy. We therefore examined hippocampal 
volume and cortisol regulation, to investigate potential biological mechanisms 
related to self-esteem. We investigated 16 healthy young (age range 20-26 years 
of age) and 23 healthy elderly subjects (age range 60-84 years). The young 
subjects were exposed to a psychosocial stress task, while the elderly subjects 
were assessed for their basal cortisol regulation. Structural Magnetic Resonance 
Images were acquired from all subjects, and volumetric analyses were performed 
on medial temporal lobe structures, and whole brain gray matter. Standardized 
neuropsychological assessments in the elderly were performed to assess levels of 
cognitive performance, and to exclude the possibility of neurodegenerative 
disease. Self-esteem and internal locus of control were significantly correlated 
with hippocampal volume in both young and elderly subjects. In the young, the 
cortisol response to the psychosocial stress task was significantly correlated 
with both hippocampal volume and levels of self-esteem and locus of control, 
while in the elderly, these personality traits moderated age-related patterns of 
cognitive decline, cortisol regulation, and global brain volume decline.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2005.06.014
PMID: 16023372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Am J Surg. 2005 Aug;190(2):314-8. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2005.05.033.

Popliteal aneurysms: controversies in their management.

Galland RB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Berkshire Hospital, London Road, Reading RG1 
5AN, London, UK. Robert.Galland@rbbh-tr.nhs.uk

Popliteal artery aneurysms (PAs) occur in older men with significant comorbidity 
and limited life expectancy. This needs to be remembered when planning elective 
operation for asymptomatic aneurysms. In the absence of significant distortion 
PAs <3 cm in diameter can be managed by sequential ultrasound scanning. Their 
rate of thrombosis is no worse than that of grafts after elective bypass. 
Intra-arterial thrombolysis for acute thrombosis should be restricted to 
intra-operative usage to clear run off.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2005.05.033
PMID: 16023452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Clin Liver Dis. 2005 Aug;9(3):525-33, ix. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2005.05.008.

Treatment of hepatitis C virus/HIV coinfection.

Chun S(1), Sherman KE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Digestive Diseases, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
231 Albert Sabin Way, Cincinnati, OH 45267-0595, USA.

Coinfection with HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV) has grown in importance and 
clinical impact in recent years. This change is attributable to the increase in 
life expectancy of those living with HIV infection since the advent of highly 
active antiretroviral therapy. This article reviews treatment options for 
patients who are coinfected with HIV and HCV.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2005.05.008
PMID: 16023981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Rehabil Med. 2005 Jul;37(4):258-62. doi: 10.1080/16501970510030156.

Physical complaints in ageing persons with spinal muscular atrophy.

de Groot IJ(1), de Witte LP.

Author information:
(1)iRv, Institute for Rehabilitation Research, Hoensbroek, The Netherlands. 
i.degroot@irv.nl

OBJECTIVE: While life expectancy is improving for persons with spinal muscular 
atrophy, new physical complaints may arise. To investigate this, we studied 
persons with a long duration and severe course (high functional limitations) of 
the disease.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional descriptive study.
SUBJECTS/PATIENTS: Persons with spinal muscular atrophy.
METHODS: Questionnaires and structured interviews on prevalence of physical 
complaints and their duration. Of 190 questionnaires 99 were returned; of 23 
persons (with the longest disease duration and high functional limitation level) 
selected for structured medical interviews 9 participated.
RESULTS: Patterns common within and different between the different types of 
spinal muscular atrophy were identified. Of the 10 most common complaints, types 
1-2 had a significantly higher prevalence of kyphoscoliosis, difficulty in 
coughing, joint contractures and voice/speech problems, while type 3 had a 
significantly higher prevalence of fatigue. No statistically significant 
correlation was found between the appearance of physical complaints and disease 
duration. However, sleeping and swallowing problems were in the 5 most common 
complaints with the shortest mean time of appearance. The structured interview 
revealed hypermobility in the hand, suffusion of the eyes, and itching as new 
complaints with high prevalence.
CONCLUSION: There are indications that the frequency of less well-known physical 
complaints increases with ageing.

DOI: 10.1080/16501970510030156
PMID: 16024484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2005 Jul 9-23;68(13-14):1175-80. doi: 
10.1080/15287390590936049.

Air pollution mortality: harvesting and loss of life expectancy.

Rabl A(1).

Author information:
(1)Ecole des Mines, Paris, France. ari.rabl@ensmp.fr

This article concerns the interpretation of epidemiological studies of air 
pollution mortality and the choice of indicators for quantifying the impact, for 
communication with policymakers. It is shown that the total mortality impact 
(measured by cohort studies) can only be quantified in terms of loss of life 
expectancy (LLE), not number of premature deaths. Time-series (TS) studies of 
mortality observe only acute impacts, that is, deaths due to short-term exposure 
("acute mortality"); they allow the estimation of a number of deaths without 
providing any information on the LLE per death. However, even if the average 
loss per death is as long as 6 mo, acute mortality is only a very small 
percentage of the total mortality attributable to air pollution. Estimates of 
the population-average LLE due to air pollution are provided, for acute 
mortality, total adult mortality, and infant mortality.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390590936049
PMID: 16024496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2005 Jul 26;102(30):10454-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0504786102. Epub 2005 Jul 15.

Regulation of human methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase by phosphorylation.

Yamada K(1), Strahler JR, Andrews PC, Matthews RG.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2216, 
USA. yamadak@umich.edu

Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) catalyzes the reduction of 
methylenetetrahydrofolate to methyltetrahydrofolate, the methyl donor for the 
conversion of homocysteine to methionine. Regulation of MTHFR activity is 
crucial for maintaining cellular concentrations of methionine and 
S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet). Purified recombinant human MTHFR expressed in 
insect cells is multiply phosphorylated on an N-terminal extension of the 
protein that contains a highly conserved serine-rich region. Treatment by 
alkaline phosphatase removes seven phosphoryl groups from the enzyme. Thr-34 was 
identified as one of the seven phosphorylation sites by using a monoclonal 
antibody directed toward pThr-Pro. Mutation of Thr-34 to Ala completely blocks 
modification as judged by mass spectrometric analysis, suggesting that Thr-34 is 
the priming phosphorylation site. The Thr34Ala mutant was expressed in 
baculovirus-infected insect cells, and its enzymic properties were compared with 
wild-type enzyme. The mutant enzyme and alkaline phosphatase-treated wild-type 
enzyme are more active than untreated wild-type enzyme and less sensitive to 
inhibition by saturating AdoMet, indicating that phosphorylation at Thr-34 is 
critical for allosteric regulation of human MTHFR activity by AdoMet. The 
absence of methionine and the presence of adenosine in the cell culture medium, 
which lead to a low intracellular AdoMet/S-adenosylhomocysteine ratio, are 
associated with faster electrophoretic mobility of MTHFR, presumably because of 
less or no phosphorylation. Because the faster-mobility MTHFR is associated with 
the more active form of MTHFR, this response is likely to increase methionine 
production. Those observations suggest that AdoMet functions not only as an 
allosteric inhibitor but also to control phosphorylation of human MTHFR.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0504786102
PMCID: PMC1180802
PMID: 16024724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Genet Med. 2005 Jul-Aug;7(6):380-9. doi: 10.1097/01.gim.0000170776.31248.75.

Gene expression profiling and breast cancer care: what are the potential 
benefits and policy implications?

Oestreicher N(1), Ramsey SD, Linden HM, McCune JS, van't Veer LJ, Burke W, 
Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

PURPOSE: Gene expression profiling has been proposed as an alternative to 
clinical guidelines to identify high-risk patients for adjuvant chemotherapy. 
However, the outcomes associated with gene expression profiling are not clear, 
and guidelines for the appropriate use of genomic technologies have not been 
established.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic model to evaluate the incremental cost 
and quality-adjusted life years of gene expression profiling versus NIH clinical 
guidelines in a hypothetical cohort of premenopausal early stage breast cancer 
patients 44 years of age. We conducted empirical analyses and identified 
literature-based data to inform the model, and performed probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses to evaluate uncertainty in the results. We interpreted the 
implications of our findings for treatment guidelines and policies.
RESULTS: Use of gene expression profiling resulted in an absolute 5% decrease in 
the proportion of cases of distant recurrence prevented, 0.21 fewer 
quality-adjusted life years, and a cost savings of USD 2882. The chosen test 
cutoff value to identify a tumor as poor prognosis and the cost of adjuvant 
chemotherapy were the most influential parameters in the analysis, but our 
findings did not change substantially in sensitivity analyses. Regardless of the 
test cutoff used to identify a poor prognosis tumor, the gene expression 
profiling assay studied in our analysis, at its current level of performance, 
did not attain the threshold sensitivity (95%) necessary to produce equal or 
greater quality-adjusted life years than NIH guidelines.
CONCLUSION: Although the use of gene expression profiling in breast cancer care 
holds great promise, our analysis suggests additional refinement and validation 
are needed before use in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1097/01.gim.0000170776.31248.75
PMID: 16024969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Ann Hematol. 2005 Oct;84(10):640-5. doi: 10.1007/s00277-005-1083-8. Epub
2005  Jul 16.

Recent acquisitions in the management of iron overload.

Franchini M(1).

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Immunoematologia e Trasfusione, Azienda Ospedaliera di Verona, 
Piazzale L. Scuro, 10, 37134, Verona, Italy. mfranchini@mail.univr.it

Chronically transfused patients develop iron overload, which leads to organ 
damage and ultimately to death. The introduction of the iron-chelating agent 
desferrioxamine mesylate dramatically improved the life expectancy of these 
patients. However, the very demanding nature of this treatment (subcutaneous, 
continuous infusion via a battery-operated portable pump) has been the 
motivation for attempts to develop alternative forms of treatment that would 
facilitate the patients' compliance. In this review, we describe the most 
important advances in iron-chelation therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-005-1083-8
PMID: 16025271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Presse Med. 2005 Jun 4;34(10 Suppl):1S16-22.

[Epidemiology of HIV infection in 2005].

[Article in French]

Arvieux C(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de maladies infectieuses et réanimation médicale, CHU Pontchaillou, 
35033 Rennes. cedric.arvieux@churennes.fr

Various concomitant epidemics of HIV infection currently exist and have created 
a worldwide pandemic. In Eastern Europe, in France and in industrialized 
countries, the prevalence of HIV infection is on the rise due to the increased 
life expectancy of seropositive patients and the persistently "high" incidence 
rate. In Western Europe, the proportion of new cases among women and people from 
endemic countries is growing. The role of drug use in HIV transmission is 
decreasing. The opposite situation is encountered in Eastern Europe, where 
intravenous drug abuse remains the major risk factor, although heterosexual 
contamination is also rising. In sub-Saharan Africa, the situation is alarming: 
decreased life expectancy, increased infant mortality, and a prevalence 
approaching 50% in prenatal consultations in some countries. Minor improvements 
have been noted (decline in the prevalence in Uganda). Major deficits in the 
healthcare systems thwart antiHIV campaigns. In southern and eastern Asia, the 
epidemic is expanding, notably in countries in which it is recent (China, 
Indonesia). It is difficult today to envisage a global answer to the epidemic, 
in view of the wide variety of situations.

PMID: 16025663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Disabil Rehabil. 2005 Mar 4;27(5):213-9. doi: 10.1080/09638280400006424.

Active life expectancy of older people in Mexico.

Reyes-Beaman S(1), Jagger C, Garcia-Peña C, Muñoz O, Beaman PE, Stafford B; 
National Group of Research on Ageing.

Author information:
(1)Bedford Primary Care Trust, NHS, UK. reyes_beaman@doctors.net.uk

BACKGROUND: Social and economic development together with demographic changes 
and health interventions have resulted in an increase in life expectancy and a 
rapidly ageing population in Mexico. Whether people will live longer active and 
independent lives is still, however, unknown. We will address this question, 
providing the first estimates of active life expectancy by age, sex and local 
regional area in Mexico.
METHODS: Active life expectancy was calculated using the Sullivan method with 
abridged life tables. Information on the older Mexican population covered by the 
Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS) and the number of deaths for the 
same group in the year 2000 was obtained from the Office for Health Statistics 
and Information at IMSS in Mexico. Information on ability to perform basic 
activities of daily living was obtained from the National Survey on Ageing 
carried out in IMSS during 1998-99.
RESULTS: For males and females combined, active life expectancy decreased from 
26.9 years at 60 years to 5.7 years at 85 years. Women's life expectancy 
exceeded that of men but women lived more years dependent. Similarly, older 
people in geographical areas with longer life expectancy spent a lower 
proportion of remaining life active.
CONCLUSION: The success in increasing life expectancy above average in some 
groups of older people covered by IMSS has been accompanied by increments in the 
proportion of remaining years dependent upon others for help in basic self-care 
activities.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280400006424
PMID: 16025748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Disabil Rehabil. 2005 Mar 4;27(5):221-7. doi: 10.1080/09638280400006432.

Disability free life expectancy in older Italians.

Minicuci N(1), Noale M.

Author information:
(1)National Research Council, Institute of Neuroscience, Aging Unit, Padova, 
Italy. nadia.minicuci@unipd.it

PURPOSE: To estimate Disability-Free Life Expectancy (DFLE) among a cohort of 
3005 Italians aged 65-84 and evaluate geographical differences.
METHOD: Sullivan method was used to estimate DFLE based on the Performance Test 
(PPTs), Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADLs) and Activities of Daily 
Living (ADLs); furthermore, a hierarchical scale of disability was defined to 
evaluate the pattern of DFLE and geographical differences.
RESULTS: Men aged 65-69 will live 67% of their remaining life free of PPTs 
disability, 77% free of IADLs and 83% free of ADLs disability. Women aged 65-69 
will live 44, 63 and 76%, respectively. In the hierarchical structure, mild DFLE 
for subjects aged 65-69, was of 12.8 years for both sexes; moderate DFLE was of 
13.4 and 14.2 years and severe DFLE was of 13.5 and 15.3 years, for men and 
women, respectively. People living in Central Italy are those with the highest 
number of years lived free of mild disability; people living in Northern Italy 
are instead those expected to live more years free of moderate and severe 
disability.
CONCLUSIONS: The hierarchical approach showed that women tend to live more years 
with some level of disability than men, although the moderate and severe 
disability occur almost simultaneously among men.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280400006432
PMID: 16025749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Disabil Rehabil. 2005 Mar 4;27(5):229-40. doi: 10.1080/09638280400006457.

The impact of stroke in Italy: first step for a National Burden of Disease 
Study.

Francescutti C(1), Mariotti S, Simon G, D'Errigo P, Di Bidino R.

Author information:
(1)Local Health Unit, Pordenone (Friuli Venezia Giulia Region), Rome, Italy.

PURPOSE: To calculate the impact of stroke in Italy in 1998, expressed in terms 
of disability adjusted life years (DALYs) according to the WHO Global Burden of 
Disease (GBD) Study.
METHOD: The data on first-ever stroke incidence (FES), remission rate and case 
fatality derived from the health information system and a research on post-FES 
disability of the Friuli Venezia-Giulia (FVG) Region, were used to compute the 
years of life lived with disability (YLDs), which were added to the years of 
life lost due to premature mortality (YLLs), calculated from stroke mortality 
data, to obtain the DALYs. The results were extrapolated to the rest of Italy 
after examination of national stroke registries data.
RESULTS: Standardized estimated incidence of FES in FVG in 1998 was lower (135 
cases of FES per 100 000 inhabitants) than that reported in other published 
national and international studies. Estimated case fatality rate and 
distribution of post-FES disability did not differ from other similar studies. 
About 100 000 YLLs and 273 000 YLDs due to FES were estimated in 1998 for Italy.
CONCLUSIONS: The estimated proportion of the YLDs on total DALYs (27%) is 
comparable with that obtained in the EURO-A group (the European area including 
Italy) of the GBD 2000 Study (31%), and the Australian BoD Study (35%).

DOI: 10.1080/09638280400006457
PMID: 16025750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Disabil Rehabil. 2005 Mar 4;27(5):241-51. doi: 10.1080/09638280400006481.

Socioeconomic status differentials in life and active life expectancy among 
older adults in Beijing.

Kaneda T(1), Zimmer Z, Tang Z.

Author information:
(1)Policy Research Division, Population Council, One Dag Hammarskjold Plaza, New 
York, NY 10017, USA. tkaneda@popcouncil.org

PURPOSE: The study compares life and active life expectancy estimates across 
indicators of socioeconomic status (SES) for a cohort of older adults in the 
Beijing municipality. Our aim is to determine if associations found are 
consistent across indicators and with those typically observed in the Western 
industrialized countries.
METHOD: A multistate life table method is used to estimate expected years of 
total and active life, defined as life spent without limitation in functions 
necessary for performing daily tasks.
RESULTS: We find that men of higher status experience advantages with respect to 
life and active life expectancies. Among women, only active life expectancy is 
significantly higher for those of higher status, but the difference by income is 
not statistically significant. With respect to the proportion of life spent in 
an active state, both men and women of higher status benefit in comparison to 
their lower status counterparts. Finally, we find that disparities by SES 
generally increase with age.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite several inconsistencies across SES indicators by gender, 
findings generally confirm inequalities within a society that is organized very 
differently socially, economically, and politically from the West.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280400006481
PMID: 16025751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Disabil Rehabil. 2005 Mar 4;27(5):277-83. doi: 10.1080/09638280400006523.

The role of sensory and cognitive function in the onset of activity restriction 
in older people.

Jagger C(1), Spiers N, Arthur A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, 22-28 Princess Road 
West, Leicester LE1 6TP, England. cxj@le.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Extending healthy active life expectancy is a priority if we are to 
achieve gains in both the quality and quantity of life lived at older ages. We 
investigated the role of sensory (vision and hearing) and cognitive function on 
the onset of activity restriction in older people.
METHODS: A survey of a total population (N = 1579) of people aged 75 years and 
older, registered with a large general population in Melton Mowbray, 
Leicestershire, England, was undertaken in 1988 and linked with subsequent 
routine health assessments (up to a maximum of five) over 10 years. Activity 
restriction was defined as having difficulty performing on their own, requiring 
help or aids or not doing any one of seven Activities of Daily Living (ADLs). 
The study population comprised the 643 persons who were not restricted at 
baseline. Cox proportional hazard regression models were fitted to time of onset 
of activity restriction with those dying before activity restriction was 
reported being censored at time of death.
RESULTS: After adjustment for confounding factors (socio-demographic and 
psychosocial factors, physical health and physical functional limitations), 
difficulty with both vision and hearing conferred a doubling of risk of activity 
restriction (RR = 2.36, 95% CI 1.31 to 4.28). A unit decrease in the 
Information/Orientation subtest was associated with a 10% increase in risk (RR = 
1.10, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.19), even after adjustment for vision and hearing as well 
as other confounding factors, though baseline Mini-Mental State Examination 
score was not indicative of increased risk (RR= 1.02, 95% CI 0.98 to 1.06).
CONCLUSION: Differentiating whether disability is a result of physical, sensory 
or cognitive functional limitations, is necessary to identify need and the 
direction in which efforts should be targeted to improve active life expectancy 
in older people.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280400006523
PMID: 16025754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2005;106(2):45-54.

Health status of the Slovakia population at its entry to the European Union.

Ginter E(1), Havelkova B, Rovny I, Hlava P, Barakova A, Kudlackova M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health SR, Bratislava, Slovakia. ginter@uvzsr.sk

The health status of the Slovak Republic (SR) population on the eve of its entry 
to the European Union (EU) was generally worse than the EU average. Life 
expectancy at birth was in SR for males 70 years, in EU 75.5 years and for 
females 78 in SR and 82 in EU. Premature mortality for the age interval 0-64 
years (standardized death rates--SDR per 100,000) was mostly higher in SR; male 
mortality being almost twice as high as in EU. The reason was a significantly 
higher mortality caused by cardiovascular diseases, malignant neoplasms and 
mortality from external causes. Also mortality caused by diseases of respiratory 
and digestive system, by cirrhosis and diabetes is higher in SR both in male and 
female populations. However, there were some positive aspects in SR. Mortality 
caused by infectious and parasitic diseases was lower in SR for both males and 
females. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS in EU was five times higher than in SR. SR 
has one of the lowest concentrations of newly registered AIDS cases in all 
Europe. Immunization coverage in SR is higher than in many EU countries. The 
health status of children population in SR is not significantly worse than in 
EU. However, the global health status image seems worse due to values of the 
Gypsy minority. Trends of premature mortality are favourable in SR. Mortality 
from cardiovascular diseases, external causes of injury and poison and from 
diseases of respiratory system is falling. Infant mortality is falling while the 
average life expectancy of both men and women is rising. However, with health 
care improving constantly in EU countries in all these areas, it will not be 
easy for SR to catch up with EU. We estimate that this process might possibly 
take up to 20 years. (Tab. 5, Fig. 11, Ref. 26.)

PMID: 16026133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Curr Drug Targets. 2005 Jun;6(4):447-52. doi: 10.2174/1389450054021882.

Blockade of diabetic vascular injury by controlling of AGE-RAGE system.

Myint KM(1), Yamamoto Y, Sakurai S, Harashima A, Watanabe T, Li H, Takeuchi A, 
Yoshimura K, Yonekura H, Yamamoto H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Vascular Biology, Kanazawa University 
Graduate School of Medical Science, Japan.

Vascular complications result in disabilities and short life expectancy in 
diabetic patients. During prolonged hyperglycemic exposure, non-enzymatically 
glycated protein derivatives termed advanced glycation endproducts (AGE) are 
formed at an accelerated rate and accumulated in blood and in tissues. Studies 
performed in vitro and in vivo revealed AGE and their receptor RAGE as the major 
accounts for vascular cell derangement characteristic of diabetes. The AGE-RAGE 
system would thus be considered as a candidate molecular target for overcoming 
diabetic vascular complications. Potential preventive and therapeutic approaches 
toward it include inhibition of AGE formation, breakage of preformed 
AGE-proteins crosslinks, blockade of AGE-RAGE interactions with RAGE competitors 
or antagonists and RAGE-specific signaling inhibition.

DOI: 10.2174/1389450054021882
PMID: 16026264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Rev Clin Exp Hematol. 2004 Dec 1;8(2):E3.

Supportive care including growth factors in myelodysplastic syndromes.

Gardin C(1), Fenaux P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologe Clinique, Hôpital Avicenne & Université Paris XIII, 
Bobigny, France. claude.gardin@avc.aphp.fr

In spite of recent advances in the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), 
supportive care remains a very important part of the therapy. Red blood cells 
transfusions are the most important component of this supportive care. They 
transiently relieve anemia symptoms and alleviate their effects on quality of 
life and daily functioning. Platelet transfusion therapy is less frequently 
needed, at least in low-risk MDS. Dealing with an increased risk of infections 
linked to neutropenia, mainly by broad spectrum antibiotics, is also needed, 
more often in advanced stages of [dict: MDS] or when the MDS evolves to acute 
myeloid leukemia. Chronic red blood cell transfusions expose patients to various 
side-effects, including blood components intolerance reactions and 
alloimmunization risks, but also increased frequency of iron overload, a more 
significant problem in low-risk heavily transfused MDS patients, who have 
prolonged life expectancy. The use of growth factors is becoming a more and more 
important part of current supportive care. High-dose erythropoietin is able to 
reduce or suppress red blood cell transfusions needs in selected subgroups of 
MDS. The short-term use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor is also often 
proposed in infections, although not formally established by prospective trials. 
Although trials of growth factors with thrombopoeitic activity have been 
performed with interleukin 11 and are underway with thrombopoeitin, none of them 
are available for routine use.

PMID: 16027101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Exp Med. 2005 Jul 18;202(2):197-201. doi: 10.1084/jem.20050854.

Inborn errors of immunity to infection: the rule rather than the exception.

Casanova JL(1), Abel L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, University of Paris René 
Descartes-INSERM U550, Necker Medical School, Pediatric Hematology-Immunology 
Unit, Necker Enfants Malades Hospital, Paris, France. casanova@necker.fr

The immune system's function is to protect against microorganisms, but infection 
is nonetheless the most frequent cause of death in human history. Until the last 
century, life expectancy was only approximately 25 years. Recent increases in 
human life span primarily reflect the development of hygiene, vaccines, and 
anti-infectious drugs, rather than the adjustment of our immune system to 
coevolving microbes by natural selection. We argue here that most individuals 
retain a natural vulnerability to infectious diseases, reflecting a great 
diversity of inborn errors of immunity.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.20050854
PMCID: PMC2212996
PMID: 16027233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Jul 19;143(2):89-99. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-2-200507190-00007.

Cost-effectiveness of full medicare coverage of angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors for beneficiaries with diabetes.

Rosen AB(1), Hamel MB, Weinstein MC, Cutler DM, Fendrick AM, Vijan S.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, University of Michigan Health Systems, 300 
North Ingalls, Suite 7E10, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. abrosen@umich.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Dec 20;143(12):918; author reply 918.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Jul 19;143(2):I21.

BACKGROUND: Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors slow renal disease 
progression and reduce cardiac morbidity and mortality in patients with 
diabetes. Patients' out-of-pocket costs pose a barrier to using this effective 
therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness to Medicare of first-dollar 
coverage (no cost sharing) of ACE inhibitors for beneficiaries with diabetes.
DESIGN: Markov model with costs and benefits discounted at 3%.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature and Medicare claims data.
TARGET POPULATION: 65-year-old Medicare beneficiary with diabetes.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Medicare and societal.
INTERVENTIONS: We evaluated Medicare first-dollar coverage of ACE inhibitors 
compared with current practice (no coverage) and the new Medicare drug benefit.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs (2003 U.S. dollars), quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), life-years, and incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Compared with current practice, first-dollar 
coverage of ACE inhibitors saved both lives and money (0.23 QALYs gained and 
1606 USD saved per Medicare beneficiary). Compared with the new Medicare drug 
benefit, first-dollar coverage remained a dominant strategy (0.15 QALYs gained, 
922 USD saved).
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results were most sensitive to our estimate of 
increase in ACE inhibitor use; however, if ACE inhibitor use increased by only 
7.2% (from 40% to 47.2%), first-dollar coverage would remain life-saving at no 
net cost to Medicare. In analyses conducted from the societal perspective, 
benefits were similar and cost savings were larger.
LIMITATIONS: Results depend on accuracy of the underlying data and assumptions. 
The effect of more generous drug coverage on medication adherence is uncertain.
CONCLUSIONS: Medicare first-dollar coverage of ACE inhibitors for beneficiaries 
with diabetes appears to extend life and reduce Medicare program costs. A 
reduction in program costs may result in more money to spend on other health 
care needs of the elderly.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-2-200507190-00007
PMID: 16027450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Osteoporos Int. 2006 Feb;17(2):201-11. doi: 10.1007/s00198-005-1959-4. Epub
2005  Jul 19.

Economic evaluation of parathyroid hormone (PTH) in the treatment of 
osteoporosis in postmenopausal women.

Lundkvist J(1), Johnell O, Cooper C, Sykes D.

Author information:
(1)Medical Management Centre, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. 
jonas.1@healtheconomics.se

Parathyroid hormone (PTH) is a new treatment for osteoporosis and has been shown 
to reduce the risks of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures in postmenopausal 
women in clinical trials. The objective of this study was to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of teriparatide in addition to calcium and vitamin D, using a 
simulation model. The base case analysis was conducted for a cohort of 
69-year-old women in Sweden who had at least one previous vertebral fracture and 
low bone mineral density. The model simulated the course of events in 6-month 
cycles in individual patients until death or 100 years of age. During each cycle 
the patients were at risk of experiencing clinical vertebral, hip or wrist 
fractures, or death. Total accumulated life-time costs and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) were estimated. Swedish data on fracture costs, utility reductions 
after fracture, fracture risks and mortality rates were used. The model 
incorporated new epidemiological evidence that indicates fracture risks and 
mortality rates are higher in the subsequent years post-fracture. The results 
showed that the cost-effectiveness of the treatment is highly dependant on the 
risk profile of the treated patients and the timing of starting treatment 
relative to previous fractures. The cost per QALY gained for treatment of a 
population of 69-year-olds with a T-score at the femoral neck of -3 was in the 
base case estimated to be between EUR (euro) 20,000 and 64,000 for patients with 
a recent or historic vertebral fracture respectively. The study provides further 
evidence of the benefit and cost-effectiveness of starting osteoporotic 
treatments early in patients with a new fracture, and also that teriparatide may 
provide valuable clinical benefits for these patients and may be considered a 
cost-effective intervention when targeted to the appropriate patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-005-1959-4
PMID: 16027955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. J Nutr Educ Behav. 2005 Jul-Aug;37(4):215-6. doi:
10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60251-0.

Women living healthy, women living well: digital solutions for living your best 
life.

Dunn C(1), Thomas C, Reid I.

Author information:
(1)North Carolina Cooperative Extension, North Carolina State University, 
Raleigh 27695, USA. carolyn_dunn@ncsu.edu

DOI: 10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60251-0
PMID: 16029695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Humanist. 2004 May-Jun;64(3):11-5.

The future of immortality.

Trent B.

Trent shares his perspectives on the mechanics of future immortality and death, 
which are being laid bare in laboratories around the world. He reiterates that 
even among new immortals, there will likely be people who, after a full life of 
two hundred or two million years, will decide that enough is simply enough, and 
that death may be as optional as the hair dye.

PMID: 16032813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Microbiol Immunol. 2005;49(7):599-603. doi:
10.1111/j.1348-0421.2005.tb03651.x.

Promoter analysis of cytolethal distending toxin genes (cdtA , B, and C ) and 
effect of a luxS mutation on CDT production in Campylobacter jejuni.

Jeon B(1), Itoh K, Ryu S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Public Health, Graduate School of Agricultural and 
Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Japan.

Quorum sensing is known to be related to regulation of virulence factors in some 
pathogens. We report transcriptional analysis of cdt genes (cdtA, B, and C ) 
encoding cytolethal distending toxin (CDT) in Campylobacter jejuni and 
demonstrate that a luxS mutation affects the cdt transcription in C. jejuni. The 
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) showed that cdtA, cdtB, 
and cdtC genes constitute a polycistronic operon in C. jejuni. A putative 
transcriptional start site was found at 81-bp upstream from the start codon of 
cdtA by the primer extension assay. A decrease in cdt transcription was observed 
in the luxS null mutant, which is defective in AI-2 production. The level of cdt 
transcription in the luxS mutant was approximately 61% of that in the wild-type. 
Flow cytometric analysis showed that the number of HeLa cells arrested in the G 
(2) /M phase, a common biological feature of CDT activity, was reduced by 
treatment with the cell-free supernatant of the luxS mutant as compared to that 
of the wild-type. Our observations suggest that the function of luxS is related 
to the regulation of cdt in C. jejuni.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.2005.tb03651.x
PMID: 16034202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Br J Surg. 2005 Aug;92(8):960-7. doi: 10.1002/bjs.5119.

Cost-effectiveness of endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.

Michaels JA(1), Drury D, Thomas SM.

Author information:
(1)Academic Vascular Unit, Coleridge House, Northern General Hospital, Herries 
Road, Sheffield S5 7AU, UK. j.michaels@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2006 Feb;93(2):250; author reply 250.

BACKGROUND: The rapid introduction of endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm 
repair (EVAR) has considerable implications for the management of abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (AAA). This study was undertaken to determine an optimal 
strategy for the use of EVAR based on the best currently available evidence.
METHODS: Economic modelling and probabilistic sensitivity analysis considered 
reference cases representing a fit 70-year-old with a 5.5-cm diameter AAA (RC1) 
and an 80-year-old with a 6.5-cm AAA unfit for open surgery (RC2). Results were 
assessed as incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) compared with open 
repair (RC1) or conservative management (RC2).
RESULTS: In RC1 EVAR produced a gain of 0.10 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
for an estimated cost of 11,449 pound, giving an ICER of 110,000 pound per QALY. 
EVAR consistently had an ICER above 30,000 pound per QALY over a range of 
sensitivity analyses and alternative scenarios. In RC2 EVAR produced an 
estimated benefit of 1.64 QALYs for an incremental cost of 14,077 pound giving 
an incremental cost per QALY of 8579 pound.
CONCLUSION: : It is unlikely that EVAR for fit patients suitable for open repair 
is within the commonly accepted range of cost-effectiveness for a new 
technology. For those unfit for conventional open repair it is likely to be a 
cost-effective alternative to non-operative management. Sensitivity analysis 
suggests that research efforts should concentrate on determining accurate rates 
for late complications and reintervention, particularly in patients with high 
operative risks.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.5119
PMID: 16034841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Br J Surg. 2005 Aug;92(8):976-83. doi: 10.1002/bjs.5122.

Decision-analytical model with lifetime estimation of costs and health outcomes 
for one-time screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm in 65-year-old men.

Henriksson M(1), Lundgren F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medical Technology Assessment, Linköping University, Linköping, 
Sweden. martin.henriksson@ihs.liu.se

BACKGROUND: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) causes about 2 per cent of all 
deaths in men over the age of 65 years. A major improvement in operative 
mortality would have little impact on total mortality, so screening for AAA has 
been recommended as a solution. The cost-effectiveness of a programme that 
invited 65-year-old men for ultrasonographic screening was compared with current 
clinical practice in a decision-analytical model.
METHODS: In a probabilistic Markov model, costs and health outcomes of a 
screening programme and current clinical practice were simulated over a lifetime 
perspective. To populate the model with the best available evidence, data from 
published papers, vascular databases and primary research were used.
RESULTS: The results of the base-case analysis showed that the incremental cost 
per gained life-year for a screening programme compared with current practice 
was 7760, and that for a quality-adjusted life-year was 9700. The probability of 
screening being cost-effective was high.
CONCLUSION: A financially and practically feasible screening programme for AAA, 
in which men are invited for ultrasonography in the year in which they turn 65, 
appears to yield positive health outcomes at a reasonable cost.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.5122
PMID: 16034844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Rev Med Liege. 2005 May-Jun;60(5-6):433-8.

[The care of the older person with diabetes mellitus].

[Article in French]

Smitz S(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de Médecine Interne générale, Université et CHU de Liege.

The care of the older adult with diabetes mellitus should be individualized, 
taking into consideration the patient's functional status and coexistent 
illnesses, as well as his or her preferences and life expectancy. The overall 
goal of care is to improve both the clinical status and the quality of life. 
Components of care are education, glycaemic control, cardiovascular risk factor 
management, eye and foot care and management of nephropathy and geriatric 
syndromes. A team approach is recommended. Glycaemic control and cardiovascular 
risk factor modification can reduce the risk of complications and improve the 
quality of life. However, the risk of severe or fatal hypoglycaemia associated 
with the use of anti-hyperglycaemic drugs increases with age and comorbidity. 
Targets for glycaemic control and HbA1c should be realistic, dynamic and 
tailored to the characteristics of each individual patient. Since cardiovascular 
complications are the main cause of morbidity and mortality, managing 
cardiovascular risk factors is mandatory. Hypertension should be treated 
gradually. The therapeutic approach comprises lifestyle modifications and 
anti-hyperglycaemic drugs. Older persons should be evaluated regularly to assess 
and review the medication being used. An appropriate physical activity, 
especially walking can forestall functional decline and decrease all-causes and 
cardiovascular mortality. Identifying and managing such geriatric syndromes as 
dehydration, cognitive dysfunction and depression may improve the quality of 
life.

PMID: 16035307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2005 May;40(5):523-9. doi: 10.1080/00365520510012280.

Evidence-based examination of the African enigma in relation to Helicobacter 
pylori infection.

Agha A(1), Graham DY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, VA Medical Center and Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The African enigma describes the dissociation between the prevalence 
of Helicobacter pylori infection and H. pylori-related diseases. The aim of this 
study was to use an evidence-based review of endoscopic data from African 
countries to test whether there are data to support the concept of an African 
enigma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A Medline search was carried out to identify prospective 
endoscopic studies in African populations. Data collected included: the number 
of endoscopies, age range (or mean age if available), indications for endoscopy, 
country, years during which data were collected, male to female ratio, and 
specific outcome of duodenal ulcer, gastric ulcer, or gastric cancer.
RESULTS: Forty prospective endoscopic studies from 17 African countries were 
identified (20,531 patients) and evaluated between 1972 and 2001. Mean ages 
ranged from 31 to 53.1 years and male to female ratios from 0.67:1 to 4.64:1. H. 
pylori-related clinical outcomes were common; duodenal ulcers in 4326 patients 
(21.1%), gastric ulcers in 691 patients (3.4%), and gastric cancers in 503 
patients (2.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: Prospective upper endoscopic trials suggest that the clinical 
outcomes associated with H. pylori infection in Africa are similar to those seen 
in industrialized countries. No dissociation between the prevalence of H. pylori 
infection and H. pylori-related diseases existed; the African enigma as such 
does not exist and the continued study of the mechanism of a non-existent 
phenomenon is a misuse of resources. The myth resulted from reliance on 
anecdotal data and selection bias in populations with extremely limited access 
to health care and a relatively short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1080/00365520510012280
PMID: 16036504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. IUBMB Life. 2005 Jan;57(1):23-5. doi: 10.1080/15216540500058980.

On the existence of cellular tocopheryl phosphate, its synthesis, degradation 
and cellular roles: a hypothesis.

Negis Y(1), Zingg JM, Ogru E, Gianello R, Libinaki R, Azzi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey.

The finding that alpha-tocopheryl phosphate is present in cells in small 
amounts, that it can be synthesized and hydrolyzed supports the hypothesis that 
alpha-tocopheryl phosphate might be a signaling molecule. The possible pathways 
needed for the synthesis, hydrolysis and signaling are considered in this 
hypothesis as well the possible extension of this reaction to additional 
molecules such as tocopherols and tocotrienols. A possible mechanism of action 
of other tocopherol esters (succinate and maleate) is also hypothesized.

DOI: 10.1080/15216540500058980
PMID: 16036558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

