
177. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Jun;1043:562-6. doi: 10.1196/annals.1333.064.

Receptor for advanced glycation end products is a promising target of diabetic 
nephropathy.

Yamamoto Y(1), Doi T, Kato I, Shinohara H, Sakurai S, Yonekura H, Watanabe T, 
Myint KM, Harashima A, Takeuchi M, Takasawa S, Okamoto H, Hashimoto N, Asano M, 
Yamamoto H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Vascular Biology, Kanazawa 
University Graduate School of Medical Science, 13-1 Takara-machi, Kanazawa 
920-8640, Japan. yamamoto@med.kanazawa-u.ac.jp

Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and the receptor for AGE (RAGE) 
interactions have been implicated in the development of diabetic vascular 
complications, which cause various disabilities and shortened life expectancy, 
and reduced quality of life in patients with diabetes. Diabetes-induced 
RAGE-overexpressing transgenic mice exhibited the exacerbation of the indices of 
nephropathy, and this was prevented by the inhibition of AGE formation. We also 
created RAGE-deficient mice by homologous recombination. They showed marked 
amelioration of diabetic nephropathy as compared with wild-type mice. Through an 
analysis of vascular polysomal poly(A)+ RNA, we identified a novel splice 
variant coding for a soluble RAGE protein and named it endogenous secretory RAGE 
(esRAGE). esRAGE was able to protect AGE-induced vascular cell injuries as a 
decoy receptor and was actually detected in human circulation. We conclude that 
RAGE plays an active role in the development of diabetic vascular complications, 
especially nephropathy, and is a promising target for overcoming this disease. 
The esRAGE, an endogenous decoy receptor, may be related to individual 
variations in resistance to the development of diabetic vascular complications.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1333.064
PMID: 16037279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):210-3. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7510.210.

Public health reforms in Estonia: impact on the health of the population.

Põlluste K(1), Männik G, Axelsson R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Tartu, Ravila 19, 50411 Tartu, 
Estonia. kaja.polluste@ut.ee

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7510.210
PMCID: PMC1179771
PMID: 16037459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):234. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7510.234-a.

A tale of two Germanys: Some patients in former East Germany were more equal 
than others.

Nehrlich HH.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2005 Jul 23;331(7510):234.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7510.234-a
PMCID: PMC1179811
PMID: 16037471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Mov Disord. 2005 Nov;20(11):1481-7. doi: 10.1002/mds.20622.

Burden of disease related to Parkinson's disease in Spain in the year 2000.

Cubo E(1), Alvarez E, Morant C, de Pedro Cuesta J, Martínez Martín P, Génova R, 
Freire JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Epidemiology, Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid, 
Spain. ecubo@isciii.es

We measured the burden caused by Parkinson's disease (PD) in Spain during the 
year 2000 and compared it against PD burden worldwide and in the European A 
subregion. Burden of disease (BoD) is an important factor in health policy. 
Disability-adjusted life years (DALY) as a measure of BoD is the result of 
adding years of life lost (YLL) and years lived with disability (YLD). The 
burden of PD (BPD) has not been studied in Spain. YLL were obtained from the 
Spanish death certificates and YLD from the estimated number of incident PD 
cases and the average PD duration. PD disability was calculated, using the 
Disability Weights for Diseases in the Netherlands. Prior PD DALY data for 
Europe and the world were obtained from the 2001 World Health Organization World 
Health Report. A discount rate of 3% and age-weighting modulation factor with K 
= 1 were used. In Spain, PD generated 67,582 DALY, comprising 6,351 (9.4%) YLL 
and 61,231 (90.6%) YLD. Most PD DALY (57.5%) occurred in the population 60 to 74 
years of age. When PD DALY estimates were adjusted using the world population in 
2000, Spain registered a PD DALY rate of 84 per 100,000 population, higher than 
both the world and European A subregion rates (24 and 35 per 100,000 population, 
respectively). PD burden in Spain in 2000 was high, with disability being the 
major contributing factor. Although BPD in Spain was greater than both world and 
European A subregion BPD, these differences should nevertheless be interpreted 
with caution.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.20622
PMID: 16037922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Jul 9;149(28):1574-8.

[Measuring the quality of life in economic evaluations: the Dutch EQ-5D tariff].

[Article in Dutch]

Lamers LM(1), Stalmeier PF, McDonnell J, Krabbe PF, van Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Instituut Beleid en Management Gezondheidszorg, Erasmus MC, Postbus 1738, 
3000 DR Rotterdam. l.lamers@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Jul 9;149(28):1553-5.

OBJECTIVE: To value EQ-5D health states by a general Dutch public. EQ-5D is a 
standardised questionnaire that is used to calculate quality-adjusted life-years 
for cost-utility analysis.
DESIGN: Descriptive.
METHOD: A sample of 309 Dutch adults from Rotterdam and surroundings was asked 
to value 17 EQ-5D health states using the time trade-off method. Regression 
analysis was applied to the valuations of these 17 health states. By means of 
the estimated regression coefficients, which together constitute the so-called 
Dutch tariff, valuations can be determined for all possible EQ-5D health states. 
These values reflect the relative desirability of health states on a scale where 
1 refers to full health and 0 refers to death. Societal valuations are necessary 
in order to correct life-years for the quality of life.
RESULTS: Complete data were obtained from 298 persons. Theywere representative 
for the Dutch population as far as age, gender and subjective health were 
concerned, but had a somewhat higher educational level. The estimated Dutch 
EQ-5D tariff revealed that the respondents assigned the most weight to 
(preventing) pain and anxiety or depression, followed by mobility, self-care and 
the activities of daily living. The Dutch tariff differed from the UK 
('Measurement and Valuation of Health') tariff, which is currently used in Dutch 
cost-utility analyses. Compared to UK respondents, Dutch respondents assigned 
more weight to anxiety and depression and less weight to the other dimensions. 
Conclusion. The valuation of health states by this representative Dutch study 
group differed from the valuation that is currently used in Dutch cost-utility 
analyses.

PMID: 16038162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2005 Jul;3(4):572-90. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2005.0032.

Senior adult oncology clinical practice guidelines in oncology.

Balducci L(1), Cohen HJ, Engstrom PF, Ettinger DS, Halter J, Gordon LI, Kiel K, 
Kneier A, Lim D, Petersdorf SH, Rosenthal R, Silliman R, Vose JM, Walker MJ, 
Zachariah B; National Comprehensive Cancer Network.

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, University of South 
Florida, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2005.0032
PMID: 16038647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Health Policy. 2005 Sep 8;73(3):339-51. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.12.010.  Epub 2005 Jan 13.

Are the health Millennium Development Goals appropriate for Eastern Europe and 
Central Asia?

Rechel B(1), Shapo L, McKee M; Health, Nutrition and Population Group, Europe 
and Central Asia Region.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, UK. bernd.rechel@lshtm.ac.uk

This article argues that the health-related Millennium Development Goals do not 
appropriately address the challenges faced by the countries of Eastern Europe 
and Central Asia. By ignoring adult mortality, their achievement would result in 
relatively small gains in life expectancy. To achieve greater impact, policies 
in this region must supplement the classical Millennium Development Goals with 
indicators of adult health, in particular cardiovascular diseases and external 
causes of death. In addition, countries, with support from the international 
community, must improve the quality of vital registration data to enable more 
accurate estimation of the disease burden.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.12.010
PMID: 16039352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Scand J Public Health. 2005;33(3):222-7. doi: 10.1080/14034940510005671.

The AIDS epidemic in the city of Copenhagen, Denmark: potential years of life 
lost and impact on life expectancy.

Johansen JD(1), Smith E, Juel K, Rosdahl N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, Denmark.

AIMS: This study seeks to describe the impact of AIDS on the city of Copenhagen 
by estimating potential years of life lost (PYLL) before the age of 65 years and 
to estimate the impact of AIDS deaths on life expectancy for males and females.
METHODS: All AIDS cases reported to the national AIDS surveillance register for 
residents in the city of Copenhagen in the period 1983-98 were included. For 
comparative purposes data were obtained on six other causes of death: accidents, 
suicide, lung cancer, ischaemic heart disease, testicular cancer, and breast 
cancer.
RESULTS: Overall, deaths from AIDS accounted for 8% of all PYLL in men and 
showed an increasing tendency from 1983 to 1991, when it became the leading 
cause of PYLL. AIDS had most impact in men in the age group 25-44 years and 
accounted for 29% of all PYLL in this group at the peak in 1993, decreasing 
significantly after the introduction of anti-retroviral treatments to 5% of PYLL 
in 1998. Other leading causes of PYLL, accidents and suicide, also showed a 
decreasing tendency over the years, but of a much smaller magnitude than AIDS. 
The impact of AIDS in women was more modest. In the entire study period suicide, 
accidents, and breast cancer were the leading causes of PYLL in women. It was 
shown that AIDS deaths at the top of the epidemic in 1991-95 were responsible 
for a loss of 0.76 years in life expectancy for men and 0.08 years for women.
CONCLUSIONS: AIDS has had a considerable impact on potential years of life lost. 
A significant decline in AIDS deaths has been seen since 1995 with an effect on 
life expectancy for men in the city of Copenhagen.

DOI: 10.1080/14034940510005671
PMID: 16040464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Infect Immun. 2005 Aug;73(8):4581-7. doi: 10.1128/IAI.73.8.4581-4587.2005.

Role for nucleotide excision repair in virulence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Darwin KH(1), Nathan CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Weill Medical College of Cornell 
University, 1300 York Avenue, Box 57, New York, NY 10021, USA.

Mutations in Mycobacterium tuberculosis uvrB result in severe sensitivity to 
acidified nitrite, a source of nitric oxide (6). In this study, we show that a 
uvrB mutant is exquisitely sensitive to UV light but not to several sources of 
reactive oxygen species in vitro. Furthermore, a uvrB mutant was attenuated in 
mice as judged by an extension of life span. Attenuation in mice was partially 
reversed by genetic inactivation of nitric oxide synthase 2 (iNOS) and almost 
completely reversed in mice lacking both iNOS and phagocyte oxidase. Thus, a 
gene predicted to encode a key element of DNA repair is required for resistance 
of M. tuberculosis to both reactive nitrogen and reactive oxygen species in 
mice.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.73.8.4581-4587.2005
PMCID: PMC1201236
PMID: 16040969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Top Magn Reson Imaging. 2004 Dec;15(6):343-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.rmr.0000172668.02575.18.

Qualitative MRI: evidence of usual aging in the brain.

Kapeller P(1), Schmidt R, Fazekas F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical University Graz, Graz, Austria. 
peter.kapeller@meduni-graz.at

The understanding of aging in our society with steadily increasing life 
expectancy is an important challenge in medical science since socioeconomic 
pressure increases in parallel. Magnetic resonance imaging is a most useful tool 
to explore age related changes in the central nervous system especially in the 
brain. This article will focus on current knowledge and importance of such 
changes. Special attention will paid to white matter hyperintensities in terms 
of occurrence and progression and cerebral microbleeds in terms of their 
association to various diseases and their possible influence on thrombolytic 
therapy. Furthermore the meaning of darkening of the basal ganglia will be 
discussed and, in more general terms, the occurrence of virchow robin spaces and 
changes in cerebral metabolites assessable by proton magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.rmr.0000172668.02575.18
PMID: 16041285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Psychooncology. 2006 Apr;15(4):306-20. doi: 10.1002/pon.955.

Cancer-related health worries and psychological distress among older adult, 
long-term cancer survivors.

Deimling GT(1), Bowman KF, Sterns S, Wagner LJ, Kahana B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Case Western Reserve University, 10900 Euclid Ave., 
Cleveland, OH 44106-7124, USA. gtd@Case.edu

While long-term survivors (5 years+) do not face the stressors of diagnosis and 
treatment, they continue to face the uncertainties that survivorship brings: 
recurrence, other cancers, late effects of treatment, and the potential of a 
shortened life expectancy. This research focuses on the cancer-related health 
worries of older adult, long-term cancer survivors, the factors that predict 
these worries, and their link to traditional measures of psychological distress. 
Specifically, a model is proposed that identifies the personal (including race 
and gender) and illness/treatment characteristics of survivors that are 
significantly associated with cancer-related health worries and their effects on 
anxiety and depression. Descriptive and multivariate analyses of a random sample 
of 321 long-term survivors in a major cancer center tumor registry are used to 
address these issues. About one-third of survivors continue to report worries 
about recurrence, worries about a second cancer, and worries that symptoms they 
experience may be from cancer. The regression analyses show that cancer-related 
health worries is a significant predictor of both depression (beta=0.36) and 
anxiety (beta=0.21). Race is a significant predictor; being African American is 
related to fewer cancer-related health worries (beta=-0.22). Having more 
symptoms during treatment is also a predictor of having more cancer-related 
health worries (beta=0.20). The most consistent predictor of psychosocial 
distress is dispositional optimism/pessimism, with more optimistic individuals 
reporting fewer cancer-related health worries (beta=-0.27), lower levels of both 
anxiety (beta=-0.16) and depression (beta=-0.23). Overall, for many older adult, 
long-term survivors, the legacy of cancer continues in terms of cancer-related 
health worries. In spite of these, for most survivors, their quality of life is 
not dramatically compromised either physically or psychologically.

(c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.955
PMID: 16041841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Qual Life Res. 2005 May;14(4):1087-98. doi: 10.1007/s11136-004-3305-2.

Health state preference scores of children with spina bifida and their 
caregivers.

Tilford JM(1), Grosse SD, Robbins JM, Pyne JM, Cleves MA, Hobbs CA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Birth Defects Research and Prevention, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences and Arkansas Children's Hospital, Little Rock, AR 72202-3591, 
USA. tilfordmickj@uams.edu

Cost-effectiveness evaluations of interventions to prevent or treat spina bifida 
require quality of life information measured as preference scores. Preference 
scores of caregivers also may be relevant. This study tested whether the 
preference scores of children with spina bifida and their caregivers would 
decrease as disability in the child increased. Families of children aged 0-17 
with spina bifida (N = 98) were identified using a birth defect surveillance 
system in the state of Arkansas. Primary caregivers of children with spina 
bifida identified other families with an unaffected child (N = 49). Preference 
scores for child health states were determined using the Health Utilities 
Index--Mark 2 (HUI2). Caregiver preference scores were determined using the 
Quality of Well-Being (QWB) scale. Children with spina bifida were categorized 
into three disability levels according to the location of the child's lesion. 
Mean preference scores declined for both affected children and the primary 
caregiver as disability in the child increased. In multivariate analysis, the 
preference score of the child was a significant and positive predictor of the 
primary caregiver's preference score. A more modest association was found for 
caregiver health preference scores by lesion location. The findings can inform 
cost-effectiveness evaluations of interventions to treat or prevent spina 
bifida.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-004-3305-2
PMID: 16041904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. J Endocrinol Invest. 2005;28(3 Suppl):94-8.

Somatopause reflects age-related changes in the neural control of GH/IGF-I axis.

Giordano R(1), Lanfranco F, Bo M, Pellegrino M, Picu A, Baldi M, Balbo M, 
Bonelli L, Grottoli S, Ghigo E, Arvat E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Turin, Turin, Italy.

This paper will focus on the hypofunction of GH/IGF-I axis in aging, as the most 
impressive example of decreased activity as function of age-related changes in 
the neural control of somatotroph cells. GH secretion undergoes clear 
age-related variations that are generally mirrored by IGF-I levels, the best 
marker of GH status. Given the well known positive influence of GH/IGF-I on body 
composition, structure functions and metabolism, this paper discusses the 
potential clinical implications, also taking into account evidence showing that, 
at least in animals, deficiency in GH/IGF-I is somewhat associated to prolonged 
life. Although somatopause is likely to contribute to age-related changes in 
body composition, structure functions and metabolism, we are now in front of the 
paradox of lifelong GH/IGF-I deficiency or resistance resulting in prolonged 
life expectancy and GH replacement at advanced age, probably exerting anti-aging 
effects. This evidence questions whether GH deficiency is or not a beneficial 
adaptation to aging. By answering this question one is not simply finding new 
phylosophical paradigm but also the rational basis for anti-aging drug 
interventions.

PMID: 16042366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2005 Jul 22;3:44. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-3-44.

Methodology and measurement properties of health-related quality of life 
instruments: a prospective study of patients undergoing breast reduction 
surgery.

Thoma A(1), Sprague S, Veltri K, Duku E, Furlong W.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery, St, 
Joseph's Healthcare, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. athoma@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Breast hypertrophy is associated with clinically important 
morbidity. A prospective study was conducted to assess the change in 
health-related quality of life (HRQL) following breast reduction mammoplasty. 
This paper describes the measurement properties of each of the HRQL 
questionnaires used.
METHODS: The reliability, responsiveness, and the construct validity of each 
HRQL instrument (the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 (HUI2) and Mark 3 (HUI3) and 
the Breast Reduction Assessment Value and Outcomes (BRAVO) instruments) were 
assessed. The BRAVO instruments are a set of separate instruments including the 
Short Form-36 (SF-36), the Multidimensional Body Self Relations Questionnaire 
Appearance Assessment (MBSRQ-AS), and the Breast Related Symptoms Questionnaire 
(BRSQ).
RESULTS: The HUI2, the HUI3, the MBSRQ-AS, and the breast severity symptom (BSS) 
score from the BRSQ all demonstrated good test-retest reliability. The SF-36 
physical component summary, the MBSRQ-AS, and the BSS score demonstrated high 
responsiveness. The SF-36 mental component summary and the HUI3 had a moderate 
effect size and the HUI2 had a small effect size. All of the changes in scales 
are correlated in the same direction except for the SF-36 physical component 
summary and the SF-36 mental component summary.
CONCLUSION: All four instruments were found to be reliable and responsive. These 
instruments can be used in similar clinical settings to evaluate the change in 
patients' HRQL.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-3-44
PMCID: PMC1196297
PMID: 16042775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Math Biosci. 2005 Sep;197(1):1-14. doi: 10.1016/j.mbs.2005.06.001.

Life expectancy change in perturbed communities: derivation and qualitative 
analysis.

Dambacher JM(1), Levins R, Rossignol PA.

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research, GPO Box 1538, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, 
Australia. jeffrey.dambacher@csiro.au

Pollution, loss of habitat, and climate change are introducing dramatic 
perturbations to natural communities and affecting public health. Populations in 
perturbed communities can change dynamically, in both abundance and age 
structure. While analysis of the community matrix can predict changes in 
population abundance arising from a sustained or press perturbation, 
perturbations also have the potential to modify life expectancy, which adds yet 
another means to falsify experimental hypotheses and to monitor management 
interventions in natural systems. In some instances, an input to a community 
will produce no change in the abundance of a population but create a major shift 
in its mean age. We present an analysis of change in both abundance and life 
expectancy, leading to a formal quantitative assessment as well as qualitative 
predictions, and illustrate the usefulness of the technique through general 
examples relating to vector-borne disease and fisheries.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mbs.2005.06.001
PMID: 16043195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Med Hypotheses. 2005;65(5):972-82. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2005.05.037.

Drugs of anesthesia acting on central cholinergic system may cause 
post-operative cognitive dysfunction and delirium.

Praticò C(1), Quattrone D, Lucanto T, Amato A, Penna O, Roscitano C, Fodale V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Psychiatric and Anesthesiological Sciences, 
University of Messina, School of Medicine, Policlinico Universitario G. Martino, 
via C.Valeria, 98125 Messina, Italy.

Given the progressive and constant increase of average life expectancy, an 
increasing number of elderly patients undergo surgery. After surgery, elderly 
patients often exhibit a transient reversible state of cerebral cognitive 
alterations. Among these cognitive dysfunctions, a state of delirium may 
develop. Delirium is an aetiologically non-specific syndrome characterised by 
concurrent disturbances of consciousness and attention, perception, thinking, 
memory, psychomotor behaviour and the sleep-wake cycle. Delirium appears to 
occur in 10-26% of general medical patients over 65, and is frequently 
associated with a significant increase in morbidity and mortality. During 
hospitalization, mortality rates have been estimated to be 10-26% of patients 
who developed post-operative delirium, and 22-76% during the following months. 
Over the last few decades, post-operative delirium has been associated with 
several pre-operative predictor factors, as well as age (50 years and older), 
alcohol abuse, poor cognitive and functional status, electrolyses or glucose 
abnormalities, and type of surgery. The uncertain pathogenesis of post-operative 
cognitive dysfunctions and delirium has not permitted a causal approach to 
developing an effective treatment. General anesthesia affects brain function at 
all levels, including neuronal membranes, receptors, ion channels, 
neurotransmitters, cerebral blood flow and metabolism. The functional 
equivalents of these impairments involve mood, memory, and motor function 
behavioural changes. These dysfunctions are much more evident in the occurrence 
of stress-regulating transmission and in the alteration of intra-cellular signal 
transduction systems. In addition, more essential cellular processes, that play 
an important role in neurotransmitter synthesis and release, such as 
intra-neuronal signal transduction and second messenger system, may be altered. 
Keeping in mind the functions of the central muscarinic cholinergic system and 
its multiple interactions with drugs of anesthesia, it seems possible to 
hypothesize that the inhibition of muscarinic cholinergic receptors could have a 
pivotal role in the pathogenesis not only of post-operative delirium but also 
the more complex phenomena of post-operative cognitive dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2005.05.037
PMID: 16043305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Neurology. 2005 Jul 26;65(2):205-11. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000168830.79997.13.

Association between benign and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors in NF1.

Tucker T(1), Wolkenstein P, Revuz J, Zeller J, Friedman JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada. tbtucker@interchange.ubc.ca

OBJECTIVE: People with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) have a 10% lifetime risk 
of developing a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST). MPNSTs are 
often metastatic and are a frequent cause of death among people with NF1. 
Clinical evidence suggests that most MPNSTs in people with NF1 develop from 
preexisting plexiform neurofibromas. However, it is not known whether an 
individual's risk of developing an MPNST is associated with the burden of benign 
neurofibromas. The authors conducted a study to determine whether people with 
NF1 who have benign neurofibromas of various kinds are at greater risk of 
developing MPNSTs than patients with NF1 who lack these benign tumors.
METHODS: Clinical information on 476 NF1 probands in the Henri Mondor Database 
was analyzed by logistic regression to examine associations between MPNSTs and 
internal plexiform, superficial plexiform, subcutaneous, and cutaneous 
neurofibromas.
RESULTS: Individuals with subcutaneous neurofibromas were approximately three 
times more likely to have internal plexiform neurofibromas or MPNSTs than 
individuals without subcutaneous neurofibromas. Individuals with internal 
plexiform neurofibromas were 20 times more likely to have MPNSTs than 
individuals without internal plexiform neurofibromas. When this analysis was 
done with both subcutaneous and internal plexiform neurofibromas as explanatory 
variables, only the association of MPNSTs with internal plexiform neurofibromas 
remained significant.
CONCLUSIONS: The observation that malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors are 
strongly associated with internal plexiform neurofibromas suggests that patients 
with neurofibromatosis type 1 with these benign tumors warrant increased 
surveillance for malignancy.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000168830.79997.13
PMID: 16043787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Neurology. 2005 Jul 26;65(2):216-22. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000169018.44950.68.

Causes of death in remote symptomatic epilepsy.

Day SM(1), Wu YW, Strauss DJ, Shavelle RM, Reynolds RJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 17th Ave., San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA. 
Day@LifeExpectancy.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine the causes of death of individuals with developmental 
disabilities that occur more frequently among those with remote symptomatic 
epilepsy (i.e., epilepsy occurring in persons with developmental delay or 
identified brain lesions) than for those without.
METHODS: The authors compared causes of mortality in persons with (n = 10,030) 
and without (n = 96,163) history of epilepsy in a California population of 
persons with mild developmental disabilities, 1988 to 2002. Subjects had 
traumatic brain injury, cerebral palsy, Down syndrome, autism, or a 
developmental disability with other or unknown etiology. There were 721,759 
person-years of data, with 2,397 deaths. Underlying causes of death were 
determined from the State of California's official mortality records. 
Cause-specific death rates and standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were 
computed for those with and without epilepsy relative to subjects in the 
California general population. Comparisons were then made between SMRs of those 
with and without epilepsy, and CIs on the ratios of SMRs were determined.
RESULTS: Death rates for persons with epilepsy were elevated for several causes. 
The greatest excess was due to seizures (International Classification of 
Diseases-9 [ICD-9] 345; SMR 53.1, 95% CI 28.0 to 101.0) and convulsions (ICD-9 
780.3; SMR 25.2, 95% CI 11.7 to 54.2). Other causes occurring more frequently in 
those with epilepsy included brain cancer (SMR 5.2, 95% CI 2.2 to 12.1), 
respiratory diseases (SMR 1.7, 95% CI 1.2 to 2.5), circulatory diseases (SMR 
1.3, 95% CI 1.0 to 1.7), and accidents (SMR 2.7, 95% CI 1.9 to 3.7), especially 
accidental drowning (SMR 12.8, 95% CI 7.0 to 23.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Remote symptomatic epilepsy is associated with an increased risk of 
death. Seizures, aspiration pneumonia, and accidental drowning are among the 
leading contributors.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000169018.44950.68
PMID: 16043789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Gravit Space Biol Bull. 2005 Jun;18(2):109-10.

Polyamines protect against radiation-induced oxidative stress.

von Deutsch AW(1), Mitchell CD, Williams CE, Dutt K, Silvestrov NA, Klement BJ, 
Abukhalaf IK, von Deutsch DA.

Author information:
(1)Space Medicine and Life Sciences Research Center, USA.

Astronauts and cosmonauts are exposed to a wide variety of different hazards 
while in space that include radiation, which presents one of the most critical 
barriers to long-term missions. A major deleterious effect directly associated 
with ionizing radiation is the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) such 
as peroxides and hydroxyl radicals. The free radicals generated by ultraviolet 
(UV) or ionizing radiation can attack cellular lipids, proteins and DNA. 
Endogenous free radical scavengers such as glutathione and the polyamines (e.g, 
spermidine and spermine) can inhibit the action of ROS. In particular, heme 
oxygenase-1 (HO-1), the enzyme involved in heme protein metabolism, can provide 
antioxidant protection through the production of the antioxidant bilirubin. 
Furthermore, polyamines have been shown to indirectly increase HO-1 content and 
antioxidant protection. The beta2-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol has been 
shown to stimulate polyamine synthesis and by extension, might provide a margin 
of antioxidant protection through increasing HO-1 content. However, it is 
unclear whether the polyamines are acting as a tertiary messengers for 
antioxidant protection in the be beta2-adrenoceptor signal transduction pathway. 
The purpose of this study was to study the role of the polyamine pathway in 
attenuating free radical-induced damage.

PMID: 16044631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. An Pediatr (Barc). 2005 Aug;63(2):109-15. doi: 10.1157/13077451.

[Risk factors for mortality in very low birth weight infants with respiratory 
distress syndrome].

[Article in Spanish]

García Arias MB(1), Zuluaga Arias P, Arrabal Terán MC, Arizcun Pineda J.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Salud Cerro Almodóvar. Madrid. Spain. martagarias@telefonica.net

INTRODUCTION: In the last few years the life expectancy of very low birth weight 
(VLBW) infants has improved. When these patients have respiratory distress 
syndrome, it is difficult to know with any certainty which factors have the 
greatest influence on mortality. The aim of this study was to determine which 
variables, among a series, have the greatest influence on mortality from a 
multivariate perspective.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A sample of 209 VLBW infants born over a long period (15 
years and 7 months) was studied. The following variables were analyzed: date of 
birth, degree of respiratory distress syndrome, sex, birth weight, weeks of 
gestation, born within or elsewhere, prenatal corticoid administration, type of 
gestation, type of delivery, amniorrhexis time, Apgar test at 1 and 5 minutes, 
surfactant administration, hours of life at which the first dose of surfactant 
was administered, and early sepsis. A multiple logistic regression analysis was 
developed using Hosmer-Lemeshow methodology.
RESULTS: The following variables were identified as significant: birth weight, 
Apgar test at 5 minutes, prenatal corticoids, degree of respiratory distress 
syndrome, and surfactant administration. The remaining variables were less 
important in the multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher birth weight and Apgar score at 5 minutes, prenatal 
corticoid and surfactant administration, and a lower degree of respiratory 
distress syndrome reduce mortality. The logistic regression model used 
quantifies how these factors behave and allows the probability of mortality in 
VLBW infants with respiratory distress syndrome to be estimated.

DOI: 10.1157/13077451
PMID: 16045868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Eur Urol. 2005 Oct;48(4):546-51. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2005.06.001.

EAU guidelines on prostate cancer.

Aus G, Abbou CC, Bolla M, Heidenreich A, Schmid HP, van Poppel H, Wolff J, 
Zattoni F; European Association of Urology.

OBJECTIVES: The first summary of the European Association of Urology (EAU) 
guidelines on prostate cancer was published in 2001. These guidelines have been 
continuously updated since many important changes affecting the clinical 
management of patients with prostate cancer have occurred over the past years. 
The aim of this paper is to present a summary of the 2005 update of the EAU 
guidelines on prostate cancer.
METHODS: A literature review of the new data has been performed by the working 
panel. The guidelines have been updated and level of evidence/grade of 
recommendation added to the text. This enables readers to better understand the 
quality of the data forming the basis of the recommendations.
RESULTS: A full version is available at the EAU Office or at . Systemic prostate 
biopsies under ultrasound guidance is the preferred diagnostic method and the 
use of periprostatic injection of a local anaesthetic can significantly reduce 
pain/discomfort associated with the procedure. Active treatment (surgery or 
radiation) is mostly recommended for patients with localized disease and a long 
life expectancy with radical prostatectomy being the only treatment evaluated in 
a randomized controlled trial. Follow-up is at large based on prostate specific 
antigen (PSA) and a disease-specific history with imaging only indicated when 
symptoms occur. Cytotoxic therapy has become an option for selected patients 
with hormone refractory prostate cancer.
CONCLUSION: The knowledge in the field of prostate cancer is rapidly changing. 
These EAU guidelines on prostate cancer summarize the most recent findings and 
put them into clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2005.06.001
PMID: 16046052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2005 Dec;273(2):110-4. doi: 10.1007/s00404-005-0044-8.
Epub  2005 Jul 28.

Age-related characteristics of uterine cancer mortality in Japan.

Aoki K(1), Sun J, Kono A, Misumi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Hygiene, Faculty of medicine, Oita Medical 
University, Oita, 879-5593, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have proved that uterine cancer mortality has 
decreased in Japan over the past 50 years, but the age demographics in this 
regard are not clear. This study investigated the change pattern of age 
characteristics for this cancer.
METHODS: Cause-specific mortality was identified in the population of Japan and 
Ireland in the years 1950-2000. Time trends of age-specific mortality rate were 
assessed by fitting linear regression. The change rates between 1950 and 2000 
were calculated in comparison with Ireland. The contribution of death from 
uterine cancer was estimated using cause-elimination life tables.
RESULTS: The mortality rate of uterine cancer decreased 59% from 1950 (19.7 per 
100,000 women) to 2000 (8.14 per 100,000 women). Age-specific rates for women 
younger than 70 decreased around 80%, whereas that for women over 85 increased 
105% during the same period. Correspondingly, the age of 70 years was the median 
age for the negative contribution of uterine cancer to life expectancy. Younger 
than that age, the trend of negative contribution decreased, over that age, it 
was increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality from uterine cancer tended toward the aging in Japan. The 
general mortality reduction trend was attributed to younger people and adults. 
These age characteristics can be explained by the increase in life expectancy 
during the 50-year period.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-005-0044-8
PMID: 16047181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Qual Life Res. 2005 Jun;14(5):1333-44. doi: 10.1007/s11136-004-6012-0.

Are indirect utility measures reliable and responsive in rheumatoid arthritis 
patients?

Marra CA(1), Rashidi AA, Guh D, Kopec JA, Abrahamowicz M, Esdaile JM, Brazier 
JE, Fortin PR, Anis AH.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Preference-based, generic measures are increasingly being used to 
measure quality of life and as sources for quality weights in the estimation of 
Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, among 
the most commonly used instruments (the Health Utilities Index 2 and 3 [HUI2 and 
HUI3], the EuroQoL-5D [EQ-5D], and the Short Form-6D [SF-6D], there has been 
little comparative research. Therefore, we examined the reliability and 
responsiveness of these measures and the Rheumatoid Arthritis Quality of Life 
(RAQoL) and the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in a sample of RA 
patients.
MAJOR FINDINGS: Test-retest reliability was acceptable for all of the 
instruments with the exception of the EQ-5D. Using two external criteria to 
define change (a patient transition question and categories of the patient 
global assessment of disease activity VAS), the RAQoL was the most responsive of 
the instruments. For the indirect utility instruments, the HUI3 and the SF-6D 
were the most responsive for measuring positive change. On average, for patients 
whose RA improved, the absolute change was highest for the HUI3.
CONCLUSIONS: The HUI3 and the SF-6D appear to be the most responsive of the 
preference-based instruments in RA. However, differences in the magnitude of the 
absolute change scores have important implications for cost-effectiveness 
analyses.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-004-6012-0
PMID: 16047508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Qual Life Res. 2005 Jun;14(5):1407-12. doi: 10.1007/s11136-004-6127-3.

Translation and cultural adaptation of Health Utilities Index (HUI) Mark 2 
(HUI2) and Mark 3 (HUI3) with application to survivors of childhood cancer in 
Brazil.

Shimoda S(1), de Camargo B, Horsman J, Furlong W, Lopes LF, Seber A, Barr RD.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Tratamento e Pesquisa Hospital do Câncer, São Paulo, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: There are few publications reporting health-related quality of 
life (HRQL) in developing nations. Most instruments measuring HRQL have been 
developed in English-speaking countries. These instruments need to be culturally 
adapted for use in non-English-speaking countries. The HUI2 and HUI3 are 
generic, preference-based systems for describing health status and HRQL. 
Developed in Canada, the systems have been translated into more than a dozen 
languages and used worldwide in hundreds of studies of clinical and general 
populations.
METHODS: The Brazilian-Portuguese translation of the HUI systems was supervised 
by senior HUInc staff having experience with both the HUI systems and 
translations. The process included two independent forward translations of the 
multi-attribute health status classification systems and related questionnaires, 
consensus between translators on a forward translation, back-translation by two 
independent translators of the forward translation, and review of the 
back-translations by original developers of the HUI. The final questionnaires 
were tested by surveying a sample of convenience of 50 patients recruited at the 
Centro de Tratamento e Pesquisa-Hospital do Cancer in São Paulo, Brazil.
RESULTS: Fifty patients were enrolled in the study. No assessor, patient or 
nurse or physician, reported problems answering the HUI questionnaires. No 
significant differences were found in mean overall HUI2 or HUI3 utility scores 
among types of assessors. Variability in scores are similar to those from other 
studies in Latin America and Canada.
CONCLUSION: Test results provide preliminary evidence that the 
Brazilian-Portuguese translation is acceptable, understandable, reliable and 
valid for assessing health-status and HRQL among survivors of cancer in 
childhood in Brazil.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-004-6127-3
PMID: 16047515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. J Mol Diagn. 2005 Aug;7(3):375-87. doi: 10.1016/S1525-1578(10)60567-3.

Genotyping microarray for the detection of more than 200 CFTR mutations in 
ethnically diverse populations.

Schrijver I(1), Oitmaa E, Metspalu A, Gardner P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, L235, Stanford University Medical Center, 300 
Pasteur Drive, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. iris.schrijver@medcenter.stanford.edu

Cystic fibrosis (CF), which is due to mutations in the cystic fibrosis 
transmembrane conductance regulator gene, is a common life-shortening disease. 
Although CF occurs with the highest incidence in Caucasians, it also occurs in 
other ethnicities with variable frequency. Recent national guidelines suggest 
that all couples contemplating pregnancy should be informed of molecular 
screening for CF carrier status for purposes of genetic counseling. Commercially 
available CF carrier screening panels offer a limited panel of mutations, 
however, making them insufficiently sensitive for certain groups within an 
ethnically diverse population. This discrepancy is even more pronounced when 
such carrier screening panels are used for diagnostic purposes. By means of 
arrayed primer extension technology, we have designed a genotyping microarray 
with 204 probe sites for CF transmembrane conductance regulator gene mutation 
detection. The arrayed primer extension array, based on a platform technology 
for disease detection with multiple applications, is a robust, cost-effective, 
and easily modifiable assay suitable for CF carrier screening and disease 
detection.

DOI: 10.1016/S1525-1578(10)60567-3
PMCID: PMC1867536
PMID: 16049310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. J Psychiatry Neurosci. 2005 Jul;30(4):237-46.

Neuropsychiatric manifestations of HIV infection and AIDS.

Dubé B(1), Benton T, Cruess DG, Evans DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, 
USA. bedube@mail.med.upenn.edu

Erratum in
    J Psychiatry Neurosci. 2005 Sep;30(5):365.

As the life expectancy of people living with HIV infection has increased 
(through recent advances in antiretroviral therapy), clinicians have been more 
likely to encounter neuropsychiatric manifestations of the disease. Some 
patients present with cognitive deficits due to an HIV-triggered neurotoxic 
cascade in the central nervous system. However, more patients present with a 
depressive spectrum disorder during the course of their illness, the underlying 
pathogenesis of which is not as well understood. This category of psychiatric 
disorders presents diagnostic challenges because of the many neurovegetative 
confounding factors that are present in association with HIV illness. As quality 
of life becomes a more central consideration in the management of this chronic 
illness, better awareness of these neuropsychiatric manifestations is paramount. 
This article reviews these clinical issues and the available psychopharmacologic 
treatment options.

Comme l'espérance de vie des personnes vivant avec le VIH a augmenté (grâce aux 
progrès récents de la thérapie aux antirétroviraux), les cliniciens sont 
maintenant plus susceptibles de faire face à des manifestations 
neuropsychiatriques de la maladie. Certains patients se présentent avec des 
déficits de la cognition attribuables à une cascade neurotoxique déclenchée par 
le VIH dans le système nerveux central. Plus de patients se présentent toutefois 
avec un trouble du spectre dépressif pendant leur maladie, dont on ne comprend 
pas aussi bien la pathogénèse sous-jacente. Cette catégorie de troubles 
psychiatriques pose des défis diagnostiques en raison des nombreux facteurs 
confusionnels neurovégétatifs associés à l'infection par le VIH. Comme la 
qualité de vie devient un facteur plus central dans la prise en charge de cette 
maladie chronique, il est primordial d'être plus conscient de ses manifestations 
neuropsychiatriques. Dans cet article, les auteurs passent en revue ces enjeux 
cliniques et les traitements psychopharmacologiques possibles.

PMCID: PMC1160559
PMID: 16049567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Intensive Care Med. 2005 Sep;31(9):1222-8. doi: 10.1007/s00134-005-2681-6.
Epub  2005 Jul 28.

Survival and quality of life of patients requiring acute renal replacement 
therapy.

Ahlström A(1), Tallgren M, Peltonen S, Räsänen P, Pettilä V.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care Unit, Division of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, 
Department of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland. 
annika.ahlstrom@hus.fi

Comment in
    Intensive Care Med. 2005 Sep;31(9):1145-7.

OBJECTIVE: To assess long-term survival and health-related quality of life in 
patients with acute renal failure.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Cross-sectional cohort study in the ten-bed medical-surgical 
intensive care unit and the three-bed acute dialysis unit in a tertiary care 
hospital.
PATIENTS: 703 patients receiving renal replacement therapy for acute renal 
failure during 1998-2002.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: The mortality rate was 41% at 28 days, 57% at 1 year, 
and 70% at 5 years. SOFA score, age, and continuous renal replacement therapy 
were independent predictors of 1-year mortality. The median follow-up time was 
3.9 years for mortality and 2.4 years for health-related quality of life. Of the 
229 survivors in 2003, 153 (67%) responded to the health-related quality of life 
questionnaire. Health-related quality of life was evaluated with the EuroQol 
(EQ-5D) instrument including a visual analogue scale (VAS) score to evaluate the 
patient's perceived health. The EQ-5D score was significantly lower in the study 
population than in the age- and gender-matched Finnish population (0.68 vs. 
0.86). Median VAS scores were 69.5 and 70.0, respectively. Patients' age and 
duration of follow-up had no significant effect on EQ-5D or VAS scores. 
Mortality and EQ-5D data were used to calculate quality-adjusted life years. 
Quality-adjusted survival was poor (15 quality-adjusted life years per 100 
patients in the first year of follow-up).
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term survival of patients with acute renal failure is 
poor. Although survivors have a low health-related quality of life, they are as 
satisfied with their health as the general population.

DOI: 10.1007/s00134-005-2681-6
PMID: 16049711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. J Reprod Med. 2005 Jun;50(6):407-16.

Quality of life in ovarian cancer.

Penson R(1), Cella D, Wenzel L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA. rpenson@partners.org

While there has not been a dramatic improvement in the cure rate of ovarian 
cancer, >40% of women survive longer than 5 years, with what is commonly 
considered a "chronic" cancer. In each phase of the illness (diagnosis, surgery 
and chemotherapy with curative intent, remission and survivorship, relapse and 
sequential chemotherapy, bowel obstruction and end of life), quality of life 
(QOL) is one of the most important considerations. There has recently been a 
large increase in studies reporting the assessment of QOL; that has changed the 
field from descriptive reporting to quantitative science. There are 
well-validated, standardized scales, and approximately 10% of randomized cancer 
trials include health-related QOL as one of the main end points. This article 
reviews the history and development of QOL evaluation and the 2 main approaches 
to QOL assessment (psychometric based and utility based) and describes 
strategies for meaningful interpretation of QOL profiles. While the humanities 
perhaps teach us much about the value of QOL, the science of the study of QOL 
will be the foundation and confirmation of many of the anticipated advances for 
patients.

PMID: 16050565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Soc Sci Med. 2006 Feb;62(3):779-91. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.06.034.
Epub  2005 Jul 26.

Further examination of the cross-country association between income inequality 
and population health.

Ram R(1).

Author information:
(1)Economics Department, Illinois State University, Normal, IL 61790-4200, USA. 
rram@ilstu.edu

Several scholars have put forward the view that the estimates by Rodgers 
[(1979). Income and inequality as determinants of mortality: An international 
cross-section analysis. Population Studies, 33 (2), 343-351], Flegg [(1982). 
Inequality of income, illiteracy and medical care as determinants of infant 
mortality in underdeveloped countries. Population Studies, 36 (3), 441-458] and 
Waldmann [(1992). Income distribution and infant mortality. Quarterly Journal of 
Economics, 107 (4), 1283-1302] showing a negative cross-country association 
between income inequality and population health, cannot be replicated from 
recent data. In view of the importance of this matter, the present study further 
examines the issue from the most recent, and probably more accurate, data for 
the largest cross-country sample used in this line of research. The main 
conclusion is that the negative cross-country association between income 
inequality and good health, reported by Rodgers, Flegg, and Waldmann, is 
replicated very well. The different findings indicated by some scholars may have 
been due to their samples or the models being unusual. Therefore, the recent 
skepticism about the existence of such a negative association needs to be 
reconsidered. Several additional points are also noted. First, income inequality 
shows significance even after an index of ethnic heterogeneity is included. 
Second, ethnic heterogeneity itself has a negative association with population 
health. Third, income inequality retains significance in the presence of a 
measure of social capital. Fourth, however, the association between the measure 
of social capital and population health appears weak. Fifth, a simple analysis 
does not support the view that the positive association between income 
inequality and infant mortality in less developed countries (LDCs) may just be a 
reflection of the role of poverty. Finally, there is some support for the 
proposition that while income may be relatively more important for health in 
LDCs, the role of income inequality may be stronger in developed economies.
