the majority of radiosurgery patients have benign tumors or arteriovenous 
malformations and their life expectancy is long, all doses should be kept as low 
as reasonably achievable. This could be accomplished by the use of modern 
irradiation techniques including conformal beams with micro-multileaf collimator 
and avoiding beams directed to the trunk.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-005-1391-x
PMID: 15995840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Am J Transplant. 2005 Aug;5(8):1986-91. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.00983.x.

Renal dysfunction is a strong and independent risk factor for mortality and 
cardiovascular complications in renal transplantation.

Fellström B(1), Jardine AG, Soveri I, Cole E, Neumayer HH, Maes B, Gimpelewicz 
C, Holdaas H; ALERT Study Group.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden. bengt.fellstrom@medsci.uu.se

Renal transplant recipients (RTR) have shortened life expectancy, primarily due 
to premature cardiovascular disease (CVD). Traditional CVD risk factors are 
highly prevalent. In addition, several non-traditional risk factors may 
contribute to the high risk. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of 
renal dysfunction on mortality and cardiovascular complications in 1052 
placebo-treated patients of the Assessment of LEscol in Renal Transplantation 
(ALERT) trial. Follow-up was 5-6 years and endpoints included cardiac death, 
non-cardiovascular death, all-cause mortality, major adverse cardiac event 
(MACE), non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. The effects of serum 
creatinine at baseline on these endpoints were evaluated. Elevated serum 
creatinine in RTR was a strong and independent risk factor for MACE, cardiac, 
non-cardiovascular, and all-cause mortality, but not for stroke or non-fatal MI 
alone. Serum creatinine was associated with increased mortality and MACE, 
independent of established CVD risk factors. Graft loss resulted in increased 
incidences of non-cardiovascular death, all-cause mortality, MACE and non-fatal 
MI. In conclusion, elevated serum creatinine is a strong risk factor for 
all-cause, non-cardiovascular and cardiac mortality, and MACE, independent of 
traditional risk factors, but not for stroke or non-fatal MI alone.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2005.00983.x
PMID: 15996249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Mol Ther. 2005 Sep;12(3):422-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2005.04.019.

AAV2/5 vector expressing galactocerebrosidase ameliorates CNS disease in the 
murine model of globoid-cell leukodystrophy more efficiently than AAV2.

Lin D(1), Fantz CR, Levy B, Rafi MA, Vogler C, Wenger DA, Sands MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, 
Box 8007, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Globoid-cell leukodystrophy (GLD) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage 
disorder caused by mutations in the galactosylceramidase (GALC) gene. Infantile 
GLD has a lethal course with severe cerebral demyelination that progresses to 
death by 2 years of age. In the current study twitcher mice, an authentic murine 
model of infantile GLD, were given intracranial injections of either recombinant 
adeno-associated virus serotype 2 encoding the murine Galc cDNA (AAV2-GALC) or 
the same genome pseudotyped with AAV5 capsid proteins (AAV2/5-GALC) on day 3 of 
age. The group injected intracranially with AAV2/5-GALC had approximately 
25-fold greater than normal Galc levels in the brain, while AAV2-GALC-injected 
animals had 28% normal levels. The average life expectancy of twitcher mice ( 
approximately 38 days) was significantly (P < 0.0001) increased to 48 and 52 
days for the AAV2-GALC- and AAV2/5-GALC-treated groups, respectively. The 
AAV2/5-GALC group performed significantly better in a battery of behavioral 
tests compared to untreated, AAV2-GFP-treated, or AAV2-treated twitcher animals. 
This longitudinal study demonstrated that AAV2/5-GALC-mediated gene therapy 
resulted in higher levels of Galc expression and slowed the neurologic 
deterioration more completely than AAV2-GALC in the murine model of globoid-cell 
leukodystrophy. However, the clinical improvements, as assessed by behavioral 
tests and life span, were only modest.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2005.04.019
PMID: 15996520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Spine J. 2005 Jul-Aug;5(4):357-60. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2005.03.001.

It is time for physicians to embrace cost-effectiveness and cost utility 
analysis research in the treatment of spinal pain.

Dagenais S, Haldeman S, Polatin PB.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2005.03.001
PMID: 15996604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Med Arh. 2005;59(3):179-82.

[Possibilities of unipolar hip hemiarthroplasty after femoral neck fracture].

[Article in Bosnian]

Biscević M(1), Smrke D, Gavrankapetanović I.

Author information:
(1)Klinika za ortopediju i traumatologiju, Klinicki centar Univerziteta u 
Sarajevu.

Due to osteoporosis and incoordination, elderly people are prone to hip 
fractures. Hip endoprosthesis is the most rational treatment of such injuries at 
persons older that 65 years of age. Aim of our work was to analyze long term 
clinical result at the elderly patients with implanted unipolar partial hip 
endoprothesis after femoral neck fracture. Inclusion criteria were implantation 
of unipolar partial hip endoprothesis as the first operative procedure and 
absence of changes visible an X-ray. Our follow up was at least 18 months and 
all patients were treated between January 1996 and June 2001 at the Clinic for 
Orthopedics and Traumatology in Sarajevo according to department protocol. We 
used Harris hip score (HHS) for clinical evaluation. From basic group of 131 
patients, in retroprospective prospective research with average follow up period 
of 40 months, 32 patients were clinically examined, others passed away or were 
not reachable. Life expectancy in basic group was 3.5 years and average HHS in 
examined group was 72,06 points. Our study showed that unipolar partial hip 
endoprothesis implanted after femoral neck fracture achieves long term fair 
clinical result. Main factor on a patient's recovery is not type of implanted 
hip endoprothesis, but general health condition before injury, motivation and 
early postoperative mobilization.

PMID: 15997679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. JAMA. 2005 Jul 6;294(1):43-4; author reply 44. doi: 10.1001/jama.294.1.43-b.

Single-payer health systems and statistics.

Starfield B, Morris SD.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.294.1.43-b
PMID: 15998889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2005 Jun;31(3):169-78. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.866.

Multistate worklife expectancies.

Nurminen M(1), Nurminen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Finnish Institute of 
Occupational Health, Topeliuksenkatu 41 a A, FIN-00250 Helsinki, Finland. 
markku.nurminen@ttl.fi

This communication reviews the demographic concept of worklife expectancy and 
draws the epidemiologists' attention to its usefulness in occupational health 
research and pension policy making. The distinctions between different analytic 
approaches to the quantification of expected workforce status and mobility are 
pointed out. A recently developed multivariate large-sample regression method 
for the analysis of worklife tables is placed into the general context of life 
tables. Given aggregated data from multiple cross-sectional or longitudinal 
population surveys, a multistate regression model can be used to estimate 
consistently marginal probabilities that a person is in a given work-health 
state or transition probabilities between the states and, thereby, worklife 
expectancies. The methodology is illustrated through the application to data 
from Finnish population statistics on employment, disability, retirement, and 
mortality. The paper closes with a discussion of the methodological issues and 
empirical findings on pension policy in Finland.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.866
PMID: 15999568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Prog Urol. 2005 Apr;15(2):255-9.

[An experience of individual and early diagnosis of prostate cancer in a 
Tunisian centre].

[Article in French]

Khouaja K(1), Ben Sorba N, Bouslama A, Youssef A, Taher Mosbah A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Urologique, Hôpital Sahloul, Sousse, Tunisie. 
karimkhouaja@yahoo.fr

INTRODUCTION: The introduction of prostate specific antigen (PSA) and progress 
in transrectal ultrasound and ultrasound-guided prostatic biopsies have allowed 
considerable progress in the diagnosis of prostate cancer. However prostate 
cancer is still usually diagnosed at an advanced stage in Tunisia.
METHODS: We prospectively evaluated the prevalence of localized prostate cancer 
in the population of a Tunisian centre during a screening programme. This study 
included all men consulting for a urological problem between January 1998 and 
June 2001, between the ages of 50 and 75 years with an estimated life expectancy 
of at least 10 years. Screening consisted of digital rectal examination (DRE) 
and total and free PSA assay. Systematic ultrasound-guided prostatic biopsies (9 
biopsies) were performed in the case of a suspicious DRE, total PSA between 4 
and 20 ng/ml and a free PSA/total PSA ratio less than 25%.
RESULTS: 642 patients were screened. 521 patients (81%) had a PSA less than 4 
ng/ml, 23 had a suspicious DRE and PSA less than 4 ng/ml. No cancer was detected 
by prostatic biopsies. 92 patients (14%) had a PSA between 4 and 20 ng/ml and 44 
of them had a free PSA/total PSA ratio less than 25%. Prostatic biopsies were 
performed in 59 of these 92 patients with PSA between 4 and 20 ng/ml and 
revealed 18 cancers: 3 stage pN+ and 15 stage pN0, including 1 stage pT3 and 14 
stage pT2 after radical prostatectomy. 14 cancers detected in a population of 
642 men (2.2%) were therefore stage pT2. 29 patients (4.5%) had a PSA higher 
than 20 ng/ml. All underwent surgical prostatic disobstruction demonstrating 
adenocarcinoma. A total of 47 cancers (7.3%) were therefore detected.
CONCLUSION: Early individualized screening is possible in Tunisia and allows the 
detection of localized prostate cancer in 77% of patients with PSA less than 20 
ng/ml. The use of prostatic biopsies in the case of abnormal screening tests 
improves the management of prostate cancer in Tunisia.

PMID: 15999603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. PLoS Biol. 2005 Jul;3(7):e223. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.0030223. Epub 2005
May  31.

Calories do not explain extension of life span by dietary restriction in 
Drosophila.

Mair W(1), Piper MD, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Centre for Research on Ageing, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    PLoS Biol. 3:e237.

Dietary restriction (DR) extends life span in diverse organisms, including 
mammals, and common mechanisms may be at work. DR is often known as calorie 
restriction, because it has been suggested that reduction of calories, rather 
than of particular nutrients in the diet, mediates extension of life span in 
rodents. We here demonstrate that extension of life span by DR in Drosophila is 
not attributable to the reduction in calorie intake. Reduction of either dietary 
yeast or sugar can reduce mortality and extend life span, but by an amount that 
is unrelated to the calorie content of the food, and with yeast having a much 
greater effect per calorie than does sugar. Calorie intake is therefore not the 
key factor in the reduction of mortality rate by DR in this species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.0030223
PMCID: PMC1140680
PMID: 16000018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests. The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


95. Nihon Rinsho. 2005 Jul;63(7):1201-6.

[Sudden death and cardiovascular complications in Marfan syndrome: impact of 
surgical intervention].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohtsubo S(1), Itoh T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Saga Meidical School.

Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder of connective tissue 
characterized by abnormalities involving the skeletal, ocular, and 
cardiovascular systems. The cardiovascular complications of the syndrome lead to 
a reduced life expectancy for affected individuals if left untreated. Major 
cause of death include acute aortic dissection, aortic rupture, and sudden 
death, which resulted from congenital vascular fragility. Such life-threatening 
complications in Marfan syndrome can be managed effectively, by routine aortic 
imaging, beta-adrenergic blockade, and prophylactic replacement of the aortic 
root before the diameter exceeds 5.0 to 5.5 mm. Valve preserving aortic root 
reconstruction yielded improved postoperative quality of life compared with 
Bentall operation, by reducing late complications related to anticoagulants. It 
should be carried out before onset of aortic regurgitation for long-term native 
valve durability.

PMID: 16001783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2005 May;3(3):458-66. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2005.0022.

Surgical management of thyroid carcinoma.

Kouvaraki MA(1), Shapiro SE, Lee JE, Evans DB, Perrier ND.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77230-1402, USA.

Thyroid carcinoma has a unique biologic behavior characterized by early spread 
to regional lymph nodes and occasional extrathyroidal soft tissue extension but 
a low incidence of distant metastasis and infrequent disease-related death. 
Therefore, controversy exists over the proper extent of thyroidectomy and 
regional lymph node dissection in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma 
(DTC) and medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). The modest disease-specific 
mortality makes it unlikely that the extent of surgery will ever be the subject 
of a prospective randomized trial. Although more extensive cervical surgery may 
have only a limited effect on the duration of survival in patients with DTC, it 
may significantly improve quality of life by minimizing cervical recurrence. The 
high rates of cervical recurrence in patients with DTC and MTC have alerted 
physicians to the importance of fine-needle aspiration biopsy and 
ultrasonography for the diagnosis, preoperative staging, and follow-up of 
thyroid cancer. In patients with MTC, death caused by disease is uncommon in the 
absence of radiographically evident distant metastasis at the time of 
thyroidectomy. Cervical recurrence is even more common with MTC, and the need 
for compartment-oriented lymphadenectomy is accepted as standard surgical 
treatment to minimize disease recurrence. Postoperatively, calcitonin (CT) 
levels can be used to guide clinical management, but basal CT levels should not 
be used to direct the timing of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected high-risk 
patients with familial MTC.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2005.0022
PMID: 16002007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Endocrinol. 2005 Jul;186(1):69-76. doi: 10.1677/joe.1.06030.

Microvascular effects of corticotropin-releasing hormone in human skin vary in 
relation to estrogen concentration during the menstrual cycle.

Clifton VL(1), Crompton R, Read MA, Gibson PG, Smith R, Wright IM.

Author information:
(1)Mothers and Babies Research Center, Hunter Medical Research Institute, 
Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia.

Females have a significantly greater life expectancy than males, which in part 
may be due to the cardio-protective effects of the female sex hormone, estrogen, 
on vascular function. However, the sex-specific mechanisms contributing to these 
differences are complex and not fully understood. Previously we have reported 
that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) has potent dilator effects in the 
female skin circulation via mast cell degranulation. Furthermore the dilator 
response to CRH was more enhanced in females than in age-matched males, 
suggesting that estrogens may be involved. In this study we examined whether 
CRH-induced dilation and endothelial cell-dependent dilation in the skin 
circulation of pre-menopausal females were associated with changes in estrogen 
during the menstrual cycle. CRH-induced dilation (1 nM) was enhanced in the 
presence of high circulating concentrations of estrogen and a positive 
correlation was identified between CRH-induced dilation and plasma estrogen 
concentrations. Endothelial cell-dependent dilation was examined using 
acetylcholine. Acetylcholine-induced dilation (1 nM) was not correlated with 
circulating concentrations of estrogen. These data suggest the variation in 
CRH-induced dilation in the skin microvasculature during the menstrual cycle may 
be due to estrogenic effects on mast cell function and not due to direct changes 
in endothelial cell function.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.1.06030
PMID: 16002537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Stroke. 2005 Aug;36(8):1648-55. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000173221.37568.d2. Epub
 2005 Jul 7.

Modeling the future burden of stroke in The Netherlands: impact of aging, 
smoking, and hypertension.

Struijs JN(1), van Genugten ML, Evers SM, Ament AJ, Baan CA, van den Bos GA.

Author information:
(1)Department for Prevention and Health Services Research, National Institute of 
Public Health and the Environment, PO Box 1, 3720 BA Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
jeroen.struijs@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: In the near future, the number of stroke patients and 
their related healthcare costs are expected to rise. The purpose of this study 
was to estimate this expected increase in stroke patients in the Netherlands. We 
sought to determine what the future developments in the number of stroke 
patients due to demographic changes and trends in the prevalence of smoking and 
hypertension in terms of the prevalence, incidence, and potential years of life 
lost might be.
METHODS: A dynamic, multistate life table was used, which combined demographic 
projections and existing stroke morbidity and mortality data. It projected 
future changes in the number of stroke patients in several scenarios for the 
Dutch population for the period 2000 to 2020. The model calculated the annual 
number of new patients by age and sex by using incidence rates, defined by age, 
sex, and major risk factors. The change in the annual number of stroke patients 
is the result of incident cases minus mortality numbers.
RESULTS: Demographic changes in the population suggest an increase of 27% in 
number of stroke patients per 1000 in 2020 compared with 2000. Extrapolating 
past trends in the prevalence of smoking behavior, hypertension, and stroke 
incidence resulted in an increase of 4%.
CONCLUSIONS: The number of stroke patients in the Netherlands will rise 
continuously until the year 2020. Our study demonstrates that a large part of 
this increase in the number of patients is an inevitable consequence of the 
aging of the population.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000173221.37568.d2
PMID: 16002757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. BMJ. 2005 Jul 9;331(7508):E364-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7508.E364.

Describing the road to death.

Roberts J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7508.E364
PMID: 16002850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. J Biochem. 2005 Jun;137(6):741-50. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvi089.

Biochemical and functional characterization of BLUF-type flavin-binding proteins 
of two species of cyanobacteria.

Okajima K(1), Yoshihara S, Fukushima Y, Geng X, Katayama M, Higashi S, Watanabe 
M, Sato S, Tabata S, Shibata Y, Itoh S, Ikeuchi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Biology), The University of Tokyo, Komaba, 
Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

BLUF (a sensor of Blue-Light Using FAD) is a novel putative photoreceptor domain 
that is found in many bacteria and some eukaryotic algae. As found on genome 
analysis, certain cyanobacteria have BLUF proteins with a short C-terminal 
extension. As typical examples, Tll0078 from thermophilic Thermosynechococcus 
elongatus BP-1 and Slr1694 from mesophilic Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 were 
comparatively studied. FAD of both proteins was hardly reduced by exogenous 
reductants or mediators except methylviologen but showed a typical spectral 
shift to a longer wavelength upon excitation with blue light. In particular, 
freshly prepared Tll0078 protein showed slow but reversible aggregation, 
indicative of light-induced conformational changes in the protein structure. 
Tll0078 is far more stable as to heat treatment than Slr1694, as judged from 
flavin fluorescence. The slr1694-disruptant showed phototactic motility away 
from the light source (negative phototaxis), while the wild type Synechocystis 
showed positive phototaxis toward the source. Yeast two-hybrid screening with 
slr1694 showed self-interaction of Slr1694 (PixD) with itself and interaction 
with a novel PatA-like response regulator, Slr1693 (PixE). These results were 
discussed in relation to the signaling mechanism of the "short" BLUF proteins in 
the regulation of cyanobacterial phototaxis.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvi089
PMID: 16002996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Rev Belge Med Dent (1984). 2004;59(4):250-62.

[Curriculum reform in dental medicine at the University of Ghent].

[Article in French]

De Boever JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Prothèses fixée et de Parodontologie Département de Médecine 
Dentaire Faculté de Médecine et des Sciences de la Santé Université de Gand. 
j.deboever@skynet.be

The need for dental and oral treatment in the society is constantly changing. 
Epidemiological studies show that in the rapidly aging population in Western 
Europe, caries (except for root caries) is declining but more complex 
periodontal treatment is needed. The number of completely edentulous patients is 
decreasing. Patients have a longer life expectancy but are medically and 
psychologically more compromised. Many more patients are at high risk for 
medical complications. Therefore, a more medical orientation of the dental 
education is needed. The basic cellular and molecular knowledge in medicine is 
rapidly expanding. The practical application of this expanded knowledge has been 
introduced in dentistry such as use of DNA probes, genetic testing, vaccines 
etc. The graduating dentist should be aware of the scientific progress and be 
able to apply this technology in his future practice. Therefore, the urgent need 
was felt to reform the dental education fundamentally and to give it a more 
medical orientation. Teaching is organised in coherent blocks of lectures 
covering specific parts of' a discipline and discussing the content from 
different angles by different lecturers. Basic information (eg. physiology, 
microscopy, microbiology) is provided in the same block as the clinical and 
therapeutic information. Preclinical laboratories prepare the student for the 
clinical phase of a discipline and are not any longer devoted to dental 
technical laboratory work. More time is given to prosthetic planning, 
communication with the dental technician and to analyse the biological effects 
of prosthetic appliances. In the final year a large number of teaching hours is 
devoted to general medical pathology including physiopathology, dermatology, 
general head and neck pathology and surgery (ENT, oncology, orthognathic 
surgery) as well as gerodontology including general medical, psychological and 
nutritional themes. Finally, clinically the student has a multidisciplinary 
approach in his diagnosis and treatment of patients. The final aim is train and 
educated oral physicians.

PMID: 16004074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Med Hypotheses. 2005;65(3):585-6. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2005.01.037.

The atypical antipsychotic agents ziprasidone [correction of zisprasidone], 
risperdone and olanzapine as treatment for and prophylaxis against progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy.

Altschuler EL(1), Kast RE.

Author information:
(1)Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, 1425 Madison Avenue, Box 1240, NY 10029, USA. 
eric.altschuler@mssm.edu

Comment in
    Med Hypotheses. 2005;65(3):633-4.

Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is an unremitting, advancing 
disease of central nervous system white matter. PML is caused by infection of 
the JC polyoma virus, most always in patients with immunosupression due to, for 
example, cancer, anti-rejection transplant medications or HIV. There is no 
specific treatment or cure for PML, and untreated it has a median life 
expectancy is less than four months. Highly active antiretroviral treatment 
(HAART) has greatly reduced the incidence and prevalence of PML in HIV+ patients 
likely, however, even in the best case scenario of an HIV+ patient with PML and 
taking HAART, a significant mortality remains. Novel treatments for PML are 
needed. Recently Atwood and colleagues have found that the cellular receptor for 
JC virus is the serotonin 5HT2A receptor. In vitro they used the older 
antipsychotic medications chlorpromazine and clozapine to block the serotonin 
5HT2A receptor and block JC virus cell entry. Unfortunately, however, 
chlorpromazine and clozapine have such significant side effects and toxicities, 
e.g., extrapyramidal symptoms and the possibility of bone marrow dyscrasias - 
that they may be problematic to use clinically. Here, we point out that some 
newer atypical antipsychotics such as zisprasidone, risperidone and 
olanzapine--medicines with much better side effect and toxicity profiles than 
the older antipsychotics--in vitro are significantly more potent 5HT2A receptor 
antagonists than chlorpromazine or clozapine by in some cases more than a factor 
of 10, and thus may be useful as treatment for or prophylaxis against PML.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2005.01.037
PMID: 16004936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Nov;61(10):2233-51. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.02.011.

Widening ethnic mortality disparities in New Zealand 1981-99.

Blakely T(1), Tobias M, Robson B, Ajwani S, Bonné M, Woodward A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Wellington School of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, University of Otago, P.O. Box 7343, Wellington, New Zealand. 
tblakely@wnmeds.ac.nz

The aim of this paper is to determine the extent of undercounting of Mäori and 
Pacific deaths in New Zealand during the 1980s and 1990s, and to calculate 
corrected ethnic mortality and life expectancy trends. We calculated adjustment 
ratios for undercounting of Mäori and Pacific deaths (and over-counting of 
non-Mäori non-Pacific (nMnP) deaths) using the linked census-mortality data. 
These ratios were then used to calculate corrected mortality rates and life 
expectancies. Mäori deaths were underestimated by a quarter, and Pacific deaths 
by a third, during the 1980s and early 1990s. Undercounting was minor in the 
late 1990s following alignment of ethnicity collection on mortality data to 
approximate the census. Corrected mortality rates demonstrated 30% (males) and 
26% (females) decreases among nMnP from 1980-84 to 1996-99, smaller decreases 
among Mäori (8% and 7%) and no clear change among Pacific people (9% decrease 
for males, 4% increase for females). The gap in life expectancy increased from 
an average of 7.7 years in 1980-84 to 10.8 years in 1996-99 for Mäori, and from 
3.3 to 7.7 years for Pacific people, in comparison to nMnP people. Deaths among 
45-64 and 65 plus year olds, and cardiovascular disease and cancer deaths, were 
the main contributors to these disparities. The economic reforms in New Zealand 
during the 1980s and early 1990s impacted harder upon Mäori and Pacific people 
in terms of unemployment and income, and are a likely explanation for the 
diverging mortality trends in this period. Both behavioural factors and health 
services probably also play a role, but in the absence of trend data by 
ethnicity, their contribution to diverging mortality trends is unknown. 
Internationally, our study demonstrates marked undercounting of Mäori and 
Pacific deaths. We strongly encourage researchers and custodians of vital 
statistics in other countries to investigate the possibility of undercounting of 
deaths by ethnicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.02.011
PMID: 16005132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Econ Hum Biol. 2005 Jul;3(2):314-28. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2005.05.006.

Young adult mortality following severe physiological stress in childhood: 
skeletal evidence.

Steckel RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Economics, Anthropology and History Departments, Ohio State University, 
1945N. High St., Columbus, OH 43210, USA. steckel.1@osu.edu

Numerous studies report that early childhood biological stress impairs health in 
later adulthood. Overwhelmingly these studies are based on modern data, when 
health conditions are quite good by historical standards. Potentially much can 
be learned by examining the relationship within populations that lived under 
enormous pressure, enduring life expectancies less than one-half of those found 
in industrial countries of the late twentieth century. This paper uses the 
skeletal remains of over 3000 individuals who lived in the Western Hemisphere as 
long as 6000 years ago to probe the connection between several markers of early 
childhood stress and survival from approximately age 15 to 30. In a logit model 
with explanatory variables that control for sex and ethnicity, the probability 
of survival was systematically 7.6 percentage points less among individuals with 
two or more hypoplasias, 3.9 percentage points less for those with cribra 
orbitalia or porotic hyperostosis, and 4.6 percentage points less for 
individuals stunted by 20 cm in height. The paper compares these findings with 
those from studies on modern data and concludes with suggestions for research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2005.05.006
PMID: 16005270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Am J Public Health. 2005 Aug;95(8):1306; 1306-7. doi:
10.2105/AJPH.2004.060350.  Epub 2005 Jul 7.

Redistribution and health.

Muennig P.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 2004 Dec;94(12):2078-81.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.060350
PMCID: PMC1449355
PMID: 16006414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Tech Coloproctol. 2005 Jul;9(2):166-8. doi: 10.1007/s10151-005-0220-7. Epub
2005  Jul 8.

Controlled, randomized trial of island flap anoplasty for treatment of 
trans-sphincteric fistula-in-ano: early results.

Ho KS(1), Ho YH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.

Treatment of trans-sphincteric fistula is usually a compromise between 
recurrence and incontinence. Dermal island flap anoplasty has been found to be 
useful in the treatment of these fistulas. We performed a randomized trial to 
compare dermal island flap anoplasty with conventional treatment for 
trans-sphincteric fistula-in-ano. Seventy nine patients with fistula-in-ano were 
recruited; twenty patients with trans-sphincteric fistula confirmed by endoanal 
ultrasound were prospectively randomized to receive either dermal island flap 
anoplasty (IFA) or conventional treatment (CVN) for trans-sphincteric 
fistula-inano. Conventional treatment consisted of lay open fistulotomy or seton 
insertion if deemed unsuitable for fistulotomy. Dermal island flap anoplasty 
involved a cutaneous advancement flap into the rectum. Pain scores, fecal 
incontinence scores, operative complications, wound healing and recurrence rates 
were charted. Two patients in the CVN group required seton insertions, which 
were still intact at the 9-month follow-up. Two patients with similar high 
trans-sphincteric fistula in the IFA group avoided having a long-term seton. 
There were no differences in the postoperative pain score, incontinence score, 
complications, wound healing and recurrence rates between the two groups. IFA is 
a safe and useful method for treating transsphincteric fistula. It can be 
considered when a suprasphincteric extension is suspected, thus avoiding risk of 
incontinence or the discomfort of a long-term seton.

DOI: 10.1007/s10151-005-0220-7
PMID: 16007352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Rhinology. 2005 Jun;43(2):138-42.

Rapid maxillary expansion and nasal patency in children with Down syndrome.

de Moura CP(1), Vales F, Andrade D, Cunha LM, Barros H, Pueschel SM, Clemente 
MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Hospital São João, University of Porto Medical 
School, Portugal. cmoura@med.up.pt

Down syndrome (DS) is the most common aneuploid disorder at birth. The life 
expectancy of persons with DS has improved over the last forty years and is now 
at about sixty years. Phenotypic characteristics include general hypotonia, 
maxillary hypoplasia with a small oral cavity and a somewhat larger appearing 
tongue, frequent constricted maxillary arch, nasal obstruction and others. This 
prospective study assesses the effects of rapid maxillary expansion (RME) on 
nasal patency of children with DS, using acoustic rhinometry (AR). Twenty four 
children with DS, aged 5 to 12 years, had been randomly allocated to the RME and 
control groups. AR was performed to these individuals prior to expansion, 
approximately one month after, post maximal expansion, and after a 5 months 
period of retention. The data between the two groups were compared. Rapid 
maxillary expansion produced a significant augmentation of nasal volume in 
children who had been treated (p < 0.05) compared to the control group; these 
results were stable through the period of retention.

PMID: 16008071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2004 Oct;97(10):1013-8.

[Moderate aortic stenosis and aorto-coronary bypass].

[Article in French]

Chauvel C(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinique Saint-Augustin, Bordeaux.

The presence of aortic stenosis in a patient facing surgical coronary 
revascularisation is a common situation. A tight aortic stenosis justifies 
combining aortic valvular replacement with the anticipated bypass. The discovery 
of a "moderate" aortic stenosis before coronary surgery poses a much more 
difficult problem. Moderate stenosis equates to aortic area values >0.6 cm2/m2 
body area and <1.2 cm2/m2. An estimation of the progression of the stenosis 
following coronary surgery is fundamental to making the best possible decision 
but remains very difficult for a given individual. The factors to be taken into 
account are the aetiology of the stenosis, its severity, the valvular anatomy 
(calcification), associated coronary artery disease, the age of the patient and 
the progression of stenosis from one echography to the next. For each patient 
the risk/benefit ratio of the strategy must therefore be evaluated as much as 
possible (double procedure at once, or bypass followed by surveillance of the 
aortic stenosis). In order to do this it is necessary to consider, apart from 
the stenosis progression factors, the patient's life expectancy and point of 
view, as well as of course the operative risk (LV function, comorbidity...). Day 
to day experience shows that the degree of the stenosis is often under-estimated 
in patients facing coronary surgery, owing to a simple measurement of the 
gradient. Complete and accurate investigation of the aortic stenosis with 
Doppler often allows a definitive decision on the most suitable therapeutic 
approach.

PMID: 16008180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. J Fam Pract. 2005 Jul;54(7):586-96.

Screening for prostate cancer: who and how often?

Schwartz K(1), Deschere B, Xu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Wayne State University School of Medicine, 101 
E. Alexandrine, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. kensch@med.wayne.edu

Engage patients in shared decision making by discussing the benefits and risks 
of prostate cancer screening. Patients who review educational pamphlets before 
an office visit engage more fully in the decision-making process. If performing 
prostate cancer screening, limit to men with greater than 10 years life 
expectancy. Because the lead time of a diagnosis based on PSA screening is 
estimated to be 5 to 7 years, PSA screening every other year is unlikely to 
cause a loss of sensitivity. Men with tumors with a Gleason score less than 5 
are the best candidates for "watchful waiting," having a favorable 20-year 
survival.

PMID: 16009085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2005 Apr;35(2):111-33. doi:
10.1007/s11084-005-5578-z.

Polymer GARD: computer simulation of covalent bond formation in reproducing 
molecular assemblies.

Shenhav B(1), Bar-Even A, Kafri R, Lancet D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and the Crown Human Genome Center, the 
Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

The basic Graded Autocatalysis Replication Domain (GARD) model consists of a 
repertoire of small molecules, typically amphiphiles, which join and leave a 
non-covalent micelle-like assembly. Its replication behavior is due to 
occasional fission, followed by a homeostatic growth process governed by the 
assembly's composition. Limitations of the basic GARD model are its small finite 
molecular repertoire and the lack of a clear path from a 'monomer world' towards 
polymer-based living entities. We have now devised an extension of the model 
(polymer GARD or P-GARD), where a monomer-based GARD serves as a 'scaffold' for 
oligomer formation, as a result of internal chemical rules. We tested this 
concept with computer simulations of a simple case of monovalent monomers, 
whereby more complex molecules (dimers) are formed internally, in a manner 
resembling biosynthetic metabolism. We have observed events of dimer 'take-over' 
- the formation of compositionally stable, replication-prone quasi stationary 
states (composomes) that have appreciable dimer content. The appearance of novel 
metabolism-like networks obeys a time-dependent power law, reminiscent of 
evolution under punctuated equilibrium. A simulation under constant population 
conditions shows the dynamics of takeover and extinction of different 
composomes, leading to the generation of different population distributions. The 
P-GARD model offers a scenario whereby biopolymer formation may be a result of 
rather than a prerequisite for early life-like processes.

DOI: 10.1007/s11084-005-5578-z
PMID: 16010993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2005 Apr;35(2):151-66. doi:
10.1007/s11084-005-5272-1.

On the emergence of biological complexity: life as a kinetic state of matter.

Pross A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, 
84105, Israel. pross@bgumail.bgu.ac.il

A kinetic model that attempts to further clarify the nature of biological 
complexification is presented. Its essence: reactions of replicating systems and 
those of regular chemical systems follow different selection rules leading to 
different patterns of chemical behavior. For regular chemical systems selection 
is fundamentally thermodynamic, whereas for replicating chemical systems 
selection is effectively kinetic. Building on an extension of the kinetic 
stability, concept it is shown that complex replicators tend to be kinetically 
more stable than simple ones, leading to an on-going process of 
kinetically-directed complexification. The high kinetic stability of simple 
replicating assemblies such as phages, compared to the low kinetic stability of 
the assembly components, illustrates the complexification principle. The 
analysis suggests that living systems constitute a kinetic state of matter, as 
opposed to the traditional thermodynamic states that dominate the inanimate 
world, and reaffirms our view that life is a particular manifestation of 
replicative chemistry.

DOI: 10.1007/s11084-005-5272-1
PMID: 16010995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Clin Med (Lond). 2005 May-Jun;5(3):244-8. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.5-3-244.

The social environment and health.

Sir Michael Marmot(1).

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Health and Society, Department of Epidemiology and 
Public Health, University College, London.

Social and environmental conditions affect health. Rates of mortality and 
illness differ markedly between areas. A report from the London Health 
Observatory showed that the life expectancy of men living in the healthiest 
parts of the London Borough of Camden was ten years longer than that of men 
living in the least healthy parts of the same borough. Cities all over the world 
have variations in health by area according to socio-economic level to a greater 
or lesser extent. An important question is whether people living in a particular 
area are unhealthy because they are poor or whether there are particular 
characteristics of the area they live in that contribute to their poor health. 
Evidence suggests that neighbourhood characteristics such as social cohesion are 
crucial.

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.5-3-244
PMCID: PMC4952209
PMID: 16011216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2005 Aug;49(Pt 8):626-34. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.2005.00722.x.

An assessment of intellectual disability among Aboriginal Australians.

Glasson EJ(1), Sullivan SG, Hussain R, Bittles AH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health and Ageing, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The health and well-being of Indigenous people is a significant 
global problem, and Aboriginal Australians suffer from a considerably higher 
burden of disease and lower life expectancy than the non-Indigenous population. 
Intellectual disability (ID) can further compromise health, but there is little 
information that documents the prevalence of ID among indigenous populations. 
This study provides information on ID among the Aboriginal population of Western 
Australia.
METHODS: The Disability Services Commission (DSC) of Western Australia has 
maintained a statewide database of people with ID since 1953. Data on people of 
Aboriginal descent were extracted from the DSC database and linked to two other 
state-based databases, the Hospital Morbidity Data System and the Deaths 
Registry, with additional linkage to the National Death Index. The linked data 
were used to assess the prevalence, survival patterns and causes of death in 
Aboriginal people with ID.
RESULTS: Although comprising 3.5% of the population, Aboriginal Australians 
represented 7.4% of all people registered for ID services. The level of ID was 
assessed as borderline or mild in 40.7% of cases, moderate in 19.9%, severe or 
profound in 12.1%, but had not been specified in 27.2% cases. Median survival 
was 55.1 years for men and 64.0 years for women, with a mean age at death (n = 
102) of 19.6 years. The leading causes of death were respiratory diseases, 
diseases of the circulatory system, and accidents.
CONCLUSIONS: The study presents unique population summary data for ID in the 
Aboriginal community of Western Australia. To provide appropriate prevention and 
intervention strategies, there is an urgent need for more detailed information 
on the prevalence and patterns of ID.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.2005.00722.x
PMID: 16011555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2005 Jul 15;22(2):135-46. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2005.02536.x.

The cost-effectiveness of biomarkers for predicting the development of 
oesophageal adenocarcinoma.

Rubenstein JH(1), Vakil N, Inadomi JM.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. jhr@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: The recommended surveillance strategy for oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
may prevent as few as 50% of cancer deaths. Tissue biomarkers have been proposed 
to identify high-risk patients.
AIM: To determine performance characteristics of an ideal biomarker, or panel of 
biomarkers, that would make its use more cost-effective than the current 
surveillance strategy.
METHODS: We created a Markov model using data from published literature, and 
performed a cost-utility analysis. The population consisted of 50-year-old 
Caucasian men with gastro-oesophageal reflux, who were monitored until age 80. 
We examined strategies of observation only, current practice (dysplasia-guided 
surveillance), surveillance every 3 months for patients with a positive 
biomarker (biomarker-guided surveillance), and oesophagectomy immediately for a 
positive biomarker (biomarker-guided oesophagectomy). The primary outcome was 
the threshold cost and performance characteristics needed for a biomarker to be 
more cost-effective than current practice.
RESULTS: Regardless of the cost, the biomarker needs to be at least 95% specific 
for biomarker-guided oesophagectomy to be cost-effective. For biomarker-guided 
surveillance to be cost-effective, a $100 biomarker could be 80% sensitive and 
specific.
CONCLUSIONS: Biomarkers predicting the development of oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
would need to be fairly accurate and inexpensive to be cost-effective. These 
results should guide the development of biomarkers for oesophageal 
adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2005.02536.x
PMID: 16011672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Int J Paediatr Dent. 2005 Jul;15(4):249-55. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-263X.2005.00643.x.

Dental erosion in 12-year-old schoolchildren: a cross-sectional study in 
Southern Brazil.

Peres KG(1), Armênio MF, Peres MA, Traebert J, De Lacerda JT.

Author information:
(1)Universidade do Sul de Santa Catarina (UNISUL), Tubarão, Brazil. 
karengp@ig.com.br

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence and severity of 
dental erosion among 12-year-old schoolchildren in Joaçaba, southern Brazil, and 
to compare prevalence between boys and girls, and between public and private 
school students.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was carried out involving all of the 
municipality's 499, 12-year-old schoolchildren. The dental erosion index 
proposed by O'Sullivan was used for the four maxillary incisors. Data analysis 
included descriptive statistics, location, distribution, and extension of 
affected area and severity of dental erosion.
RESULTS: The prevalence of dental erosion was 13.0% (95% confidence interval = 
9.0-17.0). There was no statistically significant difference in prevalence 
between boys and girls, but prevalence was higher in private schools (21.1%) 
than in public schools (9.7%) (P < 0.001). Labial surfaces were less often 
affected than palatal surfaces. Enamel loss was the most prevalent type of 
dental erosion (4.86 of 100 incisors). Sixty-three per cent of affected teeth 
showed more than a half of their surface affected.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of dental erosion in 12-year-old schoolchildren 
living in a small city in southern Brazil appears to be lower than that seen in 
most of epidemiological studies carried out in different parts of the world. 
Further longitudinal studies should be conducted in Brazil in order to measure 
the incidence of dental erosion and its impact on children's quality of life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-263X.2005.00643.x
PMID: 16011783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Clin Med Res. 2005 May;3(2):65-74. doi: 10.3121/cmr.3.2.65.

Gorham's disease or massive osteolysis.

Patel DV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Department of Veterans Affairs, New Jersey 
Healthcare System, East Orange, NJ 07018-1095, USA. bonepatel@yahoo.com

Comment on
    Clin Med Res. 2005 May;3(2):83-6.

Gorham's disease is a rare disorder characterized by proliferation of vascular 
channels that results in destruction and resorption of osseous matrix. Since the 
initial description of the disease by Gorham and colleagues (1954) and by Gorham 
and Stout (1955), fifty years have elapsed but still the precise etiology of 
Gorham's disease remains poorly understood and largely unknown. There is no 
evidence of a malignant, neuropathic, or infectious component involved in the 
causation of this disorder. The mechanism of bone resorption is unclear. The 
clinical presentation of Gorham's disease is variable and depends on the site of 
involvement. It often takes many months or years before the offending lesion is 
correctly diagnosed. A high index of clinical suspicion is needed to arrive at 
an early, accurate diagnosis. Patients with Gorham's disease may complain of 
dull aching pain or insidious onset of progressive weakness. In some cases, 
pathologic fracture often leads to its discovery. Gorham's disease is 
progressive in most patients; however, in some cases, the disease process is 
self-limiting. The clinical course is generally protracted but rarely fatal, 
with eventual stabilization of the affected bone being the most common sequelae. 
Chylous pericardial and pleural effusions may occur due to mediastinal extension 
of the disease process from the involved vertebra, scapula, rib or sternum, and 
can be life threatening. A high morbidity and mortality is seen in patients with 
spinal and/or visceral involvement. The medical treatment for Gorham's disease 
includes radiation therapy, anti-osteoclastic medications (bisphosphonates), and 
alpha-2b interferon. Surgical treatment options include resection of the lesion 
and reconstruction using bone grafts and/or prostheses. In most cases, bone 
grafts tend to undergo resorption and are not helpful. Surgical reconstruction 
and/or radiation therapy are used for management of patients who have large, 
symptomatic lesions with long-standing, disabling functional instability. 
Surgical stabilization may be required for unstable spinal lesions. Various 
treatment options, including pleurectomy, pleurodesis, thoracic duct ligation, 
radiation therapy, interferon therapy, and bleomycin, have been used for 
management of patients with Gorham's disease presenting with chylothorax. In 
general, no single treatment modality has proven effective in arresting the 
disease.

DOI: 10.3121/cmr.3.2.65
PMCID: PMC1183435
PMID: 16012123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Neuroreport. 2005 Aug 1;16(11):1143-6. doi:
10.1097/00001756-200508010-00002.

Nonmuscle myosins IIA and IIB are present in adult motor nerve terminals.

Vega-Riveroll LJ(1), Wylie SR, Loughna PT, Parson SH, Chantler PD.

Author information:
(1)Royal Veterinary College, University of London, Royal College Street, London 
NW1 0TU, UK.

Throughout life, neuromuscular junctions undergo dynamic changes, remodelling 
