[New concepts in reconstruction of arm and hand function in tetraplegia--basic 
research and clinical application].

[Article in German]

Fridén J(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Handchirurgie, Sahlgrenska Universitätsklinik, Göteborg, 
Sweden. jan.friden@orthop.gu.se

Reconstructive hand surgery improves the ability to meet the needs of daily life 
and the independence of patients who have lost their upper extremity function 
due to cervical spinal cord injury. Tendon transfer procedures provide the 
potential to restore key functions, such as elbow and wrist extension or hand 
grip control, ameliorate joint balance, reduce pain in spasticity and prevent 
joint contractures. The choice of the optimal donor muscle should be based on a 
thorough understanding of the biomechanical principles of the muscle-tendon 
unit. Intraoperative sarcomere length measurements allow to predict and set the 
optimal muscle-tendon unit length during reconstructive upper extremity surgery 
in order to prevent overstretch which may lead to insufficient active force 
generation. Macro-proteins and the extracellular matrix are in charge of the 
muscle ultrastructure, elasticity and thus passive muscle tension. Spastic 
muscles are characterized by greater stiffness, a shorter sarcomere length and 
an extracellular matrix with inferior mechanical properties. Basic science 
research and clinical studies in cooperation with international centers are of 
great importance to promote the development of refined techniques of surgical 
reconstruction and postoperative rehabilitation of upper extremity function in 
tetraplegic patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-865906
PMID: 16149030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2005 May-Aug;7(2):121-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0124-00642005000200001.

[Income inequality, corruption, and life expectancy at birth in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Idrovo AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Salud Poblacional, Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Pública, Cueravaca, Morelos, México. idrovoaj@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To ascertain if the effect of income inequality on life expectancy at 
birth in Mexico is mediated by corruption, used as a proxy of social capital.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: An ecological study was carried out with the 32 Mexican 
federative entities. Global and by sex correlations between life expectancy at 
birth were estimated by federative entity with the Gini coefficient, the 
Corruption and Good Government Index, the percentage of Catholics, and the 
percentage of the population speaking indigenous language. Robust linear 
regressions, with and without instrumental variables, were used to explore if 
corruption acts as intermediate variable in the studied relationship.
RESULTS: Negative correlations with Spearman's rho near to -0.60 (p < 0.05) and 
greater than -0.66 (p < 0.05) between life expectancy at birth, the Gini 
coefficient and the population speaking indigenous language, respectively, were 
observed. Moreover, the Corruption and Good Government Index correlated with 
men's life expectancy at birth with Spearman's rho -0.3592 (p < 0.05). 
Regressions with instruments were more consistent than conventional ones and 
they show a strong negative effect (p < 0.05) of income inequality on life 
expectancy at birth. This effect was greater among men.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest a negative effect of income inequality on life 
expectancy at birth in Mexico, mediated by corruption levels and other related 
cultural factors.

DOI: 10.1590/s0124-00642005000200001
PMID: 16149272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Med Assoc Thai. 2005 May;88(5):607-12.

Clinical benefits of epoetin alfa (Eprex) 10,000 units subcutaneously thrice 
weekly in Thai cancer patients with anemia receiving chemotherapy.

Voravud N(1), Sriuranpong V.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Recently the American society of clinical oncology and the American 
society of hematology have jointly launched the clinical practice guideline of 
epoetin usage in cancer related anemia patients The recommended starting dose is 
150-300 unit/kg thrice weekly. The clinical outcome of epoetin alfa 10,000 units 
subcutaneously thrice weekly regimen has not been evaluated in Thai cancer 
patients with anemia yet.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical benefits and safety of epoetin alfa 
(Eprex) 10,000 units subcutaneously thrice weekly in anemic cancer patients 
receiving chemotherapy
PATIENTS: The present study was an open label, non-randomized study. Adult 
patients were eligible for inclusion aged >18 years with a confirmed diagnosis 
of non-myeloid malignancy in the upper area of the body and scheduled to receive 
chemotherapy regardless of the concurrent radiotherapy. All patients had 
hemoglobin (Hb) level less than 11 g/dL, serum ferritin more than 100 ng/dL and 
had a life expectancy of at least 6 months.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: All patients were initially treated with Epoetin alfa 
10,000 units subcutaneously thrice weekly. The dose was up to 20,000 units after 
4 weeks of therapy, if Hb level did not increase by > 1.0 g/dL. Treatment time 
was 16 weeks. Target Hb was 12 g/dL Blood transfusion and iron supplement was 
permitted. Efficacy Assessments: The primary efficacy end point was the 
proportion of responders (patients with an increase in Hb > or =1 g/dL). 
Secondary efficacy evaluation was change in Quality of life (QOL) scores by the 
Linear Analog Scale Assessment (LASA) and Quality of life-Chula (QOL-CU) scale. 
Statistical Analysis was t-tests, P < 0.05 was considered significant.
RESULTS: Forty patients (21 men and 19 women) were enrolled. Twenty five 
patients (62.5%) had stage of disease in grade III or IV The mean Hb levels at 
baseline were 8.46 +/- 1.28 g/dL. Eight patients (20%) refused to complete the 
course during the study. Reasons for refusing to participate included lack of 
time, changing the resident area or disease progression. Twenty three of 32 
patients (71.8%) were responders. These patients completed the study course and 
showed good response. Their mean Hb levels increased gradually and reach 
approximately 11 g/dl by week 4 and were maintained through week 16. The 
significant difference in mean Hb level of baseline was initially found at week 
4 of the study (10.26 +/- 1.95 g/dl; p = 0.001 vs baseline). The LASA score 
increased in all of three items including level of energy, ability to do daily 
activities, and overall QOL but not statistical significance. However, the 
improvement of quality of life of cancer patients, evaluated by QOL-CU, was 
significantly apparent after treatment, (p < 0.05). The most common adverse 
events were grade I flu like symptoms (17.5%) and recovered the next day.
CONCLUSION: Epoetin alfa (Eprex) 10,000 units thrice weekly significantly 
increased the hemoglobin levels, achieving the target hemoglobin and sustained 
the level in cancer patients with anemia receiving chemotherapy. Clinical 
benefits on functional status and quality of life were also improved. The 
treatment was well tolerated.

PMID: 16149676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Trends Plant Sci. 2005 Oct;10(10):484-90. doi:
10.1016/j.tplants.2005.08.004.

Emerging role for transcript elongation in plant development.

Grasser KD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Aalborg University, Sohngaardsholmsvej 49, 
DK-9000 Aalborg, Denmark. kdg@bio.aau.dk

Transcript elongation by RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), once regarded as the simple 
extension of the initiated mRNA, is a complex and highly regulated phase of the 
transcription cycle. Many factors have been identified that contribute to the 
dynamic control of the elongation stage of transcription. There are elongation 
factors that modulate the activity of RNAPII and other factors that facilitate 
the transcription through chromatin. Recent studies of mutants defective in 
elongation factors have revealed the importance of proper transcript elongation 
for the development of higher eukaryotes. Here, the essentials of transcript 
elongation are briefly summarized to discuss its role in developmental 
processes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tplants.2005.08.004
PMID: 16150628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. BMJ. 2005 Sep 10;331(7516):544. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7516.544.

Cost effectiveness of treatment for alcohol problems: findings of the randomised 
UK alcohol treatment trial (UKATT).

UKATT Research Team.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Sep 10;331(7516):527-8.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of social behaviour and network 
therapy, a new treatment for alcohol problems, with that of the proved 
motivational enhancement therapy.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis alongside a pragmatic randomised trial.
SETTING: Seven treatment sites around Birmingham, Cardiff, and Leeds.
PARTICIPANTS: 742 clients with alcohol problems; 617 (83.2%) were interviewed at 
12 months and full economic data were obtained on 608 (98.5% of 617). Main 
economic measures Quality adjusted life years (QALYs), costs of trial 
treatments, and consequences for public sector resources (health care, other 
alcohol treatment, social services, and criminal justice services).
RESULTS: Both therapies saved about five times as much in expenditure on health, 
social, and criminal justice services as they cost. Neither net savings nor cost 
effectiveness differed significantly between the therapies, despite the average 
cost of social behaviour and network therapy (221 pounds sterling; 385 dollars; 
320 euros) being significantly more than that of motivational enhancement 
therapy (129 pounds sterling). If a QALY were worth 30,000 pounds sterling, then 
the motivational therapy would have 58% chance of being more cost effective than 
the social therapy, and the social therapy would have 42% chance of being more 
cost effective than the motivational therapy.
CONCLUSION: Participants reported highly significant reductions in drinking and 
associated problems and costs. The novel social behaviour and network therapy 
did not differ significantly in cost effectiveness from the proved motivational 
enhancement therapy.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7516.544
PMCID: PMC1200587
PMID: 16150765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. BMJ. 2005 Sep 10;331(7516):575. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7516.575.

Labour's "Black report" moment?

Shaw M, Dorling D, Mitchell R, Davey Smith G.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Sep 24;331(7518):698.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2005 Aug 20;331(7514):419.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7516.575
PMCID: PMC1200600
PMID: 16150774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. World J Urol. 2005 Sep;23(4):263-70. doi: 10.1007/s00345-005-0012-8. Epub
2005  Nov 8.

Transdermal oxybutynin in the treatment of adults with overactive bladder: 
combined results of two randomized clinical trials.

Dmochowski RR(1), Nitti V, Staskin D, Luber K, Appell R, Davila GW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urologic Surgery, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37235, 
USA. roger.dmochowski@vanderbilt.edu

The safety and efficacy of oxybutynin transdermal delivery system 
(oxybutynin-TDS) versus placebo in adults with urge and mixed urinary 
incontinence was investigated using combined results from double-blind stages of 
2 phase 3 clinical trials. Study 1: placebo-controlled, parallel-group 
comparison of 3 oxybutynin-TDS doses in 12-week double-blind and open-label 
periods, followed by a 28-week open-label extension. Study 2 was a 12-week 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled comparison of oxybutynin-TDS versus 
long-acting tolterodine and placebo, followed by a 52-week open-label extension. 
Efficacy analysis included 241 patients receiving oxybutynin-TDS, 244 receiving 
placebo. Most participants were Caucasian women (92%). Approximately 60% 
received prior anticholinergic therapy. Primary outcome was determined by 
changes from baseline to end of treatment in frequency of incontinence episodes, 
frequency of urination, and void volume. Oxybutynin-TDS was significantly more 
effective than placebo in reducing median daily incontinence episodes (-3.0 vs 
placebo -2.0; P=.00004) and daily urinary frequency (-2.0 vs -1.0; P=.0023), and 
in increasing void volume (25 mL vs 5.5 mL; P<.00001). Overall rates of 
anticholinergic adverse events (AEs) were 12.8% for oxybutynin-TDS and 11.0% for 
placebo (P=0.5421). The most common systemic anticholinergic AEs were dry mouth 
(7.0% for oxybutynin-TDS vs 5.3% for placebo) and constipation (2.1% vs 2.0%). 
Application site erythema occurred in 7.0% of participants who received 
oxybutynin-TDS (3.7% discontinuation rate); pruritus occurred in 16.1% (3.3% 
discontinuation rate). Transdermal oxybutynin was shown to be efficacious, with 
a proven safety profile. It may be utilized for patients with overactive bladder 
as a treatment option that could enhance compliance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-005-0012-8
PMID: 16151816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Atherosclerosis. 2005 Nov;183(1):147-55. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.01.018. Epub 2005 Sep 8.

Hyperuricemia as a risk factor on cardiovascular events in Taiwan: The Chin-Shan 
Community Cardiovascular Cohort Study.

Chien KL(1), Hsu HC, Sung FC, Su TC, Chen MF, Lee YT.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Little is known about uric acid role for cardiovascular events in the 
Asian-Pacific countries with relatively low coronary heart disease (CHD) but 
high stroke events. Also, there is scanty evidence for repeated measures of uric 
acid levels among population. We examined associations of basic and repeated 
measures of uric acid level with CHD and stroke events in one Taiwanese adult 
community prospectively. Cox proportional hazards models, treating uric acid as 
baseline and time-dependent covariates, were used to assess the 11-year risk of 
CHD and stroke events. Among 3602 adult subjects older than 35 years, 86 
incident CHD and 155 incident stroke cases were identified. The rate ratios of 
hyperuricemia ranged between 2.00 and 3.96, with higher risk ratios in women 
than in men. The rate differences and population attributable fractions were 
also higher in women than in men, implying that women had high risk of uric acid 
on cardiovascular events. After adjustment for age effect, time-dependent uric 
acid was associated with significant CHD risk in both genders (hazard risk [HR] 
1.43, 95% CI: 1.10-1.87 in men and HR 1.22, 95% CI: 1.03-1.44 in women). But the 
magnitude of hazard risks decreased after adjusting more atherosclerotic risk 
factors for CHD. For stroke event, the age-adjusted hazard risk of 
time-dependent continuous uric acid level was 1.23 (95% CI: 1.00-1.54) in men 
and 1.36 (95% CI: 1.05-1.75) in women. Multiple adjustment by risk factors 
demonstrated that uric acid was still a significant predictor for stroke in 
women (HR 1.32, 95% CI: 1.00-1.73). The similar hazard risk patterns existed for 
binary categories of hyperuricemia. Subgroup analyses demonstrated uric acid had 
significant risk only in hypertension and metabolic syndrome subgroups, not in 
their counterparts. We concluded that uric acid, in the baseline and 
time-dependent variables, could predict cardiovascular events in the community 
of relatively low CHD but high stroke risk in Taiwan.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.01.018
PMID: 16154134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Exp Gerontol. 2005 Oct;40(10):829-35. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.07.012. Epub
 2005 Sep 9.

Month of birth and survival to age 105+: evidence from the age validation study 
of German semi-supercentenarians.

Doblhammer G(1), Scholz R, Maier H.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Sociology and Demography, University of Rostock, Ulmenstr. 69, 
18057 Rostock, Germany. doblhammer@demogr.mpg.de

Using data from Germany, we examine if month of birth influences survival up to 
age 105. Since age reporting at the highest ages is notoriously unreliable we 
draw on age-validated information from a huge age validation project of 1487 
alleged German semi-supercentenarians aged 105+. We use month of birth as an 
exogenous indicator for seasonal changes in the environment around the time of 
birth. We find that the seasonal distribution of birth dates changes with age. 
For 925 age-validated semi-supercentenarians the seasonality is more pronounced 
than at the time of their birth (1880-1900). Among the December-born the 
relative risk of survival from birth to age 105+is 16% higher than the average, 
among the June-born, 23% lower. The month-of-birth pattern in the survival risk 
of the German semi-supercentenarians resembles closely the month-of-birth 
pattern in remaining life expectancy at age 50 in Denmark.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.07.012
PMID: 16154310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Pharmacol Ther. 2006 Jan;109(1-2):162-72. doi:
10.1016/j.pharmthera.2005.06.007.  Epub 2005 Sep 12.

Therapeutic prospects to treat skeletal muscle wasting in COPD (chronic 
obstructive lung disease).

Hansen MJ(1), Gualano RC, Bozinovski S, Vlahos R, Anderson GP.

Author information:
(1)Lung Disease Research Laboratory, Department of Pharmacology, Cooperative 
Research Centre for Chronic Inflammatory Diseases, The University of Melbourne, 
Victoria 3010, Australia. mjhansen@unimelb.edu.au

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is an incurable group of lung 
diseases characterised by progressive airflow limitation and loss of lung 
function, which lead to profound disability. It is mostly caused by cigarette 
smoke. Although COPD is one of the most prevalent diseases worldwide and its 
incidence is increasing, current therapies do little to improve the condition. 
Much current research focuses on strategies to halt the accelerated rate of 
decline in lung function that occurs in the disease. However, as most symptoms 
occur when the lungs are already extensively and irreversibly damaged, it is 
uncertain whether an agent able to slow or halt decline in lung function would 
actually provide relief to COPD patients. As lung function worsens, systemic 
comorbidities contribute markedly to disability. Loss of lean body mass 
(skeletal muscle) has recently been identified as a major determinant of 
disability in COPD and an independent predictor of mortality. In contrast to 
lung structure damage, skeletal muscle retains regenerative capacity in COPD. In 
this review, we discuss mechanisms of wasting in COPD, focusing on therapeutic 
strategies that might improve the health and productive life expectancy of COPD 
patients by improving skeletal muscle mass and function. Single or combination 
approaches exploiting the suppression of procatabolic inflammatory mediators, 
inhibition of ubiquitin ligases, repletion of anabolic hormones and growth 
factors, inhibition of myoblast apoptosis, remediation of systemic oxidative 
stress and promotion of repair, and regeneration via stimulation of satellite 
cell differentiation hold considerable therapeutic promise.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2005.06.007
PMID: 16154635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Health Policy Plan. 2005 Nov;20(6):347-53. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czi041. Epub
2005  Sep 9.

The burden of disease, economic costs and clinical consequences of tuberculosis 
in the Philippines.

Peabody JW(1), Shimkhada R, Tan C Jr, Luck J.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Global Health, University of California at San Francisco, 50 
Beale Street, Ste #1200, San Francisco, CA 94105, USA. peabody@psg.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVE: To provide a multidisciplinary and comprehensive analysis on the 
impact of tuberculosis (TB) in a high incidence country.
METHODS: Data from several large scale surveys, carried out between 1997 and 
2001 in the Philippines, were used to: (1) perform a burden of disease (BoD) 
analysis, (2) model the economic costs to society due to lost wages, and (3) 
determine the clinical outcomes, including the costs of care, for a hypothetical 
cohort of TB cases.
RESULTS: Over 500 000 disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) are lost due to 
illness and premature mortality from TB in the Philippines annually. This is 
equal to 9% of all years of life lost (YLL) in the Philippines. The combined 
economic losses due to premature mortality and morbidity total PhP 8 billion 
(approximately USD $145 million). Clinically, only 28% of patients with incident 
active TB are diagnosed and successfully treated, while 20% of patients will die 
without ever being diagnosed and 6% more will die after they are diagnosed 
because they do not receive adequate care. The costs of treating all expected 
cases requires between PhP 475-1625 million (approximately USD $8-29 million) 
annually.
CONCLUSION: The high burden of disease from TB, large economic losses from 
mortality and morbidity from TB and the poor clinical outcomes all suggest that 
there is an urgent need for an increased investment in TB control. The costs of 
providing this treatment appear to be significantly lower than the current 
economic losses.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czi041
PMID: 16155066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Hum Reprod. 2006 Jan;21(1):1-2. doi: 10.1093/humrep/dei281. Epub 2005 Sep 9.

Life table (survival) analysis to generate cumulative pregnancy rates in 
assisted reproduction: an alternative method of calculating the cumulative 
pregnancy rate in assisted reproduction technology.

Wang JX(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Reproductive Health, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynaecology, University of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Woodville, SA 
5011, Australia. jim.wang@adelaide.edu.au

The current method of calculating cumulative pregnancy rate can lead to an 
overestimation of treatment efficacy, especially over many cycles of assisted 
reproduction treatment. The choice of scale of passage of time should be 
dependent upon the types of treatment to be evaluated. The number of treatment 
cycles to which patients' effort and commitment is directly related may be 
appropriate where the chance of pregnancy is expected to be significantly higher 
than non-treatment for them. Limiting the calculation of cumulative pregnancy 
rate only to the second or third cycle within 1 or 2 years will ensure that most 
patients are included in the calculation. More research is needed to assess 
different methods and develop better variables for assessing the efficacy of 
infertility treatment that can be informative for patients over the course of 
their treatment.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dei281
PMID: 16155080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Acta Clin Belg. 2005 May-Jun;60(3):139-45. doi: 10.1179/acb.2005.026.

Embolic events in infective endocarditis: a review and report of 4 cases.

Walpot J(1), Klazen C, Blok W, van Zwienen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Ziekenhuis Walcheren, Vlissingen, The Netherlands. 
walpot@zwv.nl

Infective endocarditis (IE) remains a dangerous disease in terms of morbidity 
and mortality. Valve damage with or without congestive heart failure, 
paravalvular extension, embolization of vegetation, damage due to immunological 
involvement and septic shock are the main complications of IE. Embolic events 
are frequent and life-threatening complications of IE. In previous series, the 
reported figures of embolic complication vary from 10 to 50%. We describe four 
cases of patients with IE and peripheral embolization. In this paper, we will 
briefly discuss the role of echocardiography, infective microorganisms and 
clinical aspects in the prediction of an embolic event. Therapeutic strategies 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1179/acb.2005.026
PMID: 16156374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. S Afr Med J. 2005 Jul;95(7):496-503.

Provincial mortality in South Africa, 2000--priority-setting for now and a 
benchmark for the future.

Bradshaw D(1), Nannan N, Groenewald P, Joubert J, Laubscher R, Nojilana B, 
Norman R, Pieterse D, Schneider M.

Author information:
(1)Burden of Disease Research Unit, Medical Research Council of South Africa, 
Tygerberg, W Cape. Debbie.Bradshaw@mrc.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Cause-of-death statistics are an essential component of health 
information. Despite improvements, underregistration and misclassification of 
causes make it difficult to interpret the official death statistics.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate consistent cause-specific death rates for the year 2000 
and to identify the leading causes of death and premature mortality in the 
provinces.
METHODS: Total number of deaths and population size were estimated using the 
Actuarial Society of South Africa ASSA2000 AIDS and demographic model. 
Cause-of-death profiles based on Statistics South Africa's 15% sample, adjusted 
for misclassification of deaths due to ill-defined causes and AIDS deaths due to 
indicator conditions, were applied to the total deaths by age and sex. 
Age-standardised rates and years of life lost were calculated using age 
weighting and discounting.
RESULTS: Life expectancy in KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga is about 10 years lower 
than that in the Western Cape, the province with the lowest mortality rate. 
HIV/AIDS is the leading cause of premature mortality for all provinces. 
Mortality due to pre-transitional causes, such as diarrhoea, is more pronounced 
in the poorer and more rural provinces. In contrast, non-communicable disease 
mortality is similar across all provinces, although the cause profiles differ. 
Injury mortality rates are particularly high in provinces with large 
metropolitan areas and in Mpumalanga.
CONCLUSION: The quadruple burden experienced in all provinces requires a broad 
range of interventions, including improved access to health care; ensuring that 
basic needs such as those related to water and sanitation are met; disease and 
injury prevention; and promotion of a healthy lifestyle. High death rates as a 
result of HIV/AIDS highlight the urgent need to accelerate the implementation of 
the treatment and prevention plan. In addition, there is an urgent need to 
improve the cause-of-death data system to provide reliable cause-of-death 
statistics at health district level.

PMID: 16156448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. World J Biol Psychiatry. 2005;6(2):69-84. doi: 10.1080/15622970510029786.

Consensus paper of the WFSBP Task Force on Biological Markers of Dementia: the 
role of CSF and blood analysis in the early and differential diagnosis of 
dementia.

Wiltfang J(1), Lewczuk P, Riederer P, Grünblatt E, Hock C, Scheltens P, Hampel 
H, Vanderstichele H, Iqbal K, Galasko D, Lannfelt L, Otto M, Esselmann H, Henkel 
AW, Kornhuber J, Blennow K.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Lab, Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, 
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Schwabachanlage 6, 91054 Erlangen, Germany. 
jens.wiltfang@psych.imed.uni-erlangen.de

Aging of population, and increasing life expectancy result in an increasing 
number of patients with dementia. This symptom can be a part of a completely 
curable disease of the central nervous system (e.g, neuroinflammation), or a 
disease currently considered irreversible (e.g, Alzheimer's disease, AD). In the 
latter case, several potentially successful treatment approaches are being 
tested now, demanding reasonable standards of pre-mortem diagnosis. 
Cerebrospinal fluid and serum analysis (CSF/serum analysis), whereas routinely 
performed in neuroinflammatory diseases, still requires standardization to be 
used as an aid to the clinically based diagnosis of AD. Several AD-related CSF 
parameters (total tau, phosphorylated forms of tau, Abeta peptides, ApoE 
genotype, p97, etc.) tested separately or in a combination provide sensitivity 
and specificity in the range of 85%, the figure commonly expected from a good 
diagnostic tool. In this review, recently published reports regarding progress 
in neurochemical pre-mortem diagnosis of dementias are discussed with a focus on 
an early and differential diagnosis of AD. Novel perspectives offered by 
recently introduced technologies, e.g, fluorescence correlation spectroscopy 
(FCS) and surface enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass 
spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS) are briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/15622970510029786
PMID: 16156480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Suicide Life Threat Behav. 2005 Jun;35(3):343-55. doi: 
10.1521/suli.2005.35.3.343.

An extension and test of Sutherland's concept of differential social 
organization: the geographic clustering of Japanese suicide and homicide rates.

Baller RD(1), Shin DJ, Richardson KK.

Author information:
(1)University of Iowa, Department of Sociology, 140 Seashore Hall W., Iowa City, 
IA 52242-1401, USA. robert-baller@uiowa.edu

In an effort to explain the spatial patterning of violence, we expanded 
Sutherland's (1947) concept of differential social organization to include the 
level of deviance exhibited by neighboring areas. To test the value of this 
extension, the geographic clustering of Japanese suicide and homicide rates is 
assessed using 1985 and 1995 data for prefectures. Univariate results show that 
both types of violence cluster significantly in space. Inconsistent with the 
proposed expansion of differential social organization, multivariate results 
show that proximity to homicide does not increase the risk of homicide in Japan. 
Results for suicide are supportive and suggest that proximity to higher rates of 
suicide exposes residents to cultural values that support suicide and to role 
models who have committed suicide.

DOI: 10.1521/suli.2005.35.3.343
PMID: 16156494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Int J Inj Contr Saf Promot. 2005 Jun;12(2):85-91. doi: 
10.1080/15660970500086130.

Global collaboration on road traffic injury prevention.

Peden M(1).

Author information:
(1)Unintentional Injury Prevention, World Health Organization, Geneva, 
Switzerland. pedenm@who.int

Worldwide, nearly 1.2 million people are killed in road traffic crashes every 
year and 20 million to 50 million more are injured or disabled. These injuries 
account for 2.1% of global mortality and 2.6% of all disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) lost. Low- and middle-income countries account for about 85% of 
the deaths and 90% of the DALYs lost annually. Without appropriate action, by 
2020, road traffic injuries are predicted to be the third leading contributor to 
the global burden of disease. The economic cost of road traffic crashes is 
enormous. Globally it is estimated that US$518 billion is spent on road traffic 
crashes with low- and middle-income countries accounting for US$65 billion--more 
than these countries receive in development assistance. But these costs are just 
the tip of the iceberg. For everyone killed, injured or disabled by a road 
traffic crash there are countless others deeply affected. Many families are 
driven into poverty by the expenses of prolonged medical care, loss of a family 
breadwinner or the added burden of caring for the disabled. There is an urgent 
need for global collaboration on road traffic injury prevention. Since 2000, WHO 
has stepped up its response to the road safety crisis by firstly developing a 
5-year strategy for road traffic injury prevention and following this by 
dedicating World Health Day 2004 to road safety and launching the WHO/World Bank 
World Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention at the global World Health Day 
event in Paris, France. This short article highlights the main messages from the 
World Report and the six recommendations for action on road safety at a national 
and international level. It goes on to briefly discuss other international 
achievements since World Health Day and calls for countries to take up the 
challenge of implementing the recommendations of the World Report.

DOI: 10.1080/15660970500086130
PMID: 16156532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Int J Inj Contr Saf Promot. 2005 Jun;12(2):113-4. doi: 
10.1080/17457300500102922.

Disseminating research to different audiences: lessons learned from the UNICEF 
Innocenti Report Card Project.

Wright A(1).

Author information:
(1)UNICEF Innocenti Research Centre, Florence, Italy. 
anna.wright@blueyonder.co.uk

As the academic world becomes increasingly aware of the need to improve the 
dissemination of research, this article considers some of the theoretical issues 
involved in the communication of research to non-specialist audiences. It also 
demonstrates how theory can be put into practice using the case study of a 
UNICEF Innocenti Report Card on childhood injury.

DOI: 10.1080/17457300500102922
PMID: 16156535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Biochem J. 2006 Jan 1;393(Pt 1):219-26. doi: 10.1042/BJ20050740.

Constitutive expression of catABC genes in the aniline-assimilating bacterium 
Rhodococcus species AN-22: production, purification, characterization and gene 
analysis of CatA, CatB and CatC.

Matsumura E(1), Sakai M, Hayashi K, Murakami S, Takenaka S, Aoki K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, Graduate School of Science and Technology, Kobe 
University, Rokko, Kobe 657-8501, Japan.

The aniline-assimilating bacterium Rhodococcus sp. AN-22 was found to 
constitutively synthesize CatB (cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase) and CatC 
(muconolactone isomerase) in its cells growing on non-aromatic substrates, in 
addition to the previously reported CatA (catechol 1,2-dioxygenase). The 
bacterium maintained the specific activity of the three enzymes at an almost 
equal level during cultivation on succinate. CatB and CatC were purified to 
homogeneity and characterized. CatB was a monomer with a molecular mass of 44 
kDa. The enzyme was activated by Mn2+, Co2+ and Mg2+. Native CatC was a 
homo-octamer with a molecular mass of 100 kDa. The enzyme was stable between pH 
7.0 and 10.5 and was resistant to heating up to 90 degrees C. Genes coding for 
CatA, CatB and CatC were cloned and named catA, catB and catC respectively. The 
catABC genes were transcribed as one operon. The deduced amino acid sequences of 
CatA, CatB and CatC showed high identities with those from other Gram-positive 
micro-organisms. A regulator gene such as catR encoding a regulatory protein was 
not observed around the cat gene cluster of Rhodococcus sp. AN-22, but a 
possible relic of catR was found in the upstream region of catA. Reverse 
transcriptase-PCR and primer extension analyses showed that the transcriptional 
start site of the cat gene cluster was located 891 bp upstream of the catA 
initiation codon in the AN-22 strain growing on both aniline and succinate. 
Based on these data, we concluded that the bacterium constitutively transcribed 
the catABC genes and translated its mRNA into CatA, CatB and CatC.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20050740
PMCID: PMC1383680
PMID: 16156722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2005 Sep;193(3 Pt 2):1094-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajog.2005.05.048.

The cost effectiveness of empiric intravenous immunoglobulin for the antepartum 
treatment of fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia.

Thung SF(1), Grobman WA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, IL, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare the cost effectiveness of 
empiric intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) with that of fetal blood 
sampling-indicated treatment for the antepartum care of fetal and neonatal 
alloimmune thrombocytopenia.
STUDY DESIGN: We developed a decision analysis model to compare the cost 
effectiveness of 2 strategies for treatment of pregnancies in women with a 
history of fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia and an at-risk fetus: 
1) IVIG and corticosteroids as indicated by fetal platelet levels determined by 
fetal blood sampling (FBS); and 2) empiric IVIG. In the first strategy, FBS is 
used to measure fetal platelets at 24 weeks of gestation and repeated 6 weeks 
later to guide pharmacotherapy. In the second strategy, weekly IVIG is 
empirically administered from 24 weeks' to 37 weeks' gestation. The main outcome 
measure was the marginal cost per quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: For every 1000 women with a fetus at risk for recurrent alloimmune 
thrombocytopenia, empiric therapy, compared with FBS-indicated treatment, 
decreases perinatal deaths from 31.7 to 11.8 while increasing the number of 
infants with long-term neurologic deficits from 6.1 to 9.6. These health 
outcomes translate to 382 QALYs gained with empiric therapy and a cost 
effectiveness ratio of dollar 32,747 per QALY favoring empiric therapy. In the 
sensitivity analysis, empiric therapy was not cost effective when the rate of 
perinatal ICH exceeded 28%.
CONCLUSION: Empiric IVIG therapy is a cost-effective strategy for the treatment 
of women at risk for fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia when the 
rate of perinatal ICH is less than 28%.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2005.05.048
PMID: 16157118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2005 Sep;193(3 Pt 2):1274-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajog.2005.05.042.

Acyclovir prophylaxis for pregnant women with a known history of herpes simplex 
virus: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Little SE(1), Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, University 
of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Previous literature has shown acyclovir to be cost-effective as 
prophylaxis for women with genital symptomatic herpes simplex virus infection 
recurrence during pregnancy. We extend this analysis by adding quality-adjusted 
life year measurements and considering women with a diagnosed history of herpes 
simplex virus infection but without recurrence in pregnancy.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision analytic model was designed that compared acyclovir 
prophylaxis versus no acyclovir for women with a history of diagnosed genital 
herpes simplex virus infection but without recurrence in pregnancy. Sensitivity 
analysis and Monte Carlo simulations were performed to test for robustness.
RESULTS: We found that 22,286 women must be treated to prevent 1 neonatal death, 
8985 women to prevent 1 affected child, and 177 women to prevent 1 cesarean 
delivery. As compared with no acyclovir, acyclovir prophylaxis at 36 weeks of 
gestation saves approximately dollar 20 per person and increases total 
quality-adjusted life years by 0.01. In univariate sensitivity analysis, this 
result was robust to all reasonable probability and quality-adjusted life year 
estimates. Monte Carlo simulation demonstrated acyclovir to be cost-effective 
100% of the time and cost saving >99% of the time.
CONCLUSION: Acyclovir prophylaxis versus no treatment for pregnant women with a 
diagnosed history of genital herpes simplex virus infection but without 
recurrence during pregnancy is cost-effective over a wide range of assumptions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2005.05.042
PMID: 16157151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Ann Bot. 2005 Nov;96(6):1075-84. doi: 10.1093/aob/mci258. Epub 2005 Sep 12.

Bud composition, branching patterns and leaf phenology in cerrado woody species.

Damascos MA(1), Prado CH, Ronquim CC.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Nacional del Comahue, Departamento de Ecología, Quintral 1250, 
(8400) San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina. damascos@crub.uncoma.edu.ar

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Plants have complex mechanisms of aerial biomass 
exposition, which depend on bud composition, the period of the year in which 
shoot extension occurs, branching pattern, foliage persistence, herbivory and 
environmental conditions.
METHODS: The influence of water availability and temperature on shoot growth, 
the bud composition, the leaf phenology, and the relationship between partial 
leaf fall and branching were evaluated over 3 years in Cerrado woody species 
Bauhinia rufa (BR), Leandra lacunosa (LL) and Miconia albicans (MA).
KEY RESULTS: Deciduous BR preformed organs in buds and leaves flush 
synchronously at the transition from the dry to the wet season. The expansion 
time of leaves is <1 month. Main shoots (first-order axis, A1 shoots) extended 
over 30 d and they did not branch. BR budding and foliage unfolds were brought 
about independently of inter-annual rainfall variations. By contrast, in LL and 
MA evergreen species, the shoot extension rate and the neoformation of aerial 
organs depended on rainfall. Leaf emergence was continuous for 2-6 months and 
lamina expansion took place over 1-4 months. The leaf life span was 5-20 months 
and the main A1 shoot extension happened over 122-177 d. Both evergreen species 
allocated biomass to shoots, leaves or flowers continuously during the year, 
branching in the middle of the wet season to form second-order (A2 shoots) and 
third-order (A3 shoots) axis in LL and A2 shoots in MA. Partial shed of A1 shoot 
leaves would facilitate a higher branching intensity A2 shoot production in LL 
than in MA. MA presented a longer leaf life span, produced a lower percentage of 
A2 shoots but had a higher meristem persistence on A1 and A2 shoots than LL.
CONCLUSIONS: It was possible to identify different patterns of aerial growth in 
Cerrado woody species defined by shoot-linked traits such as branching pattern, 
bud composition, meristem persistence and leaf phenology. These related traits 
must be considered over and above leaf deciduousness for searching functional 
guilds in a Cerrado woody community. For the first time a relationship between 
bud composition, shoot growth and leaf production pattern is found in savanna 
woody plants.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mci258
PMCID: PMC4247095
PMID: 16157631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Croat Med J. 2005 Oct;46(5):849.

Black clouds have silver linings: do silver clouds have black linings?

Sartorius N(1).

Author information:
(1)Norman Sartorius, University of Geneva 40, Boulevard du Pont-d'Arve, 1211 
Geneva, Switzerland. mail@normansartorius.com

PMID: 16158482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. J Fish Dis. 2005 Aug;28(8):479-87. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2761.2005.00655.x.

Henneguya pagri n. sp. (Myxozoa: Myxosporea) causing cardiac henneguyosis in red 
sea bream, Pagrus major (Temminck & Schlegel).

Yokoyama H(1), Itoh N, Tanaka S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aquatic Bioscience, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. ayokoh@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Henneguya pagri n. sp. (Myxozoa: Myxosporea) is described from netpen-cultured 
red sea bream, Pagrus major, in Japan. Affected fish displayed anaemic gills, an 
enlarged bulbus arteriosus and internal haemorrhaging in the pericardial cavity. 
Disease outbreaks occurred during the summer and the prevalence of infection 
reached 75% in August. Plasmodia of H. pagri developed in the bulbus arteriosus 
of red sea bream, in which degenerative cardiomyopathy was observed. Following 
maturation of the parasite, the influx of spores into the gills caused 
congestion of the gill capillaries, resulting in proliferative branchitis. 
Spores (10.5 x 7.5 microm) were ovoid with two caudal appendages (29.6 microm in 
average length), with a whip-like extension from the end. Partial small subunit 
ribosomal RNA gene sequences of H. pagri are closely related to those of H. 
lateolabracis infecting the bulbus arteriosus of Chinese sea bass, Lateolabrax 
sp.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2761.2005.00655.x
PMID: 16159366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I1-6. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.524363.

Surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation using argon-based cryoablation during 
concomitant cardiac procedures.

Mack CA(1), Milla F, Ko W, Girardi LN, Lee LY, Tortolani AJ, Mascitelli J, 
Krieger KH, Isom OW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Weill 
Cornell Medical Center, New York, NY 10021, USA. cmack@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: The development of ablative energy sources has simplified the 
surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) during concomitant cardiac 
procedures. We report our results using argon-based endocardial cryoablation for 
the treatment of AF in patients undergoing concomitant cardiac procedures.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Sixty-three patients with AF who were undergoing 
concomitant cardiac procedures had the same left atrial endocardial lesion set 
using a flexible argon-based cryoablative device. Mean age was 65.1+/-1.3 years. 
Sixty-two percent had permanent AF, whereas 38% had paroxysmal AF. Mean duration 
of AF was 30.5+/-4.8 months. Mean left atrial diameter was 5.5+/-0.1 cm. Mean 
ejection fraction was 45+/-1.4%. All endocardial lesions were performed for 1 
minute once tissue temperature reached -40 degrees C. Follow-up echocardiograms 
were obtained to determine freedom from AF. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated 
an 88.5% freedom from AF rate at 12 months. Ablation time was 16.8+/-0.6 
minutes. There were no in-hospital deaths and no strokes. Twelve patients (19%) 
required postoperative permanent pacemaker placement.
CONCLUSIONS: Cryoablation using this flexible argon-based device for the 
treatment of AF during concomitant cardiac procedures was safe and effective, 
with 88.5% of patients free from AF at 12 months.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.524363
PMID: 16159799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I253-9. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIRCULATIONAHA.104.525907.

Decade of aortic valve sparing reimplantation: are we pushing the limits too 
far?

Kallenbach K(1), Karck M, Pak D, Salcher R, Khaladj N, Leyh R, Hagl C, Haverich 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Hannover Medical School, 
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. kallenbach@thg.mh-hannover.de

BACKGROUND: This single center study assesses the outcome of aortic valve 
sparing reimplantation (AVS) in 284 consecutive patients who were operated on 
for various indications during the last 11 years.
METHODS AND RESULTS: From July, 1993, to July, 2004, 284 patients underwent AVS. 
Mean age was 53+/-16 (range 8 to 84) years. Of the 284 patients, 184 were male 
(64.8%) and 54 (19%) experienced Marfan's syndrome. Acute aortic dissection 
Stanford type A was present in 53 patients (19%) and a bicuspid aortic valve was 
present in 17 patients (6%). Concomitant arch replacement was necessary in 120 
patients (42%). Additional procedures were performed in 66 patients (23.2%). 
Mean follow-up time was 41+/-32 (range 0 to 130) months. The 30-day mortality 
was 3.2% overall, 11.3% in emergency patients, and 1.3% in elective patients. 
Mean bypass time was 174+/-48 (range 90 to 440) minutes and aortic cross clamp 
time was 132+/-33 (range 64 to 283) minutes. In patients undergoing arch 
replacement, circulatory arrest was 25+/-17 (range 7 to 99) minutes. 
Rethoracotomy for bleeding was required in 4.6% of patients. During follow-up, 
there were 20 (7.3%) late deaths. Reoperation of the reconstructed valve was 
required in 15 patients (5.3%); underlying reasons were endocarditis (n=4) and 
aortic insufficiency (n=11) requiring aortic valve replacement. Average grade of 
aortic insufficiency increased significantly from 0.23+/-0.46 postoperatively to 
0.34+/-0.59 at latest evaluation (P=0.026). Two patients experienced a transient 
ischemic attack early postoperatively; no further thromboembolic complications 
were noticed. The majority of patients (96%) presented with a favorable exercise 
tolerance at last contact.
CONCLUSIONS: The aortic valve reimplantation technique leads to excellent 
clinical outcome in patients with various pathologies. Lack of anticoagulation 
and favorable durability should encourage the extension of indications for this 
technique.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIRCULATIONAHA.104.525907
PMID: 16159826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I270-5. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.522623.

Relation between mild renal dysfunction and outcomes after coronary artery 
bypass grafting.

Zakeri R(1), Freemantle N, Barnett V, Lipkin GW, Bonser RS, Graham TR, Rooney 
SJ, Wilson IC, Cramb R, Keogh BE, Pagano D.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Birmingham, Edgbaston B15 2TH, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Risk stratification algorithms for coronary artery bypass grafting 
(CABG) do not include a weighting for preoperative mild renal impairment defined 
as a serum creatinine 130 to 199 micromol/L (1.47 to 2.25 mg/dL), which may 
impact mortality and morbidity after CABG.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We reviewed prospectively collected data between 1997 and 
2004 on 4403 consecutive patients undergoing first-time isolated CABG with a 
preoperative serum creatinine <200 micromol/L (2.26 mg/dL)] in a single 
institution. The in-hospital mortality was 2.5% (112 of 4403), the need for new 
dialysis/hemofiltration was 1.3% (57 of 4403), and the stroke rate was 2.5% (108 
of 4403). There were 458 patients with a serum creatinine 130 to 199 micromol/L 
or 1.47 to 2.25 mg/dL (mild renal dysfunction group) and 3945 patients with a 
serum creatinine <130 micromol/L (<1.47 mg/dL). Operative mortality was higher 
in the mild renal dysfunction group (2.1% versus 6.1%; P<0.001) and increased 
with increasing preoperative serum creatinine level. New dialysis/hemofiltration 
(0.8%versus 5.2%; P<0.001) and postoperative stroke (2.2% versus 5.0%; P<0.01) 
were also more common in the patients with mild renal impairment. Multivariate 
analysis adjusting for known risk factors confirmed preoperative mild renal 
impairment (creatinine 130 to 199 micromol/L or 1.47 to 2.25 mg/dL; odd ratio, 
1.91; 95% CI, 1.18 to 3.03; P=0.007) or glomerular filtration rate estimates <60 
mL/min per 1.73 m2, derived using the Cockroft-Gault formula, (odds ratio, 1.98; 
95% CI, 1.16 to 3.48; P=0.015) as independent predictors of in-hospital 
mortality. Preoperative mild renal dysfunction adversely affected the 3-year 
survival probability after CABG (93% versus 81%; P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Mild renal dysfunction is an important predictor of outcome in 
terms of in-hospital mortality, morbidity, and midterm survival in patients 
undergoing CABG.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.522623
PMID: 16159830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Circulation. 2005 Aug 30;112(9 Suppl):I293-8. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.523472.

Impact of mitral valve regurgitation evaluated by intraoperative transesophageal 
echocardiography on long-term outcomes after coronary artery bypass grafting.

Schroder JN(1), Williams ML, Hata JA, Muhlbaier LH, Swaminathan M, Mathew JP, 
Glower DD, O'Connor CM, Smith PK, Milano CA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27703, USA.

BACKGROUND: It is unclear if mild or moderate mitral valve regurgitation (MR) 
should be repaired at the time of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We 
sought to determine the long-term effect of uncorrected MR, measured by 
intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), in CABG patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between May 1999 and September 2003, data were gathered for 
3264 consecutive patients who underwent isolated CABG and had MR graded by 
intraoperative TEE. MR was graded on the following 5 levels: none, trace, mild, 
moderate, and severe. Patients who had severe MR or who underwent mitral valve 
surgery were eliminated from the analysis. The remaining patients were combined 
into the following 3 groups: none or trace, mild, and moderate MR. Preoperative 
and follow-up data were 99% complete. The median length of follow-up was 3.0 
years. Multivariable analysis controlling for important preoperative risk 
factors was performed to determine predictors of death and death/hospitalization 
for heart failure. Increasing MR was a risk factor for death [hazard ratio (HR), 
1.44; P<0.001] and death/heart failure hospitalization (HR, 1.34; P<0.01). When 
patients with moderate MR were eliminated from the analysis, mild MR was a risk 
factor for death (HR, 1.34; P=0.011) and death/hospitalization for heart failure 
(HR, 1.34; P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Even mild MR, identified by intraoperative TEE, predicts worse 
outcomes after CABG. Revascularization alone did not eliminate the negative 
long-term effects of mild MR. CABG patients with uncorrected mild or moderate MR 
are at increased risk for death and heart-failure hospitalization; consideration 
for surgical repair or more aggressive medical management and follow-up is 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.104.523472
PMID: 16159834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

