72.3% nymphs and 2.4% adults. Adults accounted for more than 70% of the total 
reproductive value.
CONCLUSIONS: Triatoma rubrovaria had a long survival as imago, a late first 
reproduction and a low intrinsic rate of natural increase.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102005000200011
PMID: 15895140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2005 May-Jun;38(3):251-4. doi: 
10.1590/s0037-86822005000300009. Epub 2005 May 4.

[Triatoma rubrovaria (Blanchard 1843): life table of nymphs, duration of the 
forms and posture of the females].

[Article in Portuguese]

Rodrigues VL(1), Ferraz Filho AN, Rocha e Silva EO.

Author information:
(1)Superintendência de Controle de Endemias (SUCEN), Mogi Guaçu, SP, Brazil. 
veracorrea@dglnet.com.br

The authors followed the development of 150 eggs of Triatoma rubrovaria to 
enable the construction of a life table for the nymphs. The winged form was 
reached by 94.64% of the individuals, of which 79 were males and 65 females. The 
mean lifetime of the males was 115 days and 99 days for the females. Part of 
this group was divided into 30 couples and kept separated to facilitate the 
count of egg laying by each female. Another lot was also formed of 30 males and 
30 females but these were housed together in a glass crystallizer that allowed 
the observation of a larger number of eggs laid (7,832 eggs) in relationship to 
that of the females with only one male (total 5,167 eggs). The good development 
of the individuals and reproduction of the species in the experimental 
conditions demonstrated the capacity to maintain colonies of Triatoma rubrovaria 
in laboratory conditions.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822005000300009
PMID: 15895178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. J Insur Med. 2005;37(1):3-12.

Monte Carlo simulations of the age structure of the human population.

Cebrat S(1), Laszkiewicz A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetics and Microbiology, University of Wrocław, ul. 
Przybyszewskiego 63/77, 51-148 Wrocław, Poland. cebrat@microb.uni.wroc.pl

In this mini review, we present assumptions and some results of Monte Carlo 
simulations based on the Penna model, which support the mutation accumulation 
theory of aging. This microscopic model has been exploited for the quantitative 
description of many biological phenomena connected with the population 
evolution. We show how the results of simulations could describe the changes of 
mortality trajectories of the human populations during the last 150 years, and 
how the method could be used for predicting the human age distribution in the 
future. The main assumption of the model is that genes are expressed 
chronologically one after another in the same order in all individuals during 
their life span. Different forces of selection pressure exerted on genes 
expressed at different periods of life generate characteristic gradient of 
defective genes accumulated in the germline cells. The genes expressed after the 
minimum reproduction age are under weaker selection pressure, and the fraction 
of defects among them is higher than among the genes expressed before the 
minimum reproduction age. This gradient of defects generates a gradient of 
mortality for the part of the population in the reproduction age following the 
exponential Gompertz law. The limitations of the model and some biological 
interpretations of its parameters are also discussed.

PMID: 15895693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. J Insur Med. 2005;37(1):13-9.

Modeling disease elimination.

Somerville K(1), Francombe P.

Author information:
(1)Strategy & Global Clients, Swiss Re Life & Health Ltd, 30 St Mary Axe, London 
EC3A 8EP, UK. Kevin_Somerville@swissre.com

The effect of the elimination of mortality from heart disease and cancer was 
modelled mathematically to allow for the effect of other competing causes of 
death. The model allows for potential dependence between heart disease or cancer 
and other causes of death by using cupola functions, which analyse the 
individual risk itself and the dependence structure between causes of death by 
using correlation coefficients. As the strength of these risk associations is 
unknown, the study investigated both full positive and negative dependence and 
compared this with no dependence. Depending upon the degree and type of 
correlation assumed, positive or negative, the life expectancy at birth is 
increased by between 3 months and 6.5 years if cancer mortality was eliminated, 
and between 5 months and 7.5 years in the case of heart disease. In addition, 
estimates of these effects on life insurance premia can be made with the 
greatest reduction for women with the elimination of cancer mortality. These 
figures provide a range of improvements in life expectancy and the consequent 
effect on life insurance risk premium rates which elimination of either of these 
important diseases would produce.

PMID: 15895694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. J Insur Med. 2005;37(1):20-34.

Estimation of future mortality rates and life expectancy in chronic medical 
conditions.

Strauss DJ(1), Vachon PJ, Shavelle RM.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439-17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA. 
Strauss@LifeExpectancy.com

Estimates of old-age mortality are necessary for the construction of life tables 
and computation of life expectancy, and are essential in the growing area of 
life insurance for the elderly. Two common assumptions are that either the 
excess death rate (EDR) or the relative risk (RR) stays constant with increasing 
age. It is known, however, that for most medical conditions the former 
underestimates the risk and the latter overestimates it. A third popular method 
is that of rating up: a subject is said to be "rated up k years" if his future 
mortality rates are assumed to be those of a person in the general population 
who is k years older. It is shown here that this method generally leads to gross 
overestimates of old-age mortality. We consider two less-commonly used models, 
log-linear declining relative risk (LDR) and constant proportional life 
expectancy (PLE), and compare them to the methods of constant EDR, constant RR 
and rating up. Although slightly more complicated to employ than the other 
methods, both LDR and PLE generally give better estimates of mortality and life 
expectancy. When mortality rates for chronic conditions are known within a 
certain age range, and estimates outside of the range are required, the LDR and 
PLE methods may be preferable to the more familiar methods of constant EDR, 
constant RR, or rating up.

PMID: 15895695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Insur Med. 2005;37(1):35-41.

Estimating mortality rates: the role of proportional life expectancy.

Anderson TW(1), Marion SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care and Epidemiology, Mather Building, 5804 Fairview 
Ave, V6T 1Z3, University of British Columbia. t.w.anderson@ubc.ca

The computation of long-term survival is usually based on adjustments to the 
conventional life table. Assessing the validity of different types of 
adjustments can be difficult, partly because of the need to allow for two 
age-related trends-the decline in the average (normal) life expectancy, as well 
as in the new (abnormal) estimate. In this paper, we illustrate the value of 
routinely expressing each new estimate as a percentage of normal at each age. An 
additional finding has been that in some common disorders this proportional life 
expectancy (PLE) remains remarkably constant over many years.

PMID: 15895696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. J Insur Med. 2005;37(1):42-51.

How to prepare a life expectancy report for an attorney in a tort case.

Singer RB.

The purpose of this methodology article is to describe a suitable format for a 
legally acceptable report on the life expectancy of the principal in a tort case 
that is being advocated or defended by an attorney. Life insurance medical 
directors and underwriters are clearly skilled and experienced in mortality risk 
classification for life insurance. However, the judicial system is accustomed to 
measuring excess mortality only in terms of reduced life expectancy. The analyst 
preparing the report must convert the excess mortality into a figure for reduced 
life expectancy and compare this with the life expectancy of persons matched by 
age, sex and race in the latest Decennial US Life Tables. This process is 
different from the life insurance underwriting process. A life table projected 
to age 109 must be constructed as an essential part of the report, and the 
entire process must be presented clearly and convincingly. There are good 
reasons why the excess death rate (EDR) should be used as the index of excess 
mortality in constructing the life table, in preference to the mortality ratio 
(MR), which is used most of the time in life insurance risk classification. All 
of these considerations are discussed in this article, which is based on a 
sample of 40 cases handled by the author, a retired life insurance medical 
director.

PMID: 15895697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. J Food Prot. 2005 May;68(5):1102-11. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-68.5.1102.

Bacteriophage control of foodborne bacteriat.

Greer GG(1).

Author information:
(1)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Lacombe Research Centre, Lacombe, Alberta, 
Canada T4L 1W1. greerg@agr.gc.ca

Erratum in
    J Food Prot. 2005 Jul;68(7):1334.

Bacteriophages are measurable components of the natural microflora in the food 
production continuum from the farm to the retail outlet. Phages are remarkably 
stable in these environments and are readily recovered from soil, sewage, water, 
farm and processing plant effluents, feces, and retail foods. Purified 
high-titer phage lysates have been used for the species-specific control of 
bacteria during the pre- and postharvest phases of food production and storage. 
For example, the inhibition of the phytopathogens Erwinia amylovara and 
Xanthomonas campestris has reduced the incidence of diseases such as fire blight 
in apples and bacterial spot of tomato and peaches. Research on preslaughter 
treatment of food animals has demonstrated phage control of salmonellosis in 
chickens, enteropathogenic Escherichia coli infections in calves, piglets, and 
lambs, and E. coli O157:H7 shedding by beef cattle. Phages have also been 
applied to control the growth of pathogens such as Listeria monocytogenes, 
Salmonella, and Campylobacter jejuni in a variety of refrigerated foods such as 
fruit, dairy products, poultry, and red meats. Phage control of spoilage 
bacteria (e.g., Pseudomonas spp. and Brochothrix thermosphacta) in raw chilled 
meats can result in a significant extension of storage life. Phage biocontrol 
strategies for food preservation have the advantages of being self-perpetuating, 
highly discriminatory, natural, and cost-effective. Some of the drawbacks of 
biopreservation with phages are a limited host range, the requirement for 
threshold numbers of the bacterial targets, phage-resistant mutants, and the 
potential for the transduction of undesirable characteristics from one bacterial 
strain to another. Most research to date has involved experimentally infected 
plants and animals or artificially inoculated foods. This technology must be 
transferred to the field and to commercial environments to assess the 
possibility of controlling natural contaminants under more realistic production 
and processing conditions.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-68.5.1102
PMID: 15895751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(5):421-2. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200523050-00001.

Quality control in the regulation of pharmaceuticals.

Maynard A.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523050-00001
PMID: 15896093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(5):423-32. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200523050-00002.

Willingness to pay for a QALY: theoretical and methodological issues.

Gyrd-Hansen D(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, Institute of Public Health, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark. dgh@sam.sdu.dk

What is a QALY worth in monetary units? This paper presents the main arguments 
in the literature regarding the obstacles involved in establishing one unique 
willingness to pay (WTP) estimate for the value of a QALY. To directly translate 
QALYs into monetary units, and in this manner translate existing and forthcoming 
cost-effectiveness analyses (CEA) to cost-benefit analyses (CBA), it is 
necessary that one unique WTP per QALY can be established irrespective of 
context-specific characteristics such as severity of illness, magnitude of 
health gain, patient characteristics, etc. Because CEA and CBA are two methods 
of economic evaluation that are based on two very different normative 
perceptions of the role of health versus other goods in society, the task of 
performing a linear translation from QALYs to WTP is theoretically unattainable. 
CBA is based on the welfarist perception that the welfare associated with health 
is measured by way of individual preferences for health outcomes relative to 
other goods in society. In contrast, CEA is based on the extra-welfarist notion, 
which focuses on maximising health and not welfare, and suppresses any variation 
across income/social groups in utility derived from improvements in health. 
Another obstacle to one unique WTP per QALY value is that marginal utility of 
income is non-constant, and a function of income level and possibly health 
status. When marginal utility of income varies across individuals as well as 
contexts, measuring the value of health in monetary units may result in 
valuations of health increments that are very different from valuations 
retrieved had another unit of measure been applied. In conclusion, from a 
theoretical point of view, establishing one unique WTP cannot be attained. 
Applying one sole WTP per QALY value will entail overriding individual 
preferences such as diminishing marginal utility of health and potential 
differences in the value of incremental health across population groups. 
However, one problem that can, and should, be overcome when seeking to establish 
a monetary value for a QALY is the problem of variance in the marginal utility 
of income. The importance of applying the appropriate perspective when 
formulating WTP questions to ensure that the marginal utility of income of the 
respondents equals that of the financiers of the costs invested to produce the 
health gains should not be overlooked.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523050-00002
PMID: 15896094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Mol Genet Metab. 2005 Jun;85(2):108-14. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2005.02.002.
Epub  2005 Mar 24.

Neonatal screening for defects of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein.

Sander J(1), Sander S, Steuerwald U, Janzen N, Peter M, Wanders RJ, Marquardt I, 
Korenke GC, Das AM.

Author information:
(1)Screening Laboratory, Hannover, Postfach 911009, D 30430 Hannover, Germany. 
j.sander@metabscreen.de

Long-chain l-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCHAD) deficiency has been 
included in the routine neonatal screening program by the German screening 
commission. As tandem mass spectrometry (TMS) does not discriminate between the 
different defects of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein (MTP) screening for 
isolated LCHAD deficiency includes the detection of long-chain 3-ketoacyl-CoA 
thiolase and complete MTP deficiencies as well. We identified 11 patients with 
abnormalities of the MTP out of 1.2 million newborns screened in our laboratory 
during the last 6 years. Treatment was started on the day the screening result 
was obtained (day 3 to day 9 of life). Seven of these newborns developed 
satisfactorily during an observation period of up to 64 months. They had 
isolated LCHAD deficiency, four of them caused by the typical mutation (1528 
G>C), three others had no molecular genetic analysis done or were shown to have 
previously unknown mutations. Four children did not survive, two of them showing 
complete deficiency of MTP and two showing deficiency of long-chain 
3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase. We conclude that, despite the rarity of the disease, 
screening for MTP deficiencies is justified based on the following criteria: 
improved quality of life for patients with isolated LCHAD deficiency, absence of 
stigmatisation of babies showing mild variants without necessity of treatment, 
no significant increase of the total number of false positive screening results, 
no false negative results to our knowledge. Finally, extension of analysis to 
MTP deficiencies is achieved without additional costs for screening laboratories 
already using TMS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2005.02.002
PMID: 15896654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Arch Surg. 2005 May;140(5):487-93; discussion 493-4. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.140.5.487.

Infragenicular polytetrafluoroethylene bypass with distal vein cuffs for limb 
salvage: a contemporary series.

Lauterbach SR(1), Torres GA, Andros G, Oblath RW.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, St Joseph's Medical Center, Burbank, Calif, USA. 
srlmd@hotmail.com

HYPOTHESIS: Infragenicular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE)-venous cuff bypass 
grafting provides acceptable graft patency and limb salvage rates for limb 
salvage.
DESIGN: Retrospective clinical review of a consecutive series.
SETTING: Vascular surgical practice during the interval October 1, 2000, to 
September 1, 2004.
PATIENTS: Fifty-one male and 49 female patients whose mean age was 76.9 years 
were operated on for tissue loss (67%), chronic rest pain (28%), and severe 
claudication (6%). Fifty-two percent of patients were diabetic and 49% had 
undergone previous leg bypass surgery. All patients had absent or inadequate 
greater saphenous vein, and 84 patients had absent or inadequate arm vein.
INTERVENTIONS: One hundred five infragenicular PTFE bypasses were performed in 
these 100 patients. Distal targets were the infragenicular popliteal (40), 
posterior tibial (35), anterior tibial (16), and peroneal arteries (14). 
Sixty-eight venous cuffs were constructed from lesser saphenous vein.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Graft patency, limb salvage, and patient survival were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Twelve early graft failures resulted in 7 leg amputations. The mean +/- 
SE 3-year primary patency and limb salvage rates were 64.4% +/- 12.8% and 74.4% 
+/- 11.9%, respectively. Perioperative mortality was 2.9% and 3-year survival 
was 38%. Graft follow-up ranged from 1 to 47 months with a mean of 13 months 
using life-table methods.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients requiring arterial revascularization for limb salvage, 
in which autologous venous conduit is unavailable, distal venous cuff-PTFE 
bypass provides acceptable patency and limb salvage rates when viewed in the 
context of short life expectancy for these elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.140.5.487
PMID: 15897445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Obes Res. 2005 Apr;13(4):754-61. doi: 10.1038/oby.2005.85.

Survival expectations of the obese: Is excess mortality reflected in 
perceptions?

Falba TA(1), Busch SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale University School of 
Medicine, P.O. Box 208034, 60 College Street, New Haven, CT 06520-8034, USA. 
tracy.falba@yale.edu

OBJECTIVE: This study compared self-reported subjective life expectancy (i.e., 
probability of living to age 75) for normal-weight, overweight, and obese weight 
groups to examine whether individuals are internalizing information about the 
health risks due to excessive weight.
RESEARCH METHODS AND PROCEDURES: Using data from the Health and Retirement 
Study, a total of 9035 individuals 51 to 61 years old were analyzed by BMI 
category. The primary outcome measure was individuals' reports about their own 
expectations of survival to age 75. Absolute and relative risks of survival were 
compared with published estimates of survival to age 75.
RESULTS: Consistently, higher levels of BMI were associated with lower 
self-estimated survival probabilities. Differences relative to normal weight 
ranged from 4.9% (p < 0.01) for male nonsmokers to 8.8% (p < 0.001) for female 
nonsmokers. However, these differences were substantially less than those 
obtained from published survival curve estimates, suggesting that obese 
individuals tended to underestimate mortality risks.
DISCUSSION: Individuals appeared to underestimate the mortality risks of 
excessive weight; thus, knowledge campaigns about the risks of obesity should 
remain a top priority.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2005.85
PMID: 15897485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Rev Neurol. 2005 May 1-15;40(9):548-56.

[Interrelations between sleep and the immune status].

[Article in Spanish]

Barriga-Ibars C(1), Rodríguez-Moratinos AB, Esteban S, Rial RV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidad de Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The idea of the healing effects of the sleep over the disease is 
quite extended. Besides, the sleep and the circadian rhythms cause deep changes 
on the immune function. Reciprocally, the sleep also suffers deep changes when 
the immune system is challenged during an external aggression.
DEVELOPMENT: This review shows some of the data supporting both observations. 
From the relationships between the sleep and the immune system, it has been 
proposed that one function of sleep is just to support the immune defense. 
However, an important fraction of the relationships between sleep and immune 
function might be a response to the stress produced both during the sleep 
disorders and when the organism activates the immune defense. Moreover, the 
epidemiological evidence only shows negligible results when contrasting the 
amount of sleep and the life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: It seems thus probable that the relationships between sleep and 
immune function are only a reflect of additional factors, such as stress, which 
cause deep changes in sleep and immunity.

PMID: 15898017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Curr Opin Investig Drugs. 2005 Apr;6(4):363.

Are stimulators of fat oxidation interesting drug discovery targets?

Levens N.

PMID: 15898341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2005 Apr;31(4):785-91. doi:
10.1016/j.jcrs.2004.08.043.

Utility assessment among cataract surgery patients.

Saw SM(1), Gazzard G, Gomezperalta C, Au Eong KG, Seah S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community, Occupational and Family Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National 
Eye Centre, Singapore, Republic of Singapore.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the utility values (time trade-off, standard gamble for 
death, standard gamble for blindness) of patients scheduled for cataract 
surgery.
SETTING: Tertiary eye hospital in Singapore.
METHODS: Questions on time trade-off, standard gamble for death, standard gamble 
for blindness utilities, and visual function from an adapted version of the 
VF-14 were asked in a clinic interview of 217 Chinese patients.
RESULTS: The mean utility time trade-off of cataract surgery patients was 0.77 
(95% confidence interval [CI] 0.76, 0.78), mean standard gamble for death was 
0.77 (95% CI 0.77, 0.78), and mean standard gamble for blindness was 0.76 (95% 
CI 0.75, 0.77). Adults with lower VF-14 scores had lower utilities, although 
there was no relationship between visual acuity and utilities. Utilities were 
also lower in patients who reported difficulty seeing in bright light.
CONCLUSIONS: The utilities of cataract patients scheduled for surgery were 
comparable to those in patients with other chronic ocular diseases. Cataract 
surgery patients with lower utilities tended to have worse visual function and 
greater difficulty seeing in bright light.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2004.08.043
PMID: 15899457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Atherosclerosis. 2005 Nov;183(1):121-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.03.006.

RANTES gene polymorphisms predict all-cause and cardiac mortality in type 2 
diabetes mellitus hemodialysis patients.

Böger CA(1), Fischereder M, Deinzer M, Aslanidis C, Schmitz G, Stubanus M, Banas 
B, Krüger B, Riegger GA, Krämer BK.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Innere Medizin II, University of Regensburg, 
D-93042 Regensburg, Germany. carsten.boeger@klinik.uni-regensburg.de

INTRODUCTION: Patients with type 2 diabetes (DM2) and end stage renal disease 
(ESRD) have a dismal survival prognosis, mainly due to cardiovascular events. 
There is sparse data on genetic predictors. Chemokines and their receptors are 
important in regulating leukocyte influx and activation in atherosclerosis, and 
functional polymorphisms in the respective genes are associated with 
cardiovascular disease risk.
METHODS: We enrolled 225 prevalent Caucasian DM2 patients receiving maintenance 
hemodialysis in 30 centres in Southern Germany (time from dialysis initiation 
<2.0 years) from August 1999 to January 2000 for prospective study until 
December 2003. The CX3CR1 T280M, and MCP-1 -2518 and RANTES -403 and -28 
promoter and intronic In1.1T/C polymorphisms were assessed by real-time PCR. 
Primary end point was all-cause mortality (ACM).
RESULTS: Patients carrying the RANTES -403A or In1.1C allele had a significantly 
higher ACM risk (multivariate hazard ratio for -403A, dominant model=1.81 [95% 
CI: 1.22-2.67], p=0.003), mainly due to cardiac events. Similar data were 
obtained by haplotype analysis. The other SNPs showed no effect on survival.
DISCUSSION: In DM2 patients with ESRD, ACM due to cardiac events is associated 
with RANTES gene variants that are known to alter the expression of this 
chemokine important in atherosclerosis. Further study of the role of chemokine 
and chemokine receptor gene variation in determining vascular end points is 
needed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.03.006
PMID: 15899487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Psychol Neuropsychiatr Vieil. 2004 Sep;2 Suppl 1:S29-33.

[Suicide and depression in the elderly].

[Article in French]

Bazin N(1).

Author information:
(1)Service hospitalo-universitaire de psychiatrie, Centre hospitalier de 
Versailles, France. nbazin@ch-versailles.fr

Twenty per cent of the annual 12,000 deaths by suicide in France occur in 
subjects aged over 65. The rate of suicide by age in the population increases 
with aging. Aged people usually commit suicide by more violent means than 
younger people. Overall, the risk of suicide is multiplied by 20 in depressed 
subjects and by 40 in case of previous suicide attempt. This risk is probably 
higher in the aged. Suicide attempts are always to be sternly considered in aged 
people on account of the risk of a second successful attempt but also of a 
diminished life expectancy due to somatic as well as psychiatric reasons. 
Suicidal ideas are frequent in aged subjects but they strongly suggest 
depression which should be actively investigated. The so-called existential 
suicide, expression of the free will of subjects devoid of any psychiatric 
disorder who want, willingly and consciously, make an end to their life, 
probably exists. However, the high frequency of depression associated with 
suicide induces to be especially watchful in case of suicide ideas or previous 
suicide attempt in aged subjects.

PMID: 15899642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Cir Pediatr. 2005 Jan;18(1):32-5.

[Continent urinary diversion: the Mitrofanoff principle].

[Article in Spanish]

Tarrado X(1), Rodó J, Sepúlveda JA, García Aparicio L, Morales L.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Pediátrica, Unidad Integrada, Hospital Sant Joan de 
Déu/Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Universidad de Barcelona. anabosque@hsjdbcn.es

INTRODUCTION: Continent urinary diversion (based on Mitrofanoff's principle), 
despite its complexity, is the gold standard in the treatment of those 
vesicourethral disfunctions that need clean intermittent catheterization (CIC) 
to achieve complete vesical voiding, in patients with non easily catheterizable 
native urethra.
AIM: To analize our experience in continent urinary diversion at our centre.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We have reviewed the records of the 14 cases of continent 
urinary diversion in the last 8 years. They were grouped in order to the 
underliying condition: 1-Bladder exstrophy group (n=5): Mean age at diversion 
time was 5.5 years (range 3-7). In all patients the original Mitrofanoff s 
technique was performed (continent cutaneous appendicovesicostomy). Associated 
procedures were: ureterovesical reimplantation in all 5 cases; bladder neck 
reconstruction also in all 5 (3 of them needed vesicourethral transection); and 
bladder augmentation in two cases, using ileum and sigmoid respectively. 2- 
Myelomeningocele group (n=9, 10 procedures): Mean age was 11.5 years (range 
6-16). Appendicovesicostomy was performed in 7 cases and a reconfigured ileum 
with the Casale technique was used in 3 cases (primarily in 2 and as an 
alternative in one). Associated procedures were: ureterovesical reimplantetion 
in 5 cases and bladder augmentation in 7 (using sigmoid in 4, ileum in 2 and 
urether in one case).
RESULTS: In all patients complete continence was achieved. Complications found 
were: one appendicostomy prolapse, one appendix necrosis (that was then diverted 
with Casale's technique), one appendicular conduit stenosis and one case with 
catheterization difficulties that needed a tappering of the ileum conduit. 
Nowadays, 13 out of 14 pacients follow the CIC program each 3-4 hours without 
complication.
CONCLUSION: Continent urinary diversion improves autonomy and life quality in 
those patients that need a definitive urinary diversion and have a long life 
expectancy. We have used these procedure with good results in patients with 
severe vesicourethral disfunction (of an intrinsic or neuropathic origin) in 
which clean intermittent catheterization was not possible through native 
urethra, or in patients with refractary incontinence in which vesicourethral 
transection was the only effective treatment.

PMID: 15901106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Age Ageing. 2005 Jul;34(4):353-7. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afi085. Epub 2005 May
18.

Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy; evidence of different prognosis in various 
patient subgroups.

Rimon E(1), Kagansky N, Levy S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Gastroenterological Division, Kaplan-Harzfeld 
Medical Center, Rehovot, Israel. efraim_r@clalit.org.il

Comment in
    Age Ageing. 2005 Jul;34(4):320-1.
    Age Ageing. 2006 Jan;35(1):97; author reply 97.

BACKGROUND: As there are no prospective randomised trials about percutaneous 
endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) insertion, the medical staff and caregivers 
encounter great difficulty in deciding when and if to perform this procedure.
OBJECTIVE: To explore which variables are associated with increased mortality 
after PEG insertion.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study.
SETTING: Gastroenterological unit of a 500-bed community hospital.
SUBJECTS: All patients over the age of 50 years referred for PEG insertion 
between January 1992 and December 2002.
METHODS: Patients were studied for their indication for PEG insertion as well as 
their main medical problems, and demographic details and medical records were 
reviewed yearly until mortality.
RESULTS: 674 patients were enrolled (mean age 80.1 years, 42% men). The median 
survival was worst in diabetic patients (128 days, P <0.05), patients referred 
from hospital (161 days, P <0.01) and patients over the age of 80 years with 
dementia (171 days, P <0.001). The best median survival was found among demented 
patients under the age of 80 (467 days, P <0.05) and women under the age of 80 
referred from nursing homes (780 days, P <0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The outcome after PEG insertion is variable, with survival of over 
a year in many of the patients. These data are important for the medical staff, 
the patients and their caregivers when deciding about PEG placement.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afi085
PMID: 15901578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Clin Rheumatol. 2006 Feb;25(1):38-41. doi: 10.1007/s10067-005-1125-6. Epub
2005  May 18.

Measuring utilities by the time trade-off method in Tunisian rheumatoid 
arthritis patients.

Bejia I(1), Salem KB, Touzi M, Bergaoui N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, EPS Monastir, 5000 Monastir, Tunisia. 
ismail.bejia@lycos.com

The objective of this study was to determine the feasibility, reliability and 
validity of the time trade-off (TTO) in Tunisian rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
patients. The TTO was used to measure the utility in 122 RA patients with 
increasing difficulty in performing activities of daily living. The 1-week 
test-retest reproducibility was studied in 57 patients using the intraclass 
correlation coefficient (ICC). Validity was evaluated by comparison with other 
outcome measures: utility rating scale (RS), quality of life (QOL) [arthritis 
impact measurement scale 2 (AIMS2), rheumatoid arthritis quality of life 
(RAQOL)], functional status [health assessment questionnaire (HAQ), Lee index] 
and disease activity score (DAS). Eight patients (6.6%) did not complete the 
TTO. The median value of the TTO score was 0.655 (0.019-1.000). The ICC for 
reliability of the TTO was 0.89 (p<0.001). The TTO showed poor to moderate 
correlation (Spearman's correlation coefficients between 0.2 and 0.409, p<0.01) 
with AIMS2, RAQOL, HAQ and Lee index. We did not find any correlation between 
TTO and DAS. Multiple regression analysis showed that only 32% of TTO scores 
could be explained. The TTO method appeared to be reliable in a group of 
Tunisian RA patients, but TTO values were poorly to moderately related to 
measures of QOL, functional ability, and disease activity. We think that TTO and 
RS are not feasible for use in RA patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-005-1125-6
PMID: 15902515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Jun;6(2):112-23. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0280-7.

Using competence network collaboration and decision-analytic modeling to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of interferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin as initial 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C in Germany.

Siebert U(1), Sroczynski G, Wasem J, Greiner W, Ravens-Sieberer U, Aidelsburger 
P, Kurth BM, Bullinger M, von der Schulenburg JM, Wong JB, Rossol S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment and Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass., USA. 
usiebert@hsph.harvard.edu

The objective of this study was to translate and apply a decision-analytic model 
for chronic hepatitis C (CHC) to the German health care context using competence 
network collaboration. The German Hepatitis C Model (GEHMO) competence network 
used a systematic multistep approach to identify and transfer a high quality 
Markov model for CHC to the German health care context. GEHMO was used to 
project lifetime clinical and economic outcomes and to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of initial antiviral therapy with interferon a-2b plus 
ribavirin from a societal perspective. In 40-year-old patients combination 
therapy for 24 and 48 weeks increased life expectancy by 1.6 and 2.3 years, 
respectively, compared with interferon alone for 48 weeks. The discounted 
incremental cost-utility ratios (ICUR) for combination therapy were euro 5,500 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained (QALY) for 24 weeks and euro 6,800/QALY 
for 48 weeks of treatment. ICUR was euro 9,800/QALY for moving from 24 to 48 
weeks of treatment. Combination therapy remained cost-effective in sensitivity 
analyses. In conclusion, combination therapy with interferon alpha-2b and 
ribavirin is effective and cost-effective compared with other well-accepted 
medical treatments. Competence network collaboration and decision modeling 
provide a useful and efficient approach to combine evidence from international 
studies with country-specific parameters.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0280-7
PMID: 15902546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Presse Med. 2005 Apr 9;34(7):509-10. doi: 10.1016/s0755-4982(05)83960-0.

[Carcinomatous meningitis as a rare presentation of gastric cancer].

[Article in French]

Bredin C(1), Terris B, Sogni P, Podevin P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'hépatogastroentérologie, Hôpital Cochin, Paris. c.bredin@free.fr

INTRODUCTION: Carcinomatous meningitis is a rare complication of gastric cancer.
CASE: A 46 year-old man with an unremarkable medical history was hospitalized 
for treatment of suspected meningitis. Despite treatment, his clinical state 
rapidly worsened and he died without regaining consciousness, shortly after 
transfer to the ICU. Autopsy showed that he had anchorage-independent cell 
gastric carcinoma, with simultaneous lymphatic, pulmonary, cutaneous and 
meningeal metastases.
DISCUSSION: The rising incidence of secondary meningeal lesions in the last two 
decades is probably associated with the treatment-related improvement in life 
expectancy. Prognosis is very grave, and median survival time is only several 
weeks. Carcinomatous meningitis is difficult to diagnosis, especially as the 
first sign of a primary tumor. This rare presentation of gastric cancer 
indicates diffuse metastatic spread and extremely poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0755-4982(05)83960-0
PMID: 15903004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 Apr 28;147(17):15.

[How unhealthy is our environment? Fine dust costs six months, smoking six 
years].

[Article in German]

Nowak D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut und Poliklinik für Arbeits-und Umweltmedizin der Universität 
München.

PMID: 15903051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 2005 Apr;36(1):29.

[Medication against aging? Aubrey de Grey expects it is possible].

[Article in Dutch]

de Grey AD.

PMID: 15903093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. J Nutr Educ Behav. 2005 May-Jun;37(3):137-46. doi: 
10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60268-6.

Likelihood of using food stamps during the adulthood years.

Rank MR(1), Hirschl TA.

Author information:
(1)George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington University, St. Louis, 
MO 63130, USA. markr@wustl.edu

OBJECTIVE: The Food Stamp Program represents the cornerstone of the federal 
nutrition assistance safety net. This article estimates the likelihood that 
Americans will use such food assistance at some point during their adulthood. 
The probability and duration of food stamp use are estimated for the population 
as a whole and for differences in race, education, and gender. Based on these 
food stamp percentages, a lower boundary is also estimated with regard to the 
life course risk of food insecurity. DESIGN, SETTING, AND ANALYSIS: Thirty waves 
(1968 to 1997) of the nationally representative Panel Study of Income Dynamics 
(PSID) data set were merged for analysis. Food stamp use is defined as an 
individual being in a household that has used the Food Stamp Program at some 
point during the year. Approximately 260 000 person-years of information on food 
stamp use are analyzed using both life table techniques and logit modeling.
RESULTS: Between the ages of 20 and 65, slightly over half (50.8%) of all 
Americans will, at some point, receive food stamps. Use of the program takes 
place over relatively short periods of time but typically recurs at several 
points in the life course. Race and education exert a profound influence on the 
odds of program participation. Based on the life course patterns of food stamp 
use, it is estimated that at least 42% of the American population will 
experience food insecurity at some point between the ages of 20 and 65.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: The overall life course patterns reveal a 
substantial need and use of food stamps within the US population. These results 
also suggest a significant risk of food insecurity across the life course. The 
implications for nutritionists are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60268-6
PMID: 15904577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. N Engl J Med. 2005 May 19;352(20):2137-9; author reply 2137-9.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for HIV.

da Silveira E.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Feb 10;352(6):570-85.

PMID: 15906436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Cancer Lett. 2005 Oct 18;228(1-2):29-35. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2004.12.050.

Functional implication of p73 protein stability in neuronal cell survival and 
death.

Ozaki T(1), Hosoda M, Miyazaki K, Hayashi S, Watanabe K, Nakagawa T, Nakagawara 
A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biochemistry, Chiba Cancer Center Research Institute, 666-2 
Nitona, Chuoh-ku, Chiba 260-8717, Japan.

p73, a newly identified member of p53 family, locates at human chromosome 
1p36.2-3, a region which is frequently deleted in a wide variety of human tumors 
including neuroblastoma. p73 is induced to be accumulated in response to a 
subset of DNA damaging agents such as cisplatin, and thereby promoting G1/S cell 
cycle arrest and/or apoptosis. Since the expression levels of p73 are kept 
extremely low under normal conditions, stabilization of p73 is critical for its 
effects on cell growth inhibition and apoptosis. Indeed, p73 is induced at 
protein level in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells exposed to cisplatin. Several lines 
of evidence indicate that stress-induced post-translational modifications of p73 
such as phosphorylation and acetylation lead to a marked extension of its 
half-life. p73 stability is regulated at least in part by proteasome-dependent 
degradation pathway, however, MDM2 which mediates ubiquitination and subsequent 
degradation of p53 by the 26S proteasome, does not promote the proteolytic 
degradation of p73, implying that the protein stability of p73 is regulated 
through a pathway distinct from that of p53. Although little is known about the 
regulation of p73 turnover, we are now beginning to understand the regulatory 
mechanisms by which p73 is induced to be stabilized in response to apoptotic 
stimuli, and exerts its pro-apoptotic activity. In this review, we discuss about 
the cellular proteins implicated in the stability control of p73.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2004.12.050
PMID: 15907364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Int J Cardiol. 2005 Jun 8;101(3):399-406. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2004.03.056.

Late complications in patients after repair of aortic coarctation: implications 
for management.

Vriend JW(1), Mulder BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Survival of patients with aortic coarctation has dramatically improved after 
surgical repair became available and the number of patients who were operated 
and reach adulthood is steadily increasing. However, life expectancy is still 
not as normal as in unaffected peers. Cardiovascular complications are frequent 
and require indefinite follow-up. Concern falls chiefly in seven categories: 
recoarctation, aortic aneurysm formation or aortic dissection, coexisting 
bicuspid aortic valve, endocarditis, premature coronary atherosclerosis, 
cerebrovascular accidents and systemic hypertension. In this review, these 
complications, with particular reference to late hypertension, are discussed and 
strategies for the clinical management of post-coarctectomy patients are 
described.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2004.03.056
PMID: 15907407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. CNS Spectr. 2005 Jun;10(6):461-70. doi: 10.1017/s1092852900023154.

The association of perimenopausal mood disorders with other reproductive-related 
disorders.

Feld J(1), Halbreich U, Karkun S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, 
NY, USA.

Data regarding the increased incidence of psychiatric illness during midlife in 
women are still conflicting. However, there is a growing consensus that certain 
groups of women may in fact be at higher risk for mood symptoms and psychiatric 
disorders during the perimenopausal transition. Mood symptoms during the 
perimenopause may be related to mood disorders during other periods of hormonal 
fluctuation throughout a woman's reproductive lifecycle. Elucidating these 
associations may advance the understanding of mood disorders during the 
perimenopausal transition. The epidemiology and treatment of perimenopausal mood 
symptoms compared with the epidemiology and treatment of mood disorders during 
the late luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, pregnancy, and postpartum. Common 
risk factors associated with mood disorders during these periods of hormonal 
changes or instability include poor lifestyle habits, a history of hormonally 
related mood disorders, stress and negative life events, ethnicity, and 
comorbidity. Reproductive-related mood disorders also are subject to an 
improvement in symptoms in response to treatment with selective serotonin 
reuptake inhibitors. As the morbidity associated with mood disorders during 
midlife may be quite significant, and as life expectancy continues to increase, 
recognition, prevention, and treatment of perimenopausal affective illness is 
becoming increasingly essential.

DOI: 10.1017/s1092852900023154
PMID: 15908900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Chin Med Assoc. 2005 May;68(5):216-20. doi: 10.1016/S1726-4901(09)70210-2.

Lung cancer associated with rheumatoid arthritis does not shorten life 
expectancy.

Chen CY(1), Chen YM, Yen SH, Perng RP.

Author information:
(1)Chest Department, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of lung cancer (LC) is reported to be higher in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The present study investigated whether 
or not RA altered the clinical manifestation of LC.
METHODS: In this retrospective, cohort study, a total of 23 patients with both 
RA and LC (RA + LC group), and 6,570 patients with primary LC alone (LCA group), 
were identified from records at Taipei Veterans General Hospital between 1993 
and 2002. Data about clinical characteristics, smoking habit, tumor location, LC 
histology, staging, and survival, were compared between the 2 groups.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in mean age at LC diagnosis between 
the RA + LC and LCA groups (70.2 vs 67.6 years; p = 0.154). Adenocarcinoma was 
the major histologic type in both groups, especially among women. There was no 
significant difference in histology, location, or staging of LC between the RA + 
LC and LCA groups. In the RA + LC group, all patients had RA before LC was 
diagnosed; pulmonary fibrosis was noted in 3 patients, 1 of whom had secondary 
Sjogren's syndrome. Median survival in the LCA group was not significantly 
different from that in the RA + LC group (10 [95% confidence interval, CI, 9.6, 
10.4] vs 11 [95% CI, 3.7, 18.3] months; p = 0.69); the relative risk of LCA 
compared with RA + LC for survival was 0.938 (95% CI, 0.555, 1.585). The 
incidence of LC in RA patients in our hospital was 1.32% (23 of 1,740 patients).
CONCLUSION: RA has no influence on LC stage and does not shorten the survival of 
LC patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S1726-4901(09)70210-2
PMID: 15909726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Vopr Onkol. 2005;51(1):93-8.

[Effect of epitalon and melatonin on life span and spontaneous carcinogenesis in 
senescence accelerated mice (SAM)].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN, Popovich IG, Zabezhinskiĭ MA, Rozenfel'd SV, Khavinson VKh, 
Semenchenko AV, Iashin AI.

Female senescence accelerated mice SAMP-1. (prone) and SAMR-1 (resistant) were 
exposed 5 times a week monthly to melatonin (with drinking water 20mg/ml during 
the night hours) or to s.c. injections of epitalon (Ala-Glu-Asp-Gly) at a single 
dose 1mkg/mouse. Control mice were intact or exposed to injection of 0.1 ml 
normal saline. The body weight and temperature, food consumption, estrous 
function were monitored regularly. The life span and tumor incidence were 
evaluated as well. As age advanced, the weight increased whereas food 
consumption and body temperature did not change. There was no significant 
substrain difference in these parameters. Exposure to melatonin or epitalon also 
failed to influence those indices. As age advanced, the incidence of irregular 
estrous cycles increased both in SAMP-1 and SAMR-1, whereas the treatment with 
both melatonin and epitalon prevented such disturbances. SAMP-1 revealed some 
features of accelerated aging as compared to SAMR-1. The mean life span of the 
10% of the last survivors among treated SAMP-1 was shorter than that of SAMR-1, 
aging rate increased and mortality doubling time decreased. There was a direct 
correlation between body mass of the two substrains at the age of 3 and 12 
months matched by body mass increase and longer life span. Melatonin or epitalon 
treatment was followed by longer mean and maximum survival in the 10% of the 
last survivors among SAMP-1. Melatonin involved decreased aging rate and 
increased mortality doubling time. Malignant lymphomas predominated in SAM 
without any significant difference in frequency between the substrains. While 
melatonin failed to influence tumor incidence or term of detection in SAMP-1, 
neither did epitalon affect frequency. However, it was followed by longer 
survival in tumor-free animals. No link between melatonin or epitalon treatment, 
on the one hand, and carcinogenesis, on the other, was reported in SAMR-1.

PMID: 15909815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Health Policy. 2005 Jul;73(1):78-91. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.10.005.
Epub  2004 Dec 10.

Criteria and procedures for determining benefit packages in health care. A 
comparative perspective.

Gress S(1), Niebuhr D, Rothgang H, Wasem J.

