exposure, and the duration must be long enough to allow for detection of even 
subtle trends in subjective and objective respiratory improvement. Antireflux 
surgery remains a therapeutic option and should not be withheld if GER is a 
reasonable suspect in asthma exacerbations. Although strong opinions have been 
voiced as to whether or not a good response to PPI therapy predicts a good 
response to antireflux surgery, the opinions, although logical, are based on 
personal experience and gut feelings; a good PPI response may not necessarily 
predict a good surgery response. Opinions suggesting that a poor response to PPI 
predicts a poor response to antireflux surgery also may seem logical but are not 
based on clinical data; a poor PPI response may not necessarily predict a poor 
antireflux surgery response. When the method is found that predicts which 
patients who have GER and asthma will respond to antireflux treatment, the 
results could be profound: fewer hospitalizations for respiratory complications, 
less pulmonary morbidity and mortality, less need for pulmonary medications, 
less time lost from work, fewer visits to physicians' offices, and less illness 
associated with corticosteroid therapy. For the present, however, clinical 
judgment and good sense still are our best friends. It is not unreasonable to 
urge patients to alter their lifestyle: the huge volume, calorie-dense, high-fat 
meals eaten before bedtime are not likely to prevent GER or add to their life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2005.04.002
PMID: 16104126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Insur Med. 2000;32(4):209-11.

Vital statistics and select life tables: any relationships?

Roberts NK.

PMID: 16104367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. J Insur Med. 2000;32(4):217-25.

An analytic method for longitudinal mortality studies.

Strauss D(1), Shavelle R, DeVivo MJ, Day S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521-0138, 
USA.

Our knowledge of mortality risks comes largely from longitudinal (cohort) 
studies. The most commonly used analytic tool is the Cox proportional hazards 
model for survival analysis. An alternative approach is a simple cross-sectional 
analysis of person-years. The key to the method is logistic regression, where 
the outcome variable is lived/died in the given year and the explanatory 
variables are age, sex, and other potential risk factors. This approach can be 
used to model any dichotomous outcome and has several important advantages over 
the more traditional survival analysis. As an example, we compare the two 
methods using a large data base of patients with spinal cord injury.

PMID: 16104369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. J Insur Med. 2000;32(4):254-61.

Mortality in two recent reports of clinical trials on patients with congestive 
heart failure compared with mortality in three previous clinical trials.

Singer RB.

BACKGROUND: Several clinical trials of drug treatment of patients with 
congestive heart failure (CHF) have previously been reported as Mortality 
Abstracts in the Journal of Insurance Medicine. Results are presented here for 
two similar clinical trials reported in September 1999 and compared with the 
previous results.
RESULTS: In a recent international multicenter clinical trial, excess mortality 
in terms of excess death rates (EDRs) was reduced from 195 per 1000 per year in 
the placebo group to 139 in the group treated with Spironolactone. There was no 
significant reduction in the Danish multicenter study of Dofetilide to convert 
the atrial fibrillation (AF) to a normal rhythm in the 25% of the CHF patients 
who had AF (EDR was 224 in the placebo group and 216 in the Dofetilide group). 
In both of these studies, there were more patients with severe CHF than in the 
previous studies and the EDR values were higher. Results from the Danish study 
by severity according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification 
show a progressive increase in EDR from 173 in class 2 to 237 in class 3 to 392 
in class 4.
CONCLUSION: Excess mortality in symptomatic CHF is far outside the issue limits 
for individual life insurance, but these results are of potential utility for 
the underwriting of such cases for structured settlement annuities.

PMID: 16104372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Salud Publica Mex. 2005 May-Jun;47(3):234-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0036-36342005000300007.

[Influenza vaccination in the elderly population in Mexico: economic 
considerations].

[Article in Spanish]

Gutiérrez JP(1), Bertozzi SM.

Author information:
(1)División de Economía y Políticas de la Salud, Centro de Investigación en 
Sistemas de Salud, Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, 
México. jpgutier@insp.mx

OBJECTIVE: To estimate costs and health outcomes that could be attained by an 
influenza vaccination program in adults 65 years of age and older in Mexico.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Between June and October 2004, a model was constructed to 
estimate the number of life years lost due to influenza and the fraction that 
could be prevented by vaccination among adults 65 years of age and older. The 
model also allowed the estimation of the net cost of a vaccination program, 
including both the cost of delivering the vaccine and savings from prevented 
infections and their treatment costs.
RESULTS: Using two scenarios of vaccine effectiveness, between 7 454 and 11 169 
life years could saved by the vaccine if given to all adults 65 years and older 
in Mexico, with a net cost per life year saved between 13 301 and 21 037 Mexican 
pesos (about dollar 1 210 and dollar 1 910 US dollars).
DISCUSSION: Influenza vaccination among the elderly in Mexico would result in 
savings per life year saved well below the Mexican gross domestic product (GDP) 
per capita, suggesting, even without examining alternative uses for these 
resources, that this is a cost effective intervention in Mexico and probably 
also in other middle-income developing countries.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-36342005000300007
PMID: 16104466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Zhonghua Lao Dong Wei Sheng Zhi Ye Bing Za Zhi. 2005 Apr;23(2):159-60.

[Preliminary study on quantifying the burden of pneumoconiosis patients with 
disability-adjusted life year].

[Article in Chinese]

Fang QL.

PMID: 16105472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2005;72(3):160-3.

[Arthroscopic stabilization of the fractured intercondylar eminence].

[Article in Czech]

Pasa L(1), Visna P, Kocis J, Muzík V, Veselý R.

Author information:
(1)Urazová nemocnice Brno, Kouty 42a, 621-00 Brno, CZ. L.pasa@unbr.cz

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The authors present the results of arthroscopic reduction 
of a displaced fracture of the intercondylar eminence and stabilization of the 
fracture with a tension band wire and absorbable, double PDS sutures.
MATERIAL: In the years 1998 to 2002, a fracture of the intercondylar eminence 
was arthroscopically diagnosed in 34 patients, 21 women and 13 men in the age 
range of 17 to 46 years. Five patients had type I fracture, 13 had type II 
fracture and 16 had type III fracture, as classified by the Meyers and McKeever 
system. Arthroscopic stabilization was used for all type II and type III 
fractures in a total of 29 patients. Double PDS sutures no. 1 were always 
applied. One double PDS loop was used in eight patients and, in the rest, two or 
three double PDS loops were employed.
METHODS: PDS no. 1 sutures were inserted, by means of wire loops, through bone 
tunnels. These were drilled with 2-mm Kirschner's wires, using an anterior 
cruciate ligament (ACL) reamer, medial to the tibial tuberosity. Double PDS 
sutures were applied to the distal portion of the ACL, which permits good 
stabilization even in comminuted fractures of the eminence. The strength of a 
double PDS loop is sufficient and facilitates speedy recovery. Before 
terminating surgery it is necessary to check joint mobility and fixation 
stability. Only good stability allows for early mobilization of the joint. The 
postoperative treatment involved immobilization of the knee joint with a rigid 
brace in a semi-flexed position at 20 degrees for 6 weeks. However, from the 
second postoperative day, the brace was removed during targeted rehabilitation. 
Exercise on a continuous passive motion device, strengthening of the thigh 
muscles, patellar mobilization, walking with the use of crutches, while wearing 
the brace, with partial weight bearing until pain were practised. A treadmill 
without loading was used from the fifth postoperative week.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients in whom stabilization with PDS sutures was used 
were evaluated. Of them 26 were completely free from any complaints and fully 
healed, always without findings of displacement on X-ray. In one patient, a 
fragment of the comminuted fracture was loosened and interfered with full 
extension. It was removed by arthroscopy and full recovery without consequences 
ensued. One patient underwent repeat surgery for hematoma in the wound; after 
wound healing and rehabilitation, he achieved a full range of motion. One 
patient showed signs of fibrosis of Hoffa's fat pad. All patients returned to 
the style of life as before injury. At follow-up of 1 to 4 years, Lysholm scores 
were excellent in 23 patients, very good in four patients, satisfactory in one 
patient (repeat surgery) and one patient was not examined.
DISCUSSION: Fracture of the intercondylar eminence is caused by a mechanism 
similar to that causing rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament but, in 
addition, the margin of the intercondylar fossa is pressed against the eminence 
which breaks off. Displaced fractures (types II and III according to the Meyers 
and McKeever classification) are indicated for surgical stabilization. Fixation 
of the fractured eminence by means of absorbable material is sufficient, and 
insertion of metal material and its subsequent removal thus can be avoided. 
Arthroscopic inspection permits exact reduction; this procedure is minimally 
invasive.
CONCLUSIONS: Arthroscopic stabilization of a fractured eminence by means of PDS 
sutures is a gentle surgical procedure that provides good mechanical support, 
facilitates early rehabilitation and achieves good outcomes. The use of 
absorbable sutures allows us to avoid further surgery in order to remove 
fixation material.

PMID: 16105498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Am Heart Hosp J. 2005 Summer;3(3):205-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1541-9215.2005.04699.x.

Primary prevention implantable cardioverter-defibrillators: economics and 
ethics.

Silver MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Raleigh Cardiology Associates, Raleigh, NC 27610, USA. marctsilvermd@msn.com

DOI: 10.1111/j.1541-9215.2005.04699.x
PMID: 16106144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Aging Male. 2005 Mar;8(1):42-7. doi: 10.1080/13685530500048914.

The aging male in African ethnic cultures.

Mattelaer JJ.

DOI: 10.1080/13685530500048914
PMID: 16106923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2005 May-Jun;100(3):259-66.

[The reconstruction of the oral and maxillofacial defects with free vascularized 
flaps and microsurgical anastomoses].

[Article in Romanian]

Bucur A(1), Reboşapcă A, Andreescu B, Slăvescu D, Dincă O, Cioacă R, Ionescu H, 
Negureanu M.

Author information:
(1)Clinica de Chirurgie Orală şi Maxilo-Facială, Spitalul Clinic Universitar de 
Stomatologie Prof. Dr. Dan Theodorescu, Bucuresti. alex_bucur2002@yahoo.com

The reconstruction of the oral and maxillofacial defects is difficult, because 
of the high specialisation of the tissues. In cancer resection, the 
post-operatory defects are quite important, because of the oncological principle 
of assuring free margins. The free flap is a modem and nowadays very used method 
in oral and maxillofacial reconstruction, after the removal of the malignant 
tumors with this localisation. These flaps are indicated for large defects, when 
the reconstruction with local or regional flaps is not possible. The wide 
variety of the raised tissues allows better results, making them the flaps of 
choice for large defects of the lip and cheek. The main advantages are related 
to the tri-dimensional extension of the free margins, assuring the quality of 
life and allowing early initiation of the radiotherapy in oncological patients.

PMID: 16106934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Nurs Manag. 2005 Sep;13(5):397-402. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2834.2005.00578.x.

Thinking about equity in health care.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

Public health care systems such as the British National Health Service typically 
profess two principal objectives: to improve the health of the whole population; 
and to reduce inequalities in health within it. Given scarce resources, these 
objectives are often in conflict. Much attention has justifiably been paid, by 
health economists, to addressing the former objective with methods of economic 
appraisal. My intention is to focus on the more difficult issue of the pursuit 
of 'equity' in health care, specifically the desire to reduce inequalities in 
health. This raises philosophical and policy questions about what makes some 
people more deserving of care than others, and whether or not society should 
adopt a forgiving stance towards those who have compromised their health status 
in some way, and offer access to treatment. Also, decision-makers may need to 
distinguish between the goal of raising the level of those worse-off and 
reducing inequality across society as a whole. Moreover, it is important to 
clarify what we wish to be made less unequal within the realm of health care 
provision. Tough decisions like these are based on value judgements and trading 
off one priority against another. In the interests of equity, such decisions 
need to be transparent and based on the preferences of society as a whole rather 
than covert and capricious. No manager needs reminding that resources are 
limited or that if more favourable treatment is accorded to some, inevitably 
less favourable treatment is accorded to others. Policy-making for a whole unit 
requires a nurse manager to offer a perspective on multidisciplinary matters and 
engage in wider public policy issues facing the team. As circumstances change, 
existing practice may be challenged as unfair, inefficient, or failing to 
account for important patient characteristics which make them different. Here, 
thinking clearly about equity is very important, and nurse managers are 
important as clarifiers of the thinking about what should be considered when 
making these difficult decisions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2834.2005.00578.x
PMID: 16108777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Diabet Med. 2005 Sep;22(9):1239-45. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2005.01576.x.

Health-economic comparison of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion with 
multiple daily injection for the treatment of Type 1 diabetes in the UK.

Roze S(1), Valentine WJ, Zakrzewska KE, Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)CORE--Center for Outcomes Research, Binningen/Basel, Swtzerland.

Comment in
    Diabet Med. 2006 Jun;23(6):707; author reply 707-8.
    Diabet Med. 2006 Jun;23(6):709; author reply 708.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to project the long-term costs and 
outcomes of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) compared with 
multiple daily injections (MDI) in patients with Type 1 diabetes in the UK.
METHODS: The CORE Diabetes Model is a peer-reviewed, validated model which 
employs standard Markov/Monte Carlo simulation techniques to describe the 
long-term incidence and progression of diabetes-related complications. It was 
used to simulate disease progression in a cohort of patients with baseline 
characteristics taken from published UK studies (mean age 26 years, duration of 
diabetes 12 years, mean HbA1c 8.68%). Direct costs for 2003 were calculated from 
a third-party payer perspective. Discount rates of 3.0% per annum were applied 
to costs and clinical outcomes.
RESULTS: Treatment with CSII was associated with an improvement in mean quality 
adjusted life expectancy (QALE) of 0.76 +/- 0.19 years compared with MDI (12.03 
+/- 0.15 vs. 11.27 +/- 0.14 years). Mean direct lifetime costs were pounds 
19,407 +/- 1727 higher with CSII treatment compared with MDI (pounds 80,511 +/- 
1257 vs. pounds 61,104 +/- 1249). This produced an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of pounds 25,648 per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained with CSII vs. MDI. The results were most sensitive to variation in 
hypoglycaemia rates and altering improvements in HbA1c associated with CSII 
therapy compared with MDI.
CONCLUSIONS: Improvements in glycaemic control associated with CSII over MDI led 
to improved QALE owing to reduced incidence of diabetes-related complications. 
CSII was associated with an ICER of pounds 25,648 per QALY gained vs. MDI, 
representing good value for money by current standards in the UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2005.01576.x
PMID: 16108855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Diabet Med. 2005 Sep;22(9):1258-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2005.01665.x.

Heel ulcers don't heal in diabetes. Or do they?

Chipchase SY(1), Treece KA, Pound N, Game FL, Jeffcoate WJ.

Author information:
(1)Foot Ulcer Trials Unit, Nottingham City Hospital, Nottingham, UK. 
schipchase@futu.co.uk

AIM: To obtain information on outcome of heel ulcers in diabetes.
METHODS: Data were recorded prospectively on all patients with heel ulcers who 
were referred to a specialist multidisciplinary clinic between 1 January 2000 
and 30 November 2003. Outcomes were assessed on 31 March 2004.
RESULTS: There were 157 heel ulcers in the patients referred in the period. 
Three ulcers were excluded from analysis because of associated osteomyelitis. Of 
154 remaining ulcers (121 limbs; 97 patients, 55 male; mean age 68.5 +/- 12.8 sd 
years), 101 (65.6%) healed after a median (range) 200 (24-1225) days. Of 53 
non-healed ulcers, 11 (7.1% of 154) were resolved by major amputation, 30 (19.5% 
of 154) were unhealed at time of patient's death, and 12 (7.8% of 154) remained 
unhealed. Ulcers healed in 59 of 97 affected patients (60.8%). Twenty-six 
patients (26.8% of 97) died during the period, of whom 20 died with ulcers 
unhealed. Worse outcomes were observed in larger ulcers (P = 0.001, Mann-Whitney 
U-test = 1883.5) and limbs with clinical evidence of peripheral arterial disease 
(P = 0.001, Mann-Whitney U-test = 1163.00). Backward step-wise logistic 
regression analysis showed 70.1% of healing could be predicted from these two 
baseline characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: The common perception that 'heel ulcers don't heal' is not 
reflected in clinical practice. Outcome is generally favourable even in a 
population often affected by serious comorbidity and with limited life 
expectancy. These data can be used to help define management plans, as well as a 
basis for counselling of the individual patient.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2005.01665.x
PMID: 16108858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2005 Sep;46(9):919-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-7610.2005.00407.x.

Annotation: Economic evaluations of child and adolescent mental health 
interventions: a systematic review.

Romeo R(1), Byford S, Knapp M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Economics of Mental Health, Institute of Psychiatry, King's 
College, London, UK. r.romeo@iop.kcl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Recognition has grown over recent years of the need for economic 
information on the impacts of child and adolescent mental health problems and 
the cost-effectiveness of interventions.
METHODS: A range of electronic databases were examined using a predefined search 
strategy to identify economic studies which focused on services, pharmacological 
interventions and other treatments for children and adolescents with a diagnosed 
mental health problem or identified as at risk of mental illness. Published 
studies were included in the review if they assessed both costs and outcomes, 
with cost-effectiveness being the primary interest. Studies meeting the criteria 
for inclusion were assessed for quality.
RESULTS: There are still relatively few economic evaluations in this field. 
Behavioural disorders have been given relatively greater attention in economic 
evaluations of child and adolescent mental health. These studies tentatively 
suggest child behavioural gains and parent satisfaction from parent and child 
training programmes, although the cost-effectiveness of the location of delivery 
for behavioural therapies is less clear. In general, the quality of economic 
evaluations was limited by small sample sizes, constrained measurement of costs, 
narrow perspectives and over-simple statistical and econometric methods.
CONCLUSION: Economic evaluations in the field of child and adolescent mental 
health interventions are few in number and generally poor in quality, although 
the number of studies being undertaken now appears to be rising.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7610.2005.00407.x
PMID: 16108995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Health Info Libr J. 2005 Sep;22 Suppl 1:31-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1740-3324.2005.00588.x.

The way we were: health library life seen through the pages of the Medical 
Library Bulletin of the Thames Regions, 1974-94.

Sawers C(1).

Author information:
(1)csawers@waitrose.com

The Medical Library Bulletin of the Thames Regions reflected the development of 
health-service libraries over the 20 years it existed. Originally begun as a 
practical aid to improving services by encouraging co-operation, improving 
communication and giving instructive advice, it charted the work of 
health-service librarians and the growth of their services. The articles 
contained in it covered professional developments and wider political issues as 
they occurred, and illustrated the extension of the librarians' knowledge and 
skills. Leslie Morton, Library Adviser to the British Postgraduate Medical 
Federation, edited almost every issue, starting at a time when there was little 
guidance or professional literature available for health-service librarians.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1740-3324.2005.00588.x
PMID: 16109019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2005 Nov 1;63(3):788-94. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2005.03.010.

Economic analysis of a phase III clinical trial evaluating the addition of total 
androgen suppression to radiation versus radiation alone for locally advanced 
prostate cancer (Radiation Therapy Oncology Group protocol 86-10).

Konski A(1), Sherman E, Krahn M, Bremner K, Beck JR, Watkins-Bruner D, Pilepich 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 
19111, USA. a_konski@fccc.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of adding hormone therapy to 
radiation for patients with locally advanced prostate cancer, using a Monte 
Carlo simulation of a Markov Model.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) protocol 86-10 
randomized patients to receive radiation therapy (RT) alone or RT plus total 
androgen suppression (RTHormones) 2 months before and during RT for the 
treatment of locally advanced prostate cancer. A Markov model was designed with 
Data Pro (TreeAge Software, Williamstown, MA). The analysis took a payer's 
perspective. Transition probabilities from one state of health (i.e., with no 
disease progression or with hormone-responsive metastatic disease) to another 
were calculated from published rates pertaining to RTOG 86-10. Patients remained 
in one state of health for 1 year. Utility values for each health state and 
treatment were obtained from the literature. Distributions were sampled at 
random from the treatment utilities according to a second-order Monte Carlo 
simulation technique.
RESULTS: The mean expected cost for the RT-only treatments was 29,240 dollars 
(range, 29,138-29,403 dollars). The mean effectiveness for the RT-only treatment 
was 5.48 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) (range, 5.47-5.50). The mean 
expected cost for RTHormones was 31,286 dollars (range, 31,058-31,555 dollars). 
The mean effectiveness was 6.43 QALYs (range, 6.42-6.44). Incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis showed RTHormones to be within the range of 
cost-effectiveness at 2,153 dollars/QALY. Cost-effectiveness acceptability curve 
analysis resulted in a >80% probability that RTHormones is cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis shows that adding hormonal treatment to RT improves 
health outcomes at a cost that is within the acceptable cost-effectiveness 
range.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2005.03.010
PMID: 16109464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. J Dent Res. 2005 Sep;84(9):794-9. doi: 10.1177/154405910508400903.

Cost-effectiveness of mandibular two-implant overdentures and conventional 
dentures in the edentulous elderly.

Heydecke G(1), Penrod JR, Takanashi Y, Lund JP, Feine JS, Thomason JM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, McGill University, 3640 University Street, M73, 
Montreal, Quebec H3A 2B2, Canada.

Implementation of new therapies is usually governed by financial considerations, 
so efficacy studies should also include cost comparisons. The cost and 
effectiveness of mandibular conventional dentures (CD, n = 30) and two-implant 
overdentures (IOD, n = 30) were compared in elderly subjects. Effectiveness 
(Oral Health Impact Profile, OHIP-20) and cost were measured up to one year 
post-treatment. Data for subsequent years were estimated by the Delphi method. 
Using an average life expectancy of 17.9 years, the equalized annual costs (in 
Canadian dollars) were dollar 399 for CD and dollar 625 for IOD (p < 0.001), and 
the equalized annual values for the outcome (OHIP-20) were 47.0 for CD and 31.3 
for IOD treatment (p < 0.05). These values translate into a yearly additional 
cost for IOD treatment of dollar 14.41 per OHIP-20 point. These results are key 
to the implementation of programs to provide this form of therapy for edentulous 
adults.

DOI: 10.1177/154405910508400903
PMID: 16109986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. BMJ. 2005 Aug 20;331(7514):419. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7514.419.

Disparities in health widen between rich and poor in England.

Dyer O.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Sep 10;331(7516):575.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7514.419
PMCID: PMC1188100
PMID: 16110058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. BMJ. 2005 Aug 20;331(7514):446-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7514.446.

Need for differential discounting of costs and health effects in cost 
effectiveness analyses.

Brouwer WB(1), Niessen LW, Postma MJ, Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus MC, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR 
Rotterdam, Netherlands. w.brouwer@erasmusmc.nl

The decision of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence to 
abandon differential discounting of future health is a step backwards and could 
change funding decisions

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7514.446
PMCID: PMC1188116
PMID: 16110075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Summer;21(3):305-11. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462305050403.

Populating decision-analytic models: the feasibility and efficiency of database 
searching for individual parameters.

Golder S(1), Glanville J, Ginnelly L.

Author information:
(1)University of York, York YO10 5DD, UK. spg3@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to investigate the feasibility and 
effectiveness of searching selected databases to identify information required 
to populate a decision-analytic model.
METHODS: Methods of searching for information to populate a decision-analytic 
model were piloted using a case study of prophylactic antibiotics to prevent 
recurrent urinary tract infections in children. This study explored how the 
information requirements for a decision-analytic model could be developed into 
searchable questions and how search strategies could be derived to answer these 
questions. The study also assessed the usefulness of three published search 
filters and explored which resources might produce relevant information for the 
various model parameters.
RESULTS: Based on the data requirements for this case study, 42 questions were 
developed for searching. These questions related to baseline event rates, 
health-related quality of life and outcomes, relative treatment effects, 
resource use and unit costs, and antibiotic resistance. A total of 1,237 records 
were assessed by the modeler, and of these, 48 were found to be relevant to the 
model. Search precision ranged from 0 percent to 38 percent, and no single 
database proved the most useful for all the questions.
CONCLUSIONS: The process of conducting specific searches to address each of the 
model questions provided information that was useful in populating the case 
study model. The most appropriate resources to search were dependent on the 
question, and multiple database searching using focused search strategies may 
prove more effective in finding relevant data than thorough searches of a single 
database.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462305050403
PMID: 16110709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Summer;21(3):334-41. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462305050440.

Cost-effectiveness of pressure-relieving devices for the prevention and 
treatment of pressure ulcers.

Fleurence RL(1).

Author information:
(1)The MEDTAP Institute, UBC, USA. rachael.fleurence@unitedbiosource.com

OBJECTIVES: The cost-effectiveness of alternating pressure-relieving devices, 
mattress replacements, and mattress overlays compared with a standard hospital 
(high-specification foam mattress) for the prevention and treatment of pressure 
ulcers in hospital patients in the United Kingdom was investigated.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was constructed to evaluate different 
strategies to prevent or treat pressure ulcers. Three scenarios were evaluated: 
the prevention of pressure ulcers, the treatment of superficial ulcers, and the 
treatment of severe ulcers. Epidemiological and effectiveness data were obtained 
from the clinical literature. Expert opinion using a rating scale technique was 
used to obtain quality of life data. Costs of the devices were obtained from 
manufacturers, whereas costs of treatment were obtained from the literature. 
Uncertainty was explored through probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Using 30,000 pounds sterling/QALY (quality-adjusted life year) as the 
decision-maker's cut off point (the current UK standard), in scenario 1 
(prevention), the cost-effective strategy was the mattress overlay at 1, 4, and 
12 weeks. In scenarios 2 and 3, the cost-effective strategy was the mattress 
replacement at 1, 4, and 12 weeks. Standard care was a dominated intervention in 
all scenarios for values of the decision-maker's ceiling ratio ranging from 
5,000 pounds sterling to 100,000 pounds sterling/QALY. However, the 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis results reflected the high uncertainty 
surrounding the choice of devices.
CONCLUSIONS: Current information suggests that alternating pressure mattress 
overlays may be cost-effective for the prevention of pressure ulcers, whereas 
alternating pressure mattress replacements appears to be cost-effective for the 
treatment of superficial and severe pressure ulcers.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462305050440
PMID: 16110713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Summer;21(3):351-8. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462305050464.

Spinal cord stimulation for failed back surgery syndrome: a decision-analytic 
model and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Taylor RJ(1), Taylor RS.

Author information:
(1)University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK. 
r.j.taylor@bham.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to develop a decision-analytic model to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation (SCS), relative to 
nonsurgical conventional medical management (CMM), for patients with failed back 
surgery syndrome (FBSS).
METHODS: A decision tree and Markov model were developed to synthesize evidence 
on both health-care costs and outcomes for patients with FBSS. Outcome data of 
SCS and CMM were sourced from 2-year follow-up data of two randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs). Treatment effects were measured as levels of pain relief. Short- 
and long-term health-care costs were obtained from a detailed Canadian costing 
study in FBSS patients. Results are presented as incremental cost per quality 
adjusted life year (QALY) and expressed in 2003 Euros. Costs were discounted at 
6 percent and outcomes at 1.5 percent.
RESULTS: Over the lifetime of the patient, SCS was dominant (i.e., SCS is 
cost-saving and gives more health gain relative to CMM); a finding that was 
robust across sensitivity analyses. At a 2-year time horizon, SCS gave more 
health gain but at an increased cost relative to CMM. Given the uncertainty in 
effectiveness and cost parameters, the 2-year cost-effectiveness of SCS ranged 
from 30,370 Euros in the base case to 63,511 Euros in the worst-case scenario.
CONCLUSIONS: SCS was found to be both more effective and less costly than CMM, 
over the lifetime of a patient. In the short-term, although SCS is potentially 
cost-effective, the model results are highly sensitive to the choice of input 
parameters. Further empirical data are required to improve the precision in the 
estimation of short-term cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462305050464
PMID: 16110715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Summer;21(3):359-67. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462305050476.

Cost and health status analysis after autologous chondrocyte implantation and 
mosaicplasty: a retrospective comparison.

Derrett S(1), Stokes EA, James M, Bartlett W, Bentley G.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Planning and Management, Keele University, Staffordshire, 
UK. s.l.derrett@keele.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Chondral defects of the knee cartilage are prevalent. Autologous 
chondrocyte implantation (ACI) and mosaicplasty are increasingly used to treat 
symptomatic knee defects. This study assessed the costs and health status 
outcomes after ACI and mosaicplasty.
METHODS: Patients were eligible to participate in this cross-sectional study if 
they received ACI or mosaicplasty at the Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital 
between 1997 and 2001 or were on a waiting list for ACI. Secondary-care resource 
use was collected to 2 years postoperatively using a resource collection 
proforma. Participants responded to postal questions about sociodemographic 
characteristics and knee-related (Modified Cincinnati Knee Rating System) and 
general health status (EQ-5D).
RESULTS: Fifty-three ACI, twenty mosaicplasty, and twenty-two patients waiting 
for ACI participated. The average cost per patient was higher for ACI (10,600 
pounds sterling: 95 percent confidence interval [CI], 10,036 pounds 
sterling-11,214 pounds sterling) than mosaicplasty (7,948 pounds sterling: 95 
percent CI, 6,957 pounds sterling-9,243 pounds sterling). Postoperatively, ACI 
and mosaicplasty patients (combined) experienced better health status than those 
waiting for ACI. ACI patients tended to have better health status outcomes than 
mosaicplasty patients (not statistically significant). Estimated average EQ-5D 
social tariff improvements for quality-adjusted life year (QALY) calculations 
were 0.23 (ACI) and 0.06 (mosaicplasty). Average costs per QALY were 23,043 
pounds sterling (ACI) and 66,233 pounds sterling (mosaicplasty). The incremental 
cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) for providing ACI over mosaicplasty was 16,349 
pounds sterling.
CONCLUSIONS: Average costs were higher for ACI than mosaicplasty. However, both 
the estimated cost per QALY and ICER for providing ACI over mosaicplasty fell 
beneath an implicit English funding threshold of 30,000 pounds sterling per 
QALY. Prospective studies should include measures of utility to confirm the 
estimated cost utility ratios of ACI and mosaicplasty.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462305050476
PMID: 16110716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Gastrointest Endosc. 2005 Sep;62(3):341-3. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2005.06.007.

Stent vs. brachytherapy: does life expectancy help you decide?

Wallace MB.

Comment on
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2005 Sep;62(3):333-40.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2005.06.007
PMID: 16111948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Aug;46(2):253-62. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.05.003.

Coexistence of anti-glomerular basement membrane antibodies and 
myeloperoxidase-ANCAs in crescentic glomerulonephritis.

Rutgers A(1), Slot M, van Paassen P, van Breda Vriesman P, Heeringa P, Tervaert 
JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Immunology, Cardiovascular Research 
Institute Maastricht, Maastricht University, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: In a substantial proportion of patients with crescentic 
glomerulonephritis (CGN), both anti-glomerular basement membrane (GBM) 
antibodies and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCAs) with specificity 
for myeloperoxidase (MPO-ANCA) are detected. In the present study, we questioned 
whether histological and clinical features of patients with both ANCA and 
anti-GBM antibodies differ from those of patients with either ANCA or anti-GBM 
alone.
METHODS: We reviewed the Limburg renal biopsy registry (1978 to 2003; n = 1,373) 
for cases of CGN. The presence of linear fluorescence on renal biopsy and the 
presence of ANCA and/or anti-GBM antibodies were measured. Subsequently, we 
assessed patient characteristics and follow-up and compared histological 
findings among the different groups.
RESULTS: We identified 46 MPO-ANCA-positive, 10 double-positive, and 13 
anti-GBM-positive patients. Mean ages were 63, 64, and 52 years (P = 0.04), and 
serum creatinine levels were 5.0, 10.3, and 9.6 mg/dL (445, 910, and 850 
micromol/L), respectively (P = 0.01). Granulomatous periglomerular inflammation 
was found in either MPO-ANCA- or double-positive patients, but not in 
anti-GBM-positive patients with CGN without MPO-ANCAs. Patient survival among 
the 3 groups was different, although not statistically significant (log rank P = 
0.17, with 75%, 79%, and 100% alive at 1 year, respectively). Renal survival 
analysis showed significant differences among the 3 groups (P = 0.04, with 65%, 
10%, and 15% off dialysis therapy at 1 year, respectively).
CONCLUSION: In patients with both anti-GBM antibodies and MPO-ANCAs, 
histological findings differ from those of patients with anti-GBM antibodies 
only. However, renal survival in these patients is not better than that in 
anti-GBM-positive patients and is worse compared with patients with MPO-ANCAs 
only.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.05.003
PMID: 16112043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Aug;46(2):339-44. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.04.024.

Intolerance syndrome in failed renal allografts: incidence and efficacy of 
percutaneous embolization.

Delgado P(1), Diaz F, Gonzalez A, Sanchez E, Gutierrez P, Hernandez D, Torres A, 
Lorenzo V.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of Canary Islands, Tenerife, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Immunologic intolerance to a failed renal allograft left in situ is 
referred to as graft intolerance syndrome, the incidence and predictors of which 
are unknown. Treatment by transcatheter vascular embolization has been reported 
to be less invasive than transplantectomy. The incidence of graft intolerance 
syndrome and results of transcatheter vascular embolization as a first 
therapeutic approach were studied.
METHODS: A retrospective study of 149 transplant recipients who returned to 
dialysis therapy between June 1989 and December 2001 was performed. After 
immunosuppression withdrawal, a diagnosis of graft intolerance syndrome was made 
based on clinical criteria and confirmed by the persistence of renal perfusion 
under imaging procedures. Potential immunologic predictors were analyzed.
RESULTS: Of 149 patients with failed renal allografts, 55 patients (37%) 
developed graft intolerance syndrome during follow-up (27.5 +/- 34.5 months; 
range, 1 to 173 months). Manifestations of graft intolerance syndrome were fever 
(88%), flu-like symptoms (33%), hematuria (39%), local pain (53%), and increased 
graft size (51%). Most episodes of graft intolerance syndrome appeared within 6 
months (virtually all presented within 24 months after graft failure). None of 
the immunologic variables studied showed an influence on graft intolerance 
syndrome. Transcatheter vascular embolization was performed in 48 patients and 
was successful in 31 patients (65%). A second embolization was necessary in 8 
patients. No deaths or severe complications were observed. Eleven patients (22%) 
underwent transplantectomy because of persistent graft intolerance syndrome (n = 
8) or graft infection (n = 3).
CONCLUSION: Graft intolerance syndrome is common in patients with failed renal 
allografts left in situ, especially within the first year of returning to 
dialysis therapy. Our data support transcatheter vascular embolization as 
first-line therapy for patients with symptomatic failed renal allografts, 
although 1 in 4 patients will require transplantectomy.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.04.024
PMID: 16112054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Health Policy. 2006 Jul;77(2):129-39. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.07.008.
Epub  2005 Aug 19.

Estimating the burden of road traffic injuries among children and adolescents in 
urban South Asia.

Hyder AA(1), Amach OH, Garg N, Labinjo MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, 615 North Wolfe Street, Suite E-8132, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. 
ahyder@jhsph.edu

Over a million people died from road traffic injuries (RTI) globally in the year 
2000 and as many as 50 million were injured. Yet there has been little work 
focused on the South Asia region, let alone the vulnerable segments of 
population such as children and adolescents. This study aims at measuring the 
burden of disease caused by urban road traffic injuries among children and 
adolescents in South Asia. This study selected 26 studies for review and data 
extraction out of 1505 published articles. Data from the studies were pooled to 
calculate the proportion and characteristics of child and adolescent RTI, 
regional RTI incidence and mortality rates, and an estimate of the burden of 
disease caused by these injuries through the use of the healthy life years lost 
(HeaLY) composite measure. Our findings showed that the majority of injuries 
occurred in males (67-80%) and the most frequent age group injured was between 
ages 0 and 9 representing 40% of cases. Children and adolescents represent an 
average of 22% of all those with RTI whom seek care. Children and adolescents 
represented an average of 13% of all RTI deaths. Regional RTI incidence rate was 
calculated at 880 per 100,000 urban persons aged 0-19. Mortality due to RTI was 
at 17 deaths per 100,000 urban persons aged 0-19 in South Asia. Burden of 
disease was calculated 16 HeaLYs per 1000 general population from road traffic 
mortality alone. With disability data added, then 27.7 HeaLYs per 1000 general 
population are lost from road traffic injuries in South Asia. The increasing 
burden of RTI in young persons in South Asia is a call for considering 
appropriate research and effective interventions. This relatively high loss of 
healthy life from RTI needs to be addressed by public health systems in South 
Asia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.07.008
PMID: 16112772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. J Endocrinol Invest. 2005;28(5 Suppl):88-91.

New roles and challenges in neurosurgery of acromegaly.

Kleinberg DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroendocrine Unit, New York University School of Medicine, New York, USA. 
david.kleinberg@med.nyu.edu

Acromegaly is a disease that shortens life expectancy (1-3) and causes severe 
systemic problems during life (4). It can arise and be recognized quickly if the 
onset is rapid, as in gigantism. Unfortunately there is usually a delay in 
diagnosis, on average 9 yr (4). The longer the delay the more likely patients 
are to develop partially or completely irreversible systemic problems, such as 
sleep apnea (5) and arthritis. Although some of the signs and co-morbidities of 
acromegaly are permanent, there is good evidence that cure of the disease 
reverses early mortality (3, 6, 7). It has been estimated that life expectancy 
is shortened by about 10 yr overall, and longer when diabetes or heart disease 
are already present at the time of diagnosis.

PMID: 16114282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Community Pract. 2005 Aug;78(8):292-4.

The growing HIV pandemic.

Miles K(1).

Author information:
(1)Camden Primary Care Trust/Centre for Sexual Health & HIV Research, University 
College, London.

Well into the third decade of the HIV pandemic, there is still no cure on the 
horizon and recent results of preventive vaccine studies have been 
disappointing. HIV diagnoses continue to escalate and a significant proportion 
of individuals with HIV remain undiagnosed. New antiretroviral treatments have 
extended the life expectancy of those infected with HIV in developed countries, 
although the vast number of individuals in low-resource settings have no access 
at all. Recent prevention initiatives include community studies of vaginal and 
rectal microbicides, and the provision of antiretrovirals for post-exposure 
prophylaxis following sexual exposure (PEPSE). Other developments are discussed 
to provide practitioners with an update on the contemporary issues related to 
HIV/AIDS.

PMID: 16114721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Ceylon Med J. 2005 Jun;50(2):94-5.

Postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy (HRT).

Weerasekera DS.

Comment on
    Ceylon Med J. 2004 Sep;49(3):73-5.

PMID: 16114781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Atherosclerosis. 2005 Sep;182(1):97-103. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.01.030. Epub 2005 Feb 24.

Evidence of vascular dysfunction in young patients with successfully repaired 
coarctation of aorta.

Brili S(1), Tousoulis D, Antoniades C, Aggeli C, Roubelakis A, Papathanasiu S, 
Stefanadis C.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Unit, Hippokration Hospital, Athens University Medical School, 
Vasilissis Sofias 114, 11528 Athens, Greece.

It is well documented that in patients with coarctation of the aorta life 
expectancy is not normal even after successful coarctation repair (SCR), 
primarily due to cardiovascular events. We examined endothelial function in the 
forearm circulation, the mechanical properties and intima/media thickness in 
carotid and femoral arteries and the inflammatory process in normotensive 
patients, after coarctation repair. Fifteen patients, 29+/-2 years old, 12+/-2.9 
years after SCR and 16 age- and sex-matched controls were enrolled in our study. 
Forearm blood flow was determined by gauge-strain plethysmography. Forearm 
vasodilatory response to reactive hyperemia was expressed as the %change from 
baseline to post-reactive hyperemia blood flow. High resolution ultrasound was 
used for determination of intima/media thickness and elastic properties of 
carotid and femoral arteries. Serum levels of soluble vascular adhesion molecule 
1 (sVCAM-1), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (sICAM-1), E-selectin, and 
interleukines 1b (IL-1b) and 6 (IL-6) were determined by ELISA. Reactive 
hyperemia was significantly decreased in patients compared to controls (p<0.01). 
Patients with SCR had higher intima/media thickness and decreased distensibility 
in the carotid arteries than controls (p<0.01 for both). Serum levels of 
sICAM-1, sSVCAM-1, E-selectin and IL-1b were higher in SCR group than in 
controls (p<0.05 for all). Adult patients after SCR have impaired endothelial 
function in the forearm circulation, increased intima/media thickness, decreased 
distensibility in the carotid arteries and increased levels of proinflammatory 
cytokines and adhesion molecules than healthy controls. These results may partly 
explain the high incidence of coronary artery disease in patients with repaired 
coarctation of the aorta.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.01.030
PMID: 16115479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J Nutr Biochem. 2005 Sep;16(9):554-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2005.02.004.

Diet-dependent survival of protein repair-deficient mice.

Farrar CE(1), Clarke S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Protein L-isoaspartyl (D-aspartyl) O-methyltransferase (PCMT1) is a 
protein-repair enzyme, and mice lacking this enzyme accumulate damaged proteins 
in multiple tissues, die at an early age from progressive epilepsy and have an 
increased S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) to S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) ratio 
in brain tissue. It has been proposed that the alteration of AdoMet and AdoHcy 
levels might contribute to the seizure phenotype, particularly as AdoHcy has 
anticonvulsant properties. To investigate whether altered AdoMet and AdoHcy 
levels might contribute to the seizures and thus the survivability of the 
repair-deficient mice, a folate-deficient amino acid-based diet was administered 
to the mice in place of a standard chow diet. We found that the low-folate diet 
significantly decreases the AdoMet/AdoHcy ratio in brain tissue and results in 
an almost threefold extension of mean life span in the protein repair-deficient 
mice. These results indicate that the increased AdoMet/AdoHcy ratio may 
contribute to the lowered seizure threshold in young PCMT1-deficient mice. 
However, mean survival was also extended almost twofold for mice on a control 
folate-replete amino acid-based diet compared to mice on the standard chow diet. 
Survival after 40 days was similar in the mice on the low- and high-folate amino 
acid-based diets, suggesting that the survival of older PCMT1-deficient mice is 
not affected by the higher brain AdoMet/AdoHcy ratio. Additionally, the 
surviving older repair-deficient mice have a significant increase in body weight 
when compared to age-matched normal mice, independent of the type of diet. This 
weight increase was not accompanied by an increase in consumption levels, 
indicating that the repair-deficient mice may also have an altered metabolic 
state.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2005.02.004
PMID: 16115544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2005 Nov;144(1):16-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.molbiopara.2005.07.003.

