Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Institute of Health Care Management, University of 
Essen-Duisburg, 45117 Essen, Germany.

The legitimacy of procedures and criteria for determining benefit packages 
depends crucially on the representation of stakeholders in decision-making 
bodies, the transparency of procedures and the consistency of benefit decisions. 
Moreover, the assessment of the costs of healthcare services and its application 
as a decision criterion can be an important policy instrument in order to 
increase the overall efficiency of healthcare systems. Our analysis of 
procedures and criteria for determining benefit packages in England, Germany and 
Switzerland established potential for developing more legitimate procedures and 
criteria for benefits decisions. In Germany, representation of stakeholders and 
transparency of procedures can be improved. Consistency of decision-making is 
hindered by the veto positions of selected stakeholders. Moreover, benefit 
decisions are made for different healthcare sectors separately. In Switzerland, 
transparency of procedures is virtually non-existent at the moment. Thus, it is 
impossible to assess the consistency of decision-making. Only in England the 
costs of healthcare services influence the decision to include or exclude them.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2004.10.005
PMID: 15911059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. BMJ. 2005 May 28;330(7502):1239. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38441.429618.8F. Epub 2005
May  23.

Surgical stabilisation of the spine compared with a programme of intensive 
rehabilitation for the management of patients with chronic low back pain: cost 
utility analysis based on a randomised controlled trial.

Rivero-Arias O(1), Campbell H, Gray A, Fairbank J, Frost H, Wilson-MacDonald J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LF.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether, from a health provider and patient perspective, 
surgical stabilisation of the spine is cost effective when compared with an 
intensive programme of rehabilitation in patients with chronic low back pain.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation alongside a pragmatic randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Secondary care.
PARTICIPANTS: 349 patients randomised to surgery (n = 176) or to an intensive 
rehabilitation programme (n = 173) from 15 centres across the United Kingdom 
between June 1996 and February 2002.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs related to back pain and incurred by the NHS and 
patients up to 24 months after randomisation. Return to paid employment and 
total hours worked. Patient utility as estimated by using the EuroQol EQ-5D 
questionnaire at several time points and used to calculate quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs). Cost effectiveness was expressed as an incremental cost per QALY.
RESULTS: At two years, 38 patients randomised to rehabilitation had received 
rehabilitation and surgery whereas just seven surgery patients had received both 
treatments. The mean total cost per patient was estimated to be 7830 pounds 
sterling (SD 5202 pounds sterling) in the surgery group and 4526 pounds sterling 
(SD 4155 pounds sterling) in the intensive rehabilitation arm, a significant 
difference of 3304 pounds sterling (95% confidence interval 2317 pounds sterling 
to 4291 pounds sterling). Mean QALYs over the trial period were 1.004 (SD 0.405) 
in the surgery group and 0.936 (SD 0.431) in the intensive rehabilitation group, 
giving a non-significant difference of 0.068 (-0.020 to 0.156). The incremental 
cost effectiveness ratio was estimated to be 48,588 pounds sterling per QALY 
gained (- 279,883 pounds sterling to 372,406 pounds sterling).
CONCLUSION: Two year follow-up data show that surgical stabilisation of the 
spine may not be a cost effective use of scarce healthcare resources. However, 
sensitivity analyses show that this could change-for example, if the proportion 
of rehabilitation patients requiring subsequent surgery continues to increase.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38441.429618.8F
PMCID: PMC558091
PMID: 15911536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Oct;34(5):1080-7. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyi101. Epub 2005
May  23.

Design options for sample-based mortality surveillance.

Begg S(1), Rao C, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Oct;34(5):1087-8.

BACKGROUND: Reliable information on causes of death is a fundamental component 
of health development strategies, yet globally only about one-third of countries 
have access to such information. For countries currently without adequate 
mortality reporting systems there are useful models other than 
resource-intensive population-wide medical certification. Sample-based mortality 
surveillance is one such approach. This paper provides methods for addressing 
appropriate sample size considerations in relation to mortality surveillance, 
with particular reference to situations in which prior information on mortality 
is lacking.
METHODS: The feasibility of model-based approaches for predicting the expected 
mortality structure and cause composition is demonstrated for populations in 
which only limited empirical data is available. An algorithm approach is then 
provided to derive the minimum person-years of observation needed to generate 
robust estimates for the rarest cause of interest in three hypothetical 
populations, each representing different levels of health development.
RESULTS: Modelled life expectancies at birth and cause of death structures were 
within expected ranges based on published estimates for countries at comparable 
levels of health development. Total person-years of observation required in each 
population could be more than halved by limiting the set of age, sex, and cause 
groups regarded as 'of interest'.
DISCUSSION: The methods proposed are consistent with the philosophy of 
establishing priorities across broad clusters of causes for which the public 
health response implications are similar. The examples provided illustrate the 
options available when considering the design of mortality surveillance for 
population health monitoring purposes.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyi101
PMID: 15911547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. CMAJ. 2005 May 24;172(11):1434-5. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.050511.

Treating HIV/AIDS and leishmaniasis coinfection in Ethiopia.

Anema A(1), Ritmeijer K.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St. Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, BC.

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2005 Oct 25;173(9):1067; author reply 1070.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.050511
PMCID: PMC557972
PMID: 15911851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Integr Cancer Ther. 2005 Jun;4(2):156-67. doi: 10.1177/1534735405275796.

Cancer outcomes at the Hufeland (complementary/alternative medicine) klinik: a 
best-case series review.

Jacobson JS(1), Grann VR, Gnatt MA, Hibshoosh H, Austin JH, Millar WS, Neugut 
AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, New York, NY 
10032, USA.

PURPOSE: A best-case series review is an efficient tool with which to screen 
complex complementary and alternative treatments for cancer as candidates for 
further study.
STUDY DESIGN: The National Cancer Institute and other agencies have adopted the 
best-case series method to evaluate cancer treatments involving complementary 
and alternative medicine (CAM) for further study. The authors conducted a 
best-case series review of the Hufeland Klinik. Established in 1985 in Bad 
Mergentheim, Germany, this facility treats more than 500 cancer patients per 
year. Hufeland treatment includes dietary modification, injections, ozone 
therapy, active fever therapy, psychotherapy, and sometimes hormone therapy 
and/or low-dose chemotherapy. The goal of the treatment is to prolong survival 
and to maintain good quality of life.
METHODS: The clinic provided summaries of 27 cases in which patients with longer 
than expected survival had agreed to make their medical records available for 
review. The review involved pathologic confirmation of disease and radiologic 
confirmation of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) not attributable 
to conventional treatment.
RESULTS: Based on the summaries and an exhaustive 2-year search for medical 
records, slides, and imaging data, 12 of 27 cases were selected for full review, 
and 5 (3 CRs and 2 PRs) were judged best cases.
CONCLUSION: Most patients with common cancers receive conventional treatment 
before coming to Hufeland, and many are treated with chemotherapy and/or 
hormonal therapy while there. Hence, only a few could be considered for review. 
With 5 of 12 patients showing a treatment response, the authors conclude that 
the Hufeland treatment merits further study. They also recommend the development 
of criteria with which to evaluate best-case series reviews of complex CAM 
treatments for patients with advanced cancer.

DOI: 10.1177/1534735405275796
PMID: 15911928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Surg Today. 2005;35(6):453-8. doi: 10.1007/s00595-004-2982-3.

Role of femorofemoral crossover bypass grafting for unilateral iliac 
atherosclerotic disease: a comparative evaluation with anatomic bypass.

Mii S(1), Eguchi D, Takenaka T, Maehara S, Tomisaki S, Sakata H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Nippon Steel Yawata Memorial Hospital, 1-1-1 
Harunomachi, Kitakyushu, 805-8508, Japan.

PURPOSE: To assess the role of femorofemoral or iliofemoral crossover bypass 
grafting, the early and late results of crossover bypasses were reviewed and 
compared with those of anatomic bypasses.
METHODS: The clinical records of 164 patients with arteriosclerosis obliterans 
who underwent 99 crossover bypasses and 65 anatomic ones from 1982 to 2002 were 
retrospectively evaluated. The early and late results including operative 
mortality and morbidity, graft patency rate, limb salvage rate, and survival 
rate of the patients as well as backgrounds of the patients were compared 
between the two kinds of bypass procedures. In addition, perioperative factors 
including bypass procedures affecting graft patency were evaluated by a 
multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: The percentage of high-risk patients was higher in the crossover bypass 
group than in the anatomic bypass group. The operative mortality and morbidity 
were similar between both bypass groups. The primary and secondary patency rates 
of crossover bypass grafts (93% and 97%, 83% and 92%, and 65% and 63% at 2, 5, 
and 10 years, respectively) were lower than those of anatomic ones (95% and 98%, 
93% and 98%, and 90% and 98% at 2, 5, and 10 years, respectively). The late 
survival of the patients in the crossover bypass group was significantly lower 
than that in the anatomic bypass group. A multivariate analysis revealed the 
operative method, namely the crossover bypass, to be the only significant risk 
factor of late graft failure.
CONCLUSION: A crossover bypass was thus determined to be an acceptable procedure 
only in high-risk patients with a limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-004-2982-3
PMID: 15912292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Int J Health Care Finance Econ. 2005 Jun;5(2):127-45. doi: 
10.1007/s10754-005-1864-6.

The Sisyphus syndrome in health revisited.

Zweifel P(1), Steinmann L, Eugster P.

Author information:
(1)Socioeconomic Institute, University of Zurich, Hottingerstrasse, 10 CH-8032, 
Zurich, Switzerland. pzweifel@soi.unizh.ch

Health care may be similar to Sisyphus work: When the task is about to be 
completed, work has to start all over again. To see the analogy, consider an 
initial decision to allocate more resources to health. The likely consequence is 
an increased number of survivors, who will exert additional demand for health 
care. With more resources allocated to health, the cycle starts over again. The 
objective of this paper is to improve on earlier research that failed to find 
evidence of a Sisyphus syndrome in industrialized countries. This time, there 
are signs of such a cycle, which however seems to have faded away recently.

DOI: 10.1007/s10754-005-1864-6
PMID: 15912313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. J Insur Med. 2000;32(2):79-88.

Marfan syndrome: literature review of mortality studies.

Krause KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Address: Lincoln Re, PO Box 7808, 1700 Magnavox Way, Fort Wayne, IN 
46801-7808, USA. kjkrause@lnc.com

Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominant heritable disorder of fibrous 
connective tissue due to mutation in the fibrillin-1 gene, located on chromosome 
15. Early mortality from Marfan syndrome results from aortic dilatation. The 
medical literature contains long-term follow-up series of patients with Marfan 
syndrome accrued at major medical centers that address overall survival 
following surgical intervention, and prognosis in relation to certain risk 
factors such as family history and aortic root diameter. Mortality analyses 
based on these data are presented in this paper. Advances in surgical and 
medical therapy have improved mortality of affected individuals over the past 
2-3 decades. However, significant mortality occurs, peaking in the third and 
fourth decades of life. Although surgery is successful treatment of aortic 
dissection, one cannot conclude that surgical repair confers a mortality 
advantage. Emergency surgery and history of aortic complications in first-degree 
relatives are associated with a higher mortality. Chronic beta-blocker therapy 
may slow the rate of aortic dilatation and may be associated with more favorable 
prognosis. Clinical research evaluating beta-blockade, echo assessment of the 
aortic root diameter progression, and gene mutation analysis may provide tools 
useful for future morality assessments.

PMID: 15912906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. J Insur Med. 2000;32(3):131-6.

Structured settlement annuities, part 1: overview and the underwriting process.

Schmidt CJ(1), Singer RB.

Author information:
(1)Safeco Life and Investments, Seattle, WA 98124-1690, USA.

Structured settlement underwriting is the underwriting of medically impaired 
lives for the purchase of an annuity to fund the settlement. Other than risk 
assessment, structured settlement (SS) underwriting has little in common with 
traditional life insurance underwriting. Most noteworthy of these differences is 
the relative lack of actuarial data on which to base decisions about mortality 
and the necessity for prospective thinking about risk assessment. The purpose of 
this paper is to provide a foundation for understanding the structured 
settlement business and to contrast the underwriting of structured settlements 
with that of traditional life insurance. This is the first part of a two-part 
article on SS annuities. Part 2 deals with the mortality experience in SS 
annuitants and the life-table methodology used to calculate life expectancy for 
annuitants at increased mortality risk.

PMID: 15912913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Insur Med. 2000;32(3):137-54.

Structured settlement annuities, part 2: mortality experience 1967--95 and the 
estimation of life expectancy in the presence of excess mortality.

Singer RB, Schmidt CJ.

BACKGROUND: the mortality experience for structured settlement (SS) annuitants 
issued both standard (Std) and substandard (SStd) has been reported twice 
previously by the Society of Actuaries (SOA), but the 1995 mortality described 
here has not previously been published. We describe in detail the 1995 SS 
mortality, and we also discuss the methodology of calculating life expectancy 
(e), contrasting three different life-table models.
RESULTS: With SOA permission, we present in four tables the unpublished results 
of its 1995 SS mortality experience by Std and SStd issue, sex, and a 
combination of 8 age and 6 duration groups. Overall results on mortality 
expected from the 1983a Individual Annuity Table showed a mortality ratio (MR) 
of about 140% for Std cases and about 650% for all SStd cases. Life expectancy 
in a group with excess mortality may be computed by either adding the decimal 
excess death rate (EDR) to q' for each year of attained age to age 109 or 
multiplying q' by the decimal MR for each year to age 109. An example is given 
for men age 60 with localized prostate cancer; annual EDRs from a large 
published cancer study are used at duration 0-24 years, and the last EDR is 
assumed constant to age 109. This value of e is compared with e from constant 
initial values of EDR or MR after the first year. Interrelations of age, sex, e, 
and EDR and MR are discussed and illustrated with tabular data.
CONCLUSIONS: It is shown that a constant MR for life-table calculation of e 
consistently overestimates projected annual mortality at older attained ages and 
underestimates e. The EDR method, approved for reserve calculations, is also 
recommended for use in underwriting conversion tables.

PMID: 15912914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. J Insur Med. 2000;32(3):155-62.

Expected versus observed survival in 3 large population studies with HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors.

Naslafkih A(1), Sestier F.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Research, CHUM-Hôpital Notre-Dame, Montreal (QC) H2L 4M1, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) can lower low-density 
lipoprotein (LDL). We examined how they were used in three large recent 
population studies, shedding new light on the relationship between cholesterol 
levels and survival.
METHODS: Mortality observed in the placebo and treated groups of these primary 
and secondary prevention studies using statins was compared with the expected 
mortality given in existing life tables.
RESULTS: In the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS), 6595 men 
with no proven coronary disease but with high baseline cholesterol were given 
pravastatin or placebo for 5 years. The mortality ratio (MR) was 125% when the 
placebo group was compared with the Canadian Insurance Association (CIA) 
1986--92 ultimate mortality table. Pravastatin abolished the increased risk 
associated with LDL cholesterol. In the Scandinavian Simvastatin Study (4S), 
4444 patients with coronary disease and high baseline cholesterol were given 
simvastatin or placebo for 5 years. The placebo group had a MR of 200%, compared 
with CIA life tables. Simvastatin decreased this increased mortality to 153%. In 
the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events study (CARE), 4159 patients with previous 
myocardial infraction and near-normal cholesterol levels were given pravastatin 
or placebo for 5 years. In the placebo group, the MR was 200%, compared with the 
CIA life tables. In patients given pravastatin, mortality was only marginally 
reduced to 192%.
CONCLUSIONS: In primary prevention, reducing serum cholesterol abolished the 
increased mortality associated with high cholesterol. In secondary prevention, 
lipid-lowering agents improved survival in the treated group, mainly if baseline 
cholesterol was high.

PMID: 15912915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Insur Med. 2000;32(3):163-6.

Comparative mortality of adults with traumatic brain injury in California, 
1988--97.

Shavelle R(1), Strauss D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521-0138, 
USA.

We studied mortality rates of people with traumatic brain injury using the 
extensive California Department of Developmental Services database. The data 
provide mortality rates by age, gender, severity, cause, and associated 
conditions on 2629 subjects older than 15 years during 1988--97. Increased 
mortality was observed, particularly among patients with diminished mobility.

PMID: 15912916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Insur Med. 2000;32(3):186-8.

Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis.

Frank RE(1).

Author information:
(1)resafrank@aol.com

Glomerulonephritis (GN) encompasses a wide variety of primary and secondary 
diseases that cause injury to the functioning unit of the kidney, the 
glomerulus. The many classifications of GN sometimes lead to confusion. This 
case study describes an individual with membranoproliferative GN and includes 
discussion of classification, treatment, and prognosis of this disease.

PMID: 15912918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Soc Sci Med. 2005 Nov;61(9):2018-26. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.04.005.

The income-associated burden of disease in the United States.

Muennig P(1), Franks P, Jia H, Lubetkin E, Gold MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, 600 W 168th St., 6th Floor, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
pm124@columbia.edu

Erratum in
    Soc Sci Med. 2008 Jun;66(11):2390.

In this study, we estimate the total burden of disease associated with income in 
the US. We calculate the relationships between income and life expectancy, 
health-adjusted life expectancy, annual years of life lost (YLLs), and health 
adjusted life years (HALYs). We used the 2000 US Medical Expenditure Panel 
Survey to derive quality of life estimates by income and age, the 1990-1992 US 
National Health Interview Survey linked to National Death Index data through the 
end of 1995 to derive mortality risks by income and by age, and 2000 US 
mortality data from the National Center for Health Statistics to derive current 
mortality estimates for the US population by age-group. The bottom 80% of adult 
income earners' life expectancy is 4.3 years and 5.8 HALYs shorter relative to 
those in the top 20% of earnings. This translates into the loss of 11 million 
YLLs and 17.4 million HALYs each year. Compared with persons living above the 
poverty threshold, those living below the poverty threshold live an average of 
3.2 million fewer HALYs per year-a difference of 8.5 HALYs per individual 
between age 18 and death. The income-associated burden of disease appears to be 
a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the US.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.04.005
PMID: 15913866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Cyst Fibros. 2005 May;4(2):135-44. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2005.02.004.

Psychological and family functioning and quality of life in adolescents with 
cystic fibrosis.

Szyndler JE(1), Towns SJ, van Asperen PP, McKay KO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Adolescent Medicine, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, New 
South Wales, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of individuals with CF has increased to 33 
years. Thus, issues such as quality of life and psychological well-being, 
previously thought to be of lesser importance than physical well-being, are now 
recognised as significant factors. This study examined the interrelationships 
between quality of life, family functioning, individual psychopathology and 
optimism of adolescents with CF.
METHODS: Adolescents attending the CF clinic completed a number of 
questionnaires. Quality of Life was measured using the Cystic Fibrosis 
Questionnaire, family functioning by the Family Environment Scale (3rd edition), 
general psychopathology with the Symptom Checklist-90-Revised and optimism for 
the future by the Hunter Opinions and Personal Expectations Scale. Disease 
severity was assessed using the Shwachman score and spirometry at the time of 
questionnaire completion.
RESULTS: The level of psychopathology (12.5% of those 13 years and over) in the 
group was lower than that reported for young people in Australia (15-20%). The 
results indicated that young people with a delayed diagnosis and those who are 
alienated from their families may be in need of additional psychosocial support. 
The group was hopeful and positive about their future and these attributes were 
independent of clinical measures of disease severity. In general, these young 
people scored relatively highly on the quality of life scale. For example the 
mean standardised score for physical functioning was 70 points, for respiratory 
symptoms was 63 points and for emotional state was 78 points. Increased levels 
of psychopathology and lack of hope for the future were however associated with 
lower ratings on a number of quality of life measures. Family cohesiveness, 
expressiveness and organization were associated with better psychological 
functioning in the young people.
CONCLUSIONS: Adolescents with CF appear to be a psychologically well functioning 
and well-adjusted group. These findings support the importance of a more 
sophisticated model of well-being for adolescents with CF, which explores the 
young person's views on their quality of life and wider support frameworks 
rather than relying solely on measures of physical health to gauge well-being.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2005.02.004
PMID: 15914095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Stroke. 2005 Jun;36(6):1293-4. doi: 10.1161/01.str.0000168860.45858.10.

How much is a good night's sleep worth?

Williams LS, Holloway RG.

Comment on
    Stroke. 2005 Jun;36(6):1291-3.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.0000168860.45858.10
PMID: 15914770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Am J Public Health. 2005 Jun;95(6):969-75. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.040667.

Free nicotine replacement therapy programs vs implementing smoke-free 
workplaces: a cost-effectiveness comparison.

Ong MK(1), Glantz SA.

Author information:
(1)VA Palo Alto Health Care System, CA, USA.

We compared the cost-effectiveness of a free nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) 
program with a statewide smoke-free workplace policy in Minnesota. We conducted 
1-year simulations of costs and benefits. The number of individuals who quit 
smoking and the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were the measures of 
benefits. After 1 year, a NRT program generated 18,500 quitters at a cost of 
7020 dollars per quitter (4440 dollars per QALY), and a smoke-free workplace 
policy generated 10,400 quitters at a cost of 799 dollars per quitter (506 
dollars per QALY). Smoke-free work-place policies are about 9 times more 
cost-effective per new nonsmoker than free NRT programs are. Smoke-free 
workplace policies should be a public health funding priority, even when the 
primary goal is to promote individual smoking cessation.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.040667
PMCID: PMC1449293
PMID: 15914818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Cancer Nurs. 2005 May-Jun;28(3):241-7. doi:
10.1097/00002820-200505000-00014.

Terminal patients' awareness of impending death: the impact upon requesting 
adequate care.

Francke AL(1), Willems DL.

Author information:
(1)NIVEL-the Netherlands Institute for Health Services Research, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. a.francke@nivel.nl

In this qualitative study, 19 Dutch terminal patients and 23 relatives of 
deceased patients were interviewed. The interviews revealed that a timely 
request for care and anticipation of "what was going to happen" was determined 
by the degree to which patients and their relatives realize that the end of life 
was close, that the symptoms would get worse, and that the family would have to 
bear an increasing burden. When awareness of the severity of the situation dawns 
late, shortly before death, the patient and family may not receive the right 
sort of care, nor have access to the appropriate facilities. In the concluding 
part of this article, there is a plea for adopting a proactive approach. Nurses 
and other caregivers must try to prepare patients and relatives early for the 
care that will become necessary in the later stages.

DOI: 10.1097/00002820-200505000-00014
PMID: 15915070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2005 Apr;29(2):136-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2005.tb00063.x.

Population norms and meaningful differences for the Assessment of Quality of 
Life (AQoL) measure.

Hawthorne G(1), Osborne R.

Author information:
(1)Australian Centre for Posttraumatic Mental Health, Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Melbourne, Victoria. graemeeh@unimelb.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: The Assessment of Quality of Life (AQoL) instrument is widely used in 
Australian health research. To assist researchers interpret and report their 
work, this paper reports population and health status norms, general minimal 
important differences (MIDs) and effect sizes.
METHOD: Data from the 1998 South Australian Health Omnibus Survey (n=3,010 
population-based respondents) were analysed by gender, age group and health 
status. Data from four other longitudinal studies were analysed to obtain 
estimated MIDs.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) AQoL utility score was 0.83 (0.20). Gender and age 
subgroup differences were apparent; the mean scores for women were consistent 
until their 50s, when scores declined. Greater variability was observed for 
males whose scores declined more slowly but consistently between 40-80 years. 
For both genders, those aged 80+ years had the lowest scores. When assessed by 
health status, those reporting excellent health obtained the highest utility 
scores; progressive declines were observed with decreasing health status. Effect 
sizes of 0.13 or greater may reflect important differences between groups. A 
difference in AQoL scores of 0.06 utility points over time suggests a general 
MID.
CONCLUSIONS: AQoL population norms, MIDs and effect sizes can be used as 
reference points for the interpretation of AQoL data. These findings add to the 
growing evidence that the AQoL is a robust and sensitive measure that has wide 
applicability.
IMPLICATIONS: The availability of population norms will assist researchers using 
the AQoL to more easily interpret and report their work.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2005.tb00063.x
PMID: 15915617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2005 Apr;29(2):171-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2005.tb00069.x.

Breastfeeding and the introduction of solids in Australian infants: data from 
the 2001 National Health Survey.

Donath SM(1), Amir LH.

Author information:
(1)Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Victoria. susan.donath@mcri.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To present estimates on rates of breastfeeding and timing of 
introduction of solid foods to Australian children, 1998-2001.
METHODS: Analysis of data from the 2001 Australian National Health Survey (NHS) 
using lifetable methods. Infant feeding questions were asked by personal 
interview in respect to 1,883 children aged under three years of age.
RESULTS: At discharge from hospital, 83.3% of infants were breastfeeding, which 
is similar to estimates from the 1995 NHS. At 13 weeks postpartum, 64.3% were 
breastfeeding, 49.0% at 25 weeks and 24.9% were continuing to breastfeed at one 
year. At 25 weeks, 18.4% of infants were fully breastfed. Solid food was being 
offered regularly to 15.2% of infants at 13 weeks and 88.0% by 26 weeks.
CONCLUSION: Fewer than 50% of infants are receiving breast milk at six months, 
which is considerably lower than the 80% figure recommended by the latest 
Dietary Guidelines for Children and Adolescents. Very few Australian infants are 
being exclusively breastfed for the recommended six months. Infant feeding 
practices in Australia appear to have remained unchanged between 1995 and 2001.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2005.tb00069.x
PMID: 15915623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. J Clin Ethics. 2005 Spring;16(1):58-60.

Wanted dead or alive? Kidney transplantation in inmates awaiting execution.

Appel JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, 
USA. jacob_appel@brown.edu

PMID: 15915846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. AIDS Patient Care STDS. 2005 May;19(5):347. doi: 10.1089/apc.2005.19.347.

Impact of HAART on life years.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1089/apc.2005.19.347
PMID: 15916497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2005 Aug;15(4):355-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2005.04.001.

Towards a better understanding of the size and burden and cost of brain 
disorders in Europe.

Wittchen HU, Jönsson B, Olesen J.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2005.04.001
PMID: 15916884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Prev Med. 2005 Jul;41(1):276-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.10.024. Epub 2005
Jan  7.

Increasing excise taxes on cigarettes in California: a dynamic simulation of 
health and economic impacts.

Ahmad S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Planning, Policy and Design, University of California, HPRG 202 
SE 1, Irvine, CA 92697-7075, USA. sajjad@uci.edu

BACKGROUND: California raised cigarette excise taxes in 1999, and may generate 
additional health and economic benefits by raising them further.
METHODS: A dynamic computer simulation model follows births, deaths, migration, 
aging, and changes in smoking status for the entire population of California 
over 75 years to estimate the cumulative health and economic outcomes of these 
changes under several excise tax rate conditions (up to 100% price increase).
RESULTS: A 20% tax-induced cigarette price increase would reduce smoking 
prevalence from 17% to 11.6% with large gains in cumulative life years (14 
million) and QALY's (16 million) over 75 years. Total spending on cigarettes by 
consumers would increase by 270 million dollars in that span (all going to tax 
revenue), and those who reduce the number of years spent as a smoker would spend 
12.5 billion dollars less on cigarettes. Total smoking-related medical costs 
would drop by 188 billion dollars. These benefits increase greatly with larger 
tax increases, with which tax revenues continue to rise even as smoking 
prevalence falls.
CONCLUSIONS: Even considering benefits from the 1999 increase, California has 
not yet maximized the potential of excise taxes to lessen the negative impacts 
of smoking. Additional tax increases would provide added health benefits and 
revenue to the state.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2004.10.024
PMID: 15917022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Med Sci Monit. 2005 Jun;11(6):BR168-175. Epub 2005 May 25.

The implantation of a permanent transvenous endocardial pacemaker in 42 dogs: a 
retrospective study.

Domenech O(1), Santilli R, Pradelli D, Bussadori C.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Veterinaria Gran Sasso, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The primary indication for pacemaker therapy in dogs and cats is 
symptomatic bradyarrhythmia that does not respond to medical treatment. 
Different techniques have been used for pacemaker implantation since 1968. 
Transvenous endocardial pacemaker implantation is a minimally invasive method 
and represents the first choice of treatment for this type of arrhythmia.
MATERIAL/METHODS: The authors reviewed retrospectively the indications, 
efficacy, complications, and long-term outcome in 42 cases of transvenous 
endocardial pacemaker implantation in dogs.
RESULTS: Complications which required a second intervention occurred in 10 dogs 
(23.8%), while complications that did not require another procedure occurred in 
5 dogs (11.9%). Two of the 42 patients died due to the pacemaker implantation 
(mortality: 4.76%). The mean survival age of those patients with a pacemaker 
that survived the procedure was 11.4 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The life expectancy of our patients carrying a pacemaker was higher 
than the general life expectancy published in a study on a large population of 
dogs. The low mortality rate and long life expectancy of dogs treated makes 
transvenous pacemaker implantation an efficacious and safe alternative for 
treatment of those bradyarrhythmias that do not respond to medical therapy.

PMID: 15917711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Semin Liver Dis. 2005;25(2):171-80. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-871197.

Prognostic prediction in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.

Sala M(1), Forner A, Varela M, Bruix J.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer, 08036 Barcelona, Spain.

With most solid tumors, the estimation of life expectancy is related to tumor 
stage at diagnosis and staging is directly linked to treatment indication. By 
contrast, in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) the prediction of 
prognosis is more complex. There is no worldwide consensus on the use of any HCC 
staging system. Classifications that take into account only one of the relevant 
prognostic parameters, such as tumor, nodes, and metastasis (TNM) or Child-Pugh 
staging, are useless. Several scoring systems have been developed, but 
unfortunately their major capacity is to identify end-stage patients and they do 
not link staging with therapy. The Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staging 
system was developed according to the results of cohort studies and randomized 
clinical trials. It considers tumor stage, liver functional status, physical 
status, and cancer-related symptoms and, by dividing patients into early, 
intermediate, advanced, and end-stage categories, provides a link to treatment 
indication.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-871197
PMID: 15918146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Arch Bronconeumol. 2005 May;41(5):260-6. doi: 10.1016/s1579-2129(06)60220-6.

[Survival in a cohort of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: 
comparison between primary and tertiary levels of care].

[Article in Spanish]

Rico-Méndez FG(1), Barquera S, Múgica-Hernández JJ, Espinosa Pérez JL, Ortega S, 
Ochoa LG.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Neumología. Hospital General Gaudencio González Garza. Centro 
Médico Nacional La Raza IMSS. México DF. México.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cumulative probability of survival in a cohort of 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) attended at primary 
and tertiary levels of health care.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: A cohort study was carried out at the Department of 
Pneumology of the Centro Medico Nacional La Raza (Mexico DF) on 87 of the 114 
patients with confirmed diagnosis of COPD. All patients followed a 6-month 
physical activity and educational program. Patients underwent the COPD 
diagnostic tests recommended by the American Thoracic Society and were 
randomized and distributed in 2 groups: Group A had 44 patients who received 
tertiary care, and Group B had 43 who received primary care. Follow up lasted 
from 1993 to 2001. Exacerbations, hospital admissions, exercise duration, 
hospital stay, and death or study abandonment were recorded for all patients. 
Respiratory function tests were performed annually. Annual and total mortality, 
distribution by sex, loss in life expectancy, mean age at death, and cumulative 
probability of survival were analyzed.
RESULTS: No differences were found between the groups in population or initial 
characteristics. Respiratory function declined in both groups, although the 
decline was smaller in Group A: mean (SD) forced expired volume in 1 second, 
8.93% (8.72%) compared with 17.71% (2.51%) and annual drop in blood pressure of 
1.39 mm Hg compared with 1.95 mm Hg. Annual exacerbations were 0.23 in Group A 
compared with 2.07 in Group B; hospitalizations, 0.06 compared with 0.92, and 
length of stay, 15.76 days compared with 17.32 days. Mean age at death was 66.12 
compared with 60.6; loss of life expectancy was 13.88 years lost compared with 
19.4, and the cumulative probability of survival was 0 compared with 0.224.
CONCLUSIONS: There are many reasons for the differences found: better medical 
management, health education, and family involvement at the tertiary level. 
These factors, included in international COPD guidelines, must be incorporated 
into primary health care.

DOI: 10.1016/s1579-2129(06)60220-6
PMID: 15919007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Lancet Infect Dis. 2005 Jun;5(6):383-91. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(05)70142-0.

A synthesis of cost-utility analysis literature in infectious disease.

Stone PW(1), Schackman BR, Neukermans CP, Olchanski N, Greenberg D, Rosen AB, 
Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University School of Nursing, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
ps2024@columbia.edu

The purpose of this review is to understand infectious disease-related 
cost-utility analyses by describing published analyses, examining growth and 
quality trends over time, examining factors related to quality, and summarising 
standardised results. 122 cost-utility analyses and 352 cost-utility ratios were 
identified. Pharmaceutical interventions were most common (47.5%); three author 
groups accounted for 42.8% of pharmaceutical ratios. High-volume journals (three 
or more published cost-utility analyses) published higher quality analyses than 
low-volume journals (p<0.001). Use of probabilistic sensitivity analysis and 
discounting at 3% were more frequently found in the years after the US Public 
Health Service Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine 
recommendations (p<0.01). Median ratios varied from US13,500 
dollars/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for immunisations to US810,000 
dollars/QALY for blood safety. Publication of infectious disease cost-utility 
analyses is increasing. The results of cost-utility analyses have important 
implications for the development of clinical guidelines and resource allocation 
decisions. More trained investigators and better peer-review processes are 
needed.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(05)70142-0
PMID: 15919624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Drug Metab Dispos. 2005 Sep;33(9):1294-6. doi: 10.1124/dmd.105.004135. Epub
2005  May 26.

A mathematical description of the functionality of correction factors used in 
allometry for predicting human drug clearance.

Tang H(1), Mayersohn M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, The University of 
Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA.

Comment in
    Drug Metab Dispos. 2006 Mar;34(3):507-9; author reply 510-1.

The functionality of the correction factors, maximum life-span potential (MLP), 
and brain weight (BrW) used in allometry is mathematically described. Correction 
by MLP or BrW is equivalent to a multiplication of some constants by the 
predicted values in humans from simple allometry, but they have no relationship 
to measured pharmacokinetic parameters in the animal species. The values of 
these constants (F(MLP) or F(BrW)) were calculated for some commonly used 
combinations of animal species. For all combinations of animal species, the 
value of F(BrW) is always greater than that of F(MLP) with a fold-increase of 
about 1.3 to 1.9. Different combinations of species give different values of 
F(BrW) and F(MLP). In addition, the role of correction factors (MLP and BrW) or 
the "rule of exponents" (ROE) was evaluated. An intrinsic defect in using 
correction factors or ROE was revealed; different study designs will produce 
significantly different prediction results. However, ROE may still serve as a 
useful practical approach in predicting human CL since it was derived from real 
observations and has been applied to many examples.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.105.004135
PMID: 15919851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Palliat Med. 2005 Apr;19(3):228-33. doi: 10.1191/0269216305pm1001oa.

Symptom distress as rated by advanced cancer patients, caregivers and physicians 
in the last week of life.

Oi-Ling K(1), Man-Wah DT, Kam-Hung DN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine & Geriatrics, Caritas Medical Centre, Shamshuipo, 
Kowloon, Hong Kong SAR.

OBJECTIVES: To study the symptom distress as rated by patients with advanced 
cancer during their last week of life, and to compare patients' ratings with 
those perceived by caregivers and physicians.
METHOD: This was a prospective study on all patients admitted to the Hospice 
Unit of the Caritas Medical Centre with an estimated life expectancy of two 
weeks or less from May 2002 to September 2002. A questionnaire with a list of 13 
symptoms, including pain, dyspnoea, nausea, vomiting, dry mouth, cough, fatigue, 
cachexia, anorexia, constipation, diarrhoea, insomnia and haemoptysis, was 
administered to assess the distress. Distress was rated by a verbal rating scale 
consisting of five grades (grade 0 to grade 4). Patients, caregivers and 
physicians completed the questionnaire weekly until the patient died. Only the 
questionnaires completed in the last week of life were included for analysis.
RESULTS: Of 82 patients who were recruited in the study, 30 patients were able 
to complete the questionnaire within the last week of life. Their median age was 
69 years and the gender ratio was 1:1. Lung cancer was the most common primary 
tumour. Fatigue, cachexia and anorexia caused distress of all grades in nearly 
all 30 patients and caused significant distress of grade 3 and above in 
two-thirds of patients. Neither the caregivers nor the physicians gave congruent 
distress scores for these three symptoms (kappa<0.4). Caregivers' ratings agreed 
well with those of patients for five symptoms (kappa>0.4, P<0.005), including 
dyspnoea, cough, dry mouth, constipation and insomnia. For physicians, good 
agreement was found for three symptoms only, including pain, dyspnoea and cough. 
Moreover, physicians tended to underrate the distress.
CONCLUSION: Fatigue, cachexia and anorexia were the three most distressful 
symptoms in the last week of life in this group of patients, but caregivers and 
physicians failed to rate them in agreement with patients.

DOI: 10.1191/0269216305pm1001oa
PMID: 15920937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Palliat Med. 2005 Apr;19(3):251-8. doi: 10.1191/0269216305pm1005oa.

Access and equity in HIV/AIDS palliative care: a review of the evidence and 
responses.

Harding R(1), Easterbrook P, Higginson IJ, Karus D, Raveis VH, Marconi K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Palliative Care and Policy, GKT Medical School, King's College 
London, Weston Education Centre, London SE5 9RJ, UK. richard.harding@kcl.ac.uk

The high prevalence of pain and other symptoms throughout the HIV disease 
trajectory, the need for management of side effects related to antiretroviral 
therapy, the continuing incidence of cancers and new emerging co-morbidities as 
a result of extended life expectancy under new therapeutic regimes, and the 
ongoing need for terminal care all prove the curative versus palliative 
dichotomy to be inappropriate. Although there is evidence for both need and 
effectiveness of palliative care in HIV patient care, access is often poor and 
care less than optimal. This review aimed to identify evidence of barriers and 
inequalities in HIV palliative care in order to inform policy and service 
development. Biomedical databases were searched using a specific strategy, and 
evidence extracted into the barrier and inequity categories of patient, 
clinician, service and disease factors. A model of the barriers and inequalities 
is presented from the evidence. Recommendations are made from the evidence for 
promoting access and outcomes through integrated palliative care from diagnosis 
to end-of-life, alongside antiretroviral therapy when initiated. Service 
responses that have attempted to increase access to palliative care are 
presented.

DOI: 10.1191/0269216305pm1005oa
PMID: 15920940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Spring;21(2):180-6.

Cost of lipid lowering in patients with coronary artery disease by case method 
learning.

Kiessling A(1), Zethraeus N, Henriksson P.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institute and Danderyd University Hospital, Sweden. 
anna.kiessling@kids.ki.se

OBJECTIVES: This investigation was undertaken to study the costs of a Case 
Method Learning (CML)-supported lipid-lowering strategy in secondary prevention 
of coronary artery disease (CAD) in primary care.
METHODS: This prospective randomized controlled trial in primary care with an 
additional external specialist control group in Södertälje, Stockholm County, 
Sweden, included 255 consecutive patients with CAD. Guidelines were mailed to 
all general practitioners (GPs; n=54) and presented at a common lecture. GPs who 
were randomized to the intervention group participated in recurrent CML 
dialogues at their primary health-care centers during a 2-year period. A locally 
well-known cardiologist served as a facilitator. Assessment of low-density 
lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol was performed at baseline and after 2 years. 
Analysis according to intention-to-treat-intervention and control groups 
(n=88)--was based on group affiliation at baseline. The marginal cost of lipid 
lowering comprised increased cost of lipid-lowering drugs in the intervention 
group compared with the primary care control group, cost of attendance of the 
GP's in the intervention group, and cost of time for preparation, travel, and 
seminars of the facilitator. Costs are as of 2002 with an exchange rate 1 U.S. 
dollar = 9.5 SEK (Swedish Crowns).
RESULTS: Patients in the primary care intervention group had their LDL 
cholesterol reduced by 0.5 (confidence interval [CI], 0.1-0.9) mmol/L compared 
with the primary care control group (p < .05). No change occurred in controls. 
LDL cholesterol in the external specialist control group decreased by 0.6 (CI, 
0.4-0.8) mmol/L. The cost of the educational intervention represented only 2 
percent of the drug cost. The cost of lipid lowering in the intervention group, 
including the cost of the educational intervention, was actually lower than that 
of patients treated at the specialist clinic--106 U.S. dollar per mmol decrease 
in LDL cholesterol in the intervention group and 153 U.S. dollar per mmol 
decrease in LDL cholesterol in the specialist group. EuroQol 5D Index, which 
gives an estimate of global health-related quality of life, was 0.80 (CI, 
0.75-0.85) in the present cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: The additional cost of CML was only 2 percent of the drug cost. 
Assuming the same gain in life expectancy per millimole decrease in LDL 
cholesterol as in the 4S-study gives a cost per gained quality-adjusted life 
year of U.S. dollar 24,000. This finding indicates that the CML-supported 
lipid-lowering strategy is cost-effective. The low cost of CML in primary care 
should probably warrant its use in the improvement of the quality of care in 
other major chronic diseases.

PMID: 15921057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

