complication. In the multivariate analysis, urgent procedure, mitral valve 
surgery and presentation of any postoperative complication were identified as 
predictors of mortality, and female sex was identified as a risk factor for 
postoperative morbidity. Survival at one, 3 and 5 years was 91.20%, 80.73% and 
69.20%, respectively. 98.7% of the patients were in I-II NYHA functional class 
and 92.5% satisfied with overall surgery outcome when they were interviewed.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite more preoperative co-morbidity and worse functional class, 
cardiac surgery in octogenarians can be performed with an acceptable mortality. 
Our patients have a satisfactory quality of life and would undergo a cardiac 
surgery procedure again. Specific measurements in preoperative and immediate 
postoperative periods, in order to reduce higher morbidity rates, are advisable.

DOI: 10.1157/13084535
PMID: 16469277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Eur J Public Health. 2006 Apr;16(2):185-92. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cki163. Epub
 2006 Feb 9.

The German cervical cancer screening model: development and validation of a 
decision-analytic model for cervical cancer screening in Germany.

Siebert U(1), Sroczynski G, Hillemanns P, Engel J, Stabenow R, Stegmaier C, 
Voigt K, Gibis B, HÃ¶lzel D, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, UMIT-- University of Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and 
Technology, Hall i.T., Austria. uwe.siebert@umit.at

BACKGROUND: We sought to develop and validate a decision-analytic model for the 
natural history of cervical cancer for the German health care context and to 
apply it to cervical cancer screening.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model for the natural history of cervical cancer 
and cervical cancer screening in the German health care context. The model 
reflects current German practice standards for screening, diagnostic follow-up 
and treatment regarding cervical cancer and its precursors. Data for disease 
progression and cervical cancer survival were obtained from the literature and 
German cancer registries. Accuracy of Papanicolaou (Pap) testing was based on 
meta-analyses. We performed internal and external model validation using 
observed epidemiological data for unscreened women from different German cancer 
registries. The model predicts life expectancy, incidence of detected cervical 
cancer cases, lifetime cervical cancer risks and mortality.
RESULTS: The model predicted a lifetime cervical cancer risk of 3.0% and a 
lifetime cervical cancer mortality of 1.0%, with a peak cancer incidence of 
84/100,000 at age 51 years. These results were similar to observed data from 
German cancer registries, German literature data and results from other 
international models. Based on our model, annual Pap screening could prevent 
98.7% of diagnosed cancer cases and 99.6% of deaths due to cervical cancer in 
women completely adherent to screening and compliant to treatment. Extending the 
screening interval from 1 year to 2, 3 or 5 years resulted in reduced screening 
effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: This model provides a tool for evaluating the long-term 
effectiveness of different cervical cancer screening tests and strategies.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cki163
PMID: 16469759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006 Feb;83(2):404S-409S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/83.2.404S.

What is healthy aging in the 21st century?

Westendorp RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, Netherlands. r.g.j.westendorp@lumc.nl

In the coming years, human aging will be one of the biggest challenges faced by 
industrialized countries. The average life expectancy is continuously increasing 
and we may be faced with spending more years in poor health. Because aging is a 
relatively modern phenomenon, we lack knowledge for a proper understanding of 
this process. Current biological thinking emphasizes that organisms are encoded 
for early survival and reproduction, humans not excluded. Aging is not 
programmed nor is it inevitable. Life span is the result of the interactions 
between genes and the environment in which we live. In the original habitat, 
genes encoding early survival and reproduction were optimized in an everlasting 
attempt to increase fitness and prevent the species from extinction. Aging is 
best explained as a cost of optimizing fitness because investments in body 
maintenance and repair cannot be maximized. The environment also determines how 
a gene influencing life span is expressed over a lifetime. When the conditions 
in which we live significantly improve, mortality decreases, evolutionary 
pressures for early survival and reproduction relax, and further resources can 
be invested in body maintenance and repair, which increases both average life 
expectancy and maximum life span. Increasing our understanding of the aging 
process and applying available interventions will help to protect and preserve 
healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/83.2.404S
PMID: 16470003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006 Feb;83(2):410S-414S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/83.2.410S.

Evidence for nutritional benefits in prolonging wellness.

Kennedy ET(1).

Author information:
(1)Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University, Boston, MA 
02111, USA. eileen.kennedy@tufts.edu

Healthy aging involves the interaction between genes, the environment, and 
lifestyle factors, particularly diet and physical activity. Worldwide, the 
increase in life span has led to an increase in morbidity and mortality as the 
result of chronic, lifestyle-influenced diseases such as type 2 diabetes, 
cardiovascular disease, and cancer. Nutrient deficiency diseases are giving way 
to energy imbalances, and links between diet and chronic disease are becoming 
clearer. The global demographic, epidemiologic, and nutrition transitions are 
dramatic and point to an urgent need to focus on preventive approaches in health 
care. Thus, nutrition research has shifted from focusing exclusively on 
alleviating nutrient deficiencies to also stressing chronic disease prevention. 
Ongoing initiatives to optimize long-term health and promote healthy aging are 
based on the concept of functional fitness, ie, the ability to lead an active 
and healthy life. The Dietary Reference Intakes provide a framework for 
assessing nutrient adequacy at the population and individual levels. In 
addition, the Healthy Eating Index provides a single summary measure of diet 
quality. To effect changes in lifestyles to optimize health as we age, health 
care providers need to consider all the lifestyle and environmental factors 
contributing to suboptimal eating and lifestyle patterns.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/83.2.410S
PMID: 16470004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006 Feb;83(2):415S-420S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/83.2.415S.

Starting down the right path: nutrition connections with chronic diseases of 
later life.

Dwyer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy and School of Medicine, Tufts 
University, Boston, MA 02111, USA. jdwyer1@tufts-nemc.org

Thirty years have been added to the average life expectancy of Americans over 
the past century. It is a reasonable expectation that Americans will achieve an 
average life span of > or =100 y within this century. The most dramatic 
decreases in early-life and midlife mortality coincided with advances in 
medicine; curative medicine has played a lesser role. The aging of the 
population alone has already increased health care costs, and as we move toward 
even longer lives, these costs will likely increase even more. Therefore, 
establishing and safeguarding optimal health from early life must become 
increasingly important concerns for governments and health care providers if 
they are to allocate resources wisely and ensure and maintain a high quality of 
life in the population. A prevention-oriented, life cycle approach is critical 
to establishing and maintaining health throughout life. This approach can delay 
and compress morbidity and the social toll associated with chronic disease and 
disability for as long as possible into old age. Good evidence exists that early 
nutrition affects key risk factors for chronic degenerative diseases of middle 
and later life, such as osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease. The influence 
of nutrition on health status and morbidity supports primary, secondary, and 
tertiary prevention of disease and intervention strategies at each point in the 
process. The objective of such a prevention-oriented model is to enable people 
to live well for longer, while minimizing chronic disability. Starting down the 
right path with appropriate nutrition and staying on it by eating well are 
important components of healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/83.2.415S
PMID: 16470005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Int J Palliat Nurs. 2005 Nov;11(11):572, 574-9; discussion 579. doi: 
10.12968/ijpn.2005.11.11.20097.

A guide to wound managment in palliative care.

Naylor WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Wellington Blood and Cancer Centre, Wellington Hospital, New Zealand.

Wound management in palliative patients is often a very challenging area of 
care. There are many unique issues that can combine to produce complicated wound 
management scenarios, including the types of wounds and wound symptoms most 
commonly affecting palliative care patients, as well as the presence of 
concurrent disease and associated treatment. Problems exist with the 
availability of suitable dressings and balancing life expectancy with the goals 
of wound care. A significant, and possibly under-recognized, issue is the 
emotional and social distress experienced by these patients, which can be 
directly attributed to their wound. These problems must all be recognized and 
addressed in order to manage wounds effectively in this patient population. This 
article aims to explore these issues and offer advice on the management of 
wound-related symptoms, with the ultimate goal of improving patients' quality of 
life.

DOI: 10.12968/ijpn.2005.11.11.20097
PMID: 16471044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Mayo Clin Proc. 2006 Feb;81(2):159-66. doi: 10.4065/81.2.159.

Essential thrombocythemia beyond the first decade: life expectancy, long-term 
complication rates, and prognostic factors.

Wolanskyj AP(1), Schwager SM, McClure RF, Larson DR, Tefferi A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 200 First St SW, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA. Wolanskyj.alexandra@mayo.edu

Comment in
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2006 Feb;81(2):157-8.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the long-term natural history of essential 
thrombocythemia (ET) in terms of life expectancy, risk of disease transformation 
Into a more aggressive myeloid disorder, and prognostic factors for both 
survival and disease complications.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study population consisted of a consecutive cohort of 
patients seen at the Mayo Clinic In Rochester, Minn, in whom a diagnosis of ET 
was established before 1992, thus allowing a minimum of 10 years of potential 
follow-up. The conventional criteria-based diagnosis was confirmed by bone 
marrow biopsy in all Instances.
RESULTS: A total of 322 patients were studied (median age, 54 years; median 
follow-up, 13.6 years). With a median survival time of 18.9 years, survival in 
the first decade of disease was similar to that of the control population (risk 
ratio, 0.72; 95% confidence interval, 0.50-0.99) but became significantly worse 
thereafter (risk ratio, 2.21; 95% confidence Interval, 1.74-2.76). Multivariable 
analysis identified age at diagnosis of 60 years or older, leukocytosis, tobacco 
use, and diabetes mellitus as Independent predictors of poor survival. A 
2-variable model based on an age cutoff of 60 years and leukocyte count of 15 x 
10(9)/L resulted in 3 risk groups with significant difference in survival. In 
addition, age at diagnosis of 60 years or older, leukocytosis, and history of 
thrombosis were independent predictors of major thrombotic events. The risk of 
leukemic or any myeloid disease transformation was low in the first 10 years 
(1.4% and 9.1%, respectively) but increased substantially in the second (8.1% 
and 28.3%, respectively) and third (24.0% and 58.5%, respectively) decades of 
the disease.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy in patients with ET is significantly worse than that 
of the control population. Leukocytosis is identified as a novel independent 
risk factor for both inferior survival and thrombotic events.

DOI: 10.4065/81.2.159
PMID: 16471068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. J Soc Biol. 2005;199(3):233-41. doi: 10.1051/jbio:2005024.

[Autophagy in cell survival and death].

[Article in French]

Codogno P(1).

Author information:
(1)INSERM U504, Institut AndrÃ© Lwoff UniversitÃ© Paris XI, 16, avenue 
Paul-Vaillant-Couturier, 94807 Villejuif Cedex. codogno@vjf.inserm.fr

Macroautophagy hereafter referred to as autophagy is a major lysosomal catabolic 
pathway for macromolecules and organelles conserved in eukaryotic cells. The 
discovery of the molecular basis of autophagy has uncovered its importance 
during development, life extension and in pathologies such as cancer, certain 
forms of myopathies and neurodegenerative diseases. Autophagy is a cell survival 
mechanism during starvation that is controlled by amino acids. 
Starvation-induced autophagy is an anti-apoptotic mechanism. However autophagy 
is also an alternative to apoptosis through autophagic cell death. In many 
situations apoptosis and autophagy can both contribute to cell dismantlement.

DOI: 10.1051/jbio:2005024
PMID: 16471263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Curr Vasc Pharmacol. 2006 Jan;4(1):45-57. doi: 10.2174/157016106775203081.

Towards newer molecular targets for chronic diabetic complications.

Khan ZA(1), Farhangkhoee H, Chakrabarti S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.

Prior to the discovery of insulin, the major cause of death in the diabetic 
population was ketoacidosis. Although insulin and improved glycemic control have 
improved the longevity of diabetic patients, they still suffer from significant 
morbidity and mortality due to chronic secondary complications. Long standing 
diabetes leads to structural and functional alterations in both the micro- and 
macrovasculature. These complications, involving the retina, kidney, and 
peripheral nerves, as well as cardiovascular system, severely compromise the 
quality and expectancy of life. Large scale clinical trials have identified 
hyperglycemia as the key determinant for the development of such complications. 
Therapeutic modalities have been developed to target glucose-induced 
alterations, such as protein kinase C activation, augmented polyol pathway 
activity, non-enzymatic glycation and oxidative stress to ameliorate chronic 
complications. However, clinical trials targeting these biochemical alterations 
have failed to show significant beneficial effects. The plethora of biochemical 
anomalies that govern the development of chronic diabetic complications may 
therefore be subject to cross-interaction and complex interplays. Studies in 
both animal and human diabetes have, however, showed alteration of several 
vasoactive effector molecules such as endothelins. These molecules may be 
instrumental in mediating diabetes-induced structural and functional deficits at 
both the early and late stages of the disease. This review will discuss the 
current mechanistic understanding of chronic diabetic complications and will 
explore the potential novel therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.2174/157016106775203081
PMID: 16472176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. BMC Fam Pract. 2006 Feb 11;7:9. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-7-9.

Older adults' beliefs about physician-estimated life expectancy: a 
cross-sectional survey.

Kistler CE(1), Lewis CL, Amick HR, Bynum DL, Walter LC, Watson LC.

Author information:
(1)Family Medicine, University of Michigan, Ypsilanti, MI 48198, USA. 
ckistler@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Estimates of life expectancy assist physicians and patients in 
medical decision-making. The time-delayed benefits for many medical treatments 
make an older adult's life expectancy estimate particularly important for 
physicians. The purpose of this study is to assess older adults' beliefs about 
physician-estimated life expectancy.
METHODS: We performed a mixed qualitative-quantitative cross-sectional study in 
which 116 healthy adults aged 70+ were recruited from two local retirement 
communities. We interviewed them regarding their beliefs about 
physician-estimated life expectancy in the context of a larger study on cancer 
screening beliefs. Semi-structured interviews of 80 minutes average duration 
were performed in private locations convenient to participants. Demographic 
characteristics as well as cancer screening beliefs and beliefs about life 
expectancy were measured. Two independent researchers reviewed the open-ended 
responses and recorded the most common themes. The research team resolved 
disagreements by consensus.
RESULTS: This article reports the life-expectancy results portion of the larger 
study. The study group (n = 116) was comprised of healthy, well-educated older 
adults, with almost a third over 85 years old, and none meeting criteria for 
dementia. Sixty-four percent (n = 73) felt that their physicians could not 
correctly estimate their life expectancy. Sixty-six percent (n = 75) wanted 
their physicians to talk with them about their life expectancy. The themes that 
emerged from our study indicate that discussions of life expectancy could help 
older adults plan for the future, maintain open communication with their 
physicians, and provide them knowledge about their medical conditions.
CONCLUSION: The majority of the healthy older adults in this study were open to 
discussions about life expectancy in the context of discussing cancer screening 
tests, despite awareness that their physicians' estimates could be inaccurate. 
Since about a third of participants perceived these discussions as not useful or 
even harmful, physicians should first ascertain patients' preferences before 
discussing their life expectancies.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-7-9
PMCID: PMC1386682
PMID: 16472399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. J Mol Biol. 2006 Mar 31;357(3):904-16. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2006.01.043. Epub
2006  Jan 30.

Analysis of the secondary structure of expansion segment 39 in ribosomes from 
fungi, plants and mammals.

NygÃ¥rd O(1), Alkemar G, Larsson SL.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, SÃ¶dertÃ¶rns hÃ¶gskola, Box 4101, S-141 04 Huddinge, 
Sweden. odd.nygard@sh.se

The structure of expansion segment 39, ES39, in eukaryotic 23 S-like ribosomal 
RNA was analysed using a combination of chemical and enzymic reagents. Ribosomes 
were isolated from yeast, wheat, mouse, rat and rabbit, five organisms 
representing three different eukaryotic kingdoms. The isolated ribosomes were 
treated with structure-sensitive chemical and enzymic reagents and the 
modification patterns analysed by primer extension and gel electrophoresis on an 
ABI 377 automated DNA sequencer. The expansion segment was relatively accessible 
to modification by both enzymic and chemical probes, suggesting that ES39 was 
exposed on the surface of the ribosomes. The collected modification data were 
used in secondary structure modelling of the expansion segment. Despite 
considerable variation in both sequence and length between organisms from 
different kingdoms, the structure analysis of the expansion segment gave rise to 
structural fingerprints that allowed identification of homologous structures in 
ES39 from fungi, plants and mammals. The homologous structures formed an initial 
helix and an invariant hairpin connected to the initial helix via a long 
single-stranded loop. The remaining part of the ES39 sequences accounted for 
most of the length variation seen between the analysed species. This part could 
form additional, albeit less similar, hairpins. A comparison of ES39 sequences 
from other fungi, plants and mammals showed that identical structures could be 
formed in these organisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2006.01.043
PMID: 16473366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2005 Nov;2(11):538-45. doi: 10.1038/ncpuro0320.

What is the place of internal urethrotomy in the treatment of urethral stricture 
disease?

NaudÃ© AM(1), Heyns CF.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Stellenbosch and Tygerberg 
Hospital, Tygerberg, South Africa.

As a treatment for male urethral stricture, internal urethrotomy (IU) has the 
advantages of ease, simplicity, speed and short convalescence. Various 
modifications of the single cold-knife incision in the 12 o'clock position have 
been proposed, but there are no prospective, randomized studies to prove their 
claims of greater efficacy. IU can be performed as an outpatient procedure using 
local anesthesia, with an indwelling silicone catheter for 3 days after the 
procedure. Complications of IU are usually minor, including infection and 
hemorrhage. The reported success rate of IU varies, mainly because of 
differences in the definition of success and the duration of follow-up. 
Strictures can recur, usually within 3-12 months of IU. There are several known 
risk factors for recurrence: a previous IU, penile and membranous strictures, 
long (>2 cm) and multiple strictures, untreated perioperative urinary infection 
and extensive periurethral spongiofibrosis. Repeated IU might be useful in 
patients who have a stricture recurrence more than 6 months after the initial 
procedure, but repeat IU offers no long-term cure after a third IU, or if a 
stricture recurs within 3 months of the first IU. Such patients should be 
offered urethroplasty. Repeated IU followed by long-term self-dilation is an 
alternative option for men with severe comorbidity and limited life expectancy, 
or those who have failed previous urethroplasty. Overall, IU has a lower success 
rate (+/-60%) than urethroplasty (+/-80-90%), but if used for selected 
strictures, the success rate of IU could approach that of urethroplasty.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpuro0320
PMID: 16474597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2005 Mar;2(3):136-42; quiz 1 p following 149. doi: 
10.1038/ncpuro0124.

Active surveillance with selective delayed intervention is the way to manage 
'good-risk' prostate cancer.

Klotz L(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Sunnybrook & Women's College Health Sciences Centre, 
Toronto, Canada. Laurence.klotz@sw.ca

This review summarizes the case for active surveillance of 'good-risk' prostate 
cancer, with selective delayed intervention for rapid biochemical progression, 
assessed by rising prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels or grade progression. 
The results of a large phase II trial using this approach are also reviewed. A 
prospective phase II study of active surveillance with selective delayed 
intervention was initiated in 1995. Patients were managed initially with 
surveillance; those who had a PSA doubling time (PSADT) of < or = 2 years, or 
grade progression on repeat biopsy, were offered radical intervention. The 
remaining patients were closely monitored. The cohort now consists of 299 
patients with good-risk--or, in men over 70 years of age, 
intermediate-risk--prostate cancer. The median PSADT was 7 years, 42% had a 
PSADT > 10 years. The majority of patients remain on surveillance. At 8 years, 
overall actuarial survival was 85%, and disease-specific survival was 99%. To 
date, this study has shown that most men with 'good-risk' prostate cancer will 
die of unrelated causes. The approach of active surveillance with selective 
delayed intervention based on PSADT represents a practical compromise between 
radical therapy for all patients, which results in overtreatment for patients 
with indolent disease, and watchful waiting with palliative therapy only, which 
results in undertreatment for those with aggressive disease. The results at 8 
years were favorable. Longer follow-up will be required if the study is to 
confirm the safety of this approach in men with a long life expectancy (> 15 
years).

DOI: 10.1038/ncpuro0124
PMID: 16474710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Am Nat. 2005 Dec;166(6):E155-76. doi: 10.1086/444439. Epub 2005 Oct 4.

A life-history perspective on short- and long-term consequences of compensatory 
growth.

Mangel M(1), Munch SB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Stock Assessment Research, Department of Applied Mathematics and 
Statistics, University of California, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA. 
msmangel@ucsb.edu

Compensatory or catch-up growth (CG) is widely observed following periods of 
resource deprivation. Because of this commonness, it is generally assumed that 
compensatory growth is adaptive, but most theory to date has explicitly ignored 
considerations of fitness. Following a period of deprivation, when resources 
become plentiful again, individuals may not respond at all and continue on a 
"normal" trajectory from a smaller size at age, may exhibit faster-than-normal 
growth immediately following the end of the period, or may adopt a growth 
strategy that involves faster-than-normal growth at some later time. 
Compensating individuals may also overtake control individuals who have been 
growing normally throughout. We hypothesize that the key to understanding CG is 
that growth leads to the accumulation of damage at the cellular level that is 
expressed (and thus must be modeled) at the level of the organism. We show that 
a life-history model incorporating the mortality consequences of both size and 
damage provides a framework for understanding compensatory growth. We use the 
theory to classify physiological and life-history characteristics for which CG 
is predicted to be the optimal response to deprivation.

DOI: 10.1086/444439
PMID: 16475079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Cancer. 2006 Mar 15;106(6):1339-46. doi: 10.1002/cncr.21741.

A Phase II study of gemcitabine and cisplatin in advanced biliary tract cancer.

Kim ST(1), Park JO, Lee J, Lee KT, Lee JK, Choi SH, Heo JS, Park YS, Kang WK, 
Park K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical 
Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 50 Ilwon-dong, Kangnam-gu, 
Seoul 135-710, Korea.

BACKGROUND: The authors performed a Phase II study of combination chemotherapy 
with gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with inoperable biliary tract cancer 
to evaluate efficacy and toxicity of this combination. In addition, the 
correlation between the CA 19-9 response and clinical outcome was analyzed.
METHODS: The eligibility criteria for this study were 1) histologically or 
cytologically confirmed inoperable biliary tract cancer in patients with 
metastatic or recurrent disease; 2) age between 18 and 70 years; 3) at least 1 
measurable lesion according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 
(RECIST) criteria; 4) an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance 
status < or = 2; 5) a life expectancy of at least 3 mos; and 6) adequate bone 
marrow, hepatic, and renal function. The patients received gemcitabine (1250 
mg/m(2), Days 1 and 8) and cisplatin (60 mg/m(2), Day 1) every 3 weeks. Tumor 
response was assessed by RECIST criteria every 2 cycles of chemotherapy. 
Treatment was continued until progression of disease was documented.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients were enrolled. The median age of these patients 
was 52 years (range, 37 to 69 yrs), and the median ECOG performance status was 
1. No complete response was observed, and 10 of 29 patients had partial 
responses. The overall response rate was 34.5% (95% confidence interval [CI], 
17.9-54.3) for the intent-to-treat analysis. Stable disease was observed in 4 
(13.8%) patients and progressive disease in 13 (44.8%) patients. The median 
follow-up time was 10.0 months (95% CI, 7.2-12.8). The median time to 
progression (TTP) was 3.0 months (95% CI, 2.12-3.88), and the median overall 
survival was 11 months (95% CI, 5.49-16.5). Although these results showed a 
better response rate (57.1 % vs. 27.3%) and survival (12 vs. 10 mos) in patients 
with a decline in CA 19-9 of at least 25%, these data were statistically not 
significant. In addition, there was a significant positive correlation between 
the increment in CA 19-9 values and tumor progression as determined with RECIST 
criteria (r = 0.96, P < 0.01). However, there was no definite correlation 
between the CA 19-9 response and the response according to RECIST criteria (P = 
0.087). National Cancer Institute (NCI) common toxicity criteria (CTC) Grade 3 
or 4 hematologic toxicities included neutropenia in 4 (14%) patients and anemia 
in 1 (3%) patient. Two of 4 patients with Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia had febrile 
episodes (7%) and required hospital admissions. NCI-CTC Grade 3 or 4 
nonhematologic toxicity included nausea in 1 (3%) patient. There were no 
treatment-related deaths.
CONCLUSION: The combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin in 
inoperable biliary tract cancer was tolerable for most patients and showed 
modest response rates. The role of CA 19-9 monitoring as a surrogate biomarker 
in patients with BTC treated with gemcitabine chemotherapy should be further 
investigated.

(c) 2006 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.21741
PMID: 16475213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Actas Dermosifiliogr. 2005 Apr;96(3):164-6. doi:
10.1016/s0001-7310(05)73059-3.

[Lipoid proteinosis].

[Article in Spanish]

MiguÃ©lez A(1), GÃ³mez C, Escalas J, MartÃ­n A, Mestre F.

Author information:
(1)SecciÃ³n de DermatologÃ­a, Hospital Universitario Son Dureta, Avda. Andrea 
Doria 55, 07014 Palma de Mallorca, Spain. anamig@telefonica.net

Lipoid proteinosis is an infrequent disease characterized by the deposition of a 
PAS-positive diastase-resistant hyaline material in the skin and respiratory 
tract, although it can also be deposited in internal organs, in a generally 
asymptomatic manner. The earliest clinical manifestation is hoarseness. Clinical 
cutaneous manifestations come later, in the form of hyperkeratotic lesions 
located on the trunk, elbows, axillae, groins, backs of hands, palms and soles. 
A lesion typical of the disease is moniliform blepharosis, which consists of 
beaded papules along the eyelid margins. Also characteristic is the presence of 
comma-shaped intracranial calcifications in the temporal lobes. The course of 
the disease is progressive, with a normal life expectancy. It affects men and 
women equally, with worldwide distribution. The diagnosis is based on the 
clinical symptoms and the histology. At this time, there is no effective 
treatment for the disease. We present a case of lipoid proteinosis in a 
23-year-old woman, with typical clinical and histological characteristics.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-7310(05)73059-3
PMID: 16476358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Feb;43(2):313-8; discussion 318-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2005.10.037.

Heparin-bonded expanded polytetrafluoroethylene vascular graft for 
femoropopliteal and femorocrural bypass grafting: 1-year results.

Bosiers M(1), Deloose K, Verbist J, SchroÃ« H, Lauwers G, Lansink W, Peeters P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St. Blasius Hospital, Dendermonde, Belgium. 
marc.bosiers@telenet.be

OBJECTIVE: Several prosthetic materials have been used for femoropopliteal 
bypass grafting in patients with peripheral vascular disease in whom a venous 
bypass is not possible. Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) is the most 
commonly used, but patency results have not always equaled those achieved with 
vein, especially in below-knee reconstructions. This study assessed the 
performance of a new heparin-bonded ePTFE vascular graft that was designed to 
provide resistance to thrombosis and thereby decrease early graft failures and 
possibly prolong patency.
METHOD: From June 2002 to June 2003, 86 patients (62 men and 24 women; mean age, 
70 years; 99 diseased limbs) were enrolled prospectively in a nonrandomized, 
multicenter study of the heparin-bonded ePTFE graft. Fifty-five above-knee and 
44 below-knee (including 21 femorocrural) procedures were performed. Follow-up 
evaluations consisted of clinical examinations, ultrasonographic studies, and 
distal pulse assessments. Patency and limb salvage rates were assessed by using 
life-table analyses.
RESULTS: All grafts were patent immediately after implantation. There were no 
graft infections or episodes of prolonged anastomotic bleeding. During the 
1-year follow-up, 10 patients died, 15 grafts occluded, and 5 major amputations 
were performed. The overall primary and secondary 1-year patency rates were 82% 
and 97%, respectively. The limb salvage rate in patients with critical limb 
ischemia (n = 41) was 87%. Primary patency rates according to bypass type were 
84%, 81%, and 74% for above-knee femoropopliteal, below-knee femoropopliteal, 
and femorocrural bypasses, respectively; the corresponding secondary patency 
rates were 96%, 100%, and 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, the heparin-bonded ePTFE graft provided promising 
early patency and limb salvage results, with no device-related complications, in 
patients with occlusive vascular disease. Longer-term and randomized studies are 
warranted to determine whether this graft provides results superior to those 
achieved with other prostheses, especially in patients at increased risk of 
early graft failure, such as those undergoing below-knee bypass and those with 
poor run-off or advanced vascular disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.10.037
PMID: 16476607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Am J Prev Med. 2006 Mar;30(3):269-76. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2005.10.028.

Health burden and funding at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Curry CW(1), De AK, Ikeda RM, Thacker SB.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. 
ccurry@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: The relationship between domestic funding for selected conditions to 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the burden of disease 
and disability in the United States was assessed systematically.
METHODS: Using mortality, years of potential life lost (YPLLs), 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), hospital days, hospital discharges, and 
direct medical costs of conditions, 34 high-burden conditions addressed by CDC 
programs were identified, and information was collected about the funds spent on 
each by CDC during fiscal year (FY) 2003. The 34 conditions were grouped into 15 
categorical areas, and the relationship between budget and burden was analyzed 
using correlation and regression methods for each of the categorical areas and 
for each measure of burden.
RESULTS: Of CDC's total FY 2003 budget of $6.9 billion, 62% ($4.3 billion) of 
funding was allocated to one of the 34 conditions studied. A positive 
relationship between budget and burden was identified for all measures of 
burden, although the correlations varied for the different conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: Although examination of the relationship of CDC's budget to burden 
measures provides insight into the agency's portfolio of investments, this 
exercise also highlights a number of limitations with this approach and the 
currently available burden measures. Assessment of key public health functions 
such as emergency preparedness and the collection of vital statistics require 
development of metrics different from the burden measures used in this analysis. 
Investment in the development of such metrics warrants consideration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2005.10.028
PMID: 16476645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Oncologist. 2006 Feb;11(2):90-5. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.11-2-90.

Do oncologists believe new cancer drugs offer good value?

Nadler E(1), Eckert B, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Dana-Faber Cancer Institute/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
Enadler2000@mac.com

BACKGROUND: Substantial debate centers on the high cost and relative value of 
new cancer therapies. Oncologists play a pivotal role in treatment decisions, 
yet it is unclear whether they perceive high-cost new treatments to offer good 
value or how therapeutic costs factor into their treatment recommendations.
METHODS: We surveyed 139 academic medical oncologists at two academic hospitals 
in Boston. We asked respondents to provide estimates for the cost and 
effectiveness of bevacizumab and whether they believed the treatment offered 
"good value." We also asked respondents to judge how large a gain in life 
expectancy would justify a hypothetical cancer drug that costs $70,000 a year. 
Using this information, we calculated implied cost-effectiveness thresholds. 
Finally, we explored respondents' views on the role of cost in treatment 
decisions.
RESULTS: Ninety academic oncologists (65%) completed the survey. Seventy-eight 
percent stated that patients should have access to "effective" care regardless 
of cost. Implied cost-effectiveness thresholds, derived from the bevacizumab and 
hypothetical scenarios, averaged roughly $300,000 per quality-adjusted-life-year 
(QALY). Only 25% of oncologists felt that bevacizumab offered "good value."
CONCLUSIONS: A majority of academic oncologists stated that cost does not 
influence their clinical practice, nor should it limit access to "effective" 
care. Yet respondents did not consider all effective drugs to be of good value. 
Implied cost-effectiveness thresholds were $300,000/QALY--a value higher than 
the $50,000 standard often cited. A subset of oncologists were sensitive to 
cost, believing it should factor into clinical decisions. These findings reflect 
the ongoing controversies within the medical community as expensive new 
therapies enter the system.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.11-2-90
PMID: 16476830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2006 Mar;9(2):111-6. doi: 
10.1097/01.mco.0000214568.52192.91.

Obesity and cardiovascular disease in developing countries: a growing problem 
and an economic threat.

Raymond SU(1), Leeder S, Greenberg HM.

Author information:
(1)Changing Our World, Inc., and Institute for Human Nutrition, Columbia 
University, New York, New York 10170, USA. sraymond@changingourworld.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review examines the rise of risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease, especially obesity, in developing countries and the 
implications for both health and economics.
RECENT FINDINGS: In the majority of developing countries fertility and infant 
and child mortality have fallen markedly, and life expectancies have increased. 
Rapid urbanization, falling food prices, and globalization of economies have 
contributed to an increase in risk factors for chronic disease. Recent work 
indicates that the prevalence of these risk factors, including obesity, is 
rising faster than the historical experience of the West. The transition is 
affecting women in particular, and increases in risk factors are more marked 
among lower incomes in growing economies than among the wealthy. Rather than the 
stereotypical problem of the rich, chronic disease is now a problem for the 
poor.
SUMMARY: Significant research in this area of global health has only been 
undertaken in the last decade. Additional field research is needed in every 
dimension of the transition, both to document the problem itself and to 
determine its economic and societal impact and cost effective responses. Two 
critical factors are virtually absent from existing work and should be 
emphasized. First, the impact of rising risk factors for, and mortality from, 
cardiovascular disease in the work force may imply a growing threat to continued 
economic progress. Second, because risk factor reduction requires society-wide 
strategies, broad public-private coalitions will be needed to mobilize sectors 
beyond healthcare.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mco.0000214568.52192.91
PMID: 16477174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Am Psychol. 2006 Feb-Mar;61(2):173-4. doi: 10.1037/0003-066X.61.2.173.

Urie Bronfenbrenner (1917-2005).

Ceci SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA.

Presents an obituary for Urie Bronfenbrenner (1917-2005). Before Urie 
Bronfenbrenner, child psychologists studied the child, sociologists the family, 
anthropologists the society, economists the economic framework, and political 
scientists the structure. As the result of Urie's extension of the concept of 
the ecology of human development, these environments--from the family to 
economic and political structures--are viewed as part of the life course, 
embracing both childhood and adulthood. Bronfenbrenner, widely regarded as one 
of the world's leading scholars in developmental psychology, child rearing, and 
human ecology--the interdisciplinary domain he helped popularize--died at his 
home in Ithaca, New York, on September 25, 2005, at the age of 88. He was the 
Jacob Gould Sherman Professor Emeritus of Human Development and of Psychology at 
Cornell University, where he spent most of his professional career. A brief 
biography of Bronfenbrenner is followed by an overview of his published work, 
his theories and other influential accomplishments.

((c) 2006 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/0003-066X.61.2.173
PMID: 16478360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Am J Manag Care. 2006 Feb;12(1 Suppl):S3-16; quiz S17-9.

Managing oncology costs.

Reeder CE(1), Gordon D.

Author information:
(1)University of South Carolina College of Pharmacy, 715 Sumter Street, Coker 
Life Sciences Bldg, Room 109, Columbia, SC 29208, USA. reeder@cop.sc.edu

This monograph will review the burden of illness in oncology, suggest a 
framework for evaluating oncology costs and consequences, identify economic 
modeling formats in cancer care, and explore methods of cost control for cancer 
care.

PMID: 16478368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Appl Microbiol. 2006 Mar;100(3):446-59. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2672.2005.02790.x.

Sequence, organization, transcription and regulation of lactose and galactose 
operons in Lactobacillus rhamnosus TCELL-1.

Tsai YK(1), Lin TH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine and Department of Life Science, National 
Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan.

AIMS: Understanding the metabolism of lactose and galactose and their regulation 
in Lactobacillus rhamnosus.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A gene cluster containing nine open reading frames (ORFs) 
involved in the metabolism of lactose and galactose in Lact. rhamnosus TCELL-1 
was sequenced and characterized. The order of the ORFs was lacTEGF and galKETRM. 
Northern blotting experiments revealed that the gene cluster could be 
transcribed as one lacTEGF-galKETRM mRNA though three major transcripts 
(lacTEGF, galKETRM and galETRM) were detected for the gene cluster. The 
transcription of the lac or gal operon was independently induced in the presence 
of lactose or galactose. Northern blotting and primer extension experiments 
found the presence of four putative promoters upstream from the ORFs lacT 
(lacTp), galK (galKp1 and galKp2) and galE (galEp). The measurements of 
enzymatic activities of GalK, GalE and GalT suggested that the expression of the 
gal operon was subjected to a galactose activation and glucose repression 
mechanism.
CONCLUSIONS: In Lact. rhamnosus TCELL-1, the galactose moiety of lactose could 
be metabolized by two alternative pathways (the Leloir and the tagatose 
6-phosphate pathways) whereas galactose metabolism could be mediated by the 
Leloir pathway.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This work provides important information 
about sugar metabolism in Lact. rhamnosus.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2005.02790.x
PMID: 16478484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. World J Surg. 2006 May;30(5):787-93. doi: 10.1007/s00268-005-0398-x.

Does familial non-medullary thyroid cancer adversely affect survival?

Triponez F(1), Wong M, Sturgeon C, Caron N, Ginzinger DG, Segal MR, Kebebew E, 
Duh QY, Clark OH.

Author information:
(1)Advanced Research Technologies, Applied Biosystems, 850 Lincoln Center Drive, 
MS 447, Foster City, CA 94404-1105, USA. frederic.triponez@hcuge.ch

BACKGROUND: Familial non-medullary thyroid cancer (FNMTC) is associated with a 
higher rate of multifocality and a higher recurrence rate than sporadic thyroid 
cancer. However, the effect of FNMTC on life expectancy is unknown.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Using data from our FNMTC database, we calculated life 
expectancy and survival rates after diagnosis of FNMTC and compared the results 
with the rates for unaffected family members and for the standard US population. 
Overall life expectancy and survival rates were calculated using the 
Kaplan-Meier method. We compared patients from families with 2 affected members 
with patients from families with > or = 3 affected members. We also compared 
patients diagnosed in a known familial setting (index cases and subsequent 
cases) with patients diagnosed before the familial setting was recognized.
RESULTS: There were 139 affected patients with 757 unaffected family members. 
The mean age at diagnosis was 40.8 +/- 13.9 years and the mean follow-up time 
was 9.4 +/- 11.7 years. Ten patients died of thyroid cancer during follow-up. 
The life expectancy of patients with FNMTC was similar to that of their 
unaffected family members. Survival was significantly shorter for patients with 
3 or more affected family members, for patients diagnosed before the familial 
setting was recognized, and for patients with anaplastic cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that FNMTC may be more aggressive than sporadic 
thyroid cancer, particularly in families with 3 or more affected members. 
However, when recognized and treated appropriately, it does not significantly 
shorten the overall life expectancy of the affected patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-005-0398-x
PMID: 16479341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2006 Jan;99 Spec No 1(1):15-22.

[The best of valvular heart disease in 2005].

[Article in French]

de Gevigney G(1); Groupe des Valvulaires SFC.

Author information:
(1)HÃ´pital cardiologique Louis Pradel, 28, avenue du Doyen LÃ©pine, 69677 Bron. 
guy.de-gevigney@chu-lyon.fr

The year 2005 has been rich in publications concerning valvular heart disease. 
In France, this year has been dominated by the publication of the French Society 
of Cardiologists' guidelines on the operative and interventional indications for 
acquired valvular heart disease: discussed and accepted formal indications based 
on the evidence in the literature. Non-ischaemic mitral insufficiency has been 
the subject of a major study that showed the high prognostic significance of 
echographic measuring of the area of the regurgitating orifice; patients with a 
surface > or =40 mm2 had a worse long-term prognosis and should undergo surgery 
early. The prognostic significance of BNP in valvular heart disease, such as 
mitral insufficiency and aortic stenosis, also became apparent. BNP is being 
used more and more for risk stratification for these conditions. The 
significance of anti-arrhythmic surgery combined with a mitral procedure has 
confirmed the harmful effect of atrial fibrillation, before and after the mitral 
surgery. The first randomised study into the use of statins to slow the 
progression of aortic stenosis was unfortunately disappointing, despite the 
various unrandomised studies that had opened a therapeutic pathway for this 
pathology, for which the prevalence is continually rising due to the ever 
increasing life expectancy. In mitral stenosis, a randomised study showed the 
long-term value of mitral commissurotomy in percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty, 
giving identical long-term results, in terms of mitral area, to those obtained 
with the classic InouÃ© balloon. In infectious endocarditis, surveys have 
confirmed the seriousness of this pathology as well as the slight advances in 
its prophylaxis. Other studies have confirmed the frequency and the severity of 
emboli, endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus, and the low risk of 
recurrence for endocarditis with the more and more accepted short course 
antibiotic treatment for patients undergoing surgery. Of course, this selection 
of publications is limited and by necessity subjective.

PMID: 16479959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. J Heart Valve Dis. 2006 Jan;15(1):125-31.

Infective endocarditis in intravenous drug abusers: patterns of presentation and 
long-term outcomes of surgical treatment.

Carozza A(1), De Santo LS, Romano G, Della Corte A, Ursomando F, Scardone M, 
Caianiello G, Cotrufo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic and Respiratory Sciences, SecondUniversity of 
Naples, V. Monaldi Hospital, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Few data exist on infective endocarditis (IE) 
in intravenous drug abuse (IVDA) patients. In particular, clinical features, 
site of involvement and bacteriologic findings are controversial. Little is also 
known on the results of surgical treatment and on the long-term prognosis.
METHODS: The clinical and microbiological characteristics of IE in a series of 
39 IVDA patients were retrospectively assessed and compared to those in 85 
non-IVDA patients with a likely similar life expectancy. The total follow up of 
patients was 717.6 patient-years (119.9 pt-yr for IVDA, 597.7 pt-yr for 
non-IVDA).
RESULTS: Although tricuspid involvement was significantly more frequent in IVDA 
cases than in non-IVDA cases (p = 0.001), left-sided endocarditis prevailed in 
both groups. In addition to Staphylococcus aureus (51.3%), Staph. epidermidis 
(15.4%) and streptococcal spp. (23.1%) were emerging pathogens in IVDA cases. A 
worse cardiac function (p < 0.002) and a higher rate of embolism (p = 0.04) 
characterized the preoperative status of IVDA patients. No difference was 
observed as to indications, emergency procedures and pathologic findings. 
Hospital and long-term survival did not significantly differ between the two 
groups. The rate of recurrence was higher in IVDA cases; this difference was 
mostly accounted for by early postoperative events.
CONCLUSION: A new pattern of IE in IVDA is emerging, characterized by more 
frequent left heart involvement (61.5%), a severe clinical course, and a need 
for surgery in the active phase. Staph. epidermidis and streptococci are 
emerging pathogens. Drug abuse does not affect postoperative prognosis when an 
aggressive surgical attitude is combined with prolonged medical therapy. Higher 
rates of early recurrence are expected during the follow up period.

PMID: 16480024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Yale J Health Policy Law Ethics. 2006 Winter;6(1):1-92.

QALYs and policy evaluation: a new perspective.

Adler MD(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, USA.

PMID: 16480127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Transfus Med. 2006 Feb;16(1):17-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-3148.2006.00644.x.

Assessment of the economic value of the INTERCEPT blood system in Belgium.

Moeremans K(1), Warie H, Annemans L.

Author information:
(1)HEDM, Health economics and Disease Management, Brussels, Belgium. 
kmoeremans@be.imshealth.com

Emerging pathogens continue to threaten blood safety, requiring novel safety 
approaches. INTERCEPT Blood System for platelets (IBSP) inactivates pathogens, 
aiming at eliminating the risk of transmitting current and emerging pathogens. 
The objective was to evaluate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
for IBSP in Belgium. A decision model comparing a 'world with IBSP' to a 'world 
without IBSP' calculates lifetime costs and 'quality adjusted life years' 
(QALYs) following platelet transfusion in different indications. 
Disease-specific life expectancy and consequences of transfusion-transmitted 
infections were obtained from literature. Transfusion safety and costs were 
obtained from official sources. Hepatitis C virus-like emerging pathogen was 
simulated. A wide range of ICERs was observed, highly sensitive to the risk of 
emerging pathogen trans- mission, underlying disease and age. In the most 
conservative approach, ICER ranged from 3,459,201 Euro/QALY in absence of 
emerging pathogen to 195,364 Euro/QALY. The mean threshold of emerging infection 
risk for IBSP dominance (saving money and producing health gains) ranged from 
1/1,079 to 1/2,858 transfusions. Considering the high value authorities appear 
to place on preventing accidental injury, and ICER of recent implementations in 
transfusion medicine (NAT: up to 2.3 million Euro per lifeyear), IBSP can be 
considered cost-effective, taking into account the potential risk of emerging 
pathogens.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3148.2006.00644.x
PMID: 16480436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
