patients.
METHODS: Thirty-seven rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients completed the 
questionnaire before and after starting a biological therapy. One hundred and 
forty-five others receiving routine care completed it at baseline, weeks 12 and 
13 with EuroQol VAS and questions on global arthritis impact and any other 
concerns. Reproducibility was assessed in all 59 participants whose condition 
remained stable between weeks 12 and 13.
RESULTS: The RAQol score was highly reproducible (intraclass correlation 
coefficient 0.986, n=59), reflected global RA impact (P = 0.000, n=140), 
negatively correlated with EuroQol VAS (Spearman coefficient=-0.639, two-tailed 
significance=0.000, n=142), responsive to biological therapy (two-tailed P= 
0.000) and to increased global RA impact over 12 weeks (two-tailed P=0.012, 
n=37), and had high internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha=0.94, n=143). The 
number of issues of great concern and their percentage contribution to the RAQol 
score were related to global arthritis impact (P=0.000 for both) and reduced by 
a biological therapy (two-tailed P=0.000 and 0.001 respectively). The mean kappa 
for consistency in identifying each item as a concern was 0.801 (range 
0.633-0.921).
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the 'extended' RAQol in clinical practice could provide a 
valid and sensitive score for monitoring group outcome and a comprehensive and 
consistent list of an individual's main issues of concern to assist assessment 
of needs in routine clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kei099
PMID: 16263783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2005 Nov;87(11):2449-55. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.D.02170.

Use of distal femoral osteoarticular allografts in limb salvage surgery.

Muscolo DL(1), Ayerza MA, Aponte-Tinao LA, Ranalletta M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Orthopedics Carlos E. Ottolenghi, Italian Hospital of Buenos 
Aires, Potos√≠ 4215, 1199, Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
luis.muscolo@hospitalitaliano.org.ar

BACKGROUND: As diagnostic and therapeutic techniques improve, patients with a 
musculoskeletal sarcoma should expect longer survival, fewer complications and 
side effects, and an improved quality of life. Functional longevity of the 
reconstruction after resection of the tumor becomes a major concern, especially 
in young and physically active patients. The purpose of this study was to 
analyze the mid-term and long-term survival of reconstructions with a distal 
femoral osteoarticular allograft in a series of patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the results of eighty reconstructions with 
a distal femoral osteoarticular allograft following resection of a bone tumor in 
seventy-six patients. The mean duration of follow-up was eighty-two months. The 
rates of survival of the allograft and the joint surface were estimated with use 
of the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox regression analysis was performed to determine 
whether age, gender, the percentage of the femur that had been resected, and the 
use of chemotherapy were independent prognostic factors. Functional and 
radiographic results were documented according to the Musculoskeletal Tumor 
Society scoring system at the time of the latest follow-up.
RESULTS: Five patients were lost to follow-up, leaving seventy-five allografts 
in seventy-one patients available for study. Thirteen patients (thirteen 
allografts) died of tumor-related causes without allograft failure before a 
two-year radiographic follow-up could be performed. Of the remaining sixty-two 
allografts, fourteen failed: six failed as a result of infection; four, because 
of local recurrence; one, because of massive resorption; and three, as a result 
of fracture. At the time of final follow-up, at a mean of 125 months, 
forty-eight allografts were still in place. The overall rate of allograft 
survival was 78% at both five and ten years, and the rate of allograft survival 
without the need for resurfacing with a knee prosthesis was 71% at both five and 
ten years. With the numbers available, age, gender, the percentage of the femur 
that had been resected, and the use of chemotherapy were not found to have a 
significant effect on the overall allograft survival rates. The patients who 
retained the original allograft had good or excellent functional and 
radiographic results.
CONCLUSIONS: The life expectancy for most patients with a highly aggressive or 
malignant tumor in the distal part of the femur is now several decades. In this 
study, we found a high rate of survival of distal femoral allograft 
reconstructions at both five and ten years.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.D.02170
PMID: 16264120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. EMBO Rep. 2005 Nov;6(11):1000. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400565.

Like it or not, life-extension research extends beyond biogerontology.

de Grey AD.

Comment on
    EMBO Rep. 2005 Nov;6(11):1006-8.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400565
PMCID: PMC1371043
PMID: 16264420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Nat Clin Pract Oncol. 2005 Mar;2(3):126-7. doi: 10.1038/ncponc0110.

Is imatinib a cost-effective treatment for newly diagnosed chronic myeloid 
leukemia patients?

Goldman J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Imperial College at Hammersmith Hospital, London, 
UK. goldmanj2@nhlbi.nih.gov

DOI: 10.1038/ncponc0110
PMID: 16264901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Nat Clin Pract Oncol. 2005 May;2(5):240-1. doi: 10.1038/ncponc0175.

Does childhood vaccination and exposure to infection improve long-term survival 
in patients with malignant melanoma?

Tarhini AA(1), Land S, Gupta A, Kirkwood JM.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, PA 15213, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/ncponc0175
PMID: 16264957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nat Clin Pract Cardiovasc Med. 2004 Nov;1(1):31-6. doi:
10.1038/ncpcardio0020.

Therapy insight: aortic aneurysm and dissection in Marfan's syndrome.

Ramirez F(1), Dietz HC.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genetics and Organogenesis, Hospital for Special Surgery at the 
Weill Medical College of Cornell University, 535 East 70th Street, New York, NY 
10021, USA. RamirezF@hss.edu

Aortic dissection and aneurysm are common clinical problems with 
life-threatening consequences; they are also the hallmark of several genetic 
diseases, including Marfan's syndrome (MFS). In spite of clinical and surgical 
advances that have increased life expectancy for affected patients, 
cardiovascular manifestations remain significant contributors to morbidity and 
mortality in MFS. Dissecting aortic aneurysm in this disorder is accounted for 
by mutations in fibrillin-1, the major component of the microfibrils associated 
with elastin in the elastic fibers of the aortic media. Genetic studies of human 
patients and murine models have yielded invaluable insights into the 
pathophysiology of aneurysm formation and progression in MFS. They have also 
revealed a previously unappreciated role of microfibrils in regulating 
transforming growth factor and bone morphogenetic protein signaling. As a 
result, exciting new hypotheses have emerged regarding the pathogenesis of MFS, 
as well as opportunities to explore translational applications of this 
information that may be relevant to various manifestations of the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpcardio0020
PMID: 16265257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Scand J Public Health. 2005;33(5):343-52. doi: 10.1080/14034940510005789.

A model for cost-effectiveness analyses of smoking cessation interventions 
applied to a Quit-and-Win contest for mothers of small children.

Johansson PM(1), Tillgren PE, Guldbrandsson KA, Lindholm LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, 
Sweden. pia.m.johansson@sll.se

AIMS: The first aim of this study was to develop a model that predicts health 
and economic consequences of smoking cessation in Sweden, striving to follow the 
methodological recommendations to reflect the societal perspective and to use 
the health measure quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The second aim was to 
apply the model estimates to a smoking cessation intervention.
METHODS: A Markov cost-effectiveness model was developed on smoking-related lung 
cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and cardiovascular disease. 
Swedish primary data on medical treatment costs and quality-of-life weights were 
used, supplemented with secondary data on other societal effects and the disease 
and death risks. The model simulations were applied to a "Quit-and-Win" contest 
for mothers of pre-school children. In total, 238 women participated, with 34 
sustained tobacco-free at 12-month follow-up.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness model estimates a gain of 0.34 to 0.55 QALYs 
(discounted 3%), and cost savings of SEK 20-35,000 per female quitter in the age 
range 15 to 49 years. The cost-effectiveness analyses of the intervention showed 
intervention costs per quitter of SEK 7,850, and intervention costs per 
life-years saved (YLS) (discounted 3%) of SEK 13,200. The cost-utility analysis 
demonstrated cost savings and a gain of 16 QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-utility analysis estimated health gains and cost savings 
resulting from the "Quit-and-Win" contest. As the model estimates on the 
differences in societal cost between smokers and quitters are considerable, many 
tobacco control programmes would result in cost savings. The construction of an 
optimal mix of tobacco control policies, however, demands incremental 
calculations on a range of programmes.

DOI: 10.1080/14034940510005789
PMID: 16265801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Pain Med. 2005 Sep-Oct;6(5):379-84. doi: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2005.00058.x.

An open-label study of the lidocaine patch 5% in painful idiopathic sensory 
polyneuropathy.

Herrmann DN(1), Barbano RL, Hart-Gouleau S, Pennella-Vaughan J, Dworkin RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14642, 
USA. David_Herrmann@urmc.rochester.edu

OBJECTIVE: Painful idiopathic distal sensory polyneuropathy is common, but has 
been largely ignored as a model for the evaluation of neuropathic pain 
therapies. We have therefore conducted a safety, tolerability, and effectiveness 
study of the lidocaine patch 5% in painful idiopathic distal sensory 
polyneuropathy.
DESIGN: A prospective open-label, flexible dosing, 3-week study period with a 
5-week extension.
SETTING: Peripheral Neuropathy clinics and Anesthesiology Clinical Research 
Center at a tertiary care facility.
PATIENTS: Twenty subjects with a diagnosis of idiopathic distal sensory 
polyneuropathy (with or without associated impaired glucose tolerance), with a 
baseline mean pain daily rating of > or =4 on a visual analog scale. 
Intervention. Lidocaine patch 5%, maximum of four patches daily for 18 hours.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Change from baseline week to week 3 mean daily diary pain 
ratings. Secondary endpoints included assessments of safety and tolerability as 
well as quality of life measures.
RESULTS: Subjects with idiopathic distal sensory polyneuropathy, both with and 
without impaired glucose tolerance, showed significant improvements in pain and 
quality of life outcome measures over a 3-week treatment period. These 
improvements were maintained in a subgroup of patients treated for an additional 
5 weeks and permitted a taper of concomitant analgesics in 25% of subjects. The 
lidocaine patch 5% was well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: The lidocaine patch 5% appeared well tolerated and potentially 
effective in the management of painful idiopathic distal sensory polyneuropathy. 
Idiopathic distal sensory polyneuropathy is an appropriate patient population 
for the conduct of clinical trials of neuropathic pain therapies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2005.00058.x
PMID: 16266359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Health Technol Assess. 2005 Nov;9(43):iii, xi-xiii, 1-246. doi:
10.3310/hta9430.

The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of dual-chamber pacemakers compared 
with single-chamber pacemakers for bradycardia due to atrioventricular block or 
sick sinus syndrome: systematic review and economic evaluation.

Castelnuovo E(1), Stein K, Pitt M, Garside R, Payne E.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Medical School, Universities of Exeter and Plymouth, Exeter, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of dual-chamber 
pacemakers versus single-chamber atrial or single-chamber ventricular pacemakers 
in the treatment of bradycardia due to sick sinus syndrome (SSS) or 
atrioventricular block (AVB).
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases and relevant Internet sites. Contact with 
device manufacturers and experts in the field.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review was carried out of randomised controlled 
trials (RCTs). The quality of selected studies was appraised using standard 
frameworks. Meta-analyses, using random effects models, were carried out where 
appropriate. Limited exploration of heterogeneity was possible. Critical 
appraisal of economic evaluations was carried out using two frameworks. A 
decision-analytic model was developed using a Markov approach, to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of dual-chamber versus ventricular or atrial pacing over 5 
and 10 years as cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Uncertainty was 
explored using one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The searches retrieved a systematic review of effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness published in 2002, four parallel group RCTs and 28 cross-over 
trials. Dual-chamber pacing was associated with lower rates of atrial 
fibrillation, particularly in SSS, than ventricular pacing, and prevents 
pacemaker syndrome. Higher rates of atrial fibrillation were seen with 
dual-chamber pacing than with atrial pacing. Complications occurred more 
frequently in dual-chamber pacemaker insertion. The cost of a dual-chamber 
system, over 5 years, including cost of complications and subsequent clinical 
events in the population, was estimated to be around 7400 pounds. The overall 
cost difference between single and dual systems is not large over this period: 
around 700 pounds more for dual-chamber devices. The cost-effectiveness of 
dual-chamber compared with ventricular pacing was estimated to be around 8500 
pounds per QALY in AVB and 9500 pounds in SSS over 5 years, and around 5500 
pounds per QALY in both populations over 10 years. Under more conservative 
assumptions, the cost-effectiveness of dual-chamber pacing is around 30,000 
pounds per QALY. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that, under the 
base-case assumptions, dual-chamber pacing is likely to be considered 
cost-effective at levels of willingness to pay that are generally considered 
acceptable by policy makers. In contrast, atrial pacing may be cost-effective 
compared with dual-chamber pacing.
CONCLUSIONS: Dual-chamber pacing results in small but potentially important 
benefits in populations with SSS and/or AVB compared with ventricular 
pacemakers. Pacemaker syndrome is a crucial factor in determining 
cost-effectiveness; however, difficulties in standardising diagnosis and 
measurement of severity make it difficult to quantify. Dual-chamber pacing is in 
common usage in the UK. Recipients are more likely to be younger. Insufficient 
evidence is currently available to inform policy on specific groups who may 
benefit most from pacing with dual-chamber devices. Further important research 
is underway. Outstanding research priorities include the economic evaluation of 
UKPACE studies of the classification, diagnosis and utility associated with 
pacemaker syndrome and evidence on the effectiveness of pacemakers in children.

DOI: 10.3310/hta9430
PMID: 16266560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 Jan;17(1):254-61. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2005050545. Epub
2005  Nov 2.

Cystatin C and mortality risk in the elderly: the health, aging, and body 
composition study.

Shlipak MG(1), Wassel Fyr CL, Chertow GM, Harris TB, Kritchevsky SB, Tylavsky 
FA, Satterfield S, Cummings SR, Newman AB, Fried LF.

Author information:
(1)University of San Francisco, General Internal Medicine Section, VA Medical 
Center (111A1), 4150 Clement Street, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA.

Kidney dysfunction is known to decrease life expectancy in the elderly. Cystatin 
C is a novel biomarker of kidney function that may have prognostic utility in 
older adults. The association of cystatin C with mortality was evaluated in a 
biracial cohort of black and white ambulatory elderly and compared with that of 
serum creatinine concentrations. The Health, Aging and Body Composition study is 
a cohort of well-functioning elderly that was designed to evaluate longitudinal 
changes in weight, body composition, and function. A total of 3075 participants 
who were aged 70 to 79 yr and had no disability were recruited at sites in 
Memphis, TN, and Pittsburgh, PA, between April 1997 and June 1998 with a 
follow-up of 6 yr. At entry, the mean cystatin C was 1.05 mg/L and the mean 
creatinine was 1.06 mg/dl. After 6 yr of follow-up, 557 participants had died. 
The mortality rates in each ascending cystatin C quintile were 1.7, 2.7, 2.9, 
3.1, and 5.4%/yr. After adjustment for demographic risk factors, comorbid health 
conditions, and inflammatory biomarkers (C-reactive protein, IL-6. and 
TNF-alpha), each quintile of cystatin C was significantly associated with 
increased mortality risk compared with the lowest: Hazard ratios (HR; 95% 
confidence intervals) quintile 1, -1.0 (referent); quintile 2, -1.74 (1.21 to 
2.50); quintile 3, -1.51 (1.05 to 2.18); quintile 4, -1.49 (1.04 to 2.13); and 
quintile 5, -2.18 (1.53 to 3.10). These associations did not differ by gender or 
race. Results were consistent for cardiovascular and other-cause mortality, but 
not cancer mortality. Creatinine quintiles were not associated with mortality 
after multivariate adjustment (HR: 1.0 [referent], 1.00 [0.72 to 1.39], 0.95 
[0.68 to 1.32], 1.11 [0.79 to 1.57], 1.16 [0.86 to 1.58]). Cystatin C is a 
strong, independent risk factor for mortality in the elderly. Future studies 
should investigate whether cystatin C has a role in clinical medicine.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2005050545
PMID: 16267155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Dec;6(4):354-6, 358-62. doi:
10.1007/s10198-005-0323-0.

The cost-effectiveness of dual oral antiplatelet therapy following percutaneous 
coronary intervention: a Swedish analysis of the CREDO trial.

Ringborg A(1), Lindgren P, J√∂nsson B.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Health Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. anna.r@healtheconomics.se

The CREDO trial demonstrated the clinical efficacy of 12-month antiplatelet 
therapy with clopidogrel compared to standard 28-day treatment with a 27% 
relative reduction in the combined risk of death, myocardial infarction, or 
stroke in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and being 
treated with aspirin. This study evaluated the long-term cost-effectiveness of 
12-month vs. 28-day therapy with clopidogrel in Sweden. A Markov model was 
developed which assumed a hypothetical cohort of patients in a post-PCI state to 
have certain risks of suffering one of the endpoints of the CREDO trial: stroke, 
myocardial infarction, or death. The model predicted a mean survival of 12.098 
years in the 12-month arm vs. 12.026 in the 28-day arm, an incremental gain of 
0.072 life-years. The gain in survival came at a predicted incremental cost of 
Euro 217, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of Euro 3,022. 
Thus the predicted cost-effectiveness ratio of long-term treatment with 
clopidogrel in patients undergoing PCI is well below the threshold values 
currently considered cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0323-0
PMID: 16267654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Can J Nurs Res. 2005 Sep;37(3):104-31.

Determinants of health-service use by low-income people.

Stewart M(1), Reutter L, Makwarimba E, Rootman I, Williamson D, Raine K, Wilson 
D, Fast J, Love R, McFall S, Shorten D, Letourneau N, Hayward K, Masuda J, 
Rutakumwa W.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. 
miriam.stewart@ualberta.ca

Poverty influences health status, life expectancy, health behaviours, and use of 
health services. This study examined factors influencing the use of 
health-related services by people living in poverty. In the first phase, 199 
impoverished users of health-related services in 2 large Canadian cities were 
interviewed by their peers. In the second phase, group interviews with people 
living in poverty (n = 52) were conducted. Data were analyzed using thematic 
content analysis. Diverse health-related services were used to meet basic and 
health needs, to maintain human contact, and to cope with life's challenges. Use 
of services depended on proximity, affordability, convenience, information, and 
providers' attitudes and behaviours. Use was impeded by inequities based on 
income status. To promote the health of people living in poverty, nurses and 
other health professionals can enhance the accessibility and quality of 
services, improve their interactions with people living in poverty, provide 
information about available programs, offer coordinated community-based 
services, collaborate with other sectors, and advocate for more equitable 
services and policies.

PMID: 16268092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. HIV Med. 2005 Nov;6(6):396-402. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2005.00325.x.

Impact of antiretroviral choice on hypercholesterolaemia events: the role of the 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor backbone.

Jones R(1), Sawleshwarkar S, Michailidis C, Jackson A, Mandalia S, Stebbing J, 
Bower M, Nelson M, Gazzard BG, Moyle GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of HIV and GU Medicine, The Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, 
London, UK. rachaeljones30@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has 
profoundly altered the life expectancy of individuals infected with HIV. 
Metabolic abnormalities associated with antiretrovirals and cumulative exposure 
to combination antiretroviral therapy, including dyslipidaemia and insulin 
resistance, have been linked to an increased risk of myocardial infarction.
METHODS: Longitudinal data from a large prospectively collected clinical 
database were analysed. All patients who commenced first antiretroviral therapy 
(ART) [two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)+one nonnucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) or one active protease inhibitor (PI)] 
since 1996 were identified. Patients with elevated cholesterol levels [>5.5 
mmol/L (215 mg/dL)] prior to therapy initiation were excluded. Quantitative data 
were categorized into quartiles and presented stratified by individuals 
developing abnormal levels of cholesterol during first-line HAART. Event time 
was defined as time from commencing first-line ART to either development of 
cholesterol level >6.5 mmol/L (254 mg/dL) or switch of first-line therapy. The 
Kaplan-Meier product limit survival method was used to estimate time to abnormal 
cholesterol level, and the chi2 test was used for comparisons between drug 
classes. Cox's proportional hazards regression analysis was used to identify 
factors predicting a likelihood of raised cholesterol level.
RESULTS: A total of 1664 patients were included in the study: 57.1% on two 
NRTIs+one NNRTI, 38.4% on two NRTIs+one PI, and 4.4% on two NRTIs+a boosted PI 
regimen. Regimens containing stavudine or PIs were associated with a 
significantly higher event risk and earlier time to event. No differences 
between efavirenz and nevirapine or between didanosine and lamivudine were 
observed. In 28 patients exposed to the combination of 
tenofovir+lamivudine+efavirenz, there were no episodes of elevated cholesterol 
level.
CONCLUSION: Dyslipidaemia has emerged as an important issue in HIV-infected 
individuals receiving antiretroviral therapy. This study demonstrates that age 
at start of therapy, baseline cholesterol level, stavudine use and PI use are 
all associated with increased risk of hypercholesterolemia on initial therapy. 
Both NRTI and NNRTI/PI choice influence risk of hypercholesterolaemia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2005.00325.x
PMID: 16268821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Respirology. 2005 Nov;10(5):649-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1440-1843.2005.00763.x.

Prolonged survival after talc poudrage for malignant pleural mesothelioma: case 
series.

Aelony Y(1), Yao JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Harbor 
City, CA 90710, USA. y.aelony@cox.net

OBJECTIVE: Malignant pleural mesothelioma is a fatal disease with a mean life 
expectancy of 6-12 months. Since 1982, we have performed thoracoscopic talc 
poudrage (TTP) as a primary therapy in mesothelioma patients presenting with 
pleural effusion. As the survival data for our patients surpassed that of many 
published series, the patient data was analyzed to determine whether talc 
poudrage can be considered as a contemporary palliative option.
METHODOLOGY: We reviewed all 26 patients with a final diagnosis of malignant 
pleural mesothelioma from our prospective database of 228 consecutive patients 
who received thoracoscopy from the same physician for recurrent symptomatic 
pleural effusion. Patients were followed up until their death.
RESULTS: Mean survival after TTP was 23.8 +/- 16.3 months (median 19.4, range 
2.9-68). Pleurodesis palliated dyspnoea in all patients. No perioperative deaths 
and one postoperative complication (pneumonia) occurred. Mean hospital stay was 
3.9 +/- 2.7 days.
CONCLUSION: TTP remains a safe, low-morbidity, inexpensive primary palliative 
treatment option for malignant pleural mesothelioma and a valid control arm 
option for therapeutic trials. TTP is ideal for patients who wish to avoid 
thoracotomy, long hospital stays and morbidity from multimodality therapy. 
Prospective randomized studies are needed to compare quality of life and 
survival after talc poudrage and other therapies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1843.2005.00763.x
PMID: 16268920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Risk Anal. 2005 Aug;25(4):801-12. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2005.00647.x.

Estimating the health impacts of tobacco harm reduction policies: a simulation 
modeling approach.

Ahmad S(1), Billimek J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering, University 
of Miami, Coral Gables, FL 33146-0630, USA. sajjad@miami.edu

With adult smoking prevalence rates declining too slowly to reach national 
objectives, opinion leaders are considering policies to improve tobacco-related 
outcomes by regulating the composition of cigarettes to be (1) less harmful 
and/or (2) less addictive. Because harm reduction efforts may actually encourage 
higher cigarette consumption by promoting a safer image, and addictiveness 
reduction may increase the harmfulness of cigarettes by encouraging compensatory 
smoking behaviors, policymakers must consider the tradeoffs between these two 
approaches when proposing legislation to control cigarette content. To estimate 
health impacts, we developed a dynamic computer model simulating changes in the 
age- and gender-specific smoking behaviors of the U.S. population over time. 
Secondary data for model parameters were obtained from publicly available 
sources. Population health impacts were measured as change in smoking prevalence 
and the change in cumulative quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) in the U.S. 
population over 75 years. According to the risk-use threshold matrix generated 
by the simulation, modifying cigarettes to reduce their harmfulness and/or 
addictiveness could result in important gains to the nation's health. 
Addictiveness reduction efforts producing a 60% improvement in smoking behavior 
change probabilities would produce a net gain in population health at every 
plausible level of increase of smoking-related harm that was modeled. A 40% 
reduction in smoking-related harm would produce a net QALY gain at every level 
of behavior change considered. This research should prove useful to policymakers 
as they contemplate giving the FDA the authority to regulate the composition of 
cigarettes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2005.00647.x
PMID: 16268930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. BMC Public Health. 2005 Nov 3;5:116. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-5-116.

The contribution of leading diseases and risk factors to excess losses of 
healthy life in Eastern Europe: burden of disease study.

Powles JW(1), Zatonski W, Vander Hoorn S, Ezzati M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health, 
Robinson Way, Cambridge CB2 2SR, UK. jwp11@cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The East/West gradient in health across Europe has been described 
often, but not using metrics as comprehensive and comparable as those of the 
Global Burden of Disease 2000 and Comparative Risk Assessment studies.
METHODS: Comparisons are made across 3 epidemiological subregions of the WHO 
region for Europe--A (very low child and adult mortality), B (low child and low 
adult mortality) and C (low child and high adult mortality)--with populations in 
2000 of 412, 218 and 243 millions respectively, and using the following 
measures: 1. Probabilities of death by sex and causal group across 7 age 
intervals; 2. Loss of healthy life (DALYs) to diseases and injuries per thousand 
population; 3. Loss of healthy life (DALYs) attributable to selected risk 
factors across 3 age ranges.
RESULTS: Absolute differences in mortality are most marked in males and in 
younger adults, and for deaths from vascular diseases and from injuries. 
Dominant contributions to east-west differences come from the 
nutritional/physiological group of risk factors (blood pressure, cholesterol 
concentration, body mass index, low fruit and vegetable consumption and 
inactivity) contributing to vascular disease and from the legal drugs--tobacco 
and alcohol.
CONCLUSION: The main requirements for reducing excess health losses in the east 
of Europe are: 1) favorable shifts in all amenable vascular risk factors 
(irrespective of their current levels) by population-wide and personal measures; 
2) intensified tobacco control; 3) reduced alcohol consumption and injury 
control strategies (for example, for road traffic injuries). Cost effective 
strategies are broadly known but local institutional support for them needs 
strengthening.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-5-116
PMCID: PMC1298310
PMID: 16269084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Scand Cardiovasc J. 2005 Oct;39(5):276-85. doi: 10.1080/14017430510035988.

Cost-effectiveness of primary percutaneous coronary intervention versus 
thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction.

Selmer R(1), Halvorsen S, Myhre KI, Wisl√∏ff TF, Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway. Randi.Selmer@fhi.no

Comment in
    Scand Cardiovasc J. 2005 Oct;39(5):264-6.
    Scand Cardiovasc J. 2006 Feb;40(1):8-10.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to determine the long-term cost-effectiveness of two 
reperfusion modalities in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction: primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) versus thrombolytic 
therapy.
DESIGN: A state-transition model that follows patients from when they develop 
STEMI until they die was developed. The model encompassed events and health 
states. Sensitivity analyses were undertaken.
RESULTS: For a 65-year old man, life expectancy was 8.3 years with primary PCI 
and 7.6 years with thrombolytic therapy. The lifetime costs were 19,250 euros 
(NOK 154,000) and 29,250 euros (NOK 234,000), respectively, for patients living 
close to an invasive unit. Cost savings from PCI were mainly due to the 
reduction in future coronary interventions. For patients needing helicopter 
transport to arrive in time to an invasive unit for PCI, the costs were 24,000 
euros (NOK 192,000) and 29,250 euros (NOK 234,000), respectively (all costs 
undiscounted). For women, the estimates were somewhat higher due to lower 
mortality.
CONCLUSION: Compared with thrombolytic therapy, reperfusion by primary PCI 
results in greater health benefits at reduced lifetime costs. These findings may 
have important clinical implications in an increasing cost-conscious health care 
environment.

DOI: 10.1080/14017430510035988
PMID: 16269397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. J Med Ethics. 2005 Nov;31(11):659-63. doi: 10.1136/jme.2005.011957.

Life extension, human rights, and the rational refinement of repugnance.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EH, UK. ag24@gen.cam.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2005.011957
PMCID: PMC1734045
PMID: 16269565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. J Hypertens. 2005 Dec;23(12):2277-85. doi:
10.1097/01.hjh.0000189868.48290.d8.

Low-dose lithium combined with captopril prevents stroke and improves survival 
in salt-loaded, stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Xu J(1), Scholz A, R√∂sch N, Blume A, Unger T, Kreutz R, Culman J, Gohlke P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, University Hospital of Schleswig-Holstein, Campus 
Kiel, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: A number of potential interactions between angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors and lithium have been described in the literature. In the 
present study, we investigated the effects of a low-dose combination treatment 
with lithium and captopril on survival and stroke prevention in salt-loaded, 
stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP).
METHODS: Eight-week-old saline-drinking SHRSP (n = 21 per group) were treated 
with vehicle, LiCl (1 mmol/kg per day), captopril (25 mg/kg per day) and 
captopril plus LiCl for up to 37 weeks. Body weight, salt water intake blood 
pressure and mortality were recorded throughout the experimental period. Plasma 
renin activity, plasma lithium concentration and urinary excretion of albumin, 
sodium and potassium were measured at different time points.
RESULTS: Captopril treatment doubled the life expectancy when compared with 
vehicle-treated rats. Lithium alone had minor effects on survival but led to a 
dramatic increase in survival when added to captopril (mean survival time > 237 
versus 147 days, P < 0.001). Systolic blood pressure increased with age in all 
treatment groups but was comparable in the captopril-treated and the 
captopril-plus-lithium-treated groups. Plasma renin activity as well as urinary 
sodium and potassium excretion did not differ between both groups. In the 
captopril group a striking fivefold increase of albuminuria occurred between 14 
and 26 weeks of age, while this progression was completely abolished by the 
addition of lithium.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that the addition of lithium to captopril 
dramatically prolong the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor 
on survival in salt-loaded SHRSP. This effect was independent of a reduction in 
blood pressure.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000189868.48290.d8
PMID: 16269970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. J Hypertens. 2005 Dec;23(12):2327. doi: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000191908.11606.28.

Total cholesterol and life expectancy in the elderly.

Benetos A, Thomas F, Bean KE, Pannier B, Guize L.

Comment on
    J Hypertens. 2005 Oct;23(10):1785-6.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000191908.11606.28
PMID: 16269976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 2005 Nov;34(7 Pt 1):716-20. doi: 
10.1016/s0368-2315(05)82906-0.

[Cystic fibrosis and pregnancy: report of a twin pregnancy and review of the 
literature].

[Article in French]

Pernaut J(1), Audra P, Mossan C, Gaucherand P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Obst√©trique, H√¥pital Edouard-Herriot, Lyon. julia.pernaut@orange.fr

We report here the first published case of twin pregnancy in a woman with cystic 
fibrosis. This situation will become more and more common because the increased 
life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis and the development of 
medically assisted procreation. Conception of this twin pregnancy was medically 
assisted in a cystic fibrosis woman with moderate pulmonary disease. This 
observation is in accordance with several recent reports dealing with single 
pregnancies: morbidity, mortality and degradation of lung function have not been 
found to increase. The only effect of cystic fibrosis on pregnancy is an 
increased risk of preterm delivery. There is thus no systematic contraindication 
to pregnancy among women with cystic fibrosis provided that they are given 
attentive care by a multidisciplinary team. Genetic counselling and prenatal 
diagnosis also have an important role to play.

DOI: 10.1016/s0368-2315(05)82906-0
PMID: 16270011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Cancer. 2005 Dec 15;104(12 Suppl):2952-4. doi: 10.1002/cncr.21516.

Quality of life in Chinese patients with breast cancer.

Sun A(1), Wong-Kim E, Stearman S, Chow EA.

Author information:
(1)Chinese Community Health Resource Center, San Francisco, CA 94133, USA. 
angela's@chasf.org

Chinese are the largest Asian group in the U.S., constituting 23.8% of the 
nation's total Asian-American population. Cancer is the leading cause of death 
for female Asian Americans, and breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed 
cancer among females for all racial/ethic groups in San Francisco, which ranks 
4th in the number of Asian Americans and where 152,620 Chinese account for 19.6% 
of the city's total population. Previous observations among Chinese immigrant 
women suggested that a diagnosis of breast cancer may be more detrimental to 
their well being compared with Chinese women who are born and raised in the U.S. 
This difference may be due to the lower socioeconomic status, limited English 
proficiency, poor understanding of the Western medical system among immigrants 
or other educational or financial considerations. In this qualitative pilot 
study, the authors sought to increase understanding of the relation between 
cultural beliefs and quality of life (QOL) among immigrant Chinese women with 
breast cancer in San Francisco. Specific objectives were 1) to identify these 
patients' beliefs regarding cancer, life expectancy, and discussion of advance 
directives; 2) to explore how these beliefs relate to patient QOL; and 3) to 
generate hypotheses for further study. The overall objective of the pilot study 
was to investigate questions central to the QOL issue, including what defines 
QOL for immigrant women and how QOL for them is similar to or different from 
that for American-born Chinese women.

Cancer 2005. (c) 2005 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.21516
PMCID: PMC1810965
PMID: 16270312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Ital Heart J. 2005 Oct;6(10):818-23.

Pulmonary embolism: treatment of the acute episode.

Casazza F(1), Roncon L, Greco F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, San Carlo Borromeo Hospital, Milan, Italy. 
fcasazza@tin.it

The prognosis of acute pulmonary embolism (PE) is mainly related to the clinical 
presentation and circulatory state of the patient: the therapeutic strategy is 
consequently different, ranging from an aggressive treatment in patients in 
life-threatening clinical conditions to a "stabilization" treatment in those 
hemodynamically stable. Since the majority of PE patients are clinically stable, 
a well conducted anticoagulant therapy, either with unfractionated or 
low-molecular-weight heparins together with a vitamin K antagonist, is 
sufficient to stop thrombus extension, to minimize the risk of recurrent 
embolism and prevent mortality. In about 15-20% of cases presenting with 
clinical instability of variable severity, prompt intravenous thrombolysis with 
a short-acting compound often represents a life-saving treatment and should be 
the first-line approach. In normotensive patients with right ventricular 
dysfunction at echocardiography, who represent about 30% of PE patients, the 
debate regarding the optimal therapy is still open and further studies are 
required to document a clinically relevant improvement in the benefit-risk ratio 
of thrombolytic agents over heparin alone: young people, with a very low risk of 
bleeding and a concomitant reduction of cardiopulmonary reserve might be the 
best candidates to systemic thrombolysis. In any case such patients should be 
admitted to an intensive care unit to monitor the clinical status for at least 
48-72 hours and detect signs of possible hemodynamic worsening. Mechanical 
thrombectomy, either percutaneous or surgical, are ancillary procedures and 
should be reserved to a minority of highly compromised patients who are unable 
to receive thrombolysis.

PMID: 16270473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Exp Cell Res. 2006 Jan 1;312(1):16-26. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2005.10.004.
Epub  2005 Nov 4.

The K-Ras 4A isoform promotes apoptosis but does not affect either lifespan or 
spontaneous tumor incidence in aging mice.

Plowman SJ(1), Arends MJ, Brownstein DG, Luo F, Devenney PS, Rose L, Ritchie AM, 
Berry RL, Harrison DJ, Hooper ML, Patek CE.

Author information:
(1)Sir Alastair Currie Cancer Research UK Laboratories, Molecular Medicine 
Centre, The University of Edinburgh, Western General Hospital, Crewe Road, 
Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK.

Ras proteins function as molecular switches in signal transduction pathways, 
and, here, we examined the effects of the K-ras4A and 4B splice variants on cell 
function by comparing wild-type embryonic stem (ES) cells with 
K-ras(tmDelta4A/tmDelta4A) (exon 4A knock-out) ES cells which express K-ras4B 
only and K-ras(-/-) (exons 1-3 knock-out) ES cells which express neither splice 
variant, and intestinal epithelium from wild-type and K-ras(tmDelta4A/tmDelta4A) 
mice. RT-qPCR analysis found that K-ras4B expression was reduced in 
K-ras(tmDelta4A/tmDelta4A) ES cells but unaffected in small intestine. K-Ras 
deficiency did not affect ES cell growth, and K-Ras4A deficiency did not affect 
intestinal epithelial proliferation. K-ras(tmDelta4A/tmDelta4A) and K-ras(-/-) 
ES cells showed a reduced capacity for differentiation following LIF withdrawal, 
and K-ras(-/-) cells were least differentiated. K-Ras4A deficiency inhibited 
etoposide-induced apoptosis in ES cells and intestinal epithelial cells. 
However, K-ras(tmDelta4A/tmDelta4A) ES cells were more resistant to 
etoposide-induced apoptosis than K-ras(-/-) cells. The results indicate that (1) 
K-Ras4A promotes apoptosis while K-Ras4B inhibits it, and (2) K-Ras4B, and 
possibly K-Ras4A, promotes differentiation. The findings raise the possibility 
that alteration of the K-Ras4A/4B isoform ratio modulates tumorigenesis by 
differentially affecting stem cell survival and/or differentiation. However, 
K-Ras4A deficiency did not affect life expectancy or spontaneous overall tumor 
incidence in aging mice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2005.10.004
PMID: 16271715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Rev Med Interne. 2005 Nov;26(11):874-84. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2005.08.001.
Epub  2005 Sep 27.

[Pathophysiology and therapeutic implications of left heart failure].

[Article in French]

de Gevigney G(1), Fol S, Delahaye F.

Author information:
(1)H√¥pital cardiovasculaire et pneumologique, 28, rue du Doyen-L√©pine, 69677 
Bron, France. guy.de-gevigney@chu-lyon.fr

PURPOSE: Heart failure is the ultimate step of most cardiovascular diseases. Its 
frequency increases regularly because of the progressive increase of life 
expectancy and better management of cardiovascular diseases. The prognosis is 
very poor (5-year mortality: 50%) as is quality of life; heart failure is a very 
costly disease. CURRENT KNOWLEDGE AND KEYS POINTS: Aims of treatment are 
improvement of symptoms and thus improvement of quality of life and increase of 
survival. The treatment systematically combines: general advice, dietary 
measures; medical treatment (with betablockers, ACE inhibitors and/or 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists, diuretics, in some cases aspirin or oral 
anticoagulants, digitalis and amiodarone) according to severity of heart 
failure, presence of congestion, aetiology, age; etiologic treatment if 
possible; treatment and prevention of precipitating and exacerbating factors. 
According to clinical and paraclinical features, one may propose cardiac 
multisite stimulation, cardiac surgery, physical stress training and cardiac 
transplantation. In order to decrease frequency of heart failure, prevention of 
cardiovascular diseases which lead to heart failure must be done as often is 
possible (hypertension, valvular heart disease, ischemic heart disease).
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND PROJECTS: The future of the treatment of heart failure is 
the multidisciplinary management of heart failure (networks) led by hospital 
units specialized in heart failure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2005.08.001
PMID: 16271807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Rev Pneumol Clin. 2005 Sep;61(4 Pt 2):4S31-5.

[Has survival of non-small-cell lung cancer patients been ameliorated over the 
course of the past 20 years?].

[Article in French]

Milleron B(1).

Author information:
(1)UF de Canc√©rologie thoracique, H√¥pital Tenon, Cancer Est, 4, rue de la Chine, 
75020 Paris.

PMID: 16273008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2005 Jul-Aug;(4):14-5.

[Characteristics of male morbidity in complicated involution period].

[Article in Russian]

Kulikova NG.

PMID: 16273923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Med Health R I. 2005 Aug;88(8):282-3.

Healthy life expectancy in Rhode Island.

Jiang Y(1), Hesser JE.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Statistics, Rhode Island Department of Health, USA.

PMID: 16273975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2005 Sep-Oct;20(5):769-76.

Correlation between placement torque and survival of single-tooth implants.

Ottoni JM(1), Oliveira ZF, Mansini R, Cabral AM.

Author information:
(1)Brazilian Association of Odontology, Vit√≥ria, Espirito Santo, Brazil. 
ottoni@terra.com.br

PURPOSE: This study evaluated the survival parameters of single-tooth implants 
through clinical and radiographic analysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Implants were restored within a 24-hour period with a 
provisional crown designed to receive an occlusal masticatory load. This 
approach was compared to implants restored after a healing period (the control 
group). Forty-six implants were placed in 23 patients who were each treated with 
2 Frialit-2 implants placed in sites between the second premolar in the maxilla 
or mandible. The manufacturer's recommended formal surgical procedure was 
followed, and primary stability was standardized with a minimum insertion torque 
of 20 Ncm. The sites were randomly selected, and the clinical and radiographic 
parameters were standardized with individual templates.
RESULTS: Data were collected at 24 h, and at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. The 
experimental group included 10 failed implants; 9 of the failed implants had 
been placed with an insertion torque of 20 Ncm. One implant from the control 
group failed during the 24-month follow-up period. The survival rate was 
independent of implant length, site position, and bone quality and quantity. 
Relative risk for implant failure was associated with insertion torque (relative 
risk 0.79 [CI: 0.66-0.930]; Cox regression) (P < or = .007), in the experimental 
group but was not significant for those in the control group (ie, implants 
placed after a healing period; relative risk 0.78 [CI: 0.34-1.78]; Cox 
regression) (P < or = .057). To achieve osseointegration, it was found that an 
insertion torque above 32 Ncm was necessary (chi2= 15.68; P < or = .004).
DISCUSSION: A careful evaluation is necessary for a better understanding of the 
survival rates of immediately loaded implants. In this study, insertion torque 
was associated with the potential for risk, which can be decreased by 20% per 
9.8 Ncm added.
CONCLUSION: Given these results, and considering the number of patients treated, 
immediate provisional crowns should only be proposed with early loading if an 
appropriate initial insertion torque has been applied.

PMID: 16274152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Med J Aust. 2005 Nov 7;183(9):450-5. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2005.tb07121.x.

Cost-effectiveness of rehabilitation after an acute coronary event: a randomised 
controlled trial.

Briffa TG(1), Eckermann SD, Griffiths AD, Harris PJ, Heath MR, Freedman SB, 
Donaldson LT, Briffa NK, Keech AC.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, Camperdown, NSW, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental effects on cost and quality of life of 
cardiac rehabilitation after an acute coronary syndrome.
DESIGN: Open randomised controlled trial with 1 year's follow-up. Analysis was 
on an intention-to-treat basis.
SETTING: Two tertiary hospitals in Sydney.
INTERVENTION: 18 sessions of comprehensive exercise-based outpatient cardiac 
rehabilitation or conventional care as provided by the treating doctor.
PARTICIPANTS: 113 patients aged 41-75 years who were self-caring and literate in 
English. Patients with uncompensated heart failure, uncontrolled arrhythmias, 
severe and symptomatic aortic stenosis or physical impairment were excluded.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs (hospitalisations, medication use, outpatient 
visits, investigations, and personal expenses); and measures of quality of life. 
Incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) saved at 1 year (this 
estimate combines within-study utility effects with reported 1-year risk of 
survival and treatment effects of rehabilitation on mortality). Sensitivity 
analyses around a base case estimate included alternative assumptions of no 
treatment effect on survival, 3 years of treatment effect on survival and 
variations in utility.
RESULTS: The estimated incremental cost per QALY saved for rehabilitation 
relative to standard care was 42,535 US dollars when modelling included the 
reported treatment effect on survival. This increased to 70,580 US dollars per 
QALY saved if treatment effect on survival was not included. The results were 
sensitive to variations in utility and ranged from 19,685 US dollars per QALY 
saved to rehabilitation not being cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The effects on quality of life tend to reinforce treatment 
advantages on survival for patients having postdischarge rehabilitation after an 
acute coronary syndrome. The estimated base case incremental cost per QALY saved 
is consistent with those historically accepted by decision making authorities 
such as the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2005.tb07121.x
PMID: 16274344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Med Sci (Paris). 2005 Nov;21(11):934-9. doi: 10.1051/medsci/20052111934.

[Predictive testing: presymptomatic diagnosis in neurogenetic disorders].

[Article in French]

D√ºrr A(1), Gargiulo M, Feingold J.

Author information:
