
DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523100-00004
PMID: 16235974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(10):1057-72. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200523100-00008.

Eplerenone : a pharmacoeconomic review of its use in patients with 
post-myocardial infarction heart failure.

Croom KF(1), Plosker GL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Eplerenone (Inspra) is a selective aldosterone blocker. When added to standard 
medical therapy, eplerenone significantly improved morbidity and mortality in 
patients with left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction and clinical evidence 
of heart failure following acute myocardial infarction (MI), in a well designed, 
placebo-controlled trial known as EPHESUS (Eplerenone Post-acute myocardial 
infarction Heart failure Efficacy and SUrvival Study). Although eplerenone was 
generally well tolerated, it was associated with a higher incidence of 
hyperkalaemia than placebo.Cost-effectiveness analyses based on this trial have 
been performed in the US, The Netherlands, Germany, France and Spain. Direct 
medical costs were analysed based on prospectively collected resource-use data 
with local costs applied; modelling was conducted to calculate incremental costs 
per life-year or QALY gained, with survival curves assumed to remain parallel 
after treatment ended. Eplerenone was associated with a gain of 0.0304 
life-years (approximately 11 days) compared with placebo during the study 
period. Based on these analyses, eplerenone was cost effective compared with 
placebo in patients with LV systolic dysfunction and heart failure after an MI 
when added to standard therapy for 16 months. The incremental cost per life-year 
gained for eplerenone versus placebo (for a range of three different 
life-expectancy projections) was 10,402-21,876 US dollars in the US (year 2001 
costs, except for eplerenone [2004]) [equivalent to 12,274-25,814 euro; mid-2001 
exchange rate], 5,365-12,795 euro for The Netherlands (year 2003 costs), 
6,956-14,628 euro for Germany, 5,432-11,423 euro for France and 8,626-18,141 
euro for Spain (year of costing not reported). The US, Dutch, French and Spanish 
analyses estimated that >90% of observations for incremental cost per life-year 
gained were below a threshold of 50,000 US dollars or 50,000 euro. Incremental 
costs per QALY gained for eplerenone versus placebo in the US, Dutch, French and 
Spanish analyses were 15,330-32,405 US dollars (18,089-38,238 euro), 12,148, 
8,005-16,922 euro and 12,713-26, 873 euro, respectively. Clinical and 
pharmacoeconomic data comparing eplerenone with another active drug, such as 
spironolactone, in this patient population are not available. In conclusion, 
when added to standard therapy in patients with LV systolic dysfunction and 
heart failure after an acute MI, eplerenone was associated with significant 
reductions in mortality and morbidity compared with placebo. Despite some 
inherent limitations, available pharmacoeconomic data from Europe and the US 
indicate that eplerenone is a cost-effective treatment compared with placebo in 
terms of incremental cost per life-year gained in this patient population.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523100-00008
PMID: 16235978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2005 Jul-Aug;100(4):357-63.

[Bilio-pancreatic diversion with duodenal switch (DS) in morbid 
obesity--surgical technique].

[Article in Romanian]

Iordache N(1), Iorgulescu A, Iordache M, Coculescu A.

Author information:
(1)Clinica de Chirurgie Generală, Spitalul Clinic de Urgenţa "Sf. Ioan" 
Bucureşti. nicolae.iordache@yahoo.com

Obesity is one of the biggest health problems nowadays with growing prevalence. 
Co morbidities and decreasing life-expectancy have imposed various treatments, 
of which surgery has the best efficiency. Bilio-pancreatic diversion modified 
with duodenal switch represents the procedure with both malabsorbtive and 
restrictive effects. This procedure has the best results in reducing excessive 
body mass and in maintaining this loss. Complexity of this procedure, early and 
late complications suggests that the main operative indication is for morbid 
obesity patients (body mass index BMI > 50 kg/mp). The procedure that we have 
done was a success in efficiency and in quality of life, but for conclusions is 
necessary more experience.

PMID: 16238199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Crit Care Nurs Q. 2005 Oct-Dec;28(4):341-54. doi: 
10.1097/00002727-200510000-00007.

Unruptured intracranial aneurysms: using evidence and outcomes to guide patient 
teaching.

Wagner M(1), Stenger K.

Author information:
(1)Intensive and Specialty Services Nursing Division, University of Iowa 
Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. michele-wagner@uiowa.edu

It is estimated that approximately 10 to 15 million Americans have intracranial 
aneurysms. Intracranial aneurysms are classified as either unruptured or 
ruptured. Advances in knowledge and technology are enhancing diagnosis, 
management, and outcomes associated with unruptured intracranial aneurysms. 
Optimal outcomes are achieved when aneurysms are treated before they rupture. If 
the aneurysm ruptures, the mortality rate ranges from 30% to 60%. A review of 
evidence regarding aneurysms, including the pathogenesis, risk factors, 
treatment options, and outcomes, is presented. Treatment options addressed 
include surgical clipping, endovascular coiling, or watchful waiting. Current 
evidence supports aggressive treatment for patients with previously ruptured 
aneurysms, large or symptomatic aneurysms, a family history of aneurysm rupture, 
a long life expectancy, and aneurysms demonstrating growth. Factors that favor 
watchful waiting include aneurysms that are small or located in the anterior 
circulation and in patients with a short life expectancy or comorbid medical 
conditions. Nurses are in an ideal position to use evidence and outcomes to 
provide accurate and current information on how to reduce the risks for rupture 
and evaluate treatment options.

DOI: 10.1097/00002727-200510000-00007
PMID: 16239824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Psychoanal Study Child. 2004;59:191-210. doi:
10.1080/00797308.2004.11800738.

A reconsideration of the concept of regression.

Dowling AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Psychoanalytic Center, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Regression has been a useful psychoanalytic concept, linking present mental 
functioning with past experiences and levels of functioning. The concept 
originated as an extension of the evolutionary zeitgeist of the day as 
enunciated by H. Spencer and H. Jackson and applied by Freud to psychological 
phenomena. The value system implicit in the contrast of evolution/progression vs 
dissolution/regression has given rise to unfortunate and powerful assumptions of 
social, cultural, developmental and individual value as embodied in notions of 
"higher," "lower;" "primitive," "mature," "archaic," and "advanced." The 
unhelpful results of these assumptions are evident, for example, in attitudes 
concerning cultural, sexual, and social "correctness, " same-sex object choice, 
and goals of treatment. An alternative, a continuously constructed, continuously 
emerging mental life, in analogy to the ever changing, continuous physical body, 
is suggested. This view retains the fundamentals of psychoanalysis, for example, 
unconscious mental life, drive, defense, and psychic structure, but stresses a 
functional, ever changing, present oriented understanding of mental life as 
contrasted with a static, onion-layered view.

DOI: 10.1080/00797308.2004.11800738
PMID: 16240612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. IEEE Trans Syst Man Cybern B Cybern. 2005 Oct;35(5):1079-91. doi: 
10.1109/tsmcb.2005.847745.

An empirical comparison of nine pattern classifiers.

Tran QL, Toh KA, Srinivasan D, Wong KL, Low SQ.

There are many learning algorithms available in the field of pattern 
classification and people are still discovering new algorithms that they hope 
will work better. Any new learning algorithm, beside its theoretical foundation, 
needs to be justified in many aspects including accuracy and efficiency when 
applied to real life problems. In this paper, we report the empirical comparison 
of a recent algorithm RM, its new extensions and three classical classifiers in 
different aspects including classification accuracy, computational time and 
storage requirement. The comparison is performed in a standardized way and we 
believe that this would give a good insight into the algorithm RM and its 
extension. The experiments also show that nominal attributes do have an impact 
on the performance of those compared learning algorithms.

DOI: 10.1109/tsmcb.2005.847745
PMID: 16240781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Rev Med Brux. 2005 Sep;26(4):S367-77.

[Global HIV care in general/family practice].

[Article in French]

Semaille P(1), Dubois S, Gennotte AF.

Author information:
(1)D.M.G.-U.L.B., C.H.U. Saint-Pierre, Bruxelles.

Dealing with HIV/AIDS in primary care encompasses preventive, curative, social 
and psychological aspects within a framework of a person-centred approach. 
Antiretroviral treatments enable the control of HIV infection, prevent 
opportunistic infections and allow patients to "live their life" with an 
increased life expectancy, active sexuality and need to procreate. The holistic 
care of patients should always be the primary concern. An increased involvement 
of GP's in HIV care can raise the quality of care, reduce the stigma and 
prejudice surrounding HIV Medical care providers can substantially affect HIV 
transmission by positively reinforcing changes to safe behavior, by referring 
patients for specialized services and working in direct collaboration with them, 
by facilitating partner counseling and testing. However, providers must 
interweave the "half-baked "science about drug therapies, side effects and drug 
interactions with the psychosocial and lifestyle factors of the patient. 
Sometimes it's not easy to find adequate and relevant information about HIV in 
primary care. This document will provide primary care givers the keys for 
improvement, increase their basic HIV-related skills (and strengthen their role 
in HIV/AIDS prevention and follow-up) and make them more confident in their 
assessments.

PMID: 16240889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Diabet Med. 2005 Nov;22(11):1530-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2005.01687.x.

Prognostic significance of glycaemic control in patients with HBV and 
HCV-related cirrhosis and diabetes mellitus.

Kwon SY(1), Kim SS, Kwon OS, Kwon KA, Chung MG, Park DK, Kim YS, Koo YS, Kim YK, 
Choi DJ, Kim JH.

Author information:
(1)Gil MerDepartment of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and 
Hepatology, Gachon Medical School, Gil Medical Centre, 1198 Guwal-dong, 
Namdong-gu, Inchon 405-760, Korea. sykwonmd@hotmail.com

AIMS: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is frequently observed in patients with cirrhosis, 
particularly that due to hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. However, no studies 
have focused on the clinical significance of glycaemic control in cirrhotic 
patients because of their short life expectancy and poor hepatic function. The 
aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic impact of glycaemic control in 
patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HCV-related cirrhosis and DM.
METHODS: A total of 434 patients with HCV-related (HCV group, n = 88) or 
HBV-related (HBV group, n = 346) cirrhosis were studied retrospectively. We 
determined the prevalence of DM and treatment methods for hyperglycaemia and 
status of glycaemic control, and the patients' outcome.
RESULTS: The prevalence of DM was 43.2% (38/88) in the HCV group and 19.7% 
(68/346) in the HBV group. Patients in the HCV group were older with a female 
preponderance. DM was detected before the diagnosis of cirrhosis or 
simultaneously in 92% and 79% in the HCV and HBV groups, respectively. Most 
patients were treated with insulin or oral hypoglycaemic agents. However, blood 
glucose levels were maintained within the normal range in 34.2% of the HCV group 
and in 23.5% of the HBV group. Forty-six patients died during the observation 
period in both groups. Hepatic failure was the most common cause of death, and 
sepsis and variceal bleeding were more frequent in the HCV group than in the HBV 
group. Multivariate analysis showed that Child-Pugh class was the most important 
factor for survival in both groups. In the HCV group, the status of glycaemic 
control was a significant independent factor of survival (P = 0.018). In the HBV 
group, age and the development of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis were 
significant.
CONCLUSION: DM is more frequent in patients with HCV-related cirrhosis than in 
patients with HBV. Strict control of blood glucose levels could improve survival 
in HCV patients. A precise assessment of the risks and benefits of glycaemic 
control is required to reduce the mortality and morbidity of patients with 
cirrhosis and DM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2005.01687.x
PMID: 16241918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. J Thromb Haemost. 2005 Nov;3(11):2391-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1538-7836.2005.01606.x.

Decision analysis for cancer screening in idiopathic venous thromboembolism.

DI Nisio M(1), Otten HM, Piccioli A, Lensing AW, Prandoni P, Büller HR, Prins 
MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Centre, University of 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Thromb Haemost. 2005 Nov;3(11):2389-90.

BACKGROUND: The SOMIT trial randomized patients with idiopathic venous 
thromboembolism (IVTE) and without signs of cancer at routine medical 
examination, to extensive screening for cancer plus 2 years of follow-up or to 
just 2-year follow-up.
METHODS: The data of the SOMIT-trial were used to perform a decision analysis. 
The screening tests were divided in several possible strategies. The number of 
detected cancer patients and the number of patients investigated further for an 
eventually benign condition were calculated for each strategy. The total costs 
for the screening strategy and for each detected cancer patient were determined. 
Based on the tumor type, stage, age and gender of the individual cancer patient, 
the difference in live years gained (LYG) was calculated between the two study 
groups.
RESULTS: Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen combined with sputum cytology 
and mammography detected 12 of the 14 patients with cancer and had one 
false-positive result. In general, screening strategies including 
abdominal/pelvic ultrasonography (US) or tumor markers yielded a higher number 
of patients needed to screen in comparison with those using abdominal/pelvic CT. 
Furthermore, the strategies which included colonoscopy, tumor markers, and 
abdominal/pelvic US were significantly more costly, had inferior LYG and higher 
costs per LYG, when compared with strategies using abdominal/pelvic CT.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the limitations of this analysis, the screening for cancer 
with a strategy including abdominal/pelvic CT with or without mammography and/or 
sputum cytology appears potentially useful for cancer screening in patients with 
IVTE. The cost-effectiveness analysis of this strategy needs confirmation in a 
large trial.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1538-7836.2005.01606.x
PMID: 16241936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. J Vasc Surg. 2005 Oct;42(4):650-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.03.066.

Is abdominal aortic aneurysm repair appropriate in oxygen-dependent chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease patients?

Compton CN(1), Dillavou ED, Sheehan MK, Rhee RY, Makaroun MS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, PA 
15213, USA. comptoncn@msx.upmc.edu

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of patients with oxygen-dependent chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is significantly reduced, but the risk of 
any intervention is considered prohibitive. However, severe COPD may increase 
the risk of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) rupture. We reviewed our experience 
with AAA repair in oxygen-dependent patients to determine whether operative risk 
and expected long-term survival justify surgical intervention.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 44 consecutive patients with oxygen-dependent 
COPD undergoing AAA repair over an 8-year period was performed. Information was 
recorded for survival, length of follow-up, patient age, medical comorbidities, 
pulmonary function tests, and operative approach. Survival data were analyzed by 
Kaplan-Meier curves and compared with published cohorts of oxygen-dependent 
patients and the natural history of untreated aneurysms.
RESULTS: Twenty-four patients underwent endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR), and 
20 underwent open procedures (14 retroperitoneal and 6 transabdominal). The mean 
AAA diameter was 6.1 cm (range, 5-9.5 cm). The mean age was 71.4 years, and 82% 
of patients were male. Operative mortality was 0%. The mean length of stay was 
11.2 days for open procedures and 4.3 days for EVAR (significantly longer than 
that for standard-risk patients). The mean survival time was 37.9 months (range, 
2-91 months). Preoperative medical comorbidities, type of repair, and pulmonary 
function tests were not predictive of survival. Postoperative morbidity was 
significantly higher with open repair. Long term survival was comparable to 
historical series of the natural history of O2 dependent patients without AAA 
but better than untreated 6 cm AAA cohorts. At 42 months, almost 50% of patients 
in our study group were still alive, compared to 20% survival at 34 months for 
those with untreated 6 cm AAAs.
CONCLUSIONS: It is reasonable to continue to offer AAA repair to home 
oxygen-dependent COPD patients who are ambulatory and medically optimized and 
who are without untreated coronary artery disease. Although EVAR may be the most 
suitable treatment for oxygen-dependent COPD patients, our results show that 
even open repair may be safely performed in this population, with acceptable 
results.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.03.066
PMID: 16242549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Am J Prev Med. 2005 Nov;29(4):325-34. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2005.07.003.

A quantitative risk-benefit analysis of changes in population fish consumption.

Cohen JT(1), Bellinger DC, Connor WE, Kris-Etherton PM, Lawrence RS, Savitz DA, 
Shaywitz BA, Teutsch SM, Gray GM.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. cohenj@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Am J Prev Med. 2005 Nov;29(4):320-1.
    Am J Prev Med. 2005 Nov;29(4):322-3.
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 May;30(5):438-9; author reply 441-4.
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 May;30(5):439-40; author reply 441-3.

Although a rich source of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) that may 
confer multiple health benefits, some fish contain methyl mercury (MeHg), which 
may harm the developing fetus. U.S. government recommendations for women of 
childbearing age are to modify consumption of high-MeHg fish, while 
recommendations encourage fish consumption among the general population because 
of nutritional benefits. To investigate the aggregate impacts of hypothetical 
shifts in fish consumption, the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis convened an 
expert panel (see acknowledgements). Effects investigated include prenatal 
cognitive development, coronary heart disease mortality, and stroke. 
Substitution of fish with high MeHg concentrations with fish containing less 
MeHg among women of childbearing age yields substantial developmental benefits 
and few negative impacts. However, if women instead decrease fish consumption, 
countervailing risks substantially reduce net benefits. If other adults 
(mistakenly and inappropriately) also reduce their fish consumption, the net 
public health impact is negative. Although high compliance with recommended fish 
consumption patterns can improve public health, unintended shifts in consumption 
can lead to public health losses. Risk managers should investigate and carefully 
consider how populations will respond to interventions, how those responses will 
influence nutrient intake and contaminant exposure, and how these changes will 
affect aggregate public health.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2005.07.003
PMID: 16242599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Physiol Behav. 2005 Dec 15;86(5):599-602. doi:
10.1016/j.physbeh.2005.08.050.  Epub 2005 Oct 19.

Epidemiologic aspects of overweight and obesity in the United States.

Flegal KM(1).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, 3311 Toledo Rd, Room 4311, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA. 
KFlegal@cdc.gov

National survey data from the U.S. show that the prevalence of overweight and 
obesity among adults remained relatively constant over the 20-year period from 
1960 to 1980, began to increase around the mid-1980s and has continued to 
increase. Data for children and adolescents, based on different definitions, 
show the same pattern. It can sometimes be more useful to look at the whole 
distribution of body mass index, rather than on prevalence estimates based on 
pre-defined cutoffs. Data from several countries suggest that for both adults 
and children, the distribution of BMI has become more skewed over time. Although 
many hypotheses have been put forward about the causes of the increases, data to 
address these issues are sparse. Obesity is a well-known risk factor for 
numerous health conditions. Nonetheless, the health consequences of the 
increases in obesity have not been fully delineated. Increases in diabetes have 
been noted in conjunction with the rise in obesity. On the other hand, declines 
in some other cardiovascular risk factors have been seen at all BMI levels. 
Rising life expectancy and decreasing heart disease mortality rates seem to 
confound some of the expectations about the effects of increasing obesity on 
mortality. The effects of obesity on morbidity may be greater than its effects 
on mortality. The increasing prevalence of obesity poses challenges for 
researchers and for policy makers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2005.08.050
PMID: 16242735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2005 Oct;69(10):2015-8. doi: 10.1271/bbb.69.2015.

Uncoupling of longevity and paraquat resistance in mutants of the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Fujii M(1), Tanaka N, Miki K, Hossain MN, Endoh M, Ayusawa D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biochemistry, Kihara Institute for Biological Research and 
Graduate School of Integrated Science, Yokohama City University, Japan.

To analyze the relationship between resistance to oxidative stress and 
longevity, we isolated three novel paraquat-resistant mutants, mev-5, mev-6, and 
mev-7, from the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. They all showed the Dyf 
(defective in dye filling) phenotype, but not always resistance to heat or UV. 
Life-span extension was observed only in the mev-5 mutant at 26 degrees C. These 
results indicate that longevity is uncoupled with the phenotype of paraquat 
resistance.

DOI: 10.1271/bbb.69.2015
PMID: 16244463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Zh Obshch Biol. 2005 Sep-Oct;66(5):416-24.

Evolutionary genetics of aging in Daphnia.

Iampolskiĭ LI(1), Galimov IaR.

Author information:
(1)N.I. Vavilov Institute of General Genetics, Gubkin str., 3. 119899 Moscow, 
Russia. yampolsk@etsu.edu

Evolutionary theory of aging stipulates that aging is inevitable consequence of 
low effectiveness of natural selection acting on traits expressed late in the 
life span of the organisms. Two main hypotheses exist: the neutralist 
mutation-accumulation theory and selectionist antagonistic pleiotropy theory. 
Both theories predict the increase of genetic variance with age; the 
antagonistic pleiotropy theory also predicts negative genetic correlation 
between fitness related traits in the beginning and in the end of the life span. 
In order to test these predictions we measured life expectancy and age specific 
mortality in cohorts of 26 c lones of Daphnia magna extracted from a single 
cyclic parthenogen population. Simultaneously, fecundity and age to maturity 
were measured in representatives of the same clones. Log mortality increased 
linearly with age, with little evidence for leveling off, although some 
replicate cohorts did show a significant leveling off of mortality. Genetic 
variance of log mortality was significantly higher in the last quarter of the 
life span than in earlier time intervals. There was a significant positive 
genetic correlation between early fecundity and early mortality, but not between 
early fecundity and late mortality. This indicates that, although there is a 
trade-off between fecundity and survival, this trade-off is not based on 
pleiotropy across ages and therefore the data does not support the prediction of 
antagonistic pleiotropy theory.

PMID: 16245571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. J Food Prot. 2005 Oct;68(10):2201-7. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-68.10.2201.

Shelf-life extension of refrigerated Mediterranean mullet (Mullus surmuletus) 
using modified atmosphere packaging.

Pournis N(1), Papavergou A, Badeka A, Kontominas MG, Savvaidis IN.

Author information:
(1)University of Ioannina, Department of Chemistry, Laboratory of Food Chemistry 
and Food Microbiology, Ioannina 45110, Greece.

The present work evaluated the quality and freshness characteristics and the 
effect of modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) on the shelf-life extension of 
refrigerated Mediterranean mullet using microbiological, biochemical, and 
sensory analyses. Fresh open sea red mullet (Mullus surmuletus) were packaged in 
four different atmospheres: M1, 10%/20%/70% (O2/ CO2/N2); M2, 10%/40%/50% 
(O2/CO2/N2); M3, 10%/60%/30% (O2/CO2/N2); identical fish samples were packaged 
in air. All fish were kept under refrigeration (4 +/- 0.5 degrees C) for 14 
days. Of the three gas atmospheres, the 10%/40%/50% (M2) and 10%/ 60%/30% (M3) 
gas mixtures were the most effective for inhibiting growth of aerobic microflora 
in mullet samples until day 10 of refrigerated storage. H2S-producing bacteria 
and pseudomonads were part of the mullet microflora and their growth was partly 
inhibited under MAP conditions. Between these two bacterial groups, 
H2S-producing bacteria (including Shewanella putrefaciens) were dominant toward 
the end of the storage period, regardless of the packaging conditions. 
Brochothrix thermosphacta and lactic acid bacteria were found to be members of 
the final microbial flora of MAP and air-packaged mullet, whereas the 
Enterobacteriaceae population was lower than other bacterial groups. Of the 
chemical freshness indices determined, thiobarbituric acid values were variable 
in mullet samples irrespective of packaging conditions indicative of no specific 
oxidative rancidity trend. Based on sensorial data and aerobic plate count, 
trimethylamine nitrogen and total volatile basic nitrogen limit values in the 
range of ca. 15 to 23 and 52 to 60 mg N/100 g of fish muscle were obtained, 
respectively, for mullet packaged under modified atmosphere and air. Sensory 
analyses (odor and taste attributes) showed that the limit of sensorial 
acceptability was reached after ca. 6 days for the samples packaged in air, 8 
days for the M1 and M3 samples, and after 10 days for the M2 samples. Respective 
shelf-life extension for fresh whole mullet was ca. 2 days (M1 and M3 gas 
mixtures), and 4 days (M2 gas mixture).

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-68.10.2201
PMID: 16245730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Drugs Aging. 2005;22(10):859-76. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200522100-00005.

Prevention of cardiovascular events in elderly people.

Andrawes WF(1), Bussy C, Belmin J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Gériatrie, Hôpital Charles Foix et Université Paris 6, 
Ivry-sur-Seine, France.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Cardiovascular disease has been identified as the 
leading cause of morbidity and mortality in developed countries. Given the 
increase in life expectancy and the development of cardiovascular preventive 
measures, it has become increasingly important to detect and prevent 
cardiovascular diseases in the elderly. We reviewed the scientific literature 
concerning cardiovascular prevention to assess the importance of cardiovascular 
preventive measures in old (> or =65 years of age) individuals.
METHODS: We undertook a systematic search for references relating to prevention 
of cardiovascular disease in the elderly, mainly ischaemic stroke, coronary 
artery disease and heart failure, on the MEDLINE database 1962-2005. For 
cardiovascular prevention by drugs or surgery, emphasis was placed on randomised 
controlled trials, review articles and meta-analyses. For cardiovascular 
prevention by lifestyle modification, major cohort studies were also considered.
RESULTS: Stroke, coronary heart disease and heart failure were found to be the 
main targets for cardiovascular prevention in published studies. 
Antihypertensive treatment has proven its efficacy in primary prevention of 
fatal or nonfatal stroke in hypertensive and high-risk patients >60 years of 
age, particularly through treatment of systolic hypertension. Systolic blood 
pressure reduction is equally important in the secondary prevention of stroke. 
Similarly, in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, an adjusted dose of warfarin with 
a target International Normalized Ratio (INR) of between 2 to 3 prevents 
ischaemic stroke in elderly patients with an acceptable haemorrhagic risk but is 
still under prescribed. Antiplatelet agents are indicated in elderly patients 
with nonembolic strokes. Few large-scale studies have investigated the effect of 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) on stroke prevention in old individuals. 
To date, the largest trials suggest a beneficial effect for stroke prevention 
with use of statins in high-risk elderly subjects < or =82 years of age. Carotid 
endarterectomy is indicated in carotid artery stenosis >70% and outcomes are 
even better in elderly than in younger patients. However, medical treatment is 
still the first-line treatment in asymptomatic elderly patients with <70% 
stenosis. In ischaemic heart disease, different trials in elderly individuals 
have shown that use of statins, antithrombotic agents, beta-adrenoceptor 
antagonists and ACE inhibitors plays an important role either in primary or in 
secondary cardiovascular prevention. Hormone replacement therapy has been used 
to treat climacteric symptoms and postmenopausal osteoporosis and was thought to 
confer a cardiovascular protection. However, controlled trials in elderly 
individuals changed this false belief when it was found that there was no 
benefit and even a harmful cardiovascular effect during the first year of 
treatment. Smoking cessation, regular physical activity and healthy diet are, as 
in younger individuals, appropriate and effective measures for preventing 
cardiovascular events in the elderly. Finally, antihypertensive treatment and 
influenza vaccination are useful for heart failure prevention in elderly 
individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiovascular prevention should be more widely implemented in the 
elderly, including individuals aged > or =75 years, and this might contribute to 
improved healthy status and quality of life in this growing population.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200522100-00005
PMID: 16245959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Obes Rev. 2005 Nov;6(4):323-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2005.00211.x.

Orlistat for the treatment of obesity: cost utility model.

Foxcroft DR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Social Care, Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, UK. 
david.foxcroft@brookes.ac.uk

This study aimed to assess the cost utility of orlistat treatment based on (i) 
criteria from recent guidance from the National Institute for Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) for England and Wales (treatment discontinued if weight loss < 
5% at 3 months; and < 10% at 6 months); and (ii) alternative criteria from the 
European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA) licence for 
orlistat prescription in the European Community (treatment discontinued if 
weight loss < 5% at 3 months). Subjects were 1398 obese individuals who 
participated in three large European Phase III trials of orlistat treatment for 
adults (BMI: 28-47 kg m(-2)). Measures were: response to treatment in orlistat 
and placebo treatment groups; health benefit expressed as quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained associated with weight loss; costs associated with orlistat 
treatment. In the cost utility model with multiway sensitivity analysis, the 
cost/QALY gained using the NICE criteria was estimated to be 24,431 pounds 
(sensitivity analysis range: 10,856 to 77,197 pounds). The cost/QALY gained 
using the alternative EMEA criteria was estimated to be 19,005 pounds (range: 
8,840 to 57,798 pounds). In conclusion, NICE guidance for the continued use of 
orlistat was supported in this updated cost utility model, comparing favourably 
with a previously published estimate of 45,881 pounds per QALY gained. Moreover, 
the value for money of orlistat treatment is improved further if EMEA treatment 
criteria for continued orlistat treatment are applied. The EMEA criteria should 
be considered in any future changes to the NICE guidance or in guidance issued 
by similar agencies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2005.00211.x
PMID: 16246217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. J Nutr Educ Behav. 2005 Nov-Dec;37 Suppl 2:S95-100. doi: 
10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60206-6.

Promoting healthy weight: lessons learned from WIN the Rockies and other key 
studies.

Liebman M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Consumer Sciences, University of Wyoming Cooperative 
Extension Service, Laramie, WY 82071, USA. liebman@uwyo.edu

In contrast to the traditional weight-centered approach, the Health At Every 
Size (HAES) or nondieting approach is health centered, with no focus on losing a 
predetermined amount of weight or fat. A key HAES principle of advocating 
healthy changes in food selection rather than adherence to prescriptive diets 
that involve calorie counting was adopted by Wellness in the Rockies (WIN the 
Rockies), a community-based research, intervention, and outreach project that 
promoted healthy lifestyles related to food, physical activity, and body image 
at the individual and community levels in Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho. The 
results from the project's cross-sectional surveys indicated that increased 
frequency of eating food while doing another activity, of drinking sweetened 
beverages such as soft drinks, and of consuming foods from fast-food restaurants 
were significant predictors of a high body mass index (BMI). In terms of energy 
expenditure, other predictors of high BMI from the WIN the Rockies 
cross-sectional surveys were lower frequency of participation in physical 
activity and the perception of not getting as much exercise as needed. The 
overall data provide support for the view that small diet- and physical 
activity-related lifestyle changes can cumulatively make a significant 
contribution to maintenance of healthy body weights. Although the community 
intervention emphasis of WIN the Rockies did not allow a specific assessment of 
the efficacy of HAES for individual participants in the project, this approach 
appears to hold great potential for promoting healthful lifestyle changes that 
improve quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60206-6
PMID: 16246274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2005;61(3):161-78. doi: 10.2190/7H5P-2AHJ-L34Q-GW9U.

Lifespan differences in the social networks of prison inmates.

Bond GD(1), Thompson LA, Malloy DM.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Psychology, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces 88003-0001, USA. 
gbond@nmsu.edu

Socioemotional Selectivity Theory (SST) (Carstensen, 1992, 1993) accounts for 
lifespan changes in human social networks and for the motivations which underlie 
those changes. SST is applied in this research with 256 prison inmates and 
non-inmates, ages 18-84, from Mississippi, Kansas, and New Mexico. Two research 
questions sought to identify (a) whether inmate networks change in size, and (b) 
whether overall closeness within an inmate's network changes over the adult 
years. Results indicate that older inmates, much like older non-inmates, have 
few peripheral partners, are buffered from the wider population of prisoners, 
and interact within a small group of very close partners. Although older inmates 
are not completely isolated, they do maintain fewer network partners as age 
increases, like their non-incarcerated counterparts, and overall are as 
emotionally close to network members as non-inmates.

DOI: 10.2190/7H5P-2AHJ-L34Q-GW9U
PMID: 16248288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Dermatolog Treat. 2005;16(4):190-2. doi: 10.1080/09546630510044904.

Does the teratogenicity of isotretinoin outweigh its benefits?

Jordan AY, Parks L, Chen SC, Higgins K, Fleischer AB, Feldman SR.

DOI: 10.1080/09546630510044904
PMID: 16249139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Popul Stud (Camb). 2005 Nov;59(3):283-94. doi: 10.1080/00324720500223427.

The momentum of mortality change.

Guillot M(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demography and Ecology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI 53706, USA. mguillot@ssc.wisc.edu

Mortality change is not usually assigned much importance as a source of 
population growth when future population trends are discussed. Yet it can make a 
significant contribution to population momentum. In populations that have 
experienced mortality change, cohort survivorship will continue varying for some 
time even if period mortality rates become constant. This continuing change in 
cohort survivorship can create a significant degree of mortality-induced 
population change, a process we call the 'momentum of mortality change'. The 
momentum of mortality change can be estimated by taking the ratio of e0 (the 
period life expectancy at birth) to CAL (the cross-sectional average length of 
life) for a given year. In industrialized nations, the momentum of mortality 
change can attenuate the negative effect on population growth of declining 
fertility or sustained below-replacement fertility. In India, where population 
momentum has a value of 1.436, the momentum of mortality change is the greatest 
contributor to its value.

DOI: 10.1080/00324720500223427
PMID: 16249150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Ann Oncol. 2006 Jan;17(1):167-71. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdj050. Epub 2005 Oct
25.

Life expectancy as an indicator of outcome in follow-up of population-based 
cancer registries: the example of childhood leukemia.

Viscomi S(1), Pastore G, Dama E, Zuccolo L, Pearce N, Merletti F, Magnani C.

Author information:
(1)Childhood Cancer Registry of Piedmont, Cancer Epidemiology Unit - CPO 
Piemonte, CeRMS, S. Giovanni Hospital and University of Torino, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Survival analysis is a standard methodology to assess progress in 
oncology disease treatment. However, survival analysis commonly only measures 
survival during the treatment period (and the period immediately afterwards), 
and does not provide an estimate of life expectancy, which is often of more 
interest to patients and to health policy makers. In this paper we propose a 
method to estimate childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) life expectancy 
through the integration of traditional survival analysis and life expectancy 
tables.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 305 incident cases registered by the 
Childhood Cancer Registry of Piedmont in 1979-1991. Vital status on 30 June 2004 
was known for 304 cases. Survival analyses were carried out using the 
Kaplan-Meier method and the Gompertz model, according to the time period of 
diagnosis and gender.
RESULTS: Cumulative survival at 5 years increased from 58.6% (95% CI 48.9-68.3) 
for cases diagnosed in March 1979-July 1982 to 79.1% (95% CI 70.8-87.5) in March 
1987-February 1991 (P = 0.002). Average life expectancy increased from 46.1 
years for boys and 42.6 years for girls diagnosed in March 1979-July 1982 to 
58.3 and 69.1, respectively, in March 1987-February 1991.
CONCLUSIONS: These analyses show an improvement over the time period of 
diagnosis of life expectancy for children with ALL.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdj050
PMID: 16249212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. AIDS. 2005 Oct;19 Suppl 4:S27-30. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000191487.69414.88.

Characteristics and survival of AIDS patients with hepatitis C: the Brazilian 
National Cohort of 1995-1996.

Marins JR(1), Barros MB, Machado H, Chen S, Jamal LF, Hearst N.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, Brazil. piomarins@aids.gov.br

BACKGROUND: As AIDS patients live longer, the management of co-morbidities 
becomes increasingly important. Previous studies from developed countries give 
conflicting results as to whether co-infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
lowers the life expectancy of individuals with AIDS.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study was based on a medical record review of 
a nationally representative sample of 2821 adult AIDS cases diagnosed in 1995 
and 1996 in Brazil. We compared the characteristics and survival of patients 
known to be positive and negative for HCV.
RESULTS: A total of 833 patients received HCV testing, and the prevalence was 
33%. HCV-positive patients received less intensive antiretroviral treatment. The 
crude mortality was greater for HCV-positive patients (hazard ratio 1.26; P = 
0.04), but HCV status was not a significant predictor in a multivariate analysis 
that included other predictors of survival.
CONCLUSION: Brazilian AIDS patients with hepatitis C have a shorter survival 
than those without, but this seems to be mainly as a result of their receiving 
less antiretroviral treatment. We cannot say whether this is because of the fear 
of hepatotoxicity, an inability to tolerate treatment, or for other reasons. To 
improve survival, these patients need optimal treatment of their HIV disease.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000191487.69414.88
PMID: 16249650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Kennedy Inst Ethics J. 2005 Sep;15(3):221-50. doi: 10.1353/ken.2005.0018.

Reflections on public bioethics: a view from the trenches.

Kass LR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, IL, USA.

For many reasons, and more than its predecessors, the President's Council on 
Bioethics has been the subject of much public attention and heated controversy. 
But little of that attention and controversy has been informed by knowledge of 
the Council's mission, its ways of working, and, most importantly, its actual 
work. This essay describes the Council's mission, discusses its public ways of 
working, and reviews the five major works produced during the Council's first 
term. In all its activities, the Council has sought to develop a richer 
bioethics, one that recognizes and tries to do justice to the deep issues of our 
humanity raised by the age of biotechnology. Believing that these issues are 
properly matters to be discussed and governed by the polity as a whole, the 
Council also has sought to contribute to a genuinely public or political 
bioethics, beyond the rule of "experts," scientific and bioethical.

DOI: 10.1353/ken.2005.0018
PMID: 16250106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2005;(9):3-6.

[Medicodemographic problems in Russian Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Shchepin OO, Tishuk EA.

The authors of the article analyze the current health status of Russian 
population and underline the necessity to set priorities in the development of 
the country's public health system. Within a short period of time the mortality 
in this country has risen 1.5 times, and the birth rate have declined twice. By 
January 1, 2005, the population of Russian Federation had decreased by 
10,361,300 people, as a result of natural depopulation. Mostly affected by the 
crisis is able-bodied population, the mortality among who have increased 2.5 
times. The gap in the mortality between ours and other economically developed 
countries is now sevenfold. This means that six out of seven cases of death at 
the productive age in this country are absolutely preventable. The mortality 
among pensioners has not changed at all, i.e. people at this age seem to be 
reliably protected against the crisis. The birth rate has decreased abruptly; 
its summary coefficient has fallen down to 1.17 while 2.15 are necessary for 
simple reproduction. The proportion of out-of-wedlock children, as well as that 
of disabled children, displays a multiple increase. Male population in Russia 
demonstrates a catastrophic super mortality, the gap between the length of life 
among men and women being 13.5 years. In a number of regions men do not reach 
the age of 54.

PMID: 16250323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Adv Surg. 2005;39:165-79. doi: 10.1016/j.yasu.2005.04.005.

Effect of bariatric surgery on long-term mortality.

Christou NV(1), MacLean LD.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Section of Bariatric Surgery, McGill University Health 
Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yasu.2005.04.005
PMID: 16250551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Int J Periodontics Restorative Dent. 2005 Oct;25(5):501-7.

Immediate loading of mandibular implants in compromised patients: preliminary 
results.

Weischer T(1), Kandt M, Reidick T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Essen, Germany. 
tjweischer@t-online.de

To minimize the number of implant surgical procedures, a total of 72 
single-stage, transgingival Frialoc implants (Friadent) were placed in the 
mandibles of 18 patients who required implant restoration. The patients' ability 
to undergo surgical implant treatment was restricted because of either poor 
general medical health or psychologic conditions. All implants were immediately 
loaded with a bar-retained overdenture. Only 4 of the 72 immediately loaded 
Frialoc implants (in one patient) failed over a control period of 29 months. The 
cumulative implant survival rate was 94.4%. Apart from an initial increase in 
bone resorption at two posterior implants supporting a cantilever bar (the 
cantilevers were removed 13 months after delivery of the prosthesis) and serious 
lip swelling in one patient, there were no further serious surgical, prosthetic, 
or general medical problems during the treatment period. The initial results of 
the study indicate that the single-stage Frialoc System allows fast prosthetic 
mandibular restorations. Because there is only one operation, the risk of local 
or general health complications in compromised patients is reduced.

PMID: 16250572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2005 Oct;60 Spec No 2:40-7. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/60.special_issue_2.s40.

Rethinking gender differences in health: why we need to integrate social and 
biological perspectives.

Rieker PP(1), Bird CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Boston University, 96-100 Cummington St., Boston, MA 
02215, USA. rieker@bu.edu

The complexity of gender differences in health (i.e., men's lower life 
expectancy and women's greater morbidity) extends beyond notions of either 
social or biological disadvantage. Gaps remain in understanding the antecedents 
of such differences and the issues this paradox raises regarding the connections 
between social and biological processes. Our goals in this analytic essay are to 
make the case that gender differences in health matter and that understanding 
these differences requires an explanation of why rational people are not 
effective in making health a priority in their everyday lives. We describe some 
salient gender health differences in cardiovascular disease, immune function and 
disorders, and depression and indicate why neither social nor biological 
perspectives alone are sufficient to account for them. We consider the 
limitations of current models of socioeconomic and racial/ethnic health 
disparities to explain the puzzling gender differences in health. Finally, we 
discuss constrained choice, a key issue that is missing in the current 
understanding of these gender differences, and call on the social science 
community to work with biomedical researchers on the interdisciplinary work 
required to address the paradoxical differences in men's and women's health.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/60.special_issue_2.s40
PMID: 16251589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Transplantation. 2005 Oct 15;80(2 Suppl):S254-64. doi: 
10.1097/01.tp.0000186382.81130.ba.

Malignancy after transplantation.

Buell JF(1), Gross TG, Woodle ES.

Author information:
(1)Israel Penn International Transplant Tumor Registry, University of 
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45267-0558, USA. joseph.buell@uc.edu

Comment in
    Transplantation. 2005 Oct 15;80(2 Suppl):S272-4.

As newer immunosuppressive regimens have steadily reduced the incidence of acute 
rejection and have extended the life expectancy of allograft recipients, 
posttransplant malignancy has become an important cause of mortality. In fact, 
it is expected that cancer will surpass cardiovascular complications as the 
leading cause of death in transplant patients within the next 2 decades. An 
understanding of the underlying pathobiology and how to minimize cancer risks in 
transplant recipients are essential. The etiology of posttransplant malignancy 
is believed to be multifactorial and likely involves impaired immunosurveillance 
of neoplastic cells as well as depressed antiviral immune activity with a number 
of common posttransplant malignancies being viral-related. Although calcineurin 
inhibitors and azathioprine have been linked with posttransplant malignancies, 
newer agents such as mycophenolate mofetil and sirolimus have not and indeed may 
have antitumor properties. Long-term data are needed to determine if the use of 
these agents will ultimately lower the mortality due to malignancy for 
transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.tp.0000186382.81130.ba
PMID: 16251858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. MMWR Surveill Summ. 2005 Oct 28;54(4):1-35.

Health-related quality of life surveillance--United States, 1993-2002.

Zahran HS(1), Kobau R, Moriarty DG, Zack MM, Holt J, Donehoo R; Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Author information:
(1)Division of Adult and Community Health, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC)

PROBLEM/CONDITION: Population-based surveillance of health-related quality of 
life (HRQOL) is needed to promote the health and quality of life of U.S. 
residents and to monitor progress in achieving the two overall Healthy People 
2010 goals: 1) increase the quality and years of healthy life and 2) eliminate 
health disparities.
REPORTING PERIOD: This report examines surveillance-based HRQOL data from 1993 
through 2002.
DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM: Survey data from a validated set of HRQOL measures (CDC 
HRQOL-4) were analyzed for 1993-2001 from the Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS) surveys for the 50 states and the District of 
Columbia (DC) and for 2001-2002 from the National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey (NHANES). These measures assessed self-rated health; 
physically unhealthy days (i.e., the number of days during the preceding 30 days 
for which physical health, including physical illness and injury, was not good); 
mentally unhealthy days (i.e., the number of days during the preceding 30 days 
for which mental health, including stress, depression, and problems with 
emotions, was not good); and days with activity limitation (i.e., number of days 
during the preceding 30 days that poor physical or mental health prevented 
normal daily activities). A summary measure of overall unhealthy days also was 
computed from the sum of a respondent's physically unhealthy and mentally 
unhealthy days, with a maximum of 30 days.
RESULTS AND INTERPRETATION: During 1993-2001, the mean number of physically 
unhealthy days, mentally unhealthy days, overall unhealthy days, and activity 
limitation days was higher after 1997 than before 1997. During 1993-1997, the 
