timing. Encephalization in particular has been frequently linked to the slow 
pace of development in Homo sapiens. The "brain allometry extension" theory 
postulates that the progressive extension of a conserved primate brain allometry 
into postnatal life was the basis for brain enlargement in the human lineage. 
This study shows that published primate and human growth data do not corroborate 
this model. Instead, the unique encephalization of H. sapiens is alternatively 
described as the result of evolutionary changes in three aspects of 
developmental timing. The first is a moderate extension in the duration of brain 
growth relative to our closest extant relatives, contrary to the view that human 
brain growth is drastically prolonged into postnatal life. Second, humans 
evolved a derived brain allometry in comparison with chimpanzees and early 
hominins. Third, humans (and other anthropoid primates to a lesser degree) 
display a significant retardation in early postnatal body growth in comparison 
with other mammals, which directly affects adult encephalization in our species. 
The rejection of the "brain allometry extension" model may require a 
reevaluation of the adaptive scenarios proposed to explain how human 
encephalization evolved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.08.001
PMID: 16226789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Eur J Heart Fail. 2005 Oct;7(6):1070-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2005.09.006.

Clinical trials update from the European Society of Cardiology meeting 2005: 
CARE-HF extension study, ESSENTIAL, CIBIS-III, S-ICD, ISSUE-2, STRIDE-2, SOFA, 
IMAGINE, PREAMI, SIRIUS-II and ACTIVE.

Cleland JG(1), Coletta AP, Lammiman M, Witte KK, Loh H, Nasir M, Clark AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University of Hull, Castle Hill Hospital, 
Cottingham, Kingston-upon-Hull, UK.

Comment in
    Eur J Heart Fail. 2006 Mar;8(2):219-20.
    Eur J Heart Fail. 2006 Mar;8(2):221-2.

This article provides information and a commentary on trials presented at the 
European Society of Cardiology meeting held in September 2005, relevant to the 
pathophysiology, prevention and treatment of heart failure. All reports should 
be considered as preliminary data, as analyses may change in the final 
publication. In the CARE-HF extension study, the benefits of cardiac 
resynchronisation therapy (CRT) observed in the original study were maintained 
over an increased follow-up period. A study of oral enoximone (25-50 mg t.i.d.) 
in advanced heart failure (ESSENTIAL) showed limited benefit compared to 
placebo. The CIBIS-III study showed that heart failure therapy could be safely 
initiated with bisoprolol followed by the addition of enalapril. A subcutaneous 
ICD system (S-ICD) showed potential as an alternative to a transvenous ICD. In 
the ISSUE-2 study, an implantable loop recorder was used to guide therapy in 
patients with recurrent syncope. The selective endothelin antagonist sitaxsentan 
improved 6-MWT and functional class in patients with pulmonary arterial 
hypertension in the STRIDE-2 study. In SOFA, fish oil had no beneficial effect 
on the incidence of life-threatening arrhythmias in patients with an ICD. In 
IMAGINE, quinapril showed no benefit when administered to patients following 
CABG. Perindopril reduced cardiac remodelling in post-MI patients with normal LV 
function in PREAMI. SIRIUS-II showed encouraging results for the use of 
intravenous ularitide in symptomatic decompensated chronic heart failure. The 
ACTIVE W study of warfarin versus aspirin plus clopidogrel in atrial 
fibrillation has been stopped due to superiority of warfarin.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2005.09.006
PMID: 16227146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2005 Oct;32(10):1507-20.

[Usefulness and positioning of MAB therapy for prostate cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Akaza H(1), Chodak GW, Hirao Y.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Urology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Tsukuba.

Prostate cancer is a relatively slow-growing disease compared to other cancers, 
and the patients tend to be older. Taking into consideration therefore life 
expectancy of the patients and risks of recurrence and progression, conservative 
treatments (mainly hormonal therapy) are often applied for early cases, as well 
as radical treatments (total prostatectomy and radiotherapy). Particularly in 
Japan, many patients start treatment with hormonal therapy alone, in both early 
and advanced cases. Hence, Maximal Androgen Blockade (MAB) therapy, in which 
surgical or medical castration (such as LH-RH agonist treatment) and 
anti-androgen treatment are combined, is widely exercised with the hope to 
enhance treatment effects. The usefulness of MAB therapy has been assessed in a 
number of randomized comparative studies, covering mainly metastatic cases. The 
efficacy of the therapy with the use of flutamide as non-steroidal anti-androgen 
has been confirmed in some of the studies, although the magnitude of the 
efficacy cannot be said major. In Phase III clinical studies of MAB therapy with 
bicalutamide being conducted in Japan for patients in Stages C and D, however, 
the patient group treated with MAB therapy demonstrated more favorable results 
compared to the group treated with LH-RH agonist alone, particularly in terms of 
time to progression (TTP) of the patients in Stage C. These are relatively new 
findings on the usefulness and adaptability of MAB therapy. In this Panel 
Discussion, views and experiences are exchanged on a wide variety of topics 
covering the real usefulness of MAB therapy, its adaptability, possible outcomes 
of hormonal therapy in early cases, and the future of MAB therapy, taking into 
account the prevailing opinions and current practices on prostate cancer in both 
the United States and Japan.

PMID: 16227758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2005 Jun;53(3):235-41. doi: 
10.1016/s0398-7620(05)84600-0.

[Biological aspects of longevity and ageing].

[Article in French]

Kappeler L(1), Epelbaum J.

Author information:
(1)U 549 Inserm/Paris 5-IFR 77, Hôpital Broca - Sainte-Anne, 2 ter, rue 
d'Alésia, 75014 Paris.

Despite very different life expectancies, a 2-year-old mouse, a 12-year-old dog, 
a 32-year-old chimpanzee or an 80-year-old man will share many common deficits 
such as a reduction in tissue elasticity, immunological responses, muscular 
strength, sensory perceptions, reflexes, as well as memory losses and increase 
of age-associated diseases (osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, type II diabetes, 
cardiovascular diseases, cataract and macular degeneration, neurodegenerative 
diseases, to name only a few...). With the increase of life expectancy in human 
species, ageing has become a major concern for the society, both at the human 
and financial level. The main challenge for biologists studying ageing is to 
understand how the multiple effects quoted above, so easily identifiable in 
various species, are nonetheless so coordinate among individuals of a given 
species. The acquisition of this fundamental knowledge will be essential to 
reach the ultimate goal of healthy ageing for human populations. At the present 
time, three types of recent developments on ageing research can be 
distinguished: 1) A consensus on evolutionist theory of ageing is developing. 
This theory is based on the fact that long-lived species usually arise from 
protected ecological niches. It implies that phenotypes which are expressed late 
in "aged survivors" are beyond natural selection. So, alleles underlying this 
late expression being adaptive or not ("good" or "bad"), contribute only 
slightly to the pool of genes of the following generation. 2) Study of 
laboratory models like the nematode C. elegans or fly D. melanogaster have 
enabled the observation that single-gene invalidation can increase lifespan. 
Interestingly, some of these changes seem to imply a common process through 
insulin/IGF-1 (insulin like growth factor-I) orthologue, energy metabolism and 
growth implicated hormones, as well as protection against free radicals. 3) In 
the mouse, several genes mutation increase lifespan and are associated with a 
decrease in growth hormone (GH) secretion as well as its main effector IGF-1. 
The study of such transgenic mutants, in parallel with the well-known effect of 
the caloric restriction on ageing, open several tracks which should allow 
determining common mechanisms which regulate the mammalian lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/s0398-7620(05)84600-0
PMID: 16227910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2005 Jun;53(3):251-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0398-7620(05)84602-4.

[Market and ageing].

[Article in French]

Joël ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'économie et de gestion des organisations de santé (LEGOS), 
Université Paris-Dauphine, place du Maréchal-de-Lattre-de-Tassigny, 75116 Paris.

Ageing can be defined as growth of the proportion of elderly people in the 
population, but also as a group of transformations in life cycles: older age at 
time of first job, marriage, birth of first child, early retirement, longer life 
expectancy, active retirement, greater number of dependent persons. The economic 
impact of the ageing population has been extensively studied from the 
perspective of the social security fund. In France and in most developed 
countries, population ageing has considerably destabilized social accounting 
creating a gap between a system thought out after WWII and the present social 
environment. The current response of social security system to elderly person's 
needs is considered inadequate. There are however other consequences of ageing. 
It is important to measure the upheaval caused by longer life expectancy and 
changing life stages on all markets. Three kinds of markets are involved in 
different ways: job market, services market for the elderly and all goods market 
for seniors and golden aged. Many studies have focused on the links between 
economic production and physiological ageing. The traditional organisation of 
working conditions stresses working intensity over experience, young 
workers'capabilities over than those of older workers. The link between age and 
the job market can also be analyzed by considering supply and demand for 
employment for workers over 50. Another question is the workforce shortage 
forecasted in some sectors (health and social sectors in particular) and the 
role of immigration. Growth in the supply of long-term care will require 
restructuring of the sector's logistics and financing. Certain trends are 
appearing: government authorities are reducing their supply of services, private 
production is increasing, public financing is being maintained, and individual 
contributions are growing while the role of insurance has remained stagnant. A 
qualitative analysis of the markets also shows heterogeneous workers situations 
and status creating difficult consequences for management decision making. The 
best-known impact of ageing on markets is the development of the senior and 
golden-age markets (technical help, accessibility, improved housing, leisure 
activities and training...) The particularities of these markets and their 
development are extensively studied, particularly questions related to new 
technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0398-7620(05)84602-4
PMID: 16227912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Rev Mal Respir. 2005 Jun;22(3):413-9. doi: 10.1016/s0761-8425(05)85569-x.

[Evaluation of combined chemotherapy with vinorelbine, ifosfamide and cisplatin 
in the treatment of metastatic non-small cell bronchial carcinoma].

[Article in French]

Boutemy M(1), Mispelaere D, Krzisch C, Jounieaux V.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Centre Hospitalier Urniversitaire Sud, Amiens, 
France.

INTRODUCTION: In France, cancer of the bronchus is responsible for 25,000 deaths 
per year. Non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) represents 80% of bronchial 
carcinoma of which 40-50% are mefastatic at the time of diagnosis. At present, 
although the therapeutic benefits are modest, it is now recognised that 
combination chemotherapy including platinum salts improves the survival of these 
patients.
METHODS: We analysed retrospectively a cohort of 57 patients suffering from 
stage IV NSCLC treated with chemotherapy combining cisplatin (80 mg/rn2 on day 
1), vinorelbine (25 mg/rn2 on days 1 and 8) and ifosfamide (3000 mg/in 2 on day 
1), (NIP), repeated every 21 days.
RESULTS: The population studied comprised 6 women and 51 men, of average age 
59.8 +/- 9.1 years. A history tobacco use (smokers and ex-smokers) was 
identified in 93%. The WHO performance index was equal to or greater than 2 in 
22.8%. All patients were studied in terms of toxicity and overall survival but 
only 40 (70%) were able to be evaluated in terms of response to treatment (on 
account of having received more than three cycles of NIP chemotherapy). For the 
group considered as a whole, the median survival was 6.7 months with a one year 
survival of 24.5%. Median survival without progression was 4.4 months. The most 
frequent toxicities were haematological and digestive. They were most common 
among patients over the age of 70 but had no effect on median survival. For the 
40 patients for whom chemotherapy was evaluable, the objective response rate was 
20%. This objective response was the only factor that was signiticantly 
correlated with one year survival: 62.5% in responders, 28.1% in non-responders 
(p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Treatment of stage IV NSCLC with NIP chemotherapy is effective and 
improves the survival of these patients independently of other prognostic 
factors such as age, the presence of cerebral metastases, performance status, 
histological type, the number of metastatic sites or the serum LOH level.

DOI: 10.1016/s0761-8425(05)85569-x
PMID: 16227927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Ann Vasc Surg. 2005 Nov;19(6):817-22. doi: 10.1007/s10016-005-8047-2.

Safety and efficacy of reteplase for the treatment of acute arterial occlusion: 
complexity of underlying lesion predicts outcome.

Hanover TM(1), Kalbaugh CA, Gray BH, Langan EM 3rd, Taylor SM, Androes MP, Jones 
WT, Blackhurst DW.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Surgery, Greenville Hospital System, Greenville, SC 
29605, USA.

We evaluated both the safety and efficacy of reteplase for treatment of acute 
arterial occlusion as well as outcomes based on treatment of the underlying 
lesion. From November 2000 to February 2004, reteplase was used to treat 
arterial occlusions in 81 patients. Catheter-directed intrathrombus thrombolysis 
was performed with reteplase (0.5 units/hr) continuous infusion. Percutaneous 
mechanical thrombectomy (Angiojet) was performed in 61% (n = 50) of patients 
prior to thrombolysis. Unmasking of significant lesions resulted in endovascular 
intervention (39.5%), open surgical repair (24.6%), or both endovascular and 
surgical repair (9.8%) of the lesion. No lesion was found in 25.9% of patients. 
Major and minor complication rates as well as restoration of patency, limb 
salvage, and amputation-free survival were evaluated. Eighty-one patients 
received reteplase therapy (median = 10.3 +/- 5.3 units, 19.5 +/- 7.4 hr) 
followed by next-day arteriogram to assess thrombus removal. Technical success 
was achieved in 96.2% (n = 78) of cases. Kaplan-Meier life table analysis 
revealed overall primary patency rates of 76.3%, 60.1%, and 51.6%, at 1, 6, and 
12 months, respectively. Overall amputation-free survival rates were 86.4%, 
76.4%, and 69.7% at 1, 6, and 12 months, respectively. When subdivided into 
postlysis intervention, the lysis-only group achieved increased patency (p = 
0.0143) and increased limb salvage (p = 0.0219) at 1 year compared to the lysis 
and endovascular intervention and the lysis and surgical groups. The 30-day 
complication rate was 17.3% (n = 14), with a major complication rate of 4.9% (n 
= 4) and a minor complication rate of 12.3% (n = 10). There were no intracranial 
hemorrhagic complications. Intra-arterial catheter-directed infusion of 
reteplase for acute lower extremity ischemia is safe and efficacious, as shown 
by the low risk of bleeding complications, high limb salvage rates, and low 
mortality rates in this study. The complexity of the lesion that is unmasked 
through thrombolytic therapy is a predictor of patency and limb salvage.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-005-8047-2
PMID: 16228804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Gastroenterology. 2005 Oct;129(4):1163-70. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2005.07.027.

Comparing risks and benefits of colorectal cancer screening in elderly patients.

Ko CW(1), Sonnenberg A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, 98195, USA. 
cwko@u.washington.edu

Comment on
    Gastroenterology. 2005 Oct;129(4):1342-4.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: In patients with limited life expectancy, the risks of 
colorectal cancer screening may outweigh the benefits. The aim of this study was 
to quantify risks and benefits of different screening strategies in elderly 
patients with varying life expectancies.
METHODS: We examined risks and benefits of screening in patients aged 70-94 
years with differing health status using 3 strategies: annual fecal occult blood 
tests, flexible sigmoidoscopy every 5 years, or colonoscopy every 10 years. We 
compared the number needed to screen to prevent one cancer-related death and the 
number needed to encounter one screening-related complication for different 
strategies.
RESULTS: The potential benefit from screening varied widely with age, life 
expectancy, and screening modality. One cancer-related death would be prevented 
by screening 42 healthy men aged 70-74 years with colonoscopy, 178 healthy women 
aged 70-74 years with fecal occult blood tests, 431 women aged 75-79 years in 
poor health with colonoscopy, or 945 men aged 80-84 years in average health with 
fecal occult blood tests. Colonoscopy screening had the greatest benefit but the 
highest risk of complications. The potential for screening-related complications 
was greater than estimated benefit in some population subgroups aged 70 years 
and older. At all ages and life expectancies, the potential reduction in 
mortality from screening outweighed the risk of colonoscopy-related death.
CONCLUSIONS: The potential benefits and risks of screening vary in elderly 
patients of different life expectancies. For any individual patient, the 
potential for harm from screening must be weighed against the likelihood of 
benefit, especially with shorter life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2005.07.027
PMID: 16230070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Gastroenterology. 2005 Oct;129(4):1342-4. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2005.08.035.

The tipping point: balancing the risks and benefits of screening in the elderly.

Lewis C.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2005 Oct;129(4):1163-70.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2005.08.035
PMID: 16230086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Cell Biol. 2005 Oct 24;171(2):349-59. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200504029. Epub
2005  Oct 17.

Spatial and temporal regulation of cofilin activity by LIM kinase and Slingshot 
is critical for directional cell migration.

Nishita M(1), Tomizawa C, Yamamoto M, Horita Y, Ohashi K, Mizuno K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku 
University, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan.

Cofilin mediates lamellipodium extension and polarized cell migration by 
accelerating actin filament dynamics at the leading edge of migrating cells. 
Cofilin is inactivated by LIM kinase (LIMK)-1-mediated phosphorylation and is 
reactivated by cofilin phosphatase Slingshot (SSH)-1L. In this study, we show 
that cofilin activity is temporally and spatially regulated by LIMK1 and SSH1L 
in chemokine-stimulated Jurkat T cells. The knockdown of LIMK1 suppressed 
chemokine-induced lamellipodium formation and cell migration, whereas SSH1L 
knockdown produced and retained multiple lamellipodial protrusions around the 
cell after cell stimulation and impaired directional cell migration. Our results 
indicate that LIMK1 is required for cell migration by stimulating lamellipodium 
formation in the initial stages of cell response and that SSH1L is crucially 
involved in directional cell migration by restricting the membrane protrusion to 
one direction and locally stimulating cofilin activity in the lamellipodium in 
the front of the migrating cell. We propose that LIMK1- and SSH1L-mediated 
spatiotemporal regulation of cofilin activity is critical for chemokine-induced 
polarized lamellipodium formation and directional cell movement.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200504029
PMCID: PMC2171197
PMID: 16230460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Oct 18;143(8):615; author reply 615. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-8-200510180-00018.

The effects of a smoking cessation intervention on 14.5-year mortality.

Bombassei GJ.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Feb 15;142(4):233-9.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-8-200510180-00018
PMID: 16230735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Endocrine. 2005 Aug;27(3):245-52. doi: 10.1385/ENDO:27:3:245.

Surgical treatment of multinodular goiter in young patients.

Ríos A(1), Rodríguez JM, Galindo PJ, Montoya MJ, Canteras M, Parrilla P.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía. Servicio de Cirugía General y del Aparato Digestivo 
I, Universidad de Murcia, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Arrixaca, El 
Palmar 30120 Murcia, Spain. ARZRIOS@teleine.es

The objectives of this study were to analyse the results of surgical treatment 
of multinodular goiter (MG) in a population with under 30 yr of age; (2) to 
determine the incidence and evolution of related thyroid carcinomas; and (3) to 
evaluate the rate of relapse. Eighty-one patients operated for MG and under 30 
yr of age were analyzed. The control group used consisted of 510 patients 
between 30 and 60 yr of age, operated on for MG. Cervical surgery for 
thyroidectomy was performed in all patients. The main outcome measures were 
postoperative morbidity and mortality; related thyroid carcinoma (number, type 
and evolution); remission of symptoms; and relapse of goiter. There were neither 
cases of hypoparathyroidism nor definitive recurrent lesions. In patients with 
symptoms, there was total remission of these. Although more than half were 
treated on suspicion of malignancy, only 9% were related to a carcinoma and most 
were papillary microcarcinomas. The average follow-up was 124 +/- 68 mo. Of the 
48 patients with partial surgery, 40% had relapse (n=19). After 5 yr, the rates 
of relapse were 11% for the Dunhill technique, 20% for bilateral subtotal 
thyroidectomy, 17% for hemithyroidectomy, and 50% for unilateral subtotal 
hemithyroidectomy. These rates increased by 25%, 50%, 44%, and 60% respectively, 
after 10 yr, and up to 33%, 50%, 62%, and 70% after 15 yr; 89% of the cases of 
relapse were operated on-there were two hypoparathyroidisms and two recurrent 
lesions, one of the cases of recurrent lesion becoming definitive. MG in young 
people is mainly treated because of the suspicion of malignancy, although this 
occurs in less than 10% of cases. Surgery can be carried out with a low rate of 
morbidity, although the results are only definitive with total thyroidectomy, 
with a high level of relapse when partial techniques are used given that these 
are patients with long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1385/ENDO:27:3:245
PMID: 16230780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Laryngorhinootologie. 2005 Oct;84(10):725-32. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-861048.

[Analysis of cost effectiveness of photodynamic therapy with Foscan (Foscan-PDT) 
in comparison with palliative chemotherapy in patients with advanced head-neck 
tumors in Germany].

[Article in German]

Kübler A(1), Niziol C, Sidhu M, Dünne A, Werner JA.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Zahnärztliche Chirurgie und für Mund-, Kiefer- und 
Plastische Gesichtschirurgie der Universität zu Köln. a.kuebler@uni-koeln.de

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this manuscript is to give a cost-effectiveness 
analysis of the photodynamic therapy by means of Foscan (Foscan-PDT) in Germany. 
The basis for this paper is provided by a study performed in Great Britain which 
analyses the costs of Foscan-PDT compared to the costs of palliative 
chemotherapy and to the option of no treatment in patients with advanced head 
and neck cancer.
METHOD: In order to calculate the cost-effectiveness, an already published model 
developed on the base of English data was fed with German cost-data. For 
consideration of the different characteristics of cost-parameters as well as to 
minimize the over- or underestimation of the costs, sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: The Foscan-PDT revealed the highest health-related effectiveness 
compared to all other above-mentioned options -- 129 additional days of life in 
comparison to no treatment or 48 days in comparison to four cycles of palliative 
chemotherapy. The costs per therapy of Foscan-PDT ( 8,761 euros) were lower than 
those of four cycles of palliative chemotherapy (11,600 euros).
CONCLUSION: Foscan-PDT is a cost-effective treatment option for patients 
suffering from advanced head and neck cancer. For patients who up to now had 
only very limited treatment possibilities at their disposition, Foscan-PDT 
offers a chance for reduction of the tumor, remission, and a prolonged 
expectancy of life.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-861048
PMID: 16231239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Del Med J. 2005 Sep;77(9):335-6.

Healthy Delaware 2010.

Carney JC Jr.

PMID: 16231663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Cleve Clin J Med. 2005 Oct;72(10):877-88. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.72.10.877.

Managing abdominal aortic aneurysms: treat the aneurysm and the risk factors.

Almahameed A(1), Latif AA, Graham LM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Medicine, Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. almahaa@ccf.org

Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) are not only a danger in themselves, they also 
signify underlying vascular disease that warrants intensive cardiovascular risk 
reduction, especially smoking cessation. Aneurysmal size and the patient's 
fitness for surgery are the main determinants of timing and method of elective 
repair. The choice of open surgery vs endovascular repair depends on the 
patient's condition, preference, and life expectancy, and the surgeon's 
experience.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.72.10.877
PMID: 16231685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. AIDS Patient Care STDS. 2005 Oct;19(10):645-54. doi:
10.1089/apc.2005.19.645.

Sex and relationships for HIV-positive women since HAART: a qualitative study.

Keegan A(1), Lambert S, Petrak J.

Author information:
(1)Barts and the London NHS Trust, London, United Kingdom.

There is little available on HIV-positive women's sexual relationships other 
than within-risk behavior paradigms. Increased life expectancy with the advent 
of highly active antiretroviral therapies (HAART) may increase the opportunity 
for women to develop sexual relationships. This study investigates sexual 
functioning in HIV-positive women and presents the analysis of interviews with 
21 seropositive heterosexual women (age range, 22-54). Fourteen (67%) were black 
African, 6 (29%) white European, and 1 (5%) "other." Thirteen (62%) were 
currently or had been sexually active since becoming aware of their diagnosis. 
Dominant themes identified included: (1) difficulties with sexual functioning, 
in particular lowered libido and enjoyment and reduced intimacy; (2) barriers to 
forming new relationships: fears of HIV disclosure, fears of infecting partners; 
(3) coping strategies: included relationship avoidance and having casual 
partners to avoid disclosure; (4) safer sex: personal dislike of condoms, lack 
of control, lack of suitable alternatives. Women are experiencing a range of 
sexual and relationship difficulties that appear to be relatively unchanged 
despite the advent of HAART. Culturally appropriate, focused psychosexual and 
couples work should be more readily available for women living with HIV and 
their partners.

DOI: 10.1089/apc.2005.19.645
PMID: 16232049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Biosci Bioeng. 2002;93(2):170-5. doi: 10.1263/jbb.93.170.

Importance of an N-terminal extension in ribonuclease HII from Bacillus 
stearothermophilus for substrate binding.

Muroya A(1), Nakano R, Ohtani N, Haruki M, Morikawa M, Kanaya S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Material and Life Science, Graduate School of Engineering, 
Osaka University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

The gene encoding ribonuclease HII from Bacillus stearothermophilus was cloned 
and expressed in Escherichia coli. The overproduced protein, Bst-RNase HII, was 
purified and biochemically characterized. Bst-RNase HII, which consists of 259 
amino acid residues, showed the highest amino acid sequence identity (50.2%) to 
Bacillus subtilis RNase HII. Like B. subtilis RNase HII, it exhibited 
Mn2+-dependent RNase H activity. It was, however, more thermostable than B. 
subtilis RNase HII. When the Bst-RNase HII amino acid sequence is compared with 
that of Thermococcus kodakaraensis RNase HII, to which it shows 29.8% identity, 
30 residues are observed to be truncated from the C-terminus and there is an 
extension of 71 residues at the N-terminus. The C-terminal truncation results in 
the loss of the alpha9 helix, which is rich in basic amino acid residues and is 
therefore important for substrate binding. A truncated protein, 
Delta59-Bst-RNase HII, in which most of the N-terminal extension was removed, 
completely lost its RNase H activity. Surface plasmon resonance analysis 
indicated that this truncated protein did not bind to the substrate. These 
results suggest that the N-terminal extension of Bst-RNase HII is important for 
substrate binding. Because B. subtilis RNase HII has an N-terminal extension of 
the same length and these extensions contain a region in which basic amino acid 
residues are clustered, the Bacillus enzymes may represent a novel type of RNase 
H which possesses a substrate-binding domain at the N-terminus.

DOI: 10.1263/jbb.93.170
PMID: 16233183


655. J Biosci Bioeng. 2002;94(4):368-70. doi: 10.1263/jbb.94.368.

Rapid multiplex single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping based on single base 
extension reactions and color-coded beads.

Fujimura N(1), Kohara Y, Okano K, Yohda M, Kambara H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakacho, Koganei, Tokyo 184-0012, Japan.

A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) typing method using color-coded beads is 
promising because it is easy to use and inexpensive. However, the present 
protocols are not suitable for clinical and diagnostic applications because they 
need centrifugation for bead-washing. Here, we developed a simplified protocol 
without a bead-washing procedure that enables SNP typing of PCR amplified 
fragments in only 30 min.

DOI: 10.1263/jbb.94.368
PMID: 16233319


656. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2005 Oct;3(10 Suppl 2):S141-3. doi: 
10.1016/s1542-3565(05)00713-5.

Prevention of hepatocellular carcinoma and its recurrence in chronic hepatitis C 
patients by interferon therapy.

Omata M(1), Yoshida H, Shiratori Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. omata-2im@h.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Chronic hepatitis C is a leading cause of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
worldwide. Prevention of chronic hepatitis C-related HCC is one of the most 
important issues in current hepatology. We conducted 2 cohort studies, one among 
patients with chronic hepatitis C mostly without cirrhosis and another among 
those with compensated cirrhosis, to confirm the prevention of HCC by 
interferon. We also conducted a randomized controlled study among patients with 
HCV-related HCC treated completely by ablation to examine the effect of 
interferon therapy on prognosis. With the chronic hepatitis C cohort, we showed 
that the risk of HCC development, which was strongly associated with the stage 
of liver fibrosis, age, and gender, was reduced by interferon therapy to one 
fifth among sustained virologic responders compared with untreated patients. 
Life expectancy was also significantly prolonged. The benefit of interferon 
therapy was greater among those with the higher risk of HCC. We confirmed 
efficacy in HCC-prevention in the second study among patients with compensated 
cirrhosis who received interferon therapy. The third study among HCC patients 
who had received complete tumor ablation showed that interferon therapy was 
associated with better survival, primarily as a result of the preservation of 
liver function and also probably prevention of recurrence. We have shown 
beneficial effects of interferon therapy on HCC prevention and liver function 
preservation. They were the strongest in sustained virologic responders. Further 
improvement in prognosis may be expected in the future because the current 
combination therapy of pegylated interferon and ribavirin shows higher 
efficiency than interferon alone.

DOI: 10.1016/s1542-3565(05)00713-5
PMID: 16234063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Asian J Surg. 2005 Oct;28(4):262-5. doi: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60357-2.

Endoscopic stenting versus surgical bypass in advanced malignant distal bile 
duct obstruction: cost-effectiveness analysis.

Sunpaweravong S(1), Ovartlarnporn B, Khow-ean U, Soontrapornchai P, 
Charoonratana V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University, 
Songkla, Thailand. susomkia@medicine.psu.ac.th

OBJECTIVE: Palliative treatment of obstructive jaundice from advanced tumour of 
the distal bile duct is controversial. The aim of this study was to compare the 
clinical outcomes and costs between endoscopic stent insertion and surgery.
METHODS: The clinical data for 116 patients treated with either endoscopic 
plastic stenting (65 patients) or surgical bypass (51 patients) were reviewed 
and analysed.
RESULTS: No significant difference was found between the two groups in terms of 
the length of hospital stay, survival time, cost, effectiveness, and early 
complications. However, late complications were significantly more common in the 
stenting group (p = 0.007). Jaundice recurred in 15 stented patients at a median 
time of 3 months due to stent blockage, and one surgical patient had recurrent 
jaundice from anastomosis stricture. Late gastric outlet obstruction occurred in 
one of 36 surgical patients who did not undergo prophylactic gastroenterostomy 
and one of 65 stented patients developed this complication.
CONCLUSION: Both techniques are equally effective in biliary drainage, but 
stenting has a higher rate of recurrent jaundice. We recommend surgery for 
patients with low surgical risks and endoscopic stent in those with a short life 
expectancy or those unfit for surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60357-2
PMID: 16234076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Occup Environ Med. 2005 Nov;62(11):743-9. doi: 10.1136/oem.2004.016147.

Surveillance for isocyanate asthma: a model based cost effectiveness analysis.

Wild DM(1), Redlich CA, Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.

Comment in
    Occup Environ Med. 2005 Nov;62(11):741-2.

AIMS: Because logistical and financial obstacles impede using large prospective 
cohort studies, surveillance decisions in occupational settings must often be 
made without evidence of relative benefits and costs. Using the example of 
isocyanate induced asthma, the most commonly reported immune mediated 
occupational asthma, the authors developed a model based approach to evaluate 
the costs and benefits of surveillance from both an employer and a societal 
perspective.
METHODS: The authors used a mathematical simulation model of isocyanate asthma 
to compare annual surveillance to passive case finding. Outcome measures 
included symptom free days (SFD), quality adjusted life years (QALY), direct 
costs, productivity losses, and incremental cost effectiveness ratio (CER), 
measured from the employer and the societal perspectives. Input data were 
obtained from a variety of published sources.
RESULTS: For 100,000 exposed workers, surveillance resulted in 683 fewer cases 
of disability over 10 years. Surveillance conferred benefits at an incremental 
cost of 24,000 dollars/QALY (employer perspective; 13.33 dollars/SFD) and was 
cost saving from the societal perspective. Results were sensitive to assumptions 
about sensitisation rate, removal rates, and time to diagnosis, but not to 
assumptions about therapy costs and disability rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Baseline results placed the CER for surveillance for isocyanate 
asthma within the acceptable range. Costs from the societal and employer 
perspective differed substantially with a more attractive CER from the societal 
perspective, suggesting opportunities for employer/societal cost sharing. The 
analysis demonstrates the value of a model based approach to evaluate the cost 
effectiveness of surveillance programmes for isocyanate asthma, and to inform 
shared decision making among clinicians, patients, employers, and society. Such 
a modeling approach may be applicable to surveillance programmes for other work 
related conditions.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.2004.016147
PMCID: PMC1740898
PMID: 16234399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2005 Nov;59(11):927-33. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2005.034900.

Cost effectiveness of statins in coronary heart disease.

Franco OH(1), Peeters A, Looman CW, Bonneux L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
PO Box 1738, office Ee 2006, 3000 DR Rotterdam, Netherlands. 
o.francoduran@erasmusmc.nl

INTRODUCTION: Statin therapy reduces the rate of coronary heart disease, but 
high costs in combination with a large population eligible for treatment ask for 
priority setting. Although trials agree on the size of the benefit, economic 
analyses of statins report contradictory results. This article reviewed cost 
effectiveness analyses of statins and sought to synthesise cost effectiveness 
ratios for categories of risk of coronary heart disease and age.
METHODS: The review searched for studies comparing statins with no treatment for 
the prevention of either cardiovascular or coronary heart disease in men and 
presenting cost per years of life saved as outcome. Estimates were extracted, 
standardised for calendar year and currency, and stratified by categories of 
risk, age, and funding source
RESULTS: 24 studies were included (from 50 retrieved), yielding 216 cost 
effectiveness ratios. Estimated ratios increase with decreasing risk. After 
stratification by risk, heterogeneity of ratios is large varying from savings to 
$59 000 per life year saved in the highest risk category and from 6500 dollars 
to 490,000 dollars in the lowest category. The pooled estimates show values of 
21571 dollars per life year saved for a 10 year coronary heart disease risk of 
20% and 16862 dollars per life year saved for 10 year risk of 30%.
CONCLUSION: Statin therapy is cost effective for high levels of risk, but 
inconsistencies exist at lower levels. Although the cost effectiveness of 
statins depends mainly on absolute risk, important heterogeneity remains after 
adjusting for absolute risk. Economic analyses need to increase their 
transparency to reduce their vulnerability to bias and increase their 
reproducibility.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2005.034900
PMCID: PMC1732951
PMID: 16234419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 2005 Nov;60(3):130-9. doi: 10.1002/arch.20091.

Trends in lipid and protein contents during medfly aging: an harmonic path to 
death.

Nestel D(1), Papadopoulos NT, Liedo P, Gonzales-Ceron L, Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Plant Protection, The Volcani Center, Beit-Dagan, Israel. 
nestel@agri.gov.il

Survival and egg-laying trends were investigated in Mediterranean fruit flies 
(Ceratitis capitata) adults maintained on a sucrose-only diet, or on a full diet 
that consisted of a 3:1 sucrose and yeast hydrolizate mixture. In addition, we 
followed the total individual lipid and protein contents of aging flies in a 
cohort. Survival trends and life expectancy parameters at eclosion for males and 
females on full diet and for males on sucrose only were very similar. In 
contrast, the mortality of females on sucrose only was high early in life, but 
then slowed down. Egg-laying was ten times greater in female flies on full diet 
than in flies on sucrose only. Lipid contents in males and females on both types 
of diets were very similar, and harmonically oscillated with an amplitude of 
approximately 10 days. Successive crests of lipids tended to be smaller with the 
ageing of the cohort, and lipids contents significantly dropped at very advanced 
ages and close to the maximal age of the whole cohort. Protein contents of flies 
maintained on a full diet were high and stayed at a constant level throughout 
the entire life of the cohort. Protein levels in males and females on sucrose 
only dropped drastically during the first days of adult life, but then stayed 
stable at a low level until advanced ages. We propose that the synchronous 
rhythmic oscillation in lipid contents of male and female flies seems to be 
independently set by an internal clock. Protein reserves are allocated according 
to the access to protein food sources and these levels of protein are closely 
associated to egg production and mortality. Our results are discussed in view of 
resource allocation during reproduction and senescence.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.20091
PMID: 16235257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2005 Oct 19;2005(4):CD004093. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004093.pub2.

Surgical treatment for the thumb-in-palm deformity in patients with cerebral 
palsy.

Smeulders M(1), Coester A, Kreulen M.

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Center Amsterdam, Plastic, Reconstructive and Hand Surgery, 
Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, Netherlands 1100 DD. m.j.smeulders@amc.uva.nl

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD004093.

BACKGROUND: Thumb-in-palm deformity in patients with spastic cerebral palsy is a 
deformity that impairs the ability to use the thumb and thus severely limits 
hand function. From the variety of operative procedures that have been 
described, it may be clear that there is no consensus on the surgical treatment 
of thumb-in-palm deformity.
OBJECTIVES: To review the efficacy of surgical interventions for the 
thumb-in-palm deformity in patients with spastic cerebral palsy; to review the 
selection criteria to surgically treat thumb-in-palm deformity in these 
patients; and to review the outcome assessment used in these studies.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We identified studies for inclusion from searches of several 
electronic databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Issue 
4, 2003), MEDLINE (1966 to December 2004), EMBASE (1980 to December 2004) and 
CINAHL (1982 to December 2004). We also cross-checked the reference lists of 
these studies to identify additional studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered a trial eligible for inclusion when it met the 
following criteria. 1) It was described as a randomized clinical trial, clinical 
controlled trial or prospective study that compared pre-operative- with 
post-operative outcome assessment. 2) It concerned patients with thumb-in-palm 
deformity affected by spastic cerebral palsy. There was no restriction in age. 
3) It compared or described any surgical intervention to the thumb. 4) It 
followed subjects for at least six months. 5) Outcomes described included one or 
more of the following items: rate of success; functional improvement; active and 
passive range of motion of the thumb; grasp and release; pinch grip; 
complications and side effects; and quality of life.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors assessed each study using a scoring 
system. Meta-analysis was not possible because the selected studies were poorly 
designed, and the results were presented in an incompatible form. Therefore, we 
compiled a descriptive summary of the results of the individual studies. We did 
not attempt to acquire the raw data for re-analysis.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified 14 prospective studies that compared preoperative 
and postoperative outcomes as eligible for inclusion in this review. We found no 
randomized clinical trials or controlled clinical trials. The studies with the 
best available evidence were prospective studies that compared pre- with 
post-operative assessment. After assessment, we ultimately included nine 
studies. Participants In all the included studies the participants were more or 
less homogeneous regarding the most important prognostic indications. The nine 
included studies treated 234 patients. Age at operation ranged from 4-48 years 
(Median approximately 11 years). Interventions Twenty-four different specific 
interventions were performed, or combined, aiming to 1) stabilize the first 
metacarpophalangeal joint, 2) weaken the spastic thumb adductors, and 3) augment 
thumb abduction and extension. Outcome measures All of the included studies 
assessed whether the thumb had stayed out of the palm at follow-up. Additional 
outcome measures varied among studies. Selection criteria There was no consensus 
on the selection criteria for eligibility for surgical treatment. There was also 
considerable variety in the use of methods of assessment among the studies. 
There is no standardized method to evaluate the pre- and post-operative data, 
and most of the assessment methods were not validated. It was impossible to 
compare the outcomes among studies. Judgement about the effectiveness of one 
particular surgical intervention was not possible, because different surgical 
interventions and co-interventions were used within most studies. Nonetheless, 
generally, the outcome of surgical treatment of thumb-in-palm deformity was 
considered satisfactory to both patients and to surgeons in all studies.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Because the methodological quality of the studies is poor, 
it is impossible to provide a reliable judgement of the role of surgery for 
thumb-in-palm deformity. This review has demonstrated the need for randomized 
clinical trials or controlled clinical trials on the surgical treatment of 
thumb-in-palm deformity. Surgical reconstruction appears to improve hand 
function, to facilitate hygiene, and to improve the appearance and quality of 
life. For patient selection, a validated classification system should be 
developed to determine the type and extent of the cerebral palsied hand. The 
influence of age, intelligence, and voluntary muscle control still needs to be 
investigated. Investigators should focus on one particular surgical intervention 
or a specific group of interventions to find out which procedures produce the 
best functional improvement.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004093.pub2
PMCID: PMC8763345
PMID: 16235349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None known.


662. Demography. 2005 Aug;42(3):575-94. doi: 10.1353/dem.2005.0021.

Coherent mortality forecasts for a group of populations: an extension of the 
Lee-Carter method.

Li N(1), Lee R.

Author information:
(1)Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, 
USA. nanli@duke.edu

Mortality patterns and trajectories in closely related populations are likely to 
be similar in some respects, and differences are unlikely to increase in the 
long run. It should therefore be possible to improve the mortality forecasts for 
individual countries by taking into account the patterns in a larger group. 
Using the Human Mortality Database, we apply the Lee-Carter model to a group of 
populations, allowing each its own age pattern and level of mortality but 
imposing shared rates of, change by age. Our forecasts also allow divergent 
patterns to continue for a while before tapering off. We forecast greater 
longevity gains for the United States and lesser ones for Japan relative to 
separate forecasts.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2005.0021
PMCID: PMC1356525
PMID: 16235614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(10):995-1006. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200523100-00003.

Pharmacological management of overactive bladder : a systematic and critical 
review of published economic evaluations.

Getsios D(1), El-Hadi W, Caro I, Caro JJ.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

Overactive bladder is a common condition, with recent findings estimating the 
prevalence in adults at about 15%. Symptoms, including urinary urgency, high 
voiding frequency and urge incontinence, have been shown to decrease patients' 
quality of life. Given its high prevalence, the economic burden of overactive 
bladder is also substantial, with a recent estimate placing the annual cost in 
the US at 9.1 billion US dollars (year 2000 values). The objective of this 
review is to provide a critical appraisal of published economic evaluations of 
pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments for overactive bladder. 
Published economic evaluations of treatments for overactive bladder have focused 
entirely on pharmacological treatments -- mainly on the two most commonly used 
drugs, oxybutynin and tolterodine, each of which is available in immediate- and 
extended-release formulations. Ten economic evaluations (more than half are 
cost-effectiveness studies) have been published. Modelling with decision trees 
or Markov models has been the predominant method. Evaluations comparing drug 
therapy with no treatment have concluded that drug therapy is cost effective. 
Analyses comparing the formulations of oxybutynin and tolterodine have produced 
highly inconsistent results, largely due to the sources of data employed for 
effectiveness and treatment discontinuation rates. There are no evaluations of 
drugs relative to non-pharmacological treatment, and there are other significant 
gaps in the economic evaluations of treatment to date. These include gaps 
resulting from a lack of reliable data on the performance of these drugs in 
real-world settings, particularly data on long-term persistence with treatment. 
A more definitive pharmacoeconomic comparison of oxybutynin and tolterodine 
formulations, incorporating all available clinical data, and other treatment 
options would help direct treatment.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523100-00003
PMID: 16235973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(10):1007-20. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200523100-00004.

The cost effectiveness of orlistat in a 1-year weight-management programme for 
treating overweight and obese patients in Sweden : a treatment responder 
approach.

Hertzman P(1).

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. peter.hertzman@bluewin.ch

OBJECTIVE: To calculate the cost effectiveness (from the Swedish healthcare 
perspective) of orlistat plus diet for an obese and overweight population in a 
1-year weight-management responder programme versus a 1-year weight-management 
programme based on diet only. As a reference, orlistat plus diet and diet only 
were also compared with a no-diet alternative.
METHOD: Costs and effectiveness were calculated in a decision-tree model by 
means of Monte Carlo simulation. Efficacy was derived from a pooled analysis of 
the orlistat clinical trial programme. Acquisition costs for orlistat (euro, 
2003 prices), healthcare costs for visits to doctors and dieticians related to 
weight management, and costs related to the difference in diabetes mellitus 
incidence between treatment arms were included in the analysis. The health 
benefit of temporary weight loss was measured in the number of quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: The number of responding (those with >5% weight loss) patients at month 
3 was almost twice as high with orlistat compared with diet only: 48.9% versus 
26.3%. Responding orlistat patients had a weight loss of 15.5% at month 12 
compared with 7.9% for all patients on diet only. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per QALY gained versus diet only was estimated 
to be 13,125 euro for the average patient starting on orlistat. When orlistat 
was compared with no diet, the cost effectiveness was improved. However, 
comparing diet only with no diet gave a slightly higher ICER, indicating that 
orlistat had an extended dominance over the diet-only alternative.
CONCLUSION: Our estimates indicated that orlistat in a 12-month dietary 
responder programme increased the number of QALYs and reduced the cumulative 
incidence of diabetes compared with diet only. Patients starting on orlistat in 
addition to a dietary programme achieved an ICER that was similar to many other 
well accepted healthcare treatment programmes. In order to improve the precision 
of our calculations, we need to confirm the key assumptions regarding temporary 
weight loss and utility gains, and the relationship between temporary weight 
loss and diabetes, as well as other co-morbidities, and to have better knowledge 
of the long-term impact of weight-management programmes in clinical practice, 
such as changes in weight-controlling behaviours and sustainability of weight 
loss.
