PMID: 16437281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nucl Med Rev Cent East Eur. 2005;8(2):140-9.

Optimisation of statistical methodologies for a better diagnosis of neurological 
and psychiatric disorders by means of SPECT.

Pagani M(1), Salmaso D, Borbely K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cognitive Sciences and Technologies, CNR, Rome, Italy. 
marcopagani@yahoo.com

In the last years there has been a wide consensus on the importance of brain 
imaging in assessing neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. Different 
techniques for functional and anatomical examination are currently clinically 
implemented in neurology and psychiatry to improve sensitivity, specificity and 
accuracy of the diagnosis of various diseases. In addition, the increasing life 
expectancy in the Western world raises the social importance and the economical 
impact of age-related neurodegenerative disorders since the incidence of 
Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease is higher in the elderly. An early 
diagnosis of neuro-psychiatric diseases and the assessment of "natural" changes 
of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) distribution during normal aging are 
hence of utmost importance. In the recent past brain disorders have extensively 
been investigated by means of optimised nuclear medicine techniques, instruments 
and algorithms. Diagnosis can be better achieved by identifying those structures 
in which CBF or metabolism deviate from normality resulting in significant 
changes as compared to a reference database. In the present paper we present 
some studies investigating, by means of recently implemented diagnostic tools, 
patients bearer of various neuro-psychiatric disorders. The improved nuclear 
medicine techniques and instrumentation, the state-of-the-art software for brain 
imaging standardisation and the use of sophisticated multivariate data analysis 
are extensively reviewed.

PMID: 16437403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Class Q. 1999;49(1):254-81. doi: 10.1093/cq/49.1.254.

Emperors, aristocrats, and the Grim Reaper: towards a demographic profile of the 
Roman elite.

Scheidel W(1).

Author information:
(1)Darwin College, Cambridge.

DOI: 10.1093/cq/49.1.254
PMID: 16437852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Harv Stud Classic Philol. 1982;86:213-51.

Roman life expectancy: Ulpian's evidence.

Frier B(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan.

PMID: 16437859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Suppl Tumori. 2005 May-Jun;4(3):S58.

[Duodenocephalopancreatectomy for periampullary neoplasm in elderly patients].

[Article in Italian]

Antinori A(1), Ciccoritti L, Coco C, Giuliante F, Magistrelli P, Nuzzo G, 
Picciocchi A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche, Policlinico Universitario A Gemelli, 
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Roma.

As life expectancy continue to increase, many elderly patients may be considered 
for pancreaticoduodenal resection. The purpose of the study was to review our 
experience with pancreatic resection for periampullary evaluating immediate and 
long-term results in patients aged 75 or older.

PMID: 16437903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Suppl Tumori. 2005 May-Jun;4(3):S209.

[Salvage surgery in the treatment of massive abdominal recurrence of uterine 
leiomyosarcoma. Clinical case].

[Article in Italian]

Palaia R(1), Ruffolo F, Scala D, Idà DN, Losito S, Parisi V.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgia Oncologica C, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Napoli.

Uterine leiomyosarcomas carry a dismail prognosis. Diagnosis is often an 
unexpected pathology discovery after hysterectomy for fibroma. Prognosis depends 
on the degree of locoregional extension and thus on early diagnosis. Extended 
surgery in case of relapse is sometimes the only possible approach for symptoms 
control and improvement of quality of life. A case of massive involvement of the 
abdomen by a relapsed uterine leiomyosarcoma treated by extreme surgery is here 
presented.

PMID: 16437993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Org Chem. 2006 Feb 3;71(3):1060-7. doi: 10.1021/jo052097j.

Synthesis of oligonucleotides with 3'-terminal 
5-(3-acylamidopropargyl)-3'-amino-2',3'-dideoxyuridine residues and their 
reactivity in single-nucleotide steps of chemical replication.

Baumhof P(1), Griesang N, Bächle M, Richert C.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Organic Chemistry, University of Karlsruhe (TH), D-76131 
Karlsruhe, Germany.

Oligonucleotides with a 3'-terminal 5-alkynyl-3'-amino-2',3'-dideoxyuridine 
residue were prepared, starting from 2'-deoxyuridine. The optimized route 
employs a 2',3'-dideoxy-3'-trifluoroacetamido-5-iodouridine 5'-phosphoramidite 
as building block for DNA synthesis and involves on-support Sonogashira coupling 
with N-tritylpropargylamine to generate oligonucleotides. The amino group of the 
propargylamine side chain was acylated to accelerate primer extension reactions 
involving the 3'-amino group. Three acyl groups were identified that decrease 
the half-life for DNA-templated extension steps with 7-azabenzotriazole esters 
of 2'-deoxynucleotides. The residue of 4-pyrenylbutyric acid was found to 
accelerate primer extension reactions and to render them more selective than 
those of the control primer. With this substituent, primer extension is also 
faster than previously measured for three-strand systems involving template, 
aminoprimer, and a downstream-binding helper oligonucleotide. Fast-reacting 
primers might become useful for genotyping single nucleotides.

DOI: 10.1021/jo052097j
PMID: 16438521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Br J Gen Pract. 2006 Jan;56(522):20-6.

Good end-of-life care according to patients and their GPs.

Borgsteede SD(1), Graafland-Riedstra C, Deliens L, Francke AL, van Eijk JT, 
Willems DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health, VU University Medical Center, 
Van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081 BT Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
s.borgsteede@vumc.nl

Comment in
    Br J Gen Pract. 2006 Jan;56(522):3-4.

BACKGROUND: Most patients prefer to die at home, where a GP provides end-of-life 
care. A few previous studies have been directed at the GPs' values on good 
end-of-life care, yet no study combined values of patients and their own GP.
AIM: To explore the aspects valued by both patients and GPs in end-of-life care 
at home, and to reflect upon the results in the context of future developments 
in primary care.
DESIGN OF STUDY: Interviews with patients and their own GP.
SETTING: Primary care in the Netherlands.
METHOD: Qualitative, semi-structured interviews with 20 GPs and 30 of their 
patients with a life expectancy of less than 6 months, and cancer, heart failure 
or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as underlying disease.
RESULTS: Patients and GPs had comparable perceptions of good end-of-life care. 
Patients and GPs identified four core items that they valued in end-of-life 
care: availability of the GP for home visits and after office-hours, medical 
competence and cooperation with other professionals, attention and continuity of 
care.
CONCLUSIONS: Future developments in the organisation of primary care such as the 
restriction of time for home visits, more part-time jobs and GP cooperatives 
responsible for care after office hours, may threaten valued aspects in 
end-of-life care.

PMCID: PMC1821412
PMID: 16438811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. AIDS. 2006 Feb 14;20(3):445-50. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000206508.32030.92.

Impact of HAART and injection drug use on life expectancy of two HIV-positive 
cohorts in British Columbia.

Lloyd-Smith E(1), Brodkin E, Wood E, Kerr T, Tyndall MW, Montaner JS, Hogg RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care and Epidemiology, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of HAART has led to consistent improvements in 
survival among HIV-infected individuals. However, there is evidence that not all 
populations have benefited equally from HAART and that mortality rates are 
higher in HIV-infected injection drug users than in non-users.
OBJECTIVE: To model life expectancies for HIV-positive individuals subdivided 
according to history of injection drug use and treatment with HAART.
DESIGN: Population-based study of HIV-positive persons in British Columbia's 
HIV/AIDS treatment program.
METHODS: The primary outcome measures in this study were life expectancy at 
exact age 20 and potential years of life lost.
RESULTS: The highest life expectancy (38.9 years) and lowest potential years of 
life lost were measured for individuals taking HAART and without a history of 
injection drug use. The lowest life expectancy (19.1 years) and highest 
potential years of life lost were measured in HIV-positive injection drug users 
who were not taking HAART.
CONCLUSIONS: There are substantial disparities in life expectancy for persons 
living with HIV in British Columbia. Members of the injection drug community, 
particularly those who are not taking HAART, experience elevated mortality in 
comparison with those without a history of drug use.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000206508.32030.92
PMID: 16439879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Pediatr Orthop. 2006 Jan-Feb;26(1):1-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.bpo.0000190842.77036.d0.

Long-term follow-up after one-stage reconstruction of dislocated hips in 
patients with cerebral palsy.

Sankar WN(1), Spiegel DA, Gregg JR, Sennett BJ.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, PA, USA. wudbhav.sankar@uphs.upenn.edu

Twelve consecutive patients (average age 10.6 years) with 14 dislocated hips 
underwent one-stage hip reconstruction between 1973 and 1981. The procedure 
consisted of (1) adductor myotomy and anterior obturator neurectomy, (2) 
circumferential capsulotomy, iliopsoas and external rotator tenotomies, and 
ligamentum teres and pulvinar excision, (3) shortening femoral varus 
derotational osteotomy, (4) acetabuloplasty, and (5) spica immobilization for 4 
weeks. All patients were followed clinically and radiographically at an average 
of 16.7 (range 12.4-19.5) years. No patients were lost to follow-up. Long-term 
results revealed complete stability in 13 of 14 hips, with no redislocations or 
subluxations. The one patient with "instability" had undergone bilateral 
proximal femoral resections for severe arthritis 12 years after left hip 
reconstruction; at the time of resection, the left hip was stable and reduced. 
Pain was absent in 13 of 14 hips. There were no problems with perineal care, 
decubitus formation, or sitting tolerance. Extension and abduction improved an 
average of 23 degrees and 10 degrees, respectively. Two patients' ambulatory 
status improved; none deteriorated. The mean center-edge angle was 35 degrees 
(range 22-50 degrees), and the mean migration percentage was 10.6% (range 
0-31%). Complications included one case of degenerative arthritis, one case of 
painless coxa vara, and three episodes of supracondylar femur fractures. None of 
these patients developed radiographic evidence of avascular necrosis. In the 
authors' experience, one-stage hip reconstruction consisting of soft tissue 
lengthening, open reduction, femoral osteotomy, and pericapsular acetabuloplasty 
results in a painless, mobile, and stable hip at long-term follow-up that 
greatly improves the patient's quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/01.bpo.0000190842.77036.d0
PMID: 16439892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2006 Jan 26;126(3):326-8.

[The specialist field of palliative medicine].

[Article in Norwegian]

Kaasa S(1), Haugen DF.

Author information:
(1)Seksjon lindrende behandling, Kreftavdelingen, St. Olavs Hospital og 
Institutt for kreftforskning og molekylaer medisin, Det medisinske fakultet, 
Norges teknisk-naturvitenskapelige universitet, 7006 Trondheim.

Palliative medicine means caring for patients with incurable disease and short 
life expectancy, or, with the British definition, "the study and management of 
patients with active, progressive, far advanced disease, for whom the prognosis 
is limited and the focus of care is the quality of life". Palliative medicine is 
more than care for the dying. Today palliative medicine is regarded as integral 
to the treatment pathway for all patients with incurable disease. Up to now, 
mostly cancer patients have been offered specialist palliative care, but the 
international trend is to include other patient groups, especially patients with 
degenerative neurological disease and advanced cardiac and pulmonary disease. 
Palliative medicine is characterized by a focus not primarily on disease control 
but rather on symptom relief, social support, spiritual care, and maintenance of 
physical and psychological functioning and wellbeing. To reach these goals, a 
multi-professional approach is needed, and the doctor in charge must be highly 
qualified clinically and academically and willing and able to cooperate with 
colleagues and other healthcare professionals.

PMID: 16440041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Anasthesiol Intensivmed Notfallmed Schmerzther. 2006 Jan;41(1):44-6. doi: 
10.1055/s-2005-921229.

NICE Technology Appraisal No 84.

Ridley S(1).

Author information:
(1)Consultant in Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Norfolk and Norwich University 
Hospital, Norwich, UK. saxon@domum.globalnet.co.uk

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-921229
PMID: 16440263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Heart Advis. 2005 Dec;8(12):1, 7.

How to aim for 5 extra years of life. Here's the possible payoff from fighting 
major cardiovascular risks.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16440458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Can J Cardiol. 2005 Dec;21(14):1263.

Retirement: privately coming undone.

Malik P(1).

Author information:
(1)Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario. pgmalik@hotmail.com

PMID: 16440488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Orv Hetil. 2005 Dec 11;146(50):2541-5.

[Failure of diagnosing pancreatic tumors in the course of laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy: surgical lessons].

[Article in Hungarian]

Molnár BA(1), Varga-Szabó D, Kaliszky P.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, I. Sebészeti Klinika, 
Budapest. topp-2@freemail.hu

INTRODUCTION: In Hungary surgeons perform approximately 24000 cholecystectomies 
per year. Nowadays the choice of treatment of uncomplicated cholelithiasis is 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The advantages and popularity of the procedure are 
well known; otherwise the exploration of the abdominal cavity is not so complete 
than during open surgery. In the course of laparoscopic surgery the surgeon has 
minimal chance to find the preoperatively not diagnosed tumour.
AIMS: In our retrospective study we analysed those complains and clinical signs, 
when we suspect the presence of a pancreas tumour.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analysed the clinical data of patients who were 
operated on with pancreatic tumor and before the surgery, laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy had been performed in the previous 24 month.
RESULTS: In the period of 1996-2003 we operated 1515 patients with pancreatic 
tumor, at our clinic. 21 patients (1.39%) had laparoscopic cholecystectomy in 
the last 24 month, before the surgery. The age of the patients was between 50-78 
(average age 65), the rate of the female and male patients was 15/6. Most of the 
patients had weight loss (in 11 cases it was considerable, 5.4 kg in one month) 
and the uncertain abdominal pain, feeling of discomfort, meteorism was also 
characteristic of these patients. In 16 cases (76%) the blood glucose level had 
been elevated. The ultrasound examination before the cholecystectomy in these 
cases was focused to the gall bladder. After the cholecystectomy, complains did 
not disappear definitely and further diagnostic steps verified the pancreatic 
tumour. The average time between the laparoscopic cholecystectomy and the open 
surgery was 10 month. In 4 cases we were able to remove the tumor, but in 17 
cases only palliative operation was performed.
CONCLUSIONS: If the patient is over the age of 50, especially if he is male, has 
weight loss and if the symptoms are not characteristic of gallbladder disease, 
further diagnostic steps are necessary before cholecystectomy. Complains 
remaining after laparoscopic cholecystectomy must be indication for urgent 
diagnostic steps. The life expectancy of patients with advanced pancreatic tumor 
is very poor.

PMID: 16440499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Value Health. 2006 Jan-Feb;9(1):1-11. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00075.x.

Systematic screening for Chlamydia trachomatis: estimating cost-effectiveness 
using dynamic modeling and Dutch data.

de Vries R(1), van Bergen JE, de Jong-van den Berg LT, Postma MJ; PILOT-CT Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Groningen University Institute for Drug Exploration/University of Groningen 
Research Institute of Pharmacy, Groningen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of a systematic one-off Chlamydia 
trachomatis (CT) screening program including partner treatment for Dutch young 
adults.
METHODS: Data on infection prevalence, participation rates, and sexual behavior 
were obtained from a large pilot study conducted in The Netherlands. Opposite to 
almost all previous economic evaluations of CT screening, we developed a dynamic 
Susceptible-Infected-Susceptible (SIS) model to estimate the impact of the 
screening program on the incidence and prevalence of CT in the population. SIS 
models are widely used in epidemiology of infectious diseases, for modeling the 
transmission dynamics over time. Subsequently, a predictive decision model was 
used to calculate the complications averted by the screening program. 
Cost-effectiveness was expressed as the net costs per major outcome averted 
(MOA) and was estimated in the baseline analysis and in sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The overall prevalence decreased from 1.79% to 1.05% as a result of the 
screening program directed at both men and women. The program costs were mainly 
offset by the averted costs, although not fully. Resulting net costs per MOA 
were 373 euro sin the baseline analysis. Sensitivity analysis showed that 
partner treatment and sending a reminder are important aspects improving 
cost-effectiveness. Additionally, restricting the screening to women only was 
estimated to save costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our cost-effectiveness analysis shows that the Dutch society has 
net to pay for the prevention of CT-complications through screening young men 
and women. One could argue although that 373 euros per MOA presents a reasonable 
cost. A screening program consisting of screening women only should always be 
adopted from a pharmacoeconomic point of view. Our dynamic approach appreciates 
better the specific characteristics of an infectious disease, such as CT.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00075.x
PMID: 16441519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Value Health. 2006 Jan-Feb;9(1):28-38. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00078.x.

Pramipexole versus levodopa in patients with early Parkinson's disease: effect 
on generic and disease-specific quality of life.

Noyes K(1), Dick AW, Holloway RG; Parkinson Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Rochester 
School of Medicine, Rochester, NY 14620, USA. katia_noyes@urmc.rochester.edu

OBJECTIVE: Although health-related quality of life (HRQOL) has been included in 
multiple Parkinson's disease (PD) clinical trials, little is known about how 
HRQOL responds to treatments over time. Here we assess the effect of therapy on 
HRQOL and explore factors that influence the HRQOL profiles and subdomains.
METHOD: A total of 301 subjects with early PD were randomized to either initial 
pramipexole or initial levodopa and followed every 3 months over a 4-year 
period. To estimate health outcomes, we used EQ-5D and PDQUALIF. We calculated 
the incremental effectiveness as the accumulated difference in the total HRQOL 
over time between treatments. The subgroup analyses (by sex, race, age, baseline 
patient characteristics, and occurrence of adverse events) were conducted using 
the same approach. Sensitivity analysis was performed to test the effect of 
missing data imputation on the results.
RESULTS: All three HRQOL measures resulted in similar profiles over time 
characterized by initial improvement over the first 3 to 6 months and followed 
by a gradual decline in years 2, 3, and 4. The difference in HRQOL between the 
treatment arms widened in favor of pramipexole in years 3 and 4 for all HRQOL 
measures used (EQ-5D: Y3 0.048, P = 0.03; Y4 0.071, P = 0.04). Our analyses 
suggested that the effect of pramipexole on HRQOL was mediated through nonmotor 
functions, whereas levodopa improved primarily motor domains of HRQOL.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that pramipexole and levodopa affect patient 
HRQOL via improvement on different domains of well-being: nonmotor effect for 
pramipexole and mobility improvement for levodopa.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00078.x
PMID: 16441522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2006 Mar;15(1):51-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2005.00619.x.

Positive feelings among terminally ill cancer patients.

Van der Lee ML(1), Swarte NB, Van der Bom JG, Van den Bout J, Heintz AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, University Utrecht, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands. m.l.vanderlee@erasmusmc.nl

For a realistic perspective on what it is like to have cancer and be in the last 
months of life, it is necessary to also study the positive feelings people may 
still experience. We set out to describe positive feelings experienced by 
terminally ill patients. The Depression Adjective Checklist was completed by 96 
cancer patients with an estimated life expectancy of less than 3 months. On 
average patients endorsed 30% (3.6/12) of the positive mood items, and 25% 
(5.4/22) of the negative mood items. The larger part of terminally ill cancer 
patients with an estimated life expectancy of less than 3 months reported one or 
more positive mood states. A positive mood state such as 'being interested' was 
endorsed by more than half (65%) of the patients, other positive feelings were 
endorsed by a substantial proportion of patients, for example: 38% of patients 
endorsed feeling 'jovial' and 35% reported being 'optimistic'. Although having 
incurable cancer often leads to feelings of depression, mood is variable and 
many patients experience at least some positive feelings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2005.00619.x
PMID: 16441677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Aging Cell. 2006 Feb;5(1):39-50. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2006.00194.x.

Use of microarray biomarkers to identify longevity therapeutics.

Spindler SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, 
USA. spindler@ucr.edu

A number of lines of evidence, including nonhuman primate and human studies, 
suggest that regulatory pathways similar to those invoked by caloric restriction 
(CR) may be involved in determining human longevity. Thus, pharmaceuticals 
capable of mimicking the molecular mechanisms of life- and health-span extension 
by CR (CR mimetics) may have application to human health. CR acts rapidly, even 
in late adulthood, to begin to extend life- and health-span in mice. We have 
linked these effects with rapid changes in the levels of specific gene 
transcripts in the liver and the heart. Our results are consistent with the 
rapid effects of caloric intake on the lifespan and/or biochemistry and 
physiology of Drosophila, rodents, rhesus macaques and humans. To test the 
hypothesis that existing pharmaceuticals can mimic the physiologic effects of 
CR, we evaluated the effectiveness of glucoregulatory drugs and putative cancer 
chemo-preventatives in reproducing the hepatic gene-expression profiles produced 
by long-term CR (LTCR). We found that 8 weeks of metformin treatment was 
superior to 8 weeks of CR at reproducing the specific changes in transcript 
levels produced by LTCR. Consistent with these results, metformin reduces cancer 
incidence in diabetic humans and ameliorates the onset and severity of metabolic 
syndrome. Metformin extends the mean and maximum lifespans of female transgenic 
HER-2/neu mice by 8% and 13.1% in comparison with control mice. Phenformin, a 
close chemical relative of metformin, extends lifespan and reduces tumor 
incidence in C3H mice. These results indicate that gene-expression biomarkers 
can be used to identify promising candidate CR mimetics.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2006.00194.x
PMID: 16441842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Neuroimaging Clin N Am. 2005 Nov;15(4):869-77, xi-xii. doi: 
10.1016/j.nic.2005.09.008.

The Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative.

Mueller SG(1), Weiner MW, Thal LJ, Petersen RC, Jack C, Jagust W, Trojanowski 
JQ, Toga AW, Beckett L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

With increasing life expectancy in developed countries, the incidence of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its socioeconomic impact are growing. Increasing 
knowledge of the mechanisms of AD facilitates the development of treatment 
strategies aimed at slowing down or preventing neuronal death. AD treatment 
trials using clinical outcome measures require long observation times and large 
patient samples. There is increasing evidence that neuroimaging and 
cerebrospinal fluid and blood biomarkers may provide information that may reduce 
sample sizes and observation periods. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative will help identify clinical, neuroimaging, and biomarker outcome 
measures that provide the highest power for measurement of longitudinal changes 
and for prediction of transitions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nic.2005.09.008
PMCID: PMC2376747
PMID: 16443497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Eur Heart J. 2006 Apr;27(8):968-75. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi750. Epub 2006
Jan  27.

Prognostic value of coronary artery calcium screening in asymptomatic smokers 
and non-smokers.

Shaw LJ(1), Raggi P, Callister TQ, Berman DS.

Author information:
(1)Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Room 125-4, Taper Building, 8700 Beverly 
Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA. leslee.shaw@cshs.org

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2006 Apr;27(8):899-900.

AIMS: To determine the extent and prognostic significance of coronary artery 
calcium in asymptomatic smokers and non-smokers. Population data are available 
on the prognostic impact of smoking on atherosclerotic imaging measurements of 
the carotid and peripheral arteries. Limited data are available on the impact of 
cigarette smoking on the prognostic value of coronary calcium.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A referred patient registry of 10,377 asymptomatic 
individuals (40% were current smokers) was followed for death from all-causes at 
5 years. Univariable and multivariable Cox proportional hazard models were 
calculated to estimate time to all-cause mortality. Cumulative 5-year survival 
was 96.9 and 98.4% for smokers when compared with non-smokers (P < 0.0001). 
Using a stratified Cox proportional hazards survival analysis, survival for 
non-smokers ranged from 99.7 to 89.6% with calcium score of 0-10 and >1000 (P < 
0.0001). In comparison, smokers had survival rates ranging from 99.5 to 81.4% 
for calcium score of 0-10 to >1000 (P < 0.0001). When further evaluating the 
effect of age on prognosis by coronary calcium, there was an additive 
relationship between age and calcium that was exacerbated with smoking, 
resulting in higher relative risk ratios for older smokers with coronary calcium 
(P < 0.0001). For smokers <50 years of age, a calcium score >1000 was associated 
with a relative risk ratio that was elevated 8.9-fold (P = 0.029). Thus, 
resulting in an expected reduction in life expectancy of 4.8 years for smokers 
<50 years of age with a calcium score >400 (P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: The prognostic value of coronary artery calcium scoring was accurate 
in identifying a high-risk cohort of asymptomatic smokers and non-smokers. Young 
smokers with high-risk calcium scores have a four- to nine-fold increased risk 
of dying when compared with similarly aged non-smokers. When prospectively 
applied, evidence of a high-risk calcium score may be useful in educating 
patients as to their expected risk of dying over the next 5 years.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi750
PMID: 16443606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Diabetes Care. 2006 Feb;29(2):241-6. doi:
10.2337/diacare.29.02.06.dc05-1468.

Comparison of weighted performance measurement and dichotomous thresholds for 
glycemic control in the Veterans Health Administration.

Pogach LM(1), Rajan M, Aron DC.

Author information:
(1)New Jersey Veterans Healthcare System, East Orange, New Jersey, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Quality measures of glycemic control using threshold values do not 
assess incremental quality improvement. We compared health care system 
performance using weighted continuous versus dichotomous measures for glycemic 
control.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We performed retrospective cross-sectional analysis 
of chart abstraction data on 37,142 diabetic patients from 141 Veterans Health 
Administration medical centers in 2000-2001.
RESULTS: Subjects per facility ranged from 163 to 740 (mean 263). Mean overall 
HbA(1c) (A1C) was 7.58%. A continuous measure for glycemic control was 
calculated based on percentage of maximal quality-adjusted life-years saved 
(QALYsS). Overall mean facility performance using the dichotomous measure was 
62% <8% A1C (range 48-75%) and 39% <7% A1C (21-57%), in comparison with 45% 
maximal QALYsS (31-60%). Correlation between QALYsS and A1C thresholds of <8 
(0.848) and <7 (0.838) for facility rankings was excellent; correlation between 
facility level performance using thresholds of <8 and 7% was poor (r = 0.13, P = 
0.14). Comparison of facility rankings between the <7% dichotomous measure and 
the QALYsS-weighted measure showed that 22% changed their ranking by > or =2 
deciles with marked changes in top and bottom deciles.
CONCLUSIONS: Facility rankings vary by threshold or continuous methodology. 
However, because significant numbers of individuals are unable to reach 
"optimal" target goals (thresholds) even in clinical trials with extensive 
exclusion criteria, we propose that a continuous measure assessing improvement 
toward optimal A1C, rather than a pass/fail optimal target, is both a fairer 
assessment clinical practice and a more accurate reflection of population health 
improvement.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.29.02.06.dc05-1468
PMID: 16443867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Diabetes Care. 2006 Feb;29(2):259-64. doi:
10.2337/diacare.29.02.06.dc05-1443.

The impact of patient preferences on the cost-effectiveness of intensive glucose 
control in older patients with new-onset diabetes.

Huang ES(1), Shook M, Jin L, Chin MH, Meltzer DO.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Pritzker School of Medicine, The 
University of Chicago, 5841 S. Maryland Ave., MC 2007, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
ehuang@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

OBJECTIVE: Cost-effectiveness analyses have reported that intensive glucose 
control is not cost-effective in older patients with new-onset diabetes. 
However, these analyses have had limited data on patient preferences concerning 
diabetic health states. We examined how the cost- effectiveness of intensive 
glucose control changes with the incorporation of patient preferences.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We collected health state preferences/utilities 
from 519 older diabetic patients. We incorporated these utilities into an 
established cost-effectiveness model of intensive glucose control and compared 
incremental cost-effectiveness analyses ratios (ICERs) (cost divided by 
quality-adjusted life-year [QALY]) when using the original and patient-derived 
utilities for complications and treatments.
RESULTS: The mean utilities were approximately 0.40 for major complications, 
0.76 (95% CI 0.74-0.78) for conventional glucose control, 0.77 (0.75-0.80) for 
intensive therapy with oral medications, and 0.64 (0.61-0.67) for intensive 
therapy with insulin. Incorporating our patient-derived complication utilities 
alone improved ICERs for intensive glucose control (e.g., patients aged 60-65 
years at diagnosis, 136,000 dollars/QALY-->78,000 dollars/QALY), but intensive 
therapy was still not cost-effective at older ages. When patient-derived 
treatment utilities were also incorporated, the cost-effectiveness of intensive 
treatment depended on the method of glucose control. Intensive control with 
insulin generated fewer QALYs than conventional control. However, intensive 
control with oral medications was beneficial on average at all ages and had an 
ICER < or =100,000 dollars to age 70.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of intensive glucose control in older 
patients with new-onset diabetes is highly sensitive to assumptions regarding 
quality of life with treatments. Cost-effectiveness analyses of diabetes care 
should consider the sensitivity of results to alternative utility assumptions.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.29.02.06.dc05-1443
PMCID: PMC2292131
PMID: 16443870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Diabetes Care. 2006 Feb;29(2):265-70. doi:
10.2337/diacare.29.02.06.dc05-1572.

Cost-effectiveness and net benefit of enhanced treatment of depression for older 
adults with diabetes and depression.

Katon W(1), Unützer J, Fan MY, Williams JW Jr, Schoenbaum M, Lin EH, Hunkeler 
EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Box 356560, University of 
Washington School of Medicine, 1959 NE Pacific St., Seattle, WA 98195-6560, USA. 
wkaton@u.washington.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness and net benefit of a 
depression collaborative care program compared with usual care for patients with 
diabetes and depression.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This article describes a preplanned subgroup 
analysis of patients with diabetes from the Improving Mood-Promoting Access to 
Collaborative (IMPACT) randomized controlled trial. The setting for the study 
included 18 primary care clinics from eight health care organizations in five 
states. A total of 418 of 1,801 patients randomized to the IMPACT intervention 
(n = 204) versus usual care (n = 214) had coexisting diabetes. A depression care 
manager offered education, behavioral activation, and a choice of 
problem-solving treatment or support of antidepressant management by the primary 
care physician. The main outcomes were incremental cost-effectiveness and net 
benefit of the program compared with usual care.
RESULTS: Relative to usual care, intervention patients experienced 115 (95% CI 
72-159) more depression-free days over 24 months. Total outpatient costs were 25 
dollars (95% CI -1,638 to 1,689) higher during this same period. The incremental 
cost per depression-free day was 25 cents (-14 dollars to 15 dollars) and the 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year ranged from 198 dollars 
(144-316) to 397 dollars (287-641). An incremental net benefit of 1,129 dollars 
(692-1,572) was found.
CONCLUSIONS: The IMPACT intervention is a high-value investment for older adults 
with diabetes; it is associated with high clinical benefits at no greater cost 
than usual care.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.29.02.06.dc05-1572
PMID: 16443871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Pediatr Endocrinol Rev. 2004 Aug;1 Suppl 3:496-500.

Acromegaly - evolving strategies.

Popovic V(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroendocrine Unit, Institute of Endocrinology, University Clinical Center, 
Belgrade Serbia. popver@Eunet.Yu

Growth hormone (GH)-cell adenomas are benign pituitary tumors which present with 
chronic high GH output. Hereditary GH-cell adenomas are rare and include MEN I, 
McCune Albright Syndrome, Carney complex and familial acromegaly. Most of the 
tumors causing acromegaly are sporadic. Acromegaly is a disfiguring and 
disabling disease and, if untreated, life expectancy is reduced by a decade. 
Elevated GH levels, hypertension and heart disease are major negative survival 
determinants in these patients. Current treatments for acromegaly attempt to 
control the disease by reducing growth hormone secretion from the tumor either 
by surgery, radiotherapy or medical therapy. The choice of therapy depends on 
age, general health, the severity and complications of the disease and dangers 
associated with each treatment. Assessment of disease activity in patients with 
acromegaly following treatment is a problem because no sensitive clinical 
parameters are available and there is no well-defined clinical endpoint that 
defines cure. Cure in acromegaly has been defined therefore as normalization of 
biochemical parameters. A consensus publication recommended biochemical cure be 
considered as nadir GH of less than 1 microm g/L after OGTT and a normal 
circulating IGF-I. In optimizing the control of acromegaly new therapeutic 
strategies are evolving (growth hormone receptor antagonist - pegvisomant, 
potent dopamine agonists, universal somatostatin receptor ligands, chimeric 
molecules). The aim of the evolving therapeutic strategies is to produce a 
normal life expectancy in patients with acromegaly.

PMID: 16444181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2005;46(3):199-206.

Morphoclinical study of intracerebral haemorrhage with intraventricular 
extension.

Zaharia B(1), Pleşea IE, Georgescu CC, Cameniţă A, Georgescu CV, Enache SD, 
Tnovici M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova. 
zb@umfcv.ro

AIMS: The study is an integrated assessment of clinical, image and morphological 
parameters in severe intracerebral haemorrhages (ICH) complicated with 
intraventricular extension (IVE).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The studied group had 93 cases of patients with ICH and 
IVE who were hospitalized in the Emergency County Hospital of Craiova and died 
during hospitalization. The parameters evaluated were clinical (relation with 
the seasons, age, sex, arterial blood pressure, the motor deficit, degree of 
coma, Glasgow score at admission and medical care) and morphological (the sites 
of the intraparenchymal haematoma and IVE, the size of the intraparenchymal 
haematoma, the presence of the mass effect, perilesional oedema and subarachnoid 
effusion). The latter were assessed on CT films and during autopsy.
RESULTS: The presence of IVE as a complication of ICH showed a predilection for 
cold seasons, especially autumn. From the 93 studied cases 51 were men and 42, 
women. 52.6% of the patients were in the fifth and sixth life decade. Almost 80% 
of the patients had IIIrd stage arterial hypertension at admission, over 80% 
motor deficits and almost 60% Glasgow scores lower than 6. The ventricular 
effusion involved at least one of the lateral ventricles. The hematomas had huge 
dimensions as compared to hosting encephalic structures, in lobar sites 
involving more than one lobe. Other risk factors as mass effect and perilesional 
oedema were constantly present.
CONCLUSIONS: The association of IVE with other independent risk factors such as 
hypertension, low Glasgow scores volume of intraventricular bleeding, dimensions 
of haemorrhagic foci, presence of mass effect and perilesional oedema results in 
the death of patient despite any sustained therapeutic intervention.

PMID: 16444306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2006 Sep;131(1):1-14. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20402.

Paleodemography of a medieval population in Japan: analysis of human skeletal 
remains from the Yuigahama-minami site.

Nagaoka T(1), Hirata K, Yokota E, Matsu'ura S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, St. Marianna University School of Medicine, Miyamae 
Ward, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 216-8511, Japan. nagaoka@marianna-u.ac.jp

The purpose of this study is to obtain demographic data regarding the medieval 
population buried at the Yuigahama-minami site in Kamakura, Japan, and to detect 
a secular trend in the life expectancy of Japanese population over the last 
several thousand years. The Yuigahama-minami skeletal sample consists of 260 
individuals, including 98 subadults (under 20 years old) and 162 adults. A 
Yuigahama-minami abridged life-table analysis yielded a life expectancy at birth 
(e0) of 24.0 years for both sexes, a life expectancy at age 15 years (e15) of 
15.8 years for males, and an e15 of 18.0 years for females. The reliability of 
the estimated e0 was confirmed by analysis of the juvenility index. Demographic 
profiles comparing the Yuigahama-minami series with other skeletal series 
indicated that both the survivorship curve and life expectancy of the 
Yuigahama-minami sample are similar to those of the Mesolithic-Neolithic Jomon 
population, but are far lower than those of the early modern Edo population. 
These comparisons strongly suggest that life expectancy changed little over the 
thousands of years between the Mesolithic-Neolithic Jomon and medieval periods, 
but then improved remarkably during the few hundred years between the medieval 
period and early modern Edo period. The short-lived tendency of the 
Yuigahama-minami sample does not contradict the archaeological hypothesis of 
unsanitary living conditions in medieval Kamakura. This is the first 
investigation to address the demographic features of a medieval population in 
Japan, and will help refine our understanding of long-term trends in the 
demographic profiles of inhabitants of Japan.

2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20402
PMID: 16444727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Health Econ. 2006 Mar;15(3):315-7; discussion 319-22. doi: 10.1002/hec.1065.

Consumption costs and earnings during added years of life - a reply to Nyman.

Gandjour A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. afschin.gandjour@medizin.uni-koeln.de

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2004 May;13(5):417-27.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1065
PMID: 16444762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2005 Dec;6(12):796-803.

[Economic impact of cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with heart 
failure. Available evidence and evaluation of the CRT-Eucomed model for analysis 
of cost-effectiveness].

[Article in Italian]

Fattore G(1), Landolina M, Bontempi L, Cacciatore G, Curnis A, Gulizia M, 
Padeletti L, Mazzei L, Tavazzi L; Gruppo di Studio congiunto Federazione 
Italiana di Cardiologia-Assobiomedica di Cardiologia-Assobiomedica "Valutazione 
del Medello CRT-Eucomed".

Author information:
(1)Facoltà di Economia Aziendale, Università degli Studi Parthenope, Napoli, 
Istituto di Pubblica Amministrazione e Sanità, e CeRGAS, Università degli Studi 
Bocconi, Milano.

Several clinical trials show that cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) in 
patients with moderate-severe heart failure increases survival, improves quality 
of life and reduces hospital admissions. The high cost of this new technology, 
incurred by health organizations at the moment of the implant, requires to 
assess whether its use is economically rational for the Italian Health Service. 
The paper summarizes evidences of the impact of CRT on the use of hospital 
resources and on quality of life, and presents a model to calculate incremental 
costs per quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained in patients with 
moderate-severe heart failure treated with optimal medical therapy. The model is 
based on efficacy data drawn from clinical trials and on other information 
concerning the Italian context collected and validated by a team of experts from 
Assobiomedica and the Italian Federation of Cardiology. The model estimates that 
the incremental cost per QALY gained attributable to CRT is Euro 63,225 if all 
effects (years of life gained, increased quality of life and reduction of 
hospital costs) are censored at the end of the first year after the implant and 
Euro 21,720 if all effects are censored at the end of the third year. 
Cost-effectiveness of CRT is thus strongly dependent upon the duration of its 
effects: longer benefits of the therapy compensate initial costs and thus make 
the technology more cost-effective. In order to get better estimates of the 
economic profile of CRT it is required to collect more precise data from routine 
practice on survival, quality of life and hospital resources. The model 
presented can be easily adapted to take into account new evidence and to 
calculate cost per QALY gained in regional and local contexts.

PMID: 16444923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(1):43-53. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624010-00004.

Incorporating carer effects into economic evaluation.

Dixon S(1), Walker M, Salek S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, England. s.dixon@shef.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(1):39-41.

BACKGROUND: Despite great interest in the development of methods used in the 
economic evaluation of health technologies, the effects of carer costs and 
quality of life (QOL) on the cost effectiveness of treatments has not been 
widely explored. Yet carer effects are clearly evident in the literature and 
relevant to the perspective of many published economic evaluations.
OBJECTIVE: To examine whether patient QOL is associated with carer time and 
carer QOL.
METHODS: We used two datasets to investigate carer effects. Firstly, we used 
40,312 cases from the Health Outcomes Data Repository (HODaR) to assess the 
relationship between patient utility, using the EuroQoL (EQ)-5D, and the number 
of days care needed from friends and relatives. The stability of the 
relationship across patient subgroups was assessed by replicating the analysis 
in ten disease groups. Secondly, we used 64 cases from a study of patients with 
Alzheimer's disease and their primary carer. These data allowed us to estimate 
the relationships between patient and carer utility, using the EQ-5D, and 
patient utility and carer burden using the Community Dementia Quality of Life 
Profile (CDQLP).
RESULTS: For carer time, a linear model showed that each 0.1-point reduction in 
patient utility was associated with a 2.5-day increase in carer time over a 
6-week period. A more general model, based on EQ-5D domain scores, was better 
specified and showed that decreased functioning within each domain is associated 
with increased carer time. Problems with self-care and usual activities have the 
greatest impact on carer time. These models do not appear to be stable across 
different disease groups. For carer utility, the relationships between carer and 
patient utility have low explanatory power and are poorly specified. A clearer 
relationship is shown between carer burden and utility, such that when 
sociodemographic covariates are introduced, the relationship reaches 
conventional levels of statistical significance (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The preliminary work described here shows that improving patient 
QOL may reduce the need for carer time and improve carer QOL. Incorporating such 
effects into economic evaluations will change cost-per-QALY estimates, with the 
size of reduction dependent on the domains of health affected by treatment. 
Clinical studies need to capture carer data so that we can better understand 
these effects, and how they impact on economic evaluation.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624010-00004
PMID: 16445302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(1):81-92. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624010-00007.

Cost effectiveness of bemiparin sodium versus unfractionated heparin and oral 
anticoagulants in the acute and long-term treatment of deep vein thrombosis.

Gómez-Outes A(1), Rocha E, Martínez-González J, Kakkar VV.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A., Madrid, Spain. 
agomez@rovi.es

INTRODUCTION: Low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) are at least as effective 
and well tolerated as unfractionated heparin (UFH) in the treatment of deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT), offering easier administration and obviating the need for 
anticoagulant monitoring, but have a higher acquisition cost than UFH.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify the potential economic impact of two regimens of 
subcutaneous bemiparin 115 IU/kg/day for 7-10 days (plus oral anticoagulants 
[OAC] or followed by long-term bemiparin 3500IU) versus dose-adjusted 
intravenous UFH for 7 days plus OAC for 3 months in the acute and long-term 
treatment of DVT. The representative patient was a 62-year-old, 77 kg male with 
proximal DVT of the lower limbs.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using a decision-tree 
modelling approach. The results were expressed in terms of costs (euro, 2002 
values) and incremental cost effectiveness. The treatment costs (hospital stay, 
physician services, drug administration) and costs incurred due to complications 
(pulmonary embolism, recurrent DVT, bleeding events, thrombocytopenia and 
deaths) during the 3-month study period were considered for the primary 
analysis. Life expectancy and QALYs were considered for the secondary analysis. 
The study was performed in the setting of the Spanish National Health System.
RESULTS: Bemiparin plus OAC or long-term bemiparin for 3 months provided net 
cost savings of euro 769 and euro 908 per patient, respectively, compared with 
UFH plus OAC (UFH plus OAC euro 4128 vs bemiparin plus OAC euro 3359 vs 
long-term bemiparin euro 3220). Bemiparin plus OAC and long-term bemiparin for 3 
months were calculated to avoid 27 and 7 additional VTE events, respectively, 
per 1000 patients treated. Bemiparin plus OAC or long-term bemiparin increased 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by approximately 1.72 and 0.74 years, 
respectively, compared with UFH plus OAC. The univariate sensitivity analysis 
supported the cost effectiveness of bemiparin in all the ranges tested for 
complications and costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model suggests that bemiparin plus OAC or long-term bemiparin 
for 3 months may be dominant strategies over UFH plus OAC in the treatment of 
DVT from the Spanish National Health System perspective, offering better 
outcomes and cost savings. Long-term bemiparin may be a cost-neutral alternative 
to bemiparin plus OAC.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624010-00007
PMID: 16445305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

