were analyzed in relation to their proximity to the site.

PMID: 16330453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Haematologica. 2005 Dec;90(12):1723-4.

Minor histocompatibility antigen HA-8 mismatch and clinical outcome after 
HLA-identical sibling donor allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

Pérez-García A, De la Cámara R, Torres A, González M, Jiménez A, Gallardo D.

We analyzed the clinical outcome of 146 adult patients receiving an 
HLA-identical sibling donor stem cell transplant depending on HA-8 matching 
status. The presence of an HA-8 mismatch was associated with an increased risk 
of severe acute graft-versus-host disease and with a worse overall survival.

PMID: 16330460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. J Nucl Med. 2005 Dec;46(12):2020-8.

Use of a decision analysis model to assess the cost-effectiveness of 18F-FDG PET 
in the management of metachronous liver metastases of colorectal cancer.

Lejeune C(1), Bismuth MJ, Conroy T, Zanni C, Bey P, Bedenne L, Faivre J, Arveux 
P, Guillemin F.

Author information:
(1)INSERM EMI (Equipe Mixte INSERM) 0106, Dijon, France.

Few data exist on the medicoeconomic usefulness of PET in the management of 
metachronous liver metastases from colorectal cancer. This study was designed to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of PET in the diagnosis and staging of patients 
with metachronous liver metastases of colorectal cancer using a decision 
analysis model.
METHODS: Two alternatives were compared: CT and CT associated with PET (CT+PET). 
Transition probabilities were estimated from published data and consultations 
with experts. Survival data were provided by the Burgundy Digestive Cancer 
Registry (France). Costs of imaging techniques and treatments were assessed 
using reimbursements from the French health care insurance for the year 2004. 
Evaluation criteria included incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and the 
proportion of unnecessary operations avoided in patients without metachronous 
liver metastases.
RESULTS: CT+PET was the most cost-effective strategy, presenting an expected 
incremental cost saving of 2,671 (approximately $3,213) per patient, for the 
same level of expected effectiveness as CT alone (1.88-y life expectancy per 
patient). Sensitivity analyses performed on epidemiologic and economic 
parameters showed that this model was robust. The model also suggested that 
CT+PET could avoid exploratory surgery for 6.1% of patients-that is, 88.4% risk 
reduction compared with CT alone.
CONCLUSION: PET for diagnosis and staging does not generate additional survival 
effectiveness compared with CT alone. However cost savings associated with its 
use and the improvement of therapeutic management therefore justify its 
generalization in clinical practice.

PMID: 16330566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Am J Psychiatry. 2005 Dec;162(12):2309-14. doi:
10.1176/appi.ajp.162.12.2309.

Frontline treatment of combat stress reaction: a 20-year longitudinal evaluation 
study.

Solomon Z(1), Shklar R, Mikulincer M.

Author information:
(1)Adler Research Center, Tel Aviv University, P.O. Box 69978, Ramat Aviv, 
Israel. solomon@post.tau.ac.il

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 2006 Jun;163(6):1111; author reply 1111-2.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to evaluate the long-term (20-year) 
effectiveness of frontline treatment provided to combat stress reaction 
casualties.
METHOD: A longitudinal quasi-experimental design was employed. Participants were 
combat stress reaction casualties of the 1982 Lebanon War who received frontline 
treatment (N=79), comparable combat stress reaction casualties who did not 
receive frontline treatment (N=156), and matched soldiers who did not experience 
combat stress reaction (N=194). Subjects were asked which of the frontline 
treatment principles (proximity, immediacy, expectancy) were applied in their 
treatment, whether or not they returned to their unit after frontline treatment, 
and if so, whether they returned before or after they felt completely recovered. 
Outcome assessments included measures of posttraumatic and psychiatric symptoms 
and of social functioning.
RESULTS: Twenty years after the war, traumatized soldiers who received frontline 
treatment had lower rates of posttraumatic and psychiatric symptoms, experienced 
less loneliness, and reported better social functioning than similarly 
traumatized soldiers who did not receive frontline treatment. In addition, a 
cumulative effect of application of frontline treatment principles was 
documented: the more principles applied, the stronger the effect on psychiatric 
outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Frontline treatment is associated with improved outcomes even two 
decades after its application. This treatment may also be effective for 
nonmilitary precursors of posttraumatic stress disorder.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.162.12.2309
PMID: 16330595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Healthc Exec. 2005 Sep-Oct;20(5):suppl 1-4 following 58.

Key industry facts.

ACHE's Division of Research and Development.

PMID: 16331875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Cyberpsychol Behav. 2005 Dec;8(6):571-9. doi: 10.1089/cpb.2005.8.571.

Affective images: relieving chronic pain and enhancing quality of life for older 
persons.

Tse MM(1), Pun SP, Benzie IF.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong. 
hsmtse@inet.polyu.edu.hk

With increasing life expectancy, the incidence of chronic illness and chronic 
pain also increase. Chronic pain robs older people of their quality of life, and 
limits functional mobility and ambulation, which leads to muscle atrophy. Older 
people are often reluctant to request pain relief, attempting to endure pain as 
a "normal" part of ageing. Innovative non-pharmacological interventions in pain 
management are appealing. In this study, affective images and pictures were used 
in 15 elderly patients (12 female and three male) in chronic pain who needed to 
perform stretching and standing exercises in their physiotherapy sessions. Pain 
scores were measured by the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), and health-related 
quality of life was measured by the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36 
(SF-36). VAS and SF-36 were administered in weeks 1 and in 6. Pain scores were 
measured during physiotherapy session in the following weeks. There was a 
significant decreased in VAS from week 1 to week 6 (t = 3.607; df = 14; p < 
0.05). Also, a significant decrease in VAS occurred when the patients were 
watching affective pictures while performing the physiotherapy exercise in weeks 
2 and 3, but not in weeks 4 and 5. SF-36 increased in week 6, which indicated an 
increase in health-related quality of life, though not statistically 
significant. Affective images and pictures appear to be an effective 
non-pharmacological intervention in pain management for the older person.

DOI: 10.1089/cpb.2005.8.571
PMID: 16332168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Soc Sci Med. 2006 May;62(9):2327-35. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.10.029.
Epub  2005 Dec 5.

Health, wealth and fairness based on gender: the support for ethical principles.

Månsdotter A(1), Lindholm L, Lundberg M.

Author information:
(1)Research Department, National Institute of Public Health, Stockholm, Sweden. 
anna.mansdotter@fhi.se

Sex differences in health, and the reality of a gender system, are well-known, 
but we know little about how this connects to opinions on fairness and desired 
change. This study aims to explore two principal questions: how to compare the 
position of women and men within-state and how to choose between-states, where a 
state is defined as a situation in which individuals have a particular set of 
resources, rights and duties, and if components in the set are altered, a new 
state for the same individuals appears. Based on various normative rules 
(monistic view or separate spheres, equity as choice or ethics of care, equity 
by attainment or shortfall; variants of welfarism, feminism and conservatism), a 
survey among Swedish public health workers was carried out. The results 
demonstrate a major rejection of the idea of compensation between health, power, 
influence and resources, and of considering past processes when judging fairness 
as to women and men. Moreover, most respondents believe that a biologically 
based difference in health is fair and reject health maximization as a guiding 
principle. The support for gender equality is strong when contrasted with the 
conservative goal, and subsists when contrasted against the Pareto criterion and 
trading-off health/income as well. Results that call for additional research and 
exchange of views include that common notions in research and policy-making are 
rejected by a majority, and that females and males differ considerably when 
judging change from a societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.10.029
PMID: 16332405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Acta Oncol. 2005;44(8):829-35. doi: 10.1080/02841860500401159.

Dose-effect models for risk-relationship to cell survival parameters.

Daşu A(1), Toma-Daşu I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Sciences, Umeå University, 901 87, Umeå, Sweden. 
alexandru.dasu@radfys.umu.se

There is an increased interest in estimating the induction of cancers following 
radiotherapy as the patients have nowadays a much longer life expectancy 
following the treatment. Clinical investigations have shown that the dose 
response relationship for cancer induction following radiotherapy has either of 
two main characteristics: an increase of the risk with dose to a maximum effect 
followed by a decrease or an increase followed by a levelling-off of the risk. 
While these behaviours have been described qualitatively, there is no 
mathematical model that can explain both of them on mechanistic terms. This 
paper investigates the relationship between the shape of the dose-effect curve 
and the cell survival parameters of a single risk model. Dose response 
relationships were described with a competition model which takes into account 
the probability to induce DNA mutations and the probability of cell survival 
after irradiation. The shape of the curves was analysed in relation to the 
parameters that have been used to obtain them. It was found that the two main 
appearances of clinical data for the induction of secondary cancer following 
radiotherapy could be the manifestations of the particular sets of parameters 
that describe the induction of mutations and cell kill for fractionated 
irradiations. Thus, the levelling off appearance of the dose response curve 
could be either a sign of moderate to high inducible repair effect in cell 
survival (but weak for DNA mutations) or the effect of heterogeneity, or both. 
The bell-shaped appearance encompasses all the other cases. The results also 
stress the importance of taking into account the details of the clinical 
delivery of dose in radiotherapy, mainly the fractionated character, as the 
findings of our study did not appear for single dose models. The results thus 
indicate that the shapes of clinically observed dose response curves for the 
induction of secondary cancers can be described by using one single competition 
model. It was also found that data for cancer induction may be linked to in vivo 
cell survival parameters that may be used for other modelling applications.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860500401159
PMID: 16332590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Acta Oncol. 2005;44(8):850-61. doi: 10.1080/02841860500341157.

Proton therapy of cancer: potential clinical advantages and cost-effectiveness.

Lundkvist J(1), Ekman M, Ericsson SR, Jönsson B, Glimelius B.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Health Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. jonas.l@healtheconomis.se

Proton therapy may offer potential clinical advantages compared with 
conventional radiation therapy for many cancer patients. Due to the large 
investment costs for building a proton therapy facility, however, the treatment 
cost with proton radiation is higher than with conventional radiation. It is 
therefore important to evaluate whether the medical benefits of proton therapy 
are large enough to motivate the higher costs. We assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of proton therapy in the treatment of four different cancers: 
left-sided breast cancer, prostate cancer, head and neck cancer, and childhood 
medulloblastoma. A Markov cohort simulation model was created for each cancer 
type and used to simulate the life of patients treated with radiation. Cost and 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) were used as primary outcome measures. The 
results indicated that proton therapy was cost-effective if appropriate risk 
groups were chosen. The average cost per QALY gained for the four types of 
cancer assessed was about pounds 10,130. If the value of a QALY was set to 
pounds 55,000, the total yearly net benefit of treating 925 cancer patients with 
the four types of cancer was about pounds 20.8 million. Investment in a proton 
facility may thus be cost-effective. The results must be interpreted with 
caution, since there is a lack of data, and consequently large uncertainties in 
the assumptions used.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860500341157
PMID: 16332592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. J Clin Microbiol. 2005 Dec;43(12):6086-90. doi: 
10.1128/JCM.43.12.6086-6090.2005.

Use of ramification amplification assay for detection of Escherichia coli 
O157:H7 and other E. coli Shiga toxin-producing strains.

Li F(1), Zhao C, Zhang W, Cui S, Meng J, Wu J, Zhang DY.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Pathology Laboratory, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Box 1122, One 
Gustave Levy Place, Box 1122, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Escherichia coli O157:H7 and other Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) strains 
are important human pathogens that are mainly transmitted through the food 
chain. These pathogens have a low infectious dose and may cause life-threatening 
illnesses. However, detection of this microorganism in contaminated food or a 
patient's stool specimens presents a diagnostic challenge because of the low 
copy number in the sample. Often, a more sensitive nucleic acid amplification 
method, such as PCR, is required for rapid detection of this microorganism. 
Ramification amplification (RAM) is a recently introduced isothermal DNA 
amplification technique that utilizes a circular probe for target detection and 
achieves exponential amplification through the mechanism of primer extension, 
strand displacement, and ramification. In this study, we synthesized a circular 
probe specific for the Shiga toxin 2 gene (stx(2)). Our results showed that as 
few as 10 copies of stx(2) could be detected, indicating that the RAM assay was 
as sensitive as conventional PCR. We further tested 33 isolates of E coli 
O157:H7, STEC, Shigella dysenteriae, and nonpathogenic E. coli by RAM assay. 
Results showed that all 27 STEC isolates containing the stx(2) gene were 
identified by RAM assay, while S. dysenteriae and nonpathogenic E. coli isolates 
were undetected. The RAM results were 100% in concordance with those of PCR. 
Because of its simplicity and isothermal amplification, the RAM assay could be a 
useful method for detecting STEC in food and human specimens.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.43.12.6086-6090.2005
PMCID: PMC1317159
PMID: 16333102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Anticancer Res. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6C):4527-33.

Prostate cancer in the elderly.

Syrigos KN(1), Karapanagiotou E, Harrington KJ.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Unit, Third Department of Medicine, Athens Medical School, Sotiria 
General Hospital, Athens, Greece. knsyrigos@usa.net

With the significant increase of the average lifespan in the industrial world, 
the number of elderly people, as a proportion of the total population, has risen 
dramatically. It has been estimated that this trend will accelerate and that, by 
the year 2020, the number of people aged >80 years will soar by 135%. With age 
being the greatest risk factor for prostate cancer, this disease has 
understandably become one of the greatest public health concerns. Recently, 
considerable attention has been focused on prostate cancer management in the 
elderly, with specific emphasis on the question of whether, or not, it should 
differ from that of younger patients. We thoroughly reviewed the existing 
evidence on screening, diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer in the elderly 
and concluded that age alone should not constitute an obstruction for optimal 
treatment administration. Physicians treating aged prostate cancer patients 
should be trained in an individualized approach, based on clinical performance 
status and comorbitities.

PMID: 16334137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2005 Oct;52(10):841-52.

[A study on the availability of subjective health indices for the aged focus on 
Japanese and Chinese studies].

[Article in Japanese]

Bin A(1), Hoshi T.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Student of Urban Science, Tokyo Metropolitan University.

With the follow on availability of indices for studies on subjective health 
centered in Japan and China, this paper reviews previous studies from the 
following perspectives: 1) reliability; 2) validity; 3) practicality. The aims 
was to determine the status of research, and future subjects for exploration. 
The following four conclusions were needed subjective health: 1) With regard to 
measurement methods an "even number balanced scale" which does not include 
middle points of choices such as "average" or "cannot tell which is better" is 
more reliable than an "odd number balanced scale" which includes middle points. 
"even number balanced scale" may be unbalanced in distribution.; 2) Criteria for 
a validity of a although an subjective health are highly in convergent what 
health validity for illness and prediction of life expectancy; 3) For subjective 
health, psychological and mental health indices, for example for the subjective 
for the subjective sense of happiness and the degree of satisfaction with one's 
life, are convergent both in Japan and China, but what a closer linkage with 
social relationships in Japan and with family relationships assessment in 
China.; 4) Both Japan and China pride evidence of the practicality of subjective 
health in health evaluation.

PMID: 16334405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Hepatogastroenterology. 2005 Nov-Dec;52(66):1654-8.

Prognostic factors in patients with advanced biliary tract cancer receiving 
chemotherapy.

Saisho T(1), Okusaka T, Ueno H, Morizane C, Okada S.

Author information:
(1)Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology Division, National Cancer Center 
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Prognostic factors in patients with advanced biliary tract 
cancer receiving chemotherapy have not been fully examined. This study 
investigated prognostic factors in patients with advanced biliary tract cancer 
receiving chemotherapy.
METHODOLOGY: Sixty-five consecutive chemo-naive patients with advanced biliary 
tract cancer, who received chemotherapy, were analyzed retrospectively to 
investigate prognostic factors.
RESULTS: Median survival time and overall survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 
180 days, 21%, and 5%, respectively. By multivariate analysis using the Cox 
proportional hazards model, performance status of 0, 1, serum C-reactive protein 
level of < or = 1.0mg/dL, serum albumin level of > or = 3.5g/dL, serum lactate 
dehydrogenase level of < or = 500 U/L, and being female were independent 
favorable prognostic factors. A prognostic index based on the coefficients of 
these prognostic factors was used to classify patients into three groups with 
good, intermediate, and poor prognoses. The median survival times for these 
three groups were 246, 152, and 33 days, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The results may be helpful for predicting life expectancy, 
determining treatment strategies, and designing future clinical trials in 
patients with advanced biliary tract cancer.

PMID: 16334750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Cas Lek Cesk. 2005;144 Suppl 3:33-4, 36-7.

[Possibilities of medical treatment in acromegaly].

[Article in Czech]

Cáp J(1), Nemecek S, Rezácová M, Cerman J.

Author information:
(1)II. interní klinika LF UK a FN, Hradec Králové. capj@lfhk.cuni.cz

Active acromegaly deteriorates the quality of life and shortens the life 
expectancy. Surgery is the first-line therapy in the majority of patients, 
followed by radiotherapy in unsuccessful cases. The surgery cure rate is only 
one half in the case of macroadenomas and it takes years before radiotherapy 
normalizes GH and IGF-I levels. In the interim, medical therapy is necessary. 
Second-generation dopamine agonists (cabergoline) are successful in about one 
third of patients, especially in those with lower basal IGF-I levels and with 
adenomas co-secreting prolactin. Somatostatin analogues octreotide and 
lanreotide are the gold standard of medical treatment - both are available in a 
form applicable as once-monthly injections. They successfully control disease 
activity in the majority of patients and induce tumour shrinkage in part of 
adenomas. Surgical debunking of macroadenomas improves the results of therapy 
with somatostatin analogues and it is not necessary to discontinue this therapy 
before radiotherapy. The potential of higher efficiency represent new analogues, 
binding not only to somatostatin receptor subtype 2, but also to subtype 5 and 
"dopastatins" that are able to bind both to the somatostatin and the dopamine D2 
receptors. The advent of the GH receptor antagonist pegvisomant provides the 
possibility to normalise IGF-I in virtually every patient. Combined treatment 
with somatostatin analogues probably enables reduction from daily to weekly 
injections.

PMID: 16335261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Lupus. 2005;14(11):918-23. doi: 10.1191/0961203303lu2183xx.

Changes in the survival of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus in 
childhood: 30 years experience in Chile.

González B(1), Hernández P, Olguín H, Miranda M, Lira L, Toso M, Quezada A, 
Norambuena X, Talesnik E, Méndez C, Navarrete C.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Rheumatology and Immunology Unit, Luis Calvo Mackenna Hospital, 
Santiago, Chile. bgonzale@med.uchile.cl

The objective of this study was to analyse the survival rate and cause of death 
in children with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) during the past 30 years in 
Chile. A retrospective analysis was performed between 1969 and 2000 on patients 
attending pediatric rheumatology centres in Santiago, Chile. Survival and causes 
of death in 31 children followed from 1969 to 1980 fulfilling the 1982 American 
College of Rheumatology criteria for SLE and treated with oral steroids were 
compared with 50 other patients who were treated with oral steroids and an 
aggressive treatment of IV bolus of cyclophosphamide (38 patients) and 
azathioprine (12 patients). Global survival at five and 10 years follow-up for 
the patients studied from 1969 to 1980 was 68 and 40%, respectively. During the 
second study period these values were significantly improved and global survival 
reached 95% at five years and 90% at 10 years follow-up (P < 0.05). Survival at 
10 years follow-up for patients with lupus nephropathy increased from 28% (study 
period 1964-1980) to 86% (study period 1984-2000). Twelve children died (38%) 
during the 1964-1980 study period. The causes of death were six due to kidney 
failure, three due to infectious conditions and another three of unknown causes. 
During the 1980-2000 study period mortality reached 6% (three cases), two cases 
died of a lupus flare-up and one case due to infection. In the last three 
decades, we have seen an important increase in the survival of children with 
SLE, especially in those patients with renal involvement. Management with 
immunosuppressive drugs, such as IV cyclophosphamide or azathioprine has changed 
the prognosis in these children. These results demonstrate that our children 
with SLE increased their life expectancy but are now faced with new types of 
morbidity because of the sequelae related to the disease itself.

DOI: 10.1191/0961203303lu2183xx
PMID: 16335587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Health Rep. 2005 Nov;17(1):43-7.

Life expectancy.

St-Arnaud J(1), Beaudet MP, Tully P.

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario. 
Julie.St-Arnaud@statcan.ca

PMID: 16335692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Med J Aust. 2005 Dec 5-19;183(11-12):622-4. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2005.tb00054.x.

Never say die?

Chapman S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Building A27, Sydney, NSW 
2006, Australia. simonchapman@health.usyd.edu.au

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2005.tb00054.x
PMID: 16336149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. J Interv Cardiol. 2005 Dec;18(6):413-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-8183.2005.00080.x.

The links between diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

Schnell O(1).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Institute, Munich, Germany. 
oliver.schnell@Irz.uni-muenchen.de

Comment in
    J Interv Cardiol. 2005 Dec;18(6):411-2.

The aim of this study was to review current studies relevant to the link between 
impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. 
Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of the reduction in life expectancy in 
patients with diabetes. Seventy-five percent of diabetic patients die 
prematurely of cardiovascular complications. Both prediabetes and diabetes 
highly pre-dispose to cardiovascular alterations. IGT and even the upper-normal 
of nondiabetic glucose values are associated with an increased cardiovascular 
risk. The risk of heart disease is increased up to 15 years prior diagnosis of 
diabetes. Patients with chronic or acute cardiovascular disease and no previous 
diagnosis of diabetes frequently present with either IGT or diabetes. Patients 
with cardiovascular disease and no previous diagnosis of diabetes need to be 
screened for diabetes with an oral glucose tolerance test. In acute coronary 
syndromes, lowering glucose levels to the near-normal range with insulin is 
highly beneficial. Early and rigorous improvement of metabolic control is highly 
supportive in improving the cardiovascular outcome in patients with dysglycemia. 
Preventive treatment strategies, which include multiple approaches, are required 
to overcome the burden of cardiovascular disease in diabetes and IGT.

(J Interven Cardiol 2005;18:413-416).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8183.2005.00080.x
PMID: 16336420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Kidney Int Suppl. 2005 Dec;(99):S2-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.09901.x.

The renal benefits of a healthy lifestyle.

de Francisco AL(1), Fresnedo GF, Palomar R, Piñera C, Arias M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Valdecilla, Santander 
(Cantabria), Spain. angel.martin@unican.es

Over the next decade, the number of patients with end-stage renal disease 
requiring treatment by dialysis may double, and even developed nations will have 
difficulty coping with this alarming increase. There is an urgent need to 
highlight the importance of modifiable risk factors as a basis for treatment 
strategies to prevent the development and progression of chronic kidney disease 
(CKD). This should include active extension of our current understanding of a 
healthy lifestyle.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.09901.x
PMID: 16336571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. FEBS Lett. 2005 Dec 19;579(30):6809-13. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2005.11.017.
Epub  2005 Nov 28.

Mrg19 depletion increases S. cerevisiae lifespan by augmenting ROS defence.

Kharade SV(1), Mittal N, Das SP, Sinha P, Roy N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research, Sector 67, S.A.S. Nagar, Punjab 160062, India.

Caloric restriction (CR) is the most compelling example of lifespan extension by 
external manipulation. Although the molecular mechanisms remain unknown, the 
theory of hormesis has been invoked to explain the life promoting effects of CR. 
Hormesis is defined as the beneficial effects of low intensity stressor on a 
cell or organism. Mrg19 is a putative transcription factor that regulates carbon 
and nitrogen metabolism in yeast. In this study, we have found that deletion of 
MRG19 gene causes metabolic shift in yeast cells, leading to higher 
intracellular reactive oxygen species, augmentation of scavenging enzymes and 
longer lifespan compared to wild-type cells. All these results together suggest 
that similar to CR, depletion of Mrg19 leads to a condition of mild stress which 
in turn enhances vitality.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2005.11.017
PMID: 16336970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Am Heart J. 2005 Dec;150(6):1115-21. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2005.02.007.

Schizophrenia and increased risks of cardiovascular disease.

Hennekens CH(1), Hennekens AR, Hollar D, Casey DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Center of Excellence in Biomedical and 
Marine Biotechnology, Florida Atlantic University, FL, USA. 
profchhmd@prodigy.net

Comment in
    Am Heart J. 2006 May;151(5):e8.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is to review the absolute and relative impacts 
of the major causes for premature mortality among patients with schizophrenia.
DATA SOURCES: We reviewed published articles on causes of mortality in the 
general population as well as among patients with schizophrenia.
STUDY SELECTION: We selected articles which published total and cause-specific 
mortality rates.
DATA EXTRACTION: We reviewed the causes of mortality and their risk factors.
DATA SYNTHESIS: The average life expectancy of the general population is 76 
years (72 years in men, 80 years in women), whereas the corresponding figure is 
61 years (57 years in men, 65 years in women) among patients with schizophrenia. 
Thus, patients with schizophrenia have approximately a 20% reduced life 
expectancy compared with the general population. Although patients with 
schizophrenia are 10 to 20 times more likely than the general population to 
commit suicide, more than two thirds of patients with schizophrenia, compared 
with approximately one-half in the general population, die of coronary heart 
disease (CHD). The chief risk factors for this excess risk of death are 
cigarette smoking, obesity leading to dyslipidemia, insulin resistance and 
diabetes, and hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: The chief cause of excess premature mortality among patients with 
schizophrenia is CHD, caused mainly by their adverse risk factor profile. 
Because patients with schizophrenia have less access to medical care, consume 
less medical care, and are less compliant with their regimens, the choice of 
antipsychotic drug regimens that do not further adversely affect their risk 
factor for CHD is a major clinical and public health challenge among patients 
with schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2005.02.007
PMID: 16338246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Adv Neonatal Care. 2005 Dec;5(6):301-14. doi: 10.1016/j.adnc.2005.09.006.

The clinical presentation of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.

Lawrence EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, Womack Army Medical Center, Fort Bragg, NC 
28306, USA. Elizabeth.Lawrence@cna.amedd.army.mil

Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), a heterogeneous group of inheritable connective 
tissue disorders, is attributed to mutations in connective tissue genes. These 
mutations cause defects in collagen. Collagen, a connective tissue protein that 
acts like glue, gives strength to the body and provides support and elasticity 
for movement. Thus, the altered gene affects the mechanical properties of skin, 
joints, ligaments, and blood vessels. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is transmitted 
through autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or x-linked patterns of 
inheritance. The life expectancy of an affected infant varies with the type of 
EDS. This article provides an overview of the 6 major classifications of EDS, 
their unique clinical presentations, a focused physical assessment guide, 
considerations for nursing care, and resources for parents. Ehlers-Danlos 
syndrome can be a potentially debilitating syndrome. It requires preventative 
and protective measures starting at birth to preserve joint function to improve 
infant outcomes. Caring for patients with EDS requires an understanding of the 
potential associated complications to help minimize the physical and emotional 
impact of the syndrome and improve the quality of life for affected individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adnc.2005.09.006
PMID: 16338669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Ann Med. 2005;37(8):546-55. doi: 10.1080/07853890500389181.

Polycystic liver and kidney diseases.

Tahvanainen E(1), Tahvanainen P, Kääriäinen H, Höckerstedt K.

Author information:
(1)University of Helsinki, Department of Medical Genetics, Raisiontie 11A3, 
00280 Helsinki, Finland. etahvana@hotmail.com

There have been remarkable advances in research on polycystic liver and kidney 
diseases recently, covering cloning of new genes, refining disease 
classifications, and advances in understanding more about the molecular 
pathology of these diseases. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease 
(ADPKD) is the most common hereditary disease affecting kidneys. It affects 
1/400 to 1/1000 live births and accounts for 5% of the end stage renal disease 
in the United States and Europe, and is caused by gene defects in the PKD1 or 
PKD2 genes. Compared to ADPKD, polycystic liver disease (PCLD) is a milder 
disease and does not lower life expectancy. Both diseases are usually 
adult-onset diseases. Defects in genes, which code the hepatocystin and SEC63 
proteins, have just recently been found to cause PCLD. It now seems that ADPKD 
is caused by malfunction of the primary cilia, a cell organ sensing fluid 
movement, and that PCLD is a sequel from defects in protein processing. 
Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) belongs to a group of 
congenital hepatorenal fibrocystic syndromes. All ARPKD patients have a gene 
defect in a gene called PKHD1, the protein product of which localizes to primary 
cilia. We summarize the present clinical and molecular knowledge of these 
diseases in this review.

DOI: 10.1080/07853890500389181
PMID: 16338757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. AIDS Care. 2006 Feb;18(2):109-20. doi: 10.1080/09540120500159334.

Effectiveness and cost effectiveness of early and late prevention of HIV/AIDS 
progression with antiretrovirals or antibiotics in Southern African adults.

Bachmann MO(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of East Anglia, UK. m.bachmann@uea.ac.uk

Erratum in
    AIDS Care. 2006 May;18(4):415-6.

As HIV/AIDS drugs are becoming more widely available in Southern Africa, we 
compared the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of different treatment 
options, using a Markov Monte Carlo simulation model based on published 
estimates of disease progression, treatment effectiveness and health care costs. 
Cost and outcome values were discounted. Quality of life was considered. 
Acceptability curves summarized uncertainties. Sensitivity analyses tested 
assumptions. Results showed that triple antiretroviral therapy (ARV) plus 
antibiotics would prolong life by 6.7 undiscounted years if provided 'late' (CD4 
= 200 cells/microl) and by 9.8 years if provided 'early' (CD4 = 350 
cells/microl). The incremental undiscounted costs per year of life gained, 
compared to no preventive therapy, were $17 for isoniazid plus cotrimoxazole 
started late, $244 for both antibiotics started early, $2454 for ARV plus 
antibiotics started late and $2784 for ARV plus both antibiotics started early. 
The discounted incremental costs per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained 
were, respectively, $29 saving, $254, $4937 and $3057. Late ARV plus both 
antibiotics was the strategy most likely to be cost effective if society was 
willing to pay more than $2000 per life year gained. Cost-effectiveness 
estimates were sensitive to discounting and assumed treatment costs but were 
less sensitive to assumed treatment effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1080/09540120500159334
PMID: 16338768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. BMJ. 2005 Dec 17;331(7530):1444-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38676.446910.7C. Epub
2005  Dec 8.

Economic evaluation of a general practitioner with special interests led 
dermatology service in primary care.

Coast J(1), Noble S, Noble A, Horrocks S, Asim O, Peters TJ, Salisbury C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 2PR. 
j.coast@bham.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Dec 17;331(7530):1448-9.
    BMJ. 2006 Jan 7;332(7532):54.
    BMJ. 2006 Jan 7;332(7532):54.

OBJECTIVE: To carry out an economic evaluation of a general practitioner with 
special interest service for non-urgent skin problems compared with hospital 
outpatient care.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis and cost consequences analysis alongside a 
randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: General practitioner with special interest dermatology service covering 
29 general practices in Bristol.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults referred to a hospital dermatology clinic who were 
potentially suitable for management by a general practitioner with special 
interest.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomised 2:1 to receive either care by 
general practitioner with special interest service or usual hospital outpatient 
care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs to NHS, patients, and companions, and costs of lost 
production. Cost effectiveness, using the two primary outcomes of dermatology 
life quality index scores and improved patient perceived access, was assessed by 
incremental cost effectiveness ratios and cost effectiveness acceptability 
curves. Cost consequences are presented in relation to all costs and both 
primary and secondary outcomes from the trial.
RESULTS: Costs to the NHS for patients attending the general practitioner with 
special interest service were 208 pounds sterling (361 dollars; 308 euro) 
compared with 118 pounds sterling for hospital outpatient care. Based on 
analysis with imputation of missing data, costs to patients and companions were 
48 pounds sterling and 51 pounds sterling, respectively; costs of lost 
production were 27 pounds sterling and 34 pounds sterling, respectively. The 
incremental cost effectiveness ratios for general practitioner with special 
interest care over outpatient care were 540 pounds sterling per one point gain 
in the dermatology life quality index and 66 pounds sterling per 10 point change 
in the access scale.
CONCLUSIONS: The general practitioner with special interest service for 
dermatology is more costly than hospital outpatient care, but this additional 
cost needs to be weighed against improved access and broadly similar health 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38676.446910.7C
PMCID: PMC1315650
PMID: 16339217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. BMJ. 2005 Dec 10;331(7529):1409. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7529.1409-b.

Inequalities and christmas yet to come.

Dorling D, Mitchell R, Orford S, Shaw M, Davey Smith G.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7529.1409-b
PMCID: PMC1309695
PMID: 16339262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 Nov;60(11):1369-77. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.11.1369.

The naked mole-rat: a new long-living model for human aging research.

Buffenstein R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, City College of CUNY, Convent Ave. at 138th St., New 
York, NY 10031, USA. rbuffen@sci.ccny.cuny.edu

Tremendous variation in maximum life span among species overshadows modest 
increases in longevity resulting from experimental manipulation. Few aging 
studies focus on long-lived mammals even though these species may expose 
mechanisms involved in resisting aging. Naked mole-rats (NMRs approximately 35 
grams) are the longest-living (>28.3 years) rodents known. This review describes 
their biology and potential use in aging research. Lifestyle features concur 
with most evolutionary theories with the exception of the disposable soma 
theory. Indeed, maximum life span is similar in breeders and nonbreeders, and 
these highly fecund animals reproduce until they die. Shared characteristics 
with calorie-restricted, methionine-restricted, and dwarf mice models of 
extended longevity include reduced body temperature; reduced thyroid, and blood 
glucose concentrations; and low glycated hemoglobin; in addition to reduced 
incidence of cancer. Young naked mole-rats surprisingly have high levels of 
accrued oxidative damage. With their similar longevity quotient to humans, these 
rodents may provide a novel opportunity to examine mechanisms modulating aging.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.11.1369
PMID: 16339321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2006 Apr;100(4):1150-7. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00741.2005. Epub 2005 Dec 8.

Effects of low-intensity resistance exercise with slow movement and tonic force 
generation on muscular function in young men.

Tanimoto M(1), Ishii N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University 
of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. cc37724@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

We investigated the acute and long-term effects of low-intensity resistance 
exercise (knee extension) with slow movement and tonic force generation on 
muscular size and strength. This type of exercise was expected to enhance the 
intramuscular hypoxic environment that might be a factor for muscular 
hypertrophy. Twenty-four healthy young men without experience of regular 
exercise training were assigned into three groups (n = 8 for each) and performed 
the following resistance exercise regimens: low-intensity [ approximately 50% of 
one-repetition maximum (1RM)] with slow movement and tonic force generation (3 s 
for eccentric and concentric actions, 1-s pause, and no relaxing phase; LST); 
high-intensity ( approximately 80% 1RM) with normal speed (1 s for concentric 
and eccentric actions, 1 s for relaxing; HN); low-intensity with normal speed 
(same intensity as for LST and same speed as for HN; LN). In LST and HN, the 
mean repetition maximum was 8RM. In LN, both intensity and amount of work were 
matched with those for LST. Each exercise session consisting of three sets was 
performed three times a week for 12 wk. In LST and HN, exercise training caused 
significant (P < 0.05) increases in cross-sectional area determined with MRI and 
isometric strength (maximal voluntary contraction) of the knee extensors, 
whereas no significant changes were seen in LN. Electromyographic and 
near-infrared spectroscopic analyses showed that one bout of LST causes 
sustained muscular activity and the largest muscle deoxygenation among the three 
types of exercise. The results suggest that intramuscular oxygen environment is 
important for exercise-induced muscular hypertrophy.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00741.2005
PMID: 16339347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Immunol. 2005 Dec 15;175(12):8218-25. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.175.12.8218.

Cytomegalovirus-specific CD4+ T cells in healthy carriers are continuously 
driven to replicative exhaustion.

Fletcher JM(1), Vukmanovic-Stejic M, Dunne PJ, Birch KE, Cook JE, Jackson SE, 
Salmon M, Rustin MH, Akbar AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Molecular Pathology, Division of Infection and 
Immunity, University College London, London, United Kingdom.

Repeated antigenic encounter drives proliferation and differentiation of memory 
T cell pools. An important question is whether certain specific T cells may be 
driven eventually to exhaustion in elderly individuals since the human life 
expectancy is increasing. We found that CMV-specific CD4+ T cells were 
significantly expanded in healthy young and old carriers compared with purified 
protein derivative-, varicella zoster virus-, EBV-, and HSV-specific 
populations. These CMV-specific CD4+ T cells exhibited a late differentiated 
phenotype since they were largely CD27 and CD28 negative and had shorter 
telomeres. Interestingly, in elderly CMV-seropositive subjects, CD4+ T cells of 
different specificities were significantly more differentiated than the same 
cells in CMV-seronegative individuals. This suggested the involvement of 
bystander-secreted, differentiation-inducing factors during CMV infection. One 
candidate was IFN-alpha, which induced loss of costimulatory receptors and 
inhibited telomerase in activated CD4+ T cells and was secreted at high levels 
by CMV-stimulated plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDC). The CMV-specific CD4+ T 
cells in elderly subjects had severely restricted replicative capacity. This is 
the first description of a human memory T cell population that is susceptible to 
being lost through end-stage differentiation due to the combined effects of 
lifelong virus reactivation in the presence of bystander 
differentiation-inducing factors.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.175.12.8218
PMID: 16339561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005;1054:11-7. doi: 10.1196/annals.1345.002.

Keynote address: The challenge of thalassemia for the developing countries.

Weatherall DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Oxford, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Headington, Oxford, OX3 9DS, UK.

The thalassemias occur at some of their highest frequencies in the developing 
countries, particularly those of Asia. In many countries, facilities for the 
control of these conditions are extremely limited. Although a great deal can be 
done to help the situation by developing further North-South and South-South 
partnerships for disseminating better practice, the major problem for the future 
lies in the unwillingness of governments and international health agencies to 
accept that the thalassemias present a health burden comparable to that of other 
major diseases in the developing countries. However, preliminary analyses 
suggest that, at least in the case of Asia, this is not true. Further work of 
this nature, together with more detailed frequency and economic data, are 
required to provide solid evidence for the health burden posed by thalassemia in 
the developing world. Unless this is done, the large populations of patients 
with thalassemia in these countries will continue to be neglected.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1345.002
PMID: 16339646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005;1054:40-7. doi: 10.1196/annals.1345.006.

Survival and complications in thalassemia.

Borgna-Pignatti C(1), Cappellini MD, De Stefano P, Del Vecchio GC, Forni GL, 
Gamberini MR, Ghilardi R, Origa R, Piga A, Romeo MA, Zhao H, Cnaan A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. 
c.borgna@unife.it

The life expectancy of patients with thalassemia major has significantly 
increased in recent years, as reported by several groups in different countries. 
However, complications are still frequent and affect the patients' quality of 
life. In a recent study from the United Kingdom, it was found that 50% of the 
patients had died before age 35. At that age, 65% of the patients from an 
Italian long-term study were still alive. Heart disease is responsible for more 
than half of the deaths. The prevalence of complications in Italian patients 
born after 1970 includes heart failure in 7%, hypogonadism in 55%, 
hypothyroidism in 11%, and diabetes in 6%. Similar data were reported in 
patients from the United States. In the Italian study, lower ferritin levels 
were associated with a lower probability of experiencing heart failure and with 
prolonged survival. Osteoporosis and osteopenia are common and affect virtually 
all patients. Hepatitis C virus antibodies are present in 85% of multitransfused 
Italian patients, 23% of patients in the United Kingdom, 35% in the United 
States, 34% in France, and 21% in India. Hepatocellular carcinoma can complicate 
the course of hepatitis. A survey of Italian centers has identified 23 such 
cases in patients with a thalassemia syndrome. In conclusion, rates of survival 
and complication-free survival continue to improve, due to better treatment 
strategies. New complications are appearing in long-term survivors. Iron 
overload of the heart remains the main cause of morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1345.006
PMID: 16339650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005;1054:186-95. doi: 10.1196/annals.1345.023.

Unrelated bone marrow transplantation for beta-thalassemia patients: The 
experience of the Italian Bone Marrow Transplant Group.

La Nasa G(1), Argiolu F, Giardini C, Pession A, Fagioli F, Caocci G, Vacca A, De 
Stefano P, Piras E, Ledda A, Piroddi A, Littera R, Nesci S, Locatelli F.

Author information:
(1)Centro Trapianti Midollo Osseo, Ospedale "R. Binaghi" ASL 8, via Is 
Guadazzonis 3, 09126 Cagliari, Italy. lanasa@tiscali.it

Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) remains the only potentially curative 
treatment for patients with thalassemia major. However, most candidates for BMT 
do not have a suitable family donor. In order to evaluate whether BMT from an 
HLA-matched unrelated volunteer donor can offer a probability of cure comparable 
to that obtained when the donor is a compatible sibling, we carried out a study 
involving 68 thalassemia patients transplanted in six Italian BMT Centers. 
Thirty-three males and 35 females (age range, 2-37 years; median age, 15) were 
transplanted from unrelated volunteer donors, all selected using high-resolution 
molecular typing of both HLA class I and II loci. Fourteen patients were 
classified in risk class 1; 16 in risk class 2; and 38 in risk class III of the 
Pesaro classification system. Nine patients (13%) had either primary or 
secondary graft failure. Fourteen patients (20%) died from transplant-related 
causes. Grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) developed in 24 cases 
(40%), and chronic GVHD in 10 cases (18%). Overall survival (OS) in the cohort 
of 68 patients was 79.3% (CI 67-88%), whereas the Kaplan-Meier estimates of 
disease-free survival (DFS) with transfusion independence was 65.8% (CI 54-77%). 
In the group of 30 thalassemic patients in risk classes 1 and 2, the probability 
of OS and DFS were 96.7% (CI 90-100%) and 80.0% (CI 65-94%), respectively, 
whereas in the 38 patients in class 3 OS was 65.2% (CI 49-80%) and DFS was 54.5% 
(CI 38-70%). These data show that when donor selection is based on stringent 
compatibility criteria, the results of unrelated transplantation in thalassemia 
patients are comparable to those obtained when the donor is a compatible 
sibling.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1345.023
PMID: 16339665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
