
170. Proc IEEE Comput Syst Bioinform Conf. 2005:93-102. doi: 10.1109/csb.2005.47.

Reconstructing phylogenetic networks using maximum parsimony.

Nakhleh L(1), Jin G, Zhao F, Mellor-Crummey J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Rice University, Houston, TX 77005, USA. 
nakhleh@cs.rice.edu

Phylogenies - the evolutionary histories of groups of organisms - are one of the 
most widely used tools throughout the life sciences, as well as objects of 
research within systematics, evolutionary biology, epidemiology, etc. Almost 
every tool devised to date to reconstruct phylogenies produces trees; yet it is 
widely understood and accepted that trees oversimplify the evolutionary 
histories of many groups of organims, most prominently bacteria (because of 
horizontal gene transfer) and plants (because of hybrid speciation). Various 
methods and criteria have been introduced for phylogenetic tree reconstruction. 
Parsimony is one of the most widely used and studied criteria, and various 
accurate and efficient heuristics for reconstructing trees based on parsimony 
have been devised. Jotun Hein suggested a straightforward extension of the 
parsimony criterion to phylogenetic networks. In this paper we formalize this 
concept, and provide the first experimental study of the quality of parsimony as 
a criterion for constructing and evaluating phylogenetic networks. Our results 
show that, when extended to phylogenetic networks, the parsimony criterion 
produces promising results. In a great majority of the cases in our experiments, 
the parsimony criterion accurately predicts the numbers and placements of 
non-tree events.

DOI: 10.1109/csb.2005.47
PMID: 16447967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Health Psychol. 2006 Jan;25(1):15-9. doi: 10.1037/0278-6133.25.1.15.

Who is a candidate for cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia?

Smith MT(1), Perlis ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Behavioral Medicine Research Laboratory and Clinic, 
Baltimore, MD 21287-7101, USA. msmith62@jhmi.edu

Chronic insomnia impacts 1 in 10 adults and is linked to accidents, decreased 
quality of life, diminished work productivity, and increased long-term risk for 
medical and psychiatric diseases such as diabetes and depression. Recent 
National Institutes of Health consensus statements and the American Academy of 
Sleep Medicine's Practice Parameters recommend that cognitive-behavioral therapy 
for insomnia (CBT-I) be considered the 1st line treatment for chronic primary 
insomnia. Growing research also supports the extension of CBT-I for patients 
with persistent insomnia occurring within the context of medical and psychiatric 
comorbidity. In the emerging field of behavioral sleep medicine, there has yet 
to be a consensus point of view about who is an appropriate candidate for CBT-I 
and how this determination is made. This report briefly summarizes these issues, 
including a discussion of potential contraindications, and provides a schematic 
decision-to-treat algorithm.

Copyright 2006 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/0278-6133.25.1.15
PMID: 16448293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Obstet Gynecol. 2006 Feb;107(2 Pt 1):321-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.AOG.0000196500.50044.ce.

Cost-effectiveness of extending cervical cancer screening intervals among women 
with prior normal pap tests.

Kulasingam SL(1), Myers ER, Lawson HW, McConnell KJ, Kerlikowske K, Melnikow J, 
Washington AE, Sawaya GF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, University of 
California, San Francisco, USA. kulas002@mc.duke.edu

OBJECTIVE: Annual cervical cancer screening in women with many prior normal Pap 
tests is common despite limited evidence on the cost-effectiveness of this 
strategy. We estimated the cost-effectiveness of screening women with 3 or more 
prior normal tests compared with screening those with no prior tests.
METHODS: We used a validated cost-effectiveness model in conjunction with data 
on the prevalence of biopsy-proven cervical neoplasia in women enrolled in the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Breast and Cervical Cancer 
Early Detection Program. Women were grouped according to age at the final 
Program Pap test (aged < 30, 30-44, 45-59, and 60-65 years) and by screening 
history (0, 1, 2, and 3+ consecutive prior normal Program tests) to estimate 
cost per life-year and quality-adjusted life-year associated with annual, 
biennial, and triennial screening.
RESULTS: For women aged 30-44 years with no prior tests, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from 20,533 US dollars for screening 
triennially (compared with no further screening) to 331,837 US dollars for 
screening annually (compared with biennially) per life-year saved. Among 
same-aged women with 3 or more prior normal Program tests, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for the same measures ranged from 60,029 US dollars to 
709,067 US dollars per life-year saved. Inclusion of the most conservative 
utility estimates resulted in incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in excess of 
100,000 US dollars per quality-adjusted life-year saved associated with annual 
screening of same-aged women with 3 or more prior normal tests compared with 
biennial screening.
CONCLUSION: As the number of prior normal Pap tests increases, the costs per 
life-year saved increase substantially. Resources should be prioritized for 
screening those never or rarely screened women.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: II-2.

DOI: 10.1097/01.AOG.0000196500.50044.ce
PMID: 16449119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Nurs Adm Q. 2006 Jan-Mar;30(1):56-66. doi: 10.1097/00006216-200601000-00009.

Ethical considerations for the utilization of tele-health technologies in home 
and hospice care by the nursing profession.

Demiris G(1), Oliver DP, Courtney KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management & Informatics, School of Medicine, School of 
Social Work, and Sinclair School of Nursing, University of Missouri - Columbia, 
Columbia, Mo 65211, USA. DemerisG@missouri.edu

Home care, including hospice care, is a growing component of the current 
healthcare system and pertains to care services that are provided to 
individuals, their family members, and caregivers in their own residence. Both 
domains face funding limitations as life expectancy and the segment of the 
population older than 65 years increase. Tele-health, defined as the use of 
advanced telecommunication technologies to enable communication between patients 
and healthcare providers separated by geographic distance, is perceived as a 
concept that can enhance both home and hospice care and address some of the 
current challenges. This article discusses ethical challenges associated with 
the utilization of tele-health technologies by the nursing profession in the 
home setting. These factors form a framework for the ethical considerations that 
result from the introduction of these technologies in nursing practice. 
Specifically, the article discusses the issue of privacy and confidentiality of 
patient data, informed consent, equity of access, promoting dependency versus 
independence, the lack of human touch and the impact of technology on the 
nurse-patient relationship, and the medicalization of the home environment. 
These issues constitute a road map both for nursing practitioners who are aiming 
to provide an efficient delivery of services in the home and for nursing 
administrators who are asked to make judgments about the use of tele-health 
technology as a supplement to traditional care and as a cost-saving tool.

DOI: 10.1097/00006216-200601000-00009
PMID: 16449885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Br J Cancer. 2006 Feb 27;94(4):492-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602973.

Quality of life and cost-effectiveness of interferon-alpha in malignant 
melanoma: results from randomised trial.

Dixon S(1), Walters SJ, Turner L, Hancock BW.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, and Trent Research and Development 
Support Unit, School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. s.dixon@shef.ac.uk

A definitive conclusion regarding the value of low-dose extended duration 
adjuvant interferon-alpha therapy in the treatment of malignant melanoma is only 
possible once data on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and costs have been 
considered. This trial randomised 674 patients to interferon alpha-2a (3 
megaunits three times per week for 2 years or until recurrence) or placebo. 
Health-related quality of life (QoL) was to be assessed up to 60 months using 
the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30. 
Data for the economic analysis, including cost information and the EQ-5D were 
also collected. Patients in the observation (OBS) group had significantly better 
mean follow-up quality of on five dimensions of the EORTC QLQ-C30 functional 
scales: role functioning (P = 0.033), emotional functioning (P = 0.003), 
cognitive functioning (P = 0.001), social functioning (P = 0.003) and global 
health status (P = 0.001). Patients in the OBS group had significantly better 
mean follow-up symptom scores on seven dimensions of the EORTC QLQ-C30 V1 
symptom scales. Economic data showed that costs were 3066 pounds higher in the 
interferon group and produces an incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year 
of 41,432 pounds at 5 years. The results show that interferon has significant 
effects on QoL and symptomatology and is unlikely to be cost-effective in this 
patient group in the UK.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602973
PMCID: PMC2361187
PMID: 16449995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Health News. 2006 Jan;12(1):2.

Exercise after 50 can add three years to life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16450414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Ital. 2005 Jun;25(3):169-73.

Extended parotidectomy.

De Vincentiis M(1), Magliulo G, Soldo P, Manciocco V, Pagliuca G, Del Gaizo R, 
Gallo A.

Author information:
(1)Giorgio Ferreri Department of Otolaryngology, Audiology and Phonation, La 
Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.

Malignant tumours of the parotid gland represent a group of relatively rare 
lesions. The medical records of 363 patients with parotid swelling treated 
between 1974 and 2003 at the "G. Ferreri" Department of Otorhinolaryngology, "La 
Sapienza" University in Rome were retrospectively analysed. Clinical 
presentation, pre-operative investigations, surgical procedure, histopathology 
report, post-operative complications, and the oncological results of 19 patients 
who underwent extended radical parotidectomy for malignant neoplasm of the 
parotid gland are discussed. Extended radical parotidectomy, reserved for 
neoplasms in an advanced stage, involves the removal of the entire parotid 
gland, with sacrifice of the facial nerve and the resection en bloc of the 
adjacent structures affected by neoplastic infiltration, such as the temporal 
bone, the mandibular bone, the skin, blood vessels and nerves. In addition to 
this surgical treatment, a cycle of adjuvant radiotherapy is also necessary. The 
overall rate of survival at 10 years depends mainly on the histological 
characteristics of the tumour, and, in this series, is reported to be 
approximately 58%. These data indicate that total extended radical parotidectomy 
combined with post-operative radiotherapy, represents the best therapeutic 
approach with regard both to quality of life and life expectancy, in patients 
with an advanced stage of malignant neoplasm of the parotid gland.

I tumori maligni della ghiandola parotide rappresentano un gruppo di lesioni 
eterogenee e relativamente rare. Partendo da una casistica di 363 pazienti con 
tumefazione parotidea trattati presso il Dipartimento di Otorinolaringoiatria, 
Audiologia e Foniatria “G. Ferreri” dell’Università di Roma “La Sapienza” tra il 
1974 ed il 2003, abbiamo retrospettivamente analizzato i risultati oncologici di 
19 pazienti sottoposti ad intervento di parotidectomia radicale allargata per 
una neoplasia maligna della ghiandola parotide. La parotidectomia radicale 
allargata, riservata a neoplasie in stadio avanzato, associa all’asportazione di 
tutto il parenchima ghiandolare parotideo compreso il nervo facciale, la 
resezione in blocco delle strutture contigue alla ghiandola interessate da 
infiltrazione neoplastica come l’osso temporale, l’osso mandibolare, la cute, i 
vasi ed i nervi. È necessario associare alla terapia chirurgica un ciclo di 
radioterapia adiuvante. La sopravvivenza globale a dieci anni è condizionata 
principalmente dalle caratteristiche istologiche del tumore ed è del 58%. Questo 
dato indica che la parotidectomia totale allargata associata a radioterapia 
post-operatoria, rappresenta l’approccio terapeutico migliore per qualità ed 
aspettativa di vita nei pazienti con stadio avanzato di neoplasia maligna della 
ghiandola parotide.

PMCID: PMC2639865
PMID: 16450772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Drugs. 2006;66(2):175-90. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200666020-00004.

Solifenacin in overactive bladder syndrome.

Payne CK(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Female Urology and NeuroUrology, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5118, USA.

Overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome is a prevalent condition, increasingly 
recognised as a cause of reduced quality of life that places a substantial 
economic burden on healthcare provision. While antimuscarinic agents are the 
therapy of choice for OAB, their use is associated with a number of drawbacks, 
not least of which is the high rate of adverse events, which is intimately 
linked with poor compliance with treatment. Solifenacin succinate is a novel 
antimuscarinic agent approved in Europe and the US for the treatment of men and 
women with OAB. The recommended starting dose of solifenacin is 5 mg once daily 
and, if needed, the dose may be increased to 10 mg once daily. In multiple 
clinical trials, solifenacin treatment has been associated with statistically 
significant reductions in all key symptoms of OAB (notably frequency, urgency 
and incontinence) as well as increases in volume voided. Solifenacin has been 
shown to be well tolerated, producing few adverse effects, which are usually 
mild in nature. Furthermore, possibly because of this favourable efficacy and 
tolerability, solifenacin treatment has been associated with a high rate of 
patient persistence with therapy, with 81% of 1802 patients who completed 
12-week, double-blind trials enrolling in and completing a 40-week open-label 
extension study. Solifenacin has been shown to display selectivity for bladder 
versus salivary tissue in vitro, and studies in healthy men have shown that 
absorption is slow but extensive with an absolute bioavailability of 88%. 
Solifenacin is a well tolerated and efficacious agent for the treatment of OAB, 
significantly reducing symptoms and improving patients' quality of life.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200666020-00004
PMID: 16451092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Environ Health. 2006 Feb 1;5:1. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-5-1.

Analysis of air pollution mortality in terms of life expectancy changes: 
relation between time series, intervention, and cohort studies.

Rabl A(1).

Author information:
(1)Ecole des Mines, 60 boul, St,Michel, F-75272 Paris, France. ari.rabl@ensmp.fr

BACKGROUND: Information on life expectancy change is of great concern for policy 
makers, as evidenced by the discussions of the so-called "harvesting" issue 
(i.e. the question being, how large a loss each death corresponds to in the 
mortality results of time series studies).
METHODS: Whereas most epidemiological studies of air pollution mortality have 
been formulated in terms of mortality risk, this paper shows that a formulation 
in terms of life expectancy change is mathematically equivalent, but offers 
several advantages: it automatically takes into account the constraint that 
everybody dies exactly once, regardless of pollution; it provides a unified 
framework for time series, intervention studies and cohort studies; and in time 
series and intervention studies, it yields the life expectancy change directly 
as a time integral of the observed mortality rate.
RESULTS: Results are presented for life expectancy change in time series 
studies. Determination of the corresponding total number of attributable deaths 
(as opposed to the number of observed deaths) is shown to be problematic. The 
time variation of mortality after a change in exposure is shown to depend on the 
processes by which the body can repair air pollution damage, in particular on 
their time constants. Hypothetical results are presented for repair models that 
are plausible in view of the available intervention studies of air pollution and 
of smoking cessation. If these repair models can also be assumed for acute 
effects, the results of cohort studies are compatible with those of time series.
CONCLUSION: The proposed life expectancy framework provides information on the 
life expectancy change in time series studies, and it clarifies the relation 
between the results of time series, intervention, and cohort studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-5-1
PMCID: PMC1373624
PMID: 16451722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Bacteriol. 2006 Feb;188(4):1260-5. doi: 10.1128/JB.188.4.1260-1265.2006.

Lactose-over-glucose preference in Bifidobacterium longum NCC2705: glcP, 
encoding a glucose transporter, is subject to lactose repression.

Parche S(1), Beleut M, Rezzonico E, Jacobs D, Arigoni F, Titgemeyer F, Jankovic 
I.

Author information:
(1)Nestlé Research Center, Vers-chez-les-Blanc, 1000 Lausanne 26, Switzerland.

Analysis of culture supernatants obtained from Bifidobacterium longum NCC2705 
grown on glucose and lactose revealed that glucose utilization is impaired until 
depletion of lactose. Thus, unlike many other bacteria, B. longum preferentially 
uses lactose rather than glucose as the primary carbon source. Glucose uptake 
experiments with B. longum cells showed that glucose transport was repressed in 
the presence of lactose. A comparative analysis of global gene expression 
profiling using DNA arrays led to the identification of only one gene repressed 
by lactose, the putative glucose transporter gene glcP. The functionality of 
GlcP as glucose transporter was demonstrated by heterologous complementation of 
a glucose transport-deficient Escherichia coli strain. Additionally, GlcP 
exhibited the highest substrate specificity for glucose. Primer extension and 
real-time PCR analyses confirmed that expression of glcP was mediated by 
lactose. Hence, our data demonstrate that the presence of lactose in culture 
medium leads to the repression of glucose transport and transcriptional 
down-regulation of the glucose transporter gene glcP. This may reflect the 
highly adapted life-style of B. longum in the gastrointestinal tract of mammals.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.188.4.1260-1265.2006
PMCID: PMC1367232
PMID: 16452407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Rev Med Brux. 2005;26 Spec no:Sp13-22.

[Current developments on sickle cell disease].

[Article in French]

Girot R(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Tenon, Paris.

Sickle cell disease is a genetic autosomal recessive disease of hemoglobin. The 
disease results from a mutation of the sixth codon of the beta-globin gene, 
which induces the synthesis of an abnormal hemoglobin called hemoglobin S (HbS). 
The polymerisation of deoxy HbS molecules causes a chronic hemolytic anemia and 
vaso-occlusive phenomenons. The disease affects mainly people from West Indies 
and Sub saharian Africa. Due to recent movements of these populations over the 
past years, sickle cell disease has spread across all continents. Painful 
crises, severe infections such as septicemia, meningitis, osteomyelytis, acute 
anemia episodes, and severe vaso-occlusive events, mainly neurological, are the 
most frequent complications affecting children. Recent progresses in the care of 
patients have deeply modified the prognosis. The mean life expectancy of 
patients is now above 40 years. The conventional treatment includes antibiotics 
and immunizations, analgesics, and blood transfusion. The effects of chronic 
blood transfusion, hydroxyurea and bone marrow transplantation are the subject 
of current comparative evaluations.

PMID: 16454228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Cir Cir. 2005 Nov-Dec;73(6):495-500.

[Ethics and palliative care in patients with advanced cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Tenorio-González F(1).

Author information:
(1)Académico Emérito de la Academia Mexicana de Cirugía.

Recent research in both the biology of cancer and the treatment of patients has 
increased the life expectancy of cancer patients with recurrence and who have a 
longer survival rate. Cancer is no longer considered a lethal but a chronic 
disease. More patients survive, but above all there are more patients with 
recurrences thus increasing the need for physical or psychological treatment of 
patients with longer lives. The American Cancer Society reported in 1992 that in 
the U.S. more than 8 million people survived between 4 and 5 years. This 
produces both an ethical and medical challenge for treatment of cancer patients. 
This paper reviews the actual criteria for palliative care: treatment for pain 
and the ethical and psychological treatment of advanced cancer patients and 
their families.

PMID: 16454965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Bull Cancer. 2006 Jan;93(1):119-23.

[What's new in geriatric oncology?].

[Article in French]

Terret C(1), Albrand G, Jeanton M, Courpron P, Droz JP.

Author information:
(1)Programme d'oncogériatrie, Centre Léon-Bérard, 28 rue Laennec, 69373 Lyon 
Cedex 08. terret@lyon.fnclcc.fr

Remarkably, although 60% of new cancer cases and over 70% of cancer deaths occur 
in patients aged 65 years and older in Europe, standard treatment strategies 
have been mostly validated in younger adults. This demographic trend has led to 
the emergence of a new medical discipline, geriatric oncology and the 
development worldwide of geriatric oncology programs for the individualized 
management of elderly cancer patients. Elderly cancer patients represent an 
increasing share of the population and strategies for treating cancer must 
evolve to face this ineluctable reality. Treatment should take into account the 
highly heterogeneous physiological age of the elderly, their individual life 
expectancy, functional reserves, social support and preferences. French 
geriatric oncology programs have been mostly based on the interdependence of 
geriatricians, oncologists and auxiliary nursing people. This approach represent 
the best way to offer patients optimal management; oncologists and geriatricians 
collaborate to assess both global health status by means of Comprehensive 
Geriatric Assessment (CGA) and tumor stage by means of Comprehensive Tumor 
Assessment (CTA) and to initiate individualized care plans, involving 
comprehensive management and follow-up of all identified problems. This paper 
focuses on progress observed in the field of geriatric oncology both in France 
and worldwide.

PMID: 16455514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Jun;35(3):597-603. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl013. Epub 2006
Feb  2.

Increasing geographical inequalities in health in New Zealand, 1980-2001.

Pearce J(1), Dorling D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of Canterbury, Private Bag 4800, 
Christchurch 8020, New Zealand. jamie.pearce@canterbury.ac.nz

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Jun;35(3):604-6.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have noted widening health inequalities between rich 
and poor areas in a number of OECD countries. This paper examines whether health 
in New Zealand has become more geographically polarized during the period 
1980-2001, a time of rapid social and economic changes in New Zealand society.
METHODS: Mortality records for each year between 1980 and 2001 were extracted 
for consistent geographical areas: the 21 District Health Boards operating in 
New Zealand in 2001 and used to calculate male and female life expectancies for 
each area. The geographical inequalities in life expectancy were measured by 
calculating the slope index of inequality for each year between 1980 and 2001.
RESULTS: Although overall life expectancy has increased during the period of 
study, New Zealand has experienced increased spatial polarization in health, 
with a particularly sharp rise in inequality during the late 1980s and early 
1990s. Since the mid-1990s regional inequality has remained at stable but high 
levels. The polarization in mortality was mirrored by a growth in income 
inequality during the 1980s and 1990s.
CONCLUSIONS: Health inequalities as expressed geographically in New Zealand have 
reached historically high levels and show little sign of abating. In order to 
tackle health inequalities, a greater commitment by the New Zealand government 
to a more redistributive social and economic agenda is required. Furthermore, 
issues of differentiated and health selective migration, emigration, and 
immigration need to be addressed as if these are important they should matter 
more for New Zealand than for almost any other developed nation-state.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl013
PMID: 16455757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2006 Jan;61(1):14-9. doi:
10.1093/gerona/61.1.14.

Caloric restriction and aging: controversial issues.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science at San Antonio, 
TX, USA. masoro@aol.com

It has long been held that food restriction extends the life span of rodents and 
other species by decreasing caloric intake and slowing the rate of aging. Recent 
findings challenge these concepts. This review assesses these controversial 
issues. The conclusion is that caloric restriction underlies the life extension 
of rats, but not of Drosophila. Mortality characteristics show that food 
restriction slows the rate of aging of rats and, in some studies, of mice. 
However, in other mouse studies and in Drosophila, mortality characteristics 
have been interpreted as indicating that it delays the start but does not slow 
the rate of aging; the author believes that this interpretation is faulty. These 
differences in mortality responses to food restriction provide a potentially 
powerful tool for uncovering basic mechanisms underlying its life-prolonging 
action. A hypothesis is presented for use in the search for these mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/61.1.14
PMID: 16456190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2006 Jan;61(1):36-47. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/61.1.36.

The effect of dietary restriction on mitochondrial protein density and flight 
muscle mitochondrial morphology in Drosophila.

Magwere T(1), Goodall S, Skepper J, Mair W, Brand MD, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)University College London, Department of Biology, Darwin Building, Gower 
Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Dietary restriction (DR) extends life span in diverse organisms and may do so by 
attenuating production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS). However, 
measurements of ROS production from isolated mitochondria of organisms subjected 
to DR have produced inconsistent results. In the fruit fly Drosophila, DR does 
not reduce production of ROS from isolated mitochondria. In this study, we used 
Drosophila to test whether DR lowered mitochondrial density. We assessed 
mitochondrial densities of flies on DR and Control diets using (a) the 
activities of mitochondrial enzymes and (b) electron microscopy. Both methods 
showed no overall effect of DR on mitochondrial density; however, mitochondrial 
enzyme activities and morphology differed significantly between DR and Control 
flies. We concluded that life-span extension by DR in Drosophila is not mediated 
through a reduction in mitochondrial density. If DR in Drosophila extends life 
span by reducing ROS production, then it does so through mechanisms that operate 
only in vivo.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/61.1.36
PMID: 16456193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Eur Urol. 2006 Aug;50(2):280-9. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2005.12.038. Epub 2006
Jan  18.

The choice between a therapy-induced long-term symptom and shortened survival 
due to prostate cancer.

Hopfgarten T(1), Adolfsson J, Henningsohn L, Onelöv E, Steineck G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Cancer Epidemiology, Department of Oncology-Pathology, 
Radiumhemmet, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: A patient with newly diagnosed localized prostate cancer can choose 
from an array of therapies. A patient's willingness to trade life for freedom 
from therapy-induced long-term symptoms is poorly investigated.
METHODS: In October 2002, we attempted to collect information from the 591 men 
who had been diagnosed and registered with prostate cancer in 1999 in Stockholm 
County. In a postal questionnaire, men were asked to balance absence or presence 
of certain therapy-induced long-term symptoms against varying lengths of 
survival gain as a consequence of the therapy.
RESULTS: Information was provided by 511 (86%) of the 591 men. A large majority 
of the men participating in this study ended up in one of two extreme 
categories: either they accepted the therapy-induced symptom to gain survival or 
they did not. For fecal leakage, 78% of the men chose one of two extreme 
categories compared with 74% for urinary leakage, 71% for tender enlarged 
breasts, 73% for erectile dysfunction, and 78% for restricted diet. Thirty-seven 
percent of the men in the study were willing to accept fecal leakage if there 
was only the slightest chance to gain survival, comparing percentages for 
urinary leakage, tender enlarged breasts, restricted diet, and erectile 
dysfunction and were 48%, 53%, 55%, and 64%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Willingness to accept therapy-induced long-term symptoms to avoid a 
shortened survival due to prostate cancer varies dramatically among men with 
localized prostate cancer and a large majority of men are in one of two extreme 
categories. Among symptoms, long-term fecal leakage was the one fewest men were 
willing to accept to gain survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2005.12.038
PMID: 16457946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Feb 7;47(3):529-37. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.08.070.
 Epub 2006 Jan 18.

The role of risk stratification in the decision to provide upstream versus 
selective glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors for acute coronary syndromes: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Glaser R(1), Glick HA, Herrmann HC, Kimmel SE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. 
ruchira.glaser@uphs.upenn.edu

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Feb 7;47(3):538-40.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2007 Jan 16;49(2):276; author reply 277.

OBJECTIVES: We endeavored to determine under what conditions a strategy of 
upstream use of small molecule platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors 
for all acute coronary syndromes (ACS) patients is cost effective compared to 
that of selective use of abciximab in only those patients requiring percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI).
BACKGROUND: Small molecule GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors have shown benefit in ACS, but 
abciximab, the more expensive GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor, may be more effective 
during PCI. However, abciximab does not have proven efficacy in medical 
management. No prior study has attempted to balance these competing benefits.
METHODS: A decision analysis was performed to examine two strategies: 1) treat 
all ACS patients upstream with a small molecule GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor and 
continue through medical management and PCI, if performed; or 2) wait, and 
selectively use abciximab only in patients who ultimately undergo PCI. 
Applicable randomized controlled trial data were used for the principal 
analysis.
RESULTS: The strategy of upstream use of a small molecule GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor 
was superior to selective use, and economically acceptable, with a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of 18,000 dollars per year of life gained. The 
superiority of the upstream use strategy persisted over the majority of 
sensitivity analyses. When stratified by risk according to Thrombolysis in 
Myocardial Infarction risk score, a strategy of upstream use was only cost 
effective in those patients with moderate or high risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Upstream use of small molecule GP IIb/IIIa inhibition in ACS 
patients with moderate or high risk for cardiovascular events is a 
cost-effective approach that should be considered in this subset of patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.08.070
PMID: 16458131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Semin Oncol Nurs. 2006 Feb;22(1):10-9. doi: 10.1016/j.soncn.2005.10.003.

Cancer screening in older adults in an era of genomics and longevity.

Greco K(1).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health & Science University School of Nursing, Portland, OR 
97239-2941, USA. grecok@ohsu.edu

OBJECTIVES: To provide an overview of cancer genomics and cancer screening in 
older adults with a focus on breast, prostate, and colon cancers.
DATA SOURCES: Journal articles, research articles, and web sites.
CONCLUSION: Cancer screening in older populations is often in the context of one 
or more co-morbid conditions, cancer survivorship, genomic information, and 
competing health priorities. The field of cancer screening has outgrown the 
tools available to enable health care providers and older adults to make 
informed cancer screening decisions. Research is needed to develop clinical 
screening tools that integrate age, cancer risk, life expectancy, and 
comorbidity.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Health care providers are faced with 
opportunities and challenges in the prevention and early detection of cancer in 
older Americans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soncn.2005.10.003
PMID: 16458178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Semin Oncol Nurs. 2006 Feb;22(1):51-7. doi: 10.1016/j.soncn.2005.10.007.

Cancer care in nursing homes.

Bourbonniere M(1), Van Cleave JH.

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Nursing, New Haven, CT, USA. 
meg.bourbonniere@yale.edu

OBJECTIVES: To review the available scientific literature on cancer care in 
nursing homes and recommendations for clinical practice and further research are 
offered.
DATA SOURCES: Research studies and review articles.
CONCLUSION: Overlooked issues for older adults with cancer in nursing homes 
include screening, treatment, and symptom management. Cancer care and 
survivorship in nursing homes receives little direct attention.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Oncology nurses can improve cancer care and 
survivorship in nursing homes by considering nursing homes as a practice venue.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soncn.2005.10.007
PMID: 16458183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Ann Fr Anesth Reanim. 2006 Apr;25(4):386-96. doi:
10.1016/j.annfar.2005.11.026.  Epub 2006 Feb 2.

[Preoperative cardiac assessment using dobutamine stress echocardiography].

[Article in French]

Raux M(1), Godet G, Fine E, Isnard R.

Author information:
(1)Département d'anesthésie-réanimation, groupe hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, 
47-83, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75651 Paris cedex 13, France. 
mathieu.raux@psl.aphp.fr

Postoperative myocardial ischaemia is the leading cause of life expectancy 
impairment after high cardiac risk surgical procedures. Preoperative 
identification of patients at high risk for such complication helps reducing its 
postoperative incidence through therapeutic adjustments. The former relies upon 
preoperative selection of patients who are candidates for cardiac testing using 
dobutamine stress echocardiography, according to ACC/AHA guidelines. This exam 
evaluates echographic myocardial response to a pharmacological stress induced by 
dobutamine infusion. Its aim is to reproduce part of the stress the myocardium 
will undergo during surgical procedure. A stress induced myocardial ischaemia 
suggests such a complication could occur postoperatively. A positive dobutamine 
stress echocardiography justifies to prescribe preoperative anti-ischaemic 
treatment in order to reduce the cardiac risk of the further surgical procedure. 
Moreover, it justifies clear definition of perioperative haemodynamic 
objectives. Whatever the result of the dobutamine stress echocardiography, 
cardiac ischaemia should be monitored up to the third postoperative day on the 
basis of a daily 12-lead electrocardiogram recording and daily plasmatic 
troponin Ic measurement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annfar.2005.11.026
PMID: 16458477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol. 2007 Apr;146(4):559-64. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbpa.2005.12.025. Epub 2006 Feb 2.

Energetics and thermoregulation during digging in the rodent tuco-tuco (Ctenomys 
talarum).

Luna F(1), Antinuchi CD.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología, Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata, Funes 3250, 
CC1245, Mar del Plata, Argentina. fluna@mdp.edu.ar

For subterranean rodents, searching for food by extension of the tunnel system 
and maintenance of body temperature are two of the most important factors 
affecting their life underground. In this study we assess the effect of ambient 
temperature on energetics and thermoregulation during digging in Ctenomys 
talarum. We measured VO2 during digging and resting at ambient temperature (Ta) 
below, within, and above thermoneutrality. Digging metabolic rate was lowest at 
Ta within the thermoneutral zone and increased at both lower and higher 
temperatures, but body temperature (Tb) remained constant at all Tas. Below 
thermoneutrality, the cost of digging and thermoregulation are additive. Heat 
production for thermoregulation would be compensated by heat produced as a 
by-product of muscular activity during digging. Above thermoneutrality, 
conduction would be an important mechanism to maintain a constant Tb during 
digging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpa.2005.12.025
PMID: 16458556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. J Assoc Physicians India. 2005 Oct;53:867-72.

Emerging geriatric challenge.

Dhar HL(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrician and Director, Medical Research Centre, Bombay Hospital Trust, 
Mumbai-400 020.

India is a vast country with diversity, both physical and cultural. 72% of 
World's second largest population live in rural experiencing varying degrees of 
socioeconomic change. However, there is no nationwide registry of older people 
and exact statistics about elderly population is not available. Community-based 
data on morbidity and disability are also not available. India is one of the few 
countries in the world where men out number women at all ages till about 70 
years and only in very old age (80+) there are more women than men. One of the 
main social effect of extension of life in later years is the extended period of 
widowhood for women mainly due to cultural practice of men marrying younger 
women and widow marriage as well as divorce are uncommon. Much progress has been 
made in the health care services in the last 50 years giving much emphasis to 
mother and child programme with special emphasis on controlling population. But 
elderly population has been neglected, there is no separate ward for elderly in 
hospitals, no specialized courses in the Universities for training doctors and 
nurses for elderly care. Recently, Indian Medical Association has organized an 
ambitious project for rural elderly with emphasis on Geriatric care. Still 
recently, emphasis has been given for developing infrastructural facilities 
including creating training, courses on Geriatric Medicine and integrating with 
alternative system for better care of elderly. However, due to increasing 
awareness of policy makers to multiple issues related to aging, some progress 
has been made like old age pension scheme, income tax rebate for elderly, old 
homes and day care centers and law to help retired citizens in evicting tenants 
etc. but environment is not as elderly-friendly as in European countries, as the 
State is not likely to have adequate resources in the presence of other 
priorities in the country.

PMID: 16459531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Tumori. 2005 Sep-Oct;91(5):388-93. doi: 10.1177/030089160509100502.

A long-term follow-up analysis in adult acute myeloid leukemia patients after 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Annaloro C(1), Zilioli VR, Fracchiolla NS, Vener C, Soligo D, Della Volpe A, 
Deliliers GL.

Author information:
(1)Ematologia I, Centro Trapianti di Midollo, Fondazione Ospedale Maggiore e 
Università degli Studi di Milano, Italy.

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: Over the last 17 years, 119 adult acute myeloid leukemia 
patients have undergone hematopoietic stem cell transplantation at our Center.
STUDY DESIGN: Seventy patients in first complete remission received 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (28 allogeneic and 42 autologous HSCT) 
as late intensification after conventional chemotherapy; 38 patients received 
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in a more advanced phase. A 
reference group was built up by collecting 40 acute myeloid leukemia patients 
who received high-dose cytosine arabinoside as late intensification and whose 
complete remission lasted more than 10 months.
RESULTS: Results of the study led to conclude that an earlier timing of 
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation can be recommended in order 
to treat patients who would otherwise suffer an early relapse.
CONCLUSIONS: The outcome of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
in patients not in first complete remission supports the possibility of 
achieving good quality second complete remissions and suggests that autografting 
may be a life-saving strategy in selected acute myeloid leukemia patients with 
advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160509100502
PMID: 16459634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Prog Urol. 2005 Sep;15(4):604-10.

[Anaemia and prostatic cancer].

[Article in French]

Boustany R(1), Zerbib M.

Author information:
(1)Département de Radiothérapie, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. 
boustany_r@yahoo.fr

Abnormal laboratory parameters are frequently observed during the course of 
prostate cancer. Anaemia, often due to multifactorial causes, develops 
progressively and essentially depends on the stage of the disease and the 
therapeutic strategy. Androgen deprivation can induce a reduction of haemoglobin 
that can sometimes be severe, especially in the case of complete hormonal 
blockade. At a time when the extension of the indications for hormonal blockade 
in combination with external beam radiotherapy in localized prostate cancers 
appears to be confirmed, the long-term adverse effects need to be monitored more 
closely. External beam radiotherapy is also responsible for a fall in 
haemoglobin, which depends on the dimensions of the irradiation field and the 
volume of bone marrow included in the field. However progress in irradiation 
techniques should result in decreased haematological toxicity. Anaemia 
inevitably affects the patient's quality of life and also appears to have a 
negative impact on local control of localized prostate cancer treated by 
external beam radiotherapy. The indications for early and preventive management 
of anaemia must be defined. Furthermore, as treatment of advanced disease is 
based on symptomatic treatment and improvement of quality of life, correction of 
anaemia must also be considered as part of palliative care.

PMID: 16459671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(2):141-53. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624020-00004.

Combination vaccine against invasive meningococcal B and pneumococcal 
infections: potential epidemiological and economic impact in the Netherlands.

Bos JM(1), Rümke HC, Welte R, Spanjaard L, van Alphen L, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Pharmacy, Pharmaco-Epidemiology and Pharmacotherapy, 
Groningen University Institute for Drug Exploration/University of Groningen 
Research Institute of Pharmacy (GUIDE/GRIP), Groningen, The Netherlands. 
jasper.bos@rug.nl

BACKGROUND: Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis group B are 
among the main causes of invasive bacterial meningitis infections in infants. 
Worldwide, these diseases lead to significant mortality, morbidity and costs. 
The societal impact is especially severe since the majority of cases occur in 
very young infants. A combination vaccine consisting of 9-valent conjugated 
pneumococcal and meningococcal B components is currently being developed. The 
aim of this study was to estimate the potential impact and cost effectiveness 
from the societal perspective of vaccinating infants in The Netherlands with 
this combination pneumococcal and meningococcal B vaccine versus no vaccination.
METHODS: A Markov cycle model was developed using epidemiological and healthcare 
resource use data from 1996 to 2001. This model was used to project the annual 
costs, benefits and health gains associated with vaccinating all newborns. The 
base year for the costing was 2003 and all costs and health effects were 
discounted at 4%. The results of the analysis are expressed in costs per QALY 
and both probabilistic and univariate sensitivity analyses were used to identify 
the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: Annually, an average of 755 cases of invasive pneumococcal and 
meningococcal B infection occurred in infants aged 0-10 years in The 
Netherlands. Introduction of the combination vaccine would prevent 201 cases of 
meningococcal B meningitis and 165 cases of invasive pneumococcal disease per 
year. Additionally, 3410 cases of pneumococcal pneumonia and 46,350 cases of 
otitis media would be prevented. Vaccination would save 35 lives per year and 
prevent 71 cases of severe sequelae. This translates into 860 life-years gained, 
or 1128 QALYs gained. Alongside these health gains, vaccination would prevent 
euro 17,681,370 of direct medical and indirect costs attributable to 
meningococcal and pneumococcal infections in The Netherlands. Depending on 
vaccine price, cost effectiveness varied from euro 3160 (vaccine price per dose 
euro 20) to euro 32,170 (vaccine price euro 60 per dose) per QALY. Base-case 
cost effectiveness (vaccine price euro 40) was euro 17,700 per QALY. The model 
was most sensitive to changes in incidence, vaccine price and duration of 
protective efficacy.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the introduction of a combination 
meningococcal B and pneumococcal vaccine into the Dutch infant vaccination 
programme is potentially cost effective compared with no vaccination.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624020-00004
PMID: 16460135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(2):171-91. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624020-00006.

The long-term cost effectiveness of treatments for benign prostatic hyperplasia.

DiSantostefano RL(1), Biddle AK, Lavelle JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Administration, School of Public Health, 
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599-7411, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Excellent treatment outcomes with long-term durability and few 
adverse effects are expectations of treatments for chronic conditions. The 
long-term cost effectiveness of newer treatments for benign prostatic 
hyperplasia (BPH), including high-energy transurethral microwave thermotherapy 
(TUMT) and combination pharmaceutical therapy, has not been sufficiently studied 
against existing alternatives. The objective of this study was to estimate the 
incremental cost effectiveness of BPH treatment alternatives.
METHODS: We employed a Markov model over a 20-year time horizon and the payer's 
perspective to evaluate the cost effectiveness of watchful waiting (WW), 
pharmaceuticals (alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists [alpha-blockers], 
5-alpha-reductase inhibitors [5-ARIs], combination therapy), TUMT and 
transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) in treating BPH. Markov states 
included improvement in symptoms, no improvement in symptoms, adverse effects 
and death. We used data from the published literature for outcomes, including 
systematic reviews whenever possible. Costs were estimated using a managed-care 
claims database and Medicare fee schedules, and were reported in Dollars US, 
2004 values. Costs and effectiveness outcomes were discounted at a rate of 3% 
per year. Men (aged > or =45 years) with moderate to severe lower urinary tract 
symptoms and uncomplicated BPH were included in the analysis, and results were 
stratified by age and BPH symptom levels. Outcomes included costs, QALYs, 
incremental cost-utility ratios and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves. 
Sensitivity analysis was performed on important parameters, with an emphasis on 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: alpha-Blockers and TUMT were cost effective for treating moderate 
symptoms using the threshold of Dollars US 50,000 per QALY. For example, at 65 
years of age, the cost per QALY was Dollars US 16,018 for alpha-blockers 
compared with WW and Dollars US 30,204 for TUMT versus alpha-blockers. TURP was 
the most cost-effective treatment for severe symptoms (Dollars US 5824 per QALY 
) versus WW. Model results were robust to changes in costs and sensitive to the 
assumed probabilities, utility weights, extent of improvement and life 
expectancy. Nevertheless, acceptability curves consistently demonstrated the 
same alternatives as most likely to be cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model suggests that alpha-blockers and TURP appear to be the 
most cost-effective alternatives, from a US payer perspective, for BPH patients 
with moderate and severe symptoms, respectively. TUMT was promising for patients 
with moderate symptoms and the oldest patients with severe symptoms, but 
otherwise was dominated. Value of information analysis could be used to 
determine the net benefit of additional research.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624020-00006
PMID: 16460137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2006 Feb;54(2):199-209. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.00583.x.

Ten dimensions of health and their relationships with overall self-reported 
health and survival in a predominately religiously active elderly population: 
the cache county memory study.

Østbye T(1), Krause KM, Norton MC, Tschanz J, Sanders L, Hayden K, Pieper C, 
Welsh-Bohmer KA; Cache County Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. truls.ostbye@duke.edu

OBJECTIVES: To document the extent of healthy aging along 10 different 
dimensions in a population known for its longevity.
DESIGN: A cohort study with baseline measures of overall self-reported health 
and health along 10 specific dimensions; analyses investigated the 10 dimensions 
as predictors of self-reported health and 10-year mortality.
SETTING: Cache County, Utah, which is among the areas with the highest 
conditional life expectancy at age 65 in the United States.
PARTICIPANTS: Inhabitants of Cache County aged 65 and older (January 1, 1995).
MEASUREMENTS: Self-reported overall health and 10 specific dimensions of healthy 
aging: independent living, vision, hearing, activities of daily living, 
instrumental activities of daily living, absence of physical illness, cognition, 
healthy mood, social support and participation, and religious participation and 
spirituality.
RESULTS: This elderly population was healthy overall. With few exceptions, 80% 
to 90% of persons aged 65 to 75 were healthy according to each measure used. 
Prevalence of excellent and good self-reported health decreased with age, to 
approximately 60% in those aged 85 and older. Even in the oldest old, the 
majority of respondents were independent in activities of daily living. Although 
vision, hearing, and mood were significant predictors of overall self-reported 
health in the final models, age, sex, and cognition were significant only in the 
final survival models.
CONCLUSION: This population has a high prevalence of most factors representing 
healthy aging. The predictors of overall self-reported health are distinct from 
