(1)Consultation de génétique, Département de génétique, cytogénétique et 
embryologie, Groupe hospitalier Pitié Salpêtrière, 47-83, boulevard de 
l'Hôpital, 75651 Paris Cedex 13, France. alexandra.durr@psl.ap-hop-paris.fr

Presymptomatic testing is available since 15 years for Huntington disease and it 
is now possible for a number of other neurogenetic disorders, mostly 
neurodegenerative disorders. The possibility of determining the genetic status 
of an at-risk person for the disorder which run in his family raises questions 
because of the absence of preventive and curative treatments in most instances. 
In addition, being carrier does not tell you when the disease will start and how 
it will evolve, impairing the possibilities of planning the future. A 
pluridisciplinary approach to predictive testing with care before, during and 
after the test taking into account the medical, social and psychological aspects 
of the disease is good practice. At the present time, only a minority of at-risk 
individuals request presymptomatic testing and almost 50 % do not pursue until 
the results. The consequences of the test may be harmful, more frequently after 
an unfavorable than after a favorable result. Although the motivations and the 
outcome in terms of request for prenatal testing after a carrier result are 
different in Huntington's disease and spinocerebellar ataxias, our experience 
underlines the benefit of pluridisciplinary care and of time for decision 
taking. For other disorders like familial Alzheimer's disease, or familial 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, the experience in presymptomatic testing is still 
limited but the situation seems similar to Huntington's disease because of the 
presence of dementia. It will be interesting to study the motivations and the 
outcome of the tests in disorders like autosomal dominant spastic paraplegias 
which usually do not reduce the life expectancy. Nevertheless, the overall 
situation might change greatly when efficient treatments will become available 
in these disorders.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/20052111934
PMID: 16274644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Eur J Intern Med. 2005 Nov;16(7):482-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2005.07.005.

Reported parental age of death in type 2 diabetic patients with and without 
established diabetic nephropathy.

Fava S(1), Hattersley AT.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Clinic, St. Luke's Hospital, Guardamangia, Malta. 
sdfava@orbit.net.mt

BACKGROUND: Diabetic patients with renal disease have increased mortality, 
largely from cardiovascular disease. This could be related to insulin resistance 
or to other inherited factors. The aim of the present study was to investigate 
whether there is evidence of the familial aggregation of increased mortality, 
even in the absence of diabetes, by studying the reported parental age of death 
in type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: Patients with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy (group A), patients with 
type 2 diabetes but without nephropathy (group B) and normal controls (group C) 
were interviewed and asked to report the age of death of their parents.
RESULTS: The mean (+/-standard deviation) parental age of death was 68.2 
(+/-13.8) years in group A, 67.3 (+/-16.0) years in group B and 68.1 (+/-14.9) 
years in group C. There was no statistical difference between any of the groups.
CONCLUSION: Our preliminary study has failed to show evidence of reduced life 
expectancy of parents of patients with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2005.07.005
PMID: 16275540


757. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2005 Nov;159(11):1055-62. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.159.11.1055.

Management of influenza symptoms in healthy children: cost-effectiveness of 
rapid testing and antiviral therapy.

Rothberg MB(1), Fisher D, Kelly B, Rose DN.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, Baystate 
Medical Center, 759 Chestnut Street, Springfield, MA 01199, USA. 
Michael.Rothberg@bhs.org

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2006 May;148(5):698-9.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of rapid testing and antiviral 
therapy for children of different ages with symptoms of influenza.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis from the societal perspective using a 
decision model based on published data.
SETTING: Physician's office during an influenza A epidemic.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical children aged 2, 7, and 15 years.
INTERVENTIONS: Rapid testing or clinical diagnosis followed by treatment with 
amantadine hydrochloride or oseltamivir phosphate compared with no antiviral 
therapy.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs and quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: Empirical therapy with antiviral medication resulted in the greatest 
quality-adjusted life expectancy in all age groups. Compared with not treating, 
antiviral therapy improved quality-adjusted life expectancy by 0.003 
quality-adjusted life-year by shortening the duration of illness and preventing 
otitis media. In young children it saved up to USD 121 per child mostly by 
avoiding parental work loss. Excluding work loss, antiviral therapy improved 
quality-adjusted life expectancy at a cost of USD 800 to 1800 per 
quality-adjusted life-year saved. Compared with amantadine, oseltamivir was not 
cost-effective when influenza A predominated. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
of oseltamivir fell below USD 50 000 per quality-adjusted life-year saved when 
the proportion of influenza B exceeded 14% for a 2-year-old, 27% for a 
7-year-old, or 43% for a 15-year-old. Rapid testing was cost-effective only when 
the probability of influenza was 60% or less.
CONCLUSIONS: For children presenting with influenza symptoms during a local 
influenza outbreak, treatment with antiviral therapy appears to offer the best 
outcome and often saves money. The choice of antiviral drug should be based on 
the prevalence of influenza B.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.159.11.1055
PMID: 16275797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Epidemiol. 2005 Nov;15(6):219-27. doi: 10.2188/jea.15.219.

Factors explaining disability-free life expectancy in Japan: the proportion of 
older workers, self-reported health status, and the number of public health 
nurses.

Kondo N(1), Mizutani T, Minai J, Kazama M, Imai H, Takeda Y, Yamagata Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Interdisciplinary Graduate School of Medicine 
and Engineering, University of Yamanashi, 1110 Shimokato, Tamaho, Nakakoma, 
Yamanashi, Japan. nkondo@yamanashi.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) data for 47 prefectures in 
Japan were reported in 1999; however, few studies have identified the factors 
associated with the length of the DFLE. The objective of this study was to 
elucidate the primary factors that explain differences in DFLEs in Japan.
METHODS: In our ecological study, 47 prefectures in Japan were used as units of 
analysis. The DFLEs for men and women at 65 years of age (DFLE65), calculated by 
Hashimoto et al using Sullivan's method, were set as dependent variables. From 
various national surveys, 181 factors associated with demographics, 
socioeconomic status, health status and health behaviors, medical environment, 
social relationships, climate, and other areas were gathered as independent 
variables. Pearson's or Spearman's correlation coefficients were calculated to 
screen independent variables potentially associated with the DFLE65s. Then, 
multivariate linear regression analyses were conducted for the selected 24 
independent variables after adjusting for the proportion of older people (65 
years or more) and population density.
RESULTS: Multivariate linear regression analyses revealed that the large number 
of public health nurses per 100,000 population, a good self-reported health 
status, and a high proportion of older workers were significantly associated 
with long DFLE65s for both genders.
CONCLUSIONS: These three factors could potentially explain the differences in 
DFLE of the older population in Japan.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.15.219
PMCID: PMC7904374
PMID: 16276031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Glaucoma. 2005 Dec;14(6):455-62. doi: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000185434.08051.82.

Utility values in Singapore Chinese adults with primary open-angle and primary 
angle-closure glaucoma.

Saw SM(1), Gazzard G, Au Eong KG, Oen F, Seah S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community, Occupational and Family Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Republic of Singapore. cofsawsm@nus.edu.sg

PURPOSE: To evaluate utility values in Chinese glaucoma patients.
PATIENT AND METHODS: Singapore Chinese residents (n = 213) with primary 
open-angle glaucoma or primary angle-closure glaucoma were recruited from a 
single tertiary ophthalmic center. Standard face-to-face interviews were 
conducted to ask about utility values (time trade-off and standard gamble for 
both death and blindness). Ocular information, including current visual acuity, 
intraocular pressure, visual field defect, and cup-disc ratio were also 
obtained.
RESULTS: The mean time trade-off utility value was 0.88 (95% confidence interval 
0.85, 0.91), and standard gamble for death and blindness were 0.94 (95% 
confidence interval 0.93, 0.96) and 0.95 (95% confidence interval 0.93, 0.97), 
respectively. Only 35.7% of patients were willing to trade time, and 34.3% 
willing to risk blindness in return for perfect vision. Both primary 
angle-closure glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma patients had similar 
utility values. After adjusting for age, gender, language spoken, educational 
level, and diagnosis, patients with better eye visual field PSD > 10 were 2.52 
times (95% confidence interval 1.13, 5.61) more willing to trade time. In a 
multivariate model, the odds ratio of willingness to risk blindness for a 
complete hypothetical glaucoma cure was 9.88 (95% confidence interval 1.65, 
59.23) for patients who had only visited an ophthalmologist 15 years or more 
ago, and 0.53 (95% confidence interval 0.27, 1.02) for patients who had previous 
trabeculectomy.
CONCLUSION: Most Chinese glaucoma patients in Singapore are not willing to trade 
time or risk blindness. Patients with worse visual fields in the better-seeing 
eye are more willing to trade time; whereas patients who have not seen an 
ophthalmologist for at least 15 years or who had no history of a previous 
trabeculectomy are more willing to risk blindness.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000185434.08051.82
PMID: 16276277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Glaucoma. 2005 Dec;14(6):463-9. doi: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000184834.93535.0b.

Clinical outcomes of glaucoma treatments over a patient lifetime: a Markov 
model.

Nordmann JP(1), Lafuma A, Deschaseaux C, Berdeaux G.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital des Quinze-Vingts, Centre Hospitalier National d'Ophtalmologie, 
Paris, France.

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 2006 Oct;15(5):471-2; author reply 472-3.

PURPOSE: To quantify the clinical outcome of glaucoma treatment over a patient's 
lifetime to identify treatment parameters that would preserve vision across a 
population.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to reproduce glaucoma treatments and clinical 
responses over a patient's lifetime. Markov states comprised first-line to 
fourth-line pharmacological treatments, no treatment, laser therapy, surgery, 
blindness, and death. All patients began with first-line treatment and passed to 
the next treatment in line following a failure. After each failure, and always 
after a fourth-line failure, patients could receive laser therapy or surgery, 
followed by no treatment or a new first-line treatment. Transitional 
probabilities came from a cross-sectional study and national statistics. 
Sensitivity analyses were based on second order Monte-Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Cohort demographics were average age 59.7 years, life expectancy 22.5 
years, females 54.0%. Treatment durations (months) for a patient with ocular 
hypertension were first-line (89), second-line (49), third-line (41), and no 
treatment (44); laser interventions numbered 1.251 and surgical 0.882. For a 
patient with glaucoma the corresponding values were 70, 44, 40, 18, 42, 1.197, 
and 0.842. First-line or second-line drugs best at controlling intraocular 
pressure (IOP) reduced laser therapy, surgery, and the prevalence of blindness. 
The most effective drug should be prescribed first-line. According to our model 
drugs specifically able to arrest disease progression would be more beneficial 
than intraocular pressure control.
CONCLUSION: More powerful glaucoma medication (first-line or second-line) would 
contribute to the preservation of long-term vision.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000184834.93535.0b
PMID: 16276278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Neurocirugia (Astur). 2005 Oct;16(5):447-52.

[Spinal subarachnoid hematoma after lumbar puncture in a patient with leukemia: 
report of a case and review of the literature].

[Article in Spanish]

Ayerbe J(1), Quiñones D, Prieto E, Sousa P.

Author information:
(1)Fundación Jiménez Díaz. Madrid.

Acute myeloradicular compression due to a spinal subarachnoid hematoma (SSAH) 
after lumbar puncture (LP) is an extremely rare complication. Several risk 
factors have been involved in the production of these hematomas, mainly the 
presence of hemostasis disorders in the patient. We report the case of a 
20-year-old man with leukemia and thrombocytopenia (26,000 platelets/mm(3)) who, 
after undergoing a LP, developed paraparesis and became unable to stand. A 
magnetic resonance disclosed the presence of a ventral intradural hematoma from 
D12 to L4. An emergency decompressive laminectomy was performed and a hematoma 
located in the subarachnoid space was partially removed. On the fourth 
postoperative day, the patient was able to walk without assistance, but one 
month later, he died because of systemic complications of his disease. Only 26 
cases of SSAH after LP have been found in the literature review we have 
performed. In most of them, the following common features have been observed: 
association with anticoagulant therapies, association with thrombocytopenia, 
delayed onset of compressive myeloradicular syndrome, need of surgical 
treatment, good functional outcome in half of patients, and short life 
expectancy for patients with previous serious illness. Risk for developing a 
SSAH after LP could be high in leukemia patients with a tendency to have severe 
thrombocytopenia (perhaps less than 25,000 platelets/mm(3)).

PMID: 16276453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2005 Nov;31(5):527-37. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-922224.

Transfusion-transmitted infection in hemophilia in developing countries.

Yee TT(1), Lee CA.

Author information:
(1)Haemophilia Centre and Haemostasis Unit, The Royal Free Hospital, London, 
United Kingdom.

Treatment of patients with bleeding disorders (especially those with hemophilia) 
with blood products has been associated with infections with blood-borne 
viruses. Of these, hepatitis B and C viruses (HBV and HCV, respectively) and the 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) have created major health problems. Although 
virus-inactivation procedures have virtually eliminated these viruses from newer 
factor concentrates since 1985, the risk remains in developing countries where 
there is no ready access to these concentrates. Although a few of these 
countries have established their own fractionation facilities and in others the 
respective governments make concentrates available, the large majority of 
countries still face the problems of blood-borne infections. HCV will invariably 
lead to liver damage and many hemophiliacs who were exposed to the HCV virus 
will succumb to cirrhosis. Only approximately 10% of hemophilic patients 
infected with HCV will clear the infection naturally. Coinfection with HIV 
shortens the life expectancy. The HIV epidemic in hemophiliacs began in the 
mid-1980s. Patients in developed countries were especially affected because they 
were predominantly treated with factor concentrates that were manufactured from 
thousands of blood donors. Hemophiliacs in developing countries have 
considerably less HIV infection, although it does exist and depends largely on 
the source of the plasma fractions. Progress has been made not only in the 
purification of factor concentrates, but also in the understanding of the HIV 
virus and in the development of antiretroviral treatment modalities. However, 
there are still several challenges in delivering antiretroviral treatment that 
must be addressed before the full impact of these transmitted infections is 
known.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-922224
PMID: 16276461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2005 Nov;31(5):561-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-922228.

Expanding hemophilia care in developing countries.

O'Mahony B(1), Black C.

Author information:
(1)Irish Haemophilia Society, Dublin Ireland. brianihs@eircom.net

The World Federation of Haemophilia (WFH) estimates that worldwide, 
approximately 70% of patients with hemophilia are underdiagnosed and untreated. 
Most live in developing countries. Although in developed countries the life 
expectancy of hemophiliacs is close to that of healthy persons, this is not the 
case in developing countries. Great disparity also exists in the treatment of 
hemophiliacs, especially when this relates to available factor concentrates. 
There are many reasons for the inadequate care of hemophilic patients: the 
perception of rarity of the disease; lack of laboratory facilities to diagnose 
the disorder; lack of understanding of the disorder by patients, their 
relatives, and even healthcare providers; poorly developed blood bank 
facilities; and lack of adequate factor supply are just some examples. The WFH 
attempts to address many of these issues by establishing hemophilia care 
programs and by educating and training healthcare practitioners so that a 
healthcare team can be organized that attempts to ameliorate these problems and 
provides treatment options. In the last few years, a considerable number of 
developing countries have been organized to deliver at least a minimum of care, 
and attempts have been made to obtain support from appropriate governmental 
sources.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-922228
PMID: 16276465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Int J Appl Philos. 2005 Spring;19(1):85-104. doi: 10.5840/ijap20051911.

Facing immortality.

Seidel A(1).

Author information:
(1)Miami University, USA.

This study is primarily a call to philosophers to attend the concerns raised by 
the increasing possibility of indefinitely extended human life. While these 
concerns are largely moral and socio-political, questions arising from this 
possibility are seen to involve other philosophical areas, including 
epistemology. Starting with the age-old desire for extended, enjoyable life, 
possible strategies for realizing such life are considered. Such realization is 
shown to conflict with the desire for children. Various reasons for choice 
between the alternatives of indefinitely extended life and what is currently 
understood to be a normal life, including the possibility of offspring, are 
examined. Competing social visions are sketched for the purpose of resolving 
this dilemma. It is argued that humanity's likely choice from among the 
competing social sketches favors the decision for extended life against that for 
limited lifespan with the possibility of children. Assuming that the extended 
life will be a life of learning leads to epistemological considerations 
regarding what is to be learned.

DOI: 10.5840/ijap20051911
PMID: 16276671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Thorac Surg Clin. 2005 Nov;15(4):519-25. doi:
10.1016/j.thorsurg.2005.06.003.

The ethics of living donor lung transplantation.

Wells WJ(1), Barr ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90027, USA. wwells@chla.usc.edu

A constant awareness of the risk to the living donors must be maintained with 
any living donor organ transplantation program, and comprehensive short- and 
long-term follow-up should be strongly encouraged to maintain the viability of 
these potentially life-saving procedures. There has been no perioperative or 
long-term mortality following lobectomy for living lobar lung transplantation, 
and perioperative risks associated with donor lobectomy seem to be similar to 
those seen with standard lung resections. These risks might increase, however, 
if the procedure is offered on an occasional basis and not within a 
well-established program. The long-term outcomes and functional effects of lobar 
donation raise important questions that are unanswered. This has proved 
difficult to follow closely, because of the fact that many donors live far from 
the transplant medical center and are reluctant to return for routine follow-up 
evaluation. The death of a recipient can further exacerbate this situation, 
because there is reluctance to insist on further routine examinations for a 
grieving donor. Prospective donors must be informed of the morbidity associated 
with lobectomy and the potential for mortality, and for potential negative 
recipient outcomes in regard to life expectancy and quality of life after 
transplantation. Although cadaveric transplantation must be considered because 
of the risk to the donors, living lobar lung transplantation should continue to 
be used under properly selected circumstances. The results reported by the 
authors' group and others are important if this procedure is to be considered as 
an option at more pulmonary transplant centers in view of the institutional, 
regional, and international differences in the philosophic and ethical 
acceptance of the use of living organ donors for transplantation. The 
integration of ethical discussion into topics that are relevant and of interest 
to thoracic surgeons, such as living lung donation, is a recent and welcome 
event. Many of the clinical situations that thoracic surgeons deal with on a 
daily basis have important and complex ethical implications, and there has been 
little training to deal effectively with these issues. This is changing as 
invited discussions on ethically compelling topics are finding their way into 
journals and the programs of national meetings. What may be of more importance, 
however, is the development of an ethics curriculum for those training in the 
specialty. The core curriculum recommended by the Thoracic Surgical Directors 
Association (which represents the leadership of the 89 approved residency 
training programs in the United States) has one lecture pertaining to ethics out 
of the several hundred offerings in its requisite curriculum. It is hoped that 
this will change in the near future.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2005.06.003
PMID: 16276816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Tumori. 2005 Jul-Aug;91(4):321-4. doi: 10.1177/030089160509100407.

Locally advanced breast cancer in the elderly: curettage mastectomy.

Solej M(1), Ferronato M, Nano M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pathophysiology, Third Division of General Surgery, 
San Giovanni Battista Hospital, University of Turin, Italy. mariosolej@libero.it

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: Locally advanced breast tumor represents 5-20% of new cases 
diagnosed every year. The purpose of this study was to report our experience and 
to compare it with the literature.
METHODS: From 1998 to 2003 at the Molinette Hospital in the Turin University 
Third Division of General Surgery, there were 34 cases of breast cancer in older 
women (between 70 and 94 years of age), 14 of which (41.18%) were locally 
advanced breast tumor. We evaluated the type of surgical intervention and 
anesthesia used, muscular invasion, the presence of receptors positive to 
estrogens and progesterone, the operative mortality, the percentage of 
local-regional recurrence, and relapses after a period of time.
RESULTS: Among the patients with locally advanced breast tumor, 21.43% (3/14) 
were at stage IIIA and 78.57% (11/14) at stage IIIB. In 14.29% (2/14) of the 
cases, Patey's radical mastectomy was performed, in 57.14% (8/14) Halsted's 
radical mastectomy, and in 28.57% (4/14) a simple mastectomy with the removal of 
the fascia of the major pectoral muscle. Three (21.43%) patients underwent a 
second intervention for local-regional disease. None of the patients had distant 
metastasis in the first 2 years after the operation. Mortality after 2 years was 
23.1% (3/13). None of the patients who underwent surgery had adjuvant therapy, 
usually because it was refused by the patients themselves or their families. All 
the negative and positive hormone receptor patients received tamoxifen.
CONCLUSIONS: Locally advanced breast tumors are frequent in elderly women. In 
the past, there has been a tendency to surgical under-treatment. As regards 
locally advanced breast tumor, curettage operations represent the only 
possibility to improve the quality of life of the elderly. These should be 
performed after carefully evaluating a series of variables in the general and 
local condition of the patient, the aggressiveness of the intervention and the 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160509100407
PMID: 16277097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(11):1083-106. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200523110-00003.

Antiviral agents for influenza: a comparison of cost-effectiveness data.

Lynd LD(1), Goeree R, O'Brien BJ.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada. llynd@interchange.ubc.ca

The economic burden of influenza-related illness has been estimated to be 
71.3-166 billion US dollars in the US, the majority of which is attributable to 
indirect costs as a result of lost productivity. There are currently four 
antiviral drugs available for the treatment of influenza: two ion channel 
blockers, amantadine and rimantadine; and two neuraminidase inhibitors, 
zanamivir and oseltamivir. The objective of this paper was to review the studies 
evaluating the cost effectiveness of currently available antiviral treatment and 
prophylaxis management strategies for influenza. Published studies that reported 
both costs and effectiveness of influenza management were extracted using 
MEDLINE, pre-MEDLINE and EMBASE. To facilitate a broad comparison, all costs 
were inflated to 2003 US dollars. Fifteen studies met the inclusion criteria of 
the review, with 14 analyses based on decision-analytic modelling and one 
economic analysis performed alongside a clinical trial. Management strategies 
included antiviral influenza prophylaxis or vaccination, empiric treatment of 
suspected disease, or antiviral treatment following rapid influenza testing. 
Study populations included healthy adults, adults at risk of influenza-related 
adverse outcomes, institutionalised and non-institutionalised elderly, and 
children. The comparator in all studies was standard care (i.e. over-the-counter 
medications only), and analyses were carried out from both the societal and 
payer perspectives. The only dominant strategy relative to standard care was 
vaccination of the institutionalised elderly. All other strategies in all 
populations were both more costly and more effective than standard care. 
Depending on the population and the perspective, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for antiviral treatment strategies ranged from 
5000 US dollars/QALY for amantadine in test-and-treat studies to >400,000 US 
dollars/QALY for zanamivir or oseltamivir treatment in children. Sensitivity 
analysis in all studies consistently reported a strong influence of the 
population prevalence or diagnostic accuracy of influenza on the cost 
effectiveness of all strategies. Baseline influenza prevalence varied widely 
between studies, ranging from 15% to 68%. There was also a wide variation in the 
assumption about the disutility of influenza (ranging from -0.137 to -0.983 for 
the elderly requiring hospitalisation), which also impacted the cost 
effectiveness. Given the variation in the ICERs of antiviral treatment and 
prophylaxis, the uncertainty around many model parameters, and the dynamic 
nature of influenza from year to year, one can only conclude that antiviral 
treatment or prophylaxis for influenza is likely to be more cost effective in 
specific populations at specific times during the influenza season, and during 
influenza seasons when the population prevalence reaches epidemic levels or 
there is mismatch between the vaccine and the circulating virus.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523110-00003
PMID: 16277546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. PLoS Biol. 2005 Nov;3(11):e395. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.0030395. Epub 2005
Nov  15.

The cell nucleus and aging: tantalizing clues and hopeful promises.

Scaffidi P(1), Gordon L, Misteli T.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, 
United States of America.

Recent evidence links structural proteins in the cell nucleus with aging.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.0030395
PMCID: PMC1283398
PMID: 16277559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2005 Oct;46(5):477-83.

Is carotid endarterectomy in octogenarians more dangerous than in younger 
patients?

Grego F(1), Lepidi S, Antonello M, Bonvini S, Battocchio P, Galzignan E, 
Menegolo M, Segalla A, Deriu GP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Cardiac Thoracic and Vascular 
Surgery, University of Padua, Padua, Italy.

AIM: The risk for developing stroke increases with the advancing age, peaking 
over age 80. In elderly patients, carotid endarterectomy may provide prophylaxis 
against stroke. Aim of our study was to compare patients 80 years or older with 
patients younger than 80 undergoing carotid endarterectomy. Endpoints were 
perioperative mortality and morbidity.
METHODS: From January 1996 to December 2002, 1 659 patients underwent a 1 733 
carotid endarterectomy for a symptomatic or asymptomatic significant carotid 
lesion. Among them, 125 patients were 80 years or older. We analyzed death and 
stroke rate from cerebrovascular accidents, TIA as well as non cerebrovascular 
complications and death rate postoperatively and in the long term follow-up. The 
Pearson's chi-squared(2) test was used for the statistical analysis on risk 
factors, morbidity and mortality. The Log rank test was used for cumulative 
stroke-free and survival rates between the 2 groups (level of confidence 
p<0.05).
RESULTS: Risk factors were similar in both groups. No statistical difference was 
observed in the stroke, TIA, mortality and stroke free rates between the 2 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study show that perioperative and postoperative 
mortality and morbidity as well as the long-term stroke-free rate does not 
differ significantly in patients 80 years or older compared to patients younger 
than 80 undergoing carotid endarterectomy.

PMID: 16278638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Ann Neurol. 2006 Jan;59(1):92-104. doi: 10.1002/ana.20702.

Clinical and biochemical spectrum of D-bifunctional protein deficiency.

Ferdinandusse S(1), Denis S, Mooyer PA, Dekker C, Duran M, Soorani-Lunsing RJ, 
Boltshauser E, Macaya A, Gärtner J, Majoie CB, Barth PG, Wanders RJ, Poll-The 
BT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Laboratory Genetic Metabolic Diseases, 
University of Amsterdam, Emma Children's Hospital, Academic Medical Center, 
Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, the Netherlands. s.ferdinandusse@amc.uva.nl

OBJECTIVE: D-bifunctional protein deficiency is an autosomal recessive inborn 
error of peroxisomal fatty acid oxidation. Although case reports and small 
series of patients have been published, these do not give a complete and 
balanced picture of the clinical and biochemical spectrum associated with this 
disorder.
METHODS: To improve early recognition, diagnosis, prognosis, and management of 
this disorder and to provide markers for life expectancy, we performed extensive 
biochemical studies in a large cohort of D-bifunctional protein-deficient 
patients and sent out questionnaires about clinical signs and symptoms to the 
responsible physicians.
RESULTS: Virtually all children presented with neonatal hypotonia and seizures 
and died within the first 2 years of life without achieving any developmental 
milestones. However, within our cohort, 12 patients survived beyond the age of 2 
years, and detailed information on 5 patients with prolonged survival (> or =7.5 
years) is provided.
INTERPRETATION: Biochemical analyses showed that there is a clear correlation 
between several biochemical parameters and survival of the patient, with C26:0 
beta-oxidation activity in cultured skin fibroblasts being the best predictive 
marker for life expectancy. Remarkably, three patients were identified without 
biochemical abnormalities in plasma, stressing that D-bifunctional protein 
deficiency cannot be excluded when all peroxisomal parameters in plasma are 
normal.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.20702
PMID: 16278854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Dent Mater J. 2005 Sep;24(3):409-13. doi: 10.4012/dmj.24.409.

Surface composition and texture of titanium polished with colloidal silica 
suspension and chromic oxide slurry.

Hossain A(1), Okawa S, Miyakawa O.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biomaterial Science, Course for Oral Life Science, Niigata 
University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Gakkocho-dori 2-5274, 
Niigata 951-8514, Japan.

CP titanium was polished with a colloidal silica suspension and chromic oxide 
slurry under low and high pressures. The polished surfaces were characterized by 
means of EPMA and XPS. Irrespective of polishing pressure, colloidal silica 
suspension successfully created a mirror-like surface that was clean at EPMA 
level. However, XPS detected a small amount of silicon on the outermost surface. 
On the other hand, chromic oxide slurry under high pressure yielded a very 
uneven surface with numerous scratches. The EPMA and XPS results suggested the 
presence of chromium-containing species in the polished surface, which might 
include hydroxides as well as oxides. In addition, the level of oxygen 
concentration was noticeably raised, which probably resulted from the increase 
of surface oxide film thickness or the extension of oxide-to-metal transition 
zone.

DOI: 10.4012/dmj.24.409
PMID: 16279732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Milbank Q. 2005;83(4):731-57. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2005.00398.x.

The epidemiologic transition: a theory of the epidemiology of population change. 
1971.

Omran AR.

Republished from
    Milbank Mem Fund Q. 49:509.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2005.00398.x
PMCID: PMC2690264
PMID: 16279965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Milbank Q. 2005;83(4):801-23. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2005.00401.x.

The compression of morbidity. 1983.

Fries JF.

Republished from
    Milbank Mem Fund Q. 61:397.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2005.00401.x
PMCID: PMC2690269
PMID: 16279968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Mech Ageing Dev. 2006 Jan;127(1):48-56. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.09.005. Epub
 2005 Nov 8.

Overlapping and distinct functions for a Caenorhabditis elegans SIR2 and 
DAF-16/FOXO.

Wang Y(1), Tissenbaum HA.

Author information:
(1)Program in Gene Function and Expression, Program in Molecular Medicine, Aaron 
Lazare Research Building, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 364 
Plantation Street, Worcester, MA 01605, USA.

The conserved SIR2 protein regulates life span in both yeast and worms: in both 
organisms overexpression of SIR2 can extend life span and in Caenorhabditis 
elegans this life span extension is dependent on the forkhead transcription 
factor, DAF-16. Here, we have done extensive genetic analysis with 
sir-2.1(ok434), a null mutant of C. elegans sir-2.1, the closest homolog to 
yeast Sir2p and human SIRT1 to further elucidate its function in life span 
regulation. sir-2.1(ok434) mutants show a slight decrease in life span as well 
as sensitivity to various stresses. Our genetic analysis suggests that sir-2.1 
is required for life span extension by caloric restriction, independent of the 
insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway. Importantly, analysis with unc-13 mutants 
indicates that sir-2.1 and daf-16 have overlapping and distinct roles in life 
span regulation. Our expression analysis shows that sir-2.1 has overlapping and 
distinct expression pattern compared with daf-16, consistent with the results 
from our genetic data. Our data defines a central role for C. elegans SIR2 in 
regulation of life span by caloric restriction and demonstrates that sir-2.1 and 
daf-16 have both overlapping and distinct functions in regulation of C. elegans 
life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.09.005
PMID: 16280150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Curr Opin Neurol. 2005 Dec;18(6):681-91. doi: 
10.1097/01.wco.0000194140.56429.75.

Assessment of subjective health and health-related quality of life in persons 
with acquired or degenerative brain injury.

von Steinbuechel N(1), Richter S, Morawetz C, Riemsma R.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology, Geneva, Switzerland. nvsteinbeuchel@med.uni-goettingen.de

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Health-related quality of life is a new outcome variable in 
neurology. Several generic measures aim at assessing this variable in adults 
with neurological diseases. Disease-specific measures are still rare; however, 
individuals with neurological diseases frequently suffer from cognitive 
impairment, yet are often excluded from health-related quality of life 
investigations. When included in such studies, cognitive functioning is not 
monitored via neuropsychological evaluation, possibly leading to methodological 
problems. Papers from May 2004 until July 2005 are reviewed with respect to 
psychometric quality and information about persons after traumatic brain injury, 
stroke, Parkinson's disease or dementia.
RECENT FINDINGS: Several new cross-sectional and longitudinal outcome studies 
are reviewed. The Medical Outcome Study Short Form with 36 items, the Sickness 
Impact Profile and the Nottingham Health Profile were identified as the most 
frequently used measures in neurology. For traumatic brain injury, two new 
generic instrument validations (Life Satisfaction Index-A, Subjective Quality of 
Life Profile) and one internationally validated disease-specific development 
(Quality of Life after Brain Injury) were found; for stroke, one 
disease-specific tool (Burden of Stroke Scale) was identified. In Parkinson's 
disease, the disease-specific health-related quality of life measure Parkinson's 
Disease Questionnaire-39 is well validated. In dementia, three dementia-specific 
instruments (Quality of Life for Dementia, Quality of Life in Late-Stage 
Dementia Scale and Quality of Life in Alzheimer's Disease Scale) seem to be 
valid.
SUMMARY: In neurology, only a few measures have been developed and validated for 
respondents with cognitive impairment, often showing poorer validity results 
than studies involving healthy persons. Health-related quality of life 
assessment should therefore be validated in the specific diseases and, if 
necessary, combined with a neuropsychological evaluation and a disease-specific 
health-related quality of life measure.

DOI: 10.1097/01.wco.0000194140.56429.75
PMID: 16280680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Pac Health Dialog. 2004 Sep;11(2):176-82.

Factors associated with health-seeking behaviors of Native Hawaiian men.

Hughes CK(1).

Author information:
(1)Native Hawaiian Cancer Committee of the American Cancer Society Hawai'i 
Pacific Inc., Honolulu, Hawai'i 96817-1714, USA.

Native Hawaiian men have higher mortality rates and lower life expectancies than 
Caucasian men in the United States and in Hawai'i. As an initial step in 
developing targeted cancer awareness interventions for Native Hawaiian men, the 
Native Hawaiian Cancer Committee (NHCC) of the American Cancer Society Hawai'i 
Pacific, Inc. conducted focus groups of Native Hawaiian men living in four 
geographical areas in Hawai'i in 2002-2003. The purpose was to explore attitudes 
and practices related to health-seeking behaviors among Native Hawaiian men. In 
all, 54 urban- and rural-dwelling men participated. Many common issues related 
to access to care, perceptions, attitudes, as well as cultural values were 
identified. These findings provide opportunities to motivate Hawaiian men to 
navigate the current healthcare system and facilitate access to healthcare. 
Integrating cultural strengths and preferences into health-seeking approaches 
can readily affect behaviors, and with time, improve the health status of Native 
Hawaiian men.

PMID: 16281697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2005 Sep;6(9):588-98.

[Percutaneous coronary revascularization in patients over eighty: acute and 
long-term results].

[Article in Italian]

Lettieri C(1), Buffoli F, Romano M, Aroldi M, Baccaglioni N, Tomasi L, Rosiello 
R, Agostini F, Kuwornu H, Pepi P, Izzo A, Zanini R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Cardiologia, A.O. Carlo Poma, Mantova. 
corradolettieri@virgilio.it

BACKGROUND: As a consequence of prolonged life expectancy the number of older 
patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease is constantly increasing. The 
aim of the study was to evaluate procedural success, immediate and long-term 
outcomes and the predictive factors of prognosis in patients aged > 80 years 
with high-risk coronary artery disease treated with coronary angioplasty.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we report the diagnostic and therapeutic 
strategies adopted in patients aged > 80 years admitted to our institution for 
acute coronary syndrome with or without ST-segment elevation or disabling angina 
(CCS class 3-4) and the immediate and long-term results of patients treated with 
coronary angioplasty.
RESULTS: A conservative approach was adopted in 180 patients (33%, group 1) out 
of the total number of 545 patients, while 365 patients (67%, group 2) underwent 
coronary angiography. Among these, 85% underwent revascularization. Relevant 
comorbidities were significantly higher in group 1 (59 vs 16%, p < 0.001) while 
a clinical presentation with ST-elevation myocardial infarction was prevalent in 
group 2 (15 vs 6%, p = 0.007). The in-hospital mortality was 19% in group 1 and 
7.9% in group 2 (p = 0.001). Among 198 patients treated with angioplasty, 
procedural success was achieved in 93% of cases, with 8% in-hospital mortality. 
Periprocedural myocardial infarction occurred in 3.3% and major bleeding in 5.6% 
of patients. At multivariate analysis ST-elevation myocardial infarction and 
cardiogenic shock were significantly related to the in-hospital mortality. At 
follow-up (mean 25 +/- 13 months) 13 patients died, 9 from cardiac causes and 4 
from noncardiac events. Recurrence of ischemia requiring revascularization 
occurred in 15.9% of cases. Cumulative survival at follow-up was respectively 
86% at 1 year and 83% at 5 years, while the event-free survival at 5 years was 
59% in the entire group, without any significant difference among patients with 
multivessel disease in whom a complete vs an incomplete revascularization was 
performed. The presence of severe comorbidities appeared to be the only 
predictive factor of unfavorable outcome at long-term follow-up at multivariate 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients aged > 80 years with symptomatic ischemic heart disease 
at high risk, the invasive approach was prevalent. Higher mortality rates were 
found in patients in whom coronary angiography was not performed. Comorbidities 
represent an important negative prognostic factor, impairing both the 
possibility of an invasive approach and conditioning an unfavorable outcome of 
revascularized patients. Coronary angioplasty can be successfully performed even 
in elderly patients. The in-hospital mortality turns out significantly higher in 
the setting of an acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction or in cardiogenic 
shock patients. For patients overcoming the acute phase, high survival rates can 
be expected at follow-up.

PMID: 16281718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 Oct 20;147(42):10.

[Weapons of mass destruction on our table].

[Article in German]

Füessl HS.

PMID: 16281775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Curr Pain Headache Rep. 2005 Dec;9(6):390-8. doi: 10.1007/s11916-005-0018-3.

The use of opioids in the treatment of osteoarthritis: when, why, and how?

Goodwin JL(1), Kraemer JJ, Bajwa ZH.

Author information:
(1)P.O. Box 1676, Mount Shasta, CA 96067, USA. goodwinj@ohsu.edu

As life expectancy increases every decade, the incidence and prevalence of 
osteoarthritis (OA) also will increase. Despite progress in our knowledge of the 
pathophysiology of OA, the management of OA-mediated pain continues to challenge 
physicians. Concern regarding the cardiovascular effects of cyclooxygenase-2 
inhibitors and the gastrointestinal and renal side effects of nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in general has limited the use of these 
medications in the management of chronic non-cancer pain. Appropriately dosed 
and monitored use of opioids for OA pain, when more conservative methods have 
failed, has potentially fewer life-threatening complications associated with it 
than the more commonly and often less successfully employed pharmacotherapeutic 
approaches to care. When used as part of a multimodal approach to pain control, 
opioids are a safe and effective treatment for joint pain, including that of OA. 
Patients for whom NSAIDs are contraindicated, or for whom combined 
acetaminophen, tramadol, and NSAID therapy is ineffective, may be started on 
low-dose opioids and titrated as needed and tolerated. Patient education and 
informed consent, exercise, complementary medicine, and the use of a controlled 
substance agreement increases the likelihood of patient compliance with 
treatment guidelines, improving functional capacity and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s11916-005-0018-3
PMID: 16282039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):605-6. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05283136.

Does willingness to pay per quality-adjusted life year bring us closer to a 
useful decision rule for cost-effectiveness analysis?

Polsky D.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):655-66.
    Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):667-77.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05283136
PMID: 16282209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):607-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05283084.

Einstein on willingness to pay per QALY: is there a better way?

Johnson FR.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05283084
PMID: 16282210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):655-66. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05282638.

Willingness to pay per quality-adjusted life year in a study of knee 
osteoarthritis.

Byrne MM(1), O'malley K, Suarez-Almazor ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Miami, Florida 
33136, USA. mbyrne2@med.miami.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):605-6.

BACKGROUND: Determining whether a particular medical intervention is 
cost-effective requires that a threshold of cost per benefit gained be 
established. As debate continues over the appropriate threshold, we present 
measures of willingness to pay (WTP) per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for 
own health and 2 hypothetical osteoarthritis scenarios.
METHODS: One hundred ninety-three persons, located through random digit dialing 
in Harris County, Texas, completed face-to-face interviews collecting 
demographic information and health preferences using visual analog scale, time 
tradeoff, standard gamble, and WTP methodologies.
RESULTS: The mean WTP/QALY for all methods was lower (range, $1221-$5690/QALY) 
than many estimates from revealed preference studies and lower than the 
oft-cited arbitrary cutoff of $50 000. WTP/QALY was highest when participants 
were judging their personal health improvements as opposed to hypothetical 
scenarios. There were some significant differences in WTP/QALY across 
elicitation methodologies for the same scenario. Demographic characteristics 
were not associated with WTP/QALY measures.
CONCLUSIONS: The health states and improvements in health evaluated here do not 
contain a risk of mortality, unlike many situations in which WTP/QALY has been 
previously evaluated. The lower WTP/QALY values found here may indicate that the 
presence of a mortality risk reduction substantially increases stated WTP/QALY. 
Appropriate thresholds for cost-effectiveness may be dependent on the context of 
a situation, including risk of mortality.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05282638
PMID: 16282216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):667-77. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05282640.

Willingness to pay for a quality-adjusted life year: implications for societal 
health care resource allocation.

King JT Jr(1), Tsevat J, Lave JR, Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, USA. 
Joseph.KingJr@med.va.gov

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):605-6.

BACKGROUND: Health-state preferences can be combined with willingness-to-pay 
(WTP) data to calculate WTP per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The WTP/QALY 
ratios provide insight into societal valuations of expenditures for medical 
interventions.
METHODS: The authors measured preferences for current health in 3 patient 
populations (N = 391) using standard gamble, time trade-off, visual analog 
scale, and WTP, then they calculated WTP/QALY ratios. The ratios were compared 
with several proposed cost/QALY cost-effectiveness ratio thresholds, the 
value-of-life literature, and with WTP/QALY ratios derived from published 
preference research.
RESULTS: Mean WTP/QALY ratios ranged from 12,500 to 32,200 US dollars (2003 US 
dollars). All values were below most published cost-effectiveness ratio 
thresholds, below the ratio from a prototypic medical treatment covered by 
Medicare (i.e., renal dialysis), and below ratios from the value-of-life 
literature. The WTP/QALY ratios were similar to those calculated from published 
preference data for patients with symptomatic meno-pause, dentofacial 
deformities, asthma, or dermatologic disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: WTP/QALY ratios calculated using preference data collected from 
diverse populations are lower than most proposed thresholds for determining what 
is "cost-effective." Current proposed cost-effectiveness ratio thresholds may 
overestimate the willingness of society to pay for medical interventions.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05282640
PMID: 16282217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. BMJ. 2005 Dec 10;331(7529):1364. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38645.660093.68. Epub 2005
Nov  10.

Cost effectiveness analysis of strategies for tuberculosis control in developing 
countries.

Baltussen R(1), Floyd K, Dye C.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus Medical Centre, 
PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, Netherlands. r.baltussen@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: To assess the costs and health effects of tuberculosis control 
