

931. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005;1054:196-205. doi: 10.1196/annals.1345.024.

Bone marrow transplantation in adults with thalassemia: Treatment and long-term 
follow-up.

Gaziev J(1), Sodani P, Polchi P, Andreani M, Lucarelli G.

Author information:
(1)Mediterranean Institute of Hematology, International Center for 
Transplantation in Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Anemia, Policlinico Tor Vergata, 
Rome, Italy. j.gaziev@fondazioneime.org

Current regular blood transfusion programs and chelation treatment have 
considerably improved survival of patients with thalassemia, which resulted in a 
larger proportion of adult patients. However, disease- and treatment-related 
complications in these patients progress over time, causing severe morbidity and 
shortened life expectancy. Stem cell transplantation still remains the only cure 
currently available for patients with thalassemia. This study updates transplant 
outcomes in 107 adult patients with median age of 22 years (range, 17-35 years) 
who received bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from human leukocyte antigen 
(HLA)-identical related donors between 1988 and 1996 (group A) and describes the 
results of BMT in 15 adult patients with median age of 21 years (range, 17-31 
years) who were treated with a new treatment protocol (Protocol 26) between 1997 
and 2003 (group B). The probability of survival, event-free survival, 
nonrejection mortality, and rejection for group A patients were 66%, 62%, 37%, 
and 4%, respectively, with a median follow-up of 12 years (range, 8.3-16.2 
years). Group B patients treated with the new protocol had some improvement in 
thalassemia-free survival (67%) and lower transplant-related mortality (27%) 
than that of previous protocols. However, transplant-related mortality in these 
high-risk patients remains elevated. Current myeloablative BMT in adult patients 
is characterized by higher transplant-related toxicity due to an advanced phase 
of disease. Although this new approach to transplant adult patients with a 
reduced-dose intensity-conditioning regimen has improved thalassemia-free 
survival, transplant-related mortality in these high-risk patients remains 
elevated.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1345.024
PMID: 16339666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005;1054:206-13. doi: 10.1196/annals.1345.025.

Sibling donor cord blood transplantation for thalassemia major: Experience of 
the Sibling Donor Cord Blood Program.

Walters MC(1), Quirolo L, Trachtenberg ET, Edwards S, Hale L, Lee J, 
Morton-Wiley J, Quirolo K, Robertson S, Saba J, Lubin B.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital & Research Center at Oakland, 747 52nd St., Oakland, CA 
94609, USA. mwalters@mail.cho.org

The Sibling Donor Cord Blood (SDCB) Program was initiated in 1998 as a resource 
to collect, characterize, and release cord blood units (CBUs) from families 
affected by malignant and nonmalignant disorders for transplantation. Families 
in the United States were recruited by telephone after referrals by community 
and academic physicians. Collection kits were mailed to prospective participants 
and family members were instructed about CBU procurement from community 
hospitals and shipping to a central laboratory. Data about the infant's delivery 
and CBU harvest, CBU processing, prethaw characteristics, sterility, and human 
leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing were collected. Standard outcome data were 
collected after CBU release for transplantation. Descriptive analyses of CBU 
collections, processing, release, and transplantation outcomes were performed. 
Currently, 1617 CBU collections have been processed from families with 
thalassemia (6%), sickle cell disease (28%), malignant disorders (49%), and 
other rare hematological disorders (17%). Thirty-two of 96 donor-recipient pairs 
with thalassemia major were HLA identical and 14 have received cord blood 
transplantation, either alone or in combination with bone marrow or peripheral 
blood progenitor cells (N = 4) from the same donor. Eleven of the 14 survive 
free of thalassemia after transplantation. These preliminary results confirm the 
feasibility and utility of remote-site sibling donor cord blood collection and 
subsequent transplantation for hematological disorders, with a very high rate of 
usage from a cord blood bank dedicated to performing these unique collections. 
It was concluded that cord blood transplantation from sibling donors represents 
a suitable alternative to bone marrow transplantation.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1345.025
PMID: 16339667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005;1054:445-50. doi: 10.1196/annals.1345.067.

Longitudinal study of survival and causes of death in patients with thalassemia 
major in Greece.

Ladis V(1), Chouliaras G, Berdousi H, Kanavakis E, Kattamis C.

Author information:
(1)Thalassemia Unit, First Department of Pediatrics, University of Athens, 
Athens, Greece. thalas@paidon-agiasofia.gr

Iron-induced organ degeneration is the main factor of mortality in patients with 
thalassemia major. Since chelation therapy is at a turning point, from the 
laborious parenteral route to the use of new promising oral agents, we 
investigated the current status of survival of these patients to present 
reliable data that will be useful in future comparative studies. Survival 
probabilities were estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, and results were 
compared by the log-rank test in a total of 647 thalassemic patients (pts) (52% 
males) born between 1/1/58 and 1/2/04. Terminal follow-up was 1/12/04. All 
transfusion-dependent pts monitored in our center, or in frequent contact if 
they had moved elsewhere, were strictly selected, excluding all rarely 
transfused or intermediate cases. Pts born before 1/1/75 were classified in 
group A (n = 366), while pts born later were included in group B (n = 281). 
According to the last 5 years' mean serum ferritin level, pts were divided into 
three hemosiderosis groups: (1) mild (<2000 microg/L) 49%, (2) moderate 
(2000-4000 microg/L) 28%, and (3) severe (>4000 microg/L) 23%. Of the 647 pts, 
115 died (mean age: 22.6 +/- 6.2 years), most frequently by heart failure 
(71.3%) followed by sepsis (7.8%). Life expectancy in the entire population was 
up to 59% at 46 years. Survival was higher for pts born after 1975 than those 
before (P < .001). Statistically significantly different survival probabilities 
were found between groups with mild, moderate, or severe hemosiderosis (P < 
.001). Effective management with improved chelation therapy could lead to better 
results.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1345.067
PMID: 16339695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005;1054:462-6. doi: 10.1196/annals.1345.063.

Low bone mineral density in adolescents with beta-thalassemia.

Vogiatzi MG(1), Autio KA, Mait JE, Schneider R, Lesser M, Giardina PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, New York-Presbyterian Hospital / Weill Medical 
College of Cornell University, New York, New York 10021, USA.

The pervasiveness of low bone mass (LBM) in beta-thalassemia (Thal) patients 
(pts) is escalating as the average life expectancy of these pts increases. 
Adolescence is a period of substantial bone accrual, which is crucial for future 
bone strength. Studies of LBM are prevalent among adults with Thal. However, 
limited information exists about bone accrual and LBM in adolescents with the 
disease. Thirty-one pts with beta-Thal (26 Thal major [TM], 5 Thal intermedia 
[TI]), aged 9-20 years (mean: 15.3 years), 14 males and 17 females, underwent 
measurement of spinal bone mineral density (BMD) by DEXA (Lunar, Prodigy). 
Height, weight, body mass index, and Tanner stage were assessed at the time of 
the BMD measurement. A total of 16.1% of the patients had normal bone mass (Z > 
or = -1), 22.6% had reduced bone mass (Z = -1 to -2), and 61.3% had low bone 
mass (Z < or = -2). BMD Z correlated with height and weight Z scores. Some 53.9% 
of subjects had normal gonadal function and 46.1% had induced puberty with 
gonadal steroids. BMD Z significantly worsened with age (P < .0001). However, 
there was no difference in the LBM prevalence between subjects with normal 
versus those with induced puberty: BMD Z was -2 or less in 71.4% of subjects 
with normal puberty versus 66.7% in those with induced puberty. Our results 
indicate a high prevalence of LBM among adolescents with Thal regardless of 
adequate transfusion and chelation regimens. Bone accrual was found to be 
suboptimal in adolescents with normal or induced puberty. Thus, calcium and 
vitamin D supplementation with antiresorptive therapies should be evaluated in 
the adolescent Thal pt with close monitoring of growth and sexual development.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1345.063
PMID: 16339698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Retina. 2005 Dec;25(8):1039-45. doi: 10.1097/00006982-200512000-00013.

Ultrastructural analysis of rabbit retina irradiated with a new 670-nm diode red 
laser at different powers.

Lanzetta P(1), Ortolani F, Petrelli L, Cugini U, Bandello F, Marchini M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Udine, Udine, Italy. 
paolo.lanzetta@uniud.it

PURPOSE: Diode lasers have compact dimensions, efficient electric-optical 
conversion, absence of major cooling requirements, long useful life, and minimal 
maintenance. We verified the structural and ultrastructural effects of diode red 
laser emissions at 670 nm on pigmented rabbit retina.
METHODS: Transpupillary laser pulses were applied to rabbit retinas at variable 
powers with a spot size of 500 microm ( approximately 1,000 microm at the retina 
level) and duration of 200 milliseconds. Light and electron microscopic analyses 
were performed.
RESULTS: Subthreshold non-visible lesions were produced using a power of 200 mW. 
Ophthalmoscopically visible lesions were produced using a power of 400 mW. More 
prominent lesions were obtained using a higher power (600 mW). Structural and 
peculiar ultrastructural changes correlated with the power used. In general, 
damage was incurred by the retinal pigment epithelium with extension into the 
superficial choroid posteriorly and into the outer retina anteriorly. The inner 
retina was involved at higher power levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Ultrastructural analysis of rabbit retina treated with the 670-nm 
diode laser adds newer insights on tissue changes after thermal irradiation. The 
effects observed are consistent with those reported for the krypton red laser. 
The 670-nm diode laser is an economic small-size photocoagulator that appears to 
be a promising modality for transpupillary laser photocoagulation of the retina.

DOI: 10.1097/00006982-200512000-00013
PMID: 16340535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. S Afr Med J. 2005 Oct;95(10):785-8.

A view of paediatric outcomes research.

Rothberg AD(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Therapeutic Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa. rothbergd@therapy.wits.ac.za

PMID: 16341333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Arthritis Rheum. 2005 Dec 15;53(6):812-20. doi: 10.1002/art.21590.

Preliminary results of integrated therapy for patients with knee osteoarthritis.

Huang MH(1), Yang RC, Lee CL, Chen TW, Wang MC.

Author information:
(1)Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. 
maohuang@ms24.hinet.net

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of integrated therapy on the functional 
status of patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA).
METHODS: A total of 140 subjects with bilateral knee OA (Altman grade II) were 
randomized sequentially into 4 groups (groups I-IV). Group I received isokinetic 
exercises; group II received isokinetic exercise and pulse ultrasound for 
periarticular soft tissue pain; group III received isokinetic exercise, pulse 
ultrasound, and intraarticular hyaluronan therapy; and group IV acted as the 
control group. The therapeutic effects of the interventions were evaluated by 
changes in Lequesne's index, knee range of motion, peak muscle torques of knee 
flexion and extension, and ambulation speed after 8 weeks of treatment and at 
followup 1 year later. In addition, changes in visual analog scale pain and 
rates of attrition in each group were also recorded.
RESULTS: Patients in groups I-III exhibited increased muscle peak torques and 
significantly reduced pain and disability after treatment and at followup. 
Groups II and III showed significant improvements in range of motion and 
ambulation speed after treatment. Group III also showed the greatest increase in 
walking speed and decrease in disability after treatment and at followup. Both 
group II and group III had significant gains in muscular strength after 
treatment and at followup; group III showed the greatest gains.
CONCLUSION: An integrated therapy deals with the extra- and intraarticular 
progressive pathologic changes, and kinesiologic management of OA is suggested 
for the management of knee OA.

DOI: 10.1002/art.21590
PMID: 16342083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Arthritis Rheum. 2005 Dec 15;53(6):879-85. doi: 10.1002/art.21579.

Effect of physical activity on functional status among older middle-age adults 
with arthritis.

Feinglass J(1), Thompson JA, He XZ, Witt W, Chang RW, Baker DW.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA. 
j-feinglass@northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of leisure time and work-related physical 
activity on changes in physical functioning among 3,554 nationally 
representative survey respondents, ages 53-63 years in 1994, with arthritis and 
joint symptoms, interviewed in the Health and Retirement Study (HRS).
METHODS: In 1992-1994, light and vigorous exercise items were empirically 
categorized into recommended, insufficient, and inactive leisure time physical 
activity levels using data from the HRS. Leisure and work-related physical 
activity levels in 1994 were used to predict 1996 functional decline or 
improvement, controlling for baseline functional difficulties, health status, 
sociodemographic characteristics, and behavioral risk factors.
RESULTS: Whereas 29.7% of respondents reported functional declines in 1996, 
38.6% of those with baseline difficulties in 1994 reported improvement. Compared 
with inactive respondents, recommended and insufficient leisure time physical 
activity were equally protective against functional decline (odds ratio [OR] 
0.59 and 0.62, respectively; P < 0.0001). Higher levels of physical activity 
were also modestly associated with functional improvement among respondents with 
baseline functional difficulties (OR 1.47, P = 0.05 and OR 1.45, P = 0.01, 
respectively). Work-related physical activity was not a significant predictor of 
decline or improvement.
CONCLUSION: Given the high prevalence of arthritis, even modest increases in 
rates of lifestyle physical activity among older adults could make a substantial 
contribution to disability-free life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/art.21579
PMID: 16342096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2006 Apr;129(4):512-7. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20360.

Is human longevity a consequence of cultural change or modern biology?

Caspari R(1), Lee SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Social Work, Central Michigan 
University,Mt. Pleasant, Michigan 48859, USA. caqspa1r@cmich.edu

Increased longevity, expressed as the number of individuals surviving to older 
adulthood, represents a key way that Upper Paleolithic Europeans differ from 
earlier European (Neandertal) populations. Here, we address whether longevity 
increased as a result of cultural/adaptive change in Upper Paleolithic Europe, 
or whether it was introduced to Europe as a part of modern human biology. We 
compare the ratio of older to younger adults (OY ratio) in an early modern human 
sample associated with the Middle Paleolithic from Western Asia with OY ratios 
of European Upper Paleolithic moderns and penecontemporary Neandertals from the 
same region. We also compare these Neandertals to European Neandertals. The 
difference between the OY ratios of modern humans of the Middle and Upper 
Paleolithic is large and significant, but there is no significant difference 
between the Neandertals and early modern humans of Western Asia. Longevity for 
the West Asian Neandertals is significantly more common than for the European 
Neandertals. We conclude that the increase in adult survivorship associated with 
the Upper Paleolithic is not a biological attribute of modern humans, but 
reflects important cultural adaptations promoting the demographic and material 
representations of modernity.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20360
PMID: 16342259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2005 Nov-Dec;15(6):1230-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1525-1438.2005.00270.x.

Uterine liposarcoma in a young woman: a case report.

Karateke A(1), Gurbuz A, Kabaca C, Alkan A, Kir G, Cetiner H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Zeynep Kamil Women and Children 
Diseases Education and Research Hospital, Uskudar, Istanbul, Turkey.

Liposarcoma of uterus is a very rare neoplasm encountered generally in the sixth 
or seventh decade of life. We reported the eighth case of uterine liposarcoma 
with extension to broad ligament in a 23-year-old woman who presented with 
pelvic pain, dysuria, and rapidly enlarging pelvic mass. During laparotomy, the 
mass was detected to be originated from the uterine cervix. In frozen section, 
no definitive diagnosis was established, and for preservation of fertility, 
extirpation of the mass was performed. The histopathologic examination of the 
specimen revealed liposarcoma. The tumor cells were diffusely and intensively 
immune reactive for vimentin and S-100, and negative for smooth muscle actin, 
desmin, h-caldesmon, pan cytokeratin, and CD10. Staining with periodic acid and 
Schiff, alcian blue, mucicarmine, and epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) were 
negative. No recurrence was detected in the postoperative seventh month. Present 
case is the youngest patient with uterine liposarcoma and also the first case 
detected in reproductive period.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1438.2005.00270.x
PMID: 16343221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. BMC Public Health. 2005 Dec 12;5:130. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-5-130.

Cost, affordability and cost-effectiveness of strategies to control tuberculosis 
in countries with high HIV prevalence.

Currie CS(1), Floyd K, Williams BG, Dye C.

Author information:
(1)School of Mathematics, University of Southampton, Southampton, SO17 1BJ, UK. 
christine.currie@soton.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The HIV epidemic has caused a dramatic increase in tuberculosis (TB) 
in East and southern Africa. Several strategies have the potential to reduce the 
burden of TB in high HIV prevalence settings, and cost and cost-effectiveness 
analyses can help to prioritize them when budget constraints exist. However, 
published cost and cost-effectiveness studies are limited.
METHODS: Our objective was to compare the cost, affordability and 
cost-effectiveness of seven strategies for reducing the burden of TB in 
countries with high HIV prevalence. A compartmental difference equation model of 
TB and HIV and recent cost data were used to assess the costs (year 2003 USD 
prices) and effects (TB cases averted, deaths averted, DALYs gained) of these 
strategies in Kenya during the period 2004-2023.
RESULTS: The three lowest cost and most cost-effective strategies were improving 
TB cure rates, improving TB case detection rates, and improving both together. 
The incremental cost of combined improvements to case detection and cure was 
below USD 15 million per year (7.5% of year 2000 government health expenditure); 
the mean cost per DALY gained of these three strategies ranged from USD 18 to 
USD 34. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) had the highest incremental costs, which by 
2007 could be as large as total government health expenditures in year 2000. ART 
could also gain more DALYs than the other strategies, at a cost per DALY gained 
of around USD 260 to USD 530. Both the costs and effects of treatment for latent 
tuberculosis infection (TLTI) for HIV+ individuals were low; the cost per DALY 
gained ranged from about USD 85 to USD 370. Averting one HIV infection for less 
than USD 250 would be as cost-effective as improving TB case detection and cure 
rates to WHO target levels.
CONCLUSION: To reduce the burden of TB in high HIV prevalence settings, the 
immediate goal should be to increase TB case detection rates and, to the extent 
possible, improve TB cure rates, preferably in combination. Realising the full 
potential of ART will require substantial new funding and strengthening of 
health system capacity so that increased funding can be used effectively.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-5-130
PMCID: PMC1361804
PMID: 16343345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. J Mol Biol. 2006 Feb 10;356(1):165-78. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2005.11.017. Epub
2005  Nov 28.

Crystal structure and structure-based mutational analyses of RNase HIII from 
Bacillus stearothermophilus: a new type 2 RNase H with TBP-like 
substrate-binding domain at the N terminus.

Chon H(1), Matsumura H, Koga Y, Takano K, Kanaya S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Material and Life Science, Graduate School of Engineering, 
Osaka University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Ribonuclease HIII (Bst-RNase HIII) from the moderate thermophile Bacillus 
stearothermophilus is a type 2 RNase H but shows poor amino acid sequence 
identity with another type 2 RNase H, RNase HII. It is composed of 310 amino 
acid residues and acts as a monomer. Bst-RNase HIII has a large N-terminal 
extension with unknown function and a unique active-site motif (DEDE), both of 
which are characteristics common to RNases HIII. To understand the role of these 
N-terminal extension and active-site residues, the crystal structure of 
Bst-RNase HIII was determined in both metal-free and metal-bound forms at 
2.1-2.6 angstroms resolutions. According to these structures, Bst-RNase HIII 
consists of the N-terminal domain and C-terminal RNase H domain. The structures 
of the N and C-terminal domains were similar to those of TATA-box binding 
proteins and archaeal RNases HII, respectively. The steric configurations of the 
four conserved active-site residues were very similar to those of other type 1 
and type 2 RNases H. Single Mn and Mg ions were coordinated with Asp97, Glu98, 
and Asp202, which correspond to Asp10, Glu48, and Asp70 of Escherichia coli 
RNase HI, respectively. The mutational studies indicated that the replacement of 
either one of these residues with Ala resulted in a great reduction of the 
enzymatic activity. Overproduction, purification, and characterization of the 
Bst-RNase HIII derivatives with N and/or C-terminal truncations indicated that 
the N-terminal domain and C-terminal helix are involved in substrate binding, 
but the former contributes to substrate binding more greatly than the latter.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2005.11.017
PMID: 16343535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. J Craniomaxillofac Surg. 2006 Jan;34(1):3-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jcms.2005.08.006.  Epub 2005 Dec 15.

Surgical approaches to juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma.

Cansiz H(1), Güvenç MG, Sekercioğlu N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Cerrahpaşa Medical Faculty, Istanbul 
University, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: Juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibromas are highly vascular, 
non-encapsulated tumours affecting predominantly young males. These lesions are 
benign histologically but they may become life-threatening with excessive 
bleeding or intracranial extension.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The surgical approaches to 22 male patients with 
nasopharyngeal angiofibromas are reviewed. A modification of midfacial degloving 
performed without rhinoplasty incisions and lateral osteotomies is described.
RESULTS: The patients' ages ranged between 9 and 26 years (mean 14.9). Three 
stage I tumours, 8 stage II tumours, 6 stage III tumours and 5 stage IV tumours 
were included into this study. All stage I lesions and one stage II lesion were 
treated via transnasal endoscopic approach. A modified midfacial degloving 
approach was used for the removal of seven other stage II lesions, all six stage 
III lesions, and three stage IV lesions. A combined midfacial 
degloving-infratemporal fossa Fisch C-transcranial approach was the route chosen 
for the remaining two stage IV lesions. The complications encountered in the 
postoperative course include temporary facial palsy in one patient (following a 
Fisch C infratemporal resection), mild crusting in the nasal cavity in 8 
patients, and facial paraesthesia in 6 patients whose tumours were resected via 
midfacial degloving, and rupture of the subpetrous part of the internal carotid 
artery in one patient.
CONCLUSION: The suggested treatment of juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma 
consists of an endoscopic transnasal approach for early stage lesions, and a 
modified midfacial degloving for almost all of the advanced lesions. The latter 
approach is very useful considering surgical exposure, duration of surgery, 
cosmetic outcome, and morbidity. It can be combined with an infratemporal 
approach or craniotomy if necessary.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcms.2005.08.006
PMID: 16343920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2006 Jan;29(1):14-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejcts.2005.10.008.  Epub 2005 Dec 15.

Multimodality approach in management of malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Neragi-Miandoab S(1).

Author information:
(1)Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Loyola University Medical Center, 
Chicago, Stritch School of Medicine, Maywood, IL, USA. sneragi@yahoo.com

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a solid, locally aggressive tumor, which 
has been closely linked to asbestos exposure. The survival rate without 
treatment ranges from 4 to 12 months. Response to chemotherapy and radiation is 
poor, and surgery is the most effective therapy. There are currently 3000 new 
MPM cases per year in the United States, with the peak incidence in the United 
States and Europe expected to occur in the year 2020. The prognosis depends on 
the stage of the tumor at the time of diagnosis, its histological type, lymph 
node status, and resection margins. While the diagnosis is often delayed, 
earlier intervention may improve life expectancy. Single-modality therapy has 
not been effective in changing the natural history of MPM. As a result, 
multimodality regimens involving surgery with radiation, chemotherapy, or 
immunotherapy have been initiated. Multiple modality approach has demonstrated 
favorable outcome, particularly in patients with epithelial histology, negative 
resection margins and presence of no metastases to extrapleural lymph nodes. 
Cisplatin and mitomycin have demonstrated modest efficacy in management of 
distant tumor recurrence. Cisplatin and gemcitabine regimen as well as 
cisplatin/pemetrexed followed by 54 Gy of adjuvant hemithorax radiation have 
been reported to improve the outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2005.10.008
PMID: 16343925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Transfus Apher Sci. 2006 Feb;34(1):41-9. doi: 10.1016/j.transci.2005.09.001.
 Epub 2005 Dec 15.

Rheohaemapheresis of ophthalmological diseases and diseases of the 
microcirculation.

Borberg H(1), Tauchert M.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Haemapherese Zentrum, Maarweg 165, D-50 825 Koeln, Germany. 
hb@dhzcologne.de

Blood rheology was considered to be of limited clinical importance, until 
extracorporeal technologies enabling the treatment of cellular and plasmatic 
hyperviscosity syndromes were introduced. However, a wide range of applications, 
mainly referring to rheologically determined diseases of the microcirculation 
exists but has so far hardly been taken into consideration. The extension of 
indications was due to modern technical developments leading to different 
approaches of secondary separation such as precipitation, ad- or absorption and 
filtration. Based on 18 years of experience with different separation 
technologies the combination of some centrifugal devices applied for 
cell--plasma separation with secondary filtration (Rheohemapheresis) appears to 
be the most efficacious and economical approach for such extracorporeal 
treatments. The sequence and frequency of rheohaemapheresis treatments depends 
on the measurement of rheological measurements in combination with 
clinical--chemical data which are related to the distribution kinetics and 
synthesis rate of both blood cells and plasma proteins. Standardised treatment 
protocols proved the efficacy of initial therapies and were applied for 
controlled trials whereas long term therapies may need more flexible treatment 
approaches. So far an increasing experience exists for the treatment of 
ophthalmologic diseases, otologic disorders, diabetic complications and 
cardiological diseases. Rheohemapheresis was shown to be a safe treatment 
approach, if a careful risk assessment prior to the initiation of the therapies 
is performed. The treatment cannot cure diseases but enables a substantial 
improvement of the quality of life in patients without treatment alternatives.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transci.2005.09.001
PMID: 16343990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Neurology. 2005 Dec 13;65(11):1799-801. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000187067.93321.fa.

Is hospitalization after TIA cost-effective on the basis of treatment with tPA?

Nguyen-Huynh MN(1), Johnston SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, CA 
94143-0114, USA.

A 24-hour hospitalization for TIA could be cost-effective simply by increasing 
the likelihood that patients will receive tissue plasminogen activator if a 
stroke occurs. The authors performed a cost-utility analysis of 24-hour 
hospitalization for patients diagnosed with recent TIA. The overall 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 55,044 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year, a 
value considered borderline cost-effective. For patients with higher risk of 
stroke, admission was cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000187067.93321.fa
PMID: 16344525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2006 Jan;18(1):10-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.bor.0000197996.04709.4e.

Large-vessel involvement in giant cell arteritis.

Bongartz T(1), Matteson EL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Large-vessel involvement in giant cell arteritis occurs in 
over a quarter of patients with this disease. Stenosis of the primary and 
secondary branches of the aorta may cause claudication and tissue gangrene, 
whereas aortitis may lead to aneurysm formation and dissection, often many years 
after the initial diagnosis.
RECENT FINDINGS: Subsets of giant cell arteritis are probably caused by 
variations in the pathobiology of the disease. Radiographic imaging with some 
form of angiography is essential to reach a proper diagnosis. Although survival 
in giant cell arteritis is generally good, subsets of patients with aneurysm 
formation have a markedly diminished life expectancy. Glucocorticosteroids 
continue to be the mainstay of treatment for giant cell arteritis and its 
complications.
SUMMARY: Advances in diagnostic techniques including proteomic and genomic 
approaches should improve our understanding of the pathogenesis as well as the 
assessment of disease activity and extent. We provide a suggested algorithm for 
the evaluation of patients with large-vessel disease in giant cell arteritis.

DOI: 10.1097/01.bor.0000197996.04709.4e
PMID: 16344614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2005 Dec;27(12):651-3. doi: 
10.1097/01.mph.0000194019.95096.b6.

Auditory and visual toxicity during deferoxamine therapy in 
transfusion-dependent patients.

Chen SH(1), Liang DC, Lin HC, Cheng SY, Chen LJ, Liu HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

Deferoxamine is a chelating agent that has extended the life expectancy of 
patients with thalassemia. In the 1980s, many investigators reported otologic 
and visual toxicity caused by deferoxamine. In July 1999 and 2 years later, the 
authors performed audiologic and ophthalmologic assessments in 30 
transfusion-dependent patients receiving deferoxamine therapy (40-50 mg/kg per 
dose, subcutaneously for 8-10 hours, 4-7 days per week). In 1999, six patients 
(20%) had deferoxamine-related hearing impairment (>25 dB), all at high 
frequencies. Because the authors believed the benefits of chelation therapy 
outweighed the risk of ototoxicity, the dose of deferoxamine was not reduced. 
Two years later, the hearing impairment had not progressed in any of the 
patients. There was no association between ototoxicity and ferritin level. No 
patients had abnormalities of visual acuity or funduscopy in either 1999 or 
2001. Based on this experience, deferoxamine at doses lower than 50 mg/kg/d was 
safe for the eyes and slightly toxic to the ears. The ototoxicity probably 
relates to individual susceptibility. Regular monitoring of auditory function 
and close follow-up of abnormal findings are recommended. According to this 
limited experience, reducing the dose or withdrawing deferoxamine might not be 
necessary if the hearing loss is stable in the face of ferritin levels above 
2,000 ng/mL. Because of the relatively small patient numbers, more data are 
needed to confirm these conclusions.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mph.0000194019.95096.b6
PMID: 16344669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. CNS Spectr. 2005 Dec;10(12 Suppl 20):16-25. doi: 10.1017/s1092852900002406.

Long-term safety and effectiveness of mixed amphetamine salts extended release 
in adults with ADHD.

Biederman J(1), Spencer TJ, Wilens TE, Weisler RH, Read SC, Tulloch SJ; 
SLI381.304 study group.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston 02114, USA. 
jbiederman@partners.org

OBJECTIVE: Assess the long-term safety and effectiveness of mixed amphetamine 
salts extended release (MAS XR) in adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD) combined subtype.
METHODS: A 24-month, open-label extension of a 4-week, multicenter, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, forced-dose-escalation study 
of MAS XR in adults (>or=18 years of age) with ADHD. The 223 enrolled subjects 
started treatment at 20 mg/day for 1 week, with subsequent titration up to 60 
mg/day for optimal therapeutic effects. At monthly visits, efficacy was assessed 
based on the ADHD Rating Scale IV (ADHD-RS-IV). Safety assessments included 
spontaneously reported adverse events, laboratory assessments, and monitoring of 
vital signs.
FINDINGS: ADHD symptoms significantly improved for all subjects as measured by 
change from baseline in mean ADHD-RS-IV total scores (-7.2+/-13.04 unit points; 
P<.001); this was sustained for up to 24 months. The most common 
treatment-related adverse events were dry mouth (43% of subjects reporting at 
least one occurrence), infection (33%), insomnia (32%), anorexia/decreased 
appetite (32%), headache (30%), and nervousness (26%). Most adverse events were 
mild to moderate in intensity.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with MAS XR 20-60 mg/day for adult ADHD was generally well 
tolerated and was associated with sustained symptomatic improvement for up to 24 
months.

DOI: 10.1017/s1092852900002406
PMID: 16344837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Methods Mol Med. 2005;119:433-44. doi: 10.1385/1-59259-982-6:433.

Codon optimization of papillomavirus genes.

Müller M(1).

Author information:
(1)Programme Infection and Cancer, German Cancer Research Center, Heidelberg, 
Germany.

Early and late genes of human and animal papillomaviruses show a codon 
composition seemingly unfavorable for expression in mammalian cells. It remains 
unclear how the viruses manage to achieve high levels of late gene expression 
during the viral life cycle. One possible solution could be that the 
availability of certain t-RNAs changes with progressing stages of cellular 
differentiation. Previous studies have demonstrated that modification of codon 
usage of papillomavirus late (L1 and L2) and early genes (E7) can overcome poor 
expression of these proteins both in transient and in stable expression systems. 
This was shown not only for human but also for plant cells. Two strategies can 
be employed to alter codon usage: elimination of only those codons that are 
rarely used in a particular expression system, or exchange of all possible 
codons by the ones most frequently used. Currently, there are two protocols for 
codon modification--a template-less polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based 
protocol, in which very long overlapping oligodeoxynucleotides are used in an 
overlap-extension reaction, or a ligase chain reaction, in which shorter 
oligodeoxynucleotides are fused together after an annealing procedure. Both 
methods are presented and discussed.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-982-6:433
PMID: 16350416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Neuropsychol Rehabil. 2005 Jul-Sep;15(3-4):190-7. doi: 
10.1080/09602010443000281.

Recovery of consciousness and life expectancy of children in a vegetative state.

Ashwal S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Loma Linda University School of Medicine, 11175 
Campus Street, Loma Linda, CA 92350, USA. sashwal@ahs.llumc.edu

The vegetative state does occur in children and is most commonly due to acquired 
traumatic and non-traumatic injuries. However, neurometabolic and degenerative 
diseases, as well as certain developmental brain malformations such as 
anencephaly, can also cause this condition. There are limited data available in 
children concerning recovery of consciousness and function from the vegetative 
state as well as life expectancy. This review concentrates on these issues and 
is based primarily on the data published in the Multi-Society Task Force Report 
on PVS which was published in 1994 as well as other epidemiological studies. 
Children in a vegetative state do have a poor prognosis for recovery of 
consciousness and function and do have a shortened life expectancy. Further 
research is needed to better understand what variables might contribute to 
recovery and what therapies might be of benefit.

DOI: 10.1080/09602010443000281
PMID: 16350962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. An Med Interna. 2005 Aug;22(8):361-3. doi: 10.4321/s0212-71992005000800002.

[Delay between diagnosis and surgical treatment of lung cancer in Virgen 
Macarena Hospital area].

[Article in Spanish]

Almadana Pacheco V(1), Vázquez Martín M, Sánchez Varilla JM, Torres Gómez J, 
Dante García Ibarra H, Martínez Puentes V.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Sevilla.

Comment in
    An Med Interna. 2005 Aug;22(8):359-60.

OBJECTIVE: Lung cancer is the most common cause of death due to cancer in the 
world. Prognosis depends very much on a precocious diagnosis and treatment, 
being surgery the one that brings the best life expectancy. We studied the time 
between the diagnosis and the surgical treatment of lung cancer in the hospital 
area of Virgen Macarena, Sevilla. Making this way a determination of the 
surgical delay in the treatment.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We analyzed retrospectively the patients who went under 
surgical treatment in our area between January 2003 and September 2004. And 
estimating the time in days, between the dates we obtained the first diagnostic 
specimen of lung cancer in this patients and the date the surgical treatment was 
performed.
RESULTS: We obtained a median of 31 days with a (recorrido intercuartílico) of 
60, and a media of 46.16 with a standard deviation of 34.51.
CONCLUSIONS: When we compared the results obtained with that we found published, 
they were similar to those found in the literature.

DOI: 10.4321/s0212-71992005000800002
PMID: 16351486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. J Palliat Med. 2005 Dec;8(6):1176-85. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2005.8.1176.

Communication between physicians and family caregivers about care at the end of 
life: when do discussions occur and what is said?

Cherlin E(1), Fried T, Prigerson HG, Schulman-Green D, Johnson-Hurzeler R, 
Bradley EH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8034, USA.

BACKGROUND: Few studies have examined physician-family caregiver communication 
at the end of life, despite the important role families have in end-of-life care 
decisions. We examined family caregiver reports of physician communication about 
incurable illness, life expectancy, and hospice; the timing of these 
discussions; and subsequent family understanding of these issues.
DESIGN: Mixed methods study using a closed-ended survey of 206 family caregivers 
and open-ended, in-depth interviews with 12 additional family caregivers.
SETTING/SUBJECTS: Two hundred eighteen primary family caregivers of patients 
with cancer enrolled with hospice between October 1999 and June 2002.
MEASUREMENTS: Family caregiver reports provided at the time of hospice 
enrollment of physician discussions of incurable illness, life expectancy, and 
hospice.
RESULTS: Many family caregivers reported that a physician never told them the 
patient's illness could not be cured (20.8%), never provided life expectancy 
(40% of those reportedly told illness was incurable), and never discussed using 
hospice (32.2%). Caregivers reported the first discussion of the illness being 
incurable and of hospice as a possibility occurred within 1 month of the 
patient's death in many cases (23.5% and 41.1%, respectively). In open-ended 
interviews, however, family caregivers expressed ambivalence about what they 
wanted to know, and their difficulty comprehending and accepting "bad news" was 
apparent in both qualitative and quantitative data.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that ineffective communication about 
end-of-life issues likely results from both physician's lack of discussion and 
family caregiver's difficulty hearing the news. Future studies should examine 
strategies for optimal physician-family caregiver communication about incurable 
illness, so that families and patients can begin the physical, emotional, and 
spiritual work that can lead to acceptance of the irreversible condition.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2005.8.1176
PMCID: PMC1459281
PMID: 16351531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. J Bacteriol. 2006 Jan;188(1):287-96. doi: 10.1128/JB.188.1.287-296.2006.

Gene-specific random mutagenesis of Escherichia coli in vivo: isolation of 
temperature-sensitive mutations in the acyl carrier protein of fatty acid 
synthesis.

De Lay NR(1), Cronan JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Illinois, B103 Chemical and Life 
Sciences Laboratory, 601 S. Goodwin Avenue, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

Acyl carrier proteins (ACPs) are very small acidic proteins that play a key role 
in fatty acid and complex lipid synthesis. Moreover, recent data indicate that 
the acyl carrier protein of Escherichia coli has a large protein interaction 
network that extends beyond lipid synthesis. Despite extensive efforts over many 
years, no temperature-sensitive mutants with mutations in the structural gene 
(acpP) that encodes ACP have been isolated. We report the isolation of three 
such mutants by a new approach that utilizes error-prone PCR mutagenesis, 
overlap extension PCR, and phage lambda Red-mediated homologous recombination 
and that should be generally applicable. These mutants plus other experiments 
demonstrate that ACP function is essential for the growth of E. coli. Each of 
the mutants was efficiently modified with the phosphopantetheinyl moiety 
essential for the function of ACP in lipid synthesis, and thus lack of function 
at the nonpermissive temperature cannot be attributed to a lack of prosthetic 
group attachment. All of the mutant proteins were largely stable at the 
nonpermissive temperature except the A68T/N73D mutant protein. Fatty acid 
synthesis in strains that carried the D38V or A68T/N73D mutations was inhibited 
upon a shift to the nonpermissive temperature and in the latter case declined to 
a small percentage of the rate of the wild-type strain.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.188.1.287-296.2006
PMCID: PMC1317600
PMID: 16352845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2005 Dec;32(13):2097-9.

[Improved quality of life in a patient with carcinomatous meningitis from 
invasive lobular carcinoma treated with intrathecal MTX and Ara-C in combination 
with systemic docetaxel].

[Article in Japanese]

Kubo M(1), Jida M, Yamane M, Miyatani K, Udaka T, Sogabe O, Maeda H, Mizuta M, 
Shirakawa K.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Mitoyo General Hospital.

Carcinomatous meningitis from breast cancer is rare and has a poor prognosis 
with a life expectancy of approximately 80 days. We performed intrathecal MTX 
and Ara-C in combination with systemic docetaxel treatments in the patient, a 
44-year-old woman with carcinomatous meningitis from invasive lobular carcinoma 
previously treated with anthracycline and paclitaxel. Although the patient died 
128 days after the onset, intrathecal chemotherapy in combination with systemic 
docetaxel reduced the number of malignant cells and induced degeneration of the 
cells in CSF, resulting in improved quality of life.

PMID: 16352935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2005 Nov 30;94(48):1887-9. doi: 
10.1024/0369-8394.94.48.1887.

[The 3' by 5' WHO/UNAIDS initiative--can 3 million people obtain HIV therapies 
by the end of 2005].

[Article in German]

Battegay M(1), Hatz Ch, Stoeckle M, Tanner M.

Author information:
(1)mbattegay@uhbs.ch

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.94.48.1887
PMID: 16353685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2005 Nov 30;94(48):1907-12. doi: 
10.1024/0369-8394.94.48.1907.

[Drug therapy in chronic liver disease].

[Article in German]

Maier KP(1).

Author information:
(1)Leberzentrum, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der Universität Tübingen, 
Städtische Kliniken Esslingen. kp.maier@kliniken-es.de

Treatment of virally induced chronic hepatitis consists of interferons, 
nucleotide and nucleoside analogues. So far, combination therapies are not 
superior to a monotherapeutic regimen. If detected early, inherited metabolic 
diseases (e.g. hereditary hemochromatosis, M. Wilson) can be successefuly 
treated, leading to a normal life expectancy of the patients. In contrary 
treatment of cholestatic chronic liver disease, especially of PSC, is far from 
being satisfying, due to our very limited knowledge of the etiology of this 
diseases. The same holds true for the therapy of NASH. Weight reduction and 
treatment of the often underlying diabetes are therapeutic cornerstones in the 
moment. On the other hand, immuosuppression, some times life-long, remains a 
(highly successful) treatment option in cases of proven autoimmune-hepatitis.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.94.48.1907
PMID: 16353688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2005 Nov 30;94(48):1913-8. doi: 
10.1024/0369-8394.94.48.1913.

[Gastroenterology in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Vogt W(1).

Author information:
(1)Fachbereich Gastroenterologie, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der Universität 
Tübingen, Städtische Kliniken Esslingen.

The medical care of old patients becomes more and more important. Currently 
about 21% of all people are older than 60 years. Decisions about therapeutical 
procedures often cannot be based on guidelines, because studies leading to this 
guidelines have normally excluded older patients. Decisions have often to be 
made individually in view of different factors like comorbidity and social 
structures. All symptoms occuring in older patients need a careful diagnostic 
work-up, even the majority of complaints as in younger people are of functional 
origin. In view of the high life expectancy and quality of life the use of 
difficult and expansive diagnostic and therapeutical tools are justified also in 
older people. So diagnostic and interventional endoscopic procedures can be done 
with low risk in older patients.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.94.48.1913
PMID: 16353689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Ther Apher Dial. 2005 Dec;9(6):431-58. doi:
10.1111/j.1744-9987.2005.00328.x.

An overview of regular dialysis treatment in Japan as of 31 December 2003.

Patient Registration Committee, Japanese Society for Dialysis Therapy, Tokyo, 
Japan.

A statistical survey of 3750 nationwide dialysis facilities was carried out by 
the Japanese Society for Dialysis Therapy (JSDT) at the end of 2003, with 
answers to the questionnaires received from 3717 facilities (99.12%). The 
population of dialysis patients in Japan at the end of 2003 was 237,710, and the 
number of dialysis patients per million people was 1862.7. The crude death rate 
during a 1-year period from the end of 2002 to the end of 2003 was 9.3%. The 
mean age of patients newly introduced to dialysis was 65.4 years, and the mean 
age of the entire dialysis population was 62.3 years. The primary diseases in 
the patients newly introduced to dialysis in 2003 included diabetic nephropathy 
(41.0% of patients) and chronic glomerulonephritis (29.1% of patients). The mean 
serum neutral fat concentration for all the dialysis patients was 113.9 +/- 71.7 
mg/dL (+/- SD). The mean serum low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol 
concentration was 90.8 +/- 30.9 mg/dL. Dialysate calcium concentrations ranging 
from 3.0 mEq/L to less than 3.5 mEq/L were used for majority of the dialysis 
patients (55.4%). Among anticoagulants given to the dialysis patients, heparins 
were the most commonly used in 79.3% of the dialysis patients. The relationship 
between blood pressure during dialysis and life expectancy for 1 year was 
analyzed for 43,465 patients who had undergone dialysis three times per week at 
the end of 2001. Results showed a significantly high mortality risk for patients 
who had systolic blood pressure of less than 100 mm Hg at the start of dialysis, 
systolic blood pressure of less than 100 mm Hg at the end of dialysis, and the 
greatest decrease (lowest) in systolic blood pressure of less than 120 mm Hg 
during dialysis. Patients who received vasopressor therapy during dialysis had a 
higher mortality risk than those who received no vasopressor therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1744-9987.2005.00328.x
PMID: 16354276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Br Menopause Soc. 2005 Dec;11(4):140-4. doi: 10.1258/136218005775544273.

Is there a role for hormone replacement therapy after breast cancer?

Kwan K(1), Ward C, Marsden J.

Author information:
(1)King's College Hospital NHS Trust, Denmark Hill, London, UK.

Breast cancer is the most common female malignancy in the UK, with an overall 
