cost-effectiveness ratios exceeding USD 1.7 million per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained. Year-round screening offered no additional benefit compared to 
seasonal screening in any of the transmission settings.
CONCLUSIONS: In areas with high levels of WNV transmission, seasonal screening 
of individual samples and restricting screening to blood donations designated 
for immunocompromised recipients is cost saving. In areas with low levels of 
infection, a status-quo strategy using a standard questionnaire is 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030021
PMCID: PMC1324950
PMID: 16381598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


18. Soc Biol. 2003 Autumn-Winter;50(3-4):238-58. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2003.9989074.

A divergent pattern of the sex difference in life expectancy: Sweden and Japan, 
early 1970s-late 1990s.

Trovato F(1), Heyen NB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Population Research Laboratory, The University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. Frank.Trovato@ualberta.ca

For most of the 20th century the sex gap in life expectancy in the 
industrialized countries has widened in favor of women. By the early 1980s a 
reversal in the long-term pattern of this differential had occurred in some 
countries, where it reached a maximum and thereafter followed a declining trend. 
Of particular interest to the present investigation is the anomalous experience 
of Japan, where unlike other high-income countries the female advantage in life 
expectancy has been expanding. We contrast the case of Japan with that of 
Sweden, where, like many other high-income nations, the sex differential in 
longevity has been narrowing in recent years. We observe that in Sweden, until 
the early 1980s, the sex gap in life expectancy (female-male) exceeded that of 
Japan; but this situation reversed in subsequent periods, when the Swedish 
differential narrowed and that of Japan widened. A decomposition analysis 
indicates that these divergent patterns since 1980 have resulted mainly from 
larger than expected reductions in male mortality in Sweden due to heart disease 
and from accidents and violence, lung cancer and "other" cancers. In Japan, 
death rates for men and women from heart disease--which is a leading cause of 
death--have tended to decline more or less at the same pace since the early 
1980s; and with regard to lung cancer, and "other" neoplasms, male death rates 
in Japan have been rising while those of women have either declined or risen 
more slowly. Moreover, during the 1990s, male and female suicide rates rose in 
Japan, but the rates for men went up faster. Altogether, the net effect of these 
divergent mortality trends for men and women in Japan underlie much of the 
observed widening of its sex differential in longevity in recent years.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2003.9989074
PMID: 16382814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Adv Neurol. 2006;97:1-4.

Burden of intractable epilepsy.

Wiebe S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada.

PMID: 16383108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Dec 10;149(50):2775-82.

[Palliative treatment in patients with oesophagus carcinoma].

[Article in Dutch]

Siersema PD(1), Verschuur EM, Homs MY, van der Gaast A, Eijkenboom WM, Kuipers 
EJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, afd. Maag-, Darm- en Leverziekten, Postbus 2040, 3000 CA 
Rotterdam. p.siersema@erasmusmc.nl

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Dec 10;149(50):2800-6.

More than 50% of patients with oesophageal carcinoma will undergo palliative 
treatment because of distant metastases or local tumour ingrowth into 
surrounding organs. The majority of these patients have symptoms ofdysphagia. If 
metastases from oesophageal carcinoma are present, the most commonly used 
treatment modalities for dysphagia in The Netherlands are placement of a 
self-expanding stent or intraluminal radiotherapy (brachytherapy). If the life 
expectancy of patients is longer than 3 months, brachytherapy is sometimes 
combined with external radiotherapy. If patients with metastases are in a good 
condition, chemotherapy may be considered. If there is local tumour ingrowth but 
no metastases, chemotherapy in combination with radiation therapy 
(chemoradiation) is an option. These treatments should preferably make up part 
of well-designed studies. Quality of life is an important endpoint to consider 
in the palliative treatment of patients with oesophageal cancer. 
Well-established standardized and validated questionnaires are available for 
this purpose.

PMID: 16385829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 Apr 25;147 Spec No 1:10-1.

[Antiviral therapy: when to begin, which goals should be set, what must be kept 
in mind? Tips for nonspecialists].

[Article in German]

Jablonowski H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinikum Salzgitter GmbH, Kattowitzer Strasse 191, D-38226 Salzgitter, 
Germany. h.jablonowski@klinikum-salzgitter.de

PMID: 16385862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. An Med Interna. 2005 Sep;22(9):431-3. doi: 10.4321/s0212-71992005000900007.

[Radiation therapy in simultaneous choroidal and brain metastases].

[Article in Spanish]

Conill C(1), Jorcano S, Planas I, Marruecos J, Casas F, Fontenla JR.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Oncología Radioterápica, Hospital Clínic, Universidad de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. cconill@clinic.ub.es

Choroidal metastases from lung cancer can be the initial clinical manifestation 
of metastasic disease, although they generally coexist with at least two more 
metastasic sites. The most common symptom is decreased vision, however 20% of 
brain metastases can present with visual alterations. A differential diagnosis 
within brain metastases and/or choroidal is necessary. We present the case of a 
patient with lung cancer and decreased vision who was diagnosed as simultaneous 
choroidal and brain metastases. Radiation therapy (20Gy/5fractions) 
significantly improves decreased vision. This case shows that, although life 
expectancy of patients with metastasic lung cancer is short, an adequate 
diagnosis and treatment, can improve the quality of life of those patients.

DOI: 10.4321/s0212-71992005000900007
PMID: 16386076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2006 Mar;29(3):374-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejcts.2005.11.037.  Epub 2006 Jan 18.

Comparison of Carpentier-Edwards pericardial and supraannular bioprostheses in 
aortic valve replacement.

Puvimanasinghe JP(1), Takkenberg JJ, Eijkemans MJ, van Herwerden LA, Jamieson 
WR, Grunkemeier GL, Habbema JD, Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-thoracic Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed at calculating and comparing the long-term outcomes 
of patients after aortic valve replacement with the Carpentier-Edwards bovine 
pericardial and porcine supraannular bioprostheses using microsimulation.
METHODS: We conducted a meta-analysis of eight studies on the Carpentier-Edwards 
pericardial valves (2,685 patients, 12,250 patient-years) and five studies on 
the supraannular valves (3,796 patients, 20,127 patient-years) to estimate the 
occurrence rates of valve-related events. Eighteen-year follow-up data sets were 
used to construct age-dependent Weibull curves that described their structural 
valvular deterioration. The estimates were entered into a microsimulation model, 
which was used to calculate the outcomes of patients after aortic valve 
replacement.
RESULTS: The annual hazard rates for thrombo-embolism after aortic valve 
replacement were 1.35% and 1.76% for the pericardial and supraannular valves, 
respectively. For a 65-year-old male, median time to structural valvular 
deterioration was 20.1 and 22.2 years while the lifetime risk of reoperation due 
to structural valvular deterioration was 18.3% and 14.0%, respectively. The life 
expectancy of the patient was 10.8 and 10.9 years and event-free life expectancy 
9.0 and 8.8 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The microsimulation methodology provides insight into the prognosis 
of a patient after aortic valve replacement with any given valve type. Both the 
Carpentier-Edwards pericardial and supraannular valve types perform 
satisfactorily, especially in elderly patients, and show no appreciable 
difference in long-term outcomes when implanted in the aortic position.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2005.11.037
PMID: 16386920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. FEBS Lett. 2006 Jan 23;580(2):484-90. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2005.12.046.
Epub  2005 Dec 22.

Lifespan decrease in a Caenorhabditis elegans mutant lacking TRX-1, a 
thioredoxin expressed in ASJ sensory neurons.

Miranda-Vizuete A(1), Fierro González JC, Gahmon G, Burghoorn J, Navas P, 
Swoboda P.

Author information:
(1)Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo (CABD-CSIC), Departamento de 
Ciencias Ambientales, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, E-41013 Sevilla, Spain. 
amirviz@upo.es

Thioredoxins are a class of small proteins that play a key role in regulating 
many cellular redox processes. We report here the characterization of the first 
member of the thioredoxin family in metazoans that is mainly associated with 
neurons. The Caenorhabditis elegans gene B0228.5 encodes a thioredoxin (TRX-1) 
that is expressed in ASJ ciliated sensory neurons, and to some extent also in 
the posterior-most intestinal cells. TRX-1 is active at reducing protein 
disulfides in the presence of a heterologous thioredoxin reductase. A mutant 
worm strain carrying a null allele of the trx-1 gene displays a reproducible 
decrease in both mean and maximum lifespan when compared to wild-type. The 
identification and characterization of TRX-1 paves the way to use C. elegans as 
an in vivo model to study the role of thioredoxins in lifespan and nervous 
system physiology and pathology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2005.12.046
PMID: 16387300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1055:93-135. doi: 10.1196/annals.1323.027.

Oxidative stress profiling: part I. Its potential importance in the optimization 
of human health.

Cutler RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Longevity Sciences Group, Kronos Science Laboratories, Inc., 2222 E. Highland 
Avenue, Suite 220, Phoenix, AZ 85016, USA. richard.cutler@kronoslaboratory.com

Steadily accumulating scientific evidence supports the general importance of 
oxidative damage of tissue and cellular components as a primary or secondary 
causative factor in many different human diseases and aging processes. Our goal 
has been to develop sensitive and reliable means to measure the oxidative damage 
and defense/repair status of an individual that could be easily used by a 
physician to determine whether there is an immediate or long-term increased 
health risk to their patients with regard to oxidative damage. We also sought to 
try to determine how this risk can best be reduced, and whether the prescribed 
therapy is working and how it might be best adjusted to optimize benefits. We 
have found that combining both an oxidative damage profile with a defense/repair 
profile produces the most reliable set of information to meet these objectives. 
Success is indicated by demonstrating the expected inverse correlation of 
oxidative stress vs. antioxidant status of a population of several hundred 
individuals. We also find support that oxidative stress status is under tight 
regulatory control for most individuals over a wide range of lifestyle variables 
including diet and exercise. Indeed only about 10% of the individuals analyzed 
appear to have unusually high oxidative stress levels. Only these individuals 
having the higher than normal levels of oxidative stress are the best responders 
to antioxidant supplements to lower their oxidative stress status to normal 
levels. We discuss the implications of these results for human application and 
review how current clinical studies are carried out to evaluate the benefits of 
antioxidant supplements in reducing the incidence of specific age-dependent 
disease.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1323.027
PMID: 16387721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1055:207-18. doi: 10.1196/annals.1323.030.

Would doubling the human lifespan be a net positive or negative for us, either 
as individuals or as a society? Point-counterpoint.

Stock GB(1), Callahan D.

Author information:
(1)Program on Medicine, Technology, and Society, UCLA School of Public Health, 
760 Westwood Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA. gstock@signumbiosciences.com

There is a significant possibility that over the next few decades science will 
make discoveries of a kind that might allow the doubling of the average human 
life span, from roughly 76 years now to 150. This development would, for many, 
represent the realization of a dream: that of enabling people to live much 
longer lives than at present, holding back death, which has often been seen as 
an ancient, unbeatable enemy. It would also raise a large number of 
unprecedented individual and social problems: Would we really want to live to 
150? Is such a goal ethical? What would this putative longevity do to our 
present social structures and arrangements? Would we get a better society or a 
worse one?

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1323.030
PMID: 16387726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Exp Cell Res. 2006 Apr 1;312(6):746-59. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2005.11.025.
Epub  2006 Jan 4.

SNEV overexpression extends the life span of human endothelial cells.

Voglauer R(1), Chang MW, Dampier B, Wieser M, Baumann K, Sterovsky T, Schreiber 
M, Katinger H, Grillari J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Microbiology, Department of Biotechnology, University of 
Natural Resources and Applied Life Sciences Muthgasse 18, A-1190 Vienna, 
Austria.

In a recent screening for genes down regulated in replicatively senescent human 
umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), we have isolated the novel protein 
SNEV. Since then SNEV has proven as a multifaceted protein playing a role in 
pre-mRNA splicing, DNA repair, and the ubiquitin/proteosome system. Here, we 
report that SNEV mRNA decreases in various cell types during replicative 
senescence, and that it is increased in various immortalized cell lines, as well 
as in breast tumors, where SNEV transcript levels also correlate with the 
survival of breast cancer patients. Since these mRNA profiles suggested a role 
of SNEV in the regulation of cell proliferation, the effect of its 
overexpression was tested. Thereby, a significant extension of the cellular life 
span was observed, which was not caused by altered telomerase activity or 
telomere dynamics but rather by enhanced stress resistance. When SNEV 
overexpressing cells were treated with bleomycin or bleomycin combined with BSO, 
inducing DNA damage as well as reactive oxygen species, a significantly lower 
fraction of apoptotic cells was found in comparison to vector control cells. 
These data suggest that high levels of SNEV might extend the cellular life span 
by increasing the resistance to stress or by improving the DNA repair capacity 
of the cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2005.11.025
PMID: 16388800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Am J Prev Med. 2005 Dec;29(5 Suppl 1):4-10. doi:
10.1016/j.amepre.2005.07.031.

Eight Americas: new perspectives on U.S. health disparities.

Murray CJ(1), Kulkarni S, Ezzati M.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, Initiative for Global Health, Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02138, USA. christopher_murray@harvard.edu

The Eight Americas Study divides the U.S. population into eight distinct groups 
with different epidemiologic patterns and mortality experience. The Eight 
Americas are Asians (America 1), below-median-income whites living in the 
Northland (America 2), middle America (America 3), poor whites living in 
Appalachia and the Mississippi Valley (America 4), Native Americans living on 
reservations in the West (America 5), black middle-America (America 6), poor 
blacks living in the rural South (America 7), and blacks living in high-risk 
urban environments (America 8). Life expectancy for males in America 8 is 21 
years lower than life expectancy for females in America 1. For males, the gap 
between America 1 and America 8, 16.1 years, is as large as the gap between 
Iceland with the highest male life expectancy in the world and Bangladesh. Even 
in Americas 5, 6, 7, and 8, U.S. child mortality is in the middle of the range 
defined by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) 
countries. For young and middle-aged males and females, however, mortality 
experience in the disadvantaged Americas is up to two times worse than the worst 
OECD country. The enormous excess of young and middle-aged mortality is largely 
due to chronic disease death. Based on the World Health Organization Comparative 
Risk Assessment project, we expect the major risks in the United States to be 
tobacco, alcohol, obesity, blood pressure, and cholesterol. Risk factor analysis 
using Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System data for the Eight Americas 
suggests that the pattern for tobacco, alcohol, and obesity is distinct for each 
America. Currently available data in the public domain do not provide an 
adequate basis to assess levels of blood pressure and cholesterol in the Eight 
Americas. To tackle disparities in the United States, public health will need to 
increase its focus on chronic diseases in young and middle-aged Americans. In 
particular, if blood pressure and cholesterol are confirmed as major 
contributors to current mortality patterns, innovative strategies such as the 
Polypill and unique individual and population approaches need to be explored.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2005.07.031
PMID: 16389119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Am J Prev Med. 2005 Dec;29(5 Suppl 1):164-8. doi:
10.1016/j.amepre.2005.07.004.

Frailty, heart disease, and stroke: the Compression of Morbidity paradigm.

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California, USA. jff@stanford.edu

Frailty, the loss of physiologic organ reserve with age, and chronic illness, 
such as heart disease and stroke, which may accelerate the development of 
frailty, become the dominant determinants of ill-health in those who escape the 
hazards of early and mid-life. The Compression of Morbidity paradigm holds that 
if the average age at first chronic infirmity is postponed, and if this 
postponement is greater than increases in life expectancy, then average 
cumulative lifetime morbidity will decrease, squeezed between a later onset and 
the time of death. The National Long-Term Care Survey, National Health Interview 
Survey, and other data document declining U.S. disability trends since 1982; 
accelerating recently, at about 2% per year. The decline in mortality is only 1% 
a year, documenting Compression of Morbidity in the U.S. population. Frailty, 
increasing exponentially because of linear declines in multiple organ systems, 
mandates converging morbidity and mortality rates as longevity increases. 
Longitudinal studies now link good health risk status with reduced lifetime 
disability; those with few health risks have only one-fourth the disability of 
those who have more risks, and the onset of disability is postponed from 7 to 12 
years. Randomized controlled trials of senior health enhancement programs have 
shown reduction in health risks, improved health status, and decreased medical 
costs. Current health enhancement opportunities can increase health gains for 
seniors under the umbrella paradigm of the Compression of Morbidity. Effective 
interventions to prevent or postpone heart disease and stroke will decrease 
lifetime morbidity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2005.07.004
PMID: 16389144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Health Econ. 2006 Feb;15(2):215-8. doi: 10.1002/hec.1063.

Multi-method approach to valuing health states: problems with meaning.

Nord E(1), Menzel P, Richardson J.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway. erik.nord@fhi.no

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2004 Mar;13(3):281-90.

In an earlier article in Health Economics, Salomon and Murray argue that by 
applying maximum likelihood techniques to predetermined functional forms and to 
a data set where a number of health states are valued by means of four standard 
valuation techniques, underlying 'pure' valuations of health may be teased out, 
together with estimates of parametric relationships between these 'pure' 
valuations and valuations based on the four standard techniques. We argue below 
that 'pure' valuations of health are ordinal rather than cardinal and that the 
'pure' values that result from the multi-method approach give a false impression 
of being cardinal. They are therefore not usable as weights for life years. In 
the unlikely event that the authors should be able to demonstrate cardinality in 
'pure' valuations of health, it must be possible to have subjects express these 
valuations directly, in which case there seems to be no need for the indirect 
multi-method approach.

Copyright 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1063
PMID: 16389641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Health Econ. 2006 Apr;15(4):393-402. doi: 10.1002/hec.1069.

Exploring challenges to TTO utilities: valuing states worse than dead.

Robinson A(1), Spencer A.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Health Policy and Practice University of East Anglia, 
Norwich, UK. angela.robinson@uea.ac.uk

The conventional time trade off (TTO) method relies on fundamentally different 
procedures to assess states better than and worse than dead. Arbitrary 
transformation mechanisms are then applied to worse than dead scores in order to 
achieve symmetry with those rated as better than dead. We use a 'life profile' 
approach along with a ranking procedure in order to show how states rated worse 
than dead may be assessed in exactly the same manner as better than dead scores. 
We then explore a common issue associated with states worse than dead that has 
received some attention recently: maximal endurable time. Our results showed 
that, although the severe health state was commonly rated as worse than dead, 
there were relatively few respondents that exhibited MET preferences. We discuss 
the implications of our findings for the use of the TTO method in deriving 
values for states that are worse than dead.

Copyright 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1069
PMID: 16389652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Health Econ. 2006 Jun;15(6):553-64. doi: 10.1002/hec.1082.

A preference-based index for the SF-12.

Stratmann-Schoene D(1), Kuehn T, Kreienberg R, Leidl R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Ulm, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The SF-12 is a widely used generic measure of subjective health. As 
the scoring algorithms of the SF-12 do not include preference values, different 
approaches to assign a preference-based index are available that should be 
tested regarding their feasibility and validity.
OBJECTIVES: To develop a concept for a preference-based index for the SF-12 on 
the basis of multi-attribute decision analysis and to perform initial tests of 
its feasibility and validity in an empirical study.
METHODS: A multi-attribute preference function for the SF-12 was developed, 
estimated and tested for validity. Two mail surveys (n = 100, 200) and an 
interview (n = 72) were conducted with women who had an operation for breast 
cancer. Visual analogue scale (VAS) and standard gamble (SG) measures elicited 
preference-based valuations.
RESULTS: Eight attributes were identified in the SF-12. Validity tests showed an 
average difference of 8 VAS score points between directly measured and predicted 
values for given health states.
CONCLUSION: The initial results show that this approach might allow the direct 
assignment of a preference-based valuation to the SF-12. The quality of the 
psychometric features of the multi-attribute value function is encouraging. 
Future studies should test this concept more extensively, especially by 
determining parameters for a representative sample of the general population and 
by comparing performance with other approaches to value the SF-12.

Copyright 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1082
PMID: 16389653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Health Econ. 2006 Jun;15(6):543-51. doi: 10.1002/hec.1074.

Does the whole equal the sum of the parts? Patient-assigned utility scores for 
IBS-related health states and profiles.

Brazier J(1), Dolan P, Karampela K, Towers I.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK.

The quality-adjusted life year (QALY) assumes that the value of a health state 
is linearly related to the time spent in it, which implies that the value of a 
health state is independent of the states which precede or follow it. Irritable 
bowel syndrome (IBS) is a suitable condition to test this assumption since it is 
subject to considerable fluctuations over time. Forty-nine IBS patients were 
asked to rate their own health using generic measures of health and a condition 
specific classification. They were then asked to value five IBS states and four 
profiles using a self-completed version of the standard gamble technique. The 
implied value of each profile was estimated using the QALY assumption of 
linearity over time and compared with the direct profile valuations. The 
directly elicited profile values suggest that reductions in the duration of IBS 
symptoms has less of an impact on the value of quality of life than would be 
implied by the QALY assumption of linearity over time, though the differences 
were small. There are a number of competing explanations for this finding, 
including possible sequence effects, quantity effects or time preference, or it 
might be due to gestalt effects resulting in a neglect of time spent in 
symptomatic states of health.

Copyright 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1074
PMID: 16389654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Health Econ. 2006 Mar;15(3):311-3; discussion 319-22. doi: 10.1002/hec.1066.

In defence of societal sovereignty: a comment on Nyman 'the inclusion of 
survivor consumption in CUA'.

Richardson JR(1), Olsen JA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Australia. 
jeff.richardson@buseco.monash.edu.au

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2004 May;13(5):417-27.

Whether to include or exclude consumption costs and costs of unrelated illnesses 
in economic evaluation is not a technical issue which may be answered by 
reference to individuals alone and the consistency of the treatment of 
individual costs and benefits. In the context of a publicly funded health 
service the relevant costs and benefits may differ from those normally included 
in evaluation studies. Specifically, the social welfare function is likely to 
exclude benefits which would result in preferential care for wealthier members 
of society. But this conclusion must be established by analysis of social, not 
individual, values.

Copyright 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1066
PMID: 16389655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Can J Ophthalmol. 2005 Oct;40(5):611-5. doi: 10.1016/s0008-4182(05)80055-9.

Congenital uveal malignant melanoma: a case report.

Palazzi MA(1), Ober MD, Abreu HF, Cardinalli IA, Isaac CR, Odashiro AN, Burnier 
MN Jr.

Author information:
(1)The Boldrini Children Center, Campinas, Brazil. palazzi@lexxa.com.br

CASE REPORT: We present a case of congenital choroidal mass in a male infant 
with multiple cutaneous pigmented lesions. Enucleation performed in the first 
weeks of life confirmed the diagnosis of diffuse uveal malignant melanoma with 
extraocular extension. The patient was also treated with 5 cycles of 
chemotherapy. He subsequently developed cutaneous and ocular pigmented lesions, 
including 2 choroidal nevi located within the posterior pole and a benign 
conjunctival lesion in the opposite eye, in addition to malignant melanoma of 
the skin.
COMMENTS: At 10 years follow-up, the child is clinically well with no evidence 
of further malignancy. We believe this represents the fourth case ever reported 
in the literature and the longest follow-up of a congenital malignant melanoma 
originating within the eye.

DOI: 10.1016/s0008-4182(05)80055-9
PMID: 16391626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. MMW Fortschr Med. 2005 Oct 20;147(42):31.

[Metabolic and cardiac problems in mental disorders. Mens insana in corpore 
insano].

[Article in German]

Füessl HS.

PMID: 16392166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Versicherungsmedizin. 2005 Dec 1;57(4):167-70.

[New findings on the influence of body weight on mortality].

[Article in German]

Wandl U(1), Jaggy Ch.

Author information:
(1)Aus der Swiss Re Germany AG, Unterföhring.

The link between obesity/adipositas and excess mortality has been a prominent 
topic in medical literature for some time. The epidemic increase in obesity in 
the western world is going to confront the medical profession with a new 
problem, particularly with regard to life expectancy trends and appropriate 
prophylactic measures. Swiss Reinsurance Company (Swiss Re), which has a large 
portfolio of life reinsurance business, has conducted a follow-up study over an 
observation period of 25 years (1976 - 2001) to investigate the correlation 
between body weight and mortality. The findings indicate that the 
lifestyle-related risks of obesity and adipositas, especially in combination 
with other risk factors such as high blood pressure and smoking, contribute to a 
significantly elevated mortality risk.

PMID: 16392376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Physiother Theory Pract. 2005 Apr-Jun;21(2):103-11. doi: 
10.1080/09593980590922325.

Respiratory exacerbations in children with cystic fibrosis: physiotherapy 
treatment outcomes.

Fifoot S(1), Wilson C, MacDonald J, Watter P.

Author information:
(1)School of Health & Rehabilitation Sciences, University of Queensland, St 
Lucia, Brisbane.

Treatment efficacy is crucial in cystic fibrosis (CF) as it impacts directly 
upon life expectancy, with its evaluation contributing to the evidence base for 
physiotherapy practice. This study assesses whether respiratory outcomes changed 
at the Royal Children's Hospital, Brisbane (RCH) over a period when 
physiotherapy airways clearance techniques altered All 1998 and 2000 admissions 
of children over two years of age to RCH for CF related respiratory 
exacerbations were included, totalling 248 admissions, 125 in 1998 and 123 in 
2000. Data for respiratory effort, cough quality, sputum volume/weight, sputum 
colour and sputum stickiness were analysed. Respiratory function test (RFT) 
results included: forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), forced vital 
capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory flow (FEF25-75%) and % of predicted values. 
Repeated measures ANOVA and appropriate post hoc tests evaluated changes 
occurring during the admissions. Independent-samples t-tests allowed comparison 
of the improvement in the two years. During hospital admission in both 1998 and 
2000, a significant improvement in RFT results occurred. Similar improvements in 
1998 and 2000 suggested no change in treatment efficacy had occurred. 
Significant changes during hospitalisation, in cough quality, sputum 
volume/weight, and sputum colour suggest that these variables are appropriate 
and simple physiotherapy outcome measures.

DOI: 10.1080/09593980590922325
PMID: 16392463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Cancer J. 2005 Nov-Dec;11(6):437-41. doi: 10.1097/00130404-200511000-00002.

Population aging and cancer: a cross-national concern.

Yancik R(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging, NIH, NDHHS, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-9205, USA. 
yancikr@nia.nih.gov

Although malignant tumors occur at all ages, cancer disproportionately strikes 
individuals in the age group 65 years and older. Data from the National Cancer 
Institute Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program for the most 
recent five-year period, 1998-2002, reveal that 56% of all newly diagnosed 
cancer patients and 71% of cancer deaths are in this age group. Median ages of 
cancer patients at death for the major tumors common to both males and females, 
all races (lung, colorectal, lymphoma, leukemia, pancreas, stomach, urinary 
bladder) range from 71 to 77 years. The median age for prostate cancer is 79 
years; for ovarian and female breast cancer, the median age is 71 for each 
tumor. These cancer statistics when cast against the demographic changes 
occurring in the U.S. population take on urgency and importance for cancer 
treatment and care in our nation's health care system. The U.S. Census Bureau 
demographic projections indicate that the number of persons 65 years and older 
in the United States will double from the current estimate of 35 million persons 
to a projected 70 million by 2030. Barring any cancer prevention breakthroughs, 
the expansion of the aged population will likely increase the absolute number of 
older individuals diagnosed and treated for cancer in coming decades. The United 
States is not unique as an aging developed industrial nation with a high 
proportion of the cancer burden in the elderly. Other developed industrial 
countries have a potentiality for increased cancer incidence and mortality as 
their populations grow older. This paper, using U.S. Bureau of Census 
demographic projections and current age standardized death rates per 100,000 
population (from Worldwide Cancer Mortality Statistics, Cancer Mondial, WHO, and 
the International Association for Research on Cancer) compares cancer in the 
elderly in Italy and the United States. Italy is demographically ranked as the 
oldest nation in the world. Dimensions of the cancer burden challenge ahead are 
inferred in the context of two countries with aging populations to underscore 
the possible increase that demographic factors may have on the magnitude of the 
cancer problem for older persons in the next 25 years.

DOI: 10.1097/00130404-200511000-00002
PMID: 16393477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Cancer J. 2005 Nov-Dec;11(6):442-8. doi: 10.1097/00130404-200511000-00003.

Prevention of cancer in the older person.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Oncology Program, University of South Florida College of 
Medicine, Tampa, Florida, USA. balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

Cancer is the most common cause of death up to the age of 85 years and is also a 
major cause of disability. Screening asymptomatic patients for cancer is the 
most promising strategy to reduce cancer-related morbidity and mortality in the 
older population. Though the information related to older people is scanty, it 
is reasonable to recommend that the screening of older individuals be based on 
life expectancy, tolerance of screening, and tolerance of antineoplastic 
therapy. Some form of screening for breast cancer appears indicated for 
individuals with life expectancy of 5 and more years. If screening for prostate 
cancer is indicated at all, it should be limited to men with a life expectancy 
of at least 10 years. The value of screening asymptomatic individuals for lung 
and ovarian cancer is explored in ongoing clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1097/00130404-200511000-00003
PMID: 16393478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2006 Jan;442:223-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.blo.0000181491.39048.fe.

Endoprosthetic and allograft-prosthetic composite reconstruction of the proximal 
femur for bone neoplasms.

Farid Y(1), Lin PP, Lewis VO, Yasko AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Oncology, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77230, USA.

Reconstruction of the proximal femur after tumor resection can be achieved with 
either an endoprosthesis or an allograft-prosthetic composite. We compared the 
two modalities for complications, functional outcome, and construct survival. We 
retrospectively analyzed 52 patients with endoprostheses and 20 with 
allograft-prosthetic composite reconstructions between 1974 and 2002. Median 
followup was 146 months and 76 months, respectively. Both methods were 
associated with low rates of early complications. Infections occurred in two 
patients with endoprostheses and one patient with an allograft-prosthetic 
composite reconstruction. Aseptic loosening was the most common (10%) late 
complication for patients with endoprostheses. Nonunion was the most common 
(10%) complication for patients with allograft prosthetic composite 
reconstructions. All host-allograft junctions eventually healed after 
bone-grafting. The Musculo skeletal Tumor Society scores were similar for 
patients with endoprostheses (70%) and allograft-prosthetic composites (82%). 
The median hip abductor strength was greater for patients with 
allograft-prosthetic composite reconstructions (4.6 of 5) than for patients with 
endoprostheses (2.8 of 5). Kaplan-Meier survivorship of the implant was 86% for 
both groups at 10 years. The consistent restoration of abductor muscle strength 
combined with the low morbidity and high durability support the use of 
allograft-prosthetic composite reconstruction in patients with long life 
expectancy.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic study, Level IV (case series--no, or historical 
control group). See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of 
levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1097/01.blo.0000181491.39048.fe
PMID: 16394765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2006 Feb 1;41(2):194-200. doi: 
10.1097/01.qai.0000179459.31562.16.

Comparisons of causes of death and mortality rates among HIV-infected persons: 
analysis of the pre-, early, and late HAART (highly active antiretroviral 
therapy) eras.

Crum NF(1), Riffenburgh RH, Wegner S, Agan BK, Tasker SA, Spooner KM, Armstrong 
AW, Fraser S, Wallace MR; Triservice AIDS Clinical Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Division, Clinical Investigation Department, Naval 
Medical Center San Diego, San Diego, CA 92134-1005, USA. 
nfcrum@nmcsd.med.navy.mil

METHODS: Comparisons of death-related variables during the 3 eras were 
performed.
RESULTS: The number of deaths declined over the study period, with 987 deaths in 
the pre-HAART era, 159 deaths in the early HAART era (1997-1999), and 78 deaths 
in the late HAART era (2000-2003) (P < 0.01). The annual death rate peaked in 
1995 (10.3 per 100 patients) and then declined to <2 deaths per 100 persons in 
the late HAART era (P < 0.01). The proportion of deaths attributable to 
infection decreased, but infection remained the leading cause of death in our 
cohort, followed by cancer. Of those who died, there was an increasing 
proportion of non-HIV-related deaths (32% vs. 9%; P < 0.01), including cardiac 
disease (22% vs. 8%; P < 0.01) and trauma (8% vs. 2%; P = 0.01) in the 
post-HAART versus pre-HAART era. Despite the absence of intravenous drug use and 
the low prevalence of hepatitis C coinfection in our cohort, an increasing 
proportion of deaths in the HAART era were attributable to liver disease, 
although the numbers are small.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite increasing concerns regarding antiretroviral resistance, 
the death rate among HIV-infected persons in our cohort continues to decline. 
Our data show a lower death rate than that reported among many other US 
HIV-infected populations; this may be the result of open access to health care. 
A shift in the causes of death toward non-HIV-related causes suggests that a 
more comprehensive health care approach may be needed for optimal life 
expectancy; this may include enhanced screening for malignancy and heart disease 
as well as preventive measures for liver disease and accidents.

DOI: 10.1097/01.qai.0000179459.31562.16
PMID: 16394852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2006 Feb;40(2):109-15. doi: 
10.1097/01.mcg.0000196186.19426.4a.

Defining a clinically significant adverse impact of diagnosing Barrett's 
esophagus.

Rubenstein JH(1), Inadomi JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Michigan Health System and Ann 
Arbor Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI 48105, USA. jhr@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Diagnosing a potentially life-threatening disease may adversely 
affect patient quality of life (QOL) independent of biologic effects. It is 
unknown whether the mere diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus (BE) adversely impacts 
patients' preferences (health-state utility) sufficiently to impair the 
cost-effectiveness of endoscopic screening for esophageal adenocarcinoma.
GOAL: To calculate the threshold impact on utility incurred by diagnosing BE 
that would allow screening to remain cost-effective.
STUDY: A Markov model was developed to examine strategies of no screening, and 
screening with surveillance of BE. Patients were 50-year-old white men with 
symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux followed until 80 years of age or death. The 
primary outcomes were the threshold decrements in utility incurred by diagnosing 
BE based on willingness to pay (WTP) of dollar 50,000 and dollar 100,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: For a WTP of dollar 50,000/QALY, the decrement in utility could be as 
great as 9%, meaning that screening is cost-effective as long as diagnosing BE 
does not impair QOL by more than 9%. For a WTP of dollar 100,000, the decrement 
could be as great as 10.5%.
CONCLUSIONS: The decrement in utility caused by diagnosing BE may be substantial 
without compromising the cost-effectiveness of endoscopic screening.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mcg.0000196186.19426.4a
PMID: 16394870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2005 Sep;117(17):604-9. doi: 10.1007/s00508-005-0426-8.

Recent data on endemic nephropathy and related urothelial tumors in Croatia.

Miletić-Medved M(1), Domijan AM, Peraica M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health of Brodsko-Posavska County, Slavonski Brod, 
Croatia.

Endemic nephropathy (EN) is a renal disease of unknown etiology. In Croatia it 
occurs in the rural population in 14 villages located in the western part of 
Brodsko-Posavska county. This region also has an unusually high incidence of 
otherwise rare upper urothelial cancers. Between 1991 and 2002 the average 
general mortality for both sexes in the endemic region was 10.3 per thousand and 
the specific mortality for patients with EN was 0.65 per thousand (M 
0.58/10((3)), F 0.72/10(3)). The average age of death of patients with EN was 
69.2 years (M 67.7, F 70.3), which is similar to the life expectancy for the 
rest of the population in the county (67.8, M 64.4, F 71.8). This life 
expectancy is significantly higher than in the period 1957-1960 when the average 
age of EN-related death was 45.1 years. Between 1995 and 2002, in contrast to 
both Croatia as a whole and the respective county, the specific mortality with 
tumors of the pyelon and ureter in the endemic region was much higher in women 
than in men (9.020 and 4.697 per 100,000, respectively). The specific mortality 
of all patients with urothelial tumors was 14 times higher in the endemic region 
than in Brodsko-Posavska county and 55 times higher than in Croatia overall. The 
much higher specific urothelial-tumor mortality in women than in men (in 
contrast to the rest of the country) and the higher specific EN mortality 
indicate that the causative agent of the two nosological entities is the same.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-005-0426-8
PMID: 16395990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Spinal Cord Med. 2005;28(4):379-80.

Spinal cord injury. Facts and figures at a glance.

National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center.

PMID: 16396388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Pediatrics. 2006 Jan;117(1):168-83. doi: 10.1542/peds.2005-2587.

Annual summary of vital statistics: 2004.

Hoyert DL(1), Mathews TJ, Menacker F, Strobino DM, Guyer B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, National Center for Health Statistics, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA. dlh7@cdc.gov

Erratum in
    Pediatrics. 2006 Jun;117(6):2338.

The crude birth rate in 2004 was 14.0 births per 1000 population, the second 
lowest ever reported for the United States. The number of births and the 
fertility rate (66.3) increased slightly (by <1%) from 2003 to 2004. Fertility 
rates were highest for Hispanic women (97.7), followed by Asian or Pacific 
Islander (67.2), non-Hispanic black (66.7), Native American (58.9), and 
non-Hispanic white (58.5) women. The birth rate for teen mothers continued to 
fall, dropping 1% from 2003 to 2004 to 41.2 births per 1000 women aged 15 to 19 
years, which is another record low. The teen birth rate has fallen 33% since 
1991; declines were more rapid for younger teens aged 15 to 17 (43%) than for 
older teens aged 18 to 19 (26%). The proportion of all births to unmarried women 
is now slightly higher than one third. Smoking during pregnancy declined 
slightly from 2003 to 2004. In 2004, 29.1% of births were delivered by cesarean 
delivery, up 6% since 2003 and 41% since 1996 (20.7%). The primary cesarean 
delivery rate has risen 41% since 1996, whereas the rate of vaginal birth after 
a previous cesarean delivery has fallen 67%. The use of timely prenatal care was 
84.0% in both 2003 and 2004. The percentage of preterm births rose to 12.5% in 
2004 from 10.6% in 1990 and 9.4% in 1981. The percentage of low birth weight 
births also increased to 8.1% in 2004, up from 6.7% in 1984. Twin birth rate and 
triplet/+ birth rates increased by 1% and <1%, respectively, from 2002 to 2003. 
Multiple births accounted for 3.3% of all births in 2003. The infant mortality 
rate was 7.0 per 1000 live births in 2002 compared with 6.8 in 2001. The ratio 
of the infant mortality rate among non-Hispanic black infants to that for 
non-Hispanic white infants was 2.4 in 2002, the same as in 2001. The United 
States continues to rank poorly in international comparisons of infant 
mortality. Expectation of life at birth reached a record high of 77.6 years for 
all gender and race groups combined. Death rates in the United States continue 
to decline, with death rates decreasing for 8 of the 15 leading causes. Death 
rates for children < or =19 years of age declined for 7 of the 10 leading causes 
in 2003. The death rates did not increase for any cause, and rates for heart 
disease, influenza, and pneumonia and septicemia did not change significantly 
for children as a group. A large proportion of childhood deaths, however, 
continue to occur as a result of preventable injuries.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2005-2587
PMID: 16396875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2006 Mar;26(3):548-54. doi: 
10.1161/01.ATV.0000202662.63876.02. Epub 2006 Jan 5.

Hepatic lipase deficiency delays atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, and 
cardiac dysfunction and extends lifespan in SR-BI/apolipoprotein E double 
knockout mice.

Karackattu SL(1), Trigatti B, Krieger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 
02139, USA.

OBJECTIVE: SR-BI/apolipoprotein (apo) E double knockout (dKO) mice exhibit many 
features of human coronary heart disease (CHD), including occlusive coronary 
atherosclerosis, cardiac hypertrophy, myocardial infarctions, and premature 
death. Here we determined the effects on this pathology of hepatic lipase (HL) 
deficiency, which has been shown to significantly modulate atherosclerosis.
METHOD AND RESULTS: The SR-BI/apoE/HL triple knockout (tKO) mice generated for 
this study lived significantly longer (37%) than corresponding dKO controls 
(average lifespans: 63.0+/-0.8 versus 46.0+/-0.3 days), despite their increased 
plasma cholesterol levels. At 6 weeks of age, compared with dKO mice, tKOs 
exhibited significantly less aortic root and coronary artery occlusive 
atherosclerosis, and improved cardiac structure and function. However, by 9 
weeks of age the hearts of tKO mice exhibited lipid-rich coronary occlusions, 
myocardial infarctions, and cardiac dysfunction essentially identical to that of 
6-week-old dKO mice.
CONCLUSIONS: HL-deficiency delays the onset and/or progression of 
atherosclerosis via a SR-BI-independent mechanism. Extent of occlusive coronary 
arterial lesions was more closely associated with cardiac dysfunction and 
lifespan than the amount of aortic root atherosclerosis, suggesting that these 
occlusions in dKO mice are responsible for ischemia, myocardial infarctions, and 
premature death.

DOI: 10.1161/01.ATV.0000202662.63876.02
PMID: 16397139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Stroke. 2006 Feb;37(2):345-50. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000199613.38911.b2. Epub 
2006 Jan 5.

The lifetime risk of stroke: estimates from the Framingham Study.

Seshadri S(1), Beiser A, Kelly-Hayes M, Kase CS, Au R, Kannel WB, Wolf PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Boston University, Boston, MA 
02118-2526, USA. Sudha.Seshadri@bmc.org

Comment in
