lifetime risk of 1 in 9. Despite the high incidence, breast cancer mortality is 
decreasing. Approximately 40,000 women were diagnosed with breast cancer in 
England and Wales in 2000 but the majority will have normal or near-normal life 
expectancy. One of the main contributory factors to this marked improvement in 
survival over the last 20 years in women of all ages has been the more 
widespread use of systemic therapy in early-stage disease. For women with 
hormone-sensitive cancer, this involves adjuvant endocrine therapy that reduces 
estrogen synthesis (i.e. ovarian suppression in premenopausal women or aromatase 
inhibitors in postmenopausal women) or estrogen activity (the anti-estrogen 
tamoxifen, irrespective of menopausal status). Many women experience health and 
quality-of-life problems related to estrogen deficiency as a result, the 
commonest being vasomotor symptoms and vaginal dryness. This article summarizes 
and interprets key recent papers on the use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) 
and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in breast cancer survivors. HRT may 
be safe in women with receptor-negative disease or receptor-positive cancers in 
the presence of tamoxifen. However, there is a dearth of useful alternatives.

DOI: 10.1258/136218005775544273
PMID: 16354457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Neurol Res. 2005 Dec;27(8):882-6. doi: 10.1179/016164105X49427.

Cognitive impairment and mortality in older healthy Mexican subjects: a 
population-based 10-year follow-up study.

Arauz A(1), Alonso E, Rodríguez-Saldaña J, Reynoso-Marenco M, Benitez IT, 
Mayorga AM, Rodríguez-Agudelo Y, Romero AV, Cantú C.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía Manuel Velasco Suárez; México 
City, Mexico. arauzg@prodigy.net.mx

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the incidence of cognitive impairment (CI) among 
cognitively healthy, Mexican subjects, and to evaluate the impact of demographic 
and vascular factors on the conversion to CI and mortality.
METHODS: 734 eligible subjects (aged 55 to >90 years) from a population-based 
sample were examined. The cognitive function of participants was assessed using 
the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) every 2 years. The subjects were 
followed for an average of 3.2 years. The CI was defined using two sets of 
criteria: (i) moderate CI, as a drop to 25-21 on the MMSE at 2-year follow-up or 
a decrease of at least four points and (ii) severe CI, defined as a drop of 21 
or less in MMES at follow-up. The incidence density and period prevalence were 
determined as epidemiological measures as well as the cumulative incidence as a 
risk measure. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were used to analyse the main points 
of interest: CI, dementia and mortality.
RESULTS: The period prevalence of moderate CI was 20%, and 10% for severe CI. 
During 1959 person-years of follow-up, severe CI developed in 33 of the 361 
participants. While during 2096 person-years of follow-up; 80 of 361 
participants developed moderate CI. The rate of progression to severe CI in 
moderate CI subjects gradually increases with follow-up. Both, moderate and 
severe CI were associated with low educational level, higher age and higher 
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly people with moderate CI have an increased risk of severe 
CI. Moderate and severe CI are both predictive of higher mortality in Mexican 
subjects.

DOI: 10.1179/016164105X49427
PMID: 16354550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2005 Dec;73(6):1151-8.

Health and demographic surveillance in rural western Kenya: a platform for 
evaluating interventions to reduce morbidity and mortality from infectious 
diseases.

Adazu K(1), Lindblade KA, Rosen DH, Odhiambo F, Ofware P, Kwach J, Van Eijk AM, 
Decock KM, Amornkul P, Karanja D, Vulule JM, Slutsker L.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/Kenya Program, Nairobi, Kenya.

We established a health and demographic surveillance system in a rural area of 
western Kenya to measure the burden of infectious diseases and evaluate public 
health interventions. After a baseline census, all 33,990 households were 
visited every four months. We collected data on educational attainment, 
socioeconomic status, pediatric outpatient visits, causes of death in children, 
and malaria transmission. The life expectancy at birth was 38 years, the infant 
mortality rate was 125 per 1000 live births, and the under-five mortality rate 
was 227 per 1,000 live births. The increased mortality rate in younger men and 
women suggests high human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome-related mortality in the population. Of 5,879 sick child visits, the 
most frequent diagnosis was malaria (71.5%). Verbal autopsy results for 661 
child deaths (1 month to <12 years) implicated malaria (28.9%) and anemia 
(19.8%) as the most common causes of death in children. These data will provide 
a basis for generating further research questions, developing targeted 
interventions, and evaluating their impact.

PMID: 16354829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. BMJ. 2005 Dec 17;331(7530):1418-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7530.1418.

The health crisis in Russia.

Atun RA.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7530.1418
PMCID: PMC1315632
PMID: 16356950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Cancer Res. 2005 Dec 15;65(24):11411-8. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-1140.

Stepwise neoplastic transformation of a telomerase immortalized fibroblast cell 
line.

Zongaro S(1), de Stanchina E, Colombo T, D'Incalci M, Giulotto E, Mondello C.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Genetica Molecolare, Consiglio Nazionale della Ricerche, Pavia, 
Italy.

We have described recently a human fibroblast cell line immortalized through 
ectopic telomerase expression (cen3tel), in which the extension of the life span 
was associated with the appearance of chromosomal aberrations and with the 
ability to grow in the absence of solid support. As reported in this article, on 
further propagation in culture, cen3tel cells became neoplastically transformed, 
being able to form tumors in nude mice. The analysis of the cells, during the 
gradual transition toward the tumorigenic phenotype, allowed us to trace 
cellular and molecular changes associated with different phases of 
transformation. At the stage in which they were able to grow in agar, cen3tel 
cells had lost contact growth inhibition but still retained the requirement of 
serum to proliferate and were not tumorigenic in immunocompromised mice. 
Moreover, they showed a down-regulation of the INK4A locus and were resistant to 
oncogenic Ras-induced senescence but still retained a functional p53. 
Subsequently, cen3tel cells became tumorigenic, lost p53 function because of a 
mutation in the DNA-binding motif, and overexpressed c-myc. Interestingly, 
tumorigenic cells did not carry activating mutations either in the ras 
proto-oncogenes (H-ras, N-ras, and K-ras) or in B-raf. Cen3tel cells gradually 
became hyperdiploid but did not display centrosome abnormalities. To our 
knowledge, cen3tel is the first telomerase immortalized fibroblast line, which 
became neoplastically transformed. In this system, we could associate a 
down-regulation of the INK4A locus with anchorage-independent growth and with 
resistance to Ras-induced senescence and link p53 mutations and c-myc 
overexpression with tumorigenicity.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-1140
PMID: 16357149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Cancer Res. 2005 Dec 15;65(24):11469-77. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-1724.

Inhibition of DNA methylation sensitizes glioblastoma for tumor necrosis 
factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand-mediated destruction.

Eramo A(1), Pallini R, Lotti F, Sette G, Patti M, Bartucci M, Ricci-Vitiani L, 
Signore M, Stassi G, Larocca LM, Crinò L, Peschle C, De Maria R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Istituto Superiore 
di Sanità, Rome, Italy.

Life expectancy of patients affected by glioblastoma multiforme is extremely 
low. The therapeutic use of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing 
ligand (TRAIL) has been proposed to treat this disease based on its ability to 
kill glioma cell lines in vitro and in vivo. Here, we show that, differently 
from glioma cell lines, glioblastoma multiforme tumors were resistant to TRAIL 
stimulation because they expressed low levels of caspase-8 and high levels of 
the death receptor inhibitor PED/PEA-15. Inhibition of methyltransferases by 
decitabine resulted in considerable up-regulation of TRAIL receptor-1 and 
caspase-8, down-regulation of PED/PEA-15, inhibition of cell growth, and 
sensitization of primary glioblastoma cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis. 
Exogenous caspase-8 expression was the main event able to restore TRAIL 
sensitivity in primary glioblastoma cells. The antitumor activity of decitabine 
and TRAIL was confirmed in vivo in a mouse model of glioblastoma multiforme. 
Evaluation of tumor size, apoptosis, and caspase activation in nude mouse 
glioblastoma multiforme xenografts showed dramatic synergy of decitabine and 
TRAIL in the treatment of glioblastoma, whereas the single agents were scarcely 
effective in terms of reduction of tumor mass, apoptosis induction, and caspase 
activation. Thus, the combination of TRAIL and demethylating agents may provide 
a key tool to overcome glioblastoma resistance to therapeutic treatments.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-1724
PMID: 16357155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2006 Jan;85(1):61-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.phm.0000179479.30543.1c.

Functional and neuromotor performance in older adults: effect of 12 wks of 
aerobic exercise.

Kalapotharakos VI(1), Michalopoulos M, Strimpakos N, Diamantopoulos K, 
Tokmakidis SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education and Sport Science, Democritus University of 
Thrace, Athens, Greece.

OBJECTIVE: There is little information regarding the effect of aerobic exercise 
on physical and neuromotor performance in older adults. The aim of this 
randomized, controlled trial was to determine the effects of a 12-wk aerobic 
exercise program on functional and neuromotor performance in inactive healthy 
older adults.
DESIGN: A total of 22 inactive healthy older adults, aged 60-75 yrs, voluntarily 
participated in the study and were randomly assigned to a progressively 
increased high-intensity aerobic exercise group (n = 12) or to a control group 
(n = 10). The aerobic exercise group exercised three times per week for 12 wks 
on nonconsecutive days. Both groups were evaluated before and after the exercise 
period in the one-repetition maximum of knee extensors and flexors, 6-min walk 
distance, chair-rising time, and whole-body reaction time.
RESULTS: Multivariate analysis of variance repeated measures (2 x 2) revealed 
significant (P < 0.05) time by group interaction for one-repetition maximum knee 
extension and flexion strength, 6-min walk distance, chair-rising time, and 
whole-body reaction time. For the aerobic exercise group, the following 
variables improved significantly (P < 0.05) after the exercise period: the 
one-repetition maximum knee extensors (12%) and flexors (19%) muscle strength, 
6-min walk distance (17%), chair-rising time (8%), and whole-body reaction time 
(20%). No significant differences were observed in the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study show that short-term progressively 
increased high-intensity aerobic exercise improved the physical and neuromotor 
performance in inactive healthy older adults. These findings suggest that the 
participation in a progressively increased high-intensity aerobic exercise 
program may improve mobility and ability to carry out activities of daily living 
in older adults.

DOI: 10.1097/01.phm.0000179479.30543.1c
PMID: 16357550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. J Hum Hypertens. 2006 Jan;20(1):51-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001939.

Cost-effectiveness of losartan-based therapy in patients with hypertension and 
left ventricular hypertrophy: a UK-based economic evaluation of the Losartan 
Intervention for Endpoint reduction in hypertension (LIFE) study.

McInnes G(1), Burke TA, Carides G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Division of Cardiovascular and 
Medical Sciences, Gardiner Institute, Western Infirmary, Glasgow, UK. 
gordon.t.mcinnes@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

Comment in
    Evid Based Cardiovasc Med. 2006 Jun;10(2):94-5.

The Losartan Intervention for Endpoint reduction in hypertension (LIFE) study 
demonstrated the clinical benefit of losartan-based therapy in hypertensive 
patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), mainly due to a highly 
significant 25% reduction in the relative risk of stroke compared with an 
atenolol-based regimen, for a similar reduction in blood pressure. The aim of 
this economic evaluation was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of losartan 
compared with atenolol from a UK national health system perspective. 
Quality-adjusted survival and direct medical costs were modelled beyond the 
trial using the within-trial incidence of stroke. Survival with stroke, study 
medication use and quality of life by stroke status were taken directly from the 
LIFE trial. The LIFE data were supplemented with UK data on lifetime direct 
medical costs of stroke and life expectancy in individuals without stroke. No 
additional stroke events or use of study treatment were assumed beyond the 
trial. Costs and benefits were discounted using current UK Treasury rates. In 
the base-case analysis, the reduction in stroke-related costs (by 968 sterling 
pound) offset 86% of the increase in study medication costs (1128 sterling 
pound) among losartan-treated patients. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) for losartan versus atenolol in hypertensive patients with LVH was 2130 
sterling pound per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained (3195 Euro/QALY), 
and this increased to 11,352 sterling pound per QALY gained (16,450 Euro/QALY) 
when the costs of stroke beyond the first 5 years were excluded. Thus, the 
clinical benefit of losartan was achieved at a cost well within reported 
thresholds for cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001939
PMID: 16357874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. N S W Public Health Bull. 2005 Jul-Aug;16(7-8):130. doi: 10.1071/nb05037.

NSW health Aboriginal health impact statement.

Wheeler L(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Aboriginal health, NSW Department of Health.

DOI: 10.1071/nb05037
PMID: 16357938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. J Heart Valve Dis. 2005 Nov;14(6):792-9; discussion 799-800.

Early and late results of the surgical correction of cardiac prosthetic 
paravalvular leaks.

Akins CW(1), Bitondo JM, Hilgenberg AD, Vlahakes GJ, Madsen JC, MacGillivray TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, White 503, Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit 
Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA. cakins@partners.org

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Although the incidence of paravalular leaks, 
the most common cause of non-structural dysfunction after valve replacement, is 
well defined, the results of their surgical correction are not. Given the 
growing enthusiasm for interventional catheter-based correction of paravalvular 
leaks, a current surgical baseline against which to compare these results is 
important.
METHODS: All patients who had surgical correction of an aortic or mitral 
paravalvular leak unrelated to acute bacterial endocarditis between 1986 and 
2001 were identified from a computerized registry. Hospital records were 
reviewed, and follow up data obtained.
RESULTS: A total of 136 consecutive patients (73 males, 63 females; mean age 64 
years) underwent surgical correction of a paravalvular leak. Of the valves, 44 
(32%) were aortic and 92 (68%) mitral. More than one previous cardiac operation 
had been performed in 68 patients (50%). In 107 patients (79%; 32 aortic (73%), 
75 mitral (82%)), the leak was the primary indication for reoperation, while for 
29 patients (21%; 12 aortic (27%), 17 mitral (18%)) the correction was secondary 
to another cardiac procedure. In 65 patients (48%; 12 aortic (27%), 53 (58%) 
mitral)) the leak was repaired primarily, while in 71 patients (52%; 32 aortic 
(73%), 39 (42%) mitral)) the prosthesis was replaced. Operative mortality was 
6.6% (n = 9). There were no significant multivariable predictors of hospital 
death. Perioperative stroke occurred in seven cases (5.1%), and hospital stay 
was >14 days in 40 patients (29%). The 10-year Kaplan-Meier survival was 30 (CI 
20-39)%. Ten-year actual versus actuarial freedom from repeat paravalvular leak 
was 84 (CI 68-92)% versus 63 (CI 49-76)%.
CONCLUSION: Surgical correction of cardiac paravalvular leaks can be performed 
with acceptable mortality and morbidity. Patients with surgically corrected 
paravalvular leaks have a limited life expectancy, but reasonable freedom from 
recurrent paravalvular leak.

PMID: 16359061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Vox Sang. 2006 Jan;90(1):1-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2006.00722.x.

Paediatric transfusion.

New HV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, St Mary's Hospital, London, UK. 
helen.new@st-mary.nhs.uk

The requirements of children undergoing transfusion should be considered as a 
distinct entity from those of adults. Neonates are particularly vulnerable and 
there have been concerns over infective or toxic risks to this group. Neonates 
may also have more acute side-effects as a result of their small blood volume. 
Most children who are transfused will have a good life expectancy, so long-term 
side-effects will be more significant than for adults. In Britain, there are a 
number of transfusion components with neonatal specifications, but there appears 
to be some confusion, among both medical and laboratory staff, as to the 
appropriate use of these. Although there are many paediatric guidelines on the 
use of blood, there is a lack of evidence underlying these. However, there are 
trends to decreased blood usage in neonates and ongoing studies to investigate 
the appropriate use of blood for children.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2006.00722.x
PMID: 16359350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Dec 20;46(12):2311-21. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2005.08.033.

Cost effectiveness of cardiac resynchronization therapy in the Comparison of 
Medical Therapy, Pacing, and Defibrillation in Heart Failure (COMPANION) trial.

Feldman AM(1), de Lissovoy G, Bristow MR, Saxon LA, De Marco T, Kass DA, Boehmer 
J, Singh S, Whellan DJ, Carson P, Boscoe A, Baker TM, Gunderman MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19107, USA. arthur.feldman@jefferson.edu

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005 Dec 20;46(12):2322-4.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Sep 19;48(6):1283.

OBJECTIVES: The analysis goal was to estimate incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) for the Comparison of Medical Therapy, Pacing, and Defibrillation 
in Heart Failure (COMPANION) trial patients who received cardiac 
resynchronization therapy (CRT) via pacemaker (CRT-P) or pacemaker-defibrillator 
(CRT-D) in combination with optimal pharmacological therapy (OPT) relative to 
patients with OPT alone.
BACKGROUND: In the COMPANION trial, CRT-P and CRT-D reduced the combined risk of 
all-cause mortality or first hospitalization among patients with advanced heart 
failure and intraventricular conduction delays, but the cost effectiveness of 
the therapy remains unknown.
METHODS: In this analysis, intent-to-treat trial data were modeled to estimate 
the cost effectiveness of CRT-D and CRT-P relative to OPT over a base-case 
seven-year treatment episode. Exponential survival curves were derived from 
trial data and adjusted by quality-of-life trial results to yield 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). For the first two years, follow-up 
hospitalizations were based on trial data. The model assumed equalized 
hospitalization rates beyond two years. Initial implantation and follow-up 
hospitalization costs were estimated using Medicare data.
RESULTS: Over two years, follow-up hospitalization costs were reduced by 29% for 
CRT-D and 37% for CRT-P. Extending the cost-effectiveness analysis to a 
seven-year base-case time period, the ICER for CRT-P was 19,600 dollars per QALY 
and the ICER for CRT-D was 43,000 dollars per QALY relative to OPT.
CONCLUSIONS: For the COMPANION trial patients, the use of CRT-P and CRT-D was 
associated with a cost-effectiveness ratio below generally accepted benchmarks 
for therapeutic interventions of 50,000 dollars per QALY to 100,000 dollars per 
QALY. This suggests that the clinical benefits of CRT-P and CRT-D can be 
achieved at a reasonable cost.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.08.033
PMID: 16360064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Cancer Treat Rev. 2005;31 Suppl 4:S3-9. doi: 10.1016/s0305-7372(05)80002-7.

How to maximize the efficacy of taxanes in breast cancer.

Tubiana-Hulin M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre Rene Huguenin, Saint Cloud, France.

The life-expectancy of women with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) is closely 
linked to response to therapy. A significant increase in progression-free 
survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) has been demonstrated in women who 
achieve a complete response. Anthracycline combinations have been proven as 
highly effective in MBC, and anthracycline regimens plus cyclophosphamide with 
or without fluorouracil were established as first-line chemotherapy for MBC in 
the 1990s. Clinical trials have shown that anthracycline-taxane combinations are 
more effective than anthracyclines or taxanes alone in terms of overall response 
rates (ORR), PFS and OS in women who have not received prior anthracycline 
chemotherapy. The use of anthracycline-based regimens is limited, however, by 
the widespread use of anthracycline adjuvant therapy and the development of 
anthracycline-resistance. Platinum-taxane combinations have similar efficacy to 
anthracycline-based regimens and are well-tolerated by patients. Carboplatin 
combined with paclitaxel or docetaxel is more effective than carboplatin or 
taxanes alone, with ORR of 53-62%. Taxane combinations with gemcitabine or 
capecitabine are also more effective than docetaxel, paclitaxel, capecitabine or 
gemcitabine administered alone. The efficacy of docetaxel and paclitaxel can be 
increased, and drug-related toxicity decreased, by adapting dose-dense schedules 
of drug administration. The addition of trastuzumab to taxane-based chemotherapy 
increases the efficacy of taxane-based regimens in women with HER2-positive MBC.

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-7372(05)80002-7
PMID: 16360546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Orthopade. 2006 Feb;35(2):192-6. doi: 10.1007/s00132-005-0908-4.

[Revision surgery for knee prostheses using the DRG system].

[Article in German]

Kaufmann MM(1), Behra A, Philipps B, Siebert CH.

Author information:
(1)Klinik 1, Orthopädisches Fachkrankenhaus Annastift, Hannover. 
Kaufmann@annastift.de

Due to an increasing life expectancy and earlier primary implantation of total 
knee replacements, the number of patients requiring revision surgery in Germany 
is increasing by 7% every year. These revision cases belong to the most 
treatment and cost intensive operations in joint replacement surgery. Presently, 
the description of these procedures in the German DRG system, which defines the 
financial reimbursement for the hospitals, is changing yearly with the 
development of new catalogues. The changes made from 2003 to 2005 are outlined 
in the following article. A correct depiction of the treatment and procedures 
required in such cases is a prerequisite for an adequate reimbursement. In the 
long-term, hospitals will only be able to offer such complex treatment forms if 
the financial compensation correctly reflects the costs incurred.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-005-0908-4
PMID: 16362137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Surg Endosc. 2006 Feb;20(2):286-93. doi: 10.1007/s00464-005-0121-x. Epub
2005  Dec 9.

Does laparoscopy worsen the prognosis for incidental gallbladder cancer?

Goetze T(1), Paolucci V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ketteler-Krankenhaus, Offenbach, 63071, Hessen, 
Germany. ThGoetze@aol.com

BACKGROUND: More than 75% of cholecystectomies are done laparoscopically and 
less than one-third of gallbladder carcinomas are known presurgically. It is 
supposed that the laparoscopic technique could adversely affect the prognosis of 
gallbladder cancer.
METHODS: The C-A-E has started a register of all cases of cholecystectomy with a 
postoperative incidental finding of gallbladder carcinoma. The aim is to compare 
the prospectively collected follow-up data on the outcome of these patients and 
to answer the question of whether laparoscopic cholecystectomy affects the 
prognosis of incidental gallbladder cancer.
RESULTS: A total of 377 cases have been recorded so far. These include 201 
patients treated by the laparoscopic procedure, 119 by an open procedure, and 57 
by an intraoperative conversion. The survival shows a significantly better life 
expectancy for the patients treated laparoscopically.
CONCLUSION: The life expectancy is higher for the laparoscopically treated 
patients and this cannot be explained by the fact that the laparoscopic 
technique is used to treat the earlier stages of cancer. The access technique 
does not seem to influence the prognosis for gallbladder carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-005-0121-x
PMID: 16362480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. New Atlantis. 2005 Fall;10:3-16.

Conservatives, liberals, and medical progress.

Callahan D(1).

Author information:
(1)International Program, The Hastings Center, USA.

PMID: 16363075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Drugs Aging. 2005;22(12):1061-9. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200522120-00005.

Solifenacin in overactive bladder syndrome.

Simpson D(1), Wagstaff AJ.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Solifenacin is a bladder-selective, muscarinic (M(1) and M(3)) receptor 
antagonist. In animal studies, the selectivity of solifenacin for the bladder 
over the salivary glands was greater than that of tolterodine, oxybutynin, 
darifenacin or atropine. In large, 12-week, randomised, double-blind, 
multicentre clinical trials, solifenacin 5 and 10mg once daily improved symptoms 
of overactive bladder syndrome (OAB) [urinary urgency, frequency, incontinence 
and nocturia] and increased functional bladder capacity to a significantly 
greater extent than placebo. Solifenacin 5 or 10mg once daily was noninferior to 
tolterodine extended release (ER) 4mg daily for improving urinary frequency and 
had significantly greater efficacy than tolterodine ER for improving other 
symptoms of OAB (episodes of urgency, incontinence and urge incontinence) and 
increasing functional bladder capacity. At least half of all patients receiving 
solifenacin who were incontinent at baseline were continent by study end in the 
three comparative studies reporting this parameter. Health-related quality of 
life was significantly improved with once-daily solifenacin 5 or 10mg versus 
placebo, as assessed in two 12-week double-blind studies; the improvement was 
maintained during a 40-week extension study. Solifenacin was generally well 
tolerated; the most frequently reported adverse events were dry mouth, 
constipation and blurred vision.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200522120-00005
PMID: 16363887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. J Eval Clin Pract. 2005 Dec;11(6):513-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2005.00584.x.

Benefit assessment of preventive medical check-ups in patients suffering from 
chronic granulomatous disease (CGD).

Roesler J(1), Koch A, Pörksen G, von Bernuth H, Brenner S, Hahn G, Fischer R, 
Lorenz N, Gahr M, Rösen-Wolff A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University Clinic Carl Gustav Carus Dresden, 
Germany. roeslerj@rcs.urz.tu-dresden.de

BACKGROUND: Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) patients are susceptible to 
recurrent opportunistic infections and to recurrent or chronic inflammations of 
presumably non-infectious origin. Both types of manifestations are often 
accompanied by granuloma formation. Both can remain unnoticed until they 
deteriorate considerably and can become life-threatening if not treated in time.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of regular follow-up visits in CGD 
patients.
METHODS: Findings of imaging (ultrasound, radiographs, computer-tomography, 
magnetic resonance imaging), lung function tests, histopathological and 
microbiological assessments of biopsies have been reviewed.
RESULTS: A total of 32 CGD patients have been evaluated within 15 years. Of 
these eight patients have been checked regularly for more than 5 years. Early 
detection prior to specific clinical signs and consecutive treatment of six lung 
manifestations and one liver manifestation such as interstitial pneumonia with 
formation of small granulomas, formation of large granulomas, fibrosis, 
Aspergillus infections, and abscesses could presumably prevent considerable 
aggravation in seemingly healthy or mildly symptomatic patients. In contrast, 
patients without surveillance who presented with severe symptoms (seven 
manifestations) often had irreversible organ damage or even died.
CONCLUSIONS: Regular follow-up visits can help prevent or mitigate clinical 
manifestations, improve life quality and expectancy and weigh indication for 
bone marrow transplantation in CGD patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2005.00584.x
PMID: 16364103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Ann Chir. 2006 Jan;131(1):12-21. doi: 10.1016/j.anchir.2005.09.014. Epub
2005  Nov 7.

[Medicoeconomic evaluation of the treatment of morbid obesity by Swedish 
adjustable gastric banding (SAGB)].

[Article in French]

Chevallier JM(1), Daoud F, Szwarcensztein K, Volcot MF, Rupprecht MF.

Author information:
(1)Service chirurgie générale et digestive, hôpital européen Georges-Pompidou, 
20, rue Leblanc, 75015 Paris, France. 
jean-marc.chevallier@hop.egp.ap-hop-paris.fr

INTRODUCTION: Aim of the present study was to analyze the medicoeconomic impact 
of each treatment for obesity in France, taking into account morbid 
obesity-associated comorbidities from a health insurance perspective and to 
calculate the cost-effectiveness ratio of SAGB compared to the non-surgical 
treatment for various kinds of patients, as well as the budget impact on a given 
cohort of patients.
METHODS: The model studied surgery-eligible patients and compared the 
effectiveness of the SAGB treatment to the conventional treatment. The follow-up 
extended from 1 to 5 years. Costs analyzed were treatment-related direct medical 
costs, as well as potential comorbidities costs. The effectiveness is determined 
according to the BMI loss and its maintenance over time, together with the level 
of improved quality of life.
RESULTS: An evaluation on a series of 1,000 patients shows that the treatment 
with SAGB is dominant (less expensive, more effective in terms of loss of BMI 
and its duration) compared to the conventional treatment for patients suffering 
from type II diabetes or obstructive sleep apnea. The same evaluation in terms 
of QALYs shows that the treatment with SAGB is dominant compared to the 
conventional treatment for patients with a BMI >or= 35 kg/m(2) and a type II 
diabetes, as well as for patients whose BMI >or= 40 kg/m(2) (with or without 
type II diabetes mellitus).

DOI: 10.1016/j.anchir.2005.09.014
PMID: 16364230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Brain Res Rev. 2006 Jun;51(1):85-107. doi:
10.1016/j.brainresrev.2005.10.004.  Epub 2005 Dec 20.

Cannabinoids, opioids and eating behavior: the molecular face of hedonism?

Cota D(1), Tschöp MH, Horvath TL, Levine AS.

Author information:
(1)Obesity Research Center, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Cincinnati-Genome Research Institute, 2170 E Galbraith Road, Cincinnati, OH 
45237, USA. daniela.cota@uc.edu

Obesity represents nowadays one of the most devastating health threats. 
Published reports even project a decline in life expectancy of US citizens due 
to the rapidly increasing prevalence of obesity. This alarming increase is 
intimately linked with recent changes of environment and lifestyle in western 
countries. In this context, the rewarding or even addictive properties of 
popular food may represent one of the most serious obstacles to overcome for an 
effective anti-obesity therapy. Therefore, in addition to molecular networks 
controlling energy homeostasis, now researchers are starting to define central 
nervous mechanisms governing hedonic and addictive components of food intake. A 
recently emerging body of data suggests that the endogenous cannabinoid and 
opioid systems both represent key circuits responding to the rewarding value of 
food. This review focuses on the role of these two systems for the homeostatic 
and hedonic aspects of eating behavior and includes their anatomical and 
functional interactions. Independent from the degree to which eating can be 
considered an addiction, cannabinoid and opioid receptor antagonists are 
promising anti-obesity drugs, since they are targeting both hedonic and 
homeostatic components of energy balance control.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresrev.2005.10.004
PMID: 16364446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Soc Sci Med. 2006 May;62(10):2489-99. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.11.019.
Epub  2005 Dec 20.

Does socio-economic advantage lead to a longer, healthier old age?

Matthews RJ(1), Jagger C, Hancock RM.

Author information:
(1)University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. rjf14@le.ac.uk

The effect of socio-economic disadvantage on mortality is well documented and 
differences exist even at older ages. However, whether this translates into 
differences in the quality of life lived at older ages is less well studied, and 
in particular in the proportion of remaining life spent without ill health 
(healthy life expectancy), a key UK Government target. Although there have been 
studies exploring socio-economic differences in disability-free life expectancy 
(DFLE) worldwide, these have tended to focus on a single measure of 
socio-economic advantage, for example, education, race, social class or income, 
with the majority based on cross-sectional data from younger populations. In 
this prospective study we examine differences in DFLE and total life expectancy 
(TLE) at older ages using a range of measures of socio-economic advantage. We 
use a longitudinal study of 1480 participants aged 75 years or over in 1988 
registered with a UK primary care practice, who were followed up until 2003 with 
measurements at up to seven time points. Disability was defined as difficulty 
with any one of five activities of daily living. The largest differences in DFLE 
for both men and women were found for housing tenure. Women aged 75 years living 
in owned or mortgaged property could expect to live 1 year extra without 
disability compared with those living in rented accommodation, while for men the 
difference was almost 1.5 years. The effect of socio-economic advantage on 
disability-free and total life expectancies appeared to be larger for men than 
women. In women, socio-economic advantage had more effect on DFLE than total 
life expectancy for all indicators considered, thus the socio-economically 
advantaged experienced a compression of disability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.11.019
PMID: 16364526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2005 Dec;24(12):2262-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2005.07.005. Epub 2005 Nov 17.

Health-related quality of life in two hundred-eighty lung transplant recipients.

Kugler C(1), Fischer S, Gottlieb J, Welte T, Simon A, Haverich A, Strueber M.

Author information:
(1)Hannover Thoracic Transplant Program, Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular 
Surgery, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany. kugler@thg.mh-hannover.de

BACKGROUND: Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has increasingly been 
accepted as a supplementary outcome measure for patients after lung 
transplantation (LTx).
METHODS: Using a retrospective cross-sectional study design, 280 LTx recipients 
(3 months to 14 years after LTx) were asked to assess their HRQoL using a 
generic (Quality of Life Profile for Chronic Diseases) questionnaire, which was 
previously validated for this specific population. In addition, the 
questionnaire was also performed by 155 healthy participants.
RESULTS: All sub-scale findings ranged from 2.40 to 3.08 (0 to 4) for all 
patients after LTx. A significantly reduced HRQoL was reported by the sub-cohort 
of patients living 5 to 6 years with the allograft for all sub-scales (p < 
0.006), except for Social Functioning, and was associated with the incidence of 
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS; p < 0.05). Cystic fibrosis patients (p < 
0.05), single-lung transplant recipients (p < 0.05) and patients of older age (p 
< 0.05) showed significantly decreased physical ability ratings. Patients who 
remained free of infection and late acute rejection episodes scored themselves 
significantly higher with regard to their Relaxation Capabilities (p < 0.05 for 
rejection; p < 0.05 for infection) and Social Functioning (p < 0.01 for 
rejection; p < 0.05 for infection) vs patients who experienced infection or 
rejection episodes. Comparisons with a normative cohort showed similar HRQoL 
scales for LTx patients and the healthy population, except with regard to Social 
Functioning (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Self-ratings for HRQoL were high for all dimensions for the entire 
sample, and remained relatively similar even for medium- and long-term 
survivors. HRQoL was dependent on incidence of infections, rejections and the 
onset of BOS. Despite differences in life expectancy of LTx patients compared 
with the healthy population, HRQoL self-ratings were within similar ranges.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2005.07.005
PMID: 16364880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Ann Intern Med. 2005 Dec 20;143(12):857-69. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-143-12-200512200-00004.

Empirical anti-Candida therapy among selected patients in the intensive care 
unit: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Golan Y(1), Wolf MP, Pauker SG, Wong JB, Hadley S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geographic Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Tufts-New England 
Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA. ygolan@tufts-nemc.org

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Apr 4;144(7):534-5; author reply 535.

BACKGROUND: Mortality from invasive candidiasis is high. Low culture sensitivity 
and treatment delay contribute to increased mortality, but nonselective early 
therapy may result in excess costs and drug resistance.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of anti-Candida strategies for 
high-risk patients in the intensive care unit (ICU).
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness decision model.
DATA SOURCES: Published data to 10 May 2005, identified from MEDLINE and 
Cochrane Library searches, ICU databases, expert estimates, and actual hospital 
costs.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients in the ICU with suspected infection who have not 
responded to antibacterial therapy.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Fluconazole, caspofungin, amphotericin B, or lipid formulation of 
amphotericin B given as either empirical or culture-based therapy and no 
anti-Candida therapy.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental life expectancy and incremental cost per 
discounted life-year (DLY) saved.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Ten percent of the target population will have 
invasive candidiasis. Empirical caspofungin therapy is the most effective 
strategy but is expensive (295,115 dollars per DLY saved). Empirical fluconazole 
therapy is the most reasonable strategy (12,593 dollars per DLY saved) and 
decreases mortality from 44.0% to 30.4% in patients with invasive candidiasis 
and from 22.4% to 21.0% in the overall target cohort.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Empirical fluconazole therapy is reasonable for 
likelihoods of invasive candidiasis greater than 2.5% or fluconazole resistance 
less than 24.0%. For higher resistance levels, empirical caspofungin therapy is 
preferred. For low prevalences of invasive candidiasis, culture-based 
fluconazole is reasonable. For prevalences exceeding 60%, empirical caspofungin 
therapy is reasonable. For caspofungin to be reasonable at a prevalence of 10%, 
its cost must be reduced by 58%.
LIMITATIONS: Less severe illness and limited use of broad-spectrum antimicrobial 
agents, typical of smaller hospitals, could result in a lower risk for invasive 
candidiasis.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients in the ICU with suspected infection who have not 
responded to antibiotic treatment, empirical fluconazole should reduce mortality 
at an acceptable cost. The use of empirical strategies in low-risk patients is 
not justified.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-143-12-200512200-00004
PMID: 16365467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Orthop Surg (Hong Kong). 2005 Dec;13(3):232-9. doi: 
10.1177/230949900501300304.

Management of malignant atlanto-axial tumours.

Fung KY(1), Law SW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Spine Surgery, Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, 
Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong. kyfung@ort.cuhk.edu.hk

PURPOSE: To review the management and outcomes of patients with malignant 
tumours of the atlanto-axial spine treated over a 4-year period at a tertiary 
hospital.
METHODS: A total of 12 patients (9 female and 3 male) with a mean age of 56.5 
years (range, 35-71 years) were consecutively enrolled. At the time of 
presentation, 7 patients had received treatment for a known primary malignancy 
of the lung (n=4), colon (n=1), nasopharynx (n=1), or breast (n=1). The 
atlanto-axial spine was the first presentation of malignant disease in the 
remaining 5 patients, whose subsequent diagnoses were multiple myeloma (n=1), 
carcinoma of the thyroid (n=1), malignant fibrous histiocytoma (n=2), and 
adenocarcinoma of unknown origin (n=1). Preoperative, postoperative, and 
follow-up radiographs and computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging 
scans were analysed with regard to the extent of tumour involvement, other 
spinal metastases, instability, and evidence of cord compression. Surgeries were 
performed for surgically fit patients with a life expectancy of more than 3 
months.
RESULTS: All patients presented with severe suboccipital neck pain. Two had mild 
neurological deficits (Frankel grade D). Two patients were treated 
conservatively with rigid neck collars and survived for 3 and 11 months. 
Surgical stabilisation with posterior instrumentation was performed in 10 
patients. One patient received additional anterior surgery for tumour debulking 
and bone grafting. No neurological complications were recorded in the series. 
Excellent relief of pain was achieved, and the mean visual analogue scale pain 
score of the operated patients improved from 9.3 to 1.9. The mean survival of 9 
patients after surgery was 13.1 months, while one patient was still living at 
the time of review (at postoperative 11 months).
CONCLUSION: Surgical stabilisation in selected patients provided pain relief and 
preserved ambulatory status before the deterioration of overall function.

DOI: 10.1177/230949900501300304
PMID: 16365485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Health Econ. 2006 Jan;15(1):1-4. doi: 10.1002/hec.1081.

Discounting and cost-effectiveness in NICE - stepping back to sort out a 
confusion.

Claxton K(1), Sculpher M, Culyer A, McCabe C, Briggs A, Akehurst R, Buxton M, 
Brazier J.

Author information:
(1)NICE Task Group on Economics, UK. kpcl@york.ac.uk

Brouwer and colleagues [1] argue that the reasons for specifying an equal 
discount rate for health outcomes and costs in the recent guidance on methods of 
technology appraisal issued by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence 
(NICE) [2] is both opaque and wrong. They argue that a lower rate should apply 
to health outcomes like QALYs. It is also claimed that the guidance on 
discounting represents a step backwards, that is both inconsistent with current 
theoretical insights and will prejudice the outcome of cost-effectiveness 
studies of preventive interventions.The reasoning behind the use of equal 
discount rates for costs and health outcomes is indeed not well developed in the 
published guidance. Nor does it reflect the debate that underpinned the 
guidance. We therefore welcome the opportunity to explain more completely the 
rationale in the minds of the principal authors of the current guidance.

Copyright (c) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1081
PMID: 16365910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Pers Assess. 1979 Jun;43(3):257-60. doi: 10.1207/s15327752jpa4303_5.

The Mosher Guilt Scales: a construct validity extension.

Fehr LA(1), Stamps LE.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Psychology, University of New Orleans, Lake Front, LA 70122, USA.

The three subscales of the Mosher Guilt Scales (sex guilt, hostility guilt, and 
morality conscience guilt) and several personality and attitude measures were ad 
ministered to college subjects in an effort to examine the construct validity of 
the Mosher Guilt Scales. The variables that were compared with the guilt 
subscales were hostility, anxiety, religious orthodoxy, self-esteem, and the 
importance of religious and economic values in one's life. The results indicated 
that both the construct validity of the Mosher Guilt Scales and the need for the 
continued use of its three subscales were supported. Among the most crucial 
findings of the study were that both of the religiosity measures were positively 
correlated with all three guilt subscales, and that economic values were 
negatively correlated with both sex guilt and morality-conscience guilt.

DOI: 10.1207/s15327752jpa4303_5
PMID: 16367007


986. Curr Med Res Opin. 2005 Dec;21(12):2063-71. doi: 10.1185/030079905X74989.

Long-term clinical and cost outcomes of treatment with biphasic insulin aspart 
30/70 versus insulin glargine in insulin naïve type 2 diabetes patients: 
cost-effectiveness analysis in the UK setting.

Valentine WJ(1), Palmer AJ, Lammert M, Nicklasson L, Foos V, Roze S.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, Binningen/Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 May;22(5):967-9; author reply 968-9.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term clinical and cost outcomes associated with 
biphasic insulin aspart 30/70 (BIAsp 30/70, premixed 30% soluble and 70% 
protaminated insulin aspart in one injection) compared to insulin glargine 
treatment in insulin-naïve type 2 diabetes patients failing oral antidiabetic 
agents in the UK, based on findings recently reported from the INITIATE clinical 
trial.
METHODS: The CORE Diabetes Model, a published, peer-reviewed and validated model 
of diabetes, was used to evaluate life expectancy, quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, cumulative incidence of complications and direct medical costs over 
patient lifetimes. The model simulates the range of diabetic complications and 
disease progression within a series of sub-models (cardiovascular disease, 
neuropathy, renal and eye disease) based on published data. Baseline cohort 
characteristics (54.5% male, mean age 52.45 years, mean diabetes duration 9 
years, mean HbA(1c) 9.77%) and treatment effects were based on INITIATE. Costs 
were derived from published UK sources. The analysis was run over a 35-year time 
horizon (patient lifetime) from a third party payer perspective. Costs and 
clinical benefits were discounted at 3.5% per annum. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: BIAsp 30/70 was associated with projected improvements in discounted 
life expectancy (0.19 +/- 0.20 years) and quality-adjusted life expectancy (0.19 
+/- 0.14 quality-adjusted life years [QALYs]), as well as a reduced incidence of 
retinopathy and nephropathy complications, versus glargine. Total lifetime 
direct costs were 1319 pounds higher with BIAsp 30/70 than with glargine leading 
to an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 6951 pounds per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to address the long-term health economic 
implications of treating type 2 diabetes patients failing oral anti-diabetics 
with a biphasic insulin mix versus long-acting insulin. Our projections indicate 
that improved HbA1c levels with BIAsp 30/70 treatment are associated with 
improvements in life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy, and that 
BIAsp 30/70 represents excellent value for money compared to insulin glargine in 
the UK.

DOI: 10.1185/030079905X74989
PMID: 16368057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Am Heart J. 2006 Jan;151(1):219-27. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2005.02.044.

Long-term cost-effectiveness of early and sustained clopidogrel therapy for up 
to 1 year in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention after 
presenting with acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation.

Mahoney EM(1), Mehta S, Yuan Y, Jackson J, Chen R, Gabriel S, Lamy A, Culler S, 
Caro J, Yusuf S, Weintraub WS; CURE Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)New England Research Institutes, Watertown, MA 02472, USA. emahoney@neri.org

Comment in
    Evid Based Cardiovasc Med. 2006 Jun;10(2):116-8.

BACKGROUND: The superiority of clopidogrel and aspirin versus aspirin alone for 
up to 1 year in patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) 
after presenting with acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation was 
demonstrated in the PCI-CURE study. We evaluated the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel use for up to 1 year using patient-level 
outcomes and resource use from PCI-CURE, and estimates of life expectancy gains 
based on external sources.
METHODS: PCI-CURE involved 2658 patients who underwent PCI between 1998 and 2000 
after being randomized in the CURE trial to clopidogrel (n = 1313) or placebo (n 
= 1345). Roughly two thirds (clopidogrel n = 821, placebo n = 909) underwent PCI 
during the initial hospitalization (early PCI). Costs were applied to 
hospitalizations according to diagnosis-related group. Clopidogrel was assigned 
the average wholesale price of 3.22 dollars per day. Life expectancy gains 
resulting from the prevention of major clinical events were estimated using 
external sources.
RESULTS: Average total costs were higher with clopidogrel (difference [based on 
costing method] 253 dollars-423 dollars). For patients who underwent PCI during 
the initial hospitalization, the difference ranged from 155 dollars lower to 90 
dollars higher with clopidogrel. The estimated life expectancy gain with 
clopidogrel was 0.0885 years, whereas it was 0.0962 years for the early PCI 
subgroup. Incremental cost per year of life gained with clopidogrel ranges from 
2856 dollars to 4775 dollars overall and from dominant (life expectancy benefit 
with cost savings) to 935 dollars for the early PCI subgroup.
CONCLUSIONS: Clopidogrel given for up to 1 year in patients undergoing PCI after 
presentation with acute coronary syndromes is a highly cost-effective treatment 
strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2005.02.044
PMID: 16368322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jan;81(1):65-71. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2005.06.058.

Surgery for ventricular tachycardia in patients undergoing left ventricular 
reconstruction by the Dor procedure.

Sartipy U(1), Albåge A, Strååt E, Insulander P, Lindblom D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery and Anesthesiology, Karolinska 
University Hospital, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. 
ulrik.sartipy@karolinska.se

BACKGROUND: Surgical ventricular restoration (the Dor procedure) is an option in 
patients with coronary artery disease and postinfarction left ventricular 
aneurysm. The procedure can be extended to treat ventricular tachycardia (VT). 
The aim of this study was to evaluate the Dor procedure including VT surgery in 
