DOI: 10.1021/ci0501847
PMID: 16309302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2005 Dec;56(3):379-96. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2005.03.010.

Cancer of the prostate.

Bracarda S(1), de Cobelli O, Greco C, Prayer-Galetti T, Valdagni R, Gatta G, de 
Braud F, Bartsch G.

Author information:
(1)Ospedale Silvestrini, Azienda Ospedaliera di Perugia, Italy.

Prostate carcinoma, with about 190,000 new cases occurring each year (15% of all 
cancers in men), is the most frequent cancer among men in northern and western 
Europe. Causes of the disease are essentially unknown, although hormonal factors 
are involved, and diet may exert an indirect influence; some genes, potentially 
involved in hereditary prostate cancer (HPC) have been identified. A suspect of 
prostate cancer may derive from elevated serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
values and/or a suspicious digital rectal examination (DRE) finding. For a 
definitive diagnosis, however, a positive prostate biopsy is requested. 
Treatment strategy is defined according to initial PSA stage, and grade of the 
disease and age and general conditions of the patient. In localized disease, 
watchful waiting is indicated as primary option in patients with well or 
moderately differentiated tumours and a life expectancy <10 years, while radical 
prostatectomy and radiotherapy (with or without hormone-therapy) could be 
appropriate choices in the remaining cases. Hormone-therapy is the treatment of 
choice, combined with radiotherapy, for locally advanced or bulky disease and is 
effective, but not curative, in 80-85% of the cases of advanced disease. 
Patients who develop a hormone-refractory prostate cancer disease (HRPC) have to 
be evaluated for chemotherapy because of the recent demonstration of improved 
overall survival (2-2.5 months) and quality of life with docetaxel in more than 
1,600 cases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2005.03.010
PMID: 16310371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Dec;46(6):1065-73. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.09.001.

Factors predicting outcome in a cohort of patients with atherosclerotic renal 
artery disease diagnosed by magnetic resonance angiography.

Siddiqui S(1), MacGregor MS, Glynn C, Roditi G, Deighan CJ.

Author information:
(1)Radiology Department, Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, UK. 
samira.siddiqui@nhs.net

BACKGROUND: Atherosclerotic renal artery disease increasingly is recognized as a 
cause of chronic kidney disease and associated with high morbidity and 
mortality. We investigated factors predicting patient and renal survival in a 
cohort of patients with atherosclerotic renal artery disease diagnosed by means 
of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA).
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed a cohort of patients attending our unit in 
whom atherosclerotic renal artery disease was identified by means of MRA from 
1998 to 2001. One hundred nine patients were followed up for a median of 2.3 
years. Baseline clinical and laboratory data were assessed as predictors of 
outcome by using multivariate Cox proportional hazards analysis.
RESULTS: Seventeen patients (16%) required dialysis and 37 patients (34%) died 
during a median follow-up of 841 days (interquartile range, 326 to 1,206). On 
multivariate Cox proportional hazards analysis, increased peripheral-blood 
eosinophil count (hazard ratio, 3.39; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.45 to 
7.88; P = 0.0097), creatinine clearance (hazard ratio, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.94 to 
0.99; P = 0.0128), and peripheral arterial disease (hazard ratio, 2.09; 95% CI, 
1.04 to 4.18; P = 0.0371) were associated with subsequent death. Only creatinine 
clearance (hazard ratio, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.87 to 0.96; P = 0.0004) was associated 
with the need for dialysis. There was no association between eosinophil count 
and other markers of inflammation. Severity of atherosclerotic renal artery 
disease was not associated independently with either the need for dialysis or 
death.
CONCLUSION: An increased peripheral-blood eosinophil count predicts patient 
survival in those with atherosclerotic renal artery disease at the time of 
diagnosis. This novel risk factor may help identify a group of patients who 
could benefit from intensive medical therapy by using an assay readily available 
to most clinicians worldwide.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.09.001
PMID: 16310572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. J Am Coll Surg. 2005 Dec;201(6):847-54. doi:
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2005.07.005.  Epub 2005 Oct 10.

Influence of time on risk of bowel resection in complete small bowel 
obstruction.

Bickell NA(1), Federman AD, Aufses AH Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 
10029, USA.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the effect of passing time on risk of 
resection among patients with complete small bowel obstruction. We sought to 
provide a benchmark of the relationship of time from symptom onset to surgical 
treatment on the need for resection in patients with complete small bowel 
obstruction.
STUDY DESIGN: We performed an observational study of patients with surgically 
treated complete small bowel obstruction at an inner-city urban tertiary 
referral center and a municipal hospital. Patients were sampled randomly 
retrospectively (n=60), and prospectively (n=81), for a final sample of 141. 
Detailed clinical and time data were abstracted from medical records including 
out-of-hospital examinations. Risk of resection was calculated using actuarial 
life table methods. Linear regression was used to determine factors affecting 
time to treatment.
RESULTS: All patients were treated surgically for obstruction; 45% underwent 
resection. Resected patients had longer (11 days versus 8 days; p=0.01) and more 
complicated (31% versus 14% in ICU; p=0.01) hospital stays. The risk of 
resection was 4% among patients with 24 hours of unresponsive symptoms; it 
increased to 10% to 14% through 96 hours, then dropped slightly but did not 
disappear. Patients treated first with a tube had longer times between first 
examination and operation, system-time (40.6 hours versus 10.2 hours; p=0.0007), 
but this was not associated with an increased resection risk. System-times were 
shorter among patients seen first in the emergency department (median: 25.7 
hours versus 59.7 hours; p=0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Physicians should be cautious in postponing surgery beyond 24 hours 
in patients with unresponsive symptoms from complete obstruction. The risk of 
resection rises dramatically, remains elevated through 96 hours of unresolved 
symptoms, then declines but does not disappear.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2005.07.005
PMID: 16310687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. EMBO Rep. 2006 Jan;7(1):93-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400575.

Repression of polymerase I-mediated gene expression at Trypanosoma brucei 
telomeres.

Glover L(1), Horn D.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

The African trypanosome, Trypanosoma brucei, is a flagellated pathogenic 
protozoan that branched early from the eukaryotic lineage. Unusually, it uses 
RNA polymerase I (Pol I) for mono-telomeric expression of variant surface 
glycoprotein (VSG) genes in bloodstream-form cells. Many other subtelomeric VSG 
genes are reversibly repressed, but no repressive DNA sequence has been 
identified in any trypanosomatid. Here, we show that artificially seeded de novo 
telomeres repress Pol I-dependent gene expression in mammalian bloodstream and 
insect life-cycle stages of T. brucei. In a telomeric VSG expression site, 
repression spreads further along the chromosome and this effect is specific to 
the bloodstream stage. We also show that de novo telomere extension is 
telomerase dependent and that the rate of extension correlates with the 
expression level of the adjacent gene. Our results show constitutive telomeric 
repression in T. brucei and indicate that an enhanced, developmental 
stage-specific repression mechanism controls antigenic variation.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400575
PMCID: PMC1369228
PMID: 16311518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. PLoS Genet. 2005 Nov;1(5):e69. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.0010069. Epub 2005
Nov  25.

Increased life span due to calorie restriction in respiratory-deficient yeast.

Kaeberlein M(1), Hu D, Kerr EO, Tsuchiya M, Westman EA, Dang N, Fields S, 
Kennedy BK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America. kaeber@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    PLoS Genet. 2006 Mar;2(3):e33; author reply e34.

A model for replicative life span extension by calorie restriction (CR) in yeast 
has been proposed whereby reduced glucose in the growth medium leads to 
activation of the NAD+-dependent histone deacetylase Sir2. One mechanism 
proposed for this putative activation of Sir2 is that CR enhances the rate of 
respiration, in turn leading to altered levels of NAD+ or NADH, and ultimately 
resulting in enhanced Sir2 activity. An alternative mechanism has been proposed 
in which CR decreases levels of the Sir2 inhibitor nicotinamide through 
increased expression of the gene coding for nicotinamidase, PNC1. We have 
previously reported that life span extension by CR is not dependent on Sir2 in 
the long-lived BY4742 strain background. Here we have determined the requirement 
for respiration and the effect of nicotinamide levels on life span extension by 
CR. We find that CR confers robust life span extension in respiratory-deficient 
cells independent of strain background, and moreover, suppresses the premature 
mortality associated with loss of mitochondrial DNA in the short-lived PSY316 
strain. Addition of nicotinamide to the medium dramatically shortens the life 
span of wild type cells, due to inhibition of Sir2. However, even in cells 
lacking both Sir2 and the replication fork block protein Fob1, nicotinamide 
partially prevents life span extension by CR. These findings (1) demonstrate 
that respiration is not required for the longevity benefits of CR in yeast, (2) 
show that nicotinamide inhibits life span extension by CR through a 
Sir2-independent mechanism, and (3) suggest that CR acts through a conserved, 
Sir2-independent mechanism in both PSY316 and BY4742.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.0010069
PMCID: PMC1287956
PMID: 16311627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests. The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


848. Indian J Med Sci. 2005 Oct;59(10):463-5.

"Stop the global epidemic of chronic disease"--new report, preventing chronic 
diseases: a vital investment estimates hundreds of billions of dollars at stake.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16312060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2005 Dec;19(6):603-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-8206.2005.00369.x.

Quality-adjusted life years: how useful in medico economic studies.

Brauer CA(1), Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, Harvard Center for 
Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.

Cost-effectiveness analysis has evolved as a practical response to the need to 
allocate limited resources for health care. It can be used to compare 
interventions whose effects on health are different if the measure of 
effectiveness captures all the important health dimensions of the effects of the 
interventions. Using the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) as the unit of 
effectiveness attempts to approach this ideal and is currently the approach 
recommended by many consensus groups. Conventional QALYs represent time spend in 
a series of "quality-weighted" health states, where the quality weights reflect 
the desirability of living in the state. Many challenges arise when preferences 
are incorporated into an economic analysis. The purpose of this paper is to 
highlight some of the issues surrounding the use of QALYs and to encourage 
researchers to present their methodology in a clear and transparent way.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-8206.2005.00369.x
PMID: 16313271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Evol Biol. 2005 Nov;18(6):1613-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1420-9101.2005.00949.x.

Life-history invariants with bounded variables cannot be distinguish from data 
generated by random processes using standard analyses.

Cipriani R(1), Collin R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Estudios Ambientales, Universidad Simón Bolívar, Venezuela.

A dimensionless approach to the study of life-history evolution has been applied 
to a wide variety of variables in the search for life-history invariants. This 
approach usually employs ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions of 
log-transformed data. In several well-studied combinations of variables the 
range of values of one parameter is bounded or limited by the value of the 
other. In this situation, the null hypothesis normally applied to regression 
analysis is not appropriate. We generate the null expectations and confidence 
intervals (CI) for OLS and reduced major axis (RMA) regressions using random 
variables that are bounded in this way. Comparisons of these CI show that, for 
log-transformed data, the patterns generated by random data and those predicted 
by life history invariant theory often could not be distinguished because both 
predict a slope of 1. We recommend that tests based on the putative invariant 
ratios and not the correlations between the two variables be used in the 
exploration of life-history invariants using bounded data. Because empirical 
data are often not normally distributed randomization test may be more 
appropriate than standard statistical tests.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1420-9101.2005.00949.x
PMID: 16313472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Proc Nutr Soc. 2005 Nov;64(4):554-64. doi: 10.1079/pns2005465.

Fatty acids and CHD.

Woodside JV(1), Kromhout D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Nutrition, Wageningen University, The Netherlands. 
j.woodside@qub.ac.uk

During the last century much evidence has accumulated to suggest that from a 
public health perspective the type of fat is more important than the amount of 
fat. Saturated and trans-fatty acids increase and both n-6 and n-3 PUFA decrease 
the risk of CHD. Most of the knowledge about the effects of dietary fatty acids 
on CHD risk is based on observational studies and controlled dietary experiments 
with intermediate end points (e.g. blood lipoprotein fractions). Information 
from high-quality randomised controlled trials on fatty acids and CHD is 
lacking. The Netherlands Institute for Public Health has calculated the 
potential health gain that can be achieved if the fatty acid composition of the 
current Dutch diet is replaced by the recommended fatty acid composition. The 
recommendations of The Netherlands Health Council are: saturated fatty acids 
<10% energy intake; trans-fatty acids <1% energy intake; fish consumption (an 
indicator of n-3 PUFA) once or twice weekly. Implementation of this 
recommendation could reduce the incidence of CHD in The Netherlands by about 
25,000/year and the number of CHD-related deaths by about 6000/year and increase 
life expectancy from age 40 years onwards by 0.5 year. These projections 
indicate the public health potential of interventions that modify the fatty acid 
composition of the diet.

DOI: 10.1079/pns2005465
PMID: 16313698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Proc Nutr Soc. 2005 Nov;64(4):565-70. doi: 10.1079/pns2005459.

Micronutrients and Alzheimer's disease.

Staehelin HB(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric University Clinic, University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland. 
Hannes-B.Staehelin@unibas.ch

The current high life expectancy is overshadowed by neurodegenerative illnesses 
that lead to dementia and dependence. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most 
common of these conditions, and is considered to be a proteinopathy, with 
amyloid-beta42 as a key factor, leading via a cascade of events to 
neurodegeneration. Major factors involved are oxidative stress, perturbed Ca 
homeostasis and impaired energy metabolism. Protection against oxidative stress 
by micronutrients (including secondary bioactive substances) has been shown in 
transgenic Alzheimer model systems to delay AD. Epidemiological evidence is less 
conclusive, but the vast majority of the evidence supports a protective effect 
on cognitive functions in old age and AD. Thus, a diet rich in fruits and 
vegetables but also containing meat and fish is the most suitable to provide 
adequate micronutrients. The strong link between cardiovascular risk and AD may 
be explained by common pathogenetic mechanisms mediated, for example, by 
homocysteine and thus dependant on B-vitamins (folate and vitamins B(12) and 
B(6)). However, micronutrients may also be harmful. The high affinity of amyloid 
for metals (Fe, Al and Zn) favours the generation of reactive oxygen species and 
triggers an inflammatory response. Micronutrients in a balanced diet have a 
long-lasting, albeit low, protective impact on brain aging, hence prevention 
should be life long.

DOI: 10.1079/pns2005459
PMID: 16313699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Curr Treat Options Gastroenterol. 2005 Dec;8(6):433-41. doi: 
10.1007/s11938-005-0029-5.

Management of chronic hepatitis C virus in patients with HIV.

Santos SA(1), Kontorinis N, Dieterich DT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, The Mount Sinai Medical Center, 5 East 98th Street, 
New York, NY 10029, USA.

The life expectancy of HIV seropositive persons is approaching the life 
expectancy of those who are uninfected with HIV. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
infection has emerged as a worldwide epidemic. Given the similar transmission 
route between HCV and HIV, there has been an explosion in the number of 
individuals infected with both viruses. Because of the successful introduction 
of antiretroviral therapy, patients are more susceptible to new opportunistic 
infections such as HCV. HCV leads to a more rapid progression to end-stage liver 
disease in patients with HIV, and the morbidity and mortality related to HCV in 
co-infected patients is on the rise. Therefore, it has become imperative to 
treat both HIV and HCV in co-infected patients. The primary goal of HCV therapy 
is permanent eradication of the virus. Secondary goals include reduction in 
hepatic fibrosis progression, development of decompensated cirrhosis, and 
hepatocellular carcinoma. Early studies using standard interferon-alfa for the 
treatment of HCV in co-infected individuals were discouraging, as poor outcomes, 
high discontinuation rates, and severe adverse events were observed. The current 
standard of care for treatment of HCV is pegylated-interferon and ribavirin. New 
studies have recently demonstrated a higher sustained virologic response rate 
and a better adverse event profile than previously reported in co-infected 
patients. As a result, we recommend considering all co-infected patients for HCV 
therapy while watching closely for unique treatment-related toxicities. The 
treatment of HCV in co-infected patients should be a high priority for all 
providers.

DOI: 10.1007/s11938-005-0029-5
PMID: 16313860


854. Nucleic Acids Res. 2005 Nov 27;33(20):6515-21. doi: 10.1093/nar/gki963.
Print  2005.

Synthesis of novel poly(dG)-poly(dG)-poly(dC) triplex structure by Klenow exo- 
fragment of DNA polymerase I.

Kotlyar A(1), Borovok N, Molotsky T, Klinov D, Dwir B, Kapon E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv 
University, Ramat Aviv, 69978 Israel. s2shak@post.tau.ac.il

The extension of the G-strand of long (700 bp) poly(dG)-poly(dC) by the Klenow 
exo(-) fragment of DNA polymerase I yields a complete triplex structure of the 
H-DNA type. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis demonstrates that 
the length of the G-strand is doubled during the polymerase synthesis. 
Fluorescence resonance energy transfer analysis shows that the 5' ends of the G- 
and the C-strands, labeled with fluorescein and TAMRA, respectively, are 
positioned close to each other in the product of the synthesis. Atomic force 
microscopy morphology imaging shows that the synthesized structures lack 
single-stranded fragments and have approximately the same length as the parent 
700 bp poly(dG)-poly(dC). CD spectrum of the polymer has a large negative peak 
at 278 nm, which is characteristic of the poly(dG)-poly(dG)-poly(dC) triplex. 
The polymer is resistant to DNase and interacts much more weakly with ethidium 
bromide as compared with the double-stranded DNA.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gki963
PMCID: PMC1292991
PMID: 16314313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Eur Heart J. 2006 Feb;27(3):351-6. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi602. Epub 2005
Nov  28.

The clinical impact of implantable loop recorders in patients with syncope.

Farwell DJ(1), Freemantle N, Sulke N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Eastbourne District General Hospital, King's Drive, 
Eastbourne, East Sussex, UK. djfarwell@bigfoot.com

AIMS: Implantable loop recorders (ILR) provide an opportunity to record ECG data 
from a spontaneous syncopal event. We conducted a randomized study to 
investigate the impact of the Reveal Plus ILR on an unselected population of 
patients with recurrent syncope. Initial follow-up (at least 6 months) did not 
demonstrate a reduction in syncopal events or an improvement in quality of life. 
We report the planned extension of follow-up to 18 months.
METHODS AND RESULTS: All patients presenting acutely with recurrent unexplained 
syncope over a 16-month period, following a basic clinical work-up, were 
randomized to receive the ILR or conventional investigation and management. A 
total of 421 patients presented, 201 were eligible, median age 74, (IQ range 
61-81) 54% female, with median syncopes 3 (IQ range 2-6). Median follow-up 17 
months (IQ range 9-23). 42 (43%) of ILR patients and 8 (6%) of conventional 
patients received an ECG diagnosis (hazard ratio 6.53, 95% CI 3.73-11.4, 
P<0.001). Time to second syncope was significantly longer for ILR patients, 
although of borderline significance (P=0.04). A greater variety of diagnoses and 
treatments were seen in ILR patients. ILR patients had fewer post-randomization 
investigations and fewer days in hospital; however, cost savings were not 
statistically significant. There was improved quality of life in the ILR group 
(visual analogue scales, P=0.03) for general wellbeing. Overall mortality was 
12% with no difference between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Investigation by the ILR significantly increases the diagnostic rate 
and ECG directed treatments in a typical unselected syncopal population. 
Long-term follow-up has demonstrated a significant subsequent reduction in 
syncopal events with improved quality of life.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi602
PMID: 16314338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Semin Liver Dis. 2005 Nov;25(4):381-91. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-923310.

Clinical aspects of hemochromatosis.

O'Neil J(1), Powell L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, The Royal Brisbane and Women's 
Hospital and the Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Australia.

The term hemochromatosis is commonly used as synonymous with HFE-associated 
genetic iron overload but several rarer causes of an identical 
clinicopathological syndrome have been described in recent years. The most 
common symptoms are lethargy and arthralgia, and the major complications of 
end-stage disease are cirrhosis, diabetes, and cardiac and endocrine 
manifestations. However, with the development of cascade screening for family 
members of affected probands as well as screening for common diseases at health 
checks, hemochromatosis is being detected at increasingly early stages, often 
when there are only biochemical abnormalities. The available evidence from 
screening studies strongly suggests that approximately 75% of C282Y homozygous 
subjects have biochemical expression. Hepatic iron overload is present in 
approximately 56% and 34% of men and women, respectively, advanced hepatic 
fibrosis in 18.7% and 5.4%, respectively, and cirrhosis in 5.8% and 1.9%, 
respectively. In subjects with severe expression of the disease, additional 
modifying genetic mutations have been described including those in hepcidin and 
hemojuvelin. Treatment is by regular phlebotomy which, if instituted before the 
development of cirrhosis, results in normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-923310
PMID: 16315132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Semin Liver Dis. 2005 Nov;25(4):402-10. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-923312.

Screening for HFE and iron overload.

Ombiga J(1), Adams LA, Tang K, Trinder D, Olynyk JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Fremantle Hospital, Fremantle, Western 
Australia, Australia.

Type 1 hereditary hemochromatosis is a common disorder of iron overload 
occurring in individuals homozygous for the C282Y HFE gene mutation. It can be a 
progressive and fatal condition. Early detection and phlebotomy prior to the 
onset of cirrhosis can reduce morbidity and normalize life expectancy. It is 
readily identified through biochemical testing for iron overload using serum 
transferrin saturation and genetic testing for C282Y homozygosity. General 
population screening has been waived in preference to targeting high-risk groups 
such as first-degree relatives of affected individuals and those with clinical 
features suggestive of iron loading. This screening strategy is likely to 
continue until uncertainties regarding the natural history of the disease, 
age-related penetrance, and management of asymptomatic individuals are 
clarified. Potential ethical, legal, and psychosocial issues arising through 
application of genetic screening programs also must be resolved prior to 
implementation of general population screening programs.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-923312
PMID: 16315134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Health Stat Q. 2005 Winter;(28):52-61.

Life expectancy at birth by local authorities in England and Wales, 2002-2004.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16315554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Appl Psychol. 2005 Nov;90(6):1297-305. doi: 10.1037/0021-9010.90.6.1297.

Intentions to work during terminal illness: an exploratory study of antecedent 
conditions.

Westaby JD(1), Versenyi A, Hausmann RC.

Author information:
(1)Program in Social-Organizational Psychology, Department of Organization and 
Leadership, Teachers College, Columbia University, Box 6, 525 West 120th Street, 
New York, NY 10027, USA. westaby@columbia.edu

Facing a terminal illness is an unimaginably difficult experience, yet many 
individuals intend to work despite their prognosis. However, research has not 
systematically examined the potential antecedents underlying such intentions. 
Using behavioral intention theory as an underlying framework, this study 
hypothesized that reasons for working (intrinsic and extrinsic), the will to 
live, disability severity, accessibility of travel, and age would predict 
intentions to work during terminal illness. A representative sample of medically 
diagnosed amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (a.k.a. Lou Gehrig's disease) patients 
with a mean life expectancy of approximately 3 years participated (mean age=57.8 
years). Controlling for length of diagnosis, employment status, and demographic 
variables, results indicated that intrinsic reasons were particularly strong 
predictors of intentions, followed by age, disability severity, and 
accessibility of travel. Exploratory findings also indicated that behavioral 
intentions were positively related to future employment status, consistent with 
past theory. ((c) 2005 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/0021-9010.90.6.1297
PMID: 16316283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Ann Oncol. 2006 Feb;17(2):270-5. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdj073. Epub 2005 Nov
29.

A randomised trial in malignant mesothelioma (M) of early (E) versus delayed (D) 
chemotherapy in symptomatically stable patients: the MED trial.

O'Brien ME(1), Watkins D, Ryan C, Priest K, Corbishley C, Norton A, Ashley S, 
Rowell N, Sayer R.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, UK. mary.o'brien@rmh.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Prior phase II trials have demonstrated the therapeutic activity of 
cytotoxic chemotherapy in mesothelioma. Currently there are few randomised data 
assessing the role of chemotherapy versus best supportive care (BSC) in the 
management of patients with stable symptoms after control of any pleural 
effusion. A policy of observation is often adopted over initial use of 
chemotherapy. In this prospective randomised trial we assess the use of early 
versus delayed cytotoxic therapy. The study opened in 1998, and closed in view 
of a competing national study (MSO 1) in 2003.
METHODS: Eligible patients had a performance status<or=2, life expectancy>3 
months and had stable symptoms for at least 4 weeks prior to randomisation. 
Patients were randomised to receive immediate chemotherapy or initial BSC with 
the addition of chemotherapy at time of symptomatic progression. All patients 
received the same platinum-based chemotherapy regimen, MVP [mitomycin C 8 mg/m2 
cycles 1, 2, 4 and 6, vinblastine 6 mg/m2, maximum 10 mg, and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 
(or carboplatin AUC 5)], every 3 weeks for up to six cycles.
RESULTS: A total of 43 patients were recruited, of which 21 were randomised to 
the early treatment group and 22 to the delayed treatment group. The median ages 
were 59 years (range 50-78) and 67 years (range 48-75), respectively (P=0.1); 
other baseline parameters were well matched between the two groups. All 21 
patients in the early group received chemotherapy versus 17 patients in the 
delayed group. Median time to symptomatic progression was 25 weeks in the early 
group compared with 11 weeks for the delayed group (P=0.1). Median survival was 
14 months (1-year survival 66%) for the early group compared with 10 months 
(1-year survival 36%) for the delayed group (P=0.1). Quality of life was in 
general better maintained for early treatment and the health resources use was 
similar in both arms.
CONCLUSIONS: In this patient group, presenting with stable symptoms after 
control of pleural effusion, the early use of chemotherapy provided an extended 
period of symptom control, and in this small trial a trend to survival 
advantage.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdj073
PMID: 16317014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Am J Public Health. 2006 Jan;96(1):73-8. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2005.062679. Epub
 2005 Nov 29.

Key challenges to achieving health for all in an inequitable society: the case 
of South Africa.

Sanders D(1), Chopra M.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of the Western Cape, Bellville 7535, 
South Africa. dsanders@uwc.ac.za

The health inequalities in South Africa are rapidly worsening. Since 1994, the 
new democratic government has initiated a number of large-scale policies and 
programs with explicit pro-equity objectives that have improved access to health 
care and other social resources. However, these policies and programs have been 
constrained by macroeconomic policies that dictate fiscal restraint and give 
priority to technical rather than developmental considerations. We propose an 
approach to improving health for all that focuses on equity in the allocation of 
health resources. The implementation of pro-equity policies requires, in 
addition to technically efficacious interventions, both advocacy initiatives and 
communication with, and the involvement of, affected communities. The Cape Town 
Equity Gauge project is presented as one example of a response to the challenge 
of inequity.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2005.062679
PMCID: PMC1470444
PMID: 16317201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Am J Public Health. 2006 Jan;96(1):114-9. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.056796.
Epub  2005 Nov 29.

Cost-effectiveness of free HIV voluntary counseling and testing through a 
community-based AIDS service organization in Northern Tanzania.

Thielman NM(1), Chu HY, Ostermann J, Itemba DK, Mgonja A, Mtweve S, Bartlett JA, 
Shao JF, Crump JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and International Health, Duke University 
Medical Center, Box 3867, Durham, NC 27701, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of fee-based and free testing 
strategies at an HIV voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) program integrated 
into a community-based AIDS service organization in Moshi, Tanzania.
METHODS: We waived the usual fee schedule during a 2-week free, advertised VCT 
campaign; analyzed the number of clients testing per day during prefree, free, 
and postfree testing periods; and estimated the cost-effectiveness of limited 
and sustained free testing strategies.
RESULTS: The number of clients testing per day increased from 4.1 during the 
prefree testing interval to 15.0 during the free testing campaign (P<.0001) and 
remained significantly increased at 7.1 (P<.0001) after resumption of the 
standard fees. HIV seroprevalence (16.7%) and risk behaviors were unchanged over 
these intervals. Modeled over 1 year, the costs per infection averted with the 
standard fee schedule, with a 2-week free VCT campaign, and with sustained free 
VCT year-round were $170, $105, and $92, respectively, and the costs per 
disability-adjusted life year gained were $8.72, $5.40, and $4.72, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The provision of free VCT enhances both the number of clients 
testing per day and its cost-effectiveness in resource-limited settings.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.056796
PMCID: PMC1470448
PMID: 16317205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Dec;28(6):547-54. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000178031.69209.47.

A multicenter phase II study of "adjuvant" irinotecan following resection of 
colorectal hepatic metastases.

Mackay HJ(1), Billingsley K, Gallinger S, Berry S, Smith A, Yeung R, Pond GR, 
Croitoru M, Swanson PE, Krishnamurthi S, Siu LL.

Author information:
(1)Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: This study evaluates the efficacy and toxicity of single-agent 
irinotecan following hepatectomy for metachronous colorectal metastases, and 
examines the predictive value of p27 and p53 expression and of microsatellite 
instability (MSI) status.
METHODS: Twenty-nine patients, previously treated with 5-fluorouracil, with 
operable hepatic colorectal metastases underwent hepatectomy and received 
adjuvant irinotecan (thrice weekly) for 6 planned cycles. Metastases were 
examined for p53 and p27 expression by immunohistochemistry and for MSI using 
mono- and dinucleotide markers.
RESULTS: The starting dose of irinotecan was 350 mg/m2 (in 3 patients), 300 
mg/m2 (n = 14), and 250 mg/m2 (n = 12). Four patients failed to complete 6 
cycles (2 progressive disease and 2 toxicity). Grade > or =3 toxicity was 
experienced in 8% of cycles (13 of 165). The estimated median relapse-free 
survival (RFS) was 45.2 months. RFS at 18 months was estimated to be 59% (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 43-80), 2-year overall survival (OS) was 85% (95% CI, 
72-99.8), and the median follow-up was 27.9 months. Six patients (21%) have 
died; median OS has not been reached. In univariate analyses, p27 and MSI status 
were not predictive for RFS while p53 approached statistical significance (P = 
0.051). Duration of chemotherapy was the only significant predictive factor (P = 
0.006).
CONCLUSION: The tolerability of this regimen after major liver resection 
supports further evaluation of irinotecan-based adjuvant chemotherapy in this 
group of patients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000178031.69209.47
PMID: 16317262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Dec;28(6):555-9. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000182441.37837.03.

The experience of concurrent chemoradiation for Japanese patients with 
superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: a retrospective study.

Yamashita H(1), Nakagawa K, Tago M, Igaki H, Nakamura N, Shiraishi K, Sasano N, 
Ohtomo K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Tokyo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. 
yamashitah-RAD@h.u-tokyo.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate the treatment outcome of concurrent chemoradiation therapy 
(cCRT) for 13 clinically confirmed T1 esophageal cancer patients.
METHODS: Between June 2000 and February 2004, patients with T1 esophageal cancer 
(tumor invading lamina propria or submucosa) received cCRT (50.4 Gy; CDDP: 75 
mg/m2, day 1, bolus; 5-FU: 1000 mg/m2, days 1 to 4, continuous) (n = 13, T1 
group). This treatment regimen was compared with the following 2 other groups 
treated during the same period: one was treated with radiation therapy alone for 
T1 disease (n = 5, RT-alone group); and the other group of patients consisted of 
those with T2 disease (tumor invading muscularis propria) who received the same 
cCRT regimen as the first T1 group (n = 9, T2 group).
RESULTS: The overall survival rates at 1 and 3 years were in the T1 group, 75% 
and 75%; in the T2 group, 75% and 45% (P =0.2890); and in the RT-alone group, 
60% and 40% (P = 0.2978). No treatment-related mortalities occurred in the T1 
and RT-alone groups, but one patient in the T2 group died of radiation-induced 
pneumonitis.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this study was not randomized, the results showed that 
cCRT is a safe and effective method for treating patients with superficial 
esophageal cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000182441.37837.03
PMID: 16317263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Dec;28(6):560-4. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000182476.34375.17.

Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) levels before and after chemotherapy: a study in rectal 
cancer.

Watwe V(1), Javle M, Lawrence D, Groth J, Iyer R, El-Hajjar D, Geradts J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY 14263, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: Induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) by inflammatory mediators, 
oncogenes, and carcinogens has been demonstrated in preclinical models. However, 
there are limited clinical data regarding COX-2 induction by chemotherapy or 
radiation. Experimental data suggest cross-talk between the EGFR and COX-2 
pathways. The aim of this study was to analyze the expression of COX-2 before 
and after chemoradiation (CRT) and correlate the same with tumor (T) 
down-staging and survival. Similar data were obtained for EGFR expression before 
and after chemoradiation.
METHODS: Archival paraffin-embedded tumor specimens from patients undergoing CRT 
between 1995 and 2001 were analyzed. COX-2 expression was measured by 
immunohistochemistry (IHC), using the 160112 COX-2 mouse monoclonal antibody. 
For EGFR, we used mouse monoclonal Ab-10. Standard immunoperoxidase technique 
was used to detect the avidin- biotin peroxidase complex. Staining in tumor 
tissue was visually scored and confirmed by an image analyzer (ACIS; 
ChromaVision Medical Systems, Inc, San Juan Capistrano, CA).
RESULTS: Twenty pretreatment biopsy samples from rectal cancer patients and 
their paired, post-CRT surgical specimens (n = 17) were analyzed. Three cases 
had no primary tumor after CRT. COX-2 expression was noted in 19 of 20 
pretreatment samples and 17 of 17 surgical specimens. EGFR expression was noted 
in 10 cases pretreatment. Six patients with weakly positive COX-2 expression 
pretreatment had increased COX-2 expression after CRT, whereas in 1 patient the 
expression decreased after CRT. No EGFR induction was noted. There was no 
statistical association between EGFR and COX-2 expression in this data set. 
Median survival for the entire cohort was 38.9 months. There was no difference 
in survival between the COX-2 induced and noninduced groups.
CONCLUSIONS: COX-2 induction was seen with CRT in this population of rectal 
cancer patients. Prognostic significance of this induction remains to be defined 
in a larger cohort.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000182476.34375.17
PMID: 16317264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Dec;28(6):565-9. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000182407.09593.a9.

Efficacy and tolerability of oxaliplatin plus irinotecan 5-fluouracil and 
leucovorin regimen in advanced stage colorectal cancer patients pretreated with 
irinotecan 5-fluouracil and leucovorin.

Stathopoulos GP(1), Rigatos SK, Stathopoulos JG, Xynotroulas JP, Dimou E.

Author information:
(1)First Oncology Dept, Errikos Dunant Hospital, Athens, Greece. 
dr-gps@ath.forthnet.gr

OBJECTIVES: Oxaliplatin has been introduced in the treatment of advanced 
colorectal cancer during the past few years. The pre-existing treatment of 
leucovorin-5-fluorouracil-irinotecan (IFL), although reasonably effective, has 
needed novel, active agents to increase the response rate and overall survival. 
We planned this phase 2 study in patients pretreated with IFL, adding 
oxaliplatin as second-line treatment: our objectives were to determine response 
rate and overall survival.
METHODS: All patients (median age 65) were designated to receive 6 cycles of 
chemotherapy: leucovorin 200 mg/m2 infused for 60 minutes, 5-fluorouracil 500 
mg/m2 bolus at 30 minutes from the start of the previous infusion, irinotecan 
135 mg/m2 infused for 90 minutes, and oxaliplatin 135 mg/m2 for 90 minutes, 
infused sequentially on day 1 and repeated every 3 weeks. Standard ondansetron 
antiemetic treatment and dexamethasone 8 mg were administered to all patients. 
No prophylactic recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was 
permitted.
RESULTS: Fifty-seven patients were recruited and 54 were evaluable for response, 
survival, and toxicity. All patients had advanced, inoperable, metastatic 
disease in the liver and/or lungs, abdominal cavity, and multiple sites. All 
patients had undergone IFL pretreatment and had no response; 40 had disease 
progression and 14 had stable disease when entering the present study; 302 
chemotherapy cycles (mean 5.92) were administered. There was no treatment delay 
caused by toxicity (either neutropenia or diarrhea). Irinotecan and oxaliplatin 
were reduced by 25% in 6 (11.1%) patients. No complete responses were observed; 
21 (38.9%) patients achieved partial response, 26 (48.2%) had stable disease, 
and 7 (13%) had disease progression. Median duration of response was 6 months, 
time to tumor progression (TTP) 8 months, and median overall survival after the 
initiation of second-line treatment was 10 months (95% confidence interval [CI], 
7.5-12.6).
CONCLUSION: The addition of oxaliplatin to IFL as second-line treatment rendered 
a prolongation of survival and a response rate of 38.9% in patients in whom IFL 
pretreatment had failed.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000182407.09593.a9
PMID: 16317265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Dec;28(6):570-5. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000184682.51193.00.

Erlotinib and chemoradiation followed by maintenance erlotinib for locally 
advanced pancreatic cancer: a phase I study.

Iannitti D(1), Dipetrillo T, Akerman P, Barnett JM, Maia-Acuna C, Cruff D, Miner 
T, Martel D, Cioffi W, Remis M, Kennedy T, Safran H.

Author information:
(1)Brown University Oncology Group, Providence, RI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: A phase I trial was conducted to determine the maximally tolerated 
dose of erlotinib with concurrent gemcitabine, paclitaxel, and radiation for 
patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer and to gather preliminary data 
on maintenance erlotinib after chemoradiation.
METHODS: Patients received gemcitabine, 75 mg/m2, and paclitaxel, 40 mg/m, 
weekly for 6 weeks with 50.4 radiation to the primary tumor and draining lymph 
nodes with a 2- to 3-cm margin. Erlotinib was administered over 3-dose levels 
(50-100 mg/d) with chemoradiation then all patients received 150 mg/d 
maintenance until disease progression.
RESULTS: Seventeen patients were assessable for toxicity; 13 with locally 
advanced disease and 4 who had undergone resection but had positive margins. At 
erlotinib dosages > or =75 mg/d with chemoradiation the dose-limiting toxicities 
were diarrhea, dehydration, rash, myelosuppression, and small bowel stricture. 
Maintenance erlotinib, 150 mg/d, was well tolerated. The median survival of the 
13 patients with locally advanced disease was 14.0 months and 6 of 13 (46%) had 
a partial response.
CONCLUSIONS: The maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib with gemcitabine, 
paclitaxel and concurrent radiation is 50 mg/d for patients with locally 
advanced pancreatic cancer. Full dose maintenance erlotinib is well tolerated. 
Promising preliminary activity and overall survival were demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000184682.51193.00
PMID: 16317266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Am J Clin Oncol. 2005 Dec;28(6):581-5. doi:
10.1097/01.coc.0000190398.52142.7f.

Irinotecan (CPT-11) and mitomycin-C (MMC) as second-line therapy in advanced 
gastric cancer: a phase II study of the Gruppo Oncologico dell' Italia 
Meridionale (prot. 2106).

Giuliani F(1), Molica S, Maiello E, Battaglia C, Gebbia V, Di Bisceglie M, 
Vinciarelli G, Gebbia N, Colucci G; Gruppo Oncologico dell' Italia Meridionale 
(prot. 2106).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Oncology Institute, Bari, Italy. 
giuliani_daniela@libero.it

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the activity and toxicity of a 
combination regimen of CPT-11 and mitomycin-c as second-line chemotherapy for 
pretreated patients with advanced, metastatic, or both, gastric adenocarcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with pretreated metastatic disease or early 
relapsed after adjuvant chemotherapy were enrolled. Entry criteria included 
histologic/cytologic diagnosis of gastric adenocarcinoma, age 18 to 75 years, 
performance status > or =70 (Karnofsky scale), bi-dimensionally measurable 
disease. Patients received CPT-11 and mitomycin-c at the dosage of 150 mg/m2 on 
days 1 and 15, and 8 mg/m2 on day 1, respectively, every 4 weeks. The disease 
evaluation was done every 3 cycles.
RESULTS: Among the 38 patients we observed, 1 (3%) complete response and 11 
(29%) partial responses for an overall response rate of 32% according to an 
intent-to-treat analysis. The median duration of response was 6.5 months. The 
median time to progression was 4 months with a median overall survival 8 months. 
All patients were evaluable for toxicity and the only grade 3-4 observed 
toxicities were leukopenia (8%), neutropenia (21%), and anemia (5%).
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of CPT-11 and mitomycin-c is an active and well 
tolerated second-line treatment in pretreated gastric cancer patients. Further 
studies are needed to test its role in first-line treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000190398.52142.7f
PMID: 16317268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Z Geburtshilfe Neonatol. 2005 Oct;209(5):167-72. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-873202.

[Uterine gas gangrene through clostridium perfringens sepsis after uterus 
rupture postpartum].

[Article in German]

Montavon C(1), Krause E, Holzgreve W, Hösli I.

Author information:
(1)Frauenklinik, Universitätsspital Basel. montavonc@uhbs.ch

Anaerobic infections with Clostridium perfringens (CP) occur rarely but are 
associated with considerable maternal mortality. We report the case of a patient 
who developed uterine gas gangrene postpartum and discuss the management of this 
infection. A 28-year-old patient, GII, PII with history of Caesarean in 2002, 
delivered a healthy girl per vacuum extraction. Postpartally she presented with 
an acute abdomen and a laparotomy was performed. The uterotomy suture was intact 
but a parametrane tear had to be resutured. 36 hours later the patient's 
condition worsened quickly. Cellulitis was diagnosed and after receiving the 
results of the wound swabs (CP positive) from the uterus and haematoma, 
tazobactam and clindamycin were administered. Her condition continued to 
deteriorate and gaseous gangrene was seen with unilateral extension to the 
abdomen reaching as far as the axilla cranially and to the thigh caudally. Due 
to the extensive infection it was necessary to perform a hysterectomy, necrosis 
removal and splitting of the fascia followed by several debridements and leaving 
the wound open in order to avoid anaerobic conditions. The patient was 
discharged after 21 days. She developed a post-traumatic syndrome with severe 
depression. Clostridium perfringens is ubiquitous and is found vaginally in ca. 
1 - 10 % of healthy women and usually does not cause a serious infection. Under 
the right conditions it can cause an endometritis leading to sepsis. Early 
recognition and interdisciplinary treatment are of extreme importance. In this 
case the surgical treatment through hysterectomy combined with targeted 
antibiotic therapy, ultimately saved the patient's life.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-873202
PMID: 16317627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Clin Trials. 2005;2(5):423-35. doi: 10.1191/1740774505cn116oa.

Design of the VA/NIH Acute Renal Failure Trial Network (ATN) Study: intensive 
versus conventional renal support in acute renal failure.

Palevsky PM(1), O'Connor T, Zhang JH, Star RA, Smith MW.

Author information:
(1)Renal Section, VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System, University Drive Division, PA 
15240, USA. palevsky@pitt.edu

The optimal management of renal replacement therapy (RRT) in acute renal failure 
(ARF) is uncertain. The VA/NIH Acute Renal Failure Trail Network Study (ATN 
Study) tests the hypothesis that a strategy of intensive RRT will decrease 
60-day all-cause mortality in critically ill patients with ARF. Dose separation 
between the two treatment arms is achieved by increasing the frequency of 
intermittent hemodialysis (IHD) and sustained low efficiency dialysis (SLED) 
treatments from three times per week to six times per week, and by increasing 
continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration (CVVHDF) effluent volume from 20 
mL/kg/hr to 35 mL/kg/hr. In both treatment arms, subjects convert between IHD 
and CVVHDF or SLED as hemodynamic status changes over time. This strategy 
attempts to replicate the conversion between modalities of RRT that occurs in 
clinical practice. However, in order to implement this strategy, flexible 
criteria needed to be developed to provide a balance between the need for 
uniformity of treatment between groups and practitioner discretion regarding 
modality of RRT to maintain patient safety. In order to address safety and 
ethical issues similar to those raised by the Office of Human Research 
Protections in its review of the ARDS Network studies, a survey of practitioner 
practices was performed and observational data on the management of RRT in 
comparable critically ill patients with ARF managed outside of the research 
context is being collected prospectively. These data will help inform the 
study's DSMB and site IRB's of the relationship between the study's treatment 
arms and concurrent clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1191/1740774505cn116oa
PMCID: PMC1351394
PMID: 16317811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Ann Oncol. 2006 Mar;17(3):381-90. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdj101. Epub 2005 Nov
30.

An economic evaluation of Herceptin in adjuvant setting: the Breast Cancer 
International Research Group 006 trial.

Neyt M(1), Albrecht J, Cocquyt V.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, Department of Economics, 
Ghent University, Ghent. mattias.neyt@ugent.be

Comment in
