Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. pedro.nunes@sapo.pt

PURPOSE: Compare renal transplant long-term outcomes among recipients aged 60 
years or older with those in younger patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed 103 transplants in recipients above 60 years 
of age for the influence of key factors related to the graft and patient. The 
results were compared with 1060 transplant recipients aged 18 to 59 years.
RESULTS: The mean ages were 62.93 and 40.35 years for the older and younger 
group. The older group showed a higher prevalence of obesity and unknown 
etiologies for the end-stage renal disease. Important comorbidity was 
significantly more frequent among recipients aged more than 60 years, mainly of 
a cardiovascular nature (56% vs 18.5%). Donor age (39.75 vs 31.59 years), cold 
ischemia time (22.43 vs 20.49 hours) and human leukocyte antigen compatibilities 
(2.59 vs 2.36) were significantly greater in the older subset. After a mean 
follow-up of 4.72 and 6.07 years for the older versus younger group, we found no 
differences in initial graft function, acute rejection rate, and serum 
creatinine/clearance. Patient and graft survivals at 1, 5, and 10 years were 
lower among the 60+ group. There were no differences in graft survival censored 
for death with a functioning graft, namely, 95.1%, 89.4%, and 81.2% for the 60+ 
cohort. The main cause of graft loss in the older group was death with a 
functioning graft.
CONCLUSION: Renal transplantation should be considered for selected patients 
older than 60 years. Despite a shorter life expectancy, they benefit from it 
similar to younger recipients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2005.05.037
PMID: 16182796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2005 Sep;30(3):215-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.03.012.

Why now? Timing and circumstances of hastened deaths.

Starks H(1), Pearlman RA, Hsu C, Back AL, Gordon JR, Bharucha AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical History and Ethics, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington, USA.

We interviewed 35 families to understand the timing and circumstances of 
hastened deaths. We estimated life expectancy for the 26 patients who hastened 
their deaths and used content analysis to identify patterns in their decisions. 
On average, patients had lived with their illness for 2.5 years and had actively 
planned their deaths for 3 months. Those with less than a week to live (n = 10) 
were 'dying and done,' having experienced a final functional loss that signaled 
the end. Those with <1 month (n = 8) were 'dying, but not fast enough.' Those 
with 1-6 months (n = 5) saw a 'looming crisis' on their horizon that would 
prohibit following through with their plans. The 3 patients with >6 months were 
'not recognized by others as dying, but suffering just the same.' Clinicians 
should regularly assess where patients perceive they are in the dying process 
and ask about their comfort with the pace of dying to identify opportunities for 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.03.012
PMID: 16183005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. J Health Econ. 2006 Sep;25(5):803-20. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2005.08.004.
Epub  2005 Sep 23.

Further evidence of preference reversals: choice, valuation and ranking over 
distributions of life expectancy.

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, Department of Social Policy, London School of 
Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, UK. 
a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk <a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk>

Moving between choice and direct valuation procedures can cause substantial, 
systematic preference reversals, which is problematic because it leaves us 
unsure as to which procedure (if any) is 'best'. This article reports a study 
that tests whether using a ranking procedure to infer values rather than more 
conventional direct valuation can negate this phenomenon. The results suggest 
that the ranking procedure can render strict preference reversals both less 
substantial and less systematic. This could have important implications for the 
valuation of health outcomes, and in attempting to ascertain whether choice, 
valuation or ranking best uncovers people's preferences, similar tests in the 
context of more realistic health outcome descriptions are recommended.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2005.08.004
PMID: 16183157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Vaccine. 2006 Feb 13;24(7):1035-43. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2004.12.033. Epub
 2005 Sep 6.

The cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination of healthy adults 50-64 years of 
age.

Turner DA(1), Wailoo AJ, Cooper NJ, Sutton AJ, Abrams KR, Nicholson KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, UK. 
dat3@leicester.ac.uk

Influenza can cause significant morbidity and mortality. Influenza vaccination 
is an effective and safe strategy in the prevention of influenza. Currently the 
National Health Service (NHS) vaccinates 'at-risk' individuals only. This 
definition includes everyone over 65 years of age but excludes individuals 50-64 
years of age unless they have an additional risk factor, such as underlying 
heart disease or lung disease. In order to examine the cost-effectiveness of an 
extension of the vaccination policy to include this age group we constructed an 
economic model to estimate the costs and benefits of vaccination from both a 
health service and a societal perspective. Data to populate the model was 
obtained from the literature and the outcome measure used was the quality 
adjusted life year (QALY). Influenza vaccination prevented an estimated 4508 
cases (95% CI: 2431-7606) per 100,000 vaccinees per influenza season for a net 
cost to the NHS of pound653,221 (95% CI: 354,575-1,072,257). The net cost 
increased to pound1,139,069 (95% CI 27,052-2,030,473) when non-NHS costs were 
included and the estimated cost-per-QALY were pound6174 and pound10,766 for NHS 
and all costs respectively. Extension of the current immunisation policy has the 
potential to generate a significant health benefit at a comparatively low cost.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2004.12.033
PMID: 16183177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Oct;46(4):595-602. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.06.008.

Delay in time to receipt of thrombolytic medication among Medicare patients with 
kidney disease.

Newsome BB(1), Warnock DG, Kiefe CI, Weissman NW, Houston TK, Centor RM, Person 
SD, McClellan WM, Allison JJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Birmingham Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL, USA. bnewsome@uab.edu

BACKGROUND: Patients with kidney disease and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) 
receive standard therapy, including thrombolytic medication, less frequently 
than patients with normal kidney function. Our goal is to identify potential 
differences in thrombolytic medication delays and thrombolytic-associated 
bleeding events by severity of kidney disease.
METHODS: This is a retrospective cohort analysis of Cooperative Cardiovascular 
Project data for all Medicare patients with AMI from 4,601 hospitals. Outcome 
measures included time to administration of thrombolytic medication censored at 
6 hours and bleeding events.
RESULTS: Of 109,169 patients (mean age, 77.4 years; 50.6% women), 13.9% received 
thrombolysis therapy. Average time to thrombolytic therapy was longer in 
patients with worse kidney function. Adjusted hazard ratios for minutes to 
thrombolytic therapy were 0.83 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.79 to 0.87) for 
patients with a serum creatinine level of 1.6 to 2.0 mg/dL (141 to 177 
micromol/L) and 0.58 (95% CI, 0.53 to 0.63) for patients with a creatinine level 
greater than 2.0 mg/dL (>177 micromol/L) or on dialysis therapy compared with 
those with normal kidney function. Odds ratios for bleeding events in patients 
administered thrombolytics versus those who were not decreased with worse kidney 
function: adjusted odds ratios, 2.28 (95% CI, 2.16 to 2.42) in patients with 
normal kidney function and 1.84 (95% CI, 1.09 to 3.10) in dialysis patients.
CONCLUSION: Patients with worse kidney function experienced treatment delays, 
but were not at greater risk for thrombolysis-associated excess bleeding events. 
Physician concerns of thrombolytic-associated bleeding may not be sufficient 
reason to delay the administration of thrombolytic medication.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.06.008
PMID: 16183413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Oct;46(4):661-8. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.07.017.

Reuse-associated mortality in incident hemodialysis patients in the United 
States, 2000 to 2001.

Fan Q(1), Liu J, Ebben JP, Collins AJ.

Author information:
(1)Chronic Disease Research Group, Minneapolis Medical Research Foundation, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2006 Feb;47(2):372; author reply 372-3.

BACKGROUND: The impact of dialyzer reuse on the mortality of hemodialysis 
patients is debated. This study assesses reuse-associated mortality across US 
dialysis provider systems (for-profit, not-for-profit; hospital-based, and 
freestanding units) in incident patients.
METHODS: Incident Medicare hemodialysis patients who initiated dialysis therapy 
from January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2001, were included and followed up to 
December 31, 2002. A 3-month entry period was used to determine comorbidity and 
disease severity. Applying various analytic approaches, mortality rates for 
patients treated with reused (or reprocessed) or single-use dialyzers were 
compared. Because of differences among dialysis units, facility clustering was 
addressed.
RESULTS: Of 75,831 patients, 61,391 patients (81.0%) were classified as on 
reuse, and 14,440 patients (19.0%), as on single use, as of the start of 
follow-up. The overall mortality rate was 25.0/100 patient-years. No difference 
in mortality risk was found between patients treated with reuse compared with 
single use in an intent-to-treat approach (hazard ratio, 0.98; 95% confidence 
interval, 0.94 to 1.02; P = 0.266) after adjusting for chain affiliation, 
for-profit status, year of dialysis inception, age, sex, race, renal diagnosis, 
comorbidity, and hospitalization days. Findings were similar in an as-treated 
approach (hazard ratio, 0.97; 95% confidence interval, 0.93 to 1.01; P = 0.136). 
No survival advantage associated with single use was found for subgroups.
CONCLUSION: No overall survival advantage or disadvantage is associated with 
dialyzer reuse compared with single use in incident hemodialysis patients in the 
United States; however, continued monitoring is advised.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.07.017
PMID: 16183421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2005 Sep;6(3):169-76.
doi:  10.1080/14660820410021339.

Integrating preferences into health status assessment for amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis: the ALS Utility Index.

Beusterien K(1), Leigh N, Jackson C, Miller R, Mayo K, Revicki D.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA. beusterien@medtap.com

We developed a preference-based measure, the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 
Utility Index (ALSUI), allowing computation of US population-based utility 
weights for the wide range of health states observed among ALS patients. A 
multi-attribute utility approach was used. An ALS Health State Classification 
System was developed comprising the following attributes with different severity 
levels: Speech and Swallowing (A1); Eating, Dressing, and Bathing (A2); Leg 
Function (A3); and Respiratory Function (A4). An internet-based survey was 
administered to a random sample of the US population to assess preferences for 
ALS health states based on this system using visual analog scale (VAS) and 
standard gamble (SG) questions. Using the VAS and SG data from 1374 individuals 
in the general population, utility functions were computed that corresponded to 
each severity level within A1, A2, A3, and A4. ALSUI scores for a given patient 
are computed by inputting his corresponding utility functions into the following 
multiplicative formula: ALSUI score = 1.06 x (A1 x A2 x A3 x A4) - 0.06 on a 
scale where 0.0 reflects death and 1.0 reflects healthy. This study provides a 
useful tool for classifying ALS patients and determining a general public-based 
utility score for ALS health states.

DOI: 10.1080/14660820410021339
PMID: 16183558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 Sep;60(9):1125-31. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/60.9.1125.

Dietary restriction in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.

Houthoofd K(1), Johnson TE, Vanfleteren JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ghent University, K.L. Ledeganckstraat 35, B-9000 
Ghent, Belgium.

The first observation of the positive effect of reduced food intake on mammalian 
life span was made 70 years ago. In the decades that followed, researchers 
successfully applied this method to increase the life span of a very wide range 
of animals. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is an excellent model organism 
for studying the aging process. However, relatively little effort has been made 
to study the effects of dietary restriction in C. elegans. In this review we 
discuss the difficulties of subjecting C. elegans to dietary restriction, the 
effects of dietary restriction on metabolism and stress defense, and the 
potential role of different signaling pathways in DR-induced life extension. 
Recent experiments suggest that the TOR (target of rapamycin) pathway, rather 
than insulin-like signaling, might be involved in mediating the life-extending 
effect of dietary restriction.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/60.9.1125
PMID: 16183950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2005 Dec;131(12):783-8. doi:
10.1007/s00432-005-0029-9.  Epub 2005 Nov 15.

Impact of gefitinib ('Iressa') treatment on the quality of life of patients with 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

Gelibter A(1), Ceribelli A, Pollera CF, Milella M, Moscetti L, Sperduti I, 
Cognetti F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology A, Regina Elena Cancer Institute, Via Elio 
Chianesi, 53, 00144, Rome, Italy. agelibter@yahoo.it

PURPOSE: Patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have a short 
life expectancy; therefore, in addition to increasing their survival, improving 
their quality of life (QoL) is also an important treatment goal.
METHODS: We evaluated the QoL of patients with advanced NSCLC who were unfit to 
receive chemotherapy, failed to respond or progress following prior 
chemotherapy, who received subsequent treatment with gefitinib ('Iressa') on a 
compassionate use basis, using a standard QoL questionnaire, (EORTC) QLQ-C30 and 
the related lung cancer-specific module QLQ-LC13.
RESULTS: Analysis of the functional scales showed a trend towards improvement 
for role, emotional and cognitive scales, while a substantial stability was seen 
for general QoL scale. Analysis of the symptoms scales of QLQ-C30, showed a 
trend towards improvement for fatigue, dyspnoea, insomnia, and constipation, 
after one month of therapy. Fifty-six of the 57 patients were considered 
evaluable for response. One patient evidenced a partial response (patient is 
still on response), 29 patients had stable disease for a median duration of 5 
months (range 4-7 months), and 26 patients progressed.
CONCLUSIONS: After treatment with Gefitinib, we observed maintenance of QoL in a 
group of patients with poor prognosis that would be expected to have a worsening 
QoL. Furthermore important symptoms like dyspnoea fatigue and pain in other 
parts, that usually afflict patients with NSCLC, showed a trend toward 
improvement after only one month of therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-005-0029-9
PMID: 16184381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Liver Transpl. 2005 Oct;11(10):1172-6. doi: 10.1002/lt.20506.

Early HCV-associated stellate cell activation in aggressive recurrent HCV: what 
can liver allografts teach about HCV pathogenesis?

Demetris AJ, Lunz JG 3rd.

Comment on
    Liver Transpl. 2005 Oct;11(10):1207-13.
    Liver Transpl. 2005 Oct;11(10):1235-41.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.20506
PMID: 16184566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Liver Transpl. 2005 Oct;11(10):1177-80. doi: 10.1002/lt.20495.

Resection, transplantation, either, or both? Other pieces of the puzzle.

Majno P, Mentha G, Mazzaferro V.

Comment on
    Liver Transpl. 2005 Oct;11(10):1242-51.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.20495
PMID: 16184567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Pharmacotherapy. 2005 Oct;25(10):1396-430. doi:
10.1592/phco.2005.25.10.1396.

Pharmacy practice, research, education, and advocacy for older adults.

Linnebur SA, O'Connell MB, Wessell AM, McCord AD, Kennedy DH, DeMaagd G, Dent 
LA, Splinter MY, Biery JC Jr, Chang F, Jackson RC, Miller SL, Sterling T; ACCP 
Task Force.

In the United States, older adults have become the fastest growing segment of 
the population and are expected to double in number to 70 million by 2030. As a 
whole, older adults have different health care needs than younger patients, and 
some of these needs should be met by pharmacists. Clinical pharmacy practice 
affecting older adults occurs in a variety of settings, including community, 
ambulatory care, primary care, hospital, assisted living, nursing home, home 
health care, hospice, and Alzheimer's disease units. Although specialty training 
in geriatrics or gerontology is not required for pharmacists to care for older 
adults, it is extremely helpful. Pharmacy education related to the care of older 
adults has improved slightly in the past several years but will need to increase 
even more to provide all pharmacists with the basic skills and knowledge to care 
for this unique group of patients. In addition, pharmacotherapy research 
targeting older adults needs to increase. Although it can be challenging, 
funding for this type of research is available. Patient and political advocacy 
is also important to support this growing population.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.2005.25.10.1396
PMID: 16185185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Med Clin (Barc). 2005 Sep 17;125(9):325-8. doi: 10.1157/13078772.

[Protocol for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in patients with cystic 
fibrosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Girón RM(1), Sánchez Moliní P, García Vadillo A, Quintana ML, Rodríguez Salvanés 
F, Jiménez I, Mancha A, Cisneros C, Ancochea J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Reduction of bone mineral density (BMD) is a 
complication of cystic fibrosis (CF) which is observed in parallel to the 
increment of life expectancy in these patients. The aim of this study was to 
analyze the evolution of BMD following the application of a protocol for the 
prevention and treatment of osteoporosis.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: We performed a multidisciplinary prospective study in 21 
adult patients with CF with a mean age of 24.3 (r: 19-44) years. We evaluated 
BMD results depending on the treatment schedule, and the annual relative change 
of BMD percentage was correlated with changes observed in respiratory function, 
corporal mass index (CMI), Brasfield radiologic score and Shwachman clinical 
score for a 3 years follow up period. Three regimens of treatment were applied: 
general measurements, supplementation of calcium and vitamin D, and 10 daily mg 
of alendronate plus calcium and vitamin D supplements.
RESULTS: Basal assessment showed that 14.2% of CF patients had a marked 
diminution of bone mass with respect to an age and sex matched control 
population, with a Z score of < -2 DE in lumbar vertebral and/or total femur. 
Another 38% showed a lessening of Z score between -1 and -2.5 DE. We observed a 
progressive annual reduction of BMD in all the anatomic areas analyzed: -0.52% 
(1.87) in lumbar spine, -1.17% (1.91) in total femur and -2.16% (2.65) in neck 
femur. The hip BMD annual decrement was related to that observed in FEV1. Only 
patients treated with alendronate did not suffer progressive BMD lose. Treatment 
with a combination of calcium, vitamin D and alendronate was more efficient in 
hip BMD than calcium plus vitamin D alone (p < 0.05). Also, this combination was 
better than no treatment at hip and femoral neck levels (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our work confirms that Spanish young adults patients with CF show 
low control matched BMD, and that it even worsens at follow-up. This decrement 
is not adequately halted with preventive treatment with supplements of calcium 
and vitamin D, and only patients treated with alendronate show increments of 
their BMD.

DOI: 10.1157/13078772
PMID: 16185631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Prog Brain Res. 2005;150:495-511. doi: 10.1016/S0079-6123(05)50034-7.

The locked-in syndrome : what is it like to be conscious but paralyzed and 
voiceless?

Laureys S(1), Pellas F, Van Eeckhout P, Ghorbel S, Schnakers C, Perrin F, Berré 
J, Faymonville ME, Pantke KH, Damas F, Lamy M, Moonen G, Goldman S.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department and Cyclotron Research Center, University of Liège, Sart 
Tilman B30, 4000 Liege, Belgium. steven.laureys@ulg.ac.be

The locked-in syndrome (pseudocoma) describes patients who are awake and 
conscious but selectively deefferented, i.e., have no means of producing speech, 
limb or facial movements. Acute ventral pontine lesions are its most common 
cause. People with such brainstem lesions often remain comatose for some days or 
weeks, needing artificial respiration and then gradually wake up, but remaining 
paralyzed and voiceless, superficially resembling patients in a vegetative state 
or akinetic mutism. In acute locked-in syndrome (LIS), eye-coded communication 
and evaluation of cognitive and emotional functioning is very limited because 
vigilance is fluctuating and eye movements may be inconsistent, very small, and 
easily exhausted. It has been shown that more than half of the time it is the 
family and not the physician who first realized that the patient was aware. 
Distressingly, recent studies reported that the diagnosis of LIS on average 
takes over 2.5 months. In some cases it took 4-6 years before aware and 
sensitive patients, locked in an immobile body, were recognized as being 
conscious. Once a LIS patient becomes medically stable, and given appropriate 
medical care, life expectancy increases to several decades. Even if the chances 
of good motor recovery are very limited, existing eye-controlled, computer-based 
communication technology currently allow the patient to control his environment, 
use a word processor coupled to a speech synthesizer, and access the worldwide 
net. Healthy individuals and medical professionals sometimes assume that the 
quality of life of an LIS patient is so poor that it is not worth living. On the 
contrary, chronic LIS patients typically self-report meaningful quality of life 
and their demand for euthanasia is surprisingly infrequent. Biased clinicians 
might provide less aggressive medical treatment and influence the family in 
inappropriate ways. It is important to stress that only the medically 
stabilized, informed LIS patient is competent to consent to or refuse 
life-sustaining treatment. Patients suffering from LIS should not be denied the 
right to die - and to die with dignity - but also, and more importantly, they 
should not be denied the right to live - and to live with dignity and the best 
possible revalidation, and pain and symptom management. In our opinion, there is 
an urgent need for a renewed ethical and medicolegal framework for our care of 
locked-in patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6123(05)50034-7
PMID: 16186044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Health Aff (Millwood). 2005;24 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):W5R18-29. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.w5.r18.

The lifetime burden of chronic disease among the elderly.

Joyce GF(1), Keeler EB, Shang B, Goldman DP.

Author information:
(1)RAND, Santa Monica, California, USA. gjoyce@rand.org

The high costs of treating chronic diseases suggest that reducing their 
prevalence would improve Medicare's financial stability. In this paper we 
examine the impact of selected chronic diseases on the distribution of health 
spending and its variation over the course of disease. We also use a 
microsimulation model to estimate these conditions' impact on life expectancy 
and health spending from age sixty-five to death. A sixty-five-year-old with a 
serious chronic illness spends 1000-2000 dollars more per year on health care 
than a similar adult without the condition. However, cumulative Medicare 
payments are only modestly higher for the chronically ill because of their 
shorter life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.w5.r18
PMCID: PMC6385883
PMID: 16186148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Health Aff (Millwood). 2005;24 Suppl 2:W5R30-41. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.w5.r30.

The health and cost consequences of obesity among the future elderly.

Lakdawalla DN(1), Goldman DP, Shang B.

Author information:
(1)RAND, Santa Monica, California, USA.

Obesity could have serious consequences for older cohorts. We used a 
microsimulation to estimate lifetime costs, life expectancy, disease, and 
disability for seventy-year-olds based on body mass. Obese seventy-year-olds 
will live about as long as those of normal weight but will spend more than 
39,000 dollars more on health care. Moreover, they will enjoy fewer 
disability-free life years and experience higher rates of diabetes, 
hypertension, and heart disease. Medicare will spend about 34 percent more on an 
obese person than on someone of normal weight. Obesity might cost Medicare more 
than other diseases, because higher costs are not offset by reduced longevity.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.w5.r30
PMID: 16186149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Health Aff (Millwood). 2005;24 Suppl 2:W5R86-9. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.w5.r86.

Projecting the future of U.S. health and longevity.

Olshansky SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA. 
sjayo@uic.edu

Is the health of the U.S. population improving or getting worse, and how are 
health and medical costs influenced by obesity? How will anticipated advances in 
the biomedical sciences influence life expectancy and the cost of health care? 
The paper by Dana Goldman and colleagues is a daring speculation on the 
life-extending effects of possible future technologies--a valuable exercise 
given the speed of technological advances. Darius Lakdawalla and colleagues 
provide a methodologically solid basis for concluding that not only does obesity 
kill, it also takes an alarming toll on health and health care spending at 
levels that require immediate intervention.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.w5.r86
PMID: 16186155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2005 Oct;46(10):3497-501. doi:
10.1167/iovs.05-0613.

Monosomy 3 predicts death but not time until death in choroidal melanoma.

Sandinha MT(1), Farquharson MA, McKay IC, Roberts F.

Author information:
(1)Tennent Institute of Ophthalmology, Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow, 
Scotland, UK.

PURPOSE: To study whether monosomy 3 can predict time until death caused by 
metastatic melanoma, whether life expectancy can be predicted in patients after 
surgical excision of a melanoma displaying monosomy 3, and to confirm the 
prognostic value of monosomy 3 and its correlation with tumor histology.
METHODS: Archival specimens from 71 patients who died of metastatic melanoma and 
40 patients who were living or had died of other causes were identified. The 
number of copies of chromosome 3 was assessed by chromosome in situ 
hybridization, and monosomy 3 was compared with clinicopathologic features.
RESULTS: Monosomy 3 was detected in 47 of 71 metastasizing melanomas (66.1%) and 
was significantly associated with metastasis-related death (P < 0.0001). All 40 
nonmetastasizing tumors were balanced for chromosome 3 (two copies). In 70% of 
cases, epithelioid cells and vascular loops in combination predicted the 
presence of monosomy 3 (P < 0.0001). Among the 71 patients who had died of 
metastasizing melanoma, there was no difference in time until death between 
monosomic and balanced tumors. However, a survival curve corrected for age of 
the patients at the time of surgery suggested that very-long-term survival with 
monosomy 3 is probably rare.
CONCLUSIONS: Monosomy 3 is an important predictor of death in melanoma and is in 
some cases predicted by histology. However, death of metastatic disease occurs 
in a significant number of patients without monosomy 3. There is no significant 
difference in time until death between metastatic melanomas, with and without 
monosomy 3. However, survival of patients with tumors displaying monosomy 3 is 
generally short.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.05-0613
PMID: 16186325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Clin Oncol. 2005 Oct 20;23(30):7594-603. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.01.7038.
Epub  2005 Sep 26.

Prognostic factors and life expectancy in myelodysplastic syndromes classified 
according to WHO criteria: a basis for clinical decision making.

Malcovati L(1), Porta MG, Pascutto C, Invernizzi R, Boni M, Travaglino E, 
Passamonti F, Arcaini L, Maffioli M, Bernasconi P, Lazzarino M, Cazzola M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, IRCCS, Policlinico San Matteo, 27100 Pavia, Italy.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic value of the WHO 
proposal, to assess the role of the main prognostic factors in myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDSs) classified into WHO subgroups, and to estimate mortality 
(standardized mortality ratio [SMR]) and life expectancy in these groups as a 
basis for clinical decision making.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Four hundred sixty-seven patients who were diagnosed as 
having de novo MDS at the Division of Hematology, University of Pavia (Pavia, 
Italy), between 1992 and 2002, were evaluated retrospectively for clinical and 
hematologic features at diagnosis, overall survival (OS), and progression to 
leukemia (leukemia-free survival).
RESULTS: Significant differences in survival were noted between patients with 
refractory anemia (RA), refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia, RA 
with excess blasts, type 1 (RAEB-1), and RAEB-2. The effect of demographic 
factors on OS was observed in MDS patients without excess blasts (age, P = .001; 
sex, P = .006), as in the general population. The mortality of RA patients 70 
years or older did not differ significantly from that of the general population 
(SMR, 1.62; P = .06). Cytogenetics was the only International Prognostic Scoring 
System variable showing a prognostic value in MDS classified into WHO subgroups. 
Transfusion-dependent patients had a significantly shorter survival than 
patients who did not require transfusions (P < .001). Developing a secondary 
iron overload significantly affected the survival of transfusion-dependent 
patients (P = .003).
CONCLUSION: These data show that the WHO classification of MDSs has a relevant 
prognostic value. This classification, along with cytogenetics, might be useful 
in decisions regarding transplantation. MDS with isolated erythroid lineage 
dysplasia identifies a subset of truly low-risk patients, for whom a 
conservative approach is advisable.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.01.7038
PMID: 16186598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2005 Oct 1;40(2):236-7; author reply 237-8.
doi:  10.1097/01.qai.0000178410.00794.e3.

Discussion of "Comparison of clinical and cost-effectiveness of 3 intervention 
strategies for HIV wasting".

Hatoum HT, Walton SM.

Comment on
    J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2005 Apr 1;38(4):399-406.

DOI: 10.1097/01.qai.0000178410.00794.e3
PMID: 16186743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Birth Defects Res C Embryo Today. 2005 Sep;75(3):200-12. doi: 
10.1002/bdrc.20048.

Transcriptional control of chondrocyte fate and differentiation.

Lefebvre V(1), Smits P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Orthopaedic Research Center, 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. lefebvv@ccf.org

Chondrogenesis is an essential process in vertebrates. It leads to the formation 
of cartilage growth plates, which drive body growth and have primary roles in 
endochondral ossification. It also leads to the formation of permanent 
cartilaginous tissues that provide major structural support in the articular 
joints and respiratory and auditory tracts throughout life. Defects in 
chondrogenesis cause chondrodysostoses and chondrodysplasias. These skeletal 
malformation diseases account for a significant proportion of birth defects in 
humans and can dramatically affect a person's expectancy and quality of life. 
Chondrogenesis occurs when pluripotent mesenchymal cells commit to the 
chondrocyte lineage, and through a series of differentiation steps build and 
eventually remodel cartilage. This review summarizes and discusses our current 
knowledge and lack of knowledge about the chondrocyte differentiation pathway, 
from mesenchymal cells to growth plate and articular chondrocytes, with a main 
focus on how it is controlled by tissue patterning and cell differentiation 
transcription factors, such as, but not limited to, Pax1 and Pax9, Nkx3.1 and 
Nkx3.2, Sox9, Sox5 and Sox6, Runx2 and Runx3, and c-Maf.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bdrc.20048
PMID: 16187326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Rev Invest Clin. 2005 May-Jun;57(3):399-405.

The impact of losartan on the lifetime incidence of ESRD and costs in Mexico.

Arredondo A(1), Burke TA, Carides GW, Lemus E, Querol J.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Cuernavaca, Mexico. aarredon@insp.mx

BACKGROUND: The RENAAL (Reduction of Endpoints in Type 2 Diabetes with the 
Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan) study demonstrated that treatment with 
losartan reduced the risk of ESRD by 29% among hypertensive patients with type 2 
diabetes and diabetic nephropathy. The objective of this study was to project 
the effect of losartan compared to placebo on the lifetime incidence of ESRD and 
associated costs from a third-party payer perspective in Mexico.
METHODS: A competing risks method was used to estimate lifetime incidence of 
ESRD, while accounting for the risk of death without ESRD. The cost associated 
with ESRD was estimated by combining the cumulative incidence of ESRD with the 
lifetime cost associated with ESRD. Total cost was estimated as the sum of the 
cost associated with ESRD from the three main public institutions in Mexico, the 
lifetime cost of losartan therapy, and other costs (non-ESRD/non-losartan) 
expected for patients with type 2 diabetes. Survival was estimated by weighting 
the life expectancies with and without ESRD by the cumulative risk of ESRD.
RESULTS: The projected lifetime incidence of ESRD for losartan patients was 
lower (66%) compared with placebo patients (83%). This reduction in ESRD 
resulted in a decrease in ESRD-related cost of M dollar 49,737 per patient and a 
discounted gain of 0.697 life years per patient. After accounting for the cost 
of losartan and the additional cost associated with greater survival, we 
projected that treatment with losartan would result in a net savings of M dollar 
24,073 per patient.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with losartan in patients with type 2 diabetes and 
nephropathy not only reduced the within-trial incidence of ESRD but is projected 
to result in lifetime reductions in ESRD, increased survival, and overall cost 
savings to public institutions in Mexico.

PMID: 16187699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Rev Invest Clin. 2005 May-Jun;57(3):415-9.

Treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia: a single institution experience.

Ruiz-Argüelles GJ(1), Morales-Toquero A, Gómez-Rangel JD, López-Martínez B, 
Ruiz-Delgado GJ, Reyes-Núñez V.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Hematología y Medicina Interna de Puebla. gruiz1@clinicaruiz.com

The results of the treatment of 14 patients with promyelocytic leukemia (PML) 
treated with all trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), combined chemotherapy (CT) and 
prophylactic prednisone are reported; the median age was 30 years (range 7 - 
49). A complete remission (CR) was obtained in 13 / 14 patients (93%). All 
patients were given ATRA fully as outpatients; the CR was achieved after the 
administration of ATRA in five patients, whereas in the remaining eight, CT was 
required to achieve it. There were no instances of the ATRA syndrome. One 
patient relapsed with a PML/RAR-a negative PML 575 days after achieving the CR, 
failed to respond again to ATRA and died. The median overall (OS) and disease 
free survival (DFS) has not been reached, being above 4,000 days, whereas the 
12-month DFS was 93%, the three and five years DFS being 85%. The treatment 
employed differs from others in: Oral prednisone is used prophylactically, ATRA 
is given on an outpatient basis and adriamycin is used instead of other 
anthracyclines. The results are similar to those obtained in other centers 
worldwide and it is possible that the prophylactic administration of prednisone 
precluded the development of the full-blown ATRA syndrome in this group of 
patients.

PMID: 16187701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Radiat Res. 2005 Oct;164(4 Pt 1):409-19. doi: 10.1667/rr3423.1.

Radiation exposure due to local fallout from Soviet atmospheric nuclear weapons 
testing in Kazakhstan: solid cancer mortality in the Semipalatinsk historical 
cohort, 1960-1999.

Bauer S(1), Gusev BI, Pivina LM, Apsalikov KN, Grosche B.

Author information:
(1)Federal Office for Radiation Protection, Institute for Radiation Hygiene, 
Germany. sbauer@ifg.tu-berlin.de

Little information is available on the health effects of exposures to fallout 
from Soviet nuclear weapons testing and on the combined external and internal 
environmental exposures that have resulted from these tests. This paper reports 
the first analysis of the Semipalatinsk historical cohort exposed in the 
vicinity of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, Kazakhstan. The cohort study, 
which includes 19,545 inhabitants of exposed and comparison villages of the 
Semipalatinsk region, was set up in the 1960s and comprises 582,750 person-years 
of follow-up between 1960 and 1999. Cumulative effective radiation dose 
estimates in this cohort range from 20 mSv to approximately 4 Sv. Rates of 
mortality and cancer mortality in the exposed group substantially exceeded those 
of the comparison group. Dose-response analyses within the exposed group 
confirmed a significant trend with dose for all solid cancers (P < 0.0001) and 
for digestive and respiratory cancers (P = 0.0255 and P < 0.0001), whereas no 
consistent dose-response trend was found for all causes of death (P = 0.4296). 
Regarding specific cancer sites, a significant trend with dose was observed for 
lung cancer (P = 0.0001), stomach cancer (P = 0.0050), and female breast cancer 
(P = 0.0040) as well as for esophagus cancer in women (P = 0.0030). The excess 
relative risk per sievert for all solid cancers combined was 1.77 (1.35; 2.27) 
based on the total cohort data, yet a selection bias regarding the comparison 
group could not be entirely ruled out. The excess relative risk per sievert 
based on the cohort's exposed group was 0.81 (0.46; 1.33) for all solid cancers 
combined and thus still exceeds current risk estimates from the Life Span Study. 
Future epidemiological assessments based on this cohort will benefit from 
extension of follow-up and ongoing validation of dosimetric data.

DOI: 10.1667/rr3423.1
PMID: 16187743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2005 Nov;70(2):143-50. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2005.03.026. Epub 2005 Apr 25.

The socioeconomic correlates of global complication prevalence in type 1 
diabetes (T1D): a multinational comparison.

Walsh MG(1), Zgibor J, Songer T, Borch-Johnsen K, Orchard TJ; DiaComp 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, DLR Building, 3512 Fifth Avenue, 2nd Floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, 
USA.

We sought to determine the extent to which the geographic variation in the 
complications of type 1 diabetes (T1D) may reflect the socioeconomic status 
(SES) conditions and health care performance (HCP) of countries around the 
world. The World Health Organization (WHO) DiaMond complications study (DiaComp) 
is a multinational, cross-sectional study of complications in T1D. Information 
on complications was identified for 892 subjects from 14 clinical centers in 12 
countries. All participants were diagnosed with diabetes in childhood (<15 years 
of age) and had disease duration of 5-24 years. Complications were assessed by 
self-report, and by clinical exam, with microalbuminuria identified by Micral II 
dipstick, neuropathy by the Michigan Neuropathy Screening Instrument exam and 
hypertension using the HDFP protocol. These data were linked to center-specific 
information on the local social and economic landscape, health care access and 
diabetes management practices and health care costs. Country-specific indicators 
of social and economic development were also linked to the complications data. 
Both diabetes complications and economic and health care factors vary widely 
across the DiaComp centers. Health system performance, as measured by disability 
adjusted life expectancy (DALE), gross national investment (GNI) per capita and 
purchasing power all showed strong consistent correlations with complications, 
and significant independent associations with complication prevalence after 
controlling for HbA1c and hypertension. In conclusion, health system 
performance, social distribution of wealth and purchasing power may play 
important roles in explaining the geographic variation of diabetes 
complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2005.03.026
PMID: 16188576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Acta Paediatr. 2005 Aug;94(8):1089-95. doi:
10.1111/j.1651-2227.2005.tb02050.x.

Screening for congenital cataracts: a cost-consequence analysis of eye 
examination at maternity wards in comparison to well-baby clinics.

Magnusson G(1), Persson U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, 
Sweden. gunilla.magnusson@oft.gu.se

AIM: To estimate, on a national basis in Sweden, the costs versus consequences 
of combined maternity ward and well-baby clinic eye screening compared to 
well-baby clinic screening alone.
METHODS: Two scenarios were created and compared regarding healthcare costs: 
visual acuity development and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). One scenario 
represented early management (combined maternity ward and well-baby clinic 
screening); the other represented less early management (well-baby clinic 
screening only). Each scenario was based on 100,000 births, and the healthcare 
costs were calculated from detection until age 18 y. All estimates of 
prevalence, visual outcome, postoperative complications and screening procedures 
were based on previous, recently published studies. Estimated costs were 
obtained from St. Erik's Eye Hospital in Stockholm and the University Hospital 
of Lund, at 2001 prices.
RESULTS: Total cost of the maternity ward/well-baby clinic screening scenario 
was 7.9 million SEK, and that of the maternity ward screening scenario was 6.9 
million SEK. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was estimated at 234,000 
SEK/QALY provided three more children per year were detected in Sweden by 
mandatory maternity ward/well-baby clinic screening.
CONCLUSION: The incremental expense of introducing combined maternity 
ward/well-baby clinic eye screening on a nationwide basis is cost effective and 
within acceptable levels of cost/QALY when compared with other widely accepted 
therapies across diverse medical specialties.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1651-2227.2005.tb02050.x
PMID: 16188854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Acta Paediatr. 2005 Aug;94(8):1126-36. doi:
10.1111/j.1651-2227.2005.tb02056.x.

Expanding screening for rare metabolic disease in the newborn: an analysis of 
costs, effect and ethical consequences for decision-making in Finland.

Autti-Rämö I(1), Mäkelä M, Sintonen H, Koskinen H, Laajalahti L, Halila R, 
Kääriäinen H, Lapatto R, Näntö-Salonen K, Pulkki K, Renlund M, Salo M, Tyni T.

Author information:
(1)Finnish Office for Health Care Technology Assessment, National Research and 
Development Centre for Welfare and Health (STAKES), Helsinki, Finland. 
ilona.autti-ramo@stakes.fi

AIM: Currently, the only metabolic disorder that newborns are screened for in 
Finland is congenital hypothyroidism. A proposal to start a pilot study on 
screening for other rare metabolic diseases using tandem mass spectrometry 
prompted a health technology assessment project on the effect and costs of 
expanded newborn screening programme options.
METHOD: A modelling study using data from current published studies, healthcare 
registers and expert opinion.
RESULTS: The annual running cost of screening 56,000 newborns for the chosen 
five disorders (congenital adrenal hyperplasia, medium-chain acyl-CoA 
dehydrogenase deficiency [MCADD], long chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase 
deficiency [LCHADD], phenylketonuria [PKU] and glutaric aciduria type 1 [GA 1]) 
was estimated to be euros 2.5 million or euros 45 per newborn when starting 
costs were included. The costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained are 
a maximum of euros 25,500. Prevention of severe handicap in one newborn would 
reduce the costs to a maximum of euros 18,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Expanding the Finnish neonatal screening programme would require a 
new organization. The cost-effectiveness, resources, ethics and equity need to 
be considered when deciding in favour of or against starting a new screening 
programme.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1651-2227.2005.tb02056.x
PMID: 16188860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Ann Fam Med. 2005 Sep-Oct;3(5):391-9. doi: 10.1370/afm.375.

The cost-effectiveness of expanded testing for primary HIV infection.

Coco A(1).

Author information:
(1)Healthcare Research Center, Lancaster General Hospital, Lancaster, PA 
17604-3555, USA. ascoco@lancastergeneral.org

Comment in
    Ann Fam Med. 2005 Sep-Oct;3(5):389-90.
    Ann Fam Med. 2005 Sep-Oct;3(5):386-8.

PURPOSE: Primary infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a 
major factor in the HIV epidemic. Most patients become symptomatic and seek 
care, but seldom are they tested or is their condition diagnosed. The objectives 
of this study are to determine whether it is cost-effective to expand testing 
for primary HIV infection to a larger cohort of patients, and, if so, which 
diagnostic assay is most cost-effective.
METHODS: We undertook a cost-effectiveness analysis of testing a hypothetical 
cohort of more than 3 million outpatients with fever and other viral symptoms 
regardless of HIV risk factors using 3 diagnostic assays: p24 antigen enzyme 
immunosorbent assay (EIA), HIV-1 RNA assay, and third-generation HIV-1 EIA. 
Antiretroviral therapy was started when the CD4 cell count decreased to 
350/microL. Outcome measures were the incremental cost-effectiveness of the 
diagnostic assays, number of cases identified, cases avoided in sexual partners, 
and threshold prevalence. For sensitivity analyses, we used 50,000 dollars as 
the threshold for cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: At the baseline prevalence of 0.66%, p24 antigen EIA testing was the 
most cost-effective option at a cost of 30,800 dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained when compared with no testing. There were 17,054 cases 
identified, and infection was avoided in 435 partners. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, in which the estimates for all variables are varied simultaneously, 
determined that expanded testing with p24 antigen EIA compared with no testing 
had a 67% probability of being cost-effective at the baseline prevalence and a 
71% probability at a prevalence of 1%.
CONCLUSIONS: Expanded testing for primary HIV infection with p24 antigen EIA may 
be a sound expenditure of health care resources.

DOI: 10.1370/afm.375
PMCID: PMC1466923
PMID: 16189054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Nurs Econ. 2005 Jul-Aug;23(4):165-72, 206, 147.

Nurse-supported breastfeeding promotion: a framework for economic evaluation.

Frick KD(1), Milligan RA, White KM, Serwint JR, Pugh LC.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department of Health Policy 
and Management, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Increasingly, economic evaluation results are considered by policymakers, 
although few nurse-led interventions have undergone such an evaluation. 
Nurse-supported breastfeeding promotion is used as an exemplar to illustrate 
economic evaluation. Past work is critiqued and lessons learned are described.

PMID: 16189981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2005 Aug;30(4):390-3.

[Years of potential life of residents among different flood areas in Hunan 
province].

[Article in Chinese]

Li XL(1), Tan HZ, Li SQ, Zhou J, Liu AZ, Yang TB, Sun ZQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics, School of Public Health, Central South 
University, Changsha 410078, China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the damage of different types of floods on the residents 
health.
METHODS: The methods of standard mortality rate (SMR) and years of potential 
life lost (YPLL) were used to analyze the death of sample residents from flood 
areas in Dongting Lake in Hunan province.
RESULTS: The order of death causes in the soaked area, the collapsed area and 
the non-flood area was the same. But the mortality rates of residents injury, 
poisoning and malignant neoplasm diseases in the soaked area and the collapsed 
area were higher than those of non-flood area. The resident standard rates of 
years of potential life lost (SYPLL) in the soaked area and the collapsed area 
were higher than that of the controls, especially in the age group of 30 to 45. 
The flood-attributed SYPLL in the male was higher than that of the female.
CONCLUSION: Flood actually affected the health of residents. The more serious 
the flood is, the worse the effect is. It is very important to decrease the 
resident mortality rate of the injury, poisoning and malignant neoplasm, and to 
pay attention to protect people of 30 to 45 years old in flood areas.

PMID: 16190380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Przegl Epidemiol. 2005;59(2):591-4.

[Retreatment strategies for the patients with HCV infection].

[Article in Polish]

Pawłowska M(1).

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Klinika Chorób Zakaźnych i Hepatologii, Collegium Medicum 
Uniwersytetu Mikołaja Kopernika w Toruniu. kikchzak@cm.umk.pl

Despite recent advances in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, especially 
introduction of combined therapy with pegylated interferons with ribavirin, 
significant number of patients fails to achieve sustained virologic response. 
