Paris, France. francois.desgrandchamps@sls.ap-hop-paris.fr

Benign prostatic hyperplasia is a disorder of aging men and according to reasons 
for consultation its incidence is continually increasing in parallel with the 
constant increase in life expectancy. Recommendations about its management have 
been made by numerous national and international, scientific authorities and 
those responsible for public health. However, despite a rationale based on 
regularly published data, there are many disparities between them and they are 
only partially followed up in routine practice. The purpose of a working group 
during the "2nd Interfaces in Urology" was to make a new assessment on this 
disorder with regard to the most recent data and existing recommendations, in 
order to offer clinicians a clearer attitude for the prescription of the initial 
evaluation of benign prostatic hyperplasia.

PMID: 16425735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Ann Urol (Paris). 2005 Nov;39 Suppl 5:S155-9.

[The new seniors. Sociological and medical aspects].

[Article in French]

Mermet G.

Medical progress has led to a spectacular increase in life expectancy. The world 
population is ageing in a context of rapid technological change destabilizing 
individuals and societies in their values and functions to such a point that it 
is Leading to a true change in civilization. Seniors have become important 
socio-economic players with a feeling of prolonged youth and autonomy. 
Globalization has generated a feeling of insecurity and a constantly growing 
need for more information. In the face of these changes, adaptation in rhythm 
ranges, according to the individual, from reticence in its extreme form, the 
principle of precaution, through fatalistic passivity to opportunistic 
enthusiasm. In the medical field, patients have access to all modern means of 
information, and the most well-informed tend to behave more or less consciously 
as healthcare consumers, modifying the relationship with doctors which may 
become a service provider-client type relationship. A new relation to the body 
and with others has appeared with desires and also performance obligations. The 
difficulties of adaptation to this complex and socially anxiogenic world are 
expressed by permanent social conflicts and the increasing recourse to 
individual psychotherapeutic support.

PMID: 16425736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Dec 31;149(53):2958-63.

[The use of age as a variable in clinical research].

[Article in Dutch]

de Craen AJ(1), Westendorp RG.

Author information:
(1)Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum, afd. Ouderengeneeskunde, Postbus 9600, 
2300 RC Leiden. craen@lumc.nl

There are a number of ways to study the effect of age as a variable in clinical 
research. Where survival is concerned, age is the parameter of interest. In this 
case, age-specific mortality risks, graphs of the logarithms of the age-specific 
mortality risks set against age (Gompertz-curves), life expectancies, and 
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis curves are used. Confounding and effect 
modification by the age of an association between a determinant and outcome can 
be recognised by evaluating the connection between the different age groups 
(stratification). Mathematical adjustments for age in linear, logistic, and Cox 
regression is easy to carry out but their interpretation is often difficult. 
Adjusting for age is not always necessary.

PMID: 16425847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Surg Neurol. 2006;65 Suppl 1:S1:33-1:37; discussion 1:37-1:38. doi: 
10.1016/j.surneu.2005.11.037.

Transbasal approach to skull base tumors: evaluation and proposal of 
classification.

Raso JL(1), Gusmão S.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Neurocirurgia do Biocor Instituto, Belo Horizonte 30140 000, 
Brazil. jraso@uol.com.br

A clinical study of the TBA was performed in 22 patients harboring tumors of the 
skull base. The follow-up ranged from 3 to 89 months (average, 30.5 months). The 
main complications were intracerebral hematoma, ptosis, and infection. One 
patient died (4.5%) because of an extradural hematoma. Eight patients died 
during the follow-up because of tumor complications. Among the survivals, the 
median of the Karnofsky index was 96.4. Based on this study, we propose a 
classification for the TBA, according to its extension.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surneu.2005.11.037
PMID: 16427445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Mar;7(1):7-18. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0336-8.

The relationship between health care expenditure and health outcomes. Evidence 
and caveats for a causal link.

Nixon J(1), Ulmann P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK. 
jn105@york.ac.uk

The relationship between health care expenditure and health outcomes is of 
interest to policy makers in the light of steady increases in health care 
spending for most industrialised countries. However, establishing causal 
relationships is complex because, firstly, health care expenditure is only one 
of many quantitative and qualitative factors that contribute to health outcomes, 
and, secondly, measurement of health status is an imperfect process. This study 
reviews key findings and methodological approaches in this field and reports the 
results of our own empirical study of countries of the European Union. Our 
analysis examines life expectancy and infant mortality as the 'output' of the 
health care system, and various life-style, environmental and occupational 
factors as 'inputs'. Econometric analyses using a fixed effects model are 
conducted on a panel data set for the former 15 members of the European Union 
over the period 1980-1995. The findings show that increases in health care 
expenditure are significantly associated with large improvements in infant 
mortality but only marginally in relation to life expectancy. The findings are 
generally consistent with those of several previous studies. Caveats and 
improvements for future research are presented.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0336-8
PMID: 16429295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Mar;7(1):72-8. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0333-y.

Cost-utility analysis comparing meropenem with imipenem plus cilastatin in the 
treatment of severe infections in intensive care.

Edwards SJ(1), Campbell HE, Plumb JM.

Author information:
(1)AstraZeneca UK Ltd, Luton, UK. steven.j.edwards@astrazeneca.com

This study compared the cost-effectiveness of meropenem with that of imipenem 
plus cilastatin in the treatment of severe infections in hospital intensive care 
in the UK. A Markov model was constructed to model lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of using meropenem and imipenem plus 
cilastatin for the treatment of severe infections in intensive care. Estimates 
of effectiveness, utility weights and costs were obtained from the published 
literature. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was conducted to assess the 
robustness of the results. Estimated treatment costs for the patient cohort were 
pound 14,938 with meropenem and pound 15,585 with imipenem plus cilastatin. 
QALYs gained were 7,495 with meropenem and 7,413 with imipenem plus cilastatin. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed meropenem to be significantly less 
costly (-pound 636.47, 95% CI -pound 132.33 to -pound 1,140.62) and more 
effective (0.084, 95% CI 0.023 to 0.144). Meropenem thus appears significantly 
more effective and less expensive than imipenem plus cilastatin and should 
therefore be considered the dominant treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0333-y
PMID: 16429296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2006 Mar;41(3):250-4. doi: 10.1002/ppul.20343.

Cystic fibrosis mutations with widely variable phenotype: the D1152H example.

Mussaffi H(1), Prais D, Mei-Zahav M, Blau H.

Author information:
(1)Kathy and Lee Graub Cystic Fibrosis Center and Pulmonary Unit, Schneider 
Children's Medical Center of Israel, Petah Tikva, Israel.

D1152H is a type IV cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) mutation 
associated with abnormal chloride gating. Although comprising 5-6% of mutations 
on genetic screening, clinical reports of cystic fibrosis (CF) are rare, 
suggesting that the disease is mild, atypical, or even absent. We describe our 
experience, which contrasts with this assumption, in a retrospective case series 
encompassing 91 CF patients (74 Jewish) aged 8 months to 56 years, from 
2000-2005. Nine patients of varied Jewish ethnic origins were homozygous (2 
patients) or compound heterozygous for D1152H with 11 of 182 potential alleles 
(6%). Five were diagnosed at age 33-49 years. Of 4 infants, 1 was diagnosed by 
prenatal screening, 1 had a prenatal dilated bowel, and 1 had pulmonary 
symptoms. Sweat chloride was 28-120 meq/l. Three adults had chronic mucoid 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa in sputum, and a forced expired volume in 1 sec (FEV1) of 
20-55%. One was on bilevel positive airway pressure (BIPAP) ventilation. The 
infants had pulmonary symptoms that responded well to therapy. All 9 patients 
had good nutrition, 6 were pancreatic-sufficient, and 3 adults had subclinical 
pancreatic insufficiency. Three adults had recurrent pancreatitis. None had a 
bowel obstruction. Two of 3 adult males were fertile. Although asymptomatic at 
times, the D1152H mutation is associated with a broad clinical spectrum. This 
information is crucial for genetic counseling. Lung disease may be evident from 
infancy, and is severe in some adults, although all have outlived the median 
life expectancy of CF. Hopefully, with early diagnosis and therapy, prognosis 
can be good. A multicenter study of this mutation is warranted.

(c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.20343
PMID: 16429425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Blood Press Suppl. 2005 Dec;2:25-8. doi: 10.1080/08038020500429060.

Arterial hypertension as a public health issue in the Czech Republic.

Cífková R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Cardiology, Institute for Clinical and Experimental 
Medicine, Prague, Czech Republic. recf@medicon.cz

Hypertension increases the risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, peripheral 
arterial disease and heart failure. Five independent cross-sectional surveys for 
cardiovascular risk factors have been conducted in the Czech Republic (1985, 
1988, 1992, 1997/98 and 2000/01), always involving a representative population 
sample aged 25-64 years. Over a period of 15-16 years, there was a statistically 
significant downward trend in population mean systolic (from 133.6 +/- 20.2 to 
128.8 +/- 18.1 mmHg; p < 0.001) and diastolic (from 84.1 +/- 11.3 to 81.4 +/- 
10.0 mmHg; p < 0.001) blood pressure (BP). There was also a significant decrease 
in the prevalence of hypertension in both sexes (from 51.9% to 45.6% in men; p < 
0.001; from 42.5% to 33.0% in women; p < 0.001). Awareness of hypertension 
increased in both sexes, showing higher rates for females (men from 41.4% to 
62.1%; p < 0.001; women from 58.9% to 73.8%; p < 0.001). Hypertension control 
improved significantly over the period of 15/16 years (from 3.9% to 17.9%; p < 
0.001), consistently showing more effective control in women. The significant 
decrease in population mean BP seems to have contributed to the decrease in 
total and cardiovascular mortality in the Czech Republic observed since 1985.

DOI: 10.1080/08038020500429060
PMID: 16429639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Palliat Med. 2006 Feb;9(1):61-9. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2006.9.61.

Changes in prognostic awareness among seriously ill older persons and their 
caregivers.

Fried TR(1), Bradley EH, O'Leary J.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, West Haven Veterans Affairs Connecticut Health 
Care System, West Haven, Connecticut 06516, Department of Medicine, Yale 
University, School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA. 
terri.fried@yale.edu

PURPOSE: To examine changes in patients' and caregivers' understanding of 
prognosis with progression of the patient's illness.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Community-dwelling persons 60 years of age and older who 
were seriously ill with cancer, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease and their caregivers were interviewed every 4 months and more 
frequently with a decline in the patient's status for up to one year. We 
examined responses to, "If you had to take a guess, how long do you think that 
(you/the patient) might have to live?" at baseline and at the interview closest 
to death.
RESULTS: Among 218 patients, 87 died within 1 year. At their initial interview 
46% were uncertain about their life expectancy (LE) and 9% believed LE was 1 
year or less; at their final interview, 55% were uncertain and 17% believed LE 
was 1 year or less. At the caregiver's initial interview, 29% were uncertain 
about the patient's LE and 20% believed LE was 1 or less; at their final 
interview, 30% were uncertain and 34% believed LE was 1 year or less. Among 
those interviewed within 30 days of the patient's death, 31% of patients and 52% 
of caregivers believed LE was 1 year or less. Patients' estimates of the LE did 
not differ according to their diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: There was little change in prognostic awareness over time. Even 
close to death, a large proportion of patients and caregivers were uncertain 
about prognosis, and few believed the patient had a limited life expectancy. 
Whether or not patients should know their prognosis is the subject of active 
debate; the persistence of prognostic misperception suggests that prognostic 
awareness may be difficult to change.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2006.9.61
PMID: 16430346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Palliat Med. 2006 Feb;9(1):111-26. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2006.9.111.

Outcome evaluation of a randomized trial of the PhoenixCare intervention: 
program of case management and coordinated care for the seriously chronically 
ill.

Aiken LS(1), Butner J, Lockhart CA, Volk-Craft BE, Hamilton G, Williams FG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 
85287-1104, and Hospice of the Valley, Phoenix, AZ, USA. Leona.Aiken@asu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To document outcomes of a randomized trial of the PhoenixCare 
demonstration program of palliative care and coordinated care/case management 
for seriously chronically ill individuals who simultaneously received active 
treatment from managed care organizations (MCOs).
DESIGN: Patients, continuously enrolled between July 1999, and March 2001, were 
randomly assigned to the PhoenixCare program or a control group receiving usual 
MCO care.
SETTING: Hospice of the Valley, Phoenix, Arizona.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants were 192 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) or chronic heart failure (CHF), who had an estimated 2-year life 
expectancy.
INTERVENTION: Intensive home-based case management provided by registered nurse 
casemanagers, in coordination with patients' existing source of medical care, 
comprised the intervention. Program foci included disease and symptom 
management, patient self-management of illness and knowledge of illness-related 
resources, preparation for end-of life, physical and mental functioning, and 
utilization of medical services.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcomes, assessed every 3 months by telephone interview, 
included measures related to all program foci; the SF-36 was used to evaluate 
physical and mental functioning; emergency department visits exemplified medical 
service utilization.
RESULTS: Compared to controls, PhoenixCare patients exhibited significantly 
better outcomes on self-management of illness, awareness of illness-related 
resources, and legal preparation for end of life. They reported lower symptom 
distress, greater vitality, better physical functioning and higher self-rated 
health than randomized controls. Emergency department utilization was equivalent 
across groups. Patients with COPD showed stronger responsiveness to the 
intervention.
CONCLUSION: A novel model of patient care that combined greatly enhanced 
palliative carefocused case management with ongoing MCO-based treatment was 
associated with improved functioning of chronically severely ill patients in the 
last years of life.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2006.9.111
PMID: 16430351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Breast J. 2006 Jan-Feb;12 Suppl 1:S81-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1075-122X.2006.00206.x.

Costs and health effects of breast cancer interventions in epidemiologically 
different regions of Africa, North America, and Asia.

Groot MT(1), Baltussen R, Uyl-de Groot CA, Anderson BO, Hortobágyi GN.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus Medical Center 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.groot@erasmusmc.nl

We estimated the costs and health effects of treating stage I, II, III, and IV 
breast cancer individually, of treating all stages, and of introducing an 
extensive cancer control program (treating all stages plus early stage 
diagnosis) in three epidemiologically different world regions--Africa, North 
America, and Asia. We developed a mathematical simulation model of breast cancer 
using the stage distribution and case fatality rates in the presence and absence 
of treatment as predictors of survival. Outcome measures were life-years 
adjusted for disability (DALYs), costs (in 2000 U.S. dollars) of treatment and 
follow-up, and cost-effectiveness ratios (CERs; in dollars per DALY averted). 
Sensitivity analyses were performed to determine the robustness of the results. 
Treating patients with stage I breast cancer resulted in 23.41, 12.25, and 19.25 
DALYs averted per patient in Africa, North America, and Asia, respectively. The 
corresponding average CERs compared with no intervention were 78 U.S. dollars , 
1,960 U.S. dollars, and 62 U.S. dollars per DALY averted. The number of DALYs 
averted per patient decreased with stage; the value was lowest for stage IV 
treatment (0.18-0.19), with average CERs of 4,986 U.S. dollars in Africa, 70,380 
U.S. dollars in North America, and 3,510 U.S. dollars per DALY averted in Asia. 
An extensive breast cancer program resulted in 16.14, 12.91, and 12.58 DALYs 
averted per patient and average CERs of 75 U.S. dollars, 915 U.S. dollars, and 
75 U.S. dollars per DALY averted. Outcomes were most sensitive to case fatality 
rates for untreated patients, but varying model assumptions did not change the 
conclusions. These findings suggest that treating stage I disease and 
introducing an extensive breast cancer program are the most cost-effective 
breast cancer interventions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1075-122X.2006.00206.x
PMID: 16430401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. BJU Int. 2006 Feb;97(2):274-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2005.05893.x.

Twelve-month self-reported quality of life after retropubic radical 
prostatectomy: a prospective study with Rand 36-Item Health Survey (Short 
Form-36).

Ficarra V(1), Novara G, Galfano A, Stringari C, Baldassarre R, Cavalleri S, 
Artibani W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Verona, Verona, Italy. 
vincenzo.ficarra@univr.it

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients 
undergoing retropubic radical prostatectomy (RRP) for clinically localized 
prostate cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From February 2002 to September 2003 all patients 
undergoing RRP in our department were invited to participate in the study; the 
data from 75 of them comprised the present analysis. For evaluating HRQoL the 
RAND 36-Item Health Survey (SF-36) was used.
RESULTS: Comparing the baseline scores of the SF-36 domains to those at 3, 6 and 
12 months, there was a statistically significant difference in 'physical 
function', 'role limitations due to physical health problems', 'role limitations 
due to emotional problems', and 'energy/fatigue'. There were no statistically 
significant changes in the follow-up values for the other scales of the 
questionnaire. However, the baseline scores overlapped the 12-month follow-up 
values for all the SF-36 scales. The mean SF-36 scores reported by incontinent 
patients were lower than those of the continent patients, although this trend 
was not statistically significant. At the 12-month follow-up some variables were 
independent predictors of lower mean scores of some SF-36 scales, i.e. age >65 
years, education level less than secondary school, pathological extracapsular 
extension of cancer and erectile dysfunction.
CONCLUSION: At 1 year after RRP, HRQoL levels in each of the SF-36 domains 
overlapped those of the baseline in >80% of patients. The age, educational level 
of patients, local extension of the tumour, and erectile dysfunction could 
significantly affect the HRQoL scores.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2005.05893.x
PMID: 16430628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Ugeskr Laeger. 2006 Jan 16;168(3):297-8; author reply 298.

[Erroneous use of the "EuroQol" indication for quality measurement in 
Ugeskriftet].

[Article in Danish]

Lauritsen J, Pedersen KM, Gudex C, Kidholm K, Wittrup-Jensen KU.

Comment on
    Ugeskr Laeger. 2005 Nov 21;167(47):4465-8.

PMID: 16430828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Age Ageing. 2006 Mar;35(2):103-5. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afj049. Epub 2006 Jan
23.

Towards living long and being healthy--the challenge for liaison psychiatric 
services for older adults.

Mukaetova-Ladinska EB(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle General Hospital, Westgate Road, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 6BE, UK. elizabeta.mukaetova-ladinska@ncl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afj049
PMID: 16431854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Jan 31;103(5):1639-43. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0510567103. Epub 2006 Jan 23.

Secondary sex ratios and male lifespan: damaged or culled cohorts.

Catalano R(1), Bruckner T.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, 322 Warren Hall #7360, 
Berkeley, CA 94720-7360, USA. rayc@berkeley.edu

Population stressors reportedly reduce the human secondary sex ratio (i.e., the 
odds of a newborn's being male) by, among other mechanisms, inducing the 
spontaneous abortion of males who would have been born live had mothers not been 
stressed. Controversy remains as to whether these abortions result from reduced 
maternal tolerance of males at the low end of a relatively constant distribution 
of survivability (i.e., the "culled cohort" explanation) or from shifts in the 
whole distribution of survivability such that more males fall below a relatively 
constant criterion of maternal tolerance for low survivability (i.e., the 
"damaged cohort" explanation). These alternatives make opposing predictions 
regarding the relationship between the secondary sex ratio and lifespan of male 
birth cohorts. We test the hypothesis that the secondary sex ratio among Swedish 
cohorts born in the years 1751 through 1912 predicts male cohort life expectancy 
at birth (i.e., realized lifespan). Our results support the culled cohort 
argument. We argue that these findings have implications for the basic 
literature concerned with temporal variation in the secondary sex ratio, for 
more applied work concerned with the fetal origins of adult health, and for 
pubic health surveillance.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0510567103
PMCID: PMC1360590
PMID: 16432236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Ann Surg. 2006 Feb;243(2):265-72. doi: 10.1097/01.sla.0000197715.96762.68.

Epidemiology data on 108 MEN 1 patients from the GTE with isolated 
nonfunctioning tumors of the pancreas.

Triponez F(1), Dosseh D, Goudet P, Cougard P, Bauters C, Murat A, Cadiot G, 
Niccoli-Sire P, Chayvialle JA, Calender A, Proye CA.

Author information:
(1)General and Endocrine Surgery, University Hospital, Lille, France. 
frederic.triponez@hcuge.ch

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the penetrance and clinical course of isolated 
nonfunctioning tumors of the pancreas (NFTP) in MEN 1 patients, and to propose a 
strategy for managing them.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Pancreaticoduodenal tumors develop in a majority of MEN 
1 patients and are a major cause of death. The natural history of NFTP is poorly 
defined, and no clear-cut guidelines have been widely accepted regarding 
treatment.
METHODS: Data on 108 patients with isolated NFTP among 579 MEN 1 patients from 
the French Endocrine Tumor Study Group (GTE) were analyzed. Survival rates were 
calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: The penetrance of NFTP was 34% at age 50, making it the most frequent 
pancreaticoduodenal tumor in MEN 1 patients. Forty-three patients (40%) 
underwent surgery, 32 of them curatively. No patient died because of surgery. 
Average life expectancy for patients with NFTP was shorter than that for MEN 1 
patients who did not have pancreaticoduodenal tumors. Thirteen patients died 
during follow-up, 10 due to NFTP. Tumor size was correlated with the risks of 
metastasis and death. These risks were low for patients with tumors<or=20 mm.
CONCLUSIONS: NFTP are currently the most common tumors of the 
pancreaticoduodenal region in patients with MEN 1. Prevention of tumor spread by 
surgery should be balanced with potential operative mortality and morbidity. We 
do not recommend routine surgery for NFTP<or=20 mm.

DOI: 10.1097/01.sla.0000197715.96762.68
PMCID: PMC1448903
PMID: 16432361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Orthopade. 2006 Mar;35(3):270-87. doi: 10.1007/s00132-005-0918-2.

[Instability of the upper cervical spine due to rheumatism].

[Article in German]

Heyde CE(1), Weber U, Kayser R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Charité, Campus Benjamin 
Franklin, Universitätsmedizin, Berlin. christoph.heyde@charite.de

Rheumatic manifestation at the cervical spine occurs in more than 50% of all 
cases in the natural course of this disease. The first cervical manifestation 
takes place in the upper cervical spine. The initial involvement of the C1/C2 
segment leads to atlantodental subluxation. Progressive destruction can result 
in vertical instability, which is characterized by cranial subluxation of the 
odontoid process with the danger of resulting stenosis and cervical myelopathy. 
The goal of diagnosis has to be the early recognition of these changes to 
establish an effective treatment protocol. Persistent pain, neurological 
deficits, and progressive radiological signs for instability are indications for 
operative stabilizing procedures. These procedures avoid progressive destruction 
and improve the prognosis regarding pain decrease, regression of neurological 
deficits, and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-005-0918-2
PMID: 16432689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Health Econ. 2006 Mar;15(3):323-5. doi: 10.1002/hec.1094.

On the lottery equivalents method: a response to Spencer et al.

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, London School of Economics, London, UK. 
a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2005 Feb;14(2):161-7.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1094
PMID: 16432804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Br J Surg. 2006 Feb;93(2):182-6. doi: 10.1002/bjs.5263.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of surgery versus conservative treatment for 
uncomplicated varicose veins in a randomized clinical trial.

Ratcliffe J(1), Brazier JE, Campbell WB, Palfreyman S, MacIntyre JB, Michaels 
JA.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. 
j.ratcliffe@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2006 Feb;93(2):131-2.

BACKGROUND: Despite being a common procedure, the cost effectiveness of surgery 
for varicose veins has not been established.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out alongside a randomized 
clinical trial at two vascular units within National Health Service (NHS) 
hospitals. Some 246 patients with uncomplicated varicose veins and evidence of 
saphenofemoral or saphenopopliteal reflux were allocated randomly to receive 
either conservative management or surgical treatment. Incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained at 24 months following randomization 
was calculated.
RESULTS: Total NHS costs during the 2-year study period were higher for the 
surgically treated group (733 UK pounds) than for those who had conservative 
treatment (345 UK pounds). The difference in costs was statistically 
significant. The mean incremental health gain from surgical treatment at 24 
months was 0.083 QALYs, leading to a base-case estimate of 4682 UK pounds per 
QALY gained. Assuming an implicit threshold maximum willingness-to-pay value of 
20 000 UK pounds for a QALY, the probability of surgical treatment for varicose 
veins falling below this threshold value was 70 per cent. This result was found 
to be robust to sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSION: For patients with uncomplicated varicose veins and evidence of 
saphenofemoral or saphenopopliteal reflux, surgical treatment for varicose veins 
offers a modest health benefit for relatively little additional NHS cost 
relative to conservative treatment.

Copyright (c) 2006 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John 
Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.5263
PMID: 16432810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 2005;99(10):607-12.

[An overview of self-help structures in Germany].

[Article in German]

Hundertmark-Mayser J(1).

Author information:
(1)Nationale Kontakt- und Informationsstelle zurAnregung und Unterstützung von 
Selbsthilfegruppen (NAKOS), Berlin. jutta.hundertmark@nakos.de

Self-help groups, self-help organizations, and clearing-houses have now become 
recognized elements of the health care system. Organized self-help, which has a 
long tradition in Germany, gained significant momentum during the 1980s and 
1990s. Several factors still contribute to the development of self-help groups: 
the increased number of chronic health conditions, the improved treatment 
programs, increasing life expectancies, changes in primary social networks 
(family, relations, and neighborhood), and increased public recognition of the 
value of self-help. There are approximately 280 self-help clearinghouses and a 
large number of topic-specif ic self-help organizations in Germany; these form 
the mainstay of effective self-help support for those who are affected or 
engaged and are interested in self-help. It is estimated that approximately 3 
million individuals are engaged in 70,000 to 100,000 self-help groups, covering 
virtual ly every topic relating to medical, psychological, and social issues. 
Representative surveys have revealed that three quarters of the population would 
turn to a self-help group in case of illness, although experience shows that 
only a minority actually does. In addition, there is still a significant lack of 
information about self-help and its organizational structure.

PMID: 16433261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2005 Jun;189(6):1159-74; discussion 1175-6.

[Rehabilitation of spinal cord injury patients].

[Article in French]

Perrouin-Verbe B(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Saint Jacques, Service de rééducation fonctionnelle, CHU Nantes, 
44093 Nantes cedex 1.

The life expectancy of patients with spinal cord injury has increased linearly 
in the past five decades, but continues to be below that of their non disabled 
peers. This improvement was achieved through better knowledge of the 
pathophysiology of the multisystem impairments caused by spinal cord injury. The 
main treatment goals in spinal cord injury are to prevent complications, to 
obtain optimal function (depending on the affected neurological level), to 
facilitate social re-integration, and to provide specialized follow-up 
throughout life. This comprehensive management must be provided in spinal units, 
using a multidisciplinary approach.

PMID: 16433442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Diabet Med. 2006 Feb;23(2):164-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2005.01751.x.

Patient-centred and professional-directed implementation strategies for diabetes 
guidelines: a cluster-randomized trial-based cost-effectiveness analysis.

Dijkstra RF(1), Niessen LW, Braspenning JC, Adang E, Grol RT.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Quality of Care Research, University Medical Centre St Radboud, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

AIMS: Economic evaluations of diabetes interventions do not usually include 
analyses on effects and cost of implementation strategies. This leads to 
optimistic cost-effectiveness estimates. This study reports empirical findings 
on the cost-effectiveness of two implementation strategies compared with usual 
hospital outpatient care. It includes both patient-related and 
intervention-related cost.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a clustered-randomized controlled trial design, 13 
Dutch general hospitals were randomly assigned to a control group, a 
professional-directed or a patient-centred implementation programme. 
Professionals received feedback on baseline data, education and reminders. 
Patients in the patient-centred group received education and diabetes passports. 
A validated probabilistic Dutch diabetes model and the UKPDS risk engine are 
used to compute lifetime disease outcomes and cost in the three groups, 
including uncertainties.
RESULTS: Glycated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) at 1 year (the measure used to predict 
diabetes outcome changes over a lifetime) decreased by 0.2% in the 
professional-change group and by 0.3% in the patient-centred group, while it 
increased by 0.2% in the control group. Costs of primary implementation were < 5 
Euro per head in both groups, but average lifetime costs of improved care and 
longer life expectancy rose by 9389 Euro and 9620 Euro, respectively. Life 
expectancy improved by 0.34 and 0.63 years, and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) by 0.29 and 0.59. Accordingly, the incremental cost per QALY was 32 218 
Euro for professional-change care and 16 353 for patient-centred care compared 
with control, and 881 Euro for patient-centred vs. professional-change care. 
Uncertainties are presented in acceptability curves: above 65 Euro per annum the 
patient-directed strategy is most likely the optimum choice.
CONCLUSION: Both guideline implementation strategies in secondary care are 
cost-effective compared with current care, by Dutch standards, for these 
patients. Additional annual costs per patient using patient passports are low. 
This analysis supports patient involvement in diabetes in the Netherlands, and 
probably also in other Western European settings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2005.01751.x
PMID: 16433714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2005 Nov;53(5):509-24. doi: 
10.1016/s0398-7620(05)84728-5.

[Demographic and socioeconomic factors associated with needs for home assistance 
among community-dwelling elderly: a study from the French Home Survey 
Handicaps-Disabilities-Dependence].

[Article in French]

Davin B(1), Paraponaris A, Verger P.

Author information:
(1)INSERM UMR 379, 232, boulevard de Sainte-Marguerite, 13273 Marseille Cedex 9.

BACKGROUND: Gains in life expectancy in western countries have mainly come hand 
in hand with growing chronic diseases and disabilities related to the activities 
of daily living (ADL) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL). 
Although these disabilities have been identified as predictors of 
institutionalization, the elderly in France continue to live at home, in the 
community, alone or with others. This work aims at identifying and assessing 
their needs for assistance and looks especially at the demographic and 
socioeconomic associated features.
METHODS: Reported needs for assistance with ADL and IADL are studied through a 
representative sample of 8,745 people aged 60 years and older and living at home 
in 1999, taken from the French cross-sectional 
"Handicaps-Disabilities-Dependence" survey. Statistical associations 
(non-adjusted and adjusted Odds-Ratio-OR) have been computed in a conceptual 
framework derived from Andersen and Newman's behavioural model.
RESULTS: More than 1 million people aged 60 years and older need assistance from 
another person to perform at least one ADL (bathing, dressing, going to toilet, 
eating, transferring, getting outside) and about 2.5 millions persons for at 
least one IADL (shopping, food preparation, housekeeping). Need for assistance 
for at least one ADL is associated with age (OR=1.4 for 70-79, 3.6 for 80+); 
male aged 80 and older (OR=0.5); low educational status (OR=1.5); being married 
(OR=1.7) or living with an other person (OR=2); a disposable income less than 
540 euro per capita and per month or between 540 and 1,080 euro (OR=1.3); 
impairments: motor (OR=3), language (OR=2.1), visual (OR=1.7), mental (OR=1.5) 
and other (OR=1.2); availability of home equipment devices (OR=3.5), technical 
devices for moving inside (OR=3) and others (OR=2.1). Need for assistance is 
especially high among those who required assistance (OR=4) or proxies (OR=5.5) 
to answer. Declared need for assistance for at least one IADL is roughly 
associated with the same factors.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the declared needs for human assistance 
are based not exclusively on functional limitations but are also related to the 
social and environmental setting.

DOI: 10.1016/s0398-7620(05)84728-5
PMID: 16434925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. ScientificWorldJournal. 2006 Jan 24;6:96-105. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2006.13.

Prevalence of diabetes and cardiovascular comorbidity in the Canadian Community 
Health Survey 2002-2003.

Mo F(1), Pogany LM, Li FC, Morrison H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Chronic Disease Prevention and Control, Public Health Agency of 
Canada, Government of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0K9, Canada. 
Frank_Mo@phac-aspc.gc.ca

Diabetes mellitus is a major risk factor for heart disease (heart attack, 
angina, and heart failure), stroke, and hypertension, which shorten the average 
life expectancy. The main objective of this study was to describe the prevalence 
of heart disease, hypertension, and stroke among Canadians with diabetes 
compared to those without diabetes in the Canadian general population aged 12 
years and over. It also estimated the strength of association between diabetes, 
heart disease, hypertension, and other factors such as age, gender, cigarette 
smoking, alcohol drinking, education status, body mass index (BMI), and other 
socioeconomic factors. Descriptive statistics were used initially to estimate 
the prevalence of related comorbidities by age and gender. Logistic regression 
was then employed to determine the potential strength of association between 
various effects. Data included 127,610 individuals who participated in the 2.1 
cycles of the Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS) in 2002-2003. The 
prevalence of self-reported hypertension, heart disease, and stroke among 
individuals with diabetes were 51.9, 21.7, and 4.8%, respectively. By 
comparison, prevalence among those without diabetes was 12.7, 4.2, and 0.9%. 
Adjusted Odds Ratios (OR) were 4.15, 5.04, and 6.75 for males', and 4.10, 5.29, 
and 4.56 for females' hypertension, heart disease, and stroke, respectively. 
Lower income (OR from 1.27-1.94) and lower education (OR from 1.23-1.86) were 
independently associated with a high prevalence of hypertension, heart disease, 
and stroke among diabetics. Alcohol consumption (OR from 1.06-1.38), high BMI 
(OR from 1.17-1.40), physical inactivity (OR from 1.21-2.45), ethnicity, and 
immigration status were also strongly associated with hypertension, heart 
disease, and stroke. The adjusted prevalence of hypertension, heart disease, and 
stroke in the CCHS-2003 health survey in Canada was significantly higher among 
those with diabetes compared to those without. Other factors such as age, 
gender, BMI, lifestyle, family incomes, physical activity levels, and 
socioeconomic status also affected the strength of association between diabetes 
and resulting comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2006.13
PMCID: PMC5944181
PMID: 16435038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Harv Mens Health Watch. 2005 Dec;10(5):1-5.

Exercise and aging: can you walk away from Father Time?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16435430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Health Care Anal. 2005 Dec;13(4):289-301. doi: 10.1007/s10728-005-8126-0.

Palliative care and the QALY problem.

Hughes J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Professional Ethics, Keele Hall, Keele University, Staffordshire 
ST5 5BG, UK. j.a.hughes@peak.keele.ac.uk

Practitioners of palliative care often argue for more resources to be provided 
by the state in order to lessen its reliance on charitable funding and to enable 
the services currently provided to some of those with terminal illnesses to be 
provided to all who would benefit from it. However, this is hard to justify on 
grounds of cost-effectiveness, since it is in the nature of palliative care that 
the benefits it brings to its patients are of short duration. In particular, 
palliative care fares badly under a policy of QALY-maximisation, since 
procedures which prevent premature death (provided the life is of reasonable 
quality) or improve quality of life for those with longer life expectancy will 
produce more QALYs. This paper examines various responses to this problem and 
argues that in order to justify increased resources for palliative care its 
advocates must reject the 'atomistic' view of the value of life implicit in the 
QALY approach in favour of a 'holistic' or 'narrative' account. This, however, 
has implications which advocates of palliative care may be reluctant to embrace.

DOI: 10.1007/s10728-005-8126-0
PMID: 16435466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2005 Dec 16;130 Suppl 5:S231-3.

[Health economics in hepatology: who should pay? Is expensive treatment in 
hepatology cost effective?].

[Article in German]

Rossol S(1).

Author information:
(1)I Medizinische Klinik, Klinikum Rüsselsheim. siegbertrossol@web.de

PMID: 16435721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Public Health (Oxf). 2006 Mar;28(1):49-55. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdi075.
Epub  2006 Jan 25.

Improving health through neighbourhood environmental change: are we speaking the 
same language? A qualitative study of views of different stakeholders.

Trayers T(1), Deem R, Fox KR, Riddoch CJ, Ness AR, Lawlor DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Exercise and Health Sciences, University of Bristol, UK. 
t.trayers@bristol.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To explore the perspectives of four groups of stakeholders to 
proposed improvements to the built environment-a neighbourhood renewal 
consisting of a home zone development and an extension of the National Cycle 
Network (NCN). Design Qualitative focus group study. Setting A deprived 
neighbourhood. Sample Four focus groups were conducted with 10 residents from 
the neighbourhood undergoing change, nine pupils from a local primary school, 10 
students and tutors from a local further education college and three local 
authority planners overseeing the developments.
RESULTS: We identified four main themes relating to the impact of environmental 
change. These were safety, space, antisocial behaviour and physical activity and 
health, the latter being the least important to all groups. A mismatch regarding 
environmental change emerged in perspectives between different stakeholders. The 
residents were most concerned about home and car (parking) safety and in 
particular felt that the new cycle/walk way would reduce their safety, whereas 
the planners felt that the environmental change would provide a safer and 
healthier environment for the residents.
CONCLUSION: The assumption that planned provision of supportive environments 
will improve levels of physical activity, health and lifestyle may not be true 
if the developments do not take account of community concerns regarding personal 
safety.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdi075
PMID: 16436446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Public Health (Oxf). 2006 Mar;28(1):31-4. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdi072. Epub
 2006 Jan 25.

Is a target culture in health care always compatible with efficient use of 
resources? A cost-effectiveness analysis of an intervention to achieve 
thrombolysis targets.

Singaroyan R(1), Seed CA, Egdell RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Macclesfield District General Hospital, Victoria 
Road, Macclesfield, Cheshire SK10 3BL, UK.

BACKGROUND: The UK government has attempted to improve the quality of health 
care in the National Health Service and minimize geographical variations in 
quality by imposing targets in certain areas of health care. The measures taken 
by local health economies to achieve these targets have not before been 
subjected to cost-effectiveness analysis. We have assessed the cost 
effectiveness of an intervention designed to achieve thrombolysis time targets.
METHODS: In the setting of a single district general hospital in England, we 
audited local pain-to-needle (PTN) and door-to-needle (DTN) times, before and 
after a pounds 208,000 (Euro 310,000, dollar 370,000) annual expenditure to 
improve performance against government targets. The intervention included the 
recruitment of additional nursing time in the Accident & Emergency Department 
and the use of a single bolus thrombolytic agent for all patients with ST 
elevation myocardial infarction. An economic evaluation was performed, based on 
the expected number of additional lives saved, extrapolated from a meta-analysis 
of previous thrombolysis trials.
RESULTS: The intervention reduced mean DTN time from 37.6 +/- 5.9 minutes (mean 
+/- SEM) to 27.6 +/- 3.6 minutes (p = 0.06). The cost per life saved was pounds 
3,423 +/- 850 (Euro 5,100,000, dollar 6,100,000), the cost per life year gained 
was pounds 222,184 (Euro 330,000, dollar 390,000) and the cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained was pounds 246,871 (Euro 370,000, 
dollar 440,000).
CONCLUSION: Although moderately successful at improving performance against 
government targets, this intervention to promote rapid thrombolysis proved to be 
an inefficient use of health-care resources. Strict government targets in health 
care may not always lead to efficient targeting of resources.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdi072
PMID: 16436449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Radiologe. 2006 Apr;46(4):275-6, 278-81. doi: 10.1007/s00117-005-1308-9.

[MRI in mucoviscidosis (cystic fibrosis)].

[Article in German]

Eichinger M(1), Puderbach M, Heussel CP, Kauczor HU.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Radiologie, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum (DKFZ), Heidelberg. 
m.eichinger@dkfz.de

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multi-systemic disease with major impact on the lungs. 
Pulmonary manifestation is crucial for the prognosis and life expectancy of 
patients. Imaging modalities and lung function tests reflect the pulmonary 
status in these patients. The standard imaging modality for diagnosis and 
follow-up of pulmonary changes is chest x-ray. The gold standard for the 
detection of parenchymal lung changes remains high resolution computed 
tomography (HRCT), but this is not used routinely for CF-patients due to 
radiation exposure. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) used to be of no importance 
in monitoring cystic fibrosis lung disease, as shown in studies from the 1980s 
and early 1990 s. The continuing improvement of MRI techniques, however, has 
allowed for an adequate application of this non-radiation method in diagnosing 
the major pulmonary findings in CF, in addition to the assessment of lung 
function.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-005-1308-9
PMID: 16437239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Surg Endosc. 2006 Mar;20(3):389-93. doi: 10.1007/s00464-005-0116-7. Epub
2006  Jan 25.

Heller myotomy vs Heller myotomy plus Dor fundoplication: cost-utility analysis 
of a randomized trial.

Torquati A(1), Lutfi R, Khaitan L, Sharp KW, Richards WO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Vanderbilt University Medical School, Nashville, TN 
37232, USA. alfonso.torquati@vanderbilt.edu

BACKGROUND: The addition of a Dor antireflux procedure reduces the risk of 
pathologic gastroesophageal reflux (GER) by ninefold following laparoscopic 
Heller myotomy for achalasia. It is not clear, however, how these benefits 
compare with the increased cost of the fundoplication. The objective of this 
study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of Heller myotomy plus Dor 
fundoplication compared with Heller alone in patients with achalasia.
METHODS: We conducted a cost-utility analysis using the Markov simulation model 
to examine the two treatment alternatives. The model estimated the total 
expected costs of each strategy over a 10-year time horizon. Data for the model 
were derived from our randomized clinical trial. The strategies were compared 
using the method of incremental cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: The incidence of pathologic GER was 47.6% (10 of 21 patients) in the 
Heller group and 9.1% (2 of 22 patients) in the Heller plus Dor group using an 
intention-to-treat analysis (p = 0.005). Heller plus Dor was associated with a 
significant reduction in the risk of GERD (relative risk 0.11; 95% confidence 
interval 0.02-0.59; p = 0.01). The cost of surgery was significantly higher for 
Heller plus Dor than for Heller alone (mean difference $942; p = 0.04), 
secondary to a longer operating room time (mean difference 40 min; p = 0.01). At 
a time horizon of 10 years, when proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy costs are 
considered, the cost-utility analysis demonstrates that Heller plus Dor surgery 
is associated with a total cost of $6,861 per patient and a quality-adjusted 
life expectancy of 9.9 years, whereas Heller-alone surgery is associated with a 
cost of $9,541 per patient and a quality-adjusted life expectancy of 9.5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: In achalasia patients, Heller myotomy plus Dor fundoplication is 
preferred to Heller alone because it is both more effective in preventing 
postoperative GERD and more cost-effective at a time horizon of 10 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-005-0116-7
