Such patients may be divided into relapsers and non-responders.. Pegylated 
interferon-based retherapy appear to induce sustained response in 40-68% of 
relapsers and only in 11% of non responders. New therapeutic approaches are 
needed for treatment of these group of patients. Current retreatment strategies 
includes administration of pegylated interferon and ribavirin, maintenance 
therapy with pegylated interferon for prevention of liver fibrosis and daily 
administration of consensus interferon and ribavirin. In the work the initial 
results of 3 clinical investigation (HALT-C, EPIC 3 and COPILOT) are presented, 
in which beneficial efficacy of pegylated interferon in non responders was 
observed.

PMID: 16190570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Hemodial Int. 2005 Jul;9(3):281-95. doi: 10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.01143.x.

Patient preferences for in-center intense hemodialysis.

Ramkumar N(1), Beddhu S, Eggers P, Pappas LM, Cheung AK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, University of Utah School of 
Medicine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.

There is a lack of data on patient preferences for intense hemodialysis (IHD). 
In this study, we conducted a cross-sectional survey to identify patient 
preferences and patient-centered barriers for IHD. A questionnaire on 
preferences and anticipated barriers, anticipated benefits, and quality of life 
for three in-center IHD schedules (daytime 2 hr six times/week [DHD], nocturnal 
8 hr three times/week [ND3], and nocturnal 8 hr six times/week [ND6]) was 
administered to 100 chronic hemodialysis patients. A majority of patients (68%) 
were willing to undergo DHD for symptomatic benefits or increase in survival. An 
increase in energy level (94%) and improvement in sleep (57%) were the most 
common potential benefits that would justify DHD, but only 19% would undergo DHD 
for an increase in survival of < or =3 years. Only 20% and 7% would consider ND3 
and ND6, respectively. The most common reported barriers were inadequate time 
for self (50%) and family (53%), followed by transportation difficulties (53%). 
Most patients would undergo DHD for symptomatic or survival benefits, but not 
ND3 or ND6. Disruption of personal time, however, is an important consideration. 
Success of DHD program would depend on arrangements for transportation to 
dialysis unit.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1492-7535.2005.01143.x
PMID: 16191079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Acta Derm Venereol. 2005;85(4):337-41. doi: 10.1080/00015550510033688.

Porphyria cutanea tarda in a Swedish population: risk factors and complications.

Rossmann-Ringdahl I(1), Olsson R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Sahlgrenska Academy at Göteborg University, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden. 
Ingrid.rossmann-ringdahl@vgregion.se

There are varying reports on the prevalence of risk factors in porphyria cutanea 
tarda (PCT). We reviewed 84 patients with PCT in a restricted uptake area in 
Gothenburg, Sweden and evaluated different potential risk factors for the 
disease and complications. Besides a thorough medical history, the patients were 
investigated with urinary porphyrin analyses, transferrin saturation, ferritin 
and liver tests. Subsamples of patients were tested for antibodies to hepatitis 
C virus (n = 68), haemochromatosis gene mutations (n = 58) and with the oral 
glucose tolerance test (n = 31). We found a prevalence of about 1 patient with 
PCT in 10 000 inhabitants. Nineteen (23%) patients reported heredity for PCT. 
Identified risk factors were alcohol abuse (38% of male patients), oestrogen 
treatment (55% of female patients), anti-hepatitis C virus positivity (29% of 
male patients), diabetes (17%) or impaired glucose tolerance (45% of tested 
patients) and haemochromatosis gene mutations (57% of tested patients). All 
patients positive for anti-hepatitis C virus belonged to the non-hereditary 
group. During follow-up we observed a high incidence of stroke, no case of 
hepatocellular carcinoma and a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1080/00015550510033688
PMID: 16191856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Am J Bioeth. 2004 Summer;4(3):103-4; discussion W40-2. doi: 
10.1080/15265160490497713.

Improving fairness in coverage decisions: insights from the Harvard Community 
Health Plan's LORAN Commission Report.

Paris JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Boston College, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Bioeth. 2004 Summer;4(3):110-2; discussion W40-2.

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2004 Summer;4(3):87-100.

DOI: 10.1080/15265160490497713
PMID: 16192160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Am J Bioeth. 2004 Summer;4(3):112-4; discussion W40-2. doi: 
10.1080/15265160490498037.

Supplementing the fairness framework: system-level and implementation concerns.

Majumder MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Baylor College of Medicine, USA.

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2004 Summer;4(3):87-100.

DOI: 10.1080/15265160490498037
PMID: 16192165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Am J Bioeth. 2004 Fall;4(4):W6-8. doi: 10.1080/15265160490908103.

The prolongevists speak up: the life-extension ethics session at the 10th annual 
Congress of the International Association of Biomedical Gerontology.

Davis JK(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee, USA.

Life-extension was the focus for the 10th annual Congress of the International 
Association of Biomedical Gerontology, held last September at Cambridge 
University. This scientific convention included a panel of several bioethicists, 
including Art Caplan, John Harris, and others. The presentations on the ethics 
of life-extension are reviewed here.

DOI: 10.1080/15265160490908103
PMID: 16192183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Development. 2005 Nov;132(21):4883-94. doi: 10.1242/dev.02048. Epub 2005 Sep
28.

DNA-binding domain mutations in SMAD genes yield dominant-negative proteins or a 
neomorphic protein that can activate WG target genes in Drosophila.

Takaesu NT(1), Herbig E, Zhitomersky D, O'Connor MB, Newfeld SJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287-4501, USA.

Mutations in SMAD tumor suppressor genes are involved in approximately 140,000 
new cancers in the USA each year. At this time, how the absence of a functional 
SMAD protein leads to a tumor is unknown. However, clinical and biochemical 
studies suggest that all SMAD mutations are loss-of-function mutations. One 
prediction of this hypothesis is that all SMAD mutations cause tumors via a 
single mechanism. To test this hypothesis, we expressed five tumor-derived 
alleles of human SMAD genes and five mutant alleles of Drosophila SMAD genes in 
flies. We found that all of the DNA-binding domain mutations conferred 
gain-of-function activity, thereby falsifying the hypothesis. Furthermore, two 
types of gain-of-function mutation were identified - dominant negative and 
neomorphic. In numerous assays, the neomorphic allele SMAD4(100T) appears to be 
capable of activating the expression of WG target genes. These results imply 
that SMAD4(100T) may induce tumor formation by a fundamentally different 
mechanism from other SMAD mutations, perhaps via the ectopic expression of WNT 
target genes - an oncogenic mechanism associated with mutations in Adenomatous 
Polyposis Coli. Our results are likely to have clinical implications, because 
gain-of-function mutations may cause tumors when heterozygous, and the life 
expectancy of individuals with SMAD4(100T) is likely to be different from those 
with other SMAD mutations. From a larger perspective, our study shows that the 
genetic characterization of missense mutations, particularly in modular 
proteins, requires experimental verification.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.02048
PMID: 16192307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. N Engl J Med. 2005 Sep 29;353(13):1414-5; author reply 1414-5. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc051795.

A vaccine to prevent herpes zoster.

Kessler KM.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 2;352(22):2271-84.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 2;352(22):2344-6.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc051795
PMID: 16192493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Int J Impot Res. 2006 Mar-Apr;18(2):115-20. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijir.3901397.

Male hypogonadism. Part I: Epidemiology of hypogonadism.

Seftel AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Case Western Reserve University, University Hospitals 
of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH 44106-5046, USA. adseftel@aol.com

Male hypogonadism is a frequent and potentially undertreated condition. A number 
of longitudinal epidemiologic studies, including the Baltimore Longitudinal 
Study of Aging, the New Mexico Aging Process Study, and the Massachusetts Male 
Aging Study, have demonstrated age-related increases in the likelihood of 
developing hypogonadism. In addition to advancing age, increasing body mass 
index and/or type II diabetes mellitus may be associated with lower circulating 
androgen levels. Owing to the demographic trends toward increasing population 
age and life expectancy, together with the emerging pandemic of diabetes and 
recent trend toward an increasing prevalence of obesity in the United States, 
clinicians are likely to encounter increasing cases of hypogonadism in the near 
future.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijir.3901397
PMID: 16193071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2005 Sep-Oct;39(5):393-400. doi: 
10.1177/153857440503900503.

Popliteal-to-distal bypass: identifying risk factors associated with limb loss 
and graft failure.

Galaria II(1), Surowiec SM, Tanski WJ, Fegley AJ, Rhodes JM, Illig KA, Shortell 
CK, Green RM, Davies MG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Center for Vascular Disease, University of 
Rochester, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

Modern therapy, including endoluminal procedures and improved medical 
management, still yield less than desired results for tibial vessel occlusive 
disease. Despite the recent focus on these newer interventions, few modern 
series have evaluated the efficacy of popliteal-to-distal bypass procedures. The 
authors aimed to determine the efficacy of popliteal-distal bypass and to 
identify adverse prognostic factors for ultimate limb salvage. Eighty-seven 
patients (54 men; average age: 63 years) underwent 92 popliteal-distal bypasses. 
Duplex ultrasound was utilized to assess patency of all grafts. Data were 
analyzed by life-table analysis to determine patency rates at postoperative 
intervals. Median patient follow-up was 2.4 years. Major indications for bypass 
included chronic limb ischemia (86%) and disabling claudication (8%); 62% of the 
limbs were considered threatened, and 74% of the proximal anastomoses were 
above-knee. All procedures were technically successful. There were no 
perioperative (< 30 days) deaths, and 86% of patients were alive at 5 years. 
Cumulative patency rates were 74% at 6 months, 70% at 2 years, and 63% at 5 
years. Limb salvage rates closely paralleled patency rates. At 5 years, 62% of 
the affected limbs were intact; 72% of the limbs lost were associated with early 
(< 180 days) bypass failures. Predictors of limb loss included early graft 
failure (84 days vs 1,288 days, p < 0.0001), younger age (57 years vs 64 years, 
p = 0.039), history of previous ipsilateral vascular procedures (50% vs 21%, p = 
0.03), heavy (> 1 ppd) tobacco use (p = 0.001), and a thrombosed 
femoral-popliteal bypass at presentation (p = 0.002). When successful, 
popliteal-distal bypass is associated with excellent long-term patency and limb 
salvage rates. Early failures are often associated with limb loss. Heavy tobacco 
use, younger age, early graft failures, repeat revascularization, and 
presentation with a thrombosed femoral-popliteal graft are associated with limb 
loss.

DOI: 10.1177/153857440503900503
PMID: 16193211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2005 Sep-Oct;39(5):425-8. doi: 
10.1177/153857440503900507.

Outcomes of hemodialysis-dependent patients following elective abdominal aortic 
aneurysm repair.

Forbes TL(1), Lawlor DK.

Author information:
(1)The University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada. Tom.Forbes@lhsc.on.ca

As hemodialysis-dependent patients have a shorter life expectancy it has been 
recently questioned whether they benefit from procedures such as abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair. The purpose of this study was to review our 
results with elective AAA repair in hemodialysis-dependent patients. During a 
recent 6-year period (1998-2003), 7 such patients underwent elective repair of 
their infrarenal aortic aneurysms. Mean age and aneurysm diameter were 71 years 
and 69 mm, respectively. Mean length of stay was 28.6 days including routine 
intensive care unit admission. Three patients underwent standard open repair, 
and 3 underwent endovascular repair. In the seventh patient iliac calcification 
precluded endograft delivery and resulted in conversion to open repair. Another 
endovascular patient suffered from perforation of her sigmoid colon. One- and 
3-year survival rates in the entire cohort were 100% and 75%, respectively. The 
authors conclude that aneurysm repair in hemodialysis patients is warranted and 
life prolonging in appropriate risk patients, despite lengthy hospital stays. 
However, successful endovascular repair may be prevented by the severe arterial 
calcification in these patients.

DOI: 10.1177/153857440503900507
PMID: 16193215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Dec;6(4):347-53. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0309-y.

Estimating utility data from clinical indicators for patients with stable 
angina.

Longworth L(1), Buxton MJ, Sculpher M, Smith DH.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, UK. 
louise.longworth@nice.org.uk

Comment in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Jun;7(2):147-51.

This study estimated a model from which data routinely collected in clinical 
trials of angina patients can be mapped to a utility scale and used to estimate 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Patients with stable angina attending four 
cardiac out-patient clinics in the UK were included in the study. Data collected 
included information on patients' health-related quality of life (HRQL) using 
the EQ-5D, and severity of angina symptoms using two cardiac-specific measures 
[Breathlessness Grade and Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) classification 
of angina]. Regression analysis was used to predict EQ-5D index values from the 
data. Data were obtained from 510 patients. For CCS grades, mean EQ-5D scores 
ranged from 0.36 (95% confidence interval 0.25-0.48) for grade 4 to 0.81 
(0.77-0.85) for grade 0, and for breathlessness grades, EQ-5D scores ranged from 
0.31 (0.06-0.55) for grade 0 to 0.84 (0.79-0.88) for grade 5. The final model 
used data on CCS grades, breathlessness grades, and patients' current 
medications to predict EQ-5D scores. The model had an R2 value of 0.37, and 
predictions for less severe angina were considered more reliable than the 
estimates for severe angina. In the absence of utility data collected as part of 
a clinical trial it is possible to map HRQL utility data from samples of 
patients with similar characteristics to those in the original trial. The 
uncertainty surrounding the estimates should be considered when using the 
results to estimate QALYs for purposes of economic evaluation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0309-y
PMID: 16193322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Acta Otolaryngol. 2005 Sep;125(9):935-45. doi: 10.1080/00016480510038202.

Effectiveness assessment of otosclerosis surgery.

Pérez-Lázaro JJ(1), Urquiza R, Cabrera A, Guerrero C, Navarro E.

Author information:
(1)Andalusian School of Public Health, Granada, Spain.

CONCLUSIONS: The epidemiological characteristics of otosclerosis and its 
treatment in Andalusia resemble those of other populations with similar 
socioeconomic levels. Two complementary approaches, such as questionnaires and 
pure-tone audiometry, are required to assess the effectiveness of otosclerosis 
surgery (OS) reliably and precisely.
OBJECTIVES: We describe a new method to assess effectiveness in OS. It is based 
on the results of pure-tone audiometry and a specially designed quality of 
hearing questionnaire (QHQ). The objectives of the study are: (i) to report the 
general epidemiologic profile of otosclerosis in Andalusia; (ii) to study the 
effectiveness of OS in our community using conventional methods; and (iii) to 
study the outcomes of OS using the QHQ and to compare them to those obtained 
using conventional methods.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All 31 hospitals in the public healthcare system of 
Andalusia were studied. They were graded into four groups using a specially 
designed grouping system. The data were obtained from the minimum basic dataset. 
The prevalence of otosclerosis in Andalusia was calculated from the incidence 
data, the duration of the disease and life expectancy. To assess the 
effectiveness of OS, 475 clinical records from 15 hospitals representing all 4 
groups were analysed. Effectiveness was assessed by conventional methods, using 
data obtained from pure-tone audiometry, and by using version 1.02 p of the QHQ.
RESULTS: The incidence of clinical otosclerosis was 5.67 patients/100,000 
inhabitants/year. The calculated prevalence was 0.287%. The number of cases 
increased progressively during the study period (p<0.001). The 15-45-year age 
group was the largest (62.2%) and 68.4% of patients were females. The most 
frequent type of otosclerosis was estapediovestibularis (fenestral), 
non-obliterative (91.8%). Only 48 cases (2.3%) of cochlear and 45 (2.2%) of 
obliterative otosclerosis were reported. The most frequently employed 
therapeutic procedures were stapedectomy and stapedotomy (75.70%). The average 
total and preoperative lengths of stay were 3.59 and 1.04 days, respectively. 
There were significant differences between the different types of otosclerosis. 
Improvement in the air-bone gap was 15.37+/-1.19 dB (n=164) and the overclosure 
or operative damage was 0.49+/-0.85 dB (n=164). A gap improvement of 10-40 dB 
was observed in 61.4% of patients. The > 65 years age group showed the best gap 
improvement but the largest variability. The quality of hearing measured by the 
QHQ showed that, in general, a better gap improvement was associated with a 
higher quality of hearing (Pearson correlation r=0.183; p<0.05). The 15-45-year 
age group had the worst gap improvement but, in contrast, the better quality of 
hearing.

DOI: 10.1080/00016480510038202
PMID: 16193586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2005 Oct;59(5):613-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1819.2005.01424.x.

Management of atypical antipsychotic-induced weight gain in schizophrenic 
patients with topiramate.

Lin YH(1), Liu CY, Hsiao MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Chang Gung Medical Center, and Department of 
Psychiatry, Chang Gung University School of Medicine, Tao-yuan, Taiwan.

Patients treated with atypical antipsychotic drugs commonly gain excess weight. 
Because obesity is associated with considerable morbidity and decreased life 
expectancy, treatment of weight gain in these patients is critical. Topiramate, 
a fairly new anticonvulsant, promotes bodyweight loss in healthy obese subjects, 
patients with bipolar disorder, and patients with eating disorder. However, 
there are very few reports about the efficacy of topiramate for weight 
management in schizophrenic patients. We present the cases of three Taiwanese 
patients with schizophrenia whose bodyweight increased as a result of atypical 
antipsychotics treatment, then was controlled by topiramate without aggravation 
of their psychotic symptoms.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2005.01424.x
PMID: 16194268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Am J Med. 2005 Oct;118(10):1078-86. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2005.01.063.

Screening for colorectal, breast, and cervical cancer in the elderly: a review 
of the evidence.

Walter LC(1), Lewis CL, Barton MB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the 
University of California, San Francisco, cA 94121, USA. louisew@itsa.ucsf.edu

There is general consensus that screening can reduce mortality from colorectal, 
breast, and cervical cancer among persons in their 50s and 60s. However, few 
screening trials have included persons over age 70 years. Therefore, indirect 
evidence must be used to determine when results in younger persons should be 
extrapolated to older persons. In this review, we focus on cancer screening 
tests that are well accepted in younger persons (mammography, Papanicolaou 
smears, and colorectal cancer screening) and discuss the strength of inference 
concerning benefits and harms of screening older persons. Some aspects of aging 
favor screening (eg, increased absolute risk of dying of cancer) whereas other 
aspects do not (eg, decreased life expectancy). Age also affects the behavior of 
some cancers (eg, increases the proportion of slow-growing breast cancers) and 
affects the accuracy of some screening tests (eg, increases the accuracy of 
mammography; decreases the accuracy of sigmoidoscopy). These effects make the 
application of evidence in younger populations to older populations complex. 
However, given the heterogeneity of the elderly population, there is no evidence 
of one age at which potential benefits of screening suddenly cease or potential 
harms suddenly become substantial for everyone. Therefore, characteristics of 
individual patients that go beyond age should be the driving factors in 
screening decisions. For example, persons who have a life expectancy less than 5 
years or persons who would decline treatment should generally not be screened. 
Decisions to either continue or discontinue screening in the elderly should be 
based on health status, the benefits and harms of the test, and preferences of 
the patient, rather than solely on the age of the patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2005.01.063
PMID: 16194635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Am J Public Health. 2005 Nov;95(11):2035-41. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.054700.
Epub  2005 Sep 29.

The contribution of specific diseases to educational disparities in 
disability-free life expectancy.

Nusselder WJ(1), Looman CW, Mackenbach JP, Huisman M, van Oyen H, Deboosere P, 
Gadeyne S, Kunst AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
w.nusselder@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVES: We examined the contribution that specific diseases, as causes of 
both death and disability, make to educational disparities in disability-free 
life expectancy (DFLE).
METHODS: We used disability data from the Belgian Health Interview Survey (1997) 
and mortality data from the National Mortality Follow-Up Study (1991-1996) to 
assess education-related disparities in DFLE and to partition these differences 
into additive contributions of specific diseases.
RESULTS: The DFLE advantage of higher-educated compared with lower-educated 
persons was 8.0 years for men and 5.9 years for women. Arthritis (men, 1.3 
years; women, 2.2 years), back complaints (men, 2.1 years), heart disease/stroke 
(men, 1.5 years; women, 1.6 years), asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) (men, 1.2 years; women, 1.5 years), and "other diseases" (men, 2.4 years) 
contributed the most to this difference.
CONCLUSIONS: Disabling diseases, such as arthritis, back complaints, and 
asthma/COPD, contribute substantially to differences in DFLE by education. 
Public health policy aiming to reduce existing disparities in the DFLE and to 
improve population health should not only focus on fatal diseases but also on 
these nonfatal diseases.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.054700
PMCID: PMC1449480
PMID: 16195519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Neurooncol. 2005 Dec;75(3):279-85. doi: 10.1007/s11060-005-6752-x.

The therapy of infantile malignant brain tumors: current status?

Kalifa C(1), Grill J.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Department, Institut Gustave Roussy, 39 rue Camille Desmoulins, 
94805, Villejuif cédex, France. kalifa@igr.fr

Malignant brain tumors are not uncommon in infants as their occurrence before 
the age of three represents 20-25% of all malignant brain tumors in childhood 
[1]. Genetic predisposition to infantile malignant brain tumors are known in 
Gorlin syndrome for example who present with desmoplastic medulloblastoma in 
about 5% of the affected patients. In addition, sequelae from tumor and its 
treatment are more severe at this age [2]. Thus, malignant brain tumors 
represent a true therapeutic challenge in neuro-oncology. Before the era of 
modern imaging and modern neurosurgery these malignant brain tumors were 
misdiagnosed or could not benefit of the surgical procedures as well as older 
children because of increased risks in this age group. Since the end of the 80s, 
noninvasive imaging procedures produce accurate diagnosis of brain tumors and 
improvement in neurosurgery, neuroanesthesia and perioperative intensive care 
permit safe tumor resections or at least biopsies. Consequently, the pediatric 
oncologists are more often confronted with very young children who need a 
complementary treatment. Before the development of specific approaches for this 
age group, these children received the same kind of treatment than the older 
children did, but their survival and quality of life were significantly worse. 
The reasons of these poor results were probably due in part to the fear of late 
effects induced by radiation therapy, leading to decrease the necessary doses of 
irradiation which increased treatment failures without avoiding treatment 
related complications [3]. At the end of the 80s, pilot studies were performed 
using postoperative chemotherapy in young medulloblastoma patients. Van Eys 
treated 12 selected children with medulloblastoma with MOPP regimen and without 
irradiation; 8 of them were reported to be long term survivors [4]. 
Subsequently, the pediatric oncology cooperative groups studies have designed 
therapeutic trials for very young children with malignant brain tumors. 
Different approaches have been explored: * Prolonged postoperative chemotherapy 
and delayed irradiation as designed in the POG (Pediatric Oncology Group). * 
Postoperative chemotherapy without irradiation in the SFOP (Société Française 
d'Oncologie Pédiatrique) and in the GPO (German Pediatric Oncology) studies. * 
The role of high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cells transplantation 
was explored in different ways: High-dose chemotherapy given in all patients as 
proposed in the Head Start protocol. High-dose chemotherapy given in relapsing 
patients as salvage treatment in the French strategy. In the earliest trials, 
the same therapy was applied to all histological types of malignant brain tumors 
and whatever the initial extension of the disease. This attitude was justified 
by the complexity of the classification of all brain tumors that has evolved 
over the past few decades leading to discrepancy between the diagnosis of 
different pathologists for a same tumor specimen. Furthermore, it has become 
increasingly obvious that the biology of brain tumors in very young children is 
different from that seen in older children. However, in the analysis of these 
trials an effort was made to give the results for each histological groups, 
according to the WHO classification and after a central review of the tumor 
specimens. All these collected data have brought to an increased knowledge of 
infantile malignant brain tumors in terms of diagnosis, prognostic factors and 
response to chemotherapy. Furthermore a large effort was made to study long term 
side effects as endocrinopathies, cognitive deficits, cosmetic alterations and 
finally quality of life in long term survivors. Prospective study of sequelae 
can bring information on the impact of the different factors as hydrocephalus, 
location of the tumor, surgical complications, chemotherapy toxicity and 
irradiation modalities. With these informations it is now possible to design 
therapeutic trials devoted to each histological types, adapted to pronostic 
factors and more accurate treatment to decrease long term sequelae.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-005-6752-x
PMID: 16195802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Dec;6(4):288-97. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0310-5.

Trial-based cost-utility comparison of percutaneous myocardial laser 
revascularisation and continued medical therapy for treatment of refractory 
angina pectoris.

Campbell HE(1), Tait S, Sharples LD, Caine N, Gray TJ, Schofield PM, Buxton MJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK.

This study examined from a health service perspective whether percutaneous 
myocardial laser revascularisation (PMR) plus standard medical management is 
cost-effective when compared with standard medical management alone in the 
treatment of refractory angina. This involved a cost-utility analysis using 
patient-specific data from a single-centre, randomised, controlled trial carried 
out in the United Kingdom. Of 73 patients diagnosed as having refractory angina 
and not suitable for conventional forms of revascularisation, 36 were randomised 
to PMR plus medical management and 37 to medical management alone. We collected 
costs to the health service of PMR and all secondary sector health care contacts 
and cardiac-related medication in the 12 months following randomisation. Patient 
utility, measured using the EuroQol EQ-5D questionnaire, was combined with 
12-month survival data to generate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The mean 
12-month cost per patient for PMR was 8,307 pounds, and that for medical 
management was 1,888 pounds, giving a cost difference of 6,410 pounds. The mean 
QALY difference favoured PMR at 0.126, giving an incremental cost per QALY of 
50,873 pounds. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve indicates that the 
probability of PMR being cost-effective over the first 12 months is quite low. 
Whilst a longer period of follow-up might indicate continued benefit from PMR, 
which would make the intervention economically more attractive, PMR could not be 
considered cost-effective based on 1-year follow-up data.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0310-5
PMID: 16195897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Parasitology. 2006 Feb;132(Pt 2):255-62. doi: 10.1017/S0031182005008899.
Epub  2005 Oct 3.

Genetic polymorphism of the beta-tubulin gene of Onchocerca volvulus in 
ivermectin naïve patients from Cameroon, and its relationship with fertility of 
the worms.

Bourguinat C(1), Pion SD, Kamgno J, Gardon J, Gardon-Wendel N, Duke BO, Prichard 
RK, Boussinesq M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Parasitology, McGill University, Sainte Anne-de-Bellevue, 
Quebec, Canada H9X3V9.

Observations of low response of patients infected with Onchocerca volvulus to 
ivermectin suggest that the parasite may be under a selection process toward 
potential resistance. To limit the extension of this phenomenon, it is crucial 
to characterize the genes of O. volvulus that are involved. For this, O. 
volvulus adult worms collected before the introduction of ivermectin in an 
onchocerciasis endemic area of central Cameroon were genotyped for beta-tubulin. 
To derive a baseline to investigate the selective pressure of ivermectin, we 
analysed (1) the frequency distribution of the beta-tubulin alleles, and (2) the 
relationship between the different beta-tubulin related genotypes and the 
fertility status of the female worms. The frequency of allele b of the 
beta-tubulin gene was very low, as it was observed in West Africa. We observed a 
deficit of heterozygous female worms leading to Hardy Weinberg disequilibrium, 
which might be explained by a shorter life-span of these worms compared to the 
homozygous worms. Unexpectedly, our results also show that the heterozygous 
female worms were much less fertile than the homozygotes: more than two thirds 
of the homozygotes were fertile, whereas only 37% of the heterozygotes were 
fertile. These results will be further considered when analysing post-treatment 
data.

DOI: 10.1017/S0031182005008899
PMID: 16197589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Clin Colorectal Cancer. 2005 Sep;5(3):181-7. doi: 10.3816/ccc.2005.n.029.

Pemetrexed/oxaliplatin for first-line treatment of patients with advanced 
colorectal cancer: a phase II trial of the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and 
Bowel Project Foundation Research Program.

Atkins JN(1), Jacobs SA, Wieand HS, Smith RE, John WJ, Colangelo LH, Vogel VG, 
Kuebler JP, Cescon TP, Miller BJ, Geyer CE Jr, Wolmark N.

Author information:
(1)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, University of Pittsburgh 
Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, PA 15212, USA.

BACKGROUND: Pemetrexed and oxaliplatin have clinical activity as single agents 
in colorectal cancer (response rates, 10%-17%). In this study, these drugs were 
used in combination as first-line therapy in a group of patients with metastatic 
colorectal cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-four evaluable patients were to receive pemetrexed 
(500 mg/m2) with folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation and oxaliplatin (120 
mg/m2) every 21 days for 6 cycles or until disease progression occurred. 
Patients with stable or responding disease could continue therapy beyond 6 
cycles at the discretion of the investigator. Eligibility criteria included a 
diagnosis of untreated metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum, 
measurable disease, Zubrod performance status <or=2, no adjuvant chemotherapy 
within 6 months, and >or=12 weeks life expectancy.
RESULTS: The confirmed clinical response rate (primary endpoint) was 29.6% (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 18%-48.6%), with 1 complete response and 15 partial 
responses. Median time to progression was 5.3 months (95% CI, 3.9-6.3 months), 
and median survival was 12.3 months (95% CI, 8.6-17 months). Grade 3/4 nadir 
neutropenia occurred in 33.3% of patients, and 3 patients experienced grade 3 
febrile neutropenia or infection associated with grade 3/4 neutropenia. Grade 
3/4 nadir thrombocytopenia was seen in 11.1% of patients. Only 4% of the 
patients developed grade 3/4 neurotoxicity.
CONCLUSION: This regimen of pemetrexed and oxaliplatin has activity in advanced 
colorectal cancer, and the toxicity profile suggests that escalation of the dose 
of pemetrexed in this combination may be possible.

DOI: 10.3816/ccc.2005.n.029
PMID: 16197621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2006 Jan 1;64(1):182-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2005.06.036. Epub 2005 Sep 28.

Prognostic factors predicting functional outcomes, recurrence-free survival, and 
overall survival after radiotherapy for metastatic spinal cord compression in 
breast cancer patients.

Rades D(1), Veninga T, Stalpers LJ, Schulte R, Hoskin PJ, Poortmans P, Schild 
SE, Rudat V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany. Rades.Dirk@gmx.net

PURPOSE: To identify significant prognostic factors after irradiation of 
metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC) in 335 breast cancer patients.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The potential prognostic factors investigated included 
involved vertebra, other bone metastases, visceral metastases, performance 
status, pretreatment ambulatory status, time until motor deficits developed 
before RT, radiation schedule (shorter-course RT [one fraction of 8 Gy/five 
fractions of 4 Gy] vs. longer-course RT [10 fractions of 3 Gy/15 fractions of 
2.5 Gy/20 fractions of 2 Gy), and the response to RT.
RESULTS: On multivariate analysis, better functional outcome was associated with 
slower development of motor deficits (p <0.001) and being ambulatory before RT 
(p <0.001). The overall recurrence rate of MSCC was greater if other bone 
metastases were present (p <0.001) and if shorter-course RT was used (p <0.001). 
In-field recurrences alone were more frequent after shorter-course RT (p = 
0.008). Survival was negatively affected by the presence of visceral metastases 
(p <0.001), deterioration of motor function after RT (p <0.001), reduced 
performance status (p <0.001), and the rapid development of motor deficits (p = 
0.044).
CONCLUSION: Outcomes and survival after RT for MSCC in breast cancer patients 
are associated with several prognostic factors. Patients with poor expected 
survival may be treated with shorter-course RT to keep the overall treatment 
time short. If survival is expected to be relatively favorable, longer-course RT 
appears preferable, because it is associated with fewer MSCC recurrences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2005.06.036
PMID: 16198069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Breast. 2005 Dec;14(6):600-11. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2005.08.015. Epub 2005
Sep  29.

Special issues related to breast cancer adjuvant therapy in older women.

Witherby SM(1), Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)Vermont Cancer Center, University of Vermont College of Medicine, Burlington, 
Vermont 05401, USA.

Increasing age remains the major risk factor for breast cancer and more than 
half of all breast cancers in North America and the European Union occur in 
women 65 years and older. Anticipated life expectancy, co-morbidity, and 
functional status must all be considered when offering systemic adjuvant 
treatment to older women. Tamoxifen significantly decreases the risk of 
recurrence and improves survival in all women with hormone receptor-positive 
invasive breast cancer, including women 70 years and older. More recently, 
aromatase inhibitors have been shown to be even more effective than tamoxifen in 
reducing breast cancer recurrence in postmenopausal women, and are an 
appropriate choice for initial endocrine therapy in older women. Adjuvant 
chemotherapy improves survival in postmenopausal women, but adds little to 
endocrine therapy in the majority of women with node-negative, hormone 
receptor-positive tumors. Chemotherapy should be considered for patients with 
high-risk node-negative, hormone receptor-negative tumors and those with 
node-positive tumors. Co-morbidity and its effect on survival should be factored 
into all chemotherapy decisions. Older women are frequently under-treated and 
are still under-represented in clinical trials; sometimes this represents good 
clinical judgment, but age bias alone can result in under-treatment and higher 
breast cancer-related mortality or state-of-the-art trials not being offered to 
older, but otherwise eligible, patients. Physician education and more clinical 
trials designed for older women are needed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2005.08.015
PMID: 16198568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Lancet. 2005 Oct 1;366(9492):1197-209. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)67483-1.

Obesity.

Haslam DW(1), James WP.

Author information:
(1)National Obesity Forum, Watton Place Clinic, Watton-at-Stone, Hertfordshire, 
SG14 3SY, UK. Dwhaslam@aol.com

Excess bodyweight is the sixth most important risk factor contributing to the 
overall burden of disease worldwide. 1.1 billion adults and 10% of children are 
now classified as overweight or obese. Average life expectancy is already 
diminished; the main adverse consequences are cardiovascular disease, type 2 
diabetes, and several cancers. The complex pathological processes reflect 
environmental and genetic interactions, and individuals from disadvantaged 
communities seem to have greater risks than more affluent individuals partly 
because of fetal and postnatal imprinting. Obesity, with its array of 
comorbidities, necessitates careful clinical assessment to identify underlying 
factors and to allow coherent management. The epidemic reflects progressive 
secular and age-related decreases in physical activity, together with 
substantial dietary changes with passive over-consumption of energy despite the 
neurobiological processes controlling food intake. Effective long-term weight 
loss depends on permanent changes in dietary quality, energy intake, and 
activity. Neither the medical management nor the societal preventive challenges 
are currently being met.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)67483-1
PMID: 16198769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Exp Gerontol. 2005 Dec;40(12):997-1003. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.08.011.
Epub  2005 Sep 30.

Influence of level of education on disability free life expectancy by sex: the 
ILSA study.

Minicuci N(1), Noale M; ISLA group.

Author information:
(1)National Research Council, Institute of Neuroscience-Padova Aging Section, 
C/o Clinica Medica 1Via Giustiniani, 2 35128 Aging Unit, Padova, Italy. 
nadia.minicuci@unipd.it

PURPOSE: To assess the effect of education on Disability Free Life Expectancy 
among older Italians, using a hierarchical model as indicator of disability, 
with estimates based on the multistate life table method and IMaCh software.
METHODS: Data were obtained from the Italian Longitudinal Study on Aging which 
considered a random sample of 5632 individuals.
RESULTS: Total life expectancy ranged from 16.5 years for men aged 65 years to 6 
years for men aged 80. The age range for women was 19.6 and 8.4 years, 
respectively. For both sexes, increasing age was associated with a lower 
probability of recovery from a mild state of disability, with a greater 
probability of worsening for all individuals presenting an independent state at 
baseline, and with a greater probability of dying except for women from a mild 
state of disability. A medium/high educational level was associated with a 
greater probability of recovery only in men with a mild state of disability at 
baseline, and with a lower probability of worsening in both sexes, except for 
men with a mild state of disability at baseline.
DISCUSSION: The positive effects of high education are well established in most 
research work and, being a modifiable factor, strategies focused on increasing 
level of education and, hence strengthening access to information and use of 
health services would produce significant benefits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.08.011
PMID: 16199134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Clin Ther. 2005 Aug;27(8):1276-7. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2005.07.018.

The visibility and divisibility of quality-adjusted life-years.

Mullins CD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2005.07.018
PMID: 16199252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Clin Ther. 2005 Aug;27(8):1295-310. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2005.08.006.

Cost-effectiveness of oral ibandronate versus IV zoledronic acid or IV 
pamidronate for bone metastases in patients receiving oral hormonal therapy for 
breast cancer in the United Kingdom.

De Cock E(1), Hutton J, Canney P, Body JJ, Barrett-Lee P, Neary MP, Lewis G.

Author information:
(1)The MEDTAP Institute at UBC, London, UK. erwin.decock@unitedbiosource.com

BACKGROUND: Oral ibandronate is a single-nitrogen bisphosphonate whose efficacy 
is similar to that of IV ibandronate for the treatment of bone metastases.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of oral 
ibandronate with zoledronic acid and generic pamidronate (both administered by 
IV) for the treatment of bone metastases in patients with breast cancer 
receiving oral hormonal therapy in the United Kingdom.
METHODS: A global economic model was adapted to the UK National Health Service. 
Patients were assumed to receive oral hormonal therapy for 50% of their 
projected 14.3-month survival. The primary outcome was incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Bisphosphonate efficacy data for relative 
risk reduction of skeletal-related events (SREs) were obtained from clinical 
trials. Resource use data and costs associated with IV bisphosphonate infusions 
were derived from published studies and a unit cost database; monthly drug 
acquisition costs were obtained from the British National Formulary. Utility 
scores were applied to time with or without an SRE to adjust survival for 
quality of life. Therefore, differences in QALYs were driven by utility weights 
rather than survival time. Model design and inputs were validated through expert 
UK clinician review. The absence of comparative efficacy and safety data from 
clinical trials for the different bisphosphonates was a model limitation that we 
addressed by supporting our assumptions with UK expert clinician opinion and 
with expert clinician opinion outside of the United Kingdom, and by conducting 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The projected total cost per patient was pound307 less with oral 
ibandronate compared with zoledronic acid, and pound158 less compared with the 
use of generic pamidronate (due to a reduction in staff time for infusions, 
avoidance of renal safety monitoring visits, and, in the case of IV generic 
pamidronate, a reduction in the number of SREs). Oral ibandronate was estimated 
to lead to a gain of 0.02 QALY, making it the economically dominant treatment 
option.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we found that oral ibandronate was cost-effective 
for the management of bone metastases from breast cancer among patients 
receiving oral hormonal therapy in the United Kingdom. Oral ibandronate provided 
effective SRE and bone-pain management while avoiding resource use and costs 
associated with regular IV bisphosphonate infusions. Due to uncertainty 
surrounding the model assumptions, it would be valuable to repeat the analyses 
using data from comparative bisphosphonate trials, once they become available.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2005.08.006
PMID: 16199254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Ann Vasc Surg. 2005 Nov;19(6):882-9. doi: 10.1007/s10016-005-7719-2.

Is contralateral carotid artery occlusion a risk factor for carotid 
endarterectomy?

Grego F(1), Antonello M, Lepidi S, Zaramella M, Galzignan E, Menegolo M, Deriu 
GP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, 
University of Padua, Via Giustiniani 2, 35100 Padua, Italy. 
franco.grego@unipd.it

Occlusion of the contralateral internal carotid artery (ICA) is considered to 
have a significant impact on the outcome of carotid endarterectomy (CEA). The 
purpose of this study was to review one center's experience concerning CEA 
opposite an occluded ICA, to see whether results differed from those obtained in 
patients with patent contralateral ICA in terms of relevant neurologic 
complication rate (RNCR, fatal + disabling stroke), stroke-free rate, and 
survival rate. From January 1997 to December 2002, 1,381 patients underwent a 
total of 1,445 CEAs at the Department of Vascular Surgery of Padua University. 
Patients were divided into two groups: group A included 144 patients with 
occlusion of the contralateral ICA and group B consisted of 1,237 patients with 
a patent contralateral ICA. There was no postoperative mortality in patients of 
group A, while in group B, two patients died as a result of myocardial 
infarction and cardiac failure and one died as a direct result of perioperative 
stroke. Postoperative disabling strokes occurred in one (0.7%) patient in group 
A and 10 (0.8%) patients in group B (p > 0.5). At 72 months, there were no 
statistical differences between the two groups in terms of RNCR, stroke-free 
rate, and late death. Our results show that contralateral carotid occlusion does 
not reduce the safety of CEA. The efficacy in terms of RNCR, stroke-free rate, 
and late survival is no different in patients with contralateral carotid 
occlusion.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-005-7719-2
PMID: 16200472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Jpn J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2005 Sep;53(9):465-9. doi: 
10.1007/s11748-005-0088-5.

Carpentier-Edwards pericardial aortic valve in middle-aged patients: comparison 
with the St. Jude Medical valve.

Sakamoto Y(1), Hashimoto K, Okuyama H, Ishii S, Inoue T, Kinouchi K, Abe T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Jikei University School of Medicine, 
Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of the present study was to compare long-term results 
of single aortic valve replacement (AVR) with mechanical (St. Jude Medical 
valves: standard) and biologic (the Carpentier-Edwards pericardial) prostheses.
METHOD: Between 1995 and 2002, 95 patients who underwent single AVR with 
mechanical (n= 46) or biologic (n= 49) prostheses were enrolled in this study. 
The mean age at the operation was 54.0 +/- 9.6 years (range: 20 to 69 years) 
with the mechanical and 68.8 +/- 7.1 years (range: 44 to 85 years) with the 
biologic prosthesis.
RESULTS: The 9-year actuarial survival rate, which was calculated by taking 
perioperative mortality into account, was 90.3 +/- 4.6% for patients with 
mechanical valves and 87.6 +/- 4.8% for patients with bioprostheses, with no 
difference between the two groups (p=0.342). The 9-year freedom rate from 
thromboembolism, reoperation, endocarditis was 94.8 +/- 3.6%, 100% and 97.8 +/- 
2.2% for patients with mechanical valves and 98.0 +/- 2.0%, 97.5 +/- 3.4% and 
95.0 +/- 3.4% for those with bioprostheses, respectively. After 9 years, freedom 
from cardiac death averaged 97.8% in the group with mechanical valves compared 
with 95.3% in those with bioprostheses (p=0.541).
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the mid-term durability of the Carpentier-Edwards 
pericardial valve in the aortic position for the elderly is excellent. 
Nevertheless, the risk of tissue valve reoperation progressively increases with 
time, and a longer follow-up may be necessary to provide its value compared with 
the mechanical valves in a country like Japan with a high life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11748-005-0088-5
PMID: 16200885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Hepatogastroenterology. 2005 Sep-Oct;52(65):1411-5.

Postoperative concomitant chemoradiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer.

Kurt M(1), Ozkan L, Yilmazlar T, Ercan I, Zorluoglu A, Memik F, Engin K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Uludag University Medical School, Bursa, 
Turkey. mkurt@uludag.edu.tr

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To gain maximal effectiveness while decreasing toxicity by 
giving 5-fluorouracil for 45 minutes starting just within 5 minutes after the 
completion of radiotherapy thrice weekly.
METHODOLOGY: Thirty-eight patients with locally advanced rectal cancer were 
enrolled in the study. Ranges of total radiation doses were between 50.4 Gy and 
61.2 Gy with a median of 59.4 Gy with fraction size of 1.8 Gy five times weekly. 
5-fluorouracil was administered thrice weekly with the dose of 250-300mg/m2/day 
concomitantly with radiation therapy.
RESULTS: Median follow-up time was 30 months. Administration of chemotherapy 
concomitant with radiotherapy (p=0.089), AJCC stage III (p=0.079), Duke's stage 
C (p=0.079), presence of lymph node involvement (p=0.079) and presence of local 
recurrence (p=0.066) appeared to be effecting distant metastasis although 
differences did not reach statistically significance. Mean overall survival was 
46 months in patients without any distant metastasis (SD: 3.28; 95% CI: 39.46 
and 52.31) while it was 35 months in patients with distant metastasis (SD: 5.71; 
95% CI: 23.52 and 45.90, p=0.016).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results have provided further evidence of the ability of 
postoperative chemoradiotherapy to delay and prevent local recurrence and 
metastasis of rectal cancer.

PMID: 16201085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Postgrad Med. 2005 Sep;118(3):1; author reply 1-2. doi: 
10.1080/00325481.2005.11445980.

Statistic on life expectancy challenged.

Johnson BE.

Comment on
    Postgrad Med. 2005 Jun;117(6):33-8, 41-2.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.2005.11445980
PMID: 16201301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Environ Sci Technol. 2005 Sep 15;39(18):7240-5. doi: 10.1021/es050526p.
