percentage of respondents with zero overall unhealthy days was stable (51%-53%) 
but declined to 48% by 2001. The percentage of respondents with >/=14 overall 
unhealthy days increased from 15%-16% during 1993-1997 to 18% by 2001. Adults 
increasingly rated their health as fair or poor and decreasingly rated it as 
excellent or very good. Women, American Indians/Alaska Natives, persons of 
"other races," separated or divorced persons, unmarried couples, unemployed 
persons, those unable to work, those with a <$15,000 annual household income, 
and those with less than a high school education reported worse HRQOL (i.e., 
physically unhealthy days, mentally unhealthy days, overall unhealthy days, and 
activity limitation days). Older adults reported more physically unhealthy days 
and activity limitation days, whereas younger adults reported more mentally 
unhealthy days. A seasonal pattern was observed in physically unhealthy days and 
overall unhealthy days. During 1993-2001, BRFSS respondents in 13 states 
reported increasing physically unhealthy days; respondents in 13 states and DC 
reported increasing mentally unhealthy days; respondents in Alabama, 
Connecticut, Maine, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, and Oregon reported 
both increasing physically and mentally unhealthy days; and respondents in 16 
states and DC reported increasing activity limitation days. During 2001-2002, 
NHANES respondents with one or more medical conditions (e.g., arthritis or 
stroke) reported worse HRQOL than those without such conditions, and those with 
an increasing number of medical conditions reported increasingly worse HRQOL.
PUBLIC HEALTH ACTION: Policy makers and researchers should continue to monitor 
HRQOL and its correlates in the U.S. population. In addition, public health 
professionals should expand monitoring to populations currently missed by 
existing surveys, including institutionalized and homeless persons, adolescents, 
and children. A key aspect is to study and identify the personal and community 
determinants of HRQOL in prevention research and population studies, to 
understand how to improve HRQOL, and to reduce HRQOL disparities. In addition, 
population health assessment professionals should continue to refine and 
validate HRQOL, functional status, and self-reported health measures.

PMID: 16251867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Health News. 2005 Oct;11(10):14.

New age-related fitness formula for women.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16252357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. FDA Consum. 2005 Jul-Aug;39(4):3.

New drug extends lives of brain cancer patients.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16252389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Am J Cardiol. 2005 Nov 1;96(9):1280-3. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2005.06.072.
Epub  2005 Sep 8.

Relation of the prothrombotic state to increasing age (from the Framingham 
Offspring Study).

Tofler GH(1), Massaro J, Levy D, Mittleman M, Sutherland P, Lipinska I, Muller 
JE, D'Agostino RB.

Author information:
(1)Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, Australia. 
gtofler@nsccahs.health.nsw.gov.au

A greater life expectancy has led to an increasing proportion of elderly 
patients. Increasing age is an important risk factor for cardiovascular disease, 
but the mechanism of risk is not well understood. Because thrombosis plays a key 
role in plaque development and the onset of acute coronary syndromes, the 
age-related increase in cardiovascular risk may be a result of a prothrombotic 
imbalance. The study aim was to examine the relation between age and thrombotic 
potential in the Framingham Offspring Cohort. Hemostatic factors previously 
associated with cardiovascular risk were measured in 3,230 patients (55% women) 
without evidence of cardiovascular disease who were participating in cycle 5 of 
the Framingham Offspring Study. The subjects were divided by age into decades. 
Advancing age was associated with a significant increase in fibrinogen and von 
Willebrand factor levels and measures of impaired fibrinolytic potential 
(plasminogen activator inhibitor and tissue plasminogen activator antigens). For 
men, the mean fibrinogen levels were 21% higher in those > or =70 years versus 
those aged <40 years (326 vs 268 mg/dl, p <0.001 for linear trend). The mean 
fibrinogen levels were 15% higher in older than in younger women (330 vs 286 
mg/dl, p <0.001). The significant relations persisted after multivariate 
adjustment. In conclusion, advancing age is associated with elevated levels of 
hemostatic factors indicative of a prothrombotic state. Because these factors 
are also associated with endothelial dysfunction, these findings are consistent 
with an injurious effect of age on the endothelium. Measures to reduce 
thrombotic potential may be of particular value in the elderly, because they 
counter the prothrombotic state that develops with aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2005.06.072
PMID: 16253598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Nov;46(5):845-55. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.07.043.

Outcomes of acute coronary syndrome in a large Canadian cohort: impact of 
chronic renal insufficiency, cardiac interventions, and anemia.

Keough-Ryan TM(1), Kiberd BA, Dipchand CS, Cox JL, Rose CL, Thompson KJ, Clase 
CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
tammy.keough-ryan@cdha.nshealth.ca

BACKGROUND: Chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) has been identified as an 
important risk factor for cardiac events. Studies in the United States reported 
decreased survival and decreased use of surgical and medical interventions after 
myocardial infarction in patients with CRI.
METHODS: We studied the impact of renal function on health outcomes in a 
Canadian cohort of consecutive patients admitted with acute coronary syndrome 
(ACS) between October 1997 and October 1999. The study design is an 
observational cohort of 5,549 adult patients who survived to discharge with a 
discharge diagnosis of ACS. Renal function is classified into 4 levels: (1) 
normal, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) greater than 80 mL/min/1.73 m2 (>1.33 
mL/s); (2) mild CRI, GFR of 60 to 80 mL/min/1.73 m2 (1.00 to 1.33 mL/s); (3) 
moderate CRI, GFR of 30 to 59 mL/min/1.73 m2 (0.50 to 0.98 mL/s); and (4) severe 
CRI, GFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 (<0.50 mL/s). The primary outcome is death.
RESULTS: Advanced and moderate CRI independently predicted death (hazard ratio, 
1.06; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.01 to 1.12; and hazard ratio, 1.23; 95% 
CI, 1.18 to 1.29). Severe anemia (hemoglobin level < 9.0 g/dL [<90 g/L]) also 
was an independent risk factor for death (hazard ratio, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.18 to 
1.61). Use of beta-blockers (hazard ratio, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.86 to 0.97), 
acetylsalicylic acid (hazard ratio, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.84 to 0.97), lipid-lowering 
therapy (hazard ratio, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.78 to 0.89), and medical thrombolysis 
(hazard ratio, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.81 to 0.97) were associated with reduced risk for 
death. Medical interventions with beta-blockers, acetylsalicylic acid, 
lipid-lowering therapy, and thrombolysis and surgical intervention were 
significantly less likely to be used in patients with CRI.
CONCLUSION: Despite universal access to health care, Canadian patients with CRI 
are more likely to die after a cardiac event and less likely to receive 
important interventions.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.07.043
PMID: 16253724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Nov;46(5):974-5. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.08.025.

The development of kidney allocation policy.

Stegall MD.

Comment on
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2005 Nov;46(5):949-56.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.08.025
PMID: 16253742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Crit Care. 2005 Sep;20(3):249-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jcrc.2005.06.002.

Putting the cart before the horse: a cautious look at the role of IgM-enriched 
polyclonal immunoglobulin in sepsis therapy.

Shafazand S(1), Colice G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and CCM, University of Miami, Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL 33101, USA.

Comment on
    J Crit Care. 2005 Sep;20(3):239-49.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrc.2005.06.002
PMID: 16253793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. BMJ. 2005 Oct 29;331(7523):1019-21. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7523.1019.

Commissioning for rare diseases: view from the frontline.

Burls A(1), Austin D, Moore D.

Author information:
(1)West Midlands Health Technology Assessment Collaboration, Department of 
Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT. 
A.J.Burls@bham.ac.uk

Deciding whether to fund treatments that do good one by one tends to lead to a 
positive decision. However, this can cause wider harmful effects, as West 
Midlands' experience in the funding of enzyme replacement therapy for lysosomal 
storage diseases shows

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7523.1019
PMCID: PMC1273463
PMID: 16254306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2005 
Oct;48(10):1176-82. doi: 10.1007/s00103-005-1115-5.

Hospital care of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction in four 
different European regions. Data from four regional myocardial infarction 
registries in Berlin, Dijon, Florence, and Tartu.

Maier R(1), Balzi D, Ainla T, Zeller M, Kallischnigg G, Barchielli A, Teesalu R, 
Cottin Y, Theres H, Buiatti E, Eha J, Beer JC.

Author information:
(1)Berliner Herzinfarkt Register, Berlin. birga.maier@tu-berlin.de

National surveys as well as European comparative studies suggest that 
differences in treatment of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction 
(STEMI) exist. The extent to which these variations influence the outcome of 
hospital care delivered to STE-MI patients in everyday routine is mostly 
unknown. In this study data representative of hospital care received by STEMI 
patients in four European regions (Berlin, Dijon, Florence and Tartu) were 
compared. The four registries are population based. The percentage of women and 
the mean age of the patients differed among the registries. Risk factors such as 
hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia also differed among the different 
regions, whereas a history of diabetes mellitus was similar among the 
registries. The percentage of patients receiving reperfusion therapy ranged from 
47 to 81%. An appreciable difference also resulted after breaking down 
reperfusion therapy into thrombolysis and primary percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI). Hospital mortality as an outcome measure was very similar 
among the regions. After adjustment for age, the comparative magnitude of 
hospital mortality proportion was also very similar among three registries. Only 
the patients from Florence demonstrated a comparatively lower death rate, with a 
ratio of 0.81. In summary, there are important differences among baseline 
characteristics and hospital care of STE-Ml patients in the four study regions. 
Nevertheless, it was interesting to ascertain that the outcome measured in 
hospital mortality was very similar among the four registries compared.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-005-1115-5
PMID: 16255079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2005 Nov;4(6):1041-9. doi: 10.1517/14740338.4.6.1041.

Elderly patients with advanced colorectal cancer: which therapy is the safest?

Rosati G(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, S. Carlo Hospital, Via P. Petrone 1, 85100 Potenza, 
Italy. rosatiger@yahoo.com

Patients > 65 years of age are the fastest growing segment of the cancer 
population. It is estimated that within 20 years, > 75% of cases and 85% of 
deaths from colorectal cancer (CRC) will be in this setting. Concerns about 
cancer treatment in the elderly relate to comorbidities, which increase 
proportionally with age, physiological changes associated with ageing that may 
influence drug metabolism and toxicity, and diminishing life expectancy, which 
particularly impacts decisions surrounding the benefits of adjuvant therapies. 
Over the last 10 years, significant improvements in the treatment of advanced 
CRC with combination therapy have been made. The randomised trials that have 
defined these improvements did not exclude elderly patients; however, the median 
age of patients in these trials has generally been approximately 60 years. Thus, 
it appears that some degree of selection is involved with younger and presumably 
fitter patients being the subjects in most of the pivotal trials. The 
availability of new molecularly targeted agents and newly improved existing 
agents has expanded the range of treatment options available. This variety gives 
greater flexibility in dealing with different subsets of patients, such as the 
elderly. However, some fit elderly patients seem to tolerate combination therapy 
reasonably well, whereas studies on unfit elderly subjects are needed.

DOI: 10.1517/14740338.4.6.1041
PMID: 16255663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Parasitology. 2005 Nov;131(Pt 5):647-56. doi: 10.1017/S0031182005008279.

Delayed transmission of a parasite is compensated by accelerated growth.

Hakalahti T(1), Bandilla M, Valtonen ET.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Science, P.O. Box 35 (ya), 
FIN-40014 University of Jyväskylä, Finland. teihaka@bytl.jyu.fi

Compensatory or 'catch-up' growth following prolonged periods of food shortages 
is known to exist in many free-living animals. It is generally assumed that 
growth rates under normal circumstances are below maximum because elevated rates 
of growth are costly. The present paper gives experimental evidence that such 
compensatory growth mechanisms also exist in parasitic species. We explored the 
effect of periodic host unavailability on survival, infectivity and growth of 
the fish ectoparasite Argulus coregoni. Survival and infectivity of A. coregoni 
metanauplii deprived of a host for selected time periods were age dependent, 
which indicates that all metanauplii carry similar energy resources for host 
seeking. Following the periods off-host, metanauplii were allowed to settle on 
rainbow trout and were length measured until they reached gravidity. During 
early development on fish, body length of attached A. coregoni was negatively 
correlated with off-host period indicating a mechanism that creates size 
variance in an attached parasite cohort originally containing equal amounts of 
resources. However, over time the size differences between parasites became less 
pronounced and eventually parasites that were kept off-host for longest periods 
of time reached the length of those individuals that had been allowed to infect 
a host sooner. A. coregoni thus appears to compensate for delayed growth 
resulting from an extended host searching period by elevated growth rates, 
although we show that such accelerated growth incurred a cost, through decreased 
life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1017/S0031182005008279
PMID: 16255823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Dev Cell. 2005 Nov;9(5):605-15. doi: 10.1016/j.devcel.2005.09.017.

A role for SIR-2.1 regulation of ER stress response genes in determining C. 
elegans life span.

Viswanathan M(1), Kim SK, Berdichevsky A, Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

C. elegans SIR-2.1, a member of the Sir-2 family of NAD(+)-dependent protein 
deacetylases, has been shown to regulate nematode aging via the insulin/IGF 
pathway transcription factor daf-16. Treatment of C. elegans with the small 
molecule resveratrol, however, extends life span in a manner fully dependent 
upon sir-2.1, but independent of daf-16. Microarray analysis of worms treated 
with resveratrol demonstrates the transcriptional induction of a family of genes 
encoding prion-like glutamine/asparagine-rich proteins involved in endoplasmic 
reticulum (ER) stress response to unfolded proteins. RNA interference of abu-11, 
a member of this ER stress gene family, abolishes resveratrol-mediated life span 
extension, and overexpression of abu-11 extends the life span of transgenic 
animals. Furthermore, SIR-2.1 normally represses transcription of abu-11 and 
other ER stress gene family members, indicating that resveratrol extends life 
span by inhibiting sir-2.1-mediated repression of ER stress genes. Our findings 
demonstrate that abu-11 and other members of its ER stress gene family are 
positive determinants of C. elegans life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.devcel.2005.09.017
PMID: 16256736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Exp Gerontol. 2006 Jan;41(1):98-102. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.09.008. Epub
2005  Oct 27.

Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) sequence variation is not associated with exceptional human 
longevity.

Flachsbart F(1), Croucher PJ, Nikolaus S, Hampe J, Cordes C, Schreiber S, Nebel 
A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Molecular Biology, University Hospital 
Schleswig-Holstein, 24105 Kiel, Germany.

The SIR2/Sirt1 gene has been demonstrated as regulating lifespan in many model 
organisms, including yeast, Caenorhabditis elegans and rodents. These findings 
render the human homologue, SIRT1, a very plausible candidate as a modifier of 
human life expectancy. We therefore sought to investigate whether common allelic 
variation in the SIRT1 gene was associated with human longevity. Five single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), distributed across the entire gene, including 
the promoter region, were genotyped in our extensive DNA collections of 1573 
long-lived individuals (centenarians and nonagenarians) and matched younger 
controls. Four of the markers were haplotype-tagging SNPs (htSNPs) that defined 
five common haplotypes. No evidence for an association was detected between any 
of the tested SNPs and the longevity phenotype at the allele, genotype or 
haplotype levels. These findings, based on an htSNP approach, suggest that there 
is no noteworthy influence of SIRT1 sequence variation on exceptional human 
longevity in the German population. However, this does not rule out the 
possibility that allelic variants in direct regulators or downstream substrates 
of SIRT1 could play critical roles in extending lifespan in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2005.09.008
PMID: 16257164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Psychiatry Res. 2005 Nov 30;140(2):97-113. doi: 
10.1016/j.pscychresns.2005.06.006.

Functional activation imaging in aging and dementia.

Prvulovic D(1), Van de Ven V, Sack AT, Maurer K, Linden DE.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Neurophysiology and Neuroimaging, Department of Psychiatry, 
Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität, Heinrich-Hoffmann-Str. 10, 60528 Frankfurt, 
Germany. prvulovic@em.uni-frankfurt.de

With life expectancy increasing continuously, the effects of neurodegeneration 
on brain function are a topic of ever increasing importance. Thus there is a 
need for tools and models that probe both the functional consequences of 
neurodegenerative processes and compensatory mechanisms that might occur. As 
neurodegenerative burden and compensatory mechanisms may change over time, these 
tools will ideally be applied multiple times over the lifespan. Specifically, in 
order to elucidate whether brain-activation patterns in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
and in healthy aging follow general rules in the context of degeneration and 
compensation, it is necessary to compare functional brain-activation patterns 
during different states of neurodegeneration. This article integrates the 
findings of functional activation studies at different stages of 
neurodegeneration: in healthy aging, in subjects at high risk of developing 
dementia, in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and in patients 
suffering from AD. We review existing theoretical models that aim to explain the 
underlying mechanisms of functional activation changes in aging and dementia, 
and we propose an integrative account, which allows for different neural 
response patterns depending on the amount of neuronal damage and the recruitment 
of compensatory pathways.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pscychresns.2005.06.006
PMID: 16257186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. J Biol Chem. 2005 Dec 23;280(51):42106-12. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M508031200. Epub
 2005 Oct 27.

The RNA binding G-patch domain in retroviral protease is important for 
infectivity and D-type morphogenesis of Mason-Pfizer monkey virus.

Bauerová-Zábranská H(1), Stokrová J, Strísovsky K, Hunter E, Ruml T, Pichová I.

Author information:
(1)Centre for New Antivirals and Antineoplastics, Institute of Organic Chemistry 
and Biochemistry, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Prague.

Retroviral proteases (PRs) cleave the viral polyprotein precursors into 
functional mature proteins late during particle release and are essential for 
viral replication. Unlike most retroviruses, beta-retroviruses, including 
Mason-Pfizer monkey virus (M-PMV), assemble immature capsids within the 
cytoplasm of the cell. The activation of beta-retroviral proteases must be 
highly regulated, because processing of the Gag-related polyprotein precursors 
occurs only after transport of immature capsids to the plasma membrane and 
budding. Several beta-retroviral proteases have unique C-terminal extension 
sequences, containing a glycine-rich motif (G-patch), which specifically binds 
in vitro to single-stranded nucleic acids. In M-PMV PR the G-patch is removed in 
vitro as well as in vivo by autoproteolytic processing to yield truncated active 
forms of PR. To investigate the role of the G-patch domain on the virus life 
cycle, we introduced mutations within the C-terminal domain of protease. We 
found that the G-patch domain of M-PMV PR is not required for the processing of 
viral polyproteins, but it significantly influences the infectivity of M-PMV, 
the activity of reverse transcriptase, and assembly of immature capsid within 
the cells. These results demonstrate for the first time that the G-patch domain 
of M-PMV PR is critical for the life cycle of beta-retroviruses, and its 
evolutionary conservation within members of this genus suggests its importance 
for retroviruses that display D-type morphology.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M508031200
PMID: 16257973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Dec;6(4):285-7. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0325-y.

How much are health-care systems prepared to pay to produce a QALY?

Buxton MJ.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0325-y
PMID: 16258748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Z Kardiol. 2005;94 Suppl 3:III/15-21. doi: 10.1007/s00392-005-1304-0.

[Nutrition].

[Article in German]

Gohlke H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinische Kardiologie II, Herz-Zentrum Bad Krozingen, Südring 15, 79189 Bad 
Krozingen, Germany. helmut.gohlke@herzzentrum.de

The favorable effect of a healthy diet on the initial development and the 
further progression of atherosclerosis has been demonstrated. The effect is 
significant even in patients with adequate pharmacological treatment. Nutrition 
should be calorie-adjusted high in fiber, low in total fat and in saturated fats 
(<10% of calories) and cholesterol (<300 mg/day). Mono-unsaturated fatty acids 
and omega-3 fatty acids have beneficial effects. Therefore fatty fish more than 
once a week, nuts, fruits and vegetables (>400 g/day) have a prognostically 
favorable effect, whereas the supplemental use of antioxidative vitamins is of 
no proven benefit. These recommendations result from the experience gained over 
generations in millions of people in different countries (Mediterranean and 
Asian) with a low rate of coronary events and a high life expectancy. These 
dietary habits are associated with a low rate of neoplasm and of osteoporosis. 
The recommendation for this type of diet is a class-I recommendation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-005-1304-0
PMID: 16258789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Cancer. 2005 Dec 1;104(11 Suppl):2624-37. doi: 10.1002/cncr.21252.

Pathways for psychosocial care of cancer survivors.

Holland JC(1), Reznik I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
Cancer Center, 641 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, USA. 
hollandj@mskcc.org

Today, the growing number of survivors from many sites of cancer necessitates 
that thought be given to ways that ensure follow-up psychosocial care and its 
integration into ongoing medical surveillance. The establishment of standards of 
care together with evidence- and consensus-based clinical practice guidelines 
have provided a highly effective method of enhancing quality care for treatment 
of cancer. There remain, however, major problems in dissemination and 
application of these guidelines on the clinical level. The National 
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) formed a Panel on Distress Management that 
developed the first set of consensus-based standards for psychosocial care and 
clinical practice guidelines specific to cancer illnesses. This article proposes 
the extension of their concepts to cancer survivors. A model is presented that 
can assist oncologists and multidisciplinary teams in busy ambulatory settings 
to more readily identify those survivors who are distressed, whose quality of 
life is impaired, and who may benefit from further psychological evaluation and 
treatment. Three groups of cancer survivors are identified for whom pathways for 
psychosocial care should be defined and developed: 1) survivors with physical 
sequelae, often resulting in significant neuropsychologic and physical 
consequences; 2) survivors with psychological sequelae or psychiatric disorders 
that interfere with functioning and quality of life; and 3) survivors with 
subsyndromal symptoms who have no identified physical or psychiatric sequelae, 
but who may nonetheless need help integrating the cancer experience into their 
lives to increase a sense of purpose, direction, and well being. A rapid 
screening tool for distress could be used at the time of follow-up visits to 
oncologists or physicians to identify patients with psychological, social, or 
spiritual concerns and could serve as a pathway for evaluation and referral for 
psychosocial counseling. Treating distress in these areas is to be viewed as an 
integral part of surveillance for survivors, and pathways to ensure integration 
are important.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.21252
PMID: 16258931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Health Econ. 2006 Apr;15(4):363-72. doi: 10.1002/hec.1056.

Bayesian cost-effectiveness analysis with two measures of effectiveness: the 
cost-effectiveness acceptability plane.

Negrín MA(1), Vázquez-Polo FJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Quantitative Methods in Economics, University of Las Palmas de 
Gran Canaria, Spain. mnegrin@dmc.ulpgc.es

Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) compares the costs and outcomes of two or more 
technologies. However, there is no consensus about which measure of 
effectiveness should be used in each analysis. Clinical researchers have to 
select an appropriate outcome for their purpose, and this choice can have 
dramatic consequences on the conclusions of their analysis. In this paper we 
present a Bayesian cost-effectiveness framework to carry out CEA when more than 
one measure is considered. In particular, we analyse the case in which two 
measures of effectiveness, one binary and the other continuous, are considered. 
Decision-making measures, such as the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, 
incremental net-benefit and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves, are used to 
compare costs and one measure of outcome. We propose an extension of 
cost-acceptability curves, namely the cost-effectiveness acceptability plane, as 
a suitable measure for decision taking. The models were validated using data 
from two clinical trials. In the first one, we compared four highly active 
antiretroviral treatments applied to asymptomatic HIV patients. As measures of 
effectiveness, we considered the percentage of patients with undetectable levels 
of viral load, and changes in quality of life, measured according to EuroQol. In 
the second clinical trial we compared three methadone maintenance programmes for 
opioid-addicted patients. In this case, the measures of effectiveness considered 
were quality of life, according to the Nottingham Health Profile, and adherence 
to the treatment, measured as the percentage of patients who participated in the 
whole treatment programme.

Copyright 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1056
PMID: 16259048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. J Insur Med. 2005;37(3):201-13.

Update on HIV infection.

von Overbeck J(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Reinsurance, Mythenquai, Zurich, Switzerland. 
Jan_VonOverbeck@swissre.com

In the third decade of the global epidemic, it is evident that human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease is quite different from the disease first 
recognized among a small number of homosexual men in 1981. The spread of HIV has 
been particularly alarming in developing countries, especially sub-Saharan 
Africa and Southeast Asia, and it continues to threaten other populations in 
Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. HIV therapeutic advances have 
resulted in a marked decrease in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) 
incidence and death in the United States and Western Europe. With the 
introduction of "triple therapy," antiretroviral treatment has resulted in an 
extraordinary increase in the quality of life and life expectancy among 
HIV-infected persons. However, the rate of decline in AIDS incidence and deaths 
from the latter part of 1998 through 2000 has slowed for a number of reasons. 
Even with the stabilization of HIV in Western countries, it remains as important 
as ever to follow sound insurance principles to address HIV risk. The clinical 
success stories have yet to be translated into the insurance realm. A very 
strict analysis of the medical literature will be needed.

PMID: 16259210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Med Assoc Ga. 1998 Apr;87(2):76; author reply 76.

The men's health issue, January 1998: questions regarding the diagnosis of 
prostate cancer.

Phillips TW.

Comment on
    J Med Assoc Ga. 1998 Jan;87(1):23-6.

PMID: 16259243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Med Assoc Ga. 1998 Apr;87(2):76; author reply 76.

The men's health issue, January 1998: questions regarding the diagnosis of 
prostate cancer.

Kassabian VS.

Comment on
    J Med Assoc Ga. 1998 Jan;87(1):23-6.

PMID: 16259244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Orv Hetil. 2005 Oct 2;146(40):2059-65.

[Modern treatment of rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Hungarian]

Surányi P(1).

Author information:
(1)Hajdu-Bihar megyei Onkormányzat Kenézy Gyula Kórház-Rendelointézet, 
Reumatológia es Fizioterápiás Osztály, Debrecen.

Modern treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic 
inflammatory disease of unknown etiology, which is characterised by pain, loss 
of capability to work, in severe cases the life expectancy is also reduced. The 
disease cannot be cured with current therapeutic possibilities, but complaints 
can be reduced, the destruction can be retarded. The treatment is more efficient 
in the early stage of the disease, but early diagnosis is difficult because of 
insidious onset and limited sensitivity of diagnostic methods. The complaints 
can be alleviated by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and transient 
glucocorticoid treatment, but risk of continuous glucocorticoid therapy is 
significant. To prevent structural damage disease modifying antirheumatic drugs 
are used. Out of these methotrexate is the most effective and it is well 
tolerated. Destruction of the joints is the consequence of inflammation, so 
intensity of drug treatment must be adjusted to inflammatory activity. For 
monitoring in clinical practice the composite index disease activity score is 
recommended. To achieve the reduction of inflammatory activity the dosage of 
disease modifying drugs can be increased, they can be switched or combined, and 
continuous glucocorticoid treatment can be started. In cases refractory to 
conventional treatment it is possible to inhibit the activity of proinflammatory 
cytokines, which play a pivotal role in pathomechanism of rheumatoid arthritis. 
In synovitis limited to one joint intraarticular glucocorticoid injection can be 
given, in refractory cases synovectomy is indicated. Destruction of the joints 
can be partially corrected by exercise, orthoses and after all with surgery.

PMID: 16259334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Isr Med Assoc J. 2005 Oct;7(10):635-8.

Characteristics and outcomes of ninth and tenth decade patients hospitalized in 
a sub-acute geriatric hospital.

Yust-Katz S(1), Katz-Leurer M, Katz L, Lerman Y, Slutzki K, Ohry A.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurology, Rabin Medical Center (Beilinson Campus), Petah 
Tiqva, Israel. liorshlomit@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Population structures are changing across the western world, with 
particularly rapid growth in the number of very old people. Life expectancy has 
been increasing gradually over years, resulting in a larger subpopulation of 
people aged 90 and over.
OBJECTIVES: To describe the sociodemographic, medical and functional 
characteristics of people aged 80-90 and 90+ who were admitted to a sub-acute 
geriatric hospital and to compare the hospitalization outcomes between these 
subgroups.
METHODS: We compared the demographic and clinical data (extracted by means of 
chart review) of two groups of elderly who were admitted to the Reuth Medical 
Center during 2001-2002: those aged 90+ and those 80-89. Among survivors, the 
main outcome measures at discharge were mortality rate, functional ability, and 
place of residence.
RESULTS: The study included 108 patients who were admitted to different 
divisions of Reuth: 55 patients aged 90+ and 53 aged 80-90. The mortality rate 
was significantly elevated in the older age group (49.1% vs. 28.1% in the 
younger age group). On multivariate analysis, the most important prognostic 
factors for mortality were incontinence (odds ratio 3.45) and being dependent 
before admission (OR 4.76). Among survivors, an association was found between 
being incontinent and dependent before hospitalization, and being dependent on 
discharge.
CONCLUSIONS: The main prognostic factors for mortality and functional outcome in 
patients admitted to a non-acute geriatric hospital are incontinence and 
functional state prior to admission, and not age per se.

PMID: 16259342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2005 Oct 31;3:66. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-3-66.

The Oxford hip score: the patient's perspective.

Wylde V(1), Learmonth ID, Cavendish VJ.

Author information:
(1)Avon Orthopaedic Centre, Southmead Hospital, University of Bristol, 
Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol BS10 5NB, UK. V.Wylde@bristol.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: In the last 25 years, assessment of orthopaedic intervention has 
become patient focused, with the development of self-completion patient-centred 
outcome measures. The Oxford hip score (OHS) is a joint specific outcome measure 
tool designed to assess disability in patients undergoing total hip replacement 
(THR). Although the psychometric properties of the OHS have been rigorously 
examined, there is little research on the patient's perspective of the OHS. 
Therefore, the aim of this study is to assess whether the OHS is an adequate 
disability measure from the patient's perspective using qualitative analysis of 
annotations written on the OHS by patients.
METHODS: In total, 276 orthopaedic patients completed an OHS between April 2004 
and May 2005. One hundred and fifty six pre-operative patients listed for a THR 
completed the OHS during a pre-admission assessment clinic, and 120 
post-operative patients completed the OHS postally in the home setting. 
Patient's unprompted annotations in response to the questions on the OHS were 
recorded and grouped into thematic categories.
RESULTS: In total, 46 (17%) patients made 52 annotations when completing the 
OHS. These annotations identified five main areas of difficulty that patients 
experienced: lack of question clarity (particularly concerning the use of aids), 
difficulty in reporting measurements of pain, restrictive and irrelevant 
questions, the influence of co-morbidities on responses, and double-barrelled 
questions.
CONCLUSION: Although the OHS is a useful short tool for the assessment of 
disability in patients undergoing THR, this study identified several problem 
areas that are applicable to patient-centred outcome tools in general. To 
overcome these current limitations, further work is underway to develop a more 
individualised patient-centred outcome measure of disability for use in patients 
with osteoarthritis.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-3-66
PMCID: PMC1283979
PMID: 16259627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2005 Nov 15;827(1):146-56.
doi:  10.1016/j.jchromb.2005.03.039. Epub 2005 Apr 22.

Determination of 3-nitrotyrosine in human urine at the basal state by gas 
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and evaluation of the excretion after 
oral intake.

Tsikas D(1), Mitschke A, Suchy MT, Gutzki FM, Stichtenoth DO.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Hannover Medical School, 
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. tsikas.dimitrios@mh-hannover.de

3-Nitrotyrosine (NO(2)Tyr) is a potential biomarker of reactive-nitrogen species 
(RNS) including peroxynitrite. 3-Nitrotyrosine occurs in human plasma in its 
free and protein-associated forms and is excreted in the urine. Measurement of 
3-nitrotyrosine in human plasma is invasive and associated with numerous 
methodological problems. Recently, we have described an accurate method based on 
gas chromatography (GC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS) for circulating 
3-nitrotyrosine. The present article describes the extension of this method to 
urinary 3-nitrotyrosine. The method involves separation of urinary 
3-nitrotyrosine from nitrite, nitrate and l-tyrosine by HPLC, preparation of the 
n-propyl-pentafluoropropionyltrimethylsilyl ether derivatives of endogenous 
3-nitrotyrosine and the internal standard 3-nitro-l-[(2)H(3)]tyrosine, and 
GC-tandem MS quantification in the selected-reaction monitoring mode under 
negative-ion chemical ionization conditions. In urine of ten apparently healthy 
volunteers (years of age, 36.5+/-7.2) 3-nitrotyrosine levels were determined to 
be 8.4+/-10.4 nM (range, 1.6-33.2 nM) or 0.46+/-0.49 nmol/mmol creatinine 
(range, 0.05-1.30 nmol/mmol creatinine). The present GC-tandem MS method 
provides accurate values of 3-nitrotyrosine in human urine at the basal state. 
After oral intake of 3-nitro-l-tyrosine by a healthy volunteer (27.6 microg/kg 
body weight) 3-nitro-l-tyrosine appeared rapidly in the urine and was excreted 
following a biphasic pharmacokinetic profile. Approximately one third of 
administered 3-nitro-l-tyrosine was excreted within the first 8 h. The 
suitability of the non-invasive measurement of urinary 3-nitrotyrosine as a 
method of assessment of oxidative stress in humans remains to be established.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2005.03.039
PMID: 16260382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Dec;34(6):1435-6. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyi211. Epub 2005
Oct  31.

Longevity of popes and artists between the 13th and the 19th century.

Carrieri MP, Serraino D.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyi211
PMID: 16260451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2005 Nov;94(2):95-103. doi:
10.1007/s10549-004-8267-0.

Is adjuvant therapy for older patients with node (+) early breast cancer 
cost-effective?

Naeim A(1), Keeler EB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, UCLA Department of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA. anaeim@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: Node (+) breast cancer represents over 40% of cases in older women 
and currently there is a debate whether adjuvant therapy for all older women is 
cost-effective.
PURPOSE: To evaluate if adjuvant treatment for early-stage (Stage I-IIIa) node 
(+) breast cancer with hormone therapy, chemotherapy, or combination therapy is 
cost-effective in older patients.
DESIGN: A decision-analysis model for 65, 75, and 85 year-old female breast 
cancer patients using life tables integrated the cost of treatment in dollars 
and impact in length and quality of life. Both estrogen receptor (ER) (-) and 
(+) patients were considered. The primary data sources were meta-analysis from 
the Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group and the Red Book Average 
Wholesale Price for drugs. The cost of treatment in dollars and impact of 
quality of life was examined. Scenarios were used when treatment benefit was 
uncertain. The incremental cost-effectiveness of different treatment strategies 
were then compared and mapped graphically.
RESULTS: Adjuvant therapy is cost-effective in 65 year-old women with early 
breast cancer. In a 75 year-old ER (+) patient, hormone therapy is 
cost-effective, $10,965/quality-adjusted life years (QALY), but chemotherapy was 
more cost-effective, $27,406/QALY, if one assumed it was as efficacious as in a 
65 year-old woman. In a 75 year-old ER (-) patient, chemotherapy was 
cost-effective at $42,605 with the same assumption. In an 85 year-old ER (+) 
patient, hormone therapy was cost-effective, $26,463/QALY, if efficacy is not 
age-sensitive, but chemotherapy was not as cost-effective for either ER (+) or 
ER (-) patients.
CONCLUSION: Treatment decisions for older breast cancer patients suffer from the 
lack of sufficient clinical trial data. Decision-analytic models can help policy 
makers who are faced with decisions about whether to support adjuvant therapy in 
older breast cancer patients and also outline the important parameters that need 
to be considered in such a decision.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-004-8267-0
PMID: 16261407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2005 Nov;94(2):123-33. doi:
10.1007/s10549-005-5828-9.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of two rehabilitation support services for women 
with breast cancer.

Gordon LG(1), Scuffham P, Battistutta D, Graves N, Tweeddale M, Newman B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Research School of Public Health, Queensland University of 
Technology, Brisbane, Australia. LGordon@qldcancer.com.au

The purpose of this research was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of two 
rehabilitation interventions for breast cancer survivors, each compared to a 
population-based, non-intervention group (n = 208). The two services included an 
early home-based physiotherapy intervention (DAART, n = 36) and a group-based 
exercise and psychosocial intervention (STRETCH, n = 31). A societal perspective 
was taken and costs were included as those incurred by the health care system, 
the survivors and community. Health outcomes included: (a) 'rehabilitated cases' 
based on changes in health-related quality of life between 6 and 12 months 
post-diagnosis, using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast Cancer 
plus Arm Morbidity (FACT-B+4) questionnaire, and (b) quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) using utility scores from the Subjective Health Estimation (SHE) scale. 
Data were collected using self-reported questionnaires, medical records and 
program budgets. A Monte-Carlo modelling approach was used to test for 
uncertainty in cost and outcome estimates. The proportion of rehabilitated cases 
was similar across the three groups. From a societal perspective compared with 
the non-intervention group, the DAART intervention appeared to be the most 
efficient option with an incremental cost of $1344 per QALY gained, whereas the 
incremental cost per QALY gained from the STRETCH program was $14,478. Both 
DAART and STRETCH are low-cost, low-technological health promoting programs 
representing excellent public health investments.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-005-5828-9
PMID: 16261411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Am J Vet Res. 2005 Sep;66(9):1646-50. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.2005.66.1646.

Life expectancy in a birth cohort of Boxers followed up from weaning to 10 years 
of age.

van Hagen MA(1), Ducro BJ, van den Broek J, Knol BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences of Companion Animals, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Utrecht University, 3508 TD Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To determine mortality rate over time, risk factors for death, and 
heritability of life expectancy in Boxers.
ANIMALS: 1,733 purebred Boxers born in The Netherlands between January 1994 and 
March 1995.
PROCEDURE: Dogs were followed up from weaning (ie, 49 days of age) to 10 years 
of age through use of a written questionnaire sent to owners every 6 months. 
Mortality rate over time, risk factors potentially associated with death, and 
heritability of life expectancy were examined by use of a proportional hazards 
model based on the Weibull distribution.
RESULTS: stimated mortality rate during the 10-year study period for this birth 
cohort of Boxers was 45%. The probability of surviving to 5 years of age was 
88%; the probability of surviving to 10 years of age was 55%. Estimated 
effective heritability of life expectancy was 0.076, meaning that in this 
population, an estimated 76% of the observed variation in life expectancy could 
be attributed to genetic differences among dogs that were passed from parents to 
their offspring.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Results suggest that cumulative incidence of 
death from weaning to 10 years of age among this birth cohort of Boxers was 45%. 
The estimated heritability of life expectancy suggested that life expectancy can 
be improved by use of selective breeding.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.2005.66.1646
PMID: 16261841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. J Calif Dent Assoc. 2005 Sep;33(9):695-703.

Older adults--implications for private dental practitioners.

Niessen LC(1), Fedele DJ.

Author information:
(1)Dentsply International, USA.

Currently, 35 million people are over the age of 65 in the United States. This 
number is expected to double to 70 million by 2030 (Figure 1). In California, 
3.7 million people are over the age of 65, and this number is expected to 
increase to 6.4 million in the next 20 years or within the practice lifetime of 
students presently enrolled in California's dental hygiene and dental schools. 
The oldest old, those over age 85, are the fastest-growing segment of the United 
States and California's population. California's aging population will reflect 
the diversity of the state in general. Table 1 lists California's 65-plus 
population by age and ethnic/racial categories. By 2030, one in five Americans 
and Californians will be 65 years or older. Women who reach age 65 can expect to 
live an additional 19 years of life, while men can expect to live an additional 
16 years. The gap in life expectancy between men and women is narrowing due to 
improvements in medical care, preventive health services, and healthier 
lifestyles. Figures 2-4 show the improvements in life expectancy at birth, age 
65, and age 75 for the U.S. population. In the United States, there are an 
estimated 1.8 million nursing home beds used by 80 percent of the residents over 
age 65. A report by the U.S. General Accounting Office estimated that 43 percent 
of all Americans over age 65 will reside in a nursing home at some time in their 
life. California currently has approximately 100,000 residents living in one of 
the 1503 nursing home facilities throughout the state. Nursing home care in 
California accounts for 5.6 billion dollars. In 1998, the U.S. General 
Accounting Office reported that one in three California nursing homes was cited 
for serious or potentially life-threatening care problems. With an aging 
imperative in California, this paper will discuss the implications of an aging 
society on maintaining oral health throughout one's life, and the ability of 
dental professionals to meet the oral health needs of this population.

PMID: 16261906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2005 Fall;21(4):499-505. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462305050695.

Development and application of Model of Resource Utilization, Costs, and 
Outcomes for Stroke (MORUCOS): an Australian economic model for stroke.

Mihalopoulos C(1), Cadilhac DA, Moodie ML, Dewey HM, Thrift AG, Donnan GA, 
Carter RC.

Author information:
(1)The University of Melbourne, 4/207 Bouverie Street, Melbourne, 3010 Victoria, 
Australia. c.mihalopoulos@unimelb.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: To outline the development, structure, data assumptions, and 
application of an Australian economic model for stroke (Model of Resource 
Utilization, Costs, and Outcomes for Stroke [MORUCOS]).
METHODS: The model has a linked spreadsheet format with four modules to describe 
the disease burden and treatment pathways, estimate prevalence-based and 
incidence-based costs, and derive life expectancy and quality of life 
consequences. The model uses patient-level, community-based, stroke cohort data 
and macro-level simulations. An interventions module allows options for change 
to be consistently evaluated by modifying aspects of the other modules. To date, 
model validation has included sensitivity testing, face validity, and peer 
review. Further validation of technical and predictive accuracy is needed. The 
generic pathway model was assessed by comparison with a stroke subtypes 
(ischemic, hemorrhagic, or undetermined) approach and used to determine the 
relative cost-effectiveness of four interventions.
RESULTS: The generic pathway model produced lower costs compared with a subtypes 
version (total average first-year costs/case AUD$ 15,117 versus AUD$ 17,786, 
respectively). Optimal evidence-based uptake of anticoagulation therapy for 
primary and secondary stroke prevention and intravenous thrombolytic therapy 
within 3 hours of stroke were more cost-effective than current practice (base 
year, 1997).
CONCLUSIONS: MORUCOS is transparent and flexible in describing Australian stroke 
care and can effectively be used to systematically evaluate a range of different 
interventions. Adjusting results to account for stroke subtypes, as they 
influence cost estimates, could enhance the generic model.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462305050695
PMID: 16262974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2006 Jan;45(1):61-5. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kei099.  Epub 2005 Nov 1.

A simple extension to the Rheumatoid Arthritis Quality of Life Questionnaire 
(RAQol) to explore individual patient concerns and monitor group outcome in 
clinical practice.

Greenwood MC(1), Hakim AJ, Doyle DV.

Author information:
(1)The Academic Rheumatology and Osteoporosis Unit, Whipps Cross University 
Hospital NHS Trust, Leytonstone, London E11 1NR, UK. 
Mandy.Greenwood@whippsx.nhs.uk

OBJECTIVES: To find out if the RAQol, if extended by a qualifying question on 
the level of concern associated with each item, can function both as a group 
outcome measure and as a useful tool to identify the concerns of individual 
