Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Hospital, Denver, CO 80262, USA. Ben.Eiseman@UCHSC.edu

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to review the lifestyle and 
expectations of a group of 86- to 87-year-old Yale College graduates at the time 
of their 65th reunion and to compare the results with equivalent data from the 
general public.
METHODS: A five-page questionnaire was sent to the 263 living survivors of the 
Yale College class of 1939 at the time of their 65th reunion.
RESULTS: One hundred fifty-one replies were received, some only partially 
completed. Median survival was 79 years. Among the more interesting results was 
a wide discrepancy (optimism) between the perceived quality of life and that 
which one would anticipate from the many physical disabilities of the study 
group.
CONCLUSION: This is by nature a self-selected group of male octogenarians, but 
their lifestyle and medical disabilities fit with the general population; their 
attitude toward being elderly is remarkably positive, and their personal and 
civic performance continues beyond expectations.

DOI: 10.1097/01.JGP.0000192509.53109.92
PMID: 16407578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Kidney Int. 2006 Mar;69(5):798-805. doi: 10.1038/sj.ki.5000059.

The impact of home nocturnal hemodialysis on end-stage renal disease therapies: 
a decision analysis.

McFarlane PA(1), Bayoumi AM, Pierratos A, Redelmeier DA.

Author information:
(1)St Michael's Hospital, 61 Queen Street East, 9th Floor, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada M5C 2T2. phil.mcfarlane@utoronto.ca

Home nocturnal hemodialysis (HNHD) is cost-effective relative to in-center 
hemodialysis (IHD) in short-run analyses. The effect in long-run analyses, when 
technique failures, declining benefits, delayed training, transplantation and 
death are considered, is unknown. We used decision analysis techniques to 
examine the relative cost-effectiveness of HNHD and IHD, projecting future costs 
and health effects over a lifetime with end-stage renal disease. We developed a 
Markov state-transition model comparing two strategies: only IHD or starting on 
IHD and subsequently transferring to HNHD. The model incorporates 
transplantation. In the base case, half the population was eligible for 
transplantation, with (1/3) of grafts from live donors. The time to transplant 
was 0.75 years for live and 5 years for deceased donor transplants. The delay 
before initiation of HNHD was 5 years. Costs and outcomes were discounted at 3% 
per annum. Model parameters were derived from a literature review. We also 
conducted one-way sensitivity analyses and Monte Carlo simulations. The HNHD 
strategy was associated with a quality-adjusted survival estimate of 5.79 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), with lifetime costs of $538 094. The values 
for IHD were 5.31 QALYs and $543 602, respectively. Thus, HNHD is cost saving 
while improving quality of life. The incremental cost-utility ratio was 
consistently less than $50 000 per QALY in sensitivity and Monte Carlo analyses. 
Important determinants of cost-effectiveness were transplantation time and 
whether benefits declined over time. Our model suggests that HNHD improves 
quality-adjusted survival over IHD at an economically attractive 
cost-effectiveness ratio.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ki.5000059
PMID: 16407887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nihon Rinsho. 2006 Jan;64(1):149-54.

[Role of the diabetes educator for elderly patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsuoka K(1).

Author information:
(1)The Shibuya Clinic, Saiseikai Satellite.

Diabetes is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by a genetic predisposition 
and interaction between insulin resistance and decreased pancreatic beta cell 
function. Elderly patients are often accompanied by other chronic conditions as 
well as additional risk factors for atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. 
In recent years in Japan, with extension of life expectancy, preventive measure 
both primary and secondary for senior citizens is increasingly important. 
Diabetes education for elderly patients is fundamentally the same as for much 
young group. The social background of the elderly is tremendously diversified. 
Therefore, the clinical decision-making has to be started with educational 
model, and complete primary care setting is necessary with exclusively 
individualized program understanding the ability of a key person in a support 
group.

PMID: 16408464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2005 Nov;42(6):596-608. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.42.596.

[Cost-utility analysis of osteoporosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Harada A, Matsui Y, Takemura M, Ito Z, Wakao N, Ota T.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.42.596
PMID: 16408495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2005 Nov;42(6):624-6. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.42.624.

[Gender difference of health expectancies].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsuji I.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.42.624
PMID: 16408498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. N Engl J Med. 2006 Jan 12;354(2):205-7; author reply 205-7.

Cost-effectiveness of ICDs.

Stevenson LW, Stevenson WG.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Oct 6;353(14):1471-80.

PMID: 16411295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. N Engl J Med. 2006 Jan 12;354(2):205-7; author reply 205-7.

Cost-effectiveness of ICDs.

Fauchier L, Babuty D.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Oct 6;353(14):1471-80.

PMID: 16411302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. N Engl J Med. 2006 Jan 12;354(2):207-9; author reply 207-9.

Medicare and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Smolkin MT.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Oct 6;353(14):1513-5.
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Oct 6;353(14):1516-22.

PMID: 16411303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. BMC Health Serv Res. 2006 Jan 14;6:3. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-6-3.

Overcoming inherent problems of preference-based techniques for measuring health 
benefits: an empirical study in the context of kidney transplantation.

Kontodimopoulos N(1), Niakas D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Social Sciences, Hellenic Open University, Riga Fereou 169 & 
Tsamadou 262 22 Patra, Greece. nkontodi@otenet.gr

BACKGROUND: Economic valuations of health care programs often require using 
patients as subjects, implying that research methodology should conform to the 
surrounding social, cultural and ethical context. The significance of patients' 
opinions in health care decisions has been well defined but in Greece, and 
perhaps elsewhere, clinicians remain skeptical. The purpose of this study was to 
investigate, for the first time in Greece, the feasibility of measuring 
preference-based health-state utilities and willingness to pay and to determine 
the context-based adaptations required to overcome inherent elicitation 
problems.
METHODS: A survey including a time trade-off (TTO), a standard gamble (SG), and 
two willingness-to-pay (WTP) questions was self-administered to a homogenous 
group of 606 end stage renal disease patients in 24 dialysis facilities 
throughout Greece and the overall response rate was 78.5%. Typical elicitation 
methods were adapted to overcome methodological problems such as subjective life 
expectancy and question framing. Spearman's correlation coefficients were 
calculated between utilities and WTP and parametric tests (independent samples 
t-test and ANOVA) examined score differences as a result of demographic and 
clinical factors.
RESULTS: Mean health-state utilities were 72.56 (TTO) and 91.06 (SG) and these 
were statistically significantly different (P < 0.0005). Significant 
correlations, in the expected directions, were observed between TTO - SG, TTO - 
WTP and SG - WTP (P < 0.01). High ceiling effects were observed in the TTO and 
SG methods indicating patients' adversity to risk and unwillingness to trade-off 
life years. Higher WTP was observed from younger patients (P < 0.0005), males (P 
< 0.05), higher education levels (P < 0.01), single (P < 0.0005) and employed (P 
< 0.005).
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated, to a fair extent, that adapting research 
methods to context-based particularities does not necessarily compromise results 
and should be considered in situations where standard methods cannot be applied. 
On the other hand, it is emphasized that the results from this study are 
preliminary and should be interpreted cautiously until further research 
demonstrates the practicality, reliability and validity of alternative 
measurement approaches.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-6-3
PMCID: PMC1373617
PMID: 16412242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Bioresour Technol. 2006 Nov;97(16):2015-23. doi:
10.1016/j.biortech.2005.11.015.  Epub 2006 Jan 18.

Assessment of permeable covers for odour reduction in piggery effluent ponds. 2. 
Field-scale trials.

Hudson N(1), Gies A, Duperouzel D.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Department of Primary Industries and Fisheries, P.O. Box 102, 
Toowoomba, Queensland 4350, Australia. neale.hudson@dpi.qld.gov.au

The efficacy of supported covers was investigated under field conditions using a 
series of prototypes deployed on an anaerobic pond treating typical piggery 
waste. Research focused on identifying effective cover support materials and 
deployment methods, quantifying odour reduction, and estimating the life 
expectancy of various permeable cover materials. Over a 10-month period, median 
odour emission rates were five to eight times lower from supported straw cover 
surfaces and a non-woven, spun fibre polypropylene weed control material than 
from the adjacent uncovered pond surface. While the straw covers visually 
appeared to degrade very rapidly, they continued to reduce odour emissions 
effectively. The polypropylene cover appeared to offer advantages from the 
perspectives of cost, reduced maintenance and ease of manufacture.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2005.11.015
PMID: 16412630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Jan 17;47(2):403-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.10.030.

Cardiovascular aging: what we can learn from caloric restriction.

Gerstenblith G.

Comment on
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Jan 17;47(2):398-402.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.10.030
PMID: 16412868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2006 Jan;7(1):23-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2005.08.002.
Epub  2005 Oct 24.

To anticoagulate or not to anticoagulate? A common dilemma for the provider: 
physicians' opinion poll based on a case study of an older long-term care 
facility resident with dementia and atrial fibrillation.

Dharmarajan TS(1), Varma S, Akkaladevi S, Lebelt AS, Norkus EP.

Author information:
(1)Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA. dharmarajants@yahoo.com

Comment in
    J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2006 Feb;7(2):133-4.
    J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2006 Jun;7(5):334-5.
    J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2006 Jun;7(5):335.

OBJECTIVE: Anticoagulation therapy is an acceptable strategy for the prevention 
of thromboembolic events in the presence of atrial fibrillation. However, this 
strategy is controversial in older subjects particularly in the presence of 
dementia. We conducted an opinion poll regarding the decision to anticoagulate 
or not among physicians in practice and in various levels of training (residents 
and fellows) that was based on a specific, yet not unusual, case scenario in the 
nursing home.
SETTING: A university teaching hospital in the Bronx, NY.
METHODS: A survey questionnaire was distributed to physicians to solicit 
opinions on the decision to anticoagulate based on an actual case from a LTCF 
and the results were analyzed.
RESULTS: One hundred seven completed surveys were returned from 49 residents, 20 
fellows, and 38 attending physicians. The majority (85%) felt that long-term 
anticoagulation therapy was not indicated in the case patient. However, most 
(88%) felt they would provide an antiplatelet agent, with the choice being 78% 
aspirin, 20% clopridogel, and 2% aspirin-dipyridamole. The most cited reasons 
for not providing anticoagulation were risk of falls (98%), dementia (40%), and 
short life expectancy (32%). However, 92% of respondents felt that the patient 
was a candidate for short-term anticoagulation therapy. Interestingly, the 
choices (yes, no, uncertain) to the questions were similar for all physicians 
irrespective of their level of training or years in practice (or faculty) after 
training.
CONCLUSIONS: Although long-term anticoagulation for thromboembolic events in 
atrial fibrillation is considered beneficial, recent reports suggest that 
warfarin is underused in older adults, especially in the long-term care setting. 
Our physician poll, based on a specific case scenario, is consistent with this 
opinion as reflected by both trainees and practicing physicians. While there are 
absolute and relative contraindications to the use of long-term warfarin, 
decisions should be individualized and based on risks, benefits, and quality of 
life of the resident.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2005.08.002
PMID: 16413431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Mech Ageing Dev. 2006 Mar;127(3):290-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.11.003. Epub 
2006 Jan 4.

When does human ageing begin?

Milne EM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Population and Health Sciences, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, 
United Kingdom. eugene.milne@nhs.net

Through much of the 20th century, the low point of human mortality was seen at 
12-13 years of age. Its stability and timing have been accorded significance in 
terms of evolution, maximal fitness and the onset of ageing. The nadir of 
mortality in developed nations now lies at 5-9 years, significantly predating 
fertility at a mean of 12-13. This differential fall in mortality has resulted 
in England and Wales primarily but not exclusively from reductions in accidents 
and deaths from congenital anomalies. The assumption that the nadir of 
mortality, onset of fertility and a putative intrinsic point of maximal 
biological fitness are synchronous is disproved by this shift. In this paper the 
logic of inferring an individual modal pattern of ageing from mean population 
behaviour is questioned, and the plausibility of the belief that ageing starts 
at or after fertility is examined. Biological ageing, whether seen as 'wear and 
tear', programmed change, or cumulative stochastic damage appears to commence at 
or before conception. Drawing a distinction between 'intrinsic' and 'extrinsic' 
mortality makes less sense in early than in late life, but indicators of 
'intrinsic' diseases are also present from well before fertility. Similarly, 
measures of fitness other than mortality risk may also be argued to diminish 
from before birth.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2005.11.003
PMID: 16413935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Urol Oncol. 2006 Jan-Feb;24(1):62-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2005.07.003.

Expectant management for the treatment of small renal masses.

Rendon RA(1), Jewett MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre and 
Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. rrendon@dal.ca

The incidence of small renal masses that are detected incidentally is 
increasing, particularly in patients who are in advanced age and with increased 
comorbidities. We review the available data on the nature and natural history of 
these small renal tumors, and observe that based on the limited available 
information, most of these lesions appear to grow slowly. We also review the 
currently available markers of tumor progression. We postulate that because of 
tumor heterogeneity, it is unlikely that advancement in prognostic knowledge 
will be gained using current approaches, such as histologic characteristics and 
tumor size, and that there is a clear need for new biomarkers. We conclude that 
expectant management is a viable and safe option for the patient with a short 
life expectancy but potentially unsafe outside a well-controlled clinical trial 
in the younger and fit patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2005.07.003
PMID: 16414497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2006 Apr 1;173(7):744-50. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.200510-1545OC. Epub 2006 Jan 13.

Brain natriuretic peptide is a prognostic parameter in chronic lung disease.

Leuchte HH(1), Baumgartner RA, Nounou ME, Vogeser M, Neurohr C, Trautnitz M, 
Behr J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine I, Ludwig 
Maximilians University, Klinikum Grosshadern, Munich, Germany.

RATIONALE: The detection of pulmonary hypertension in patients with chronic lung 
disease has prognostic implications. The brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) has 
been suggested as a noninvasive marker for the presence and severity of 
pulmonary hypertension.
OBJECTIVES: We evaluated circulating BNP levels as a parameter for the presence 
and severity of pulmonary hypertension in patients with chronic lung disease.
METHODS: BNP levels were measured in 176 consecutive patients with various 
pulmonary diseases. Right heart catheterization, lung functional testing, and a 
6-min walk test were performed. The mean follow-up time was nearly 1 yr.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Significant pulmonary hypertension (mean 
pulmonary artery pressure > 35 mm Hg) was diagnosed in more than one-fourth of 
patients and led to decreased exercise tolerance and life expectancy. Elevated 
BNP concentrations identified significant pulmonary hypertension with a 
sensitivity of 0.85 and specificity of 0.88 and predicted mortality. Moreover, 
BNP served as a risk factor of death independent of lung functional impairment 
or hypoxemia in uni- and multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: We suggest BNP as a prognostic marker and as screening parameter for 
significant pulmonary hypertension in chronic lung disease.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.200510-1545OC
PMID: 16415273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Arch Surg. 2006 Jan;141(1):104; author reply 104. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.141.1.104-a.

No nonagenarians please!

Buskens E.

Comment on
    Arch Surg. 2005 Jul;140(7):625-8; discussion 628.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.141.1.104-a
PMID: 16415421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2006 Jan;8(1 Suppl 1):21-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-6175.2006.05295.x.

Hypertension-related morbidity and mortality in African Americans--why we need 
to do better.

Ferdinand KC(1), Saunders E.

Author information:
(1)Heartbeats Life Center, Xavier University College of Pharmacy, New Orleans, 
LA, USA. kcferdmd@aol.com

Almost one third of adults in the United States have hypertension. Prevalence 
data among different racial or ethnic groups indicate that a disproportionate 
number of African Americans have hypertension compared with non-Hispanic whites 
and Mexican Americans. Earlier onset of high blood pressure and greater severity 
of hypertension contribute to a greater burden of hypertensive target organ 
damage in African Americans and may be a factor in the shorter life expectancy 
of this population compared with white Americans. There is a clear need for 
improved management of hypertension in African Americans via therapeutic 
lifestyle interventions and pharmacotherapy. While there is some evidence that 
particular antihypertensive agent classes provide blood pressure-lowering 
advantages over others, there is no support for withholding agents of any one 
class. When given as monotherapy, diuretics and calcium channel blockers may be 
relatively more effective in lowering blood pressure in African Americans than 
beta blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and angiotensin II 
receptor blockers. However, when combined with a diuretic, African Americans 
respond as well to these agents as other racial groups. Combination therapy 
using antihypertensive agents with differing modes of action provides additive 
antihypertensive efficacy and is well tolerated. Recent guidelines recommend 
combination therapy as the standard of care for patients with significant blood 
pressure elevation, especially those with diabetes mellitus and renal disease. 
These comorbidities are more common in African Americans and indicate the 
potential need for initial therapy with more than one agent or a combination of 
agents in one pill.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-6175.2006.05295.x
PMCID: PMC8109309
PMID: 16415637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Health News. 2005 Dec;11(12):4-5.

Frontotemporal dementia: faster progression than AD. Often characterized by 
bizarre behavioral changes, patients can also develop attendant ALS.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16416544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23 Suppl 1:49-61. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200523001-00005.

Costs and effects of long-acting risperidone compared with oral atypical and 
conventional depot formulations in Germany.

Laux G(1), Heeg B, van Hout BA, Mehnert A.

Author information:
(1)District Hospital Gabersee, Wasserburg, Germany.

Schizophrenia is one of the most expensive psychiatric conditions because of 
high direct and indirect costs associated with the nature of the illness, its 
resistance to treatment and the consequences of relapse. Long-acting risperidone 
is a new formulation of an atypical antipsychotic drug that also offers the 
improvements in compliance associated with haloperidol depot. The aim of this 
simulation study was to compare the benefits and costs of three pharmacological 
treatment strategies comprising first-line treatment with long-acting 
risperidone injection, a haloperidol depot or an oral atypical antipsychotic 
agent, over a 5-year period in Germany. A discrete event simulation model was 
developed to compare three treatment scenarios from the perspective of major 
third-party payers (sickness funds and social security 'Sozialversicherung'). 
The scenarios comprised first-line treatment with haloperidol depot (scenario 
1), long-acting risperidone (scenario 2) and oral olanzapine (scenario 3). 
Switches to second or third-line options were allowed when side-effects occurred 
or a patient suffered more than a fixed number of relapses. The model accounted 
for fixed patient characteristics, and on the basis of these, simulated patient 
histories according to several time-dependent variables. The time horizon for 
this model was limited to 5 years, and in accordance with German guidelines, 
costs and effects were discounted by between 3 and 10%. Direct costs included 
medication, type of physician visits and treatment location. Indirect costs were 
not included. Information on treatment alternatives, transition probabilities, 
model structure and healthcare utilization were derived from the literature and 
an expert panel. Outcomes were expressed in terms of the number and duration of 
psychotic episodes, cumulative symptom scores, costs, and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY). Univariate sensitivity analyses were carried out, as were 
subgroup analyses based on disease severity and for patients at high risk of 
being non-compliant. The long-acting risperidone strategy was calculated to 
avoid 0.23 and 0.33 relapses per patient, decrease the cumulative symptom score 
by 25 and 33 points, and decrease the costs by 2017 Euro and 6096 Euro per 
patient (1608 Euro and 5422 Euro discounted), compared with the haloperidol 
depot and olanzapine strategies, respectively, over a 5-year period (year of 
costing 2004). Among high-risk non-compliant patients, long-acting risperidone 
was estimated to avoid 0.23 and 0.47 relapses and save 4822 Euro and 10,646 Euro 
per patient (4107 Euro and 9490 Euro discounted), compared with the haloperidol 
depot and olanzapine strategies, respectively. Sensitivity analyses showed that 
the results were robust and mainly sensitive to changes in the reported relative 
effectiveness of atypical and conventional formulations for preventing symptom 
recurrence, and in the relative compliance with oral and long-acting 
formulations. In this model, long-acting risperidone is a dominant strategy 
compared with a haloperidol depot or oral atypical antipsychotic agent, being 
both more effective and less costly over a 5-year period. Results for 
long-acting risperidone are even more favourable among patients at high risk of 
being noncompliant or with more severe disease.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200523001-00005
PMID: 16416761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2005 Dec 7;94(49):1957-61. doi: 
10.1024/0369-8394.94.49.1957.

[Colorectal carcinoma in elderly patients].

[Article in German]

Teschendorf C(1), Schmiegel W.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Ruhr-Universität Bochum.

The median age of patients with newly diagnosed colorectal carcinoma is about 70 
years. Due to a steady rise of the life expectancy in the Western world the 
group of patients being older than 70 to 75 years will grow substantially. This 
will result in increased numbers of colorectal cancers. Patients in this age 
group are underrepresented in controlled clinical trials if not excluded to 
begin with. This is particularly true for trials conducted for adjuvant or 
palliative chemotherapy for colorectal cancer. Partly due to this lack of data 
leading to uncertainty chemotherapy is offered tients. However, the present data 
for patients >70 years show equall effectivity with regard to tumor response. 
This is true for all standard chemotherapy agents, such as 5-FU, folinic acid, 
capecitabine, irinotecan and oxaliplatin. With respect to toxicity some trials 
show an increased risk in toxic side effects for 5-FU-based combination 
therapies. There are no age-specific differences for the other drugs. Therefore, 
patients who are older than 70 years should be offered state-of-the-art 
chemotherapy in the adjuvant as well as palliative setting. For a balanced 
treatment decision one has to take into account the overall performance and 
organfunction alongside the mental and social capacity of the elderly patient.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.94.49.1957
PMID: 16416929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Coll Antropol. 2005 Dec;29(2):559-65.

Morbidity and mortality in the city of Zagreb, Croatia--health needs and 
demands.

Polić-Vizintin M(1), Vukusić I, Leppée M, Erceg D, Culig J.

Author information:
(1)Zagreb Public Health Institute, Zagreb, Croatia.

The aim of the study was to assess health indicators in the city of Zagreb in 
order to evaluate the population health status and health needs. A descriptive 
method was used to analyze data from regular health statistics. In the 
population of Zagreb, the life expectancy at birth is longer than the European 
average but shorter than that recorded in Austria and Slovenia. The standardized 
mortalitay rates of tracheal, bronchial and lung cancer, and of malignant 
diseases in the Zagreb population exceed the European average, whereas those of 
ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, uterine cervix carcinoma and 
breast cancer are lower than the European average. Circulatory diseases and 
neoplasms, the two most important groups of death causes, showed a constant rise 
during the 30-year period (1971-2001). The highest index of primary health care 
utilization (98.8%) was recorded for the > or = 65 age group, with a mean of 7.5 
primary health care visits per capita. The prevalence of hypertensive disorders 
and of intervertebral disk diseases and other dorsopathies was significantly 
higher in the oldest population group (chi2 = 27.3 and chi2 = 13.43, 
respectively, p < 0.05 both). Considering the predominance of chronic widespread 
diseases that substantially influence the patient's quality of life, public 
health actions should primarily be focused on preserving personal autonomy of 
the old and sick man for as long as possible. As the standardized mortality 
rates of ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular diseases, tracheal, bronchial 
and lung cancer, and malignant diseases exceed those reported from some 
neighboring countries, the highest priority and needs are now related to coping 
with unhealthy behavior of the population such as smoking, physical inactivity, 
and dietary issues that should be modified and controlled through implementation 
of preventive programs, along with appropriate organization and management of 
public health services.

PMID: 16417161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2006 Jan-Feb;15(1):3-7. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2006.15.3.

Chronic disease-related behaviors in U.S. older women: Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System, 2003.

McGuire LC(1), Ahluwalia IB, Strine TW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Adult and Community Health, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30341-3724, USA. LMcGuire@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the prevalence of selected behaviors related to chronic 
diseases among women > or =65 years old using the 2003 Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS) data.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Seven behaviors were assessed: having a healthy weight, 
current cigarette smoking status, consumption of at least five fruits or 
vegetables daily, leisure time physical activity in the the past month, 
moderate-to-vigorous physical activity during the average week, influenza 
immunization in the past year, and lifetime pneumococcal immunization. With 
increasing age, women > or =65 years old were more likely to have a healthy 
weight, to be a nonsmoker, and to consume at least five fruits or vegetables 
daily and less likely to participate in any leisure time or moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activities. Women with higher incomes and educational attainment were 
more likely to engage in most healthful behaviors and to have a healthy weight. 
However, black non-Hispanic women were less likely than white women or those of 
other race or ethnicity to engage in most healthful behaviors and to have a 
healthy weight. Women who rated their health as fair or poor were more likely to 
receive a pneumococcal immunization, and those who rated their health as 
excellent were least likely to receive an influenza immunization in the past 
year.
CONCLUSIONS: BRFSS data can be used to monitor the prevalence of behaviors 
related to chronic disease of women aged > or =65 years and to develop programs 
and polices that promote and reinforce healthful behaviors. These measures have 
the potential to help reduce morbidity and morality from chronic disease in 
older women, thereby minimizing the discrepancy between years of healthy life 
expectancy and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2006.15.3
PMID: 16417411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2006 Feb;48(2):90-5. doi: 10.1017/S0012162206000211.

Long-term survival for a cohort of adults with cerebral palsy.

Hemming K(1), Hutton JL, Pharoah PO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.

The aim of this study was to investigate long-term survival and examine causes 
of death in adult patients with cerebral palsy (CP). A 1940-1950 birth cohort 
based on paediatric case referral allows for long-term survival follow-up. 
Survival is analyzed by birth characteristics and severity of disability from 
age 20 years (and age 2y for a subset of the data). Survival outcome compared 
with that expected in the general population based on English life tables. The 
main cohort consisted of 341 individuals, with 193 males and 148 females. 
Conditional on surviving to age 20 years, almost 85% of the cohort survived to 
age 50 years (a comparable estimate for the general population is 96%). Very few 
deaths were attributed to CP for those people dying over 20 years of age. 
Females survived better than males. However, females faced a greater increase in 
risk relative to the general population than did males. We conclude that 
survival outlook is good though lower than in the general population. The 
relative risk of death compared with the UK population decreases with age, 
although it shows some indication of rising again after age 50 years. Many more 
deaths were caused by diseases of the respiratory system among those dying in 
their 20s and 30s than would be expected in the general population. Many fewer 
deaths than expected in this age group are caused by injuries and accidents. For 
those people who die in their 40s and 50s, an increase in deaths due to diseases 
of the circulatory system and neoplasms is observed. More deaths than expected 
in this age group are due to diseases of the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1017/S0012162206000211
PMID: 16417662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Obes Surg. 2006 Jan;16(1):19-23. doi: 10.1381/096089206775222032.

Gastrointestinal quality of life after laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass.

Poves I(1), Cabrera M, Maristany C, Coma A, Ballesta-López C.

Author information:
(1)Bariatric Surgical Unit at Centro Laparoscópico de Barcelona, Spain. 
poves@cib.es

BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGBP) is a commonly 
performed bariatric surgical procedure for the treatment of morbid obesity (MO). 
Obesity-related co-morbidities reduce the quality and expectancy of life. We 
assessed gastrointestinal quality of life in patients following LRYGBP.
METHODS: The Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index (GIQLI test) was used in 
this study. A higher score correlates with better quality of life. The GIQLI 
test was administered to 3 non-selected groups: 100 morbidly obese patients (MO 
group), 100 patients who had undergone LRYGBP (LRYGBP group); and a control 
group of 100 individuals (CO group). The CO group was composed of healthy 
individuals with a BMI<30 kg/m2, consecutively recruited among the companions of 
patients who came for a surgery consultation for obesity or other pathologies. 
Overall test and specific dimensions scores were evaluated for each group.
RESULTS: Overall test and specific dimensions scores were significantly lower in 
patients with MO when compared to the CO and LRYGBP groups. There were no 
differences between the CO and LRYGBP groups in the overall score with regard to 
disease-specific digestive symptoms and the psychological and social dimensions.
CONCLUSIONS: The quality of life of morbidly obese patients is worsened not only 
because of the presence of digestive symptoms but also because of their 
emotional, physical and social impact. Patients operated on by LRYGBP experience 
an improvement in their quality of life, with good tolerance of the anatomical 
changes.

DOI: 10.1381/096089206775222032
PMID: 16417752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Dent Mater. 2007 Jan;23(1):2-8. doi: 10.1016/j.dental.2005.11.036. Epub 2006
Jan  18.

A retrospective clinical study on longevity of posterior composite and amalgam 
restorations.

Opdam NJ(1), Bronkhorst EM, Roeters JM, Loomans BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cariology and Endodontology, Radboud University Medical Centre 
Nijmegen, PO Box 9101, NL 6500 HB Nymegen, The Netherlands. n.opdam@dent.umcn.nl

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate retrospectively the 
longevity of class I and II amalgam and composite resin restorations placed in a 
general practice.
METHODS: Patient records of a general practice were used for collecting the data 
for this study. From the files longevity and reasons for failure of 2867 class I 
and II amalgam and composite resin restorations placed in 621 patients by two 
operators between 1990 and 1997 were recorded in 2002.
RESULTS: 912 amalgam restorations (502 by operator 1 and 410 by operator 2) and 
1955 posterior composite resin restorations (1470 by operator 1 and 485 by 
operator 2) were placed. One hundred and eighty-two amalgam and 259 posterior 
composite resin restorations failed during the observation period. The main 
reasons for failure of the restorations were caries (34%), endodontic treatment 
(12%) and fracture of the tooth (13%). Life tables calculated from the data 
reveal a survival for composite resin of 91.7% at 5 years and 82.2% at 10 years. 
For amalgam the survival is 89.6% at 5 years and 79.2% at 10 years. 
Cox-regression analysis resulted in a significant effect of the amount of 
restored surfaces on the survival of the restorations. No significant effect of 
operator, material as well as combination of material and operator was found.
SIGNIFICANCE: In the investigated general practice, two dentists obtained 
comparable longevity for amalgam and composite resin restorations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dental.2005.11.036
PMID: 16417916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Genes Dev. 2006 Jan 15;20(2):174-84. doi: 10.1101/gad.1381406.

Extension of chronological life span in yeast by decreased TOR pathway 
signaling.

Powers RW 3rd(1), Kaeberlein M, Caldwell SD, Kennedy BK, Fields S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genome Sciences and Medicine, The Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Chronological life span (CLS) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, defined as the time 
cells in a stationary phase culture remain viable, has been proposed as a model 
for the aging of post-mitotic tissues in mammals. We developed a high-throughput 
assay to determine CLS for approximately 4800 single-gene deletion strains of 
yeast, and identified long-lived strains carrying mutations in the conserved TOR 
pathway. TOR signaling regulates multiple cellular processes in response to 
nutrients, especially amino acids, raising the possibility that decreased TOR 
signaling mediates life span extension by calorie restriction. In support of 
this possibility, removal of either asparagine or glutamate from the media 
significantly increased stationary phase survival. Pharmacological inhibition of 
TOR signaling by methionine sulfoximine or rapamycin also increased CLS. 
Decreased TOR activity also promoted increased accumulation of storage 
carbohydrates and enhanced stress resistance and nuclear relocalization of the 
stress-related transcription factor Msn2. We propose that up-regulation of a 
highly conserved response to starvation-induced stress is important for life 
span extension by decreased TOR signaling in yeast and higher eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.1381406
PMCID: PMC1356109
PMID: 16418483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Crit Care. 2006 Feb;10(1):R9. doi: 10.1186/cc3948.

Study protocol: The Improving Care of Acute Lung Injury Patients (ICAP) study.

Needham DM(1), Dennison CR, Dowdy DW, Mendez-Tellez PA, Ciesla N, Desai SV, 
Sevransky J, Shanholtz C, Scharfstein D, Herridge MS, Pronovost PJ.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University, 5th floor, 1830 East Monument Street, Baltimore, MD 
21205, USA. dale.needham@utoronto.ca

INTRODUCTION: The short-term mortality benefit of lower tidal volume ventilation 
(LTVV) for patients with acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ALI/ARDS) has been demonstrated in a large, multi-center randomized trial. 
However, the impact of LTVV and other critical care therapies on the longer-term 
outcomes of ALI/ARDS survivors remains uncertain. The Improving Care of ALI 
Patients (ICAP) study is a multi-site, prospective cohort study that aims to 
evaluate the longer-term outcomes of ALI/ARDS survivors with a particular focus 
on the effect of LTVV and other critical care therapies.
METHODS: Consecutive mechanically ventilated ALI/ARDS patients from 11 intensive 
care units (ICUs) at four hospitals in the city of Baltimore, MD, USA, will be 
enrolled in a prospective cohort study. Exposures (patient-based, clinical 
management, and ICU organizational) will be comprehensively collected both at 
baseline and throughout patients' ICU stay. Outcomes, including mortality, organ 
impairment, functional status, and quality of life, will be assessed with the 
use of standardized surveys and testing at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after 
ALI/ARDS diagnosis. A multi-faceted retention strategy will be used to minimize 
participant loss to follow-up.
RESULTS: On the basis of the historical incidence of ALI/ARDS at the study 
sites, we expect to enroll 520 patients over two years. This projected sample 
size is more than double that of any published study of long-term outcomes in 
ALI/ARDS survivors, providing 86% power to detect a relative mortality hazard of 
0.70 in patients receiving higher versus lower exposure to LTVV. The projected 
sample size also provides sufficient power to evaluate the association between a 
variety of other exposure and outcome variables, including quality of life.
CONCLUSION: The ICAP study is a novel, prospective cohort study that will build 
on previous critical care research to improve our understanding of the 
longer-term impact of ALI/ARDS, LTVV and other aspects of critical care 
management. Given the paucity of information about the impact of interventions 
on long-term outcomes for survivors of critical illness, this study can provide 
important information to inform clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1186/cc3948
PMCID: PMC1550857
PMID: 16420652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Theor Biol Med Model. 2006 Jan 18;3:2. doi: 10.1186/1742-4682-3-2.

Memory in astrocytes: a hypothesis.

Caudle RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Diagnostic Sciences, 
University of Florida College of Dentistry, Gainesville, Florida 32610, USA. 
Caudle@ufl.edu

BACKGROUND: Recent work has indicated an increasingly complex role for 
astrocytes in the central nervous system. Astrocytes are now known to exchange 
information with neurons at synaptic junctions and to alter the information 
processing capabilities of the neurons. As an extension of this trend a 
hypothesis was proposed that astrocytes function to store information. To 
explore this idea the ion channels in biological membranes were compared to 
models known as cellular automata. These comparisons were made to test the 
hypothesis that ion channels in the membranes of astrocytes form a dynamic 
information storage device.
RESULTS: Two dimensional cellular automata were found to behave similarly to ion 
channels in a membrane when they function at the boundary between order and 
chaos. The length of time information is stored in this class of cellular 
automata is exponentially related to the number of units. Therefore the length 
of time biological ion channels store information was plotted versus the 
estimated number of ion channels in the tissue. This analysis indicates that 
there is an exponential relationship between memory and the number of ion 
channels. Extrapolation of this relationship to the estimated number of ion 
channels in the astrocytes of a human brain indicates that memory can be stored 
in this system for an entire life span. Interestingly, this information is not 
affixed to any physical structure, but is stored as an organization of the 
activity of the ion channels. Further analysis of two dimensional cellular 
automata also demonstrates that these systems have both associative and temporal 
memory capabilities.
CONCLUSION: It is concluded that astrocytes may serve as a dynamic information 
sink for neurons. The memory in the astrocytes is stored by organizing the 
activity of ion channels and is not associated with a physical location such as 
a synapse. In order for this form of memory to be of significant duration it is 
necessary that the ion channels in the astrocyte syncytium be electrically in 
contact with each other. This function may be served by astrocyte gap junctions 
and suggests that agents that selectively block these gap junctions should 
disrupt memory.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4682-3-2
PMCID: PMC1360660
PMID: 16420689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Cardiovasc Res. 2006 Feb 1;69(2):466-75. doi:
10.1016/j.cardiores.2005.11.005.

Longer preservation of cardiac performance by sheet-shaped myoblast implantation 
in dilated cardiomyopathic hamsters.

Kondoh H(1), Sawa Y, Miyagawa S, Sakakida-Kitagawa S, Memon IA, Kawaguchi N, 
Matsuura N, Shimizu T, Okano T, Matsuda H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Osaka University 
Graduate School of Medicine, 2-2 Yamada-oka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Cell therapy is a promising strategy for ischemic cardiomyopathy. 
However, the direct injection method has limitations for generalized cell 
delivery, especially in dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). We hypothesized that a 
sheet-shaped myoblast graft would be superior to direct injection for improving 
cardiac performance in DCM.
METHODS: Male 27-week-old BIO TO-2 (DCM) hamsters that showed moderate cardiac 
remodeling were used as recipients. Myoblasts isolated from BIO F1B hamsters 
were cultured on dishes coated with poly(N-isopropylacrylamide), a 
temperature-responsive polymer, and spontaneously detached as a sheet-shaped 
graft at 20 degrees C without enzymatic treatment. Three different therapies 
were conducted: (1) sheet-shaped myoblast graft implantation (S group, n=29); 
(2) myoblast injection (M group, n=28); and (3) sham operation (C group, n=28). 
In the S group, two sheet-shaped myoblast grafts were implanted on the left 
ventricle (LV) wall, and in the M group, myoblasts were injected into the right 
ventricle (RV) and LV walls.
RESULTS: After the sheet-shaped myoblast grafts were implanted, echocardiography 
demonstrated that the dilated LV dimension was significantly reduced, whereas 
the hearts in other groups showed a progression of LV dilation. The fractional 
shortening in the M and C groups decreased significantly while that in the S 
group was maintained at the preoperative level for 3 months after the operation. 
Histological examination demonstrated that in the S group, the LV wall thickness 
was increased, with viable myoblasts, and myocardial fibrosis was decreased 
compared with the other groups. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated 
alpha-sarcoglycan and beta-sarcoglycan expression on the basement membrane of 
the cardiomyocytes in the S group but not in the other groups. The life 
expectancy was significantly prolonged in the S group.
CONCLUSION: Sheet-shaped myoblast graft implantation improved cardiac 
performance and prolonged life expectancy, associated with a reduction in 
myocardial fibrosis and re-organization of the cytoskeletal proteins in DCM 
hamsters. Thus, sheet-shaped autologous myoblast graft implantation may induce 
restoration of the heart in DCM.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cardiores.2005.11.005
PMID: 16423569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Pharmacogenet Genomics. 2006 Feb;16(2):139-47. doi: 
10.1097/01.fpc.0000189801.96220.82.

Screening for the alpha-adducin Gly460Trp variant in hypertensive patients: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Meckley LM(1), Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle WA 98195-7630, USA. 
lmeckley@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    Pharmacogenet Genomics. 2006 Aug;16(8):613.

BACKGROUND: Studies have shown that approximately 80% of hypertensive patients 
do not take diuretics despite their recommendation as a first-line therapy. A 
recent study reported that hypertensive patients with the Gly460Trp variant in 
the alpha-adducin gene are more likely to benefit from diuretic therapy. The 
objective of this study was to evaluate the potential cost effectiveness of 
screening for the alpha-adducin Gly460Trp variant among hypertensive patients.
METHODS: A decision analytic Markov model was developed to estimate the clinical 
and economic outcomes comparing screening for the Gly460Trp variant to identify 
patients for addition of a diuretic compared to no screening and no addition of 
diuretic (usual care) in a hypothetical cohort of treated hypertensive patients 
not receiving diuretic therapy. We used a lifetime horizon and payer 
perspective. Cost, utility and epidemiological data were obtained from the 
literature. One-way, probabilistic, and scenario sensitivity analyses were 
conducted to evaluate the uncertainty in the results.
RESULTS: The screening strategy increased quality adjusted life years (QALYs) by 
0.14 (95% confidence range [CR]: 0.05, 0.36) and saved dollar 1834 (dollar 505, 
dollar 5174) compared to usual care. The most influential input was the strength 
of the interaction between the alpha-adducin gene variant and diuretic effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that screening for the alpha-adducin gene 
variant may be a useful mechanism to identify patients most likely to benefit 
from diuretic therapy and improve compliance with current treatment guidelines.

DOI: 10.1097/01.fpc.0000189801.96220.82
PMID: 16424826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Bioethics. 2005 Oct;19(5-6):460-75. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2005.00458.x.

Global health and justice.

Dwyer J(1).

Author information:
(1)SUNY Upstate Medical University, Center for Bioethics and Humanities, 
Syracuse, NY 13210, USA. dwyerja@upstate.edu

In Australia, Japan, Sweden, and Switzerland, the average life expectancy is now 
greater than 80 years. But in Angola, Malawi, Sierra Leone, and Zimbabwe, the 
average life expectancy is less than 40 years. The situation is even worse than 
these statistics suggest because average figures tend to mask inequalities 
within countries. What are we to make of a world with such inequal health 
prospects? What does justice demand in terms of global health? To address these 
problems, I characterize justice at the local level, at the domestic or social 
level, and at the international or global level. Because social conditions, 
structures, and institutions have such a profound influence on the health of 
populations, I begin by focusing attention on the relationship between social 
justice and health prospects. Then I go on to discuss health prospects and the 
problem of global justice. Here I distinguish two views: a cosmopolitan view and 
a political view of global justice. In my account of global justice, I modify 
and use the political view that John Rawls developed in The Law of Peoples. I 
try to show why an adequate political account must include three duties: a duty 
not to harm, a duty to reconstruct international arrangements, and a duty to 
assist.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2005.00458.x
PMID: 16425484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Ann Urol (Paris). 2005 Nov;39 Suppl 5:S149-54.

[Evalution of benign prostatic hyperplasia].

[Article in French]

Desgrandchamps F(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, hôpital Saint-Louis, 1, avenue Claude Vellefaux, 75475 
