10.1371/journal.pmed.0020311. Epub 2005 Sep 27.

Response to Stampfer commentary.

Williamson DF.

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2:e181.
    PLoS Med. 2:e326.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0020311
PMCID: PMC1236805
PMID: 16173842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


491. Blood. 2006 Feb 15;107(4):1292-8. doi: 10.1182/blood-2005-04-1588. Epub 2005
Sep  20.

Dexamethasone-based regimens versus melphalan-prednisone for elderly multiple 
myeloma patients ineligible for high-dose therapy.

Facon T(1), Mary JY, Pégourie B, Attal M, Renaud M, Sadoun A, Voillat L, Dorvaux 
V, Hulin C, Lepeu G, Harousseau JL, Eschard JP, Ferrant A, Blanc M, Maloisel F, 
Orfeuvre H, Rossi JF, Azaïs I, Monconduit M, Collet P, Anglaret B, Yakoub-Agha 
I, Wetterwald M, Eghbali H, Vekemans MC, Maisonneuve H, Troncy J, Grosbois B, 
Doyen C, Thyss A, Jaubert J, Casassus P, Thielemans B, Bataille R; Intergroupe 
Francophone du Myélome (IFM) group.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies du Sang, Hôpital Huriez, CHU de Lille, rue Michel 
Polonovski, 59037 Lille, France. t-facon@chru-lille.fr

Dexamethasone alone increases life expectancy in patients with relapsed multiple 
myeloma (MM); however, no large randomized study has compared dexamethasone and 
dexamethasone-based regimens with standard melphalan-prednisone in newly 
diagnosed MM patients ineligible for high-dose therapy. In the Intergroupe 
Francophone du Myélome (IFM) 95-01 trial, 488 patients aged 65 to 75 years were 
randomized between 4 regimens of treatment: melphalan-prednisone, dexamethasone 
alone, melphalan-dexamethasone, and dexamethasone-interferon alpha. Response 
rates at 6 months (except for complete response) were significantly higher among 
patients receiving melphalan-dexamethasone, and progression-free survival was 
significantly better among patients receiving melphalan (P < .001, for both 
comparisons), but there was no difference in overall survival between the 4 
treatment groups. Moreover, the morbidity associated with dexamethasone-based 
regimens was significantly higher than with melphalan-prednisone, especially for 
severe pyogenic infections in the melphalan-dexamethasone arm and hemorrhage, 
severe diabetes, and gastrointestinal and psychiatric complications in the 
dexamethasone arms. Overall, these results indicated that dexamethasone should 
not be routinely recommended as first-line treatment in elderly patients with 
MM. In the context of the IFM 95-01 trial, the standard melphalan-prednisone 
remained the best treatment choice when efficacy and patient comfort were both 
considered. These results might be useful in the context of future combinations 
with innovative drugs.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2005-04-1588
PMID: 16174762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Br Med Bull. 2005 Sep 20;73-74:71-82. doi: 10.1093/bmb/ldh051. Print 2005.

Immunological therapies for rheumatoid arthritis.

Edwards CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Southampton General Hospital, Tremona Road, 
Southampton, UK. cedwards@soton.ac.uk

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory arthritis of the synovial 
joints that causes loss of function and a shortened life expectancy. In the last 
10 years there have been major advances in the treatment of RA, including more 
aggressive use of disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs and the development of 
immune therapies targeted to molecules and cells important in the 
immunopathogenesis of RA. Molecular messengers that travel between cells 
(cytokines) have been found to be of major importance. Blocking the cytokine 
tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) produces significant improvement in RA, 
ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis and Crohn's disease. The 
use of cytokine blockers has shown the extent to which immune and inflammatory 
pathways are shared in a number of inflammatory diseases. There has also been an 
important proof of principle that blocking single cytokines can produce profound 
effects in inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/ldh051
PMID: 16174791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Neurocrit Care. 2004;1(3):309-17. doi: 10.1385/ncc:1:3:309.

Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy: a safe and effective bridge for enteral 
nutrition in neurological or non-neurological conditions.

Gencosmanoglu R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Marmara University Institute of 
Gastroenterology, Istanbul, Turkey. rgencosmanoglu@marmara.edu.tr

Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) is one of the most commonly used 
methods for nutritional support in patients who are unable to take food orally. 
Traditional surgical gastrostomy, percutaneous radiologic gastrostomy, and 
laparoscopic gastrostomy are the alternatives. The most common indication is 
neurogenic dysphagia followed by obstructive causes such as head and neck 
tumors. Ethically justified and clinically comprehensive guidelines should be 
followed during the decision-making process for PEG tube placement. A limited 
life expectancy; technical difficulties, such as the inability to bring the 
anterior gastric wall in apposition to the abdominal wall; or 
pharyngeal/esophageal obstruction, which compromise tube insertion, peritonitis, 
and uncorrectable coagulopathy are absolute contraindications. The "pull method" 
is the first described and still the most performed technique of PEG tube 
placement. The procedure is simple, safe, and effective and fulfills all 
requirements to provide an ideal route for nutritional support. This article 
summarizes the reported experience on PEG in the current literature and 
discusses its utility in patients with neurological conditions.

DOI: 10.1385/ncc:1:3:309
PMID: 16174928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2005;20(5):306-20. doi: 10.1159/000088346. Epub
2005  Sep 19.

Dementia with Lewy bodies: current concepts.

Buracchio T(1), Arvanitakis Z, Gorbien M.

Author information:
(1)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, Ill 6012, USA.

As life expectancy continues to increase over time, dementia is becoming an 
increasingly more common problem and a major cause of disability in older 
persons. It is now more important than ever to identify and manage common causes 
of dementia given variations in disease course, treatments and the possibility 
for modification of risk factors. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a dementia 
syndrome characterized by progressive cognitive decline, with fluctuating 
cognition, recurrent detailed and well-formed hallucinations, and parkinsonism. 
This article aims to provide an overview of current concepts of DLB, including a 
description of the key clinical features and neuropathology, neurochemistry, and 
genetics of DLB, then a discussion of the relationship of DLB with Alzheimer's 
disease and Parkinson's disease, and, finally, a summary of current management 
strategies available for this disorder.

DOI: 10.1159/000088346
PMID: 16174977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Acta Biochim Pol. 2005;52(3):601-7.

Use of cell therapy as a means of targeting chemotherapy to inoperable 
pancreatic cancer.

Günzburg WH(1), Salmons B.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Virology and Biomedicine, University of Veterinary 
Medicine, Vienna, Austria. walter.guenzburg@vu-wien.ac.at

Although approved for the treatment of pancreatic cancer, the chemotherapeutic 
agent ifosfamide is not an effective therapy for this type of tumour. Ifosfamide 
must be activated by cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes in the liver, initially to a 
short lived intermediate and then to toxic metabolites that are subsequently 
distributed by the circulatory system. Particularly for pancreatic cancer, this 
liver-mediated conversion results in relatively high systemic toxicities and 
poor therapeutic concentrations at the liver-distant site of the tumour. 
Activation of ifosfamide at the site of the tumour may allow lower doses to be 
used, while increasing the therapeutic index due to the resultant active 
concentrations generated locally. A cell-based therapy has been conceived where 
encapsulated, 293-derived cells genetically modified to overexpress a cytochrome 
P450 enzyme, are implanted near solid tumours. The cells are encapsulated in 
polymers of cellulose sulphate in order to provide a means of immunoprotection 
in vivo as well as to physically constrain them to the vicinity of the tumour. A 
major advantage of this strategy is that it allows one standard cell line to be 
applied to all patients and this approach can be extended to the treatment of 
other tumour types. After proof of principle studies in animal models, a phase 
I/II clinical trial was initiated in patients with stage III/IV nonresectable 
pancreatic cancer. Encapsulated cells were angiographically placed into the 
tumour vasculature of 14 patients and followed by systemic low dose ifosfamide 
treatment. Angiographic delivery of encapsulated cells proved feasible in all 
but one patient, and was well tolerated with no capsule or ifosfamide 
treatment-related adverse events. Four of the treated patients showed tumour 
regressions after capsule delivery and ifosfamide treatment in 
computer-tomography scans. The other 10 patients showed no further tumour growth 
(i.e. stable disease) during 20 weeks observation period. The median life 
expectancy of the patient collective was extended two fold as compared to age 
and status matched historical controls, with a 3-fold improvement in one year 
survival being attained. Evidence for a clinical benefit of the treatment was 
also obtained on the basis of standard parameters for quality of life. This 
approach has been evaluated by the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) 
and orphan drug status has been granted. A pivotal clinical trial is now being 
planned with the help of the EMEA. Taken together, the data from this clinical 
trial suggest that encapsulated cytochrome P450-expressing cells combined with 
chemotherapy may be useful for the local treatment of a number of solid tumours 
and support the performance of further clinical studies of this new treatment.

PMID: 16175235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2006 Mar;184(3-4):553-66. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-005-0150-0. Epub 2005 Sep 21.

Human nicotine conditioning requires explicit contingency knowledge: is 
addictive behaviour cognitively mediated?

Hogarth L(1), Duka T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Sussex, Falmer, Brighton, BN1 9QG, UK.

RATIONALE: Two seemingly contrary theories describe the learning mechanisms that 
mediate human addictive behaviour. According to the classical incentive theories 
of addiction, addictive behaviour is motivated by a Pavlovian conditioned 
appetitive emotional response elicited by drug-paired stimuli. Expectancy 
theory, on the other hand, argues that addictive behaviour is mediated by an 
expectancy of the drug imparted by cognitive knowledge of the Pavlovian 
(predictive) contingency between stimuli (S+) and the drug and of the 
instrumental (causal) contingency between instrumental behaviour and the drug.
AIMS AND METHOD: The present paper reviewed human-nicotine-conditioning studies 
to assess the role of appetitive emotional conditioning and explicit contingency 
knowledge in mediating addictive behaviour.
RESULTS: The studies reviewed here provided evidence for both the emotional 
conditioning and the expectancy accounts. The first source of evidence is that 
nicotine-paired S+ elicit an appetitive emotional conditioned response (CR), 
albeit only in participants who expect nicotine. Furthermore, the magnitude of 
this emotional state is modulated by nicotine deprivation/satiation. However, 
the causal status of the emotional response in driving other forms of 
conditioned behaviour remains undemonstrated. The second source of evidence is 
that other nicotine CRs, including physiological responses, self-administration, 
attentional bias and subjective craving, are also dependent on participants 
possessing explicit knowledge of the Pavlovian contingencies arranged in the 
experiment. In addition, several of the nicotine CRs can be brought about or 
modified by instructed contingency knowledge, demonstrating the causal status of 
this knowledge.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these data suggest that human nicotine conditioned 
effects are mediated by an explicit expectancy of the drug coupled with an 
appetitive emotional response that reflects the positive biological value of the 
drug. The implication of this conclusion is that treatments designed to modify 
the expected value of the drug may prove effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-005-0150-0
PMID: 16175406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Med Genet. 1966 Dec;3(4):239-57. doi: 10.1136/jmg.3.4.239.

The increased risk of death from ischaemic heart disease in first degree 
relatives of 121 men and 96 women with ischaemic heart disease.

Slack J, Evans KA.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.3.4.239
PMCID: PMC1013779
PMID: 16175706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. ANZ J Surg. 2005 Oct;75(10):863-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.2005.03548.x.

Management of elderly patients with breast cancer: the time for surgery.

Rai S(1), Stotter A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, UK. 
sajal_rai@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Most patients with breast cancer are likely to benefit from local 
treatment (surgery and/or radiotherapy). Historically an arbitrary cut-off of 70 
years has been widely used, above which women were considered for tamoxifen-only 
treatment. We looked at the proportion of our patients who did not have early 
surgery for breast cancer to see if this cut-off might have been used too 
rigidly, resulting in suboptimal treatment of some patients over 70 years of 
age. A step change in the rate of surgical treatment around age 70 was sought as 
evidence.
METHOD: A total of 2209 consecutive patients with confirmed histological 
diagnosis of breast cancer were identified; 677 of these did not have surgery 
within 3 months of diagnosis. Analysis determined age group distribution and the 
reasons for no surgery or delayed surgery.
RESULTS: A step increase in the number of patients not undergoing early surgery 
was clearly seen at 70 years of age.
CONCLUSION: Age may have been used too rigidly to decide local treatment for 
elderly patients with breast cancer. Comprehensive multidisciplinary assessment 
is needed to make informed decisions and to optimize management of elderly 
patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.2005.03548.x
PMID: 16176226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Microsc. 2005 Sep;219(Pt 3):122-32. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2818.2005.01504.x.

Characterization of sectioning fluorescence microscopy with thin uniform 
fluorescent layers: Sectioned Imaging Property or SIPcharts.

Brakenhoff GJ(1), Wurpel GW, Jalink K, Oomen L, Brocks L, Zwier JM.

Author information:
(1)Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, Section of Molecular Cytology and 
Center of Advanced Microscopy, University of Amsterdam, Kruislaan 316, 1098 SM 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. brakenhoff@science.uva.nl

Thin, uniformly fluorescing reference layers can be used to characterize the 
imaging conditions in confocal, or more general, sectioning microscopy. 
Through-focus datasets of such layers obtained by standard microscope routines 
provide the basis for the approach. A set of parameters derived from these 
datasets is developed for defining a number of relevant sectioned imaging 
properties. The main characteristics of a particular imaging situation can then 
be summarized in a Sectioned Imaging Property-chart or SIPchart. We propose the 
use of such charts for the characterization of imaging properties in confocal 
and multiphoton microscopy. As such, they can be the basis for comparison of 
sectioned imaging condition characteristics, quality control, maintenance or 
reproduction of sectioned imaging conditions and other applications. Such charts 
could prove useful in documenting the more relevant properties of the 
instrumentation used in microscopy studies. The method carries the potential to 
provide the basis for a general characterization of sectioned imaging conditions 
as the layers employed can be characterized and fabricated to standard 
specifications. A limited number of such thin, uniformly fluorescing layers is 
available from our group for this purpose. Extension of the method to 
multiphoton microscopy is discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2818.2005.01504.x
PMID: 16176252


500. Value Health. 2005 Sep-Oct;8(5):519-20. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00044.x.

Raising the standards of trial-based economic evaluation: the devil is in the 
detail.

Backhouse ME.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00044.x
PMID: 16176490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Value Health. 2005 Sep-Oct;8(5):521-33. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00045.x.

Good research practices for cost-effectiveness analysis alongside clinical 
trials: the ISPOR RCT-CEA Task Force report.

Ramsey S(1), Willke R, Briggs A, Brown R, Buxton M, Chawla A, Cook J, Glick H, 
Liljas B, Petitti D, Reed S.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA 98109, USA. 
sramsey@fhcrc.org

Comment in
    Value Health. 2015 Mar;18(2):145-6.

OBJECTIVES: A growing number of prospective clinical trials include economic end 
points. Recognizing the variation in methodology and reporting of these studies, 
the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) 
chartered the Task Force on Good Research Practices: Randomized Clinical 
Trials-Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. Its goal was to develop a guidance document 
for designing, conducting, and reporting cost-effectiveness analyses conducted 
as a part of clinical trials.
METHODS: Task force cochairs were selected by the ISPOR Board of Directors. 
Cochairs invited panel members to participate. Panel members included 
representatives from academia, the pharmaceutical industry, and health insurance 
plans. An outline and a draft report developed by the panel were presented at 
the 2004 International and European ISPOR meetings, respectively. The manuscript 
was then submitted to a reference group for review and comment.
RESULTS: The report addresses issues related to trial design, selecting data 
elements, database design and management, analysis, and reporting of results. 
Task force members agreed that trials should be designed to evaluate 
effectiveness (rather than efficacy), should include clinical outcome measures, 
and should obtain health resource use and health state utilities directly from 
study subjects. Collection of economic data should be fully integrated into the 
study. Analyses should be guided by an analysis plan and hypotheses. An 
incremental analysis should be conducted with an intention-to-treat approach. 
Uncertainty should be characterized. Manuscripts should adhere to established 
standards for reporting results of cost-effectiveness analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Trial-based cost-effectiveness studies have appeal because of their 
high internal validity and timeliness. Improving the quality and uniformity of 
these studies will increase their value to decision makers who consider evidence 
of economic value along with clinical efficacy when making resource allocation 
decisions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00045.x
PMID: 16176491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Value Health. 2005 Sep-Oct;8(5):549-61. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00049.x.

Health and economic consequences of sevelamer use for hyperphosphatemia in 
patients on hemodialysis.

Huybrechts KF(1), Caro JJ, Wilson DA, O'Brien JA.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, Concord, MA 01742, USA. khuybrechts@caroresearch.com

OBJECTIVES: The safety and efficacy of sevelamer hydrochloride in binding 
phosphate in patients with end-stage renal disease and its ability to attenuate 
the progression of cardiac calcification have been well documented but not the 
longer-term health and economic implications. Thus, a model of the predicted 
long-term consequences of sevelamer compared with calcium-based binders (acetate 
and carbonate) was developed.
METHODS: Long-term cardiovascular implications of 1 year of treatment with 
phosphate binders in patients on hemodialysis are estimated based on the 
patient's demographics, comorbidities, and physiologic and renal parameters. The 
initial calcification score and expected changes over 1 year are derived using 
regression equations developed from the Treat-to-Goal study and translated to 
cardiovascular disease risk based on equations developed from a long-term cohort 
study. In this article, the implications of cardiovascular disease for life 
expectancy and medical costs are accounted for from a US payer perspective.
RESULTS: The cardioprotective effect of sevelamer over 1 year is estimated to 
result in a 12% reduction in cardiovascular events compared with calcium 
acetate. In a population of 100 patients, the savings of 205,600 dollars accrued 
due to avoiding nine cardiovascular events with sevelamer, largely offset the 
increased binder costs, leading to a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio of about 
2200 dollars per (discounted) life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Although both binders provide equivalent phosphate binding 
capacity, the results indicate that the advantage of 1 year of treatment with 
sevelamer in attenuating the progression of calcification has important clinical 
and economic consequences, suggesting that this provides good value for money.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00049.x
PMID: 16176493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Value Health. 2005 Sep-Oct;8(5):562-71. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00048.x.

Obesity, survival, and hospital costs-findings from a screening project in 
Sweden.

Borg S(1), Persson U, Odegaard K, Berglund G, Nilsson JA, Nilsson PM.

Author information:
(1)IHE, (The Swedish Institute for Health Economics), Lund, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: Our aims were to estimate 1) the costs of hospital treatment and 2) 
the value of lost production due to early death associated with overweight and 
obese patients, and then to extrapolate the findings to national costs.
METHODS: We use regression models to analyze survival, expected number of days 
in hospital treatment for patients with different body mass index (BMI), and 
costs with data obtained from screening of 33,196 middle-aged subjects living in 
Malmö, Sweden, and collected during a 15-year follow-up period. We subsequently 
scale up costs to national aggregate level using the BMI prevalence data from 
the screening project to the national population.
RESULTS: The total excess hospital (somatic, psychiatric) care cost (Swedish 
krona or SEK) for the national health-care budget, excess as compared to normal 
weight patients for obese (BMI > 30) and overweight (25 < or = BMI < 30) was 
estimated to SEK2155 million per annum (269 million dollars, assuming 1 dollar = 
SEK8), or about 2.3% of total hospital care costs in Sweden. The corresponding 
indirect costs due to early death were estimated to SEK2935 million (367 million 
dollars). For males at age 55, the potential hospital costs saving, excluding 
costs of the intervention that could be gained by an intervention that 
successfully and safely could alter the weight of an obese individual to become 
normal weight, was estimated on average to SEK4434 (554 dollars) per annum.
CONCLUSION: Hospital treatment costs are found to be higher for obese and 
overweight patients than for normal weight patients indicating potential cost 
savings especially on indirect costs by effective, safe and low cost weight-loss 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00048.x
PMID: 16176494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Value Health. 2005 Sep-Oct;8(5):572-80. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00050.x.

Cost-effectiveness of antiplatelet agents in secondary stroke prevention: the 
limits of certainty.

Matchar DB(1), Samsa GP, Liu S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Health Policy Research, Duke University, Durham, NC 
27705, USA. david.matchar@duke.edu

Which of the available antiplatelet therapies should be preferred for secondary 
prevention of recurrent ischemic stroke has been contentious.
OBJECTIVE: We applied the Duke Stroke Policy Model (DSPM) to reconsider this 
issue, paying particular attention to the degree of uncertainty in the estimates 
of their efficacy. The DSPM is a continuous-time simulation model of stroke 
development and outcome.
METHODS: We modified the inputs to reflect the cost of the drugs aspirin (ASA), 
extended release dipyridamole/aspirin (DP/A) and clopidogrel (CLO), as well as 
their relative risk in preventing subsequent ischemic stroke in comparison with 
placebo (PBO). These relative risks were derived from published reports from the 
second European Stroke Prevention Study (ESPS-2) and Clopidogrel Versus Aspiring 
in Patients at Risk of Ischemic Events studies. Precision was addressed by 
applying bootstrapping to the above estimates of relative risk. The target 
population was 70-year-old men with nondisabling stroke. The outcome measures 
were quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, and costs per QALY.
RESULTS: Results of Base Case Analysis: In large part because of its modest drug 
cost, ASA was cost-effective in comparison with PBO. DP/A tended to have 
improved outcomes, but at increased costs. CLO was dominated in the base case.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: ASA and DP/A cannot be differentiated on a 
statistical basis alone. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, CLO was rarely 
preferred.
CONCLUSIONS: Either DP/A or ASA appear to be a good value in comparison with no 
treatment, but there is no clear winner between the two. In the absence of a 
definitive randomized trial, simulation modeling can help clarify the trade-offs 
between the various antiplatelet agents, but not beyond the constraints imposed 
by the imprecision in the estimates that can be obtained from the current 
evidence base.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2005.00050.x
PMID: 16176495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Saline Syst. 2005 Jul 4;1:4. doi: 10.1186/1746-1448-1-4.

Effect of salinity stress on the life history variables of Branchipus schaefferi 
Fisher, 1834 (Crustacea: Anostraca).

Sarma SS(1), Beladjal L, Nandini S, Cerón-Martínez G, Tavera-Briseño K.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Aquatic Zoology, UMF, National Autonomous University of Mexico, 
Campus Iztacala, Av, de los Barrios S/N, Los Reyes, AP 314, CP 54090, 
Tlalnepantla, State of Mexico, Mexico. sarma@servidor.unam.mx

BACKGROUND: Freshwater anostracans inhabit ephemeral water bodies in which as 
the water level decreases due to evaporation the salt concentration increases. 
Thus, for most anostracans salinity becomes the major stress factor.
RESULTS: We tested five concentrations of NaCl (0 to 8 g/l) on the life table 
demography of Branchipus schaefferi fed Chlorella (alga). Age-specific 
survivorship curves of male and female B. schaefferi showed nearly a similar 
pattern in that increased salt concentration resulted in decreased survivorship. 
The age-specific reproduction (m(x)) of females showed several peaks of cyst 
production at 0 and 1 g/l salinity while in treatments containing salt at 4 or 8 
g/l, there were fewer peaks. Average lifespan, life expectancy at birth, gross 
and net reproductive rates, generation time and the rate of population increase 
were all significantly influenced by the salt concentration in the medium. The 
highest value of net reproductive rate (970 cysts/female) was in treatments 
containing 0 g/l of salt, while the lowest was 13 cysts/female at 8 g/l. The 
rate of population increase (r) varied from 0.52 to 0.32 per day depending on 
the salt concentration in the medium.
CONCLUSION: The low survival and offspring production of B. schaefferi at higher 
salinity levels suggests that this species is unlikely to colonize inland saline 
water bodies. Therefore, the temporary ponds in which it is found, proper 
conservative measures must be taken to protect this species.

DOI: 10.1186/1746-1448-1-4
PMCID: PMC1183265
PMID: 16176591


506. Cancer Radiother. 2005 Nov;9(6-7):411-3. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2005.07.008.
Epub  2005 Sep 19.

[Radiotherapy optimization in breast cancer: filtration, electronic 
compensation, intensity modulation].

[Article in French]

Corsetti D(1), Bellière A, Romestaing P.

Author information:
(1)Département d'oncologie radiothérapie, centre hospitalier Lyon-Sud, 69495 
Lyon-Pierre-Bénite cedex, France. dominique.corsetti@chu-lyon.fr

Purpose of radiation treatment after conservative surgery for breast cancer is 
improvement of long-term local control rate and reduction of heart and pulmonary 
toxic events for women with long life expectancy. Breast irradiation with 
intensity modulation might be promising, as results of treatment planning 
(dose-volume histogram and normal tissue complication probability) showed. 
Project of our study is to evaluate the advantage of each following techniques: 
wedged plans, electronic compensation and intensity modulation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2005.07.008
PMID: 16176885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Osteoporos Int. 2005 Dec;16(12):2185-94. doi: 10.1007/s00198-005-2006-1.
Epub  2005 Sep 22.

Risk factors for hip fractures in a middle-aged population: a study of 33,000 
men and women.

Holmberg AH(1), Johnell O, Nilsson PM, Nilsson JA, Berglund G, Akesson K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Lund University, Malmö University Hospital, 
20502, Malmö, Sweden. Anna.Holmberg@skane.se

Knowledge about subjects who sustain hip fractures in middle age is poor. This 
study prospectively investigated risk factors for hip fracture in middle age and 
compared risk factors for cervical and trochanteric hip fractures. The Malmö 
Preventive Project consists of 22,444 men, mean age 44 years, and 10,902 women, 
mean age 50 years at inclusion. Baseline assessment included multiple 
examinations and lifestyle information. Follow-up was up to 16 years with regard 
to occurrence of fracture. One hundred thirty-five women had one low-energy hip 
fracture each, 93 of which were cervical and 42 trochanteric. One hundred 
sixty-three men had 166 hip fractures, of which 81 were cervical and 85 
trochanteric. In the final Cox regression model for women, the risk factors with 
the strongest associations with hip fracture were diabetes (risk ratio (RR) 
3.89, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.69-8.93, p=0.001) and poor self-rated 
health (RR 1.74, 95%CI 1.22-2.48, p=0.002). A history of previous fracture (RR 
4.76, 95%CI 2.74-8.26, p=0.0001) was also a significant risk factor. In men, 
diabetes had the strongest association with hip fracture (RR 6.13, 95%CI 
3.19-11.8, p=0.001). Smoking (RR 2.20, 95%CI 1.54-3.15, p=0.001), high serum 
gamma-glutamyl transferase (RR 1.84, 95%CI 1.50-2.26, p=0.001), poor self-rated 
health (RR 1.49, 95%CI 1.06-2.10, p=0.02) and reported sleep disturbances (RR 
1.52, 95%CI 1.03-2.27, p=0.04) were other significant risk factors. The 
strongest risk factor for hip fracture for both women and men in middle age was 
diabetes. Many risk factors were similar for men and women, although the risk 
ratio differed. The risk factor pattern for cervical versus trochanteric 
fractures differed in both men and women. The findings indicate that those 
suffering a hip fracture before the age of 75 have a shorter life expectancy, 
suggesting that hip fractures affect the less healthy segment of the population.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-005-2006-1
PMID: 16177836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Endocrinology. 2005 Dec;146(12):5237-46. doi: 10.1210/en.2005-0418. Epub
2005  Sep 22.

Betacellulin overexpression in transgenic mice causes disproportionate growth, 
pulmonary hemorrhage syndrome, and complex eye pathology.

Schneider MR(1), Dahlhoff M, Herbach N, Renner-Mueller I, Dalke C, Puk O, Graw 
J, Wanke R, Wolf E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Animal Breeding and Biotechnology, Gene Center, 
University of Munich, Germany. schnder@lmb.uni-muenchen.de

The EGF family comprises a network of ligands and receptors that regulate proper 
development and elicit diverse functions in physiology and pathology. 
Betacellulin (BTC) is a rather poorly characterized member of the EGF family 
whose in vivo effects have been linked mainly to endocrine pancreas, intestine, 
and mammary gland function. In vitro studies revealed that this growth factor is 
a potent mitogen for diverse cell types and suggested unique receptor-binding 
properties. Genetic ablation of BTC in mice yielded a mild phenotype, probably 
because of opportunistic compensation by other EGF receptor ligands. To study 
the biological capabilities of BTC in vivo, we generated transgenic mice 
overexpressing BTC ubiquitously, with highest expression levels in heart, lung, 
brain, and pancreas. Mice overexpressing BTC exhibit high early postnatal 
mortality, reduced body weight gain, and impaired longitudinal growth. In 
addition, a variety of pathological alterations were observed. Cataract and 
abnormally shaped retinal layers as well as bone alterations leading to a 
dome-shaped, round head form were hallmarks of BTC transgenic mice. The most 
important finding and the cause of reduced life expectancy of BTC transgenic 
mice were severe alterations of the lung. Pulmonary pathology was primarily 
characterized by alveolar hemorrhage, thickening of the alveolar septa, 
intraalveolar accumulation of hemosiderin-containing macrophages, and nodular 
pulmonary remodeling. Thus, our model uncovers multiple consequences of BTC 
overexpression in vivo. These transgenic mice provide a useful model for 
examining the effects of BTC excess on different organs.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2005-0418
PMID: 16179416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Science. 2005 Sep 23;309(5743):1965. doi: 10.1126/science.1117804.

Social Security meets race.

Liebman J.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1117804
PMID: 16179435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. BMJ. 2005 Sep 24;331(7518):656. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7518.656.

Men's life expectancy is catching up with women's.

Brettingham M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7518.656
PMCID: PMC1226239
PMID: 16179701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Prosthet Orthot Int. 2005 Apr;29(1):39-51. doi: 10.1080/17461550500069596.

The biomechanics of one-footed vertical jump performance in unilateral 
trans-tibial amputees.

Strike SC(1), Diss C.

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Sport Sciences, Roehampton University, London, UK. 
s.strike@roehampton.ac.uk

This study investigated vertical jumps from single support for two trans-tibial 
amputees from a standing position. The mechanisms used to achieve flight and the 
compensatory mechanisms used in the production of force in the absence of 
plantarflexors are detailed. Two participants completed countermovement maximum 
vertical jumps from the prosthetic and the sound limbs. The jumps were recorded 
by a 7-camera 512 VICON motion analysis system integrated with a Kistler 
forceplate. Flight height was 5 cm jumping from the prosthetic side and 18-19 cm 
from the sound side. The countermovement was shallower and its duration was less 
on the prosthetic side compared to the sound side. The reduced and passive range 
of motion at the prosthesis resulted in an asymmetrical countermovement for both 
participants with the knee and ankle joints most affected. The duration of the 
push-off phase was not consistently affected. At take-off the joints on the 
sound side reached close to full extension while on the prosthetic side they 
remained more flexed. Joint extension velocity in the push-off phase was similar 
for both participants on the sound side, though the timing for participant 2 
illustrated earlier peaks. The pattern of joint extension velocity was not a 
smooth proximal to distal sequence on the prosthetic side. The magnitude and 
timing of the inter-segment extensor moments were asymmetrical for both 
subjects. The power pattern was asymmetrical in both the countermovement and 
push-off phases; the lack of power generation at the ankle affected that 
produced at the remaining joints.

DOI: 10.1080/17461550500069596
PMID: 16180376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Versicherungsmedizin. 2005 Sep 1;57(3):127-32.

[Which cancerous diseases are significant for the risk assessment when 
underwriting life insurance?].

[Article in German]

Akermann S(1).

Author information:
(1)Arzteabteilung der Allianz Lebensversicherungs-AG, Stuttgart.

Cancer is the most important cause of death in life insurance and not 
cardiovascular disease! Life insurance is bought by persons aged between 15 and 
65 years with an average of about 35 years. Therefore mortality statistics for 
the total population cannot be transferred to life insurance. In that segment 
cancer ranks before cardiovascular diseases. In females, cancer is even more 
important than in males because they are less prone to cardiovascular diseases 
in the age groups under consideration. Tumor mortality rises after age 40 and 
reaches its peak in males at age 70, in females the curve is moved towards 
higher ages and peaks at age 80.

PMID: 16180532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2005 Oct;53(10):1697-704. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53504.x.

Universal bone densitometry screening combined with alendronate therapy for 
those diagnosed with osteoporosis is highly cost-effective for elderly women.

Schousboe JT(1), Ensrud KE, Nyman JA, Melton LJ 3rd, Kane RL.

Author information:
(1)Park Nicollet Health Services, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55416, USA. 
schouj@parknicollet.com

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of universal bone densitometry 
in women aged 65 and older combined with alendronate treatment for those 
diagnosed with osteoporosis (femoral neck T-score < or = -2.5).
DESIGN: A Markov model with a lifetime time horizon and eight health states (no 
fracture, distal forearm fracture, radiographic (but clinically inapparent) 
vertebral fracture, clinical vertebral fracture, hip fracture, hip and vertebral 
fracture, and other fractures), using the societal perspective.
SETTING: Women living independently and those in nursing homes.
PARTICIPANTS: Caucasian women aged 65, 75, 85, or 95.
INTERVENTION: Bone densitometry of the hip, with 5 years of alendronate therapy 
for those found to have osteoporosis versus no intervention (densitometry or 
drug therapy).
MEASUREMENTS: Lifetime accumulated quality adjusted life years (QALYs), costs, 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: The cost per QALY gained for the screen-and-treat strategy was 43,000 
dollars per QALY gained for 65-year-old women and 5,600 dollars per QALY gained 
for 75-year-old women. For 85- and 95-year-old women, the screen-and-treat 
strategy was cost saving. Sensitivity analyses showed that the screen-and-treat 
strategy was cost-effective even under assumptions of reduced adherence to drug 
therapy, reduced fracture reduction benefit from alendronate therapy, or reduced 
QALYs saved by preventing fracture.
CONCLUSION: Universal bone densitometry combined with alendronate therapy for 
those found to have osteoporosis is highly cost-effective for women aged 65 and 
older and may be cost saving for ambulatory women aged 85 and older (whether 
independently living or residing in nursing homes).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53504.x
PMID: 16181168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Transfusion. 2005 Oct;45(4 Suppl):159S-71S. doi: 
10.1111/j.1537-2995.2005.00617.x.

Reengineering transfusion and cellular therapy processes hospitalwide: ensuring 
the safe utilization of blood products.

Brooks JP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center and Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.

Efforts to make blood transfusion as safe as possible have focused on making the 
blood in the bag as disease-free as possible. The results have been dramatic, 
and the costs have been correspondingly high. Although blood services will have 
to continue to deal with emerging pathogens, efforts to reduce the transfusion 
of infectious agents presently posing a risk will require high incremental costs 
and result in only improvements of a small magnitude. The other aspect of safe 
blood transfusion, the actual transfusion process performed primarily in 
hospitals, has been accorded considerably less interest. We should turn our 
attention to enhancing overall blood safety by focusing on improving the process 
of blood transfusion. Errors involving patient, specimen, and blood product 
identification put transfused patients at risk, increasing the mortality risk 
for some. Solutions that could improve the transfusion process are discussed as 
a focus of this article.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2005.00617.x
PMID: 16181401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. BMC Microbiol. 2005 Sep 24;5:52. doi: 10.1186/1471-2180-5-52.

A Bacillus thuringiensis isolation method utilizing a novel stain, low selection 
and high throughput produced atypical results.

Rampersad J(1), Ammons D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, The University of the West Indies, St. 
Augustine, Trinidad, Trinidad and Tobago. uwimdl@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Bacillus thuringiensis is a bacterium known for producing protein 
crystals with insecticidal properties. These toxins are widely sought after for 
controlling agricultural pests due to both their specificity and their 
applicability in transgenic plants. There is great interest in isolating strains 
with improved or novel toxin characteristics, however isolating B. thuringiensis 
from the environment is time consuming and yields relatively few isolates of 
interest. New approaches to B. thuringiensis isolation have been, and continue 
to be sought. In this report, candidate B. thuringiensis isolates were recovered 
from environmental samples using a combination of a novel stain, high throughput 
and reduced selection. Isolates were further characterized by SDS-PAGE, light 
microscopy, PCR, probe hybridization, and with selected isolates, DNA 
sequencing, bioassay or Electron Microscopy.
RESULTS: Based on SDS-PAGE patterns and the presence of cry genes or a crystal, 
79 candidate, non-clonal isolates of B. thuringiensis were identified from 84 
samples and over 10,000 colonies. Although only 16/79 (20%) of the isolates 
showed DNA homology by Probe Hybridization or PCR to common cry genes, initial 
characterization revealed a surprisingly rich library that included a putative 
nematocidal gene, a novel filamentous structure associated with a crystal, a 
spore with spikes originating from a very small parasporal body and isolates 
with unusually small crystals. When compared to reports of other screens, this 
screen was also atypical in that only 3/79 isolates (3.8%) produced a 
bipyramidal crystal and 24/79 (30%) of the isolates' spores possessed an 
attached, dark-staining body.
CONCLUSION: Results suggest that the screening methodology adopted in this study 
might deliver a vastly richer and potentially more useful library of B. 
thuringiensis isolates as compared to that obtained with commonly reported 
methodologies, and that by extension, methodologies fundamentally different from 
current methods should also be explored.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2180-5-52
PMCID: PMC1253514
PMID: 16181492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. J Pediatr Nurs. 2005 Oct;20(5):311-25. doi: 10.1016/j.pedn.2005.03.003.

A framework for integrated pediatric palliative care: being with dying.

Rushton CH(1).

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins University and Children's Center, Baltimore, MD 21250, USA. 
crushton@son.jhmi.edu

Recent studies highlight the need for an integrated model for palliative and 
end-of-life pediatric care. About 55,000 children die each year in the United 
States and, on any given day, about 8,600 children could benefit from care that 
acknowledges their limited life expectancy and severity of illness. Two case 
studies of children illustrate different approaches-one that aggressively 
applies all possible technologies to maximize chances of survival and another 
that focuses on the patient's overall quality of life and on healing rather than 
curing. The cases highlight characteristics of an integrated model of palliative 
care to address clinical, moral, and ethical uncertainties. This model 
integrates being with doing, provides for developing attunement and presence as 
capacities for being with children and their parents, and addresses challenges 
in the healthcare environment. Strategies for integrating palliative care into 
pediatric practice include listening, fostering respect for the child and 
parents across the organization, nurturing collaborative connections, managing 
uncertainty, tolerating ambiguity, making peace with conflict, and committing to 
self-care. Every pediatric nurse can play a role in making the vision of 
palliative care a reality integrated into the fabric of pediatric practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pedn.2005.03.003
PMID: 16182091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2005 Nov 1;252(1):97-103. doi: 
10.1016/j.femsle.2005.08.035. Epub 2005 Sep 7.

NaCl enhances cellular cAMP and upregulates genes related to heterocyst 
development in the cyanobacterium, Anabaena sp. strain PCC 7120.

Imashimizu M(1), Yoshimura H, Katoh H, Ehira S, Ohmori M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 381 Komaba, Meguro, 
Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

Cellular cAMP was rapidly increased in the nitrogen-fixing cyanobacterium, 
Anabaena sp. PCC 7120, by the addition of 200 mM NaCl to the culture medium. 
Other alkaline-metal chlorides such as KCl or LiCl caused a lesser increase. The 
increase in cellular cAMP was transient and diminished when an adenylate 
cyclase, CyaC, which contains the conserved domains of the bacterial 
two-component regulatory system, was disrupted. DNA microarray analysis showed 
that expression of a gene cluster containing all5347 and alr5351 (hglE) was 
upregulated by NaCl in the wild-type strain but not in the cyaC mutant. Primer 
extension analysis indicated that transcription levels of all5347 and hglE were 
rapidly increased in response to the NaCl addition, and that these genes have 
NaCl-dependent transcription start sites. It was concluded that NaCl induced 
expression of genes related to heterocyst envelope formation in this 
cyanobacterium, possibly via a CyaC-cAMP signal transduction system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.femsle.2005.08.035
PMID: 16182471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Transplant Proc. 2005 Jul-Aug;37(6):2584-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2005.06.054.

The mismatch choice in liver transplantation: a suggestion for the selection of 
the recipient in relation to the characteristics of the donor.

Avolio AW(1), Nardo B, Agnes S, Montalti R, Pepe G, Cavallari A, Castagneto M.

Author information:
(1)Transplant Unit, A. Gemelli Hospital, Catholic University of Rome, Rome, 
Italy. alfonso.avolio@tin.it

Two hundred seventy-six liver transplants were retrospectively reviewed to 
analyze 6-month graft survival in relation to the combination of donor quality 
(standard donor vs nonstandard donor) and risk related to the severity of 
recipient liver disease low-risk, ie, United Network for Organ Sharing [UNOS] 
status 3/2b; high-risk, ie, UNOS status 1/2a). The overall 6-month survival rate 
of 82% was stratified into 4 classes: (1) standard donor to low-risk recipient = 
88%; (2) standard donor to high-risk recipient = 86%; (3) nonstandard donor to 
low-risk recipient = 84%; and (4) nonstandard donor to high-risk recipient = 
67%. According to the observed graft survival in the 4 different classes, 2 
simulations were performed: the "match simulation" (transplantation of all 
low-risk recipients using standard donors, and transplantation of all high-risk 
recipients using nonstandard donors), and the "mismatch simulation" 
(transplantation of all the high-risk patients using low-risk donors and 
transplantation of low-risk patients using high-risk donors). The 6-month 
survival rates, calculated using the match simulation, were 74% and using the 
mismatch simulation, 84%. The authors suggest that, in the era of marginal 
donors, the recipient should be selected in relation to the characteristics of 
the donor according to the mismatch model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2005.06.054
PMID: 16182751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Transplant Proc. 2005 Jul-Aug;37(6):2692-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2005.06.078.

Vascular homografts for vessel substitution in skeletal and soft tissue sarcomas 
of the limbs.

Faenza A(1), Ferraro A, Gigli M, De Paolis M, Errani C, Mercuri M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Intensive Care and Transplantation, 5th Division, 
Rizzoli Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. 
faenza@orsola-malpigni.med.unibo.it

Large vessel involvement by skeletal and soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities 
does not change the modern limb sparing surgery for those neoplasms. An arterial 
and, if the vein is open, a venous bypass should always be offered to any 
patient young or old, with high or low grade sarcoma, because preserving the 
limb permits quicker rehabilitation, which is particularly useful in the case of 
a short life expectancy. In 650 cases of skeletal sarcomas, 10 arterial (1.5%) 
and four venous bypasses were done, all with autologous veins but one in PTFE; 
we had no problems except a silent arterial occlusion. Of 1000 patients with 
soft tissue sarcomas, 32 (3%) had vessel involvement permitting limb sparing 
surgery. The arterial bypass, which is the limb-saving operation, was performed 
16 times with a PTFE with one early occlusion and four cases of prosthesis 
infection, with two amputations despite redo operation with an autologous vein. 
The more recent 16 cases were, therefore, always done with biological vessel 
substitution--autologous vein or tissue bank vessel--with only one infection 
that healed without operation and one case of homograft rupture followed by 
amputation. Since 1999 in all 13 resected cases with an open vein, we did the 
arterial and the venous bypass (twice PTFE, six autologous vein, and five bank 
vessel) with the aim of avoiding postoperative venous hypertension, but only 
four of the venous bypasses remained open. Venous bypasses are a harmless, but 
still experimental, procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2005.06.078
PMID: 16182786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Transplant Proc. 2005 Jul-Aug;37(6):2737-42. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2005.05.037.

Do elderly patients deserve a kidney graft?

Nunes P(1), Mota A, Parada B, Figueiredo A, Rolo F, Bastos C, Macário F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Renal Transplantation, Hospitais da Universidade de 
