Coronary endothelial dysfunction is frequently observed in diabetic and 
hypertensive patients. This study was designed to compare cardiovascular outcome 
of hypertensive (HT) and type 2 diabetic patients (D2) with angiographically 
normal coronary arteries on the basis of their epicardial coronary endothelial 
function. Coronary reactivity assessment by cold-pressor test (CPT) using 
quantitative coronary angiography was achieved in 65 HT (45 males, 20 females) 
aged 51.9+/-7.6 years, and in 59 D2 (32 males, 27 females) aged 48.9+/-7.3 
years, with angiographically normal coronary arteries and without other major 
coronary risk factor. Cardiovascular events (CVE) were recorded with a mean 
follow-up of 108+/-15 months in HT, and 113+/-10 months in D2. During CPT, in HT 
coronary artery dilation occurred in 10.8% of the patients, no change in 21.5%, 
and constriction in 67.7%. In D2, dilation occurred in 3.4% of the patients, no 
change in 18.6%, and constriction in 78.0%. During follow-up, in HT there were 
nine CVE in 6/65 patients (9.2%), all in the 6/44 (13.6%) patients with coronary 
artery constriction. In D2, there were 18 CVE in 16/59 patients (27.1%, P<0.01 
versus HT), with 17 CVE in the 15/46 patients with coronary artery constriction, 
and one CVE in the 1/13 patients without constriction (32.6% versus 7.7%). In 
patients with coronary artery constriction, CVE were more frequent in D2 than in 
HT (P<0.05). Last, CVE were more severe and occurred earlier in D2 than in HT. 
In conclusion, epicardial coronary endothelial dysfunction is predictive of 
long-term CVE in HT and D2 with angiographically normal coronary arteries. 
Cardiovascular outcome of patients with coronary constriction is worse in D2 
than in HT. At the opposite, patients without constriction have good 
cardiovascular prognosis in both subgroups.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.02.030
PMID: 16216594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Arch Med Res. 2005 Nov-Dec;36(6):731-8. doi: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2005.07.002.

The contribution of international agencies to the control of communicable 
diseases.

Lazcano-Ponce E(1), Allen B, González CC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Population Health Research (CISP), CDC Research, National 
Institute of Public Health, Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.

Although inequality is often measured through three critical 
indicators-education, income and life expectancy-health-related differences are 
also essential elements for explaining levels of equality or inequality in 
modern societies. Investment and investigation in health also involve 
inequalities at the global level, and this includes insufficient North-South 
transfer of funds, technology and expertise in the health field, including the 
specific area of communicable diseases. Globally, epidemics and outbreaks in any 
geographic region can represent international public health emergencies, and 
this type of threat requires a global response. Therefore, given the need to 
strengthen the global capacity for dealing with threats of infectious diseases, 
a framework is needed for collaboration on alerting the world to epidemics and 
responding to public health emergencies. This is necessary to guarantee a high 
level of security against the dissemination of communicable diseases in an ever 
more globalized world. In response to these needs, international health agencies 
have put a number of strategies into practice in order to contribute to the 
control of communicable diseases in poor countries. The principle strategies 
include: 1) implementation of mechanisms for international epidemiologic 
surveillance; 2) use of international law to support the control of communicable 
diseases; 3) international cooperation on health matters; 4) strategies to 
strengthen primary care services and health systems in general; 5) promotion of 
the transfer of resources for research and development from the North to the 
South.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2005.07.002
PMCID: PMC7119043
PMID: 16216655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Arch Intern Med. 2005 Oct 10;165(18):2083-8. doi:
10.1001/archinte.165.18.2083.

The influence of health status, age, and race on screening mammography in 
elderly women.

Bynum JP(1), Braunstein JB, Sharkey P, Haddad K, Wu AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Center for the Evaluative Clinical 
Sciences, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH, USA. Julie.Bynum@Hitchcock.org

BACKGROUND: Screening mammography is controversial for elderly women because of 
an absence of efficacy data. Decisions to screen are based on individualized 
assessment of risks and benefits. Our objective was to determine how screening 
mammography varies by age and race when adjusted for propensity to die.
METHODS: In a retrospective cohort study, rates of screening mammogram performed 
in 2000-2001 based on claims, adjusted for propensity to die in 2000, were 
determined for a nationally representative 5% random sample of female 
fee-for-service Medicare beneficiaries 65 years and older in (N = 722,310).
RESULTS: The overall rate of screening was 39%. When stratified into quintiles 
by propensity to die, 2-year rates ranged from 61% in the lowest-risk group to 
5% in the highest-risk group. In analyses stratified by age and adjusted for 
propensity to die, 42% of women aged 65 to 69 years were screened, declining to 
26% of women 85 years and older (P<.001). Adjusted screening rates for white 
women, black women, and women of other races were 40%, 30%, and 25%, 
respectively (P<.001). Thus, among women with similar health status, the 
youngest women were 1.61 times more likely to be screened compared with the 
oldest; compared with black women and women of other races, white women were 
1.38 and 1.60 times, respectively, more likely to be screened.
CONCLUSIONS: Decisions to screen for breast cancer are related not only to 
health status but also to age and race. Underuse and overuse of screening 
mammography likely occurs owing to age- and race-associated decision making. 
Assessment of life expectancy may more accurately identify women who could 
benefit from screening.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.165.18.2083
PMID: 16216997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Palliat Med. 2005 Sep;19(6):454-60. doi: 10.1191/0269216305pm1048oa.

Attitudes towards, and wishes for, euthanasia in advanced cancer patients at a 
palliative medicine unit.

Johansen S(1), Hølen JC, Kaasa S, Loge HJ, Materstvedt LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Most studies on attitudes towards euthanasia and physician-assisted 
suicide (PAS) have been conducted in healthy populations. The aim of this study 
is to explore and describe attitudes towards, and wishes for, euthanasia/PAS in 
cancer patients with short life expectancy.
METHOD: Semi-structured interviews with 18 cancer patients with a life 
expectancy of less than nine months. All patients were recruited from an 
inpatient palliative medicine unit.
RESULTS: Patients holding a positive attitude towards euthanasia/PAS do not 
necessarily want euthanasia/PAS for themselves. Wishes are different from 
requests for euthanasia/PAS. Fear of future pain and a painful death were the 
main reasons given for a possible wish for euthanasia/PAS. Worries about minimal 
quality of life and lack of hope also contributed to such thoughts. Wishes for 
euthanasia/PAS were hypothetical; they were future oriented and with a 
prerequisite that intense pain, lack of quality of life and/or hope had to be 
present. Additionally, wishes were fluctuating and ambivalent.
CONCLUSION: The wish to die in these patients does not seem to be constant. 
Rather, this wish is more appropriately seen as an ambivalent and fluctuating 
mental 'solution' for the future. Health care providers should be aware of this 
when responding to utterances regarding euthanasia/PAS.

DOI: 10.1191/0269216305pm1048oa
PMID: 16218157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. J Neuroendocrinol. 2005 Nov;17(11):691-700. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2826.2005.01343.x.

Regulation of the pituitary growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor in ageing 
male and female LOU rats: new insights into healthy ageing.

Veyrat-Durebex C(1), Alliot J, Gaudreau P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuroendocrinology of Aging, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université 
de Montréal Research Center, Notre-Dame Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Ageing is characterised by a decrease of somatotroph functionality, involving 
growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor (GHRH-R). The present study was 
conducted in LOU/C/jall (LOU) rats, a strain described as a model of healthy 
ageing, which is characterised by a low adiposity and long life expectancy 
without developing severe pathologies. Effects of age and diet (chow versus 
self-selection), on levels of anterior pituitary GHRH-R mRNA transcripts, were 
assessed in male and female LOU rats. The effect of age on pituitary GHRH-R 
functionality was examined in the anterior pituitary of both males and females 
fed chow diet. Moreover, serum insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), T4 and 
leptin were measured because changes in their concentration could affect GHRH-R 
expression. In the pituitary of 18-month-old male and female LOU/C/jall rats fed 
standard chow, the level of 2.5-kb GHRH-R mRNA transcript, coding for functional 
GHRH-R, was significantly decreased. In 24- to 34-month-old males and females, 
it progressively returned to the level of younger animals, suggesting an 
enrichment of the group with survivors maintaining functional GHRH-R. In males 
and females repeatedly submitted to self-selection, this phenomenon was not 
observed. Studies with the GHRH-R agonist, Fluo-GHRH, revealed that 73% of 
16-18-month-old male and female rats studied did not show an increase of 
fluorescence density characteristic of receptor-mediated internalisation upon 
incubation at 37 degrees C. In the other 27%, the increase of fluorescence was 
identical to that observed in pituitaries of young rats, suggesting the presence 
of an optimal level of functional GHRH-R. Serum levels of leptin, free T4 and 
total IGF-I decreased more drastically in ageing males and in rats fed a 
self-selection diet. A positive correlation was demonstrated between leptin and 
IGF-I levels in ageing males and females fed standard chow and ageing females 
submitted to a self-selection regimen. In conclusion, healthy ageing in LOU rats 
fed chow diet appears to be associated with a maintenance of functional 
pituitary GHRH-R levels found in younger rats but not necessarily with those of 
serum leptin, T4 and IGF-I.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2005.01343.x
PMID: 16218997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Ai Zheng. 2005 Oct;24(10):1165-72.

[Staging 915 cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma after simple radical 
radiotherapy--checkout of Fuzhou staging system (1992)].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao JM(1), Zeng YX, Cui NJ, Lu TX, Zhao C, Xia YF, Ma J, Xie FY.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in Southern China, Guangzhou, Guangdong, P. 
R. China. drgjmyl@263.net

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: Along with the development of treatments, different 
tumor staging systems are coexisted and have been modified. This study was to 
validate the rationality of the Fuzhou staging system (1992) of nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma (NPC), and to provide some suggestions.
METHODS: A total of 915 NPC patients received radical radiotherapy alone in 
Cancer Center of Sun Yat-sen University from Jan. 1997 to Dec. 1998. The 1-, 3-, 
and 5-year follow-up rates were 98.7%, 95.2%, and 91.7%, respectively. The 
survival data were analyzed with Life table, Cox regression, Kaplan-Meier, and 
log-rank methods.
RESULTS: The 1-, 3-, and 5-year overall survival rates of the 915 patients were 
87.69%, 72.73%, and 64.44%; the 1-, 3-, and 5-year disease-freely survival rates 
were 86.87%, 69.72%, and 58.33%, respectively. Cox regression analysis showed 
that the 5-year survival statuses of the 915 patients were significantly 
correlated with their age and the tumor stage classified by the Fuzhou staging 
system (1992); the 5-year survival statuses of the 803 patients no more than 60 
years old were only significantly correlated with tumor stage, and had no 
correlation with their age. Life table analysis validated that the tumor stage 
classified by Fuzhou staging system (1992) can roughly predict the prognosis, 
but the difference between the 5-year survival rates of stage I and II patients 
was not significant. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed no significant difference 
between survival statuses of stage T1 and T2 patients when adjusted by N 
classification. Therefore, we adjusted stage T2 without parapharyngeal space 
invasion to stage T1, stage T3 with carotid vagina invasion to stage T2, stage 
T4 with paranasal sinus involvement to stage T3, stage T3 with cranial nerve 
injury to stage T4, and stage N1 with bilateral lymph nodes involvement to stage 
N2. After the modifications, the differences among stage I to IVa, stage T1 to 
T4 (adjusted by N stage), or stage N0 to N3 (adjusted by T stage) were 
significant.
CONCLUSION: Taking the impact of age on the prognosis and the interaction 
between T stage and N stage into consideration, the above modifications of 
should be included when renewing the Fuzhou staging system (1992).

PMID: 16219127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2005;7(3):166-72. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2005.tb00061.x.

A retrospective evaluation of treatments with implant-supported maxillary 
overdentures.

Widbom C(1), Söderfeldt B, Kronström M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Central Hospital, Skövde, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Considerably lower success rates have been presented for 
implant-supported overdentures in the maxilla compared with the mandible.
PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to report the outcome of implant-supported 
maxillary overdentures from one clinic.
METHODS: All patients treated with implant-supported maxillary overdentures in 
the Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Central Hospital, Skövde, Sweden, 
between 1993 and 2002 were identified from patient charts and included in the 
study. All patients had a rigid cast gold alloy bar designed with ball 
attachments retaining an overdenture.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven subjects were included, of whom 13 were originally planned 
for overdenture treatment (group 1) and the other 14 for a fixed prosthesis 
(group 2). The mean observation period was 5.7 years for subjects in group 1 and 
5.5 years for those in group 2. One hundred forty-five implants were placed, and 
the majority of the failures were diagnosed as early ones and were found in 
group 2. The cumulative implant survival rate after 5 years was 77% in group 1 
and 46% in group 2. The probability of having implant failure was almost three 
times higher among subjects in group 2 compared with subjects in group 1. Most 
technical and biologic complications were related to the retention system.
CONCLUSION: Maxillary implant-supported overdentures show a high implant failure 
rate, but fewer implant failures occurred for patients originally planned for 
overdenture treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2005.tb00061.x
PMID: 16219247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Cancer Radiother. 2005 Nov;9(6-7):449-51. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2005.09.002.
 Epub 2005 Oct 10.

[Economic evaluation of radiotherapy: methods and results].

[Article in French]

Durand-Zaleski I(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de santé publique, hôpital Henri-Mondor, AP-HP, Créteil, France. 
i.durand-zaleski@anaes.fr

The cost of radiotherapy, which concerns 150,000 new patients yearly in France 
has been estimated 1700 euros per patients in this country, 50% lower than the 
European average. Economic evaluations of radiotherapy have related the cost of 
either curative or palliative treatment to the medical outcome. For lung, 
rectal, breast cancer and bone metastases of prostate cancer, radiation therapy 
prolongs life by an estimated 6 to 10 months. The cost effectiveness ranges from 
5,000 to 25,000 euros per life year gained.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2005.09.002
PMID: 16219481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Aging Soc Policy. 2005;17(3):61-84. doi: 10.1300/J031v17n03_04.

Long-term care insurance in Japan.

Ozawa MN(1), Nakayama S.

Author information:
(1)George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington University, One 
Brookings Drive, St. Louis, MO 63130-4899, USA. awaza@qwbssw.wustl.edu

Among all the industrialized countries, Japan has the fastest rate of population 
aging and the highest life expectancy at birth. It is projected that the 
proportion of elderly people will reach 35.7&#37 in 2050. In this demographic 
environment, Japan launched a social insurance program for long-term care for 
the elderly in 2000. What were the forces that led Japan to establish a 
long-term care program for elderly people&#63 What are the provisions for 
financing, benefits, and service delivery&#63 What aspects of policymaking in 
developing such a program are unique to Japan&#63.

DOI: 10.1300/J031v17n03_04
PMID: 16219594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. JAMA. 2005 Oct 12;294(14):1765-72. doi: 10.1001/jama.294.14.1765.

Comorbidity and survival disparities among black and white patients with breast 
cancer.

Tammemagi CM(1), Nerenz D, Neslund-Dudas C, Feldkamp C, Nathanson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, Brock University, St Catharines, 
Ontario, Canada. martin.tammemagi@brocku.ca

CONTEXT: Reasons for the shorter survival of black breast cancer patients 
compared with their white counterparts are not completely understood.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the role of comorbidity in this racial disparity among 
breast cancer patients.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: Historical cohort from the Henry Ford Health 
System (a large comprehensive health system in Detroit, Mich) followed up for a 
median of 10 years. Patients (n = 906) included 264 black (29.1%) and 642 white 
(70.9%) women diagnosed as having breast cancer between 1985 and 1990. Detailed 
comorbidity data (268 comorbidities) and study data were abstracted from medical 
records and institutional, Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results, and 
Michigan State registries. Associations were analyzed with logistic and Cox 
regression.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Breast cancer recurrence/progression and survival to 
death from all, breast cancer, and competing (non-breast cancer) causes.
RESULTS: Of blacks, 64 (24.9%) died of breast cancer and 95 (37.0%) died of 
competing causes. Comparable data for whites were 115 (18.3%) and 202 (32.1%). 
Blacks had worse all-cause survival (hazard ratio [HR], 1.34; 95% confidence 
interval [CI], 1.11-1.62), breast cancer-specific survival (HR, 1.47; 95% CI, 
1.08-2.00), and competing-causes survival (HR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.00-1.63). A total 
of 77 adverse comorbidities were associated with reduced survival. Adverse 
comorbidity count was associated with all-cause (adjusted HR, 1.29; 95% CI, 
1.19-1.40) and competing-causes survival but was not associated with 
recurrence/progression or breast cancer-specific survival. At least 1 adverse 
comorbidity was observed in 221 (86.0%) blacks and 407 (65.7%) whites (odds 
ratio, 3.20; 95% CI, 2.17-4.72). Comparisons of unadjusted and 
comorbidity-adjusted HRs indicated that adverse comorbidity explained 49.1% of 
all-cause and 76.7% of competing-causes survival disparity. Diabetes and 
hypertension were particularly important in explaining disparity.
CONCLUSIONS: More black breast cancer patients die of competing causes than of 
breast cancer. Effective control of comorbidity in black breast cancer patients 
should help improve life expectancy and lead to a reduction in survival 
disparities.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.294.14.1765
PMID: 16219879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Stat Med. 2006 Jun 15;25(11):1922-36. doi: 10.1002/sim.2381.

Decomposition of life expectancy and expected life-years lost by disease.

Lin CC(1), Johnson NJ.

Author information:
(1)Demographic Statistical Methods Division, U.S. Census Bureau, 4700 Silver 
Hill Road, Room 3716-3, Stop 8700, Washington, DC 20233-8700, USA. 
charles.c.lin@census.gov

Life expectancy is commonly used to summarize the life-time mortality experience 
of a population. Differences in life expectancy are well-known across different 
levels of socioeconomic status such as income and education. A recent simulation 
study of potential life-years lost has shown the effects that major diseases 
contribute to differences in life expectancy at birth. We propose a general 
methodology to decompose life expectancy and expected life-years lost by disease 
in order to determine the contribution of diseases to differences in life 
expectancy at each given age. We show that the estimates for the life 
expectancy, expected life-years lost and their variances at each age can be 
computed backward recursively from an old age. The difference in life expectancy 
between groups will be shown to include contributions from diseases and 
life-year differences which occur after an old age cut-off beyond which the 
contribution of diseases cannot be easily determined. Diseases will be grouped 
into 14 major disease categories. Data from the National Longitudinal Mortality 
Study will be used for demonstration purposes.

Copyright 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.2381
PMID: 16220507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Int J Prosthodont. 2005 Sep-Oct;18(5):371-6.

Long-span, fixed-movable, resin-bonded fixed partial dentures: a retrospective, 
preliminary clinical investigation.

Botelho MG(1), Dyson JE.

Author information:
(1)Prince Philip Dental Hospital, University of Hong Kong, 34 Hospital Rd, Sai 
Ying Pun, Hong Kong, SAR China. botelho@hkucc.hku.hk

PURPOSE: Long-span, resin-bonded fixed partial dentures (FPDs) have been 
associated with higher debonding rates than short-span prostheses. The use of 
modified nonrigid connectors that allow movement between the abutments in 
long-span resin-bonded prostheses may reduce harmful interabutment forces that 
stress the metal framework and resin-bonded interface. This preliminary 
investigation aimed to evaluate the longevity of long-span resin-bonded FPDs of 
4 or more units with a modified nonrigid connector and increased extension of 
the retainer framework around the major abutment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-eight patients attended a clinical examination; 
each had been provided with 1 or more resin-bonded FPD of 4 or more units (43 
prostheses). For each patient, the following data were recorded: gender, age, 
cementation date, and endodontic treatment, if performed. Data regarding the 
occurrence of any debondings and patient expectations were also recorded.
RESULTS: The mean service life for the 43 prostheses was 46.9 months (SD 22.0), 
with a range of 12 days to 87 months. Three prostheses had debonded, resulting 
in a clinical retention rate of 92.2%.
CONCLUSION: Long-span resin-bonded FPDs incorporating nonrigid connectors that 
allow independent movement between the major and minor retainer, combined with 
increased framework extension on the major abutment, appear successful in the 
short term. Further research is required to determine their long-term efficacy.

PMID: 16220800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Int J Prosthodont. 2005 Sep-Oct;18(5):383-9.

Implant-prosthodontic treatment for special care patients: a case series study.

Oczakir C(1), Balmer S, Mericske-Stern R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, University of Bern, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to assess implant survival and complications 
with implants and prostheses in patients exhibiting a variety of systemic 
diseases and congenital defects.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with specific medical conditions are regularly 
treated at the Department of Prosthodontics, University of Bern, Switzerland. 
All those who had received implant-prosthodontic treatment during the past 12 
years were reexamined for this study. Among these patients the following 
diseases were observed: cleft lip/palate (n = 8), Down syndrome (n = 3), Sjogren 
syndrome and scleroderma (n = 2), ectodermal dysplasia (n = 4), developmental 
retardation (n = 2), chronic leukemia (n = 2), lichen planus (n = 1), cerebral 
palsy (n = 1), deaf-muteness (n = 1), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (n = 1). At 
the time of the treatment the mean age was 55.6 years. ITI implants had been 
placed according to a standard protocol with local anesthesia, except for one 
patient in whom full anesthesia was used. One hundred three implants were loaded 
and supported a total of 34 fixed or removable prostheses. All patients were 
appointed to a regular maintenance care program. In the context of the present 
study, all but 1 patient were reexamined clinically. New radiographs were 
obtained, and the implants and prostheses assessed. Additional information was 
obtained from regular records in the patients' charts.
RESULTS: Three implants were lost in the healing phase, and 1 implant was 
replaced. Only 1 patient with 4 implants was lost from the study (she had passed 
away). The survival rate of the loaded implants was 100%. In 1 patient, 
peri-implant bony defects were detected around all 3 intraforaminal implants. 
The prosthetic plan was maintained in all patients, and they continued to wear 
the originally planned type of prosthesis. Complications included insufficient 
hygiene, soft tissue hyperplasia, extraction of remaining teeth, and minor 
maintenance or repair of the prostheses.
CONCLUSIONS: So far, the mostly unknown implications and possible risks for the 
process of osseointegration and long-term maintenance in patients with such rare 
diseases and defects has resulted in a rather restricted application of 
implants. However, from the present results, it appears that implants can 
successfully be placed and maintained. This is ascribed in part to a strict 
maintenance care program provided by the caregivers and to a high compliance of 
the patients who participated in this program to perform good oral hygiene.

PMID: 16220802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Kidney Int. 2005 Nov;68(5):2345-51. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.00696.x.

The impact of waiting time and comorbid conditions on the survival benefit of 
kidney transplantation.

Gill JS(1), Tonelli M, Johnson N, Kiberd B, Landsberg D, Pereira BJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. jgill@providencehealth.bc.ca

BACKGROUND: Longer waiting times may limit the survival benefit of kidney 
transplantation in older patients or those with a high burden of comorbid 
disease.
METHODS: We performed a longitudinal study of mortality among 63,783 transplant 
candidates who started dialysis between April 1995 and December 2000. We 
determined the relative risk (RR) of death and increase in life expectancy among 
subjects who received a first deceased donor transplant after different waiting 
times compared to subjects who had equivalent waiting times but remained on 
dialysis.
RESULTS: Transplant recipients had a lower long-term RR of death and the risk 
reduction was greatest in recipients with longer waiting times (RR of death 12 
months after transplantation for recipients with waiting times of 0, 1, 2, 3 
years was 0.49, 0.43, 0.38, 0.34, P = 0.0006). The average increase in life 
expectancy in transplant recipients was 9.8 years and was lower in older 
recipients and recipients with comorbid conditions. Increased waiting times from 
1 to 3 years only moderately decreased the overall survival benefit of 
transplantation from 7.1 to 5.6 years, and all subjects derived a survival 
benefit from transplantation with waiting times up to 3 years.
CONCLUSION: These findings do not support limiting access to transplantation for 
otherwise suitable candidates on the basis of longer anticipated waiting times.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.00696.x
PMID: 16221239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Biosoc Sci. 2005 Nov;37(6):705-20. doi: 10.1017/S0021932004006996.

Insurance and other socioeconomic determinants of elderly longevity in a Costa 
Rican panel.

Rosero-Bixby L(1), Dow WH, Laclé A.

Author information:
(1)University of Costa Rica, San José, Costa Rica.

Official figures show that life expectancy in Costa Rica is longer than in the 
United States (US), in spite of the fact that per capita health expenditure is 
only one-tenth that of the US. To check whether this is for real and to explore 
some of its determinants, 900 Costa Ricans aged 60+ were followed from 1984 to 
2001. Follow-up household visits were made, deaths were tracked in the national 
death registry, and survival status in the voting registry was double-checked. 
In addition, the survivors were contacted in 2002. Two-thirds of the panel had 
died by December 2001. Kaplan-Meier curves, life tables and Cox regression were 
used to analyse the panel's survival. Mortality in the panel was slightly higher 
than the Costa Rican average and similar to that in the US, confirming the 
exceptional longevity of Costa Ricans. Survival was substantially lower among 
unmarried men and individuals with limited autonomy at the beginning of the 
study. The effect of socioeconomic status is weak. Insurance effects seem to be 
confounded by selection biases.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932004006996
PMID: 16221321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Bioethics. 2005 Aug;19(4):379-92. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2005.00450.x.

Anti-infective therapy at the end of life: ethical decision-making in 
hospice-eligible patients.

Ford PJ(1), Fraser TG, Davis MP, Kodish E.

Author information:
(1)The Department of Bioethics-JJ60, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 
Euclid Ave., Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. Fordp@ccf.org

Clear guidelines addressing the ethically appropriate use of anti-infectives in 
the setting of hospice care do not exist. There is lack of understanding about 
key treatment decisions related to infection treatment for patients who are 
eligible for hospice care. Ethical concerns about anti-infective use at the end 
of life include: (1) delaying transition to hospice, (2) prolonging a dying 
process, (3) prescribing regimens incongruent with a short life expectancy and 
goals of care, (4) increasing the reservoir of potential resistant pathogens, 
(5) placing unreasonable costs on a capitated hospice system. Although 
anti-infectives are thought to be relatively safe, they can place a burden on 
patients and be inconsistent to particular care plans. The current complex, and 
at times fragmented, medical care often fails to address these issues in 
decision-making. In many ways, the ethics governing the end of life decisions 
related to dialysis, hydration/nutrition, and hypercalcemia parallel those of 
anti-infectives. In this article we articulate important elements in ethical 
decision-making in the application of anti-infectives for patients who are 
eligible for hospice care, and we point to the need for prospective studies to 
help refine particular guidelines in these cases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2005.00450.x
PMID: 16222854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2005 Aug;29(4):349-57. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2005.tb00206.x.

Prostate cancer, the PSA test and academic detailing in Australian general 
practice: an economic evaluation.

Stone CA(1), May FW, Pinnock CB, Elwood M, Rowett DS.

Author information:
(1)Budget, Planning and Review, Financial and Corporate Services, Department of 
Human Services, Melbourne, Victoria. christine.stone@dhs.vic.gov.au

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether introduction of a national education program for 
GPs to improve decision making relating to the use of prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) testing for screening represents 'value-for-money' from the perspective of 
the Australian Government.
METHODS: The annual equivalent costs and consequences of a proposed national 
program in steady state operation are estimated for Australia using 1996 as the 
reference year. Because of the controversy about the efficacy of screening using 
PSA testing, two scenarios are modelled. Uncertainty in the model is examined 
using Monte Carlo simulation methods.
RESULTS: In scenario one, our model predicts that the national program would 
cost dollars 12.5 million (gross) or dollars 6.6 million (net), would reduce the 
burden of disease by 4.7% of total DALYs due to prostate cancer in those aged 70 
and over, with no loss of life and an incremental cost effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of dollars 16,000/DALY (gross) and dollars 8,500/DALY (net). In scenario 
two, the proposed program would cost dollars 12.5 million (gross) or dollars 7.1 
million (net), would reduce the burden of disease by 3.1% of total, increase by 
44 the prostate cancer deaths at an ICER of dollars 24,000/DALY (gross) and 
dollars 14,000/DALY (net).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings, with an overall health benefit at moderate cost and 
acceptable ICER, support the case for consideration of a national education 
program on the assumption that prostate cancer screening over age 70 does not 
reduce mortality. A larger Australian study currently being conducted should 
provide stronger evidence on the value of implementing a full national program.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2005.tb00206.x
PMID: 16222933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. BMJ. 2005 Oct 15;331(7521):855-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.331.7521.855.

Tackling health inequalities in the enlarged European Union.

Koupil I.

Erratum in
    BMJ. 2005 Nov 5;331(7524):1062.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.331.7521.855
PMCID: PMC1255777
PMID: 16223797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. BMJ. 2005 Oct 15;331(7521):880-1. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38625.575903.79.

Cost effectiveness of complementary treatments in the United Kingdom: systematic 
review.

Canter PH(1), Coon JT, Ernst E.

Author information:
(1)Complementary Medicine, Peninsula Medical School, Universities of Exeter and 
Plymouth, Exeter EX2 4NT. peter.canter@pms.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2005 Oct 15;331(7521):856-7.
    BMJ. 2007 Mar 24;334(7594):600.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38625.575903.79
PMCID: PMC1255794
PMID: 16223821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Science. 2005 Oct 14;310(5746):314-7. doi: 10.1126/science.1117728.

Calorie restriction promotes mitochondrial biogenesis by inducing the expression 
of eNOS.

Nisoli E(1), Tonello C, Cardile A, Cozzi V, Bracale R, Tedesco L, Falcone S, 
Valerio A, Cantoni O, Clementi E, Moncada S, Carruba MO.

Author information:
(1)Integrated Laboratories Network, Department of Preclinical Sciences, Luigi 
Sacco Hospital, Milan University, 20157 Milan, Italy. enzo.nisoli@unimi.it

Calorie restriction extends life span in organisms ranging from yeast to 
mammals. Here, we report that calorie restriction for either 3 or 12 months 
induced endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression and 3',5'-cyclic 
guanosine monophosphate formation in various tissues of male mice. This was 
accompanied by mitochondrial biogenesis, with increased oxygen consumption and 
adenosine triphosphate production, and an enhanced expression of sirtuin 1. 
These effects were strongly attenuated in eNOS null-mutant mice. Thus, nitric 
oxide plays a fundamental role in the processes induced by calorie restriction 
and may be involved in the extension of life span in mammals.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1117728
PMID: 16224023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Curr Opin Oncol. 2005 Nov;17(6):566-72. doi:
10.1097/01.cco.0000180433.93872.d3.

Adjuvant chemotherapy in elderly patients with breast cancer: where are we?

Wildiers H(1), Brain EG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Catholic 
University of Leuven, Belgium. hans.wildiers@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Breast cancer in elderly patients is a major health concern 
that will only increase in the future. For early-stage breast cancer, adjuvant 
chemotherapy may be indicated in this patient group following adequate local 
treatment and before possible hormone therapy. This review summarizes the 
current knowledge and provides guidelines for the use of adjuvant chemotherapy 
in elderly patients with breast cancer.
RECENT FINDINGS: Most data are extracted from large multicenter trials with 
upper age limits of 65 or 70 years. Only one multicenter randomized study 
investigated the potential benefit of an adjuvant anthracycline-based 
chemotherapy regimen added to endocrine treatment after the age of 65 years. 
Retrospective analyses from international group databases show the same 
potential absolute benefit derived from adjuvant chemotherapy in elderly 
compared with younger patients, however. This benefit must be weighed against 
life expectancy and tolerability of chemotherapy.
SUMMARY: Limited confidence of medical oncologists with cytotoxic chemotherapy 
administration to the elderly and a lack of both prospective studies and shared 
guidelines for decision making in this subpopulation are the main factors 
responsible for the limited use of adjuvant chemotherapy in elderly patients 
with breast cancer. Fortunately this contrasts with an increasing awareness 
among clinicians, who should learn to integrate absolute benefit, life 
expectancy, and tolerance of chemotherapy in their clinical decisions. 
Discrimination on the basis of older age alone is no longer acceptable.

DOI: 10.1097/01.cco.0000180433.93872.d3
PMID: 16224234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Public Health Manag Pract. 2005 Nov-Dec;11(6):508-15. doi: 
10.1097/00124784-200511000-00006.

Economic evaluation of an HIV prevention intervention for seropositive injection 
drug users.

Tuli K(1), Sansom S, Purcell DW, Metsch LR, Latkin CA, Gourevitch MN, Gómez CA; 
INSPIRE Team.

Author information:
(1)Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV, STD and TB 
Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. 
ktuli@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of Intervention for HIV-Seropositive 
injection drug users--Research and Evaluation (INSPIRE), designed to reduce 
risky sexual and needle-sharing behaviors in research sites in four US cities 
(2001-2003).
METHODS: We collected data on program and participant costs. We used a 
mathematical model to estimate the number of sex partners of injection drug 
users expected to become infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (with 
and without intervention), cost of treatment for sex partners who became 
infected, and the effect of infection on partners' quality-adjusted life 
expectancy. We determined the minimum effect that INSPIRE must have on condom 
use among participants for the intervention to be cost-saving (intervention cost 
less than savings from averted HIV infections) or cost-effective (net cost per 
quality-adjusted life year saved less than $50,000).
RESULTS: The intervention cost was $870 per participant. It would be cost-saving 
if it led to 53 percent reduction in the proportion of participants who had any 
unprotected sex in 1 year and cost-effective with 17 percent reduction. If 
behavior change lasted 3 months, the cost-effectiveness threshold was 66 
percent; if 3 years, the threshold was 6 percent.
CONCLUSIONS: Although cost-saving thresholds may not be achievable by the 
intervention, we anticipate that cost-effectiveness thresholds will be attained.

DOI: 10.1097/00124784-200511000-00006
PMID: 16224285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Med Care. 2005 Nov;43(11):1147-54. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000183217.11811.bd.

Heritability of SF-36 among middle-age, middle-class, male-male twins.

Romeis JC(1), Heath AC, Xian H, Eisen SA, Scherrer JF, Pedersen NL, Fu Q, 
Bucholz KK, Goldberg J, Lyons MJ, Waterman B, Tsuang MT, True WR.

Author information:
(1)Comparative Aging and Health Status Laboratory, Department of Health 
Management and Policy, School of Public Health, Saint Louis University, St. 
Louis, MO 63104-1314, USA. romeisjc@slu.edu

OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine the relative importance of genetic and 
environmental factors for the MOS SF-36; a widely used, valid, and reliable 
measure of health-related quality of life and to discuss incorporating genetic 
influences into health services research.
DATA SOURCES: Data are from a nationally distributed, nonclinical cohort of 2928 
middle age, middle-class, male-male twin members of the Vietnam Era Twin 
Registry.
STUDY DESIGN: This was a secondary data analysis, classic twin heritability 
analysis.
DATA COLLECTION: A telephone survey was used to collect information on 
alcohol-related problems and health services use, including the SF-36.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Variance component analyses indicated that additive genetic 
factors accounted for 17% to 33% of the variance for each of the 8 domains of 
the SF-36. Shared environment accounted for 0% to 12% of the variance for each 
domain, with the majority of variance for each domain accounted for by 
nonshared, or unique environment and error. Physical and mental health summary 
measures indicated that approximately one-third of the variance was accounted 
for by additive genetic factors and the remainder accounted for by nonshared 
environment and error. Clinical condition, history of alcohol dependence, had a 
small-but-significant influence for all domains. Including condition proved to 
be a better-fitting model. However, confidence intervals temper uniform 
statistical significance for genetic factors.
CONCLUSIONS: This study assessed the heritability of the SF-36 in a nonclinical, 
community sample of middle age, middle-class all-male twins. The moderate 
genetic effects on SF-36 domain and summary measures are new findings and thus 
may affect interpretations of SF-36 as a measure of health-related quality of 
life. Ideally, trait-based measures should identify genetic sources of variation 
and thus help understand any bias of the true effects of SF-36. Still the 
majority of variance is accounted for by nonshared or unique environmental 
factors and error. By extension, increased understanding of the importance of 
genetic and environmental factors that influence either predictors or outcomes 
of interest will expand the level of scientific debate in health services 
research and improve predictability.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000183217.11811.bd
PMID: 16224309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. J Radiol. 2005 Sep;86(9 Pt 1):1017-20. doi: 10.1016/s0221-0363(05)81485-4.

[Imaging of rhinocerebral mucormycosis].

[Article in French]

Mnif N(1), Hmaied E, Oueslati S, Rajhi H, Hamza R, Marrakchi M, Kaffel N, Kooli 
H, Ben Salah M, Ferjaoui M.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Imagerie Médicale, Hôpital Charles Nicolle, 1006 Tunis, Tunisie.

PURPOSE: Rhinocerebal mucormycosis is a rare life threatening fungal infection 
observed in immunocompromised patients. We report six cases of patients with 
rhinocerebral mucormycosis confirmed histologically. Our study confirms the 
necessity of early diagnosis when clinical and CT findings are suggestive.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a retrospective study including 6 diabetic 
patients (3 women and 3 men) aged from 28 and 63 years. Five patients had 
ethmoiditis evolving for a few days (3 to 5 days), and one patient was in an 
ketoacidotic coma and had a severe infectious syndrome with purulent rhinorrhea 
evolving for 4 days. All of our patients underwent computed tomography (CT) scan 
of the paranasal sinuses. MRI was performed in two patients with neurological 
findings.
RESULTS: Unilateral ethmoido-maxillary sinusitis was noted in 5 cases. Only one 
case of pansinusitis was found. All patients presented orbital involvement. 
Cerebral involvement was noted in 4 cases (cerebral venous thrombosis: 2 cases; 
abscess: 2 cases; cerebral ischemia: 2 cases). The diagnosis of mucormycosis was 
based on endonasal biopsy. When available, MRI allowed a more precise evaluation 
of the orbital and cerebral extension.
CONCLUSION: Mucormycosis is an opportunist mycosis due to mucoralis fungus. It 
is very invasive with a highly aggressive potential in diabetic or 
immunocompromised patients. Imaging study particularly CT scan, plays an 
important role in diagnosis especially to evaluate cerebral extension.

DOI: 10.1016/s0221-0363(05)81485-4
PMID: 16224341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Mayo Clin Womens Healthsource. 2005 Oct;9(10):3.

Eating a Mediterranean diet may lengthen life.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16224353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Surg Innov. 2005 Sep;12(3):187-94. doi: 10.1177/155335060501200302.

Cholecystectomy after endoscopic sphincterotomy for common bile duct stones: is 
surgery necessary?

Harris HW(1), Davis BR, Vitale GC.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.

It has been more than 30 years since the introduction of endoscopic 
sphincterotomy for the management of choledocholithiasis. Once introduced, this 
endoscopic intervention subsequently enabled clinicians to witness the natural 
history of leaving the gallbladder in situ once the common duct calculi were 
removed. Because many people were free of symptoms once the common bile duct was 
cleared of stones, patients and physicians alike soon questioned whether it was 
necessary to remove the gallbladder at all. Despite more than two decades of 
clinical research and numerous published reports, the answer to this question 
remains elusive. Similarly, the management algorithm for choledocholithiasis in 
patients with an intact gallbladder remains controversial. We review the 
available key data regarding this question. Importantly, there are only three 
prospective, randomized trials that have examined the need for cholecystectomy 
after endoscopic sphincterotomy, with case studies constituting most of the 
published reports. Consequently, the literature on this topic remains 
inconclusive, weakened by its retrospective approach, considerable variability 
between the patients studied, inconsistent inclusion and exclusion criteria, and 
frequently poor patient follow-up. Nonetheless, the preponderance of data favor 
removing the gallbladder after endoscopically clearing the common bile duct of 
gallstones because an estimated 25% of patients will experience recurrent 
symptoms within a 2-year follow up period. Recognizing the existence of various 
mitigating clinical factors, we advocate adopting a selective wait-and-see 
approach for high-risk patients, especially those with a life expectancy of less 
than 2 years or severely debilitating comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1177/155335060501200302
PMID: 16224638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Health Policy. 2005 Nov;74(3):343-55. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.01.018.

Equity in health care prioritisation: an empirical inquiry into social value.

Stolk EA(1), Pickee SJ, Ament AH, Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 
1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. stolk@bmg.eur.nl

The value of QALY gains for different patients may be recalculated using equity 
weights, but it is unclear which interpretation of equity should be used: 
severity of illness, fair innings or proportional shortfall. We set up an 
experiment to analyze which of these equity concepts best reflects people's 
distributional preferences. Sixty respondents assigned a priority rank to the 
treatment of 10 conditions using the paired comparison technique. We described 
these real-life conditions by their actual QALY profiles, i.e. in terms of age, 
disease free period, duration of disease, quality of life, and life years lost. 
Next we determined the priority rank order of the 10 conditions by the three 
equity concepts, using the weights that each equity concept attributes to the 
different units of the QALY profile describing the 10 conditions. To explore the 
social interpretation of equity, we compared the observed and theoretical rank 
orderings using Spearman correlations. All correlations were significant at a 
0.05 level. Fair innings best predicted the observed rank order of the 10 
conditions (r=0.95). Weaker correlations were found for proportional shortfall 
(r=0.82) and severity of illness (r=-0.65). This result calls attention to 
health policy, because actual health care decisions often reflect concerns of 
severity of illness. This raises the question if health care decision makers 
evaluate the claims of different patients for health care by appropriate 
criteria.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.01.018
PMID: 16226144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Am J Ophthalmol. 2005 Oct;140(4):679-87. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2005.04.061.

The cost-utility of photodynamic therapy in eyes with neovascular macular 
degeneration--a value-based reappraisal with 5-year data.

Brown GC(1), Brown MM, Campanella J, Beauchamp GR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-Based Medicine, Flourtown, Pennsylvania 19031, USA. 
gbrown@valuebasedmedicine.com

PURPOSE: To assess the value conferred by photodynamic therapy (PDT) and the 
cost-utility of PDT for the treatment of classic, subfoveal choroidal 
neovascularization associated with age-related macular degeneration (ARMD).
DESIGN: Average cost-utility analysis utilizing clinical trial data, 
patient-based time tradeoff utility preferences, and a third party insurer cost 
perspective.
METHODS: Five-year visual acuity data from the TAP (Treatment of Age-related 
Macular Degeneration With Photodynamic Therapy) Investigation were modeled into 
a 12-year, value-based, reference case, cost-utility model utilizing year 2004 
Medicare costs and an outcome of dollar/QALY (dollars/quality-adjusted 
life-year). Discounting of outcomes and costs using net present value analysis 
with a 3% annual rate was performed as recommended by the Panel for 
Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine.
RESULTS: PDT with verteporfin (Visudyne) dye for classic subfoveal choroidal 
neovascularization confers an 8.1% quality of life (value) improvement over the 
12-year life expectancy of the reference case, while during the last 8 years the 
value improvement is 9.5%. The average cost-utility of the intervention is 
dollar 31,103/QALY (quality-adjusted life-year). Extensive one-way sensitivity 
analysis values range from dollar 20,736/QALY if treatment efficacy is increased 
by 50% to dollar 62,207 if treatment efficacy is decreased by 50%, indicating 
robustness of the model.
CONCLUSIONS: PDT using verteporfin dye to treat classic subfoveal choroidal 
neovascularization is a very cost-effective treatment by conventional standards. 
The marked improvement in cost-effectiveness compared with a previous report 
results from the facts that the treatment benefit increasingly accrues during 5 
years of follow-up while the number of yearly treatments diminishes markedly 
during that time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2005.04.061
PMID: 16226519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. J Hum Evol. 2005 Nov;49(5):650-3; discussion 654-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.04.012. Epub 2005 Oct 14.

How old is human longevity?

Hawkes K, O'Connell JF.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Jul 27;101(30):10895-900.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.04.012
PMID: 16226787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. J Hum Evol. 2005 Dec;49(6):762-76. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.08.001. Epub
2005  Oct 14.

Human encephalization and developmental timing.

Vinicius L(1).

Author information:
(1)Leverhulme Centre for Human Evolutionary Studies, University of Cambridge, 
Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3DZ, United Kingdom. lvc22@hermes.cam.ac.uk

Human evolution is frequently analyzed in the light of changes in developmental 
