    Ann Oncol. 2006 Mar;17(3):357-8.

BACKGROUND: Herceptin (trastuzumab) is a humanized monoclonal antibody that is 
being tested in the adjuvant setting. Cost implications of using trastuzumab, as 
administered in the Breast Cancer International Research Group 006 trial, are 
being calculated. This provides information on the treatment's value for money.
METHODS: Standard breast cancer treatment models were set up for different 
subpopulations according to stage (I, II, III) and menopausal condition (<50 and 
>50 years). Costs were calculated from the hospital's point of view, using the 
micro-costing method. Life expectancy data were based on literature. Our 
comparator was the existing practice. In addition to a sensitivity analysis, a 
threshold analysis on the prices of trastuzumab and docetaxel was performed to 
target an acceptable incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: Treatment costs were euro 45,034 (doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide --> 
docetaxel and trastuzumab) or euro 47,765 (docetaxel, carboplatin and 
trastuzumab). This was largely (79% and 75%, respectively) attributed to 
trastuzumab. According to our threshold analysis, an acceptable incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio can be reached if health improvements are large enough 
and/or price discounts are given.
CONCLUSIONS: Trastuzumab is a promising but very expensive antibody. With the 
current pressure on health-care budgets, cost implications of using trastuzumab 
in adjuvant setting must be calculated before use of the product becomes 
wide-spread. This provides essential information for price-setting policies and 
for policy makers considering reimbursement.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdj101
PMID: 16319089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Med Ethics. 2005 Dec;31(12):683-4; discussion 685-8. doi: 
10.1136/jme.2005.013813.

NICE discrimination.

Rawlins M, Dillon A.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2005 Jul;31(7):373-5.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2005.013813
PMCID: PMC1734060
PMID: 16319226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. J Med Ethics. 2005 Dec;31(12):703-6. doi: 10.1136/jme.2005.012427.

Individual survival time prediction using statistical models.

Henderson R(1), Keiding N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Copenhagen, Ã˜ster Farimagsgade 5, 
entr. B, PO Box 2099, DK-1014, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Doctors' survival predictions for terminally ill patients have been shown to be 
inaccurate and there has been an argument for less guesswork and more use of 
carefully constructed statistical indices. As statisticians, the authors are 
less confident in the predictive value of statistical models and indices for 
individual survival times. This paper discusses and illustrates a variety of 
measures which can be used to summarise predictive information available from a 
statistical model. The authors argue that models and statistical indices can be 
useful at the group or population level, but that human survival is so uncertain 
that even the best statistical analysis cannot provide single-number predictions 
of real use for individual patients.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2005.012427
PMCID: PMC1734073
PMID: 16319233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Nov 12;149(46):2550-3.

[On Hendrikje van Andel-Schipper and other remarkable developments in the life 
expectancy of the Dutch population].

[Article in Dutch]

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, afd. Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, Postbus 1738, 3000 DR 
Rotterdam. j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Feb 25;150(8):461-2; author reply 462.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Nov 12;149(46):2554-60.

The Netherlands was home to the oldest living individual in the world, Mrs. 
Hendrikje van Andel-Schipper, until she died at the age of 115 years on 30 
August 2005. She illustrated the remarkable increase in centenarians in many 
European countries resulting from substantial increases in life expectancy at 
birth. In 2004, life expectancy at birth in the Netherlands reached a record 
high of 76.9 years for men and 81.4 years for women. These developments raise 
important questions on the potential for further increases in life expectancy. 
Based on an extrapolation of recent trends in cause-specific mortality, 
Netherlands Statistics predicts an increase in life expectancy of 2 to 3 years 
in the half-century between 2004 and 2050. Experts are deeply divided about the 
prospects for further increases in life expectancy. Some have argued that such 
estimates are too optimistic because, for example, the obesity epidemic might 
even reduce average life expectancy in the future. Others consider these 
estimates too pessimistic because, for example, previous estimates of limits to 
life expectancy have almost always been surpassed. Even relatively modest 
increases in life expectancy at birth, however, will pose important challenges 
to health care, social services and pension arrangements.

PMID: 16320664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Nov 12;149(46):2554-60.

[Background on recent trends in mortality in the Netherlands].

[Article in Dutch]

Garssen MJ(1), Hoogenboezem J.

Author information:
(1)Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek, Postbus 4000, 2270 JM Voorburg. 
jgsn@cbs.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Nov 12;149(46):2550-3.

In the Netherlands, a considerable reduction in the annual number of deaths 
occurred in 2004. This reduction was largely caused by a decrease in the number 
of deaths from cardiovascular disease. - The risk of dying from cardiovascular 
disease has decreased in an almost linear manner during the past few decades. 
This reduction, which was well above average in the case of ischaemic heart 
disease, was registered for both sexes and across all age groups. The risk 
reduction in men aged 30-59 years was particularly large. - The contribution of 
neoplasms to total mortality continues to increase. However, the risk of dying 
from certain forms of cancer (lung for men, colon for women, stomach, 
gall-bladder, breast, prostate, uterus and ovaries) has been decreasing since 
the 1990s. - The risk of dying from breast cancer has decreased since the end of 
the 1990s. If present trends continue, Dutch women will be more likely to die 
from lung cancer than breast cancer from 2007 onwards. - The remarkably low 
mortality in 2004 may be attributed to the equable climatic conditions and the 
absence of an influenza epidemic. The drop in mortality was short-lived: in the 
first quarter of 2005, influenza caused a very strong increase in mortality 
among those aged over 80 years. - Even a further substantial reduction in 
mortality risks will not be able to prevent the predicted increase in the annual 
number of deaths in the Netherlands. This increase is estimated to end by the 
middle of this century.

PMID: 16320665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Leuk Lymphoma. 2006 Jan;47(1):171-3. doi: 10.1080/10428190500272721.

Low dose Velcade, thalidomide and dexamethasone (LD-VTD): an effective regimen 
for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma patients.

Ciolli S, Leoni F, Gigli F, Rigacci L, Bosi A.

From January 2004, R/R MM cases referred to the Institution received LD-VTD 
regimen. Patients, irrespective of age, PS and life expectancy, were enrolled in 
the study once they had a measurable disease. Planned therapy: Velcade 1.0 mg 
m(-2) i.v. twice weekly for 2 weeks of a 28-day cycle for up to 6 cycles, oral 
Dexamethasone 24 mg on the day of and the day following each Velcade dose and 
Thalidomide 100 mg each evening. DVT prophylaxis with warfarin to maintain 
international normalized ratio between 2.0-3.0 was planned in all patients. As 
of 1 June 2005, 18 were the treated patients: median age 63 years, median time 
from diagnosis 5.8 years, a median of 4 previous therapy lines. Seventeen were 
the valuable patients and 9 (53%) were the responders: 2 CR, 6 PR, 1 MR. Six 
were the stable disease and 2 the progressive ones. Median time to best response 
was 2 months. Toxicity was negligible. No case of DVT was recorded. Except for 
the first cycle, subsequent cycles were delivered on an outpatient basis. After 
a median follow-up of 11 months, 12 patients were alive and 5 died (3 disease 
progression, 1 heart failure, 1 intestinal bleeding). Thus, the LD-VTD regimen 
applied appears feasible and effective in elderly and heavily pre-treated R/R 
myeloma patients.

DOI: 10.1080/10428190500272721
PMID: 16321846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Cancer Res. 2005 Dec 1;65(23):10637-41. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-3473.

Tumor inflammatory angiogenesis and its chemoprevention.

Albini A(1), Tosetti F, Benelli R, Noonan DM.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Research on Cancer (IST), Genoa, Italy. 
adriana.albini@istge.it

The importance of angiogenesis for the growth of tumors is widely recognized. 
Drugs that successfully target the endothelium, such as antivascular endothelial 
growth factor antibodies, are beginning to have an effect on the life expectancy 
of cancer patients. However, the endothelial cell is not the only possible 
target for antiangiogenic therapy or prevention of vascularization 
(angioprevention). It is evident from the literature that native immune cells 
recruited into tumors in turn stimulate the endothelium and are responsible for 
an indirect pathway of tumor vascularization. Inflammation-dependent 
angiogenesis seems to be a central force in tumor growth and expansion, a 
concept supported by the observation that the use of "classic" anti-inflammatory 
drugs, such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, leads to angiogenesis 
inhibition. The mechanisms of inflammatory angiogenesis provide new approaches 
to target, cure, or even better, prevent tumor angiogenesis by treatment with 
synthetic or natural agents with anti-inflammatory properties. We propose 
chemoprevention of inflammatory angiogenesis as a way of checking the cancer 
before it progresses.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-3473
PMID: 16322203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. ASAIO J. 2005 Sep-Oct;51(5):665-7. doi: 10.1097/01.mat.0000171596.39362.7a.

Duration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation before extracorporeal rescue: how long 
is not long enough?

Kelly RB(1), Porter PA, Meier AH, Myers JL, Thomas NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Penn State Children's Hospital, Hershey, PA 
17033-0850, USA.

Despite the extensive resources required, extracorporeal cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation (ECPR) has been recognized as an extension of traditional CPR. The 
reported duration of CPR before ECPR initiation is similar between survivors and 
nonsurvivors, but the duration of CPR that results in futility of care is 
unknown. We report two cases of prolonged CPR followed by ECPR resulting in 
acceptable neurologic outcomes. Ventricular tachycardia developed in a 
4-year-old with myocarditis, resulting in a cardiac arrest requiring CPR for 176 
minutes before initiation of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). The 
patient required ECMO for 9 days. He survived neurologically normal. A 
ventricular arrhythmia developed in a newborn after an arterial switch 
procedure, leading to cardiac arrest requiring CPR for 97 minutes before ECMO, 
which lasted for 11 days. Hydrocephalus developed, but the patient is 
progressing developmentally. The upper limit of CPR duration before ECPR 
resulting in acceptable neurological outcomes is unknown. Many clinical and 
biochemical factors are potential predictors of appropriate ECPR utility. The 
Extracorporeal Life Support Organization registry is a plausible forum to 
collect data regarding ECPR. We suggest that possible predictive variables be 
collected. Until then, practitioners must rely on experience and judgment 
regarding the value of ECPR in children.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mat.0000171596.39362.7a
PMID: 16322737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Cancer. 2006 Jan 1;106(1):51-7. doi: 10.1002/cncr.21575.

Long-term hormone therapy and radiation is cost-effective for patients with 
locally advanced prostate carcinoma.

Konski A(1), Watkins-Bruner D, Brereton H, Feigenberg S, Hanks G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19111, USA. andre.konski@fccc.edu

BACKGROUND: In Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) trial 92-02, after men 
received neoadjuvant hormone cytoreduction and radiotherapy for locally advanced 
prostate carcinoma, they were randomized to receive either 2 years of long-term 
androgen-deprivation (LTAD) or no further treatment (short-term 
androgen-deprivation [STAD]). The specific objective of the current study was to 
determine whether LTAD was a cost-effective treatment for patients with locally 
advanced prostate carcinoma.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of LTAD was tested using a Markov model that was 
designed using proprietary software. The analysis took a payor's perspective. 
Unit costs were obtained by estimation using a global Medicare fee schedule. 
Costs and outcomes were discounted by 3%. Distributions were sampled at random 
from the treatment utilities, transition probabilities, and costs using a 
second-order Monte Carlo simulation technique.
RESULTS: The expected mean cost was 32,564 dollars for LTAD compared with 33,039 
dollars for STAD after accounting for the additional cost of salvage treatment 
for men who were treated with STAD. The mean number of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) for men who received LTAD was 4.13 QALYs compared with a mean of 
3.68 QALYs for men who received STAD. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve 
analysis showed a 91% probability that LTAD was cost-effective compared with 
STAD. Although overall survival was similar in the LTAD and STAD groups, the 
patients who received LTAD experienced gains in QALYs and had lower costs, 
because LTAD prevented biochemical failure and the necessitating salvage hormone 
therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The current analysis showed that LTAD was cost-effective for the 
entire population studied in RTOG trial 92-02.

Copyright 2005 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.21575
PMID: 16323171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2006 Feb;129(2):294-304. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20288.

Urban and rural differences in mortality and causes of death in historical 
Poland.

Budnik A(1), LiczbiÅ„ska G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Adam Mickiewicz University, 61-614 PoznaÅ„, 
Poland. ambpp@amu.edu.pl

The purpose of this paper is to document and interpret urban-rural differences 
in mortality in the past. To this end, we used data on mortality in 
Wielkopolska, Poland, in the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th 
century. The data on mortality in rural areas (N = 1,173,910 deceased), small 
towns (N = 573,903 deceased), and PoznaÅ„, the capital of the Wielkopolska region 
(N = 86,352 deceased), were gathered from original Prussian statistical 
yearbooks (Preussische Statistik). Causes of death were also analyzed (rural 
areas, N = 449,576 deceased; small towns, N = 238,365 deceased; PoznaÅ„, N = 
61,512 deceased). Mortality measures such as crude death rate (CDR), infant 
death rate (IDR), and neonatal and postneonatal death rates were calculated. 
Life tables were constructed for both stationary and stable population models 
and measures of the opportunity for natural selection calculated (Crow's index 
I(m), potential gross reproduction rate R(pot), and biological state index 
I(bs)). Relative frequencies of leading causes of death were computed. 
Stratification depending on the place of residence was evident in all mortality 
measures as well as in the values of the life tables and the measures of the 
opportunity for natural selection, but it was reverse of what is observed today 
in developed countries. In PoznaÅ„ (a large industrial city), the mortality 
situation was the least favorable. It was caused by large population density, 
lack of water supply and sewage systems (up to 1896), and bad working 
conditions. The values of CDR ranged between 26.89-31.46, and IDR between 
190.6-280.5. Newborn life expectancy (for a stable population model) was 31.6 
years, I(m) = 0.79, R(pot) = 0.85, and I(bs) = 0.47. The most common causes of 
death were tuberculosis, other diseases of the respiratory and circulatory 
systems, dysentery and diarrhea, and cancer. These diseases were less common in 
rural areas, so they had the most favorable values of mortality measures (CDR 
between 22.87-27.32, IDR between 181.8-219.4, life expectancy of newborn e(0) = 
42.12, I(m) = 0.55, R(pot) = 0.93, I(bs) = 0.60). Infectious diseases (other 
than tuberculosis), frailty at birth, and frailty in old age were the most 
frequent causes of death in rural areas. Small towns (population <20,000) had a 
mortality intermediate between city and rural areas.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20288
PMID: 16323200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Prev Med Public Health. 2005 Aug;38(3):351-8.

[Prevalence and related factors of dementia in an urban elderly population using 
a new screening method].

[Article in Korean]

Shin HY(1), Chung EK, Rhee JA, Yoon JS, Kim JM.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trial Center, Chonnam National University Hospital. 
sehyukmom@hanmail.net

OBJECTIVES: Dementia has rapidly increased with the prolongation of life 
expectancy and aging in Korea. This study was conducted to estimate the 
prevalence of, and find related factors for, dementia in an urban elderly 
population, using a newly developed screening method.
METHODS: Seven hundred and six people, aged over 65 years-old, in Dong district 
of Gwangju, Korea, were recruited using stratified cluster sampling, and 
completed Korean version of Geriatric Mental State Schedule B3 (GMS B3-K), the 
Korean version of the Community Screening Interview for Dementia (CSID-K) and 
modified 10 word list-learning from the Consortium to Establish a Registry of 
Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD). Dementia was diagnosed by an algorithm derived from 
all three of these measures.
RESULTS: The crude and age adjusted prevalence rates of dementia were 13.0 and 
11.5%, respectively. Age, education, marital status and a history of 
cerebrovascular disease were identified as factors related with dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: The new instrument, using the GMS B3-K, CSID-K and modified 10 word 
list-learning from the CERAD, was considered effective as a community screening 
and diagnostic tool for dementia. The results of this study can also be used to 
develop a community-based prevention and management system for dementia in the 
future.

PMID: 16323637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Genes Cells. 2005 Dec;10(12):1203-10. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2005.00913.x.

Thioredoxin is related to life span regulation and oxidative stress response in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Jee C(1), Vanoaica L, Lee J, Park BJ, Ahnn J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology, 
Korea.

Thioredoxin, an oxidoreductase, is a multifunction protein. The thioredoxin 
system is composed of NADPH, thioredoxin reductase and thioredoxin. This enzyme 
is highly conserved from bacteria to humans. We have characterized TRX-1, a 
thioredoxin homolog in C. elegans, which has about 36% identity in amino acid 
sequence with human thioredoxin. By gfp reporter system, trx-1 has been shown to 
be restrictedly expressed in ASI and ASJ neurons and in intestine. 
Immunostaining confirmed the intestinal expression. Full-length cDNA of trx-1 
has been isolated by cDNA library PCR and subsequently cloned and sequenced. We 
have shown that the encoded protein functions as a reductase in the insulin 
reducing assay. Moreover, we have isolated a deletion mutant by PCR-based TMP-UV 
mutagenesis method. Mutant animals have reduced life span and are sensitive to 
oxidative stress. Reintroduction of trx-1 into mutant worms fully restored the 
wild-type phenotype. Our results suggest that trx-1 has important functions in 
life span regulation and oxidative stress response in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2005.00913.x
PMID: 16324156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Gynecol Oncol. 2006 Mar;100(3):570-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2005.09.019. Epub
 2005 Dec 1.

Prognostic significance of high-risk HPV status in advanced cervical cancers and 
pelvic lymph nodes.

FÃ¼le T(1), CsapÃ³ Z, MÃ¡thÃ© M, TÃ¡trai P, LÃ¡szlÃ³ V, Papp Z, Kovalszky I.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Pathology Research Group, Joint Research Organization of the 
Hungarian Academy of Sciences and Semmelweis University, Ulloi Ãºt 26, H-1085 
Budapest, Hungary.

OBJECTIVE: In this study, we investigated the presence of high-risk (HR) HPV 
types most prevalent in the Hungarian population in surgically removed cervical 
cancers and pelvic lymph nodes. The aim of our work was to determine the 
prognostic significance of HPV status in the lymph nodes draining the tumor.
METHODS: Primary tumor specimens from 150 patients and 900 lymph node samples 
(six per case) were studied. Fifty-six/150 were early (FIGO IA-IB) stage, while 
94/150 were advanced (FIGO IIA-IIIB) stage cancers. Beside histopathological 
evaluation, DNA extracted from the tissue samples was subjected to nested PCR to 
detect characteristic type-specific sequences of HPVs 16, 18 and 33. Moreover, 
clinicopathological data were collected for an average 48-month postoperative 
follow-up period for the purposes of statistical analysis.
RESULTS: The presence of HR-HPV types in the lymph nodes shows no correlation 
with disease-free survival, whereas the presence of lymph node metastases 
significantly decreases life expectancy (P = 0.002). Lymph nodes with metastases 
more frequently carry HR-HPV than nodes with no evidence of tumorous 
infiltration (65% versus 36%, P < 0.001); however, a high number of metastases 
surrounding HR-HPV-positive tumors were found negative for the viruses (42/120).
CONCLUSIONS: HR-HPV status of pelvic lymph nodes draining cervical cancers has 
no noticeable influence on the life expectancy of the patients. HR-HPV-positive 
tumor cells do not necessarily have a selective advantage in forming metastases. 
Presumably, a number of alterations in cellular genes rather than the presence 
of papillomavirus DNA may have a decisive role in the progression of cervical 
cancers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2005.09.019
PMID: 16325245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. J Health Econ. 2006 Sep;25(5):821-46. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2005.10.007.
Epub  2005 Dec 1.

The welfare cost of violence across countries.

Soares RR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Maryland, 3105 Tydings Hall, College 
Park, MD 20742, United States. soares@econ.umd.edu

The cost of violence goes beyond its material dimension, including also the 
welfare loss due to higher mortality. A given mortality, and its distribution 
across age groups, determines a reduction in life expectancy that can be valued 
using the marginal willingness to pay approach. We estimate the health dimension 
of the welfare cost of violence for 73 countries. On average, 1 year of life 
expectancy lost to violence is associated with a yearly social cost of 3.8% of 
GDP. The health dimension increases the estimated social costs of violence by 
40% in the United States and by 57% in Latin America.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2005.10.007
PMID: 16325292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2006 Sep-Oct;43(2):187-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2005.10.006. Epub 2005 Dec 2.

The use of bisphosphonates in palliative treatment of bone metastases in a 
terminally ill, oncological elderly population.

Santangelo A(1), Testai M, Barbagallo P, Manuele S, Di Stefano A, Tomarchio M, 
Trizzino G, Musumeci G, Panebianco P, Maugeri D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Senescence, Urological and Neurological Sciences, University of 
Catania, Cannizzaro Hospital, Via Messina 829, I-95126 Catania, Italy. 
ninosantangelo@virgilio.it

According to the guidelines of WHO [WHO, 1999. Cancer Pain and Palliative Care 
Program. Cancer Pain Release, vol. 13], the term terminally ill patient refers 
to oncological patients whose life expectancy is lower than 90 days, and the 
index of their physical state (defined as the Karnofsky Index) is below 50. The 
terminally ill oncological patients are treatable with the palliative cures, 
representing a treatment system aimed at improving the quality of life (QOL) of 
both the patient and the family members, decreasing the physical and psychical 
sufferance of the patient. The present study followed 35 terminally ill 
oncological patients with bone metastases, at their homes, for the University of 
Catania. These patients had previously been followed by the Local Sanitary Unit 
(ASL 3) of Catania, and established a life expectancy not longer than 3 months. 
Independently from the basic neoplastic disease resulting in the bone 
metastases, all the patients were treated with sodium clodronate (SC) 
intravenously, 300 mg every second day, in order to decrease the bone pains. The 
visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain relief, the autonomy (IADL) and 
autosufficiency (ADL, Barthel Index) were evaluated after 1, 3, and 6 months of 
treatment. The results indicate an overall significant improvement both in the 
pain symptoms and the QOL. Also the compromised autonomy and autosufficiency of 
this population seemed to be improved, at least as compared to the predicted and 
expected results at the start of this trial, and also compared to the relevant 
literature. One can conclude that the i.v. application of 300 mg of SC every 
other day produced a significant pain reduction and improved the QOL, and helped 
in maintaining the actual autonomy and autosufficiency. On this basis we suggest 
the use of this compound in the given type of terminally ill patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2005.10.006
PMID: 16325938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Soc Sci Med. 2006 May;62(9):2091-100. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.10.023.
Epub  2005 Dec 1.

Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs): the silence of the lambda.

Gafni A(1), Birch S.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ont., Canada. gafni@mcmaster.ca

Despite the central role of the threshold incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER), or lambda (lambda), in the methods and application of cost-effective 
analysis (CEA), little attention has been given to the determining the value of 
lambda. In this paper we consider 'what explains the silence of the lambda'? The 
concept of the threshold ICER is critically appraised. We show that there is 
'silence of the lambda' with respect to justification of the value of ICER 
thresholds, their use in decision-making and their relationship to the 
opportunity cost of marginal resources. Moreover, the 'sound of silence' extends 
to both 'automatic cut-off' and more sophisticated approaches to the use of 
lambda in determining recommendations about health care programs. We argue that 
the threshold value provides no useful information for determining the 
efficiency of using available resources to support new health care programs. On 
the contrary, the threshold approach has lead to decisions that resulted in 
increased expenditures on health care programs and concerns about the 
sustainability of public funding for health care programs without any evidence 
of increases in total health gains. To improve efficiency in resource 
allocation, decision-makers need information about the opportunity costs of 
programs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.10.023
PMID: 16325975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Surg Clin North Am. 2005 Dec;85(6):1259-66, xi. doi:
10.1016/j.suc.2005.09.004.

Perioperative management of special populations: the geriatric patient.

Loran DB(1), Hyde BR, Zwischenberger JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Texas Medical Branch, 301 University 
Boulevard, Galveston, TX 77555, USA.

Americans over age 65 represent the fastest growing segment of the United States 
population. As a result, the demographic landscape of America is changing. 
Knowledge of aged physiology is necessary to construct a risk-benefit analysis 
tailored for each patient to improve perioperative outcomes and lower the 
morbidity and mortality rates among the elderly. Benefit estimates should 
account for a patient's life expectancy and quality of life before and after 
surgery. With aging, baseline functions of almost every organ system undergo 
progressive decline resulting in a decreased physiologic reserve and ability to 
compensate for stress. Pain control, postoperative cognitive dysfunction, 
end-of-life issues, and realistic expectations after surgery are paramount 
issues throughout the perioperative period.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suc.2005.09.004
PMID: 16326206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2005 Nov-Dec;28(9):719-23. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmpt.2005.09.002.

The effect of sacro occipital technique category II blocking on spinal ranges of 
motion: a case series.

Hochman JI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Technique and Analysis, College of Chiropractic, Life 
University, Marietta, GA 30062, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To describe changes in lumbar and cervical range of motion 
measurements after supine pelvic blocking as used in Sacro Occipital Technique 
(SOT).
METHODS: Five subjects with sacroiliac distortion and instability were recruited 
and selected for SOT. Cervical and lumbar ranges of motion were measured before 
and after category II blocking procedures used to change pelvic mechanics. Pre- 
and post-measurements were taken by a blinded assessor using a Zebris ultrasonic 
motion detector.
RESULTS: Changes were found in the lumbar spine only. Increased ranges of lumbar 
motion occurred in all planes except extension (21%-57%).
CONCLUSION: Supine pelvic blocking as used in SOT affected lumbar ranges of 
motion in these 5 cases. This may indicate that functional change in the pelvis 
results in changes in lumbar motion, especially lumbar flexion. Larger data sets 
are needed for further study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmpt.2005.09.002
PMID: 16326243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Cardiovasc Revasc Med. 2005 Oct-Dec;6(4):170-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.carrev.2005.10.004.

Anomalous right coronary artery angioplasty complicated by intramural hematoma 
in the ascending aorta.

Lee G(1), Yan BP, Ahmar W, Shetty S, Ajani AE.

Author information:
(1)Royal Melbourne Hospital, Victoria, Australia.

An iatrogenic intramural hematoma (IMH) localized in the ascending aorta is a 
rare and potentially life-threatening complication following percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI). We describe the case of an ascending aortic IMH 
after the PCI of an anomalous right coronary artery. Early extension of the 
hematoma was observed during transesophageal echocardiography; the patient 
underwent successful surgical repair.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carrev.2005.10.004
PMID: 16326379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Angiology. 2005 Nov-Dec;56(6):677-91. doi: 10.1177/000331970505600605.

Biomarkers of cardiac injury: an update.

Rajappa M(1), Sharma A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, India.

Conventional and promising new markers of myocardial injury have become an 
important diagnostic tool and their prognostic significance is also recognized. 
In addition, they help identify patients who will derive the most benefit from 
therapeutic interventions. The literature was searched from the websites of the 
National Library of Medicine (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) and PubMed Central, 
the U.S. National Library of Medicine's digital archive of life sciences journal 
literature (http://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/). The data were accessed from 
books and journals that published relevant articles in this field. The diagnosis 
of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) has traditionally relied on the combination 
of chest pain, ECG features, and elevation in serum markers. However, chest 
symptoms are frequently atypical or absent and ECG changes may be nonspecific or 
absent. Hence, the diagnosis of acute coronary syndromes has become increasingly 
dependent on serum markers of cardiac injury. Among them, creatine kinase (CK) 
is an effective and widely used test, with the recent CKMB assay offering 
greater specificity and sensitivity. Cardiac troponins facilitate early and 
rapid diagnosis, enable effective risk stratification in patients with AMI (with 
or without traditional criteria for MI), and identify those who will benefit 
from aggressive medical or surgical intervention. Recent data suggest the 
potential of myoglobin and CKMB isoforms as sensitive markers in the early hours 
after symptom onset. Cardiac-specific troponins help in rapid diagnosis, 
prognostication, and treatment of AMI. Troponins also facilitate early detection 
of recent infarction owing to their prolonged diagnostic window and also aid in 
the detection of "microinfarction.'' CKMB is used to detect reinfarction or 
infarct extension, if levels rise again after declining. Finally, novel 
biochemical markers are receiving attention in ongoing trials. They may prove to 
be more effective in diagnosis and prognosis than their existing counterparts.

DOI: 10.1177/000331970505600605
PMID: 16327944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2006 Feb;96(3):305-14. doi: 10.1007/s00421-005-0087-3.
Epub  2005 Nov 22.

Effects of isometric squat training on the tendon stiffness and jump 
performance.

Kubo K(1), Yata H, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Meguro-ku, 
Japan. kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The present study aimed to investigate the effect of isometric squat training on 
human tendon stiffness and jump performances. Eight subjects completed 12 weeks 
(4 days/week) of isometric squat training, which consisted of bilateral leg 
extension at 70% of maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) for 15 s per set (10 
sets/day). Before and after training, the elongations of the tendon-aponeurosis 
complex in the vastus lateralis muscle and patella tendon were directly measured 
using ultrasonography while the subjects performed ramp isometric knee extension 
up to MVC. The relationship between the estimated muscle force and tendon 
elongation was fitted to a linear regression, the slope of which was defined as 
stiffness. In addition, performances in two kinds of maximal vertical jumps, 
i.e. squatting (SJ) and counter-movement jumps (CMJ), were measured. The 
training significantly increased the volume (P < 0.01) and MVC torque (P < 0.01) 
of the quadriceps femoris muscle. The stiffness of the tendon-aponeurosis 
complex increased significantly from 51 +/- 22 (mean +/- SD) to 59 +/- 24 N/mm 
(P = 0.04), although that of the patella tendon did not change (P = 0.48). The 
SJ height increased significantly after training (P = 0.03), although the CMJ 
height did not (P = 0.45). In addition, the relative difference in jump height 
between SJ and CMJ decreased significantly after training (P = 0.02). These 
results suggest that isometric squat training changes the stiffness of human 
tendon-aponeurosis complex in knee extensors to act negatively on the effects of 
pre-stretch during stretch-shortening cycle exercises.

DOI: 10.1007/s00421-005-0087-3
PMID: 16328192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Pituitary. 2004;7(3):139-144. doi: 10.1007/s11102-005-1756-2.

Poor responses to a test dose of subcutaneous octreotide predict the need for 
adjuvant therapy to achieve 'safe' growth hormone levels.

Lindsay JR(1), McConnell EM(1), Hunter SJ(1), McCance DR(1), Sheridan B(2), 
Atkinson AB(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Regional Centre for Endocrinology and Diabetes, Royal Victoria Hospital, 
Grosvenor Rd, Belfast, UK.
(2)Regional Endocrine Laboratory, Royal Victoria Hospital, Grosvenor Rd, 
Belfast, UK.
(3)Regional Centre for Endocrinology and Diabetes, Royal Victoria Hospital, 
Grosvenor Rd, Belfast, UK. ab.atkinson@royalhospitals.n-i.nhs.uk.
(4)Regional Centre for Endocrinology and Diabetes, Royal Victoria Hospital, 
Grosvenor Rd, Belfast, BT12 6BA, UK. ab.atkinson@royalhospitals.n-i.nhs.uk.

OBJECTIVE: Somatostatin analogues are an established treatment in acromegaly. 
This study was designed to evaluate whether the acute serum growth hormone (GH) 
response to a test dose of octreotide in acromegaly predicts longer-term 
response to the drug at 3 years.
DESIGN AND METHODS: In 23 patients, GH responses across 8 h to a subcutaneous 
test dose (50 microg) of octreotide were compared with GH levels after 3 years 
of therapy. The majority had pituitary surgery as primary therapy and at 3 years 
were receiving at least 600 microg octreotide daily subcutaneously or 20 mg LAR 
monthly intramuscularly.
RESULTS: Seven had a test day GH Nadir of 5 mU/l or less of whom 4 achieved GH < 
5 mU/l at 3 years. Sixteen had a test day nadir GH of 10 mU/l or less and of 
these 8 achieved GH < 5 mU/l at 3 years. Seven of the 23 had a GH Nadir >10 mU/l 
and of these 3 had achieved GH <5 mU/l at 3 years. However all of these 3 had 
received external pituitary irradiation within 4 years of the 3 year assessment, 
as compared with 3 of the <5 mU/l nadir group and 5 of the <10 mU/l nadir group.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients on optimal long-term doses of octreotide for 
acromegaly, absence of a nadir GH <10 mU/l in the 8 h after a test dose was 
associated with failure to achieve GH levels associated with a normal life 
expectancy (5 mU/l or less) unless adjunctive external pituitary irradiation was 
given. As well as testing tolerability a test dose of octreotide may help in 
determining which patients should be offered early external pituitary 
irradiation or therapy with a GH receptor antagonist if surgery has failed to 
achieve 'safe' GH levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s11102-005-1756-2
PMID: 16328564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Lifetime Data Anal. 2005 Dec;11(4):565-82. doi: 10.1007/s10985-005-5240-0.

Graphical tests for the assumption of gamma and inverse Gaussian frailty 
distributions.

Economou P(1), Caroni C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, National Technical University of Athens, Greece.

The common choices of frailty distribution in lifetime data models include the 
Gamma and Inverse Gaussian distributions. We present diagnostic plots for these 
distributions when frailty operates in a proportional hazards framework. 
Firstly, we present plots based on the form of the unconditional survival 
function when the baseline hazard is assumed to be Weibull. Secondly, we base a 
plot on a closure property that applies for any baseline hazard, namely, that 
the frailty distribution among survivors at time t has the same form as the 
original distribution, with the same shape parameter but different scale 
parameter. We estimate the shape parameter at different values of t and examine 
whether it is constant, that is, whether plotted values form a straight line 
parallel to the time axis. We provide simulation results assuming Weibull 
baseline hazard and an example to illustrate the methods.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-005-5240-0
PMID: 16328577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Photosynth Res. 2004;80(1-3):223-43. doi:
10.1023/B:PRES.0000030444.52579.10.

The Q-cycle - A Personal Perspective.

Crofts AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, 419 Roger Adams Laboratory, 600 South Mathews 
Avenue, Urbana, IL, 61801, USA, a-crofts@life.uiuc.edu.

In this Minireview, I provide an overview of the developments over the period 
1970 to 1990 that led to the current view of the Q-cycle mechanism of the 
cytochrome bc (1) complex. The perspective is necessarily personal, and places 
some emphasis on research on the complex in the photosynthetic bacteria, where 
the kinetics could be studied in situ and with better time resolution than in 
mitochondria. Peter Mitchell's original Q-cycle underwent several early 
revisions. The version of the Q-cycle currently accepted in most labs owed much 
to a perceptive critique by Peter Garland, who proposed a modified Q-cycle that 
allowed the complex to act independently. This was among several variants 
discussed by Mitchell in a seminal review from 1976. Six years later, despite 
significant advances in both mitochondrial and bacterial work, discrimination 
between the half-dozen or so variants that remained in active contention had 
proved elusive, and the kinetic data from both mitochondrial and photosynthetic 
systems was refractory. This was the basis of my own opposition to the Q-cycle. 
While trying to explain this opposition to an undergraduate student in the lab I 
was led to a re-evaluation of the kinetic data in the light of the substantial 
advances in our understanding of the biochemistry and thermodynamic properties 
of the complex. From this it became apparent that one version of the Q-cycle 
could account with satisfactory economy for the data from the photosynthetic 
bacteria, and for most results from work with mitochondrial complexes. The 
resulting model was highly constrained, and, since it incorporated Garland's 
suggestions for an independent mechanism, was called the modified Q-cycle. The 
modified Q-cycle has stood the test of time well, and the recent structural 
information has both confirmed the general mechanism, and allowed extension to a 
more detailed understanding of the molecular architecture, and the relation 
between structure and function.

DOI: 10.1023/B:PRES.0000030444.52579.10
PMID: 16328823


895. Qual Life Res. 2005 Dec;14(10):2177-85. doi: 10.1007/s11136-005-8027-6.

Estimating utility values for health states of overweight and obese individuals 
using the SF-36.

Kortt MA(1), Clarke PM.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, University of New England, Armidale, NSW, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To use health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) data from the 
Australian 1995 National Health Survey to estimate the impact of obesity (as 
measured by body mass index or BMI) on utility and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE).
METHOD: SF-36 responses from 12,661 individuals in the general population were 
transformed into utility values using the SF-6D algorithm developed by Brazier 
and colleagues. Separate regression analyses for males and females were used to 
examine the impact of BMI and five obesity-related medical conditions (diabetes, 
coronary heart disease, depression, musculoskeletal disorders, and cancer) on 
utility. The utility estimates were used to provide indicative estimates of the 
decrease in QALE associated with being overweight or obese.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant negative relationship between BMI 
and utility for males and females. For males (females), the marginal effect of a 
one-unit increase in BMI was associated with a -0.0024 (-0.0034) decrement in 
utility. Based on these estimates, a non-smoking male (female) aged 40 years who 
is obese can expect 7.2 (8.7) years less of QALE over their remaining lifetime.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that BMI is negatively associated with utility. 
Evaluation of policies designed to prevent or treat obesity should capture HRQoL 
as an outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-005-8027-6
PMID: 16328898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Haematologica. 2005 Dec;90(12):1617-25.

Detailed analysis of FLT3 expression levels in acute myeloid leukemia.

Kuchenbauer F(1), Kern W, Schoch C, Kohlmann A, Hiddemann W, Haferlach T, 
Schnittger S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, Ludwig-Maximilians University of Munich, 
University Hospital Grosshadern, Munich, Germany.

Comment in
    Haematologica. 2005 Dec;90(12):1586.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: FLT3 mutations are found in up to 30% of cases of 
acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Although new FLT3 mutations are being increasing 
by investigated, the role of FLT3 expression levels in wild type as well as in 
mutated FLT3 has only been infrequently addressed.
DESIGN AND METHODS: To further evaluate the role of FLT3 in AML we investigated 
FLT3 expression levels in 207 adult AML patients and 8 healthy donors by 
real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The expression levels were correlated 
with clinical parameters, FAB types, cytogenetics, flow cytometry, microarray 
analysis, FLT3 mutations, further molecular aberrations and prognosis.
RESULTS: FLT3 expression levels were different in certain FAB types with 
increasing levels in the following order: M3<M3v<M6<M2<M4eo<M4<M0<M1<M5a<M5b. 
These results correlate with the FLT3 receptor surface expression (CD135) 
detected by flow cytometry (p<0.001), showing the highest CD135 expression in 
FAB M5. Independent analysis of FLT3 expression in cytogenetic AML subgroups 
showed the lowest levels in t(15;17) and the highest in the t(11q23) positive 
AML. In addition, FLT3 expression levels correlated with high percentages of 
bone marrow blasts (p<0.001) and high leukocyte counts (p<0.001). On the 
molecular level, no differences in FLT3 expression levels were detected between 
AML with and without any FLT3 mutation as well as for FAB M5 with or without MLL 
abnormalities (p=0.495). Furthermore, no significant difference could be found 
between the group of t(11q23) and MLL-PTD (p=0.180) or between MLL-PTD positive 
and MLL negative normal karyotypes (p=0.859). In patients with normal 
cytogenetics no impact or overall survival or event-free survival could be 
detected (p=0.128 and p=0.305, respectively) regardless of FLT3 muatation 
status, whereas investigating the group of patients with normal cytogenetics and 
wild-type FLT3, a clear tendency for a worse overall (p=0.059) and event free 
(p=0.087) survival was found.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: FLT3 expression levels are correlated with 
clinical data, genetic subgroups as well as prognosis. Furthermore, our data 
indicate that FLT3 expression and signaling are closely associated with FAB M5.

PMID: 16330434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Haematologica. 2005 Dec;90(12):1643-9.

Feasibility and outcome of tandem stem cell autotransplants in multiple myeloma.

Galli M(1), Nicolucci A, Valentini M, Belfiglio M, Delaini F, Crippa C, Barbui 
AM, Giussani U, Rambaldi A, Barbui T.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Ospedali Riuniti, Bergamo, Italy. 
monicagalli@virgilio.it

Comment in
    Haematologica. 2005 Dec;90(12):1588.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Clinical trials have shown that high dose 
chemotherapy (HDT) with peripheral stem cell autotransplantation is presently 
the best treatment for patients with symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM). In the 
context of an outcomes research project, we analyzed the feasibility of this 
strategy in clinical practice in a large cohort of consecutive, unselected 
patients with newly diagnosed MM and looked at the major determinants of 
response of patients enrolled in a HDT with tandem autotransplantation (Total 
Therapy I, TTI) program.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Two hundred and fourteen patients were treated outside of a 
clinical trial and regularly followed-up at our Center for symptomatic MM. 
Ninety-seven patients (45%) received conventional chemo-radiotherapy regimens, 
110 (51%) entered the TTI program and the remaining 7 patients (3.3%) were 
enrolled in other programs involving HDT with autotransplantation.
RESULTS: Patients enrolled in HDT with tandem autotransplantation programs were 
14 years younger and less likely to have co-morbidities than patients treated 
with conventional therapy. Median overall survivals of the two groups were 60 
and 33 months, respectively. Thirteen percent of the patients enrolled in the 
TTI program did not receive the first HDT with autotransplantation, mostly 
because of disease progression, and another 16% did not proceed to the second 
HDT with autotransplantation mainly because of infections or drug-related 
complications. Most patients achieved complete remission after the second 
autotransplantation, with acceptable toxicity. However, only patients with a 
major reduction of the myeloma burden at the end of induction therapy enjoyed 
significantly prolonged event-free and overall survivals.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Approximately one third of patients with newly 
diagnosed symptomatic MM completed the TTI program. These data suggest the need 
to improve the induction therapy in order to increase both the number of 
patients able to proceed to autotransplantation programs and to enhance the rate 
of early response.

PMID: 16330437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Haematologica. 2005 Dec;90(12):1650-4.

Combination therapy with thalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma not undergoing upfront autologous stem cell 
transplantation: a phase II trial.

Dingli D(1), Rajkumar SV, Nowakowski GS, Gertz MA, Dispenzieri A, Lacy MQ, 
Hayman S, Fonseca R, Lust JA, Kyle RA, Greipp PR, Witzig TE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic College 
of Medicine, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Comment in
    Haematologica. 2005 Dec;90(12):1589.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Thalidomide plus dexamethasone (Thal/Dex) has emerged 
as an effective alternative to vincristine, doxorubicin and dexamethasone as a 
pre-transplant induction therapy for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. However, 
many patients treated initially with Thal/Dex do not proceed to autologous stem 
cell transplantation (ASCT) and the time to progression and other outcome 
measures with Thal/Dex as primary therapy for multiple myeloma are not known. We 
present the first data on the outcome of patients with newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma treated with Thal/Dex who did not undergo upfront ASCT.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We identified 21 patients with newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma treated with Thal/Dex on a phase II clinical trial who did not undergo 
ASCT due to age, comorbidity or the patient's refusal. Patients received 
thalidomide at a dose of 200 mg/day orally and dexamethasone 40 mg daily on days 
1-4, 9-12, 17-20 (odd months) and days 1-4 (even months). Cycles were repeated 
every 28 days.
RESULTS: The median age was 66 years (range 36-78). The median duration of 
follow-up was 21 months (range 1-52). One (5%) patient achieved a complete 
response, and 9 (43%) had a partial response, so the overall response rate was 
48%. Of the remaining patients, 7 (33.3%) had stable disease, one patient did 
not respond, and three died while on therapy prior to response assessment. The 
median overall survival and time to progression were 21 months and 18 months, 
respectively.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: The median time to disease progression in 
patients with multiple myeloma who receive initial therapy with Thal/Dex and who 
do not undergo ASCT is 18 months.

PMID: 16330438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Haematologica. 2005 Dec;90(12):1709-10.

Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and residential proximity to toxic industrial waste in 
southern Israel.

Dreiher J, Novack V, Barachana M, Yerushalmi R, Lugassy G, Shpilberg O.

Comment in
    Haematologica. 2008 Oct;93(10):e64.

Environmental exposure has been linked to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Toxic 
volatile compounds were found in groundwater downstream of an industrial site in 
southern Israel. The risk of NHL and clinical characteristics of NHL patients 
