Author information:
(1)Program Evaluation Unit, Melbourne University Health Economics Group, School 
of Population Health, Melbourne, VIC 3010, Australia. 
c.mihalopoulos@unimelb.edu.au

We evaluated an Internet-based psychological intervention supported by either 
general practitioners or psychologists (Panic Online), and a Primary-care 
Evidence-based Psychological-interventions (PEP) strategy which involves 
training GPs to deliver specific psychological interventions. Economic modelling 
suggests that Panic Online is cost-effective when supported by either GPs or 
psychologists. Threshold analysis of the psychological training of GPs suggests 
that a modest effect size for clinical benefit would be sufficient to provide an 
acceptable cost-effectiveness ratio. The sustainability of these approaches 
depends on a range of factors, including funding, workforce availability, and 
acceptability to consumers and health care providers.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2005.tb07184.x
PMID: 16296957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Risk Anal. 2005 Oct;25(5):1161-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2005.00671.x.

Forecasting Spanish natural life expectancy.

Guillen M(1), Vidiella-i-Anguera A.

Author information:
(1)Departament d'Econometria, Estadistica i Economia Espanyola, Universitat de 
Barcelona, Diagonal, 690 08034 Barcelona, Spain. mguillen@ub.edu

Knowledge of trends in life expectancy is of major importance for policy 
planning. It is also a key indicator for assessing future development of life 
insurance products, substantiality of existing retirement schemes, and long-term 
care for the elderly. This article examines the feasibility of decomposing 
age-gender-specific accidental and natural mortality rates. We study this 
decomposition by using the Lee and Carter model. In particular, we fit the 
Poisson log-bilinear version of this model proposed by Wilmoth and Brouhns et 
al. to historical (1975-1998) Spanish mortality rates. In addition, by using the 
model introduced by Wilmoth and Valkonen we analyze mortality-gender 
differentials for accidental and natural rates. We present aggregated life 
expectancy forecasts compared with those constructed using nondecomposed 
mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2005.00671.x
PMID: 16297222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 2006 Jan;74(1):39-60. doi: 
10.1016/j.plefa.2005.09.003. Epub 2005 Nov 16.

Effect of prostaglandins against alloxan-induced diabetes mellitus.

Sailaja Devi MM(1), Das UN.

Author information:
(1)UND Life Sciences, Shaker Heights, OH 44120, USA.

Previously, we observed that alloxan-induced in vitro cytotoxicity and apoptosis 
in an insulin secreting rat insulinoma, RIN, cells was prevented by prior 
exposure to prostaglandin (PG) E(1), PGE(2), PGI(2), PGF(1)(alpha), and 
PGF(3)(alpha) (P<0.05 compared to alloxan), whereas thromboxane B(2) (TXB(2)) 
and 6-keto-PGF(1)(alpha) were ineffective. In an extension of these studies, we 
now report that prior intraperitoneal administration of PGE(1), PGE(2), 
PGF(1)(alpha), and PGF(3)(alpha) prevented alloxan-induced diabetes mellitus in 
male Wistar rats, whereas PGI(2), TXB(2), and 6-keto PGF(1)(alpha) were not that 
effective. PGE(1), PGE(2), PGF(1)(alpha), and PGF(3)(alpha) not only attenuated 
chemical-induced diabetes mellitus but also restored the antioxidant status to 
normal range in red blood cells and pancreas. These results suggest that PGE(1), 
PGE(2), PGF(1)(alpha), and PGF(3)(alpha) can abrogate chemically induced 
diabetes mellitus in experimental animals and attenuate the oxidant stress that 
occurs in diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plefa.2005.09.003
PMID: 16297610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Soz Praventivmed. 2005;50(5):301-10. doi: 10.1007/s00038-005-5017-y.

Differential inequity in health expectancy by region in Belgium.

Van Oyen H(1), Bossuyt N, Deboosere P, Gadeyne S, Abatih E, Demarest SS.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Epidemiology, Scientific Institute of Public Health, Brussels, 
Belgium. h.vanoyen@iph.fgov.be

Erratum in
    Soz Praventivmed. 2006;51(1):67.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the size of social inequities in health between regions 
in Belgium using a composite health measure, the disability free life expectancy 
(DFLE).
METHODS: Mortality data (5-years follow-up of the 1991 census) are combined with 
the 1997 Health Interview Survey to estimate the DFLE by education. Differences 
in partial life expectancy25-74 (LE25-74) and in DFLE25-74 between those at the 
bottom and those at the top of a relative social scale are used to compare the 
regional inequities.
RESULTS: The higher educated person has a longer LE, with more years free of 
disability and less years with disability (in years: Flemish males: LE = 46.48; 
DFLE = 42.08; Walloon males: LE = 44.92; DFLE = 39.80; Flemish females: LE = 
47.90; DFLE = 41.93; Walloon females: LE = 46.90; DFLE = 39.84) compared to the 
population at the bottom of the education hierarchy (in years: Flemish males: LE 
= 44.86; DFLE = 30.16; Walloon males: LE = 42.77; DFLE = 27.00; Flemish females: 
LE = 46.86; DFLE = 28.30; Walloon females: LE = 45.44; DFLE = 25.30). The 
inequity in LE and in DFLE is larger in the Walloon Region than in the Flemish 
Region. Only the regional difference in inequity in LE is statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSION: The DFLE can be used to monitor the size of health inequities.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-005-5017-y
PMID: 16300174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Chem Res Toxicol. 2005 Nov;18(11):1701-14. doi: 10.1021/tx050141k.

Site specific synthesis and polymerase bypass of oligonucleotides containing a 
6-hydroxy-3,5,6,7-tetrahydro-9H-imidazo[1,2-a]purin-9-one base, an intermediate 
in the formation of 1,N2-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine.

Goodenough AK(1), Kozekov ID, Zang H, Choi JY, Guengerich FP, Harris TM, Rizzo 
CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 
37235-1822, USA.

The reaction of DNA with certain bis-electrophiles such as chlorooxirane and 
chloroacetaldehyde produces etheno adducts. These lesions are highly miscoding, 
and some of the chemical agents that produce them have been shown to be 
carcinogenic in laboratory animals and in humans. An intermediate in the 
formation of 1,N2-ethenoguanine is 
6-hydroxy-3,5,6,7-tetrahydro-9H-imidazo[1,2-a]purin-9-one 
(6-hydroxyethanoguanine), which undergoes conversion to the etheno adduct. The 
chemical properties and miscoding potential of the hydroxyethano adduct have not 
been previously studied. A synthesis of the hydroxyethano-adducted nucleoside 
was developed, and it was site specifically incorporated into oligonucleotides. 
This adduct had a half-life of between 24 and 48 h at neutral pH and 25 degrees 
C at the nucleoside and oligonucleotide levels. The miscoding potential of the 
hydroxyethano adduct was examined by primer extension reactions with the DNA 
polymerases Dpo4 and pol T7-, and the results were compared to the corresponding 
etheno-adducted oligonucleotide. Dpo4 preferentially incorporated dATP opposite 
the hydroxyethano adduct and dGTP opposite the etheno adduct; pol T7- 
preferentially incorporated dATP opposite the etheno adduct while dGTP and dATP 
were incorporated opposite the hydroxyethano adduct with nearly equal catalytic 
efficiencies. Collectively, these results indicate that the hydroxyethano adduct 
has a sufficient lifetime and miscoding properties to contribute to the 
mutagenic spectrum of chlorooxirane and related genotoxic species.

DOI: 10.1021/tx050141k
PMCID: PMC3135970
PMID: 16300379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2005;118:220-30.

Future of caring for an aging population: trends, technology, and caregiving.

Wiet SG(1).

Author information:
(1)McNeil Consumer & Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Ft. Washington, PA, USA.

Demographic trends clearly indicate that the US population aging patterns will 
continue to skew increasingly older for decades to come. Driven largely by 
healthcare and environmental improvements, the average life expectancy in the 
industrialized world has increased almost 30 years in the last century, allowing 
people to routinely live well into their 70s and beyond. A concomitant trend has 
also emerged as a result of increased longevity - the increased number of family 
caregivers responsible for managing the diverse needs of an elderly spouse or 
parent. This chapter reviews these emerging trends and their ramifications in 
more detail. It will also provide insights into some of the issues facing family 
caregivers as they attempt to balance this added responsibility along with other 
demands in their lives. Finally, this chapter will outline some of the 
technology-driven, needs-based solutions that are necessary for maintaining the 
quality of life for both the family caregiver and the care recipient.

PMID: 16301781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Mayo Clin Womens Healthsource. 2005 Dec;9(12):10.

How long can the average woman expect to live these days?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16301989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2005 Oct;100(6):475-506. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02762005000600001. Epub 2005 Nov 8.

The use of biodiversity as source of new chemical entities against defined 
molecular targets for treatment of malaria, tuberculosis, and T-cell mediated 
diseases--a review.

Basso LA(1), da Silva LH, Fett-Neto AG, de Azevedo WF Jr, Moreira Ide S, Palma 
MS, Calixto JB, Astolfi Filho S, dos Santos RR, Soares MB, Santos DS.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Biociências, Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, 90619-900, Brasil. luiz.basso@pucrs.br

The modern approach to the development of new chemical entities against complex 
diseases, especially the neglected endemic diseases such as tuberculosis and 
malaria, is based on the use of defined molecular targets. Among the advantages, 
this approach allows (i) the search and identification of lead compounds with 
defined molecular mechanisms against a defined target (e.g. enzymes from defined 
pathways), (ii) the analysis of a great number of compounds with a favorable 
cost/benefit ratio, (iii) the development even in the initial stages of 
compounds with selective toxicity (the fundamental principle of chemotherapy), 
(iv) the evaluation of plant extracts as well as of pure substances. The current 
use of such technology, unfortunately, is concentrated in developed countries, 
especially in the big pharma. This fact contributes in a significant way to 
hamper the development of innovative new compounds to treat neglected diseases. 
The large biodiversity within the territory of Brazil puts the country in a 
strategic position to develop the rational and sustained exploration of new 
metabolites of therapeutic value. The extension of the country covers a wide 
range of climates, soil types, and altitudes, providing a unique set of 
selective pressures for the adaptation of plant life in these scenarios. 
Chemical diversity is also driven by these forces, in an attempt to best fit the 
plant communities to the particular abiotic stresses, fauna, and microbes that 
co-exist with them. Certain areas of vegetation (Amazonian Forest, Atlantic 
Forest, Araucaria Forest, Cerrado-Brazilian Savanna, and Caatinga) are rich in 
species and types of environments to be used to search for natural compounds 
active against tuberculosis, malaria, and chronic-degenerative diseases. The 
present review describes some strategies to search for natural compounds, whose 
choice can be based on ethnobotanical and chemotaxonomical studies, and screen 
for their ability to bind to immobilized drug targets and to inhibit their 
activities. Molecular cloning, gene knockout, protein expression and 
purification, N-terminal sequencing, and mass spectrometry are the methods of 
choice to provide homogeneous drug targets for immobilization by optimized 
chemical reactions. Plant extract preparations, fractionation of promising plant 
extracts, propagation protocols and definition of in planta studies to maximize 
product yield of plant species producing active compounds have to be performed 
to provide a continuing supply of bioactive materials. Chemical characterization 
of natural compounds, determination of mode of action by kinetics and other 
spectroscopic methods (MS, X-ray, NMR), as well as in vitro and in vivo 
biological assays, chemical derivatization, and structure-activity relationships 
have to be carried out to provide a thorough knowledge on which to base the 
search for natural compounds or their derivatives with biological activity.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762005000600001
PMID: 16302058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Rand J Econ. 2005 Summer;36(2):412-32.

Supplier discretion over provision: theory and an application to medical care.

Malcomson JM(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Oxford. james.malcomson@economics.oxford.ac.uk

Suppliers who are better informed than purchasers, such as physicians treating 
insured patients, often have discretion over what to provide. I show how, when 
the purchaser observes what is supplied but neither the recipient type nor the 
actual cost incurred, optimal provision differs from what would be efficient if 
the purchaser had full information, weather or not the supplier can extract 
informational rent. The analysis is applied to, among other things, data on 
tests for coronary artery disease and to Medicare diagnosis-related groups 
defined by the treatment given, not just the diagnosis, illustrating the biases 
in provision that result.

PMID: 16302314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. AIDS Rev. 2005 Jul-Sep;7(3):155-60.

High-risk dysmetabolism disorders associated with HAART-treated HIV disease, and 
reimbursement of lipid-lowering drugs, in a clinical and a socio-economic 
perspective.

Manfredi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimetal Medicine, Division of Infectious 
Diseases, University of Bologna, Alma Mater Studiorum, S. Orsola Hospital, 
Bologna, Italy. manfredi@med.unibo.it

The significant advances achieved in the management of HIV disease, thanks to 
highly active antiretroviral therapy, are at risk of being frustrated by the 
recent changes in the cost reimbursement rules for all lipid-lowering drugs 
available in Italy. Unfortunately, the remarkably increased life expectancy 
achieved since mid-1996 by HIV-infected persons after the introduction of 
protease inhibitors and combined anti-HIV treatment, is accompanied by 
significant risks of developing diet-uncontrolled hypercholesterolemia and/or 
hypertriglyceridemia, often concurrent with insulin resistance, visceral 
adiposity, and hypertension, all known factors which can strongly predispose to 
severe cardiovascular events. International and national health care system 
recommendations regarding the reimbursability of lipid-lowering drugs have to 
take into careful consideration of this "special" category of patients 
(HIV-infected ones). These patients are exposed to a very frequent and severe, 
drug-induced dyslipidemia, and a subsequently elevated and progressively 
increasing cardiovascular risk, despite their proportionally lower mean age 
compared with that of the general at-risk population, and the lack of many 
concurrent risk factors which are employed to calculate the strict need for a 
lipid-lowering therapy, and its consequent cost reimbursement by the different 
health care systems.

PMID: 16302463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Pak Med Assoc. 2005 Sep;55(9):390-2.

Risk factors assessment for hypertension in a squatter settlement of Karachi.

Siddiqui H(1), Anjum Q, Omair A, Usman J, Rizvi R, Ashfaq T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Ziauddin Medical University, Karachi, 
Pakistan.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the risk factors for hypertension in adults (age more than 
15 years) in a squatter settlement of Karachi.
METHODS: Cross-sectional survey of adults more than 15 years old in a squatter 
settlement of Karachi through random sampling method.
RESULTS: A total of 327 adults were approached, 165 (50.5%) were males and 162 
(49.5%) females. Blood pressure was measured in 63 (38%) males and 135 (83%) 
females. Out of which, 11 (17.5%) males and 19 (14%) females were screened 
hypertensive. Hypertensives were older as compared to normotensives (p < 0.001). 
The mean BMI of hypertensives (25.6 +/- 4.5 kg/m2) was significantly higher (p = 
0.008) than normotensives (22.9 +/- 5.0 kg/m2). Hypertensives were 9.7 times 
more likely to be diabetic as compared to normotensives in this study (p < 
0.001). On analyzing the relationship of hypertension with other variables, no 
significant difference was noticed for education (p = 0.68), smoking status (p = 
0.46), family history (p = 0.31) and occupation (p = 0.27).
CONCLUSION: Prevention and control of hypertension is essential as the life 
expectancy is increasing in developing countries as well. The main emphasis 
according to this study, should be on controlling the BMI through weight 
reduction and regular exercise. Awareness about the risk factors for 
hypertension among the population is required to decrease the double burden on 
the society.

PMID: 16302474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Lakartidningen. 2005 Oct 24-30;102(43):3106-7.

[Health of the elderly: an issue difficult to penetrate! The medical angle of 
approach does not give a sufficient answer, quality of life is equally 
important].

[Article in Swedish]

Steen B(1).

Author information:
(1)Sahlgrenska akademin, Göteborg universitet. bertil.steen@comhem.se

PMID: 16302504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Lakartidningen. 2005 Oct 24-30;102(43):3119-24.

[How do the elderly feel actually? Contradictory research results indicate both 
improved and impaired health].

[Article in Swedish]

Thorslund M(1), Parker MG.

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Karolinska institutet, Stockholm. 
Mats.Thorslund@neurotec.ki.se

Comment in
    Lakartidningen. 2005 Nov 21-27;102(47):3592; author reply 3592.

As expected life span increases, researchers are asking if the years added to 
life are healthy or characterized by illness and disability. The question of 
compression or expansion of morbidity is complex and entails numerous 
methodological challenges. International and Swedish health trends in elderly 
populations are reviewed. Differences in methods concerning sampling, time 
period and health indicators make comparisons difficult and can explain why 
studies have divergent results. Despite the differences, a general trend can be 
seen showing an increase in poor health during the late nineties. However, the 
trend is seen primarily in disease and functional limitations, but not 
disability. If this is the case and this trend continues, the future may bring 
less disability than would be expected according to today's calculations based 
on demographic development. But at the same time, demands for medical care may 
increase due to increases in chronic illnesses that can be managed but not 
cured.

PMID: 16302505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. J Fish Dis. 2005 Oct;28(10):603-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2761.2005.00665.x.

A mathematical model of the growth of sea lice, Lepeophtheirus salmonis, 
populations on farmed Atlantic salmon, Salmo salar L., in Scotland and its use 
in the assessment of treatment strategies.

Revie CW(1), Robbins C, Gettinby G, Kelly L, Treasurer JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer and Information Sciences, University of Strathclyde, 
Glasgow, UK. crawford.revie@cis.strath.ac.uk

Sea lice are a persistent problem for farmed and wild salmonid populations. 
Control can be achieved through the use of veterinary medicines. A model was 
developed to describe the patterns of sea lice infection on salmon farms in 
Scotland and to predict the likely effect of various treatment strategies. This 
model takes into account development rates and mortality using compartments 
representing life history stages and external infection pressure. The national 
sea lice infection pattern was described using parameters representing stage 
survival, background infection levels and egg viability rates. The patterns 
observed across farms varied greatly and the model gave broad agreement to 
observed trends with different parameters being required in the model for sites 
using hydrogen peroxide and cypermethrin treatments. The parameter estimates 
suggest that the background infection pressure on sites where cypermethrin was 
administered was higher than for those using hydrogen peroxide. Both models had 
comparable magnitudes of sensitivity with survival from one stage to another 
being the most sensitive parameter, followed by feedback rates at which gravid 
females produce eggs, with background infection levels the least sensitive. The 
effect of different cypermethrin treatment strategies was assessed using the 
model. Increasing treatments in a production cycle gave more effective control. 
However, the model showed that timing of treatments is most important if sea 
lice are to be effectively controlled.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2761.2005.00665.x
PMID: 16302954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Health Technol Assess. 2005 Nov;9(45):1-132, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta9450.

The clinical and cost-effectiveness of left ventricular assist devices for 
end-stage heart failure: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Clegg AJ(1), Scott DA, Loveman E, Colquitt J, Hutchinson J, Royle P, Bryant J.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Wessex Institute for Health 
Research and Development, University of Southampton, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical and cost-effectiveness of left ventricular 
assist devices (LVADs) as a bridge to heart transplantation (BTT), as a bridge 
to myocardial recovery (BTR) or as a long-term chronic support (LTCS) for people 
with end-stage heart failure (ESHF).
DATA SOURCES: For the systematic review, electronic databases and bibliographies 
of related publications plus experts and manufacturers. For the economic 
evaluations, data originated from the systematic review of clinical and 
cost-effectiveness, UK hospitals, device manufacturers and expert opinion.
REVIEW METHODS: For the systematic review, studies were selected and assessed 
against a set of rigorous criteria; data were then synthesised using a narrative 
approach through subgroup analysis based on the indication for treatment, type 
of LVAD and quality of studies. The economic evaluation developed two models to 
evaluate the use of LVADs, first as a BTT and second as LTCS for patients 
suffering from ESHF.
RESULTS: Sixteen studies assessed the clinical effectiveness of LVADs as a BTT. 
Despite the poor methodological quality of the evidence, LVADs appeared 
beneficial compared to other treatment options (i.e. inotropic agents or usual 
care) or to no care (i.e. the natural history of ESHF) improving the survival of 
people with ESHF during the period of support and following heart 
transplantation. Patients supported by an LVAD appeared to have an improved 
functional status compared with those on usual care and experienced an 
improvement in their quality of life from before device implantation to the 
period during support. Serious adverse events are a risk for patients with an 
LVAD. With a scarcity of evidence directly comparing different devices, it is 
difficult to identify specific devices as the most clinically effective. The 
HeartMate LVAD is the only device that has evidence comparing it with the 
different alternatives, appearing to be more clinically effective than inotropic 
agents and usual care and as clinically effective as the Novacor device. Second 
generation devices, such as Jarvik 2000 and MicroMed Debakey LVADs, are early in 
their development but show considerable promise that should be assessed through 
long-term studies. Evidence of the clinical effectiveness of LVADs as a BTR was 
limited to seven non-comparative observational studies that appeared to show 
that the LVADs were beneficial in providing support until myocardial recovery. 
It was not possible to assess whether the LVADs are more effective than other 
alternatives or specific devices. No evidence was found on the quality of life 
or functional status of patients and limited information on adverse events was 
reported. Six studies assessed the clinical effectiveness of LVADs as an LTCS 
and from these it was evident that LVADs provided benefits in terms of improved 
survival, functional status and quality of life. Nineteen studies assessed the 
costs and cost-effectiveness of LVADS for people with ESHF, with the majority 
being simple costing studies and very few studies of the cost-effectiveness of 
LVADs. With no relevant cost-effectiveness studies available, an economic 
evaluation for BTT and LTCS was developed. The economic evaluation has shown 
that neither LVAD indication considered, that is, BTT and LTCS, is a 
cost-effective use. For the HeartMate LVAD used as a BTT the cost per QALY was 
pound 65,242. In the less restrictive indication, LTCS, where LVADs are not just 
given to patients awaiting transplantation, the analysis has shown that LTCS is 
not cost-effective. The baseline cost per QALY of the first-generation HeartMate 
LVAD was pound 170,616. One- and multi-way sensitivity analysis had limited 
effect on the cost per QALY. A hypothetical scenario based on the cost of a 
second-generation MicroMed DeBakey device illustrated that a 60% improvement in 
survival over first-generation devices was necessary before the incremental 
cost-effectiveness approached pound 40,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the review showed that LVADs are clinically effective as a 
BTT with ESHF, the economic evaluation indicated that they are not 
cost-effective. With the limited and declining availability of donor hearts for 
transplantation, it appears that the future of the technology is in its use as 
an LTCS. Further research is needed to examine the clinical effectiveness of 
LVADs for people with ESHF, assessing patient survival, functional ability, 
quality of life and adverse events. Evaluations of the clinical effectiveness of 
LVADs should include economic evaluations, as well as data on quality of life, 
utilities, resources and costs. A systematic review of the epidemiology of ESHF 
should be undertaken to assess its potential impact.

DOI: 10.3310/hta9450
PMID: 16303098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Soc Sci Med. 2006 May;62(10):2469-78. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.10.035.
Epub  2005 Nov 21.

The burden of disease associated with being African-American in the United 
States and the contribution of socio-economic status.

Franks P(1), Muennig P, Lubetkin E, Jia H.

Author information:
(1)Family & Community Medicine, Center for Health Services Research in Primary 
Care Department, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA 95817, USA. 
pfranks@ucdavis.edu

The burden of disease associated with being African-American in the US, and the 
contribution of socio-economic status (SES) to that burden have not been 
quantified. We derived burden of disease estimates for African-Americans and 
whites by age group, with and without adjustment for SES (income and education). 
We used (1) EQ-5D Index scores from the 2000 US Medical Expenditure Panel Survey 
to derive quality-adjusted life year (QALY) compatible estimates of 
health-related quality of life (HRQL); (2) 1990-1992 US National Health 
Interview Survey data linked to National Death Index data through 1995 to derive 
mortality risks; and (3) 2000 US mortality data from the National Center for 
Health Statistics to derive current mortality estimates for the US population. 
We found that relative to whites, African-Americans suffer 67,000 more deaths 
annually, resulting in 2.2 million years of life lost, and 1.1 million years 
after SES adjustment. Total QALYs lost (HRQL and mortality) dropped from 2.3 
million to 902,000 after SES adjustment. SES differences between 
African-Americans and whites appear to explain all the HRQL disparity but only 
half the mortality disparity. Better understanding of the disparate effects of 
SES may inform interventions to address health disparities adversely affecting 
African-Americans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2005.10.035
PMID: 16303221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Cont Lens Anterior Eye. 1999;22(1):14-8. doi: 10.1016/s1367-0484(99)80026-5.

The parameter stability of a high dk rigid lens material.

Woods C(1), Efron N.

Author information:
(1)Eurolens Research, Dept of Optometry and Vision Sciences, UMIST, Manchester.

The use of rigid materials with high oxygen permeability (Dk) is on the 
increase, their major benefit being the reduction of hypoxia. However, there is 
a reluctance to use these materials possibly due to increased surface 
scratching, reduced wettability, increased deposition, reduced life expectancy 
and parameter instability. Considering parameter stability, various studies have 
demonstrated contradictory results or used high Dk materials based on the 
silicone acrylate polymer. This study was designed to investigate whether the 
parameters of a high Dk rigid fluorocarbon contact lens material changed during 
daily wear and extended wear schedules. Thirty five subjects, divided into group 
groups, Group I wore the lens on a daily wear basis, whereas those in Group II 
wore the lens on a monthly extended wear basis. The parameters and integrity of 
the lenses were monitored in both groups every 3 months. For lens integrity a 
statistically significant increase in surface scratching was demonstrated for 
the lenses worn by the subjects of both groups over the time of the study (Group 
I, F=7.990, P <0.0001 [ANCOVA]; Group II, F=6.241, P=0.003 [ANCOVA]). The only 
parameter to show a statistically significant variation over the study period 
was that of centre thickness for the lenses worn by the subjects in Group I 
(F=3.976, P=0.0063 [ANCOVA]), with a mean reduction in centre thickness of 0.022 
mm at the 12 month visit. No change was noted for either group or between groups 
for the other parameters measured. This study demonstrates that the parameters 
of rigid contact lenses manufactured from high Dk fluorocarbons are stable with 
only a non-clinically significant reduction in centre thickness for the contact 
lenses worn by the subjects in Group I.

DOI: 10.1016/s1367-0484(99)80026-5
PMID: 16303399


829. Acta Paediatr. 2005 Nov;94(11):1535-7. doi: 10.1080/08035250500340412.

When newborn infants are bound to die.

Saugstad OD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Research, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. 
o.d.saugstad@medisin.uio.no

Comment on
    Acta Paediatr. 2005 Nov;94(11):1626-31.

Withholding and withdrawing of intensive care of severely ill newborns may 
occasionally be needed when there is severe injury and extremely poor prognosis. 
In such cases, strict guidelines and procedures should be followed. In this 
issue of Acta Paediatrica, Arlettaz et al. describe such guidelines and report 
practice from the University Hospital in Zürich. To ensure an unbiased 
discussion, it is important that those who make decisions regularly receive 
input from external sources regarding indications of viability. This may be the 
case if, for instance, a unit has decided that the limit of viability is <26 wk, 
and many children with good life expectancy would in such units be denied 
intensive care. Does a liberal view on withholding or withdrawing treatment lead 
to poorer overall outcome results even for babies above the threshold of 
viability specified by the institution?
CONCLUSION: Strict procedures should be followed in the case of withholding or 
withdrawing intensive care of severely ill newborn infants. In every 
institution, the indications for ending life should be discussed on a regular 
basis, preferably with external input. However, euthanasia of newborn infants is 
not compatible with Western cultural traditions and should be abandoned.

DOI: 10.1080/08035250500340412
PMID: 16303690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2005 Dec;185(6):1615-9. doi: 10.2214/AJR.04.0693.

Percutaneous declotting of virgin femoral hemodialysis grafts.

Peirce RM(1), Funaki B, Van Ha TG, Lorenz JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
rmpeirce@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: The objective of our study was to evaluate outcomes of percutaneous 
declotting procedures in patients with prosthetic femoral dialysis grafts.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of all pharmacomechanical femoral 
dialysis graft declotting procedures performed in our hospital between May 11, 
1993, and April 30, 2003, was performed. A total of 110 procedures were 
performed on 25 patients (nine males, 16 females; age range, 17-80 years; mean 
age, 49 years) with 30 grafts.
RESULTS: Technical success was 97.3%. Using life table analysis, 30-day 
postinterventional primary patency was 72%, 90-day primary patency was 46%, 
180-day primary patency was 25%, and 365-day primary patency was 4%. The 30-day 
secondary postinterventional patency was 93%, 90-day secondary patency was 86%, 
180-day secondary patency was 76%, and the 365-day secondary patency was 51%. An 
average of 1.96 declotting procedures were performed per year of dialysis.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous declotting of femoral hemodialysis grafts has technical 
success and patency rates similar to those for percutaneous declotting in the 
upper extremities. Results of this series exceeded criteria established by the 
National Kidney Foundation in the "Dialysis Outcome Quality Initiative" for 
immediate patency and unassisted 3-month patency.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.04.0693
PMID: 16304023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. JAMA. 2005 Nov 23;294(20):2618-22. doi: 10.1001/jama.294.20.2618.

Quality, innovation, and value for money: NICE and the British National Health 
Service.

Pearson SD(1), Rawlins MD.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Clinical Excellence, London, England. 
spearson99@yahoo.com

Comment in
    JAMA. 2005 Nov 23;294(20):2630-2.
    JAMA. 2006 Jun 21;295(23):2722; author reply 2722-3.

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) was established 
as a part of the British National Health Service in 1999 to set standards for 
the adoption of new health care technologies and the management of specific 
conditions. In doing so it was required explicitly to take into account both 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. This article describes how NICE 
has responded to the challenge and considers whether its experience of balancing 
quality, innovation, and value for money holds policy lessons for the United 
States.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.294.20.2618
PMID: 16304076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. JAMA. 2005 Nov 23;294(20):2630-2. doi: 10.1001/jama.294.20.2630.

Drug prices and value for money: the Australian Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.

Henry DA(1), Hill SR, Harris A.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, New South 
Wales, Australia. david.henry@newcastle.edu.au

Comment in
    JAMA. 2006 Jun 21;295(23):2723; author reply 2723-4.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2005 Nov 23;294(20):2618-22.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.294.20.2630
PMID: 16304078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2005:51-7. doi: 
10.1182/asheducation-2005.1.51.

Cardiopulmonary complications of sickle cell disease: role of nitric oxide and 
hemolytic anemia.

Gladwin MT(1), Kato GJ.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Therapeutics Section, Cardiovascular, Branch, National Heart Lung 
and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 
20892-1662, USA.

Medical advances in the management of patients with sickle cell disease, 
thalassemia, and other hemolytic anemias have led to significant increases in 
life expectancy. Improved public health, neonatal screening, parental and 
patient education, advances in red cell transfusion medicine, iron chelation 
therapy, penicillin prophylaxis for children, pneumococcal immunization, and 
hydroxyurea therapy have all likely contributed to this effect on longevity. 
Importantly, as a generation of patients with sickle cell disease and 
thalassemia ages, new chronic complications of these hemoglobinopathies develop. 
In this context, pulmonary hypertension is emerging as one of the leading causes 
of morbidity and mortality in adult sickle cell and thalassemia patients, and 
likely in patients with other hemolytic anemias. A common feature of both sickle 
cell disease and thalassemia is intravascular hemolysis and chronic anemia. 
Recent data suggest that chronic intravascular hemolysis is associated with a 
state of endothelial dysfunction characterized by reduced nitric oxide (NO) 
bioavailability, pro-oxidant and pro-inflammatory stress and coagulopathy, 
leading to vasomotor instability and ultimately producing a proliferative 
vasculopathy, a hallmark of which is the development of pulmonary hypertension 
in adulthood. In conclusion, pulmonary hypertension is common in patients with 
hereditary hemolytic anemias and is associated with a high risk of death in 
patients with sickle cell disease. New therapies targeting this vasculopathy and 
aimed at normalizing the vasodilator:vasoconstrictor balance are discussed.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2005.1.51
PMCID: PMC2222547
PMID: 16304359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2005:516-22. doi: 
10.1182/asheducation-2005.1.516.

Considerations for adult cancer survivors.

Tichelli A(1), Socié G.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland. tichellia@uhbs.ch

With improvements in outcome, increased numbers of adult cancer patients survive 
free of their primary malignancy. Today, about 60% of adult patients diagnosed 
with cancer will survive 5 years after diagnosis. Therefore, immediate survival 
is no longer the sole concern. The aim of the cancer treatment now is to cure a 
patient's underlying disease and, at the same time, to minimize the incidence of 
post-treatment complications and ensure the best possible long term quality of 
life. The long time span between initial therapy and late effects, the multiple 
factors influencing cancer-related health risk and the unknown effect of 
treatment on normal aging are common characteristics of late effects. While the 
treatment strategy for a cancer patient depends widely on the type and extension 
of the disease, considerations for a long-term survivor depend much more on the 
type of treatment applied, age of the patient, and the patient's general health 
status as well as his or her familial and social integration. We discuss, based 
on the most recent knowledge, some typical examples of late effects in cancer 
survivors and the practical recommendations that could assist practitioner and 
patient decision about appropriate healthcare for specific clinical 
circumstances.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2005.1.516
PMID: 16304429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Acta Orthop Belg. 2005 Oct;71(5):505-15.

Osteomyelitis and septic arthritis in children.

De Boeck H(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Orthopaedic Department, University Hospital VUB, Brussels, Belgium. 
ortdbkh@az.vub.ac.be

Osteomyelitis is an infection in bone most frequently occurring in children. The 
current incidence is 1 in 5000. Septic arthritis is an infection of a synovial 
joint which may occur in all age groups in children but has a specific infantile 
form affecting the infant from birth to the first year of life. The majority of 
infections of bone or joint are caused by spread of bacteriae through the 
bloodstream or occasionally by entry of organisms through an open wound, by 
puncture or by extension of infection from adjacent tissue. The most common 
causative organism is Staphylococcus aureus but many other organisms may be 
responsible for a bone or joint infection. The treatment of both osteomyelitis 
and septic arthritis is based on antibiotic therapy in combination with surgical 
drainage if pus or infected tissue is present. Early diagnosis followed by 
adequate treatment gives good outcome. Inappropriate or delayed treatment may 
result in chronic osteomyelitis or irreversible joint destruction.

PMID: 16305073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Phys Ther. 2005 Dec;85(12):1340-8.

Factors associated with the level of movement-related everyday activity and 
quality of life in people with chronic heart failure.

van den Berg-Emons RJ(1), Bussmann JB, Balk AH, Stam HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam, Dr 
Molewaterplein 40, 3015 GD Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
h.j.g.vandenberg@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Cardiac rehabilitation has been shown to be effective in 
people with chronic heart failure (CHF), particularly in terms of exercise 
capacity. However, no effects have been found on the level of movement-related 
everyday activity. Therefore, rehabilitation programs also should focus on 
enhancing the level of movement-related everyday activity. The aim of this study 
was to explore factors associated with the level of movement-related everyday 
activity and with quality of life in people with CHF.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Measurements of movement-related everyday activity (using 
an accelerometry-based Activity Monitor), quality of life, and associated 
factors were performed in 36 people with stable CHF (New York Heart Association 
classes II and III).
RESULTS: Knee flexion and extension torque, and particularly extension torque, 
were significantly associated with movement-related everyday activity (r = 
.43-.49, P < .05), whereas nonphysiological factors such as feelings of being 
disabled were associated with quality of life (r = .37-.77, P < or = .01, P < 
.05). No relationship was found between movement-related everyday activity and 
quality of life (r = .20-.22, P > .05).
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The results indicate that knee torque is associated 
with the level of movement-related everyday activity in people with CHF and that 
quality of life is mediated by nonphysiological factors.

PMID: 16305272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Artif Organs. 2005 Dec;29(12):972-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.2005.00171.x.

Valve replacement surgery in patients with end-stage renal disease: long-term 
results.

Gultekin B(1), Ozkan S, Uguz E, Atalay H, Akay T, Arslan A, Sezgin A, Ozdemir N, 
Tasdelen A, Aslamaci S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Baskent University, Ankara, Turkey. 
bahadirg2002@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of patients with chronic renal failure who are 
dependent on dialysis is very poor. This study was undertaken to determine 
time-related outcomes in dialysis patients requiring cardiac valve replacement.
METHODS: From 1994 to 2001, 29 end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients on 
hemodialysis (HD) program underwent 30 valve replacement operations: 29 received 
mechanical valves (97%), and one received bioprosthetic valves. The sites of 
valve replacement were 11 aortic (36.7%), 18 mitral (60%), and one both aortic 
and mitral (3.3%). Mean age was 42.46 +/- 14.26 years (range 17-75 years). 
Follow-up was completed in 28 patients (96.5%).
RESULTS: Early postoperative mortality (in the first 30 days) was 3.4% (n = 1). 
The overall estimated Kaplan-Meier survival was 56.7% at 36 months, 46.7% at 60 
months, and 43.3% at 96 months. HD program was discontinued for two patients 
after renal transplantation in the follow-up period. All patients, except the 
one with bioprosthesis, used warfarin sodium for anticoagulation and none of 
them had bleeding. One of the patients had a major cerebrovascular accident 
(CVA) and another one had a minor CVA at the follow-up (6.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: Life quality is better and life expectancy is longer after valve 
replacement in ESRD patients who have valvular disease. Also, longer life 
expectancy increases the probability for finding donors for kidney 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.2005.00171.x
PMID: 16305653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Ugeskr Laeger. 2005 Nov 21;167(47):4454-6.

[Examination and treatment of orthopedic-surgery patients with 
osteoporosis-related fragility fractures].

[Article in Danish]

Christoffersen H(1), Holmegaard SN.

Author information:
(1)Sygehus Nord/Thisted, Ortopaedkirurgisk Afdeling. tskirhc@dadlnet.dk

To reduce the future risk of fracture, we recommend that patients treated for 
fragility fractures (FF) in the OPD be given vitamin D (20 mcg OD) and calcium 
(1200 mg OD) until the fracture has healed, be counseled on the possible 
relation of their fracture to osteoporosis (OPO) and contact their GP for 
examination. Patients with FF of the hip may also be treated with vitamin D and 
calcium and screened for secondary OPO. If screening tests are negative and life 
expectancy is greater than two years, a measurement of bone mineral density is 
not necessary before the start of treatment with bisphosphonate.

PMID: 16305763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Neurosci. 2005 Nov 23;25(47):10894-904. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3600-04.2005.

Aging-dependent and -independent modulation of associative learning behavior by 
insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 signal in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Murakami H(1), Bessinger K, Hellmann J, Murakami S.

Author information:
(1)Gheens Center on Aging, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, USA.

Mutations in the insulin/IGF-1 neuroendocrine pathway extend lifespan and affect 
development, metabolism, and other biological processes in Caenorhabditis 
elegans and in other species. In addition, they may play a role in learning and 
memory. Investigation of the insulin/IGF-1 pathway may provide clues for the 
prevention of age-related declines in cognitive functions. Here, we examined the 
effects of the life-extending (Age) mutations, such as the age-1 
(phosphatidylinositol 3-OH kinase) and daf-2 (insulin/IGF-1 receptor) mutations, 
on associative learning behavior called isothermal tracking. This thermotaxis 
learning behavior associates paired stimuli, temperature, and food. The age-1 
mutation delayed the age-related decline of isothermal tracking, resulting in a 
210% extension of the period that ensures it. The effect is dramatic compared 
with the extension of other physiological health spans. In addition, young 
adults of various Age mutants (age-1, daf-2, clk-1, and eat-2) showed increased 
consistency of temperature-food association, which may be caused by a common 
feature of the mutants, such as the secondary effects of life extension (i.e., 
enhanced maintenance of neural mechanisms). The age-1 and daf-2 mutants but not 
the other Age mutants showed an increase in temperature-starvation association 
through a different mechanism. Increased temperature-food association of the 
daf-2 mutant was dependent on neuronal Ca2+-sensor ncs-1, which modulates 
isothermal tracking in the AIY interneuron. Interestingly, mutations in the 
daf-7 TGFbeta gene, which functions in parallel to the insulin/IGF-1 pathway, 
caused deficits in acquisition of temperature-food and temperature-starvation 
association. This study highlights roles of the Age mutations in modulation of 
certain behavioral plasticity.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3600-04.2005
PMCID: PMC6725869
PMID: 16306402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Nutrition. 2005 Nov-Dec;21(11-12):1170-2. doi: 10.1016/j.nut.2005.07.004.

Conjugated linoleic acid, obesity, and insulin resistance: waiting for the day 
of liberation from chronic disease.

Choi JS(1), Song J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Metabolic Diseases, National Institute of Health, Seoul, Korea. 
joosunchoi@hanmail.net

DOI: 10.1016/j.nut.2005.07.004
PMID: 16308146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Anticancer Res. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6B):4107-11.

Development of sex cord stromal tumors after heterotopic transplantation of 
cryopreserved ovarian tissue in rats.

Mueller A(1), Maltaris T, Dimmler A, Hoffmann I, Beckmann MW, Dittrich R.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Erlangen, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
D-91054 Erlangen, Germany.

Erratum in
    Anticancer Res. 2006 Jan-Feb;26(1a):445.

Chemoradiotherapy has substantially improved life expectancy in young women with 
cancer, but these treatments often cause infertility. One method of preserving 
fertility is to cryopreserve ovarian tissue, with subsequent autotransplantation 
of the tissue after successful anticancer therapy. This study examined the 
long-term effect of heterotopic transplantation of cryopreserved ovarian tissue 
on the histology. Ovarian tissue from rats was cryopreserved using a 
slow-freezing protocol. After thawing, the tissue pieces were transplanted under 
the splenic capsule in 14 rats of the same inbred strain and remained there for 
210 or 300 days. Sex cord stromal tumors, consisting mainly of granulosa cells, 
were found in all of the rats. Although the hormonal situation in rats cannot be 
directly compared to that in humans, the development of sex cord stromal tumors 
in this animal model may be worth considering when cryopreserved ovarian tissue 
is transplanted heterotopically in fertility-preserving programs for cancer 
patients.

PMID: 16309204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. J Chem Inf Model. 2005 Nov-Dec;45(6):1953-61. doi: 10.1021/ci0501847.

McQSAR: a multiconformational quantitative structure-activity relationship 
engine driven by genetic algorithms.

Vainio MJ(1), Johnson MS.

Author information:
(1)Structural Bioinformatics Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry and 
Pharmacy, Abo Akademi University, Tykistökatu 6A, FIN-20520 Turku, Finland. 
mikko.vainio@abo.fi

The generation of quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs) under 
the supervision of a genetic algorithm (GA) is a QSAR modeling approach used for 
more than a decade. In this paper we present McQSAR, an extension to the 
traditional GA approach to derive QSARs. McQSAR is able to use descriptors for 
multiple representations per compound, such as different conformers, tautomers, 
or protonation forms. Test runs show that the algorithm converges to a set of 
representations that describe the binding mode of the set of input molecules to 
a reasonable resolution provided that suitable descriptors-based on the 
three-dimensional structure-are used. Furthermore, the frequency of chance 
correlation was measured during multiple runs on a real-life data set using 
simulated linear relationship functions. The observed frequency of chance 
correlation, on average 0.3 +/- 0.5%, was found independent of the size of the 
calibration set and the number of terms in the underlying relationship function.

