    Stroke. 2006 Feb;37(2):279-80.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The lifetime risk (LTR) of stroke has not been reported 
for the United States population; such data would assist public education and 
health planning.
METHODS: Framingham Original cohort participants (n=4897) who were stroke- and 
dementia-free at 55 years of age were followed biennially for up to 51 years 
(115 146 person years). We estimated the sex-specific 10-, 20-, and 30-year 
risks and LTR of developing a stroke by baseline age and blood pressure (BP) and 
compared it with the risk of developing Alzheimer disease (AD).
RESULTS: A total of 875 participants (522 women) developed a first-ever stroke; 
749 (448 women) had an ischemic stroke. LTR of stroke was high and remained 
similar at ages 55, 65, and 75 years, approximating 1 in 5 for women and 1 in 6 
for men. Participants with a normal BP (<120/80 mm Hg) had approximately half 
the LTR of stroke compared with those with high BP (> or =140/90 mm Hg). The LTR 
of AD at age 65 (292 participants; 211 women) approximated 1 in 5 for women and 
1 in 10 for men. The LTR of developing either stroke or dementia approximated 1 
in 3 in both sexes.
CONCLUSIONS: The LTR of stroke in middle-aged adults is 1 in 6 or more, which is 
equal to or greater than the LTR of AD. Women had a higher risk because of 
longer life expectancy. BP is a significant determinant of the LTR of stroke, 
and promotion of normal BP levels in the community might be expected to 
substantially reduce this risk.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000199613.38911.b2
PMID: 16397184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2006 Jan;25(1 Suppl):S48-55. doi: 
10.1097/01.inf.0000197566.47750.3d.

Economics of rotavirus gastroenteritis and vaccination in Europe: what makes 
sense?

Rheingans RD(1), Heylen J, Giaquinto C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA. rrheing@sph.emory.edu

Rotavirus is a major cause of gastroenteritis in children throughout Europe and 
the world. In addition to causing morbidity and mortality in children, rotavirus 
gastroenteritis (RVGE) creates a major economic burden on health care systems 
and families in Europe. The costs of hospital admissions for RVGE and nosocomial 
infections generate significant medical treatment costs throughout the region. 
Less information is available on the costs associated with less severe episodes 
and the costs borne by families, including lost time from work. The availability 
of rotavirus vaccines presents an effective opportunity to prevent RVGE and 
these associated economic costs, as well as providing protection to each child 
and hence benefiting the child's family. The adoption of rotavirus vaccine by 
health authorities in Europe will require a comparison of the costs and 
benefits. Economic evaluations that compare the costs of vaccination to the 
economic benefits of rotavirus vaccination will provide an estimate of its 
financial impact on health care systems and society. However, to provide a 
complete picture, economic evaluations of rotavirus vaccines will need to 
account for both the reduced costs and the reduced morbidity from prevented 
RVGE. Cost-effectiveness analyses based on quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
provide a systematic approach for assessing vaccination as a health investment, 
comparing the incremental costs associated with rotavirus vaccination and the 
reduced morbidity and mortality. QALYs provide a standardized approach for 
quantifying and comparing reductions in health-related quality of life and 
premature mortality. Although methodologic limitations exist in applying the 
QALY approach to childhood vaccines, their use in cost effectiveness analyses 
allows decision makers to consider the full health benefits of rotavirus and 
other vaccines.

DOI: 10.1097/01.inf.0000197566.47750.3d
PMID: 16397429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Soz Praventivmed. 2005;50(6):341-3. doi: 10.1007/s00038-005-5036-8.

Monitoring health in central and eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.

McKee M.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-005-5036-8
PMID: 16398095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Prax Kinderpsychol Kinderpsychiatr. 2005 Dec;54(10):779-91.

[Contemporary family systems--developments, problems, and possibilities].

[Article in German]

Reich G(1).

Author information:
(1)Ambulanz für Familientherapie und für Essstörungen, Klinik und Poliklinik für 
Psychosomatik und Psychotherapie der Universität Göttingen, Humboldtallee 38, 
37073 Göttingen. greich@gwdg.de

Contemporary forms of family life and their development are described. The 
thesis of the pluralism of family types as a historical new phenomenon is 
critically reviewed, with special consideration of the relationship between 
family life and working world. An increasing move away from the "fordistic 
model" of family life took place during the last two decades towards the 
"multilocal multigenerational family". This development is, among others, due to 
the increased life expectancy and the change in the population structure. 
Simultaneous to this the boundaries between family and working world become more 
permeable. If the stability of employments decreases and the mobility of 
employees increases in a large scale, is discussed controversely. For an 
increasing number of families it becomes more and more difficult to make 
flexibility at work compatible with security for the children or to cope with 
the consequences of unemployment.

PMID: 16398279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Altern Complement Med. 2005 Dec;11(6):1039-46. doi:
10.1089/acm.2005.11.1039.

Omega-3 fatty acids for the treatment of cancer cachexia: issues in designing 
clinical trials of dietary supplements.

Harle L(1), Brown T, Laheru D, Dobs AS.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.

Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) is increasingly popular, despite 
the limited evidence of the efficacy and safety of some forms of CAM. Cancer 
patients often turn to CAM therapies for the relief of treatment- induced 
side-effects and comorbidities. Cancer-associated weight loss commonly results 
in decreased functional status, life expectancy, and quality of life. Despite 
the high morbidity and mortality associated with cancer cachexia, mainstream 
treatments do not sustain weight. Although nutritional supplements are commonly 
used, many of these have not been tested in clinical trials. The issues faced in 
dietary supplement research differ from those in pharmaceutical drug trials. 
These include problems with standardization, contamination, and compliance 
documentation. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial is proposed 
to evaluate the efficacy and safety of fish oil supplementation for the 
treatment of cachexia in pancreatic cancer patients. The primary outcome measure 
will be lean body mass; secondary outcomes include functional status and quality 
of life. The methodology of the clinical trial is reviewed here and the unique 
problems faced by investigators in designing studies of dietary supplements are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2005.11.1039
PMID: 16398596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2005 Dec;53(12):2145-52. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.00507.x.

Physical and mental health status of older long-term cancer survivors.

Keating NL(1), Nørredam M, Landrum MB, Huskamp HA, Meara E.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. keating@hcp.med.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: To assess the physical and mental health status of older long-term 
cancer survivors.
DESIGN: Cohort study using propensity score methods to control for baseline 
differences between cancer survivors and controls.
SETTING: General community population in the United States.
PARTICIPANTS: Nine hundred sixty-four cancer patients who had survived for more 
than 4 years and 14,333 control patients who had never had cancer from a 
population-based sample of Americans aged 55 and older responding to the 2002 
Health and Retirement Study.
MEASUREMENTS: Medical conditions, symptoms, health behaviors, health status, 
mobility, activities of daily living, mental health diagnoses, self-rated 
memory, depressive symptoms, cognitive function, and self-reported life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: Cancer survivors reported higher rates of lung disease (13.9% vs 9.6%; 
P=.001), heart condition (29.3% vs 22.9%; P<.001), arthritis (69.4% vs 59.4%; 
P<.001), incontinence (26.6% vs 19.7%; P=.001), frequent pain (36.4% vs 29.4%; 
P=.005), and obesity (27.0% vs 24.2%; P=.001) than individuals without cancer 
but lower rates of smoking (12.0% vs 14.8%; P=.03). Cancer survivors were less 
likely than persons without cancer to report excellent or very good health 
status (37.2% vs 44.6%; P<.001) and had more mobility (P<.001) and activity of 
daily living (P=.01) limitations. Cancer survivors did not differ from persons 
without cancer in rates of depression or cognitive function (both P>.2) but were 
less optimistic about their life expectancy (P=.004).
CONCLUSION: The physical health status of older long-term cancer survivors is 
somewhat worse than that of comparable persons who have never had cancer, but 
they have surprisingly similar mental health status. Future research is needed 
to understand factors contributing to poorer health status and identify patients 
at highest risk of long-term cancer-related problems.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.00507.x
PMID: 16398900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2005 Dec;53(12):2216-20. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.00488.x.

The elderly people of post-Soviet Ukraine: medical, social, and economic 
challenges.

Lipsitz LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Hebrew SeniorLife Research and Training Institute, Division of Gerontology, 
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 12131, USA. Lipsitz@mail.hrca.harvard.edu

Over the past 14 years, since Ukraine became an independent nation, the country 
has made major strides toward achieving political and economic reforms, 
exemplified by the recent populist uprising for fair and free elections. Despite 
these successes, many challenges still lie ahead, particularly in the area of 
health care for older people. The average life expectancy in Ukraine is only 67 
years, and those who achieve old age often live in poverty. Women are expected 
to retire from their professions at age 55 and men at 60. Pensions are so low 
that retirees are often forced to take laborious jobs on the streets. Because of 
deficiencies in medical education, deteriorating hospital facilities, a lack of 
modern medications and supplies, and inadequate physician payment mechanisms 
that breed corruption, many elderly people mistrust the medical system and often 
turn to folk medicines and Eastern medical practices to treat their illnesses. 
By understanding the expectations and former medical practices of elderly 
patients who have emigrated from Ukraine, Western physicians will be better able 
to meet their emotional and medical needs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.00488.x
PMID: 16398912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Neurol Phys Ther. 2005 Sep;29(3):147-56. doi: 
10.1097/01.npt.0000282247.15911.dc.

Participation after spinal cord injury: the evolution of conceptualization and 
measurement.

Noreau L(1), Fougeyrollas P, Post M, Asano M.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Department, Faculty of Medicine, Laval University, Quebec 
City, Canada. Luc.Noreau@rea.ulaval.ca

The increasing life expectancy after spinal cord injury has given social 
participation a new recognition as one of the ultimate goals of a comprehensive 
rehabilitation process. Recent evolution of the concept suggests 2 different 
approaches to document participation after spinal cord injury and a careful 
appraisal of the related outcome measures is important as discrepancies of 
results between the 2 approaches can be significant. Literature on objective 
participation reports a large variability in several dimensions that are 
particularly influenced by intrinsic factors such as severity of injury and 
secondary impairments. The direct influence of the environmental factors remains 
to be demonstrated by empirical studies. There are fewer tools available to 
evaluate subjective impressions of participation but recent investigations 
support the importance of taking account of the person's perceived restrictions 
participation in order to get better understandings of an individual's specific 
needs and problems. The aim of this article is to present the evolution of the 
conceptualization and measurement of the two approaches and to describe the 
level of participation of individuals with SCI.

DOI: 10.1097/01.npt.0000282247.15911.dc
PMID: 16398947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Am J Surg. 2006 Jan;191(1):45-51. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2005.10.002.

The optimal management of malrotation diagnosed after infancy: a decision 
analysis.

Malek MM(1), Burd RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Pediatric Surgery, Robert Wood Johnson 
Medical School, One Robert Wood Johnson Place, PO Box 19, New Brunswick, NJ 
08903, USA.

BACKGROUND: The benefit of a prophylactic Ladd's procedure in older children and 
adults with malrotation is controversial. The purpose of this study was to 
determine the role of the Ladd's procedure in patients with asymptomatic 
malrotation diagnosed after infancy.
METHODS: A Markov decision analysis was used to compare the quality adjusted 
life expectancy with and without a Ladd's procedure among patients with 
asymptomatic malrotation. Data obtained from the Nationwide Inpatient Sample 
were used to estimate the age-related probability of emergency surgery or 
volvulus among patients with malrotation. Estimates of the mortality of elective 
and emergency surgery, mortality of volvulus, and utilities of each health state 
were obtained from the literature.
RESULTS: After infancy, the gain in quality adjusted life expectancy associated 
with a prophylactic Ladd's procedure was highest when asymptomatic malrotation 
was treated at 1 year old and steadily declined until asymptomatic malrotation 
was treated at 20 years old. An increasing advantage of observation over 
prophylactic surgery on life expectancy was observed after the second decade of 
life. A 2-fold increase in mortality risk for an elective Ladd's procedure 
decreased the age threshold to 14 years, whereas a 4-fold increase decreased the 
threshold to 7 years. These results were found to be robust by sensitivity 
analyses and Monte Carlo simulation.
CONCLUSION: A Ladd's procedure should be considered for children diagnosed with 
asymptomatic malrotation, particularly those who are younger and with a low risk 
of postoperative mortality. The rare occurrence of midgut volvulus does not 
justify performing a prophylactic Ladd's procedure on most adults with 
malrotation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2005.10.002
PMID: 16399105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:16-27. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.001.

Multiple longevity phenotypes and the transition from health to senescence.

Arking R(1).

Author information:
(1)3103 BSB, Department of Biological Sciences, 5470 Gullen Mall, Wayne State 
University, Detroit, Michigan 48202, USA. aa2210@wayne.edu

Three different longevity phenotypes exist in Drosophila and other model 
systems, but only two are known in humans. The "missing" phenotype is the 
delayed onset of senescence phenotype, which can be induced by various 
interventions, including pharmaceuticals. The lability of the onset of 
senescence indicates that the mechanisms involved are plastic and can be 
altered. Only interventions that involve the upregulation of stress resistance 
genes, probably via the JNK pathway and/or dFOXO3a transcription factor, seem 
capable of generating a delayed onset of senescence phenotype. The data suggest 
that the cellular mechanisms responsible for maintaining the cell in a healthy 
state are under constant attack by ROS and/or abnormal protein accumulation. A 
stochastic growth factor/signal transduction failure may be the proximal event 
responsible for the decreased efficiency of the cell's defenses, resulting in 
the onset of senescence, degradation of the gene interaction network, and 
continuing loss of function.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.001
PMID: 16399885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:28-49. doi: 10.1196/annals.1322.002.

From molecular biology to anti-aging cognitive-behavioral practices: the 
pioneering research of Walter Pierpaoli on the pineal and bone marrow 
foreshadows the contemporary revolution in stem cell and regenerative biology.

Bushell WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Anthropology Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 16-241, 77 
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. wcbphd@att.net

Evidence is accruing that a cognitive-behavioral regimen integrating cognitive 
techniques (meditation-based anti-stress, anti-inflammatory techniques, others), 
dietary modification ("dietary restriction" or modified dietary restriction), 
and certain forms of aerobic exercise, may prolong the healthy life span in 
humans. Recent research has identified some of the likely molecular mediators of 
these potentially broad-ranging, health-enhancing and anti-aging effects; these 
include DHEA, interleukins -10 and -4 (IL-10, 1L-4), and especially melatonin. 
Relatedly, what some are calling a revolution in biology and medicine has been 
emerging from research on stem cells and regeneration processes more generally. 
Dogma regarding limitations on the regenerative capacities of adult vertebrates 
is being cautiously yet enthusiastically revised in the wake of rapidly 
accumulating discoveries of more types of adult stem cells in mammals, including 
humans. For example, a recent review by D. Krause of Yale concluded that "in the 
[adult] bone marrow, in addition to hematopoietic stem cells and supportive 
stromal cells, there are cells with the potential to differentiate into mature 
cells of the heart, liver, kidney, lungs, GI tract, skin, bone, muscle, 
cartilage, fat, endothelium and brain." In addition, very recent studies have 
shown that DHEA, ILs-10 and -4, and melatonin all possess potential 
regenerative, including stem cell-activating, properties. More than a quarter of 
a century ago, Walter Pierpaoli initiated a series of extraordinary studies that 
demonstrated in experimental animals the potential for dramatic regeneration 
associated with changes in the pineal gland and bone marrow. This appeared to be 
not only retardation of aging, but also its reversal. Furthermore, as Pierpaoli 
was attempting to understand both anti-aging regeneration and oncogenesis, he 
was focusing on both pro- and anti-mitotic mechanisms: recent research now 
suggests that there is a nonpathologic, "healthy" form of regeneration that is 
actually antagonistic to oncogenesis, and that melatonin may be important in 
this form of regeneration. This paper explores Pierpaoli's pioneering studies in 
light of recent developments in stem cell and regenerative biology, particularly 
as related to the regenerative potential associated with certain 
cognitive-behavioral practices, and includes evidence on this subject presented 
for the first time.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1322.002
PMID: 16399886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:50-63. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.003.

Genetic contribution to aging: deleterious and helpful genes define life 
expectancy.

Lao JI(1), Montoriol C, Morer I, Beyer K.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Analysis Laboratory Dr. Echevarne, Unit of Molecular Genetics, 
Barcelona, Spain. jilao@echevarne.com

For the best understanding of aging, we must consider a genetic pool in which 
genes with negative effects (deleterious genes that shorten the life span) 
interact with genes with positive effects (helpful genes that promote longevity) 
in a constant epistatic relationship that results in a modulation of the final 
expression under particular environmental influences. Examples of deleterious 
genes affecting aging (predisposition to early-life pathology and disease) are 
those that confer risk for developing vascular disease in the heart, brain, or 
peripheral vessels (APOE, ACE, MTFHR, and mutation at factor II and factor V 
genes), a gene associated with sporadic late-onset Alzheimer's disease (APOE 
E4), a polymorphism (COLIA1 Sp1) associated with an increased fracture risk, and 
several genetic polymorphisms involved in hormonal metabolism that affect 
adverse reactions to estrogen replacement in postmenopausal women. In summary, 
the process of aging can be regarded as a multifactorial trait that results from 
an interaction between stochastic events and sets of epistatic alleles that have 
pleiotropic age-dependent effects. Lacking those alleles that predispose to 
disease and having the longevity-enabling genes (those beneficial genetic 
variants that confer disease resistance) are probably both important to such a 
remarkable survival advantage.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.003
PMID: 16399887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:85-111. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.005.

Immunoregulation of cellular life span.

Kay M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Sciences and Technology, University of Texas at 
Dallas, P.O. Box 830688, Richardson, Texas 75083-0688, USA. 
margueritekay@mail.com

Our current studies focus on the molecular changes induced by aging. During 
aging, changes in proteins occur that alter their function and render them 
immunogenic. These "neoantigens" are recognized by physiologic autoantibodies. 
Physiologic autoantibodies and their corresponding antigens offer therapeutic 
strategies for disease intervention through the innate immune response. Early 
studies done in the 1970s showed humans and animals to have physiologic 
antibodies that bind to a neoantigen called senescent cell antigen (SCA), which 
appears on senescent and damaged cells and initiates their removal by 
macrophages. These studies led to the discovery that oxidation can generate a 
new antigen in situ. Oxidation accelerated aging of red cells, generated SCA and 
IgG binding, and triggered removal of red cells by macrophages. Since then, a 
number of laboratories have found that oxidation can generate other neoantigens. 
For example, oxidized LDL (OxLDL) induces antibodies that can modify the natural 
progression of atherosclerosis. Apoptotic cells express oxidatively modified 
moieties on their surfaces that are involved in macrophage recognition and 
phagocytosis. Physiologic autoantibodies were used to isolate SCA from brain 
tissue. HPLC and fast atom bombardment ionization mass spectrometry (FAB-MS) of 
the isolated antigen suggested that the aging antigen is a subset of band 3, a 
family of proteins also called anion exchange proteins (AE1-3). FAB-MS results 
indicate that residues matching all three band 3 isoforms (AE1, AE2, and AE3) 
are detected in aging antigen fractions. Among the fragments identified with 
FAB-MS was a sequence corresponding to an aging epitope, human band 3 sequence 
LFKPPKYHPDVPYVKR, residue 812-830 in AE1; HHPDVTYVK, residue 1144-1152 in AE2; 
or HHPEQPYVTK, residue 1135-1144 in AE3. A residue that is close to that region 
was identified in mouse AE1 ASGPGAAAQIQEVK, residue 762-775. The potential for 
altering the natural progression of diseases using select peptide-defined 
epitopes within or overlapping the aging antigenic site (547-553 and 824-829) is 
discussed using the innate immune response to band 3 in malaria as an example.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.005
PMID: 16399889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:165-76. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.010.

The myth and reality of reversal of aging by hormesis.

Sonneborn JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology & Physiology, University of Wyoming, Box 3663, 16th & 
Gibbon Street, Laramie, Wyoming 82071, USA. cancun@uwyo.edu

Hormesis is an adaptive response to low doses of otherwise harmful agents by 
triggering a cascade of stress-specific resistance pathways. Evidence from 
protozoa, nematodes, flies, rodents, and primates indicate that stress-induced 
tolerance modulates survival and longevity. "Reality" is that hormesis can 
prolong the healthy life span. Genetic background provides the potential for 
longevity duration induced by stress. Senesence, or aging, is generally thought 
to be due to a different impact of selection for alleles positive for 
reproduction during early life but harmful in later life, a process called 
antagonistic pleiotropy (multiple phenotypic changes by a single gene). After 
reproduction, life span is "invisible" to selection. I propose the revision that 
mutations selected for survival until reproduction in early life may also extend 
later life (protagonistic pleiotropy). The protagonist candidate genes for 
extended life span are hormetic response genes, which activate the protective 
effect in both early and later life. My revision of the earlier evolutionary 
theory implies that natural selection of genes critical for early survival (life 
span until reproduction) can also be beneficial for extended longevity in old 
age, tipping the evolutionary balance in favor of a latent inducible life span 
extension unless excess stressor challenge exceeds the protection capacity. 
Mimetic triggers of the stress response promise the option of tricking the 
induction of metabolic pathways that confer resistance to environmental 
challenges, increased healthy life span, rejuvenation, and disease intervention 
without the danger of overwhelming damage by the stressor. Public policy should 
anticipate an increase in healthy life span.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.010
PMID: 16399893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:193-205. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.013.

Protection of proteins from oxidative stress: a new illusion or a novel 
strategy?

Boldyrev AA(1).

Author information:
(1)M.V. Lomonosov Moscow State University and Institute of Neurology, Russian 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Moscow, Russia . aaboldyrev@mail.ru

Proteins damaged by oxidative stress have the most dangerous consequences. 
Oxidized protein derivatives inveigle lipids and carbohydrates into metabolic 
transformations that result in loss of protein functions and accumulation of 
glycated proteins and advanced glycated end products, which are difficult to 
remove from living tissues. Hydrophobic antioxidants are not very effective in 
protecting proteins from oxidative modification. At the same time, the natural 
hydrophilic antioxidant and anti-glycating agent carnosine efficiently prevents 
oxidative modification of proteins and increases the life span of experimental 
animals under unfavorable conditions. It can be considered a potent natural 
geroprotector.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.013
PMID: 16399895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:220-34. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.017.

Central and peripheral effects of insulin/IGF-1 signaling in aging and cancer: 
antidiabetic drugs as geroprotectors and anticarcinogens.

Anisimov VN(1), Berstein LM, Popovich IG, Zabezhinski MA, Egormin PA, Tyndyk ML, 
Anikin IV, Semenchenko AV, Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)N.N. Petrov Research Institute of Oncology, St. Petersburg 197758, Russia. 
aging@mail.ru

Studies in mammals have led to the suggestion that hyperglycemia and 
hyperinsulinemia are important factors both in aging and in the development of 
cancer. Insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling molecules linked 
to longevity include DAF-2 and insulin receptor (InR) and their homologues in 
mammals and to inactivation of the corresponding genes followed by increased 
life span in nematodes, fruit flies, and mice. It is possible that the 
life-prolonging effect of caloric restriction are due to decreasing IGF-1 
levels. A search of pharmacological modulators of life span-extending mutations 
in the insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway and mimetics of effects of caloric 
restriction could be a direction in the regulation of longevity. Some literature 
and our own observations suggest that antidiabetic drugs could be promising 
candidates for both life span extension and prevention of cancer.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.017
PMID: 16399897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:365-71. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.027.

Caloric restriction mimetics: the next phase.

Roth GS(1), Lane MA, Ingram DK.

Author information:
(1)GeroScience, Inc., Pylesville, Maryland 21132, USA. geor@iximed.com

Calorie restriction (CR) mimetics are agents or strategies that can mimic the 
beneficial health-promoting and anti-aging effects of CR, the only intervention 
conclusively shown to slow aging and maintain health and vitality across the 
phylogenetic spectrum. Our lead compound, developed at the National Institute on 
Aging, was 2-deoxyglucose, an analogue of the native sugar, that acted as a 
glycolytic inhibitor, having limited metabolism and actually reducing overall 
energy flow--analogous to CR. This agent reduced insulin levels and body 
temperature of rats, similar to the physiological effects of CR, but toxicity 
was noted in long-term studies, which apparently prevented life-span extension. 
We previously demonstrated that lower insulin and body temperature (as well as 
maintenance of dehydroepiandrosterone levels) correlate with longevity in non-CR 
humans. The recent work of other investigators shows that humans subjected to 
short-term CR also have lower insulin and body temperature. Obviously, 
longer-term CR is extremely difficult to maintain; hence, the need for CR 
mimetics. The next phase of calorie restriction studies includes basic 
investigations as well as possible clinical trials of a number of candidate CR 
mimetics, ranging from glycolytic inhibitors to lipid-regulating agents to 
antioxidants and specific gene modulators. The scope of these ongoing studies in 
various laboratories, as well as their practical implications, are reviewed and 
analyzed here.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.027
PMID: 16399906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:525-35. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.040.

Can we delay aging? The biology and science of aging.

Anton B(1), Vitetta L, Cortizo F, Sali A.

Author information:
(1)Path Lab, Melbourne, Australia. billa@pathlab.com.au

Long before the fountain of youth, mankind has had an interest in staying young. 
As we move into the 21st century, that interest has not only continued, but it 
has become an obsession. While no one can really prevent normal, chronological 
aging, there are things we can do to slow down "pathological aging." After all, 
aging is about accelerated inflammation, depletion, and wear and tear. With the 
marked increase in life expectancy and life span, clinicians need to be aware of 
the effects of aging on the provision of treatment modalities. Appropriate 
interventions individualized to the patient can help to "compress morbidity" by 
shortening the period of functional decline common in old age. Therefore, the 
"health span" will come closer to matching the life span. Disease and disuse are 
far more likely explanations for functional decline and the onset of common 
chronic conditions in older persons than is "true" natural or normal aging. 
Regardless of your genetic inheritance, you can accelerate aging by lifestyle 
choices and environmental conditions to which you expose your genes. There are 
even ways to reverse the problems associated with aging. Getting older does not 
have to mean growing older. Welcome to the world of preventative gerontology, 
better known as anti-aging medicine!

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.040
PMID: 16399917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1057:545-62. doi: 10.1196/annals.1356.042.

The need for anti-aging medicine: the challenges faced to incorporate 
preventative medicine into the clinic and into society.

Micans P(1).

Author information:
(1)IAS Group, Les Autelets, Sark GY9 0SF, United Kingdom. 
phil@antiaging-systems.com

The world's population is getting older and this fact is made clear by the aging 
demographics of both developed and developing countries. Projections estimate 
that there will be very sharp rises in the numbers of people over the age of 50, 
and very small increases expected in those under 15. From these facts, we judge 
that the costs of traditional health care based on the current "nationalistic" 
model will struggle to be met unless they undergo a radical alteration. A number 
of possible solutions are debated, ending in a conclusion that a liberal society 
is likely to choose preventative medicine as the next health care model for the 
twenty-first century. To this end, the concept of anti-aging preventative 
medicine is tackled, including some of the difficulties involved with bringing 
this new arm of medicine into the clinical environment. Also discussed is the 
challenge of biological age measurement, to assist in the determination of the 
actual level of health in a "healthy" person, with a view to an optimal health, 
rather than just normal health. Anti-aging medicine is a new concept, one that 
enables individuals to work with health care professionals in a different way 
and to take better care of themselves. It is in everyone's interests to 
understand that there is a need for preventative medicine in our societies and 
that this information is conveyed effectively to the public.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1356.042
PMID: 16399919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2005 Oct;85 Suppl 5:58-61. doi: 
10.1590/s0066-782x2005002400014. Epub 2006 Jan 2.

[Hypolipidemic therapy under special conditions: acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome].

[Article in Portuguese]

Yu PC(1), Calderaro D, Lima EM, Caramelli B.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Cardiologia, Instituto do Coração, HCFMUSP.

Lipid alterations can be observed early among patients with AIDS disease. 
Commonly, these lipid abnormalities include low HDL-C and modest increase in 
triglyceride plasma levels. Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Therapy (HAART) in 
these patients may aggravate the dyslipidemia, with notable increases in 
triglycerides as well as in LDL-C. There are several mechanisms proposed to 
explain the mixed hyperlipidemia observed in these subjects, including different 
steps in lipid metabolism. The importance of the treatment of dyslipidemia 
became evident with the increased life expectancy and reports of cardiovascular 
complications in these individuals. There is an insulin resistance state in 
patients with AIDS disease under treatment with HAART, who present with 
lipodystrophy, hypertriglyceridemia, low levels of HDL-C. Antiretroviral drugs 
are metabolized by CYP P450 3A4 and interactions with some statins, especially 
with simvastatin are expected to occur. Treatment with lipid-lowering agents 
should be based on lipid profile and coronary risk. For hypertriglyceridemias, 
fibrates (mainly fenofibrate or bezafibrate) should be the drugs of choice, as 
well as statins (mainly pravastatin). Combined treatment using fibrates plus 
statins are recommended for severe mixed hyperlipidemias under very close 
monitoring for adverse effects.

DOI: 10.1590/s0066-782x2005002400014
PMID: 16400401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. PLoS Med. 2006 Feb;3(2):e76. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030076. Epub 2006 Jan
 17.

Lung infection--a public health priority.

Mizgerd JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
jmizgerd@hsph.harvard.edu

The pervasive burden of lung infections receives proportionately little 
attention from the biomedical and public health communities, argues Mizgerd.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030076
PMCID: PMC1326257
PMID: 16401173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The author studies innate 
immunity and respiratory infections. It would be to the author's professional 
benefit if more resources were available for such research.


69. Heart Surg Forum. 2005;8(5):E389-94; discussion E394-5. doi: 
10.1532/HSF98.20051114.

The Carpentier-Edwards Classic and Physio mitral annuloplasty rings: a 
randomized trial.

Shahin GM(1), van der Heijden GJ, Bots ML, Cramer MJ, Jaarsma W, Gadellaa JC, de 
la Rivière AB, van Swieten HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-thoracic Surgery, Sint Antonius Hospital Nieuwegein, 
Heart Lung Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate clinical and echocardiographic outcomes for the 
semi-flexible Carpentier-Edwards Physio and the rigid Classic mitral 
annuloplasty ring.
METHODS: Ninety-six patients were randomized for either a Classic (n = 53) or a 
Physio (n = 43) ring from October 1995 through July 1997. Mean follow-up was 5.1 
years (range .1-6.6). We included standard patient characteristics at baseline 
and during follow-up. Analyses were adjusted for age and gender, and for factors 
that differed across groups at baseline. In 2002, echocardiography was performed 
in 74% of the survivors.
RESULTS: We found a 16% difference in mortality: 14% in the Physio group (n = 6) 
and 30% in the Classic group (n = 16) (adjusted P = .41). Life table analysis 
shows that the absolute risk of death after 30 months is lower in the Physio 
group. Intra-operative repair failure occurred in 3 patients (6%) of the Classic 
group, and in 4 (9%) of the Physio group, resulting in mitral valve replacement. 
Late failure occurred in 1 patient (2%) in the Classic group, and in 4 (9%) in 
the Physio group. At follow-up, left ventricular function did not differ across 
groups (ejection fraction 45% and 48% (adjusted P = .65)). The combined NYHA 
class III-IV had improved for the Classic group in 42% and for the Physio group 
in 34%.
CONCLUSION: Although the 16% difference in mortality did not reach statistical 
significance, it is considered clinically important. No differences in 
morbidity, valve function, and left ventricular function were found. Further 
research to explain the difference in mortality is required.

DOI: 10.1532/HSF98.20051114
PMID: 16401533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Chemistry. 2006 Mar 8;12(9):2472-81. doi: 10.1002/chem.200501008.

Tuning the reaction site for enzyme-free primer-extension reactions through 
small molecule substituents.

Rojas Stütz JA(1), Richert C.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie, Universität Karlsruhe TH, 76131 Karlsruhe, 
Germany.

The replication of genetic information relies on the template-directed extension 
of DNA primers catalyzed by polymerases. The active sites of polymerases accept 
four different substrates and ensure fidelity and processivity for each of them. 
Because of the pivotal role of catalyzed primer extension for life, it is 
important to better understand this reaction on a molecular level. Here we 
present results from primer-extension reactions performed with chemical systems 
that show high reactivity in the absence of polymerases. Small molecular caps 
linked to the 5'-terminus of templates are shown to enhance the rate and 
selectivity of primer extension driven by 2-methylimidazolides as activated 
monomers for any of the four different templating bases (A, C, G, and T). The 
most consistent effect is provided by a stilbene carboxamide residue, rather 
than larger aromatic or aliphatic substituents. Up to 20-fold rate enhancements 
were achieved for the reactions at the terminus of the template. The preference 
for a medium size cap can be explained by competing interactions with both the 
oligonucleotides and the incoming deoxynucleotide. The data also show that there 
is no particularly intractable problem in combining promiscuity with fidelity. 
Exploratory experiments involving a longer template and a downstream-binding 
strand with a 5'-cap show up to 38-fold rate acceleration over the same reaction 
templated by a single overhanging nucleotide.

DOI: 10.1002/chem.200501008
PMID: 16402399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Am J Manag Care. 2006 Jan;12(1):30-6.

Do drug formulary policies reflect evidence of value?

Neumann PJ(1), Lin PJ, Greenberg D, Berger M, Teutsch S, Mansley E, Weinstein 
MC, Rosen AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management and Center for Risk Analysis, 
Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
pneumann@hsph.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the extent to which preferred drug lists and tiered 
formularies reflect evidence of value, as measured in published cost-utility 
analyses (CUAs).
METHODS: Using 1998-2001 data from a large registry of cost-effectiveness 
analyses, we examined the 2004 Florida Medicaid preferred drug list and the 2004 
Harvard Pilgrim Pharmacy Program 3-tier formulary, and compared cost-utility 
ratios (standardized to 2002 US dollars) of drugs with preferred and 
nonpreferred status.
RESULTS: Few drugs on the formularies had any cost-utility data available. Of 
those that did, median cost-utility ratios were somewhat higher (less favorable) 
for Florida's preferred drugs compared with the nonpreferred drugs (25,465 
dollars vs 13,085 dollars; P = .09). Ratios did not differ for drugs on tiers 1 
and 2 of the Harvard Pilgrim formulary, although they were higher for tier 3 and 
for excluded drugs (18,309 dollars, 18,846 dollars, 52,119 dollars, and 22,580 
dollars, respectively; P = .01). Among therapies reported to be cost-saving or 
to have cost-utility ratios below 50,000 dollars, 77% had favored status in 
Florida Medicaid and 73% in Harvard Pilgrim. Among dominated drug interventions 
(reported to be more costly and less effective than alternatives), 95% had 
favored status in Florida Medicaid and 56% in Harvard Pilgrim.
CONCLUSIONS: This study underscores the paucity of published cost-utility data 
available to formulary committees. Some discrepancies prevail between the value 
of drugs, as reflected in published cost-utility ratios, and the formulary 
placement policies of 2 large health plans.

PMID: 16402886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Ugeskr Laeger. 2006 Jan 9;168(2):190-3.

[Osteoarthritis and obesity. Prognosis and treatment possibilities].

[Article in Danish]

Bliddal H(1), Christensen RD.

Author information:
(1)H:S Frederiksberg Hospital, Parker Instituttet, Frederiksberg. hb@fh.hosp.dk

Increases in both overweight and life expectancy of the population will lead to 
a larger number of patients with knee problems due to osteoarthritis (OA). 
Several changes, metabolic as well as functional, link obesity with OA. 
Randomised controlled trials have shown substantial and clinically relevant 
disability and symptom relief in obese patients with knee OA following moderate 
weight loss. While exercises are good for the functional status in general, it 
is advisable initially to prescribe weight loss as therapy of patients with a 
combination of obesity and OA.

PMID: 16403349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Br J Cancer. 2006 Jan 30;94(2):208-12. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602908.

Disarming the guarded prognosis: predicting survival in newly referred patients 
with incurable cancer.

Stockler MR(1), Tattersall MH, Boyer MJ, Clarke SJ, Beale PJ, Simes RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Sydney Cancer Centre, Royal Prince Alfred 
Hospital, Camperdown, NSW 2050 Australia. stockler@med.usyd.edu.au

People affected by cancer want information about their prognosis but clinicians 
have trouble estimating and talking about it. We sought to determine the nature 
and accuracy of medical oncologists' estimates of life expectancy in newly 
referred patients with incurable cancer. With reference to each patient, medical 
oncologists estimated how long they thought 90, 50, and 10% of similar patients 
would live. These proportions were chosen to reflect worst case, predicted, and 
best case scenarios suitable for discussions. After a median follow-up of 35 
months, 86 of the 102 patients had died with an observed median survival of 12 
months. Oncologists' estimates of each patient's worst case, predicted and best 
case scenarios were well-calibrated: 10% of patients lived for fewer months than 
estimated for the worst 10% of similar patients; 50% lived for at least as long 
as estimated for 50% of similar patients (predicted survival), and 17% lived for 
more months than estimated for the best 10% of similar patients. Oncologists' 
estimates of each patient's predicted survival were imprecise: 29% were within 
0.67-1.33 times the patient's actual survival, 35% were too optimistic (>1.33 
times the actual survival), and 39% were too pessimistic (<0.67 times the actual 
survival). The proportions of patients with actual survival times bounded by 
simple multiples of their predicted survival were as follows: 61% between half 
to double their predicted, 6% at least three to four times their predicted, and 
4% no more than 1/6 of their predicted; similar to the proportions in an 
exponential distribution (about 50%, 10% and 10% respectively). Ranges based on 
simple multiples of the predicted survival time appropriately convey prognosis 
and its uncertainty in newly referred people with incurable cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602908
PMCID: PMC2361107
PMID: 16404420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Jun;7(2):147-51. doi: 10.1007/s10198-005-0334-x.

A taxonomy of health utility assessment methods and the role for uncertainty 
analysis.

Szende A(1), Schaefer C.

Author information:
(1)Covance, Leeds, UK. agota.szende@covance.com

Comment on
    Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Dec;6(4):347-53.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-005-0334-x
PMID: 16404619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Med Assoc Thai. 2005 Aug;88(8):1035-44.

Cost effectiveness of concurrent chemoradiation in comparison with radiation 
alone in locally advanced cervical cancer.

Manusirivithaya S(1), Sripramote M, Tangjitgamol S, Sanjareonsuttikul N, 
Pisarnturakit P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Bangkok Metropolitan Administration 
Medical College and Vajira Hospital, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

INTRODUCTION: Concurrent chemoradiation has been advocated to be more effective 
than radiation alone in the treatment of cervical cancer. However, it certainly 
has more side effects. Hence, it is worthwhile to investigate the 
cost-effectiveness (CE) of concurrent chemoradiation in comparison with 
radiation alone in locally advanced cervical cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The treatment of cervical cancer was modeled using the 
decision tree where the treatment option would be either concurrent 
chemoradiation or radiation alone. Patients receiving each treatment had 
different risks of tumor recurrence. Costs in this analysis were separated into 
four major categories: costs for treatment of cervical cancer, costs for 
treatment of major side effects, costs for follow up cancer patients, and costs 
for diagnosis including supportive care of recurrent cervical cancer Charges 
were used for the costs of chemotherapy, radiotherapy, drugs, and accessories. 
Unit cost was used for the costs of laboratory investigations, in-patient and 
out-patient services. Costs incurred after the first year were discounted at an 
annual rate of 5%. The benefit was measured as months of life survived. The 
present study evaluated the patients to 5 years after complete treatment.
RESULTS: The CE ratio in the concurrent chemoradiation group was 2,855 and 1,835 
Baht/month survived if the chemotherapy was given as in-patient and out-patient 
respectively. The CE ratio in the radiation group equaled 2,366 Baht/month 
survived. For the sensitivity analysis, in the situation that chemoradiation was 
not much better than radiation alone in terms that the recurrent rate from 
chemoradiation group was not more than 20% lower than the radiation group, 
radiation therapy alone would be more cost effective even if chemotherapy was 
given as an out-patient basis.
CONCLUSION: Radiation alone was more cost effective than chemoradiation in the 
treatment of cervical cancer. Nevertheless, if chemotherapy was administered on 
an out-patient basis, chemoradiation will be more cost effective only if the 
recurrent rate from the chemoradiation group was more than 20% lower than the 
radiation group.

PMID: 16404829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Urol. 2006 Jan;175(1):99-103. doi: 10.1016/S0022-5347(05)00018-2.

Predicting life expectancy in men with clinically localized prostate cancer.

Cowen ME(1), Halasyamani LK, Kattan MW.

Author information:
(1)Quality Institute, St. Joseph Mercy Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Department 
of Medicine, St. Joseph Mercy Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. 
cowenm@trinity-health.org

PURPOSE: The choice of appropriate management for localized prostate cancer 
depends in part on the estimated life expectancy of a man. Little is known about 
the accuracy of existing rules for deriving these estimates. We developed a new 
prediction rule and examined the accuracy of 2 others in our data set.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective cohort was assembled, consisting of 506 
men who were diagnosed or received initial treatment at a community based, 
tertiary care health center between 1987 and 1989 for clinically localized 
prostate cancer (stages A, B, I, II or T1-2N0M0) and had at least 13 years of 
followup. Most patients did not have prostate specific antigen levels available. 
Proportional hazards regression was used to create a nomogram for deriving 
survival estimates. Discrimination of the new and external prediction rules was 
assessed by the c-statistic. Calibration curves compared predicted to actual 
survival at 10 years.
RESULTS: Estimates for survival at 5, 10 and 15 years, and for median life 
expectancy were determined. Discrimination was modest with a c-statistic of 
0.73. The rules of Albertsen and Tewari et al had comparable discrimination in 
our data with a c-statistic of 0.71 and 0.70, respectively. Predicted life 
expectancy according to our rule and that of Tewari approximated actual survival 
experience. Predictions according to the Albertsen study underestimated actual 
survival in our group but in consistent fashion.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall life expectancy can be predicted with a moderate degree of 
accuracy, sufficient for informing patient-clinician discussions but inadequate 
as the only determinant of the optimal management approach.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5347(05)00018-2
PMID: 16406881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. N Engl J Med. 2006 Jan 12;354(2):205-7; author reply 205-7. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc052976.

Cost-effectiveness of ICDs.

Anderson KP.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Oct 6;353(14):1471-80.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc052976
PMID: 16407520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2006 Jan;14(1):21-6. doi: 
10.1097/01.JGP.0000192509.53109.92.

When blue turns gray: postwarranty performance.

Eiseman B(1).

