
Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik mit Schwerpunkt Gastroenterologie, Hepatologie und 
Endokrinologie, Charité, Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10098 Berlin.

BACKGROUND & AIM: Nutritional status frequently deteriorates during chemotherapy 
in cancer. This is associated with a poor outcome. Since creatine 
supplementation has shown promising results in various diseases, we investigated 
the effects of creatine on nutritional status in patients with colorectal cancer 
undergoing chemotherapy.
METHODS: Thirty patients with colorectal cancer undergoing chemotherapy were 
randomised to receive either creatine (n=16) or placebo (n=15) for 8 weeks. Body 
composition was determined with bioelectrical impedance analysis; muscle 
function by hand grip, hip flexion and knee extension strength and quality of 
life (QoL) was assessed by the QLQ30 questionnaire.
RESULTS: Neither muscle function, body cell mass (BCM) nor QoL improved, but 
phase angle, a marker of BCM and cell integrity, increased significantly in the 
intervention patients (5.3+/-0.3 degrees to 5.4+/-0.2 degrees , P=0.030). 
Evaluating patients with different chemotherapy regimens, however, only 
intervention patients undergoing less aggressive chemotherapy were shown to 
benefit, increasing phase angle (5.11+/-0.22 degrees to 5.51+/-0.30 degrees , 
P=0.043) as well as BCM (27.22+/-2.85 to 29.60+/-3.54kg, P=0.043).
CONCLUSION: Creatine failed to improve muscle mass or function and QoL in 
colorectal cancer patients but improved bioimpedance parameters that are 
predictive of poor outcome. Creatine might therefore be useful in patients with 
milder chemotherapy in order to maintain or increase BCM whereas patients 
undergoing aggressive chemotherapy however are not likely to benefit.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2006.01.014
PMID: 16701923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Neuromuscul Disord. 2006 Aug;16(8):530-8. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2006.04.005.
Epub  2006 May 15.

135th ENMC International Workshop: nutrition in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
18-20 of March 2005, Naarden, The Netherlands.

Ludolph AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Ulm, Oberer Eselsberg 45, 89081 Ulm, 
Germany. albert.ludolph@medizin.uni-ulm.de

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2006.04.005
PMID: 16701996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Pain Palliat Care Pharmacother. 2006;20(2):65-7.

End-of-life care: questions and answers.

National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health.

When cancer is not curable, the focus of care shifts from cure to care. Patients 
and family members then have many questions about end-of-life care. The 
following information provided by the National Cancer Institute addresses life 
expectancy, when caregivers should ask for help, how caregivers can be attentive 
to patients' emotional needs, signs of dying and death, what to do after death, 
and where additional resources on end-of-life care can be found.

PMID: 16702140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2006 Sep;21(9):2569-76. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfl218.
Epub  2006 May 15.

The influence of socio-demographic factors, treatment perceptions and attitudes 
to living donation on willingness to consider living kidney donor among kidney 
transplant candidates.

Zimmerman D(1), Albert S, Llewellyn-Thomas H, Hawker GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, University of Ottawa and the 
Kidney Research Centre of the Ottawa Hospital Research Institute at the Ottawa 
Hospital, Ottawa, ON, Canada. dzimmerman@ottawahospital.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Living donor, compared with cadaveric donor kidney transplantation, 
is associated with prolonged graft survival and increased life expectancy for 
patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). However, access to living donor 
transplantation remains variable. Our objective was to further our understanding 
of the factors associated with the willingness to consider living donor kidney 
transplant (LDKTx).
METHODS: All patients from two tertiary care hospitals being assessed for a 
LDKTx (n = 81), and a random sample of patients on the waiting list for a 
cadaveric kidney transplant (CDKTx, n = 133) were invited to participate. A mail 
survey assessed participants' socio-demographic characteristics, and perceptions 
of dialysis, CDKTx and LDKTx. Multivariable logistic regression was used to 
assess the influence of these factors on willingness to consider LDKTx.
RESULTS: Adjusting for patient age, employment status and number of close 
relatives, willingness to consider an LDKTx was independently associated with a 
lower perceived risk of peri-operative complications to the donor (adjusted OR 
3.59, P = 0.02), the perception that the recipient would live longer following 
living donor transplantation (adjusted OR 4.34, P = 0.003) and greater perceived 
appropriateness of asking a family member to donate a kidney (adjusted OR 5.06, 
P = 0.007).
CONCLUSION: Among the ESRD patients studied, adjusting for key factors that may 
be associated with access to LDKTx, perceptions about risks to the donor and 
benefits to the recipient were independently associated with a willingness to 
consider LDKTx as a treatment option. Provision of standardized comprehensible 
information about all treatment options to patients with ESRD may improve 
acceptance rates for living donor transplantation.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfl218
PMID: 16702204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Radiographics. 2006 May-Jun;26(3):679-90. doi: 10.1148/rg.263055101.

Review of the abdominal manifestations of cystic fibrosis in the adult patient.

Robertson MB(1), Choe KA, Joseph PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Cincinnati, 234 Goodman St, ML 0761, 
Cincinnati, OH 45267-0761, USA

Cystic fibrosis is a common inherited fatal disease. As the life expectancy of 
affected individuals continues to increase with advances in disease management, 
this disease is no longer limited to the pediatric population. Currently, 40% of 
patients with cystic fibrosis are adults. In addition, patients may not present 
until adulthood and frequently have extrapulmonary symptoms. Abdominal 
manifestations are common and affect multiple organ systems. Hepatobiliary 
manifestations include fatty infiltration of the liver, gallbladder 
abnormalities, bile duct abnormalities, focal biliary fibrosis, and multinodular 
cirrhosis. Manifestations in the pancreas include acute pancreatitis, fatty 
replacement, calcifications, cysts, duct abnormalities, and carcinoma. 
Gastrointestinal manifestations include gastroesophageal reflux, peptic 
ulceration of the gastric and duodenal mucosa, distal intestinal obstruction 
syndrome, intussusception, appendicitis, fibrosing colonopathy, pneumatosis 
intestinalis, rectal mucosal prolapse, malignancies, and pseudomembranous 
colitis. Renal manifestations include nephrolithiasis, as well as secondary 
renal complications such as interstitial nephritis due to antibiotic therapy and 
amyloidosis. Awareness of these manifestations is important to successfully 
guide management of cystic fibrosis in adult patients.

Copyright RSNA, 2006.

DOI: 10.1148/rg.263055101
PMID: 16702447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Rev Med Interne. 2006 Apr;27(4):357-62. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2005.12.009.

[First geriatric oncology colloquium Care of elderly cancer patients: an art, 
science and challenge Montreal, September 16th and 17th 2005].

[Article in French]

Retornaz R(1), Wan-Chow-Wah D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General 
Hospital, 3755, chemin cote Sainte-Catherine, Montréal, Québec H3T1R2, Canada. 
frederique.retornaz@mail.mcgill.ca

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2005.12.009
PMID: 16703669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2006 May;18(4):351-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2005.12.011.

Sweat-gland tumours: a clinical review of cases in one centre over 20 years.

Hall J(1), Knee G, A'Hern RP, Clarke J, Glees JP, Ford HT, Eeles RA.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.

AIMS: Sweat-gland tumours (SGTs) are uncommon, but malignant varieties are very 
rare. We have added our data on 30 new cases seen at the Royal Marsden NHS 
Foundation Trust to the published literature, particularly concentrating on 
clinical issues. We include a literature review.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust database was 
searched for cases of SGT from 1972. Data were collected on all cases, including 
patient demographics and tumour characteristics, treatment and outcome.
RESULTS: Thirty cases were confirmed histologically to be SGTs. Fourteen were 
malignant, 15 benign and the degree of malignancy in one was histologically 
indistinguishable. Mean age was 55 years (64 for malignant, 47 for benign 
tumours). The 15 patients with benign tumours were almost all treated with 
complete excision. Those with local relapse underwent successful re-excision. 
Their 5-year disease-free survival was 78% and cause-specific survival was 100%. 
Twelve of the 14 malignant tumours had localised disease at diagnosis, one had 
nodal disease and one had metastatic tumour nodules. All except one were treated 
with wide local excision. The patient with nodal involvement also had a 
lymph-node dissection. Two received adjuvant radiotherapy to the tumour bed. One 
received a melphalan limb perfusion. Eight of the 14 had no relapse. Six had 
locoregional relapse, and four of these also developed distant metastases. 
Visceral disease was always fatal. Radiotherapy and chemotherapy at relapse were 
unsuccessful. Five-year disease-free survival was 45%, and cause-specific 
survival was 57%.
CONCLUSION: These rare tumours should be treated initially with complete wide 
local excision. In malignant tumours, lymph-node involvement is a poor 
prognostic sign. Wide local excision remains the primary treatment. Adjuvant 
radiotherapy may be useful in high-risk cases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2005.12.011
PMID: 16703755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jun;30(6):498-506. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.01.017.

Cost effectiveness of hepatitis B vaccination at HIV counseling and testing 
sites.

Kim SY(1), Billah K, Lieu TA, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. sykim@fas.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Despite recent significant achievements in controlling hepatitis B 
virus (HBV) infection, immunizing high-risk groups against the disease remains a 
public health challenge in the United States. The aims of this article are to 
evaluate the projected cost effectiveness of hepatitis B vaccination of adults 
attending two major types of publicly funded HIV counseling and testing sites 
(CTSs)-freestanding HIV CTSs and sexually transmitted disease (STD) clinics, and 
to compare the cost-effectiveness of alternative vaccination and testing 
strategies in different subgroups in this population.
METHODS: A decision model was developed to determine the economic and clinical 
consequences, from a societal perspective, of the following strategies in two 
hypothetical cohorts of 100,000 adults attending each type of site: (1) routine 
vaccination without screening, (2) screening for antibody to hepatitis B core 
antigen with an initial vaccine dose during the first visit, (3) screening and 
vaccination based on screening results, and (4) no intervention. Life 
expectancy, expected quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and medical care costs 
were estimated for each strategy and at each site.
RESULTS: Routine vaccination was both more effective and more cost-effective 
than either screening strategy; under base-case assumptions, routine vaccination 
would cost $4400 both per QALY and per life year saved. Results for STD clinics 
were very similar in magnitude to those for freestanding CTSs. Results were most 
sensitive to clients' time and travel costs for return visits and the 
time-discount rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine provision of hepatitis B vaccine at major HIV CTSs would be 
a highly effective and cost-effective approach to preventing hepatitis B among 
high-risk adults in the United States.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.01.017
PMID: 16704944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Gesundheitswesen. 2006 Apr;68(4):219-30. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-926638.

[Income differences in health and life expectancy--cross-sectional and 
longitudinal findings of the German Socio-Economic Panel (GSOEP)].

[Article in German]

Lampert T(1), Kroll LE.

Author information:
(1)Robert-Koch-Institut, Berlin. t.lampert@rki.de

Income is an important determinant of individual standards of living and 
participation in social life. Data from the German Socio-Economic Panel shows 
that the level of income also affects a person's health and life expectancy. 
People's self-assessment of their health and health-related quality of life 
follow a distribution pattern which can be described as a gradient: the lower 
the income, the more frequent the impairments to subjective health. Life 
expectancy statistics also reflect income differences, primarily due to 
premature deaths among lower-income groups. Clues for explaining income-related 
differences in health and life expectancy can be found in the results on 
health-related behaviour and use of the medical system: people in the lower 
income groups smoke more frequently, are slaker in sports and are less likely to 
go to a doctor when their health is impaired. Furthermore, work environment and 
job-specific influences, stress burdens and reactions, social comparison 
processes and disease-induced processes of declining social mobility and social 
exclusion are discussed as possible explanations.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-926638
PMID: 16705558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Clin Infect Dis. 2006 Jun 15;42(12):1772-80. doi: 10.1086/504382. Epub 2006
May  12.

Optimizing treatment for HIV-infected South African women exposed to single-dose 
nevirapine: balancing efficacy and cost.

Holmes CB(1), Zheng H, Martinson NA, Freedberg KA, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Infectious Disease and General Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. cbholmes@partners.org

INTRODUCTION: Nevirapine (NVP) resistance may decrease the effectiveness of 
viral suppression with NVP-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) in women infected 
with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) with previous exposure to single-dose 
NVP. However, the alternative lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART regimen is more 
expensive. Our objectives were to project the tradeoffs regarding life 
expectancy, cost, and cost-effectiveness of these ART regimens for NVP-exposed, 
HIV-infected women in South Africa.
METHODS: We developed a simulation model in which NVP-exposed, HIV-infected 
South African women received 1 of 5 treatment strategies: HIV care without ART, 
NVP-based ART, lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART, NVP-based ART followed by 
lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART, or lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART followed by 
NVP-based ART. The prevalence of NVP resistance was 39%; other data were 
obtained from the published literature.
RESULTS: Projected life expectancy was 43.7 months for women who did not receive 
ART, 77.4 months for women who received a single NVP-based regimen, and 84.5 
months for women who received a single lopinavir-ritonavir-based regimen. NVP 
resistance reduced survival time by up to 11.6 months among women who received 
NVP-based ART. The cost-effectiveness of NVP-based ART was $800 (US dollars) per 
year of life saved, compared with no ART, and the cost-effectiveness of 
lopinavir-ritonavir-based therapy was $4400 per year of life saved, compared 
with NVP-based ART. Lopinavir-ritonavir followed by NVP-based ART yielded the 
greatest life expectancy (105.4 months), had a cost-effectiveness of $2300 per 
year of life saved, and, if the efficacy of NVP-based regimens improved >6 
months postpartum, further increased survival.
CONCLUSIONS: NVP resistance substantially decreased the projected survival time 
associated with NVP-based ART, and lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART resulted in a 
superior survival time but at higher cost. A sequential regimen starting with 
lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART followed by NVP-based ART maximized projected 
survival and was cost effective in South Africa.

DOI: 10.1086/504382
PMID: 16705586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2006 Mar;14(1):6-9. doi: 10.21101/cejph.b0051.

The evaluation of short and long-term administration of drugs improving life 
expectancy in patients with myocardial infarction in a Hungarian county 
hospital.

Márk L(1), Dani G, Nagy E, Erdei F, Katona A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II - Cardiology, Pándy Kálmán Békés County 
Hospital, Gyula, Hungary. mark@pandy.hu

OBJECTIVE: The patients after myocardial infarction could hope for a significant 
improvement in their life expectancy when complying with the principles of the 
secondary prevention. Today there is no doubt that the administration of 
ACE-inhibitors, beta-blockers, aspirin and statins decrease mortality in these 
patients. Although the clinicians are aware of the guidelines of Evidence Based 
Medicine, international and Hungarian surveys show that in their everyday 
application there is still much to improve.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The authors studied the therapy of 200 consecutive 
patients (115 men and 85 women) who suffered from acute myocardial infarction 
(either STAMI or NSTAMI) in 1999-2000 at the discharge from their internal 
medicine department with cardiological profile and 6 months later during 
outpatient check-up. Having these therapeutic data a special emphasise was given 
to the same group of drugs and their administration was investigated in patients 
suffering from acute coronary syndrome with elevated troponin-T levels in the 
year 2002.
RESULTS: In the study of years 1999-2000 at the discharge 175 of 200 patients 
received ACE-inhibitor (87%), 121 (60%) beta-blocker, 180 (90%) antiplatelet and 
102 (51%) statin therapy. At the time of the control performed 6 months later 
85% of the patients were on ACE-inhibitor, 88% on beta-blocker, 77% on aspirin 
and 47% on statin therapy. In this high risk population during the 6 months 
control the LDL-cholesterol goal of 2.5 mmol/l was attained in the 17% of 
patients. In the survey performed in 2002 the use of beta-receptor blocker 
increased to 85%, antiplatelet drug and statin administration to 95% and 57%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the administration of drugs improving life expectancy in 
the authors' department is comparable with the published Hungarian and 
international data, effort to the widespread application of the ever growing 
principles of the Evidence Based Medicine and continuous self-control are 
essential.

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.b0051
PMID: 16705873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(5):443-52. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624050-00003.

Cost effectiveness of increasing the dose intensity of chemotherapy with 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in small-cell lung cancer: based on data 
from the Medical Research Council LU19 trial.

Bojke L(1), Sculpher M, Stephens R, Qian W, Thatcher N, Girling D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, England. 
lg116@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) can enable 
dose intensification of chemotherapy in small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). However, 
given its acquisition cost, it is important to assess its cost effectiveness 
within a resource-constrained health service.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness, from the UK NHS perspective, of 
G-CSF given in addition to doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide and etoposide (ACE) 
versus ACE alone in the management of SCLC.
METHODS: Using data from a UK Medical Research Council trial (LU19) to assess 
chemotherapy dose intensification in patients with previously untreated SCLC of 
any disease extent, a retrospective cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken. 
Resource use data, including hospitalisations and non-protocol cancer 
treatments, were collected during the first 6-month treatment phase of the 
trial. Mean costs ( pound, 2003 values) of managing patients in the two arms of 
the trial were calculated. Mean survival duration was calculated for the two 
groups using patient-specific follow-up data collected in the trial. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken, and uncertainty in cost 
effectiveness was expressed using cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: The use of G-CSF in addition to ACE chemotherapy is more costly ( 4647 
pounds) but results in longer mean survival duration (0.20 years; 0.18 years 
when discounted). This generates an incremental cost per additional life-year of 
25,816 pounds for ACE + G-CSF therapy. The probability of the addition of G-CSF 
being cost effective, if decision makers are willing to pay 30,000 pounds for an 
additional life-year, is 0.57. Secondary analysis suggests that cost 
effectiveness is likely to be sensitive to assumptions about the health-related 
quality of life (HR-QOL) experienced by patients.
CONCLUSION: Based on data collected in the LU19 trial, chemotherapy dose 
intensification using G-CSF in SCLC adds to health service costs but increases 
survival duration. Its overall cost effectiveness is likely to be finely 
balanced.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624050-00003
PMID: 16706570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(5):453-64. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624050-00004.

Encouraging smokers to quit: the cost effectiveness of reimbursing the costs of 
smoking cessation treatment.

Kaper J(1), Wagena EJ, van Schayck CP, Severens JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Care and Public Health Research Institute 
(CAPHRI), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
janneke.kaper@hag.unimaas.nl

BACKGROUND: Smoking cessation should be encouraged in order to increase life 
expectancy and reduce smoking-related healthcare costs. Results of a randomised 
trial suggested that reimbursing the costs of smoking cessation treatment (SCT) 
may lead to an increased use of SCT and an increased number of quitters versus 
no reimbursement.
OBJECTIVE: To assess whether reimbursement for SCT is a cost-effective 
intervention (from the Dutch societal perspective), we calculated the 
incremental costs per quitter and extrapolated this outcome to incremental costs 
per QALY saved versus no reimbursement.
METHODS: In the reimbursement trial, 1266 Dutch smokers were randomly assigned 
to the intervention or control group using a randomised double consent design. 
Reimbursement for SCT was offered to the intervention group for a period of 6 
months. No reimbursement was offered to the control group. Prolonged abstinence 
from smoking was determined 6 months after the end of the reimbursement period. 
The QALYs gained from quitting were calculated until 80 years of age using data 
from the US. Costs (year 2002 values) were determined from the societal 
perspective during the reimbursement period (May-November 2002). Benefits were 
discounted at 4% per annum. The uncertainty of the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios was estimated using non-parametric bootstrapping.
RESULTS: Eighteen participants in the control group (2.8%) and 35 participants 
in the intervention group (5.5%) successfully quit smoking. The costs per 
participant were 291 euro and 322 euro, respectively. If society is willing to 
pay 1000 euro or 10,000 euro for an additional 12-month quitter, the probability 
that reimbursement for SCT would be cost effective was 50% or 95%, respectively. 
If society is willing to pay 18,000 euro for a QALY, the probability that 
reimbursement for SCT would be cost effective was 95%. However, the external 
validity of the extrapolation from quitters to QALYs is uncertain and several 
assumptions had to be made.
CONCLUSION: Reimbursement for SCT may be cost effective if Dutch society is 
willing to pay 10,000 euro for an additional quitter or 18,000 euro for a QALY.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624050-00004
PMID: 16706571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(5):465-78. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624050-00005.

Comprehensive decision-analytic model and Bayesian value-of-information 
analysis: pentoxifylline in the treatment of chronic venous leg ulcers.

Iglesias CP(1), Claxton K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, UK. cpiu1@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To conduct a Bayesian value-of-information analysis of the cost 
effectiveness of pentoxifylline (vs placebo) as an adjunct to compression for 
venous leg ulcers.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was developed to estimate mean clinical 
benefits and costs associated with oral pentoxifylline (400mg three times daily) 
and placebo. Clinical data were obtained from a systematic review and 
synthesised using Bayesian methods. The decision uncertainty associated with the 
adoption of pentoxifylline as well as the maximum value associated with further 
research were estimated before and after the completion of the largest 
'definitive' treatment trial. Resource use was obtained from a UK national audit 
and unit costs applied (pounds, 2004 values).
RESULTS: The prior and posterior analyses suggest that pentoxifylline is a 
dominant therapy versus placebo. In the prior analysis, patients in the 
pentoxifylline group healed an average of 8.28 weeks quicker than patients in 
the placebo group (95% credibility interval [CI] 1.89, 14.56), had a 0.02 gain 
in QALYs (95% CI -0.12, 0.17) and an average reduction in cost of 153.4 pounds 
(95% CI -53.11, 354.9). Estimates of the uncertainty surrounding the cost 
effectiveness of pentoxifylline and the value of perfect information in both 
analyses did not suggest further research was justified. In the prior analysis, 
for willingness-to-pay values of 0 pounds, 100 pounds and 500 pounds per QALY 
gained, the estimated values of perfect information were 128,200 pounds, 127,100 
pounds and 126,700 pounds, respectively. Incorporation of the information from 
the largest randomised controlled trial on pentoxifylline did improve the 
estimate of the clinical effect associated with this drug; however, the 
variation was not large enough to reverse either the decision regarding the 
dominance of pentoxifylline or the maximum value associated with further 
research.
CONCLUSION: Bayesian value-of-information analysis represents a valuable tool 
for healthcare decision making. Had the results from this analysis been 
available before the largest trial was funded, a more efficient allocation of 
research and development resources could have been made.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624050-00005
PMID: 16706572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(5):495-517. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200624050-00007.

Letrozole: a pharmacoeconomic review of its use in postmenopausal women with 
breast cancer.

Dunn C(1), Keam SJ.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, New Zealand.

Letrozole (Femara), an aromatase inhibitor that blocks estrogen synthesis by 
inhibiting the final step of the estrogen biosynthetic pathway, is approved for 
use in a wide range of breast cancer settings. Randomised clinical trials in 
postmenopausal women with hormone-responsive early-stage breast cancer have 
demonstrated that, as adjuvant therapy, letrozole has greater efficacy than 
tamoxifen. It is also more effective than placebo as extended adjuvant therapy 
after completion of tamoxifen therapy in these patients. In women with 
hormone-responsive advanced breast cancer, letrozole is superior to tamoxifen in 
prolonging the time to disease progression and time to treatment failure in a 
first-line setting, and is at least as effective as anastrozole and more 
effective than megestrol for some endpoints (in one of two trials) in a 
second-line setting. Letrozole is generally well tolerated, and in a 
health-related quality-of-life analysis from a large clinical trial, patient 
well-being with letrozole as extended adjuvant therapy did not differ from that 
with placebo. Modelled analyses from the UK and the US suggest that, in 
postmenopausal women with hormone-receptor-positive early-stage breast cancer, 
letrozole is likely to be a cost-effective alternative to tamoxifen as adjuvant 
therapy; moreover, using letrozole as extended adjuvant therapy after tamoxifen, 
rather than no further treatment, is also a cost-effective treatment strategy. 
Sensitivity analyses have shown these results to be robust. In terms of direct 
healthcare costs, pharmacoeconomic models suggest that letrozole is a 
cost-effective alternative to tamoxifen as first-line therapy in postmenopausal 
women with hormone-responsive advanced breast cancer from the perspectives of 
the UK NHS, the Canadian and Italian public healthcare systems and the Japanese 
national health insurance system. Incremental costs per QALY or progression-free 
year gained over tamoxifen were well within the recommended limits for 
acceptability of new agents that are more effective and more expensive than 
existing therapies in the UK, Japan and Canada. Modelled analyses from the UK 
and Canada have also suggested that letrozole is cost effective as second-line 
therapy for advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women who have disease 
progression following anti-estrogen therapy. In conclusion, letrozole is an 
effective and well tolerated treatment for postmenopausal women with early-stage 
or advanced hormone-responsive breast cancer. Pharmacoeconomic analyses from UK 
and North American perspectives support the use of letrozole in 
hormone-responsive early-stage breast cancer in both the adjuvant and extended 
adjuvant settings. In addition, other modelled analyses conducted in a variety 
of healthcare systems across different countries consistently suggest that 
letrozole is cost effective in advanced treatment settings.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624050-00007
PMID: 16706574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Summer;9(2):245-55. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.245.

Advanced atherosclerotic foam cell formation has features of an acquired 
lysosomal storage disorder.

Jerome WG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
Tennessee 37232-2561, USA. jay.jerome@vanderbilt.edu

Atherosclerosis is a disease of large- and medium-sized arteries. Complications 
from atherosclerosis remain a serious cause of morbidity and mortality in 
industrialized countries. The disease begins very early in life and effects most 
people in the West. However, because the progression of the disease is slow, 
symptoms usually do not occur until after the fifth decade of life. Because 
atherosclerosis is a ubiquitous occurrence throughout the world, as life 
expectancy is prolonged most populations will see increasing numbers of deaths 
from complications of atherosclerosis unless there are dramatic advances in 
treatment. Because it begins so early in life, current treatment is aimed at 
slowing or reversing the progression of the disease rather than eliminating the 
initiating steps. Changes in diet and exercise, cholesterol-lowering drugs, and 
improvements in surgical treatments have made significant inroads into 
prolonging life, but much work is still required. To proceed further, a better 
understanding is needed of the underlying causes of disease progression. In this 
regard, evidence is mounting that the foam cells of the lesion (a critical cell 
in atherosclerosis progression) exhibit characteristics of an acquired lysosomal 
storage disorder. In this review the evidence for this conclusion is reviewed 
and the ramifications of this conclusion are explored with regard to the 
understanding of disease progression mechanisms, possible improvements in 
treatment, and their role in increasing life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.245
PMID: 16706652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Summer;9(2):279-91. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.279.

Cryopreservation of complex systems: the missing link in the regenerative 
medicine supply chain.

Fahy GM(1), Wowk B, Wu J.

Author information:
(1)21st Century Medicine, Inc., Rancho Cucamonga, California 91730, USA. 
gfahy@21cm.com

Erratum in
    Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Winter;9(4):509.

Comment in
    Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Mar;10(1):101-2; author reply 103-5.

Transplantation can be regarded as one form of "antiaging medicine" that is 
widely accepted as being effective in extending human life. The current number 
of organ transplants in the United States is on the order of 20,000 per year, 
but the need may be closer to 900,000 per year. Cadaveric and living-related 
donor sources are unlikely to be able to provide all of the transplants 
required, but the gap between supply and demand can be eliminated in principle 
by the field of regenerative medicine, including the present field of tissue 
engineering through which cell, tissue, and even organ replacements are being 
created in the laboratory. If so, it could allow over 30% of all deaths in the 
United States to be substantially postponed, raising the probability of living 
to the age of 80 by a factor of two and the odds of living to 90 by more than a 
factor of 10. This promise, however, depends on the ability to physically 
distribute the products of regenerative medicine to patients in need and to 
produce these products in a way that allows for adequate inventory control and 
quality assurance. For this purpose, the ability to cryogenically preserve 
(cryopreserve) cells, tissues, and even whole laboratory-produced organs may be 
indispensable. Until recently, the cryopreservation of organs has seemed a 
remote prospect to most observers, but developments over the past few years are 
rapidly changing the scientific basis for preserving even the most difficult and 
delicate organs for unlimited periods of time. Animal intestines and ovaries 
have been frozen, thawed, and shown to function after transplantation, but the 
preservation of vital organs will most likely require vitrification. With 
vitrification, all ice formation is prevented and the organ is preserved in the 
glassy state below the glass transition temperature (T(G)). Vitrification has 
been successful for many tissues such as veins, arteries, cartilage, and heart 
valves, and success has even been claimed for whole ovaries. For vital organs, a 
significant recent milestone for vitrification has been the ability to routinely 
recover rabbit kidneys after cooling to a mean intrarenal temperature of about 
-45 degrees C, as verified by life support function after transplantation. This 
temperature is not low enough for long-term banking, but research continues on 
preservation below -45 degrees C, and some encouraging preliminary evidence has 
been obtained indicating that kidneys can support life after vitrification. Full 
development of tissue engineering and organ generation from stem cells, when 
combined with the ability to bank these laboratory-produced products, in theory 
could dramatically increase median life expectancy even in the absence of any 
improvements in mitigating aging processes on a fundamental level.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.279
PMID: 16706656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Summer;9(2):302-8. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.302.

Natural background radioactive carbon and the natural death rate of people.

Germanskaia AA(1).

Author information:
(1)gealeksandr@narod.ru

A brief analysis of the known data on the potential danger of radiocarbon 
incorporation into DNA structure shows that the great genetic importance of 
transmutational transformations of DNA-incorporated 14C is theoretically and 
experimentally proved. This effect exists both in huge and small radiation doses 
(similar to doses of 14C natural background radiation). Therefore, the human 
death rate can be assumed to be dependent on natural and anthropogenous 
fluctuations of atmospheric 14C. Calculation methods of the age parameter 
dynamics of the natural human death rate are offered. It is shown that when 
calculating the parameters of the natural death rate, the use of Gompertz's 
formula is reasonable provided that the data on the general death rate are taken 
for the age interval "60 to 85 years." The ratios reflecting the regular and 
casual errors of the parameters R and a of Gompertz's equation, caused by 
people's casual deaths, were determined. A comparison of the historical dynamics 
of people's natural death rates in the last 150 years with the variations of 14C 
of the natural background during the same period showed that these are 
coordinated phenomena, the strong correlation of which indicates the possibility 
of their functional dependence. The 14C-concentration increase in an organism is 
the result of its increase in the surrounding biospheric composition, causing an 
increase in the natural death rate and vice versa: The increase of a person's 
life expectancy is caused by a decrease of 14C concentration.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.302
PMID: 16706659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Summer;9(2):329-32. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.329.

Soft strategies for postponing aging and prolonging human life.

Kristjuhan U(1).

Author information:
(1)Tallinn University of Technology, Tallinn, Estonia. ylokris@staff.ttu.ee

There are some effective soft strategies for postponing aging. One strategy is 
based on the all-cause mortality studies. It is possible to use many data of 
epidemiologic studies about different risk factors influencing all-cause 
mortality. This strategy is carried out to some extent and quite 
unintentionally. The other strategy is studying and taking into account weak 
sensations of discomfort to avoid developing intensive symptoms and disorders. 
The authors have used these strategies for 20 years. Both strategies have the 
potential to increase the interest of people in science for postponing aging 
because real results can be seen.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.329
PMID: 16706663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Summer;9(2):346-50. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.346.

How evolutionary thinking affects people's ideas about aging interventions.

Mitteldorf J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19119, USA. josh@mathforum.org

Evolutionary theory has guided the development of antiaging interventions in 
some conscious and some unconscious ways. It is a standard assumption that the 
body's health has been optimized by natural selection, and that the most benign 
and promising medical strategies should support the body's efforts to maintain 
itself. The very concept of natural healing is a reflection of evolutionary 
thinking about health. Meanwhile, a developing body of experimental evidence 
points to the startling hypothesis that aging is a metabolic program, under 
genetic control we are programmed for death. Evolution has provided that the 
aging program can be abated in times of stress, e.g., caloric restriction. CR 
mimetics are already recognized as a promising avenue for antiaging research. 
Beyond this, there are two ancient mechanisms of programmed death in protists 
that have survived half a billion years of evolution, and still figure in the 
aging of vertebrates today. These are apoptosis and replicative senescence via 
telomere truncation. Most researchers have been wary of modifying these 
mechanisms because they are known to play a stopgap role in cancer prevention. 
But intriguing evidence suggests that, despite some counter-carcinogenic 
function, the net result of both these mechanisms may be to shorten lifespan. 
Thus, interventions that suppress apoptosis and that preserve telomeres may be 
promising avenues for life extension research. A third element of the body's 
self-destruction program co-opts the inflammation response. Epidemiological 
evidence suggests that NSAIDs including aspirin protect against atherosclerosis, 
arthritis, and some forms of cancer. It may be that aging engages an autoimmune 
response that can be modified by drugs acting more narrowly on this same 
pathway. The existence of an evolutionary program that controls aging from the 
top down supports a new optimism concerning the types of antiaging interventions 
that are possible, and the likelihood that simple strategies may have dramatic 
results without dramatic side-effects.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.346
PMID: 16706667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. J Thromb Haemost. 2006 Jun;4(6):1180-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1538-7836.2006.01890.x.

Pharmacoeconomics of anticoagulation therapy for stroke prevention in atrial 
fibrillation: a review.

Szucs TD(1), Bramkamp M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. thomas.szucs@ifspm.unizh.ch

INTRODUCTION: Atrial fibrillation (AF) increases the risk of ischemic stroke 
5-fold and may not only be responsible for as many as 15% of all strokes that 
occur but also for larger and more disabling strokes than those attributable to 
other causes which increase the associated costs of care. Anticoagulation with 
warfarin in the target INR of 2.5 is a major clinical challenge in real-life 
practice, given that the complex relationship between warfarin dosage and 
response is readily altered by a variety of factors such as concurrent 
medications, illnesses, genetic influences, and dietary/lifestyle changes. 
Consequently, INR values are out of the target range approximately half of the 
time in real-life studies compared to clinical trial setting. Current 
anticoagulation therapies are less likely to be cost-effective in routine 
clinical practice and need improvement. The aim of this review is to discuss the 
pharmacoeconomic consequences of this management strategy by analysing the 
optimal treatment option within specific age and risk groups, confirming current 
guidelines for a health economic perspective and considering the economic impact 
on health care policy.
METHODS: An electronic search of the Medline/PubMed database from 1966 to 2005 
was performed to identify articles dealing with all pharmacoeconomic aspects of 
stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation. The following search terms were used: 
'atrial fibrillation', 'stroke', 'cost', 'warfarin'.
RESULTS: Treatment with warfarin is cost-effective (versus aspirin or no 
therapy) in patients with AF at moderate-to-high risk of stroke. The 
cost-effectiveness of anticoagulation therapy is driven by the achieved risk 
reduction rather than the potential benefits estimated from clinical trials. 
Failure to maintain optimal anticoagulation places patients at risk of 
complications, the management of which is a significant cost driver.
CONCLUSION: Improvement could be achieved by optimising physicians and patient's 
knowledge driven through prevention campaigns by health care policy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1538-7836.2006.01890.x
PMID: 16706956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Theor Biol Med Model. 2006 May 17;3:21. doi: 10.1186/1742-4682-3-21.

Stochastic modeling of oligodendrocyte generation in cell culture: model 
validation with time-lapse data.

Hyrien O(1), Ambeskovic I, Mayer-Proschel M, Noble M, Yakovlev A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, University of 
Rochester, 601 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, New York 14642, USA. 
Ollivier_Hyrien@urmc.rochester.edu

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this paper is two-fold. The first objective is to 
validate the assumptions behind a stochastic model developed earlier by these 
authors to describe oligodendrocyte generation in cell culture. The second is to 
generate time-lapse data that may help biomathematicians to build stochastic 
models of cell proliferation and differentiation under other experimental 
scenarios.
RESULTS: Using time-lapse video recording it is possible to follow the 
individual evolutions of different cells within each clone. This experimental 
technique is very laborious and cannot replace model-based quantitative 
inference from clonal data. However, it is unrivalled in validating the 
structure of a stochastic model intended to describe cell proliferation and 
differentiation at the clonal level. In this paper, such data are reported and 
analyzed for oligodendrocyte precursor cells cultured in vitro.
CONCLUSION: The results strongly support the validity of the most basic 
assumptions underpinning the previously proposed model of oligodendrocyte 
development in cell culture. However, there are some discrepancies; the most 
important is that the contribution of progenitor cell death to cell kinetics in 
this experimental system has been underestimated.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4682-3-21
PMCID: PMC1481529
PMID: 16707014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. J Laryngol Otol. 2006 Aug;120(8):631-7. doi: 10.1017/S0022215106001484. Epub
 2006 May 17.

Surgical management of trigeminal neuromas: a report of eight cases.

Moffat D(1), De R, Hardy D, Moumoulidis I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuro-Otology and Skull Base Surgery, University of Cambridge, 
Addenbrookes NHS Trust, Cambridge, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Trigeminal neuromas are rare tumours that may involve any part of the 
Vth nerve complex, including extracranial peripheral divisions of the nerve. A 
series of eight patients with intracranial trigeminal neuromas who underwent 
surgical management are presented.
METHODS: The hospital records and radiological images were reviewed with regard 
to clinical presentation, surgical approach, operative findings, peri-operative 
morbidity and neurological outcome, and percentage of tumour recurrence.
RESULTS: The principal presenting symptoms were those of involvement of the 
trigeminal nerve with sensory impairment in one or more of the three divisions. 
Tumour location was the prime determinant of surgical approach. Lateral skull 
base approaches were used as they are considered to be superior for identifying 
tumour origin, extension, and relationship to surrounding structures. Total 
excision of the tumour was carried out in three of the eight patients. In the 
remaining five patients some tumour was left purposely in order to minimize 
neurological deficit and optimize post-operative quality of life. There was no 
peri-operative mortality or major morbidity in our series. Five patients 
experienced symptomatic tumour recurrence and revision surgery was performed.
CONCLUSION: Management of trigeminal neuromas is complex and requires a 
multidisciplinary approach. Pre-operative surgical planning allows tumour 
removal with preservation of important neural structures in the majority of 
cases. For large tumours occupying both the middle and posterior cranial fossae, 
the retrosigmoid/retrolabyrinthine/middle cranial fossa approach provides good 
exposure and results in minimal brain retraction. A Fisch type C approach is 
necessary for the largest tumours. Long-term follow up with interval imaging is 
mandatory to exclude long-term tumour recurrence.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022215106001484
PMID: 16707037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. J Biosoc Sci. 2007 May;39(3):455-63. doi: 10.1017/S0021932006001428. Epub
2006  May 17.

Disability life expectancy for the elderly, city of Sao Paulo, Brazil, 2000: 
gender and educational differences.

Camargos MC(1), Machado CJ, do Nascimento Rodrigues R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Demografia, Cedeplar, UFMG, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

There is evidence that 'health life expectancy' (expected number of years to be 
lived in health) differs by socioeconomic status. Time spent in health or 
disability plays a critical role in the use of health care services. The 
objective of this study was to estimate 'disability life expectancy' by age, 
gender and education attainment for the elderly of the city of São Paulo, 
Brazil, in the year 2000. Data came from the SABE database, population censuses 
and mortality statistics (SEADE Foundation). Life expectancy with disability was 
calculated using Sullivan's method on the basis of the current probability of 
death and prevalence of disability by educational level. The prevalence of 
disability increased with age, for both sexes and both levels of educational 
attainment studied. Men showed a lower prevalence of disability, in general, and 
persons with lower educational attainment showed a higher prevalence of 
disability. Regarding life expectancy, women could expect to live longer than 
men, with and without disability. For both sexes, the percentage of life 
expectancy lived with disability decreased with increasing educational 
attainment. With increasing educational attainment, the sex differences in the 
percentage of remaining years to be lived with disability increased for most 
ages. Finally, the percentage of remaining years to be lived with disability 
increased with age for males and females, except for males with high educational 
attainment between the ages 70-75 and 75-80. The results may serve as a guide 
for public policies in the country, since health problems faced by older 
persons, such as disability, are the result of a number of past experiences 
during their life-times, such as health care, housing conditions, hygiene 
practices and education. Education influences health behaviours and is related, 
to some extent, to all these factors. Therefore, improvements in education for 
the disadvantaged may improve health.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932006001428
PMID: 16707040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Apr;10(14):1-144, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta10140.

The cost-effectiveness of screening for oral cancer in primary care.

Speight PM(1), Palmer S, Moles DR, Downer MC, Smith DH, Henriksson M, 
Augustovski F.

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Dentistry, University of Sheffield, UK.

Comment in
    Evid Based Dent. 2006;7(3):81-2.

OBJECTIVES: To use a decision-analytic model to determine the incremental costs 
and outcomes of alternative oral cancer screening programmes conducted in a 
primary care environment.
DESIGN: The cost-effectiveness of oral cancer screening programmes in a number 
of primary care environments was simulated using a decision analysis model. 
Primary data on actual resource use and costs were collected by case note review 
in two hospitals. Additional data needed to inform the model were obtained from 
published costs, from systematic reviews and by expert opinion using the Trial 
Roulette approach. The value of future research was determined using expected 
value of perfect information (EVPI) for the decision to screen and for each of 
the model inputs.
SETTING: Hypothetical screening programmes conducted in a number of primary care 
settings. Eight strategies were compared: (A) no screen; (B) invitational 
screen--general medical practice; (C) invitational screen--general dental 
practice; (D) opportunistic screen--general medical practice; (E) opportunistic 
screen--general dental practice; (F) opportunistic high-risk screen--general 
medical practice; (G) opportunistic high-risk screen--general dental practice; 
and (H) invitational screen--specialist.
PARTICIPANTS: A hypothetical population over the age of 40 years was studied.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main measures were mean lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of each alternative screening scenario and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) to determine the additional costs 
and benefits of each strategy over another.
RESULTS: No screening (strategy A) was always the cheapest option. Strategies B, 
C, E and H were never cost-effective and were ruled out by dominance or extended 
dominance. Of the remaining strategies, the ICER for the whole population (age 
49-79 years) ranged from pound 15,790 to pound 25,961 per QALY. Modelling a 20% 
reduction in disease progression always gave the lowest ICERs. 
Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves showed that there is considerable 
uncertainty in the optimal decision identified by the ICER, depending on both 
the maximum amount that the NHS may be prepared to pay and the impact that 
treatment has on the annual malignancy transformation rate. Overall, however, 
high-risk opportunistic screening by a general dental or medical practitioner 
(strategies F and G) may be cost-effective. EVPIs were high for all parameters 
with population values ranging from pound 8 million to pound 462 million. 
However, the values were significantly higher in males than females but also 
varied depending on malignant transformation rate, effects of treatment and 
willingness to pay. Partial EVPIs showed the highest values for malignant 
transformation rate, disease progression, self-referral and costs of cancer 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Opportunistic high-risk screening, particularly in general dental 
practice, may be cost-effective. This screening may more effectively be targeted 
to younger age groups, particularly 40-60 year olds. However, there is 
considerable uncertainty in the parameters used in the model, particularly 
malignant transformation rate, disease progression, patterns of self-referral 
and costs. Further study is needed on malignant transformation rates of oral 
potentially malignant lesions and to determine the outcome of treatment of oral 
potentially malignant lesions. Evidence has been published to suggest that 
intervention has no greater benefit than 'watch and wait'. Hence a properly 
planned randomised controlled trial may be justified. Research is also needed 
into the rates of progression of oral cancer and on referral pathways from 
primary to secondary care and their effects on delay and stage of presentation.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10140
PMID: 16707071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Health Technol Assess. 2006 May;10(15):1-168, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta10150.

Measurement of the clinical and cost-effectiveness of non-invasive diagnostic 
testing strategies for deep vein thrombosis.

Goodacre S(1), Sampson F, Stevenson M, Wailoo A, Sutton A, Thomas S, Locker T, 
Ryan A.

Author information:
(1)Medical Care Research Unit, University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive tests for 
proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and isolated calf DVT, in patients with 
clinically suspected DVT or high-risk asymptomatic patients, and identify 
factors associated with variation in diagnostic performance. Also to identify 
practical diagnostic algorithms for DVT, and estimate the diagnostic accuracy, 
