PMID: 16549193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Oncologist. 2006 Mar;11(3):234-42. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.11-3-234.

Adjuvant chemotherapy in the elderly: whom to treat, what regimen?

Burdette-Radoux S(1), Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)Hematology/Oncology Unit, University of Vermont, Fletcher Allen Health Care, 
UHC Campus, St. Joseph 3400, One South Prospect Street, Burlington, Vermont 
05401, USA. Susan.Burdette-Radoux@vtmednet.org

As the elderly population continues to grow, adjuvant chemotherapy treatment in 
the elderly is becoming an increasingly important issue for the practicing 
oncologist. Decisions regarding adjuvant treatment involve a careful assessment 
of the risk for recurrent disease and side effects from treatment, balancing 
these risks against the beneficial effects of treatment. In this review, we 
discuss methods for assessing the elderly patient in terms of life expectancy, 
comorbid disease, and functional capacity. This assessment can then be used to 
help identify appropriate candidates for adjuvant chemotherapy. Tools for 
estimating the risk for relapse and mortality and the reduction in these risks 
with various forms of treatment are useful for clarifying treatment options. 
Elderly patients have been underrepresented in clinical trials, and patients are 
often given less intense and possibly inferior standard treatment as a function 
of age. Ongoing clinical trials targeting the elderly patient may help answer 
questions about the relative risks and benefits of adjuvant treatment in this 
age group. Recent data show that most fit elderly patients derive a benefit from 
standard adjuvant chemotherapy regimens that is equal to that of younger 
patients.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.11-3-234
PMID: 16549807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 21;144(6):I12. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-144-6-200603210-00001.

Summaries for patients. The relationship of smoking behavior and death in 
persons 40 to 70 years of age.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 21;144(6):381-9.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-144-6-200603210-00001
PMID: 16549848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 21;144(6):381-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-144-6-200603210-00004.

Smoking and deaths between 40 and 70 years of age in women and men.

Vollset SE(1), Tverdal A, Gjessing HK.

Author information:
(1)Section for Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, Department of Public Health 
and Primary Health Care, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 21;144(6):444-6.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 21;144(6):I12.

BACKGROUND: The vast scientific literature on smoking and health contains few 
large studies with direct estimates of long-term mortality by smoking habits. 
Data have been lacking, particularly for women.
OBJECTIVE: To study smoking and deaths and causes of death in women and men of 
middle age (40 to 70 years of age).
DESIGN: Population-based cohort study.
SETTING: Norway (the Norwegian Counties Study).
PARTICIPANTS: 24,505 women and 25,034 men who were born between 1925 and 1941.
MEASUREMENTS: Initial information on smoking habits was collected between 1974 
and 1978. Smoking status was also assessed about 5 years and 10 years after the 
first examination. Death during 1974 to 2000 was studied by using death 
certificate information.
RESULTS: During follow-up, 2333 women and 4680 men died in middle age. Among 
women and men, 9% and 14% of never smokers, respectively, and 26% and 41% of 
continuing heavy smokers (> or =20 cigarettes per day), respectively, died in 
middle age. Years of life lost among heavy smokers between 40 and 70 years of 
age were 1.4 years in women and 2.7 years in men, compared with never smokers. 
Rates of smoking-associated lung cancer were similar in women and men, while 
lower cardiovascular mortality rates in women explained most of the difference 
in smoking-associated all-cause mortality between men and women.
LIMITATIONS: Data on changes in smoking habits after the baseline examination 
were not available for all participants and for the last 15 years of follow-up. 
Mortality levels in middle age may not apply to non-Norwegian populations.
CONCLUSIONS: Continuing smoking strongly increased and smoking cessation 
decreased the risk for death between 40 and 70 years of age for both women and 
men. Despite similar rates for lung cancer death, women who smoked had lower 
mortality rates in middle age than men with similar smoking histories due to 
fewer cardiovascular deaths in women.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-144-6-200603210-00004
PMID: 16549850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Presse Med. 2006 Mar;35(3 Pt 2):461-8. doi: 10.1016/s0755-4982(06)74620-6.

[Epidemiology of schizophrenic disorders].

[Article in French]

Hautecouverture S(1), Limosin F, Rouillon F.

Author information:
(1)Service de psychiatrie d'adultes, Hôpital Albert Chenevier, Créteil. 
stephane.hautecouverture@ach.ap-hop-paris.fr

Comment in
    Presse Med. 2006 Mar;35(3 Pt 2):452-3.

The prevalence of schizophrenic disorders in the general population is 1%, that 
is, in France, approximately 40000 people, given the age group concerned. The 
sex ratio is one. The first episode occurs between the ages of 15 and 25 years 
in men, a little later in women. 90% of patients treated for schizophrenia are 
aged from 15 to 55 years. The short-term course is marked by a relapse rate 
after the first episode estimated at 20-40%. The long-term evolution is marked 
by substantial excess mortality, a suicide rate of 10-20% and an overall 
decrease of approximately 10 years in life expectancy. Only 10% of patients will 
have an outcome including full autonomy. The socioeconomic impact is therefore 
considerable, with a mean cost of management estimated at 15000 Euros per year. 
Genetic factors affect vulnerability or predisposition to schizophrenia. 
Accordingly a first-degree relative of a schizophrenic patient has a risk 5 to 
10 times higher of developing the disease than does a person with no affected 
relatives. This risk is not one of simple Mendelian transmission but rather 
vulnerability, which implies the intervention of several genes. Some 
environmental factors have also been identified, including exposure to influenza 
virus during the gestational period (between the 4th and 7th month of 
pregnancy). This finding reinforces the hypothesis of a neurodevelopmental 
origin of schizophrenia. Finally, among other associated factors, regular 
cannabis use appears to quadruple the risk of disease.

(c) 2006, Masson, Paris.

DOI: 10.1016/s0755-4982(06)74620-6
PMID: 16550145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Exp Appl Acarol. 2006;38(1):15-23. doi: 10.1007/s10493-005-5786-2.

Life history of Kampimodromus aberrans as a predator of Phytoptus avellanae 
(Acari: Phytoseiidae, Phytoptidae).

Ozman-Sullivan SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, Ondokuz Mayis 
University, 55139, Samsun, Turkey. sozman@omu.edu.tr

The biology of Kampimodromus aberrans (Oudemans), a predator of the big bud 
mite, Phytoptus avellanae Nalepa, was studied under laboratory conditions. All 
experiments were conducted on hazelnut leaf discs in an incubator at 25 +/- 1 
degrees C, with 16:8 h L:D, at an average daily relative air humidity of 76%. 
Observations were made twice daily for the immature stages and daily for the 
adults to determine developmental time, survival and fecundity. The mean 
developmental time for females was 6.90 days and for males was 7.10 days, and 
mean adult longevity for females was 11.67 days. The mean total and daily egg 
production were 12.67 and 1.85 eggs, respectively. The net reproduction rate 
(R0) was 7.09 females/female, intrinsic rate of increase (rm) was 0.153 
female/female/day and mean generation time (T0) was 12.80 days. The mortality 
rate of immature stages was 0.66% and the sex ratio was 0.51 female.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-005-5786-2
PMID: 16550331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Ann Vasc Surg. 2006 Mar;20(2):223-7. doi: 10.1007/s10016-006-9001-7. Epub
2006  Mar 21.

Surgical treatment of renal neoplasmatic thrombi extending into the inferior 
vena cava.

Papadimitriou DK(1), Pitoulias GA, Tachtsi MD, Koutsias SG, Radopoulos DK.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Unit, 2nd Surgical Department, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
"G. Gennimatas" Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.

Renal cell carcinoma produces neoplasmatic thrombus that usually invades and 
progressively grows into the endorenal veins. The thrombus may extend into the 
ipsilateral renal vein or the inferior vena cava in 15-20% and 8-15% of cases, 
respectively. These tumors are classified into four categories (I, II, III, and 
IV) according to the level of cephalad extension of thrombus into the inferior 
vena cava. The purpose of this study was to assess the surgical strategy for 
cases of renal tumor thrombus invading the vena cava. We retrospectively 
reviewed the records of 10 patients with renal cell carcinoma, who underwent in 
our institution radical nephrectomy and resection of vena cava thrombus between 
January 1997 and December 2004. Four patients were classified as level I, four 
were level II, and two were level III. In all cases, the thrombus was removed 
through a small cavotomy without cardiopulmonary bypass and the cavotomy was 
closed primarily. Pringle's maneuver was performed in the two level III cases. 
There were no perioperative pulmonary embolisms or deaths, and the mean hospital 
stay was 8 +/- 1.1 days. The mean survival was 21.8 +/- 8 months, and the vena 
cava remained patent for this period. Tumor thrombectomy improves the prognosis 
and the quality of life of these patients, and in most of cases the surgical 
technique, although challenging, carries a low morbidity and mortality rate.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-006-9001-7
PMID: 16550482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. JAAPA. 2006 Mar;19(3):18, 20. doi: 10.1097/01720610-200603000-00003.

Growing old gratefully: help from the past, hope for the future.

Zarbock S.

DOI: 10.1097/01720610-200603000-00003
PMID: 16550670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp. 2006 Feb;57(2):115-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0001-6519(06)78672-1.

[Otology manifestations of the Anderson-Fabry disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Pomar Blanco P(1), San Román Carbajo J, Martín Villares C, Rodríguez Martín F, 
Paniagua J, Fernández Pello M, Tapia Risueño M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de ORL, Sacyl. Hospital Comarcal El Bierzo, León.

Anderson-Fabry disease in an inherited X-linked metabolic disorder involving 
glycosphingolipid metabolism. Few data are available regarding cochlear 
involvement. Clinical manifestations of Fabry disease appeared on the first 
decade of life. The prognosis of males with Fabry disease is serious and life 
expectancy is limited; clinical evolution of heterozygous females is clearly 
better. We report a family with Fabry disease in several members. The mother, 
already dead, had two child which have been examined in our department; the 
male, without a risk of ototoxicity, or acoustic trauma, has progressive hearing 
loss, tinnitus and dizinness sometimes; the daughter, without a history of 
deafness, shows unilateral hearing loss on high-tone frequencies. It is 
important to emphasize these data to those physicians expert in children with 
Fabry disease because early enzyme replacement therapy intervention should offer 
increased possibilities of regression of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-6519(06)78672-1
PMID: 16550865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2006 Feb;19(2):128-36. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892006000200013.

[Quality of life and utility measures: clinical parameters for decision-making 
in health].

[Article in Spanish]

Campolina AG(1), Ciconelli RM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil. alecampolina@yahoo.com.br

In recent decades, the international scientific community has become 
increasingly interested in the concept of quality of life. One of the most 
important implications of the focus on quality of life is a shift from "cure" to 
"a guarantee of a better life" as a health care goal, as well as the inclusion 
of individuals' preferences for certain health states in the decision-making 
process with treatments, diagnostic strategies, and health spending. This is 
especially important as the prevalence of chronic diseases increases as a result 
of the aging of the population. This piece describes the main concepts and 
applications related to this new health paradigm, including quality of life 
itself, utility measures, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and health 
decision analysis.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892006000200013
PMID: 16551387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Br J Cancer. 2006 Apr 10;94(7):964-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603049.

A phase II study of fixed-dose capecitabine and assessment of predictors of 
toxicity in patients with advanced/metastatic colorectal cancer.

Sharma R(1), Rivory L, Beale P, Ong S, Horvath L, Clarke SJ.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Cancer Centre, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and activity of fixed-dose 
capecitabine in patients with advanced colorectal cancer and to correlate 
pretreatment plasma concentrations of homocysteine and serum and red cell folate 
with toxicity. Patients received capecitabine 2000 mg (4 x 500 mg tablets) twice 
daily on days 1-14 every 3 weeks. They were reviewed weekly during the first 
cycle and then three weekly for safety assessment. Eligibility criteria were 
advanced/metastatic colorectal cancer, < or = 2 prior chemotherapy regimens, 
ECOG performance status 0-2 and life expectancy >12 weeks. A total of 60 
patients were enrolled and 55 were evaluable for efficacy. The median age was 72 
years and 63% of patients had a performance status of 1 or 2. Confirmed tumour 
responses were reported in 15 patients (28%; 95% confidence interval (CI), 
15.7-40.3%). The median time to disease progression was 4.9 months and median 
overall survival was 11.2 months. The median ratio of fixed dose to body surface 
area (BSA)-calculated dose was 88% (range 65-108%). Significant myelosuppression 
was not observed. Grade 2/3 treatment-related adverse events were diarrhoea 
(34%), fatigue (27%), stomatitis (15%) and hand-foot syndrome (22%). Dose 
reduction due to adverse events was required in 16 patients (29%) and multiple 
reductions in five patients (9%). There was no grade 3/4 haematological 
toxicity, any grade 4 adverse events or treatment-related deaths. Patients with 
higher pretreatment levels of serum folate experienced significantly greater 
toxicity (P = 0.02, CI: 1.0-1.2) during cycle 1 and over the entire treatment 
period (P = 0.04, CI: 1.0-1.3). Pretreatment homocysteine concentrations did not 
predict for toxicity. In conclusion, fixed-dose capecitabine appears to have 
similar efficacy and safety compared to the currently recommended dose schedule 
based on body surface area and simplifies drug administration. A high 
pretreatment folate may be predictive of increased toxicity from capecitabine.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603049
PMCID: PMC2361225
PMID: 16552436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Pediatr Radiol. 2006 Jun;36(6):485-90. doi: 10.1007/s00247-005-0091-0. Epub
2006  Mar 22.

The utilization of pediatric computed tomography in a large Israeli Health 
Maintenance Organization.

Chodick G(1), Ronckers C, Ron E, Shalev V.

Author information:
(1)Maccabi Healthcare Services, 27 Ha'Mered Street, Tel Aviv, Israel. 
chodickg@mail.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: Concern has been raised about the potential risks related to 
radiation exposure from CT scans, particularly among children. However, to date, 
there are few data available describing the magnitude of pediatric CT 
utilization.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to explore patterns of CT use in pediatric 
patients, with respect to time, use of multiple scans, body regions imaged, and 
medical diagnoses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Records of 22,223 scans performed on 18,075 people aged < 
or =18 years over the period 1999-2003, including diagnoses recorded within 21 
days after the examination, were obtained from a large Israeli Health 
Maintenance Organization (1,600,000 members).
RESULTS: The highest annual CT examination rate (per 1,000) was recorded in 2001 
(10.1) compared to 7.0 and 6.3 in 1999 and 2003, respectively. The lowest rate 
(three scans per 1,000) was found for 3-year-old children, with increasing rates 
with age. The head was the most frequently scanned region, both in young 
children (78%) and adolescents (39%). Symptoms of ill-defined conditions and 
injuries were documented in 22% and 10% of all scans, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the results suggest that children comprise only 3% of all 
patients undergoing CT, this important modality must be carefully used because 
of their increased radiosensitivity, higher effective radiation doses, and 
longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-005-0091-0
PMID: 16552588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Ai Zheng. 2005 Nov;24(11):1372-5.

[Surgical management of aged patients with hypopharyngeal carcinoma and 
preservation of laryngeal function].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang DG(1), Luan XY, Pan XL, Xie G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolhryngology, Qilu Hospital, Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, 250012, PR China. zhangdaogong1978@163.com

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: The prolongation of life expectancy results in an 
increasing number of aged patients with hypopharyngeal carcinoma who have poor 
surgical tolerance because of degenerative organ functions. This study was to 
explore the surgical methods and preservation of laryngeal function for aged 
patients with hypopharyngeal carcinoma.
METHODS: Clinical data of 84 patients with hypopharyngeal carcinoma who aged 
above 60 years, treated from 1996 to 2001, were retrospectively reviewed. Of the 
84 cases, 68 were originated from pyriform sinus, 5 from postcricoid area, 11 
from posterior pharyngeal wall; 57 patients received partial laryngectomy with 
laryngeal function preservation, 27 received total laryngectomy. Kaplan-Meier 
method and log-rank test were used to evaluate the survival rates.
RESULTS: The overall 3- and 5-year survival rates were 60.7% and 53.3%, 
respectively. The 3- and 5-year survival rates of laryngeal function 
preservation group was not significantly different from those of total 
laryngectomy group (63.2% vs. 55.6%, P = 0.37; 56.7% vs. 46.3%, P > 0.05). In 
laryngeal function preservation group, 39 (68.4%) had all functions preserved 
(voice, respiration, and deglutition), and 18 (31.6%) partially preserved (voice 
and deglutition).
CONCLUSION: It is safe and effective to treat aged hypopharyngeal carcinoma 
patients with surgery, and is possible to preserve laryngeal function in T3-4 
stage aged patients who have no involvement of contralateral larynx, no invasion 
to esophagus, and no deglutition difficulty.

PMID: 16552966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2005 Dec;91(8):737-45. doi: 
10.1016/s0035-1040(05)84485-x.

[Centromedullary nailing of the femur for bone metastasis: clinical and 
radiological evaluation using the Tokuhashi score in 24 patients].

[Article in French]

Obert L(1), Jarry A, Lepage D, Jeunet L, Tropet Y, Vichard P, Garbuio P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Orthopédie, de Traumatologie, de Chirurgie plastique 
reconstructrice et d'assistance main, CHU Jean-Minjoz, Besançon. 
laurentobert@yahoo.fr

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Pluridisciplinary management of patients with metastasis 
to the femur is well defined, but the choice between palliative surgery or 
abstention must be decided on the basis of a few evaluated prognostic criteria. 
We report a series of 24 cases of metastasis to the weakened or fractured femur 
which was evaluated with the Tokuhashi score and treated by surgery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Sixteen women and eight men, mean age 71 years (58-89) 
underwent centromedullary nailing of the femur. These patients had metastases 
from breast cancer (n = 13 of the 16 women). Twenty of the 24 patients also had 
other metastases. The Tokuhasi score was > 6 in 16/24 patients. Fourteen 
patients had pain which did not respond to morphine. Thirteen had fractures and 
eleven weakened femurs. Time to surgery was six days (1-15). A full nail was 
inserted in four patients and a reconstruction nail in twenty.
RESULTS: Operative time was 93 minutes (57-123). Blood loss was 200 ml 
(150-350). There were no intraoperative complications (fat embolism) excepting 
increased comminution. Hospital stay was 23 days (8-55). Survival was 148 days 
(8-510) for patients with fractures and 272 days (12-730) for patients with 
weakened femurs. Eight patients with a fractured femur died (six within the 
first three postoperative weeks), two among those with preventive nailing. On 
average, weight bearing among the surviving patients with nailing for fracture 
was achieved on the 57th postoperative day (30-90). Only six patients required 
morphine early after surgery. Centromedullary nailing successfully relieved pain 
in all patients with an isolated metastasis. Mean survival in patients with a 
Tokuhashi score < 3 was 2.1 months. It was 17 months in those whose score was > 
6.
CONCLUSION: Centromedullary nailing for fractured or weakened femur due to 
metastasis is a useful therapeutic solution for patients with short life 
expectancy. With this technique, antalgesics can be reduced while preserving 
independence as long as possible. The Tokuhashi score is easy to establish. If 
it is less than 3, centromedullary nailing should not be attempted due to the 
short expected survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-1040(05)84485-x
PMID: 16552996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Water Environ Res. 2006 Jan;78(1):41-8. doi: 10.2175/106143005x84503.

Disinfection of secondary effluents using tin oxide anodes.

Loge FJ(1), Inouye T, Watts RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of California 
at Davis, 95616, USA. fjloge@ucdavis.edu

Direct current applied to a tin oxide anode submersed in water has the potential 
to generate hydroxyl radicals, a strong chemical oxidant. Tin oxide anode 
systems, which may represent a viable alternative disinfectant, were 
investigated for the disinfection of secondary effluents. Coliform bacteria in 
the effluent were effectively inactivated in a bench-scale tin oxide 
disinfection system. The number of anodes in the tin oxide disinfection system 
influenced the steady-state concentration of hydroxyl radicals and, 
consequently, the contact time necessary to achieve a specified dose. The life 
expectancy of the anodes was greater than 30 days and no appreciable loss of tin 
was observed over a 5-day period. A preliminary estimate of the capital and 
operating costs of a pilot- or full-scale tin oxide disinfection system designed 
to meet a discharge requirement of 23 most probable number/100 mL at a 3 
785-m3/d (1-mgd) facility was comparable to UV and chlorination/dechlorination 
facilities. Based on this preliminary assessment, tin oxide disinfection systems 
are a promising alternative disinfectant for secondary effluents.

DOI: 10.2175/106143005x84503
PMID: 16553165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Yi Chuan Xue Bao. 2006 Mar;33(3):277-84. doi: 10.1016/S0379-4172(06)60051-6.

Localization of S genes on extended DNA fibers (EDFs) in Brassica oleracea by 
high-resolution FISH.

Yang K(1), Qi HY, Zhu LQ, Wang XJ.

Author information:
(1)College of Agronomy and Life Sciences, Southwest University, Chongqing 
400716, China. ykun0827@163.com

The compactness of plant chromosome and the structures of plant cell wall and 
cytoplasm pose a great resistance to fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), 
and consequently many new methods for improving spatial resolution are being 
exploited to overcome these problems. However, for plants with small chromosomes 
like rice and Brassica, there are still many difficulties. In this article a new 
and effective technique for preparation of extended DNA fibers (EDFs), using a 
series of treatments to prophase I chromosomes of Brassica oleracea PMCs, is 
presented. This technique allows longitudinal extension of the chromosomes 
30-107 times longer than those of their metaphase counterparts. The length of 
the extended DNA fibers is between 89 microm and 273 microm, and the space 
resolution is 42.8-53.0 kb. Stretching ratios were assessed in a number of FISH 
experiments with super-stretched chromosomes from meiotic prophase I nuclei of 
B. olerecea. Through FISH to EDFs of pachytene chromosomes hybridized in situ 
with SRK (S-locus receptor kinase) and SPII (S-locus protein II) probes, for the 
first time we localized the accurate positions of S-locus and quantitatively 
analyzed the features of S genes in B. oleracea genome to show all S genes were 
single-copied. In addition, the length between two linked genes was measured to 
be about one micron. As a result, the highest space resolution which was about 4 
kb was obtained.

DOI: 10.1016/S0379-4172(06)60051-6
PMID: 16553217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Versicherungsmedizin. 2006 Mar 1;58(1):9-13.

[Biochips--tools of 21st century medicine].

[Article in German]

Bürger J(1).

Author information:
(1)Kompetenzzentrum Biowissenschaften der Münchener 
Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft.

In the next years biochips will enter into clinical medicine. Each larger 
diagnostics laboratory will offer genetic tests with this method. In this 
article the potential of biochips is shown by two examples: Differentiation and 
prognosis in breast cancer and individualized drug therapy (pharmacogenetics). 
In cancer the gene expression profile permits an accuracy of differentiation and 
prognosis that was impossible so far. Already soon oncologists will make their 
therapeutic decisions on the basis of biochip-based gene expression profiles. 
For an individualized drug therapy extensive genetic tests must be accomplished, 
above all of the cytochrome P450 system. An already available biochip seems to 
make this possible reliably and economically. Moreover, in science biochips will 
play a substantial role in the analysis of the genetic basis of common diseases. 
If these diseases are understood once, the clinical use of biochips will open an 
enormous potential for a predictive medicine. Biochips are a relevant topic for 
insurers--partially already today, much more however in the future.

PMID: 16553220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Nutr Health Aging. 2006 Mar-Apr;10(2):143-9.

Ageing, lifestyle modifications, and cardiovascular disease in developing 
countries.

Dominguez LJ(1), Galioto A, Ferlisi A, Pineo A, Putignano E, Belvedere M, 
Costanza G, Barbagallo M.

Author information:
(1)viale F. Scaduto 6/c, 90144 Palermo, Italy.

Developing countries face the double menace of still prevalent infectious 
diseases and increasing cardiovascular disease (CVD) with epidemic proportions 
in the near future, linked to demographic changes (expansion and ageing), and to 
urbanisation and lifestyle modifications. It is estimated that the elderly 
population will increase globally (over 80% during the next 25 years), with a 
large share of this rise in the developing world because of expanding 
populations. Increasing longevity prolongs the time exposure to risk factors, 
resulting in a greater probability of CVD. As a paradox, increased longevity due 
to improved social and economical conditions associated with lifestyle changes 
in the direction of a rich diet and sedentary habits in the last century, is one 
of the main contributors to the incremental trend in CVD. The variable increase 
rate of CVD in different nations may reflect different stages of 
"epidemiological transition" and it is probable that the relatively slow changes 
seen in developing populations through the epidemiological transition may occur 
at an accelerated pace in individuals migrating from nations in need to affluent 
societies (i.e. Hispanics to the USA, Africans to Europe). Because of restrained 
economic conditions in the developing world, the greatest gains in controlling 
the CVD epidemic lies in its prevention. Healthy foods should be widely 
available and affordable, and healthy dietary practices such as increased 
consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables, reduced consumption of saturated 
fat, salt, and simple sugars, may be promoted in all populations. Specific 
strategies for smoking and overweight control may be regulation of marketed 
tobacco and unhealthy fast food and promotion of an active lifestyle. Greater 
longevity and economic progress are accompanied by an increasing burden of CVD 
and other chronic diseases with an important decrease in quality of life, which 
should question the benefit of these additional years without quality.

PMID: 16554951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2006 Feb;99(2):117-22.

[Medical management of Marfan's syndrome and ascending aortic aneurysms in 
France: initial assessment].

[Article in French]

Ladouceur M(1), Weber F, Morin P, Jondeau G.

Author information:
(1)Consultation multidisciplinaire Marfan et anévrismes de láorte ascendante, 
hôpital Ambroise Paré 9, av. Charles de Gaulle, 92100 Boulogne.

Over the last 30 years, there has been considerable progress in the management 
of aneurysms of the ascending aorta whether isolated or related to Marfan's 
syndrome which has considerably increased the life expectancy of these patients. 
The aim of this study was to assess the management protocol proposed in France 
for this condition in order to establish recommendations. A questionnaire was 
sent to cardiologists, paediatric cardiologists and cardiac surgeons and also to 
patients diagnosed with Marfan's syndrome. Most of the 228 physicians who 
replied prohibited violent sporting activities and less than a quarter advised 
against all sports. There was a wide dispersion in the prescription of beta 
blockers in Marfan's syndrome as 57% proposed this treatment only in cases with 
dilatation of the aorta and 5% prescribed no treatment at all. On the other 
hand, beta blockers were widely prescribed (93%) after replacement of the 
ascending aorta. When poorly tolerated in adults, the most commonly prescribed 
option was a calcium antagonist (60%) followed by angiotensin converting enzyme 
inhibitors and therapeutic abstention. On the other hand, 60% of paediatric 
cardiologists preferred to withdraw treatment. These results were confirmed by 
the replies from patients with Marfan's syndrome: 58.3% were prescribed beta 
blockers with a higher proportion in children less than 12 years of age. This 
treatment was introduced late, about 7 years after diagnosis. The authors 
conclude that there is much disparity in the management of ascending aortic 
aneurysms whether or not associated with Marfan's syndrome, especially with 
regards the prescription of beta blockers, justifying the publication of 
recommendations.

PMID: 16555694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2006;6(2):87-101. doi:
10.2165/00129784-200606020-00003.

Preventing cardiovascular disease in the 21st century: therapeutic and 
preventive implications of current evidence.

Daviglus ML(1), Lloyd-Jones DM, Pirzada A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA. daviglus@northwestern.edu

Cardiovascular disease (CVD), particularly coronary heart disease (CHD), remains 
a major cause of mortality, morbidity, and disability in the US and other 
Westernized societies. As a result of therapeutic and preventive measures to 
control the CVD/CHD epidemic, mortality has declined steadily during the last 
several decades with a consequent gain in life expectancy, but the 1990s 
witnessed a slowing of this decline. In response to these trends, a range of 
therapeutic regimens were developed to address adverse CVD risk factor levels 
and their deleterious effects. The scientific evidence regarding the efficacy, 
cost effectiveness, strengths, and limitations of a range of pharmacologic and 
lifestyle approaches to CVD prevention--both primary and secondary--are reviewed 
in depth. Clinical trials aimed at primary and secondary prevention of CVD have 
documented the efficacy and cost effectiveness of various drugs in lowering 
individual risk factor levels and in reducing clinical CVD events. More 
recently, the idea of a 'polypill' containing low doses of multiple drugs has 
generated much interest, with proponents arguing that, given the high prevalence 
of CVD risk factors and the effectiveness of pharmacologic interventions, such a 
drug combination would reduce CHD mortality by 88% if taken by all individuals 
aged > or = 55 years. However, current treatments to control high BP and serum 
cholesterol, while effective, do not typically reduce morbidity and mortality to 
levels observed in low-risk individuals, i.e. those with favorable levels of all 
readily measured major risk factors. Rather, primary prevention of all major 
risk factors starting early in life is critical. Prospective population-based 
research has delineated multiple long-term benefits associated with low-risk 
status in young adulthood and middle age, i.e. markedly lower age-specific CVD 
and total mortality rates, increased life expectancy, lower healthcare costs, 
lower medication use and prevalence of chronic diseases, and higher 
self-reported quality of life at older ages. Unfortunately, despite declines in 
the prevalence of most major CVD risk factors, low-risk status remains rare 
among US adults. Data have also demonstrated that adverse levels of one or more 
major risk factors precede clinical CHD in 90% or more of all cases, undermining 
the assertion that major CVD risk factors account for 'no more than 50%' of CHD 
cases. Hence, while numerous treatment options exist for secondary prevention of 
CVD, strategies that focus on progressively increasing the proportion of 
low-risk individuals could greatly reduce the need for secondary prevention in 
the first place. Public health policies must focus on prevention of all major 
risk factors simultaneously, using lifestyle approaches from early ages onwards 
to reduce population CVD risk to endemic levels, rather than current epidemic 
levels.

DOI: 10.2165/00129784-200606020-00003
PMID: 16555862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2006;6(2):129-37. doi:
10.2165/00129784-200606020-00007.

Cost effectiveness of biventricular pacemakers in heart failure patients.

Heerey A(1), Lauer M, Alsolaiman F, Czerr J, James K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland. 
adrienneheerey@ireland.com

BACKGROUND: Biventricular pacemakers have been shown to reduce mortality and 
hospitalizations in heart failure (HF) patients and are indicated for those with 
a New York Heart Association functional class of III or IV and a QRS interval of 
>130 ms. However, these devices currently cost in the region of dollar US 33,500 
and require replacement upon battery depletion. Therefore, determination of the 
cost effectiveness of resynchronization therapy is important, although little 
data have been published to date on this topic.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A cost-utility analysis from the healthcare perspective was 
performed using HF patients who received a biventricular pacing device in the 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation. The comparator was a similarly profiled group of 
patients who did not receive the device but were treated medically. A Markov 
model was used to investigate the cost effectiveness at 1 and 5 years. 
Second-order Monte-Carlo simulation was used to determine the variability in 
results, using probabilistic sensitivity analysis. Medical treatment was 
dominated by biventricular pacemaker treatment at both 1 and 5 years of 
follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Biventricular device insertion is an economically attractive 
treatment option for clinically indicated HF patients.

DOI: 10.2165/00129784-200606020-00007
PMID: 16555866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Clin Transplant. 2006 Jan-Feb;20(1):19-25. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-0012.2005.00433.x.

Quality of life after organ transplantation in type 1 diabetics with end-stage 
renal disease.

Sureshkumar KK(1), Patel BM, Markatos A, Nghiem DD, Marcus RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Department of Medicine, Allegheny 
General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA 15212, USA. ksureshk@wpahs.org

Quality of life (QOL) should be an important consideration while choosing 
therapeutic options for patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) and 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) including dialysis, cadaver (CKT) or living 
kidney transplant (LKT) or simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) transplant.
METHODS: QOL was assessed in four groups of patients with history of type 1 DM 
and ESRD: recipients of SPK (n = 43), CKT (n = 43), LKT (n = 11) and wait listed 
(WL) patients (n = 23). Diabetes Quality of Life (DQOL), Short Form-36 (SF-36) 
and Quality of Well-Being (QWB) questionnaires were utilized. A subset of SPK (n 
= 19) and CKT (n = 12) recipients underwent longitudinal QOL evaluation.
RESULTS: On DQOL questionnaire, SPK group had better satisfaction subscore 
compared with CKT (1.8 +/- 0.5 vs. 2.2 +/- 0.6, p < 0.01) LKT (1.8 +/- 0.5 vs. 
2.4 +/- 0.7, p < 0.05) and WL (1.8 +/- 0.5 vs. 2.6 +/- 0.6, p < 0.001) groups 
and better impact subscore compared with CKT (1.7 +/- 0.6 vs. 2.1 +/- 0.6, p < 
0.05) and WL (1.7 +/- 0.6 vs. 2.3 +/- 0.6, p < 0.01) groups. There were no 
significant differences on physical/mental composite scores of SF-36. QWB score 
was better in SPK group vs. WL group (0.62 +/- 0.11 vs. 0.55 +/- 0.04, p < 
0.05). Longitudinal decline in satisfaction (2.3 +/- 0.5 vs. 2.6 +/- 0.9, p = 
0.058) and impact (2.0 +/- 0.5 vs. 2.2 +/- 0.5, p = 0.019) subscores of DQOL 
were noted in CKT group. There were no significant changes in the composite 
scores of SF-36 in both groups. QWB scores declined in the CKT group (0.67 +/- 
0.10 vs. 0.61 +/- 0.05, p = 0.01).
CONCLUSION: QOL was better in type 1 diabetics with ESRD following 
transplantation when compared with remaining on WL. SPK transplantation had 
significant positive effect on diabetes-related QOL which was sustained 
longitudinally but it was difficult to show an overall improvement in general 
QOL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0012.2005.00433.x
PMID: 16556148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Surg Endosc. 2006 Apr;20 Suppl 2:S446-9. doi: 10.1007/s00464-006-0052-1.
Epub  2006 Mar 23.

Pancreatic cancer: surgery alone is not sufficient.

Traverso LW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General, Thoracic, and Vascular Surgery, Virginia Mason Medical 
Center, Seattle, WA 98111, USA. gtslwt@vmmc.org

For a patient with resected pancreatic cancer at the head of the pancreas, the 
goal of the medical community in the new millennium is a long-term survival rate 
exceeding 50% at 5 years. This goal can best be achieved with the following 
formula: accurate staging by improved imaging that includes laparoscopy for 
selected patients with locally extensive disease using computed tomography; a 
balanced resection, not too extensive and not too limited; centralized treatment 
in high-volume centers, which includes not just the surgeons and hospitals, but 
also the chemotherapy infusion units; and use of an effective adjuvant or 
neoadjuvant treatment in which toxicity is associated with efficacy. The ideal 
outcome for the surgeon is delivery of a patient who has been accurately staged 
to receive the most appropriate treatment in a timely fashion for an effective 
chemoradiotherapy protocol. To do this, the surgeon should use objective 
benchmarks of safe pancreatic resection, which involves resecting only enough, 
achieving low blood loss, and achieving a minimal length of hospital stay. The 
outcome is a patient who has optimized his or her gastrointestinal, endocrine, 
and exocrine functions and is ready for adjuvant treatment 6 weeks after 
resection. Surgery alone is not sufficient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-006-0052-1
PMID: 16557419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Int J Cancer. 2006 Sep 1;119(5):1145-51. doi: 10.1002/ijc.21889.

Social class is an important and independent prognostic factor of breast cancer 
mortality.

Bouchardy C(1), Verkooijen HM, Fioretta G.

Author information:
(1)Geneva Cancer Registry, Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine, 
University of Geneva, Switzerland. christine.bouchardmagnin@imp.unige.ch

Reasons of the important impact of socioeconomic status on breast cancer 
prognosis are far from established. This study aims to evaluate and explain the 
social disparities in breast cancer survival in the Swiss canton of Geneva, 
where healthcare costs and life expectancy are among the highest in the world. 
This population-based study included all 3,920 female residents of Geneva, who 
were diagnosed with invasive breast cancer before the age of 70 years between 
1980 and 2000. Patients were divided into 4 socioeconomic groups, according to 
the woman's last occupation. We used Cox multivariate regression analysis to 
identify reasons for the socioeconomic inequalities in breast cancer survival. 
Compared to patients of high social class, those of low social class had an 
increased risk (unadjusted hazard ratio [HR] 2.4, 95% CI: 1.6-3.5) of dying as a 
result of breast cancer. These women were more often foreigners, less frequently 
had screen-detected cancer and were at more advanced stage at diagnosis. They 
less frequently underwent breast-conserving surgery, hormonal therapy, and 
chemotherapy, in particular, in case of axillary lymph node involvement. When 
adjusting for all these factors, patients of low social class still had a 
significantly increased risk of dying of breast cancer (HR 1.8, 95% CI: 
1.2-2.6). Overmortality linked to low SES is only partly explained by delayed 
diagnosis, unfavorable tumor characteristics and suboptimal treatments. Other 
factors, not measured in this study, also could play a role. While waiting for 
the outcome of other researches, we should consider socioeconomic status as an 
independent prognostic factor and provide intensified support and surveillance 
to women of low social class.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.21889
PMID: 16557599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1978 Dec;14(6):922-3. doi:
10.1128/AAC.14.6.922.

In Vitro and In Vivo Activity of a Synthetic Halogenated Quinoline Against 
Cryptococcus neoformans.

Hubbard JC(1), Hall NK, Larsh HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, University of Oklahoma, Norman, 
Oklahoma 73019.

The minimum inhibitory concentrations of a halogenated quinoline, 
3-amino-7-chloro-3,4-dihydro-1-hydroxycarbostyril (CBS), against nine clinical 
strains of Cryptococcus neoformans were determined by in vitro testing. The CBS 
was fungistatic at a minimum concentration of 0.2 mug/ml at 48 h for several 
strains. In vivo toxicity studies were carried out in mice. Mice were also 
infected with C. neoformans strain Price and injected with various 
concentrations of CBS. Mean life expectancy of treated groups of animals was 
increased over infected untreated controls.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.14.6.922
PMCID: PMC352581
PMID: 16557675


448. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2005 Oct 
30;23(5):304-8.

[Assessment of disease burden and its application].

[Article in Chinese]

Jia TW, Zhou XN.

PMID: 16562484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Oncology (Williston Park). 2006 Feb;20(2):135-43; discussion 144, 146,
151-2.

Management of cancer in the elderly.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Oncology, Department of Interdisciplinary Oncology, 
University of South Florida College of Medicine and H Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, 
Tampa, USA. balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

With the aging of the Western population, cancer in the older person is becoming 
increasingly common. After considering the relatively brief history of geriatric 
oncology, this article explores the causes and clinical implications of the 
association between cancer and aging. Age is a risk factor for cancer due to the 
duration of carcinogenesis, the vulnerability of aging tissues to environmental 
carcinogens, and other bodily changes that favor the development and the growth 
of cancer. Age may also influence cancer biology: Some tumors become more 
aggressive (ovarian cancer) and others, more indolent (breast cancer) with 
aging. Aging implies a reduced life expectancy and limited tolerance to stress. 
A comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) indicates which patients are more 
likely to benefit from cytotoxic treatment. Some physiologic changes (including 
reduced glomerular filtration rate, increased susceptibility to myelotoxicity, 
mucositis, and cardiac and neurotoxicity) are common in persons aged 65 years 
and older. The administration of chemotherapy to older cancer patients involves 
adjustment of the dose to renal function, prophylactic use of myelopoietic 
growth factors, maintenance of hemoglobin levels around 12 g/dL, and proper drug 
selection. Age is not a contraindication to cancer treatment: With appropriate 
caution, older individuals may benefit from cytotoxic chemotherapy to the same 
extent as the youngest patients.

PMID: 16562648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2006 Apr;25(4):409-15. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2005.11.443. Epub 2006 Feb 8.

Cost-effectiveness of pediatric heart transplantation.

Dayton JD(1), Kanter KR, Vincent RN, Mahle WT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30322-1062, USA.

BACKGROUND: Survival after pediatric heart transplantation has continued to 
improve. Nonetheless, graft survival is generally <15 years and the costs of 
transplantation and subsequent immunosuppression are substantial. In the present 
study, we sought to examine the cost-effectiveness of pediatric heart 
transplantation.
METHODS: Data from 95 pediatric subjects undergoing transplantation at our 
institution from 1997 through 2004 were reviewed to determine the costs of 
pediatric heart transplantation. Costs included pre-transplant care, organ 
procurement, initial hospitalization and follow-up care. Life expectancy was 
derived from the United Network of Organ Sharing data set. Data were reported as 
cost per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained, which were discounted at 
3%. Cost-effectiveness was stratified by primary transplantation vs 
re-transplantation.
RESULTS: The mean cost of initial hospitalization and organ procurement was 
$221,897 per patient for primary transplant and $285,296 per patient for 
re-transplant. Annual follow-up costs were estimated to be $18,141 in the first 
year (excluding the first 90 days post-transplant) and $18,480 per year 
thereafter. Under base-case assumptions, costs per QALY gained were $49,679 for 
primary transplantation and $87,883 for re-transplantation. Sensitivity analysis 
yielded a cost-utility range of $44,943 to $57,628 per QALY gained for primary 
transplantation and $70,834 to $103,661 per QALY gained for re-transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS: Costs of primary pediatric heart transplantation are within the 
accepted range of cost effectiveness. Pediatric heart re-transplantation has 
higher costs relative to benefits gained owing to shorter graft survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2005.11.443
PMID: 16563970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Exp Parasitol. 2006 Oct;114(2):77-83. doi: 10.1016/j.exppara.2006.02.013.
Epub  2006 Mar 27.

Effect of the exposure to Fasciola hepatica (Trematoda: Digenea) on life history 
traits of Lymnaea cousini and Lymnaea columella (Gastropoda: Lymnaeidae).

Salazar L(1), Estrada VE, Velásquez LE.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Estudio y Control de Enfermedades Tropicales-PECET, Universidad 
de Antioquia, Colombia. lauraalazar@yahoo.com

The snails Lymnaea columella and Lymnaea cousini have both been reported as 
intermediate hosts of Fasciola hepatica in Colombia. The effect of the exposure 
to the parasite on survival, fecundity and size of these snails was evaluated by 
means of experimental infections and the life history traits of control and 
exposed groups were compared. Infection rates were 82.2 and 34% for L. columella 
and L. cousini, respectively. A reduction in fitness was observed in both 
species when exposed to the parasite: fecundity alone was reduced in L. 
columella whereas in L. cousini there was also a decline in survival rate. 
Unlike other studies, increased size was not observed in either species. On the 
contrary, a reduction in growth rate was observed in L. columella.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2006.02.013
PMID: 16564046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Exp Gerontol. 2006 May;41(5):525-31. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.02.001. Epub
2006  Mar 27.

Caloric restriction and mitochondrial function in the ageing myocardium.

Rohrbach S(1), Niemann B, Abushouk AM, Holtz J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathophysiology, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, 
Ernst-Grube-Street, 40, 06112 Halle, Germany. 
susanne.rohrbach@medizin.uni-halle.de

Extension of life span by caloric restriction is assumed to result from 
retardation of a genetically determined program of ageing, but the new concept 
of hormesis regards caloric restriction as mild stress, which triggers active, 
protective reactions with reparative capacities. Here, we discuss two potential 
hormetic reactions with protective efficacy against dysfunctional mitochondria: 
restoration of neuregulin signalling by upregulation of erbB receptors and 
enhanced biogenesis of functionally active mitochondria by an eNOS-dependent 
mechanism. Mitochondrial ageing is considered to result from a vicious cycle of 
mitochondrial ROS-formation, ROS-mediated damage of mitochondrial DNA, 
disproportional respiratory chain composition and thereby additionally enhanced 
ROS production leading to apoptotic cell loss. Proof-of- principle for such a 
cycle was obtained from transgenic mice with impaired mitochondrial DNA repair 
capacity. Indirect arguments suggest this cycle operating also in ageing 
wild-type mammals, accelerated by downregulation of mitochondrial gene 
expression in insulin resistance, by inflammatory excess NO formation, and by 
downregulation of erbB receptors in cardiac ageing and failure. Attenuated 
neuregulin signalling induces a shift in the splice products of the Bcl-x gene 
from the antiapoptotic Bcl-xL protein towards the proapoptotic Bcl-xS protein, 
resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis in cardiomyocytes. 
Transient caloric restriction upregulates erbB receptors and restores 
