

655. Prog Transplant. 2006 Mar;16(1):38-45. doi: 10.1177/152692480601600109.

An exploratory study of the cognitive, academic, and behavioral functioning of 
pediatric cardiothoracic transplant recipients.

Brosig C(1), Hintermeyer M, Zlotocha J, Behrens D, Mao J.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wi, USA.

CONTEXT: Limited information is available regarding the cognitive, academic, and 
behavioral outcomes of pediatric cardiothoracic transplant recipients.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cognitive, behavioral, and academic functioning of a 
group of children who have received heart, heart/lung, or lung transplants.
DESIGN, PARTICIPANTS, AND SETTING: An exploratory cross-sectional outcomes study 
of surviving pediatric cardiothoracic transplant recipients at a Midwestern 
pediatric hospital.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Transplant recipients completed measures of cognitive and 
academic functioning. Parents and teachers completed measures of behavioral 
functioning. Parents and transplant recipients also provided qualitative data 
regarding their main concerns after transplantation.
RESULTS: On measures of cognitive functioning, 46% showed significant delays (> 
2 SD below the normative population). Of those eligible for academic testing, 
78% fell within the average range (within 1 SD of the normative population) for 
reading and spelling, and 57% fell within the average range for math. 
Twenty-seven percent of mothers, 11% of fathers, and 17% of teachers rated 
subjects as having significant behavioral concerns. Results highlight the need 
for close contact between transplant teams and school personnel to optimize 
outcomes. In addition, patients and families may benefit from psychological 
intervention after transplantation as there are ongoing concerns regarding life 
expectancy and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1177/152692480601600109
PMID: 16676673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Prog Transplant. 2006 Mar;16(1):82-6. doi: 10.1177/152692480601600115.

Giving back to donor families: the "thank you letter" package insert project.

Colarusso C(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathways Consulting, Thank You Letter Program, Wall, NJ, USA.

Family members of organ donors receive anonymous information about the 
transplant recipients. Also, they often receive written communication from the 
recipients themselves and or the recipient's family members, expressing 
gratitude for the generous gifts they donated. The feedback received by donor 
families serves to affirm that their altruistic decision to donate life-saving 
and life-enhancing gifts has saved or dramatically improved the lives of the 
recipients. Feedback allows donor families to assign meaning to the donation 
itself and make some sense of otherwise tragic circumstances. In contrast, 
family members of bone and soft tissue donors historically have not received the 
same level of feedback provided to the family members of organ donors. The 
tissue banking community, as an extension of the procurement community that 
provides care to tissue donor families, is in a unique position to facilitate 
meaningful feedback between bone and soft tissue donor families and their 
recipients. This article explores the use of tissue packaging as a communication 
portal to solicit and facilitate the needed feedback loop between bone and soft 
tissue donor families and their recipients.

DOI: 10.1177/152692480601600115
PMID: 16676679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Adv Gerontol. 2006;18:39-54.

Muscle wasting in cancer and ageing: cachexia versus sarcopenia.

Argilés JM(1), Busquets S, Felipe A, López-Soriano FJ.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Bioquímica i Biologia Molecular, Facultat de Biologia, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Diagonal 645, 08028 Barcelona, Spain. 
argiles@porthos.bio.ub.es

Muscle wasting during cancer and ageing share many common metabolic pathways and 
mediators. Due to the size of the population involved, both cancer cachexia and 
ageing sarcopenia may represent targets for future promising clinical 
investigations. Cancer cachexia is a syndrome characterized by a marked weight 
loss, anorexia, asthenia and anemia. In fact, many patients who die with 
advanced cancer suffer from cachexia. The degree of cachexia is inversely 
correlated with the survival time of the patient and it always implies a poor 
prognosis. In recent years, age-related diseases and disabilities have become of 
major health interest and importance. This holds particularly for muscle 
wasting, also known as sarcopenia that decreases the quality of life of the 
geriatric population, increasing morbidity and decreasing life expectancy. The 
cachectic factors (associated with both depletion of fat stores and muscular 
tissue) can be divided into two categories: of tumour origin and humoural 
factors. In conclusion, more research should be devoted to the understanding of 
muscle wasting mediators, both in cancer and ageing, in particular the 
identification of common mediators may prove as a good therapeutic strategy for 
both prevention and treatment of wasting both in disease and during healthy 
ageing.

PMID: 16676797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Gerodontology. 2006 Jun;23(2):117-22. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2006.00107.x.

Pattern of tooth loss in an elderly population from Ibadan, Nigeria.

Taiwo JO(1), Omokhodion F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, College of 
Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan Nigeria. emefataiwo@yahoo.co.uk

OBJECTIVES: To determine tooth loss, edentulousness, causes of tooth loss and 
pattern of tooth loss in the elderly in South East Local Government area (SELGA) 
in Ibadan.
BACKGROUND DATA: SELGA is one of the largest in Oyo State, Nigeria and has a 
population of 225,800.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey.
METHODOLOGY: A total of 690 elderly individuals who were 65 years and above 
living in various wards in SELGA were interviewed by two interviewers and 
examined by two trained and calibrated examiners whilst two record clerks 
recorded all the findings of the examination.
RESULT: Forty-eight per cent of the subjects in the study had not lost any 
teeth. The mean tooth loss was 4.5+/-7.6. Percentage edentulousness was 1.3% and 
this was higher in males than in females. This difference was not statistically 
significant (chi(2)=0.07 p=0.7). The total number of teeth lost was 3,102, 14% 
of the total number of teeth examined. The study showed that caries was not a 
major cause of tooth loss. Only 22 (0.7%) teeth were lost as a result of caries, 
19 (0.6%) were lost because of trauma and periodontal disease contributed to 
loss of 3,061 (98.7%) teeth. Mandibular teeth exhibited a higher rate of 
retention than maxillary teeth. The percentage of elderly individuals with tooth 
loss increased with age.
CONCLUSION: The study highlights the high life expectancy of a tooth among the 
elderly in SELGA. Despite the different cause of tooth loss in this area, in 
comparison with developed countries, the pattern of tooth retention appeared 
similar.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2006.00107.x
PMID: 16677186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Exp Gerontol. 2006 Jun;41(6):566-73. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.03.015. Epub
2006  May 4.

Temperature-dependent trade-offs between longevity and fertility in the 
Drosophila mutant, methuselah.

Mockett RJ(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Southern 
California, 1985 Zonal Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.

Single gene, hypomorphic mutations which extend the life spans of cold-blooded 
animals, such as the methuselah (mth) mutation in the fruit fly, Drosophila 
melanogaster, may have additional, deleterious effects on overall fitness. The 
hypotheses tested here were: (i) that the extension of life span by mth might be 
temperature-dependent, and (ii) that it might be associated with depression of 
reproductive output, physical activity, or the rate of metabolism. The effect of 
mth on life span was smaller in magnitude than reported previously, and it was 
both sex-specific and temperature-dependent. Female longevity was increased only 
at 29 degrees C, whereas for male flies the extension of mean life span 
diminished progressively from 15-25% 25-29 degrees C to 2% at 18 degrees C, and 
the survival time at 4 degrees C was decreased by 22-39%. Conversely, the 
lifetime reproductive output of mth mutants was decreased at 29 degrees C, but 
increased at 18-22 degrees C. The walking speed of mth flies was significantly 
elevated, but mth had no effect on the rate of oxygen consumption at 25 degrees 
C. Collectively, the results demonstrate that where the life span is extended, 
there is an offsetting effect on reproductive output, suggesting that mth 
induces trade-off effects and is not a direct, mechanistic regulator of the 
aging process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.03.015
PMID: 16677788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Dermatol Clin. 2006 Apr;24(2):271-80, viii. doi: 10.1016/j.det.2006.01.012.

Dermatologic problems of older women.

Roberts WE(1).

Author information:
(1)Loma Linda University Medical School, Loma Linda, and Desert Dermatology 
Medical Associates, 39-700 Bob Hope Drive, Suite 115, Rancho Mirage, CA 92270, 
USA. drwerderm@aol.com

Women are living longer today, composing the majority of persons aged 65 and 
over. Their dermatologic needs are unique and cross ethnic and cultural lines. 
With this increased life expectancy comes an increased occurrence of skin 
disorders. The identification and treatment of these conditions is important for 
the practicing clinician. This article reviews some of the more common 
dermatologic disorders of older women, and discusses the latest treatments and 
issues facing this geriatric population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.det.2006.01.012
PMID: 16677973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2006 May;4(5):548-57. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2006.03.004.

Genetics of hepatobiliary diseases.

Juran BD(1), Lazaridis KN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Center for Basic Research in 
Digestive Diseases, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, 
USA.

With the recent publication of the first human map of genetic variation (ie, 
Human Haplotype Map), genomic-based discoveries will likely affect not only the 
research bench but also the bedside. These advances will improve the 
understanding of the genetics of hepatobiliary diseases, resulting in better 
prevention measures and diagnosis as well as more effective therapies. 
Currently, alcoholic liver disease, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and 
symptomatic gallbladder stones affect a sizable portion of the population. On 
the other hand, chronic cholestatic liver diseases, hepatocellular carcinoma, 
and polycystic liver disease, although rare, shorten life expectancy and 
diminish the quality of life of patients. In the genomic era, we have the 
opportunity to start dissecting the susceptibility genetic variants of liver 
diseases. We are now in a position to begin elucidating the complex 
genotype/phenotype relationships of liver diseases with the anticipation to 
understand disease pathogenesis better. These efforts will require the 
application of genomic-based approaches in large well-organized translational 
studies in the diseases of interest.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2006.03.004
PMID: 16678073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. J Vasc Surg. 2006 May;43(5):908-14; discussion 914. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2005.12.064.

Cost-effectiveness of screening women for abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Wanhainen A(1), Lundkvist J, Bergqvist D, Björck M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden. 
andwan@algonet.se

BACKGROUND: Women are usually not considered for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) 
screening because of their lower prevalence of disease. This position may, 
however, be questioned given the higher risk of rupture and the longer life 
expectancy among women. The purpose of this study was to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of screening 65-year-old women for AAA.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was conducted to obtain data of 
importance to evaluate the effectiveness of screening women for AAA. Data were 
entered into a Markov simulation cohort model.
RESULTS: The review suggested some main assumptions for women with AAA. 
Prevalence is 1.1%. In 6.8%, the AAA is of a size that merits surgery, and the 
patients are fit for a procedure. For patients with an AAA, the yearly risk for 
elective surgery and the rupture incidence was 3.1% and 2.4%, respectively, in 
the invited group and 1.1% and 5.7% in the noninvited group. The operative 
mortality for elective surgery was 3.5%, and the total mortality for ruptured 
AAA was 86.3%. The long-term mortality for AAA patients was 3.6 times higher 
than for an age-matched healthy population. Screening reduced the AAA rupture 
incidence by 33% and the AAA-related death rate by 35%. The cost per life year 
gained was estimated at $5911.
CONCLUSION: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was similar to that found 
for screening men, which reflects the fact that the lower AAA prevalence in 
women is balanced by a higher rupture rate. Screening women for AAA may be 
cost-effective, and future evaluations on screening for AAA should include 
women.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.12.064
PMID: 16678681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. J Card Fail. 2006 May;12(4):276-80. doi: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2006.02.004.

Validation of a risk score for dying within 1 year of an admission for heart 
failure.

Rector TS(1), Ringwala SN, Ringwala SN, Anand IS.

Author information:
(1)Center for Chronic Disease Outcomes Research, Veterans Administration Medical 
Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55417, USA.

BACKGROUND: Development of heart failure greatly reduces life expectancy. 
Accurate estimates of the risk of dying are needed in clinical practice and for 
risk adjustment in observational studies. A relatively simple risk score has 
been developed to determine the risk of dying within 1-year of an admission for 
heart failure. We wanted to evaluate the risk score's predictive validity.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Data were abstracted from the electronic medical records of 
769 patients admitted to the Minneapolis Veterans Administration medical center 
with a primary diagnosis of heart failure. Mortality within 1 year of admission 
was 25%. The c-index for the risk score was 0.71 (95% confidence interval 
0.67-0.76). Similar to the original derivation cohort, mortality in risk score 
groups was 7% for a score lower than 60 (n = 44), 14% for 61 to 90 (n = 246), 
26% for 91 to 120 (n = 222), 51% for 121 to 150 (n = 106), and 50% for scores 
greater than 150 (n = 8).
CONCLUSION: A previously developed risk score for 1-year mortality after an 
admission for heart failure provided a moderate degree of discrimination in a 
validation cohort from a different setting. Mortality in risk score groups was 
consistent with the original patient cohort. These results support the validity 
of the risk score and its application to a different patient population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2006.02.004
PMID: 16679260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Cad Saude Publica. 2006 May;22(5):1079-88. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2006000500021.  Epub 2006 Apr 28.

[The impact of changes in age-related and cause-related mortality on life 
expectancy at birth in the State of Santa Catarina, Brazil, in the 1990s].

[Article in Portuguese]

Botega Lde A(1), Ribeiro MM, Machado CJ.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Desenvolvimento e Planejamento Regional, Universidade Federal de 
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

This study aimed to analyze the impact of changes in age-related and 
cause-related mortality on life expectancy at birth in the State of Santa 
Catarina, Brazil, in the 1990s. Data were obtained from the Mortality 
Information System (SIM) for the three-year periods 1989/1990/1991 and 
1998/1999/2000. Infant mortality rates and specific mortality rates for 
individuals > or = 1 year of age were calculated by gender and cause of death. 
The Pollard method was used to disaggregate the contributions by mortality from 
different causes and in different ages to life expectancy at birth. The age 
groups that contributed the most to the increase in life expectancy at birth 
were 0-1 year and > or = 70 years. The causes of death that most contributed to 
this increase were chronic non-communicable diseases, such as cardiovascular 
diseases, in the age brackets above 35 years, and neonatal diseases in the < 
1-year bracket. Finally, there were a high proportion of deaths from ill-defined 
causes, indicating that the true cause-related mortality structure in the State 
is still unknown.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2006000500021
PMID: 16680361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2006 Apr;32(2):91-8. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.984.

Life-expectancy estimations and the determinants of survival after 15 years of 
follow-up for 81 249 workers with permanent occupational disabilities.

Ho JJ(1), Hwang JS, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)College of Public Health, National Taiwan University, No 17, Hsu-Chow Road, 
Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.

OBJECTIVES: This study attempts to estimate life expectancy and explore the 
determinants of survival for workers with permanent occupational disabilities.
METHODS: A database on permanent occupational disabilities occurring between 
1986 and 2000 was linked with the national death registry database to construct 
the survival function. A method with Monte Carlo simulation was used to 
extrapolate survival for up to 600 months to derive the life expectancy for 
different disability grades (N=81249). A Cox (proportional hazard) regression 
was carried out to explore the determinants and to estimate the hazard ratios. 
Demographic variables, including age, gender, insured wage, severity of 
disability, injury causes, and organ-system disability, were included in the 
model as covariates.
RESULTS: The results indicate that the survival period for workers suffering 
permanent occupational disabilities is shorter than that of the general 
population, amounting to an estimated loss of life expectancy ranging from 5 to 
19 years. After adjustment for age and gender, a higher severity of disability, 
impairment of vital organs or lower extremities, and a lower insured wage had a 
significant association with shorter survival. Injury types, including 
transportation incidents, being struck by sliding objects, or a trip, slip or 
stumble, and collapse injury, indicated hazard ratios of between 1.24 and 1.34, 
as compared with injuries such as being trapped or caught in machinery.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings identify major determinants for predicting survival 
for workers with permanent occupational disabilities; these determinants may be 
of use in improving the equity of the compensation system for workers.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.984
PMID: 16680379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Osteoporos Int. 2006;17(8):1252-7. doi: 10.1007/s00198-006-0105-2. Epub 2006
May  6.

Epidemiology of hip fracture in Iran: results from the Iranian Multicenter Study 
on Accidental Injuries.

Moayyeri A(1), Soltani A, Larijani B, Naghavi M, Alaeddini F, Abolhassani F.

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology & Metabolism Research Centre, Shariati Hospital, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: The incidence of hip fracture varies substantially between 
countries. As a result of improving life expectancy, the number of elderly 
people susceptible to hip fractures is increasing rapidly in the developing 
world. Little is known, however, about the epidemiology of hip fractures in the 
Middle Eastern countries. In this study, our objective was to estimate the 
incidence of hip fracture in Iran and compare it with other populations.
METHODS: The data used were obtained from the Iranian Multicenter Study on 
Accidental Injuries, a large-scale population-based study conducted in nine 
provinces across the country. All of the hospitals in these provinces, which 
provide services to about 9.5 million people, were prospectively surveyed for 
any incident injury resulting from accidental events occurring in the study 
period of 135 days (4.5 months). All patients aged >or=50 with radiographically 
confirmed proximal femur fractures were included in this study. A total of 555 
new cases of hip fracture (284 male, 271 female) were recorded during the study 
period. The annual incidence of hip fracture per 100,000 person-years was 115.2 
(95% CI: 107.2-123.7) in men and 115.6 (95% CI: 107.4-124.3) in women; of 
these,73.2 and 89.2%, respectively, were fall-related fractures. The 
female-to-male ratios for fall-induced and total hip fracture rates were 1.2 and 
1.0, respectively.
RESULTS: The incidence rates increased exponentially after the age of 60 years 
in both genders and nearly tripled with each successive decade. When these 
results are compared to those of other studies, the Iranian age-standardized 
incidence rates of 127.3 (men) and 164.6 (women) per 100,000 person-years are 
considerably lower than those of all Western countries when standardized to data 
on the U.S. population in 2000. When compared with incidence rates reported for 
other Asian countries, those of Iranian females are the lowest next to China.
CONCLUSION: The low incidence rate of hip fracture for older Iranian women may 
be the result of several potential factors related to genetic or lifestyle 
differences between Iranians and people of other countries. Further studies are 
required to investigate contributing factors in more detail.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-006-0105-2
PMID: 16680499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. World J Surg. 2006 May;30(5):654-62; discussion 663-4. doi: 
10.1007/s00268-005-0354-9.

Is surgery beneficial for MEN1 patients with small (< or = 2 cm), nonfunctioning 
pancreaticoduodenal endocrine tumor? An analysis of 65 patients from the GTE.

Triponez F(1), Goudet P, Dosseh D, Cougard P, Bauters C, Murat A, Cadiot G, 
Niccoli-Sire P, Calender A, Proye CA; French Endocrine Tumor Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Endocrine Surgery, University Hospital, Lille, 
France. frederic.triponez@hcuge.ch

BACKGROUND: The management of small, nonfunctioning pancreaticoduodenal 
endocrine tumors (NFPET) in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) patients 
is still controversial. We therefore investigated the effect of surgery on 
survival and tumor progression in MEN1 patients with NFPET < or = 2 cm by 
analyzing data from the Groupe des Tumeurs Endocrines (GTE) registry.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Among 579 MEN1 patients in the registry, 65 had NFPET < 
or = 2 cm. Fifteen (23%) underwent pancreatectomy, 9 at least segmental 
pancreatectomies and 6 biopsies or enucleations (the surgery group), and 50 
(77%) were followed conservatively (the no surgery group). Age at MEN1 and NFPET 
diagnosis was similar in both groups, as was size of the primary tumor. Seven 
(10.8%) patients had metastases. Five metastases were synchronous, and 2 (one in 
each group) were metachronous. Tumor size was similar in patients with or 
without metastasis.
RESULTS: There was no perioperative mortality. The average follow-up time after 
NFPET diagnosis was 6.7 years in the surgery group and 3.3 years in the no 
surgery group. Three (4.6%) patients died during follow-up, 2 due to NFPET and 1 
due to thymus tumor. The 2 patients who died of NFPET had undergone pancreatic 
surgery at the time of NFPET diagnosis. The 2 groups did not differ 
significantly with respect to tumor progression [5/15 (33%) vs 6/38 (16%), P = 
0.16]. Overall life expectancy of patients with NFPET < or = 2 cm was not 
different than that of the 229 MEN1 patients in the registry without any 
pancreaticoduodenal tumor (P = 0.33).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that surgery may not be beneficial for MEN1 
patients with NFPET < or = 2 cm.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-005-0354-9
PMID: 16680582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2006 Apr 19;54(14):1-40.

United States life tables, 2003.

Arias E(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health 
Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

This report presents period life tables for the United States based on 
age-specific death rates in 2003. Data used to prepare these life tables are 
2003 final mortality statistics; July 1, 2003, population estimates based on the 
2000 decennial census; and data from the Medicare program. Presented are 
complete life tables by age, race, and sex. In 2003, the overall expectation of 
life at birth was 77.5 years, representing an increase of 0.2 years from life 
expectancy in 2002. Between 2002 and 2003, life expectancy increased for males 
and females and for both the white and black populations. Life expectancy 
increased by 0.3 years (from 77.7 to 78.0) for the white population and by 0.4 
years (from 72.3 to 72.7) for the black population. Both males and females in 
each race group experienced increases in life expectancy between 2002 and 2003. 
The greatest increase was experienced by black females with an increase of 0.5 
years (from 75.6 to 76.1). Life expectancy increased by 0.2 years for black 
males (from 68.8 to 69.0), white males (from 75.1 to 75.3), and for white 
females (from 80.3 to 80.5).

PMID: 16681183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. G Chir. 2006 Mar;27(3):113-8.

[Percutaneous radio frequency thermal ablation of non-resectable lung cancer: 
state of the art].

[Article in Italian]

Monaco M(1), Scisca C, Pavia R, Sibilio M, La Rocca A, Familiari D, Pavone A, 
Surleti S, Monaco F, Mondello B.

Author information:
(1)Università degli Studi di Messina, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria G. 
Martino, Dipartimento di Scienze Cardiovascolari e Toraciche.

BACKGROUND: Unfortunately, as of yet, most lung cancers are not operable as soon 
as diagnosis is available; in these situations chemo- and radio-therapy still 
play a key role, albeit palliative, improving survival rate moderately, but are 
not lacking in toxic effects, especially in case of concurrent pathology, 
reduced cardio-respiratory functionality or being advanced in years. Therefore 
thermal ablation mini-invasive techniques, already employed as ancillary 
treatments of hepatic cancer or in place of surgery, have been performed for 
these pathologies.
AIM: Aim of this work is to define the current state of the art for 
Radio-Frequency Ablation (RFA) to be performed on non-resectable lung cancer, 
also by means of a thorough review of international literature, from which to 
infer purposes, suggestions, methodologies, effectiveness, safety, complications 
and achievements, also in terms of the possible improvement of life quality 
and/or survival expectancy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients have been carefully selected. Pulmonary nodules 
have been treated with TC or echo-guided percutaneous thermal ablation and, 
afterwards, evaluated by radiological and clinical (sometimes histopathological) 
follow-up.
RESULTS: The size of the RFA-treated nodules is necessary in order to evaluate 
full or partial necrosis extent and, therefore, average survival rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Availability of more extensive and homogeneous case histories, as 
well as standard follow-up (TC and/or histopathological sampling) methodologies, 
is required. Nevertheless several authors agree that RFA is a safe and effective 
technique within the framework of a substitutive or complementary treatment of 
non-operable lung cancer. The best results can be achieved for cancers less than 
3 cm wide; RFA, performed before chemo- and/or radio-therapy, plays a 
neoadjuvant role for larger cancers, decreasing cancer volume and weakening the 
symptoms.

PMID: 16681873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Arch Intern Med. 2006 May 8;166(9):977-84. doi: 10.1001/archinte.166.9.977.

Cost-effectiveness of continuous positive airway pressure therapy for moderate 
to severe obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea.

Ayas NT(1), FitzGerald JM, Fleetham JA, White DP, Schulzer M, Ryan CF, Ghaeli R, 
Mercer GW, Cooper P, Tan MC, Marra CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Division of Respiratory Medicine, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea (OSAH) is a common disorder 
characterized by recurrent collapse of the upper airway during sleep, and is 
associated with an increased risk of motor vehicle crashes (MVCs). Common 
first-line therapy for OSAH is continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). We 
assessed the cost-effectiveness of CPAP therapy vs none for the treatment of 
OSAH.
METHODS: We used a 5-year Markov model that considers the costs and 
quality-of-life improvements of CPAP therapy, accounting for the gains from 
reduced MVC rates. Utility values were obtained from published studies. The MVC 
rates under the CPAP and no-CPAP scenarios were calculated from National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration data and a systematic review of published studies. 
Costs of MVCs, equipment, and physicians were obtained from US Medicare and the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The target population included 
male and female patients aged 25 to 54 years and newly diagnosed as having 
moderate to severe OSAH. We examined the findings from the perspectives of a 
third-party payer and society.
RESULTS: From a third-party payer or a societal perspective, CPAP therapy was 
more effective but more costly than no CPAP, with incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios of $3354 or $314 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, respectively. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio estimate was most dependent on viewpoint 
(varying more than 10-fold between societal and third-party payer perspectives) 
and choice of utility measurement method (varying more than 5-fold between the 
use of standard gamble and EuroQol 5D utility assessment values).
CONCLUSION: When quality of life, costs of therapy, and MVC outcomes are 
considered, CPAP therapy for patients with OSAH is economically attractive.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.166.9.977
PMID: 16682570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 May 16;103(20):7901-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0600161103. Epub 2006 May 8.

Targeted disruption of growth hormone receptor interferes with the beneficial 
actions of calorie restriction.

Bonkowski MS(1), Rocha JS, Masternak MM, Al Regaiey KA, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine-Geriatrics Research, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL 62794, USA.

Reduced intake of nutrients [calorie restriction (CR)] extends longevity in 
organisms ranging from yeast to mammals. Mutations affecting somatotropic, 
insulin, or homologous signaling pathways can increase life span in worms, 
flies, and mice, and there is considerable evidence that reduced secretion of 
insulin-like growth factor I and insulin are among the mechanisms that mediate 
the effects of CR on aging and longevity in mammals. In the present study, mice 
with targeted disruption of the growth hormone (GH) receptor [GH 
receptor/GH-binding protein knockout (GHRKO) mice] and their normal siblings 
were fed ad libitum (AL) or subjected to 30% CR starting at 2 months of age. In 
normal females and males, CR produced the expected increases in overall, 
average, median, and maximal life span. Longevity of normal mice subjected to CR 
resembles that of GHRKO animals fed AL. In sharp contrast to its effects in 
normal mice, CR failed to increase overall, median, or average life span in 
GHRKO mice and increased maximal life span only in females. In a separate group 
of animals, CR for 1 year improved insulin sensitivity in normal mice but failed 
to further enhance the remarkable insulin sensitivity in GHRKO mutants. These 
data imply that somatotropic signaling is critically important not only in the 
control of aging and longevity under conditions of unlimited food supply but 
also in mediating the effects of CR on life span. The present findings also 
support the notion that enhanced sensitivity to insulin plays a prominent role 
in the actions of CR and GH resistance on longevity.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0600161103
PMCID: PMC1458512
PMID: 16682650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts 
declared.


672. Neurology. 2006 May 9;66(9):1335-8. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000210457.89798.0e.

A population-based study of the incidence and prognosis of lacunar stroke.

Sacco S(1), Marini C, Totaro R, Russo T, Cerone D, Carolei A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of L'Aquila, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate incidence and prognosis of lacunar stroke in a 
prospective, population-based patient registry.
METHODS: The authors included first-ever strokes occurring between 1994 and 
1998. They assessed incidence, risk factors, mortality, and recurrence in 
patients with lacunar stroke.
RESULTS: The authors identified 491 patients (15.3%) with lacunar stroke (252 
men and 239 women) and 2,153 patients (67.3%) with nonlacunar stroke (998 men 
and 1,155 women). Crude annual incidence rate for a first-ever lacunar stroke 
was 33.0/100,000 (95% CI 30.2 to 36.0). At the univariate logistic regression 
analysis among patients with lacunar stroke there was a higher proportion of 
cigarette smoking and hypercholesterolemia and a lower proportion of chronic 
atrial fibrillation than in patients with nonlacunar stroke. For lacunar stroke, 
the 30-day case-fatality rate was 4.3% (95% CI 2.5 to 6.1) and the 1-year 
case-fatality rate was 13.0% (95% CI 10.0 to 16.0). During the first year of 
follow-up the average annual stroke recurrence rate was lower in patients with 
lacunar (2.83%; 95% CI 1.36 to 4.30) than in those with nonlacunar stroke 
(5.10%; 95% CI 4.17 to 6.03) while from the second year onward, rates were 
similar in both groups.
CONCLUSION: In the short term, patients with nonlacunar stroke had more vascular 
events, but in the long term, the risk of death and of stroke recurrence was 
similar.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000210457.89798.0e
PMID: 16682663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Neurology. 2006 May 9;66(9):1350-5. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000210524.68507.87.

Predictors of hemorrhage in patients with untreated brain arteriovenous 
malformation.

Stapf C(1), Mast H, Sciacca RR, Choi JH, Khaw AV, Connolly ES, Pile-Spellman J, 
Mohr JP.

Author information:
(1)Doris and Stanley Tananbaum Stroke Center/Neurological Institute, Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10032, USA. cstapf@neuro.columbia.edu

Comment in
    Neurology. 2007 Feb 13;68(7):535; author reply 535.

BACKGROUND: Intracranial hemorrhage is a serious possible complication in 
patients with brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM). Several morphologic 
factors associated with hemorrhagic AVM presentation have been established, but 
their relevance for the risk of subsequent AVM hemorrhage remains unclear.
METHODS: The authors analyzed follow-up data on 622 consecutive patients from 
the prospective Columbia AVM database, limited to the period between initial AVM 
diagnosis and the start of treatment (i.e., any endovascular, surgical, or 
radiation therapy). Univariate and multivariate logistic regression and Cox 
proportional hazard models were applied to analyze the effect of patient age, 
gender, AVM size, anatomic location, venous drainage pattern, and associated 
arterial aneurysms on the risk of intracranial hemorrhage at initial 
presentation and during follow-up.
RESULTS: The mean pretreatment follow-up was 829 days (median: 102 days), during 
which 39 (6%) patients experienced AVM hemorrhage. Increasing age (hazard ratio 
[HR] 1.05, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.08), initial hemorrhagic AVM presentation (HR 5.38, 
95% CI 2.64 to 10.96), deep brain location (HR 3.25, 95% CI 1.30 to 8.16), and 
exclusive deep venous drainage (HR 3.25, 95% CI 1.01 to 5.67) were independent 
predictors of subsequent hemorrhage. Annual hemorrhage rates on follow-up ranged 
from 0.9% for patients without hemorrhagic AVM presentation, deep AVM location, 
or deep venous drainage to as high as 34.4% for those harboring all three risk 
factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Hemorrhagic arteriovenous malformation (AVM) presentation, 
increasing age, deep brain location, and exclusive deep venous drainage appear 
to be independent predictors for AVM hemorrhage during natural history 
follow-up. The risk of spontaneous hemorrhage may be low in AVMs without these 
risk factors.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000210524.68507.87
PMID: 16682666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Neurology. 2006 May 9;66(9):1435-8. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000210464.94122.e1.

MATILDE regimen followed by radiotherapy is an active strategy against primary 
CNS lymphomas.

Ferreri AJ(1), Dell'Oro S, Foppoli M, Bernardi M, Brandes AA, Tosoni A, 
Montanari M, Balzarotti M, Spina M, Ilariucci F, Zaja F, Stelitano C, Bobbio F, 
Corazzelli G, Baldini L, Ponzoni M, Picozzi P, Caligaris Cappio F, Reni M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, San Raffaele H Scientific Institute, Università 
Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy. ferreri.andres@hsr.it

The authors assessed MATILDE chemotherapy followed by response-tailored 
radiation therapy in 41 patients aged 70 years or younger with primary CNS 
lymphoma in a Phase II trial. With response rates of 76% after MATILDE and 83% 
after chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy, this was an active 
strategy, particularly in low- to intermediate-risk patients (International 
Extranodal Lymphoma Study Group [IELSG] score). Myelosuppression was the 
dose-limiting toxicity, with 9.5% of lethal complications. After a median 
follow-up of 49 months, a plateau in the survival curve (5-year overall 
survival: 41 +/- 7%) was obtained.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000210464.94122.e1
PMID: 16682682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. J Clin Oncol. 2006 May 10;24(14):2204-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.05.1813.

Between and within: international perspectives on cancer and health disparities.

Jones LA(1), Chilton JA, Hajek RA, Iammarino NK, Laufman L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research on Minority Health, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson 
Cancer Cen, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Apr 1;25(10):1300-1.

The purpose of this article is to compare reasons for cancer health disparities 
in developing and developed countries. By 2010, approximately 60% of new cancer 
cases will occur in the developing world, higher than rates developed countries. 
However, disparities exist not only between countries but also within countries. 
Cancer epidemiology in developing countries is paradoxical: Increased incidence 
is partially due to increased development resulting in longer life expectancy 
and unhealthy lifestyle behaviors. Reduced mortality from infectious diseases 
results in relatively greater mortality from chronic diseases. However, 
infectious diseases are also risk factors for the leading causes of cancer 
mortality in these countries. While health disparities in developing versus 
developed countries are quantitatively worlds apart, they are qualitatively 
rather similar. They share common causes, such as environmental pollution, the 
need for social justice, large gaps between the rich and the poor, lack of 
access to cancer resources, and health services that are available to some but 
not to all. While industrialization and urbanization elevate a country's 
economic base while contributing to cancer incidence and mortality. Strategies 
to reduce international cancer disparities include country- and regional-level 
interventions, utilizing nongovernmental organizations, and developing long-term 
inter-institutional partnerships. Although economic aid is undoubtedly 
necessary, it is not sufficient to control cancer in the developing world. To 
address these problems, it will be necessary to focus attention on what can be 
done locally-within countries, not only between countries.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.05.1813
PMID: 16682740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. J Endocrinol Invest. 2006 Mar;29(3):RC1-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03345538.

Clinical effects of early treatment with insulin glargine in patients with 
cystic fibrosis and impaired glucose tolerance.

Bizzarri C(1), Lucidi V, Ciampalini P, Bella S, Russo B, Cappa M.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Endocrinology, Department of Pediatric Medicine, Bambino Gesù 
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, 00100 Rome, Italy. bizzarri@opbg.net

Diabetes mellitus is an increasing complication of cystic fibrosis (CF), as a 
result of the improved life expectancy. There is clear association between 
diabetes and increased morbidity and mortality. Lung function and clinical 
status deteriorate up to 2-4 yr before the diagnosis of CF-related diabetes 
(CFRD). The aim of our study was to evaluate the effects, on glucose homeostasis 
and clinical status, of the early treatment with insulin glargine in CF patients 
with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT). We selected six subjects with IGT 
diagnosed at oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Median age was 18.12 yr (range 
9.2-27.8). Insulin glargine was administered at the median dosage of 0.3 
U/kg/day (range 0.2-0.5). After the initial adjustment of the dosage, no patient 
manifested hypoglycemia during treatment. Median glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) 
did not show any significant variation during treatment: it was 5.9% at baseline 
(range 5.5-6.2) and 6.1% (range 5.0-6.7) at the end of follow-up (p=0.496). 
Median body mass index (BMI) z-score significantly increased during treatment, 
from -0.95 (range -3.2-+0.6) at baseline to -0.5. (range -3.0-+0.9) at the end 
of follow-up (p=0.026). Lung function, measured by median forced expiratory 
volume in the first second (FEV1%), showed a mild but significant improvement 
during insulin treatment. It was 72.7% at baseline (range 41.5-98.4) and 76.7% 
(range 42.0-106.8) at the end of follow-up (p=0.027). No significant variation 
was found between the number of hospitalizations for clinical exacerbation 
(no./patient/yr) in the last 2 yr before treatment and during follow-up. Median 
number at baseline was 1.95/patient/yr (range 1-3) and 2.0/patient/yr (range 
1-3) at follow-up (p=0.715). Our data seem to indicate that early insulin 
therapy can be safe, no patient manifested hypoglycemia or other adverse effects 
during treatment. Insulin is an anabolic hormone implicated in both lipid and 
protein metabolism. The appearance of IGT out of infections can indicate an 
early insulin deficiency, with a potential impact on the nutritional and 
clinical status of the patient, even before the appearance of overt diabetes. 
Larger controlled trials are necessary to verify if early insulin therapy is 
able to reduce the deterioration of nutritional status and lung function 
associated with the onset of IGT.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03345538
PMID: 16682829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Eur Spine J. 2007 Mar;16(3):329-37. doi: 10.1007/s00586-006-0131-y. Epub
2006  May 9.

The cost-utility of lumbar disc herniation surgery.

Hansson E(1), Hansson T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Surgical Sciences, Sahlgrenska 
Academy, Göteborg University, Goteborg, Sweden. elisabeth.hansson@orthop.gu.se

The cost and utility of surgery for a herniated lumbar disc has not been 
determined simultaneously in a single cohort. The aim of this study is to 
perform a cost-utility analysis of surgical and nonsurgical treatment of 
patients with lumbar disc herniation. Ninety-two individuals in a cohort of 
1,146 Swedish subjects underwent lumbar disc herniation surgery during a 2-year 
study. Each person operated on was individually matched with one treated 
conservatively. The effects and costs of the treatments were determined 
individually. By estimating quality of life before and after the treatment, the 
number of quality adjusted life years (QALY) gained with and without surgery was 
calculated. The medical costs were much higher for surgical treatment; however, 
the total costs, including disability costs, were lower among those treated 
surgically. Surgery meant fewer recurrences and less permanent disability 
benefits. The gain in QALY was ten times higher among those operated. Lower 
total costs and better utility resulted in a better cost utility for surgical 
treatment. Surgery for lumbar disc herniation was cost-effective. The total 
costs for surgery were lower due to lower recurrence rates and fewer disability 
benefits, and surgery improved quality of life much more than nonsurgical 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-006-0131-y
PMCID: PMC2200698
PMID: 16683121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2006 Mar;43(2):222-9. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.43.222.

[Investigation of the nutritional status of the elderly for the development of 
guidelines for nutritional management in the ultra-aged society].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohno K(1), Mikami H, Takagi Y.

Author information:
(1)Kobe City College of Nursing.

AIM: This study was conducted to evaluate the nutrient intake and the 
nutritional state of elderly people who live independently in a region with an 
aging rate (percentage of the elderly 65 or above to the entire population) of 
50% and to develop guidelines for nutritional improvement to extend the healthy 
lifespan in the upcoming ultra-aged society in which, by definition, aging rate 
exceeds 21%.
METHODS: The study investigated the diet, physical constitution and blood 
biochemistry of 38 elderly people living in a region with an aging rate of 50% 
and compared the results with 23 elderly people living in a region with an aging 
rate of 18%.
RESULTS: In the ultra-aged region the elderly people had a tendency for serum, 
triglyceride to be high and calcium to be low. The rate of the elderly living 
alone was high and the solitary elderly tended to have poor intake of vegetable 
fats, albumin, iron and zinc. The elderly men in the ultra-aged region had the 
lowest rate of recommended dietary intakes of calcium and vitamin B1.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicated that extending a healthy lifespan in an 
ultra-aged society requires less intake of animal fats and more intake of 
vitamin B1 and calcium and a close assessment of the nutritional state of zinc, 
iron, and selenium. In order to prevent lifestyle-related diseases and to extend 
healthy life expectancy, the nutrition management of the elderly living alone is 
particularly important

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.43.222
PMID: 16683657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Jun;35(3):604-6. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl099. Epub 2006
May 9.

Commentary: what explains widening geographic differences in life expectancy in 
New Zealand?

Harper S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Quebec, Canada. sam.harper@mcgill.ca

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;35(4):1099-100.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Jun;35(3):597-603.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl099
PMID: 16684894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;35(4):969-79. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl083. Epub 2006
May  9.

Widening socioeconomic inequalities in US life expectancy, 1980-2000.

Singh GK(1), Siahpush M.

Author information:
(1)Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services 
Administration, US Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, 
Room 18-41, Rockville, MD 20857, USA. gsingh@hrsa.gov

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;35(4):979-80.

BACKGROUND: This study examines changes in the extent of inequalities in life 
expectancy at birth and other ages in the United States between 1980 and 2000 by 
gender and socioeconomic deprivation levels.
METHODS: A factor-based deprivation index consisting of 11 education, 
occupation, wealth, income distribution, unemployment, poverty, and housing 
quality indicators was used to define deprivation deciles, which were then 
linked to the US mortality data at the county-level. Life expectancy estimates 
were developed by age, gender, and deprivation levels for three 3 year time 
periods: 1980-82, 1989-91, and 1998-2000. Inequalities in life expectancy were 
measured by the absolute difference between the least-deprived group and each of 
the other deprivation deciles. Slope indices of inequality for each gender and 
time period were calculated by regressing life expectancy estimates on 
deprivation levels using weighted least squares models.
RESULTS: Those in less-deprived groups experienced a longer life expectancy at 
each age than their counterparts in more-deprived groups. In 1980-82, the 
overall life expectancy at birth was 2.8 years longer for the least-deprived 
group than for the most-deprived group (75.8 vs 73.0 years). By 1998-2000, the 
absolute difference in life expectancy at birth had increased to 4.5 years (79.2 
vs 74.7 years). The inequality indices also showed a substantial widening of the 
deprivation gradient in life expectancy during the study period for both males 
and females.
CONCLUSIONS: Between 1980 and 2000, those in higher socioeconomic groups 
experienced larger gains in life expectancy than those in more-deprived groups, 
contributing to the widening gap.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl083
PMID: 16684899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. JAMA. 2006 May 10;295(18):2168-76. doi: 10.1001/jama.295.18.2168.

Integrating palliative care for liver transplant candidates: "too well for 
transplant, too sick for life".

Larson AM(1), Curtis JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle 
98195-6174, USA. amlarson@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2006 Jun 14;295(22):2655.

Chronic liver disease results in more than 1 million physician visits and more 
than 300,000 hospitalizations per year in the United States. More than 27,000 
patients annually progress to end-stage liver disease (ESLD), liver failure, or 
death. Patients with ESLD experience such complications as encephalopathy, 
malnutrition, muscle wasting, ascites, esophagogastric variceal hemorrhage, 
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, fatigue, and depression. Despite significant 
improvements in palliation, patients' quality of life diminishes and their 
disease will often inexorably progress. Liver transplantation, a valid treatment 
option, increases life and reduces many symptoms. With the current shortage of 
organs, up to 10% to 15% of these patients die without receiving an organ. Many 
patients also are not candidates for transplantation due to comorbid illness. In 
addition, some patients receive a transplant but succumb to complications of the 
transplant itself. Such patients and families face the conundrum of a 
potentially treatable yet often fatal illness. Through the case of a 55-year-old 
woman with a life-long history of hepatitis B virus infection who is awaiting 
transplant, we discuss the transplant eligibility process and the struggle with 
maintaining hope for a cure in the face a life-threatening illness. In all of 
these circumstances, the health care team must combine elements of palliative 
care with life-sustaining therapy to maximize the patient's quality and quantity 
of life.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.295.18.2168
PMID: 16684988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Methods Inf Med. 2006;45(3):275-80.

Assessing the state of population health by age-adjusted life expectancies.

