
Schnell O(1), Standl E.

Author information:
(1)University of Munich and Diabetes Research Institute, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the association among impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), 
diabetes, and cardiovascular disease (CVD).
METHODS: We review current studies that have addressed the foregoing 
relationship and summarize the results of diagnostic and therapeutic 
interventions.
RESULTS: A major cause of the reduction in life expectancy in patients with 
diabetes is CVD and cardiovascular complications. Both prediabetes and diabetes 
predispose to cardiovascular alterations. IGT and even the upper normal values 
of nondiabetic glucose levels are associated with an increased cardiovascular 
risk. The risk of heart disease can be increased as early as 15 years before the 
diagnosis of diabetes. Patients with chronic or acute CVD and no previous 
diagnosis of diabetes frequently present with either IGT or diabetes. Thus, such 
patients should undergo screening for diabetes with an oral glucose tolerance 
test. In acute coronary syndromes, lowering of glucose levels to the near-normal 
range by administration of insulin is highly beneficial. Early, rigorous 
interventions to improve metabolic control will yield better cardiovascular 
outcomes in patients with dysglycemia.
CONCLUSION: Aggressive preventive and treatment strategies, which can include 
multiple interventions, are needed to minimize the potential effects of CVD in 
patients with diabetes or IGT.

DOI: 10.4158/EP.12.S1.16
PMID: 16627374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. BMJ. 2006 Apr 22;332(7547):976. doi: 10.1136/bmj.332.7547.976-a.

A sexist celebration.

Jacoby RA.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2006 May 6;332(7549):1095-6.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2006 Apr 8;332(7545):808.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.332.7547.976-a
PMCID: PMC1444875
PMID: 16627532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Blood. 2006 May 1;107(9):3436-41. doi: 10.1182/blood-2006-02-002394.

Oral chelators deferasirox and deferiprone for transfusional iron overload in 
thalassemia major: new data, new questions.

Neufeld EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Children's Hospital, Karp 08210, 300 Longwood Ave, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. ellis.neufeld@childrens.harvard.edu

For nearly 30 years, patients with transfusional iron overload have depended on 
nightly deferoxamine infusions for iron chelation. Despite dramatic gains in 
life expectancy in the deferoxamine era for patients with transfusion-dependent 
anemias, the leading cause of death for young adults with thalassemia major and 
related disorders has been cardiac disease from myocardial iron deposition. 
Strategies to reduce cardiac disease by improving chelation regimens have been 
of the highest priority. These strategies have included development of novel 
oral iron chelators to improve compliance, improved assessment of cardiac iron 
status, and careful epidemiologic assessment of European outcomes with 
deferiprone, an oral alternative chelator available for about a decade. Each of 
these strategies is now bearing fruit. The novel oral chelator deferasirox was 
recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA); a randomized 
clinical trial demonstrates that deferasirox at 20 to 30 mg/kg/d can maintain or 
improve hepatic iron in thalassemia as well as deferoxamine. A randomized trial 
based on cardiac T2* magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) suggests that deferiprone 
can unload myocardial iron faster than deferoxamine. Retrospective epidemiologic 
data suggest dramatic reductions in cardiac events and mortality in Italian 
subjects exposed to deferiprone compared with deferoxamine. These developments 
herald a new era for iron chelation, but many unanswered questions remain.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2006-02-002394
PMCID: PMC1895765
PMID: 16627763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2006 May;26(5):968-76. doi: 
10.1161/01.ATV.0000216787.85457.f3.

Obesity and cardiovascular disease: pathophysiology, evaluation, and effect of 
weight loss.

Poirier P(1), Giles TD, Bray GA, Hong Y, Stern JS, Pi-Sunyer FX, Eckel RH.

Author information:
(1)Quebec Heart and Lung Institute, Sainte-Foy, Canada. 
paul.poirier@crhl.ulaval.ca

Obesity is becoming a global epidemic in both children and adults, and it is 
associated with numerous co-morbidities such as cardiovascular diseases (CVD), 
type 2 diabetes, hypertension, certain cancers, and sleep apnea/sleep-disordered 
breathing. In fact, is an independent risk factor for CVD and CVD risks have 
been also documented in obese children, and is associated with reduced life 
expectancy. A variety of adaptations/alterations in cardiac structure and 
function occur in the individual as adipose tissue accumulates in excess amount. 
As a whole, overweight/obesity predispose or is associated with numerous cardiac 
complications such as coronary heart disease, heart failure, and sudden death 
through its impact on the cardiovascular system.

DOI: 10.1161/01.ATV.0000216787.85457.f3
PMID: 16627822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Tech Hand Up Extrem Surg. 2006 Mar;10(1):14-24. doi: 
10.1097/00130911-200603000-00004.

ARM: a modular hinged joint for the AO tubular external fixator.

de Llano Temboury AQ(1), Arévalo RL, Queipo de Lllano Jiménez FL.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Ortopédica y Traumatología Hospital 
Clínico-Universitario, Virgen de la Victoria de Málaga. alfonsoqueipo@yahoo.es

Certain complex traumatic elbow lesions challenge the orthopaedic and trauma 
surgeon. If they are not treated correctly, they cause a high rate of 
disability, arising from elbow instablility and stiffness, either by fibrosis or 
joint incongruity. Injuries such as complex fractures of the proximal third of 
the ulna, coronoid fractures associated with radial head fractures (the 
"terrible triad"), are even worse if they are accompanied by soft tissue 
lesions. Hinged external fixators, complemented by other surgical procedures, 
are, for many, a recommended alternative when dealing with irreparable lesions. 
The AO tubular external fixator, by virtue of its versatility, is a very 
important tool in orthopaedics and trauma, but there is not the possibility of 
using it as a hinged fixator. The authors describe a prototype of a hinged joint 
that can be applied easily to the AO tubular external fixator, converting it 
into a hinged one. This hinged joint, in conjunction with the AO tubular 
external fixator, has been applied in 5 patients; 2 "terrible triads", one 
posterior elbow fracture-dislocation with radial head fracture, one Monteggia 
fracture-dislocation and an anterior elbow dislocation that developed a forearm 
compartment syndrome. The patients' age range was between 20 and 72 years 
(median 45,6); 4 were male and 1 female. In 3 patients, either a type III 
coronoid fracture or a radial head fracture, could not be repaired. One radial 
head was totally removed and another one partially removed. The remaining 
indications were because of severe soft tissue lesions. Results were evaluated 
using the Mayo Elbow Score Scale and the Broberg and Morrey radiographic 
evaluation scale. The median follow up was 18 months(range 6 to 48 months). All 
5 patients got a maximum score of 100 points in the Mayo's Elbow Score Scale, 
indicating excellent results. No patient suffered elbow pain, or any type of 
elbow instability. The median range of motion in flexion was of 127.5 degrees 
(max. 140 degrees and min. 120 degrees ) and the median extension loss was 20 
degrees (max. 25 degrees and min. 15 degrees ). One patient had pronation 
limited to 70 degrees and one had supination limited to 70 degrees . Every 
patient was able to resume a normal daily life activity and returned to normal 
work. In 3 patients the radiographic evaluation was Grade 0 and in the other 2, 
Grade I. Two complications occurred, one was a distal ulnar Schanz screw 
loosening with osteolysis and the other was a superficial infection of one 
Schanz screw. It can be concluded that good results can be obtained in injuries 
with severe elbow instability and soft tissue lesions, using this hinged 
external fixator. With this new clamp, the AO tubular external fixator is 
transformed into a hinged one and a new use is added to this already very 
versatile system. This clamp is very easy to apply.

DOI: 10.1097/00130911-200603000-00004
PMID: 16628115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Liver Transpl. 2006 May;12(5):736-46. doi: 10.1002/lt.20685.

Prophylactic strategies for hepatitis B patients undergoing liver transplant: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Dan YY(1), Wai CT, Yeoh KG, Lim SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, National University Hospital, Singapore.

Hepatitis B immunoglobulin with lamivudine prophylaxis (LAM/HBIG) is effective 
in preventing Hepatitis B (HBV) recurrence posttransplant but is expensive and 
inconvenient. Lamivudine-resistant HBV, which has limited the usefulness of 
lamivudine monoprophylaxis in transplant, can now be effectively controlled with 
adefovir dipivoxil. We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis on the strategies 
of lamivudine prophylaxis with adefovir rescue(LAM/ADV) compared to combination 
LAM/intravenous fixed high-dose HBIG prophylaxis(LAM/ivHBIG) or 
LAM/intramuscular HBIG prophylaxis(LAM/imHBIG). Markov modeling was performed 
with analysis from societal perspective. Probability rates were derived from 
systematic review of the literature and cost taken from MEDICARE database. 
Outcome measures were incremental cost-effectiveness ratio(ICER) and cost to 
prevent each HBV recurrence and death. Analysis was performed at 5 years 
posttransplant as well as at end of life expectancy (15 years). Combination 
LAM/ivHBIG cost an additional USD562,000 at 15 years, while LAM/imHBIG cost an 
additional USD139,000 per patient compared to LAM/ADV. Although there is an 
estimated increase in recurrence of 53% with LAM/ADV and 7.6% increased 
mortality at the end of life expectancy (15 years), the ICER of LAM/ivHBIG over 
LAM/ADV treatment is USD760,000 per quality-adjusted life-years and for 
LAM/imHBIG, USD 188,000. Cost-effectiveness is most sensitive to cost of HBIG. 
Lamivudine prophylaxis with adefovir dipivoxil salvage offers the more 
cost-effective option for HBV patients undergoing liver transplant but with 
higher recurrence and death rate using a model that favors LAM/HBIG. Lowering 
the cost of HBIG maintenance will improve cost-effectiveness of LAM/HBIG 
strategy. In conclusion, a tailored approach based on individual risks will 
optimize the cost-benefit of HBV transplant prophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.20685
PMID: 16628682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Allergy. 2006 May;61(5):527-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2006.01053.x.

The use of quality-adjusted life-years in cost-effectiveness studies.

Sculpher M.

Comment on
    Allergy. 2006 May;61(5):531-6.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2006.01053.x
PMID: 16629779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Allergy. 2006 May;61(5):531-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2006.01038.x.

Cost-effectiveness of asthma control: an economic appraisal of the GOAL study.

Briggs AH(1), Bousquet J, Wallace MV, Busse WW, Clark TJ, Pedersen SE, Bateman 
ED; GOAL Investigators Group.

Author information:
(1)Public Health & Health Policy, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

Comment in
    Allergy. 2006 May;61(5):527-30.

BACKGROUND: The Gaining Optimal Asthma ControL (GOAL) study has shown the 
superiority of a combination of salmeterol/fluticasone propionate (SFC) compared 
with fluticasone propionate alone (FP) in terms of improving guideline defined 
asthma control.
METHODS: Clinical and economic data were taken from the GOAL study, supplemented 
with data on health related quality of life, in order to estimate the cost per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) results for each of three strata (previously 
corticosteroid-free, low- and moderate-dose corticosteroid users). A series of 
statistical models of trial outcomes was used to construct cost effectiveness 
estimates across the strata of the multinational GOAL study including adjustment 
to the UK experience. Uncertainty was handled using the non-parametric 
bootstrap. Cost-effectiveness was compared with other treatments for chronic 
conditions.
RESULT: Salmeterol/fluticasone propionate improved the proportion of patients 
achieving totally and well-controlled weeks resulting in a similar QALY gain 
across the three strata of GOAL. Additional costs of treatment were greatest in 
stratum 1 and least in stratum 3, with some of the costs offset by reduced 
health care resource use. Cost-effectiveness by stratum was 7600 pound (95% CI: 
4800-10,700 pound) per QALY gained for stratum 3; 11,000 pound (8600-14,600 
pound) per QALY gained for stratum 2; and 13,700 pound (11,000-18,300 pound) per 
QALY gained for stratum 1.
CONCLUSION: The GOAL study previously demonstrated the improvement in total 
control associated with the use of SFC compared with FP alone. This study 
suggests that this improvement in control is associated with cost-per-QALY 
figures that compare favourably with other uses of scarce health care resources.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2006.01038.x
PMID: 16629780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Clin Genet. 2006 Apr;69(4):297-305. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2006.00606.x.

Psychological aspects of pre-symptomatic testing for Machado-Joseph disease and 
familial amyloid polyneuropathy type I.

Rolim L(1), Leite A, Lêdo S, Paneque M, Sequeiros J, Fleming M.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Genética Preditiva e Preventiva, Institute for Molecular and Cell 
Biology, University of Porto, Portugal. lrolim@ufp.pt

Machado-Joseph disease [MJD, also spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3)] and 
familial amyloid polyneuropathy type I (FAP-I or ATTR V30M) are 
neurodegenerative disorders, inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, which 
have a high prevalence in Portugal, probably due to a founder effect. MJD and 
FAP-I are late-onset diseases, with symptoms emerging usually during adulthood. 
CGPP, which is the national reference centre for these disorders, has a genetic 
lab that offers diagnostic, pre-symptomatic and prenatal testing and an 
outpatient clinic to counsel and follow relatives at risk for hereditary 
ataxias, FAP-I and Huntington disease (HD). The present work is a review of our 
10-year experience with psychological counselling of individuals at risk for MJD 
and FAP-I. Persons at risk for FAP-I may show a better response to 
pre-symptomatic testing than those who are at risk for MJD and HD because of the 
availability of liver transplantation, which may improve their health and life 
expectancy. Psychological well-being and specific distress of MJD and FAP-I test 
applicants, before undergoing genetic testing (baseline level) and 3 to 6 months 
after disclosure of test results, have shown a low level of change, both in 
identified carriers and non-carriers. A major goal of psychological 
characterization of at-risk individuals for MJD and FAP-I is to determine the 
factors that influence the uptake of genetic testing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2006.00606.x
PMID: 16630162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Eur J Oral Sci. 2006 Apr;114(2):138-46. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0722.2006.00327.x.

Human pulp-derived cells immortalized with Simian Virus 40 T-antigen.

Galler KM(1), Schweikl H, Thonemann B, D'Souza RN, Schmalz G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Operative Dentistry and Periodontology, University of 
Regensburg, Germany. kerstin.galler@uth.tmc.edu

Primary cells in culture have a limited capacity to divide and soon reach a 
non-proliferative state. This cellular senescence limits the investigation of 
cells derived from human pulp concerning cellular pathways, gene regulation, 
mechanisms of dentin formation, or responses to material exposure. To overcome 
this problem, primary human pulp-derived cells were established and transfected 
with a plasmid containing coding sequences of Simian Virus 40 (SV40) large 
T-antigen. This resulted in the establishment of several cell clones showing an 
extension of life span. Expression of T-antigen transcripts and protein was 
verified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and 
immunohistochemistry. Primary human pulp cells were cultured until senescence 
(i.e. up to passage 7) and transfected cells could be cultured to passage 18 
after transfection, when a cellular crisis with massive cell death occurred. One 
clone escaped from crisis and has been maintained in culture for 55 wk. 
Experiments were performed to characterize transfected cells in comparison to 
primary cells. Cell morphology and proliferation were analyzed, and expression 
of cell-specific gene transcripts and proteins (including collagen types I and 
III, alkaline phosphatase, bone sialoprotein, osteocalcin, and dentin 
sialophosphoprotein and dentin matrix protein I) was detected by RT-PCR and 
immunohistochemistry. Transfection of human pulp-derived cells resulted in an 
immortalized cell line retaining many of the phenotypic characteristics observed 
in primary cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0722.2006.00327.x
PMID: 16630306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. BMC Public Health. 2006 Apr 21;6:102. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-102.

Are there differences in all-cause and coronary heart disease mortality between 
immigrants in Sweden and in their country of birth? A follow-up study of total 
populations.

Gadd M(1), Johansson SE, Sundquist J, Wändell P.

Author information:
(1)CeFAM/Center for Family and Community Medicine, Neurotec, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. malin.gadd@telia.com

BACKGROUND: Mortality from cardiovascular diseases is higher among immigrants 
than native Swedes. It is not clear whether the high mortality persists from the 
country of birth or is a result of migration. The purpose of the present study 
was to analyse whether all-cause and coronary heart disease mortality differ 
between immigrants in Sweden and in the country of birth.
METHODS: Two cohorts including the total population from Swedish national 
registers and WHO were defined. All-cause and CHD mortality are presented as 
age-adjusted incidence rates and incidence density ratios (IDR) in eight 
immigrant groups in Sweden and in their country of birth. The data were analysed 
using Poisson regression.
RESULTS: The all-cause mortality risk was lower among seven of eight male 
immigrant groups (IDR 0.39-0.97) and among six of eight female immigrant groups 
(IDR 0.42-0.81) than in their country of birth. The CHD mortality risk was 
significantly lower in male immigrants from Norway (IDR = 0.84), Finland (IDR = 
0.91), Germany (IDR = 0.84) and Hungary (IDR = 0.59) and among female immigrants 
from Germany (IDR = 0.66) and Hungary (IDR = 0.54) than in their country of 
birth. In contrast, there was a significantly higher CHD mortality risk in male 
immigrants from Southern Europe (IDR = 1.23) than in their country of birth.
CONCLUSION: The all-cause mortality risk was lower in the majority of immigrant 
groups in Sweden than in their country of birth. The differences in CHD 
mortality risks were more complex. For countries with high CHD mortality, such 
as Finland and Hungary, the risk was lower among immigrants in Sweden than in 
their country of birth. For low-risk countries in South Europe, the risk was 
higher in immigrants in Sweden than in South Europe.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-102
PMCID: PMC1475577
PMID: 16630338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Urol Clin North Am. 2006 May;33(2):167-79, vi. doi:
10.1016/j.ucl.2005.12.013.

Intermittent androgen deprivation: clinical experience and practical 
applications.

Wright JL(1), Higano CS, Lin DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. 
dlin@u.washington.edu

Prostate cancer is more frequently being diagnosed at an earlier age, men are 
dying of prostate cancer at an older age, and men are now treated with androgen 
deprivation for biochemical relapse. As a result, the amount of time that 
patients are potentially subjected to androgen deprivation is increasing. 
Intermittent androgen deprivation (IAD) has been investigated as a potential 
alternative to continuous androgen deprivation (CAD) in order to improve quality 
of life and potentially delay the progression to androgen independence. Along 
with the increased use of primary hormonal therapy in clinically localized 
prostate cancer, IAD may supplant the traditional surgical or radiotherapy 
options, specifically in men who have underlying co-morbidities and decreased 
life expectancy. There are ongoing multi-institutional, randomized trials that 
will lend insight into the utility, efficacy, and feasibility of IAD versus CAD. 
This article discusses the theoretical benefits and rationale of IAD and reviews 
the completed and on-going IAD trials. Finally, the controversies, practical 
applications, and future directions of IAD are addressed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ucl.2005.12.013
PMID: 16631455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Lancet. 2006 Apr 22;367(9519):1293-5. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68552-8.

Putting a value on medical research.

Blakemore C(1), Davidson J.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council, London W1B 1AL, UK. 
colin.blakemore@headoffice.mrc.ac.uk

Comment on
    Lancet. 2006 Apr 22;367(9519):1319-27.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68552-8
PMID: 16631892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Lancet. 2006 Apr 22;367(9519):1319-27. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68578-4.

Effect of a US National Institutes of Health programme of clinical trials on 
public health and costs.

Johnston SC(1), Rootenberg JD, Katrak S, Smith WS, Elkins JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, CA 
94143-0114, USA. clay.johnston@ucsfmedctr.org

Comment in
    Lancet. 2006 Apr 22;367(9519):1293-5.
    Lancet. 2006 Jun 24;367(9528):2057-8.

BACKGROUND: Few attempts have been made to estimate the public return on 
investment in medical research. The total costs and benefits to society of a 
clinical trial, the final step in testing an intervention, can be estimated by 
evaluating the effect of trial results on medical care and health.
METHODS: All phase III randomised trials funded by the US National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke before Jan 1, 2000, were included. Pertinent 
publications on use, cost to society, and health effects for each studied 
intervention were identified by systematic review, supplemented with data from 
other public and proprietary sources. Regardless of whether a trial was positive 
or negative, information on use of tested therapies was integrated with 
published per-use data on costs and health effect (converted to 2004 US dollars) 
to generate 10-year projections for the US population.
FINDINGS: 28 trials with a total cost of 335 million dollars were included. Six 
trials (21%) resulted in measurable improvements in health, and four (14%) 
resulted in cost savings to society. At 10 years, the programme of trials 
resulted in an estimated additional 470,000 quality-adjusted life years at a 
total cost of 3.6 billion dollars (including costs of all trials and additional 
health-care and other expenditures). Valuing a quality-adjusted life year at 
per-head gross domestic product, the projected net benefit to society at 
10-years was 15.2 billion dollars. 95% CIs did not include a net loss at 10 
years.
IMPLICATIONS: For this institute, the public return on investment in clinical 
trials has been substantial. Although results led to increases in health-care 
expenditures, health gains were large and valuable.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68578-4
PMID: 16631910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2006 Apr;31(4):285-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.08.012.

A practical tool to identify patients who may benefit from a palliative 
approach: the CARING criteria.

Fischer SM(1), Gozansky WS, Sauaia A, Min SJ, Kutner JS, Kramer A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Care Policy and Research, University of Colorado Health 
Sciences Center, Denver, Colorado 80206, USA. stacy.fischer@uchsc.edu

Palliative care is often offered only late in the course of disease after 
curative measures have been exhausted. To provide timelier symptom management, 
advance care planning, and spiritual support, we propose a simple set of 
prognostic criteria that identifies persons near the end of life. In this 
retrospective cohort study of five prognostic indicators, the CARING criteria 
(Cancer, Admissions > or = 2, Residence in a nursing home, Intensive care unit 
admit with multiorgan failure, > or = 2 Noncancer hospice Guidelines), logistic 
regression modeling demonstrated high sensitivity and specificity for mortality 
at 1 year (c statistic > 0.8). A simple set of clinically relevant criteria 
applied at the time of hospital admission can identify seriously ill persons who 
have a high likelihood of death in 1 year and, therefore, may benefit the most 
from incorporating palliative measures into the plan of care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.08.012
PMID: 16632076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Clin Transl Oncol. 2006 Feb;8(2):108-18. doi: 10.1007/s12094-006-0167-9.

Prognostic value of the interpectoral lymph nodes in breast cancer. A 20-year 
survival study.

García-Vilanova Comas A(1), García Vilanova A, Fuster-Diana E, Martínez-Alzamora 
N, Fernández-Tena J, García-Vilanova Comas J, García-Vilanova Comas M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Surgical Oncology Unit, Valencia University General 
Hospital, Spain. Andres.Garcia-Vilanova@uv.es

INTRODUCTION: The indication and extent of axillary lymph node dissection in 
breast cancer remains open to controversy.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: In this context, a 20-year survival study has been made of 
1600 breast cancer patients subjected during surgical treatment to systematic 
dissection of the acromiothoracic vascular pedicle together with the 
accompanying lymph nodes (Rotter and Grossman interpectoral lymph node groups). 
An anatomical study of these nodes was also conducted in 100 necropsies, with 
the evaluation of 200 acromiothoracic vascular pedicles.
RESULTS: The interpectoral lymph nodes were anatomically present in 42% of the 
necropsies and in 35.1% of the patients subjected to surgery. The prognosis was 
much worse in cases of neoplastic infiltration of the interpectoral lymph nodes 
(Kaplan-Meier survival study), regardless of the influence of other prognostic 
factors.
CONCLUSIONS: In view of the results obtained, the designation of grade N3 of the 
TNM classification is proposed for malignancies with positive interpectoral 
lymph node infiltration.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-006-0167-9
PMID: 16632425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Clin Transl Oncol. 2006 Jan;8(1):22-30. doi: 10.1007/s12094-006-0091-z.

Influence of hemoglobin levels on survival after radical treatment of esophageal 
carcinoma with radiotherapy.

Valencia Julve J(1), Alonso Orduña V, Escó Barón R, López-Mata M, Méndez 
Villamón A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital Clinico Universitario Lozano 
Blesa, Zaragoza, Spain. jvalenciaj@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: The objective was to investigate the possible prognostic value of 
blood hemoglobin concentration in the outcome of radical treatment for locally 
advanced esophageal carcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: This was a retrospective analysis of data for 85 patients 
treated for locally advanced esophageal carcinoma between January 1991 and 
January 1997 with chemoradiotherapy alone or as neoadjuvant therapy. All 
patients received chemotherapy (4 cycles of cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on day 1, and 
continuous infusion 5-fluorouracil 1 g/m2 per day on days 1-5) with concomitant 
radiotherapy (40 Gy at 2 Gy/session to the esophageal tumor and mediastinum). 
The response was evaluated after 4 weeks. 69 patients continued to receive 
chemoradiotherapy only to a total dose of 60-64 Gy to the esophageal tumor with 
a 2-cm margin. Sixteen patients underwent radical surgery. Hemoglobin levels 
were measured before combined treatment in all patients. The prognostic value of 
hemoglobin concentration was analyzed statistically, along with other patient-, 
tumor- and treatment-related factors.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up time: 82 months (range 60- 99 months). Chemoradiotherapy 
was followed by an overall clinical response of 69.4%, with complete clinical 
response in 24.7% of the patients. Mean survival time was 12 months, and overall 
likelihood of survival after 3 years was 13%. Mean time to progression: 5 
months. Median survival time was 12 months in the 69 patients who underwent 
chemoradiotherapy alone, and 26 months in patients who underwent radical 
surgery. Univariate analysis showed a hemoglobin value of > 13 g/dl to be a 
prognostic factor for better survival, along with performance status according 
to the ECOG classification, weight loss < 10%, tumor stage, tumor length, and 
complete response to chemoradiotherapy. Multivariate analysis showed that only 
hemoglobin concentration was an independent prognostic factor: for each unit 
increase in hemoglobin level, the risk of death from esophageal carcinoma 
decreased by 5%. In the subgroup of patients who did not undergo surgery, 
hemoglobin concentration was also an independent prognostic factor along with 
complete clinical response.
CONCLUSIONS: As found for other solid tumors, hemoglobin level was a determining 
factor in the prognosis for treatment outcome in patients with esophageal 
carcinoma. Our findings require confirmation in randomized studies and further 
documentation of the probable benefits of correcting hemoglobin levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-006-0091-z
PMID: 16632436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Clin Transl Oncol. 2006 Jan;8(1):39-44. doi: 10.1007/s12094-006-0093-x.

Survival in extra-orbital metastatic retinoblastoma:treatment results.

Leal-Leal CA(1), Rivera-Luna R, Flores-Rojo M, Juárez-Echenique JC, Ordaz JC, 
Amador-Zarco J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Instituto Nacional de Pediatría, Mexico DF, Mexico. 
drcarlosaleal@msn.com

INTRODUCTION: Retinoblastoma (RB) is the most frequent malignant eye tumor in 
childhood. In developing countries advanced stages are common. The purpose of 
this paper is to present our 21-year clinical experience with metastatic extra 
ocular RB patients treated with 5 different chemotherapy schemas at a single 
Mexican Pediatric referral center.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective analysis was carried out reviewing the 
clinical characteristics of patients with metastatic RB. The information 
analyzed included the delay in diagnosis after first symptoms, age, sex, ocular 
staging, and anatomic site of metastases, treatment scheme, initial response and 
status at the last contact or date of death.
RESULTS: Eighty-one patients were included; age range was from 3 to 80 months. 
The most common site of metastasis was central nervous system (83.9%). From 
those patients treated with chemotherapy (n = 74), 89.2% presented a complete 
initial response (n = 66). Early mortality occurred in 7 cases before any 
treatment. Fifty-six received treatment and died with progressive disease. All 
patients without radiotherapy died with tumor activity (n = 15). The use of 
cisplatin was related with longer disease free intervals; no other variable was 
related with survival. Four patients were alive and disease free at 33 to 144.3 
months of follow up from diagnosis. The prevalent cause of death was tumor 
progression.
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience, metastatic RB has a very high mortality rate in 
spite of the use of different chemotherapy regimens.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-006-0093-x
PMID: 16632438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Clin Transl Oncol. 2006 Jan;8(1):45-9. doi: 10.1007/s12094-006-0094-9.

Treatment of childhood diffuse brain stem tumors: comparison of results in 
different treatment modalities.

de Aquino Gorayeb MM(1), Aisen S, Nadalin W, Panico Gorayeb R, de Andrade 
Carvalho H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Hospital das Clínicas, University of São Paulo, 
São Paulo, SP- Brazil. melisaquino@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Diffuse brainstem tumors in children are rare and its treatment is 
controversial. Although radiotherapy (RT) used to be the treatment of choice, 
results remained unsatisfactory. The association of RT with other therapies is 
common, but lacks scientific data regarding its efficacy. Comparison of results 
of irradiation alone versus combined treatment modalities is crucial in 
improving survival.
METHOD: The authors reviewed twenty-four patients with diffuse brainstem tumors, 
with mean age of 7 years, treated from December 90 to November 99, at the 
University of Sao Paulo, Brazil. These patients were subdivided in four groups 
according to the treatment option at the onset of symptoms. Four patients were 
treated with radiation alone (total dose of 50 Gy to 62.4 Gy), 6 patients with 
chemotherapy and radiation, 8 with tamoxifen and radiation and 6 with tamoxifen, 
radiation and chemotherapy. The results of the different groups were them 
compared.
FINDINGS: Clinical response was observed in 83.3% of our children, briefly 
followed by progressive disease. Mean survival was 17 months with no 
statistically significant differences among the groups. Four patients were alive 
at the end of the study, with a mean survival of 32.4 months, all of them 
received combined therapy, but with no statistically significant differences.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither the association of radiation therapy with chemotherapy, 
tamoxifen nor both have showed survival improvement. The prognosis of these 
patients remains very poor and only investigational trials would justify a 
highly aggressive approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-006-0094-9
PMID: 16632439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Am J Crit Care. 2006 May;15(3):315-20.

Coronary endothelium: a key to life expectancy.

Futterman LG(1), Lemberg L.

Author information:
(1)The Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Fla 33101, USA.

PMID: 16632775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. J ECT. 2006 Mar;22(1):25-9. doi: 10.1097/00124509-200603000-00005.

Is ECT cost-effective? A critique of the National Institute of Health and 
Clinical Excellence's report on the economic analysis of ECT.

McDonald WM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University, Wesley 
Woods Geriatric Hospital, Atlanta, GA 30329, USA. wmcdona@emory.edu

The report of the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) on 
the economic analysis of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) concludes that ECT and 
pharmacotherapy are "likely to be equally cost-effective" in the treatment of 
major depression. However, this economic analysis is acknowledged by the NICE 
report to be "crude and based on a number of uncertain assumptions." An 
evaluation by the Health Technology Assessment Committee of the National 
Coordinating Centre for Health Technology Assessment, commissioned and funded on 
behalf of NICE, provides a detailed cost comparison of ECT and pharmacotherapy 
in the treatment of major depression [Greenhalgh, Health Technol Assess, 9 (9) 
(2005) 1-156]. The Health Technology Assessment Committee analyzed data from 
separate studies of the efficacy of antidepressants and ECT. However, these data 
included few randomized controlled trials directly comparing the 
cost-effectiveness of ECT and medication in treatment-resistant depression. In 
the limited number of trials included in the report, there was a bias in favor 
of medication. For example, compared with the antidepressant trials, the ECT 
trials included more patients who had comorbid psychosis and treatment-resistant 
depression and would therefore have a more difficult treatment of depression. 
The Committee also evaluated data to determine that the relapse rate after 
pharmacological treatment is approximately 3 times the relapse rate after ECT. 
Although the report provides a format for analyzing the cost-effectiveness of 
ECT and recommends future directions for research, the conclusions reached by 
the Committee are relatively limited and should not be used as a template for 
future public policy.

DOI: 10.1097/00124509-200603000-00005
PMID: 16633202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Mod Rheumatol. 2006;16(2):77-84. doi: 10.1007/s10165-006-0461-y.

Modeling and cost-effectiveness analysis of etanercept in adults with rheumatoid 
arthritis in Japan: a preliminary analysis.

Tanno M(1), Nakamura I, Ito K, Tanaka H, Ohta H, Kobayashi M, Tachihara A, 
Nagashima M, Yoshino S, Nakajima A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Yugawara Kosei-Nenkin Hospital, 438 Miyakami, 
Yugawara-cho, Ashigarashimo-gun, Kanagawa, 259-0314, Japan. 
yknb-l12@i-younet.ne.jp

The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonist etanercept is an antirheumatic agent 
which was approved by Japanese regulatory authorities in January 2005. In Japan, 
the cost-effectiveness of this therapy for patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
(RA) has not previously been evaluated. This study models the cost-utility of 
etanercept in comparison with standard therapy with disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) among adult Japanese RA patients who have failed a 
previous course of the DMARD bucillamine. A Markov model with 6-month cycles was 
constructed to compare two therapeutic strategies: etanercept versus standard 
therapy. For each cycle, one of three options was possible: a patient could (i) 
remain on current therapy if American College of Rheumatology criteria for 20% 
clinical improvement (ACR20) were achieved, (ii) switch to another drug in the 
therapeutic pathway if ACR20 was not achieved or if side effects severe enough 
to cause treatment discontinuation occurred, or (iii) they could die. The 
therapeutic pathway for the etanercept strategy was etanercept, methotrexate 
(MTX), sulfasalazine (SSZ), combination therapy (MTX + SSZ) and, finally, no 
DMARD. The pathway for standard therapy was identical except the initial therapy 
was MTX (etanercept was excluded). Results from clinical trials in U.S. and 
European patient populations were used to derive model probabilities for disease 
progression, response to drug therapy, and relationships between ACR20 response 
and functional improvement as measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire 
(HAQ) disability index. An equation was developed to predict utility from HAQ 
scores of Japanese patients. Costs for drugs and medical services in Japan were 
obtained for April 2003. Analysis was conducted from a societal perspective, 
including lost productivity costs due to RA disability and premature mortality. 
Costs were discounted at 6% annually, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at 
1.5% annually. Model parameters were varied by 20% above and below base-case 
values in sensitivity analyses. Compared to standard therapy, the etanercept 
strategy was yen6.39 million more costly per patient but yielded an additional 
2.56 QALYs. The incremental cost-utility ratio was yen 2.50 million/QALY. 
Sensitivity analyses revealed that cost-utility was most strongly influenced by 
the acquisition cost of etanercept and the percentage of etanercept recipients 
who achieved ACR20. Using commonly applied thresholds for acceptable 
cost-effectiveness in the United States ($50 000 = yen 5.5 million/QALY) and the 
United Kingdom (pound 30 000 = yen 5.7 million/QALY), etanercept therapy in 
Japan can be considered cost-effective. Cost-utility ratios did not exceed these 
thresholds in any sensitivity analysis. Further analyses should be conducted 
once clinical and epidemiologic data for Japanese patients become available.

DOI: 10.1007/s10165-006-0461-y
PMID: 16633926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Swiss Med Wkly. 2006 Mar 4;136(9-10):145-8. doi: 10.4414/smw.2006.11328.

Educational inequalities in life expectancy in German speaking part of 
Switzerland 1990-1997: Swiss National Cohort.

Spoerri A(1), Zwahlen M, Egger M, Gutzwiller F, Minder C, Bopp M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social & Preventive Medicine, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Switzerland belongs to the group of nations with the highest 
life expectancy. However, it is unclear to what extent life expectancy varies 
across socio-economic groups. We used data from a large longitudinal study to 
quantify differentials in life expectancy across educational groups for men and 
women of different ages.
DESIGN: The Swiss National Cohort linked the records from the December 4th, 1990 
census with death certificate data up to 1997, using a probabilistic record 
linkage method. The current analysis was restricted to Swiss nationals resident 
in the German speaking part of the country. Life expectancy was calculated for 
four educational categories ("compulsory schooling or less", "vocational 
training", "upper secondary education", "university education") by constructing 
abridged life tables for men and women aged 30 or older.
RESULTS: The study was based on 3.06 million persons and 262,552 deaths recorded 
during 19.01 million person-years of follow up. The educational level was lower 
in women than in men. In most age groups vocational training was the dominant 
educational category. At ages 30, 50, 65 and 80 men with university education 
lived 7.1, 5.4, 3.5 and 1.6 years longer than their counterparts with compulsory 
education or less. In women the corresponding differences were 3.6, 3.1, 2.7 and 
2.2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: In Switzerland educational gradients in life expectancy are 
substantial, particularly among young and middle-aged men. Social policies and 
public health strategies should address this situation.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2006.11328
PMID: 16633959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Rev Alerg Mex. 2006 Jan-Feb;53(1):9-29.

[Allergic rhinitis. Coexistent diseases and complications. A review and 
analysis].

[Article in Spanish]

Sacre Hazouri JA(1).

Author information:
(1)FAAAI, Inmunólogo, alergólogo y pediatra del Instituto Privado de Alergia, 
Inmunología y Vías Respiratorias de Córdoba, Veracruz, México. 
sacre_1@hotmail.com

Allergic rhinitis (AR) is rarely found in isolation and needs to be considered 
in the context of systemic allergic disease associated with numerous comorbid 
disorders, including asthma, chronic middle ear effusions, sinusitis, and 
lymphoid hypertrophy with obstructive sleep apnea, disordered sleep, and 
consequent behavioral and educational effects. The coexistence of allergic 
rhinitis and asthma is complex. First, the diagnosis of asthma may be confused 
by symptoms of cough caused by rhinitis and postnasal drip. This may lead to 
either inaccurate diagnosis of asthma or inappropriate assessment of asthma 
severity with over treatment of the patient. The term "cough variant rhinitis" 
is therefore proposed to describe rhinitis that manifest itself primarily as 
cough that results from postnasal drip. Allergic rhinitis, however, has also a 
causal role in asthma; it appears both to be responsible for exacerbating asthma 
and to have a role in its pathogenesis. Postnasal drip with nasopharyngeal 
inflammation leads to a number of other conditions. Thus sinusitis is a frequent 
extension of rhinitis and is one of the most frequently missed diagnoses. 
Allergen exposure in the nasopharynx with release of histamine and other 
mediators can cause Eustachian tube obstruction possibly leading to middle ear 
effusions. Chronic allergic inflammation of the upper airway causes lymphoid 
hypertrophy with prominence of adenoidal and tonsillar tissue. This may be 
associated with poor appetite, poor growth, obstructive sleep apnea, mouth 
breathing, pharyngeal irritation and dental abnormalities. Allergic rhinitis is 
therefore part of a spectrum of allergic disorders that can profoundly affect 
the well being and quality of life of a child. Prospective cohort studies are 
required to assess the disease burden caused by allergic rhinitis in childhood, 
its consequences due to delay in diagnosis and treatment, and to further assess 
the potential educational impairment that may result. Because allergic rhinitis 
is part of a systemic disease process, its diagnosis and management require a 
coordinated approach by the specialist in allergy-immunology-rhinology rather 
than a fragmented, organ based approach. There are other clinical presentations 
such as recurrent infections of the upper respiratory tract, as well as 
pharyngeal and laryngeal disorders.

PMID: 16634358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Best Pract Res Clin Anaesthesiol. 2006 Mar;20(1):57-67. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpa.2005.07.010.

Altered states of consciousness: processed EEG in mental disease.

Spiegel A(1), Tonner PH, Renna M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, University 
Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, Schwanenweg 21, D-24105 Kiel, Germany. 
spiegel@anaesthesie.uni-kiel.de

Due to increasing life expectancy and a rising elderly population in Europe, the 
incidence of mild cognitive impairment which may predict diseases like 
Alzheimer's Disease or Vascular Dementia, is rising. Neurophysiological 
techniques are simple and inexpensive tools for early diagnosis and provide 
useful and objective correlates of cognitive activity both in normal subjects 
and patients suffering from the above conditions. Cognitive impairment due to 
different mental disease is characterized by decreased power and coherence in 
the alpha/beta band, which suggests functional disconnection among cortical 
areas, whereas both power and coherence in the delta and theta bands increase as 
a sign of cortical deafferentation from subcortical structures. Quantification 
of power and phase relationship by bispectral analysis suggests the Bispectral 
Index could be a useful but simple tool for early diagnosis of mental disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpa.2005.07.010
PMID: 16634414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Am J Gastroenterol. 2006 Apr;101(4):735-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00559.x.

Long-term outcome of biliary and duodenal stents in palliative treatment of 
patients with unresectable adenocarcinoma of the head of pancreas.

Maire F(1), Hammel P, Ponsot P, Aubert A, O'Toole D, Hentic O, Levy P, 
Ruszniewski P.

Author information:
(1)Pôle des Maladies de l'Appareil Digestif, Hôpital Beaujon, AP-HP, Clichy, 
France.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2006 Apr;101(4):743-5.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer has 
improved by using new chemotherapeutic regimens. Biliary and digestive stenoses 
can be endoscopically treated in most cases. However, long-term efficacy of 
these stenting procedures remains unknown.
AIM: To evaluate the incidence of biliary and duodenal stenoses as well as 
technical success and short- and long-term patency of endoscopically deployed 
stents in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All consecutive patients with unresectable cancer of the 
pancreatic head seen between January 1999 and September 2003 in our center were 
retrospectively studied. Patients with biliary and/or duodenal stenoses 
underwent endoscopic stent insertion as first intention therapy. Outcomes 
included technical and clinical success, stent patency, and survival.
RESULTS: One hundred patients, median age 65 yr (32-85), with locally advanced 
(62%) or metastatic (38%) pancreatic cancer were studied. Eighty-three percent 
received at least one line of chemotherapy. The actuarial median survival was 11 
months (0.7-29.3). Biliary and duodenal stenoses occurred in 81 and 25 patients, 
respectively. A biliary stent was successfully placed in 74 patients (91%). When 
a self-expandable metallic stent was first introduced (N = 59), a single stent 
was sufficient in 41 patients (69%) (median duration of stent patency 7 months 
(0.4-21.1)). Duodenal stenting was successful in 24 patients (96%); among them, 
96% required a single stent (median duration of stent patency 6 months 
[0.5-15.7]). In the 23 patients who developed both biliary and duodenal 
stenoses, combined stenting was successful in 91% of cases. No major 
complication or death occurred related to endoscopic treatment.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic palliative treatment of both biliary and duodenal 
stenoses is safe and effective in the long term, including in patients with 
combined obstructions. Use of such palliative management is justified as repeat 
procedures are rarely required even in patients who have a long survival.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00559.x
PMID: 16635221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Obstet Gynecol Surv. 2006 May;61(5):343-52. doi: 
10.1097/01.ogx.0000216976.15100.29.

Sickle cell anemia in the female patient.

Dauphin-McKenzie N(1), Gilles JM, Jacques E, Harrington T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Miami-Jackson Memorial 
Hospital, Miami, Florida, USA. ndauphin@um-jmh.org

Seventy-two thousand Americans are homozygous for the sickle cell gene and 2 
million are carriers. The gene offers protection against malaria but can be a 
cause of chronic pain and early death. Life expectancy is 48 years for females. 
Some people with sickle cell anemia live into their 60s and beyond. The purpose 
of this article is to review and summarize evidence from clinical, 
translational, and epidemiologic studies that have examined the clinically 
relevant aspects of sickle cell anemia as it relates to the female patient. 
Studies were identified through a MEDLINE search for articles in English between 
the years 1966 and 2005. References from identified reports were also used to 
identify additional articles. Women with sickle cell disease experience multiple 
complications. These complications can affect each and every organ system and 
are often worse in pregnant women. Progestins, hydroxyurea, and bone marrow 
transplant appear to ameliorate sickle cell anemia. Other therapies being 
evaluated include those that increase fetal hemoglobin concentration and prevent 
dehydration of the sickle red blood cells. More than one third of pregnancies in 
women with sickle syndromes terminate in abortion, stillbirth, or neonatal 
death. Recently, a number of genes modifying the clinical severity of sickle 
cell anemia have been identified. Sickle anemia is associated with immense 
suffering and multisystemic complications. In addition to the now-established 
therapy with hydroxyurea and bone marrow transplants, there are multiple 
investigational treatments that offer the hope of extending life expectancy 
while diminishing associated morbidities. Whether any of these new agents are 
safe in pregnancy has yet to be determined.
TARGET AUDIENCE: Obstetricians & Gynecologists, Family Physicians.
LEARNING OBJECTIVES: After completion of this article, the reader should be able 
to summarize the multiple complications that women with sickle cell anemia (SCA) 
endure, explain that many of the complications worsen during pregnancy and 
increase the risk of an adverse pregnancy outcome, and state that there are 
treatment modalities that extend life and diminish morbidities.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ogx.0000216976.15100.29
PMID: 16635275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Int MS J. 2006 May;13(2):66-71.

Survival and mortality rates among Danes with MS.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Stenager E, Hansen T, Koch-Henriksen H.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

Long-term survival and trends in overall and cause-specific excess mortality 
among people with MS have been studied using the Danish Multiple Sclerosis 
Registry, which contains information about all Danish MS patients since the 
mid-20th Century. A total of 4254 deaths among approximately 10,000 people with 
MS, representing more than 200,000 person-years of observation, have been 
analysed. Overall, mortality was almost three times higher and life expectancy 
10 years less among people with MS than for the general population. However, 
excess mortality has declined significantly since 1950.

PMID: 16635423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2006 May;12(5):541-51. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2005.12.033.

