clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of each.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases (to April 2004). A postal survey of hospitals 
in the UK.
REVIEW METHODS: Selected studies were assessed against validated criteria. A 
postal survey of hospitals in the UK was undertaken to describe current practice 
and availability of tests, and identify additional diagnostic algorithms. Pooled 
estimates of sensitivity, specificity and likelihood ratios were obtained for 
each test using random effects meta-analysis. The effect of study-level 
covariates was explored using random effects metaregression. A decision-analytic 
model was used to combine estimates from the meta-analysis and estimate the 
diagnostic performance of each algorithm in a theoretical population of 
outpatients with suspected DVT. The net benefit of using each algorithm was 
estimated from a health service perspective, using cost--utility analysis, 
assuming thresholds of willingness to pay of pound 20,000 and pound 30,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). The model was analysed probabilistically and 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were generated to reflect uncertainty in 
estimated cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Individual clinical features are of limited diagnostic value, with most 
likelihood ratios being close to 1. Wells clinical probability score stratifies 
proximal, but not distal, DVT into high-, intermediate- and low-risk categories. 
Unstructured clinical assessment by experienced clinicians may have similar 
performance to Wells score. In patients with clinically suspected DVT, D-dimer 
has 91% sensitivity and 55% specificity for DVT, although performance varies 
substantially between assays and populations. D-dimer specificity is dependent 
on pretest clinical probability, being higher in patients with a low clinical 
probability of DVT. Plethysmography and rheography techniques have modest 
sensitivity for proximal DVT, poor sensitivity for distal DVT, and modest 
specificity. Ultrasound has 94% sensitivity for proximal DVT, 64% sensitivity 
for distal DVT and 94% specificity. Computed tomography scanning has 95% 
sensitivity for all DVT (proximal and distal combined) and 97% specificity. 
Magnetic resonance imaging has 92% sensitivity for all DVT and 95% specificity. 
The diagnostic performance of all tests is worse in asymptomatic patients. The 
most cost-effective algorithm discharged patients with a low Wells score and 
negative D-dimer without further testing, and then used plethysmography 
alongside ultrasound, with venography in selected cases, to diagnose the 
remaining patients. However, the cost-effectiveness of this algorithm was 
dependent on assumptions of test independence being met and the ability to 
provide plethysmography at relatively low cost. Availability of plethysmography 
and venography is currently limited at most UK hospitals, so implementation 
would involve considerable reorganisation of services. Two algorithms were 
identified that offered high net benefit and would be feasible in most hospitals 
without substantial reorganisation of services. Both involved using a 
combination of Wells score, D-dimer and above-knee ultrasound. For thresholds of 
willingness to pay of pound 10,000 or pound 20,000 per QALY the optimal strategy 
involved discharging patients with a low or intermediate Wells score and 
negative D-dimer, ultrasound for those with a high score or positive D-dimer, 
and repeat scanning for those with positive D-dimer and a high Wells score, but 
negative initial scan. For thresholds of pound 30,000 or more a similar 
strategy, but involving repeat ultrasound for all those with a negative initial 
scan, was optimal.
CONCLUSIONS: Diagnostic algorithms based on a combination of Wells score, 
D-dimer and ultrasound (with repeat if negative) are feasible at most UK 
hospitals and are among the most cost-effective. Use of repeat scanning depends 
on the threshold for willingness to pay for health gain. Further diagnostic 
testing for patients with a low Wells score and negative D-dimer is unlikely to 
represent a cost-effective use of resources. Recommendations for research 
include the evaluation of the costs and outcomes of using the optimal diagnostic 
algorithms in routine practice, the development and evaluation of algorithms 
appropriate for specific groups of patients with suspected DVT, such as 
intravenous drug abusers, pregnant patients and those with previous DVT, the 
evaluation of the role of plethysmography: interaction with other diagnostic 
tests, outcome of low-risk patients with negative plethysmography and 
measurement of the costs of providing plethysmography, and methodological 
research into the incorporation of meta-analytic data into decision-analytic 
modelling.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10150
PMID: 16707072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Clin Cancer Res. 2006 May 15;12(10):3092-8. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-05-2255.

Phase II clinical trial results involving treatment with low-dose daily oral 
cyclophosphamide, weekly vinblastine, and rofecoxib in patients with advanced 
solid tumors.

Young SD(1), Whissell M, Noble JC, Cano PO, Lopez PG, Germond CJ.

Author information:
(1)Systemic Treatment Program, Regional Cancer Program of the Hôpital Régional 
de Sudbury Regional Hospital, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. syoung@hrsrh.on.ca

PURPOSE: Preclinical studies indicate that conventional chemotherapeutic agents 
given continuously at low doses (metronomic chemotherapy) may provide an 
improved therapeutic index. Cyclophosphamide and vinblastine have been best 
studied in experimental models, where tumor growth inhibition is achieved, at 
least in part, through antiangiogenic mechanisms.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Fifty patients with advanced solid tumors were enrolled in 
this phase II trial, 43 of whom had received at least one prior chemotherapy 
regimen. Patients were required to have Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
performance status of < or = 2, a life expectancy of >3 months, and at least one 
measurable lesion. All patients received oral cyclophosphamide (50 mg) and 
rofecoxib (25 mg) daily in addition to weekly injections of vinblastine (3 
mg/m2). Half of the patients also received minocycline (100 mg) orally twice 
daily with the intent of further inhibiting tumor angiogenesis. The primary end 
point of the study was clinical benefit, defined as the percentage of patients 
experiencing an objective response or exhibiting stable disease for at least 6 
months.
RESULTS: For the 47 eligible patients, there were two (4%) complete responses 
and four (9%) partial responses, for an overall objective response rate of 13%. 
An additional eight patients achieved disease stabilization (stable disease > or 
= 6 months) (17%). The primary end point of clinical benefit was therefore 30%, 
(95% confidence interval, 16-44%). The median progression-free survival for all 
patients was 103 days and 289 days for patients experiencing clinical benefit. 
The incidence of patients experiencing grade 3/4 toxicities were as follows: 
neutropenia (10/2), anemia (2/0), and thrombocytopenia (1/0). No patients 
developed grade 3 or 4 nausea, vomiting, mucositis, or alopecia.
CONCLUSIONS: This low-dose regimen consisting of daily oral cyclophosphamide and 
weekly vinblastine injections given concurrently with rofecoxib is associated 
with minimal toxicity and provides significant clinical benefit to patients with 
advanced solid tumors. These results are particularly encouraging given the 
nature of the study population and indicate that this approach merits further 
investigation in specific disease site studies.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-05-2255
PMID: 16707607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol. 2006 Mar-Apr;72(2):119-25. doi: 
10.4103/0378-6323.25636.

Cutaneous manifestations in patients with chronic renal failure on hemodialysis.

Udayakumar P(1), Balasubramanian S, Ramalingam KS, Lakshmi C, Srinivas CR, 
Mathew AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, PSG Hospitals, Peelamedu, Coimbatore, India.

BACKGROUND: Chronic renal failure (CRF) presents with an array of cutaneous 
manifestations. Newer changes are being described since the advent of 
hemodialysis, which prolongs the life expectancy, giving time for these changes 
to manifest.
AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of dermatologic 
problems among patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) undergoing 
hemodialysis.
METHODS: One hundred patients with CRF on hemodialysis were examined for 
cutaneous changes.
RESULTS: Eighty-two per cent patients complained of some skin problem. However, 
on examination, all patients had at least one skin lesion attributable to CRF. 
The most prevalent finding was xerosis (79%), followed by pallor (60%), pruritus 
(53%) and cutaneous pigmentation (43%). Other cutaneous manifestations included 
Kyrle's disease (21%); fungal (30%), bacterial (13%) and viral (12%) infections; 
uremic frost (3%); purpura (9%); gynecomastia (1%); and dermatitis (2%). The 
nail changes included half and half nail (21%), koilonychia (18%), onychomycosis 
(19%), subungual hyperkeratosis (12%), onycholysis (10%), splinter hemorrhages 
(5%), Mees' lines (7%), Muehrcke's lines (5%) and Beau's lines (2%). Hair 
changes included sparse body hair (30%), sparse scalp hair (11%) and brittle and 
lusterless hair (16%). Oral changes included macroglossia with teeth markings 
(35%), xerostomia (31%), ulcerative stomatitis (29%), angular cheilitis (12%) 
and uremic breath (8%). Some rare manifestations of CRF like uremic frost, 
gynecomastia and pseudo-Kaposi's sarcoma were also observed.
CONCLUSIONS: CRF is associated with a complex array of cutaneous manifestations 
caused either by the disease or by treatment. The commonest are xerosis and 
pruritus and the early recognition of cutaneous signs can relieve suffering and 
decrease morbidity.

DOI: 10.4103/0378-6323.25636
PMID: 16707817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2006 Oct;72(6):1276-84. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-006-0425-3. Epub 2006 May 18.

Isolation and characterization of a novel Burkholderia cepacia with strong 
antifungal activity against Rhizoctonia solani.

Quan CS(1), Zheng W, Liu Q, Ohta Y, Fan SD.

Author information:
(1)Life Science College, Dalian Nationalities University, Economical and 
Technological Development Zone, Dalian 116600, People's Republic of China.

Strain CF-66 with strong antifungal activity against Rhizoctonia solani was 
isolated from compost samples. It is clearly demonstrated that strain CF-66 is 
belonging to Burkholderia cepacia complex by the morphological and biochemical 
tests and 16S rDNA sequence. The B. cepacia complex consists of a group of 
bacteria currently organized into nine genomovars, among them genomovar II and 
genomovar III, contain the highly epidemic strains. However, it was known that 
strain CF-66 is not a member of genomovar II or III of the B. cepacia complex by 
species-specific polymerase chain reaction assay. In this study, the antifungal 
compound CF66I produced by strain CF-66 was purified and characterized. Based on 
the nuclear magnetic resonance, GC-MS spectral and infrared spectral data, CF66I 
was confirmed to have amide bonds, alpha-methyl fatty acid, bromine, and some 
structural units such as CH(2)CH(2)O. CF66I is stable to high temperature, 
proteolytic enzymes, and organic solvents. CF66I inhibit the growth of a variety 
of plant pathogenic fungi and pathogenic yeast, whereas bacterial cells are 
unaffected. CF66I mainly reduced hyphal extension rates in a dose-dependent 
manner and induced severe change in cell morphology that resulted in swelled and 
formed very short hyphae with multiple branches.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-006-0425-3
PMID: 16708194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Support Care Cancer. 2006 Oct;14(10):999-1011. doi:
10.1007/s00520-006-0079-9.  Epub 2006 May 18.

Prognostic factors in patients with recently diagnosed incurable cancer: a 
systematic review.

Hauser CA(1), Stockler MR, Tattersall MH.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Cancer Centre, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Missenden Road, 
Camperdown, NSW, 2050, Australia.

GOALS OF WORK: To review the literature and develop a conceptual framework about 
prognostic factors for people presenting to medical oncologists with recently 
diagnosed incurable cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Medline was searched from January 2000 to October 2003 to 
identify articles testing associations between clinical or laboratory variables 
and survival time in adults with advanced solid tumours and median survival of 3 
to 24 months. We recorded how frequently prognostic factors were significantly 
associated with survival in univariable and multivariable analyses.
RESULTS: There were 53 studies included. The factors associated with survival 
were organised into four categories related to attributes of the host the 
tumour, the treatment and the interactions between host, tumour and treatment 
(symptoms, quality of life, performance status and laboratory tests). 
Co-morbidity was consistently associated with shorter survival. Age and gender 
were not consistently associated with survival duration, except in lung cancer 
where females survived longer. Tumour-related factors associated with shorter 
survival included primary tumour (lung), metastatic site (liver, brain and 
visceral) and disease extent. Symptoms associated with shorter survival included 
those of the anorexia-cachexia syndrome, dyspnoea, pain and impaired physical 
well being. Performance status was strongly associated with survival in most 
studies. Laboratory tests associated with shorter survival included anaemia, 
thrombocytopenia, hypoalbuminaemia and elevated serum levels of both alkaline 
phosphatase and lactate dehydrogenase.
CONCLUSION: Prognostic factors in patients with advanced cancer can be 
conceptualised as attributes of the host, tumour, treatment and interactions 
between the three reflected in symptoms, quality of life performance status and 
laboratory tests.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-006-0079-9
PMID: 16708213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. LDI Issue Brief. 2005 Oct-Nov;11(2):1-4.

The effect of firearm deaths on life expectancy and insurance premiums in the 
United States.

Lemaire J(1).

Author information:
(1)Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Despite recent gains, the U.S. remains behind most other affluent countries in 
life expectancy. Even within the U.S., the gap between the life expectancies of 
Caucasians and African-Americans remains significant. At the same time, firearm 
deaths in the U.S. far exceed peer nations, and disproportionately affect 
African-American males. In this Issue Brief, Dr. Lemaire explores whether deaths 
from firearms explain some of these international and racial disparities in life 
expectancy. He uses actuarial techniques to calculate the "cost" of firearm 
deaths in the U.S., both in terms of reduced life expectancy and increased life 
insurance premiums.

PMID: 16708428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Neurosurg Focus. 2006 Apr 15;20(4):E9.

Novel therapies for malignant gliomas: a local affair?

Rainov NG(1), Söling A, Heidecke V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Central Clinic Augsburg, Germany. 
nikolai.rainov@medizin.uni-halle.de

Advances in medical and surgical treatments in the last few decades have 
resulted in quantum leaps in the overall survival of patients with malignant 
disease outside the central nervous system, whereas survival of patients with 
malignant gliomas (World Health Organization Grades III and IV) has remained 
essentially unchanged. Resection and external-beam fractionated radiotherapy 
remain the pillars of therapy for malignant gliomas and have shown significant 
beneficial effects on outcome in many clinical studies. On the other hand, 
numerous human trials with adjuvant agents, most of them administered 
systemically and causing serious complications and side effects, have not 
succeeded in achieving a noteworthy additional extension of survival duration, 
or have done so only with a considerable deterioration in the quality of life of 
the treated patients. The concept of local invasiveness of gliomas is not new, 
but only in the last one to two decades has significant attention been focused 
on the cell biology and molecular genetics of gliomas. Improved understanding of 
the fundamental features of tumor cells has resulted in the introduction and 
increasing clinical use of local therapies in which practitioners opt for 
spatially defined delivery methods and tumor-selective agents specifically 
designed to be used in the environment of a brain invaded by glioma. In this 
review, the authors summarize the key findings in some of the most important 
clinical studies of locally administered treatments for malignant glioma. A few 
such therapies have emerged in the last decade, and have shown considerable 
antitumor activity and a favorable profile of local and systemic side effects. 
These include biodegradable polymers for interstitial chemotherapy, targeted 
toxins administered by convection-enhanced delivery, and intra- and 
peritumorally injected genetically modified viruses conferring glioma-selective 
toxicity. In addition, areas of possible improvement of these therapies and 
essential further developments are outlined.

PMID: 16709040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 May;22(5):861-72. doi: 10.1185/030079906X104669.

Cost-utility analysis in a UK setting of self-monitoring of blood glucose in 
patients with type 2 diabetes.

Palmer AJ(1), Dinneen S, Gavin JR 3rd, Gray A, Herman WH, Karter AJ.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, a unit of IMS Health, Binningen, 
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) in type 2 diabetes patients 
has been shown in meta-analyses of randomized trials to improve HbA(1c) by 
approximately 0.4% when compared to no SMBG. However, the cost of testing 
supplies is high, improvements in health utility due to improved glycaemic 
control may be possible and cost-effectiveness has not been evaluated.
METHODS: A peer-reviewed validated model projected improvements in lifetime 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), long-term costs and cost-effectiveness of 
SMBG versus no SMBG. Markov/Monte Carlo modelling simulated the progression of 
complications (cardiovascular, neuropathy, renal and eye disease). Transition 
probabilities and HbA(1c)-dependent adjustments came from the United Kingdom 
Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) and other major studies. Effects of SMBG on 
HbA(1c) came from clinical studies, meta-analyses and population studies, but 
can only be considered 'moderate' levels of evidence. Costs of complications 
were retrieved from published sources. Direct costs of diabetes complications 
and SMBG were projected over patient lifetimes from a UK National Health Service 
perspective. Outcomes were discounted at 3.5% annually. Extensive sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Depending on the type of diabetes treatment (diet and exercise/oral 
medications/insulin), improvements in glycaemic control with SMBG improved 
discounted QALYs anywhere from 0.165 to 0.255 years, with increased total costs 
of 1013 pounds sterlings- 2564 pounds sterlings/patient, giving incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of 4508 pounds sterlings: 15,515 pounds sterlings/QALY 
gained, well within current UK willingness-to-pay limits. Results were robust 
under a wide range of plausible assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the moderate level of clinical evidence available to date, 
improvements in glycaemic control with interventions, including SMBG, can 
improve patient outcomes, with acceptable cost-effectiveness ratios in the UK 
setting.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906X104669
PMID: 16709308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;35(4):903-19. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl089. Epub 2006
May  18.

Trends and disparities in socioeconomic and behavioural characteristics, life 
expectancy, and cause-specific mortality of native-born and foreign-born 
populations in the United States, 1979-2003.

Singh GK(1), Hiatt RA.

Author information:
(1)Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services 
Administration, US Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, 
Room 18-41, Rockville, MD 20857, USA.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;35(4):919-21.

BACKGROUND: Immigrants are a growing segment of the US population. In 2003, 
there were 33.5 million immigrants, accounting for 12% of the total US 
population. Despite a rapid increase in their numbers, little information exists 
as to how immigrants' health and mortality profile has changed over time. In 
this study, we analysed trends in social and behavioural characteristics, life 
expectancy, and mortality patterns of immigrants and the US-born from 1979 to 
2003.
METHODS: We used national mortality and census data (1979-2003) and 1993 and 
2003 National Health Interview Surveys to examine nativity differentials over 
time in health and social characteristics. Life tables, age-adjusted death 
rates, and logistic regression were used to examine nativity differentials.
RESULTS: During 1979-81, immigrants had 2.3 years longer life expectancy than 
the US-born (76.2 vs 73.9 years). The difference increased to 3.4 years in 
1999-2001 (80.0 vs 76.6 years). Nativity differentials in mortality increased 
over time for major cancers, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, respiratory 
diseases, unintentional injuries, and suicide, with immigrants experiencing 
generally lower mortality than the US-born in each period. Specifically, in 
1999-2001, immigrants had at least 30% lower mortality from lung and oesophageal 
cancer, COPD, suicide, and HIV/AIDS, but at least 50% higher mortality from 
stomach and liver cancer than the US-born. Nativity differentials in mortality, 
health, and behavioural characteristics varied substantially by ethnicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Growing ethnic heterogeneity of the immigrant population, and its 
migration selectivity and continuing advantages in behavioural characteristics 
may partly explain the overall widening health gaps between immigrants and the 
US-born.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl089
PMID: 16709619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. BMJ. 2006 May 20;332(7551):1176. doi: 10.1136/bmj.332.7551.1176-a.

Tomsk--a glimpse of one Russian region's experience with HIV/AIDS.

Kmietowicz Z.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.332.7551.1176-a
PMCID: PMC1463950
PMID: 16709989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Presse Med. 2006 May;35(5 Pt 2):831-9. doi: 10.1016/s0755-4982(06)74701-7.

["Drinking less is better". Combining early identification and brief 
intervention for patients at risk].

[Article in French]

Michaud P(1), Dewost AV, Fouilland P.

Author information:
(1)Programme Boire moins c'est mieux, ANPAA, Nanterre (92). bmcm@anpa.asso.fr

Above 210 grams a week in men and 140 grams a week in women, alcohol consumption 
is a risk factor for avoidable mortality in the general population. Beyond 
specific risk situations (for example, pregnancy, medication that interferes 
with alcohol, operating machinery, or a history of alcohol-dependence) in which 
abstinence is recommended, consumption of levels below these thresholds (which 
represent respectively an average of 3 and 2 drinks a day) involves little risk. 
Above these thresholds, the frequency of secondary disease (principally cancers 
and cardiovascular, neurologic, hepatologic, and gastroenterologic disorders) 
contributes to reducing life expectancy in drinkers. Early identification of 
excessive but not dependent alcohol consumption is the only means of avoiding 
the morbidity and mortality associated with drinking. Health providers too often 
confound alcoholism with alcohol-related problems. Half of the deaths associated 
with alcohol, however, concern people who are not dependent on it. Excessive 
drinkers must be identified early if they are to be counseled and helped to 
reduce their consumption. The brief intervention is a counseling practice easy 
to learn. When practiced wisely (in people who drink to excess but are not 
alcohol-dependent), this brief intervention takes 10 minutes and provides 
information, motivational and behavioral counseling. It can be learned in two 
evenings and is immediately transposable into daily practice. The brief 
intervention is effective. It leads to a reduction in consumption below the risk 
thresholds in 10-50% of cases. Any trained care giver in primary care, hospital, 
or preventive medicine can provide it. Tools for identification and intervention 
are available. Two screening questionnaires have been validated in French, the 
AUDIT (a self-administered questionnaire) and the FACE (a questionnaire 
completed by the doctor). The procedures and philosophy of interventions are 
defined and validated, and training is available for all providers who want to 
acquire this practice. This original research activity leads to a new public 
health effort. WHO, the national association for prevention of alcoholism and 
addiction, and various public health agencies have developed the experimental 
program 'Drinking less is better', intended to adapt WHO tools for early 
identification and brief intervention (EIBI) to French medical practice. This 
research-activity was conducted in close association with its targets 
(especially general practitioners) and has contributed to defining the 
conditions for the diffusion of this EIBI in France. Based on its conclusions, 
the health authorities have launched a national training strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0755-4982(06)74701-7
PMID: 16710155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Support Care Cancer. 2006 Nov;14(11):1094-103. doi:
10.1007/s00520-006-0074-1.  Epub 2006 May 19.

Supportive care needs of people with brain tumours and their carers.

Janda M(1), Eakin EG, Bailey L, Walker D, Troy K.

Author information:
(1)Viertel Centre for Research in Cancer Control, Queensland Cancer Fund, Spring 
Hill, Australia. MonikaJanda@qldcancer.com.au

GOALS OF WORK: The diagnosis and treatment of a brain tumour may result in 
long-term changes in a patient's functional and social abilities and/or in a 
greatly reduced life span. A qualitative investigation was conducted to examine 
the supportive care needs of patients with brain tumour and their carers.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Overall, 18 patients and 18 carers participated in focus 
groups or telephone interviews, following a structured interview guide to elicit 
supportive care services of importance to these patients and carers.
MAIN RESULTS: Six major themes were identified using the framework analysis 
method, including needs for information and coping with uncertainty, practical 
support, support to return to pretreatment responsibilities or prepare for 
long-term care, support to deal with social isolation and organize respite care, 
support to overcome stigma/discrimination and support to discuss potentially 
reduced life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Five recommendations to improve service delivery include: 
assignment of a dedicated member of the care team or case manager; proactive 
dissemination of information, education and psychosocial support; access to 
objective assessment of neuropsychological functioning; facilitating easier 
access to welfare payments; and services facilitating communication about 
difficult illness-related topics. Provision of services along these 
recommendations could improve supportive care of brain tumour patients and their 
carers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-006-0074-1
PMID: 16710653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 2006 Aug;79(7):585-92. doi: 
10.1007/s00420-006-0093-8. Epub 2006 May 19.

Do work-related physical factors predict neck and upper limb symptoms in office 
workers?

van den Heuvel SG(1), van der Beek AJ, Blatter BM, Bongers PM.

Author information:
(1)Work and Employment, TNO Quality of Life, P.O. Box 718, 2130 AS, Hoofddorp, 
The Netherlands. S.vdHeuvel@arbeid.tno.nl

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to examine the influence of physical 
exposure at work on neck and upper limb symptoms in office workers.
METHODS: Data were used from a prospective cohort study with a follow-up period 
of 3 years. Independent variables were physical exposure at work, observed and 
self-reported. Outcome measures were neck-shoulder symptoms and elbow-wrist-hand 
symptoms. Data were analyzed with the generalized estimating equation (GEE) 
method, with adjustment for age, gender, psychosocial work characteristics and 
the outcome at baseline.
RESULTS: Neck rotation was associated with neck-shoulder symptoms in the 
analyses with observed data (OR: 1.57; CI: 0.99-2.50) as well as those with 
self-reported data (OR: 1.43; CI: 1.02-2.01). Neck extension was also 
statistically significantly associated with neck-shoulder symptoms (OR: 2.42; 
CI: 1.22-4.80), but only self-reported data were available. Neck flexion, 
self-reported wrist pronation, self-reported arm elevation and self-reported 
duration of computer work, were not associated with symptoms. An indication was 
found of an adverse effect on neck-shoulder symptoms of long working days and on 
elbow-wrist-hand symptoms of self-reported wrist flexion and full-time work or 
longer compared to part-time work.
CONCLUSIONS: Only a limited number of work-related physical factors were related 
to neck and upper limb symptoms in office workers. Only neck rotation and 
self-reported neck extension were identified as risk factors for neck-shoulder 
symptoms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00420-006-0093-8
PMID: 16710709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2006 Dec;100(3):285-92. doi:
10.1007/s10549-006-9247-3.  Epub 2006 May 20.

Early self-reported impairments in arm functioning of primary breast cancer 
patients predict late side effects of axillary lymph node dissection: results 
from a population-based cohort study.

Albert US(1), Koller M, Kopp I, Lorenz W, Schulz KD, Wagner U.

Author information:
(1)Gynecology, Gynecological Endocrinology and Oncology, University of Marburg, 
Faculty of Medicine, Pilgrimstein 3, Marburg, D-35037, Germany. 
albertu@med.uni-marburg.de

OBJECTIVES: Improvements in the life expectancy of women with breast cancer 
raise important questions how to improve quality of life (QoL) for women 
sustaining complications and side effects of cancer treatment. The presented 
study examined the prevalence of arm morbidity in a cohort of primary breast 
cancer patients over time as a result of the extent of axillary lymph node 
dissection. Of particular interest is the question of using a recognized QoL 
assessment instrument at defined assessment points as an endpoint criteria of 
oncological treatment.
METHODS: A prospective, population-based, longitudinal cohort study of patients 
with primary breast cancer was performed (n = 389). QoL data (EORTC QLQ C30 + 
BR23) and clinical data were assessed at designated time points. Primary 
endpoint of this analysis was patient reported arm morbidity assessed with the 
three-idem scale in the BR 23 (swelling, moving, pain).
RESULTS: 20% of the patients evidenced considerable impairments in arm 
functioning. Arm morbidity was significantly related to the number of lymph 
nodes dissected (P < 0.002 entire cohort, P < 0.001 lymph node negatives) and 
was independent of age, stage of the disease, kind of breast surgery and 
radiation treatment. Early impairments in arm functioning (below 50 score 
values) assessed within 6 months after axillary surgery was a good predictor for 
late arm morbidity at 12 months RR 11.5 (CI 95% 4.7-28.4), 24 months RR 6.0 
(CI95% 2.8-13.3) and 36 months RR 3.8 (CI 95% 1.8-7.9).
CONCLUSIONS: Arm morbidity after axillary surgery is a severe and chronic 
condition affecting many breast cancer patients. The recognized QoL assessment 
instrument depict patients with severe impairments in arm functioning after 
axillary lymph node dissection and predict late arm morbidity. To increase 
patients' quality of life it thus may serve as a valid assessment tool for 
screening, allowing early referral for treatment and monitoring.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-006-9247-3
PMID: 16710790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Liver Transpl. 2006 Jul;12(7):1104-11. doi: 10.1002/lt.20725.

Histological recurrent hepatitis C after liver transplantation: Outcome and role 
of retransplantation.

Ercolani G(1), Grazi GL, Ravaioli M, Del Gaudio M, Cescon M, Varotti G, 
Ramacciato G, Vetrone G, Zanello M, Pinna AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Transplantation, Sant'Orsola-Malpighi, University 
of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. gercolani@aosp.bo.it

Impact of hepatitis C virus (HCV) recurrence on long-term outcome after 
orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is highly variable, and the role of 
retransplantation is still debated. From 1996 to 2003, 131 OLT with 
histologically proven HCV recurrence and 6 months of follow-up were 
retrospectively reviewed. One and 5-yr overall survivals were 90.7 and 81.3%, 
respectively. The mean time of HCV recurrence was 10.1 +/- 6.2 months in 
patients whose donor's age was less than 70 yr old, and 6.6 +/- 4.7 in patients 
whose donor's age was more than 70 (P < 0.01). The mean time between OLT and HCV 
recurrence was 10.7 +/- 8.2 months among patients still alive, and 5 +/- 4.2 
among the 20 who died (P = 0.02). In 16 (12.2%) patients, retransplantation was 
required for severe HCV recurrence; 5 are still alive and 11 (68.7%) died. The 
mean survival time was 16.2 +/- 6 months if re-OLT was performed within 12 
months from first OLT, and it was 45.9 +/- 10 months if re-OLT was performed 
later (P < 0.01). In conclusion, donors older than 70 yr are at high risk of 
early HCV recurrence; expectancy of life is significantly reduced in case of 
histologically proven recurrence within 6 months. Outcome is quite dismal in 
patients with early HCV recurrence requiring retransplantation within 1 yr of 
first OLT.

Copyright 2006 AASLD

DOI: 10.1002/lt.20725
PMID: 16710855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. N Y State Dent J. 2006 Mar-Apr;72(2):47-51.

Slipping through the cracks. Dental care for older persons with intellectual 
disabilities.

Waldman HB(1), Truhlar MR, Perlman SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Dentistry, State University at Stony Brook School of 
Dental Medicine, USA.

An increasing population of men and women with intellectual disabilities and 
other developmental disabilities is reaching older ages. As our country 
continues the process of deinstitutionalization, these individuals will require 
treatment in communities. Dental practitioners increasingly will be involved in 
the needs of this population, many of whom are members of families being treated 
in private dental practices. A review of these developments and the particular 
dental needs of these patients is considered.

PMID: 16711593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Accid Anal Prev. 2006 Sep;38(5):961-8. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2006.03.007. Epub
2006  May 18.

Estimation of reduced life expectancy from serious occupational injuries in 
Taiwan.

Ho JJ(1), Hwang JS, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, Council of Labor Affairs, The 
Executive Yuan, No. 99, Lane 407, Henke Road, Sijhih City, Taipei County 221, 
Taiwan.

This study assesses the loss of life expectancy and potential working life in 
Taiwan, between 1986 and 2000, from various types of occupational accidents 
resulting in mortality or permanent disability. The databases on occupational 
mortality and permanent disability were obtained from the Bureau of Labor 
Insurance, with this information then being linked to national death registry 
data to construct the survival function. A Monte Carlo simulation method was 
subsequently used to extrapolate the survival rate for up to 600 months, to 
derive the life expectancy for different types of occupational accidents leading 
to permanent disability (n=81,249). Based upon the life table for each calendar 
year, the life expectancy lost by age-gender cohort was also estimated for cases 
of mortality (n=20,001). In those cases resulting in permanent occupational 
disability, variations in the expected years of life lost (EYLL) were 
demonstrated by different occupational injuries, ranging from 7.4 to 13.6 years 
per case. The overall EYLL through permanent occupational disability is found to 
be almost identical to that of occupational mortality, with a ratio of 1.04:1. 
We conclude that permanent disability resulting from occupational injuries has a 
significant impact on society as a whole.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2006.03.007
PMID: 16712760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Mech Ageing Dev. 2006 Aug;127(8):687-94. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.04.002.
Epub  2006 May 19.

Stress resistance and aging: influence of genes and nutrition.

Harper JM(1), Salmon AB, Chang Y, Bonkowski M, Bartke A, Miller RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan School 
of Medicine, Ann Arbor, MI, United States. jmharper@umich.edu

Previous studies have shown that dermal fibroblast cell lines derived from young 
adult mice of the long-lived Snell dwarf (dw/dw), Ames dwarf (df/df) and growth 
hormone receptor knockout (GHR-KO) mouse stocks are resistant, in vitro, to the 
cytotoxic effects of hydrogen peroxide, cadmium, ultraviolet light, paraquat, 
and heat. Here we show that, in contrast, fibroblasts from mice on low-calorie 
(CR) or low methionine (Meth-R) diets are not stress resistant in culture, 
despite the longevity induced by both dietary regimes. A second approach, 
involving induction of liver cell death in live animals using acetaminophen 
(APAP), documented hepatotoxin resistance in the CR and Meth-R mice, but dw/dw 
and GHR-KO mutant mice were not resistant to this agent, and were in fact more 
susceptible than littermate controls to the toxic effects of APAP. These data 
thus suggest that while resistance to stress is a common characteristic of 
experimental life span extension in mice, the cell types showing resistance may 
differ among the various models of delayed or decelerated aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.04.002
PMCID: PMC2923407
PMID: 16713617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Ann Emerg Med. 2006 Jun;47(6):515-24. doi:
10.1016/j.annemergmed.2006.01.012.  Epub 2006 Mar 24.

Economic value of out-of-hospital emergency care: a structured literature 
review.

Lerner EB(1), Maio RF, Garrison HG, Spaite DW, Nichol G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 
14642, USA. Brooke_Lerner@urmc.rochester.edu

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The evaluation of the impact of out-of-hospital emergency care 
is a relatively new research focus. As such, there is a compelling need to 
determine how finite health care resources should be used in this setting. The 
objective of this study is to conduct a structured review of published economic 
evaluations of out-of-hospital emergency care to assess its economic value.
METHODS: A structured literature search and structured review of articles 
pertaining to the economic value of out-of-hospital care was performed. The 
bibliographic database MEDLINE was searched for pertinent English-language 
articles published between 1966 and 2003. The search used the medical subject 
headings "emergency medical services" and "emergency medical technician" and was 
limited to the subheading "economics" and crossed with the medical subject 
heading "economics." The titles generated by this search were systematically 
reviewed and limited by topic. Abstracts from the identified titles were 
reviewed to select a final set of pertinent articles. These articles were 
further limited based on explicit inclusion and exclusion criteria. Authors used 
a previously published structured evaluation tool to review the final set of 
identified articles for quality and content.
RESULTS: The initial MEDLINE search identified 3,533 citations. From this set, 
535 potentially relevant abstracts were reviewed. From the abstract review, 46 
articles were identified, along with an additional 14 from searching the 
secondary references. Of these 60 articles, 32 met the review inclusion criteria 
and were subjected to a full structured review. These studies predominantly 
addressed the cost of cardiac arrest (n=13, 41%), major trauma (n=8, 25%), and 
emergency medical services treatment in general (n=8, 25%). Only 14 studies 
considered the costs and consequences of competing alternatives. Of these, 2 
were cost-benefit and 12 were cost-effectiveness evaluations. Two of the 14 
studies met all 10 criteria for high-quality economic evaluation, whereas 2 
others met none.
CONCLUSION: There is a paucity of out-of-hospital care literature that addresses 
cost and economic value. The extant literature is limited in scope, poor in 
quality, and evaluates small subsets of out-of-hospital emergency care costs. 
Favorable cost-effectiveness has not been firmly established for most aspects of 
out-of-hospital emergency care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annemergmed.2006.01.012
PMID: 16713777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2006 Jun;4(6):790-6. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2006.03.032.  Epub 2006 May 22.

Covered versus uncovered wallstent for malignant extrahepatic biliary 
obstruction: a cohort comparative analysis.

Park DH(1), Kim MH, Choi JS, Lee SS, Seo DW, Kim JH, Han J, Kim JC, Choi EK, Lee 
SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Soon Chun Hyang University Cheonan Hospital, 
Cheonan, Korea.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: We examined the use of both covered and uncovered Wallstents 
in patients with malignant extrahepatic biliary obstruction to determine whether 
use of covered Wallstents prolonged stent patency without increasing 
procedure-related complications.
METHODS: Commercially available silicone-covered Wallstents were prospectively 
evaluated in 98 patients who underwent insertion from December 2002-December 
2004. Those data were compared with data obtained by retrospectively studying 
108 consecutive patients who underwent endoscopic insertion of uncovered 
Wallstents between January 2000-November 2002, and for whom accurate and 
complete follow-up details were available.
RESULTS: The mean stent patency was similar for both groups, 148.9 days (range, 
3-667 days) for covered Wallstents and 143.5 days (3-910 days) for uncovered 
Wallstents (P = .531). The 2 groups also did not significantly differ in terms 
of cumulative stent patency according to the Kaplan-Meier lifetime table. The 
incidence of mild pancreatitis was similar in both groups, occurring in 6 
patients with covered stents (6/98, 6.1%) and 2 patients with uncovered stents 
(2/108, 1.9%) (P = .154). Excluding those patients who had previously undergone 
cholecystectomy, acute cholecystitis occurred in 5 of 88 patients with covered 
Wallstents (6.1%) and 1 of 100 patients with uncovered stents (1%) (P = .104). 
Stent migration occurred in 6 patients with covered stents (6.1%) and 0 patients 
with uncovered stents (P = .011).
CONCLUSION: Covered Wallstents might not prolong stent patency compared with 
uncovered Wallstents when used in the management of malignant extrahepatic 
biliary obstruction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2006.03.032
PMID: 16716757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2006 May;31(5):421-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.10.004.

The effect of a physical exercise program in palliative care: A phase II study.

Oldervoll LM(1), Loge JH, Paltiel H, Asp MB, Vidvei U, Wiken AN, Hjermstad MJ, 
Kaasa S.

Author information:
(1)The Norwegian Cancer Society, Department of Cancer Research and Molecular 
Medicine, St. Olavs Hospital, Trondheim, Norway. line.oldervoll@ntnu.no

Comment in
    J Pain Symptom Manage. 2006 Dec;32(6):513-5; author reply 515-6.

The purpose of this pilot study was to assess the effects of a physical exercise 
program on physical performance and quality of life (QOL) in a population with 
incurable cancer and a short life expectancy. Thirty-four patients participated 
in a 50-minute group exercise program twice a week for 6 weeks. Physical 
performance was measured by three tests: "6-minute walk test," "timed repeated 
sit to stand," and "functional reach." Fatigue was measured by the Fatigue 
Questionnaire. QOL was assessed by the European Organization for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire. The outcome variables 
were assessed before and after the intervention. The walk length increased and 
the "timed repeated sit to stand" was reduced (P < 0.05). Emotional functioning 
improved and physical fatigue was reduced (P < 0.05). Physical exercise seems to 
be a feasible way to improve well-being among patients with incurable cancer. 
Future randomized trials are needed to confirm the results.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.10.004
PMID: 16716872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Neurology. 2006 May 23;66(10):1539-44. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000216132.95207.b4.

Decreasing incidence of lacunar vs other types of cerebral infarction in a 
Japanese population.

Kubo M(1), Kiyohara Y, Ninomiya T, Tanizaki Y, Yonemoto K, Doi Y, Hata J, Oishi 
Y, Shikata K, Iida M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan. kubomich@intmed2.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Neurology. 2007 Jan 23;68(4):311; author reply 311-2.

BACKGROUND: There is scant information on secular trends in the incidence and 
survival of ischemic stroke subtypes.
METHODS: The authors established three cohorts of Hisayama residents age > or 
=40 years in 1961 (1,618 subjects), 1974 (2,038 subjects), and 1988 (2,637 
subjects). They followed up with each cohort for 12 years, comparing the 
incidence and survival rate of ischemic stroke subtypes. Morphologic 
examinations by autopsy or brain imaging was performed on most of the ischemic 
stroke cases in all cohorts.
RESULTS: The age-standardized incidence of lacunar infarction significantly 
declined by 59% for men and by 28% for women from the first to the second 
cohort. It continued to decline by 41% for men, but the decline decelerated for 
women between the second and third cohort. The age-standardized incidence of 
atherothrombotic infarction tended to decline from the first to the second 
cohort, whereas it was sustained between the second and third cohort for both 
sexes. The age-standardized incidence of cardioembolic infarction was unchanged 
throughout the cohorts. In these cohorts, mean blood pressure levels among 
hypertensive subjects and the prevalence of current smoker decreased with time, 
though the prevalence of hypertension remained stable. The 5-year survival rate 
after lacunar infarction significantly improved among the cohorts, but those of 
atherothrombotic and cardioembolic infarction did not.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that, in the Japanese population, the incidence 
of lacunar infarction steadily declined for the last 40 years. The improvement 
of hypertension control and decreasing prevalence of smoking might be 
responsible for this trend.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000216132.95207.b4
PMID: 16717214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Rev Pneumol Clin. 2006 Feb;62 Spec no 1:1S19-21.

[What is to be expected from population studies in relation to clinical 
trials?].

[Article in French]

Quoix E(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie-Phtisiologie, Hôpital du Neuhof, 67091 Strasbourg, 
France.

PMID: 16719151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Med J Aust. 2006 May 15;184(10):490-4. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2006.tb00340.x.

Causes of inequality in life expectancy between Indigenous and non-Indigenous 
people in the Northern Territory, 1981-2000: a decomposition analysis.

Zhao Y(1), Dempsey K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Community Services, Health Gains Planning Branch, 
Darwin, NT, Australia. yuejen.zhao@nt.gov.au

OBJECTIVE: To identify the causes of the gap in life expectancy between 
Indigenous and non-Indigenous populations of the Northern Territory and how the 
causes have evolved over time.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Analysis of NT death data over four 5-year periods, 1 
January 1981 to 31 December 2000 inclusive. A decomposition method using 
discrete approximations (Vaupel and Romo) was applied to abridged life tables 
for the Indigenous and non-Indigenous populations of the NT.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Contribution of causes of death, grouped according to 
global burden of disease groups and categories, to the life expectancy gap.
RESULTS: The gap between the life expectancy of Indigenous and non-Indigenous 
people in the NT did not appear to narrow over time, but there was a marked 
shift in the causes of the gap. In terms of disease groups, the contribution of 
communicable diseases, maternal, perinatal and nutritional conditions halved 
during the 20 years to 2000. Meanwhile, the contribution of non-communicable 
diseases and conditions increased markedly. The contribution of injuries 
remained static. In terms of disease categories, the contribution of infectious 
diseases, respiratory infections and respiratory diseases declined considerably; 
however, these gains were offset by significantly larger increases in the 
contribution of cardiovascular diseases and diabetes for Indigenous women and 
cardiovascular diseases, cancers and digestive diseases for Indigenous men.
CONCLUSIONS: The main contributors to the gap in life expectancy between the 
Indigenous and non-Indigenous populations were non-communicable diseases and 
conditions, which are more prevalent in ageing populations. With the life 
expectancy of Indigenous people in the NT expected to improve, it is important 
that public health initiatives remain focused on preventing and managing chronic 
diseases.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2006.tb00340.x
PMID: 16719745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2006 May;61(5):472-3. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/61.5.472.

Randomized controlled trials involving multidisciplinary interventions in the 
community.

Pahor M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging and Geriatric Research, Institute on Aging, University of 
Florida College of Medicine, 1329 SW 16th St., Rm. 5263, P.O. Box 100107, 
Gainesville, FL 32610-0107, USA. mpahor@ufl.edu

Comment on
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2006 Apr;61(4):367-73.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/61.5.472
PMID: 16720743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. JAMA. 2006 May 24;295(20):2357-65. doi: 10.1001/jama.295.20.2357.

Screening colonoscopy in very elderly patients: prevalence of neoplasia and 
estimated impact on life expectancy.

Lin OS(1), Kozarek RA, Schembre DB, Ayub K, Gluck M, Drennan F, Soon MS, 
Rabeneck L.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Section, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, Wash 98101, 
USA. Otto.Lin@vmmc.org

Comment in
    JAMA. 2006 May 24;295(20):2411-2.

CONTEXT: Current guidelines do not include an upper age cutoff for colorectal 
cancer screening with colonoscopy. Although the prevalence of colonic neoplasia 
increases with age, life expectancy decreases. Thus, the benefit of screening 
colonoscopy in very elderly patients may be limited.
OBJECTIVE: To compare estimated life-years saved with screening colonoscopy in 
very elderly vs younger persons.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Cross-sectional study conducted among 1244 
asymptomatic individuals in 3 age groups (50-54 years [n = 1034], 75-79 years [n 
= 147], and > or =80 years [n = 63]) who underwent screening colonoscopy at a US 
teaching hospital and clinic.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence of various types of colon neoplasia; estimated 
gain in life expectancy, calculated as life expectancy--(life expectancy during 
polyp lag time + life expectancy after colorectal cancer diagnosis); and 
comparison of mean gain in life expectancy across the 3 groups. Life expectancy 
and mortality data were derived from life tables, previous studies, and national 
databases.
RESULTS: The prevalence of neoplasia was 13.8% in the 50- to 54-year-old group, 
26.5% in the 75- to 79-year-old group, and 28.6% in the group aged 80 years or 
older. Despite higher prevalence of neoplasia in elderly patients, mean 
extension in life expectancy was much lower in the group aged 80 years or older 
than in the 50- to 54-year-old group (0.13 vs 0.85 years). In sensitivity 
analysis, with longer polyp lag times the mean extension in life expectancy 
decreased more in the elderly than in the younger patients; alternatively, if it 
was assumed that a smaller proportion of adenomas progress to colorectal cancer, 
the mean extension in life expectancy decreased less in the elderly than in the 
younger patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though prevalence of neoplasia increases with age, screening 
colonoscopy in very elderly persons (aged > or =80 years) results in only 15% of 
the expected gain in life expectancy in younger patients. Screening colonoscopy 
in very elderly patients should be performed only after careful consideration of 
potential benefits, risks, and patient preferences.
