Clearing the cervical spine in polytrauma patients still presents a challenge to 
the trauma team. The risk of an overlooked cervical spine injury is substantial 
since these patients show painful and life-threatening injuries to one or more 
organ systems so that clinical examination is usually not reliable. A generally 
approved guideline to assess the cervical spine in polytrauma patients might 
significantly reduce delays in diagnosis, but a consistent protocol for 
evaluating the cervical spine has not been uniformly accepted or followed by 
clinicians. One purpose of this study was to analyse the common methods for 
cervical spine evaluation in critically injured patients and its safety and 
efficacy at this trauma centre. The second purpose was to present a 
comprehensive diagnostic C-spine protocol, based on the authors' experiences 
with documented cases. From a prospectively gathered polytrauma database, we 
retrospectively analysed the clinical records of all polytrauma patients, with 
skeletal and/or non-skeletal cervical spine injuries, who were admitted to this 
level I trauma centre between 1980 and 2004. All patients were assessed 
following the trauma algorithm of our unit (modified by Nast-Kolb). Standard 
radiological evaluation of the cervical spine consisted of either a single 
lateral view or a three-view cervical spine series (anteroposterior, lateral, 
odontoid). Further radiological examinations (functional flexion/extension 
views, oblique views, CT scan, MRI) were carried out for clinical suspicion of 
an injury or when indicated by the standard radiographs. Sixteen patients (14%) 
had a single cross-table lateral view for radiological assessment of the 
cervical spine during initial trauma evaluation, Twenty-nine patients had a 
three-view cervical spine series (anteroposterior, lateral, odontoid) and 81 
patients underwent extended radiological examinations by cervical CT scan 
(n=52), functional flexion/extension views (n=26) or MRI (n=3). Correct 
diagnosis was made in 107 patients (91%) during primary trauma evaluation, 
whereas in 11 patients (9%) our approach to clear the cervical spine failed to 
detect significant cervical spine injuries. In six patients skeletal injuries 
were missed by a single lateral view and in two patients by a three-view 
standard series because inadequate radiographs with poor technical quality or 
incomplete visualization of the cervical spine did not show the extent of the 
injury. In three cases ligamentous injuries were missed despite complete sets of 
standard radiographs and cervical CT scan, but without functional radiography. 
Common methods for cervical spine evaluation in critically injured patients were 
plain radiographs, cervical CT scan and functional flexion/extension views. 
Cervical CT scan was the most efficient imaging tool in detecting skeletal 
injuries, showing a sensitivity of 100%. A single cross-table lateral view 
appeared to be insufficient, as we found a sensitivity of only 63%. Functional 
radiography or MRI was also necessary, as plain radiographs and CT scan failed 
to detect significant ligamentous injuries in 6% of the patients. For more 
comprehensive assessment of the C-spine, we presented a new C-spine protocol 
based on the authors' experiences, with the aim to avoid unnecessary delays in 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-006-0084-1
PMID: 16538521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Feb 25;150(8):461-2; author reply 462.

[Hendrikje van Andel-Schipper and other remarkable developments in the life 
expectancy of the Dutch population].

[Article in Dutch]

Kremer J.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2005 Nov 12;149(46):2550-3.

PMID: 16538852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nurs Older People. 2006 Mar;18(2):39.

Crossing boundaries. Interview by Hazel Health.

Hutt A.

PMID: 16538999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. ACP J Club. 2006 Mar-Apr;144(2):52.

Prophylactic implantable cardioverter-defibrillators increased life expectancy 
with an acceptable cost-effectiveness ratio.

Hillegass WB(1), McElderry HT Jr.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Oct 6;353(14):1471-80.

PMID: 16539367


402. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2006 Mar 15;6:15. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-6-15.

A Markov computer simulation model of the economics of neuromuscular blockade in 
patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome.

Macario A(1), Chow JL, Dexter F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA 94305, USA. amaca@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Management of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in the 
intensive care unit (ICU) is clinically challenging and costly. Neuromuscular 
blocking agents may facilitate mechanical ventilation and improve oxygenation, 
but may result in prolonged recovery of neuromuscular function and acute 
quadriplegic myopathy syndrome (AQMS). The goal of this study was to address a 
hypothetical question via computer modeling: Would a reduction in intubation 
time of 6 hours and/or a reduction in the incidence of AQMS from 25% to 21%, 
provide enough benefit to justify a drug with an additional expenditure of $267 
(the difference in acquisition cost between a generic and brand name 
neuromuscular blocker)?
METHODS: The base case was a 55 year-old man in the ICU with ARDS who receives 
neuromuscular blockade for 3.5 days. A Markov model was designed with 
hypothetical patients in 1 of 6 mutually exclusive health states: ICU-intubated, 
ICU-extubated, hospital ward, long-term care, home, or death, over a period of 6 
months. The net monetary benefit was computed.
RESULTS: Our computer simulation modeling predicted the mean cost for ARDS 
patients receiving standard care for 6 months to be $62,238 (5%-95% percentiles 
$42,259-$83,766), with an overall 6-month mortality of 39%. Assuming a ceiling 
ratio of $35,000, even if a drug (that cost $267 more) hypothetically reduced 
AQMS from 25% to 21% and decreased intubation time by 6 hours, the net monetary 
benefit would only equal $137.
CONCLUSION: ARDS patients receiving a neuromuscular blocker have a high 
mortality, and unpredictable outcome, which results in large variability in 
costs per case. If a patient dies, there is no benefit to any drug that reduces 
ventilation time or AQMS incidence. A prospective, randomized pharmacoeconomic 
study of neuromuscular blockers in the ICU to asses AQMS or intubation times is 
impractical because of the highly variable clinical course of patients with 
ARDS.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-6-15
PMCID: PMC1431518
PMID: 16539706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Gac Sanit. 2006 Mar;20 Suppl 1:117-26. doi: 10.1157/13086035.

[The efficiency of the health system in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Gispert R(1), Torné Mdel M, Arán Barés M.

Author information:
(1)Servei d'Informació i Estudis, Departament de Salut, Generalitat de 
Catalunya, Barcelona, España. rosa.gispert@gencat.net

OBJECTIVE: This article is an approach to assess the effectiveness of the health 
system in Spain using information from health care activities, the health status 
of the populations and the performance of health services, taken as a whole, and 
the standard patterns defined by geographical distribution and time trends.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The most recent available data and historical series of 
basic indicators of general and premature mortality, hospital performance and 
avoidable mortality are used. Data has been aggregated by autonomous region and 
comes from official mortality and hospital statistics.
RESULTS: All the indicators show the improvement experienced in all of the 
regions during the period analyzed. This evolution however, has not been 
homogeneous and the regions with the highest improvement are not always those 
which were in the worst situation at the base line. The results indicate the 
general idea that health services are responding well to the threats against the 
populations health, while this cannot be said with respect to public health 
policies.
CONCLUSIONS: The available data, as well as the indicators and the methods used 
are only useful to express a general idea about the health services 
effectiveness. It is necessary to evaluate to what extent non-efficacy 
treatments are still being used and effective treatments are being used 
inefficiently. To do that, different data and methodology, centred in specific 
cases or groups of diseases, is needed.

DOI: 10.1157/13086035
PMID: 16539974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. J Nurs Care Qual. 2006 Apr-Jun;21(2):99-103. doi: 
10.1097/00001786-200604000-00001.

Relative value in healthcare: cost-effectiveness of interventions.

Siegel JE(1), Clancy CM.

Author information:
(1)Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, 540 Gaither Road, Rm. 6026, 
Rockville, MD 20850, USA. jsiegel@ahrq.gov

DOI: 10.1097/00001786-200604000-00001
PMID: 16540774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2006 Mar 15;31(6):705-11. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000203716.99392.bf.

Surgical treatment of destructive cervical spondyloarthropathy with neurologic 
impairment in hemodialysis patients.

Van Driessche S(1), Goutallier D, Odent T, Piat C, Legendre C, Buisson C, Drucke 
T, Kuntz D, Allain J, Bardin T.

Author information:
(1)Orthopedics and Trauma Unit, Henri Mondor Teaching Hospital, Créteil, 
Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.

STUDY DESIGN: We have retrospectively reviewed 11 chronic hemodialysis patients 
with cervical destructive spondyloarthropathy responsible for neural impairment 
1 year after surgery and at last follow-up.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate clinical and radiologic outcomes, and necessity of 
vertebral block excision.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Destructive spondyloarthropathy of the cervical 
spine is associated with long-term hemodialysis for chronic kidney failure. 
Spinal cord compression and neurologic troubles occur in a few cases. Surgical 
treatment remains controversial because these are debilitated patients with 
multiple organ failures.
METHODS: All 11 patients had unstable cervical spondylolisthesis, and 10 had 
kyphotic vertebral fusion involving at least 2 vertebrae. We performed interbody 
bone grafting (cement in 1 case) and stabilized with a plate. In 6 of the 10 
patients with vertebral block, excision of the block was performed.
RESULTS: No patients were lost to follow-up. One patient died 2 days after the 
operation. There were 2 other patients who required early surgical revision 
(i.e., a corporectomy followed by early graft expulsion). Bone healing settled 
in all patients. One year after surgery, patients had almost complete resolution 
of the pain and satisfactory neurologic recovery. Improvement was evaluated 
according to the Nurick classification.
CONCLUSION: Functional and neurologic results were similar whether the patients 
did or did not undergo vertebral block excision, suggesting that stabilizing the 
unstable level may be sufficient in patients with neurologic impairment. 
Excision of spontaneous vertebral blocks should be avoided to minimize the 
morbidity of surgery in these debilitated patients with a limited life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000203716.99392.bf
PMID: 16540877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Food Prot. 2006 Mar;69(3):693-8. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-69.3.693.

Extended shelf life of soy bread using modified atmosphere packaging.

Fernandez U(1), Vodovotz Y, Courtney P, Pascall MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Ohio State University, 2015 Fyffe 
Road, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

This study investigated the use of modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) to extend 
the shelf life of soy bread with and without calcium propionate as a chemical 
preservative. The bread samples were packaged in pouches made from low-density 
polyethylene (LDPE) as the control (film 1), high-barrier laminated linear 
low-density polyethylene (LLDPE)-nylon-ethylene vinyl alcohol-nylon-LLDPE (film 
2), and medium-barrier laminated LLDPE-nylon-LLDPE (film 3). The headspace gases 
used were atmosphere (air) as control, 50% CO2-50% N2, or 20% CO2-80% N2. The 
shelf life was determined by monitoring mold and yeast (M+Y) and aerobic plate 
counts (APC) in soy bread samples stored at 21 degrees C +/- 3 degrees C and 38% 
+/- 2% relative humidity. At 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 days of storage, soy 
bread samples were removed, and the M+Y and APC were determined. The 
preservative, the films, and the headspace gases had significant effects on both 
the M+Y counts and the APC of soy bread samples. The combination of film 2 in 
the 50% CO2-50% N2 or 20% CO2-80% N2 headspace gases without calcium propionate 
as the preservative inhibited the M+Y growth by 6 days and the APC by 4 days. It 
was thus concluded that MAP using film 2 with either the 50% CO2-50% N2 or 20% 
CO2-80% N2 was the best combination for shelf-life extension of the soy bread 
without the need for a chemical preservative. These MAP treatments extended the 
shelf life by at least 200%.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-69.3.693
PMID: 16541708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Przegl Lek. 2005;62(9):903-7.

[Subclinical hyperthyrodism, diagnosis and radioiodine therapy].

[Article in Polish]

Kociura-Sawicka A(1), Rogowski F, Abderlazek S, Parfieńczyk A, Szumowski P, 
Budlewski T.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Medycyny Nuklearnej, Akademii Medycznej w Białymstoku. 
hydros@poczta.fm

Subclinical hyperthyroidism is a state of increased thyroid function with few or 
no clinical definitive signs or symptoms of hyperthyroidism. It is characterised 
by a decrease of serum (TSH) concentration below 0.1 mU/L, when serum levels of 
total and free thyroxin and triiodothyronin concentration are within normal 
reference ranges. It is not a rare finding and rates between 0.02% and 11.3% 
have been reported in different groups. The clinical diagnosis of subclinical 
hyperthyroidism is very difficult in the absence of the typical symptoms of 
hyperthyroidism. Therefore the diagnostic evaluation is important, especially 
with the use of radioisotope scan. In nuclear medicine department we can confirm 
the provisional diagnosis by the use of thyroid scan. Recent studies reported 
the effects of subclinical hyperthyroidism on cardiovascular system, skeletal 
system, cognitive function, on quality of life and life expectancy especially in 
the elderly patient. Treatment is indicated in the presence of palpitation, or 
atrial fibrillation, in postmenopausal osteoporosis in women not on hormone 
replacement therapy, and in elderly patients in whom surgery is contraindicated. 
According to the opinions of European clinicians and clinician members of the 
American Thyroid Association, the majority recommend radical treatment for these 
patients. Radioiodine therapy is considered to be the treatment of choice in 
most of the patients with nodular goiter.

PMID: 16541727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Exp Hematol. 2006 Mar;34(3):274-83. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2005.11.016.

Caloric restriction prevents radiation-induced myeloid leukemia in C3H/HeMs mice 
and inversely increases incidence of tumor-free death: implications in changes 
in number of hemopoietic progenitor cells.

Yoshida K(1), Hirabayashi Y, Watanabe F, Sado T, Inoue T.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Hazards Research Group, National Institute of Radiological 
Sciences, Chiba, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Previously, we found a clear decrease in the incidence of 
radiation-induced myeloid leukemia in C3H/HeMs mouse caused by caloric 
restriction (CalR). In this report, CalR before and after irradiation was 
examined to determine whether they exert different effects on the prevention of 
radiation-induced myeloid leukemogenesis and the consequent extension of life 
span by CalR.
METHODS: The C3H/HeMS strain, which is prone to radiation-induced myeloid 
leukemia, was used. Groups subjected to different CalR timings, pre- and 
postirradiation, were compared with groups not subjected to CalR during their 
lifetime for the incidences of neoplasms, specifically that of myeloid leukemia, 
and the incidence of tumor-free death. A single dose of 3Gy X-ray was 
administered to mice at 10 weeks old. Results of colonization assay before and 
after CalR were compared with the incidence of leukemogenesis among the groups.
RESULTS: Irrespective of the CalR timing in terms of irradiation, there was a 
significant difference in the prevention of myeloid leukemogenesis, and a 
consequent difference in longevity (731 approximately 805 days for CalR groups 
vs. 697 days for the group without CalR; Log rank, P<0.03). During CalR, the 
number of hemopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs), potential leukemogenic targets, 
significantly decreased (0.4 x 10(4) vs. 4.2 x 10(4) of granulomacrophage colony 
forming units per spleen; 1.3 x 10(4) vs. 7.6 x 10(4) of the splenic colony 
forming units per spleen), but this decreased number of HPCs returned to that of 
the non-CalR control group, when the CalR group was returned to nonrestricted 
diet (returned to 1.5 x 10(4) granulomacrophage colony-forming units per spleen; 
returned to 2.8 x 10(4) splenic colony-forming units per spleen). Although 
preirradiation CalR followed by a conventional non-CalR diet negates the 
potential preventive effect, prevention conferred by pre-and postirradiation 
CalR suggests different underlying mechanisms; preirradiation CalR prevents the 
initiation of direct genotoxic leukemogenesis, while postirradiation CalR the 
indirect, epigenetic, leukemogenesis.
CONCLUSION: The incidences of tumor-free death significantly increased in all 
the groups undergoing CalR except for the group subjected to preirradiation 
CalR, which contributed to the longevity of the groups undergoing CalR.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2005.11.016
PMID: 16543061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. BMJ. 2006 Mar 18;332(7542):662-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.332.7542.662.

Global inequality of life expectancy due to AIDS.

Dorling D(1), Shaw M, Davey Smith G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TN. 
Daniel.Dorling@sheffield.ac.uk

Global inequality in both health and wealth began to rise worldwide in the early 
1980s and has been exacerbated by AIDS in Africa. This trend is not inevitable, 
and historical trends show that inequality can be reduced

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.332.7542.662
PMCID: PMC1403259
PMID: 16543340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Arq Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2005 Jun;49(3):460-7. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-27302005000300020. Epub 2006 Mar 16.

[Octreotide therapy for persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ferraz DP(1), Almeida MA, Mello BF.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Endocrinologia, Santa Casa de Misericórdia de Juiz de Fora, MG.

This paper presents a clinical case of persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia 
of infancy (PHHI) and a literature review on this subject. We report on a 
newborn who presented with hypoglycemic episodes in her first 24 hs of life and 
was treated successfully with octreotide until the moment. PHHI is the most 
common cause of persistent hyperinsulinism in infancy and can be hazardous for 
the development of the central nervous system. There are few current options for 
clinical treatment, with variable efficacy, and octreotide seems to be the best 
option before surgical treatment, the only way to control the disease. 
Preoperative evaluation allows one to adequately distinguish between focal or 
diffuse processes and suggests the extension of pancreatic resection, improving 
surgical results and reducing the incidence of postoperative sequelae. Partial 
pancreatectomy is the procedure of choice in focal disease.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-27302005000300020
PMID: 16544003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2006 Mar 24;131(12):635-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-933708.

[Diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary hypertension].

[Article in German]

Olschewski H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinische Abteilung für Pulmonologie, Medizinische Universitätsklinik Graz. 
horst.olschewski@meduni-graz.at

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-933708
PMID: 16544242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Health Econ. 2006 Aug;15(8):775-95. doi: 10.1002/hec.1105.

Valuing avoided morbidity using meta-regression analysis: what can health status 
measures and QALYs tell us about WTP?

Van Houtven G(1), Powers J, Jessup A, Yang JC.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA. gvh@rti.org

Many economists argue that willingness-to-pay (WTP) measures are most 
appropriate for assessing the welfare effects of health changes. Nevertheless, 
the health evaluation literature is still dominated by studies estimating 
nonmonetary health status measures (HSMs), which are often used to assess 
changes in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Using meta-regression analysis, 
this paper combines results from both WTP and HSM studies applied to acute 
morbidity, and it tests whether a systematic relationship exists between HSM and 
WTP estimates. We analyze over 230 WTP estimates from 17 different studies and 
find evidence that QALY-based estimates of illness severity--as measured by the 
Quality of Well-Being (QWB) Scale--are significant factors in explaining 
variation in WTP, as are changes in the duration of illness and the average 
income and age of the study populations. In addition, we test and reject the 
assumption of a constant WTP per QALY gain. We also demonstrate how the 
estimated meta-regression equations can serve as benefit transfer functions for 
policy analysis. By specifying the change in duration and severity of the acute 
illness and the characteristics of the affected population, we apply the 
regression functions to predict average WTP per case avoided.

Copyright 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1105
PMID: 16544361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 2005;47(2):12-7.

Objective assessment of quality of life in female patients after esthetic, 
non-oncologic or oncologic surgery of their mammary glands--reality and 
perspectives.

Molov VV(1), Tepavicharova PP, Deenichin GP, Mitov FS.

Author information:
(1)Surgery Clinic III, Medical University-Plovdiv, Bulgaria. molovdm@abv.bg

The World Health Organisation defines health as a state of complete physical, 
mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of a disease or 
infirmity. The female breast, surgically considered as a "troubled organ", can 
be affected by disorders of various types. Its normal morphology can be changed 
by deformities which may have a serious impact on the mental state of female 
patients. Assessment of these deformities is essential when doctors should 
define the inclusion and exclusion criteria for each breast operation that has 
elements of esthetic surgery in it, the breast being indisputably a symbol of 
female beauty. When we consider the parameters of normal breast morphology, it 
is only proper to take into account their dependence on race, national culture, 
folk psychology, etc. For Bulgarian women, P. Tepavicharova has found that the 
distance from fossa jugularis to the nipple-areolar complex can have the 
following characteristic proportions: 15.5-17 cm for a woman 155-160 cm in 
height and with breast circumference of 75-80 cm; 17-18.5 cm for woman 160-165 
cm in height and with breast circumference of 89-95 cm; and 18-20 cm for a woman 
165-170 cm in height and with breast circumference of 95-100 cm. J. Lalardie 
points out that breast stability is determined by three principal factors: skin 
and its elasticity, the condition of the underlying collagenous structure of the 
breast, and the firm bond between the skin and fibrous elements. RB Brinks 
defines the four forms of ptosis of the breast: glandular ptosis, true ptosis, 
parenchymal maldistribution, and pseudoptosis. According to P. Tepavicharova, 
the violation of breast symmetry is the major factor triggering a sequence of 
psychosomatic reactions.
CONCLUSIONS: The basic parameters of female breast morphology are the mammary 
base, mammary perimeter, the forward projection of the breast, symmetry, breast 
volume, and the state of the axillary extension. The major deviations from 
normal breast morphology that can have an impact on the quality of life are 
mammary ptosis, hypertrophy, asymmetry, and deformations of the breast shape as 
well as the operation cicatrices on the breast. An assessment of the association 
of the deviations from normal morphology with the correction to normal 
morphology (with or without dealing with a pathological process) and with the 
impact on the quality of life is a possible base for objective assessment of the 
latter parameter.

PMID: 16544844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 2006 Mar;22(3):240-7. doi:
10.1089/aid.2006.22.240.

Cost-effectiveness of enfuvirtide in HIV therapy for treatment-experienced 
patients in the United States.

Hornberger J(1), Kilby JM, Wintfeld N, Green J.

Author information:
(1)The SPHERE Institute/Acumen, Burlingame, California 94010, USA. 
ujch@stanford.edu

Enfuvirtide (ENF) is the first of a new class of antiretrovirals (ARVs) known as 
the HIV fusion inhibitors. Two phase III studies of ENF, TORO 1 and TORO 2, 
demonstrated that ENF given in combination with optimized background (OB) 
therapy significantly improved virological response, increased the time to 
virological failure, and increased CD4-cell count compared with OB alone among 
highly treatment-experienced patients. The present study investigated the 
long-term clinical outcomes, costs, and cost-effectiveness of ENF. Outcomes, 
costs, and cost-effectiveness were estimated using a Markov model. Viral 
suppression and immune reconstitution were determined from the outcomes of the 
clinical trials. Time to immunological failure, time to AIDS-defining event 
(ADE), and time to death were estimated based on published mathematical models 
of disease progression. Costs were based on published estimates of the use and 
costs of ARVs, cost of managing ADEs, and cost of laboratory and other 
outpatient services. Cost-effectiveness was calculated as the incremental cost 
per year of life gained, adjusted for quality of life. The combined effects of 
an increase in CD4 count and delayed time to virological and immunological 
failure with ENF + OB were predicted to produce a mean life expectancy of 7.4 
years from initiation of therapy, which was 1.8 years (1.5 quality-adjusted 
lifeyears [QALYs]) greater than the life expectancy associated with OB alone. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness of ENF + OB was estimated to be Dollars 
24,604 per QALY. ENF is projected to increase time to immunological failure, 
delay onset of new AIDS-defining events, and increase life expectancy by more 
than 1.5 years among treatment-experienced HIV-infected patients. The 
cost-effectiveness of ENF is comparable to many existing treatment and 
prevention management strategies for HIV.

DOI: 10.1089/aid.2006.22.240
PMID: 16545010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Mar;10(7):iii, ix-118. doi: 10.3310/hta10070.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of newer drugs for children 
with epilepsy. A systematic review.

Connock M(1), Frew E, Evans BW, Bryan S, Cummins C, Fry-Smith A, Li Wan Po A, 
Sandercock J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
newer antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) for epilepsy in children: gabapentin, 
lamotrigine, levetiracetam, oxcarbazepine, tiagabine, topiramate and vigabatrin.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases. Drug company submissions.
REVIEW METHODS: For the systematic review of clinical and cost-effectiveness, 
studies were assessed for inclusion according to predefined criteria. Data 
extraction and quality assessment were also undertaken. A decision-analytic 
model was constructed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of the newer agents in 
children with partial seizures, the only condition where there were sufficient 
trial data to inform a model.
RESULTS: The quality of the randomised controlled trial (RCT) data was generally 
poor. For each of the epilepsy subtypes considered in RCTs identified for this 
review (partial epilepsy with or without secondary generalisation, 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, infantile spasms, absence epilepsy and benign epilepsy 
with centrotemporal spikes), there is some evidence from placebo-controlled 
trials that the newer agents tested are of some value in the treatment of these 
conditions. Where active controls have been used, the limited evidence available 
does not indicate a difference in effectiveness between newer and older drugs. 
The data are not sufficient to inform a prescribing strategy for any of the 
newer agents in any of these conditions. In particular, there is no clinical 
evidence to suggest that the newer agents should be considered as a first-choice 
treatment in any form of epilepsy in children. Annual drug costs of the newer 
agents ranges from around 400 pound to 1200 pound, depending on age and 
concomitant medications. An AED that is ineffective or has intolerable 
side-effects will only be used for a short period of time, and many patients 
achieving seizure freedom will successfully withdraw from drug treatment without 
relapsing. The results of the decision-analytic model do not suggest that the 
use of the newer agents in any of the scenarios considered is clearly 
cost-effective but, similarly, do not indicate that they are clearly not 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The prognosis for children diagnosed with epilepsy is generally 
good, with a large proportion responding well to the first treatment given. A 
substantial proportion, however, will not respond well to treatment, and for 
these patients the clinical goal is to find an optimal balance between the 
benefits and side-effects of any treatment given. For the newly, or recently, 
diagnosed population, the key question for the newer drugs is how soon they 
should be tried. The cost-effectiveness of using these agents early, in place of 
one of the older agents, will depend on the effectiveness and tolerability of 
these agents compared with the older agents; the evidence from the available 
trial data so far suggests that the newer agents are no more effective but may 
be somewhat better tolerated than the older agents, and so the 
cost-effectiveness for early use will depend on the trade-off between 
effectiveness and tolerability, both in terms of overall (long-term) treatment 
retention and overall utility associated with effects on seizure rate and 
side-effects. There are insufficient data available to estimate accurately the 
nature of this trade off either in terms of long-term treatment retention or 
utility. Better information is required from RCTs before any rational 
evidence-based prescribing strategy could be developed. Ideally, RCTs should be 
conducted from a 'public health' perspective, making relevant comparisons and 
incorporating outcomes of interest to clinicians and patients, with sufficiently 
long-term follow-up to determine reliably the clinical utility of different 
treatments, particularly with respect to treatment retention and the balance 
between effectiveness and tolerability. RCTs should mirror clinical practice 
with respect to diagnosis, focusing on defined syndromes or, where no syndrome 
is identified, on groups defined by specific seizure type(s) and aetiology. 
Epilepsy in children is a complex disease, with a variety of distinct syndromes 
and many alternative treatment options and outcomes. Diagnosis-specific 
decision-analytic models are required; further research may be required to 
inform parameter values adequately with respect to epidemiology and clinical 
practice.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10070
PMID: 16545206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Mar;10(9):1-132. iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta10090.

Topotecan, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride and paclitaxel for 
second-line or subsequent treatment of advanced ovarian cancer: a systematic 
review and economic evaluation.

Main C(1), Bojke L, Griffin S, Norman G, Barbieri M, Mather L, Stark D, Palmer 
S, Riemsma R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
intravenous formulations of topotecan monotherapy, pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin hydorocholoride (PLDH) monotherapy and paclitaxel used alone or in 
combination with a platinum-based compound for the second-line or subsequent 
treatment of advanced ovarian cancer.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases covering publication years 2000-4. Company 
submissions.
REVIEW METHODS: Seventeen databases were searched for randomised controlled 
trials (RCTs) and systematic reviews for the clinical effectiveness of PLDH, 
topotecan and paclitaxel and economic evaluations of the cost-effectiveness of 
PLDH, topotecan and paclitaxel. Selected studies were quality assessed and data 
extracted, as were the three company submissions. A new model was developed to 
assess the costs of the alternative treatments, the differential mean survival 
duration and the impact of health-related quality of life. Monte-Carlo 
simulation was used to reflect uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness results.
RESULTS: Nine RCTs were identified. In five of these trials, both the 
comparators were used within their licensed indications. Of these five, three 
included participants with both platinum-resistant and platinum-sensitive 
advanced ovarian cancer, and a further two only included participants with 
platinum-sensitive disease. The comparators that were assessed in the three 
trials that included both subtypes of participants were PLDH versus topotecan, 
topotecan versus paclitaxel and PLDH versus paclitaxel. In the further two 
trials that included participants with the subtype of platinum-sensitive 
disease, the comparators that were assessed were single-agent paclitaxel versus 
a combination of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and cisplatin (CAP) and 
paclitaxel plus platinum-based chemotherapy versus conventional platinum-based 
therapy alone. A further four trials were identified and included in the review 
in which one of the comparators in the trial was used outside its licensed 
indication. The comparators assessed in these trials were oxaliplatin versus 
paclitaxel, paclitaxel given weekly versus every 3 weeks, paclitaxel at two 
different dose levels and oral versus intravenous topotecan. Four studies met 
the inclusion criteria for the cost-effectiveness review. The review of the 
economic evidence from the literature and industry submissions identified a 
number of significant limitations in existing studies assessing the 
cost-effectiveness of PLDH, topotecan and paclitaxel. Analysis 1 assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of PLDH, topotecan and paclitaxel administered as 
monotherapies. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to explore the impact of 
patient heterogeneity (e.g. platinum-sensitive and platinum-resistant/refractory 
patients), the inclusion of additional trial data and alternative assumptions 
regarding treatment and monitoring costs. In the base-case results for Analysis 
1, paclitaxel monotherapy emerged as the cheapest treatment. When the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were estimated, topotecan was 
dominated by PLDH. Hence the options considered in the estimation of the ICERs 
were paclitaxel and PLDH. The ICER for PLDH compared with paclitaxel was pound 
7033 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) in the overall patient population 
(comprising platinum-sensitive, -refractory and -resistant patients). The ICER 
was more favourable in the platinum-sensitive group ( pound 5777 per QALY) and 
less favourable in the platinum-refractory/resistant group ( pound 9555 per 
QALY). The cost-effectiveness results for the base-case analysis were sensitive 
to the inclusion of additional trial data. Incorporating the results of the 
additional trial data resulted in less favourable estimates for the ICER for 
PLDH versus paclitaxel compared with the base-case results. The ICER of PLDH 
compared with paclitaxel was pound 20,620 per QALY in the overall patient 
population, pound 16,183 per QALY in the platinum-sensitive population and pound 
26,867 per QALY in the platinum-resistant and -refractory population. The 
results from Analysis 2 explored the cost-effectiveness of the full range of 
treatment comparators for platinum-sensitive patients. The treatment options 
considered in this model comprised PLDH, topotecan, paclitaxel-monotherapy, CAP, 
paclitaxel/platinum combination therapy and platinum monotherapy. Owing to the 
less robust approaches that were employed to synthesise the available evidence 
and the heterogeneity between the different trials, the reliability of these 
results should be interpreted with some caution. Topotecan, paclitaxel 
monotherapy and PLDH were all dominated by platinum monotherapy (i.e. higher 
costs and lower QALYs). After excluding these alternatives, the treatments that 
remained under consideration were platinum monotherapy, CAP and 
paclitaxel-platinum combination therapy. Of these three alternatives, platinum 
monotherapy was the least costly and least effective. The ICER for CAP compared 
with platinum monotherapy was pound 16,421 per QALY. The ICER for 
paclitaxel-platinum combination therapy compared with CAP was pound 20,950 per 
QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: For participants with platinum-resistant disease there was a low 
probability of response to treatment with PLDH, topotecan or paclitaxel. 
Furthermore, there was little difference between the three comparators in 
relation to overall survival. The comparators did, however, differ considerably 
in their toxicity profiles. Given the low survival times and response rates, it 
appears that the maintenance of quality of life and the control of symptoms and 
toxicity are paramount in this patient group. As the three comparators differed 
significantly in terms of their toxicity profiles, patient and physician choice 
is also an important element that should be addressed when decisions are made 
regarding second-line therapy. It can also be suggested that this group of 
patients may benefit from being included in further clinical trials of new 
drugs. For participants with platinum-sensitive disease there was a considerable 
range of median survival times observed across the trials. The most favourable 
survival times and response rates were observed for paclitaxel and platinum 
combination therapy. This suggests that treatment with combination therapy may 
be more beneficial than treatment with a single-agent chemotherapeutic regimen. 
In terms of single-agent compounds, the evidence suggests that PLDH is more 
effective than topotecan. Evidence from a further trial that compared PLDH and 
paclitaxel suggests that there is no significant difference between these two 
comparators in this trial. The three comparators did, however, differ 
significantly in terms of their toxicity profiles across the trials. Although 
treatment with PLDH may therefore be more beneficial than that with topotecan, 
patient and physician choice as to the potential toxicities associated with each 
of the comparators and the patient's ability and willingness to tolerate these 
are of importance. Assuming the NHS is willing to pay up to pound 20,000-40,000 
per additional QALY, PLDH appears to be cost-effective compared with topotecan 
and paclitaxel monotherapy, in terms of the overall patient population and the 
main subgroups considered. The cost-effectiveness results for the base-case 
analysis were sensitive to the inclusion of additional trial data. Incorporating 
the results of additional trial data gave less favourable estimates for the ICER 
for PLDH versus paclitaxel monotherapy, compared with the base-case results. 
Although the ICER of PLDH compared with paclitaxel monotherapy was less 
favourable, PLDH was still cost-effective compared with topotecan and paclitaxel 
monotherapy. For platinum-sensitive patients, the combination of paclitaxel and 
platinum appears to be cost-effective. On the strength of the evidence reviewed 
here, it can be suggested that participants with platinum-resistant disease may 
benefit from being included in further clinical trials of new drugs. To assess 
the effectiveness of combination therapy against a single-agent 
non-platinum-based compound, it can be suggested that a trial that compared 
paclitaxel in combination with a platinum-based therapy versus single-agent PLDH 
would be a reasonable option.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10090
PMID: 16545208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Virology. 2006 Jun 20;350(1):171-83. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2006.02.004. Epub
2006  Mar 20.

Infectious cDNA transcripts of Maize necrotic streak virus: infectivity and 
translational characteristics.

Scheets K(1), Redinbaugh MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, 104 Life Sciences East, Oklahoma State University, 
Stillwater, OK 74078, USA. kay.scheets@okstate.edu

Maize necrotic streak virus (MNeSV) is a unique member of the family 
Tombusviridae that is not infectious by leaf rub inoculation and has a coat 
protein lacking the protruding domain of aureusviruses, carmoviruses, and 
tombusviruses (Louie et al., Plant Dis. 84, 1133-1139, 2000). Completion of the 
MNeSV sequence indicated a genome of 4094 nt. RNA blot and primer extension 
analysis identified subgenomic RNAs of 1607 and 781 nt. RNA and protein sequence 
comparisons and RNA secondary structure predictions support the classification 
of MNeSV as the first monocot-infecting tombusvirus, the smallest tombusvirus 
yet reported. Uncapped transcripts from cDNAs were infectious in maize (Zea mays 
L.) protoplasts and plants. Translation of genomic and subgenomic RNA 
transcripts in wheat germ extracts indicated that MNeSV has a 3' cap-independent 
translational enhancer (3'CITE) located within the 3' 156 nt. The sequence, 
predicted structure, and the ability to function in vitro differentiate the 
MNeSV 3'CITE from that of Tomato bushy stunt virus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2006.02.004
PMID: 16545417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2006 Apr;12(4):422-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2005.11.518.

Long-term survival after blood and marrow transplantation: comparison with an 
age- and gender-matched normative population.

Pond GR(1), Lipton JH, Messner HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Study Coordination and Biostatistics, University of 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

A plateau in long-term survival patterns of patients undergoing blood and marrow 
transplantation (BMT) from allogeneic donors is apparent, but whether their 
expected survival ever parallels that of the normative population is unclear. 
This study attempts to identify a cutoff time for classifying BMT patients as 
long-term survivors and compares their actual survival with the expected 
survival of an age- and gender-matched "normal" population. In this study, the 
records of 1386 patients who underwent allogeneic BMT at Princess Margaret 
Hospital between 1970 and 2002 were reviewed. Hazard rates (HRs), Kaplan-Meier 
survival estimates, and loss curves were used to propose a cutoff time 
classifying patients as long-term survivors. Factors predictive of overall 
survival and survival for long-term survivors were investigated. Actual survival 
for these patients was compared with the expected survival of the Canadian 
"normal" population. A cutoff time of 6 years post-BMT was proposed to define 
long-term survivors based on loss curves of hazard ratios and yearly survival 
statistics. The only statistically significant predictor of survival among 
long-term survivors was having a male donor (HR = 0.39; 95% confidence interval 
[CI] = 0.17-0.88). Although only 62% of patients survived the first year 
post-BMT, 98.5% of patients alive after 6 years survived at least another year. 
Almost 1/3 (31%) of the deaths in long-term survivors resulted from causes 
unrelated to transplantation or relapse. The observed number of deaths among BMT 
patients exceeded the expected number from the Canadian population; however, the 
difference in life expectancy decreased the longer that a patient survived. The 
95% CIs for the observed/expected number of deaths cover 1, indicative of no 
difference, after the tenth year post-BMT. A cutoff of 6 years is proposed to 
define long-term survivorship after BMT. Life expectancy remained reduced 
compared with that of the "normal" population; however, this difference 
decreased the longer that a patient survived. Known risk factors of short-term 
survival disappeared, with only donor gender predictive of survival among 
long-term survivors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2005.11.518
PMID: 16545726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2006 May;185(4):495-504. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-005-0287-x. Epub 2006 Mar 18.

Drug expectancy is necessary for stimulus control of human attention, 
instrumental drug-seeking behaviour and subjective pleasure.

Hogarth L(1), Dickinson A, Hutton SB, Elbers N, Duka T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Sussex, Falmer, Brighton, BN1 9QG, UK.

BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that drug-paired stimuli (S+) control 
addictive behaviour by eliciting an explicit mental representation or 
expectation of drug availability.
AIMS: The aim of the present study was to test this hypothesis by determining 
whether the behavioural control exerted by a tobacco-paired S+ in human smokers 
would depend upon the S+ eliciting an explicit expectation of tobacco.
DESIGN: In each trial, human smokers (n=16) were presented with stimuli for 
which attention was measured with an eyetracker. Participants then reported 
their cigarette reward expectancy before performing, or not, an instrumental 
tobacco-seeking response that was rewarded with cigarette gains if the S+ had 
been presented or punished with cigarette losses if the S- had been presented. 
Following training, participants rated the pleasantness of stimuli.
RESULTS: The S+ only brought about conditioned behaviour in an aware group 
(those who expected the cigarette reward outcome when presented with the S+). 
This aware group allocated attention to the S+, performed the instrumental 
tobacco-seeking response selectively in the presence of the S+ and rated the S+ 
as pleasant. No conditioned behaviour was seen in the unaware group (those who 
did not expect the cigarette reward outcome in the presence of the S+).
CONCLUSIONS: Drug-paired stimuli control selective attention, instrumental 
drug-seeking behaviour and positive emotional state by eliciting an explicit 
expectation of drug availability.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-005-0287-x
PMID: 16547713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Qual Life Res. 2006 Apr;15(3):411-23. doi: 10.1007/s11136-005-1579-7.

Analyzing oncology clinical trial data using the Q-TWiST method: clinical 
importance and sources for health state preference data.

Revicki DA(1), Feeny D, Hunt TL, Cole BF.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Outcomes Research, MEDTAP Institute, 7101 Wisconsin Avenue, 
Suite 600, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. Dennis.Revicki@unitedbiosource.com

Comment in
    Qual Life Res. 2006 Apr;15(3):425-6; discussion 427-8.

PURPOSE: The Quality-adjusted Time Without Symptoms of disease and Toxicity 
(Q-TWiST) analysis method is frequently applied to evaluating outcomes in cancer 
clinical trials, but there is little information on what constitutes a 
clinically important difference (CID). We reviewed the Q-TWiST, health-related 
quality of life (HRQL) and utility measurement literature to develop 
recommendations for CID for the Q-TWiST. We also provide recommendations for 
measuring health utilities and for the design of Q-TWiST studies.
METHODS: The English language literature was searched between 1986 and 2003 for 
Q-TWiST studies in oncology. We estimated the percent differences between 
treatments based on median follow-up duration for overall, progression-free and 
quality-adjusted survival. We also reviewed the relevant HRQL and utility 
literature on clinical importance.
RESULTS: The overall differences between treatments for most (56%) of the 
observed, published values for Q-TWiST analyses ranged between 12% and 19%. 
Three-fourths of the Q-TWiST studies had gains in survival of 12%-17%, while 
differences in progression-free survival ranged from 12% to 26%. Studies that 
have evaluated the clinical importance of changes in HRQL scores suggest that 
changes of 5%-10% are clinically meaningful, and other research suggests that 
0.5 standard deviation is a reasonable threshold for changes in HRQL for chronic 
diseases. Similarly, one guideline from the health state utility literature is 
that a 5%-10% difference in standard gamble utility scores is clinically 
important. Various sources are available for health utilities for Q-TWiST 
studies and the most valid are derived from patients or the general public, 
although most studies rely on sensitivity analyses with no collection of 
utilities.
CONCLUSIONS: We recommend that the CID for Q-TWiST is 10% of overall survival in 
a study, and differences of 15% are clearly clinically important. If less is 
known about a specific treatment and/or disease area, the CID should be greater 
than 5% but not more than 10% in planning sample size and statistical power. 
These CID estimates should be interpreted with caution, pending confirmation in 
future studies by direct patient assessment of the clinically relevant health 
states for Q-TWiST.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-005-1579-7
PMID: 16547779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Qual Life Res. 2006 Apr;15(3):425-6; discussion 427-8. doi: 
10.1007/s11136-005-4672-z.

Clinically important differences in Q-TWIST - one twist too many?

Stephens R(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Division, MRC Clinical Trials Unit, London, UK. rs@ctu.mrc.ac.uk

Comment on
    Qual Life Res. 2006 Apr;15(3):411-23.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-005-4672-z
PMID: 16547780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2006 Apr;50(4):399-406. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-6576.2005.00939.x.

A retrospective survey of outpatients with long-term tracheostomy.

Björling G(1), Johansson UB, Andersson G, Schedin U, Markström A, Frostell C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Karolinska Institutet, Danderyd University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden. gunilla.bjorling@sophiahemmethogskola.se

BACKGROUND: The Respiratory Unit (RU) at Danderyd University Hospital opened in 
1982, with the expressed goal of supporting outpatients with long-term 
tracheostomy. The primary aim of this retrospective study in tracheostomized 
patients was to compare the need for hospital care in the 2-year period before 
and after the tracheostomy.
METHODS: Data were collected from patient medical records at the RU, from the 
National Board of Health and Welfare, Sweden and from the Official Statistics of 
Sweden. The subjects were RU patients in 1982 (Group 1, n = 27) and in 1997 
(Group 2, n = 106) with long-term tracheostomy surviving at least 4 years after 
the tracheostomy.
RESULTS: Both groups had few and unchanged needs for hospital care after 
tracheostomy. They spent > or = 96% of their time out of hospital. In 1997, 
(group 2) the number of patients, diagnoses and need for home mechanical 
ventilation had increased. Life expectancy was assessed for patients in Group 1. 
Data showed that they lived as long as an age-matched and gender-adjusted 
control cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term tracheostomy may not increase the need for hospital care 
and does not reduce life expectancy. These clinical observations were made in a 
setting where patients had regular access to a dedicated outpatient unit.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-6576.2005.00939.x
PMID: 16548851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Transplant Proc. 2006 Mar;38(2):633-5. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2006.01.009.

Our experience in cardiac transplantation in Baskent University.

Sezgin A(1), Gültekin B, Ozkan S, Akay T, Uğuz E, Tokalak I, Akpek E, Dönmez A, 
Müderrisoğlu H, Aslamaci S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Baskent 
University, Ankara, Turkey [corrected]

Erratum in
    Transplant Proc. 2006 May;38(4):1205.

Recently cardiac transplantation has an important place in treatment of 
end-stage cardiac failure. In Turkey between 2003 and 2005 at 10 centers 64 
cardiac transplantations were performed including five at our facility. Herein 
we have presented our results. All patients were men of mean age 34.2 +/- 10.7 
(17 to 44) years. Upon preoperative echocardiography their mean ejection 
fraction was 18% +/- 3.27% (17% to 23%). Pulmonary vascular resistance was 4.47 
wood unit in one patient and in one case, there was Rh incompatibility between 
donor and recipient. We used HTK solution for protection of donor hearts. Mean 
ischemia time was 251.2 +/- 62.7 minutes (155 to 314). Mean aortic clamping time 
was 84 +/- 4.7 minutes (80 to 90). In all patients we performed a biatrial 
anastomosis technique. Hemofiltration was used to prevent hemodilution during 
operation. In the postoperative period four patients had acute renal 
dysfunction; one, a minor cerebrovascular accident; two, reoperated because of 
bleeding; one, cholestasis; one, temporary atrio-ventricular block; and one, 
mediastinitis. Mean follow-up time was 15.6 +/- 19.7 months (2 to 50). Neither 
early nor late mortality has occurred. All patients are in New York Heart 
Association class I. In all cases we used triple immunosuppressive therapy. In 
the follow-up period the mean number of cardiac biopsies per patient was 4.2 +/- 
3.03 (2 to 8). Two cases had cardiac catheterization. As a complication of 
cardiac biopsy, pericardial tamponade developed in one patient; in another one 
we observed a right ventricular aneursym after cardiac biopsy. Cardiac 
transplantation was performed with low mortality and morbidity rates in 
end-stage cardiac failure patients with longer life expectancy and higher life 
quality. Unfortunately in our country, because of difficulties to find donor 
hearts, cardiac transplantations were small in number. For better results, we 
need a larger series.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2006.01.009
