the process of decision-making and the overall results of renal replacement 
therapy in this age group.

PMID: 16519053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Med Health R I. 2006 Jan;89(1):36-8.

Left ventricular remodeling or restoration for congestive heart failure.

Cooper GN Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Brown Medical School and Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Rhode 
Island Hospital, USA.

Large numbers of people have anterior myocardial infarctions, many in mid-life, 
with progressive left ventricular dilatation and heart failure with diminished 
life expectancy. Myocardial revascularization alone helps ischemia, but does 
little in cases of large ventricular volume, which is the major determinant of 
post infarction mortality. Ventricular restoration results in immediate 
improvement in size and function and when added to revascularization, has 
markedly improved survival and freedom from congestive heart failure. When 
coronary bypass is being considered after anterior infarction or in patients 
with reduced ventricular function, MRI to determine function and viability is 
recommended. Then a valid, informed judgment can be made about patch 
reconstruction of the left ventricle.

PMID: 16519204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Health Policy. 2006 Dec;79(2-3):132-43. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.12.010.  Epub 2006 Mar 7.

Health disparities in Canada today: some evidence and a theoretical framework.

Frohlich KL(1), Ross N, Richmond C.

Author information:
(1)Université de Montréal, Group de Recherche Interdisciplinaire en Santé 
(GRIS), C.P. 6128, Succursale Centre-Ville, Montréal, Que., Canada H3C 3J7. 
katherine.frohlich@umontreal.ca

This paper documents contemporary evidence on patterns of health disparities in 
Canada and suggests theoretical mechanisms that give rise to these patterns. The 
overall health of Canadians, as measured by life expectancy or mortality, has 
improved dramatically over the past 30 years and some disparities have 
diminished slightly (e.g., life expectancy by income group for men), while 
others have increased (e.g., diabetes for Aboriginal peoples). Arguably the most 
egregious health disparities in Canada are those existing between Aboriginals 
and the rest of the Canadian population. This paper focuses specifically on 
three social determinants and their effects on disparities in health; Aboriginal 
status, income, and place. Overall we take the approach that disparities in 
health could be alleviated by reducing inequities in the distribution of these 
determinants. We further argue that these social determinants are proxies for 
opportunities, resources and constraints; all of which influence health 
outcomes. We suggest that policies focus on reducing the social inequities that 
lead to health disparities in Canada, rather than focusing on the disparities in 
health alone. Since the social determinants described here have been found to 
influence an array of disease outcomes, tackling them, rather than their 
outcomes, may have a greater overall influence on the health of the population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2005.12.010
PMID: 16519957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Mar;43(3):481-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.11.048.

Surgical management of popliteal artery aneurysms: which factors affect 
outcomes?

Pulli R(1), Dorigo W, Troisi N, Innocenti AA, Pratesi G, Azas L, Pratesi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Florence, Florence, Italy. 
rpulli@unifi.it

OBJECTIVE: Popliteal artery aneurysm (PAA) is uncommon. The clinical 
presentation of PAA includes rupture, embolism, and thrombosis. In this article, 
we evaluate the results of our 20-year experience with surgical management of 
PAAs, analyzing the role of anatomic, clinical, and surgical factors that 
potentially affect early and long-term results.
METHODS: From January 1984 to December 2004, 159 PAAs in 137 patients were 
operated on at our department. Data from all the patients were retrospectively 
collected in a database. PAAs were asymptomatic in 67 cases (42%); 5 (3%) PAAs 
were ruptured. In 51 cases (32%), PAA caused intermittent claudication. The 
remaining 36 limbs (23%) had threatening ischemia due in 30 cases to acute PAA 
thrombosis, in 4 cases to chronic PAA thrombosis, and in 2 cases to distal 
embolization. In selected patients with acute ischemia, preoperative 
intra-arterial thrombolysis with urokinase was performed. Early results in terms 
of mortality, graft thrombosis, and limb salvage were assessed. Follow-up 
consisted of clinical and ultrasonographic examinations at 1, 6, and 12 months 
and yearly thereafter. Long-term survival, patency, and limb salvage rates were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Forty cases were treated with aneurysmectomy and prosthetic graft 
interposition; in 39 cases, the aneurysm was opened, and a graft was placed 
inside the aneurysm. Four patients had aneurysmectomy with end-to-end 
anastomosis. In 73 cases, ligation of the aneurysm with bypass grafting (39 with 
a prosthetic graft and 34 with an autologous vein) was performed. The remaining 
three patients underwent endovascular exclusion of their PAAs. A medial approach 
was used in 97 patients (61%), and a posterior approach was used in 59 patients 
(37.1%). The outflow vessel was in most cases (93.7%) the below-knee popliteal 
artery. Thirty-day amputation and death rates were 4.4% (7/159 limbs) and 2.1% 
(3/137 patients), respectively. The amputation rate was significantly higher in 
symptomatic limbs than in asymptomatic ones (6.5% and 1.4%, respectively; P = 
.05). Eight limbs (5%) had an early graft thrombosis that required a 
reintervention. Follow-up was available in 116 patients (84.7%) and 138 limbs 
(86%) with a mean follow-up time of 40 months (range, 1-205 months). The 
cumulative estimated 60-month survival, limb salvage, and primary and secondary 
patency rates were 84.2%, 86.7%, 66.3%, and 83.6%, respectively. Asymptomatic 
limbs had significantly better results than symptomatic ones in terms of limb 
salvage (93.4% and 80.4%, respectively; P = .03; log-rank, 4.2) and primary 
patency (86.5% and 51.6%, respectively; P = .001; log-rank, 10.3). Among 
symptomatic patients, results were better in claudicant limbs than in acutely 
ischemic ones in terms of limb salvage (90.5% and 58.7%, respectively; P = .001; 
log-rank, 17.5). Univariate analysis showed the absence of symptoms, the 
presence of two or three tibial vessels, the use of a posterior approach, the 
kind of intervention, and the site of distal anastomosis to significantly affect 
long-term patency. Cox regression for factors affecting 60-month primary patency 
showed that clinical presentation, runoff status, and the site of distal 
anastomosis significantly influenced long-term results.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of surgery on asymptomatic PAAs are good-significantly 
better than those for symptomatic ones. Elective surgical intervention should be 
performed in patients with a low surgical risk and a long life expectancy when 
the correct indication exists. In thrombosed aneurysms, intra-arterial 
thrombolysis may represent an alternative to emergent surgical management. Our 
data demonstrated that results are similarly good in claudicants, and this fact 
confirms that only acute ischemia due to PAA thrombosis represents a real 
surgical challenge. In selected patients with focal lesions, a posterior 
approach seems to offer better long-term results. The runoff status and the site 
of distal anastomosis affect long-term patency as well.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2005.11.048
PMID: 16520159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 7;144(5):I29. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-144-5-200603070-00003.

Summaries for patients. The cost-effectiveness of aspirin, statins, or both 
drugs in the primary prevention of heart disease.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 7;144(5):326-36.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-144-5-200603070-00003
PMID: 16520469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 7;144(5):326-36. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-144-5-200603070-00007.

Aspirin, statins, or both drugs for the primary prevention of coronary heart 
disease events in men: a cost-utility analysis.

Pignone M(1), Earnshaw S, Tice JA, Pletcher MJ.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina Division of General Internal Medicine, and 
RTI-University of North Carolina Center for Health Promotion Economics, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina 27599-7110, USA. pignone@med.unc.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Aug 1;145(3):233; author reply 233-4.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Mar 7;144(5):I29.

BACKGROUND: Aspirin and statins are both effective for primary prevention of 
coronary heart disease (CHD), but their combined use has not been well studied.
OBJECTIVE: To perform a cost-utility analysis of the effects of aspirin therapy, 
statin therapy, combination therapy with both drugs, and no pharmacotherapy for 
the primary prevention of CHD events in men.
DESIGN: Markov model.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature.
TARGET POPULATION: Middle-aged men without a history of cardiovascular disease 
at 6 levels of 10-year risk for CHD (2.5%, 5%, 7.5%, 10%, 15%, and 25%).
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Third-party payer.
INTERVENTIONS: Low-dose aspirin, a statin, both drugs as combination therapy, or 
no therapy.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: For 45-year-old men who do not smoke, are not 
hypertensive, and have a 10-year risk for CHD of 7.5%, aspirin was more 
effective and less costly than no treatment. The addition of a statin to aspirin 
therapy produced an incremental cost-utility ratio of 56,200 dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained compared with aspirin alone.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Excess risk for hemorrhagic stroke and 
gastrointestinal bleeding with aspirin, risk for CHD, the cost of statins, and 
the disutility of taking medication had important effects on the cost-utility 
ratios.
LIMITATIONS: Several input parameters, particularly adverse event rates and 
utility values, are supported by limited empirical data. Results are applicable 
to middle-aged men only.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with no treatment, aspirin is less costly and more 
effective for preventing CHD events in middle-aged men whose 10-year risk for 
CHD is 7.5% or higher. The addition of a statin to aspirin therapy becomes more 
cost-effective when the patient's 10-year CHD risk before treatment is higher 
than 10%.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-144-5-200603070-00007
PMID: 16520473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2006 Jan;43(1):65-7. doi:
10.3143/geriatrics.43.65.

[An appreciation of the successful aging].

[Article in Japanese]

Toba K.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.43.65
PMID: 16521805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Subst Use Misuse. 2006;41(4):567-71. doi: 10.1080/10826080500521664.

Alcoholism, tobacco, and drug use in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe 
and the former Soviet Union.

Grogan L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada. 
lgrogan@uoguelph.ca

This note reviews recent literature relating to the use of alcohol, tobacco, and 
intravenous drugs in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former 
Soviet Union. Trends in substance use among subpopulations are discussed in 
relation to changes in the major population health indicators since 1990. This 
article summarizes recent work into understanding the role of substance use and 
misuse in the region in explaining demographic developments in terms of life 
expectancy and population growth. In 1993, 80% of Russian males drank, and among 
these, alcohol intake averaged near 600 grams per day. Smoking is much more 
prevalent among Russian men (61.4%) than among women (10.3%). In 2003, 185.8 per 
100 thousand Russian men were drug addicted. High rates of male alcohol abuse, 
suicide, accidents, violence, and cardiovascular disease appear to be major 
causes of the large falls in life expectancy and rising gender gaps in life 
expectancy in the region. Life expectancy at birth in Russia was estimated at 
60.5 years for males and 74 years for females in 2005. Russia's population is 
now declining at a rate of 0.37% per annum, and with more than 1% of the 
population estimated to be HIV positive, it is likely that this population 
decline will accelerate further in the near future. Many of these population 
trends are mirrored across the former Soviet Union.

DOI: 10.1080/10826080500521664
PMID: 16522564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Diabetes Metab. 2006 Feb;32(1):69-76. doi: 10.1016/s1262-3636(07)70249-5.

Cost-consequence analysis in a French setting of screening and optimal treatment 
of nephropathy in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes.

Palmer AJ(1), Chen R, Valentine WJ, Roze S, Bregman B, Mehin N, Gabriel S.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, Basel, Switzerland.

AIM: Forty percent of hypertensive type 2 diabetes patients develop nephropathy 
(microalbuminuria/overt nephropathy), indicating end organ damage, increased 
risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), and death. In France, screening rates and 
nephropathy treatment are suboptimal. We assessed the health economic impact of 
nephropathy screening in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes followed by 
optimal antihypertensive/nephroprotective therapy in those who have nephropathy 
in France.
METHODS: A Markov/Monte Carlo model simulated lifetime impacts of screening for 
albuminuria (microalbuminuria/overt nephropathy) using semi-quantitative urine 
dipsticks in a primary care setting, and subsequent addition of irbesartan 300 
mg to conventional therapy in hypertensive type 2 diabetes patients identified 
as having nephropathy. Progression from no renal disease to end-stage renal 
disease (ESRD) was simulated. Probabilities, utilities and costs of CVD events, 
medications and ESRD treatment came from published sources. Cumulative incidence 
of ESRD, life expectancy, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and direct costs 
were projected. Second-order Monte Carlo simulation accounted for uncertainty in 
multiple parameters. Costs and QALYs were discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: Screening and optimized treatment led to a 42% reduction in the 
cumulative incidence of ESRD from 10.1 +/- 9.9% without screening to 5.8 +/- 
5.7%, improvements in life expectancy of 0.38 +/- 0.59 years, improvements of 
0.29 +/- 0.32 QALYs, and decreased costs of Euro 4,812 +/- 7,882/patient over 25 
years. Sensitivity analysis showed that the results were robust. Screening was 
most beneficial when performed in younger patients.
CONCLUSION: In hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes, screening for 
albuminuria followed by optimal antihypertensive/nephroprotective treatment 
improves patient outcomes and leads to cost savings in France.

DOI: 10.1016/s1262-3636(07)70249-5
PMID: 16523189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Health Stat Q. 2006 Spring;(29):18-25.

Health expectancies in the UK and its constituent countries, 2001.

Breakwell C(1), Bajekal M.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

Erratum in
    Health Stat Q. 2007 Spring;(33):4.

A previous article set out proposals for constructing a new series of health 
expectancies which aimed to widen the coverage to the UK and all four of its 
constituent countries and to improve the methods used in the calculations. This 
article investigates the impact of applying the new methods by comparing 
estimates of healthy life expectancy (HLE) and disability-free life expectancy 
(DFLE) based on the old and new methods for one year (2001). It then goes on to 
present and compare health expectancies based on the new methodology across 
England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland and the entire UK in 2001.

PMID: 16523677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Health Stat Q. 2006 Spring;(29):59-62.

Report: Health expectancies in the UK, 2002.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16523680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Rev Invest Clin. 2005 Mar-Apr;57(2):305-13.

[Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in multiple myeloma].

[Article in Spanish]

Vela-Ojeda J(1), Ruiz-Esparza MA.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Especialidades Centro Médico La Raza, IMSS. 
velaj2x@prodigy.net.mx

Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most common hematologic malignancy, 
affecting approximately 14,000 new patients per year in the United States. For 
over four decades, the standard treatment for MM has been a regimen of melphalan 
combined with prednisone. Using this treatment modality, complete responses are 
rare, and 50% of patients have had disease that was resistant to chemotherapy. 
Attempts have been made to improve the outcome of MM by administering 
combinations of i.v. poli-chemotherapy, but these treatments are equivalent in 
terms of overall survival. High-dose therapy with peripheral blood stem cell 
support can be applied safely in these patients and achieves significantly 
higher complete remission rates as well as better event-free survival and 
overall survival. However, neither tumor-cell purging, positive selection, 
intensification of conditioning with additional chemotherapeutic agents, nor 
total body irradiation have been shown to improve outcome. The role of tandem 
transplantation with high-dose melphalan seems to be a good selection of 
treatment in hospitals having all resources. Future research will include the 
combination of the best remission-induction regimen with tandem transplants and 
maintenance treatments (thalidomide, idiotype or dendritic cell vaccination) 
that will sustain complete remission. Development of non-myeloablative 
allogeneic transplantation in order to exploit the graft-versus myeloma effect 
provides an alternative for patients who have a compatible donor. Combining all 
of these modalities with the new drugs developed few years ago (thalidomide, 
bortezomib, revlimid), we hope that MM will become a manageable chronic disease 
and perhaps a curable disease at least for 30% to 40% of the patients.

PMID: 16524072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Int J Health Serv. 2006;36(1):1-23. doi: 10.2190/EE2N-4A1Q-ARVD-XN05.

Can they carry on working? Later retirement, health, and social inequality in an 
aging population.

Bellaby P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social, Cultural and Policy Research, University of Salford, 
Greater Manchester, United Kingdom. p.bellaby@salford.ac.uk

In debates on pensions and retirement age, little attention has been paid to the 
relation between increased effective retirement age and the health of the older 
population. This article focuses on Britain at a crucial point in the past, when 
the reconstruction that followed recession in the late 1970s and early 1980s 
used previously accumulated pension and redundancy funds to pay off workers and 
make labor markets "flexible." Using secondary data analysis of surveys of the 
same nationally representative sample in 1984 and 1991, the author argues that, 
while early retirement and retirement at age 60 (women) and 65 (men) took many 
able-bodied people out of the labor force, every increase in retirement age 
would have faced diminishing returns. Moreover, unemployment and exit from the 
labor market were accompanied in most cases by a perceived decline in 
well-being. The findings suggest that retirement should be tapered, not abrupt. 
Finally, there was pronounced inequality in the aging process that would have 
led to a situation in which a uniform policy on later retirement deepened the 
disadvantage of those least able to fend for themselves. Accordingly, the 
present U.K. government should positively discriminate in favor of the 
disadvantaged at retirement by reinforcing the state pension.

DOI: 10.2190/EE2N-4A1Q-ARVD-XN05
PMID: 16524163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Schweiz Monatsschr Zahnmed. 2006;116(2):120-8.

[Long-term clinical results of VITA In-Ceram Classic: a systematic review].

[Article in German]

Kaiser M(1), Wasserman A, Strub JR.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Freiburg, Klinik für Zahn-, Mund- und Kieferheilkunde, 
Abteilung für Zahnärztliche Prothetik. kaisermi@gmx.de

VITA In-Ceram Classic is a system to fabricate all-ceramic crowns and fixed 
partial dentures (FPDs) with a glass-infiltrated aluminium oxide core material. 
This systematic review gives an overview of the clinical performance of the 
In-Ceram Classic types Alumina, Spinell and Zirconia. Based on a systematic 
literature research, an evidence-based selection and assessment of clinical 
studies of In-Ceram Classic ceramics was carried out. A total of 294 
publications were found, 21 of which conformed to the inclusion criteria. Only 
few meaningful studies of In-Ceram Alumina FPDs and In-Ceram Zirconia crowns and 
FPDs were found. The Five-year survival rate of In-Ceram Alumina crowns and 
In-Ceram Spinell crowns ranging from 91.7% to 100% is similar to the survival 
rate of conventional metal-ceramic crowns. The Five-year survival rate of 
single-retainer In-Ceram Alumina resin-bonded fixed partial dentures (RBFPDs) 
was 92.3%, and thus higher than that of two-retainer RBFPDs. In-Ceram Classic 
Alumina can be recommended for anterior and posterior crowns as well as for 
anterior single-retainer RBFPDs. In-Ceram Classic Spinell can be recommended for 
anterior crowns. Further studies have to be initiated in order to evaluate in 
detail the clinical performance of VITA In-Ceram Classic.

PMID: 16524214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2006 Mar;8(2):109-16. doi: 10.1007/s11886-006-0021-2.

Heart valve replacement: which valve for which patient?

Huh J(1), Bakaeen F.

Author information:
(1)Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center (112), 2002 Holcombe 
Boulevard, Houston, TX 77030, USA. jhuh@bcm.tmc.edu

The ideal heart valve substitute would show no deterioration or thrombogenicity, 
offer no resistance to blood flow, and be easy to implant. However, such a valve 
does not exist and we must accept compromises in some of these qualities based 
on our patients' needs. In selection of cardiac valve prosthesis, valve-related 
factors such as durability, thrombogenicity, and fluid dynamics should be 
carefully matched to patient-related factors such as age, size, life expectancy, 
comorbidities, plans for pregnancy, and lifestyle. In addition, surgeon- or 
operation-related factors should be considered. Technical aspects of 
implantation, ease of reoperation, and operative mortalities may tip the risk 
and benefit balance in a particular direction. We review currently available 
heart valve prostheses and the clinical factors that are involved in selection 
of a heart valve substitute.

DOI: 10.1007/s11886-006-0021-2
PMID: 16524537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Exp Gerontol. 2006 Apr;41(4):417-29. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.01.009. Epub
2006  Mar 9.

Caloric restriction and growth hormone receptor knockout: effects on expression 
of genes involved in insulin action in the heart.

Masternak MM(1), Al-Regaiey KA, Del Rosario Lim MM, Jimenez-Ortega V, Panici JA, 
Bonkowski MS, Kopchick JJ, Wang Z, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of 
Medicine, Springfield, IL 62794, USA. mmasternak@siumed.edu

Blockade of growth hormone (GH), decreased insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF1) 
action and increased insulin sensitivity are associated with life extension and 
an apparent slowing of the aging process. We examined expression of genes 
involved in insulin action, IR, IRS1, IRS2, IGF1, IGF1R, GLUT4, PPARs and RXRs 
in the hearts of normal and GHR-/- (KO) mice fed ad libitum or subjected to 30% 
caloric restriction (CR). CR increased the cardiac expression of IR, IRS1, IGF1, 
IGF1R and GLUT4 in normal mice and IRS1, GLUT4, PPARalpha and PPARbeta/delta in 
GHR-KO animals. Expression of IR, IRS1, IRS2, IGF1, GLUT4, PPARgamma and 
PPARalpha did not differ between GHR-KO and normal mice. These unexpected 
results suggest that CR may lead to major modifications of insulin action in the 
heart, but high insulin sensitivity of GHR-KO mice is not associated with 
alterations in the levels of most of the examined molecules related to 
intracellular insulin signaling.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.01.009
PMCID: PMC3082456
PMID: 16524678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Med Decis Making. 2006 Mar-Apr;26(2):134-44. doi: 10.1177/0272989X05284103.

Apparent and internal validity of a Monte Carlo-Markov model for cardiovascular 
disease in a cohort follow-up study.

Nijhuis RL(1), Stijnen T, Peeters A, Witteman JC, Hofman A, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Erasmus Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the apparent and internal validity of the Rotterdam 
Ischemic heart disease & Stroke Computer (RISC) model, a Monte Carlo-Markov 
model, designed to evaluate the impact of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk 
factors and their modification on life expectancy (LE) and cardiovascular 
disease-free LE (DFLE) in a general population (hereinafter, these will be 
referred to together as (DF)LE).
METHODS: The model is based on data from the Rotterdam Study, a cohort follow-up 
study of 6871 subjects aged 55 years and older who visited the research center 
for risk factor assessment at baseline (1990-1993) and completed a follow-up 
visit 7 years later (original cohort). The transition probabilities and risk 
factor trends used in the RISC model were based on data from 3501 subjects (the 
study cohort). To validate the RISC model, the number of simulated CVD events 
during 7 years' follow-up were compared with the observed number of events in 
the study cohort and the original cohort, respectively, and simulated (DF)LEs 
were compared with the (DF)LEs calculated from multistate life tables.
RESULTS: Both in the study cohort and in the original cohort, the simulated 
distribution of CVD events was consistent with the observed number of events 
(CVD deaths: 7.1% v. 6.6% and 7.4% v. 7.6%, respectively; non-CVD deaths: 11.2% 
v. 11.5% and 12.9% v. 13.0%, respectively). The distribution of (DF)LEs 
estimated with the RISC model consistently encompassed the (DF)LEs calculated 
with multistate life tables.
CONCLUSIONS: The simulated events and (DF)LE estimates from the RISC model are 
consistent with observed data from a cohort follow-up study.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X05284103
PMID: 16525167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Med Decis Making. 2006 Mar-Apr;26(2):145-53. doi: 10.1177/0272989X06286479.

Toward targeted hypertension screening guidelines.

van Buuren S(1), Boshuizen HC, Reijneveld SA.

Author information:
(1)TNO Quality of Life, PO Box 2215, 2301 CE Leiden, the Netherlands. 
S.vanBuuren@pg.tno.nl

BACKGROUND: Guidelines for screening and subsequent treatment of hypertension 
vary widely between countries. Part of this variation can be attributed to 
systematic differences between populations, but little is known about the way in 
which guidelines should be targeted to the population of interest. Optimal 
guidelines should have high yield and low complexity. The goal is to fit 
procedures for screening and subsequent treatment of hypertension optimally to a 
specific population.
METHODS: Simulation study on individual cardiovascular risk profiles, with drug 
treatment altering the 10-year cardiovascular risk. The analysis compares the 
consequences of various screening and treatment alternatives. The reference 
scenario consists of the Dutch hypertension guidelines for primary care. A 
representative sample of the Dutch population aged 20 years and older is taken 
as the target. Main outcome measures include incidence, quality-adjusted life 
years won, number needed to screen, and costs (prevention, morbidity, and 
mortality). The discount rate is 4%.
RESULTS: Strict adherence to the current hypertension guidelines saves costs 
(i.e., the total prevention costs are less than the costs of prevented morbidity 
and mortality). The following changes increase its cost-effectiveness: use of 
lower blood pressure levels for screening and treatment, reduction of the number 
of screens from 5 to 3, and active call-up of high-risk patients. The adherence 
to guidelines has a large influence on actual cost-effectiveness achieved in 
practice.
CONCLUSIONS: Appropriate targeting of hypertension guidelines to a population 
and critical appraisal of the entire screening procedure can enhance 
cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X06286479
PMID: 16525168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Med Decis Making. 2006 Mar-Apr;26(2):173-81. doi: 10.1177/0272989X06286480.

Inconsistencies in TTO and VAS values for EQ-5D health states.

Lamers LM(1), Stalmeier PF, Krabbe PF, Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus MC, PO Box 1738, 
3000 DR Rotterdam, the Netherlands. l.lamers@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Most EQ-5D health states can be ordered logically. When people 
assign values to different health states, they may violate this logical order, 
which can be seen as inconsistencies.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the effect of inconsistently 
valued EQ-5D health states on mean visual analog scale (VAS) and time trade-off 
(TTO) values. The authors also examined the effect of removing respondents with 
high numbers of inconsistent states on the estimation of tariffs, which is used 
to interpolate values to all possible EQ-5D states from the direct valuation of 
a subset of states.
METHOD: Data from the Dutch EQ-5D valuation study were used. A representative 
sample of 309 Dutch adults valued 17 EQ-5D health states by VAS and TTO. A state 
was valued inconsistently when it had a higher value than at least 1 logically 
better state. Mean values of groups with various numbers of inconsistently 
valued states were compared.
RESULTS: Of the respondents, 65% had inconsistencies for VAS and 89% for TTO. 
The mean VAS values of consistent respondents tend to be lower. For TTO, those 
with inconsistencies gave lower values. Removing data of respondents with the 
highest number of inconsistently valued states for VAS (13%) and TTO (9%) did 
not result in statistically significant different coefficients in the estimated 
tariff using all data.
CONCLUSION: The majority of respondents valued at least 1 state inconsistently. 
For both VAS and TTO, the presence of these inconsistencies did not affect the 
estimated tariffs.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X06286480
PMID: 16525171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Med Decis Making. 2006 Mar-Apr;26(2):194-206. doi: 10.1177/0272989X06286478.

Cost-effectiveness of osteoporosis screening and treatment with hormone 
replacement therapy, raloxifene, or alendronate.

Mobley LR(1), Hoerger TJ, Wittenborn JS, Galuska DA, Rao JK.

Author information:
(1)Division for Health Services and Social Policy Research, RTI International 
(Research Triangle Institute), 3040 Cornwallis Road, Research Triangle Park, NC 
27709, USA. lmobley@rti.org

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2006 Nov-Dec;26(6):633-5; author reply 636-7.

Recent information about osteoporosis treatments and their nonfracture side 
effects suggests the need for a new cost-effectiveness analysis. The authors 
estimate the cost effectiveness of screening women for osteoporosis at age 65 
and treating those who screen positive with hormone replacement therapy (HRT), 
raloxifene, or alendronate. A Markov model of osteoporosis disease progression 
simulates costs and outcomes of women aged 65 years. Incremental cost 
effectiveness ratios of screen-and-treat strategies are calculated relative to a 
no-screen, no-treat (NST) strategy. Disease progression parameters are derived 
from clinical trials; cost and quality-of-life parameters are based on review of 
cost databases and cost-effectiveness studies. Women are screened using 
dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, and women screening positive are treated with 
HRT, raloxifene, or alendronate. Screening and treatment with HRT increase costs 
and lower quality-adjusted life years (QALYs; relative to the NST strategy). The 
only scenario (of several) in the sensitivity analysis in which HRT increases 
QALYs is when it is assumed that there are no drug-related (nonfracture) health 
effects. Raloxifene increases costs and QALYs; its cost-effectiveness ratio is 
$447,559 per QALY. When prescribed for the shortest duration modeled, 
raloxifene's cost-effectiveness ratio approached $133,000 per QALY. Alendronate 
is the most cost-effective strategy; its cost-effectiveness ratio is $72,877 per 
QALY. Alendronate's cost-effectiveness ratio approaches $55,000 per QALY when 
treatment effects last for 5 years or the discount rate is set to zero. The 
authors conclude that screening and treating with alendronate are more 
cost-effective than screening and treating with raloxifene or HRT. Relative to 
an NST strategy, alendronate has a fairly good cost-effectiveness ratio.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X06286478
PMID: 16525173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Nurs Ethics. 2006 Mar;13(2):147-62. doi: 10.1191/0969733006ne861oa.

Nurses' and physicians' opinions on aggressiveness of treatment for general ward 
patients.

Svantesson M(1), Sjökvist P, Thorsén H, Ahlström G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nursing Science, Orebro University Hospital, Sweden. 
mia.svantesson@orebroll.se

The aim of this study was to evaluate agreement between nurses' and physicians' 
opinions regarding aggressiveness of treatment and to investigate and compare 
the rationales on which their opinions were based. Structured interviews 
regarding 714 patients were performed on seven general wards of a university 
hospital. The data gathered were then subjected to qualitative and quantitative 
analyses. There was 86% agreement between nurses' and physicians' opinions 
regarding full or limited treatment when the answers given as 'uncertain' were 
excluded. Agreement was less (77%) for patients with a life expectancy of less 
than one year. Disagreements were not associated with professional status 
because the physicians considered limiting life-sustaining treatment as often as 
the nurses. A broad spectrum of rationales was given but the results focus 
mostly on those for full treatment. The nurses and the physicians had similar 
bases for their opinions. For the majority of the patients, medical rationales 
were used, but age and quality of life were also expressed as important 
determinants. When considering full treatment, nurses used quality-of-life 
rationales for significantly more patients than the physicians. Respect for 
patients' wishes had a minor influence.

DOI: 10.1191/0969733006ne861oa
PMID: 16526149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nurs Stand. 2006 Feb 22-28;20(24):15-6.

'Active ageing' key to success of white paper. Interview by Sarah Harrison.

Philip I.

PMID: 16526155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Med Sci (Paris). 2006 Mar;22(3):259-65. doi: 10.1051/medsci/2006223259.

[Ageing, genetics and the somatotropic axis].

[Article in French]

Kappeler L(1), De Magalhaes Filho C, Le Bouc Y, Holzenberger M.

Author information:
(1)Inserm U.515, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, 184, rue du Faubourg Saint-Antoine, 
75571 Paris Cedex 12, France. kappeler@st-antoine.inserm.fr

Research on ageing made a big leap forward when genes regulating lifespan were 
discovered about a decade ago. First isolated by screening the genome of the 
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, most of these genes belong to an essential 
signalling pathway that is highly conserved during animal evolution. Orthologous 
genes in vertebrate species are the families of genes coding for insulin, 
insulin-like growth factors (IGF) and related proteins. Intensively studied and 
well-known for their pivotal roles in proliferation, differentiation, survival 
and metabolism of most cells, we now discover their multiples functions with 
respect to the control of longevity and their ability to modulate the cell's 
responses to oxidative stress, a major cause of cellular and organismal ageing. 
The activity of IGF signalling in mammals depends on a complex interplay of 
endocrine signals that together constitute the somatotropic axis. Accordingly, 
several components of this hormone axis, like growth hormone or growth hormone 
releasing hormone receptors, regulate efficiently animal longevity, which has 
been elegantly demonstrated by studies performed in genetically modified mouse 
models. From this and other work, it becomes increasingly clear that the control 
of ageing is a question of hormonal regulations. We here present several of 
these models and discuss the respective contributions of insulin and IGF 
signalling to the regulation of lifespan. We review data on the Klotho gene that 
acts on lifespan via surprising and not yet fully understood molecular 
mechanisms, connecting this new, hormone-like substance to IGF and insulin 
signalling. We further report recent evidence showing that human lifespan might 
be controlled in similar ways. Finally, we shed some light on clinical GH 
treatment in humans, from an endocrinologist's point of view.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2006223259
PMID: 16527206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Clin Virol. 2006 May;36(1):50-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jcv.2006.01.014. Epub 2006
Mar  9.

Non-infectious fluorimetric assay for phenotyping of drug-resistant HIV 
proteinase mutants.

Majerová-Uhlíková T(1), Dantuma NP, Lindsten K, Masucci MG, Konvalinka J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry, Academy of Sciences of the 
Czech Republic, Flemingovo 2, 166 10 Praha 6, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of HIV proteinase inhibitors (PIs) as anti-AIDS 
drugs resulted in decreased mortality and prolonged life expectancy of 
HIV-positive patients. However, rapid selection of drug-resistant HIV variants 
is a common complication in patients undergoing highly active anti-retroviral 
therapy (HAART). Thus, monitoring of clinical resistance development is 
indispensable for rational pharmacotherapy.
OBJECTIVE: We present a non-infectious cell-based assay for drug resistance 
quantification of HIV proteinase (PR) - an important target of HAART.
STUDY DESIGN: Previously, we showed [Lindsten K, Uhlikova T, Konvalinka J, 
Masucci MG, Dantuma NP. Cell-based fluorescence assay for human immunodeficiency 
virus type 1 protease activity. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2001;45:2616-22] 
that the expression of a fusion protein (GFP-PR), comprised of HIV-1 proteinase 
wild-type artificial precursor (PR) and green fluorescent protein (GFP), in 
transiently transfected tissue culture cells depends on the presence of 
PR-specific inhibitors (PIs). Here we show that in the GFP-PR reporter the HIV 
wild-type PR can be replaced by a drug-resistant HIV PR mutant, yielding a 
simple and biologically relevant tool for the quantitative analysis of 
drug-resistant HIV PR mutants susceptibility to HIV proteinase inhibitors.
RESULTS: We cloned a set of GFP-PR reporters, some of which possess a simple, 
well-defined drug-resistant PR mutant (G48V L90M, V82A, A71V V82T I84V, D30N, 
K45I); another four complex PR mutants were obtained from patients undergoing 
HAART. The results were compared with genotyping and enzyme kinetics data. 
Furthermore, we designed a single inhibitor concentration experiment setup for 
easy evaluation of drug resistance profiles for mutants of interest. The 
resistance profiles clearly demonstrate the importance of succession of 
individual drugs during the treatment for drug resistance development.
CONCLUSION: We show that the GFP-PR assay might serve as a non-infectious, 
rapid, cheap, and reliable alternative to the currently used phenotypic assays.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcv.2006.01.014
PMID: 16527535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 2006 Mar;165(2):176-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.cancergencyto.2005.08.014.

Acute promyelocytic leukemia and constitutional trisomy 21.

Kurkjian C(1), Patel S, Kamble R, Dunn ST, Kern W, Kharfan-Dabaja MA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Hematology-Oncology and OU Cancer Center, University of Oklahoma 
Health Sciences Center, 920 Stanton L. Young Boulevard, WP 2080, Oklahoma City, 
OK 73104, USA.

The incidence of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) in patients with 
constitutional trisomy 21 is estimated to be 1 in 300; it is usually seen before 
age four. Clinical and epidemiological data confirm the improved life expectancy 
of patients with Down syndrome and their increased susceptibility to the 
development of leukemia, among other cancers. The most frequent subtype of AML 
associated with Down syndrome is acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (FAB: M7). The 
description of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) in adult patients with Down 
syndrome is exceedingly rare. Herein, we describe the unusual presentation, 
treatment, results, and clinical course of an adult patient with APL and 
constitutional trisomy 21 and provide a brief review of the literature.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cancergencyto.2005.08.014
PMID: 16527614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. World J Surg. 2006 Apr;30(4):505-11. doi: 10.1007/s00268-005-0609-5.

Cost/DALY averted in a small hospital in Sierra Leone: what is the relative 
contribution of different services?

Gosselin RA(1), Thind A, Bellardinelli A.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: A cost-effective analysis (CEA) can be a useful tool to guide 
resource allocation decisions. However, there is a dearth of evidence on the 
cost/disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted by health facilities in the 
developing world.
METHODS: We conducted a study to calculate the costs and the DALYs averted by an 
entire hospital in Sierra Leone, using the method suggested by McCord and 
Chowdhury (Int J Gynaecol Obstet 2003;81:83-92).
RESULTS: For the 3-month study period, total costs were calculated to be dollar 
369,774. Using the approach of McCord and Chowdhury, we calculated that 11,282 
DALYs were averted during the study period, resulting in a cost/DALY averted of 
dollar 32.78. This figure compares favorably to other non-surgical health 
interventions in developing countries. We found that while surgery accounts for 
63% of total caseload, it contributes to 38% of the total DALYs averted.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment of some common pathologies in developing 
countries may be more cost-effective than previously thought, and our results 
provide evidence for the inclusion of surgery as part of the basic public health 
armamentarium in developing countries. However, these results are highly 
context-specific, and more research is needed from developing countries to 
further refine the methodology and analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-005-0609-5
PMID: 16528459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2006 Jan;7(1):56-61.

[Attitudes and behaviors toward cardiological procedures: results from a 
multicenter study in Italy].

[Article in Italian]

Boccia A(1), Damiani G, D'Errico MM, Farinaro E, Gregorio P, Nante N, Santé P, 
Siliquini R, Ricciardi G; ARPIC Collaborative Group.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Igiene, Università degli Studi La Sapienza, Roma.

BACKGROUND: In Italy, cardiovascular diseases represent an important cause of 
disability in the elderly. Therefore, it is necessary to provide effective and 
appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic procedures to all the interested 
subjects. The aim of our study was to estimate attitudes and behaviors of health 
personnel and representatives of citizen associations toward the following 
procedures: thrombolysis, coronary artery bypass, pacemaker implantation, and 
aortic valve replacement.
METHODS: Within an Italian multicenter study on the relation between age and 
treatment of cardiovascular diseases, a questionnaire was administered to a 
stratified sample of medical doctors (cardiologists, heart surgeons, geriatrics, 
internists), general practitioners in order to show any existing discrimination 
in care access as regards age, sex and race of patients.
RESULTS: The sample included 283 subjects (73.8% men, median age 47 years). In 
53% age was a discriminating factor in the distribution of the therapeutic 
procedures, with higher statistically significant percentages reported by 
geriatrics and internists (62.5 and 58.6%, respectively) and lower ones by 
cardiologists and heart surgeons (48.2 and 41.5%, respectively) (chi2 = 29.592, 
p < 0.0001). The influence of the shortest expectancy of life in the elderly is 
the reason for discrimination in 19.6% of the participants. Race and gender do 
not represent a discriminating factor for 81 and 92.1% of responders, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study highlight the presence of different 
attitudes among health personnel about the distribution of cardiological 
procedures as regards patients' age, in particular when > 75 years old. An 
easier access should be given to these patients and this may represent the 
objective of research aimed at developing better treatments for elderly people.

PMID: 16528963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Eur J Haematol. 2006 Jun;76(6):455-64. doi: 
10.1111/j.0902-4441.2005.t01-1-EJH2530.x. Epub 2006 Mar 9.

CLLU1 expression levels predict time to initiation of therapy and overall 
survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Buhl AM(1), Jurlander J, Geisler CH, Pedersen LB, Andersen MK, Josefsson P, 
Petersen JH, Leffers H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The Leukemia Laboratory, Rigshospitalet, Denmark. 
am.buhl@ge2net.dk

Comment in
    Eur J Haematol. 2006 Aug;77(2):177; author reply 178.

OBJECTIVES: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an incurable disease with a 
highly variable clinical course. IgV(H) mutational status, chromosomal 
aberrations, CD38 expression and ZAP-70 expression are prognostic markers in 
CLL, however, they are not exclusively confined to this disease. We recently 
identified a novel CLL-specific gene (CLL upregulated gene1, CLLU1) that is 
exclusively upregulated in CLL cells. Here we describe our evaluation of the 
prognostic significance of CLLU1 in CLL.
METHODS: A cohort of 59 previously untreated CLL patients was studied. We 
determined the expression levels of two CLLU1 transcripts, cDNA1 and CDS, by 
quantitative RT-PCR. The relation between CLLU1 expression and time to therapy, 
overall survival and presence or absence of ZAP-70, CD38, chromosomal 
aberrations or IgV(H) mutations in the 59 patients was analyzed.
RESULTS: Analyzed as a continuous, quantitative parameter CLLU1 levels 
significantly predicted time from diagnosis to initiation of therapy (P < or = 
0.0003) Analyzed as a categorical parameter, by segregation of the patients into 
groups with cDNA1 or CDS expression above or below the median, the CLLU1 levels 
significantly predicted time from diagnosis to initiation of therapy (P = 0.001) 
and predicted overall survival with borderline significance (P < or = 0.05). 
Patient stratification according to clinical stage, cytogenetics, IgV(H) 
mutational status, ZAP-70 and CD38, demonstrated significantly increased CLLU1 
expression in all investigated CLL poor risk groups. CLLU1 expression levels 
contributed additional prognostic information to ZAP-70-positive patients.
CONCLUSIONS: CLLU1 is the first identified CLL specific gene. The CLLU1 mRNA 
expression level can predict time to initiation of treatment and survival in CLL 
patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0902-4441.2005.t01-1-EJH2530.x
PMID: 16529606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. BMC Public Health. 2006 Mar 10;6:62. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-62.

Economic gains and health benefits from a new cigarette tax scheme in Taiwan: a 
simulation using the CGE model.

Ye CY(1), Lee JM, Chen SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Trade, Overseas Chinese Institute of Technology, 
Taichung, Taiwan. iune@ocit.edu.tw

BACKGROUND: This study evaluates the impact of an increase in cigarette tax in 
Taiwan in terms of the effects it has on the overall economy and the health 
benefits that it brings.
METHODS: The multisector computable general equilibrium (CGE) model was used to 
simulate the impact of reduced cigarette consumption resulting from a new tax 
scheme on the entire economy gains and on health benefits.
RESULTS: The results predict that because of the new tax scheme, there should be 
a marked reduction in cigarette consumption but a notable increase in health 
benefits that include saving between 28,125 and 56,250 lives. This could save 
NTD 1.222 approximately 2.445 billion (where USD 1 = NTD 34.6) annually in 
life-threatening, cigarette-related health insurance expenses which exceeds the 
projected decrease of NTD 1.275 billion in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) because 
of reduced consumption and therefore tax revenue.
CONCLUSION: Overall, the increased cigarette excise tax will be beneficial in 
terms of both the health of the general public and the economy as a whole.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-62
PMCID: PMC1459137
PMID: 16529653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Cancer Radiother. 2006 Jun;10(4):168-74. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2006.01.004.
Epub  2006 Mar 10.

[What to do with a rising PSA after complete remission post-prostatectomy?].

[Article in French]

Bosset M(1), Bosset JF, Maingon P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Radiothérapie, Centre Georges-François-Leclerc, 1, rue du 
Professeur-Marion, BP 77980, 21079 Dijon cedex, France. 
mathieu.bosset@wanadoo.fr

Between twenty and to forty percent of patients will develop an isolated PSA 
failure after a radical prostatectomy. Pelvic irradiation is a therapeutic 
option with curative intention. It is the best therapeutic option for young 
people with good prognostic factors. Combined radiation with hormonal or 
chemotherapy should be evaluated in patients with poor prognostic factors. For 
patients with a short life expectancy, hormonotherapy or a watch and see policy 
are acceptable options.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2006.01.004
PMID: 16529965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Cell. 2006 Mar 10;124(5):1055-68. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2006.01.039.

Germ-cell loss extends C. elegans life span through regulation of DAF-16 by 
kri-1 and lipophilic-hormone signaling.

Berman JR(1), Kenyon C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Mission Bay Genentech Hall, 600 
16th Street, Room S312D, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, 
CA 94143, USA.

In C. elegans, removing the germ cells extends life span by triggering the 
nuclear localization and activation of the DAF-16/FOXO transcription factor in 
the intestine. In this study, we identify and analyze genes required for 
