Feldmann U(1), Mehnert RF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Biometry, Epidemiology and Medical Informatics, 
University of Saarland, 66421 Homburg/Saar, Germany. 
uf@med-imbei.uni-saarland.de

OBJECTIVES: A gain in life expectancy of a population is commonly interpreted as 
an effect of improved health care. After the reunion of Germany in 1990 life 
expectancy at birth grew extremely in the new federal states. Within one decade 
after reunion the new federal states had a gain in life expectancy of about five 
years while the gain in the old federal states was only about two years.
METHODS: It has been widely argued that this phenomenon is caused by an 
obviously improved public health service and environmental protection or even by 
an increased social status in the new federal states. On the other hand, the 
median population age grew rapidly in the new federal states, caused by a 
dramatic reduction of the birth rate as well as a high emigration rate of young 
people. Using real time series for three selected federal states and for the 
total Federal Republic of Germany, it is derived that most of the gain in life 
expectancy is explained by population ageing.
RESULTS: An elementary probabilistic procedure is proposed allowing for 
estimating the amount in life expectancy not attributable to population ageing.
CONCLUSIONS: The age-adjusted life expectancy can be regarded as an unbiased 
measure of a populations' state of health that stays comparable both over time 
and across countries.

PMID: 16685335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Radiologe. 2006 Oct;46(10):839-46. doi: 10.1007/s00117-006-1375-6.

[Fracture diagnosis in osteoporosis].

[Article in German]

Bauer JS(1), Müller D, Rummeny EJ, Link TM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of California, San Francisco, USA. 
jsbauer@gmx.de

As life expectancy rises the prevalence of osteoporosis also increases, which 
represents a growing burden for the populace and the healthcare system. 
Vertebral fractures are the most frequent type of all osteoporotic fractures. 
Since they can be diagnosed by radiology, these examinations are particularly 
important for devising suitable treatment strategies. The goal of activities 
undertaken by osteoporosis organizations is to put across to radiologists the 
importance of accurate evaluation of these fractures. Identification of 
osteoporotic vertebral fractures is however problematic since the transition 
from healthy vertebral bodies to those deformed by osteoporosis constitutes a 
continuum and it is often difficult in deformed vertebral bodies to distinguish 
between an osteoporotic fracture and a non-osteoporotic deformity. This overview 
attempts to heighten awareness of the significant role the radiologist plays in 
the diagnostic work-up of osteoporosis and to provide diagnostic aids for 
assessing osteoporotic vertebral fractures including differential diagnoses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-006-1375-6
PMID: 16685496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. J Econ Entomol. 2006 Apr;99(2):401-7. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-99.2.401.

Age-dependent fecundity and fertility life tables of the predator Brontocoris 
tabidus (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae) under field conditions.

Zanuncio JC(1), Lemos WP, Lacerda MC, Zanuncio TV, Serrão JE, Bauce E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, State of 
Minas Gerais, Brazil.

Reproductive potential, longevity, life expectancy, and fertility life tables of 
Brontocoris tabidus (Signoret) (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae), a predator of 
lepidopteran defoliators in eucalyptus (Eucalyptus spp.) plantations, were 
studied in the field. After a 50-d preoviposition period (emergence of adults to 
the deposition of the first egg mass), ovipositional activity of B. tabidus 
continued until females died at 160 d. Females laid an average of 4.2 eggs per 
day and 601.1 eggs in a lifetime. Gross and net reproductive rates were 216.7 
and 75.8 females, respectively. Generation time was 146.1 d, the period for 
doubling the population was 23.4 d, intrinsic rate was 0.03, and finite 
population increase was 1.03. Number of females per generation increased at 33.4 
times. Results from our field studies indicate that B. tabidus has greater 
potential reproduction, oviposition period, and longevity than was expected from 
previous laboratory experiments. This suggests that B. tabidus has potential as 
a biological control agent to limit economically damaging pests in eucalyptus 
plantations.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-99.2.401
PMID: 16686138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Law Med Ethics. 2005 Winter;33(4):660-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1748-720x.2005.tb00534.x.

Accountability for rationing--theory into practice.

Newdick C(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Reading, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-720x.2005.tb00534.x
PMID: 16686237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Am J Manag Care. 2006 May;12(8 Suppl):S214-20.

The epidemiology and diagnosis of insomnia.

Doghramji K(1).

Author information:
(1)Sleep Disorders Center, Thomas Jefferson University, 1015 Walnut Street, 
Suite 319, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. karl.doghramji@jefferson.edu

Many questions remain unanswered with regard to our understanding of insomnia. 
Although it is generally believed that 10% to 15% of the adult population 
suffers from chronic insomnia, and an additional 25% to 35% have transient or 
occasional insomnia, prevalence estimates vary because of inconsistent 
definitions and diagnostic criteria. The elderly in particular are affected by 
insomnia, and it has been shown that women are more likely to have sleep 
difficulties than men. Although insomnia can be a primary condition, and can 
coexist with other disorders or be considered secondary to these disorders, the 
mechanisms producing it are not clearly defined. Additionally, the relationship 
between insomnia and other disease states is not always clear because it is 
often not possible to determine the cause-and-effect relationship between 
disorders. Epidemiologic studies show that abnormal sleep patterns predict lower 
life expectancy, and that people with insomnia are more likely to develop 
affective disorders, substance abuse, and other adverse health outcomes. This 
article will provide an overview of insomnia, its prevalence and epidemiology, 
and guidelines for clinical assessment.

PMID: 16686591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Echocardiography. 2006 May;23(5):417-20. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-8175.2006.00226.x.

Hepatocellular carcinoma with right atrial extension in a young patient with 
congenitally unguarded tricuspid orifice.

Barberis VI(1), Brili S, Dimopoulou M, Barbetseas J, Stefanadis C.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Cardiology, Athens Medical School, Hippokration Hospital, 
Athens, Greece. vbarberis@med.uoa.gr

We report a case of a young female patient with congenitally unguarded tricuspid 
orifice and underdeveloped pulmonary valve leaflets, who had developed severe 
right-sided congestive heart failure and cardiac cirrhosis early in life. She 
was admitted to our hospital with deterioration of dyspnea and abdominal 
tenderness. Hepatocellular carcinoma was diagnosed on the basis of computed 
tomography findings, high plasma alpha-fetoprotein levels and evidence of 
chronic hepatitis B viral infection. Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed a 
mass into the right atrium, considered to be an extension of the tumor.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8175.2006.00226.x
PMID: 16686629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. J Pain Palliat Care Pharmacother. 2006;20(1):57-9.

End-of-life care: questions and answers.

National Cancer Institute, National Institute of Health.

When cancer is not curable, the focus of care shifts from cure to care. Patients 
and family members then have many questions about end-of-life care. The 
following information provided by the National Cancer Institute addresses life 
expectancy, when caregivers should ask for help, how caregivers can be attentive 
to patients' emotional needs, signs of dying and death, what to do after death, 
and where additional resources on end-of-life care can be found.

PMID: 16687360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2006 May;74(5):884-90.

Cost-effectiveness of home-based chlorination and safe water storage in reducing 
diarrhea among HIV-affected households in rural Uganda.

Shrestha RK(1), Marseille E, Kahn JG, Lule JR, Pitter C, Blandford JM, Bunnell 
R, Coutinho A, Kizito F, Quick R, Mermin J.

Author information:
(1)Global AIDS Program, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 20333, USA. 
rshrestha@cdc.gov

Safe water systems (SWSs) have been shown to reduce diarrhea and death. We 
examined the cost-effectiveness of SWS for HIV-affected households using health 
outcomes and costs from a randomized controlled trial in Tororo, Uganda. SWS was 
part of a home-based health care package that included rapid diarrhea diagnosis 
and treatment of 196 households with relatively good water and sanitation 
coverage. SWS use averted 37 diarrhea episodes and 310 diarrhea-days, 
representing 0.155 disability-adjusted life year (DALY) gained per 100 
person-years, but did not alter mortality. Net program costs were 5.21 
dollars/episode averted, 0.62 dollars/diarrhea-day averted, and 1,252 
dollars/DALY gained. If mortality reduction had equaled another SWS trial in 
Kenya, the cost would have been 11 dollars/DALY gained. The high SWS cost per 
DALY gained was probably caused by a lack of mortality benefit in a trial 
designed to rapidly treat diarrhea. SWS is an effective intervention whose 
cost-effectiveness is sensitive to diarrhea-related mortality, diarrhea 
incidence, and effective clinical management.

PMID: 16687697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Cell Cycle. 2006 May;5(10):1027-32. doi: 10.4161/cc.5.10.2739. Epub 2006 May
15.

Resveratrol and the pharmacology of aging: a new vertebrate model to validate an 
old molecule.

Valenzano DR(1), Cellerino A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa, Italy. 
d.valenzano@sns.it

The natural phytoalexin resveratrol, found in grapes and red wine, recently rose 
to public fame for its positive effects on longevity in yeasts, worms and flies. 
Resveratrol anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory in vitro action on mammalian cell 
cultures also suggest a possible positive effect on human health and 
life-expectancy. To study the effects of resveratrol on vertebrate aging is 
obviously a particularly relevant question. We have studied resveratrol effects 
in a very short-lived vertebrate: the annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri. 
Resveratrol treatment prolonged lifespan and delayed the onset of age-related 
dysfunctions in this fish. This result identifies resveratrol as the first 
molecule which consistently retards aging in organisms as diverse as yeast, 
worm, fly and fish, but it also reveals the potential of this short-lived fish 
as an animal model for pharmacological research. Moreover, being related to 
stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) the "pufferfishes" Takifugu and Tetraodon, 
and even more closely related to medaka (Oryzias latipes), it can greatly 
beneficiate from the recent development of genomic resources for these fish 
models and in the future become a complete model system for the aging research 
community.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.5.10.2739
PMID: 16687936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Qual Life Res. 2006 May;15(4):645-53. doi: 10.1007/s11136-005-3514-3.

The effect of age, race and gender on preference scores for hypothetical health 
states.

Wittenberg E(1), Halpern E, Divi N, Prosser LA, Araki SS, Weeks JC.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, 101 
Merrimac Street, 10th floor, Boston, 02114, USA. eve@mgh-ita.org

PURPOSE: Preferences are known to vary by individuals' personal experience with 
a health state, but variation among respondents' scoring of the same 
hypothetical state is unproven but relevant to the use of community-perspective 
preference scores. This research explored the systematic contribution of 
respondents' age, race and gender to variability in community perspective 
preferences for hypothetical health states.
METHODS: Data from four community samples were pooled for the analysis. Linear 
regression modeling was used to test for the effect of respondent age, race and 
gender on preference scores while controlling for health state severity.
RESULTS: In this sample of 956 preference scores from 390 individuals across 4 
studies, older respondents provided lower preference scores for the same 
hypothetical health state compared with younger respondents (regression 
coefficient for 1 year of age = -0.002, p < 0.001), and white individuals 
provided higher preference scores for the same states compared with non-white 
individuals (regression coefficient = 0.056, p = 0.014).
CONCLUSION: Preferences for hypothetical health states may vary by the age and 
race of the respondent providing the score. Community-perspective preferences 
should thus be elicited from large, random samples of the relevant population to 
ensure variation on these as well as other yet-unidentified characteristics that 
may affect scores.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-005-3514-3
PMID: 16688497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2006 Apr;81(4):199-204. doi: 
10.4321/s0365-66912006000400005.

[Cost-effectiveness of photodynamic therapy in age-related macular 
degeneration].

[Article in Spanish]

Muslera E(1), Natal C.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Análisis y Programas, Servicio de Salud del Principado de Asturias, 
Oviedo, España. elvira.muslera@sespa.princast.es

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the public health service cost 
of visual acuity improvement or maintenance with photodynamic therapy in 
patients with age-related macular degeneration (ARMD). This illness is the most 
frequent cause of blindness in elderly patients in western countries.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out to compare photodynamic 
therapy versus no treatment. The analysis point of view was that of the health 
service. The improvement or maintenance of visual acuity and contrast 
sensitivity were considered efficacy results. Direct costs were estimated by 
means of cost accountancy. Quality adjusted costs per visual acuity life year 
gained (QACVAG) were calculated through utility values from other studies.
RESULTS: The cost per year of maintenance of visual acuity in a two-year period 
was 36,530 euro for women and 34,804 euro for men. If this cost was estimated 
for life expectancy in Asturias, it would be reduced to 4,298 euro for women and 
5,354 euro for men. If costs of the QACVAG, in a two-year period, were 
considered, photodynamic therapy would cost 66,931 euro for women and 70,249 
euro for men.
CONCLUSION: This cost-effectiveness analysis allows decisions to be made about 
public financing. Some research in our country suggests that public health 
financing should be provided for interventions whose cost-effectiveness is less 
than 30,000 euro of CVAQA. The treatment evaluated here far exceeds this value. 
It is recommended that the use of more restrictive patient selection, 
incorporating diagnostic criteria and patient autonomy indicators, could improve 
the results of this intervention.

DOI: 10.4321/s0365-66912006000400005
PMID: 16688643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2006 May 12;131(19 Suppl 1):S12-5. doi: 
10.1055/s-2006-941734.

[Benefit and benefit assessment].

[Article in German]

Windeler J(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinischer Dienst der Spitzenverbände der Krankenkassen (MDS), 45141 
Essen.

The term value denotes the effect(s) of an intervention which will improve, by 
more than just a little, prognosis and/or symptoms and/or quality of life of the 
patient. The value of a medical intervention has to be assessed in a way that 
the patient can be adequately informed and believable promises and 
pronouncements of such an intervention are made. The decisive and only relevant 
question when assessing value is to what extent the patient profits. The 
assessment of value is connected with the question about clinically or 
patient-relevant (i. e. relevant) end points, which for the patient means 
decisive and perceived events that as a rule have an effect on him/her. It is 
the aim of value assessment to ensure quality of an individual treatment and of 
medical practice in a wider sense.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-941734
PMID: 16688659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2006 May 12;131(19 Suppl 1):S8-11. doi: 
10.1055/s-2006-941733.

[The viewpoints of doctor and patient].

[Article in German]

Fischer G.

Patient-related end points are generally used to open up opinions and 
perspectives to the patient, which he/she may not previously have had or not 
been aware of. Such end points can only be reached if, first, the patient's 
priorities are taken into account when assessing cost-effectiveness of a medical 
measure and, second, if the doctor acts to mediate between the individual 
patient's preferences and medical needs. This requires a doctor's effort to 
communicate: this cannot be left to chance but has in part to be freshly 
conceived and systematically employed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-941733
PMID: 16688667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Klin Padiatr. 2006 May-Jun;218(3):165-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-933406.

[Sickle cell disease in Germany -- disease manifestations, therapeutic options 
and possibilities for improvement of care].

[Article in German]

Dickerhoff R(1).

Author information:
(1)Asklepios Kinderklinik, St. Augustin. roswitha.dickerhoff@uni-bonn.de

The number of sickle cell patients in Europe is steadily increasing due to 
continuing immigration and increase of average life expectancy. In 2005 probably 
up to 1,000 sickle cell patients were living in Germany, most of them in former 
West-Germany. Precise figures are not available as registration of sickle cell 
patients into a German surveillance study register that was initiated 1987 is on 
a voluntary basis. In December 2005 the register included a total of 514 
patients, with 273 patients (208 children, 65 adults) still actively 
participating in the study. They were followed at 92 different institutions all 
over the country. We report on data regarding the origin of these patients, 
their genotypes, disease manifestations, social integration, therapy and causes 
of death. We discuss difficulties in the delivery of care and make suggestions 
for improvement.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-933406
PMID: 16688673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Med Care Res Rev. 2006 Feb;63(1 Suppl):49S-72S. doi:
10.1177/1077558705283629.

Cost-effectiveness of hospital pay-for-performance incentives.

Nahra TA(1), Reiter KL, Hirth RA, Shermer JE, Wheeler JR.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, USA.

Comment in
    Med Care Res Rev. 2006 Feb;63(1 Suppl):126S-130S.

One increasingly popular mechanism for stimulating quality improvements is 
pay-for-performance, or incentive, programs. This article examines the 
cost-effectiveness of a hospital incentive system for heart-related care, using 
a principal-agent model, where the insurer is the principal and hospitals are 
the agents. Four-year incentive system costsfor the payer were dollar 
22,059,383, composed primarily of payments to the participating hospitals, with 
approximately 5 percent in administrative costs. Effectiveness is measured in 
stages, beginning with improvements in the processes of heart care. Care process 
improvements are converted into quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, with 
reference to literatures on clinical effectiveness and survival. An estimated 
24,418 patients received improved care, resulting in a range of QALYs from 733 
to 1,701, depending on assumptions about clinical effectiveness. Cost per QALY 
was found to be between dollar 12,967 and dollar 30,081, a level well under 
consensus measures of the value of a QALY.

DOI: 10.1177/1077558705283629
PMID: 16688924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Clin Med (Lond). 2006 Mar-Apr;6(2):202-4. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.6-2-202.

Controversies in the management of traumatic spinal cord injury.

Sansam KA(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurological Rehabilitation Centre, Pinderfields General Hospital, Wakefield. 
katesansam@hotmail.com

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.6-2-202
PMCID: PMC4953209
PMID: 16688983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2006 Apr 19;54(13):1-120.

Deaths: final data for 2003.

Hoyert DL(1), Heron MP, Murphy SL, Kung HC.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department OF Health AND Human Services National Center for Health 
Statistics, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2003 data on U.S. deaths; death rates; 
life expectancy; infant and maternal mortality; and trends by selected 
characteristics such as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, marital status, 
educational attainment, injury at work, State of residence, and cause of death. 
A previous report presented preliminary mortality data for 2003 and summarized 
key findings in the final data for 2003.
METHODS: This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on 
death certificates, which are completed by funeral directors, attending 
physicians, medical examiners, and coroners. The original records are filed in 
the State registration offices. Statistical information is compiled into a 
national database through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's, National Center for Health 
Statistics (NCHS). Causes of death are processed in accordance with the 
International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision (ICD-10).
RESULTS: In 2003, a total of 2,448,288 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 832.7 deaths per 100,000 standard 
population, representing a decrease of 1.5 percent from the 2002 rate and a 
record low historical figure. Life expectancy at birth rose by 0.2 years to a 
record high of 77.5 years. Considering all deaths, age-specific death rates rose 
only for those 45-54 years and declined for the age groups 55-64 years, 65-74 
years, 75-84 years, and 85 years and over. For the most part, the 15 leading 
causes of death in 2003 remained the same as in 2002. Heart disease and cancer 
continued to be the leading and second leading causes of death, together 
accounting for over half of all deaths. Homicide became the 15th leading cause 
in 2003, dropping from the 14th leading cause in 2002. Pneumonitis dropped out 
of the top 15 altogether, and Parkinson's disease entered the list as the 14th 
leading cause of death. The infant mortality rate in 2003 was 6.85 per 1,000 
births.
CONCLUSIONS: Generally, mortality patterns in 2003 were consistent with 
long-term trends. Life expectancy in 2003 increased again to a new record level. 
The age-adjusted death rate declined to a record low historical figure. The 
infant mortality rate decreased significantly in 2003; except for 2002, it 
either decreased or remained level each successive year from 1958 to 2003.

PMID: 16689256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Drug Saf. 2006;29(5):421-48. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200629050-00005.

Overcoming 'ageism' bias in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia : a review of 
safety issues with statins in the elderly.

Jacobson TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30303, USA. tjaco02@emory.edu

Atherosclerosis is a progressive, lifelong condition that is the leading cause 
of death among middle-aged and elderly individuals aged > or =65 years. Up to 
80% of elderly patients are found to have evidence of obstructive coronary heart 
disease at autopsy. Demographic trends, including the advancing median age and 
life expectancy of Western societies, suggest that a large share of the burden 
of atherosclerotic plaque is likely to be borne by elderly individuals. These 
trends are in part due to increases in a number of chronic diseases associated 
with adverse cardiovascular outcomes, including metabolic syndrome, diabetes 
mellitus and chronic kidney disease. Because the elderly have a higher 
attributable risk of coronary heart disease as a result of 
hypercholesterolaemia, more coronary deaths and overall events can be prevented 
via treatment in this age group compared with younger persons with 
hypercholesterolaemia. The efficacy, safety and tolerability of HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors (statins) have been confirmed in randomised, controlled, 
multicentre trials involving large numbers of patients aged > or =65 years. 
Although muscle symptoms such as myalgia are relatively common adverse events, 
more severe signs of myolysis such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis are rare, but 
their risk is elevated by conditions (e.g. concomitant medications) that 
increase the systemic exposure of these agents. Statins differ in their 
susceptibility to increases in systemic exposure, but most statins have been 
demonstrated to be well tolerated and safe when administered to elderly 
patients. These favourable clinical findings should help clinicians counter 
highly prevalent 'ageism' bias in statin prescribing, whereby elderly patients, 
particularly those at highest cardiovascular risk, are often denied the benefits 
of statins without any meaningful foundation.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200629050-00005
PMID: 16689557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Value Health. 2006 May-Jun;9(3):146-56. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00095.x.

The return on investment in health care: from 1980 to 2000.

Luce BR(1), Mauskopf J, Sloan FA, Ostermann J, Paramore LC.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.

Comment in
    Value Health. 2006 May-Jun;9(3):141-3.
    Value Health. 2006 May-Jun;9(3):144-5.
    Value Health. 2007 May-Jun;10(3):221; author reply 222.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the return on US investment (ROI) in overall health as 
well as four specific conditions.
METHODS: The study utilized three distinct approaches to "triangulate" the 
evidence as related to ROI in health care: 1) an estimation of the average ROI 
in additional health-care service expenditures in the United States for the year 
2000 compared with the year 1980, based on US summaries of health expenditures 
and health outcomes; 2) an estimate of the ROI in Medicare services for the 
period from 1985 to 2000 for treatment of heart attack, stroke, type 2 diabetes, 
and breast cancer, based on National Long-term Care Survey data and Medicare 
claims; and 3) an estimate of the ROI for selected major treatment innovations 
for the same four conditions during the period from 1975 to 2000.
RESULTS: We calculated that each additional dollar spent on overall health-care 
services produced health gains valued at Dollars 1.55 to Dollars 1.94 under our 
base case assumptions. The return on health gains associated with treatment for 
heart attack, stroke, type 2 diabetes, and breast cancer were Dollars 1.10, 
Dollars 1.49, Dollars 1.55, and Dollars 4.80, respectively, for every additional 
dollar spent by Medicare. The ROI for specific treatment innovations ranged from 
both savings in treatment costs and gains in health to gains in health valued at 
Dollars 1.12 to Dollars 38.00 for every additional dollar spent.
CONCLUSION: The value of improved health in the US population in 2000 compared 
with 1980 significantly outweighs the additional health-care expenditures in 
2000 compared with 1980.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00095.x
PMID: 16689708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Value Health. 2006 May-Jun;9(3):181-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00098.x.

What decision-makers want and what they have been getting.

McGregor M(1).

Author information:
(1)McGill University Health Center, Royal Victoria Hospital, Montréal, QC, 
Canada.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00098.x
PMID: 16689712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Growth Horm IGF Res. 2006 Jul;16 Suppl A:S41-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ghir.2006.03.006.  Epub 2006 May 11.

Beginning to end: cardiovascular implications of growth hormone (GH) deficiency 
and GH therapy.

Colao A(1), Di Somma C, Savanelli MC, De Leo M, Lombardi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology, University 
Federico II of Naples, Via S. Pansini 5, 80123 Naples, Italy. colao@unina.it

Both growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) are involved 
in heart development and in maintenance of cardiac structure and performance. 
Cardiovascular disease has been reported to reduce life expectancy in both GH 
deficiency (GHD) and GH excess. Patients with GHD suffer from a cluster of 
abnormalities associated with increased cardiovascular risk, including abnormal 
body composition, unfavorable lipid profile, increased fibrinogen and C-reactive 
protein levels, insulin resistance, early atherosclerosis and endothelial 
dysfunction, and impaired left ventricular (LV) performance (i.e., reduced 
diastolic filling and impaired response to peak exercise). Long-term GH 
replacement therapy reverses most of these abnormalities. More consistently, GH 
replacement reduces body fat and visceral adipose tissue, reduces low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and improves endothelial 
function. GH replacement also reduces intima media thickness at major arteries 
and improves LV performance, but these results have been observed only in small 
series of patients treated on a short-term basis. This review discusses the 
roles of GHD and GH replacement therapy in the development of cardiovascular 
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ghir.2006.03.006
PMID: 16690338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Disabil Rehabil. 2006 May 30;28(10):645-51. doi: 10.1080/09638280500277057.

A preliminary economic evaluation of percutaneous neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation in the treatment of hemiplegic shoulder pain.

Van Til JA(1), Renzenbrink GJ, Groothuis K, Ijzerman MJ.

Author information:
(1)Roessingh Research and Development, Enschede, The Netherlands. 
j.vantil@rrd.nl

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
various treatment modalities for hemiplegic shoulder pain.
DESIGN: A stage II economic evaluation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost effectiveness ratio of P-NMES, compared 
to slings and anti-inflammatory injections.
RESULTS: The incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) of p-NMES, compared to 
anti-inflammatory injections is 6,061 euro(+/-3,285). The incremental cost of 
the first quality-adjusted life year after implantation of the P-NMES device 
compared to anti-inflammatory injections is 33,007 euro (+/-5,434). This 
decreases to approximately 7,000 euro after 5 years, and to approximately 5,000 
euro after 10 survival years.
CONCLUSION: In this early evaluation, P-NMES seems to be cost-effective 
according to known guidelines. Treatment with P-NMES is recommended for patients 
with chronic HSP.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280500277057
PMID: 16690578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Europace. 2006 Jun;8(6):449-55. doi: 10.1093/europace/eul042. Epub 2006 May
11.

Modelling the health benefits and economic implications of implanting 
dual-chamber vs. single-chamber ventricular pacemakers in the UK.

Caro J(1), Ward A, Moller J.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, 336 Baker Avenue, Concord, MA 01742, USA. 
jcaro@caroresearch.com

AIMS: To estimate the consequences of managing bradycardia due to sinoatrial 
node disease or atrioventricular block with dual-chamber vs. single-chamber 
ventricular pacemakers.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A discrete-event simulation was conducted to predict 
outcomes over 5 years. Patients could develop post-operative complications, 
clinically relevant pacemaker syndrome leading to replacement of single-chamber 
with dual-chamber, atrial fibrillation (AF; which if chronic might require 
anticoagulants) or stroke. Survival, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
complications, and associated direct medical costs were estimated (2003 British 
Pounds pounds sterling). Identical patients were simulated after receiving a 
single-chamber device or a more expensive dual-chamber pacemaker. Probabilities 
of conditions were obtained from clinical trials. Benefits were discounted at 
1.5% and costs at 6%. Post-operative complications increased from 6.4% with 
single-chamber to 7.7% with dual-chamber but AF decreased (22 vs. 18%) as did 
clinically relevant pacemaker symptoms (16.8 vs. 0%). Approximately 4300 pounds 
sterling were accrued per patient over 5 years. Additional health benefits with 
dual-chamber are achieved at a mean net cost of 43 pounds sterling per patient, 
leading to 0.09 QALY with a cost-effectiveness ratio of 477 pounds 
sterling/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Implanting the costlier device increases the cost of the initial 
operation; however, this is expected to be offset by a reduction in costs 
associated with re-operations and AF.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eul042
PMID: 16690630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2006 Oct;291(4):R947-56. doi: 
10.1152/ajpregu.00152.2006. Epub 2006 May 11.

Excessive erythrocytosis in adult mice overexpressing erythropoietin leads to 
hepatic, renal, neuronal, and muscular degeneration.

Heinicke K(1), Baum O, Ogunshola OO, Vogel J, Stallmach T, Wolfer DP, Keller S, 
Weber K, Wagner PD, Gassmann M, Djonov V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Veterinary Physiology, Vetsuisse Faculty and Zurich Center for 
Integrative Human Physiology (ZIHP), Switzerland.

To investigate the consequences of inborn excessive erythrocytosis, we made use 
of our transgenic mouse line (tg6) that constitutively overexpresses 
erythropoietin (Epo) in a hypoxia-independent manner, thereby reaching 
hematocrit levels of up to 0.89. We detected expression of human Epo in the 
brain and, to a lesser extent, in the lung but not in the heart, kidney, or 
liver of tg6 mice. Although no acute cardiovascular complications are observed, 
tg6 animals have a reduced lifespan. Decreased swim performance was observed in 
5-mo-old tg6 mice. At about 7 mo, several tg6 animals developed spastic 
contractions of the hindlimbs followed by paralysis. Morphological analysis by 
light and electron microscopy showed degenerative processes in liver and kidney 
characterized by increased vascular permeability, chronic progressive 
inflammation, hemosiderin deposition, and general vasodilatation. Moreover, most 
of the animals showed severe nerve fiber degeneration of the sciatic nerve, 
decreased number of neuromuscular junctions, and degeneration of skeletal muscle 
fibers. Most probably, the developing demyelinating neuropathy resulted in 
muscular degeneration demonstrated in the extensor digitorum longus muscle. 
Taken together, chronically increased Epo levels inducing excessive 
erythrocytosis leads to multiple organ degeneration and reduced life expectancy. 
This model allows investigation of the impact of excessive erythrocytosis in 
individuals suffering from polycythemia vera, chronic mountain sickness, or in 
subjects tempted to abuse Epo by means of gene doping.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.00152.2006
PMID: 16690772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Taehan Kanho Hakhoe Chi. 2006 Apr;36(2):310-20. doi:
10.4040/jkan.2006.36.2.310.

[The effects of a rehabilitation program on physical health, physiological 
indicator and quality of life in breast cancer mastectomy patients].

[Article in Korean]

Park HS(1), Cho GY, Park KY.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Pusan National University, 10 Ami 1 Ga, Suh-Gu, Pusan 
602-739, Korea. haedang@pusan.ac.kr

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of a 
rehabilitation program on physical health, physiological indicators and quality 
of life in breast cancer mastectomy patients.
METHODS: The subjects included thirty-one patients with breast cancer (17 in the 
experimental group and 14 in the control group). The subjects in the 
experimental group participated in a rehabilitation program for 10 weeks, which 
was composed of an exercise program, teaching, counseling and support for 2 
sessions per week.
RESULTS: There was a significant increase in flexion, internal rotation and 
external rotation but no significant increase in extension in the experimental 
group compared to the control group. The total cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL, 
LDL, and CD56 in the experimental group compared to the control group was not 
significantly decreased after the rehabilitation program. Compared to the 
control group, quality of life in the experimental group was significantly 
improved and fatigue in that group was significantly decreased after the 
rehabilitation program.
CONCLUSION: The 10-week rehabilitation program showed a large affirmative effect 
on physical health, physiological indicators and quality of life in breast 
cancer mastectomy patients.

DOI: 10.4040/jkan.2006.36.2.310
PMID: 16691048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Soc Sci Med. 2006 Sep;63(6):1573-85. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.03.040.
Epub  2006 May 12.

Is chronic widespread pain biographically disruptive?

Richardson JC(1), Ong BN, Sim J.

Author information:
(1)Keele University, Keele, Staffs ST5 5BG, UK. j.c.richardson@keele.ac.uk

This article draws on findings from a study of eight people (aged 40-60) with 
chronic widespread pain and their families, living in the West Midlands area of 
the UK. Data were generated through a series of in-depth interviews, based on a 
lifegrid and on participants' diaries. We explore the experience of chronic 
widespread pain in the context of sufferers' biographies, examining how people 
attempt to account for and give meaning to their pain onset and development and 
how they remake identity following disruption to their lives. We use these 
accounts to consider whether chronic widespread pain is biographically 
disruptive, or whether any of the alternative notions better describe the 
experience. We conclude that the consideration of context in biographical 
disruption should extend to lifestage and perceived life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.03.040
PMID: 16697511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Health Policy. 2007 Mar;80(3):378-91. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2006.04.001.
Epub  2006 May 12.

Limiting youth access to tobacco: comparing the long-term health impacts of 
increasing cigarette excise taxes and raising the legal smoking age to 21 in the 
United States.

Ahmad S(1), Billimek J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering, University 
of Miami, 1251 Memorial Drive, Coral Gables, FL 33146-0630, United States. 
sajjad.ahmad@univ.edu

Although many states in the US have raised cigarette excise taxes in recent 
years, the size of these increases have been fairly modest (resulting in a 15% 
increase in the per pack purchase price), and their impact on adult smoking 
prevalence is likely insufficient to meet Healthy People 2010 objectives. This 
paper presents the results of a 75-year dynamic simulation model comparing the 
long-term health benefits to society of various levels of tax increase to a 
viable alternative: limiting youth access to cigarettes by raising the legal 
purchase age to 21. If youth smoking initiation is delayed as assumed in the 
model, increasing the smoking age would have a minimal immediate effect on adult 
smoking prevalence and population health, but would affect a large drop in youth 
smoking prevalence from 22% to under 9% for the 15-17-year-old age group in 7 
years (by 2010)-better than the result of raising taxes to increase the purchase 
price of cigarettes by 100%. Reducing youth initiation by enforcing a higher 
smoking age would reduce adult smoking prevalence in the long-term (75 years in 
the future) to 13.6% (comparable to a 40% tax-induced price increase), and would 
produce a cumulative gain of 109 million QALYs (comparable to a 20% price 
increase). If the political climate continues to favor only moderate cigarette 
excise tax increases, raising the smoking age should be considered to reduce the 
health burden of smoking on society. The health benefits of large tax increases, 
however, would be greater and would accrue faster than raising the minimum legal 
purchase age for cigarettes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2006.04.001
PMID: 16698112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2006 May;7(4):230-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2006.01.026.

The efficacy of performing screening mammograms in the frail elderly population.

Rosen S(1), Weintraub N.

Author information:
(1)UCLA Multicampus Program in Geriatrics and Gerontology, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2006.01.026
PMID: 16698509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Transplantation. 2006 May 15;81(9):1278-84. doi: 
10.1097/01.tp.0000205797.05544.e5.

The routine use of high-resolution immunological screening of recipients of 
primary deceased donor kidney allografts is cost-effective.

McLaughlin K(1), Manns B, Nickerson P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
kevin.mclaughlin@calgaryhealthregion.ca

BACKGROUND: The economic and health benefits of kidney transplantation are 
dependent on the length of allograft survival. High-resolution immunological 
screening can identify recipients at increased risk of early graft loss caused 
by acute rejection, but the use of these tests increases screening costs before 
transplantation. The objective of this study was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of routine use of high-resolution flow-cytometry 
cross-matching and solid-phase screening for all recipients of primary deceased 
donor kidney transplants.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to evaluate costs and effects of two 
different clinical strategies on a simulated cohort of 1,000 transplant 
recipients: serological screening (SS) only and flow screening (FS) only. 
Outcomes measures were total cost of patient care over 25 years, life 
expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and transplant life expectancy.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, FS was associated with an average gain of 
0.08 life years, 0.25 transplant life years, and 0.08 quality-adjusted life 
years per patient. SS was associated with a higher cost of CND$6,397 per 
patient, mostly because of increased use of dialysis in patients who suffered 
early graft loss under the SS strategy. The results were robust to uncertainty 
in the majority of variables, and a strategy using FS was cost-effective except 
under the unlikely scenario where the false-negative rate for SS was <or=2% or 
the early graft loss rate for flow-positive recipients was <or=7% (compared with 
5% for flow-negative recipients).
CONCLUSIONS: Routine use of FS in recipients of first-deceased donor kidney 
transplants is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/01.tp.0000205797.05544.e5
PMID: 16699455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2006 Apr;19 Suppl 1:329-35.

Radical resection for craniopharyngiomas in children: surgical technique and 
clinical results.

Dhellemmes P(1), Vinchon M.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Neurosurgery, University Hospital, Lille, France. 
p-dhellemmes@chru-lille.fr

Craniopharyngiomas are benign suprasellar tumors; however, their tendency to 
recur after resection and the risks associated with aggressive tumor resection 
pose a surgical dilemma. We reviewed our series of operated craniopharyngiomas 
and selected pediatric cases operated as first-hand cases and followed in our 
institution. We studied 37 cases. Resection was total in 65%. No patient died in 
the operative period; three patients died 6 months to 8 years after surgery of 
endocrine-related cause or sudden death. Tumor progression occurred in 93% of 
cases after subtotal resection versus 43% after total resection. Among 20 
operations for recurrence, total resection was achieved in 45%. Visual deficits 
were often stabilized or improved after surgery, but worsened in 30% because of 
surgical damage or tumor recurrence. Fifty-nine percent of patients follow a 
normal school curriculum. All patients have some degree of pituitary hormonal 
replacement and 48% have obesity. Hypothalamic damage was generally associated 
with intraventricular extension of the tumor recurrence and re-operations, 
especially through combined approaches. Craniopharyngiomas in children are 
particularly aggressive tumors. Although the best oncological results are 
obtained with total resection, in some cases the functional price of surgery may 
be too high and alternative techniques should be proposed. The life-long 
management of these patients requires that the best use is made of all potential 
therapeutic tools.

PMID: 16700308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Minn Med. 2006 Feb;89(2):21.

A strong public health system is crucial.

Ainslie MB(1).

Author information:
(1)ainslm@parknicollet.com

PMID: 16700342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. East Mediterr Health J. 2005 Jul;11(4):559-72.

Duration and determinants of interbirth interval: community-based survey of 
women in southern Jordan.

Youssef RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University, Mu'tah, 
Jordan. randayoussef@link.net

The duration and determinants of interbirth intervals among women of 
reproductive age in Karak, Jordan were examined in October 2003. A multistage 
sampling technique was used to select 1109 ever-married women aged 15-49 years 
who contributed to 4349 interbirth intervals. Data were obtained by interview 
questionnaire and analysed with life table, Kaplan-Meier survival and Cox 
regression analyses. The median interbirth interval was 27.40 months. Longer 
interbirth interval was independently predicted by breastfeeding > or = 12 
months, modern contraceptive use and pregnancy wastage; by more surviving 
children, presence of boys only or both boys and girls at the interval onset; by 
woman's higher education, older age and longer marriage; and by ideal spacing 
conforming with family planning norms. Concerted efforts to encourage modern 
contraceptive use, extend breastfeeding, promote small family size, address 
gender preferences and reinforce the minimum age at marriage should be made.

PMID: 16700370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Trends Ecol Evol. 2006 Jan;21(1):47-53. doi: 10.1016/j.tree.2005.11.007.
Epub  2005 Nov 23.

Do telomere dynamics link lifestyle and lifespan?

Monaghan P(1), Haussmann MF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Environmental & Evolutionary Biology, Institute of Biomedical and 
Life Sciences, Glasgow University, Glasgow G12 8QQ, UK. P.Monaghan@bio.gla.ac.uk

Identifying and understanding the processes that underlie the observed variation 
in lifespan within and among species remains one of the central areas of 
biological research. Questions directed at how, at what rate and why organisms 
grow old and die link disciplines such as evolutionary ecology to those of cell 
biology and gerontology. One process now thought to have a key role in ageing is 
the pattern of erosion of the protective ends of chromosomes, the telomeres. 
Here, we discuss what is currently known about the factors influencing telomere 
regulation, and how this relates to fundamental questions about the relationship 
between lifestyle and lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tree.2005.11.007
PMID: 16701469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Clin Nutr. 2006 Aug;25(4):596-605. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2006.01.014. Epub
2006  May 15.

Effects of creatine supplementation on nutritional status, muscle function and 
quality of life in patients with colorectal cancer--a double blind randomised 
controlled trial.

Norman K(1), Stübler D, Baier P, Schütz T, Ocran K, Holm E, Lochs H, Pirlich M.
