
[Article in Norwegian]

Aass N(1), Bjordal K, Tveit KM, Nordøy T.

Author information:
(1)Regionalt kompetansesenter for lindrende, behandling, Helse Sør 
Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet HF, Montebello 0310, Oslo. 
nina.aass@radiumhospitalet.no

Symptom relief as well as symptom prevention may be achieved in patients with 
advanced malignant disease and short life expectancy by use of radiotherapy and 
systemic cancer treatment (hormones and chemotherapy). Sometimes the treatment 
may be life prolonging as well. This knowledge is mostly based upon empirical 
data and personal experiences - to a much lower extent on evidence-based 
medicine. For these patients, it is of particular importance to minimise the 
level and duration of acute treatment-related toxicity. Shortened radiotherapy 
regiments may be effective, with few side effects. The efficacy of the systemic 
treatment must be evaluated at regular intervals and terminated if there is a 
lack of response or high level of toxicity. Bisphosphonates are standard 
treatment of hypercalcaemia. In addition, in patients with bone metastasies from 
various cancer sites with a life expectancy of six months or more, 
bisphosphonates may reduce the number of skeletal events.

PMID: 16505877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Rev Port Pneumol. 2005 Nov-Dec;11(6):557-66. doi:
10.1016/s0873-2159(15)30524-9.

[Age as a criterion for restraining treatment. The evidence and the bias].

[Article in Portuguese]

Monteiro F(1).

Author information:
(1)Assistente Hospitalar Graduado no Serviço de Pneumologia do Hospital de Santa 
Maria, Lisboa, Mestre em Bioética.

At the present moment, one of the debates concerning bioethics is focussed on 
age as criterion for rationing health care. The increase in average life 
expectancy and aging population on one side, and the scarcity of the economic 
resources on the other, are the main reasons for the controversy. The two sides 
of the dispute contest on the economic and ethical arguments. The society, 
mainly the sectors more involved in the dispute, should concern in the study and 
reflection of this problem, in order to attain the conceivable consensus.

DOI: 10.1016/s0873-2159(15)30524-9
PMID: 16505941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Neurosurg. 2006 Feb;104(2 Suppl):79-80; discussion 80-1. doi: 
10.3171/ped.2006.104.2.2.

Pediatric intracranial aneurysms: a different perspective.

Ventureyra EC.

Comment on
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Feb;104(2 Suppl):82-9.

DOI: 10.3171/ped.2006.104.2.2
PMID: 16506493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Neurosurg. 2006 Feb;104(2 Suppl):82-9. doi: 10.3171/ped.2006.104.2.3.

Pediatric intracranial aneurysms: durability of treatment following 
microsurgical and endovascular management.

Sanai N(1), Quinones-Hinojosa A, Gupta NM, Perry V, Sun PP, Wilson CB, Lawton 
MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California at San 
Francisco, California 94143-0112, USA.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Feb;104(2 Suppl):77-8; discussion 80-1.
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Feb;104(2 Suppl):79-80; discussion 80-1.
    J Neurosurg. 2007 Apr;106(4 Suppl):328; author reply 328-9.

OBJECT: Longer life expectancies and differences in the underlying disease in 
children with aneurysms raise important issues concerning the choice of 
microsurgical or endovascular therapy. The authors reviewed their experience at 
one institution regarding patients treated between 1977 and 2003, focusing on 
the issue of treatment durability.
METHODS: Forty-three aneurysms in 32 pediatric patients were identified. The 
patients ranged in age from 2 months to 18 years (mean 11.7 years). Only seven 
patients (22%) presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage, and in nine patients 
(28%) significant medical comorbidities were present. Aneurysm locations 
included the internal carotid artery (13 lesions), middle cerebral artery (11 
lesions), and the basilar artery/vertebrobasilar junction (six lesions). Of the 
43 lesions, 17 (40%) were giant aneurysms and 22 (51%) exhibited 
fusiform/dolichoectatic morphological features. Thirteen patients underwent 
microsurgery, 16 endovascular treatment, and three observation. Complete 
aneurysm obliteration rates were 94 and 82% in the microsurgical and 
endovascular groups, respectively. There were no deaths in either group, and 
neurological morbidity rates were comparable. Over time, 14% of endovascularly 
treated aneurysms recurred, and in 19% of these patients de novo aneurysms 
developed (mean follow-up duration 5.7 years). In contrast, there were no 
recurrences in the microsurgically treated aneurysms and only one de novo 
aneurysm (6%).
CONCLUSIONS: Both microsurgical and endovascular therapies can be conducted 
safely to treat pediatric aneurysms. Microsurgery may be more efficacious in 
completely eliminating the aneurysm and its effects more durable over the 
extended lifetime of these patients. Parental biases toward nonoperative therapy 
should be thoroughly addressed before ultimately selecting a treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.3171/ped.2006.104.2.3
PMID: 16506494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Genes Brain Behav. 2006 Mar;5(2):120-30. doi:
10.1111/j.1601-183X.2005.00149.x.

Microcebus murinus: a useful primate model for human cerebral aging and 
Alzheimer's disease?

Bons N(1), Rieger F, Prudhomme D, Fisher A, Krause KH.

Author information:
(1)Institut BioPARK, Domaine de Chosal, Archamps, INSERM U 488, Hôpital du 
Kremlin-Bicêtre, Paris, France. noellebons@wanadoo.fr

Age-associated dementia, in particular Alzheimer's disease (AD), will be a major 
concern of the 21st century. Research into normal brain aging and AD will 
therefore become increasingly important. As for other areas of medicine, the 
availability of good animal models will be a limiting factor for progress. Given 
the complexity of the human brain, the identification of appropriate primate 
models will be essential to further knowledge of the disease. In this review, we 
describe the features of brain aging and age-associated neurodegeneration in a 
small lemurian primate, the Microcebus murinus, also referred to as the mouse 
lemur. The mouse lemur has a relatively short life expectancy, and animals over 
5 years of age are considered to be elderly. Among elderly mouse lemurs, the 
majority show normal brain aging, whereas approximately 20% develop 
neurodegeneration. This Microcebus age-associated neurodegeneration is 
characterized by a massive brain atrophy, abundant amyloid plaques, a 
cytoskeletal Tau pathology and a loss of cholinergic neurons. While elderly 
mouse lemurs with normal brain aging maintain memory function and social 
interaction, animals with age-associated neurodegeneration lose their cognitive 
and social capacities and demonstrate certain similarities with age-associated 
human AD. We conclude that M. murinus is an interesting primate model for the 
study of normal brain aging and the biochemical dysfunctions occurring in 
age-associated neurodegeneration. Mouse lemurs might also become an increasingly 
important model for the development of novel treatments in this domain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1601-183X.2005.00149.x
PMID: 16507003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Jun;35(3):623-32. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl026. Epub 2006
Feb  28.

Peripherality, income inequality, and life expectancy: revisiting the income 
inequality hypothesis.

Moore S(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche de Centre Hôpital de Université de Montréal, 3875 St 
Urbain, Montréal, QC, Canada H2W 1V1. spencer.moore@umontreal.ca

BACKGROUND: Recent criticisms of the income inequality and health hypothesis 
have stressed the lack of consistent significant evidence for the stronger 
effects of income inequality among rich countries. Despite such criticisms, 
little attention has been devoted to the income-based criteria underlying the 
stratification of countries into rich/poor groups and whether trade patterns and 
world-system role provide an alternative means of stratifying groups.
METHODS: To compare income-based and trade-based criteria, 107 countries were 
grouped into four typologies: (I) high/low income, (II) OECD 
membership/non-membership, (III) core/non-core, and (IV) 
non-periphery/periphery. Each typology was tested separately for significant 
differences in the effects of income inequality between groups. Separate group 
comparison tests and regression analyses were conducted for each typology using 
Rodgers (1979) specification of income, income inequality, and life expectancy. 
Interaction terms were introduced into Rodgers specification to test whether 
group classification moderated the effects of income inequality on health.
RESULTS: Results show that the effects of income inequality are stronger in the 
periphery than non-periphery (IV) (-0.76 vs -0.23; P < 0.05). An incremental 
F-test confirmed significant differences in the coefficient subsets between the 
two groups (F(2,101) = 6.31; P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Cross-national analyses of income inequality and population health 
have assumed (i) income differences between countries best capture global 
stratification and (ii) the negative effects of income inequality are stronger 
in high-income countries. However, present findings emphasize (i) the importance 
of measuring global stratification according to trading patterns and (ii) the 
strong, negative effects of income inequality on life expectancy among 
peripheral populations.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl026
PMID: 16507644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. J Med Ethics. 2006 Mar;32(3):157-8. doi: 10.1136/jme.2005.012476.

The Groningen protocol: another perspective.

Jotkowitz AB(1), Glick S.

Author information:
(1)The Jakobovits Center for Medical Ethics, POB 653, Beer-Sheva 84105, Israel. 
ajotkowitz@hotmail.com

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2005 Mar 10;352(10):959-62.

The Groningen protocol allows for the euthanasia of severely ill newborns with a 
hopeless prognosis and unbearable suffering. We understand the impetus for such 
a protocol but have moral and ethical concerns with it. Advocates for euthanasia 
in adults have relied on the concept of human autonomy, which is lacking in the 
case of infants. In addition, biases can potentially influence the decision 
making of both parents and physicians. It is also very difficult to weigh the 
element of quality of life on the will to live. We feel an important line has 
been crossed if the international medical community consents to the active 
euthanasia of severely ill infants and are concerned about the extension of the 
policy to other at risk groups.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2005.012476
PMCID: PMC2564470
PMID: 16507660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Acta Med Okayama. 2006 Feb;60(1):25-34. doi: 10.18926/AMO/30755.

Gefitinib, an epidermal growth factor receptor blockade agent, shows additional 
or synergistic effects on the radiosensitivity of esophageal cancer cells in 
vitro.

Taira N(1), Doihara H, Oota T, Hara F, Shien T, Takahashi H, Yoshitomi S, Ishibe 
Y, Shimizu N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer and Thoracic Surgery, Okayama University Graduate School 
of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama 700-8558, Japan. 
ntaira@shikoku-cc.go.jp

Human esophageal cancers have been shown to express high levels of epidermal 
growth factor receptor (EGFR) and a relationship between high EGFR expression 
and local advance, the number of lymph node metastases, life expectancy, and 
sensitivity to chemo-radiotherapy has been demonstrated. We examined the use of 
gefitinib, an orally active EGFR-selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor, as a new 
strategy for treatment of esophageal carcinoma. The effects of gefitinib were 
evaluated in monotherapy and in combination with radiotherapy in human 
esophageal carcinoma cell lines. Gefitinib produced a dose-dependent inhibition 
of cellular proliferation in all of the 8 esophageal carcinoma cell lines 
examined, with IC50 values ranging from 5.7 microM to 36.9 microM. In 
combination, gefitinib and radiotherapy showed a synergistic effect in 2 human 
esophageal carcinoma cell lines and an additive effect in 5 cell lines. Western 
blotting demonstrated that gefitinib blocked activation of the 
EGFR-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) pathway and the 
EGFR-phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway after irradiation. These 
results suggest that further evaluation of EGFR blockade as a treatment for 
esophageal cancer should be performed, and that radiotherapy combined with EGFR 
blockade may enhance the response of esophageal carcinoma to therapy.

DOI: 10.18926/AMO/30755
PMID: 16508686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Neurosurg. 2006 Feb;104(2):195-200. doi: 10.3171/jns.2006.104.2.195.

A mathematical model of the natural history of intracranial aneurysms: 
quantification of the benefit of prophylactic treatment.

Yoshimoto Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Koshigaya Hospital, Dokkyo University School of 
Medicine, Koshigaya, Saitama, Japan. yhyoshi@dokkyomed.ac.jp

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Nov;105(5):798; author reply 798-9.

OBJECT: The International Study of Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms (ISUIA) 
data raised new controversy regarding the threshold size that requires 
treatment. In particular, this study has been criticized for disagreeing with 
previous epidemiological data.
METHODS: The author first used a Markov model to simulate the natural history of 
intracranial aneurysms, making three key assumptions based on prospective ISUIA 
data and other recent reports: that the rate of de novo aneurysm formation is 
constant after the age of 20 years; that unruptured aneurysms gain volume at a 
constant rate; and that unruptured aneurysms rupture at a volume-dependent rate. 
Next, he expressed outcomes for patients with unruptured aneurysms in terms of 
expected number of quality-adjusted life years (QALY) and compared two 
hypothetical cohorts, one receiving treatment and the other not being treated. 
These assumptions enabled the construction of a mathematical model with 
epidemiologically compatible findings. The benefits of treatment for unruptured 
aneurysms were highly influenced by aneurysm size and were calculated as -0.28, 
0.25, and 1.07 QALY for patients having unruptured aneurysms with diameters of 
7, 10, and 13 mm, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Under the author's assumptions, the prospective ISUIA data may be 
consistent with epidemiological findings. Prophylactic treatment for unruptured 
aneurysms may produce some benefits in large aneurysms if acceptable treatment 
risks can be assured, but it is not likely to offer improvement over the natural 
history for patients with small aneurysms.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2006.104.2.195
PMID: 16509492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2006 Mar;8(2):119-30. doi: 10.1007/s11883-006-0049-1.

Cardiac allograft vasculopathy: the Achilles' heel of long-term survival after 
cardiac transplantation.

Dhaliwal A(1), Thohan V.

Author information:
(1)Methodist DeBakey Heart Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Over the past 40 years, cardiac transplantation has evolved as the single best 
long-term option for eligible candidates with end-stage heart failure. 
Approximately 2000 transplants are performed annually in the United States, and 
with the institution of calcineurin-based immunotherapy, surveillance biopsies, 
and programmatic-based patient care, life expectancy at 1 and 12 years is 85% 
and 50%, respectively. Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) is the number one 
cause of death after the first year of transplantation. The incidence of CAV 
remains as high as 50% at 5 years, with life expectancy significantly 
abbreviated once it is recognized. Although current immunotherapy has reduced 
the likelihood of cellular rejection, it has not impacted CAV substantially. 
Better treatment of established risk factors and the advent of newer 
antiproliferative immunotherapy may hold promise in treating CAV. However, 
future therapies must address the multitude of mechanisms underlying CAV. This 
manuscript reviews the pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, screening, and 
diagnostic strategies for cardiac allograft vasculopathy while emphasizing 
current treatment paradigms designed to stave off or retard the progression of 
CAV.

DOI: 10.1007/s11883-006-0049-1
PMID: 16510046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Cancer Res. 2006 Mar 1;66(5):2497-9. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-3163.

Oxidative damage and aging: spotlight on mitochondria.

Linford NJ(1), Schriner SE, Rabinovitch PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, 
USA. nantzee@u.washington.edu

Whereas free radical damage has been proposed as a key component in the tissue 
degeneration associated with aging, there has been little evidence that free 
radical damage limits life span in mammals. The current research shows that 
overexpression of the antioxidant enzyme catalase in mitochondria can extend 
mouse life span. These results highlight the importance of mitochondrial damage 
in aging and suggest that when targeted appropriately, boosting antioxidant 
defenses can increase mammalian life span.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-3163
PMID: 16510562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Pediatrics. 2006 Mar;117(3):609-19. doi: 10.1542/peds.2005-0879.

Diagnosis and management of pharyngitis in a pediatric population based on 
cost-effectiveness and projected health outcomes.

Van Howe RS(1), Kusnier LP 2nd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Michigan State University College of Human 
Medicine, Marquette, Michigan, USA. rsvanhowe@mgh.org

BACKGROUND: Pharyngitis is a common childhood complaint. Current management for 
children and adolescents includes 1 of 6 strategies, ie, (1) observe without 
testing or treatment, (2) treat all suspected cases with an antibiotic, (3) 
treat those with positive throat cultures, (4) treat those with positive rapid 
tests, (5) treat those with positive rapid tests and those with positive throat 
cultures after negative rapid tests, or (6) use a clinical scoring measure to 
determine the diagnosis/treatment strategy. The sequelae of untreated group A 
hemolytic streptococcal (GAS) pharyngitis are rare, whereas antibiotic treatment 
may result in side effects ranging from rash to death. The cost-utility of these 
strategies for children has not been reported previously.
METHODS: A decision tree analysis incorporating the total cost and health impact 
of each management strategy was used to determine cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year ratios. Sensitivity analyses and Monte Carlo simulations assessed the 
accuracy of the estimates.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective with current Medicaid reimbursements for 
testing, performing a throat culture for all patients had the best cost-utility. 
For private insurance reimbursements, rapid antigen testing had the best 
cost-utility. Observing without testing or treatment had the lowest morbidity 
rate and highest cost from a societal perspective but the lowest cost from a 
payer perspective. The model was most sensitive to the incidence of acute 
rheumatic fever and peritonsillar abscess after untreated GAS pharyngitis. Monte 
Carlo simulations demonstrated considerable overlap among all of the options 
except for treating all patients and observing all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Observing patients with pharyngitis had the lowest morbidity rate. 
The costs of this option were primarily from parental time lost from work. 
Before recommending observation rather than treatment of GAS pharyngitis, 
accurate estimates of the risk of developing acute rheumatic fever and 
peritonsillar abscess after GAS pharyngitis are needed.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2005-0879
PMID: 16510638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Swiss Med Wkly. 2005 Dec 10;135(47-48):697-702. doi: 10.4414/smw.2005.11025.

Air pollution: from lung to heart.

Künzli N(1), Tager IB.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Preventive Medicine, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, 1540 Alcazar, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA. kuenzli@usc.edu

Epidemiological, clinical, and experimental evidence correlates current levels 
of ambient air pollution with both respiratory and cardiovascular effects. 
Oxidative stress, inflammation, induction of a pro-coagulatory state and 
dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system appear to play a major role. Acute 
effects include changes in lung function, heart rate, blood pressure and 
inflammatory state, and clinical measures such as respiratory symptoms, 
thrombosis, myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, stroke, and death. In addition, 
there is an increase in the use of health care resources due to these effects. 
Long-term consequences of cumulated exposure include adverse effects on lung 
growth, chronic bronchitis, lung cancer, and probably the development of asthma 
and atherosclerosis. These morbidities ultimately lead to shorter life 
expectancy. Host factors including genotype are important modifiers of the 
effects of air pollution. Further research will help identify susceptible 
subgroups and disentangle specific effects and mechanisms associated with 
various constituents and sources of air pollution.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2005.11025
PMID: 16511705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Wildl Dis. 1970 Oct;6(4):365-75. doi: 10.7589/0090-3558-6.4.365.

Evaluation of technics for measuring mortality.

Davis DE(1).

Author information:
(1)North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.

DOI: 10.7589/0090-3558-6.4.365
PMID: 16512140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Sci China C Life Sci. 2005 Dec;48 Spec No:745-58.

Cereal area and nitrogen use efficiency are drivers of future nitrogen 
fertilizer consumption.

Dobermann A(1), Cassman KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agronomy and Horticulture, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, P.O. 
Box 830915, Lincoln, NE 68583-0915, USA. adobermann2@unl.edu

At a global scale, cereal yields and fertilizer N consumption have increased in 
a near-linear fashion during the past 40 years and are highly correlated with 
one another. However, large differences exist in historical trends of N 
fertilizer usage and nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) among regions, countries, and 
crops. The reasons for these differences must be understood to estimate future N 
fertilizer requirements. Global nitrogen needs will depend on: (i) changes in 
cropped cereal area and the associated yield increases required to meet 
increasing cereal demand from population and income growth, and (ii) changes in 
NUE at the farm level. Our analysis indicates that the anticipated 38% increase 
in global cereal demand by 2025 can be met by a 30% increase in N use on 
cereals, provided that the steady decline in cereal harvest area is halted and 
the yield response to applied N can be increased by 20%. If losses of cereal 
cropping area continue at the rate of the past 20 years (-0.33% per year) and 
NUE cannot be increased substantially, a 60% increase in global N use on cereals 
would be required to meet cereal demand. Interventions to increase NUE and 
reduce N losses to the environment must be accomplished at the farm- or 
field-scale through a combination of improved technologies and carefully crafted 
local policies that contribute to the adoption of improved N management; uniform 
regional or national directives are unlikey to be effective at both sustaining 
yield increases and improving NUE. Examples from several countries show that 
increases in NUE at rates of 1% per year or more can be achieved if adequate 
investments are made in research and extension. Failure to arrest the decrease 
in cereal crop area and to improve NUE in the world's most important 
agricultural systems will likely cause severe damage to environmental services 
at local, regional, and global scales due to a large increase in reactive N load 
in the environment.

PMID: 16512198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Can J Public Health. 2006 Jan-Feb;97(1):14-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03405205.

The long-term health and economic benefits of DOTS implementation in Ecuador.

Oxlade O(1), Vaca J, Romero E, Schwartzman K, Graham B, Hernandez L, Tannenbaum 
T, Menzies D.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Epidemiology & Clinical Research Unit, Montreal Chest Institute, 
McGill University, QC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Between April 2001 and March 2004, the Directly Observed 
Therapy-Short course (DOTS) program was successfully implemented by the National 
Tuberculosis control program, with assistance from the Canadian Lung 
Association, in three provinces of Ecuador, where 52% of the population of the 
country reside.
METHODS: Markov modelling was used to project TB-related morbidity, mortality 
and costs if the former TB control program (status quo) had continued or if the 
newly expanded DOTS program is maintained over 20 years. Extensive sensitivity 
analyses were used to determine the effect on projected outcomes of varying key 
assumptions.
RESULTS: If DOTS is maintained over the next 20 years, we predict that 18,760 
cases and 15,812 TB-related deaths will be prevented, resulting in societal 
savings of dollars 203 million and government savings of dollars 7.1 million 
(all costs in dollars US). These findings were robust in extensive sensitivity 
analyses. Given the initial investment of dollars 3 million for DOTS 
implementation, this would mean a cost of dollars 190 per life saved.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of DOTS could yield very substantial public health 
and economic benefits for Ecuador. These results demonstrate the benefits from 
Canadian government support for DOTS implementation in low- and middle-income 
countries.

Contexte: Entre avril 2001 et mars 2004, avec l’aide de l’Association pulmonaire 
du Canada, le programme équatorien de lutte antituberculeuse a réussi à mettre 
en oeuvre un programme DOTS (« traitement directement observé sur une courte 
période ») dans trois provinces de l’Équateur où vit 52 % de la population du 
pays. Méthode: Nous avons employé la modélisation par les chaînes de Markov pour 
calculer les probabilités de morbidité, de mortalité et de coûts liés à la 
tuberculose si l’ancien programme de lutte antituberculeuse (le statu quo) avait 
été maintenu ou si le DOTS nouvellement élargi était maintenu au cours des 20 
prochaines années. Au moyen d’analyses de sensibilité approfondies, nous avons 
cherché à déterminer l’effet de diverses hypothèses clés sur les résultats 
prévus du projet. Résultats: Si le DOTS est maintenu pendant 20 ans, nous 
prédisons que 18 760 cas et 15 812 décès liés à la tuberculose seront évités, ce 
qui économisera à la société des coûts de 203 millions de dollars, et au 
gouvernement, des coûts de 7,1 millions de dollars (tous les coûts sont en 
dollars américains). Ces constatations de nos analyses de sensibilité 
approfondies sont robustes. En supposant un investissement initial de 3 millions 
de dollars pour la mise en oeuvre du DOTS, le coût moyen par vie épargnée serait 
de 190 $. Conclusions: La mise en oeuvre du DOTS pourrait procurer des avantages 
économiques et de santé publique considérables en Équateur. Ces résultats 
démontrent les avantages de l’appui du gouvernement canadien à la mise en oeuvre 
du DOTS dans les pays à faible revenu et à revenu intermédiaire.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405205
PMCID: PMC6976271
PMID: 16512320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Can J Public Health. 2006 Jan-Feb;97(1):20-3. doi: 10.1007/BF03405206.

Economic gains of a home fortification program: evaluation of "Sprinkles" from 
the provider's perspective.

Sharieff W(1), Horton SE, Zlotkin S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, the Research 
Institute, The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Ontario. 
doc.sharieff@utoronto.ca

INTRODUCTION: This paper models the effects of a home-fortification program 
(using Sprinkles which contain zinc and iron and other micronutrients), in 
Pakistan, a country with high levels of infant mortality, anemia, and diarrhea. 
It uses the results of randomized trials of the effect of Sprinkles on anemia 
and on longitudinal prevalence of diarrhea.
METHODS: Based on previous literature, the effect of Sprinkles on intermediate 
outcomes (diarrhea and anemia) is linked to longer-term outcomes (infant and 
young child mortality, and cognitive achievement and hence adult wages). Three 
different measures of cost effectiveness are presented: the cost per death 
averted (effect via zinc supplementation on reduction of longitudinal prevalence 
of diarrhea); the cost per 'disability adjusted life year' (DALY) saved (same 
modality); and the gain in earnings due to higher cognitive functioning for each 
dollar spent (effect via iron supplementation on reduced anemia).
RESULTS: We estimated that the cost per death averted is dollars406 
(dollars273-dollars3248), the cost per DALY saved is dollars12.2 
(dollars8-dollars97) and the present value of the gain in earnings is dollars37 
(dollars18-dollars51) for each dollar spent on the Sprinkles program. These 
estimates were developed for a low-income country (GDP per capita = dollars417) 
with a high infant mortality rate (IMR = 83/1000), high prevalence of anemia 
(93%), and high mean longitudinal prevalence of diarrhea (17%).
DISCUSSION: These outcomes are particularly favourable in Pakistan. The outcomes 
are more favourable when used with children 6-12 months. Further longer-run 
field trials of Sprinkles with larger populations would be helpful.

Introduction: Un modèle a été utilisé pour évaluer l’effet d’un programme pour 
enrichir les aliments à domicile (en utilisant les suppléments Sprinkles 
contenant du zinc et du fer, ainsi que d’autres micronutriments) au Pakistan, un 
pays où les taux de mortalité infantile, d’anémie et de diarrhée sont élevés. Le 
modèle comprend les résultats d’essais cliniques randomisés de l’effet des 
Sprinkles sur l’anémie et sur la prévalence longitudinale de la diarrhée. 
Méthode: La documentation existante suggère que les effets des Sprinkles à moyen 
terme (sur la diarrhée et l’anémie) sont liés à certains effets à plus long 
terme (baisse de la mortalité infantile et post-infantile, meilleur 
développement cognitif, et donc revenus plus élevés à l’âge adulte). Nous 
présentons trois mesures différentes de l’efficacité par rapport au coût: le 
coût par décès évité (en réduisant la prévalence longitudinale de la diarrhée 
grâce à la supplémentation en zinc); le coût par « année de vie épargnée 
pondérée par l’invalidité » (DALY) (toujours grâce à la supplémentation en 
zinc); et le gain de revenus dû à un fonctionnement cognitif supérieur pour 
chaque dollar dépensé (en réduisant la prévalence de l’anémie grâce à la 
supplémentation en fer). Résultats: Nous avons estimé que, pour chaque dollar 
dépensé sur le programme Sprinkles, le coût par décès évité est de 406 $ (273 
$–3 248 $), le coût par DALY épargnée est de 12,20 $ (8 $–97 $), et le gain de 
revenus actuel est de 37 $ (18 $–51 $). Ces estimations ont été élaborées pour 
un pays à faible revenu (PNB par habitant = 417 $) avec un taux élevé de 
mortalité infantile (TMI = 83/1 000), une prévalence élevée d’anémie (93 %) et 
une prévalence longitudinale moyennement élevée de diarrhée (17 %). Discussion: 
Ces résultats sont particulièrement favorables dans un environnement aux taux 
élevés de mortalité infantile, d’anémie et de diarrhée comme le Pakistan. Les 
résultats sont plus favorables chez les enfants âgés de 6 à 12 mois. Il serait 
utile de mener d’autres essais avec les suppléments Sprinkles, sur le terrain, à 
plus long terme et avec un plus grand nombre de participants.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405206
PMCID: PMC6976173
PMID: 16512321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Lin Chuang Er Bi Yan Hou Ke Za Zhi. 2005 Dec;19(24):1109-11, 1115.

[Preservation of laryngeal function in surgical treatment of posterior 
hypopharyngeal wall cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Li X(1), Zhang L, Pan X, Xie G, Luan X, Wang T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, 
Jinan, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the feasibility and the related surgical techniques of 
laryngeal function preservation in surgical treatment of posterior 
hypopharyngeal wall cancer.
METHOD: Thirty-five cases with posterior hypopharyngeal wall cancer were treated 
surgically. The methods of removing tumor and repairing surgical defects were 
depended on the extension of lesions. The laryngeal and pharyngeal function were 
rebuild by normal tissue preserved with lesions entirely removed. Twenty-seven 
cases were surgically treated with laryngeal functions preserved and eight cases 
total laryngectomy. The most of the cases received postoperative radiotherapy.
RESULT: The overall 3 and 5-year survival rates were 45.7% and 28.6%, 
respectively. 45.7% patients having laryngeal functions (voice, respiration and 
deglutition) completely restored and 31.4% partially restored(voice and 
deglutition). Among the died patients, nine cases died from cervical lymph node 
metastasis, ten cases died from local recurrence, twa cases died from lung 
metastasis, one cases died from cervical massive haemorrhage, twa cases died 
from hear disease and one died from ambiguous reason.
CONCLUSION: The preservative surgery is feasible for the selected posterior 
hypopharyngeal wall cancer cases. Choosing and following what is optimum from 
multiple feasible surgical methods is a prerequisite for improving the quality 
of life of the cases.

PMID: 16512485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Public Health Nutr. 2006 Feb;9(1A):132-46. doi: 10.1079/phn2005936.

The use of indexes evaluating the adherence to the Mediterranean diet in 
epidemiological studies: a review.

Bach A(1), Serra-Majem L, Carrasco JL, Roman B, Ngo J, Bertomeu I, Obrador B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, 
Spain. abach@dietamediterranea.com

The purpose of this paper is to review some of the methods that several 
epidemiological studies use to evaluate the adherence of a population to the 
Mediterranean diet pattern. Among these methods, diet indexes attempt to make a 
global evaluation of the quality of the diet based on a traditional 
Mediterranean reference pattern, described as a priori, general and qualitative. 
The Mediterranean diet indexes, hence, summarise the diet by means of a single 
score that results from a function of different components, such as food, food 
groups or a combination of foods and nutrients. The reviewed evaluation methods 
can be classified into three categories depending on the way they are 
calculated: (1) those based on a positive or negative scoring of the components, 
(2) those that add or substract standardised components, and (3) those that are 
based on a ratio between components. Dietary scores have been used to explore 
the multiple associations between the Mediterranean diet, as an integral entity, 
and health parameters such as life expectancy or the incidence of obesity, 
cardiovascular diseases and some types of cancers. Moreover, these indexes are 
also useful tools to measure food consumption trends and to identify the 
involved factors, as well as to develop comprehensive public health nutrition 
recommendations. A more precise and quantitative definition of the Mediterranean 
diet is required if the adherence to such a dietary pattern is intended to be 
more accurately measured. Other aspects of the Mediterranean diet indexes should 
also be taken into account, like the inclusion of typical Mediterranean foods 
such as nuts and fish and the validation of the dietary pattern approach by 
using biomarkers.

DOI: 10.1079/phn2005936
PMID: 16512961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. BMJ. 2006 Mar 4;332(7540):542-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.332.7540.542.

Adjusting for treatment refusal in rationing decisions.

Lilford R(1), Girling A, Stevens A, Almasri A, Mohammed MA, Braunholtz D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham B15 2TT. R.J.Lilford@bham.ac.uk

Assessments of cost effectiveness are increasingly used to get the most value 
from limited health resources. Could adjusting for people who wouldn't want the 
treatment improve the process?

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.332.7540.542
PMCID: PMC1388139
PMID: 16513714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Am Board Fam Med. 2006 Mar-Apr;19(2):103-9. doi: 10.3122/jabfm.19.2.103.

Religious attendance: more cost-effective than lipitor?

Hall DE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Centers, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. revdocdan@aya.yale.edu

Comment in
    J Am Board Fam Med. 2006 Jul-Aug;19(4):429-30; author reply 431-3.
    J Am Board Fam Med. 2006 Jul-Aug;19(4):430; author reply 431-3.
    J Am Board Fam Med. 2006 Jul-Aug;19(4):431; author reply 431-3.

BACKGROUND: A recent meta-analysis demonstrates a robust but small association 
between weekly religious attendance and longer life. However, the practical 
significance of this finding remains controversial.
METHODS: Age specific, actuarial death rates were modified according to 
published odds ratios to model the additional years of life attributable to: (1) 
weekly religious attendance; (2) regular physical exercise; and (3) statin-type 
lipid-lowering agents. Secondary analyses estimated the approximate cost for 
each additional year of life gained.
RESULTS: Weekly attendance at religious services accounts for an additional 2 to 
3 life-years compared with 3 to 5 life-years for physical exercise and 2.5 to 
3.5 life-years for statin-type agents. The approximate cost per life-year gained 
was between 2,000 dollars and 6,000 dollars for regular exercise, 3,000 dollars 
and 10,000 dollars for regular religious attendance, and between 4,000 dollars 
and 14,000 dollars for statin-type agents.
CONCLUSION: The real-world, practical significance of regular religious 
attendance is comparable to commonly recommended therapies, and rough estimates 
even suggest that religious attendance may be more cost-effective than statins. 
Religious attendance is not a mode of medical therapy, but these findings 
warrant more and better quality research designed to examine the associations 
between religion and health, and the potential relevance such associations might 
have for medical practice.

DOI: 10.3122/jabfm.19.2.103
PMID: 16513898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2005 Dec;16(12):2473-5.

[Life table of natural Bemisia tabaci population on cucumber plants in different 
seasons].

[Article in Chinese]

Shen B(1), Chen C, Ren S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, College of Resources and Environment, South China 
Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China. shbb2003@yahoo.com.cn

The study showed that in the early growth stage of cucumber in spring, the 
predation on Bemisia tabaci egg was the key factor for controlling B. tabaci 
population, and the exclusion index of population control was 1.7333. In the 
late growth stage of cucumber in spring, summer and autumn, the predation on B. 
tabaci elder nymph was the critical factor for controlling B. tabaci population, 
and the exclusion index of population control was 4.5372, 4.0429 and 7.9021, 
respectively. From spring to autumn, the index of population development trend 
was decreased from 21.0610 to 5.8523, because of the increasing controlling 
effect of the predators, and the exclusion index of population control was from 
4.0560 to 17.8662.

PMID: 16515210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. BMC Pediatr. 2006 Mar 3;6:5. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-6-5.

The benefits and risks of bacille Calmette-Guérin vaccination among infants at 
high risk for both tuberculosis and severe combined immunodeficiency: assessment 
by Markov model.

Clark M(1), Cameron DW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, University of 
Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, K1H 8L6, Canada. mclar018@uottawa.ca

BACKGROUND: Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine is given to Canadian 
Aboriginal neonates in selected communities. Severe reactions and deaths 
associated with BCG have been reported among infants born with immunodeficiency 
syndromes. The main objective of this study was to estimate threshold values for 
severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) incidence, above which BCG is associated 
with greater risk than benefit.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate the natural histories of 
tuberculosis (TB) and SCID in children from birth to 14 years. The annual risk 
of tuberculous infection (ARI) and SCID incidence were varied in analyses. The 
model compared a scenario of no vaccination to intervention with BCG. 
Appropriate variability and uncertainty analyses were conducted. Outcomes 
included TB incidence and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: In sensitivity analyses, QALYs were lower among vaccinated infants if 
the ARI was 0.1% and the rate of SCID was higher than 4.2 per 100,000. Assuming 
an ARI of 1%, this threshold increased to 41 per 100,000. In uncertainty 
analyses (Monte Carlo simulations) which assumed an ARI of 0.1%, QALYs were not 
significantly increased by BCG unless SCID incidence is 0. With this ARI, QALYs 
were significantly decreased among vaccinated children if SCID incidence exceeds 
23 per 100,000. BCG is associated with a significant increase in QALYs if the 
ARI is 1%, and SCID incidence is below 5 per 100,000.
CONCLUSION: The possibility that Canadian Aboriginal children are at increased 
risk for SCID has serious implications for continued BCG use in this population. 
In this context, enhanced TB Control--including early detection and treatment of 
infection--may be a safer, more effective alternative.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-6-5
PMCID: PMC1458340
PMID: 16515694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Exp Gerontol. 2006 Apr;41(4):448-56. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.01.007. Epub
2006  Mar 3.

Natural variation in replicative and chronological life spans of Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae.

Qin H(1), Lu M.

Author information:
(1)Center for Aging and Development Biology, University of Rochester, 601 
Elmwood Avenue, Box 645, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. hong_qin@urmc.rochester.edu

Natural variation in the lifespan of natural yeast populations has not been 
systematically investigated. Here, we have quantified the variation in the 
replicative and chronological life spans (RLS and CLS) in natural isolates of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae and found that genotypic variation accounts for about 
22% of the total variation of RLS. Strikingly, the average RLS of 14 natural 
isolates is about 30% longer than that of 13 laboratory strains (32 versus 21 
cell divisions). As is the case for aging in mammals, there is a negative 
correlation between the logarithmic transformation of the initial mortality rate 
and the Gompertz coefficient for RLS. Thus this characteristic feature of aging 
is conserved from yeast to mammals. The average CLS of the natural isolates is 
about 7 days, significantly shorter than that of the laboratory strains. There 
is no correlation between RLS and CLS in natural isolates. Possible reasons for 
the differences between natural and laboratory strains are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.01.007
PMID: 16516427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Prim Care. 2006 Mar;33(1):1-16, vii. doi: 10.1016/j.pop.2005.11.014.

Male sex: a major health disparity.

Salzman BE(1), Wender RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Jefferson Medical College, 
Thomas Jefferson University, 833 Chestnut Street, Suite 301 Philadelphia, PA 
19107, USA. brookesalzman@comcast.net

DOI: 10.1016/j.pop.2005.11.014
PMID: 16516676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 2005 Dec;29(12):1279-85. doi: 
10.1016/s0399-8320(05)82222-5.

[Digestive complications in adults with cystic fibrosis].

[Article in French]

Dray X(1), Hubert D, Munck A, Moreau J, Marteau P.

Author information:
(1)Département Médico-chirurgical de Pathologie Digestive, Hôpital Lariboisière, 
Paris. xavier.dray@lrb.ap-hop-paris.fr

In France the median life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) is 36 
years and one third of patients are adults. Respiratory disorders are the main 
determinants of survival during adulthood, although gastrointestinal 
complications can also have a major impact on quality of life and nutritional 
status. We reviewed gastro-intestinal and pancreatic manifestations of CF in 
adults. Some complications (diabetes, distal intestinal obstruction syndrome and 
acute pancreatitis) are more frequent in adulthood than in childhood. Clinical 
and therapeutic aspects of specific conditions (such as distal intestinal 
obstruction syndrome) or atypical presentations (including appendicular 
complications) are presented herein.

DOI: 10.1016/s0399-8320(05)82222-5
PMID: 16518288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Chirurg. 2006 Mar;77(3):210-8. doi: 10.1007/s00104-006-1165-8.

[Palliative bypass surgery].

[Article in German]

Wojtyczka A(1), Moesta T, Kuntz C, Lehnert T.

Author information:
(1)Kliniken für Allgemeine, Viscerale, Onkologische und Gefässchirurgie, 
Klinikum Bremen Mitte, Bremen.

Impaired intestinal passage considerably reduces quality of life irrespective of 
the underlying condition. Limited life expectancy and increased operative risk 
of advanced malignant disease add particular weight to this issue. The 
indication for operative therapy results from carefully weighing individual 
incapacity and potential gain vs operative risk and life expectancy. Exactly 
because life expectancy is quite limited, selection of an effective, low-risk 
procedure is of utmost importance to benefit the patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-006-1165-8
PMID: 16518620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Health Econ. 2006 Jul;15(7):665-76. doi: 10.1002/hec.1095.

Towards a better QALY model.

Abellán-Perpiñán JM(1), Pinto-Prades JL, Méndez-Martínez I, Badía-Llach X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Economics, University of Murcia, Spain.

This paper presents a test of the predictive validity of various classes of QALY 
models (i.e. linear, power and exponential models). We first estimated TTO 
utilities for 43 EQ-5D chronic health states and next these states were embedded 
in nonchronic health profiles. The chronic TTO utilities were then used to 
predict the responses to TTO questions with nonchronic health profiles. We find 
that the power QALY model clearly outperforms linear and exponential QALY 
models. Optimal power coefficient is 0.65. Our results suggest that TTO-based 
QALY calculations may be biased. This bias can be corrected using a power QALY 
model.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1095
PMID: 16518836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Antivir Ther. 2006;11(1):63-72.

When to initiate highly active antiretroviral therapy in sub-Saharan Africa? A 
South African cost-effectiveness study.

Badri M(1), Cleary S, Maartens G, Pitt J, Bekker LG, Orrell C, Wood R.

Author information:
(1)Desmond Tutu HIV Centre, Institute of Infectious Diseases and Molecular 
Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: Large-scale programmes increasing access to highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) are being implemented in sub-Saharan Africa. 
However, cost-effectiveness of initiating treatment at different CD4 count 
thresholds has not been explored in resource-poor settings.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted from a public health 
perspective using primary treatment outcomes, healthcare utilisation and cost 
data (Jan 2004 local prices; US dollars 1=7.6 Rands) derived from the Cape Town 
AIDS Cohort. A Markov state-transition model was developed to estimate 
life-expectancy, lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), cost per 
life-year and QALY gained for initiating HAART at three CD4 cell count 
thresholds (<200/microl, 200-350/microl and >350/microl), including the no 
antiretroviral therapy (No-ART) alternative. Each treatment option was compared 
with the next most effective undominated option.
RESULTS: Mean life-expectancy was 6.2, 18.8, 21.0 and 23.3 years; discounted 
(8%) QALYs were 3.1, 6.2, 6.7 and 7.4; and discounted lifetime costs were US 
dollars 5,250, US dollars 5,434, US dollars 5,740, US dollars 6,588 for No-ART, 
and therapy initiation at <200/microl, 200-350/microl and >350/microl scenarios 
respectively. Clinical benefits increased significantly with early therapy 
initiation. Initiating therapy at <200/microl had an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US dollars 54 per QALY versus No-ART, 
200-350/microl had an ICER of US dollars 616 versus therapy initiation at 
<200/microl, and >350/microl had an ICER of US dollars 1,137 versus therapy 
initiation at 200-350/microl. ICERs were sensitive to HAART cost.
CONCLUSIONS: HAART is reasonably cost-effective for HIV-infected patients in 
South Africa, and most effective if initiated when CD4 count >200/microl. 
Deferring treatment to <200/microl would reduce the aggregate cost of treatment, 
but this should be balanced against the significant clinical benefits associated 
with early therapy.

PMID: 16518961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Rev Prat. 2005 Dec 31;55(20):2255-62.

[Dialysis therapy for end stage renal disease in octogenarians].

[Article in French]

Joly D(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de néphrologie Hôpital Necker, Paris. joly@necker.fr

End stage renal disease (ESRD) patients aged 80+ years raise the most difficult 
problems with respect to indication and dialysis therapy management because of 
the burden of heavy comorbidity, frequent cognitive disorders/and presumed short 
life expectancy. Some patients are withheld dialysis and follow a "conservative" 
treatment. However, most elderly patients are started on a chronic dialysis 
program and experience a substantial prolongation of life, with a satisfactory 
mental perception of the quality of life. Still, much remains to be done in this 
field: early nephrologic referral and psychosocial support should improve both 
