months) and for WBRT 30 Gy group was 4 months (CI 95%: range 0-7 months) without 
statistically significant differences (Log rank p = 0.74). There was one 
complete response and two partial responses.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that MST was not significantly affected by the 
total dose/fractionation schedule.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02664937
PMID: 16648102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Genes Dev. 2006 May 15;20(10):1256-61. doi: 10.1101/gad.1412706. Epub 2006
Apr  28.

SirT2 is a histone deacetylase with preference for histone H4 Lys 16 during 
mitosis.

Vaquero A(1), Scher MB, Lee DH, Sutton A, Cheng HL, Alt FW, Serrano L, 
Sternglanz R, Reinberg D.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA.

The mammalian cytoplasmic protein SirT2 is a member of the Sir2 family of 
NAD+-dependent protein deacetylases involved in caloric restriction-dependent 
life span extension. We found that SirT2 and its yeast counterpart Hst2 have a 
strong preference for histone H4K16Ac in their deacetylation activity in vitro 
and in vivo. We have pinpointed the decrease in global levels of H4K16Ac during 
the mammalian cell cycle to the G2/M transition that coincides with SirT2 
localization on chromatin. Mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) deficient for 
SirT2 show higher levels of H4K16Ac in mitosis, in contrast to the normal levels 
exhibited by SirT1-deficient MEFs. The enzymatic conversion of H4K16Ac to its 
deacetylated form may be pivotal to the formation of condensed chromatin. Thus, 
SirT2 is a major contributor to this enzymatic conversion at the time in the 
cell's life cycle when condensed chromatin must be generated anew.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.1412706
PMCID: PMC1472900
PMID: 16648462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Apr 8;150(14):776-80.

[Effects and costs of adjuvant chemotherapy for operable lymph node positive 
breast cancer with HER2/neu overexpression].

[Article in Dutch]

Vos EJ(1), Linn SC, Rodenhuis S.

Author information:
(1)Nederlands Kanker Instituut-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Ziekenhuis, Ples- manlaan 
121, 1066 CX, Amsterdam. e.vos@nki.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Apr 8;150(14):770-5.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Jun 24;150(25):1426-7; author reply 1427.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Jul 1;150(26):1481; author reply 1481-3.

Newer forms ofadjuvant chemotherapy can considerably improve the prognosis for 
breast cancer. The benefits that can be achieved are particularly high for young 
women (< 50 years) with an unfavourable risk profile (tumour-positive axilliary 
nodes). The recent application of taxans and trastuzumab has sharply increased 
the costs of an adjuvant treatment for high-risk mammary breast carcinoma. The 
cost increase can especially be attributed to trastuzumab. The additional costs 
of cytostatics (10,079 Euro per life-year gained) appear to be justified if the 
following is taken into account: women under the age of 50 years still have a 
life expectancy of approximately 33 years, many have socially relevant 
positions, and that cure also prevents such things as absence through illness 
and inability to work as well as expensive palliative care. The pharmaceutical 
industry spends approximately the same amount on research and innovation as it 
does on advertising. By reducing marketing costs, there will be more room to 
lessen the costs of new and socially relevant medications. Ultimately, the 
pressing question remains on why the Dutch government does not fully compensate 
hospitals in the Netherlands for the introduction of new, potentially 
life-saving medications. At present, a substantial percentage of the costs has 
to be paid by the hospitals themselves out of the regular hospital budget, which 
is not meant for this. This is happening at the expense of other care to an 
increasing extent.

PMID: 16649394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Nefrologia. 2006;26(1):45-55.

[Report of the Andalusian registry of patients with end stage renal disease in 
treatment with peritoneal dialysis: period 1999-2004].

[Article in Spanish]

Remón C(1), Quirós PL, Pérez Bañasco V, Torán D, Tejuca F, Merino MJ, Guerrero 
J, Ruiz A, Páez MC, Martínez E, Espigares MJ, González L, Martín G, Castro P, 
Fernández E.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario Puerto Real, Cádiz. cesarkai@telefonica.net

PMID: 16649425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Nefrologia. 2006;26(1):84-97.

[Late nephrology referral influences on morbidity and mortality of hemodialysis 
patients. A provincial study].

[Article in Spanish]

Peña JM(1), Logroño JM, Pernaute R, Laviades C, Virto R, Vicente de Vera C.

Author information:
(1)Servicios de Nefrología del Hospital de Barbastro. Universitario Arnau de 
Vilanova de Lérida. jmpenna@salud.aragob.es

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the influence of late referral to nephrology of the 
patients with chronic renal failure in the morbimortality of the patients who 
start hemodialysis. SUBJETS AND METHODS: There were included in the study the 
patients who started hemodialysis (HD) as first form of treatment, and that 
survived at least three months in both hospitals of reference of the province of 
Huesca from january 1990 to december 2001. Patients who started HD after acute 
renal failure were excluded. Clinical and analytical data were determined for 
each patient at the start of HD and during the follow-up. Early (ER) and late 
referral (LR) were defined by the time of first nephrology encounter greather 
than or less than 4 months respectively, before HD initiation. Morbidity 
analysis (using multiple linear regression with rate of days of hospitalization 
as dependent variable) and global and anual during the first three years of 
follow-up survival analysis (using Cox proportional hazards regression) were 
carried out.
RESULTS: A total of 139 patients (78%) started HD in the ER group and 39 (22%) 
in LR group. Mean follow-up was similar in both (ER = 34.43 +/- 25.5 months; LR 
= 34.42 +/- 28.37 months). At the start of dialysis LR was associated to higher 
proportion of temporary catheters, lower level of hematocrit and albumin, higher 
comorbidity and higher levels of urea and creatinine. Risk factors selected by 
the model in the morbidity analysis were index of comorbidity (CI), late 
referral, serum albumin, urea reduction ratio (URR) and hematocrit (R2 = 0.334, 
F = 16.97, p < 0.005). The final equation of regression was: Rate of 
hospitalization's days = 101.12 + (2.45 x CI) - (12. 11 x LR) - (11.57 x Alb.) - 
(0.43 x PRU) - (0.83 x Hto). Variables selected by Cox's regression model that 
were associated with survival throughout complete follow-up were hematocrit (RR 
= -0,207, CI 95% 0.726-0.910, p < 0.0005), index of comorbidity (RR = 0,265, CI 
95% 1.066-1.594, p = 0.007), PRU (RR = - 0,059, CI 95% 0.893-0.996, p = 0.038) 
and type of dialysis membrane (RR = 0,771, Cl 95% 0.260-0.822, p = 0.007). 
Nevertheless, in successive models fitting after 12, 24 and 36 months of 
follow-up the variable LR influenced in an independent way survival first two 
years, losing his significance later.
CONCLUSION: In our study patients of the group LR presented a worse clinical and 
metabolic situation at the beginning of the HD. Later there was demonstrated in 
this group a higher long-term morbidity and a lower survival the first two 
years.

PMID: 16649429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nefrologia. 2006;26(1):113-20.

[Renal transplantation in HIV-infected patients in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Mazuecos A(1), Pascual J, Gómez E, Sola E, Cofán F, López F, Puig-Hooper CE, 
Baltar JM, González-Molina M, Oppenheimer F, Marcén R, Rivero M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Hospital Puerta del Mar,. Cádiz. 
mauxiliadora.maziecos.sspa@juntadeandalucia.es

HIV infection has experienced dramatic improvement in morbidity and mortality 
with the highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). This prompted a 
reevaluation of organ-solid transplantation as a treatment option for 
HIV-infected patients. Some trials in the United States have shown that one- and 
2-year graft and patient survival is comparable to HIV-negative transplant 
population. In Europe the experience is still scarce. The aim of this study is 
to analyse the outcome and the clinical characteristics of HIV-infected patients 
who received kidney transplantation in Spain in the HAART era. Ten patients were 
transplanted in our country since 2001. Only one patient was black. The main 
cause of end-stage renal disease reported was glomerulonephritis. Six of the 
recipients were coinfected by hepatitis C virus. Inclusion criteria included 
undetectable HIV viral load and CD4 counts greater than 200/pL. 
Immunosuppression consisted of steroids, tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil, 
with antibody induction in 4 cases. The median and mean follow-up was 11 and 
16.3+/-15.6 (3-46) months, respectively. One recipient lost his graft because of 
early renal venous thrombosis. The remaining patients are functioning graft with 
mean serum creatinina level of 1.5 +/- 0.5 mg/dl. Biopsy-proven acute rejection 
was diagnosed in 4 recipients and was reversed in all cases with antirejection 
treatment. The plasma HIV RNA levels have remained controlled and CD4 counts 
have been stable in excess of 200 cell/microL. None of patients have developed 
AIDS complications. Recipients receiving protease inhibitor-based HAART regimens 
required significant dosing modification to maintain appropriate tacrolimus 
levels. Our results show that renal transplantation can be a safe and effective 
treatment in select HIV-infected patients. Like other series, the acute 
rejection rate was higher than in non-HIV recipients. The reasons of this 
rejection incidence remain unknown.

PMID: 16649432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Assoc Physicians India. 2006 Jan;54:36-41.

Comprehensive stroke care: an overview.

Mishra NK(1), Patel H, Hastak SM.

Author information:
(1)WHO-ICASS Stroke Study, Stroke Unit and Department of Neuroscience, Lilavati 
Hospital and Research Center, Bandra, Mumbai.

Stroke is a global epidemic and an important cause of morbidity and mortality. 
It ranks next to cardiovascular disease and cancer as a cause of death. "India 
is likely to suffer huge social and economic burden in the rehabilitation of 
stroke patients owing to increased life expectancy" and urbanization. Though, 
there are national programs in malaria eradication and tuberculosis control, 
there is hardly any governmental support in stroke management and 
rehabilitation. We propose to formulate stroke-prevention strategies specific to 
our national needs and covering all the age groups. Allocation of resources 
towards the stroke management and research is needed. Emphasis on stroke 
awareness in community should be stressed and should be inclusive of means of 
primordial and primary prevention apart from management of stroke and its 
recurrence. Recent international experience in stroke management has suggested 
the need of specialized stroke units (comprehensive stroke care under one roof). 
We wish to establish the need of creating awareness regarding the urgency of 
specialized care in acute stroke. We also wish to motivate our national health 
institutions to offer affordable, evidence based management of stroke and offer 
opportunities in stroke training and research.

PMID: 16649738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Comp Biochem Physiol B Biochem Mol Biol. 2006 Jun;144(2):159-66. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbpb.2006.02.012. Epub 2006 Mar 3.

Cloning, characterization and expression analysis of two Tetraodon nigroviridis 
interleukin-16 isoform genes.

Wen Y(1), Shao JZ, Xiang LX, Fang W.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310012, People's 
Republic of China.

Interleukin-16 (IL-16) is an important pro-inflammatory cytokine that functions 
as a chemoattractant factor and is well characterized in human and other 
mammals, but is largely unknown in fish. In the present study, two isoforms of 
pro-IL-16 homologues were cloned and characterized from pufferfish Tetraodon 
nigroviridis. The full-length T. nigroviridis pro-IL-16 isoform 1 cDNA exhibits 
2453 bp in size including 291 bp 5'UTR (untranslated region), 1704 bp ORF (open 
reading frame) and 458 bp 3'UTR, while pro-IL-16 isoform 2 cDNA exhibits a 3801 
bp ORF and a 458 bp 3'UTR. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that the 
pro-IL-16 isoform 1 with a predicted mass of 60.6 kDa contained two PDZ 
(postsynaptic density/disc large/zona occludens-1) domains, whereas the 138.2 
kDa pro-IL-16 isoform 2 had two additional PDZ domains in its N-terminal 
extension. RT-PCR results revealed that ,almost in all examined organs and 
tissues, the mRNA of both pro-IL-16 isoforms can be detected, except in 
intestine and gill, where the isoform 2 mRNA is absent. The two putative 
precursor proteins showed 30.0-33.0% identity to various mammalian and avian 
homologues. This is the first report of such genes in teleostean fish and we 
hope the molecular characterization of these two pro-IL-16 isoforms will provide 
insights into the study of both evolution of IL-16 precursor proteins and the 
immune system as a whole.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpb.2006.02.012
PMID: 16651015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Circulation. 2006 May 9;113(18):2238-44. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.599175.  Epub 2006 May 1.

Outcome of watchful waiting in asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation.

Rosenhek R(1), Rader F, Klaar U, Gabriel H, Krejc M, Kalbeck D, Schemper M, 
Maurer G, Baumgartner H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 
raphael.rosenhek@meduniwien.ac.at

Comment in
    Circulation. 2006 May 9;113(18):2169-72.

BACKGROUND: The management of asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation remains 
controversial. The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of a watchful 
waiting strategy in which patients are referred to surgery when symptoms occur 
or when asymptomatic patients develop left ventricular (LV) enlargement, LV 
dysfunction, pulmonary hypertension, or recurrent atrial fibrillation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 132 consecutive asymptomatic patients (age 
55+/-15 years, 49 female) with severe degenerative mitral regurgitation (flail 
leaflet or valve prolapse) were prospectively followed up for 62+/-26 months. 
Patients underwent serial clinical and echocardiographic examinations and were 
referred for surgery when the criteria mentioned above were fulfilled. Overall 
survival was not statistically different from expected survival either in the 
total group or in the subgroup of patients with flail leaflet. Eight deaths were 
observed. Thirty-eight patients developed criteria for surgery (symptoms, 24; LV 
criteria, 9; pulmonary hypertension or atrial fibrillation, 5). Survival free of 
any indication for surgery was 92+/-2% at 2 years, 78+/-4% at 4 years, 65+/-5% 
at 6 years, and 55+/-6% at 8 years. Patients with flail leaflet tended to 
develop criteria for surgery slightly but not significantly earlier. There was 
no operative mortality. Postoperative outcome was good with regard to survival, 
symptomatic status, and postoperative LV function.
CONCLUSIONS: Asymptomatic patients with severe degenerative mitral regurgitation 
can be safely followed up until either symptoms occur or currently recommended 
cutoff values for LV size, LV function, or pulmonary hypertension are reached. 
This management strategy is associated with good perioperative and postoperative 
outcome but requires careful follow-up.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.599175
PMID: 16651470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 May 9;103(19):7450-3. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0602259103. Epub 2006 May 1.

Bioportfolio: lifelong persistence of variant and prototypic erythrovirus DNA 
genomes in human tissue.

Norja P(1), Hokynar K, Aaltonen LM, Chen R, Ranki A, Partio EK, Kiviluoto O, 
Davidkin I, Leivo T, Eis-Hübinger AM, Schneider B, Fischer HP, Tolba R, 
Vapalahti O, Vaheri A, Söderlund-Venermo M, Hedman K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Virology, Haartman Institute, University of Helsinki, FI-00290, 
Helsinki, Finland.

Human erythrovirus is a minute, single-stranded DNA virus causing many diseases, 
including erythema infectiosum, arthropathy, and fetal death. After primary 
infection, the viral genomes persist in solid tissues. Besides the prototype, 
virus type 1, two major variants (virus types 2 and 3) have been identified 
recently, the clinical significance and epidemiology of which are mostly 
unknown. We examined 523 samples of skin, synovium, tonsil, or liver (birth year 
range, 1913-2000), and 1,640 sera, by qualitative and quantitative molecular 
assays for the DNA of human erythroviruses. Virus types 1 and 2 were found in 
132 (25%) and 58 (11%) tissues, respectively. DNA of virus type 1 was found in 
all age groups, whereas that of type 2 was strictly confined to those subjects 
born before 1973 (P < 0.001). Correspondingly, the sera from the past two 
decades contained DNA of type 1 but not type 2 or 3. Our data suggest strongly 
that the newly identified human erythrovirus type 2 as well as the prototype 1 
circulated in Northern and Central Europe in equal frequency, more than half a 
century ago, whereafter type 2 disappeared from circulation. Type 3 never 
attained wide occurrence in this area during the past > or =70 years. The 
erythrovirus DNA persistence in human tissues is lifelong and represents a 
source of information about our past, the Bioportfolio, which, at the individual 
level, provides a registry of one's infectious encounters, and at the population 
level, a database for epidemiological and phylogenetic analyses.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0602259103
PMCID: PMC1464359
PMID: 16651522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts 
declared.


634. Health Econ. 2006 Oct;15(10):1109-20. doi: 10.1002/hec.1114.

The economics of diagnosis.

Laking G(1), Lord J, Fischer A.

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester Wolfson Molecular Imaging Centre, Manchester, UK. 
george.laking@manchester.ac.uk

Any population can be divided into two groups, one with the presence of a given 
disease or condition, and the other without. Diagnosis consists of using tests 
to sort the population into these groups. Diagnostic tests use a threshold value 
of a diagnostic variable to distinguish between disease-positive and 
disease-negative individuals. The analysis of error in diagnostic tests has 
typically been undertaken using receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curves. 
More recently, economic value of information (VOI) methods have characterised 
the costs and consequences of testing. This paper develops a new method for 
economic test evaluation, which we call ROTS analysis. The ROTS curve plots the 
costs and effects of changing test thresholds, in cost-effectiveness space. We 
illustrate the use of our method with a worked example, and show how it can 
answer three key questions: (1) Is there any test that is worth doing? (2) What 
is a test's optimum operating point in terms of sensitivity and specificity? (3) 
If two tests are available, which is best? We contrast the merits of our method 
with those of established ROC and VOI analysis. We argue that ROTS analysis more 
clearly reveals the link between changing test thresholds and the 
cost-effectiveness of different treatments.

Copyright (c) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1114
PMID: 16652389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Plant Physiol. 1979 Apr;63(4):609-14. doi: 10.1104/pp.63.4.609.

Role of auxin and gibberellin in differentiation of primary Phloem fibers.

Aloni R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, Tel Aviv University, The George S. Wise Center for Life 
Sciences, Tel Aviv, Israel.

The hypothesis that auxin and gibberellic acid (GA(3)) control the 
differentiation of primary phloem fibers is confirmed for the stem of Coleus 
blumei Benth. Indoleacetic acid (IAA) alone sufficed to cause the 
differentiation of a few primary phloem fibers. In long term experiments auxin 
induced a considerable number of fibers in mature internodes. GA(3) by itself 
did not exert any effect on fiber differentiation. Combinatiosn of IAA with 
GA(3) completely replaced the role of the leaves in primary phloem fiber 
differentiation qualitatively and quantitatively. Although the combined effect 
of the two growth hormones diminished considerably with increasing distance from 
the source of induction, auxin with GA(3) or IAA alone induced fibers in a few 
internodes below the application site. When various combinations of both 
hormones were applied, high concentrations of IAA stimulated rapid 
differentiation of fibers with thick secondary walls, while high levels of GA(3) 
resulted in long fibers with thin walls. The size of the primary phloem fibers 
correlated with the dimensions of the differentiating internode, thereby 
providing evidence that both growth regulators figure in the control of stem 
extension. High IAA/low GA(3) concentrations have an inhibitory effect on 
internode elongation, whereas low IAA/high GA(3) concentrations promote maximal 
stem elongation.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.63.4.609
PMCID: PMC542882
PMID: 16660777


636. Proc Inst Mech Eng H. 2006 Feb;220(2):399-407. doi: 10.1243/095441105X63282.

Cancer incidence and causes of death among total hip replacement patients: a 
review based on Nordic cohorts with a special emphasis on metal-on-metal 
bearings.

Visuri TI(1), Pukkala E, Pulkkinen P, Paavolainen P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Research Institute of Military Medicine, Central 
Military Hospital, Helsinki, Finland. Tuomo.Visuri@helsinki.fi

All patients with total hip arthroplasty (THA) are exposed to soluble or 
particulate forms of Co and Cr. Adverse effects of these wear products are not 
known. Data from Nordic registries is used to estimate adverse effects on a 
large scale, based mostly on metal-on-polyethylene bearings. Cancer incidence 
was in line with the general population when the patients were operated on for 
all indications and significantly decreased when the indication was primary 
osteoarthritis. Stomach cancer and colorectal cancers were significantly reduced 
and prostate cancer and skin melanoma significantly increased. There was no 
significant excess of cancer in target organs, i.e. liver, kidney, or 
haematopoietic cancers. THA patients had reduced mortality and extended life 
expectancy compared with standard Nordic populations. All-site cancer incidence 
of the first-generation metal-on-metal McKee-Farrar patients operated on for 
primary osteoarthritis was in line with the general population after follow-up 
for up to 28 years. General mortality of these patients was also reduced and 
they also had an extended life expectancy. Temporary increases in haematopoietic 
cancers at different follow-up periods were seen in some cohorts. This 
malignancy deserves a special record linkage monitoring while large numbers of 
young patients are provided with the second generation of metal-on-metal 
prostheses.

DOI: 10.1243/095441105X63282
PMID: 16669405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Sociol Health Illn. 2006 May;28(4):479-502. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-9566.2006.00502.x.

Risk, life extension and the pursuit of medical possibility.

Shim JK(1), Russ AJ, Kaufman SR.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health and Aging, University of California-San Francisco, 3333 
California Street, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. janet.shim@ucsf.edu

With increasing frequency, the oldest members of US society are undergoing 
medical interventions aimed at prolonging life. Using cardiac care as a case 
study, this paper explores how a discourse of risk infuses and legitimates 
high-tech clinical treatments in late life. In particular, we examine how the 
diminishing risks associated with biomedical procedures produce a sense of 
medical possibility regarding life extension, and push the definition of "old 
age" into a receding future. Simultaneously, physicians, patients and families 
come to understand the management and reduction of future cardiac risks to be 
germane for individuals even near the end of life. Driven by the logic and 
language of risk, decisions to intervene are experienced as incremental and 
largely unremarkable, and the pursuit of an open-ended future via biomedical 
means is perceived as an ethical imperative, trumping deliberation or discussion 
of the utility of intervention and the ultimate ends being pursued. For 
practitioners and patients alike, the engagement of risk, the preservation of 
hope it facilitates and the routinisation of intervention it produces all 
contribute to the emerging mandate to treat at ever-older ages.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9566.2006.00502.x
PMID: 16669809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Ann Oncol. 2006 Jul;17(7):1072-82. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdl093. Epub 2006 May
2.

Cost effectiveness of bisphosphonates in the management of breast cancer 
patients with bone metastases.

Botteman M(1), Barghout V, Stephens J, Hay J, Brandman J, Aapro M.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. mbotteman@pharmerit.com

Comment in
    Ann Oncol. 2007 Feb;18(2):393.

BACKGROUND: Bisphosphonates are recommended to prevent skeletal related events 
(SREs) in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases (BCBM). However, their 
clinical and economic profiles vary from one agent to the other.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using modeling techniques, we simulated from the 
perspective of the UK's National Health Service (NHS) the cost and quality 
adjusted survival (QALY) associated with five commonly-used bisphosphonates or 
no therapy in this patient population. The simulation followed patients into 
several health states (i.e. alive or dead, experiencing an SRE or no SRE, and 
receiving first or second line therapy). Drugs costs, infusion costs, SREs 
costs, and utility values were estimated from published sources. Utilities were 
applied to time with and without SREs to capture the impact on quality of life.
RESULTS: Compared to no therapy, all bisphosphonates are either cost saving or 
highly cost-effective (with a cost per QALY < or = 6126 pounds sterlings). 
Within this evaluation, zoledronic acid was more effective and less expensive 
than all other options.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our model, the use of bisphosphonates in breast cancer 
patients with bone metastases should lead to improved patient outcomes and cost 
savings to the NHS and possibly other similar entities.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdl093
PMID: 16670202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Am J Public Health. 2006 Jun;96(6):955; author reply 955-6. doi: 
10.2105/AJPH.2006.085514. Epub 2006 May 2.

What's missing from the weathering hypothesis?

Thomas NM.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 2006 May;96(5):826-33.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.085514
PMCID: PMC1470633
PMID: 16670215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Immunol. 2006 May 15;176(10):6270-6. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.176.10.6270.

Control of metastasized pancreatic carcinomas in SCID/beige mice with human 
IL-2/TKD-activated NK cells.

Stangl S(1), Wortmann A, Guertler U, Multhoff G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital Regensburg, 
Franz-Josef Strauss Allee 11, 93053 Regensburg, Germany.

Pancreatic carcinoma, the fifth leading cause of cancer-related mortality, 
frequently presents the stress-inducible heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) on the 
cell membrane. Therefore, we explored an immunological approach exploiting the 
efficacy of NK cells activated either with low dose IL-2 plus Hsp70-peptide 
TKDNNLLGRFELSG (TKD; IL-2/TKD) or with IL-2 alone in a xenograft pancreatic 
carcinoma model. An orthotopic injection of either 2.5 x 10(6) or 1 x 10(6) 
Colo357 cells in SCID/beige mice resulted in rapidly growing primary tumors and 
the development of hepatic metastases on days 5 and 10, respectively. In line 
with results of in vitro migration assays, these NK cells also had the capacity 
to infiltrate pancreatic tumors and liver metastases in tumor-bearing mice. In 
vitro, a combined treatment of NK cells with IL-2/TKD but neither of the two 
treatments alone causes a profound increase in the lytic capacity against Hsp70 
membrane-positive Colo357 cells. In vivo, a single i.v. injection of these NK 
cells on day 15 post-tumor inoculation resulted in a significant reduction in 
tumor weights, a delayed onset of hepatic metastases, and a prolonged life 
expectancy. In contrast, identically treated T cells and NK cells treated with 
IL-2 alone were significantly less efficient in controlling pancreatic tumors 
and metastases. Most importantly, four repeated i.v. infusions of 
IL-2/TKD-activated NK cells eradicated primary tumors and prevented hepatic 
metastases. In summary, our mouse data have implicated that NK cells 
preactivated with IL-2/TKD might provide a novel therapeutic tool for the 
treatment of aggressive, Hsp70-positive pancreatic carcinoma.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.176.10.6270
PMID: 16670338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nursing. 2006 May;36(5):66-8. doi: 10.1097/01.nurse.0000393394.10445.07.

Facing up to prostate cancer.

Ficorelli CT(1), Weeks B.

Author information:
(1)Kingsborough Community College, Brooklyn, NY, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/01.nurse.0000393394.10445.07
PMID: 16670611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Clin Rheumatol. 2007 Feb;26(2):139-43. doi: 10.1007/s10067-006-0314-2. Epub
2006  May 3.

Strategies for the prevention and control of osteoporosis in developing 
countries.

Morales-Torres J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Guanajuato at León, Osteoporosis Unit, Hospital Aranda de la 
Parra, Hidalgo 329-704, León 37000, GTO, Mexico. jorgitomorales@prodigy.net.mx

The frequency of osteoporosis and fragility fractures has been studied to a very 
limited extent in few developing countries. The aim of this paper is to review 
briefly the burden of osteoporosis and fragility fractures in these countries 
and to propose some strategies for the prevention and control of those 
conditions, considering barriers and facilitators for their implementation. The 
evolution of the demographic composition in most regions with developing 
countries shows a considerable increase in life expectancy and therefore, a 
significant growth in elderly population can be expected. Reports on the 
incidence of fragility fractures show figures in many of those countries that 
are comparable to those found in developed nations. Health resources (for acute 
treatment of fractures, their rehabilitation and chronic management, for 
diagnostic centers and drug therapy for osteoporosis) are limited in most of 
those regions and are allocated to other health priorities. Internationally 
accepted guidelines can be adapted to the realities of developing nations and 
may be promoted by organizations of health professionals and patients, but 
require endorsement and support by health authorities. The steps should include: 
(a) campaigns to increase awareness, both among the population at risk and 
relevant health workers; (b) the promotion of a preventive lifestyle in the 
general population; (c) the development of national or regional, evidence-based 
guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of osteoporosis; (d) development and 
implementation of guidelines for the treatment of fragility fractures, their 
rehabilitation and prevention of falls; (e) collection of economic data on 
fractures and osteoporosis; and (f) development of country-specific fracture 
databases. These steps may help in reducing the increasing burden of 
osteoporotic fractures. Their implementation will require solid scientific basis 
and commitment from policy makers, health professionals, patient organizations, 
and ultimately the general population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-006-0314-2
PMID: 16670826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Lancet. 2006 Apr 29;367(9520):1385-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68596-6.

Japan moves to guard against future health-spending rises.

McCurry J.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68596-6
PMID: 16671186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2006 
Jun;49(6):506-12. doi: 10.1007/s00103-006-1278-8.

[Results from biomedical aging research. Trends and current examples from 
immunology].

[Article in German]

Pfister G(1), Herndler-Brandstetter D, Grubeck-Loebenstein B.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Biomedizinische Alternsforschung, Osterreichische Akademie der 
Wissenschaften, Rennweg 10, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria. gerald.pfister@oeaw.ac.at

The public health of our society is challenged by a continuous increase in life 
expectancy. Hence, biomedical aging research is enjoying a steadily increasing 
popularity but also enlightens our understanding of age-related diseases by a 
number of striking results from basic research. One of the most striking changes 
that occurs during normal human aging is an overall diminution of immune 
functions, a phenomenon often termed immunosenescence. Starting from some highly 
exciting examples from basic immunological research, this article sheds light on 
which impact normal human aging has on several immune defence mechanisms. In 
addition, clinical consequences in view of Alzheimer's disease, immunogenicity 
of vaccines and autoimmune diseases are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-006-1278-8
PMID: 16673069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Acta Chir Iugosl. 2005;52(4):37-40. doi: 10.2298/aci0504037s.

Radical retropubic prostatectomy for prostate carcinoma; first results of the 
Clinic of Urology in Skopje.

Stavridis S(1), Georgiev V, Popov Z, Penev M, Lekovski Lj, Stankov O, Dohcev S, 
Petrovski D, Saidi S, Kuzmanovski M, Banev S, Stavridis A.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Centre Skopje, Clinic of Urology, Skopje, Macedonia.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this retrospective study is to present our experience and 
results in the management of prostate carcinoma, with radical retropubic 
prostatectomy, for a period of seven years.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: From December 1997 to April 2005, 61 radical retropubic 
prostatectomies for prostate carcinoma were performed at the Clinic of Urology 
in Skopje. Mean age of the treated patients was 66.4 years. Mean serum PSA level 
was 32.75 ng/ml. None of the patients had distant or bone metastases. Mean 
operative time was 160 minutes and from 2 to 4 units of blood were transfused 
intra and postoperatively. Mean follow up time was 39 months.
RESULTS: In all of 61 patients, the RRP was performed for adenocarcinoma of the 
prostate. The pathological findings postoperatively showed the following pTNM 
grade: pT2a in 8, pT2b in 10, pT3a in 10, pT3b in 27and pT4 in 6 patients. 
Positive lymph nodes were found in 14 cases. Intraoperative complications 
occurred in 6 patients. Early postoperative complications were seen in 12 
patients. Urine leakage was seen in 2 patients, incontinence (day and night) in 
8 and pulmonary embolia in 2 patients. Late postoperative complications occurred 
in 11 patients. Stenosis of the vesicourethral anasthomosis was seen in 3 
patients and incontinence (during the night only) in 8 patients. The rate of 
potency was not evaluated but in the last 30 cases we insisted on preservation 
of the neurovascular bundles in the cases that it was possible.
CONCLUSION: Radical retropubic prostatectomy is the method of choice and the 
golden standard for treatment of organ confined prostate carcinoma in patients 
with long life expectancy, no neither local nor distant metastases and good 
overall status. With this technique complication rates are minimal, the cure 
rate is very big and the patients have high quality of life. The experience of 
the surgeon is very important since the learning curve is crucial for 
diminishing operative time, postoperative complications and blood transfusions.

DOI: 10.2298/aci0504037s
PMID: 16673592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Acta Chir Iugosl. 2005;52(4):93-102. doi: 10.2298/aci0504093r.

Radiotherapy in prostate cancer treatment.

Radosevic-Jelic Lj(1), Stojanovic S, Popov I.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Radiology and Oncology, Belgrade.

Prostate cancer is a complex disease, with many controversial aspects of 
management in almost all stages of disease. The natural history of this tumor is 
variable and is influenced by multiple prognostic factors. Radical prostatectomy 
and radiotherapy are standard treatment options for disease limited to the 
prostate. The data in literature does not provide clear- cut evidence for the 
superiority of any treatment. Neo- adjuvant or adjuvant hormonal therapy 
improves local control and survival in locally advanced disease. The patients 
treated with radiotherapy would have a relatively long life expectancy, not 
great risk factors for radiation toxicity and a preference for radiotherapy. The 
advantages of radiotherapy are that it has a significant potential for cure, it 
is well tolerated in the majority of men especially when the modern techniques 
of conformal radiotherapy and intensity modulated therapy are used and it is 
non-invasive therapeutic options with no anesthesia risk. Expected complications 
like radiation cystitis, impotence and proctitis are registered in about 1% of 
patients.

DOI: 10.2298/aci0504093r
PMID: 16673604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Rev Med Suisse. 2006 Apr 5;2(60):942-6.

[When can the treatment of isolated systolic hypertension be avoided?].

[Article in French]

Vischer UM(1), Benetos A.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital de gériatrie 3, ch. Du Pont Bochet 1226 Thônex. 
ulrich.vischer@hcuge.ch

The treatment of isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) in the elderly reduces the 
cardiovascular (CV) risk, in particular in patients with diabetes or previous CV 
events. However, in the very old (> 80-85 years) the treatment of ISH may 
increase global mortality, although it still decreases the risk of stroke. The 
benefits of treatment on the risk of dementia remain uncertain. To verify the 
indication for therapy, the diagnosis of ISH should be confirmed by ambulatory 
blood pressure monitoring. Since the absolute benefit of treatment is related to 
its duration, a limited life expectancy may restrict the real impact of 
treatment. The advantages and limitations of anti-hypertensive therapy in the 
elderly should be discussed individually, respecting the patient's autonomy.

PMID: 16673726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Med Pregl. 2005 Nov-Dec;58(11-12):529-33. doi: 10.2298/mpns0512529p.

[Clinical characteristics of coinfection with hepatitis C virus in HIV-positive 
patients].

[Article in Serbian]

Preveden T(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinicki centar Novi Sad, Klinika za infektivne bolesti. tomkis@eunet.yu

INTRODUCTION: Patients with HIV are commonly coinfected with hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) mostly due to similar routes of transmission, especially in areas with 
high prevalence of intravenous drug use. In the era of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART), life expectancy of these patients has increased 
and end-stage liver disease is a common cause of death.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study included 387 HIV-positive patients treated at 
the Institute of Infectious and Tropical Diseases "Dr. Kosta Todorović" in 
Belgrade. We investigated epidemiological and clinical features of patients who 
underwent biochemical liver tests, ultrasonography and some of them blind liver 
biopsies.
RESULTS: The prevalence of HCV infection among these patients was 58.13% with 
225/387 ELISA anti-HCV-antibody positive patients. HCV coinfection was 
statistically more significant among male patients aged between 30 and 34, and 
among intravenous drug users. None of the biochemical parameters were 
statistically significant among coinfected patients, except aminotraspherase 
levels which were significantly higher among patients with chronic hepatitis C 
and HIV. 44 patients underwent biopsy and pathohistological findings showed that 
every 4th patient (25%) had chronic hepatitis C infection. The average survival 
rate in coinfected patients in the pre HAART era was the same as in AIDS 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Liver biopsy, elevated aminotraspherase and positive serology can 
help in making the diagnosis of chronic hepatitis C, and possible future 
treatment options.

DOI: 10.2298/mpns0512529p
PMID: 16673853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Ann Fr Anesth Reanim. 2006 Sep;25(9):967-70. doi:
10.1016/j.annfar.2006.03.018.  Epub 2006 May 3.

[Necrotizing skin and soft tissue infections: definitions, clinical and 
microbiological features].

[Article in French]

Gauzit R(1).

Author information:
(1)Unité de réanimation chirurgicale, département d'anesthésie-réanimation, CHU 
Hôtel-Dieu, université Paris-V, place du Parvis-Notre-Dame, 75004 Paris, France. 
remy.gauzit@htd.ap-hop-paris.fr

Among the three types of soft tissue and skins infections (cellulitis, 
necrotising cellulitis and necrotising fasciitis) only the necrotising injuries 
are commonly managed in intensive care unit. Location, depth and severity of 
these potentially life threatening infections may vary and cannot be predicted 
on clinical grounds No microbiological deduction can be made from clinical 
signs. A mixed aerobic-anaerobic flora is cultured in 40 to 80% of the cases. 
Magnetic resonance imaging and CT-scan are the best techniques to assess the 
diagnosis and determine the extension of infection. However, these exams should 
not delay surgical treatment. Fifteen to 30% of the patients die. Three 
parameters play a key role in the prognosis: ability of the physician to 
recognise the disease and to evaluate the severity of infection, early onset of 
antimicrobial therapy, and most of all early surgical debridement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annfar.2006.03.018
PMID: 16675192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Clin Virol. 2006 Sep;37(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jcv.2006.03.005. Epub 2006
May  3.

Cytomegalovirus disease in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART).

Steininger C(1), Puchhammer-Stöckl E, Popow-Kraupp T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Division of Infectious Diseases, Medical 
University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria. 
christop.steininger@meduniwien.ac.at

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection was one of the most important opportunistic 
infections in HIV-infected patients before the introduction of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART), i.e. the combination of at least three 
antiretroviral drugs of different classes. Thereafter, life expectancy and 
quality of life increased dramatically with the persistent suppression of HIV 
viremia and a significant reduction in incidence of CMV disease. Nevertheless, 
evidence for a multitude of direct and indirect effects of CMV on HIV 
progression is accumulating. Even in the era of HAART, a considerable number of 
HIV-infected patients have a CD4 cell count below <100 mm(-3), which involves a 
high risk for CMV disease. The focus of the present review is on interpretation 
of test results, their predictive value for CMV disease, and guidance for the 
rational use of diagnostic assays in HIV-infected patients. Identification of 
patients at immediate risk for CMV disease may be accomplished by detection of 
CMV-DNA in leucocytes or plasma. Evidence is growing that CMV genotypes may be 
also relevant for the risk of CMV disease. Diagnosis of CMV disease requires in 
most instances demonstration of virus in biopsy specimen from the affected organ 
because presence of CMV in blood may not be causally related to symptoms 
observed. Clinical symptoms and patient characteristics are essential in the 
interpretation of laboratory test results and may guide the rational collection 
of clinical specimen and use of laboratory assays. As a consequence, a reliable 
diagnosis of CMV disease and early identification of patients at high risk for 
CMV disease requires an integrated interpretation of clinical and virological 
information.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcv.2006.03.005
PMID: 16675299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2006 May;14(5):287-93. doi: 
10.5435/00124635-200605000-00004.

Displaced femoral neck fractures in the elderly: hemiarthroplasty versus total 
hip arthroplasty.

Macaulay W(1), Pagnotto MR, Iorio R, Mont MA, Saleh KJ.

Author information:
(1)Center of Hip and Knee Replacement, and Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.

The incidence of femoral neck fracture among the elderly in the United States is 
expected to increase dramatically because of the anticipated explosion in the 
population aged 65 years and older, increased life expectancy, and the rising 
incidence of osteoporosis. The resulting public health implications may be 
significant, with annual hospital admissions resulting from hip fracture 
projected to increase to 700,000 by 2050, and with annual spending on hip 
fracture care expected to exceed 15 billion dollars within a few years. The 
decision to perform internal fixation, unipolar hemiarthroplasty, bipolar 
hemiarthroplasty, or THA must be based on patient mental status, living 
arrangement, level of independence and activity, and bone and joint quality.

DOI: 10.5435/00124635-200605000-00004
PMID: 16675622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. BMJ. 2006 May 6;332(7549):1095-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.332.7549.1095-c.

The cause for quiet celebration.

Barford A, Dorling D, Davey Smith G, Shaw M.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2006 Apr 8;332(7545):808.
    BMJ. 2006 Apr 22;332(7547):976.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.332.7549.1095-c
PMCID: PMC1458558
PMID: 16675827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Dec;26(12):939-42.

[Study on the active life expectancy of the elderly and its longitudinal 
transition in Beijing].

[Article in Chinese]

Tang Z(1), Xiang MJ, Zimmer Z, Fang XH, Kaneda T.

Author information:
(1)Xuanwu Hospital, Capital University of Medical Science, Beijing 100053, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: Focus on the Active Life Expectancy (ALE) of elderly in Beijing and 
the transition in recent years.
METHODS: A representative sample of 3257 elderly people who lived in the urban, 
suburban and rural communities in Beijing that had been followed up for 12 
years. Their health and survival status had been surveyed every 2-3 years. 
Activity Daily Living scale (ADL), recommended by WHO was used to evaluate the 
physical function capability of the elderly. IMaCH 0.8 was used to estimate life 
expectancy (LE) and active life expectancy (ALE) for both periods while age, sex 
and rural/urban residence areas were adjusted.
RESULTS: Longitudinally, data showed that the main characters remained unchange 
throughout the two periods including 1) LE, ALE, ALE/LE of elderly living in 
urban area were higher than those living in rural area; 2) LE seemed longer in 
women than men, but ALE/LE was less in women. The transition between two period 
showed that 1) LE increased modestly in all groups but less prominent in urban 
residents and in females; 2) ALE was not significantly changed in the rural 
elderly but declined markedly in women living in the urban area; 3) ALE/LE of 
the elderly declined in all groups, especially in urban and oldest old groups.
CONCLUSION: In Beijing, elderly AL-E did not increase in parallel with the 
increase of LE while ALE/LE of the elderly declined significantly in recent 
years. In order to improve quality of life of the elderly and to increase their 
ALE, emphasis should be given to prevention of cardiovascular, cerebrovascular 
and other chronic diseases while reducing the occurrence of physical disability 
and strengthening on rehabilitation would be the basic health care measures.

PMID: 16676585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Aviat Space Environ Med. 2006 Apr;77(4):434-42; discussion 442-3.

Decision analysis in aerospace medicine: costs and benefits of a hyperbaric 
facility in space.

John-Baptiste A(1), Cook T, Straus S, Naglie G, Gray G, Tomlinson G, Krahn M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
a.john.baptiste@utoronto.ca

INTRODUCTION: Assembly and maintenance of the International Space Station (ISS) 
requires an unprecedented number of spacewalks, which expose astronauts to the 
risk of decompression sickness (DCS). We illustrate the use of decision analysis 
to compare a hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) chamber to currently available therapy for 
DCS treatment on the ISS.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model that simulates events over the lifespan of 
the ISS was constructed. Inputs to the model for probabilities, costs, and 
measures of morbidity and mortality were derived from a variety of sources, 
including a systematic literature review and an iterative consultation process 
with personnel at the Canadian Space Agency and the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration (NASA). The decision model was analyzed using the methods 
of Monte-Carlo simulation and expected value calculation. Main outcome measures 
included the present value of costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs), and 
the cumulative probability of mission-related events over the life cycle of the 
ISS. Sensitivity analysis was performed.
RESULTS: The HBO chamber strategy is associated with a mean cost of -12.5 
million dollarsw (a net cost saving of 12.5 million dollars) with a 95% CI 
(-112.8 million dollars, 51.3 million dollars). An HBO chamber reduces the 
likelihood of a premature shuttle return and a premature Soyuz return by 8% and 
3%, respectively. The result is sensitive to the lifespan of the ISS.
CONCLUSIONS: At a 50 million dollars cost, an HBO chamber is likely, though not 
certain, to result in cost savings. Decision analysis is a useful tool for use 
in priority setting in aerospace medicine.

PMID: 16676656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
