DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20262
PMID: 16786523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Health Econ. 2006 Oct;15(10):1149-54. doi: 10.1002/hec.1122.

A theoretical framework for TTO valuations of health.

Buckingham K(1), Devlin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Otago University, New Zealand.

This paper proposes a theoretical framework, drawing on Hicks utility theory, 
for the Time Trade-off (TTO) method conventionally used to value health states. 
We briefly describe that theory and posit four distinctive TTO valuation 
approaches suggested by it: each of compensating variation and equivalent 
variation for both gains and losses in health, with valuation of health states 
in each case derived from trade-offs between health and length of life. Recent 
developments and research on TTO valuation are placed in the context of this 
framework.

Copyright (c) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1122
PMID: 16786547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. AANA J. 2006 Jun;74(3):183-7.

The life and trial of Dagmar Nelson--Part 1.

Van Nest RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Nurse Anesthesia Program, Uniformed Services University of the Health 
Sciences, Bethesda, MD, Maryland.

During the more desperate years of the Great Depression, a group of physicians 
brought an injunction proceeding against Dagmar Nelson and her employing 
hospital for illegally practicing medicine without a license. She administered 
general anesthesia and her employer knew it and supported her. It was a bizarre 
trial in that the arguments presented by both sides seem incongruous to our way 
of thinking today. The evidence presented at the trial echoed the predominant 
view at the time--the undisputed dominance of the male physician over the female 
nurse, who was portrayed, even by the defense, as only an extension of the 
surgeon who "has the power and therefore the responsibility" to control the 
surgery. Had she lost, anesthesia as a specialty of nursing would not exist. The 
method by which she won, however, has haunted us to this day. Part 2 of this 
2-part column on "The life and trial of Dagmar Nelson" is scheduled for 
publication in the August 2006 AANA Journal.

PMID: 16786911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Biol Chem. 2006 Aug 25;281(34):24623-36. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M602753200. Epub
 2006 Jun 20.

Transcription of human zinc finger ZNF268 gene requires an intragenic promoter 
element.

Guo MX(1), Wang D, Shao HJ, Qiu HL, Xue L, Zhao ZZ, Zhu CG, Shi YB, Li WX.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan 430072, China.

Human ZNF268 gene is a typical Kr√ºppel-associated box/C2H2 zinc finger gene 
whose homolog has been found only in higher mammals and not in lower mammals 
such as mouse. Its expression profiles have suggested that it plays a role in 
the differentiation of blood cells during early human embryonic development and 
the pathogenesis of leukemia. To gain additional insight into the molecular 
mechanisms controlling the expression of the ZNF268 gene and to provide the 
necessary tools for further genetic studies of leukemia, we have mapped the 
5'-end of the human ZNF268 mRNA by reverse transcription-PCR and primer 
extension assays. We then cloned the 5'-flanking genomic DNA containing the 
putative ZNF268 gene promoter and analyzed its function in several different 
human and mouse tissue culture cell lines. Interestingly, our studies show that 
the ZNF268 gene lacks a typical eukaryotic promoter that is present upstream of 
the transcription start site and directs a basal level of transcription. 
Instead, the functional promoter requires an essential element that is located 
within the first exon of the gene. Deletion and mutational analysis reveals the 
requirement for a cAMP response-element-binding protein (CREB)-binding site 
within this element for promoter function. Gel mobility shift and chromatin 
immunoprecipitation assays confirm that CREB-2 binds to the site in vitro and in 
vivo. Furthermore, overexpression of CREB-2 enhances the promoter activity. 
These results demonstrate that the human ZNF268 gene promoter is atypical and 
requires an intragenic element located within the first exon that mediates the 
effect of CREB for its activity.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M602753200
PMID: 16787922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Drugs. 2006;66(8):1033-9. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200666080-00001.

Treating ocular hypertension to reduce glaucoma risk: when to treat?

Higginbotham EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30310, USA. FCWEJH6786@aol.com

When to treat the patient who presents with ocular hypertension has been a 
question that has 'stumped' the ophthalmic community for decades. 
Population-based studies and intervention trials have provided the basis for 
understanding why we consider treating such patients. Although the EGPS 
(European Glaucoma Prevention Study) did not demonstrate that reducing 
intraocular pressure (IOP) with dorzolamide prevented the onset of glaucoma 
compared with individuals receiving a placebo, the investigators of the OHTS 
(Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study) found that the treatment of ocular 
hypertension can be delayed with topical medication when treated patients were 
compared with an observation group. There are differences in inclusion criteria, 
study design and retention rates between the EGPS and the OHTS, which may have 
led to the discrepancies in outcomes between these two studies. These 
differences provide a basis for understanding the relevance of the findings of 
both trials to clinical practice. The clinician should consider key risk factors 
such as age, thin corneal thickness measurements, large cup-to-disc ratio and 
mean IOP when determining who should be treated. However, the ultimate decision 
of when to treat will be determined by other issues such as life expectancy, the 
general health of the patient and the number of risk factors. Clearly, the 
treatment of only high-risk patients with ocular hypertension should be 
considered.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200666080-00001
PMID: 16789790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Arch Dis Child. 2006 Jul;91(7):610-1. doi: 10.1136/adc.2006.094268.

Survival probability in ataxia telangiectasia.

Crawford TO(1), Skolasky RL, Fernandez R, Rosquist KJ, Lederman HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland 
21287, USA. tcrawfo@jhmi.edu

Ataxia telangiectasia is a rare, multiorgan neurodegenerative disorder with 
enhanced vulnerability to cancer and infection. Median survival in two large 
cohorts of patients with this disease, one prospective and one retrospective, is 
25 and 19 years, with a wide range. Life expectancy does not correlate well with 
severity of neurological impairment.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.2006.094268
PMCID: PMC2082822
PMID: 16790721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: none declared


944. Methods Mol Biol. 2006;333:1-28. doi: 10.1385/1-59745-049-9:1.

Current status of renal transplantation.

Callaghan CJ(1), Bradley JA.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, England.

Renal transplantation is the best treatment for most patients with end-stage 
renal failure. It markedly improves quality of life and in some cases increases 
life expectancy. Advances in immunosuppression and other areas of practice have 
led to an incremental improvement in outcome; 1- and 5-yr graft survival after 
cadaveric renal transplantation is now around 90 and 70%, respectively. This 
success has led to increased demand for transplantation that cannot be met by 
cadaveric heart-beating donors, numbers of which have remained relatively 
static. Increasing use is now being made of kidneys from so-called "marginal" or 
"extended criteria" cadaveric donors and from non-heart-beating donors. More 
reliance is also being placed on living kidney donation, which accounts for 
around 25% of kidney transplants in the United Kingdom and 50% of transplants in 
the United States. Much effort in renal transplantation is now being directed 
toward improving long-term outcomes. This chapter provides an overview of these 
and other issues in renal transplantation, focusing on some of the topics of 
current interest.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59745-049-9:1
PMID: 16790845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Pediatr Orthop. 2006 Jul-Aug;26(4):455-60. doi: 
10.1097/01.bpo.0000224565.72762.eb.

Articular cartilage defects of the distal femur in children and adolescents: 
treatment with autologous chondrocyte implantation.

Micheli LJ(1), Moseley JB, Anderson AF, Browne JE, Erggelet C, Arciero R, Fu FH, 
Mandelbaum BR.

Author information:
(1)Boston Children's Hospital, MA 02115, USA. michelilyle@aol.com

PURPOSE: Procedures aimed at biologically repairing cartilage injuries may have 
the greatest potential benefit in young patients because of their long-life 
expectancy and high-functional demands. Most cartilage-repair studies focus on 
older patient populations. This study assesses the outcomes of patients who were 
treated with autologous chondrocyte implantation before the age of 18.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a Registry-based, multicenter, observational, cohort study 
of 37 patients from whom follow-up data was prospectively collected. 
Patient-rated assessments of overall condition, pain, and swelling were measured 
using modified, 10-point scales of the Cincinnati Knee Rating System.
RESULTS: Mean age was 16 years (11-17); 22 boys and 15 girls. Twenty-three 
patients underwent at least 1 cartilage repair procedure before the cartilage 
harvest, including 11 who had a marrow stimulation procedure. Fourteen patients 
were diagnosed with osteochondritis dessicans lesions. Thirty-five patients had 
single defects (mean size, 5.4 cm). Thirty-two patients completed 
self-evaluations at a minimum of 2 years after implantation (mean follow-up = 
4.3 years). The mean change in scale scores measuring overall condition, pain, 
and swelling were 3.8, 4.1, and 3.4 points, respectively. One patient had an 
implantation that failed.
CONCLUSIONS: Results highlight significant clinical improvements from baseline 
to follow-up for 32 patients who submitted follow-up data, including 28 patients 
who reported a minimum 1-point improvement in the overall condition score.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These results suggest that autologous chondrocyte 
implantation may be an effective option for children and adolescents with large 
symptomatic chondral lesions of the distal femur.

DOI: 10.1097/01.bpo.0000224565.72762.eb
PMID: 16791061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Rays. 2005 Oct-Dec;30(4):335-9.

Preoperative assessment and risk factors in the surgical treatment of esophageal 
cancer: the role of age.

Colloca G(1), Tosato M, Zuccal√† G, Bernabei R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Gerontologiche, Geriatriche e Fisiatriche, Centro 
Medicina dell'Invecchiamento Universit√† Cattolica del S. Cuore, Policlinico A. 
Gemelli, Roma, Italy. giuseppe_colloca@rm.tiscali.it

Esophageal cancer is essentially a disease of the elderly. Several studies 
suggested that age per se should not be considered a risk factor for surgical 
mortality and morbidity, and access to surgical treatment should not be denied 
only on the basis of age. Indeed, advanced age may represent an indicator of 
several factors such as comorbidity or poor physical performance which in turn 
can increase surgical risk and dramatically reduce life expectancy. Therefore, a 
careful preoperative assessment of these factors, with particular regard to 
comorbid conditions (such as cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases), the 
physiological status, and social habits is necessary in elderly adults. In 
consideration of the need of a multidisciplinary assessment to identify 
comorbidities and operative risk, a close collaboration of pneumologists, 
cardiologists, radiologists, oncologists, thoracic surgeons, anesthesiologists, 
geriatric specialists, physical therapists is highly recommendable.

PMID: 16792010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Clin Nephrol. 2006 Jun;65(6):401-7. doi: 10.5414/cnp65401.

Excess risk of renal allograft loss and early mortality among elderly recipients 
is associated with poor exercise capacity.

Yango AF(1), Gohh RY, Monaco AP, Reinert SE, Gautam A, Dworkin LD, Morrissey PE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hypertension and Renal Diseases, Brown University School of 
Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence RI, USA. ayango@lifespan.org

BACKGROUND: Successful renal transplantation in the elderly offers substantial 
benefits in quality and life expectancy. However, in this group of patients 
there is an early increased risk of death compared with those remaining on 
dialysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Graft and patient outcomes in 64 older transplant 
recipients were compared with 338 patients aged 18 - 59 years. We identified 
potential risk factors that may predict clinical outcomes in older transplant 
recipients. A log-rank test and Cox regression analyses were performed to assess 
the impact of various patient characteristics on graft and patient survival.
RESULTS: Among older patients, graft survival was 76.6% and 67% at 1 and 3 
years, respectively. When graft survival was censored for death with functioning 
graft, the 1- and 3-year graft survival was 83% and 82%, respectively. Patient 
survival was 78% and 71% at 1 and 3 years, respectively. These survival rates 
were significantly lower than those of younger recipients. Pretransplant 
inactivity, delayed graft function, smoking history and longer waiting time 
predicted poor graft and patient survival. A history of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and peripheral vascular disease also predicted a higher 
mortality among older recipients.
CONCLUSION: Older kidney transplant recipients are at high risk for allograft 
failure and early death. Poor functional capacity predicts a poor outcome for 
older patients undergoing renal transplantation. Therefore, careful patient 
selection is paramount, and every effort should be made to initiate timely 
interventions aimed at increasing physical activity in those with low fitness 
level.

DOI: 10.5414/cnp65401
PMID: 16792134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Therapie. 2006 Jan-Feb;61(1):17-22.

[Pharmacoepidemiology of psychotropic medication: utilisation and impact in 
real-life conditions].

[Article in French]

Verdoux H(1), Tournier M, Cougnard A, Martin K, B√©gaud B.

Author information:
(1)Universit√© Victor Segalen Bordeaux 2, Bordeaux, France. 
helene.verdoux@u-bordeaux2.fr

Pharmacoepidemiological studies exploring utilisation of psychotropic 
medications in real-life conditions are required to identify extension of 
indications, since the risk of gap between the theoretical target population and 
the population actually treated is especially marked for this class of drugs. A 
large proportion of subjects from the general population are exposed to 
psychotropic medications, so even a small increase in the risk of adverse effect 
may have major deleterious consequences for the health of the general 
population. Hence, pharmacoepidemiological studies are also required to explore 
the risk/benefit ratio of these drugs in real-life conditions. These studies may 
provide answers to currently unsolved public health questions, such as the 
long-term cognitive impact of exposure to benzodiazepines, the impact of 
antidepressant on suicidal behaviour, or the risks associated with enlarged use 
of antipsychotics. Only findings obtained by such studies may allow risk 
management and elaboration of guidelines based upon factual data.

PMID: 16792150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. J Manag Care Pharm. 2006 May;12(4):322-30. doi: 10.18553/jmcp.2006.12.4.322.

The cost-effectiveness of lamotrigine in the maintenance treatment of adults 
with bipolar I disorder.

Calvert NW(1), Burch SP, Fu AZ, Reeves P, Thompson TR.

Author information:
(1)Fourth Hurdle Consulting Ltd., Holborn Tower, 137-144 High Holborn, London 
WC1V 6PL, UK. NeillCalvert@fourthhurdle.com

OBJECTIVE: To present an economic model and cost-effectiveness estimates for 
lamotrigine in maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder (BD-I) using outcomes 
from the pivotal lamotrigine trials. The main comparator treatments in the 
pivotal trials were lithium and .no maintenance. (acute-only) treatment. A 
comparison with olanzapine was included as an indirect analysis following 
publication of data during the course of our research.
METHODS: A Markov model was built around the 3 health states of euthymia, mania, 
and depression. The base-case model simulates a cohort of 1,000 patients with 
BD-I who have recently stabilized after resolution of a bipolar mania episode. 
The cohort was modeled for a period of 18 months. Resource-use estimates were 
derived from best available published data, treatment guidelines, a physician 
survey, and published unit cost data. Outputs were measured in terms of costs 
per acute mood episode avoided, costs per euthymic day gained, and costs per 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Direct health care payer costs are used in 
the analyses.
RESULTS: The base-case model for patients with a recent manic episode indicated 
that lamotrigine is the most effective treatment for avoiding both acute 
depression episodes and all types of acute episodes (depression and mania). It 
is also the most effective treatment in terms of number of euthymic days 
achieved (309 days per patient per year). Olanzapine is most effective for 
avoiding acute mania episodes. Total direct costs of treatment are lowest for 
the lithium treatment arm (Dollars 8,710 per patient for the 18-month period). 
All maintenance therapies were cost effective compared with the no-maintenance 
(acute-only treatment) arm. In the base case, lamotrigine had incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of Dollars 30 per euthymic day and Dollars 2,400 per 
acute episode avoided compared with lithium. A QALY analysis indicated that 
lamotrigine is cost effective in patients with a recent manic episode at Dollars 
26,000 per QALY. The base-case model indicated that lamotrigine dominates 
olanzapine, (that is, lamotrigine costs less and is more effective than 
olanzapine) in patients with a recent manic episode. In a sensitivity analysis 
using outcomes from the pivotal trial of recently depressed patients, 
lamotrigine, in comparison with lithium, was not shown to be as cost effective 
as in the recently manic patients, but it was still cost effective compared with 
no maintenance treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: For a defined cohort of patients with BD-I, the pharmacoeconomic 
model indicated that prevention of mood episodes with lithium and lamotrigine is 
cost effective in patients with a recent manic, mixed, or hypomanic episode. The 
conclusions with respect to the indirect comparison with olanzapine should be 
validated if and when direct trial data become available. Cost-effectiveness of 
maintenance treatments for patients with BD-I (recently depressed as well as 
recently manic) are likely to improve in models with a broader costing 
perspective and that take a longer time frame. Further research into the outcome 
implications of health-related quality of life and other BD subgroups are 
recommended.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2006.12.4.322
PMCID: PMC10437984
PMID: 16792438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2006 Jun;31(6):493-501. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.11.014.

Uric acid as a prognostic factor for survival time: a prospective cohort study 
of terminally ill cancer patients.

Shin HS(1), Lee HR, Lee DC, Shim JY, Cho KH, Suh SY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine (H.-S.S, H.-R.L, D.-C.L, J.-Y.S.), Yongdong 
Severance Hospital, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.

The aim of this prospective cohort study was to determine whether serum uric 
acid level is useful as a predictor of survival in terminally ill cancer 
patients. One hundred eighteen terminally ill cancer patients, including 63 
(53.4%) males, were categorized into four groups by serum uric acid levels and 
followed up until death or to the end of the study. Cox's proportional hazard 
model was adopted to evaluate the joint effect of some clinicobiological 
variables on survival. From an initial model containing 51 variables, a final 
parsimonious model was obtained by means of a stepwise method. Repetitive 
dispersion analysis was performed for serum uric acid level in 39 subjects for 3 
weeks until death. During the study period, 113 (95.76%) subjects expired, and 
the median survival time was 14 days. In univariate analysis, survival time of 
the fourth highest group (> or =7.2mg/dL) was significantly shorter than that of 
the others (hazard ratio (HR)=2.784, P<0.001). After adjustment for low 
performance status, moderate to severe pain, prolonged prothrombin time, 
hypocholesterolemia, and high lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level, high serum uric 
acid level (> or =7.2mg/dL) was significantly and independently associated with 
short survival time (HR=2.637, P=0.001). Serum uric acid levels were also 
significantly increased between the first and the second week before death. 
These findings suggest that serum uric acid level can be useful in predicting 
life expectancy in terminally ill cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.11.014
PMID: 16793489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Ann Rheum Dis. 2006 Oct;65(10):1336-40. doi: 10.1136/ard.2005.048967. Epub
2006  Jun 22.

Bosentan treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension related to connective 
tissue disease: a subgroup analysis of the pivotal clinical trials and their 
open-label extensions.

Denton CP(1), Humbert M, Rubin L, Black CM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Rheumatology, Royal Free Hospital, Pond Street, London, NW3 2QG, 
UK. c.denton@medsch.ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nat Clin Pract Rheumatol. 2007 Apr;3(4):204-5.

BACKGROUND: Endothelin-1 is considered to be a central pathogenic factor in 
connective tissue diseases (CTDs) such as systemic sclerosis (SSc), leading to 
vasoconstriction, fibrosis, hypertrophy and inflammation. A frequent 
complication of CTD is pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), which has a major 
effect on functioning and quality of life, and is associated with a particularly 
poor prognosis.
OBJECTIVE: To present a subgroup analysis that summarises experiences from the 
pivotal studies and their open-label extensions with the oral dual endothelin-1 
receptor antagonist bosentan in patients with PAH and CTD, mostly SSc and lupus 
erythematosus.
METHODS: 66 patients with PAH secondary to CTD, in World Health Organization 
functional class III or IV, were randomised to two double-blind, 
placebo-controlled studies and followed up for 12 and 16 weeks, respectively. 
The primary end point was change in exercise capacity, assessed using the 6-min 
walk test. In both studies and their extensions, survival was assessed from 
start of treatment to death or data cut-off and analysed as Kaplan-Meier 
estimates.
RESULTS: 44 patients with PAH secondary to CTD who were treated with bosentan 
were stable in 6-min walk distance at the end of the study (+19.5 m, 95% 
confidence interval (CI) -3.2 to 42.2), whereas patients treated with placebo 
deteriorated (-2.6 m, 95% CI -54.0 to 48.7). 64 patients subsequently received 
bosentan in an open-label long-term extension study. Mean (standard deviation 
(SD)) exposure to bosentan was 1.6 (0.9) years, and duration of observation was 
1.8 (0.8) years. 8 (16%) patients received epoprostenol as add-on treatment and 
7 (14%) after discontinuation of bosentan. Survival in those receiving bosentan 
was 85.9% after 1 year and 73.4% after 2 years.
CONCLUSION: Short-term bosentan treatment in a subgroup of patients with PAH 
secondary to CTD seems to have a favourable effect compared with placebo. The 
long-term follow-up of these patients suggests that first-line bosentan, with 
the subsequent addition of other PAH treatments if required, is safe for 
long-term treatment and may have a positive effect on outcome.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2005.048967
PMCID: PMC1798307
PMID: 16793845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


952. Eur Heart J. 2006 Jul;27(14):1737-42. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehl116. Epub
2006  Jun 22.

Presentation, survival prospects, and predictors of death in Eisenmenger 
syndrome: a combined retrospective and case-control study.

Diller GP(1), Dimopoulos K, Broberg CS, Kaya MG, Naghotra US, Uebing A, Harries 
C, Goktekin O, Gibbs JS, Gatzoulis MA.

Author information:
(1)Adult Congenital Heart Centre and Centre for Pulmonary Hypertension, Royal 
Brompton Hospital, Sydney Street, London SW3 6NP, UK.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2006 Jul;27(14):1644-5.

AIMS: To characterize contemporary Eisenmenger patients at a large centre for 
adult congenital heart disease, assess survival prospects, and identify 
predictors of death in this population.
METHODS AND RESULTS: All Eisenmenger patients under follow-up at our centre 
since 2000 (n=171, mean age 37+/-12 years) were included. To identify predictors 
of mortality, a case-control study was performed. Data including symptoms, 
functional class, medication, laboratory, and electrocardiographic and 
echocardiographic parameters are presented. Iron deficiency was common and 
strongly related to phlebotomy (relative risk 4.1, P<0.0001). Haemoglobin 
concentration was inversely related to arterial oxygen saturations in 
iron-replete patients (P<0.001) but not in iron-deficient patients. During a 
median follow-up of 67 months, 20 patients died. Survival at 40, 50, and 60 
years of age was 94, 74, and 52%, respectively. When compared with healthy 
individuals, median survival was reduced by approximately 20 years in 
Eisenmenger patients and was worst in those with complex lesions. Predictors of 
mortality included functional class, signs of heart failure, history of clinical 
arrhythmia, QRS duration and QTc interval, and low serum albumin and potassium 
levels.
CONCLUSION: Despite good short-term prognosis, life expectancy is markedly 
reduced in Eisenmenger patients. Markers of heart failure and parameters 
associated with arrhythmia are of prognostic value in terms of mortality and may 
guide clinicians caring for Eisenmenger patients.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehl116
PMID: 16793921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Nucl Med Commun. 2006 Jul;27(7):559-66. doi:
10.1097/00006231-200607000-00003.

Optimized radioiodine therapy for Graves' disease: two MIRD-based models for the 
computation of patient-specific therapeutic 131I activity.

Carlier T(1), Salaun PY, Cavarec MB, Valette F, Turzo A, Bardi√®s M, Bizais Y, 
Couturier O.

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Medicine Department, Nantes University Hospital, France.

AIM: (131)I therapy is increasingly used for Graves' hyperthyroidism. Debate 
remains about the best method for calculating the activity to administer, as 
well as about the potential benefit of such computed activity. Several arguments 
plead, nevertheless, in favour of a personalized computation, such as 
inter-individual variations of thyroid volume and biokinetics.
METHODS: A MIRD-based dosimetric approach, with an additional extension that 
takes into account the variation of thyroid mass during the treatment, has been 
developed. This approach includes the benefits of a personalized determination 
of biokinetics. Results were compared with those of six methods widely used in 
routine practice. Forty-one patients were enrolled (34 women, seven men; mean 
age +/-SD: 48.11 +/- 6.4 years). (131)I uptakes were measured at 4, 24 and 96 h 
(36.2 +/- 14.6%, 42.8 +/- 9.7% and 27.6 +/- 6.8%, respectively), following 
administration of the tracer. The kinetics of iodine in the thyroid were 
evaluated using a two-compartment model (effective half-life of 5.1 +/- 1.6 
days). Computations of activities to deliver the doses prescribed by the 
physician were done with the eight formalisms.
RESULTS: There was no statistical difference between results of the two 
MIRD-based formalisms (227 +/- 148 MBq and 213 +/- 124 MBq), which were also not 
significantly different from those obtained with the majority of the other 
methods (from 128 +/- 95 MBq to 275 +/- 223 MBq). However, a large 
intra-individual difference up to a factor of 2 between two given methods was 
found.
CONCLUSION: The formalism developed appears to be a good compromise between all 
the common formalisms already used in many institutions. Furthermore, it allows 
the exposures of target volumes and non-target volumes to be planned 
individually and practical individual radiation protection recommendations to be 
implemented.

DOI: 10.1097/00006231-200607000-00003
PMID: 16794516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Sex Transm Dis. 2007 Feb;34(2):108-12. doi:
10.1097/01.olq.0000225321.61049.13.

Hospitalization for pelvic inflammatory disease: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Smith KJ(1), Ness RB, Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Decision Sciences and Clinical Systems Modeling, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. smithkj2@upmc.edu

OBJECTIVE: Nulliparous women are frequently hospitalized for treatment of pelvic 
inflammatory disease (PID).
GOAL: The goal of this study was to determine the economic feasibility of 
hospitalizing adolescents and young women for PID.
STUDY DESIGN: The authors conducted a Markov decision model, estimating the 
cost-effectiveness of hospitalization compared with outpatient therapy for mild 
to moderate PID for adolescents and young women, calculating costs per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained under various assumptions about 
hospitalization effects on complications.
RESULTS: If hospitalization decreases PID complications by 10%, 20%, or 30%, the 
cost/QALY gained is 145,000 dollars, 67,400 dollars, or 42,400 dollars, 
respectively, compared with outpatient therapy. Assumptions about 
hospitalization effects on the development of chronic pelvic pain heavily weight 
the analysis; costs/QALY gained by hospitalization increase considerably if 
chronic pain is unaffected.
CONCLUSION: Hospitalization for PID treatment to possibly preserve fertility in 
nulliparous young women and adolescents is unlikely to be economically 
reasonable even if substantial improvements in PID complication rates are 
assumed.

DOI: 10.1097/01.olq.0000225321.61049.13
PMID: 16794559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. PLoS Med. 2006 Jul;3(7):e241. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030241.

Cost-effectiveness of treating multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.

Resch SC(1), Salomon JA, Murray M, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America. 
resch@fas.harvard.edu

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2006 Dec;3(12):e539; author reply e549.
    PLoS Med. 2006 Dec;3(12):e542.

BACKGROUND: Despite the existence of effective drug treatments, tuberculosis 
(TB) causes 2 million deaths annually worldwide. Effective treatment is 
complicated by multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB) strains that respond only to 
second-line drugs. We projected the health benefits and cost-effectiveness of 
using drug susceptibility testing and second-line drugs in a lower-middle-income 
setting with high levels of MDR TB.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We developed a dynamic state-transition model of TB. In a 
base case analysis, the model was calibrated to approximate the TB epidemic in 
Peru, a setting with a smear-positive TB incidence of 120 per 100,000 and 4.5% 
MDR TB among prevalent cases. Secondary analyses considered other settings. The 
following strategies were evaluated: first-line drugs administered under 
directly observed therapy (DOTS), locally standardized second-line drugs for 
previously treated cases (STR1), locally standardized second-line drugs for 
previously treated cases with test-confirmed MDR TB (STR2), comprehensive drug 
susceptibility testing and individualized treatment for previously treated cases 
(ITR1), and comprehensive drug susceptibility testing and individualized 
treatment for all cases (ITR2). Outcomes were costs per TB death averted and 
costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. We found that strategies 
incorporating the use of second-line drug regimens following first-line 
treatment failure were highly cost-effective compared to strategies using 
first-line drugs only. In our base case, standardized second-line treatment for 
confirmed MDR TB cases (STR2) had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 720 
dollars per QALY (8,700 dollars per averted death) compared to DOTS. 
Individualized second-line drug treatment for MDR TB following first-line 
failure (ITR1) provided more benefit at an incremental cost of 990 dollars per 
QALY (12,000 dollars per averted death) compared to STR2. A more aggressive 
version of the individualized treatment strategy (ITR2), in which both new and 
previously treated cases are tested for MDR TB, had an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of 11,000 dollars per QALY (160,000 dollars per averted 
death) compared to ITR1. The STR2 and ITR1 strategies remained cost-effective 
under a wide range of alternative assumptions about treatment costs, 
effectiveness, MDR TB prevalence, and transmission.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of MDR TB using second-line drugs is highly 
cost-effective in Peru. In other settings, the attractiveness of strategies 
using second-line drugs will depend on TB incidence, MDR burden, and the 
available budget, but simulation results suggest that individualized regimens 
would be cost-effective in a wide range of situations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030241
PMCID: PMC1483913
PMID: 16796403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


956. Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(4):729-35. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.03.051. Epub
2006  Jun 23.

The hematological etiology of osteoporosis.

Gurevitch O(1), Slavin S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bone Marrow Transplantation and Cancer Immunotherapy, Cell 
Therapy and Transplantation Research Center, Hadassah University Hospital, 
Jerusalem 91120, Israel.

In this article we present a new working hypothesis, suggesting that 
overexertion of the hematopoietic system resulting from constant excessive need 
for blood cell production, plays an important role in the etiology of 
osteoporosis. It is generally accepted that the development of osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal women is due to the reduction of estrogen level. However a most 
striking observation is the fact that in the male organism, which has never been 
protected by high levels of estrogen, osteoporosis in senescence is 
significantly less frequent then in the female organism, which has been 
protected by estrogens for at least 35 years. Healthy women loose about 70 ml of 
blood every month, which adds up to some 850 ml per year and approximately 30 l 
over the 35 years of their reproductive life. Blood loss intensifies 
hematopoiesis by increasing the level of hematopoietic growth factors while, at 
the same time, stimulating proliferation of osteogenic progenitor cells. 
Osteogenic activity has, indeed, been detected in the blood of bled animals. The 
chain of events that converts continuous requiremental pressure on hematopoiesis 
into development of osteoporosis may be formulated as follows: on the one hand, 
blood loss creates developmental pressure on the hematopoietic system, augments 
production of hematopoietic growth factors with subsequent intensified 
proliferation of hematopoietic progenitor cells, increases the number of 
hematopoietic cells including osteoclasts, thus intensifying resorption of bone 
tissue and extension of hematopoietic territories. On the other hand, blood loss 
leads to stimulation of bone development, extensive proliferation of osteogenic 
progenitor cells resulting in increased numbers of osteoblasts, followed by new 
bone formation and, at the same time, increased production and maturation of 
osteoclasts which then enter the cycle of bone resorption. The bone resorption 
process itself is characterized by the release of bone morphogenic proteins that 
induce proliferation of osteogenic cells and subsequent production of 
osteoclasts that in their turn enter the cycle of bone resorption. Important 
evidence supporting the substantial role of hematopoietic insufficiency in the 
development of osteoporosis comes from the field of clinical hematology: 
hematological diseases accompanied by chronic anemia, such as beta thalassemia 
major, sickle cell anemia, chronic hemolytic anemia, pernicious anemia, etc., 
are also characterized by the concomitant development of osteoporosis. Patients 
suffering from hemophilia tend to develop osteoporosis as well. The possible 
role of functional interaction between hematopoietic and bone tissues in the 
development of age related osteoporosis is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.03.051
PMID: 16797864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Trends Parasitol. 2006 Aug;22(8):363-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pt.2006.06.004. Epub
2006  Jun 23.

Reconsidering the underestimated burden caused by neglected tropical diseases.

Engels D(1), Savioli L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neglected Tropical Diseases, World Health Organization, Avenue 
Appia 20, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland. engelsd@who.int

It is generally acknowledged that the burden caused by neglected tropical 
diseases needs to be reassessed. Not only are there several important diseases 
unaccounted for, but new information suggests they have a more substantial 
impact on health than initially thought. Looking at the tropical diseases as a 
group makes sense: they tend to cluster in the same poor populations and, to 
make progress with their control, they will have to be dealt with in an 
integrated manner. Measuring the effect of such integrated control is likely to 
reveal the real impact of tropical diseases on human health and wellbeing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pt.2006.06.004
PMID: 16798088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2006 Oct 20;843(1):25-33.
doi:  10.1016/j.jchromb.2006.05.021. Epub 2006 Jun 23.

Small protein biomarkers of culture in Bacillus spores detected using capillary 
liquid chromatography coupled with matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization 
mass spectrometry.

Wunschel D(1), Wahl J, Willse A, Valentine N, Wahl K.

Author information:
(1)Chemical and Biological Sciences, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, 
Richland, WA 99354, United States.

Capillary liquid chromatography (cLC) coupled with matrix-assisted laser 
desorption/ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight mass spectrometry (TOF-MS) was used 
to compare small proteins and peptides extracted from Bacillus subtilis spores 
grown on four different media. A single, efficient protein separation, 
compatible with MALDI-MS analysis, was employed to reduce competitive ionization 
between proteins, and thus interrogate more proteins than possible using direct 
MALDI-MS. The MALDI-MS data files for each fraction are assembled as 
two-dimensional data sets of retention time and mass information. This method of 
visualizing small protein data required careful attention to background 
correction as well as mass and retention time variability. The resulting data 
sets were used to create comparative displays of differences in protein profiles 
between different spore preparations. Protein differences were found between two 
different solid media in both phase bright and phase dark spore phenotype. The 
protein differences between two different liquid media were also examined. As an 
extension of this method, we have demonstrated that candidate protein biomarkers 
can be trypsin digested to provide identifying peptide fragment information 
following the cLC-MALDI experiment. We have demonstrated this method on two 
markers and utilized acid breakdown information to identify one additional 
marker for this organism. The resulting method can be used to identify 
discriminating proteins as potential biomarkers of growth media, which might 
ultimately be used for source attribution.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2006.05.021
PMID: 16798120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):57-61. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2005.11.039.

EuroSCORE predicts immediate and late outcome after coronary artery bypass 
surgery.

Biancari F(1), Kangasniemi OP, Luukkonen J, Vuorisalo S, Satta J, Pokela R, 
Juvonen T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Oulu 
University, Hospital, Oulu, Finland. faustobiancari@yahoo.it

BACKGROUND: The European system for cardiac operative risk evaluation score 
(EuroSCORE) has been shown to be of value in identifying patients at high risk 
for adverse immediate postoperative outcome after adult cardiac surgery. The aim 
of the present study was to evaluate EuroSCORE in predicting the 12-year outcome 
of patients who underwent on-pump coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG).
METHODS: We calculated the EuroSCORE in 917 patients who underwent CABG. The 
median follow-up was 11.7 years.
RESULTS: Both additive and logistic EuroSCORE had an area under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve of 0.856 for prediction of 30-day postoperative 
death. Among 912 operative survivors, the 10-year survival rates according to 
quintiles of additive EuroSCORE were 87.9%, 83.9%, 85.2%, 76.0%, and 51.3% (p < 
0.0001). The 10-year survival rates according to quintiles of logistic EuroSCORE 
were 87.9%, 85.4%, 86.5%, 76.9%, and 58.9% (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: EuroSCORE is a relevant predictor of immediate and late outcome 
after on-pump CABG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2005.11.039
PMID: 16798188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):81-9; discussion 89. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.081.

Thoracic aorta false aneurysm: what surgical strategy should be recommended?

Villavicencio MA(1), Orszulak TA, Sundt TM 3rd, Daly RC, Dearani JA, McGregor 
CG, Mullany CJ, Puga FJ, Zehr KJ, Schaff HV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

BACKGROUND: Thoracic aorta false aneurysms (TAFA) are a surgical challenge. The 
best technical approach remains uncertain.
METHODS: Between 1981 and 2004, 57 patients underwent operation for TAFA (mean 
age 57 +/- 18 years; 43 [75%] were male). Symptoms included dyspnea 25 (44%), 
chest pain 22 (39%), and fever 18 (32%). Twelve (21%) were asymptomatic. 
Thirty-seven (65%) had undergone previous operation with a mean interval between 
operations of 80 +/- 90 months. Fifteen (26%) had a mycotic etiology. The TAFA 
involved the aortic root in 10 (18%), ascending aorta in 28 (49%), arch in 6 
(11%), and descending aorta in 13 (32%). Twenty-one (37%) required femorofemoral 
cannulation and 28 (49%), circulatory arrest. Surgical techniques included graft 
replacement in 27 (47%), composite root in 10 (18%), patch repair in 10 (18%), 
and direct suture in 10 (18%).
RESULTS: Operative mortality was 7% (4 patients). Four of 32 (13%) had massive 
hemorrhage during redo sternotomy, and all of these had planned extramediastinal 
cannulation (all survived). Follow-up was 100% for 349 patient-years. Actuarial 
survival was 77% +/- 6%, 63% +/- 8%, and freedom from recurrent TAFA was 87% +/- 
5% and 83% +/- 7%, at 5 and 10 years, respectively. Univariate analysis 
identified TAFA greater than 55 mm, urgent operation, and NewYork Heart 
Association functional class III or IV as predictors of hemorrhage during redo 
sternotomy. Obesity and ejection fraction of 35% or less were predictors of 
operative death.
CONCLUSIONS: Thoracic aorta false aneurysm symptoms may be minimal, and 
consequently a high degree of suspicion plus serial imaging is warranted. 
Extramediastinal cannulation, deep hypothermia, and circulatory arrest are 
required for large mediastinal TAFA. Despite serious risks, TAFA correction is 
possible with good long-term results.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.081
PMID: 16798195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):146-52. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.007.

Analysis of surgical outcome in complex double-outlet right ventricle with 
heterotaxy syndrome or complete atrioventricular canal defect.

Takeuchi K(1), McGowan FX Jr, Bacha EA, Mayer JE Jr, Zurakowski D, Otaki M, del 
Nido PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. koutakeuchi-circ@umin.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Double-outlet right ventricle encompasses a broad spectrum of 
anomalies. Heterotaxy syndrome, which is often associated with total anomalous 
pulmonary venous connection and complete atrioventricular canal defect, has been 
considered a risk factor for surgical repair of double-outlet right ventricle.
METHODS: From January 1992 to May 1999, medical records of 96 patients (50 
males, 46 females) who had complex double-outlet right ventricle with heterotaxy 
and/or complete atrioventricular canal defect were reviewed (median age at 
initial surgery 3 months). Seventeen patients were neonates requiring surgery. 
Follow-up ranged from 1 day to 7.4 years (median, 16 months).
RESULTS: Sixty-eight patients had heterotaxy syndrome (27 with total anomalous 
pulmonary venous connection). Eighty-three had complete atrioventricular canal 
defect, 22 with moderate to severe atrioventricular valve regurgitation at the 
time of surgical repair. Eight patients had two-ventricle repair, and 88 
patients were considered for single-ventricle management (bidirectional Glenn, 
37; Fontan, 44). One patient had heart transplantation after bidirectional 
Glenn. There were 16 deaths including 10 early (<30 days postoperatively). 
Overall survival (95% confidence interval) estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method 
was 89% (83% to 96%) at 1 month, 84% (76% to 91%) at 1 year, and 81% (73% to 
89%) at 5 years. Multivariate analysis revealed that neonatal presentation 
requiring surgery (p < 0.0001), moderate to severe atrioventricular valve 
regurgitation (p = 0.03), and pulmonary venous obstruction (p = 0.02) were risk 
factors for death.
CONCLUSIONS: Atrioventricular valve regurgitation, pulmonary venous obstruction, 
and neonatal presentation are risk factors for mortality in patients with 
complex double-outlet right ventricle. Early surgical intervention in 
symptomatic neonates and infants, including those with pulmonary venous 
obstruction, may reduce mortality and improve outcome after staged operation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.007
PMID: 16798205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):153-7. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.020.

Clinical implications of major aortopulmonary collateral arteries in patients 
with right isomerism.

Hsu JY(1), Wang JK, Lin MT, Wu ET, Chiu SN, Chen CA, Lue HC, Wu MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, National Taiwan University Hospital and National 
Taiwan University, College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The presence of major aortopulmonary collateral arteries (MAPCA) in 
patients with right isomerism may alter the prognosis, which is still unclear.
METHODS: From 1994 to 2003, 138 out of 155 patients (89%) with right isomerism 
had pulmonary stenosis or pulmonary atresia and constituted the study 
population.
RESULTS: Two groups of patients were identified, one with MAPCA and the other 
without. The MAPCA originating from descending thoracic aorta or aortic arch was 
noted in 9 patients (6.5%), with a median number of MAPCA being 3 (range, 2 to 
4). Patients with MAPCA commonly had congestive heart failure (8/9, 89%) and 
frequent lower airway infection (6/9, 67%). In comparison with patients with 
MAPCA and without, the intrapericardial pulmonary artery was more frequently 
absent (2 of 9 vs 1 of 129, p < 0.001), and the pulmonary arterial size was 
smaller (McGoon ratio <1.5, 8 of 9 vs 57 of 129, p = 0.009) in the MAPCA group. 
The mean pulmonary arterial pressure measured was often higher than the 
suggested limit for Fontan circulation. Major aortopulmonary collateral arteries 
were addressed at a median of 6 months old (2 to 19 months old) in 5 patients. 
Although surgical mortality was not different for first-stage palliation and 
Glenn shunt in both groups, total cavopulmonary connection could only be 
performed in one patient with MAPCA with poor results. However, the 5-year 
survival of patients with and without MAPCA was not statistically different 
(74.1% vs 55.2%, p = 0.19).
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of MAPCA was uncommon but still noted in patients with 
right isomerism. It may cause heart failure and a less favorable pulmonary 
vasculature for a complete Fontan-type operation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.020
PMID: 16798206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):179-85. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.063.

Early graft failure of small-sized porcine valved conduits in reconstruction of 
the right ventricular outflow tract.

Schreiber C(1), Sassen S, Kostolny M, H√∂rer J, Cleuziou J, Wottke M, Holper K, 
Fend F, Eicken A, Lange R.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cardiovascular Surgery, German Heart Center Munich, Technical 
University Munich, Munich, Germany. schreiber@dhm.mhn.de

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):185-6.
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 Feb;83(2):726; author reply 726-7.

BACKGROUND: The quest for an alternative to homografts for reconstruction of the 
right ventricular outflow tract is ongoing. The Shelhigh No-React (NR-4000PA 
series) treated porcine pulmonic valve conduit (SPVC) was developed as a 
potential alternative.
METHODS: During a 12-month period from May 2004 to May 2005, the SPVC was 
implanted in 34 patients, of whom 62% were younger than 1 year. Median age at 
operation was 7 months (range, 5 days to 12 years). Thirteen SPCV conduits size 
10, 11 size 12, 8 size 14, and 2 size 16 were initially implanted. Since May 
2005, however, we have temporarily abandoned its implantation as we were 
concerned about a number of early failures.
RESULTS: Until November 2005, 1 early and 1 late death have occurred. Both were 
not conduit related. Fifteen conduits were replaced in 13 patients. Of these, 10 
were size 10, 3 size 12, 2 size 14, and none size 16. Mean time to replacement 
of the SPVC was 313 +/- 116 days. A pseudointimal peel formation and chronic 
inflammation with foreign-body reaction was found in all explanted conduits at 
all levels. The maximum of the inflammatory reaction occurred at the valvular 
level around the porcine tissues, with shrinkage of the valve and hemodynamic 
compromise. At valvular level, small punctuate calcifications were observed in 2 
cases. In 6 patients an acute inflammatory component was observed. At late 
follow-up (mean follow-up 366 +/- 102 days, 34 patient-years), echocardiography 
showed a mean graft gradient of 39.8 +/- 29.7 mm Hg, with mild to moderate 
insufficiency in 4 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the No-React treated valve largely resists calcification, 
pseudointimal peel formation was found in all explanted conduits and led to 
multilevel conduit stenoses. The small-sized SPVC can not be regarded as an 
ideal conduit for right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.063
PMID: 16798210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):208-13; discussion 213. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.004.

Lung-volume reduction surgery as an alternative or bridging procedure to lung 
transplantation.

Tutic M(1), Lardinois D, Imfeld S, Korom S, Boehler A, Speich R, Bloch KE, Russi 
EW, Weder W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, and Division of Pulmonary Medicine, 
University Hospital, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: In this study, we prospectively analyzed the functional outcome and 
the survival after lung-volume reduction surgery (LVRS) in patients with 
end-stage emphysema who were initially potential candidates for lung 
transplantation (LTX), and investigated the impact of LVRS on posttransplant 
course in patients who underwent LTX after LVRS.
METHODS: Of the 216 patients who underwent LVRS between 1994 and 2005, 58 were 
potential candidates for LTX at the time of LVRS (age 65 years or younger, 
