
Schmier JK(1), Jones ML, Halpern MT.

Author information:
(1)Exponent, Alexandria, Virginia, USA.

As age-related macular degeneration (AMD) becomes more prevalent as a result of 
longer life expectancy and the number of elderly people worldwide, it will 
become increasingly important to understand its potential health and economic 
impact for appropriate healthcare planning. This review identified published 
literature on costs and resource use associated with AMD. Despite the increasing 
prevalence of AMD, the worldwide burden of illness is unknown. Several studies 
of direct medical costs, both those associated with ophthalmic care and those 
associated with other care, have been conducted and have identified increased 
medical care associated with AMD. Direct non-medical costs include the cost for 
vision aids; while these costs may be substantial, they are difficult to 
quantify as no comprehensive sources track the distribution or use of vision 
aids. Because AMD is uncommon among people of working age, there is less concern 
regarding the impact of indirect (workplace) costs among AMD patients. However, 
indirect costs are incurred by caregivers who leave the workforce early or 
change their work patterns in order to provide assistance to AMD patients; the 
magnitude of caregiver-related costs is unknown. The cost effectiveness of some 
interventions for AMD has been explored. Supplementation with zinc and 
antioxidants for non-exudative (dry) AMD has been shown to result in an 
acceptable cost per QALY and is considered cost effective. Studies suggest that 
laser photocoagulation is cost effective but that photodynamic therapy with 
verteporfin appears to be cost effective only among patients with good visual 
acuity at baseline or when models extend longer than 5 years. Further research 
is needed to integrate the information on various components of AMD-related 
costs into a comprehensive burden of illness estimate and to evaluate basic 
utility assumptions in existing models.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00003
PMID: 16605279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(4):345-54. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00005.

Optimal assignment of treatments to health states using a Markov decision model: 
an introduction to basic concepts.

Bala MV(1), Mauskopf JA.

Author information:
(1)Centocor Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355, USA. mbala@cntus.jnj.com

Assessing the cost effectiveness of a new health intervention often requires 
modelling to estimate the impact of the intervention on cost, survival and 
quality of life over the lifetime of a cohort of patients. Markov modelling is a 
methodology that is commonly employed to estimate these long-term costs and 
benefits. As commonly used, these models assume that the patients continue to 
get the treatments assigned regardless of the change in health states. In this 
paper, we describe an extension to the Markov modelling approach, called Markov 
decision modelling. Such a model starts with a set of health states and 
treatments and optimally assigns treatments to each of the health states. A 
Markov decision model can be used to identify the optimal treatment strategy not 
just for the initial disease state, but also as the disease state changes over 
time. We present a dynamic programming approach to identifying the optimal 
assignment of treatments, and illustrate this methodology using an example. The 
Markov decision modelling approach provides an efficient way of identifying 
optimal assignment of treatments to health states, but, like the standard Markov 
model, may be of limited use when probabilities of future events depend on past 
history in a complex fashion. Even with its limitations, Markov decision models 
offer an opportunity for health economists to inform healthcare decision-makers 
on how to modify current treatment pathways to incorporate new treatments as 
they become available.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00005
PMID: 16605281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(4):373-86. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00007.

Post-exposure influenza prophylaxis with oseltamivir: cost effectiveness and 
cost utility in families in the UK.

Sander B(1), Hayden FG, Gyldmark M, Garrison LP Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision-Making and Health Care Research, University 
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost effectiveness and cost utility of preventing 
post-exposure influenza infection using the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir 
from a healthcare payer's perspective in the UK.
METHODS: A simulation model was developed, based on clinical trial results and 
published data, to predict morbidity and mortality due to influenza and to 
compare oseltamivir post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) with no prophylaxis within 
families with members aged >or=13 years. Two scenarios were tested:1. Comparison 
of patients receiving PEP versus patients not receiving PEP and not being 
treated with oseltamivir should they become infected. 2. Comparison of patients 
receiving PEP versus patients not receiving PEP but being treated with 
oseltamivir should they become infected. The model was run with an attack rate 
in household contacts of 8% for the base case, with higher rates (up to 30%, 
representing pandemic conditions) tested in sensitivity analyses. A societal 
perspective and other key parameters were tested in sensitivity analysis. The 
year of costing was 2002. The time span for the model was up to 1 year 
(including one influenza season), but loss of life was included in the QALY 
calculation and based on expected life expectancy.
RESULTS: PEP with oseltamivir results in reduced morbidity (i.e. fewer influenza 
cases) and associated reductions in complications, hospitalisations and 
mortality due to influenza. When comparing oseltamivir PEP with no prophylaxis 
for contact attack rates of 8%, 12% and 30%, the mean costs per QALY gained for 
scenario one were estimated at 29,938 pounds, 18,697 pounds and 5403 pounds, 
respectively; the mean costs per case avoided were 467 pounds, 293 pounds and 84 
pounds, respectively. The corresponding results for scenario two were 52,202 
pounds, 31,610 pounds and 9688 pounds per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: PEP with oseltamivir is likely to be a cost-effective strategy for 
family contacts in the UK from a healthcare payer perspective when 
influenza-like illness contact attack rates are 8% or higher and the only 
treatment given is 'usual care'.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00007
PMID: 16605283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(4):387-400. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200624040-00008.

A cost-utility analysis of losartan versus atenolol in the treatment of 
hypertension with left ventricular hypertrophy.

Anis AH(1), Sun H, Singh S, Woolcott J, Nosyk B, Brisson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care and Epidemiology, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. anis@hivnet.ubc.ca

INTRODUCTION: The LIFE (Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction in 
hypertension) study demonstrated a 13% relative risk reduction in the primary 
composite endpoint (myocardial infarction, stroke or death) for patients with 
hypertension and electrocardiographically diagnosed left ventricular hypertrophy 
(LVH) treated with losartan compared with atenolol. Losartan recipients also had 
a 25% relative risk reduction for stroke compared with atenolol recipients. 
Incorporating the results found in the LIFE study into an economic model, an 
incremental cost-effectiveness analysis was performed comparing losartan with 
atenolol in the treatment of 67-year old patients with hypertension and LVH.
METHODS: A Markov state transition model, based on published results of the LIFE 
trial (mean follow-up of 4.8 years), was utilised to extrapolate the outcomes 
observed in this trial to the patients' lifetime. Utility estimates for the 
associated health states were obtained from various published sources. Lifetime 
treatment costs were calculated adopting a societal perspective. Both costs and 
benefits were discounted and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were 
estimated. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The estimated ICER for losartan versus atenolol was 1337 Canadian 
dollars per QALY gained (1 Canadian dollar =0.75 US dollars, 2002 values). This 
ICER was robust to extensive sensitivity analysis, demonstrating a 95% 
probability that the ICER would be <20,000 Canadian dollars per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: From a Canadian societal perspective, losartan appears to be a 
cost-effective alternative to atenolol in patients with hypertension and LVH. 
The estimated ICERs, including the sensitivity analyses, were within the range 
of cost-effectiveness ratios for various currently funded interventions and 
drugs in developed countries.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00008
PMID: 16605284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(4):401-14. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00009.

Productivity costs in health-state valuations : does explicit instruction 
matter?

Krol M(1), Brouwer W, Sendi P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University/Erasmus MC, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: There has been considerable debate on whether productivity costs 
should be captured in the numerator or the denominator of the cost-effectiveness 
ratio. That debate cannot be resolved on the basis of theoretical arguments 
alone because the final choice also depends on what is incorporated in 
health-state valuations by respondents and how this influences outcomes. At the 
moment, little is known about whether the effects of ill health on income are 
included in health-state valuations, and how instructions on including or 
excluding the effects on income influence health-state valuations.
AIM: To conduct an empirical study of health-state valuations to test: (i) 
whether or not respondents spontaneously include the effect of ill health on 
income and leisure time; (ii) the impact on the valuation of inclusion (or 
exclusion) of such effects; and (iii) the influence of explicit instructions on 
this matter.
METHODS: Three questionnaires were developed and administered to the general 
public. Health-state valuations were conducted by visual analogue scale scoring 
of three health states of differing severity taken from the EQ-5D. Version 1 had 
no directions regarding inclusion/exclusion of effects of ill health on income. 
Those respondents who spontaneously included effects on income were subsequently 
asked to value the same three health states again, excluding these effects. 
Version 2 had explicit instructions to incorporate the effects on income. 
Version 3 stated that income was assumed to not change as a result of ill 
health. Respondents for versions 2 and 3 were also questioned about inclusion of 
effects on leisure time.
RESULTS: Giving explicit instructions on the incorporation or exclusion of 
effects of ill health on income did not lead to significant differences in 
subsequent health-state valuations. In the absence of instruction, 36% of 
respondents included and 64% excluded effects on income, but the health-state 
valuations of the two groups were not significantly different. Eighty-four 
percent of respondents included the effects of ill health on leisure activities, 
and again this had no significant impact on the resulting health-state 
valuations.
CONCLUSIONS: It appears that neither spontaneous differences in incorporation of 
effects on income, nor explicit instructions will yield significantly different 
health-state valuations. This may suggest that QALY measures are insensitive to 
concerns regarding effects on income even when these are (explicitly) 
incorporated, and these effects may therefore be best placed on the cost side of 
the cost-effectiveness ratio.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00009
PMID: 16605285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2006;7(2):133-9. doi: 10.2165/00128071-200607020-00006.

Cost effectiveness of management of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis with 1% 
pimecrolimus cream in children and adolescents 2-17 years of age.

Ellis CN(1), Kahler KH, Grueger J, Chang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Atopic dermatitis (AD) has the potential to cause a long-term 
economic impact on patients, their families, and the healthcare system.
OBJECTIVE: To determine if 1% pimecrolimus cream is cost-effective in treating 
mild-to-moderate AD in patients 2-17 years of age.
METHODS: Data on the efficacy of AD management with 1% pimecrolimus cream 
(Elidel, Novartis Pharma GmbH, Wehr, Germany) were obtained from a 12-month, 
randomized, double-blind, multinational, controlled clinical trial comparing 
pimecrolimus and conventional therapy. Markov modeling was used for the economic 
model, based on: (i) Investigator's Global Assessment scores assessed at each 
visit during the clinical trial; (ii) estimated costs for medication and 
physician visits for each level of disease severity; and (iii) utility values 
for each level of disease severity. The perspective was that of a third-party 
payer.
RESULTS: In 2004 US dollars, the incremental cost-effectiveness of 1% 
pimecrolimus cream was 38,231 US dollars per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained compared with conventional therapy. Sensitivity analyses showed a range 
of 27,299 US dollarsto 63,457 US dollars per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: With an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of <50,000 US dollars 
per QALY gained, 1% pimecrolimus cream offers a cost-effective therapeutic 
option in the management of AD.

DOI: 10.2165/00128071-200607020-00006
PMID: 16605293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Popul Health Metr. 2006 Apr 10;4:1. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-4-1.

Disability weights for comorbidity and their influence on health-adjusted life 
expectancy.

van Baal PH(1), Hoeymans N, Hoogenveen RT, de Wit GA, Westert GP.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands. pieter.van.baal@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: Comorbidity complicates estimations of health-adjusted life 
expectancy (HALE) using disease prevalences and disability weights from Burden 
of Disease studies. Usually, the exact amount of comorbidity is unknown and no 
disability weights are defined for comorbidity.
METHODS: Using data of the Dutch national burden of disease study, the effects 
of different methods to adjust for comorbidity on HALE calculations are 
estimated. The default multiplicative adjustment method to define disability 
weights for comorbidity is compared to HALE estimates without adjustment for 
comorbidity and to HALE estimates in which the amount of disability in patients 
with multiple diseases is solely determined by the disease that leads to most 
disability (the maximum adjustment method). To estimate the amount of 
comorbidity, independence between diseases is assumed.
RESULTS: Compared to the multiplicative adjustment method, the maximum 
adjustment method lowers HALE estimates by 1.2 years for males and 1.9 years for 
females. Compared to no adjustment, a multiplicative adjustment lowers HALE 
estimates by 1.0 years for males and 1.4 years for females.
CONCLUSION: The differences in HALE caused by the different adjustment methods 
demonstrate that adjusting for comorbidity in HALE calculations is an important 
topic that needs more attention. More empirical research is needed to develop a 
more general theory as to how comorbidity influences disability.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-4-1
PMCID: PMC1523368
PMID: 16606448


515. BMC Cancer. 2006 Apr 11;6:90. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-90.

WT1 gene expression as a prognostic marker in advanced serous epithelial ovarian 
carcinoma: an immunohistochemical study.

Netinatsunthorn W(1), Hanprasertpong J, Dechsukhum C, Leetanaporn R, Geater A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of 
Songkla University, Hatyai, Songkhla, Thailand. RM93P@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: WT1 is a tumor suppressor gene responsible for Wilms' tumor. WT1 
reactivity is limited to ovarian serous carcinomas. Recent studies have shown 
that WT1 plays an important role in the progression of disease and indicates a 
poorer prognosis of human malignancies such as acute myeloid leukemia and breast 
cancer. The aims of this study were to determine the survival and 
recurrence-free survival of women with advanced serous epithelial ovarian 
carcinoma in relation to WT1 gene expression.
METHODS: The study accrued women over an 18-year period, from 1987-2004. During 
the study period, 163 patients were diagnosed with advanced serous epithelial 
ovarian carcinoma and had undergone complete post-operative chemotherapy, but 
the final study group comprised 99 patients. The records of these women were 
reviewed and the paraffin-embedded tissue of these women stained with WT1 
immunostaining. Survival analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier and Cox 
regression methods.
RESULTS: Fifty patients showed WT1 staining and forty-nine did not. Five-year 
survival of non-staining and staining groups were 39.4% and 10.7% (p < 0.00005); 
five-year recurrence-free survival of these groups were 29.8% and < or = 7.5% (p 
< 0.00005), respectively. For survival the HR of WT1 staining, adjusted for 
residual tumor and chemotherapy response, was 1.98 (95% CI 1.28-3.79), and for 
recurrence-free survival the HR was 3.36 (95% CI 1.60-7.03). The HR for 
recurrence-free survival was not confounded by any other variables.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that expression of WT1 gene may be indicative of 
an unfavorable prognosis in patients with advanced serous epithelial ovarian 
carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-90
PMCID: PMC1479357
PMID: 16606472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2006 Apr;74(4):615-22.

A modest model explains the distribution and abundance of Borrelia burgdorferi 
strains.

Brisson D(1), Dykhuizen DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New 
York 11794-5245, USA. brisson@life.bio.sunysb.edu

The distribution and abundance of Borrelia burgdorferi, including human Lyme 
disease strains, is a function of its interactions with vertebrate species. We 
present a mathematical model describing important ecologic interactions 
affecting the distribution and abundance of B. burgdorferi strains, marked by 
the allele at the outer surface protein C locus, in Ixodes scapularis ticks, the 
principal vector. The frequency of each strain in ticks can be explained by the 
vertebrate species composition, the density of each vertebrate species, the 
number of ticks that feed on individuals of each species, and the rate at which 
those ticks acquire different strains. The model results are consistent with 
empirical data collected in a major Lyme disease focus in New England. An 
applicable extension of these results would be to predict the proportion of 
ticks carrying human infectious strains of B. burgdorferi from disease host 
densities and thus predict the local risk of contracting Lyme disease.

PMCID: PMC1851668
PMID: 16606995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Br J Nurs. 2006 Mar 9-22;15(5):299.

How old is too old (or too young) to resuscitate?

Castledine G(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Central England, Birmingham.

PMID: 16607262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Drugs Aging. 2006;23(3):227-40. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200623030-00005.

A systematic review of the clinical and cost-effectiveness of memantine in 
patients with moderately severe to severe Alzheimer's disease.

Kirby J(1), Green C, Loveman E, Clegg A, Picot J, Takeda A, Payne E.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre (SHTAC), University of 
Southampton, Boldrewood, Southampton, UK.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia and is 
characterised by a worsening of cognition, functional ability, and behaviour and 
mood. The objective of this study was to review the clinical and 
cost-effectiveness of memantine for the treatment of patients with moderately 
severe to severe AD. To achieve this, a systematic search and review of the 
clinical and cost effectiveness literature for memantine was undertaken. The 
literature search covered the period from the inception of MEDLINE, Cochrane 
Library, EMBASE and other electronic databases until July 2004. The search 
included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and full economic evaluations that 
assessed the use of memantine in patients with moderately severe to severe AD. 
Two published RCTs were included in this review; in one of these trials the 
participants were already being treated with donepezil. The two RCTs showed 
benefit for patients receiving memantine compared with placebo on the outcome 
measures of the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living 
Inventory modified for severe dementia, the Clinician's Interview-Based 
Impression of Change Plus Caregiver Input, and the Severe Impairment Battery, 
and that memantine appeared to be slightly more effective in patients already 
receiving a stable dose of donepezil. Five cost-effectiveness studies were 
included in the review. Although these studies reported cost reductions and 
improved outcomes with memantine, the evaluations were based on a number of 
assumptions. In conclusion, memantine appears to be beneficial when assessed 
using functional and global measurements. However, the effect of memantine on 
cognitive scores and behaviour and mood outcomes is less clear. 
Cost-effectiveness is dependent upon assumptions surrounding clinical effect and 
context-specific cost data.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200623030-00005
PMID: 16608378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Spring;9(1):3-9. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.3.

Conjecture: Can continuous regeneration lead to immortality? Studies in the MRL 
mouse.

Heber-Katz E(1), Leferovich J, Bedelbaeva K, Gourevitch D, Clark L.

Author information:
(1)The Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. heberkatz@wistar.org

A particular mouse strain, the MRL mouse, has been shown to have unique healing 
properties that show normal replacement of tissue without scarring. The 
serendipitous discovery that the MRL mouse has a profound capacity for 
regeneration in some ways rivaling the classic newt and axolotl species raises 
the possibility that humans, too, may have an innate regenerative ability. We 
propose this mouse as a model for continuous regeneration with possible 
life-extending properties. We will use the classical "immortal" organism, the 
hydra, for comparison and examine those key phenotypes that contribute to their 
immortality as they are expressed in the MRL mouse versus control mouse strains. 
The phenotypes to be examined include the rate of proliferation and the rate of 
cell death, which leads to a continual turnover in cells without an increase in 
mass.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.3
PMID: 16608389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Spring;9(1):126-33. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.126.

Immunomodulatory vaccines against autoimmune diseases.

Sela M(1).

Author information:
(1)The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel. 
michael.sela@weizmann.ac.il

Vaccines are for healthy people, to prevent them from becoming ill. Such 
prophylactic vaccines have been a great success. Therapeutic vaccines become 
more and more important, especially as life expectancy increases. Efforts to 
develop vaccines against such diseases as cancer, AIDS, hepatitis, tuberculosis, 
Alzheimer disease, and mad cow disease have not yet reached the stage where they 
can be successfully used on a daily basis. However, significant progress has 
been made in the realm of autoimmune diseases, resulting (at least in one case) 
in an immunomodulatory vaccine against multiple sclerosis that was developed in 
the author's laboratory, and that is in daily use by about 100,000 patients. The 
drug or therapeutic vaccine against the exacerbating-remitting type of multiple 
sclerosis is a copolymer of four amino acid residues, denoted Copaxone, which 
are related to myelin basic protein. This paper discusses Copaxone as well as a 
candidate immunomodulatory vaccine against myasthenia gravis, a peptide derived 
from the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Copolymer 1 (Cop 1, glatiramer 
acetate, Copaxone) is a synthetic amino acid random copolymer that is 
immunologically cross-reactive with myelin basic protein and suppresses 
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in several animal species. Cop 1 slows 
the progression of disability and reduces the relapse rate in 
exacerbating-remitting multiple sclerosis patients. Cop 1 is a potent inducer of 
T helper 2 (Th2) regulatory cells in mice and humans; and Th2 cells are found in 
both the brains and spinal cords of Cop 1-treated mice and humans. MG and 
experimental autoimmune MG are T cell-regulated, antibody-mediated autoimmune 
diseases. Two peptides, representing sequences of the human AChR-alpha-subunit, 
p195-212 and p259-271, are immunodominant T-cell epitopes in MG patients and two 
strains of mice. Altered peptide ligand, composed of the randomly arranged two 
single amino acid analogs inhibits in vitro and in vivo MG-associated autoimmune 
responses. The active suppression is mediated by the CD4+ CD25+ immunoregulatory 
cells and is associated with the downregulation of Th1-type cytokines and 
upregulation of the secretion of IL-10 and the immunosuppressive cytokine 
transforming growth factor beta.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.126
PMID: 16608409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Spring;9(1):153-6. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.153.

Analysis of candidate genes in celiac disease: a tool to identify 
life-threatening associated genes?

Nuzzo D(1), Cataldo F, Scola L, Forte GI, Crivello A, Giacalone A, Accomando S, 
Barbieri R, Candore G, Caruso C, Lio D.

Author information:
(1)Immunosenescence Unit, Department of Pathobiology and Biomedical Methodology, 
University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

The authors have recently reported that celiac patients show a proinflammatory 
cytokine genetic profile characterized by the contemporaneous presence of both 
the tumour necrosis factor-alpha-308A and the interferon-gamma +874T 
allele-positive genotypes. The same alleles are considered risk factors for 
aging associated disease, whereas an anti-inflammatory cytokine genotype profile 
might be associated with an extended life expectancy. This paper reports data on 
the 1249-1250InsACAA/Non-Ins transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta2, a 
multifunctional anti-inflammatory cytokine, polymorphism distribution in 88 
celiac disease (CD) patients, 99 age- and sex-matched controls, and 28 
>95-year-old healthy subjects living in western Sicily. These data demonstrate 
that genotype frequencies of CD patients are not different from that of 
age-matched and >95-year-old healthy control subjects. These data might suggest 
that TGF-beta2 polymorphism is not involved in the complex genotypes associated 
with successful or unsuccessful aging. In addition, one can speculate that the 
genotype profile associated with CD susceptibility might be detrimental for 
longevity, and studies of this CD genetic asset might point to a candidate gene 
for antiaging strategies.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.153
PMID: 16608413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Spring;9(1):157-60. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.157.

Analysis of HLA-DQA, HLA-DQB frequencies in a group of Sardinian centenarians.

Scola L(1), Lio D, Crivello A, Candore G, Forte GI, Colonna-Romano G, Pes MG, 
Carru C, Ferrucci L, Deiana L, Baggio G, Franceschi C, Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)Immunosenescence Unit, Department of Pathobiology and Biomedical Methodology, 
University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles, regulating type and intensity of the 
immune response, might influence life expectancy. In previous case-control 
studies the authors have demonstrated that both HLA-DR and -DQ alleles are not 
associated with longevity in the Sardinian population. On the other hand, 
association studies are subjected (as part of the homogeneity of the population 
in terms of geographic origin) to a number of possible confounding factors. 
Therefore, the authors typed the HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 alleles in 24 sibs (age 
range 85 to 97) of 17 centenarians by PCR-SSP. Sib pair analysis showed 
nonsignificant differences between the observed and expected percentage of DQA* 
or DQB1* allele sharing. Therefore, these data strengthen the view that class II 
HLA genes have a marginal effect, if any, on the complex longevity trait.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.9.157
PMID: 16608414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Biochem J. 2006 Jul 1;397(1):25-9. doi: 10.1042/BJ20060409.

The life-extending gene Indy encodes an exchanger for Krebs-cycle intermediates.

Knauf F(1), Mohebbi N, Teichert C, Herold D, Rogina B, Helfand S, Gollasch M, 
Luft FC, Aronson PS.

Author information:
(1)Franz Volhard Clinic at the Max Delbruck Center, HELIOS Kliniken-Berlin, 
Medical Faculty of the Charité, Humboldt University, D-13125 Berlin, Germany.

A longevity gene called Indy (for 'I'm not dead yet'), with similarity to 
mammalian genes encoding sodium-dicarboxylate cotransporters, was identified in 
Drosophila melanogaster. Functional studies in Xenopus oocytes showed that INDY 
mediates the flux of dicarboxylates and citrate across the plasma membrane, but 
the specific transport mechanism mediated by INDY was not identified. To test 
whether INDY functions as an anion exchanger, we examined whether substrate 
efflux is stimulated by transportable substrates added to the external medium. 
Efflux of [14C]citrate from INDY-expressing oocytes was greatly accelerated by 
the addition of succinate to the external medium, indicating citrate-succinate 
exchange. The succinate-stimulated [14C]citrate efflux was sensitive to 
inhibition by DIDS (4,4'-di-isothiocyano-2,2'-disulphonic stilbene), as 
demonstrated previously for INDY-mediated succinate uptake. INDY-mediated efflux 
of [14C]citrate was also stimulated by external citrate and oxaloacetate, 
indicating citrate-citrate and citrate-oxaloacetate exchange. Similarly, efflux 
of [14C]succinate from INDY-expressing oocytes was stimulated by external 
citrate, alpha-oxoglutarate and fumarate, indicating succinate-citrate, 
succinate-alpha-oxoglutarate and succinate-fumarate exchange respectively. 
Conversely, when INDY-expressing Xenopus oocytes were loaded with succinate and 
citrate, [14C]succinate uptake was markedly stimulated, confirming 
succinate-succinate and succinate-citrate exchange. Exchange of internal anion 
for external citrate was markedly pH(o)-dependent, consistent with the concept 
that citrate is co-transported with a proton. Anion exchange was 
sodium-independent. We conclude that INDY functions as an exchanger of 
dicarboxylate and tricarboxylate Krebs-cycle intermediates. The effect of 
decreasing INDY activity, as in the long-lived Indy mutants, may be to alter 
energy metabolism in a manner that favours lifespan extension.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20060409
PMCID: PMC1479758
PMID: 16608441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. BMC Nephrol. 2006 Apr 11;7:8. doi: 10.1186/1471-2369-7-8.

Prevention of catheter lumen occlusion with rT-PA versus heparin (Pre-CLOT): 
study protocol of a randomized trial [ISRCTN35253449].

Hemmelgarn BR(1), Moist L, Pilkey RM, Lok C, Dorval M, Tam PY, Berall MJ, 
LeBlanc M, Toffelmire EB, Manns BJ, Scott-Douglas N; Canadian Hemodialysis 
Catheter Working Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada. brenda.hemmelgarn@calgaryhealthregion.ca

BACKGROUND: Many patients with end-stage renal disease use a central venous 
catheter for hemodialysis access. A large majority of these catheters 
malfunction within one year of insertion, with up to two-thirds due to 
thrombosis. The optimal solution for locking the catheter between hemodialysis 
sessions, to decrease the risk of thrombosis and catheter malfunction, is 
unknown. The Prevention of Catheter Lumen Occlusion with rt-PA versus Heparin 
(PreCLOT) study will determine if use of weekly rt-PA, compared to regular 
heparin, as a catheter locking solution, will decrease the risk of catheter 
malfunction.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study population will consist of patients requiring chronic 
hemodialysis thrice weekly who are dialyzed with a newly inserted permanent 
dual-lumen central venous catheter. Patients randomized to the treatment arm 
will receive rt-PA 1 mg per lumen once per week, with heparin 5,000 units per ml 
as a catheter locking solution for the remaining two sessions. Patients 
randomized to the control arm will receive heparin 5,000 units per ml as a 
catheter locking solution after each dialysis session. The study treatment 
period will be six months, with 340 patients to be recruited from 14 sites 
across Canada. The primary outcome will be catheter malfunction, based on mean 
blood flow parameters while on hemodialysis, with a secondary outcome of 
catheter-related bacteremia. A cost-effectiveness analysis will be undertaken to 
assess the cost of maintaining a catheter using rt-PA as a locking solution, 
compared to the use of heparin.
DISCUSSION: Results from this study will determine if use of weekly rt-PA, 
compared to heparin, will decrease catheter malfunction, as well as assess the 
cost-effectiveness of these locking solutions.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2369-7-8
PMCID: PMC1459124
PMID: 16608513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. BMC Cancer. 2006 Apr 12;6:92. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-92.

Genomic alterations identified by array comparative genomic hybridization as 
prognostic markers in tamoxifen-treated estrogen receptor-positive breast 
cancer.

Han W(1), Han MR, Kang JJ, Bae JY, Lee JH, Bae YJ, Lee JE, Shin HJ, Hwang KT, 
Hwang SE, Kim SW, Noh DY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea. hanw@snu.ac.kr

BACKGROUND: A considerable proportion of estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast 
cancer recurs despite tamoxifen treatment, which is a serious problem commonly 
encountered in clinical practice. We tried to find novel prognostic markers in 
this subtype of breast cancer.
METHODS: We performed array comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) with 1,440 
human bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones to assess copy number changes 
in 28 fresh-frozen ER-positive breast cancer tissues. All of the patients 
included had received at least 1 year of tamoxifen treatment. Nine patients had 
distant recurrence within 5 years (Recurrence group) of diagnosis and 19 
patients were alive without disease at least 5 years after diagnosis 
(Non-recurrence group).
RESULTS: Potential prognostic variables were comparable between the two groups. 
In an unsupervised clustering analysis, samples from each group were well 
separated. The most common regions of gain in all samples were 1q32.1, 17q23.3, 
8q24.11, 17q12-q21.1, and 8p11.21, and the most common regions of loss were 
6q14.1-q16.3, 11q21-q24.3, and 13q13.2-q14.3, as called by CGH-Explorer 
software. The average frequency of copy number changes was similar between the 
two groups. The most significant chromosomal alterations found more often in the 
Recurrence group using two different statistical methods were loss of 
11p15.5-p15.4, 1p36.33, 11q13.1, and 11p11.2 (adjusted p values < 0.001). In 
subgroup analysis according to lymph node status, loss of 11p15 and 1p36 were 
found more often in Recurrence group with borderline significance within the 
lymph node positive patients (adjusted p = 0.052).
CONCLUSION: Our array CGH analysis with BAC clones could detect various genomic 
alterations in ER-positive breast cancers, and Recurrence group samples showed a 
significantly different pattern of DNA copy number changes than did 
Non-recurrence group samples.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-92
PMCID: PMC1459182
PMID: 16608533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Chest. 2006 Apr;129(4):1002-8. doi: 10.1378/chest.129.4.1002.

Pretransplantation bone disease in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension.

Tschopp O(1), Schmid C, Speich R, Seifert B, Russi EW, Boehler A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, and Lung Transplant Program C HOER 19, 
University Hospital, CH-8091 Zurich, Switzerland. capybara@compuserve.com

INTRODUCTION: Osteoporosis is a common condition in patients with end-stage lung 
disease, but little attention has been given to bone disease in patients with 
primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH). The purposes of this study were as 
follows: (1) to determine the prevalence of osteoporosis in patients with severe 
PPH before lung transplantation, (2) to investigate whether generally accepted 
risk factors for osteoporosis would play a role in this special group of 
patients, and (3) to determine whether there is an association between 
functional parameters and pretransplantion bone mass.
DESIGN: A retrospective analysis of 18 consecutive patients with PPH accepted 
for lung transplantation at the University Hospital of Zurich.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Decreased bone mineral density (BMD) [T score <- 1.0] 
was found in 11 of 18 patients (61%) at the femoral neck (FN) and 13 of 18 
patients (72%) at the lumbar spine (LS). We did not find a significant 
difference of BMD in a gender- or age-specific manner. Body mass index (BMI) 
correlated significantly with BMD and T score at the FN and WT. Pulmonary 
vascular resistance (PVR) was notably linked with BMD at the FN. We found a 
positive association between walking distance in the 12-min walking test and BMD 
at the FN and WT.
CONCLUSIONS: Low bone density is a very frequent condition in patients with 
severe PPH. In contrast to the general population, in our study group neither 
age nor female gender were significantly associated with lower bone mass. Body 
weight and BMI were highly coupled with BMD. Among the functional parameters, 
walking distance and PVR were correlated to BMD at the FN. Considering that 
patients with PPH may have an improved life expectancy in the future, the early 
diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of osteoporosis should receive high 
priority.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.129.4.1002
PMID: 16608950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Hernia. 2006 Jun;10(3):262-5. doi: 10.1007/s10029-006-0082-6. Epub 2006 Apr
12.

Combined fascia and mesh repair of incisional hernias.

Lawson-Smith MJ(1), Galland RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Berkshire Hospital, London Road, RG1 5AN, 
Reading, UK.

Incisional hernia is a relatively common complication following abdominal 
operations. Due to high recurrence rates following primary suture, a prosthetic 
mesh is now usually used to repair the hernia. Several different types of repair 
are described. A combined fascia and mesh technique avoids opening the 
peritoneal cavity and potential damage to bowel. This study describes results of 
this technique. Consecutive patients undergoing the operation were contacted to 
assess freedom from recurrence and satisfaction with results. Some 34 patients 
underwent 36 incisional repairs. Of the 34 patients 21 were men and 13 were 
women with a median age of 69 years (range 31-86 years). The causative incisions 
were midline (30), Kochers (2), Pfannesteil (2) and transverse (2). The median 
time spent in hospital was three nights (range 1-14 days). Two patients 
developed seromas, another complained of pain soon after operation, one patient 
developed a superficial wound infection another developed a tender drain site 
which required exploration. One patient with significant co-morbidity died 13 
days postoperatively from multiorgan failure. Freedom from recurrence of the 
hernia was 91% at 5 years. However patient survival was only 70% at 5 years. 
This technique is associated with low postoperative morbidity and a low 
recurrence rate. Patients presenting with incisional hernias have a poor 
long-term prognosis which needs to be borne in mind when planning intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s10029-006-0082-6
PMID: 16609819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2006 Apr;61(4):345-54. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/61.4.345.

Siblings of Okinawan centenarians share lifelong mortality advantages.

Willcox BJ(1), Willcox DC, He Q, Curb JD, Suzuki M.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Health Research Institute, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. 
bjwillcox@phrihawaii.org

Okinawa, an isolated island prefecture of Japan, has among the highest 
prevalence of exceptionally long-lived individuals in the world; therefore, we 
hypothesized that, within this population, genes that confer a familial survival 
advantage might have clustered. We analyzed the pedigrees of 348 centenarian 
families with 1142 siblings and compared sibling survival with that of the 1890 
Okinawan general population cohort. Both male and female centenarian siblings 
experienced approximately half the mortality of their birth cohort-matched 
counterparts. This mortality advantage was sustained and did not diminish with 
age in contrast to many environmentally based mortality gradients, such as 
education and income. Cumulative survival advantages for this centenarian 
sibling cohort increased over the life span such that female centenarian 
siblings had a 2.58-fold likelihood, and male siblings a 5.43-fold likelihood, 
versus their birth cohorts, of reaching the age of 90 years. These data support 
a significant familial component to exceptional human longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/61.4.345
PMID: 16611700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2006 Apr;33(4):424-7.

[Brachytherapy for prostate cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Yorozu A(1), Toya K, Ohashi T, Ohsuga K, Ito R, Kasamatsu T, Saito S, Momma T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Radiology, Tokyo Medical Center, National Hospital Organization.

This review article aims to overview modern prostate brachytherapy in Japan. 
Permanent transperineal prostate brachytherapy with I-125 started in September, 
2003 in Japan. Brachytherapy has several advantages: the dose is adapted 
precisely to the tumor shape and size, and the long-lived isotope gives a higher 
tumor dose with less damage to normal tissue; less-time consuming for patients 
and staff: long-term results comparable to surgery or external beam series in 
the USA; and quality of life after brachytherapy also appealing. These 
advantages have brought about increasing use in Japan as well. Patients with a 
high probability of organ-confined disease and a low-risk group are 
appropriately treated with brachytherapy. Brachytherapy candidates with a 
significant risk of extraprostatic extension should be treated with supplemental 
external beam radiation therapy. High-dose-rate (HDR) brachytherapy with Ir-192 
has preceded seed implants in Japan. HDR has some theoretical advantages. 
Long-term results of brachytherapy in the USA are comparable with surgery or 
external beam irradiation so far. We should develop more sophisticated 
brachytherapy techniques in Japan.

PMID: 16612148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Int J Health Care Finance Econ. 2006 Mar;6(1):3-23. doi: 
10.1007/s10754-006-6863-8.

Is the United States an outlier in health care and health outcomes? A 
preliminary analysis.

Comanor WS(1), Frech HE 3rd, Miller RD Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106, 
USA. comanor@ucla.edu

U.S. health care is often seen as an outlier, with high costs and only middling 
outcomes. This view implies a household production function for health, with 
both health care and lifestyle serving as inputs. Building on earlier work by 
Miller and Frech (2004), we make this argument explicit by estimating a 
production function from augmented OECD data. This allows us to determine 
whether the U.S. is literally an outlier; which turns on whether the United 
States is very far off the production surface. We find that the Unites States is 
somewhat less productive than the average OECD country, but that a substantial 
part of the observed difference results from poor lifestyle choices, 
particularly obesity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10754-006-6863-8
PMID: 16612569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Prev Med Public Health. 2006 Jan;39(1):7-12.

[Future of preventive medicine education in Korea: hopes and challenges].

[Article in Korean]

Meng KH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea College 
of Medicine. khmeng@catholic.ac.kr

Throughout the century, based on the precedent set by Flexner in the United 
States, almost every subsequent report on the reform of medical education has 
pointed out the need for more prevention-oriented teaching in the curriculum. 
This has been particularly so in countries like Korea where the basic public 
health services have been so important for the improvement of health of the 
people. And, in fact, preventive medicine and public health have contributed a 
great deal to the prevention of communicable diseases and prolongation of life 
expectancy. Recently, however, along with the educational reform that 
emphasizing the interdisciplinary teaching, integration of basic science and 
clinical education, and centralization of responsibility for the medical 
education curriculum, concerns are being voiced by preventive medicine 
educators. These concerns are primarily centered around the fear that the 
implementation of interdisciplinary, centrally administered courses would result 
in a weakening of content and teaching expertise as well as a loss of 
departmental power and control. This paper foresees that preventive medicine and 
public health will be more important in Korea in the future and proposes that 
preventive medicine educators will have to step forward and turn the challenges 
of curricula restructuring into opportunities to expand the role of preventive 
medicine in the curricula of their institutions.

PMID: 16613066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Prev Med Public Health. 2006 Jan;39(1):39-45.

[Estimating the burden of psychiatric disorder in Korea].

[Article in Korean]

Park JH(1), Yoon SJ, Lee HY, Cho HS, Lee JY, Eun SJ, Park JH, Kim Y, Kim YI, 
Shin YS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Seoul National University College 
of Medicine. jaehyun@snu.ac.kr

OBJECTIVES: This study estimated the burden of disease especially caused by 
psychiatric disorders in Korea by using DALY, a composite indicator that was 
recently developed by the Global Burden of Disease study group.
METHODS: First, 11 of the major psychiatric disorders in Korea were selected 
based on the ICD-10. Second, the burden of disease due to premature death was 
estimated by using YLLs (years of life lost due to premature death). Third, for 
the calculation of the YLD (years lived with disability), the following 
parameters were estimated in the formula: the incidence rate, the prevalence 
rate and the disability weight of each psychiatric disorder. Last, we estimated 
the DALY of the psychiatric disorders by adding the YLLs and YLDs.
RESULTS: The burden of psychiatric disorder per 100,000 people was attributed 
mainly to unipolar major depression (1,278 person-years), schizophrenia (638 
person-years) and alcohol use disorder (287 person-years). For males, 
schizophrenia (596 person-years) and alcohol use disorder (491 person-years) 
caused the highest burden. For females, unipolar major depression (1,749 
person-years) and schizophrenia (680 person-years) cause the highest burden. As 
analyzed by gender and age group, alcohol use disorder causes a higher burden 
than schizophrenia in men aged 40 years and older. For females, unipolar major 
depression causes the highest burden in all age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that each of the psychiatric disorders that cause the 
highest burden is different according to gender and age group. This study's 
results can provide a rational basis to plan a national health policy regarding 
the burden of disease caused by psychiatric disorders.

PMID: 16613070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Acta Radiol. 2006 Apr;47(3):328-31. doi: 10.1080/02841850500492092.

Survival time and period of catheterization in patients treated with 
percutaneous nephrostomy for urinary obstruction due to malignancy.

Radecka E(1), Magnusson M, Magnusson A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital of Uppsala, Sweden. 
eva.radecka@akademiska.se

PURPOSE: To assess patient mortality and survival time, period of 
catheterization, and indications for percutaneous nephrostomy (PCN) withdrawal 
in patients treated with PCN for urinary obstruction due to malignancy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 151 patients treated with 257 
PCNs in a 5-year period was performed. Data on survival time, duration of 
catheterization, and clinical end-points for PCN treatment were collected.
RESULTS: The median survival time of the patients was 255 days, while median 
catheterization time was 62 days. The majority of patients (84) died with the 
catheter. Indications for PCN withdrawal were surgery, stent treatment, catheter 
displacement, and response to medical treatment.
CONCLUSION: The majority of patients with malignancy treated with PCN have 
advanced disease and short life expectancy. Factors such as diagnosis, 
prognosis, economy, and the patient's preference influence the choice of urinary 
diversion method. However, PCN should be considered in patients with malignancy 
on grounds of safety and low cost.

DOI: 10.1080/02841850500492092
PMID: 16613316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. J Biosoc Sci. 2006 May;38(3):391-401. doi: 10.1017/S0021932005007212.

A varied pattern of change of the sex differential in survival in the G7 
countries.

Trovato F(1), Heyen NB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Population Research Laboratory, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

Over the course of the 20th century the sex differential in life expectancy at 
birth in the industrialized countries has widened considerably in favour of 
women. Starting in the early 1970s, the beginning of a reversal in the long-term 
pattern of this differential has been noted in some high-income countries. This 
study documents a sustained pattern of narrowing of this measure into the later 
part of the 1990s for six of the populations that comprise the G7 countries: 
Canada, France, Germany, Italy, England and Wales (as representative of the 
United Kingdom) and USA. For Japan, a persistence of widening sex differences in 
survival is noted. The sex differences in life expectancy are decomposed over 
roughly three decades (early 1970s to late 1990s) from the point of view of four 
major cause-of-death categories: circulatory diseases, cancers, 
accidents/violence/suicide, and 'other' (residual) causes. In the six countries 
where the sex gap has narrowed, this has resulted primarily from reduced sex 
differences in circulatory disease mortality, and secondarily from reduced 
differences in male and female death rates due to accidents, violence and 
suicide combined. In some of the countries sex differentials in cancer mortality 
have been converging lately, and this has also contributed to a narrowing of the 
difference in life expectancy. In Japan, males have been less successful in 
reducing their survival disadvantage in relation to Japanese women with regard 
to circulatory disease and cancer; and in the case of 
accidents/violence/suicide, male death rates increased during the 1990s. These 
trends explain the divergent pattern of the sex difference in life expectation 
in Japan as compared with the other G7 nations.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932005007212
PMID: 16613623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Science. 2006 Apr 14;312(5771):195-7; author reply 195-7. doi: 
10.1126/science.312.5771.195d.

Life-span extension in yeast.

Sinclair DA, Lin SJ, Guarente L.

Comment on
    Science. 2005 Nov 18;310(5751):1124-5.

DOI: 10.1126/science.312.5771.195d
PMID: 16614198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2006 May;60(5):448-55. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2005.041558.

Successful aging: measuring the years lived with functional loss.
