Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Gifu University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Gifu, Japan.

In recent years, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) has been classified by 
DNA microarray analysis into the germinal center B-cell-like (GC) type, the 
activated B-cell-like (ABC) type and type 3. The latter two types can be 
collectively categorized as the non-GC (NGC) type. From the prognostic 
perspective, the GC type has a favorable clinical outcome when compared with the 
NGC type. The protein Fas induces apoptosis of lymphocytes by binding with the 
Fas ligand (FasL), and escape from such apoptosis is considered to lead to 
malignant transformation of the cells and unrestricted growth of lymphoma. We 
proposed a hypothesis that Fas/FasL expression could be possibly related with a 
better survival of GC type DLBCL and evaluated 69 DLBCL cases 
immunohistochemically with CD10, Bcl-6, MUM1, Fas and FasL. These lymphomas were 
classified as GC type (positive for CD10 or Bcl-6 and negative for MUM1) or NGC 
type. The GC type had a better overall survival rate than the NGC type (P = 
0.0723). Among markers as given above, positive CD10 was the most significant 
prognostic factor for overall survival in total DLBCL (P < 0.05). In the GC 
type, Fas and FasL expressions were significantly associated with a favorable 
overall survival (Fas: P < 0.005; FasL: P < 0.05). Hence, Fas or FasL expression 
might contribute to a better prognosis of this type of DLBCL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2006.00631.x
PMID: 16494623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Emerg Infect Dis. 2006 Feb;12(2):296-303. doi: 10.3201/eid1202.050499.

Global socioeconomic impact of cystic echinococcosis.

Budke CM(1), Deplazes P, Torgerson PR.

Author information:
(1)University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.

Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is an emerging zoonotic parasitic disease throughout 
the world. Human incidence and livestock prevalence data of CE were gathered 
from published literature and the Office International des Epizooties databases. 
Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and monetary losses, resulting from human 
and livestock CE, were calculated from recorded human and livestock cases. 
Alternative values, assuming substantial underreporting, are also reported. When 
no underreporting is assumed, the estimated human burden of disease is 285,407 
(95% confidence interval [CI], 218,515-366,133) DALYs or an annual loss of US 
$193,529,740 (95% CI, $171,567,331-$217,773,513). When underreporting is 
accounted for, this amount rises to 1,009,662 (95% CI, 862,119-1,175,654) DALYs 
or US $763,980,979 (95% CI, $676,048,731-$857,982,275). An annual livestock 
production loss of at least US $141,605,195 (95% CI, $101,011,553-$183,422,465) 
and possibly up to US $2,190,132,464 (95% CI, $1,572,373,055-$2,951,409,989) is 
also estimated. This initial valuation demonstrates the necessity for increased 
monitoring and global control of CE.

DOI: 10.3201/eid1202.050499
PMCID: PMC3373106
PMID: 16494758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Age Ageing. 2006 Mar;35(2):127-32. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afj045.

Bone loss after stroke over 52 weeks at os calcis: influence of sex, mobility 
and relation to bone density at other sites.

Bainbridge NJ(1), Davie MW, Haddaway MJ.

Author information:
(1)Charles Salt Metabolic Bone Research Unit, Robert Jones & Agnes Hunt 
Orthopaedic & District Hospital, Oswestry, Shropshire, SY10 7AG, UK.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy increases after stroke, skeletal consequences 
become increasingly important, and patients at risk of fracture require 
identification. We have investigated peripheral bone mineral density (BMD) 
measurement at the heel as a possible surrogate for hip dual energy X-ray 
absorptiometry measurement and we have related bone loss over 52 weeks to 
balance and mobility.
METHODS: BMD at the heel (PIXI), proximal femur and whole body (QDR4500A), 
Tinetti (a measure of mobility and balance) and Barthel (a measure of activities 
of daily living) scores were measured in 52 patients (27 males and 25 females) 
within 8 weeks of stroke and repeated in 27 (15 males and 12 females) after 52 
weeks.
RESULTS: BMD was not initially low at the femoral neck (FN). A significant fall 
occurred on the stroke side (SS) over 52 weeks at the heel, FN and total hip 
(TH), in both sexes, but was greater in women. On the non-SS, women lost bone at 
the TH and heel. Patients who were in the lowest Tinetti score tertile 
initially, showed significant loss of bone in the FN (14.5%) and at the heel 
(12.2%) on the SS. BMD at the SS heel correlated with the FN at 8 weeks (r = 
0.64, P<0.01) and at 52 weeks (r = 0.60, P<0.01) after stroke. Women lost more 
bone than men on SS but also lost bone on the non-SS at the same sites, 
suggesting that SS bone loss may result from factors additional to stroke.
CONCLUSION: Heel BMD was a useful surrogate for hip BMD. Low initial Tinetti 
scores were an indicator of bone loss and, together with initial BMD 
measurements, provide a useful indication for those needing early prophylaxis 
against bone loss.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afj045
PMID: 16495292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. BMJ. 2006 Mar 25;332(7543):699-703. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38737.607558.80. Epub
2006  Feb 22.

Bias in published cost effectiveness studies: systematic review.

Bell CM(1), Urbach DR, Ray JG, Bayoumi A, Rosen AB, Greenberg D, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5B 1W8. 
bellc@smh.toronto.on.ca

OBJECTIVE: To investigate if published studies tend to report favourable cost 
effectiveness ratios (below 20,000 dollars, 50,000 dollars, and 100,000 dollars 
per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained) and evaluate study characteristics 
associated with this phenomenon.
DESIGN: Systematic review. Studies reviewed 494 English language studies 
measuring health effects in QALYs published up to December 2001 identified using 
Medline, HealthSTAR, CancerLit, Current Content, and EconLit databases.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost effectiveness ratios measured in dollars 
set to the year of publication.
RESULTS: Approximately half the reported incremental cost effectiveness ratios 
(712 of 1433) were below 20,000 dollars/QALY. Studies funded by industry were 
more likely to report cost effectiveness ratios below 20,000 dollars/QALY 
(adjusted odds ratio 2.1, 95% confidence interval 1.3 to 3.3), 50,000 
dollars/QALY (3.2, 1.8 to 5.7), and 100,000 dollars/QALY (3.3, 1.6 to 6.8). 
Studies of higher methodological quality (adjusted odds ratio 0.58, 0.37 to 
0.91) and those conducted in Europe (0.59, 0.33 to 1.1) and the United States 
(0.44, 0.26 to 0.76) rather than elsewhere were less likely to report ratios 
below 20,000 dollars/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Most published analyses report favourable incremental cost 
effectiveness ratios. Studies funded by industry were more likely to report 
ratios below the three thresholds. Studies of higher methodological quality and 
those conducted in Europe and the US rather than elsewhere were less likely to 
report ratios below 20,000 dollars/QALY.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.38737.607558.80
PMCID: PMC1410902
PMID: 16495332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Vet Intern Med. 2006 Jan-Feb;20(1):131-5. doi: 
10.1892/0891-6640(2006)20[131:eiiw]2.0.co;2.

Epilepsy in Irish Wolfhounds.

Casal ML(1), Munuve RM, Janis MA, Werner P, Henthorn PS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Medical Genetics, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6010, USA. casalml@vet.upenn.edu

Comment in
    J Vet Intern Med. 2006 Sep-Oct;20(5):1049; author reply 1049-51.

During the last 15 years, breeders have reported an increase in the proportion 
of Irish Wolfhounds with seizure disorders. Clinical data and pedigrees from 
closely related Irish Wolfhounds were collected retrospectively and analyzed. 
Idiopathic epilepsy was diagnosed, by exclusion of other causes for seizures, in 
146 (18.3%) of 796 Irish Wolfhounds from 115 litters. The first seizure occurred 
by the age of 3 years in 73% of all dogs. Males were more commonly affected than 
females (61.6% versus 38.4%), with males having a later average age of seizure 
onset. The life expectancy of affected dogs was decreased by 2 years when 
compared with the average Irish Wolfhound population. The heritability index for 
the affected dogs, their littermates, and unaffected parents was 0.87. No simple 
mode of inheritance explains the pattern of affected dogs in pedigrees. 
Hallmarks of dominant and sex-linked inheritance were notably absent, and the 
segregation ratio was less than would be expected for simple autosomal recessive 
inheritance. Assuming all affected dogs have the same form of epilepsy, the 
simplest description of the complex pattern of inheritance observed is autosomal 
recessive, with incomplete penetrance and male dogs at increased risk.

DOI: 10.1892/0891-6640(2006)20[131:eiiw]2.0.co;2
PMCID: PMC3330239
PMID: 16496932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Emerg Med J. 2006 Mar;23(3):232-5. doi: 10.1136/emj.2004.022962.

Does telephone triage of emergency (999) calls using Advanced Medical Priority 
Dispatch (AMPDS) with Department of Health (DH) call prioritisation effectively 
identify patients with an acute coronary syndrome? An audit of 42,657 emergency 
calls to Hampshire Ambulance Service NHS Trust.

Deakin CD(1), Sherwood DM, Smith A, Cassidy M.

Author information:
(1)Hampshire Ambulance Service NHS Trust, Highcroft, Winchester, Hampshire, UK. 
charlesdeakin@doctors.org.uk

INTRODUCTION: The National Service Framework for Coronary Heart Disease requires 
identification of patients with an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) to enable 
prompt identification of those who may subsequently require pre-hospital 
thrombolysis. The Advanced Medical Priority Dispatch System (AMPDS) with 
Department of Health (DH) call prioritisation is now the common triage tool for 
emergency ('999') calls in the UK. We retrospectively examined patients with ACS 
to identify whether this triage tool had been able to allocate an appropriate 
emergency response.
METHODS: All emergency calls to Hampshire Ambulance Service NHS Trust (HAST) 
from the Southampton area over an 8 month period (January to August 2004) were 
analysed. The classification allocated to the patient by AMPDS (version 10.4) 
was specifically identified. Data from the Myocardial Infarct National Audit 
Project) were obtained from the receiving hospital in Southampton to identify 
the actual number of patients with a true ACS.
RESULTS: In total, 42 657 emergency calls were made to HAST from the Southampton 
area. Of these, 263 patients were subsequently diagnosed in hospital as having 
an ACS. Of these 263 patients, 76 presented without chest pain. Sensitivity of 
AMPDS for detecting ACS in this sample was 71.1% and specificity 92.5%. Positive 
predictive value was 5.6% (95% confidence interval 4.8 to 6.4%), and 12.5% 
(33/263) of patients with confirmed ACS were classified as non-life threatening 
(category B) incidents.
CONCLUSION: Only one of approximately every 18 patients with chest pain has an 
ACS. AMPDS with DH call prioritisation is not a tool designed for clinical 
diagnosis, and its extension into this field does not enable accurate 
identification of patients with ACS.

DOI: 10.1136/emj.2004.022962
PMCID: PMC2464449
PMID: 16498168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: none declared


289. Health Econ. 2006 Jul;15(7):653-64. doi: 10.1002/hec.1086.

Is there a case for using visual analogue scale valuations in cost-utility 
analysis?

Parkin D(1), Devlin N.

Author information:
(1)City Health Economics Centre, City University, London, UK. 
d.parkin@city.ac.uk

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2007 Jun;16(6):645-7; discussion 649-51.

This paper critically reviews theoretical and empirical propositions regarding 
visual analogue scale (VAS) valuations of health states and their use in 
cost-utility analysis (CUA). A widely repeated assertion in the economic 
evaluation literature is the inferiority, on theoretical grounds, of VAS 
valuations. Five common criticisms are: VAS lacks a theoretical foundation; VAS 
values are not 'choice based'; VAS values are not consistent with 
utility-under-uncertainty requirements; context and range effects observed in 
VAS valuation data mean that they cannot even be considered to represent 
measurable value functions; and when completing a VAS, people are not trying to 
express values. We address each of these points: the VAS does have a theoretical 
basis, being entirely consistent with the non-welfarist foundations of QALYs and 
CUA; the 'choiceless' nature of the VAS is incorrectly judged by stated 
preference criteria relevant to monetary rather than health state valuations, 
and VAS valuations do in any case involve an element of choice; because 
valuations are intended for use in social decision-making, it may be 
advantageous that VAS values are elicited under conditions of certainty; 
although there are measurement problems with the VAS, means such as better 
design and transformations of data can deal with these; and with any method of 
eliciting values, it is unrealistic to expect people consciously to think in 
terms of social science constructs such as utilities.Moreover, there are 
problems, both theoretical and empirical, with alternative methods. Selection of 
the appropriate valuation method should be based on empirical performance, and 
in this the VAS has important advantages. We conclude that there are strong 
grounds for disputing the consensus view against the VAS and challenge those who 
hold it to deploy more convincing arguments and evidence in favour of 
alternative methods. However, we identify areas where further research is 
required to establish and consolidate the potential of the VAS as a valuation 
method.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1086
PMID: 16498700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Lik Sprava. 2005 Dec;(8):76-81.

[Effect of alpha-difluoromethylornithine and polyhexamethyleneguanidine (PMG), 
polyamine biosynthesis inhibitors on leucosis L1210 growth kinetics and life 
expectancy of animals with cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Zaletok SP, Berdinskikh NK, Lialiushko NM, Klenov OA, Samoĭlenko EA, Lidak MIu.

The article deals with the study of polyamines content and 
y-glutamiltranspeptidase (gamma-GTP) activity in leucosis L1210 cells under the 
influence of inhibitors of polyamines synthesis such as 
alpha-difluoromethylornithine (alpha-DFMO) and polyhexamethylenguanidine (PMG). 
Injections of alpha-DFMO and PMG to animals essentially reduce putrescine and 
spermidine concentrations, and the levels of spermine and gamma-GTP activity 
increase under this influence. These modulation were associated with L1210 
leucosis growth retardation. Antiblastic effect was dependent on inhibitors' 
doses and mode of injections' course. Under the optimum conditions the 
retardation index was 90-98%. The animals with retarded tumor growth had 
essentially longer survival time frame than blank tumor-bearing animals (index 
was 37.2 for a-DFMO and 67.5 for PMG).

PMID: 16498791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2006 Feb;96(2):316-26. doi: 
10.1016/S1081-1206(10)61242-2.

Impact of omalizumab on quality-of-life outcomes in patients with 
moderate-to-severe allergic asthma.

Niebauer K(1), Dewilde S, Fox-Rushby J, Revicki DA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Outcomes Research, The MEDTAP Institute at United BioSource 
Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA.

BACKGROUND: Moderate-to-severe allergic asthma has a substantial impact on 
patients' quality of life (QOL). Despite care consistent with treatment 
guidelines, many patients with moderate-to-severe asthma still experience 
variability in asthma control, signaling an unmet need within this population. 
Omalizumab has recently demonstrated clinical efficacy and safety in treating 
IgE-mediated asthma.
OBJECTIVE: To summarize asthma-related QOL outcomes associated with omalizumab 
therapy in moderate-to-severe allergic asthma.
METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis of asthma-related QOL on data 
from published clinical trials and unpublished clinical study reports were 
conducted on omalizumab. The Juniper Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) 
measured asthma-related QOL.
RESULTS: Statistically significant results for asthma-related QOL end points 
consistently favored omalizumab over placebo. Moderate to large effect sizes in 
the omalizumab groups were observed across the clinical trials and during study 
extension phases. A meta-analysis indicated a 1.6- to 2-fold increase in 
moderate (> or = 1 point) and a 1.8- to 2.1-fold increase in large (> or = 1.5 
point) improvements in AQLQ overall scores in the omalizumab-treated group 
compared with placebo during the steroid-stabilization and steroid-reduction 
phases of the trials.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant differences and large effect sizes favoring omalizumab 
were observed despite the control group receiving active, guideline-consistent 
treatment. The meta-analysis findings demonstrate that omalizumab treatment 
provides QOL benefits in patients with moderate-to-severe allergic asthma.

DOI: 10.1016/S1081-1206(10)61242-2
PMID: 16498854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. J Support Oncol. 2006 Feb;4(2):62-3.

Best treatment approaches for malignant spinal cord compression.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16499117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Support Oncol. 2006 Feb;4(2):92.

Involuntary weight loss in patients with advanced cancer: treatment is of modest 
benefit.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16499134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Addiction. 2006 Mar;101(3):373-84. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2005.01338.x.

Alcohol-attributable mortality and potential years of life lost in Canada 2001: 
implications for prevention and policy.

Rehm J(1), Patra J, Popova S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Canada. jtrehm@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Alcohol is one of the most important risk factors for burden of 
disease.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the number of deaths and the years of life lost 
attributable to alcohol for Canada 2001 using different ways to measure alcohol 
exposure.
METHODS: Distribution of exposure was taken from a major national survey of 
Canada, the Canadian Addiction Survey, and corrected for per capita consumption 
from production and sales. For chronic disease, risk relations were taken from 
the published literature and combined with exposure to calculate age- and 
sex-specific alcohol-attributable fractions (AAFs). For injury, AAFs were taken 
directly from available statistics. Information on mortality, with cause of 
death coded according to the International Classification of Diseases version 10 
(ICD-10) was obtained from Statistics Canada.
RESULTS: For Canada in 2001, 4,010 of all deaths in the group below 70 years of 
age were attributable to alcohol, 3,132 in men and 877 in women. This 
constituted 6.0% of all deaths in Canada in this age group, 7.6% for men, and 
3.5% for women. The 4,010 deaths are a net figure, already taking into account 
the deaths prevented by moderate consumption of alcohol. Main causes of 
alcohol-attributable death were unintentional injuries, malignant neoplasms and 
digestive diseases. Ischaemic heart disease (IHD) was the biggest cause of death 
prevented by alcohol, with 78.7% of all alcohol-attributable prevented deaths in 
the age groups of 70 years and above. A total of 144,143 years of life were lost 
prematurely in Canada in that year, 113,079 years in men and 31,063 years in 
women.
DISCUSSION: Regardless of the assumptions made, alcohol is a major contributor 
to mortality in Canada. The impact of alcohol on social life is not confined to 
mortality, as other studies indicated that alcohol is linked even more strongly 
to disability and social harm. Alcohol-attributable harm could be substantially 
reduced, however, if known effective policies were introduced.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2005.01338.x
PMID: 16499510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Mol Ecol. 2006 Mar;15(3):863-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2005.02798.x.

Microsatellite analysis reveals strong but differential impact of a social 
parasite on its two host species.

Fischer-Blass B(1), Heinze J, Foitzik S.

Author information:
(1)Biologie I, Universität Regensburg, Germany.

The speed and the dynamics of the co-evolutionary process strongly depend on the 
relative strengths of reciprocal selection pressures exerted by the interacting 
species. Here, we investigate the influence of an obligate social parasite, the 
slave-making ant Harpagoxenus sublaevis, on populations of the two main host 
species Leptothorax acervorum and Leptothorax muscorum from a German ant 
community. A combination of genetic and demographic data allowed us to analyse 
the consequences of raiding pressure on the hosts' life history and possible 
host preferences of the parasite. We can demonstrate that slave raids during 
which the social parasite pillages brood from neighbouring host colonies are 
both frequent and extremely destructive for both host species. Microsatellite 
analysis showed that, on average, a single slave-maker colony conducts more than 
three raids per year and that host colonies mostly perish in the aftermath of 
these parasite attacks. Only in few cases, surviving nests of previously raided 
host colonies were found in the surroundings of slave-maker colonies. As a 
consequence of the high prevalence of parasites and their recurrent and 
devastating slave raids on host colonies, the life expectancy of host colonies 
was severely reduced. Combining our results on host-specific parasitic colony 
founding and raiding frequencies with the post-raid survival rate, we can 
demonstrate an overall higher mortality rate for the smaller host species L. 
muscorum. This might be caused by a preference of H. sublaevis for this 
secondary host species as demographic data on host species usage indicate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2005.02798.x
PMID: 16499708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Scand J Infect Dis. 2006;38(3):205-8. doi: 10.1080/00365540500263268.

Reactivation of severe, acute pulmonary tuberculosis during treatment with 
pegylated interferon-alpha and ribavirin for chronic HCV hepatitis.

Sabbatani S(1), Manfredi R, Marinacci G, Pavoni M, Cristoni L, Chiodo F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Division of Infectious 
Diseases, Bologna, Italy.

The unexpected observation of severe pulmonary tuberculosis after a 7-month 
combined pegylated interferon-ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C, prompted us to 
search an eventual immunodeficiency (lymphopenia and/or depletion of CD4+ 
T-lymphocytes. The retrieval of a chest radiograph incidentally performed 11 y 
before and showing a probable primary tuberculosis, paralleled a negligible 
clinical history. The enlargement of interferon indications needs careful 
evaluation for prior (usually missed) tuberculosis, to prevent or avoid its 
possible reactivation. Latent tuberculosis is increasingly reported because of 
extended life expectancy, immigration, and recent availability of cure for 
multiple chronic disorders, which are often borne by primary-secondary 
immunodeficiency.

DOI: 10.1080/00365540500263268
PMID: 16500782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Ann Oncol. 2006 May;17(5):785-93. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdl023. Epub 2006 Feb
24.

Computed tomography screening for lung cancer in Hodgkin's lymphoma survivors: 
decision analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Das P(1), Ng AK, Earle CC, Mauch PM, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, U.T. M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 
Holcombe Boulevard, Unit 97, Houston, TX 77030, USA. PrajDas@mdanderson.org

BACKGROUND: Hodgkin's lymphoma patients have an elevated risk of developing lung 
cancer and may be targeted for lung cancer screening. We used a 
decision-analytic model to estimate the potential clinical benefits and 
cost-effectiveness of computed tomography (CT) screening for lung cancer in 
Hodgkin's lymphoma survivors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed a Markov decision-analytic model to compare 
annual low-dose CT screening versus no screening in a hypothetical cohort of 
patients diagnosed with stage IA-IIB Hodgkin's lymphoma at age 25, with 
screening starting 5 years after initial diagnosis. We derived model parameters 
from published studies and the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) 
Program, and assumed that stage-shift produces a survival benefit.
RESULTS: Annual CT screening increased survival by 0.64 years for smokers and 
0.16 years for non-smokers. The corresponding benefits in quality-adjusted 
survival were 0.58 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for smokers and 0.14 
QALYs for non-smokers. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for annual CT 
screening compared with no screening were $34 100/QALY for smokers and $125 
400/QALY for non-smokers.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that if early promising results for lung 
cancer screening hold, CT screening for lung cancer may increase survival and 
quality-adjusted survival among Hodgkin's lymphoma survivors, with a benefit and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for smokers comparable to that of other 
recommended cancer screening strategies.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdl023
PMID: 16500905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Support Care Cancer. 2006 Oct;14(10):1055-63. doi:
10.1007/s00520-006-0032-y.  Epub 2006 Feb 25.

Decision making in palliative radiation therapy: reframing hope in caregivers 
and patients with brain metastases.

Sze J(1), Marisette S, Williams D, Nyhof-Young J, Crooks D, Husain A, Bezjak A, 
Wong RK.

Author information:
(1)Princess Margaret Hospital, University of Toronto, 5th Floor, 610 University 
Avenue, M5G 2M9, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

GOALS OF WORK: To explore the major factors important in decision making for 
whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) for patients with brain metastases and their 
caregivers.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two parallel qualitative studies, one for patients and one 
for caregivers of patients with newly diagnosed brain metastases, were 
conducted. Semistructured interviews were conducted and audiotaped with each 
participant. Content analysis and theme extraction of the transcripts were 
undertaken to identify recurring themes and relational patterns.
RESULTS: Twenty patients and 19 caregivers (including eight patient and 
caregiver pairs) were recruited into the study. Four major factors were 
identified to influence decision making of whole-brain radiation: hope, 
knowledge, expectations of radiation therapy, and current symptoms. Analysis 
reveals that patients generally focus on current informational needs, while 
caregivers want more information about the future (e.g., life expectancy and 
anticipated symptoms). Caregivers expressed frustration when unable to explore 
future needs because patients were unprepared to discuss prognostic issues. 
Participants expressed substantial relief when offered WBRT after the diagnosis, 
but WBRT is often considered the only available plan rather than an informed 
choice.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the importance of caregivers in the care of patients with 
brain metastases, fulfilling their unique informational needs appears to require 
more attention. The blurred boundary between hopes and expectations for WBRT 
creates unique challenges in joint treatment decision making for patients with 
brain metastases and their caregivers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-006-0032-y
PMID: 16502003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nervenarzt. 2006 Sep;77(9):1096-100, 1102-4. doi: 10.1007/s00115-006-2077-z.

[Cycloid psychoses as atypical manic-depressive disorders. Results of a family 
study].

[Article in German]

Jabs B(1), Althaus G, Bartsch A, Schmidtke A, Stöber G, Beckmann H, Pfuhlmann B.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Universität 
Würzburg, Füchsleinstrasse 15, 97080, Würzburg, Germany. 
burkhard.jabs@mail.uni-wuerzburg.de

BACKGROUND: Whereas a growing body of evidence suggests that cycloid psychoses 
have to be separated from schizophrenic psychoses, their relations to bipolar 
affective disorder are less clear.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a controlled family study, we recruited 46 patients 
with cycloid psychosis (CP), 33 with manic-depressive illness (MDI), and 27 
controls. Three hundred fifty-six of 389 living first-degree relatives were 
personally examined by experienced psychiatrists blinded to the diagnosis of the 
index proband.
RESULTS: The relatives of CP patients showed significantly lower morbidity risk 
of functional psychoses than relatives of patients with MDI in Kaplan-Meier life 
table calculation. The morbidity risk for functional psychoses in relatives of 
patients with CP did not differ significantly from that in relatives of 
controls.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that CP are etiologically different from 
bipolar affective psychoses and cannot be integrated into the spectrum of 
bipolar affective disorders. The findings provide further evidence for a 
nosological independence of CP.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-006-2077-z
PMID: 16502008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Herz. 2006 Feb;31(1):6-13. doi: 10.1007/s00059-006-2777-y.

Mitral valvular regurgitation : etiology, pathophysiologic mechanisms, clinical 
manifestations.

Boudoulas H(1), Sparks EE, Wooley CF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, College of Medicine and Public Health, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus, OH, USA. boudoulas@bioacademy.gr

The etiology of mitral valvular regurgitation (MVR) has changed in the last 
40-50 years in the industrialized countries. A significant reduction in the 
incidence of rheumatic fever and its sequelae, increase in life expectancy, 
recognition of new causes of MVR, and advancement in technology are responsible 
for the metamorphosis of the etiology of MVR. It should be mentioned that MVR 
still constitutes a major health problem which will increase with the aging 
population. Recent advances in imaging techniques and hemodynamic studies allow 
clinicians to better define valvular structure and the pathophysiologic 
mechanisms of valvular heart disease in clinic practice. When combined with 
careful clinical history taking and thoughtful clinical examination, the 
correlation of laboratory studies with the clinical picture should permit 
definition of the etiology of valvular heart disease in the majority of the 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-006-2777-y
PMID: 16502267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Herz. 2006 Feb;31(1):47-52. doi: 10.1007/s00059-006-2785-y.

[Current aspects of mitral valve repair in the surgical treatment of mitral 
valve insufficiency].

[Article in German]

Leyh RG(1), Jakob H.

Author information:
(1)Thorax- und Kardiovaskularchirurgie, Westdeutsches Herzzentrum, 
Universitätsklinikum Essen. rainer.leyh@uni-duisburg-essen.de

Mitral valve repair (MVR) is the golden standard for the surgical treatment of 
mitral valve regurgitation and is superior to mitral valve replacement in terms 
of perioperative and long-term morbidity and mortality. However, the underlying 
disease has a significant impact on the functional long-term result of the 
repair. To evaluate the results of MVR, patients have to be divided by the 
underlying disease, degenerative mitral valve regurgitation, rheumatic mitral 
valve regurgitation, ischemic mitral valve regurgitation, and mitral valve 
regurgitation due to advanced cardiomyopathy. The best functional result for MVR 
can be achieved for degenerative mitral valve regurgitation (10-year freedom 
from reoperation for recurrent mitral regurgitation up to 94%) followed by 
patients with rheumatic mitral valve regurgitation (10-year freedom from 
reoperation for recurrent mitral regurgitation up to 82%). The progress in the 
underlying disease of the mitral valve is responsible for recurrent mitral valve 
regurgitation in these patients. For both underlying disease the 10-year 
survival rate is > 75%. For patients with ischemic mitral valve regurgitation 
the functional and survival rates are worse with a 5-year survival rate < 60% 
and recurrent mitral valve regurgitation > MI (mitral valve insufficiency) II 
degrees in 28% of patients within 6 months. However, ischemic mitral valve 
regurgitation is not a disease of the valve, it is a disease of the myocardium; 
thus, the myocardium is the key factor influencing the functional results of MVR 
and not pathologic changes in the mitral valve per se. There are no long-term 
results on patients operated on MI in conjunction with advanced cardiomyopathy; 
however, the initial mid-term results are encouraging with improved survival. 
Besides the underlying disease the timing of surgery is of utmost importance for 
the long-term survival; patients with preoperative NYHA functional class III/IV 
have a significantly worse short-term and long-term outcome compared to patients 
operated on for significant mitral valve regurgitation who have only minor or 
even no symptoms (NYHA class I/II). However, the compliance to undergo complex 
open-heart surgery via a median sternotomy in asymptomatic patients is very low. 
Minimally invasive endoscopic mitral valve repair may be an option to increase 
compliance in these patients, which will result in improved long-term survival 
with a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-006-2785-y
PMID: 16502272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Mov Disord. 2006 Jun;21(6):809-15. doi: 10.1002/mds.20808.

Health-related quality of life in multiple system atrophy.

Schrag A(1), Geser F, Stampfer-Kountchev M, Seppi K, Sawires M, Köllensperger M, 
Scherfler C, Quinn N, Pellecchia MT, Barone P, Del Sorbo F, Albanese A, 
Ostergaard K, Dupont E, Cardozo A, Tolosa E, Nilsson CF, Widner H, Lindvall O, 
Giladi N, Gurevich T, Daniels C, Deuschl G, Coelho M, Sampaio C, Abele M, 
Klockgether T, Schimke N, Eggert KM, Oertel W, Djaldetti R, Colosimo C, Meco G, 
Poewe W, Wenning GK; European MSA-Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Royal Free & University College Medical 
School, London, United Kingdom.

Although multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disorder leading 
to progressive disability and decreased life expectancy, little is known about 
patients' own evaluation of their illness and factors associated with poor 
health-related quality of life (Hr-QoL). We, therefore, assessed Hr-QoL and its 
determinants in MSA. The following scales were applied to 115 patients in the 
European MSA-Study Group (EMSA-SG) Natural History Study: Medical Outcome Study 
Short Form (SF-36), EQ-5D, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Mini-Mental state 
examination (MMSE), Unified MSA Rating Scale (UMSARS), Hoehn & Yahr (H&Y) 
Parkinson's disease staging scale, Composite Autonomic Symptom Scale (COMPASS), 
and Parkinson's Disease Sleep Scale (PDSS). Forty-six percent of patients had 
moderate to severe depression (BDI > or = 17); Hr-QoL scores on the SF-36 and 
EQ-5D were significantly impaired. Pain, the only domain with similar scores in 
MSA and published PD patients, was reported more frequently in patients with 
MSA-P (predominantly parkinsonian motor subtype) than MSA-C (predominantly 
cerebellar motor subtype; 76% vs. 50%; P = 0.005). Hr-QoL scores correlated most 
strongly with UMSARS motor, COMPASS, and BDI scores but not with MMSE scores, 
age at onset, or disease duration. The COMPASS and UMSARS activities of daily 
living scores were moderate-to-strong predictors for the SF-36 physical summary 
score and the BDI and UMSARS motor scores for the SF-36 mental summary score. 
This report is the first study to show that Hr-QoL is significantly impaired in 
MSA. Although not all possible factors related to impaired Hr-QoL in MSA could 
be assessed, autonomic dysfunction, motor impairment, and depression were most 
closely associated with poor Hr-QoL, and therapeutic management, therefore, 
should concentrate upon these aspects of the disease.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.20808
PMID: 16502399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Am J Med Genet A. 2006 Apr 1;140(7):695-703. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.31143.

The natural history of trisomy 12p.

Segel R(1), Peter I, Demmer LA, Cowan JM, Hoffman JD, Bianchi DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Genetics, Tufts-New England Medical 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA.

Trisomy of the short arm of chromosome 12 is a rare chromosomal anomaly, with an 
estimated incidence of 1/50,000 births. It may present as a pure trisomy 
(complete or incomplete), as mosaic trisomy, or with other chromosomal 
abnormalities. Little is known from prior reports about the natural history and 
life expectancy of these individuals. In this study we describe the long-term 
outcome and the differences between patients with mosaic trisomy 12p compared to 
patients with complete trisomy. We present a series of 16 patients with trisomy 
12p; 6 of them are older than 10 years. Most patients were born at term with 
normal or above normal birth weight. Seven were born with congenital anomalies, 
but no single anomaly was present in more than one individual. A clear and 
consistent dysmorphic facial pattern was apparent in all of the subjects. Most 
patients over 7 years old had a seizure disorder. All individuals exhibited 
developmental delay with speech affected more severely than motor skills. Six 
patients were described as "being social." Six had severe behavioral problems, 
and seven had significant sleep disturbances. Facial features of the three adult 
patients were different than the younger individuals. We show here that the 
outcome for patients with mosaic trisomy 12p is better than the outcome in 
complete trisomy 12p or in trisomy 12p with other chromosomal anomalies. We also 
provide recommendations for the long-term follow-up of patients with trisomy 
12p.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.31143
PMID: 16502429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Wall St J (East Ed). 2005 Nov 22:A1, A11.

Valued lives: Britain stirs outcry by weighing benefits of drugs versus price; 
government arm finds pills for Alzheimer's too costly, angering patients, 
Pfizer.

Whalen J.

PMID: 16502534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2006 Feb;30(1):57-63. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2006.tb00087.x.

Cost utility analysis of physical activity counselling in general practice.

Dalziel K(1), Segal L, Elley CR.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Faculty of Business and Economics, Building 75, 
Clayton Campus, Monash University, Wellington Rd, Clayton, Victoria 3800. 
Kim.Dalziel@buseco.monash.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the economic performance of the 'Green Prescription' 
physical activity counselling program in general practice.
METHODS: Cost utility analysis using a Markov model was used to estimate the 
cost utility of the Green Prescription program over full life expectancy. 
Program effectiveness was based on published trial data (878 inactive patients 
presenting to NZ general practice). Costs were based on detailed costing 
information and were discounted at 5% per anum. The main outcome measure is cost 
per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Extensive one-way sensitivity 
analyses were performed along with probabilistic (stochastic) analysis.
RESULTS: Incremental, modelled cost utility of the Green Prescription program 
compared with 'usual care' was dollar NZ2,053 per QALY gained over full life 
expectancy (range dollar NZ827 to dollar NZ37,516 per QALY). Based on the 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, 90% of ICERs fell below dollar NZ7,500 per 
QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on a plausible and conservative set of assumptions, if 
decision makers are willing to pay at least dollar NZ2,000 per QALY gained the 
Green Prescription program is likely to represent better value for money than 
'usual care'.
IMPLICATIONS: The Green Prescription program performs well, representing a good 
buy relative to other published cost effectiveness estimates. Policy makers 
should consider encouraging general practitioners to prescribe physical activity 
advice in the primary care setting, in association with support from exercise 
specialists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2006.tb00087.x
PMID: 16502953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Bull Mem Acad R Med Belg. 2005;160(7-9):385-7.

[Address by Professor A. Vacheron].

[Article in French]

Vacheron A(1).

Author information:
(1)l'Académie Nationale de Médecine de France.

PMID: 16502974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2006 Mar;15(3):251-6. doi: 
10.1517/13543784.15.3.251.

Recent developments in the therapy of acromegaly.

Paisley AN(1), Trainer PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Christie Hospital, Manchester, M20 4BX, UK.

Acromegaly, a condition due to growth hormone hypersecretion usually from a 
benign pituitary tumour, is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. 
Disease control leads to normalisation of life expectancy with a reduction in 
signs and symptoms. Treatment modalities include surgery, radiotherapy and 
medical management. Surgery is the primary treatment in most of the patients, 
with success rates of 61-91% reported for those with microadenomas who are 
operated on by a specialist pituitary surgeon; however, most patients have 
macroadenomas and, although benefiting from surgery, are not cured and require 
additional medical therapy. This review will focus on emerging concepts in the 
medical treatment of acromegaly.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.15.3.251
PMID: 16503762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2006 Mar;7(4):477-84. doi:
10.1517/14656566.7.4.477.

Review of Testim gel.

McNicholas T(1), Ong T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Lister Hospital, University of Hertfordshire, 
Stevenage, Hertfordshire, SG1 4AB, UK. tom.mcnicholas@nhs.net

Hypogonadism is a medical condition characterised by testosterone deficiency in 
males, accompanied by numerous clinical symptoms, which can negatively affect 
quality of life and multiple organ systems. Late-onset hypogonadism describes 
testosterone deficiency or reduced effect seen in ageing men. The conditions are 
generally managed using testosterone supplementation. Many formulations of 
testosterone are available, including deep-muscle injections, buccal 
formulations, transdermal patches and topical gels. Testim gel 1% testosterone 
gel (Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Ipsen) has been shown to restore serum 
testosterone concentrations to within the normal range in men with hypogonadism. 
Two randomised, controlled studies showed that Testim gel significantly improved 
sexual motivation, desire, performance and function, as well as positive and 
negative mood scores and body composition after 90 days, compared with baseline. 
The magnitude of improvement seen with Testim gel was similar to that achieved 
with testosterone patches, but with fewer application-site reactions. In another 
study, improvements in mood and sexual function were seen within the first 2 
weeks of treatment. Long-term, open-label extension studies of Testim gel 
suggest that clinical benefits are maintained for < or = 12 months without an 
additional increase in side effects. Notably, Testim gel treatment for 12 months 
was associated with a gradual increase in bone mineral density, suggesting that 
Testim gel may help to prevent osteoporosis. The most common adverse events 
associated with Testim gel were application-site reactions, increased 
haematological parameters, and moderately increased prostate-specific antigen 
levels that remained within the normal range in 96% of subjects. Men on any 
testosterone therapy will require careful monitoring, including serial digital 
rectal examination and prostate-specific antigen testing. Overall, the clinical 
evidence so far indicates that Testim gel is a safe and effective treatment 
option for daily use in the management of male hypogonadism.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.7.4.477
PMID: 16503819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. BMC Cell Biol. 2006 Feb 20;7:8. doi: 10.1186/1471-2121-7-8.

Interleukin-1alpha enhances the aggressive behavior of pancreatic cancer cells 
by regulating the alpha6beta1-integrin and urokinase plasminogen activator 
receptor expression.

Sawai H(1), Okada Y, Funahashi H, Matsuo Y, Takahashi H, Takeyama H, Manabe T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Nagoya City University Graduate 
School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya 4678601, Japan. cb8h-swi@asahi-net.or.jp

BACKGROUND: In human pancreatic cancer progression, the alpha6beta1-integrin is 
expressed on cancer cell surface during invasion and metastasis formation. In 
this study, we investigated whether interleukin (IL)-1alpha induces the 
alterations of integrin subunits and urokinase plasminogen activator/urokinase 
plasminogen activator receptor (uPA/uPAR) expression in pancreatic cancer cells. 
We hypothesize that the alterations of integrin subunits and uPA/uPAR expression 
make an important role in signaling pathways responsible for biological behavior 
of pancreatic cancer cells.
RESULTS: IL-1alpha upregulated the expression of alpha6 and beta1 integrins 
without any alterations of alpha5 and alphav integrins expression. IL-1alpha 
also induced enhancement in the expression of uPA/uPAR in pancreatic cancer 
cells. IL-1alpha enhanced the proliferation, adhesion, and migration in 
pancreatic cancer cells, and IL-1alpha-induced alterations of uPA/uPAR 
expression correlated with the increased the migration of pancreatic cancer 
cells. Upregulation of alpha6 integrin subunit and uPA/uPAR correlated with the 
activation of Ras and downstream extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 
pathways. IL-1alpha-induced activation of Ras and downstream ERK can be 
inhibited by using inhibitory antibodies against alpha6 and beta1 integrin and 
uPAR, consistent with the inhibition of proliferation, adhesion and migration of 
pancreatic cancer cells. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated a significant 
association between strong expressions of alpha6 integrin with uPAR in 
pancreatic cancer specimens. Furthermore, the strong expression of alpha6 
integrin and uPAR was found to be independent prognosticator in pancreatic 
cancer patients.
CONCLUSION: Based on these findings, we conclude that IL-1alpha can induce 
selective upregulation of alpha6beta1-integrin and uPA/uPAR in pancreatic cancer 
cells and these changes may modulate the aggressive functions of pancreatic 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2121-7-8
PMCID: PMC1388210
PMID: 16504015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2006 Feb 24;4:11. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-4-11.

Better quality of life with neuropsychological improvement on HAART.

Parsons TD(1), Braaten AJ, Hall CD, Robertson KR.

Author information:
(1)AIDS Neurological Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 
27599-7025, USA. tparsons@neurology.unc.edu

BACKGROUND: Successful highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) regimens 
have resulted in substantial improvements in the systemic health of HIV infected 
persons and increased survival times. Despite increased systemic health, the 
prevalence of minor HIV-associated cognitive impairment appears to be rising 
with increased longevity, and it remains to be seen what functional outcomes 
will result from these improvements. Cognitive impairment can dramatically 
impact functional ability and day-to-day productivity. We assessed the 
relationship of quality of life (QOL) and neuropsychological functioning with 
successful HAART treatment.
METHODS: In a prospective longitudinal study, subjects were evaluated before 
instituting HAART (naïve) or before changing HAART regimens because current 
therapy failed to maintain suppression of plasma viral load (treatment failure). 
Subjects underwent detailed neuropsychological and neurological examinations, as 
well as psychological evaluation sensitive to possible confounds. Re-evaluation 
was performed six months after institution of the new HAART regimen and/or if 
plasma viral load indicated treatment failure. At each evaluation, subjects 
underwent ultrasensitive HIV RNA quantitative evaluation in both plasma and 
cerebrospinal fluid.
RESULTS: HAART successes performed better than failures on measures exploring 
speed of mental processing (p < .02). HAART failure was significantly associated 
with increased self-reports of physical health complaints (p < .01) and 
substance abuse (p < .01). An interesting trend emerged, in which HAART failures 
endorsed greater levels of psychological and cognitive complaints (p = .06). 
Analysis between neuropsychological measures and QOL scores revealed significant 
correlation between QOL Total and processing speed (p < .05), as well as 
flexibility (p < .05).
CONCLUSION: Our study investigated the relationship between HIV-associated 
neurocognitive impairment and quality of life. HAART failures experienced slower 
psychomotor processing, and had increased self-reports of physical health 
complaints and substance abuse. Contrariwise, HAART successes experienced 
improved mental processing, demonstrating the impact of successful treatment on 
functioning. With increasing life expectancy for those who are HIV seropositive, 
it is important to measure cognitive functioning in relation to the actual QOL 
these individuals report. The study results have implications for the optimal 
management of HIV-infected persons. Specific support or intervention may be 
beneficial for those who have failed HAART in order to decrease substance abuse 
and increase overall physical health.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-4-11
PMCID: PMC1397824
PMID: 16504114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2006 Feb 23;126(5):616-9.

[Delirium in palliative care].

[Article in Norwegian]

Loge JH(1), Hjermstad MJ, Kaasa S.

Author information:
(1)Avdeling for atferdsfag, Institutt for medisinske basalfag, Universitetet i 
Oslo, Postboks 1111 Blindern, 0317 Oslo.

Delirium has an abrupt onset and represents an emergency. The symptoms of 
delirium include reduced consciousness, cognitive failure and altered 
psychomotor activity. In this paper, we present delirium in palliative care 
based on a literature review and clinical experience. Delirium is the second 
most common psychiatric condition in cancer patients in general. The exact 
prevalence in palliative care is unknown. Several factors can precipitate a 
delirium. The most common factors are probably opioids, dehydration and 
metabolic disturbances. The assessment must be balanced towards the patient's 
life expectancy and aims at establishing the diagnosis and identifying 
precipitating factors. The diagnosis of delirium is easy for those familiar with 
the diagnostic criteria. The abrupt change in the patients' mental status is the 
key to correct diagnosis. The assessment can include instruments used in 
semi-structured interviews. Delirium can probably be prevented. The type and 
amount of treatment depends upon the patient's life expectancy. Causal treatment 
is a goal unless the delirium is part of the dying process. Symptom control is 
generally achieved by haloperidol and regulation of stimuli.

PMID: 16505874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2006 Feb 23;126(5):628-32.

[Tumour-modifying therapy].
