period, totalling 21 patients. Males were more commonly affected, with a 
male/female ratio of 4:1. The peak incidence was in the sixth decade of life. 
Assessment consisted of the completion of a functional knee questionnaire and a 
clinical examination. Symptomatic outcome following surgical repair was good 
with a mean symptom score generated of 19.16 out of a maximum of 25 using the 
Rougraff et al scoring system. Most of the patients returned to their pre-injury 
level of activity. Five degrees deficit and extension lag was present in three 
patients; these patients had the quadriceps repaired using transosseous sutures. 
Patients who had direct repair of the tendon using the Bunnell technique had 
lower Rougraff scores than the rest.

PMID: 16768261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Psychol Assess. 2006 Jun;18(2):215-9. doi: 10.1037/1040-3590.18.2.215.

Perceived likelihood as a measure of optimism and pessimism: support for the 
Future Events Scale.

Wichman AL(1), Reich DA, Weary G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Ohio State University, Columbus, 43210, USA. 
wichman.3@osu.edu

The Future Events Scale (FES; S. M. Andersen, 1990) is an expectancy-based 
measure of optimism and pessimism, grounded in cognitive theories of depression, 
with implications for clinical practice. Although ample research has documented 
the utility of the FES in predicting important cognitive and behavioral 
outcomes, psychometric data on the scale are lacking. The current article 
presents multisample analyses to show that the FES has clear factor structure, 
good reliability, and a theoretically meaningful nomological network. The FES is 
shown to be distinct from the best known measure of optimism and pessimism, the 
Life Orientation Test (M. F. Scheier & C. S. Carver, 1985). Applications are 
discussed.

Copyright 2006 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/1040-3590.18.2.215
PMID: 16768598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Bull Entomol Res. 2006 Jun;96(3):305-14. doi: 10.1079/ber2006429.

The effect of temperature and humidity on the bionomics of six African egg 
parasitoids (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae).

Kalyebi A(1), Overholt WA, Schulthess F, Mueke JM, Sithanantham S.

Author information:
(1)Indian River Research and Education Center, University of Florida, 2199 South 
Rock Road, Fort Pierce, Florida 34945, USA. akalyebi@yahoo.com

The life table statistics of six native Kenyan species/strains of Trichogramma 
and Trichogrammatoidea were established using a factitious host Corcyra 
cephalonica, Stainton (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), at eight different temperatures 
(10, 15, 20, 25, 28, 30, 32 and 35 degrees C) and two humidity levels (40-50 and 
70-80%). The objective was to select insects with superior attributes for 
augmentative release against lepidopteran pests in horticultural crops. Both 
temperature and humidity affected developmental time and life table parameters 
of the parasitoids but temperature played a more critical role. Developmental 
time was inversely related to temperature. The intrinsic and finite rates of 
increase increased with temperature up to 30 degrees C. Both net reproduction 
rate and intrinsic rate of increase were higher at the lower humidity. 
Temperature inversely affected generation time of parasitoid strains regardless 
of the relative humidity. Two strains of Trichogramma sp. nr. mwanzai collected 
from both low and medium altitudes and Trichogrammatoidea sp. nr. lutea from the 
mid-altitudes, were better adapted to both low and high temperatures than the 
other strains, as indicated by the high intrinsic and net reproductive rates, at 
both humidity levels. These three strains appear to be promising candidates for 
augmentation biocontrol against the African bollworm Helicoverpa armigera in 
Kenya.

DOI: 10.1079/ber2006429
PMID: 16768819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Ugeskr Laeger. 2006 May 22;168(21):2066-9.

[Social differences in mortality trends in Denmark].

[Article in Danish]

Brønnum-Hansen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Statens Institut for Folkesundhed, Øster Farimagsgade 5A, København K. 
hbh@niph.dk

INTRODUCTION: In Denmark the life expectancy began to increase in the mid-1990s 
after many years of stagnation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate 
whether the increase was independent of educational level.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study is based on data on education and mortality 
rates during the period 1995-1999 and comprises all deaths of Danes between the 
ages of 30 and 74. The total and cause-specific, sex-specific and age-specific 
death rates for each of three educational groups were calculated and 
standardised by age in order to make comparisons over time and between groups.
RESULTS: The age-standardised death rates decreased annually by 2.3% for men and 
1.2% for women with a low educational level. The decrease was higher among those 
with a medium or high level of education, the decrease in death rates being 4.0% 
for men and 3.5% for women. The development in cancer mortality showed a decline 
among men and women with a medium educational level and women with a high level, 
but not among men with a high level of education or men or women with a low 
educational level. Mortality due to cardiovascular diseases declined in all 
groups, but less among persons with a low educational level. The mortality rate 
from chronic obstructive lung disease increased among low-educated persons and 
among women with a medium level of education; for the other groups changes were 
not noticeable.
CONCLUSION: The overall decline in the mortality rates among Danes during the 
period 1995-1999 was socially unequally distributed. The smallest decrease was 
seen among those with a low educational level. In particular, the decline was 
modest among women with a low educational level.

PMID: 16768925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Health Educ Behav. 2006 Aug;33(4):470-87. doi: 10.1177/1090198106287923.

National data for monitoring and evaluating racial and ethnic health inequities: 
where do we go from here?

Griffith DM(1), Moy E, Reischl TM, Dayton E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Behavior & Health Education, School of Public Health, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2029, USA. derekmg@umich.edu

The elimination of racial and ethnic health inequities has become a central 
focus of health education and the national health agenda. The documentation of 
an increasing gap in life expectancy and other health outcomes suggests the need 
for more effective strategies to eliminate health inequities, which can be 
informed by better monitoring and evaluation data. Although the sophistication 
and volume of health data available have increased dramatically in recent years, 
this article examines the quality of the current data collected to achieve the 
goal of eliminating racial and ethnic health inequities. This article explores 
several key aspects of data to inform addressing inequities including 
terminology, the role of data, and explanations of the problem. The authors 
conclude with recommendations for refining data collection to facilitate the 
elimination of racial and ethnic health inequities and suggest how the Society 
for Public Health Education can become a more central figure in our national 
efforts.

DOI: 10.1177/1090198106287923
PMID: 16769756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Arch Ophthalmol. 2006 Jun;124(6):800-6. doi: 10.1001/archopht.124.6.800.

Ahmed Glaucoma Valve implantation in African American and white patients.

Ishida K(1), Netland PA.

Author information:
(1)Hamilton Eye Institute, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 
Memphis 38163, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2006 Jun;124(6):903-4.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results of Ahmed Glaucoma Valve implantation in 
African American and white patients.
METHODS: In this retrospective, comparative case-control study, we reviewed 86 
eyes of 86 patients, comparing the surgical outcomes in white patients (n = 43) 
with matched African American patients (n = 43). Success was defined as an 
intraocular pressure (IOP) between 6 mm Hg and 21 mm Hg with or without glaucoma 
medicines, without further glaucoma surgery, and without loss of light 
perception (definition 1) and an IOP between 6 mm Hg and 21 mm Hg and 
achievement of a 20% reduction in IOP from the preoperative level (definition 
2).
RESULTS: The mean follow-up was 2.3 years for white patients and 2.5 years for 
African American patients (P = .50). At the last follow-up, the mean +/- SD IOP 
was 15.3 +/- 3.3 mm Hg and 15.3 +/- 3.5 mm Hg (P = .77) in white and African 
American patients, respectively. Life table analysis showed a significantly 
lower success rate for African American patients compared with white patients by 
both definition 1 (P = .03) and definition 2 (P = .006). Cox proportional 
hazards regression analysis detected African American race as a risk factor for 
surgical failure by both definitions. Visual outcomes and complications were 
comparable between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSION: African American patients have a greater risk of surgical failure 
after Ahmed Glaucoma Valve implantation compared with white patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.124.6.800
PMID: 16769833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Circulation. 2006 Jun 20;113(24):2803-9. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.106.618066.  Epub 2006 Jun 12.

Prevalence, predictors, and outcomes of premature discontinuation of 
thienopyridine therapy after drug-eluting stent placement: results from the 
PREMIER registry.

Spertus JA(1), Kettelkamp R, Vance C, Decker C, Jones PG, Rumsfeld JS, Messenger 
JC, Khanal S, Peterson ED, Bach RG, Krumholz HM, Cohen DJ.

Author information:
(1)MPH, Mid America Heart Institute, 4401 Wornall Rd, Kansas City, MO 64111. 
spertusj@umkc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Although drug-eluting stents (DES) significantly reduce restenosis, 
they require 3 to 6 months of thienopyridine therapy to prevent stent 
thrombosis. The rate and consequences of prematurely discontinuing 
thienopyridine therapy after DES placement for acute myocardial infarction (MI) 
are unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used prospectively collected data from a 19-center study 
of MI patients to examine the prevalence and predictors of thienopyridine 
discontinuation 30 days after DES treatment. We then compared the mortality and 
cardiac hospitalization rates for the next 11 months between those who stopped 
and those who continued thienopyridine therapy. Among 500 DES-treated MI 
patients who were discharged on thienopyridine therapy, 68 (13.6%) stopped 
therapy within 30 days. Those who stopped were older, less likely to have 
completed high school or be married, more likely to avoid health care because of 
cost, and more likely to have had preexisting cardiovascular disease or anemia 
at presentation. They were also less likely to have received discharge 
instructions about their medications or a cardiac rehabilitation referral. 
Patients who stopped thienopyridine therapy by 30 days were more likely to die 
during the next 11 months (7.5% versus 0.7%, P<0.0001; adjusted hazard 
ratio=9.0; 95% confidence interval=1.3 to 60.6) and to be rehospitalized (23% 
versus 14%, P=0.08; adjusted hazard ratio=1.5; 95% confidence interval=0.78 to 
3.0).
CONCLUSIONS: Almost 1 in 7 MI patients who received a DES were no longer taking 
thienopyridines by 30 days. Prematurely stopping thienopyridine therapy was 
strongly associated with subsequent mortality. Strategies to improve the use of 
thienopyridines are needed to optimize the outcomes of MI patients treated with 
DES.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.106.618066
PMID: 16769908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Circulation. 2006 Jun 20;113(24):2796-802. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.594218. Epub 2006 Jun 12.

Abnormal ventilatory response to exercise in adults with congenital heart 
disease relates to cyanosis and predicts survival.

Dimopoulos K(1), Okonko DO, Diller GP, Broberg CS, Salukhe TV, Babu-Narayan SV, 
Li W, Uebing A, Bayne S, Wensel R, Piepoli MF, Poole-Wilson PA, Francis DP, 
Gatzoulis MA.

Author information:
(1)Adult Congenital Heart Programme, Department of Cardiology, Royal Brompton 
Hospital, Sydney St, London, SW3 6NP, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Limited data exist with which to stratify risk in adult congenital 
heart disease (ACHD). An increased ventilatory response to exercise, expressed 
as ventilation per unit of carbon dioxide production (V(E)/V(CO2) slope), is an 
established predictor of impaired survival in acquired heart disease. We sought 
to establish the distribution, relation to cyanosis, and prognostic value of the 
V(E)/V(CO2) slope across a wide spectrum of ACHD patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Five hundred sixty ACHD patients of varying diagnoses and 
50 healthy controls underwent cardiopulmonary exercise testing at a single 
laboratory between 2001 and 2004. Patient age was 33.2 +/- 12.9 years (mean +/- 
SD). Peak oxygen consumption was 23.5 +/- 9.0 mL.kg(-1).min(-1).V(E)/V(CO2) 
slope for all patients was 36.3 +/-15.3. The slope was raised in all ACHD groups 
compared with controls and was 73% higher in cyanotic patients. Cyanosis, with 
or without pulmonary arterial hypertension, was the strongest predictor of 
abnormal V(E)/V(CO2) slope. The V(E)/V(CO2) slope was the most powerful 
univariate predictor of mortality in the noncyanotic group and the only 
independent predictor of mortality among exercise parameters on multivariate 
analysis. In cyanotic patients, no parameter was predictive of death.
CONCLUSIONS: Ventilatory response to exercise is abnormal across the spectrum of 
ACHD. Cyanosis is a powerful stimulus for such exaggerated ventilatory patterns 
irrespective of the presence of pulmonary arterial hypertension. Increased 
V(E)/V(CO2) slope is the strongest exercise predictor of death in noncyanotic 
ACHD patients.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.594218
PMID: 16769913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Circulation. 2006 Jun 20;113(24):2810-7. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.577262.  Epub 2006 Jun 12.

Causes and consequences of heart failure after prophylactic implantation of a 
defibrillator in the multicenter automatic defibrillator implantation trial II.

Goldenberg I(1), Moss AJ, Hall WJ, McNitt S, Zareba W, Andrews ML, Cannom DS; 
Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial (MADIT) II Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Unit, Department of Medicine, Heart Research Follow-up Program, 
Box 653, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. 
Ilan.Goldenberg@heart.rochester.edu

BACKGROUND: Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) therapy may be 
associated with an increased risk for heart failure (HF). The present study 
evaluated the frequency, causes, and consequences of HF after ICD implantation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We performed a retrospective analysis of the clinical 
factors and outcomes associated with postenrollment HF events in 1218 patients 
enrolled in the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial II. The 
adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) of ICD:conventional therapy for first and recurrent 
HF events were 1.39 (P=0.02) and 1.58 (P<0.001), respectively. The risk was 
increased among patients who received single-chamber or dual-chamber ICDs. 
Development of HF was associated with an increased mortality risk (HR, 3.80; 
P<0.001). Among patients who received a single-chamber ICD, there was a similar 
survival benefit before and after the development of HF (HR, 0.59 and 0.61, 
respectively; P=0.92 for difference), whereas among patients with dual-chamber 
devices, there was a significant reduction in survival benefit after HF (HR, 
0.26 and 0.83, respectively; P=0.01 for difference). Within the defibrillator 
arm of the trial, patients who received life-prolonging therapy from the ICD had 
an increased risk for first and recurrent HF events (HR, 1.90; P=0.01 and 1.74; 
P<0.001, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with chronic ischemic heart disease who are treated with 
either single-chamber or dual-chamber ICDs have improved survival but an 
increased risk of HF. The present data suggest that ICD therapy transforms 
sudden death risk to a subsequent HF risk. These findings should direct more 
attention to the prevention of HF in patients who receive an ICD.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.577262
PMID: 16769917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Herz. 2006 May;31(3):207-12. doi: 10.1007/s00059-006-2802-1.

[Obesity--a somatic or psychological condition or both?].

[Article in German]

Hauner H(1).

Author information:
(1)Else Kröner-Fresenius-Zentrum für Ernährungsmedizin, Klinikum rechts der Isar 
der TU München, München, Germany. hans.hauner@lrz.tum.de

Obesity, defined as a body mass index>or=30 kg/m2, is a modern epidemic and is 
increasing worldwide. Depending on the genetic makeup, lifestyle factors such as 
high-caloric nutrition, lack of physical activity and certain psychosocial 
conditions are the main determinants of its manifestation and progression. 
Numerous epidemiologic studies consistently show that obesity is associated with 
many comorbidities and, moreover, reduces quality of life and life expectancy. 
For this reason, there is clear need for an evidence-based treatment considering 
the individual risk. Each treatment program consists of a hypocaloric diet, 
increase in physical activity, a behavior modification training and, eventually, 
weight-lowering drugs. An effective treatment of this condition may not only 
significantly improve most somatic and psychological comorbidities of the 
patients but also prolong life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-006-2802-1
PMID: 16770556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Am Fam Physician. 2006 Jun 1;73(11):2062, 2067.

Determining prognoses for patients with terminal illnesses.

Finn JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospice of Michigan's Maggie Allesee, Center for Quality of Life, Detroit, 
USA.

PMID: 16770935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2006 May-Jun;8(5-6):985-92. doi:
10.1089/ars.2006.8.985.

Urinary 8-hydroxyguanine may be a better marker of oxidative stress than 
8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine in relation to the life spans of various species.

Svoboda P(1), Maekawa M, Kawai K, Tominaga T, Savela K, Kasai H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Oncology, Institute of Industrial Ecological 
Sciences, University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyushu, 
Japan.

Oxidative DNA damage is believed to be involved in the aging process. Species 
with shorter potential life spans generally have a higher specific metabolic 
rate (SMR), and would be expected to have increased levels of oxidative stress 
and DNA damage, as compared to long-lived species. An automatized HPLC method 
based on electrochemical detection was used to measure the levels of the 
oxidative DNA damage markers 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG) and 
8-hydroxyguanine (8-OH-Gua) in urinary samples from mammals with various 
potential life spans (mice, rats, guinea pigs, cats, chimpanzees, and humans). 
There was no significant linear correlation (r = -0.71, p = 0.11) between the 
species' potential life spans (log transformed) and the urinary levels of 
8-OH-dG as normalized to creatinine (8-OH-dG/creatinine), although the species 
with longer life spans, such as chimpanzee and human, had among the lowest 
levels detected. In contrast, the negative linear correlation between the 
species' potential life span (log transformed) and the urinary levels of 
8-OH-Gua as normalized to creatinine (8-OH-Gua/creatinine), was significant (r = 
-0.97, p = 0.002). In addition, there was a positive linear and significant 
correlation between SMR and 8-OH-dG/creatinine (r = 0.91, p = 0.01) or 8- 
OH-Gua/creatinine (r = 0.90, p = 0.01). These results suggest that 8-OH-Gua, 
rather than 8-OH-dG, may be a more general marker for oxidative damage.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2006.8.985
PMID: 16771688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2006 May-Jun;8(5-6):1011-9. doi:
10.1089/ars.2006.8.1011.

Urinary measurement of 8-OxodG, 8-OxoGua, and 5HMUra: a noninvasive assessment 
of oxidative damage to DNA.

Olinski R(1), Rozalski R, Gackowski D, Foksinski M, Siomek A, Cooke MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Nicolaus Copernicus University, 
Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Poland. ryszardo@cm.umk.pl

Comment in
    Antioxid Redox Signal. 2006 May-Jun;8(5-6):981-3.

Numerous DNA repair pathways exist to prevent the persistence of damage, and are 
integral to the maintenance of genome stability, and hence prevention of 
disease. Excised lesions arising from repair may ultimately appear in the urine 
where their measurement has been acknowledged to be reflective of overall 
oxidative stress. The development of reliable assays to measure urinary DNA 
lesions, such as HPLC prepurification followed by gas chromatography/mass 
spectrometry, offers the potential to assess whole body oxidative DNA damage. 
However, some studies suggest a possibility that confounding factors may 
contribute to urinary levels of 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine (8-oxoGua) and 
7,8-dihydro-8-oxo-2 -deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG). This article considers several 
possible sources of urinary lesions: (a) the repair of oxidatively damaged DNA; 
(b) a possible dietary influence; and (c) cell death. The authors conclude that 
data from their laboratories, along with a number of literature reports, form an 
argument against a contribution from cell death and diet. In the absence of 
these confounding factors, urinary measurements may be attributed entirely to 
the repair of DNA damage and suggests their possible use in studying 
associations between DNA repair and disease.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2006.8.1011
PMID: 16771691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Arch Intern Med. 2006 Jun 12;166(11):1203-8. doi:
10.1001/archinte.166.11.1203.

Targeting screening mammography according to life expectancy among women 
undergoing dialysis.

Walter LC(1), Lindquist K, O'Hare AM, Johansen KL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, San Francisco Medical Center and the University of 
California, San Francisco 94121, USA. Louise.Walter@ucsf.edu

BACKGROUND: Screening guidelines recommend that mammography be targeted to women 
likely to live longer than 5 years. Because women undergoing dialysis have a 
reduced but variable life expectancy, their appropriate use of screening is 
controversial. Therefore, we conducted this study to describe national 
mammography rates among women undergoing dialysis with differing prognostic 
factors and to determine whether screening is targeted to healthier women who 
live longer.
METHODS: Using the US Renal Data System, we identified 17,090 women aged 50 
years or older who started dialysis in 1997. We tracked women for 5 years to 
ascertain their use of screening mammography or death.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival rate was 25%. The biennial screening mammography 
rate was 25%, ranging from 12% for women aged 80 years or older to 69% for women 
who were ever on the transplant list. Women who were screened in the past year 
had a lower death rate than those who were not (hazards ratio, 0.55; 95% 
confidence interval, 0.51-0.59). Yet, 2198 women (13%) who died within 5 years 
underwent screening, and 2004 women (12%) who lived more than 5 years while 
receiving dialysis did not undergo screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening mammography rates are appropriately low among women 
undergoing dialysis because the 5-year survival rate is low. Screening is being 
targeted to women who are healthier and live longer. However, targeting could be 
improved by increasing screening in the few women undergoing dialysis with 
substantial life expectancies while decreasing screening in most women 
undergoing dialysis who live less than 5 years.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.166.11.1203
PMID: 16772248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. J Nutr. 2006 Jul;136(7):1879-85. doi: 10.1093/jn/136.7.1879.

A mediterranean diet is cost-effective in patients with previous myocardial 
infarction.

Dalziel K(1), Segal L, de Lorgeril M.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition, Vieillissement et Maladies Cardiovasculaires (NVMCV), UFR de 
Médecine, Domaine de la Merci 38056 La Tronche, France. 
kim.dalziel@buseco.monash.edu.au

This evaluation aimed to assess the economic performance of the Mediterranean 
diet for patients after a first acute myocardial infarction (AMI). A cost 
utility analysis using a Markov model was used to compare the Mediterranean diet 
to a prudent Western diet over a time frame of 10 years. After a systematic 
review of the literature, program effectiveness was based on the Lyon Diet Heart 
Study (605 patients, mean age 54 y, randomized to the Mediterranean diet 
delivered by a dietician and cardiologist, or a prudent Western diet). Costs 
were estimated in AU$ [and converted to US$ and Euros (euro)] based on the 
resource use to which published unit costs were applied. Cost and benefits were 
discounted at 5% per annum. The main outcome measure was cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Extensive 1-way sensitivity analyses 
were performed. The Mediterranean diet compared with a prudent Western diet was 
estimated to cost AU$1013 (US$703, euro579) per QALY gained per person. There 
was a mean gain in life years of 0.31/person and a gain in quality-adjusted life 
years of 0.40/person. Based on the published results from the Lyon Diet Heart 
Study and conservative assumptions, the Mediterranean diet is highly 
cost-effective for persons after a first AMI and represents an exceptional 
return on investment. Policy makers should strongly consider the 
generalizability of results to their own setting.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/136.7.1879
PMID: 16772453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2006 May;28(5):311-5. doi: 
10.1097/01.mph.0000212915.22265.3b.

Correlative study of iron accumulation in liver, myocardium, and pituitary 
assessed with MRI in young thalassemic patients.

Christoforidis A(1), Haritandi A, Tsitouridis I, Tsatra I, Tsantali H, Karyda S, 
Dimitriadis AS, Athanassiou-Metaxa M.

Author information:
(1)Thalassaemia Unit, 1st Paediatric Department, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, Papageorgiou General Hospital, Thessaloniki. 
christoforidis@doctors.org.uk

Clinical complications resulting from unevenly iron accumulation in individual 
organs of patients with beta-thalassemia major can affect both expectancy and 
quality of life. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) offers a quantitative, 
noninvasive, accurate method for estimating iron levels in various tissues, not 
easily accessible with other techniques. The aim of this study was to evaluate 
and correlate the level of iron accumulation in different organs (anterior 
pituitary, myocardium, and liver) assessed with MRI, in children and young 
adults with beta-thalassemia major. Thirty children and young adults (13 female 
and 17 male patients) with homozygous beta-thalassemia, treated conventionally, 
were studied with hepatic, myocardial, and hypophyseal MRI. For liver and 
myocardium, we calculated the natural logarithm of the signal-to-air ratio in 
flash 2-dimensional sequences with electrocardiogram gating, whereas for 
anterior pituitary, the signal intensity was measured in sagittal T2 sequences. 
All scans were performed within 3 months. In 13 patients, data regarding liver 
iron concentrations (LIC) assessed by percutaneous liver biopsy were available. 
The mean of serum ferritin concentrations for 1 year before scans was calculated 
for each patient. MRI values in myocardium and liver showed a significant 
negative correlation to age (r=-0.73 and -0.69, respectively). For pituitary 
MRI, a linear regression with age was recorded in patients over 14 years of age 
(r=-0.67), whereas a relatively increased signal intensity reduction was 
recorded in pubertal subjects. Mean serum ferritin concentrations ranged from 
252 to 5872 mug/L with an average of 1525+/-1047 mug/L. No statistical 
significant correlation was noted between mean ferritin levels versus liver, 
pituitary, and cardiac MRI values (r=-0.49, -0.28, and -0.1, respectively). Mean 
LIC values assessed by percutaneous biopsy were 13.76+/-11.6 mg/g of dry tissue. 
A statistically significant negative correlation was observed between liver MRI 
readings and LIC determined by biopsy (r=-0.89). None of the 3 organs studied 
with MRI were significantly correlated to each other. Pituitary to liver MRI 
values and liver to myocardial MRI values were moderately correlated (r=0.34 and 
0.42, respectively). Pituitary MRI was not correlated at all to myocardial MRI 
(r=-0.001). In conclusion, iron accumulation in thalassemic patients is a 
procedure progressing with age, which seems to act independently in different 
organs. MRI represents a reliable, noninvasive method for assessing iron 
overload in various tissues, non-easily accessible with other techniques. 
Regular scanning, to recognize preclinically excessive iron deposits and 
intensified chelation therapy, can prevent serious and fatal complications.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mph.0000212915.22265.3b
PMID: 16772883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Oncology (Williston Park). 2006 May;20(6):660.

PROs: defining clinical benefit from the patient's perspective. Draft guidance 
provides direction in evaluating patient-reported outcomes.

Pazdur R(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Oncology Drug Products, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, US 
Food and Drug Administration Rockville, Maryland, USA.

PMID: 16773848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. J Gerontol Nurs. 2006 Jun;32(6):6. doi: 10.3928/00989134-20060601-03.

On being 100 and healthy. Healthy aging starts now.

Mentes JC.

DOI: 10.3928/00989134-20060601-03
PMID: 16773857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. J Nurs Scholarsh. 2006;38(2):148-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2006.00092.x.

Two methods for predicting limited life expectancy in nursing homes.

Wallace JB(1), Prevost SS.

Author information:
(1)Middle Tennessee State University, School of Nursing, 1500 Greenland Drive, 
Murfreesboro, TN, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare two methods of identifying nursing home residents with a 
life expectancy of 6 months or less.
DESIGN: Secondary analysis of Minimum Data Set (MDS) assessment data from 111 
U.S. nursing homes was used in two approaches to compare the prognostic value of 
each approach. MDS assessment data were collected during 2003 and 2004, and 
secondary analyses were completed during 2004 and 2005.
METHODS: A bivariate analysis was used to identify variables associated with 
death within 6 months and a summative index was produced. Second, logistic 
regression was performed to develop a formula for calculating a Probability of 
Death score.
FINDINGS: Both methods were reasonably sensitive in identifying dying residents. 
In the total sample of 21,852 residents, 17.5% died within 6 months. When the 
bivariate analysis and summative index were used, 51.1% of residents who had a 
score of 4 or higher died within 6 months, and residents who scored 10 or higher 
had an 80% mortality rate. With use of the logistic regression and Probability 
of Death scores, 52% of residents who had scores of 0.4 or higher died within 6 
months, and residents who scored 0.9 or higher had an 80% mortality rate.
CONCLUSIONS: MDS assessment data, collected in all U.S. nursing homes, can be 
useful to increase the specificity of identifying terminal residents. These 
statistical methods have high and similar prognostic values, but the summative 
index is easier to understand. It also is more user-friendly and could be 
incorporated into the nursing home assessment process with minimal additional 
training, and with no additional hardware or changes in software programming.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2006.00092.x
PMID: 16773918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. J Nurs Scholarsh. 2006;38(2):154-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2006.00093.x.

Replication and extension of the Continuity and Discontinuity of Self Scale 
(CDSS).

Secrest J(1), Zeller R.

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, 1051 School of Nursing, 615 McCallie 
Avenue, Chattanooga, TN 37403, USA. Janet-Secrest@utc.edu

PURPOSE: To replicate and extend development of an instrument to measure 
continuity and discontinuity of self after stroke.
DESIGN: The conceptual basis for the instrument was derived from an existential 
phenomenologic study of stroke survivors, which showed that life after stroke 
included both continuity and discontinuity of self, experienced as control, 
independence, and connections with others.
METHODS: A 45-item instrument with a three-point response set was designed with 
standard instrument techniques. Study instruments included the Barthel Index 
(measure of functional abilities), and a pre- and poststroke QoL Cantril Ladder. 
The sample size for the initial study was 55, and for the replication study was 
50. Principal components analysis was used in both studies. Data analysis was 
done with both the sample of 50 and with the combined samples, N = 105.
FINDINGS: The sample in the replication study had lower functional ability 
scores than did that of the original study; demographic characteristics were not 
significantly different. Factor analysis of the 50 cases robustly replicated the 
two-factor solution. When the samples were combined, however, a subtle pattern 
was detected in the "continuity" dimension, resulting in two factors for 
continuity and one factor for discontinuity, for an overall three-factor 
solution.
CONCLUSIONS: Continuity appears two-dimensional, including control and 
independence as one dimension, and connections with others as the second. 
Discontinuity factored as a single dimension, indicating that perhaps loss 
permeates the components of discontinuity. Further study is in progress.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2006.00093.x
PMID: 16773919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Can J Commun Ment Health. 2005 Autumn;24(2):9-22. doi:
10.7870/cjcmh-2005-0011.

Mental health and mental health service use among people aged 45+ with multiple 
sclerosis.

Garcia J(1), Finlayson M.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois at Chicago, USA.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic neurological disease with numerous symptoms 
and consequences that does not typically reduce life expectancy. Mental health 
issues are common in this population, yet few investigations have targeted 
people aging with this disease (i.e., people aged 45+). This study examined 
factors contributing to mental health challenges among 1282 people with MS aged 
45 to 90 and the extent of mental health service use among those who reported 
problems. Findings showed that functional abilities, age, years since diagnosis, 
presence of a helper, and self-rated health are related to mental health 
challenges. Less than 16% of people with mental health challenges were receiving 
services.

DOI: 10.7870/cjcmh-2005-0011
PMID: 16774132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Rev Prat. 2006 May 15;56(9):987-94.

[Metabolic abnormalities, lipodystrophy and cardiovascular risk in HIV-infected 
patients].

[Article in French]

Leclercq P(1), Blanc M.

Author information:
(1)Centre d'information et de soins de l'immunodeficience humaine, hôpital 
Albert-Michallon, 38043 Grenoble Cedex 09. PLeclercq@chu-grenoble.fr

Life expectancy of HIV-infected patients has improved considerably with HAART. 
However long term use of HAART is linked with lipodystrophy syndrom 
(subcutaneous lipoatrophy and central fat accumulation) associated with 
dyslipemia (hypoHDL, hyperLDL and hypertriglyceridemia) and insulin resistance. 
It is also linked with mitochondrial toxicity clinically expressed by chronic 
fatigue syndrom and premature aging. The induced metabolic syndrom has 
cardiovascular consequences and myocardial infarction is the cause of 7% of the 
HIV-infected deaths in 2000. Assessment of these complications should be done at 
least every year. Treatment options concern antiretroviral therapy with the 
search for the least toxic drug (but with equal antiviral efficacy), symptomatic 
treatment (statin, fibrates, thiazolidinediones, metformin) and lifestyle 
modifications (first of all, stopping cigarette smoking!)

PMID: 16775979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Rev Prat. 2006 May 15;56(9):995-1004.

[HIV infection and comorbidities].

[Article in French]

Lacombe K(1), Pacanowski J.

Author information:
(1)Service de maladies infectieuses, hôpital Saint-Antoine, 75571 Paris Cedex 
12. karine.lacombe@sat.aphp.fr

The incidence of opportunistic infectious diseases and the mortality rate 
associated to the HIV infection have greatly decreased with the wide use of the 
Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART). However, the "Mortalité 2000" 
study conducted in France on the causes of deaths in the HIV infected population 
has revealed that 47 % of deaths were still due to an opportunistic infection, 
whereas 50 % of them are not associated with the HIV infection (the four main 
causes being cancer, chronic hepatitis C, cardiovascular diseases and suicide). 
The longer life expectancy of patients treated with HAART has lead to an 
increased frequency of complications due to chronic viral B and C hepatitis. The 
higher prevalence of hepatitis viral infections in the HIV-infected patients 
implies to methodically screen this population for HCV and HBV markers, and 
consequently modify the clinical and therapeutic management of co-infected 
patients.

PMID: 16775980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Hastings Cent Rep. 2006 May-Jun;36(3):13-7. doi: 10.1353/hcr.2006.0040.

The costs of caring: Who pays? Who profits? Who panders?

Fleck LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Ethics and Humanities in the Life Sciences, Michigan State 
University, USA.

DOI: 10.1353/hcr.2006.0040
PMID: 16776017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Hastings Cent Rep. 2006 May-Jun;36(3):17-9. doi: 10.1353/hcr.2006.0036.

How much is more life worth?

Brock DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, USA.

DOI: 10.1353/hcr.2006.0036
PMID: 16776018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Acta Psychol (Amst). 2007 Mar;124(3):257-73. doi:
10.1016/j.actpsy.2006.03.006.  Epub 2006 Jun 14.

Inhibition of return for expected and unexpected targets.

Taylor TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Life Sciences Center, Dalhousie University, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. ttaylor2@dal.ca

Inhibition of return (IOR) refers to slower reaction times (RTs) to targets that 
occur in the same, rather than in a different, location as a preceding onset 
cue. The present study examined IOR for expected (likely) and unexpected 
(unlikely) targets under conditions in which stimulus-response (S-R) 
expectancies were generated on a trial-by-trial basis or maintained across a 
block of trials. Three boxes were aligned along the vertical midline. In 
Experiments 1 and 2, the appearance of a cue in the upper or lower box was a 
signal to generate an expectancy about the most likely color of an impending 
discrimination target. In Experiment 3, one target color was more likely than 
another across a block of trials. In all cases, cue location did not predict 
target location. When S-R expectancies were generated on a trial-by-trial basis, 
IOR occurred for Unlikely targets but not for Likely targets; this was true 
across a range of cue-target stimulus onset asynchronies. In contrast, when S-R 
expectancies were maintained over a block of trials, IOR was larger for Likely 
than for Unlikely targets. These findings reveal a critical interaction of S-R 
expectancies with IOR. This interaction not only demonstrates the modulation of 
IOR by cognitive expectancies, but in doing so also provides evidence that is 
consistent with the view that IOR reflects a conservative response bias.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2006.03.006
PMID: 16777045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):52-61. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.03.012.

Priorities among effective clinical preventive services: results of a systematic 
review and analysis.

Maciosek MV(1), Coffield AB, Edwards NM, Flottemesch TJ, Goodman MJ, Solberg LI.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Research Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):97-8.
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):103-6.
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):107-8.

BACKGROUND: Decision makers at multiple levels need information about which 
clinical preventive services matter the most so that they can prioritize their 
actions. This study was designed to produce comparable estimates of relative 
health impact and cost effectiveness for services considered effective by the 
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force and Advisory Committee on Immunization 
Practices.
METHODS: The National Commission on Prevention Priorities (NCPP) guided this 
update to a 2001 ranking of clinical preventive services. The NCPP used new 
preventive service recommendations up to December 2004, improved methods, and 
more complete and recent data and evidence. Each service received 1 to 5 points 
on each of two measures--clinically preventable burden and cost 
effectiveness--for a total score ranging from 2 to 10. Priorities for improving 
delivery rates were established by comparing the ranking with what is known of 
current delivery rates nationally.
RESULTS: The three highest-ranking services each with a total score of 10 are 
discussing aspirin use with high-risk adults, immunizing children, and 
tobacco-use screening and brief intervention. High-ranking services (scores of 6 
and above) with data indicating low current utilization rates (around 50% or 
lower) include: tobacco-use screening and brief intervention, screening adults 
aged 50 and older for colorectal cancer, immunizing adults aged 65 and older 
against pneumococcal disease, and screening young women for Chlamydia.
CONCLUSION: This study identifies the most valuable clinical preventive services 
that can be offered in medical practice and should help decision-makers select 
which services to emphasize.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.03.012
PMID: 16777543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):62-71. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.03.013.

Repeated tobacco-use screening and intervention in clinical practice: health 
impact and cost effectiveness.

Solberg LI(1), Maciosek MV, Edwards NM, Khanchandani HS, Goodman MJ.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Research Foundation, Bloomington, Minnesota 55425, USA. 
leif.solberg@healthpartners.com

Comment in
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):97-8.
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):103-6.
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):107-8.

BACKGROUND: This report updates 2001 estimates of disease burden prevented and 
cost effectiveness of tobacco-use screening and brief intervention relative to 
that of other clinical preventive services. It also addresses repeated 
counseling because the literature has focused on single episodes of treatment, 
while in reality that is neither desirable nor likely.
METHODS: Literature searches led to four models for calculating the clinically 
preventable burden of deaths and morbidity from smoking as well as the cost 
effectiveness of providing the service annually over time. The same methods were 
used in similar calculations for other preventive services to facilitate 
comparison.
RESULTS: Using methods consistent with existing literature for this service, an 
estimated 190,000 undiscounted quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) are saved at 
a cost of $1100 per QALY saved (discounted). These estimates exclude financial 
savings from smoking-attributable disease prevented and use the average 12-month 
quit rate in clinical practice for tobacco screening and brief cessation 
counseling with cessation medications (5.0%) and without (2.4%). Including the 
savings of prevented smoking-attributable disease and using the effectiveness of 
repeated interventions over the lifetime of smokers (23.1%), 2.47 million QALYs 
are saved at a cost savings of $500 per smoker who receives the service.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis makes repeated clinical tobacco-cessation counseling 
one of the three most important and cost-effective preventive services that can 
be provided in medical practice. Greater efforts are needed to achieve more of 
this potential value by increasing current low levels of performance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.03.013
PMID: 16777544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):72-9. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.03.008.

Influenza vaccination health impact and cost effectiveness among adults aged 50 
to 64 and 65 and older.

Maciosek MV(1), Solberg LI, Coffield AB, Edwards NM, Goodman MJ.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Research Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):97-8.
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):107-8.

BACKGROUND: Influenza causes approximately 36,000 deaths per year in the United 
States despite the presence of an effective vaccine. This assessment of the 
value of influenza vaccination to the U.S. population is part of an update to 
the 2001 ranking of clinical preventive services recommended by the U.S. 
Preventive Services Task Force. The forthcoming ranking will include the new 
recommendation of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices to extend 
influenza vaccination to adults aged 50 to 64 years.
METHODS: This service is evaluated on the two most important dimensions: burden 
of disease prevented and cost effectiveness. Study methods, described in a 
companion article, are designed to ensure consistency across many services.
RESULTS: Over the lifetime of a birth cohort of 4 million, it is estimated that 
about 275,000 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) would be saved if influenza 
vaccination were offered annually to all people after age 50. Eighty percent of 
the QALYs saved (220,000) would be achieved by offering the vaccine only to 
persons aged 65 and older. In year 2000 dollars, the cost effectiveness of 
influenza vaccination is $980 per QALY saved in persons aged 65 and older, and 
$28,000 per QALY saved in persons aged 50 to 64. When the costs of patient time 
and travel are excluded, the cost effectiveness ratio of vaccinating 50- to 
64-year-olds decreases to $7200 per QALY saved, and vaccinating those aged 65 
and older saves $17 per person vaccinated.
CONCLUSIONS: Influenza vaccination is a high-impact, cost-effective service for 
persons aged 65 and older. Vaccinations are also cost effective for persons aged 
50 to 64.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.03.008
PMID: 16777545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):90-6. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.03.011.

Priorities among effective clinical preventive services: methods.

Maciosek MV(1), Edwards NM, Coffield AB, Flottemesch TJ, Nelson WW, Goodman MJ, 
Solberg LI.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Research Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):97-8.
    Am J Prev Med. 2006 Jul;31(1):107-8.

Decision makers want to know which healthcare services matter the most, but 
there are no well-established, practical methods for providing evidence-based 
answers to such questions. Led by the National Commission on Prevention 
Priorities, the authors update the methods for determining the relative health 
impact and economic value of clinical preventive services. Using new studies, 
new preventive service recommendations, and improved methods, the authors 
present a new ranking of clinical preventive services in the companion article. 
The original ranking and methods were published in this journal in 2001. The 
current methods report focuses on evidence collection for a priority setting 
exercise, guidance for which is effectively lacking in the literature. The 
authors describe their own standards for searching, tracking, and abstracting 
literature for priority setting. The authors also summarize their methods for 
making valid comparisons across different services. This report should be useful 
to those who want to understand additional detail about how the ranking was 
developed or who want to adapt the methods for their own purposes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2006.03.011
PMID: 16777547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Cell. 2006 Jun 16;125(6):1165-77. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2006.04.036.

C. elegans SIR-2.1 interacts with 14-3-3 proteins to activate DAF-16 and extend 
life span.

Berdichevsky A(1), Viswanathan M, Horvitz HR, Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, 02139, USA.

The longevity of Caenorhabditis elegans is promoted by extra copies of the 
sir-2.1 gene in a manner dependent on the forkhead transcription factor DAF-16. 
We identify two C. elegans 14-3-3 proteins as SIR-2.1 binding partners and show 
that 14-3-3 genes are required for the life-span extension conferred by extra 
copies of sir-2.1. 14-3-3 proteins are also required for SIR-2.1-induced 
transcriptional activation of DAF-16 and stress resistance. Following heat 
stress, SIR-2.1 can bind DAF-16 in a 14-3-3-dependent manner. By contrast, low 
insulin-like signaling does not promote SIR-2.1/DAF-16 interaction, and sir-2.1 
and the 14-3-3 genes are not required for the regulation of life span by the 
insulin-like signaling pathway. We propose the existence of a stress-dependent 
pathway in which SIR-2.1 and 14-3-3 act in parallel to the insulin-like pathway 
to activate DAF-16 and extend life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2006.04.036
PMID: 16777605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Proc Biol Sci. 2006 Jun 7;273(1592):1369-74. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2005.3456.

Having it all: historical energy intakes do not generate the anticipated 
trade-offs in fecundity.

