Johnston SL(1), Grune T, Bell LM, Murray SJ, Souter DM, Erwin SS, Yearsley JM, 
Gordon IJ, Illius AW, Kyriazakis I, Speakman JR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Energy Balance and Obesity, Rowett Research Institute, Greenburn 
Road, Bucksburn, Aberdeen AB21 9SB, UK.

An axiom of life-history theory, and fundamental to our understanding of ageing, 
is that animals must trade-off their allocation of resources since energy and 
nutrients are limited. Therefore, animals cannot "have it all"--combine high 
rates of fecundity with extended lifespans. The idea of life-history trade-offs 
was recently challenged by the discovery that ageing may be governed by a small 
subset of molecular processes independent of fitness. We tested the "trade-off" 
and "having it all" theories by examining the fecundities of C57BL/6J mice 
placed onto four different dietary treatments that generated caloric intakes 
from -21 to +8.6% of controls. We predicted body fat would be deposited in 
relation to caloric intake. Excessive body fat is known to cause co-morbidities 
that shorten lifespan, while caloric restriction enhances somatic protection and 
increases longevity. The trade-off model predicts that increased fat would be 
tolerated because reproductive gain offsets shortened longevity, while animals 
on a restricted intake would sacrifice reproduction for lifespan extension. The 
responses of body fat to treatments followed our expectations, however, there 
was a negative relationship between reproductive performance (fecundity, litter 
mass) and historical intake/body fat. Our dietary restricted animals had lower 
protein oxidative damage and appeared able to combine life-history traits in a 
manner contrary to traditional expectations by having increased fecundity with 
the potential to have extended lifespans.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2005.3456
PMCID: PMC1560301
PMID: 16777725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. J Biol Chem. 2006 Sep 1;281(35):25425-37. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M603776200. Epub
2006  Jun 15.

Structural and functional characterization of Falcipain-2, a hemoglobinase from 
the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum.

Hogg T(1), Nagarajan K, Herzberg S, Chen L, Shen X, Jiang H, Wecke M, Blohmke C, 
Hilgenfeld R, Schmidt CL.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Center for Structural and Cell Biology in 
Medicine, University of Lübeck, Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538 Lübeck, Germany.

Malaria is caused by protozoan erythrocytic parasites of the Plasmodium genus, 
with Plasmodium falciparum being the most dangerous and widespread 
disease-causing species. Falcipain-2 (FP-2) of P. falciparum is a papain-family 
(C1A) cysteine protease that plays an important role in the parasite life cycle 
by degrading erythrocyte proteins, most notably hemoglobin. Inhibition of FP-2 
and its paralogues prevents parasite maturation, suggesting these proteins may 
be valuable targets for the design of novel antimalarial drugs, but lack of 
structural knowledge has impeded progress toward the rational discovery of 
potent, selective, and efficacious inhibitors. As a first step toward this goal, 
we present here the crystal structure of mature FP-2 at 3.1 A resolution, 
revealing novel structural features of the FP-2 subfamily proteases including a 
dynamic beta-hairpin hemoglobin binding motif, a flexible N-terminal 
alpha-helical extension, and a unique active-site cleft. We also demonstrate by 
biochemical methods that mature FP-2 can proteolytically process its own 
precursor in trans at neutral to weakly alkaline pH, that the binding of 
hemoglobin to FP-2 is strictly pH-dependent, and that FP-2 preferentially binds 
methemoglobin over hemoglobin. Because the specificity and proteolytic activity 
of FP-2 toward its multiple targets appears to be pH-dependent, we suggest that 
environmental pH may play an important role in orchestrating FP-2 function over 
the different life stages of the parasite. Moreover, it appears that selectivity 
of FP-2 for methemoglobin may represent an evolutionary adaptation to oxidative 
stress conditions within the host cell.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M603776200
PMID: 16777845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Glaucoma. 2006 Jun;15(3):195-9. doi: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000212202.57029.45.

Long-term follow-up of initial trabeculectomy with mitomycin C for primary 
open-angle glaucoma in Japanese patients.

Shigeeda T(1), Tomidokoro A, Chen YN, Shirato S, Araie M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine the long-term intraocular pressure (IOP) control and 
postoperative complications after initial trabeculectomy with use of mitomycin C 
(MMC) in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of a consecutive 
series of 123 eyes (87 patients) with POAG who underwent initial trabeculectomy 
with MMC and had at least 4 years of follow-up. All patients underwent standard 
trabeculectomy with 0.04% MMC applied intraoperatively for 3 minutes. The 
long-term outcomes (IOP control and bleb leak, long-standing hypotony, 
bleb-related infections) were analyzed with the Kaplan-Meier life-table method 
on the basis of three definitions of successful IOP control (defined as IOP <18 
mmHg (definition 1), IOP <16 mmHg (definition 2), and IOP decrease of by > or 
=30% and <21 mmHg (definition 3)).
RESULTS: The mean follow-up time was 6.8+/-1.4 (mean+/-SD) years. The cumulative 
survival rates were 67.0+/-4.6%, 44.5+/-5.4%, and 74.1+/-4.2%, respectively, 
based on definitions 1, 2, and 3, 8 years postoperatively by life-table 
analysis. At 8 years, bleb leak occurred in 7.9+/-2.6% of eyes, long-standing 
hypotony in 8.3+/-2.5%, and bleb-related infections in 5.9+/-2.4%.
CONCLUSION: Long-term outcome after initial trabeculectomy with MMC in Japanese 
POAG patients is comparable with that reported in other populations and with 
that after trabeculectomy with 5-fluorouracil.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000212202.57029.45
PMID: 16778640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. AMIA Annu Symp Proc. 2005;2005:694-8.

Multimedia quality of life assessment: advances with FLAIR.

Sims TL(1), Garber AM, Miller DE, Mahlow PT, Bravata DM, Goldstein MK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.

Assessing impact of functional dependency on quality of life (QOL) among older 
adults can provide an in-depth understanding of health preferences. Utilities as 
a measure of preferences are necessary in conducting cost-effectiveness 
evaluations of healthcare interventions designed to improve overall QOL. We 
describe further development of a multimedia utility elicitation instrument that 
is highly portable and easily accessible. An earlier version, FLAIR1, introduced 
features designed for older adult, computer inexperienced users. FLAIR2 includes 
modifications such as migration to a web-based platform, consistency checks, 
audio/visual updates, and more response methods. As compared with FLAIR1, more 
FLAIR2 respondents (n=318) preferred using the computer and found the computer 
program to be enjoyable, easy to use, and easily understood. There were also 
fewer inconsistencies among FLAIR2 respondents. FLAIR2 enhancements have 
increased portability, minimized invariance and inconsistency, and produced a 
more user friendly design.

PMCID: PMC1560717
PMID: 16779129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Swiss Med Wkly. 2006 May 27;136(21-22):346-52. doi: 10.57187/smw.2006.11337.

Health economic implications of irbesartan plus conventional antihypertensive 
medications versus conventional blood pressure control alone in patients with 
type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and renal disease in Switzerland.

Palmer AJ(1), Roze S, Valentine WJ, Ray JA, Frei A, Burnier M, Hess B, Spinas 
GA, Brändle M.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research (CORE), Binningen/Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this health economic modelling study was to investigate 
the effect of irbesartan combined with conventional antihypertensive medications 
compared to conventional antihypertensive therapy alone on the progression of 
nephropathy in patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria 
in a Swiss setting.
METHODS: In simulated patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes, treatment 
of microalbuminuria with irbesartan 300 mg daily plus conventional 
antihypertensive medications was compared to a control regimen (conventional 
medications excluding angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, other 
angiotensin-2-receptor antagonist and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers). 
Progression from microalbuminuria to nephropathy, doubling of serum creatinine, 
ESRD, and all-cause mortality was simulated over a 25-year time horizon using a 
published Markov model adapted to a Swiss setting. Transition probabilities were 
based on the Irbesartan in Reduction of Microalbuminuria-2 Study, Irbesartan in 
Diabetic Nephropathy Trial and other sources. Costs and clinical outcomes were 
discounted at 5% annually according to Swiss guidelines, and a third party payer 
perspective was taken.
RESULTS: Treatment with irbesartan was projected to improve mean life expectancy 
by 0.57 years compared to conventional antihypertension treatment (undiscounted 
1.22 years). Irbesartan treatment was associated with cost savings of CHF 21,488 
per patient over the 25-year time horizon. Sensitivity analysis showed that 
irbesartan therapy remained dominant to conventional antihypertension treatment 
over a range of plausible assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Addition of irbesartan to conventional antihypertension therapy was 
projected to improve life expectancy and reduce costs in hypertensive patients 
with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria in a Swiss setting.

DOI: 10.57187/smw.2006.11337
PMID: 16779715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Gene Med. 2006 Aug;8(8):1048-55. doi: 10.1002/jgm.934.

Short-term treatment using insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) improves life 
expectancy of the delta-sarcoglycan deficient hamster.

Serose A(1), Salmon A, Fiszman MY, Fromes Y.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Myologie, Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche 
Médicale, U582, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, AP HP, CHU Pitié-Salpêtrière, 
IFR 14, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: The hamster strain CHF147 presents a progressive dilated 
cardiomyopathy (DCM) due to a large deletion of the delta-sarcoglycan gene that 
leads to heart failure. This cardiomyopathy induces premature death. We have 
previously shown that a short-term treatment using IGF-1 preserves cardiac 
structure and improves function of the CHF147 hamster.
METHODS: In the current study, we measured long-term effects of short-term 
treatment with recombinant human IGF-1 (rhIGF-1) in CHF147 hamsters. CHF147 
hamsters (7-8 months old) were implanted under the skin with an osmotic pump 
filled either with saline or with recombinant human IGF-1 at a total dose of 25 
microg. The osmotic pump allowed a continuous delivery of the protein for a mean 
duration of 19 days.
RESULTS: We observed a significant increase in overall survival, as well as 
preservation of cardiac function, in the rhIGF-1-treated group. At the time of 
death, hearts of treated animals did not present any macroscopical or 
histological differences compared to those of sham hamsters. These results show 
that rhIGF-1 treatment slows down the evolution of the DCM in the CHF147 
hamster. Moreover, the low dose treatment did not increase IGF-1 serum levels.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first one reporting beneficial effects of IGF-1 
treatment on survival of an animal model presenting DCM. Our results raise hopes 
for a new therapeutic approach of this pathology.

2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jgm.934
PMID: 16779861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Environ Sci Health A Tox Hazard Subst Environ Eng. 2006;41(4):543-58. doi:
 10.1080/10934520600564311.

Effect of cadmium and chromium toxicity on the demography and population growth 
of Brachionus calyciflonrs and Brachionus patulus (Rotifera).

Sarma SS(1), Maríinez-Jerónimo F, Ramírez-Pérez T, Nandini S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Aquatic Zoology, Division of Research and Postgraduate Studies, 
National Autonomous University of Mexico, Los Reyes, Tlalnepantla, State of 
Mexico, Mexico. sarma@servidor.unam.mx

This paper reports on the assessment of the effect of Cd+2 and Cr+6 to the 
rotifers Brachionus calyciflorus and B. patulus using life table demography and 
population growth. Based on acute toxicity tests, cadmium was nearly 100 times 
more toxic than chromium for both the rotifer species. Age-specific fecundity 
curves of both the brachionids showed increased offspring beyond the age of 4 
days and after that the production nearly stabilized for about 10 days and later 
declined. At any given treatment, B. calyciflorus had the higher rate of 
offspring production than B. patulus. For any given rotifer, increased metal 
concentration (Cd or Cr) resulted in decreased offspring production. While 
chromium at a concentration of 8.0 mg L(-1), permitted reproduction in B. 
calyciflorus, the egg production of B. patulus was inhibited at half that level 
(4.0 mg L(-1)). Cd at concentrations as low as 0.056 mg L(-1) caused 10-30% 
reduction in survivorship and reproductive parameters of B. calyciflorus. The 
lowest chromium concentration chosen for B. calyciflorus (0.5 mg L(-1)) had, 
however, a lower impact (2-22%) on the life history variables. Corresponding 
values of life history variables for B. patulus at the lowest Cd (0.0028 mg 
L(-1)) and Cr (0.25 mg L(-1)) concentrations varied greatly (2-40% and < 1-24%, 
respectively). Compared to controls, both the rotifer species in Cd or Cr 
treatments had lower densities. In controls, B. calyciflorus reached a peak 
abundance of about 100 ind. mL(-1), while the corresponding value for B. patulus 
was slightly higher (120 ind. mL(-1)). The rate of population increase (r) 
derived from the population growth data varied from +0.42 to -0.40 depending on 
the concentration of the heavy metal in the medium.

DOI: 10.1080/10934520600564311
PMID: 16779930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Environ Sci Health A Tox Hazard Subst Environ Eng. 2006;41(4):559-72. doi:
 10.1080/10934520600564394.

The combined effects of zinc and alga on the life table demography of 
Anuraeopsis fissa and Brachionus rubens (Rotifera).

Azuara-García R(1), Sarma SS, Nandini S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Aquatic Zoology, Division of Research and Postgraduate Studies, 
National Autonomous University of Mexico, Los Reyes, Tlalnepantla, State of 
Mexico, Mexico.

In this work the combined effects of zinc and Chlorella on the demography of two 
co-occurring planktonic rotifers (A. fissa and B. rubens) were evaluated. 
Chlorella absorbed a significant (about 35%) quantity of zinc from the medium 
within the 24 h period. The age-specific survivorship curves of A. fissa and B. 
rubens showed increased mortality rate with increasing zinc concentration in the 
medium (0 to 0.5 mg L(-1)), at the two Chlorella levels (0.5 x 10(6) and 1.0 x 
10(6) cells mL(-1)). In controls, both the rotifer species showed enhanced 
survival at higher food level (1.0 x 10(6) cells mL(-1)). Low food level (0.5 x 
10(6) cells mL(-1)) and higher concentration (0.25 and 0.5 mg L(-1)) of zinc 
resulted in a steep fall in the survivorship. Regardless of Zn concentration and 
food level, A. fissa had a shorter average lifespan, lower gross and net 
reproductive rate, and rate of population increase than B. rubens. The maximum 
offspring production on a given day in controls for A. fissa was about 2 
female(-1), which was reduced to half when exposed to 0.5 mg L(-1) of Zn. At 
both food levels, A. fissa exposed to Zn at 0.5 mg L(-1) had negative population 
growth rates. The highest population growth rate (0.94 day(-1)) was observed for 
B. rubens in controls at 1.0 x 10(6) cell mL(-1) of Chlorella. The present data 
showed that A. fissa was more sensitive to zinc toxicity than B. rubens. 
Combination of high vulnerability to metal toxicity and low population growth 
rate, A. fissa in zinc contaminated waterbodies could be possibly more adversely 
affected than B. rubens.

DOI: 10.1080/10934520600564394
PMID: 16779931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Soc Sci Med. 2006 Oct;63(7):1720-31. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.04.018.
Epub  2006 Jun 14.

Health care costs in the last year of life--the Dutch experience.

Polder JJ(1), Barendregt JJ, van Oers H.

Author information:
(1)RIVM, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. Johan.Polder@rivm.nl <Johan.Polder@rivm.nl>

Health expenditure depends heavily on age. Common wisdom is that the age pattern 
is dominated by costs in the last year of life. Knowledge about these costs is 
important for the debate on the future development of health expenditure. 
According to the 'red herring' argument traditional projection methods 
overestimate the influence of ageing because improvements in life expectancy 
will postpone rather than raise health expenditure. This paper has four 
objectives: (1) to estimate health care costs in the last year of life in the 
Netherlands; (2) to describe age patterns and differences between causes of 
death for men and women; (3) to compare cost profiles of decedents and 
survivors; and (4) to use these figures in projections of future health 
expenditure. We used health insurance data of 2.1 million persons (13% of the 
Dutch population), linked at the individual level with data on the use of home 
care and nursing homes and causes of death in 1999. On average, health care 
costs amounted to 1100 Euro per person. Costs per decedent were 13.5 times 
higher and approximated 14,906 Euro in the last year of life. Most costs related 
to hospital care (54%) and nursing home care (19%). Among the major causes of 
death, costs were highest for cancer (19,000 Euro) and lowest for myocardial 
infarctions (8068 Euro). Between the other causes of death, however, cost 
differences were rather limited. On average costs for the younger decedents were 
higher than for people who died at higher ages. Ten per cent of total health 
expenditure was associated with the health care use of people in their last year 
of life. Increasing longevity will result in higher costs because people live 
longer. The decline of costs in the last year of life with increasing age will 
have a moderate lowering effect. Our projection demonstrated a 10% decline in 
the growth rate of future health expenditure compared to conventional projection 
methods.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.04.018
PMID: 16781037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Am Heart J. 2006 Jun;151(6):1305-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2005.07.014.

Cost-effectiveness of cholesterol-lowering therapy with pravastatin in patients 
with previous acute coronary syndromes aged 65 to 74 years compared with younger 
patients: results from the LIPID study.

Tonkin AM(1), Eckermann S, White H, Friedlander D, Glasziou P, Magnus P, Kirby 
A, Mulray S, Denton M, Sallaberger M, Hunt D, Simes J; LIPID Study Group.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Centre of Clinical Research Excellence in Therapeutics, Department of 
Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Victoria, Australia. 
andrew.tonkin@heartfoundation.com.au

BACKGROUND: We compared cost-effectiveness of pravastatin in a 
placebo-controlled trial in 5500 younger (31-64 years) and 3514 older patients 
(65-74 years) with previous acute coronary syndromes.
METHODS: Hospitalizations and long-term medication within the 6 years of the 
trial were estimated in all patients . Drug dosage, nursing home, and ambulatory 
care costs were estimated from substudies. Incremental costs per life saved of 
pravastatin relative to placebo were estimated from treatment effects and 
resource use.
RESULTS: Over 6 years, pravastatin reduced all-cause mortality by 4.3% in the 
older patients and by 2.3% in the younger patients. Older patients assigned 
pravastatin had marginally lower cost of pravastatin and other medication over 6 
years (A dollar 4442 vs A dollar 4637), but greater cost offsets (A dollar 2061 
vs A dollar 897) from lower rates of hospitalizations. The incremental cost per 
life saved with pravastatin was A dollar 55500 in the old and A dollar 167200 in 
the young. Assuming no treatment effect beyond the study period, the life 
expectancy to age 82 years of additional survivors was 9.1 years in the older 
and 17.3 years in the younger. Estimated additional life-years saved from 
pravastatin therapy were 0.39 years for older and 0.40 years for younger 
patients. Incremental costs per life-year saved were A dollar 7581 in the older 
and A dollar 14944 in the younger, if discounted at 5% per annum.
CONCLUSIONS: Pravastatin therapy was more cost-effective among older than 
younger patients, because of their higher baseline risk and greater cost 
offsets, despite their shorter life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2005.07.014
PMID: 16781242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Am Heart J. 2006 Jun;151(6):1322.e1-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2006.03.017.

Life expectancy of elderly and very elderly patients with chronic heart failure.

Owen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Kent and Canterbury Hospital, Canterbury, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The survival of patients with chronic heart failure is typically 
reported as a comparison of different groups of patients using the hazard ratio 
from a Cox proportional hazards analysis. The absolute survival is generally 
neglected. Furthermore, attention is often focused on relatively young patients 
although chronic heart failure largely affects older patients. The present study 
was undertaken to determine the life expectancy (a measure of absolute survival) 
of older patients with chronic heart failure.
METHODS: Patients >75 years with chronic heart failure caused by impaired left 
ventricular systolic function who attended an outpatient clinic were included in 
the study. Follow-up commenced on August 1, 1993, and continued until September 
30, 2005, when vital status was ascertained. Mean survival time was calculated 
as a measure of life expectancy.
RESULTS: There were 210 patients included in the study. Male patients of mean 
age 80 years had a life expectancy of 3.9 years (95% CI 3.2-4.5), compared with 
that of 7 years for men in the general population of the same age. For female 
patients of mean age 80 years, the life expectancy was 4.5 years (95% CI 
3.6-5.7), compared with 8.5 years for the general population of women of the 
same age.
CONCLUSION: The presence of chronic heart failure in older patients results in 
an approximately 50% reduction in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2006.03.017
PMID: 16781244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Explore (NY). 2005 Mar;1(2):142-3. doi: 10.1016/j.explore.2004.12.008.

You can't use plywood: The perilous success of spirituality and medicine.

Frank AW(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. frank@ucalgary.ca

The Canadian sociologist Arthur Frank has thought deeply about both health and 
illness, especially life-threatening illness, and, by extension, the lack of 
distinction that exists between a spiritualized medicine or a medicalized 
spirituality. Professor Frank is known internationally for his pioneering work 
on illness narratives and has made significant contributions to the emergent 
field of Narrative Medicine. He has integrated the gleanings of personal 
experience and professional research into a cohesive whole and made such 
available in 3 richly nuanced and significant works of narrative medicine: At 
the Will of the Body, The Wounded Storyteller, and The Renewal of Generosity. 
With a voice that is soulful and wry, humble and fierce, Franks work chronicles 
and reflects on a full spectrum of human-making experiences as they relate to 
terminal illness, hope, intimacy, confusion, listening, and responding. Whether 
our readers are caregivers, clinicians, or individuals preparing for the 
transition called Death, this is one author who asks tough questions and makes 
room for delicate, paradoxical, out-of-the-box responses. In doing so, he brings 
that which is intimately personal into a larger discourse that is social, 
political, and cultural. At the same time, he protects the inviolate intimacy 
granted to each individual on the threshold. Bravo!

DOI: 10.1016/j.explore.2004.12.008
PMID: 16781518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2006;20(3):531-46. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2005.11.006.

Cystic fibrosis: nutritional consequences and management.

Dodge JA(1), Turck D.

Author information:
(1)Singleton Hospital, University of Wales Swansea, Swansea SA2 8QA, UK. 
j.a.dodge@btinternet.com

Life expectancy for patients with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) has steadily improved 
during the last three decades, and death in childhood is now uncommon. Nutrition 
is a critical component of the management of CF, and nutritional status is 
directly associated with both pulmonary status and survival. Expert dietetic 
care is necessary, and attention must be given to ensuring an adequate energy 
intake in the face of demands which may be increased by inadequately controlled 
malabsorption, chronic broncho-pulmonary colonisation by bacteria and fungi, 
exacerbations of acute lung infection, impaired lung function, and the need for 
rehabilitation, repair and growth. Pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy (PERT) 
is needed by up to 90% of CF patients in Northern Europe, where the 'severe' 
mutation deltaF508 predominates, but a smaller proportion in Mediterranean 
countries and elsewhere, because pancreatic insufficiency is one of few features 
of CF which correlate with genotype. Complications of CF including liver disease 
and CF-related diabetes pose further challenges. In addition, deficiency of 
specific nutrients including fat soluble vitamins (particularly A, E and K) 
essential fatty acids and occasionally minerals occur for a variety of reasons. 
Osteopenia is common and poorly understood. Liver disease increases the 
likelihood of vitamin D deficiency. Glucose intolerance and diabetes affect at 
least 25% of CF adults, and the diabetes differs from both types 1 and 2 
diabetes mellitus, but it inversely correlates with prognosis. Management 
consists of anticipating problems and addressing them vigorously as soon as they 
appear. Supplements of vitamins are routinely given. Energy supplements can be 
oral, enteral or, rarely, parenteral. All supplements, including PERT, are 
adjusted to individual needs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2005.11.006
PMID: 16782527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2006 Aug;45(8):1029-38. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kel147.  Epub 2006 Jun 16.

Estimating the cost and health status consequences of treatment with TNF 
antagonists in patients with psoriatic arthritis.

Bansback NJ(1), Ara R, Barkham N, Brennan A, Fraser AD, Conway P, Reynolds A, 
Emery P.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research 
ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 40 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 
4DA, UK. n.j.bansback@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) has been shown to improve the outcomes 
in patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA). We estimate the long-term impact on 
health status of prescribing the TNF antagonist etanercept, and evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness in a health economic model.
METHODS: The relationship between disability (Health Assessment Questionnaire) 
and health state utility was explored to estimate the quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained from the TNF antagonist etanercept. A model was then used 
to compare sequences of treatments for PsA after failure of two conventional 
disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). One arm commences on etanercept 
therapy and this is compared with a strategy commencing with combination therapy 
of methotrexate and ciclosporin and another commencing with leflunomide. 
Individual patient data from Phase III etanercept trials is used to populate the 
model supported by published evidence from extensive literature searches. By 
incorporating a life table specific for a PsA population, and using a number of 
evidence- and expert opinion-based assumptions for disease progression, the 
model was extended beyond the trial duration to a 10-yr time horizon. Cost 
offsets were produced by avoiding surgery through delayed progression; drug and 
monitoring costs were also modelled.
RESULTS: Over the 10 yrs, modelled etanercept treatment gave 0.82 more QALYs 
when compared with combination therapy with methotrexate and ciclosporin, and 
0.65 more QALYs in comparison with leflunomide. This equates to a central 
estimate for the cost per QALY of pound28 189 and pound28 189 for ciclosporin 
and leflunomide, respectively. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated this could vary 
by as much as +/-28%.
CONCLUSIONS: With limited data currently available, the potential 
cost-effectiveness of etanercept in DMARD failures for adults with PsA appears 
encouraging. The result for other TNF antagonists will depend on how their 
relative efficacy and drug price compares with etanercept. A number of 
limitations are described and priorities for further research suggested.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kel147
PMID: 16782734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Mol Cell Biol. 2006 Jul;26(13):4970-81. doi: 10.1128/MCB.00308-06.

ST6Gal-I restrains CD22-dependent antigen receptor endocytosis and Shp-1 
recruitment in normal and pathogenic immune signaling.

Grewal PK(1), Boton M, Ramirez K, Collins BE, Saito A, Green RS, Ohtsubo K, Chui 
D, Marth JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine and Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, 9500 Gilman Drive MC0625, University of California-San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

The ST6Gal-I sialyltransferase produces Siglec ligands for the B-cell-specific 
CD22 lectin and sustains humoral immune responses. Using multiple experimental 
approaches to elucidate the mechanisms involved, we report that ST6Gal-I 
deficiency induces immunoglobulin M (IgM) antigen receptor endocytosis in the 
absence of immune stimulation. This coincides with increased antigen receptor 
colocalization with CD22 in both clathrin-deficient and clathrin-enriched 
membrane microdomains concurrent with diminished tyrosine phosphorylation of 
Igalpha/beta, Syk, and phospholipase C-gamma2 upon immune activation. 
Codeficiency with CD22 restores IgM antigen receptor half-life at the cell 
surface in addition to reversing alterations in membrane trafficking and immune 
signaling. Diminished immune responses due to ST6Gal-I deficiency further 
correlate with constitutive recruitment of Shp-1 to CD22 in unstimulated B cells 
independent of Lyn tyrosine kinase activity and prevent autoimmune disease 
pathogenesis in the Lyn-deficient model of systemic lupus erythematosus, 
resulting in a significant extension of life span. Protein glycosylation by 
ST6Gal-I restricts access of antigen receptors and Shp-1 to CD22 and operates by 
a CD22-dependent mechanism that decreases the basal rate of IgM antigen receptor 
endocytosis in altering the threshold of B-cell immune activation.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.00308-06
PMCID: PMC1489171
PMID: 16782884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Minerva Ginecol. 2006 Jun;58(3):189-92.

[The contraceptive method that changed the world].

[Article in Italian]

Crosignani PG(1).

Author information:
(1)II Istituto di Clinica Ostetrica e Ginecologica, Università degli Studi di 
Milano. piergiorgio.crosignani@unimi.it

During the past century human life expectancy doubled while the birth rate 
dropped. The widespread use of effective contraceptives has led to a better 
control of human fertility and changed the structure of modern societies: the 
elderly now increasingly outnumber the young. Scientifically controlled human 
reproduction has also resulted in fewer voluntary abortions. The choice of 
contraceptive strategies differs by geographic area and seems to be linked to 
such simple mechanisms as the ''door-to-door'' effect. In European countries 
where the pill is the most widely used contraceptive, interesting variations in 
the biological profile of oral contraceptive users can be observed; for example, 
women taking a hormonal contraceptive have only half the risk of developing 
ovarian cancer. The world is no longer the same since the advent of the pill.

PMID: 16783289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Vet Clin Pathol. 2006 Jun;35(2):144-56. doi:
10.1111/j.1939-165x.2006.tb00108.x.

Pathogenesis, laboratory diagnosis, and clinical implications of erythrocyte 
enzyme deficiencies in dogs, cats, and horses.

Harvey JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA. harveyj@mail.vetmed.ufl.edu

Deficiencies of enzymes involved in erythrocyte metabolism can have significant 
effects on erythrocyte function and survival. Animals with pyruvate kinase (PK) 
or phosphofructokinase (PFK) deficiencies have shortened erythrocyte life spans 
and regenerative anemia. PK-deficient dogs (but not PK-deficient cats) develop 
progressive myelofibrosis and osteosclerosis of bone marrow and hemochromatosis 
and cirrhosis of the liver. PFK-deficient dogs have sporadic episodes of 
hyperventilation-induced intravascular hemolysis and hemoglobinuria. Cytochrome 
b5 reductase (Cb5R) deficiency in dogs and cats results in persistent 
methemoglobinemia and cyanotic mucous membranes. Severe deficiency of 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, the rate-controlling enzyme in the pentose 
phosphate pathway, resulted in anemia with eccentrocytosis in an American 
saddlebred colt. Horses with erythrocyte flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) 
deficiency have both eccentrocytosis (attributable to severe deficiency in 
glutathione reductase activity) and methemoglobinemia (attributable to Cb5R 
deficiency); the dual enzyme deficiency occurs because FAD is a required 
cofactor for both enzymes. Erythrocyte enzyme deficiencies do not usually 
shorten life expectancy, except for PK-deficient dogs and potentially 
PFK-deficient dogs during a hemolytic crisis. Although enzyme deficiencies are 
rare causes of anemia and methemoglobinemia, the ability to diagnose deficient 
animals allows for the possibility of eliminating these undesirable traits in 
future breeding. DNA-based assays are available for PK and PFK deficiencies; 
whereas, biochemical tests of enzyme activity are required for other 
deficiencies. Continued research is needed to document additional enzyme 
deficiencies that likely occur and to develop additional DNA-based assays to 
detect heterozygous animals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1939-165x.2006.tb00108.x
PMID: 16783707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Colorectal Dis. 2006 Jul;8(6):471-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2005.00921.x.

Rectal cancer treatment of the elderly.

Endreseth BH(1), Romundstad P, Myrvold HE, Bjerkeset T, Wibe A; Norwegian Rectal 
Cancer Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway. 
Birger.Endreseth@stolav.no

OBJECTIVE: Life expectancy and incidence of rectal cancer have been increasing. 
The purpose of this study was to evaluate rectal cancer treatment among very old 
patients.
METHODS: This prospective national cohort study includes all 4875 rectal cancer 
patients in Norway aged over 65 years treated between November 1993 and December 
2001. Patients aged 65-74, 75-79, 80-84 and over 85 years were compared for 
patient-, tumour- and treatment-characteristics and relative survival. Two 
thousand eight hundred and forty patients treated for cure with major surgery 
and TME technique were further evaluated for postoperative mortality, five-year 
local recurrence, distant metastasis and disease-free survival.
RESULTS: There were more palliative surgery and local procedures and less 
surgery for cure (47%vs 77%, P < 0.001) for patients over 85 years compared to 
younger patients. Five-year relative survival was 36% for patients aged over 85 
years compared to 49% for patients 80-84 years and 60% for patients 65-74 years. 
Among patients treated for cure with major surgery the rate of anterior 
resection decreased by age (67%vs 46%, P < 0.001). Postoperative mortality 
increased from 3% to 8% (P < 0.001). There were no significant differences in 
the rates of five-year local recurrence, distant metastasis or relative 
survival.
CONCLUSION: Although a slight increase in postoperative mortality, major rectal 
cancer surgery can be performed in very old patients. These patients had similar 
rates of local recurrence, distant metastasis and relative survival as younger 
patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2005.00921.x
PMID: 16784465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. BMC Public Health. 2006 Jun 19;6:157. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-157.

Cost-effectiveness of tuberculosis evaluation and treatment of newly-arrived 
immigrants.

Porco TC(1), Lewis B, Marseille E, Grinsdale J, Flood JM, Royce SE.

Author information:
(1)California Department of Health Services, Tuberculosis Control Branch, 850 
Marina Bay Parkway, Building P, Second Floor, Richmond, CA 94804, USA. 
tporco@dhs.ca.gov

BACKGROUND: Immigrants to the U.S. are required to undergo overseas screening 
for tuberculosis (TB), but the value of evaluation and treatment following entry 
to the U.S. is not well understood. We determined the cost-effectiveness of 
domestic follow-up of immigrants identified as tuberculosis suspects through 
overseas screening.
METHODS: Using a stochastic simulation for tuberculosis reactivation, 
transmission, and follow-up for a hypothetical cohort of 1000 individuals, we 
calculated the incremental cost-effectiveness of follow-up and evaluation 
interventions. We utilized published literature, California Reports of Verified 
Cases of Tuberculosis (RVCTs), demographic estimates from the California 
Department of Finance, Medicare reimbursement, and Medi-Cal reimbursement rates. 
Our target population was legal immigrants to the United States, our time 
horizon is twenty years, and our perspective was that of all domestic 
health-care payers. We examined the intervention to offer latent tuberculosis 
therapy to infected individuals, to increase the yield of domestic evaluation, 
and to increase the starting and completion rates of LTBI therapy with INH 
(isoniazid). Our outcome measures were the number of cases averted, the number 
of deaths averted, the incremental dollar cost (year 2004), and the number of 
quality-adjusted life-years saved.
RESULTS: Domestic follow-up of B-notification patients, including LTBI treatment 
for latently infected individuals, is highly cost-effective, and at times, 
cost-saving. B-notification follow-up in California would reduce the number of 
new tuberculosis cases by about 6-26 per year (out of a total of approximately 
3000). Sensitivity analysis revealed that domestic follow-up remains 
cost-effective when the hepatitis rates due to INH therapy are over fifteen 
times our best estimates, when at least 0.4 percent of patients have active 
disease and when hospitalization of cases detected through domestic follow-up is 
no less likely than hospitalization of passively detected cases.
CONCLUSION: While the current immigration screening program is unlikely to 
result in a large change in case rates, domestic follow-up of B-notification 
patients, including LTBI treatment, is highly cost-effective. If as many as 
three percent of screened individuals have active TB, and early detection 
reduces the rate of hospitalization, net savings may be expected.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-157
PMCID: PMC1559699
PMID: 16784541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2006 Nov-Dec;1762(11-12):1109-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbadis.2006.04.005. Epub 2006 May 9.

VEGF at the neurovascular interface: therapeutic implications for motor neuron 
disease.

Lambrechts D(1), Carmeliet P.

Author information:
(1)Center for Transgene Technology and Gene Therapy, Flanders Interuniversitary 
Institute for Biotechnology, KULeuven, Campus Gasthuisberg, Herestraat 49, 
B-3000 Leuven, Belgium.

VEGF was discovered almost 25 years ago, and its angiogenic activity has been 
extensively studied ever since. Accumulating evidence indicates, however, that 
VEGF also has direct effects on neuronal cells. VEGF exerts neuroprotective 
effects on various cultured neurons of the central nervous system. In vivo, VEGF 
controls the correct migration of facial branchiomotor neurons in the developing 
hindbrain and stimulates the proliferation of neural stem cells in enriched 
environments and after cerebral ischemia. Transgenic mice expressing reduced 
levels of VEGF develop late-onset motor neuron degeneration, reminiscent of 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), whereas reduced levels of VEGF have been 
implicated in a polyglutamine-induced model of motor neuron degeneration. Recent 
data further reveal that intracerebroventricular delivery of recombinant VEGF 
protein delays disease onset and prolongs survival of ALS rats, whereas 
intramuscular administration of a VEGF-expressing lentiviral vector increases 
the life expectancy of ALS mice by as much as 30%. Deciphering the precise role 
of VEGF at the neurovascular interface promises to uncover new insights into the 
development and pathology of the nervous system, helpful to design novel 
strategies to treat (motor) neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2006.04.005
PMID: 16784838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. J Clin Densitom. 2006 Apr-Jun;9(2):133-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jocd.2005.11.004.
Epub  2006 Apr 18.

Cost-effectiveness of vertebral fracture assessment to detect prevalent 
vertebral deformity and select postmenopausal women with a femoral neck 
T-score>-2.5 for alendronate therapy: a modeling study.

Schousboe JT(1), Ensrud KE, Nyman JA, Kane RL, Melton LJ 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Park Nicollet Health Services, Minneapolis, MN 55416, USA. 
schouj@parknicollet.com

Most fractures occur in postmenopausal women who do not have osteoporosis by 
bone density criteria (T-score>-2.5). Prevalent vertebral deformity is a strong 
risk factor for incident fractures independent of bone mineral density, yet the 
majority of these deformities are clinically unapparent. Spine imaging on a 
dual-energy densitometer, called vertebral fracture assessment (VFA), can 
accurately detect these deformities. The purpose of this modeling study was to 
estimate the lifetime societal costs and health benefits of VFA and confirmatory 
follow-up radiography to detect prevalent vertebral deformity in osteopenic 
(T-score -1.5, -2.0, or -2.4) postmenopausal women, followed by anti-resorptive 
drug therapy for those with one or more deformities. We compared three 
strategies; no initial drug therapy, 5 yr of initial alendronate therapy, or VFA 
followed by 5 yr of alendronate therapy in those with one or more vertebral 
deformities confirmed on radiography (VFA strategy). Results for the base-case 
analyses showed that the cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained for 
the VFA strategy relative to no initial drug therapy ranged from 18,000 US 
dollars (for a 60-yr-old with a femoral neck T-score of -2.4) to 77,000 US 
dollars (for an 80-yr-old with a T-score of -1.5). VFA with selective 
confirmatory radiography is cost-effective, assuming a societal willingness to 
pay per QALY gained of 50,000 US dollars, for postmenopausal women aged 60 to 80 
yr with femoral neck T-scores between -2.0 and -2.4, and for women age 60 or 70 
yr with a T-score of -1.5. Assuming a societal willingness to pay of 100,000 US 
dollars per QALY gained, VFA is also cost-effective for women age 80 yr with a 
T-score of -1.5. These conclusions are robust to reasonable changes in fracture 
rates, assumed fracture disutility, discount rates, relative risk of fracture 
attributable to vertebral deformity, alendronate cost, and drug adherence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocd.2005.11.004
PMID: 16785071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. CMAJ. 2006 Jun 20;174(13):1847-52. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.051104.

Cost-effectiveness of self-managed versus physician-managed oral anticoagulation 
therapy.

Regier DA(1), Sunderji R, Lynd LD, Gin K, Marra CA.

Author information:
(1)Collaboration for Outcomes Research and Evaluation, Centre for Clinical 
Epidemiology and Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health Research Institute, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC.

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2007 Mar 13;176(6):813; author reply 813-4.

BACKGROUND: Patient self-management of long-term oral anticoagulation therapy is 
an effective strategy in a number of clinical situations, but it is currently 
not a funded option in the Canadian health care system. We sought to compare the 
incremental cost and health benefits of self-management with those of physician 
management from the perspective of the Canadian health care payer over a 5-year 
period.
METHODS: We developed a Bayesian Markov model comparing the costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) accrued to patients receiving oral 
anticoagulation therapy through self-management or physician management for 
atrial fibrillation or for a mechanical heart valve. Five health states were 
defined: no events, minor hemorrhagic events, major hemorrhagic events, 
thrombotic events and death. Data from published literature were used for 
transition probabilities. Canadian 2003 costs were used, and utility estimates 
were obtained from various published sources.
RESULTS: Self-management resulted in 3.50 fewer thrombotic events, 0.78 fewer 
major hemorrhagic events and 0.12 fewer deaths per 100 patients than physician 
management. The average discounted incremental cost of self-management over 
physician management was found to be 989 dollars (95% confidence interval [CI] 
310 dollars-1655 dollars) per patient and the incremental QALYs gained was 0.07 
(95% CI 0.06-0.08). The cost-effectiveness of self-management was 14,129 dollars 
per QALY gained. There was a 95% chance that self-management would be 
cost-effective at a willingness to pay of 23,800 dollars per QALY. Results were 
robust in probabilistic and deterministic sensitivity analyses.
INTERPRETATION: This model suggests that self-management is a cost-effective 
strategy for those receiving long-term oral anticoagulation therapy for atrial 
fibrillation or for a mechanical heart valve.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.051104
PMCID: PMC1475919
PMID: 16785459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Compr Ther. 2006 Spring;32(1):10-6. doi: 10.1385/comp:32:1:10.

Hereditary hemochromatosis: a review of the genetics, mechanism, diagnosis, and 
treatment of iron overload.

Wheeler CJ(1), Kowdley KV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

Hereditary hemochromatosis is a relatively common genetic disorder characterized 
by excess dietary iron absorption and deposition in tissues with resulting 
end-organ damage. Early diagnosis and initiation of therapeutic phlebotomy can 
provide a normal life expectancy for affected individuals.

DOI: 10.1385/comp:32:1:10
PMID: 16785576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Oncol Rep. 2006 Jul;16(1):197-202.

Malignant tumors in two ancient populations: An approach to historical tumor 
epidemiology.

Nerlich AG(1), Rohrbach H, Bachmeier B, Zink A.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pathologie, Klinikum München-Bogenhausen, D-81925 München, 
Germany. andreas.nerlich@extern.lrz-muenchen.de.

The actual increase in the rate of malignant tumors has been ascribed to a 
higher life expectancy and the influence of various environmental factors. 
Herein, we present data on the frequency of malignant tumors in 
paleopathologically well-defined historic populations. Thereby, we looked for 
malignant growth affecting the skeleton in three study populations of 905 
individuals that have been excavated from the necropoles of Thebes-West and 
Abydos, Upper Egypt covering the time period between 3200 and 500 BC and 2547 
individuals that have been buried in a Southern German ossuary dating from 
between AD 1400 and 1800. The tissue preservation of both the Egyptian and 
Southern German material was excellent. All available specimens were subjected 
to a very careful macroscopic examination; isolated findings were also 
radiologically investigated. In parallel, anthropological data, such as gender 
and age at death, were recorded. We identified 5 cases of malignant tumors 
affecting the skeleton in the Egyptian material and 13 cases affecting the 
skeletal material from Southern Germany. In most instances, multiple osteolytic 
lesions with slight osteoblastic reaction are strongly suggestive for metastatic 
carcinoma. Few cases with poorly reactive osteolyses were most compatible with 
plasmacytoma. Relative tumor frequencies on an age- and sex-adjusted population 
basis (using a mathematic model of skeletal involvement of malignant tumors in a 
well-defined English study population from AD 1901 to 1905) indicated that the 
tumor rates were not statistically different between ancient Egyptian, the 
historical Southern German and the recent English reference population. These 
observations indicate that malignant tumors were present in spatially and 
temporarily different populations over the last 4000 years with an age- and 
gender-adjusted frequency not different from Western industrial populations of 
c. 100 years ago. Therefore, we conclude that the current rise in tumor 
frequencies in present populations is much more related to the higher life 
expectancy than primary environmental or genetic factors.

PMID: 16786146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2006 May;25(5):291-8. doi: 
10.1007/s10096-006-0136-9.

Clinical features and outcome of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis in 
HIV-infected cirrhotic patients: a case-control study.

Shaw E(1), Castellote J, Santín M, Xiol X, Euba G, Gudiol C, Lopez C, Ariza X, 
Gudiol F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, IDIBELL, Hospital Universitari de 
Bellvitge, C/ Feixa Llarga s/n, 08907 L'Hospitalet, Barcelona, Spain.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical characteristics and outcome 
of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, a serious complication in patients with 
cirrhosis and ascites, in an HIV-infected cirrhotic population. Thirty-five 
HIV-infected cirrhotic patients who developed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis 
during a 12-year period were compared with 70 non-HIV-infected cirrhotic 
subjects. Patients were matched according to the date of the first episode of 
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. A bacteriological diagnosis was made in 37 of 
47 (79%) and in 50 of 97 (52%) episodes in the HIV group and in the non-HIV 
group, respectively (p=0.003), and Streptococcus pneumoniae was isolated more 
frequently in the HIV group (22 vs. 8%, p=0.02). Median survival after the 
initial diagnosis of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis was 2.9 and 14.0 months 
in the HIV group and non-HIV group, respectively. Age (hazard ratio [HR] 1.04; 
95%CI 1.01-1.07), male sex (HR 2.55; 95%CI 1.34-4.83), Child-Pugh score at first 
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis episode (HR 1.29; 95%CI 1.10-1.54), renal 
impairment at first spontaneous bacterial peritonitis episode (HR 2.61; 95%CI 
1.49-4.62), and HIV infection (HR 9.81; 95%CI 4.03-23.84) were independently 
associated with higher long-term mortality after the first diagnosis of 
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. In conclusion, HIV-infected cirrhotic 
patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis have a higher rate of 
bacteriological diagnosis and a more frequent pneumococcal etiology than 
non-HIV-infected subjects. Life expectancy in these patients, once spontaneous 
bacterial peritonitis has developed, is poor. These data are particularly 
relevant for determining the optimal time for liver transplantation in this 
population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-006-0136-9
PMID: 16786375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Am J Primatol. 2006 Jul;68(7):725-31. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20262.

Tetanus antibody titers and duration of immunity to clinical tetanus infections 
in free-ranging rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta).

Kessler MJ(1), Berard JD, Rawlins RG, Bercovitch FB, Gerald MS, Laudenslager ML, 
Gonzalez-Martinez J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Comparative Medicine, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA. mjk4b@virginia.edu

Prior to 1985 tetanus was a major cause of mortality in the free-ranging colony 
of rhesus monkeys on Cayo Santiago, accounting for almost a quarter of annual 
deaths. In 1985 and 1986 all animals (except infants) received primary and 
booster doses, respectively, of tetanus toxoid. In subsequent years primary 
immunizations were given to all yearlings, and boosters were administered to all 
2-year-old animals during the annual capture of the colony. The main objectives 
of the tetanus immunization program were to reduce the pain and suffering caused 
by tetanus infections and to decrease mortality in the colony. Other objectives 
were to evaluate the efficacy of the two-dose tetanus toxoid immunization 
protocol and to determine whether additional boosters might be required to 
provide adequate long-term protection against tetanus infections. The immediate 
effect of the mass immunization program was the elimination of clinical tetanus 
infections in the population and a 42.2% reduction in the overall mortality 
rate. Since the immunization program began, no cases of tetanus have been 
observed in the colony, except in two unimmunized infants, and it has not been 
necessary to give tertiary injections of tetanus toxoid to maintain protection 
against infection. A sample collected in 2004 of the original cohort of monkeys 
immunized in 1985 and 1986 showed that 93.3% (14/15) had protective tetanus 
antibody titers (>0.01 IU/ml) at the ages of 20-23 years, which is close to the 
life expectancy of the Cayo Santiago rhesus macaques. Two intramuscular doses of 
tetanus toxoid provided long-term, if not lifelong, protection against tetanus 
for rhesus monkeys living in a tropical clime where tetanus is enzootic and the 
risk of infection is great.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

