
DOI: 10.1001/jama.295.20.2357
PMID: 16720821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. JAMA. 2006 May 24;295(20):2374-84. doi: 10.1001/jama.295.20.2374.

Cost-effectiveness of screening BRCA1/2 mutation carriers with breast magnetic 
resonance imaging.

Plevritis SK(1), Kurian AW, Sigal BM, Daniel BL, Ikeda DM, Stockdale FE, Garber 
AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Division of Oncology, Center for Primary Care and 
Outcomes Research, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, Calif 
94305, USA. sylvia.plevritis@stanford.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2006 Dec 13;296(22):2681-2; author reply 2682.

CONTEXT: Women with inherited BRCA1/2 mutations are at high risk for breast 
cancer, which mammography often misses. Screening with contrast-enhanced breast 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) detects cancer earlier but increases costs and 
results in more false-positive scans.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of screening BRCA1/2 mutation 
carriers with mammography plus breast MRI compared with mammography alone.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: A computer model that simulates the life 
histories of individual BRCA1/2 mutation carriers, incorporating the effects of 
mammographic and MRI screening was used. The accuracy of mammography and breast 
MRI was estimated from published data in high-risk women. Breast cancer survival 
in the absence of screening was based on the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End 
Results database of breast cancer patients diagnosed in the prescreening period 
(1975-1981), adjusted for the current use of adjuvant therapy. Utilization rates 
and costs of diagnostic and treatment interventions were based on a combination 
of published literature and Medicare payments for 2005.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The survival benefit, incremental costs, and 
cost-effectiveness of MRI screening strategies, which varied by ages of starting 
and stopping MRI screening, were computed separately for BRCA1 and BRCA2 
mutation carriers.
RESULTS: Screening strategies that incorporate annual MRI as well as annual 
mammography have a cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained ranging 
from less than 45,000 dollars to more than 700,000 dollars, depending on the 
ages selected for MRI screening and the specific BRCA mutation. Relative to 
screening with mammography alone, the cost per QALY gained by adding MRI from 
ages 35 to 54 years is 55,420 dollars for BRCA1 mutation carriers, 130,695 
dollars for BRCA2 mutation carriers, and 98,454 dollars for BRCA2 mutation 
carriers who have mammographically dense breasts.
CONCLUSIONS: Breast MRI screening is more cost-effective for BRCA1 than BRCA2 
mutation carriers. The cost-effectiveness of adding MRI to mammography varies 
greatly by age.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.295.20.2374
PMID: 16720823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. NeuroRehabilitation. 2006;21(1):65-9.

Neurogenic bladder dysfunction in patients with neoplastic spinal cord 
compression: adaptation of the bladder management strategy to the underlying 
disease.

Reitz A(1), Haferkamp A, Wagener N, Gerner HJ, Hohenfellner M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Heidelberg, Germany. areitz@gmx.ch

OBJECTIVES: To study the outcome of different bladder management strategies in 
patients with neoplastic spinal cord compression.
METHODS: 22 patients with neoplastic spinal cord compression underwent 
urodynamic examination. According to the urodynamic data and the underlying 
disease different bladder management strategies were recommended. In patients 
with curatively treated disease a full bladder rehabilitation program was 
arranged. In patients with metastatic malignant disease, voluntary voiding was 
continued if possible or a suprapubic catheter was placed.
RESULTS: Eight patients were treated with curative intention. Of those, 2 
patients were able to void during urodynamics continued normal voluntary 
voiding. Six patients were taught intermittent catheterisation, with three 
additionally received oral anticholinergic treatment because of UMN lesion. At 
follow-up, all patients had successfully finished bladder rehabilitation program 
and at follow up, all patients were continuing their previously recommended 
bladder rehabilitation program. Fourteen patients had malignant disease and were 
treated palliatively. In 2 patients with UMN lesion, voluntary control of 
micturition was maintained and both continued voluntary voiding. In 12 patients 
a suprapubic catheter was inserted. At follow-up, 9 out of 14 had died (mean 8 
month after primary visit), the remaining 5 continued treatment with suprapubic 
catheters.
CONCLUSION: Underlying disease and life expectancy should be considered for the 
selection of bladder management in patients with neoplastic spinal cord 
compression. In patients with curatively treated disease, a full bladder 
rehabilitation program is recommended while in patients with malignant disease 
and palliative care, a suprapubic catheter might be the treatment of choice.

PMID: 16720939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2006 May 20;31(12):1381-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000218486.13659.d5.

Cost-utility analysis of physiotherapy treatment compared with physiotherapy 
advice in low back pain.

Rivero-Arias O(1), Gray A, Frost H, Lamb SE, Stewart-Brown S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom. oliver.rivero@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

STUDY DESIGN: Economic evaluation alongside a pragmatic multicenter randomized 
controlled trial from the National Health Service (NHS) and societal 
perspective.
OBJECTIVE: To perform a cost-utility analysis of routine physiotherapy treatment 
compared with an assessment session and advice from a physiotherapist for 
patients with subacute and chronic low back pain.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Lack of evidence for some types of physiotherapy 
intervention and a paucity of cost-effectiveness data for treatment of low back 
pain has led to controversy and uncertainty within the medical and allied 
professions.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 286 patients with low back pain of more than a 
6-week duration were randomized to physiotherapy treatment or advice on 
remaining active from a physiotherapist. Data were collected on back 
pain-related NHS and patients' costs over a 12-month post randomization period. 
The primary outcome measure was the Oswestry Disability Index at 12 months, with 
additional Oswestry Disability Index measures at 2 and 6 months. The EuroQol 
EQ-5D was used to calculate quality adjusted life years. Cost-effectiveness was 
expressed as the incremental cost per quality adjusted life year gained. 
Uncertainty was handled using confidence ellipses for the ratio and 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: The total NHS costs were not significantly different at 179 pounds 
sterling (221 pounds sterling) for physiotherapy and 159 pounds sterling (260 
pounds sterling) for the advice group. However, patients in the physiotherapy 
group had significantly higher out-of-pocket health care expenditure (40 pounds 
sterling, 95% confidence interval 9 pounds sterling to 71 pounds sterling). 
Utility levels improved in both groups from baseline to 12 months, with no 
significant differences between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate no significant differences in either NHS costs 
or effects. However, the significantly higher out-of-pocket expenses incurred by 
patients receiving routine physiotherapy suggests that advice given by a 
physiotherapist should be considered as the first-line treatment for patients 
with this level of back pain disability.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000218486.13659.d5
PMID: 16721304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Pharm Sci. 2006 Jul;95(7):1549-60. doi: 10.1002/jps.20636.

Stability profiles of drug products extended beyond labeled expiration dates.

Lyon RC(1), Taylor JS, Porter DA, Prasanna HR, Hussain AS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Product Quality Research, Center for Drug Evaluation and 
Research, Food and Drug Administration, HFD-941, White Oak, Life Sciences 
Building 64, 10903 New Hampshire Avenue, Silver Spring, Maryland 20993-0002, 
USA. robbe.lyon@fda.hhs.gov

Comment in
    AAPS J. 2016 Jul;18(4):801-3.

The American Medical Association has questioned whether expiration dating 
markedly underestimates the actual shelf life of drug products. Results from the 
shelf life extension program (SLEP) have been evaluated to provide extensive 
data to address this issue. The SLEP has been administered by the Food and Drug 
Administration for the United States Department of Defense (DOD) for 20 years. 
This program probably contains the most extensive source of pharmaceutical 
stability data extant. This report summarizes extended stability profiles for 
122 different drug products (3,005 different lots). The drug products were 
categorized into five groups based on incidence of initial extension failures 
and termination failures (extended lot eventually failed upon re-testing). Based 
on testing and stability assessment, 88% of the lots were extended at least 1 
year beyond their original expiration date for an average extension of 66 
months, but the additional stability period was highly variable. The SLEP data 
supports the assertion that many drug products, if properly stored, can be 
extended past the expiration date. Due to the lot-to-lot variability, the 
stability and quality of extended drug products can only be assured by periodic 
testing and systematic evaluation of each lot.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.20636
PMID: 16721796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Vnitr Lek. 2006 Mar;52(3):271-3.

[Extension of QT interval as a consequence of risk factor accumulation--case 
study].

[Article in Czech]

Sisáková M(1), Toman O, Floriánová A, Kadlecová J, Chroust K, Papousek I, Spinar 
J.

Author information:
(1)Interní kardiologická klinika Lékarské fakulty MU a FN Brno, pracoviste 
Bohunice. sisakova@fnbrno.cz

BACKGROUND: Many non-cardiovascular drugs have a potential for QT interval 
prolongation. This phenomenon can be related to occurence of ventricular 
tachycardia torsades de pointes, syncopi and even sudden death.
DESCRIPTION OF THE CASE: A female patient treated with antracycline cytostatics 
developed a depression of left ventricle ejection fraction. At the same time she 
was administered 2 common drugs with proarrhythmic potential--terfenadine and 
itraconazole. In this patient hypokalemia also occured. Combination of the above 
mentioned risk factors led to QT interval prolongation and frequent ventricular 
tachycardias torsades de pointes degenerating in ventricular fibrillations with 
need of repeated defibrillations. Both drugs were withdrawn and dysiontaemia 
corrected. Then arrhythmias disappeared and QT interval completely normalized. 
In this patient the congenital long QT syndrome was not proved.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: In proarrhythmic effect of non-cardiovascular drugs 
the following factors play role: predisposition of a particular individual, 
"repolarization reserve", interindividual differences in drug metabolism. The 
risk factors are age, sex, dysiontaemia, heart disease and drug interactions. By 
different choice of medication and attention to risk factors teh life threat to 
the described patient could have been avoided.

PMID: 16722159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2006 Apr 26;1:13. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-1-13.

Mevalonate kinase deficiencies: from mevalonic aciduria to 
hyperimmunoglobulinemia D syndrome.

Haas D(1), Hoffmann GF.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Pediatrics, University Children's Hospital Heidelberg, 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 150, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany. 
dorothea.haas@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Mevalonic aciduria (MVA) and hyperimmunoglobulinemia D syndrome (HIDS) represent 
the two ends of a clinical spectrum of disease caused by deficiency of 
mevalonate kinase (MVK), the first committed enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis. 
At least 30 patients with MVA and 180 patients with HIDS have been reported 
worldwide. MVA is characterized by psychomotor retardation, failure to thrive, 
progressive cerebellar ataxia, dysmorphic features, progressive visual 
impairment and recurrent febrile crises. The febrile episodes are commonly 
accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, abdominal symptoms, 
arthralgia and skin rashes. Life expectancy is often compromised. In HIDS, only 
febrile attacks are present, but a subgroup of patients may also develop 
neurological abnormalities of varying degree such as mental retardation, ataxia, 
ocular symptoms and epilepsy. A reduced activity of MVK and pathogenic mutations 
in the MVK gene have been demonstrated as the common genetic basis in both 
disorders. In MVA, the diagnosis is established by detection of highly elevated 
levels of mevalonic acid excreted in urine. Increased levels of immunoglobulin D 
(IgD) and, in most patients of immunoglobulin A (IgA), in combination with 
enhanced excretion of mevalonic acid provide strong evidence for HIDS. The 
diagnosis is confirmed by low activity of mevalonate kinase or by demonstration 
of disease-causing mutations. Genetic counseling should be offered to families 
at risk. There is no established successful treatment for MVA. Simvastatin, an 
inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, and anakinra have been shown to have beneficial 
effect in HIDS.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-1-13
PMCID: PMC1475558
PMID: 16722536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Int Wound J. 2004 Sep;1(3):165-75. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4801.2004.00056.x.

Early diagnosis is vital in the management of squamous cell carcinomas 
associated with chronic non healing ulcers: a case series and review of the 
literature.

Enoch S(1), Miller DR, Price PE, Harding KG.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Fellow, Wound Healing Research Unit, University of Wales 
College of Medicine, Cardiff CF14 4NX, UK.

The association between chronic ulcers and squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) is 
well established. Their clinical presentations, however, are varied, ranging 
from innocously appearing lesions to overtly exophytic growths. We present a 
series of cases with heterogeneous clinical presentations and different 
treatment outcomes. Case series - patient 1 was a 69-year-old man with an 
18-month history of static non healing venous leg ulcer, but no sinister 
features, biopsy was performed to rule out Marjolin's transformation, histology 
revealed SCC and treatment was simple excision and skin grafting; patient 2 was 
a 73-year-old lady with an 18-month history of non healing ulcer (innocuous 
appearance) over distal interphalangeal joint of index finger, histology 
revealed SCC with deeper extension and treatment was amputation of distal half 
of finger; patient 3 was a 73-year-old lady with a 12-month history of non 
healing fungating leg ulcer with irregular borders and everted edges, histology 
revealed SCC (tumour eroding tibia and distant metastasis) and treatment was 
above-knee amputation, radiotherapy and palliation. Whilst SCC is amenable to 
simple excision in the early stages, delay in diagnosis could result in loss of 
the affected digit or limb; an SCC which has metastasised is also life 
threatening. Therefore, a low threshold to biopsy static non healing ulcers or 
ulcers in unusual sites should be adopted even in those not manifesting any 
evidence of malignancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4801.2004.00056.x
PMCID: PMC7951595
PMID: 16722875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. BMC Cancer. 2006 May 24;6:136. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-136.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of colorectal cancer screening with stool DNA 
testing in intermediate-incidence countries.

Wu GH(1), Wang YM, Yen AM, Wong JM, Lai HC, Warwick J, Chen TH.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan. gracewu@ntu.edu.tw

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
screening with stool DNA testing with that of screening with other tools (annual 
fecal occult blood testing, flexible sigmoidoscopy every 5 years, and 
colonoscopy every 10 years) or not screening at all.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to evaluate the above screening strategies 
in the general population 50 to 75 years of age in Taiwan. Sensitivity analyses 
were performed to assess the influence of various parameters on the 
cost-effectiveness of screening. A third-party payer perspective was adopted and 
the cost of dollar 13,000 per life-year saved (which is roughly the per capita 
GNP of Taiwan in 2003) was chosen as the ceiling ratio for assessing whether the 
program is cost-effective.
RESULTS: Stool DNA testing every three, five, and ten years can reduce 
colorectal cancer mortality by 22%, 15%, and 9%, respectively. The associated 
incremental costs were dollar 9,794, dollar 9,335, and dollar 7,717, per 
life-year saved when compared with no screening. Stool DNA testing strategies 
were the least cost-effective with the cost per stool DNA test, referral rate 
with diagnostic colonoscopy, prevalence of large adenoma, and discount rate 
being the most influential parameters.
CONCLUSION: In countries with a low or intermediate incidence of colorectal 
cancer, stool DNA testing is less cost-effective than the other currently 
recommended strategies for population-based screening, particularly targeting at 
asymptomatic subjects.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-136
PMCID: PMC1525200
PMID: 16723013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Oct;35(5):1264-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl108. Epub 2006
May  24.

Child mortality and cohort lifespan: a test of diminished entelechy.

Catalano R(1), Bruckner T.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 
94720, USA. rayc@berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Oct;35(5):1270-1.

BACKGROUND: The literature implies a 'diminished entelechy' hypothesis in which 
birth cohorts subjected to relatively many or relatively virulent environmental 
insults early in life do not realize their otherwise expected lifespan. No 
direct test of this hypothesis appears in literature.
METHODS: We test the hypothesis directly by measuring the association between 
mortality in the first 5 years and life expectancy at age 5 for male and female 
cohorts born in Sweden (1751-1912), Denmark (1835-1913), and England and Wales 
(1841-1912). The methods control for trends, seasonal cycles, and other forms of 
autocorrelation that could induce spurious associations.
RESULTS: Our results support the hypothesis in that life expectancy at age 5 
fell below the values expected from history in cohorts in which child mortality 
before age 5 increased over its expected value. We find no evidence for culling 
effects in which a cohort remaining after suffering relatively many 
environmental insults may be smaller but hardier than expected.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings converge with individual-level studies and suggest 
that suffering relatively virulent or many environmental insults during 
childhood reduces the subsequent lifespan of birth cohorts.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl108
PMID: 16723366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Tob Control. 2006 Jun;15 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):i5-11. doi:
10.1136/tc.2005.015412.

Economic burden of smoking in China, 2000.

Sung HY(1), Wang L, Jin S, Hu TW, Jiang Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health & Aging, School of Nursing, University of California, 
San Francisco, California 94118, USA. Hai-Yen.Sung@ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the health-related economic burden attributable to smoking 
in China for persons aged 35 and older.
METHODS: A prevalence-based, disease-specific approach was used to estimate the 
smoking attributable direct costs, indirect morbidity costs, and costs of 
premature deaths caused by smoking-related diseases. The primary data source was 
the 1998 China National Health Services Survey, which contains the smoking 
status, medical utilisation, and expenditures for 216,101 individuals.
RESULTS: The economic costs of smoking in 2000 amounted to $5.0 billion 
(measured in 2000, USD) in total and $25.43 per smoker (> or = age 35). The 
share of the economic costs was greater for men than women, and greater in rural 
areas than in urban areas. Of the $5.0 billion total costs, direct costs were 
$1.7 billion (34% of the total), indirect morbidity costs were $0.4 billion 
(8%), and indirect mortality costs were $2.9 billion (58%). The direct costs of 
smoking accounted for 3.1% of China's national health expenditures in 2000.
CONCLUSION: The adverse health effects of smoking constitute a huge economic 
burden to the Chinese society. To reduce this burden in the future, effective 
tobacco control programmes and sustained efforts are needed to curb the tobacco 
epidemic and economic losses.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2005.015412
PMCID: PMC2563547
PMID: 16723677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None


776. Acad Emerg Med. 2006 Jul;13(7):755-66. doi: 10.1197/j.aem.2006.02.011. Epub
2006  May 24.

Value of quantitative D-dimer assays in identifying pulmonary embolism: 
implications from a sequential decision model.

Duriseti RS(1), Shachter RD, Brandeau ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, CA 94304, USA. 
ram1@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVES: To examine the cost-effectiveness of a quantitative D-dimer assay 
for the evaluation of patients with suspected pulmonary embolism (PE) in an 
urban emergency department (ED).
METHODS: The authors analyzed different diagnostic strategies over pretest risk 
categories on the basis of Wells criteria by using the performance profile of 
the ELISA D-dimer assay (over five cutoff values) and imaging strategies used in 
the ED for PE: compression ultrasound (CUS), ventilation-perfusion (VQ) scan 
(over three cutoff values), CUS with VQ (over three cutoff values), computed 
tomography (CT) angiogram (CTA) with pulmonary portion (CTP) and lower-extremity 
venous portion, and CUS with CTP. Data used in the analysis were based on 
literature review. Incremental costs and quality-adjusted-life-years were the 
outcomes measured.
RESULTS: Computed tomography angiogram with pulmonary portion and 
lower-extremity venous portion without D-dimer was the preferred strategy. 
CUS-VQ scanning always was dominated by CT-based strategies. When CTA was 
infeasible, the dominant strategy was D-dimer with CUS-VQ in moderate- and 
high-Wells patients and was D-dimer with CUS for low-Wells patients. When CTP 
specificity falls below 80%, or if its overall performance is markedly degraded, 
preferred strategies include D-dimer testing. Sensitivity analyses suggest that 
pessimistic assessments of CTP accuracy alter the results only at extremes of 
parameter settings.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients in whom PE is suspected, when CTA is available, even 
the most sensitive quantitative D-dimer assay is not likely to be 
cost-effective. When CTA is not available or if its performance is markedly 
degraded, use of the D-dimer assay has value in combination with CUS and a 
pulmonary imaging study. These conclusions may not hold for the larger domain of 
patients presenting to the ED with chest pain or shortness of breath in whom PE 
is one of many competing diagnoses.

DOI: 10.1197/j.aem.2006.02.011
PMID: 16723725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. BioDrugs. 2006;20(3):151-60. doi: 10.2165/00063030-200620030-00002.

Monomeric Fc fusions: impact on pharmacokinetic and biological activity of 
protein therapeutics.

Dumont JA(1), Low SC, Peters RT, Bitonti AJ.

Author information:
(1)Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451, USA. 
jdumont@syntnx.com

The delivery of therapeutic proteins by noninvasive routes of administration has 
been a challenging goal, hence current modes of delivery generally require 
injections. However, we have recently shown that a naturally occurring receptor, 
the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) can be utilized to carry aerosolized therapeutic 
proteins conjugated to a portion of its respective ligand (Fc domain of 
immunoglobulin G) across epithelial cells of the lung to effectively deliver 
biologically active molecules to the bloodstream. First-generation dimeric Fc 
fusion molecules were successfully transported by the pulmonary route and 
biologic activity was demonstrated in both non-human primates and human 
volunteers. Continuing efforts to improve transport efficiency have led to the 
development of an alternate configuration of Fc fusion proteins with improved 
characteristics. These second generation Fc fusion molecules are monomeric with 
respect to the therapeutic protein and dimeric with respect to the Fc region, 
and have been termed Fc fusion 'monomers'. Several different Fc fusion monomers 
have demonstrated improved transport efficiency, achieving high 
bioavailabilities for pulmonary delivery in non-human primates. While the 
traditional dimeric Fc fusion molecule generally increases the half-life 
compared with the unconjugated effector molecule, the monomer configuration has 
been shown to result in an even greater extension of the circulating half-life, 
which improves pharmacokinetic parameters for protein therapeutics, whether 
administered by pulmonary delivery or injection. Finally, many of the Fc monomer 
fusions have enhanced biologic activity compared with the dimeric configuration. 
Because of these many advantages, the monomer configuration promises to be an 
enabling advance to achieve clinically relevant, noninvasive delivery with 
potentially less frequent administration regimens for a broad range of protein 
therapeutics. In addition, molecules that are comprised of heterodimeric 
subunits or multi-subunit complexes can also be constructed as Fc fusions that 
result in a molecule with enhanced pharmacokinetics and greater bioactivity. 
Several examples of novel Fc fusion proteins, both monomer and heterodimer are 
described herein.

DOI: 10.2165/00063030-200620030-00002
PMID: 16724863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Dev Biol. 2006 Aug 1;296(1):137-49. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2006.04.451. Epub
2006  Apr 26.

Cell movement during chick primitive streak formation.

Chuai M(1), Zeng W, Yang X, Boychenko V, Glazier JA, Weijer CJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cell and Developmental Biology, Wellcome Trust Biocentre, School 
of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

Gastrulation in amniotes begins with extensive re-arrangements of cells in the 
epiblast resulting in the formation of the primitive streak. We have developed a 
transfection method that enables us to transfect randomly distributed epiblast 
cells in the Stage XI-XIII chick blastoderms with GFP fusion proteins. This 
allows us to use time-lapse microscopy for detailed analysis of the movements 
and proliferation of epiblast cells during streak formation. Cells in the 
posterior two thirds of the embryo move in two striking counter-rotating flows 
that meet at the site of streak formation at the posterior end of the embryo. 
Cells divide during this rotational movement with a cell cycle time of 6-7 h. 
Daughter cells remain together, forming small clusters and as result of the flow 
patterns line up in the streak. Expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase 
inhibitor, P21/Waf inhibits cell division and severely limits embryo growth, but 
does not inhibit streak formation or associated flows. To investigate the role 
off cell-cell intercalation in streak formation we have inhibited the Wnt 
planar-polarity signalling pathway by expression of a dominant negative Wnt11 
and a Dishevelled mutant Xdd1. Both treatments do not result in an inhibition of 
streak formation, but both severely affect extension of the embryo in later 
development. Likewise inhibition of myosin II which as been shown to drive 
cell-cell intercalation during Drosophila germ band extension, has no effect on 
streak formation, but also effectively blocks elongation after regression has 
started. These experiments make it unlikely that streak formation involves known 
cell-cell intercalation mechanisms. Expression of a dominant negative FGFR1c 
receptor construct as well as the soluble extracellular domain of the FGFR1c 
receptor both effectively block the cell movements associated with streak 
formation and mesoderm differentiation, showing the importance of FGF signalling 
in these processes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2006.04.451
PMCID: PMC2556955
PMID: 16725136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Cancer Treat Rev. 2006;32 Suppl 2:S5-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2006.04.007.

European guidelines for the management of chemotherapy-induced anaemia and 
health economic aspects of treatment.

Repetto L(1), Moeremans K, Annemans L; European Organisation for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Nazionale di Riposo e Cura per Anziani, Unita Operativa di 
Oncologia, Via Cassia 1167, Rome 00189, Italy. l.repetto@inrca.it

Patients with cancer receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy frequently develop 
anaemia; platinum-based chemotherapy, in particular, leads to reduced production 
of the bone marrow-stimulating hormone erythropoietin. The European Cancer 
Anaemia Survey showed that many patients do not receive 
erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) therapy and highlighted the need for 
clear guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of anaemia in cancer patients. 
In response to a fast-moving therapeutic environment and guidelines produced in 
the USA, the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
established an independent task force to develop evidence-based guidelines for 
the use of ESAs in European anaemic cancer patients that were first published in 
2004. The guidelines recommend that, in patients receiving 
chemotherapy/radiotherapy, ESA therapy should be initiated at haemoglobin levels 
of 9-11 g/dL based on the severity of symptoms (target haemoglobin 
concentration: 12-13 g/dL) to improve quality of life and prevent the need for 
red blood cell transfusions. Treatment should be maintained as long as Hb levels 
remain <12-13 g/dL and patients continue to show symptomatic improvement, and 
should be discontinued, due to marginally elevated risks of thromboembolic 
events, when haemoglobin levels exceed 14 g/dL. Treatment of anaemia with ESAs 
is cost-effective and is associated with long-term gains in quality-adjusted 
life years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2006.04.007
PMID: 16725267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Hormones (Athens). 2006 Jan-Mar;5(1):9-16. doi: 10.14310/horm.2002.11164.

Depression and osteoporosis in men: association or casual link?

Ilias I(1), Alesci S, Gold PW, Chrousos GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Patras University Medical School, Rion-Patras, 
Greece. iliasi@upatras.gr

The longer life expectancy of women than that of men and, therefore, the longer 
exposure to fracture risk has, at least partially, led to neglect of 
osteoporosis in men. Recently, unipolar depression, which is 2 times more 
frequent in women than in men, has been linked to osteoporosis. However, it is 
quite possible that this diagnosis may escape detection in men because of a 
different behavioral phenotype between the genders. A potential mechanism of 
bone loss in depression has been proposed, involving concurrent activation of 
the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal and sympatho-adrenal axes, suppression of the 
gonadal and somatotrophic axes, and high interleukin-6 and low leptin levels. We 
suggest that similar neurohormonal changes may cause osteoporosis in men.

DOI: 10.14310/horm.2002.11164
PMID: 16728381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. QJM. 2006 Jun;99(6):377-88. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcl051.

How should we diagnose suspected deep-vein thrombosis?

Goodacre S(1), Stevenson M, Wailoo A, Sampson F, Sutton AJ, Thomas S.

Author information:
(1)Medical Care Research Unit, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent 
Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA. s.goodacre@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 2006 Sep;55(9):754.
    J Fam Pract. 2007 Dec;56(12):1010-2.

BACKGROUND: Many different approaches are used to diagnose suspected deep-vein 
thrombosis (DVT), but there has been little formal comparison of strategies.
AIM: To identify the most cost-effective strategy for the UK National Health 
Service (NHS).
DESIGN: Systematic review, meta-analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS: We identified 18 strategies and estimated the diagnostic performance of 
constituent tests by systematic review and meta-analysis. Outcomes of testing 
and treatment were estimated from published data or by an expert panel. Costs 
were estimated from NHS reference costs and published data. We built a 
decision-analysis model to estimate, for each strategy, the overall accuracy, 
costs, and outcomes (valued as quality-adjusted life-years, QALYs), compared to 
a 'no testing, no treatment' alternative. Probabilistic analysis estimated the 
net benefit of each strategy at varying thresholds for willingness to pay for 
health gain.
RESULTS: At the thresholds for willingness to pay recommended by the National 
Institute for Clinical Excellence (20,000 pounds sterling-30,000 pounds sterling 
per QALY), the optimal strategy was to discharge patients with a low or 
intermediate Wells score and negative D-dimer, limiting ultrasound to those with 
a high score or positive D-dimer. Strategies using radiological testing for all 
patients were only cost-effective at 40,000 pound sterling per QALY or more.
DISCUSSION: The optimal strategy for DVT diagnosis is to use ultrasound 
selectively in patients with a high clinical risk or positive D-dimer. 
Radiological testing for all patients does not appear to be a cost-effective use 
of health service resources.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcl051
PMID: 16728440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2006 Sep;101(3):715-20. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.01309.2005. Epub 2006 May 25.

The frequency of alternate muscle activity is associated with the attenuation in 
muscle fatigue.

Kouzaki M(1), Shinohara M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University 
of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. kouzaki@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Alternate muscle activity between synergist muscles has been demonstrated during 
low-level sustained contractions [< or =5% of maximal voluntary contraction 
(MVC) force]. To determine the functional significance of the alternate muscle 
activity, the association between the frequency of alternate muscle activity 
during a low-level sustained knee extension and the reduction in knee extension 
MVC force was studied. Forty-one healthy subjects performed a sustained knee 
extension at 2.5% MVC force for 1 h. Before and after the sustained knee 
extension, MVC force was measured. The surface electromyogram was recorded from 
the rectus femoris (RF), vastus lateralis (VL), and vastus medialis (VM) 
muscles. The frequency of alternate muscle activity for RF-VL, RF-VM, and VL-VM 
pairs was determined during the sustained contraction. The frequency of 
alternate muscle activity ranged from 4 to 11 times/h for RF-VL (7.0 +/- 2.0 
times/h) and RF-VM (7.0 +/- 1.9 times/h) pairs, but it was only 0 to 2 times/h 
for the VL-VM pair (0.5 +/- 0.7 times/h). MVC force after the sustained 
contraction decreased by 14% (P < 0.01) from 573.6 +/- 145.2 N to 483.3 +/- 
130.5 N. The amount of reduction in MVC force was negatively correlated with the 
frequency of alternate muscle activity for the RF-VL and RF-VM pairs (P < 0.001 
and r = 0.65 for both) but not for the VL-VM pair. The results demonstrate that 
subjects with more frequent alternate muscle activity experience less muscle 
fatigue. We conclude that the alternate muscle activity between synergist 
muscles attenuates muscle fatigue.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.01309.2005
PMID: 16728513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Stroke. 2006 Jul;37(7):1913-6. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000226399.13528.0a. Epub
 2006 May 25.

Common carotid artery intima-media thickness and the risk of stroke recurrence.

Tsivgoulis G(1), Vemmos K, Papamichael C, Spengos K, Manios E, Stamatelopoulos 
K, Vassilopoulos D, Zakopoulos N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Athens, Eginition Hospital, Athens, 
Greece. tsivgoulisgiorg@yahoo.gr

Comment in
    Stroke. 2006 Nov;37(11):2655; author reply 2656.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Increased common carotid artery intima-media thickness 
(CCA-IMT) has been associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction 
and stroke. We investigated the relationship between CCA-IMT and recurrent 
stroke in a cohort of ischemic stroke patients.
METHODS: High-resolution B-mode ultrasonographic measurements of the CCA-IMT 
were performed in a consecutive series of 238 patients hospitalized in our 
institution with first-ever ischemic stroke. Stroke risk factors and secondary 
prevention therapies were documented. Patients were followed-up prospectively 
and the outcome event of interest was recurrent stroke.
RESULTS: During a mean follow-up period of 28.9 months (range: 6 to 60 months), 
27 recurrent strokes were documented. Patients who experienced recurrent 
cerebrovascular events had significantly (P=0.005) higher CCA-IMT values (1.01 
mm, 95% CI:0.92 to 1.11 mm) than subjects who were free of stroke recurrence 
(0.88 mm, 95% CI:0.85 to 0.91 mm). After adjustment for baseline 
characteristics, risk factors and stroke subtypes and secondary prevention 
therapies increasing CCA-IMT was found to be an independent predictor of stroke 
recurrence. For each increment of 0.1 mm in CCA-IMT the probability of 
experiencing recurrent stroke increased by 18.0% (95% CI:2.0% to 36.0%, 
P=0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: Increased CCA-IMT values are associated with a higher risk of 
long-term stroke recurrence.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000226399.13528.0a
PMID: 16728693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Recenti Prog Med. 2006 Apr;97(4):200-4.

[Acromegaly: multifaceted clinical presentation of a rare disease of the 
elderly. Report of two cases with long-term follow-up].

[Article in Italian]

Foppiani L(1), Del Monte P, Ruelle A, Marugo A, Bernasconi D.

Author information:
(1)Struttura Complessa di Endocrinologia, Ente Ospedaliero Ospedali Galliera, 
Genova. luca.foppiani@galliera.it

We report two cases of acromegaly in elderly patients. Both patients had 
markedly invasive GH-secreting macroadenomas, which caused hugely increased 
circulating GH levels (over 90 ng/ml). The first patient, 79 year-old, presented 
with goitre and severe osteoarthrosis, refused surgery and was treated with 
various somatostatin analogues (ultimately accompanied by cabergoline), without 
satisfactory control of the disease. The second patient, 67-year-old, presented 
with symptoms secondary to hypopituitarism, which had been previously 
misdiagnosed. These symptoms resolved with the appropriate substitutive therapy, 
which led to a significant improvement in her condition. However, two 
transphenoidal operations, radiotherapy and long-term somatostatin agonist 
therapy were required to control GH hypersecretion satisfactorily. The authors 
wish to underline that acromegaly is a rare but not negligible disorder in the 
elderly, which can affect the whole body functions and cause severe morbidities. 
In the two cases presented somatostatin agonists alone were not able to control 
the tumoral hypersecretion adequately. The prompt discovery (usually through a 
simple clinical evaluation) of this disease in the elderly, confirmed by 
hormonal and morphological evaluation, together with a multidisciplinary 
(medical, surgical, radiotherapeutic) approach can improve their quality of life 
and increase life expectancy.

PMID: 16729489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Emerg Med Serv. 2006 May;35(5):65-70, 72.

Pediatric fluid resuscitation and airway management.

La May G(1), Friese G.

Author information:
(1)Texas Engineering Extension Service, USA.

In summary, if the problem is volume shock, stop the loss and replace the fluid 
without overloading. IV fluids may be necessary to maintain perfusion pressure 
and administer medications. Pediatric airway anatomy requires different 
techniques and equipment for proper management, but all airway management starts 
with basic life support skills.

PMID: 16729527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Jun;10(20):iii-iv, ix-113. doi:
10.3310/hta10200.

A systematic review of the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
enzyme replacement therapies for Fabry's disease and mucopolysaccharidosis type 
1.

Connock M(1), Juarez-Garcia A, Frew E, Mans A, Dretzke J, Fry-Smith A, Moore D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
the administration of intravenous enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) to 
symptomatic patients for the prevention of long-term damage and symptoms in 
Fabry's disease and in mucopolysaccharidosis type 1 (MPS1).
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases from inception up to mid-2004. Contact with 
clinical experts.
REVIEW METHODS: Relevant studies were identified and assessed using recommended 
quality criteria.
RESULTS: The results suggested beneficial effects of ERT for Fabry's disease on 
measures of pain, cardiovascular function and some end-points reflecting 
neurosensory function. Renal function appeared to be stabilised by ERT. At 
present there are no utility-related health-related quality of life data on 
which to assess the relative health gain of ERT in MPS1. In order to be able to 
demonstrate the full extent of health gain from treatment, it was necessary to 
review the natural history of untreated patients in each disease in order to try 
to estimate the health loss prevented. The published information for Fabry's 
disease tallied with descriptions of a multi-system, life-threatening disorder 
particularly involving kidney, heart and brain with individual patients 
exhibiting many manifestations. The fragmentary information reviewed in 16 
studies relevant to the natural history of MPS1 did not generate a coherent 
picture of disease progression and could provide little added value to published 
narrative reviews. For Fabry's disease, the mean cost per patient (50 kg) 
treated is around pounds sterling 85,000 per annum in England and Wales. The 
cost per patient varies considerably by dose. No published evidence reporting an 
economic evaluation of ERT for Fabry's disease was identified by this review. A 
dynamic decision model was constructed based on a birth cohort of male patients 
who are followed up until death. Owing to lack of information reported in the 
literature, many assumptions had to be applied. The key assumptions were that 
ERT returns patients to full health and a normal life expectancy. As far as 
possible, all assumptions favoured rather than detracted from the value of ERT. 
ERT was assumed to restore patients to full health in the base case. The 
estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in the base case was 
pounds sterling 252,000 per QALY (agalsidase beta). Univariate sensitivity 
analysis around the key assumptions produced ICERs ranging from pounds sterling 
602,000 to pounds sterling 241,000. The base case unit cost of ERT was taken as 
pounds sterling 65.1/mg based on the cost of agalsidase beta. The unit cost 
would have had to be reduced to pounds sterling 9 to obtain an ICER of pounds 
sterling 30,000 per QALY. For MPS1, the mean cost per child patient (20 kg) 
treated is approximately pounds sterling 95,000 and an adult (70 kg) around 
pounds sterling 335,000 per annum in England and Wales. The cost per patient 
varies considerably by dose. There is no published evidence reporting an 
economic evaluation of ERT for MPS1 and no study was identified that reported 
the quality of life of MPS1 patients within a utility format. Furthermore, no or 
minimal information of the severity and rate of change of clinical 
manifestations of disease or the impact of ERT on these factors was identified. 
Information on the effect of ERT on mortality is also lacking owing to the 
relatively short time that the treatment has been available. Given this lack of 
data, it was not possible to develop a cost-effectiveness model of ERT treatment 
for MPS1 as the model would consist almost completely of assumptions based on no 
published evidence, leading to an incremental cost per QALY result that would be 
meaningless.
CONCLUSIONS: Although ERT for treating the 'average' patient with Fabry's 
disease exceeds the normal upper threshold for cost-effectiveness seen in NHS 
policy decisions by over sixfold, and the value for MPS1 is likely to be of a 
similar order of magnitude, clinicians and the manufacturers argue that, as the 
disease is classified as an orphan disease under European Union legislation, it 
has special status, and the NHS has no option but to provide ERT. More 
information is required before the generalisability of the findings can be 
determined. Although data from the UK have been used wherever possible, this was 
very thin indeed. Nonetheless, even large errors in assumptions made will not 
reduce the ICER to anywhere near the upper level of treatments usually 
considered cost-effective. In order to overcome limited evidence on the natural 
history of the disease and the clinical effectiveness of the intervention, the 
establishment of disease-specific data registries is suggested to facilitate the 
process of technology assessment and improving patient care. These registries 
should attempt to include all affected patients in the UK, and collect 
longitudinal patient level data on clinically relevant problems, interventions 
received and quality of life in a utility format.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10200
PMID: 16729919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Public Health. 2006 Jun;120(6):486-92. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2005.12.009. Epub
 2006 May 26.

Measuring the impact of HIV/AIDS, heart disease and malignant neoplasms on life 
expectancy in the USA from 1987 to 2000.

Lai DJ(1), Tarwater PM, Hardy RJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Texas, Houston, TX 77030, USA. 
dejian.lai@uth.tmc.edu

OBJECTIVES: Quantifying the impact of a disease on society is an important issue 
for setting priorities for better allocation of healthcare resources and for 
evaluating the effectiveness of prevention and control of the disease.
STUDY DESIGN: The potential gains in life expectancy due to the elimination of 
human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), 
heart disease and malignant neoplasms were compared for the US population by age 
and ethnicity from 1987 to 2000.
METHODS: The potential gain in life expectancy after hypothetical elimination of 
cause-specific deaths is an effective indicator of measuring the impact of a 
disease on a population. Official age-specific mortality rates, by ethnicity, 
due to HIV/AIDS, heart disease and malignant neoplasms of the US population from 
the National Center for Health Statistics were used, and multiple decremental 
life tables were constructed to find the corresponding potential gains in life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: The potential gains in life expectancy for the US population at birth 
by complete elimination of HIV/AIDS, heart disease and malignant neoplasms were 
0.14, 3.71 and 3.06 years in 1987, respectively. In 1995, the potential gain in 
life expectancy due to the elimination of HIV/AIDS increased from 0.14 years in 
1987 and achieved its highest value (0.41 years), whereas the elimination of 
heart disease and malignant neoplasms led to potential gains in life expectancy 
of 3.05 and 3.10 years, respectively. Since 1995, the potential gains in life 
expectancy at birth by eliminating deaths from HIV/AIDS and heart disease have 
decreased to 0.13 and 2.67 years, respectively, in 2000. However, the potential 
gain in life expectancy due to elimination of malignant neoplasms remained 
relatively stable (3.01 years in 2000). It is well known that HIV/AIDS tends to 
have a greater impact on people of working age, whereas heart disease and 
malignant neoplasms have a greater impact on people over 65 years of age. To 
measure the impact of these diseases on life expectancy in people of working 
age, a partial multiple decremental life table was constructed and the potential 
gains in life expectancy were computed by partial or complete elimination of 
various causes of death during the working years. shows the impact on life 
expectancy of the US working-age population by eliminating deaths from HIV/AIDS, 
heart disease and malignant neoplasms by race and sex groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Since 1995, there has been a rapid reduction in the burden of 
HIV/AIDS on the life expectancy for the US population, especially for black 
males of working age. These results could provide useful information when 
evaluating public health improvements and allocating resources for future 
disease control programmes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2005.12.009
PMID: 16730037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. J Emerg Nurs. 2006 Jun;32(3):234-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jen.2006.03.009.

Outcome in the injured elderly: where do we go from here?

Criddle LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Lifeguard Air Ambulance, Hillsboro, Oregon, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jen.2006.03.009
PMID: 16730278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2006 Apr;20(2):505-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.hoc.2006.01.001.

Radiation oncology emergencies.

Kwok Y(1), DeYoung C, Garofalo M, Dhople A, Regine W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Maryland Medical Center, 22 
South Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. ykwok@umm.edu

Radiation therapy is an important and effective treatment modality when used in 
the management of oncologic emergencies. For any patient who has MSCC, ISCM, SVC 
syndrome, or life-threatening hemoptysis/obstruction, optimal management hinges 
on efficient multidisciplinary evaluation and communication to arrive at a 
treatment plan tailored to the individual patient. Optimal management may 
include steroids, surgery, chemotherapy, or bronchoscopic intervention. When 
radiation therapy is used, the total dose and fractionation schedule should be 
tailored to the disease setting and life expectancy of the patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2006.01.001
PMID: 16730304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jun;81(6):1958-62; discussion 1962. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2005.12.054.

Stage IB nonsmall cell lung cancers: are they all the same?

Jones DR(1), Daniel TM, Denlinger CE, Rundall BK, Smolkin ME, Wick MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Virginia School of Medicine, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA. djones@virginia.edu

BACKGROUND: There is renewed interest in adjuvant chemotherapy after complete 
resection of nonsmall cell lung cancer, including stage IB (T2N0) cancers. Given 
the heterogeneity of the T2 classification, we hypothesize that there are 
survival differences in patients with stage IB NSCLC based on specific 
histopathologic tumor characteristics.
METHODS: A retrospective evaluation of 119 consecutive patients from 1999 to 
2004 with a pathologic diagnosis of T2N0 nonsmall cell lung cancer was 
performed. Patient follow-up was 97%. Overall survival and disease-free survival 
rates were calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Univariate analysis was 
performed using the log rank test and multivariate analysis by Cox's 
proportional hazard model. Data were significant if p < 0.05.
RESULTS: The 4-year overall survival and disease-free survival rates were 62% 
and 60%, respectively. The local and distant recurrence rates were 5% and 18%, 
respectively. Tumor size (p = 0.001), histologic grade (p = 0.002), the Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (p = 0.002), angioinvasion (p = 
0.03), and visceral pleural involvement (p = 0.02) were predictors of overall 
survival by univariate analysis. Multivariate analysis demonstrated increasing 
tumor size (1.26 [95% confidence intervals 1.12, 1.64]) and histologic grade 
(4.05 [95% confidence intervals 1.38, 11.90]) to be significant independent 
predictors of a worse overall survival. The 4-year survival of patients without 
any of these variables was 89% compared with 56% if one or more of these factors 
were present (p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: There is significant heterogeneity in the T2N0 class of nonsmall 
cell lung cancer. Risk stratification using specific histopathologic variables 
may help determine which patients will benefit most from adjuvant therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2005.12.054
PMID: 16731113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jun;81(6):1974-81. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.01.032.

Preoperative serum fibrinogen level predicts postoperative pulmonary 
complications after lung cancer resection.
