germline removal to extend life span. We find that the reproductive system 
communicates with the intestine through lipophilic-hormone signaling and that a 
gene called kri-1 is likely to act in the intestine to promote DAF-16 nuclear 
localization in response to this signal. This lipophilic-signaling pathway and 
kri-1 are not required for DAF-16's nuclear localization and life-span extension 
in animals with decreased insulin/IGF-1 signaling. Thus, this pathway 
specifically enables the integration of cues from the reproductive system with 
central DAF-16-activation pathways to influence the aging of the animal.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2006.01.039
PMID: 16530050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(1):157-60. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.01.034. Epub
2006  Mar 10.

Ancestral telomere shortening: a countdown that will increase mean life span?

Hertzog RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Army Center for Medical Research, CA Rosetti 37, 020012 Bucharest, Romania. 
raduhg@yahoo.co.uk

Like cells, all mammals have a limited life span. Among cells there are a few 
exceptions (e.g., immortal cells), among mammals not, even if some of them live 
longer. Many in vitro and in vivo studies support the consensus that telomere 
length is strongly correlated with life span. At the somatic cellular level, 
long telomeres have been associated with longer life span. A different situation 
can be seen in immortal cells, such as cancer, germ and stem cells, where 
telomeres are maintained by telomerase, a specialized reverse transcriptase that 
is involved in synthesis of telomeres. Irrespective of telomere length, if 
telomerase is active, telomeres can be maintained at a sufficient length to 
ensure cell survival. To the contrary, telomeres shorten progressively with each 
cell division and when a critical telomere length (Hayflick limit) is reached, 
the cells undergo senescence and subsequently apoptosis. In mammals, those with 
the longest telomeres (e.g., mice) have the shortest life span. Furthermore, the 
shorter the mean telomere length, the longer the mean life span, as observed in 
humans (10-14 kpb) and bowhead-whales (undetermined telomere length), which have 
the longest mean life span among mammals. Over the past centuries, human average 
life span has increased. The hypothesis presented here suggests that this 
continual increase in the mean life span could be due to a decrease of mean 
telomere length over the last hundreds years. Actually, the life span is not 
directly influenced by length of telomeres, but rather by telomere length - 
dependent gene expression pattern. According to Greider, "rather than average 
telomere length, it is the shortest telomere length that makes the biggest 
difference to a cell". In the context of fast-growing global elderly population 
due to increase in life expectancy, it also seem to be an age related increase 
in cancer incidence. Nevertheless, extending healthy life span could depend on 
how good cells achieve, during the prenatal period and few years after birth, 
the equilibrium between telomere length and telomerase activity, as seen in germ 
cells. After all, I suggest that decrease in mean telomere length might result 
in, on the one hand, an increased life span and, on the other, a higher risk of 
tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.01.034
PMID: 16530337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Arch Dis Child. 2006 Sep;91(9):736-9. doi: 10.1136/adc.2005.089896. Epub
2006  Mar 10.

WATCH IT: a community based programme for obese children and adolescents.

Rudolf M(1), Christie D, McElhone S, Sahota P, Dixey R, Walker J, Wellings C.

Author information:
(1)University of Leeds and East Leeds PCT, Leeds, UK. mary.rudolf@leedsth.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Arch Dis Child. 2006 Sep;91(9):724-6.

BACKGROUND: The WATCH IT programme was developed to address the needs of obese 
children from disadvantaged communities in Leeds and has been running since 
January 2004. Results of the pilot phase, prior to a randomised controlled 
trial, are presented.
METHODS: A process evaluation to assess success of implementation was conducted 
in December 2004. User views (parent and child) were obtained by semi-structured 
interviews and focus groups. Change in BMI SD score was calculated for children 
attending between January 2004 and November 2005.
RESULTS: A total of 94 children (49 girls, 45 boys), mean age (SD) 12.2 (2.0) 
years attended. They were moderately to severely obese (mean BMI SDS 3.09 
(0.45), with low quality of life and self-image scores. There was a significant 
reduction in overweight at 6 months (DeltaBMI SD -0.07), especially for 
teenagers (DeltaBMI SD -0.13) and girls (DeltaBMI SD -0.07). The programme was 
successfully implemented. By December 2004 mean attendance was 2.1 (0.7) clinics 
per month, and sports sessions 3.3 (1.7) sessions per month. Fourteen children 
dropped out and non-attendance was low (only 7.5% sessions missed in 12 months). 
Qualitative research indicated significant appreciation of the service, with 
reported increase in self-confidence and friendships, and reduction in 
self-harm.
CONCLUSION: WATCH IT offers a model for a community based service for obese 
children. The programme suggests that effective care can be delivered by health 
trainers supervised by health professionals, and so potentially provides a cost 
effective programme within children's communities. These findings are 
encouraging, and need to be substantiated by extension to other locations and 
evaluation by randomised controlled trial.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.2005.089896
PMCID: PMC2082903
PMID: 16531453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: none


374. Ann Hepatol. 2006 Jan-Mar;5(1):16-24.

Hepatocellular carcinoma. An overview.

Motola-Kuba D(1), Zamora-Valdés D, Uribe M, Méndez-Sánchez N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Research and Liver Unit, Medica Sur Clinic & 
Foundation, Mexico City, Mexico.

Hepatocellular carcinoma is a common malignancy affecting approximately one 
million people around the world every year. The incidence is low in the 
occidental world and high in locations such as Southeast Asia and sub-Saharan 
Africa. Hepatocellular carcinoma primarily affects old people, reaching its 
highest prevalence among those aged 65 to 69 years old. Chronic infection by the 
hepatitis B virus is the most common cause of this disease. Other important 
causes are cirrhosis, chronic viral hepatitis (hepatitis C virus, and hepatitis 
B plus D viruses), alcohol abuse, obesity, hemochromatosis, alfa1-antitripsin 
deficiency, and toxins similar to aflatoxin. In most cases, hepatocellular 
carcinoma is asymptomatic and has a low life expectancy. This article presents a 
review of the most important epidemiological, diagnostic and treatment data 
about this disease.

PMID: 16531960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Future Child. 2006 Spring;16(1):47-67. doi: 10.1353/foc.2006.0004.

The consequences of childhood overweight and obesity.

Daniels SR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Cincinnati College of Medicine and Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, USA.

Researchers are only gradually becoming aware of the gravity of the risk that 
overweight and obesity pose for children's health. In this article Stephen 
Daniels documents the heavy toll that the obesity epidemic is taking on the 
health of the nation's children. He discusses both the immediate risks 
associated with childhood obesity and the longer-term risk that obese children 
and adolescents will become obese adults and suffer other health problems as a 
result. Daniels notes that many obesity-related health conditions once thought 
applicable only to adults are now being seen in children and with increasing 
frequency. Examples include high blood pressure, early symptoms of hardening of 
the arteries, type 2 diabetes, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, polycystic 
ovary disorder, and disordered breathing during sleep. He systematically surveys 
the body's systems, showing how obesity in adulthood can damage each and how 
childhood obesity exacerbates the damage. He explains that obesity can harm the 
cardiovascular system and that being overweight during childhood can accelerate 
the development of heart disease. The processes that lead to a heart attack or 
stroke start in childhood and often take decades to progress to the point of 
overt disease. Obesity in childhood, adolescence, and young adulthood may 
accelerate these processes. Daniels shows how much the same generalization 
applies to other obesity-related disorders-metabolic, digestive, respiratory, 
skeletal, and psychosocial-that are appearing in children either for the first 
time or with greater severity or prevalence. Daniels notes that the possibility 
has even been raised that the increasing prevalence and severity of childhood 
obesity may reverse the modern era's steady increase in life expectancy, with 
today's youth on average living less healthy and ultimately shorter lives than 
their parents-the first such reversal in lifespan in modern history. Such a 
possibility, he concludes, makes obesity in children an issue of utmost public 
health concern.

DOI: 10.1353/foc.2006.0004
PMID: 16532658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. East Mediterr Health J. 2005 Jan-Mar;11(1-2):146-54.

Sociodemographic factors and age at natural menopause in Shiraz, Islamic 
Republic of Iran.

Ayatollahi SM(1), Ghaem H, Ayatollahi SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, School of Health, Shiraz, Islamic Republic of Iran. 
ayatolahim@sums.ac.ir

With increasing life expectancy, menopause is an increasingly important aspect 
of women's health. We recorded the age at natural menopause among women in a 
population-based cross-sectional study in Shiraz, Islamic Republic of Iran, in 
summer 2000. Interviews with 948 randomly selected menopausal women showed the 
mean (standard deviation) age at menopause was 48.3 (5.3) years (95% CI: 
48.0-48.6), median 49 years. The sociodemographic and health behaviour factors 
that were significantly related to early mean age of menopause were: never 
married (44.7 years), low income level (47.4 years), low social class (45.8 
years), tobacco use (47.9 years) and non-consanguineous husband (48.1 years).

PMID: 16532683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. East Mediterr Health J. 2005 Jan-Mar;11(1-2):181-91.

[Health transition in Tunisia over the past 50 years].

[Article in French]

Ben Hamida A(1), Fakhfakh R, Miladi W, Zouari B, Nacef T.

Author information:
(1)Faculté de Médecine de Tunis, Tunis, Tunisie.

We describe the dramatic demographic, socioeconomic and health changes witnessed 
in Tunisia over the past 50 years. Demographically, the gross mortality rate and 
the infant mortality rate have gone from 19 per 1000 and 150 per 1000 
respectively in 1956 to 5.7 per 1000 and 26.2 per 1000 now, and life expectancy 
at birth going from 50 to 72 years for the same period. Socioeconomically, the 
urban population has risen from 25% to 62%, the literacy rate from 15% to 73%, 
and the per capita income has increased 5-fold in real terms. Epidemiologically, 
the infectious and perinatal diseases prevailing in the 1960s have decreased 
whereas chronic and degenerative diseases have risen. The proportion of the GNP 
related to health expenditure has risen from 3.8% to 6.2%. The implication of 
these changes on the Tunisian health system and the need to adapt in terms of 
curative care and prevention of risks are discussed.

PMID: 16532687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. J Natl Med Assoc. 2006 Jan;98(1):51-7.

Gender and race/ethnicity affect the cost-effectiveness of colorectal cancer 
screening.

Theuer CP(1), Taylor TH, Brewster WR, Anton-Culver H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, Irvine, 224 Irvine Hall, 
Irvine, CA 92697-7550, USA. cptheuer@uci.edu

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Colorectal cancer screening beginning at age 50 is 
recommended for all Americans considered at average risk for the development of 
colorectal cancer regardless of gender or race/ethnicity. We determined the 
influence of gender and race/ethnicity on the cost-effectiveness of recommended 
colorectal cancer screening regimens.
METHODS: We determined age-specific colorectal cancer incidence rates; the 
proportion of left-sided cancers; and the proportion of localized cancers in 
Asian, black, Latino and white men and women using the California Cancer 
Registry. We incorporated these data and available data for life expectancy and 
colorectal cancer survival to model the cost-effectiveness of two 35-year 
colorectal cancer-screening interventions.
RESULTS: Age-specific colorectal cancer incidence rates were highest in black 
men and lowest in Latino women. Screening beginning at age 50 was most 
cost-effective in black men and least cost-effective in Latino women (measured 
as dollars spent per year of life saved) using annual fecal occult blood testing 
combined with flexible sigmoidoscopy every five years and using colonoscopy 
every 10 years. The cost-effectiveness of a 35-year screening program in black 
men beginning at age 45 was similar to the cost-effectiveness of screening white 
men and black women beginning at age 50 and more cost-effective than screening 
nonblack women as well as Asian and Latino men beginning at age 50.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening is most cost-effective in black men because of high 
age-specific colorectal cancer incidence rates. Initiation of colorectal cancer 
screening in this high-risk group prior to age 50 should be strongly considered.

PMCID: PMC2594807
PMID: 16532978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Int J Dermatol. 2006 Mar;45(3):245-50. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-4632.2004.02398.x.

The effect of maintenance narrow-band ultraviolet B therapy on the duration of 
remission for psoriasis: a prospective randomized clinical trial.

Boztepe G(1), Karaduman A, Sahin S, Hayran M, Kölemen F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Faculty of Medicine, Hacettepe University, Ankara, 
Turkey. goncabs@hacettepe.edu

BACKGROUND: Narrow-band (311 nm) UVB is an effective treatment modality for 
moderate to severe psoriasis. The effect of maintenance narrow-band UVB on the 
duration of remission is unknown.
AIM: To determine whether maintenance narrow-band UVB affects the duration of 
remission.
METHODS: After clinically significant improvement [defined as 75% reduction in 
the initial Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) = "PASI 75"], patients were 
randomly assigned to one of two groups, namely maintenance and no maintenance. 
The first group received 2 months of maintenance therapy; the second group 
received no further treatment. Both groups were followed up for 1 year.
RESULTS: At the end of 12 weeks, 46 of 50 patients (92%) achieved "PASI 75". Of 
these 46 patients, 32 had plaque-type psoriasis and 14 had guttate-type 
psoriasis. The numbers of patients assigned to the maintenance and no 
maintenance groups were 22 and 24, respectively. At the end of the study, 12 of 
the 22 patients (55%) in the maintenance group and, by contrast, eight of the 24 
patients (33%) in the no maintenance group were still in remission. When the 
patients in both groups were categorized according to the type of psoriasis, 
eight of 14 (57%) patients with plaque-type psoriasis in the maintenance group 
and, by contrast, three of 18 (17%) in the no maintenance group were still in 
remission. Although numerically significant, life-table analysis indicated no 
statistically significant difference for the probability of remaining in 
remission between maintenance and no maintenance groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The results provide some evidence that maintenance narrow-band UVB 
may achieve longer remission durations for patients with plaque-type psoriasis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-4632.2004.02398.x
PMID: 16533223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Brain Res Bull. 2006 Mar 31;69(2):214-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.brainresbull.2005.12.007. Epub 2006 Jan 4.

Backward inhibition in a task of switching attention within verbal working 
memory.

Bao M(1), Li ZH, Chen XC, Zhang DR.

Author information:
(1)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale, School of Life 
Science, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, PR 
China.

Three experiments were conducted to examine the backward inhibition effect in 
attention switching within verbal working memory. Experiment one showed 
significant backward inhibition effect in a "tri-count task". Experiment two 
suggested that the effect was not due to a perceptual inhibition on the 
previously presented figure. Experiment three excluded the sequential expectancy 
explanation for this inhibition effect. Our results suggest that attention 
switching between working memory items is accompanied by inhibition of the 
previously attended working memory item. The findings are discussed in respect 
to the account of the executive function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2005.12.007
PMID: 16533672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Circulation. 2006 Mar 21;113(11):1406-14. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.586347. Epub 2006 Mar 13.

A tale of two trials: a comparison of the post-acute coronary syndrome 
lipid-lowering trials A to Z and PROVE IT-TIMI 22.

Wiviott SD(1), de Lemos JA, Cannon CP, Blazing M, Murphy SA, McCabe CH, Califf 
R, Braunwald E.

Author information:
(1)The TIMI Study Group, Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
swiviott@partners.org

Comment in
    Circulation. 2006 Mar 21;113(11):1382-4.

BACKGROUND: The Aggrastat to Zocor (A to Z) and Pravastatin or Atorvastatin 
Evaluation and Infection Therapy (PROVE IT) trials compared intensive and 
moderate statin therapy after acute coronary syndromes, with seemingly disparate 
results. We analyzed the design, implementation, and results of the two trials 
in an attempt to clarify the effects of early intensive statin therapy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Study design, end points, and definitions were compared. In 
each trial, comparisons were made between intensive and moderate arms for both 
trials' primary end points and death/myocardial infarction. Analyses were 
performed over various time points: at the end of the trials, < or =4 months, 
and >4 months. Subjects in A to Z had higher-risk demographics. More PROVE IT 
subjects were enrolled in the United States and underwent prerandomization 
revascularization. The low-density lipoprotein (LDL) difference was greater in A 
to Z than in PROVE IT early (< or =4 months) but less late. Significant 
C-reactive protein reduction was earlier in PROVE IT. With common end points, 
event rates were higher in A to Z, and early favorable separation of event 
curves was seen in PROVE IT but not in A to Z. Clinical end point rates and 
reductions were similar in both trials after 4 months.
CONCLUSIONS: An early benefit was seen in PROVE IT but not in A to Z. Late-phase 
results were similar. Factors that may explain this disparity include the 
intensity of therapy in the early phase, timing, and magnitude of LDL and 
C-reactive protein lowering, differences in early revascularization, and the 
play of chance. Taken together, the results of these trials support a strategy 
of early intensive statin therapy coupled with revascularization when 
appropriate in patients after acute coronary syndrome.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.586347
PMID: 16534008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Circulation. 2006 Mar 21;113(11):1424-33. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.584102. Epub 2006 Mar 13.

The Seattle Heart Failure Model: prediction of survival in heart failure.

Levy WC(1), Mozaffarian D, Linker DT, Sutradhar SC, Anker SD, Cropp AB, Anand I, 
Maggioni A, Burton P, Sullivan MD, Pitt B, Poole-Wilson PA, Mann DL, Packer M.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98177, USA. levywc@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Heart failure has an annual mortality rate ranging from 5% to 75%. 
The purpose of the study was to develop and validate a multivariate risk model 
to predict 1-, 2-, and 3-year survival in heart failure patients with the use of 
easily obtainable characteristics relating to clinical status, therapy 
(pharmacological as well as devices), and laboratory parameters.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The Seattle Heart Failure Model was derived in a cohort of 
1125 heart failure patients with the use of a multivariate Cox model. For 
medications and devices not available in the derivation database, hazard ratios 
were estimated from published literature. The model was prospectively validated 
in 5 additional cohorts totaling 9942 heart failure patients and 17,307 
person-years of follow-up. The accuracy of the model was excellent, with 
predicted versus actual 1-year survival rates of 73.4% versus 74.3% in the 
derivation cohort and 90.5% versus 88.5%, 86.5% versus 86.5%, 83.8% versus 
83.3%, 90.9% versus 91.0%, and 89.6% versus 86.7% in the 5 validation cohorts. 
For the lowest score, the 2-year survival was 92.8% compared with 88.7%, 77.8%, 
58.1%, 29.5%, and 10.8% for scores of 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. The 
overall receiver operating characteristic area under the curve was 0.729 (95% 
CI, 0.714 to 0.744). The model also allowed estimation of the benefit of adding 
medications or devices to an individual patient's therapeutic regimen.
CONCLUSIONS: The Seattle Heart Failure Model provides an accurate estimate of 
1-, 2-, and 3-year survival with the use of easily obtained clinical, 
pharmacological, device, and laboratory characteristics.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.584102
PMID: 16534009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. CMAJ. 2006 Mar 14;174(6):771. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.060161.

Doubling the burden: chronic disease.

Murray S.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.060161
PMCID: PMC1402391
PMID: 16534081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. CMAJ. 2006 Mar 14;174(6):801-9. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.051351.

Health benefits of physical activity: the evidence.

Warburton DE(1), Nicol CW, Bredin SS.

Author information:
(1)School of Human Kinetics, University of British Columbia, and the Healthy 
Heart Program, St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, BC. darren.warburton@ubc.ca

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2006 Sep 26;175(7):773-6; author reply 777.
    CMAJ. 2006 Sep 26;175(7):776-7; author reply 777.
    CMAJ. 2006 Sep 26;175(7):776; author reply 777.
    CMAJ. 2006 Sep 26;175(7):776; author reply 777.

The primary purpose of this narrative review was to evaluate the current 
literature and to provide further insight into the role physical inactivity 
plays in the development of chronic disease and premature death. We confirm that 
there is irrefutable evidence of the effectiveness of regular physical activity 
in the primary and secondary prevention of several chronic diseases (e.g., 
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, hypertension, obesity, depression and 
osteoporosis) and premature death. We also reveal that the current Health Canada 
physical activity guidelines are sufficient to elicit health benefits, 
especially in previously sedentary people. There appears to be a linear relation 
between physical activity and health status, such that a further increase in 
physical activity and fitness will lead to additional improvements in health 
status.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.051351
PMCID: PMC1402378
PMID: 16534088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Kidney Blood Press Res. 2005;28(5-6):311-24. doi: 10.1159/000090186. Epub
2006  Mar 7.

Advances in the medical treatment of pulmonary hypertension.

Dandel M(1), Lehmkuhl HB, Hetzer R.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Herzzentrum Berlin, Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular 
Surgery, Berlin, Germany. dandel@dhzb.de

Increased pulmonary precapillary vascular resistance due to vasoconstriction and 
vasoproliferative processes is the basic pathophysiological mechanism in the 
development of pulmonary hypertension (PH). With the exception of pulmonary 
venous hypertension, where the primary cause of PH is left ventricular failure 
or mitral valvular disease, all the other PH categories will benefit to a 
greater or lesser extent from pulmonary vasodilator and antivasoproliferative 
therapy. Today, for this purpose, in addition to intravenous prostacyclin 
(epoprostenol), which is restricted to severe pulmonary arterial hypertension 
(NYHA class IV and late class III), other therapeutic options such as treatment 
with more stable prostacyclin analogs (oral beraprost, aerosolized iloprost), 
endothelin-receptor antagonists (bosentan) or phosphodiesterase inhibitors 
(sildenafil) are also available and these are especially useful for the 
treatment of the early stages of the disease. The recent progress in medical 
therapy has markedly increased the life expectancy in patients with pulmonary 
arterial hypertension and substantially improved their quality of life. Chronic 
hemodialysis (HD) patients show higher endothelin-1 (ET-1) activity in 
comparison to healthy individuals and there is evidence that the increase of 
pulmonary vascular resistance in these patients is at least in part mediated by 
ET-1. Recent data show good results after PH therapy with the 
endothelin-receptor antagonist bosentan in HD patients. Also prostacyclin and 
its analogs, as well as phosphodiesterase inhibitors, can be useful for the 
treatment of pulmonary hypertension in patients with chronic renal failure.

Copyright 2005 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000090186
PMID: 16534227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Transplantation. 2006 Mar 15;81(5):686-91. doi: 
10.1097/01.tp.0000177645.63999.ca.

Discontinuing antiresorptive therapy one year after cardiac transplantation: 
effect on bone density and bone turnover.

Cohen A(1), Addesso V, McMahon DJ, Staron RB, Namerow P, Maybaum S, Mancini D, 
Shane E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10032, USA.

BACKGROUND: We have previously reported that subjects randomized to alendronate 
or calcitriol immediately after cardiac transplantation sustained minimal bone 
loss during the first year, significantly less than a concurrently transplanted 
reference group that received calcium and parent vitamin D. In this extension, 
we evaluated the effect of discontinuing alendronate or calcitriol on bone loss 
and biochemical markers of bone turnover during the second year. We hypothesized 
that subjects who discontinued alendronate, which has a long half-life in bone, 
would not sustain significant bone loss. As the half-life of calcitriol is 
short, we hypothesized that there would be significant bone loss after 
discontinuing calcitriol.
METHODS: We measured bone density (BMD), calciotropic hormones and bone turnover 
markers at 12, 18, and 24 months after transplantation in adherent subjects who 
completed the randomized trial on alendronate or calcitriol, and in reference 
subjects who had received no preventive therapy.
RESULTS: In all, 75 subjects (34 alendronate, 25 calcitriol, 16 reference) 
participated. During the second year, the bone resorption marker, serum 
N-telopeptide, rose by 27% in the calcitriol group (P< or =0.001). Bone alkaline 
phosphatase, a bone formation marker, increased by 54% in the calcitriol group 
(P< or =0.001) and by 32% in the alendronate group (P< or =0.001). BMD did not 
change significantly at any site in either randomized group.
CONCLUSIONS: After discontinuing alendronate or calcitriol, BMD remained stable 
during the second year after cardiac transplantation, despite a significant 
increase in a biochemical marker of bone resorption in the calcitriol group. 
This suggests that antiresorptive therapy may be discontinued at the end of the 
first posttransplantation year in cardiac transplant recipients without 
resumption of rapid bone loss. However, as increased bone turnover may predict 
future bone loss and fractures, such patients warrant observation to ensure that 
BMD remains stable long-term.

DOI: 10.1097/01.tp.0000177645.63999.ca
PMID: 16534469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Int J Obes (Lond). 2006 Nov;30(11):1661-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803321. Epub
 2006 Mar 14.

Burden of disease attributable to obesity and overweight in Korea.

Park JH(1), Yoon SJ, Lee H, Jo HS, Lee SI, Kim Y, Kim YI, Shin Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, College of Medicine, Seoul 
National University, Chongro-ku, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the burden of disease attributable to overweight and 
obesity using disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) in Korea.
RESEARCH METHODS: Firstly, overweight and obesity-related diseases and their 
relative risk (RR) were selected by the systematic review. Secondly, 
population-attributable fractions (PAFs) were computed by using the formula 
including RR and the prevalence of exposure (Pe) of overweight and obesity. 
Thirdly, DALYs of overweight and obesity-related diseases in Korea were 
estimated. Finally, the attributable burden (AB) of diseases due to overweight 
and obesity was calculated as the sum of the products from multiplying DALYs of 
overweight and obesity-related diseases by their PAFs.
RESULTS: The disease burden attributable to overweight was 827.1 person years 
(PYs) overall, 732.6 for men, 922.9 for women per 100,000 persons. The disease 
burden attributable to obesity was 260.0 PYs overall, 144.2 for men, 377.3 for 
women. Diabetes attributable to overweight and obesity accounts for highest 
burden among other diseases in both genders. The disease burden attributable to 
overweight was 3.2 times higher than that attributable to obesity.
CONCLUSION: Most proportion of disease burden attributable to high body mass 
index (BMI) occurred among those with only moderately raised levels such as 
overweight, not the extremes such as obesity. It suggests that population-based, 
public health intervention rather than high-risk group-focused strategies are 
more effective to reduce the burden of disease attributable to overweight and 
obesity in Korea.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803321
PMID: 16534516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Int J Obes (Lond). 2006 Jul;30(7):1027-40. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803286. Epub
 2006 Mar 14.

Efficacy of exercise for treating overweight in children and adolescents: a 
systematic review.

Atlantis E(1), Barnes EH, Singh MA.

Author information:
(1)School of Exercise and Sport Science, Faculty of Health Sciences, University 
of Sydney, NSW, Australia. E.Atlantis@fhs.usyd.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Overweight prevalence among children/adolescents is increasing, 
while adult obesity may potentially cause a decline in life expectancy. More 
exercise is uniformly recommended, although treatment efficacy remains unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of exercise alone for treating overweight 
in children/adolescents.
DESIGN: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials published in 
English were completed following multiple database searches performed on 
December 10, 2004. Studies of isolated or adjunctive exercise/physical activity 
treatment in overweight/obese children or adolescents which reported any 
overweight outcome were included. Literature searches identified 645 papers 
which were manually searched, of which 45 were considered for inclusion, of 
which 13 papers which reported 14 studies were included (N=481 overweight boys 
and girls, aged approximately 12 years). Two reviewers independently identified 
relevant papers for potential inclusion and assessed methodological quality. 
Principal measures of effects included the mean difference (MD) (between 
treatment and control groups), the weighted MD (WMD), and the standardized MD 
(SMD).
RESULTS: Few studies were of robust design. The pooled SMD was -0.4 (-0.7, -0.1, 
P=0.006) for percent body fat, and -0.2 (-0.6, 0.1, P=0.07) for central obesity 
outcomes, whereas the pooled WMD was -2.7 kg (-6.1 kg, 0.8 kg, P=0.07) for body 
weight, all of which favored exercise. Pooled effects on body weight were 
significant and larger for studies of higher doses, whereas nonsignificant and 
smaller effects were seen for studies of lower doses of exercise (155-180 
min/weeks vs 120-150 min/weeks).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the small number of short-term randomized trials currently 
available, an aerobic exercise prescription of 155-180 min/weeks at 
moderate-to-high intensity is effective for reducing body fat in overweight 
children/adolescents, but effects on body weight and central obesity are 
inconclusive. Recommendations for future study designs are discussed.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803286
PMID: 16534526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Chirurg. 2006 Apr;77(4):341-51. doi: 10.1007/s00104-006-1159-6.

[Is there a nonsurgical therapeutic approach to cholangiocellular carcinomas?].

[Article in German]

Fuchs M(1), Schepp W.

Author information:
(1)2. Medizinische Abteilung, Klinikum Bogenhausen, Städtisches Klinikum München 
GmbH, Englschalkinger Strasse 77, 81925 München. med2@kh-bogenhausen.de

Nonsurgical treatment aims at controlling disease and improving survival and 
quality of life in patients with nonresectable, recurrent metastatic 
cholangiocarcinomas. After R0 resection, percutaneous or intraluminal 
radiotherapy with adjuvant radiochemotherapy may improve survival. Available 
data, however, are still unsatisfactory, and the efficacy of adjuvant 
radiochemotherapy after R0 resection remains to be confirmed. Exclusive 
chemotherapy fails to improve survival postoperatively while, in adequate 
patients, neoadjuvant chemotherapy can improve R0 resection results. Palliative 
chemotherapy yielded improved survival and quality of life in only one small 
prospective randomized trial and cannot be generally recommended at present. 
Previous biliary stenting for relieving jaundice is mandatory. Beyond 
established regimens employing 5-fluorouracil/leukovorin and gemcitabine plus 
platin-based agents, ongoing trials are focussing on topoisomerase-and thyrosine 
kinase inhibitors. Palliative stenting of malignant bile duct stenoses may 
eliminate or at least relieve jaundice and pruritus. Single stenting is 
sufficient for distal bile duct stenoses. In patients with liver metastasis and 
life expectancy of <6 months, temporary plastic prostheses with 4-6-month 
patency are sufficient. When the prognosis is for >6 months, self-expanding 
permanent metal stents, with their significantly longer patency, are superior. 
In hilar tumors, obstruction of plastic prostheses occurs earlier than in distal 
bile duct stenoses. Thus, patients with Bismuth II-IV tumors benefit from 
self-expanding metal stents. These may be inserted by an endoscopic, retrograde 
approach, percutaneously, or by a combined rendez-vous maneuver. The superiority 
of bilateral vs unilateral stenting has yet to be proven in Bismuth II-IV 
tumors. Photodynamic therapy followed by stenting appears to improve survival 
rates by delaying stent occlusion rather than by regression of the tumoric 
disease itself.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-006-1159-6
PMID: 16534617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. J Med Assoc Thai. 2005 Sep;88(9):1257-60.

Longevity of Thai physicians: phase 2 and policy implications.

Sithisarankul P(1), Piyasing V, Boontheaim B, Ratanamongkolgul S, 
Wattanasirichaigoon S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

This is Phase 2 of the authors study on long-lived Thai physicians. After 
obtaining quantitative data from Phase 1, the authors approached 11 male and 5 
female physicians whose ages were older than general population's life 
expectancy. The authors conducted an in-depth interview using semi-structured 
questions asking about their life, work, lifestyle, and relevant factors. Then 
the authors synthesized the factors influencing longevity. The authors found 
that they are genetic, financial stability/security, trying to be disease-free 
by increasing positive lifestyle (such as exercise) and decrease negative 
lifestyle (such as drug addict, alcohol consumption), mind-set to be 
non-attachment (either doing nothing or busy doing everything), and being 
mentally ready to die. The authors also proposed policy implications for Thai 
physicians and people accordingly.

PMID: 16536113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Bull Hosp Jt Dis. 2005;63(1-2):41-8.

Special aspects of wrist arthritis management for SLAC and SNAC wrists using 
midcarpal arthrodesis: results of bilateral operations and conversion to total 
arthrodesis.

Gohritz A(1), Gohla T, Stutz N, Moser V, Koch H, Krimmer H, Lanz U.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Hand Surgery, Bad Neustadt, Germany.

Although midcarpal wrist arthrodesis is recognized as a standard procedure to 
treat scapholuate advanced collapse (SLAC) and scaphoid nonunion advanced 
collapse (SNAC) of the wrist, little has been reported about patients with 
bilateral involvement and the number, cause, and results of failed cases 
requiring conversion to total wrist arthrodesis. This study investigated the 
results of 20 patients with bilateral procedures and of 22 patients who 
underwent total wrist fusion after failed midcarpal arthrodesis out of an 
overall group of 907 patients treated by this method during a 12-year period. Of 
these, 16 bilateral and 20 converted cases were reexamined after an average of 
48 months and 42 months, respectively. Patients after bilateral midcarpal 
arthrodesis experienced a pain reduction by an average of 54% of the 
preoperative pain values at rest and by 56% at stress on the visual analog scale 
(scale range: 0 to 100) and from intolerable (3.7) to pain only during stress 
(1.9) on the verbal scale (scale range: I to 4). A mean arc of wrist extension 
and flexion of 53 degrees on the right and 49 of the left wrist was preserved. 
The mean DASH score was 45 points and 70% of the patients felt impaired only 
during certain activities. Total arthrodesis reduced pain in 18 of 20 reexamined 
wrists by 67% of the previous values after the failed partial arthrodesis at 
rest and by 46% at stress on the visual analog scale andfrom intolerable pain 
(3.7) to pain only during stress (2.1) on the verbal scale. Seven of the 20 
reexamined patients noted complete pain relief at rest and two also under stress 
conditions. The DASH score averaged 39 points. A mean Krimmer score of 46 points 
and a mean Buck-Gramcko and Lohman evaluation of 6 points represented a 
satisfactory result. Grip strength of the operated hand averaged 53% of the 
opposite side. Subjectively, 30% felt impaired only during certain activities, 
55%felt considerably and 15% strongly limited in daily life. However, all but 
two patients were satisfied with the secondary total wrist fusion as pain was 
considerably reduced. Midcarpal arthrodesis reliably reduced pain and preserved 
valuable wrist mobility thus improving daily activity and quality of life also 
in bilateral carpal collapse. In the rare cases when midcarpal arthrodesis 
failed, total wrist arthrodesis markedly improved the complaints in most 
patients, but in contrast to other studies complete pain was seldom.

PMID: 16536218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care. 2005 Nov-Dec;16(6):57-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jana.2005.10.001.

The "monster" in South Africa.

Earl C(1).

Author information:
(1)Nursing Department, Weber State University, Ogden, Utah, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jana.2005.10.001
PMID: 16536266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Oct;26(10):757-60.

[Study on health economics regarding the screening of gastric cancer in Zhuanghe 
high risk area].

[Article in Chinese]

Pan S(1), He QC, Zhou BS, Yuan Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, China Medical University, Shenyang 110001, China.

OBJECTIVE: Using the health economics methodology to assess the screening 
program on gastric cancer in Zhuanghe high risk area for gastric cancer, from 
2001 to 2003 and to assess the feasibility on cost of the screening program and 
to provide a basis for the popularization of the two-time gastric cancer 
screening methodology.
METHODS: Three major techniques of medical economics namely cost-effective 
analysis (CEA), cost-benefit analysis (CBA) and cost-utility analysis (CUA) were 
used to assess the screening program. The screening program was composed of two 
steps: (1) epidemiological survey and detection of blood pepsinogen; (2) 
gastroscopy and biopsy of membrane. 'Number of deaths reduced' was used to 
evaluate the effect during cost-effective analysis while cost-benefit analysis 
would include the evaluation on the direct cost and indirect cost, direct 
benefit and indirect benefit as well as the cost-benefit ratio (CBR). During 
CUA, a questionnaire of WHOQOL-BREF was used to assess the value of the utility 
while the number of quality adjusted life year (QALY) saved by the screening 
program was also computed. The direct cost of per saved QALY was also 
calculated.
RESULTS: Dada from CEA showed that: investing every 8448 Yuan on screening 
program and treatment in Zhuanghe high risk area of gastric cancer, one gastric 
cancer patient could be avoided. Results from CBA showed that: direct cost was 
1,260,000 Yuan while indirect cost was 40 621 Yuan with direct benefit as 101 
500 Yuan and indirect benefit as 1 540 979 Yuan. The total cost however, was 
1,300,621 Yuan with total benefit as 2,555,979 Yuan and CBR was 1:1.97. Data 
from CUA showed that: a total number of 331.44 QALY was saved, 11.43 QALY was 
saved by reducing one death, 3802 Yuan per QALY was saved in high risk area of 
gastric cancer, through this screening program.
CONCLUSION: The screening program of gastric cancer appeared to be an economic 
and society-beneficial measure regarding primary prevention in high risk area of 
gastric cancer. We also suggested that in the future, evaluations through health 
economics methodologies on different screening programs be carried out in the 
same population to solve the problem of comparability.

PMID: 16536299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Drugs Aging. 2006;23(2):167-78. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200623020-00006.

Long-term experience with etanercept in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in 
elderly and younger patients: patient-reported outcomes from multiple controlled 
and open-label extension studies.

Schiff MH(1), Yu EB, Weinblatt ME, Moreland LW, Genovese MC, White B, Singh A, 
Chon Y, Woolley JM.

Author information:
(1)Denver Arthritis Clinic, University of Colorado, Denver, Colorado 80230, USA. 
crendon@denverarthritisclinic.com

BACKGROUND: The impact of long-term therapy for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in 
elderly (> or = 65 years of age) and younger (< 65 years of age) patients, 
especially on patient-reported outcomes, has not been well studied. We evaluated 
patient-reported outcomes in elderly patients treated with etanercept, in 
contrast to outcomes in younger patients, using data from multiple controlled 
and open-label extension studies of patients with early RA (ERA; < or = 3 years) 
and late RA (LRA; disease-modifying antirheumatic drug [DMARD]-refractory RA).
METHODS: This post hoc analysis included adult patients with RA enrolled in 
controlled, double-blind studies (up to 2 years) and subsequent open-label 
extension studies (up to 4 years). Patients were evaluated according to age at 
baseline of the original study. Patients may have received etanercept, placebo 
or methotrexate during the blinded treatment phases, but all patients had been 
receiving etanercept 25 mg twice weekly for at least 4 years. Both ERA and LRA 
extension studies are ongoing. Patient-reported outcome assessments included 
improvement in Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI), 
proportions of patients achieving an improvement in HAQ-DI > or = 0.22 points, 
patients exhibiting worsening of HAQ-DI and patients achieving an HAQ-DI score 
of 0.
RESULTS: Elderly patients, with either ERA or LRA, had significantly worse 
baseline mean HAQ-DI scores than younger patients (p < 0.05, Student's t-test) 
in most studies, indicating greater disability. Improvement in HAQ-DI was 
greatest during the first 3 months after starting etanercept treatment in the 
controlled phase and appeared to be sustained over 3-6 months in patients with 
early or DMARD-refractory RA. Across the various controlled trials, mean 
improvements from baseline in HAQ-DI ranged from 0.39 to 0.92 points in elderly 
patients and from 0.57 to 1.00 points in younger patients. Patients with ERA and 
LRA, regardless of age group, maintained their improvement in HAQ-DI throughout 
the open-label extension trials for up to a total of 6 years of etanercept 
therapy. Change from baseline in HAQ-DI was moderately correlated with 28-joint 
Disease Activity Score within each age group across the multiple trials.
CONCLUSION: Both elderly and younger patients with RA treated with etanercept 
exhibited similar and rapid improvements in functional status during controlled 
studies, and these improvements were sustained during open-label extension 
trials.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200623020-00006
PMID: 16536638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Ai Zheng. 2006 Mar;25(3):257-63.

[Staging 915 cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma after simple radical radiotherapy 
(Part II)--Checkout of AJCC/UICC staging system (1997)].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao JM(1), Zeng YX, Cui NJ, Lu TX, Zhao C, Xia YF, Ma J, Xie FY.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510060, 
P. R. China. drgjmyl@263.net

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: On the basis of our previous research, this study was to 
validate the rationality of AJCC/UICC staging system (1997) of nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma (NPC), and to provide some suggestions.
METHODS: Survival data of 915 NPC patients, received radical radiotherapy alone 
in Cancer Center of Sun Yat-sen University from Jan. 1997 to Dec. 1998, were 
analyzed with Life table, Cox regression, Kaplan-Meier, and log-rank methods.
RESULTS: Cox regression analysis showed that the 5-year survival rate of the 915 
patients was significantly correlated to their age and tumor stage classified 
according to AJCC/UICC (1997) staging system; while that of the 803 patients no 
more than 60 years old was only significantly correlated to tumor stage. Life 
table analysis validated that the tumor stage classified according to AJCC/UICC 
staging system can roughly predict the prognosis, but the differences between 
stage I and IIa, or IVa and IVb were not significant. Kaplan-Meier analysis 
showed no significant differences of survival rate between stage T1 and T2a, or 
T3 and T4 when adjusted by N classification, and between stage N2 and N3a, or 
N3a and N3b when adjusted by T classification. Therefore, we adjusted stage T2a 
to T1, stage N1 with inferior cervical nodes metastasis to N2, combined stage 
N3a and N3b to N3, adjusted stage IIa to I, stage IIb to II, and stage IVb to 
IVa. After the modifications, the differences among stages I-IVa, T1-T4 
(adjusted by N classification) and N0-N3 (adjusted by T classification) were 
significant.
CONCLUSION: Taking the impact of age on the prognosis and the interaction 
between T stage and N stage into consideration, the above modifications should 
be included when renewing the AJCC/UICC staging system (1997).

PMID: 16536975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Chest. 2006 Mar;129(3):551-7. doi: 10.1378/chest.129.3.551.

Relationship of upper-limb and thoracic muscle strength to 6-min walk distance 
in COPD patients.

Dourado VZ(1), Antunes LC, Tanni SE, de Paiva SA, Padovani CR, Godoy I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Faculdade de Medicina de Botucatu, Universidade 
Estadual Paulista, #70 Rua Antônio Sabino Santa Rosa, Apto. 13-C, Vila Santana, 
Botucatu CEP: 18606-140, Brazil. vzuniga@fmr.edu.br

STUDY OBJECTIVES: This study was developed to investigate the influence of 
thoracic and upper-limb muscle function on 6-min walk distance (6MWD) in 
patients with COPD.
DESIGN: A prospective, cross-sectional study.
SETTING: The pulmonary rehabilitation center of a university hospital.
PATIENTS: Thirty-eight patients with mild to very severe COPD were evaluated.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Pulmonary function and baseline dyspnea index (BDI) 
were assessed, handgrip strength, maximal inspiratory pressure (Pimax), and 6MWD 
were measured, and the one-repetition maximum (1RM) was determined for each of 
four exercises (bench press, lat pull down, leg extension, and leg press) 
performed on gymnasium equipment. Quality of life was assessed using the St. 
George Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ). We found statistically significant 
positive correlations between 6MWD and body weight (r = 0.32; p < 0.05), BDI (r 
= 0.50; p < 0.01), FEV(1) (r = 0.33; p < 0.05), Pimax (r = 0.53; p < 0.01), and 
all values of 1RM. A statistically significant negative correlation was observed 
between 6MWD and dyspnea at the end of the 6-min walk test (r = - 0.29; p < 
0.05), as well as between 6MWD and the SGRQ activity domain (r = - 0.45; p < 
0.01) and impact domain (r = - 0.34; p < 0.05) and total score (r = - 0.40; p < 
0.01). Multiple regression analysis selected body weight, BDI, Pimax, and lat 
pull down 1RM as predictive factors for 6MWD (R(2) = 0.589).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study showed the importance of the skeletal 
musculature of the thorax and upper limbs in submaximal exercise tolerance and 
could open new perspectives for training programs designed to improve functional 
activity in COPD patients.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.129.3.551
PMID: 16537851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Chest. 2006 Mar;129(3):651-60. doi: 10.1378/chest.129.3.651.

The cost utility of bupropion in smoking cessation health programs: simulation 
model results for Sweden.

Bolin K(1), Lindgren B, Willers S.

Author information:
(1)Lund University Centre for Health Economics, PO Box 705, SE-220 07 Lund, 
Sweden. Kristian.Bolin@luche.lu.se

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To calculate incremental cost-utility ratios (cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year [QALY] gained) for bupropion (Zyban; GlaxoSmithKline; 
Gothenburg, Sweden), as compared to nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) in 
smoking cessation programs for a follow-up period of 20 years.
DESIGN: The Global Health Outcomes simulation model was used for a male cohort 
and for a female cohort as a point of departure but was further extended in 
order to include the following: (1) the indirect effects of smoking cessation on 
production and consumption in the economy, and (2) morbidity-specific QALYs 
gained.
SETTING: Sweden in 2001.
PATIENTS OR PARTICIPANTS: Model cohort consisting of 612,851 male and 780,970 
female smokers, distributed by age, > or = 35 years old, as in the Swedish 
population of 2001.
INTERVENTIONS: Bupropion, as compared to NRT (nicotine patches and nicotine 
gums), in smoking cessation programs for a follow-up period of 20 years.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: When the indirect effects on production and 
consumption were taken into account, bupropion was cost saving in comparison to 
both NRTs. When only the direct costs were included, bupropion was still cost 
saving in comparison to nicotine gum. The incremental costs per QALY gained were 
relatively low for bupropion in comparison to nicotine patches, 6,600 Swedish 
kronas (SEK) (approximately 725 euro) per QALY gained for men and 4,900 SEK 
(approximately 535 euro) for women, all calculations in 2001 Swedish prices. The 
comprehensive sensitivity analysis showed robust results; results were, however, 
more sensitive to quit rates and intervention costs than to other variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Bupropion is a cost-effective therapy in smoking cessation 
programs. Furthermore, recent studies report even higher effectiveness in terms 
of quit rates than was assumed here, indicating that our estimated cost-utility 
ratio should be even more favorable to bupropion.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.129.3.651
PMID: 16537864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Eur Spine J. 2006 Dec;15(12):1801-10. doi: 10.1007/s00586-006-0084-1. Epub
2006  Mar 15.

Clearing the cervical spine in critically injured patients: a comprehensive 
C-spine protocol to avoid unnecessary delays in diagnosis.

Platzer P(1), Jaindl M, Thalhammer G, Dittrich S, Wieland T, Vecsei V, Gaebler 
C.

Author information:
(1)Medical School, Department for Traumatology, University of Vienna, Waehringer 
Guertel 18-20, 1090, Vienna, Austria. patrick.platzer@gmx.at

