determined that mediastinoscopy added 0.008 years of life expectancy at a cost 
of 250,989 dollars per life-year gained. The outcome was sensitive to the 
prevalence of N2 disease in the population and the benefit of induction versus 
adjuvant therapy for N2 lung cancer. If the prevalence of N2 disease exceeds 
10%, the sensitivity analysis predicts that mediastinoscopy would lengthen life 
at a cost of less than 100,000 dollars per life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: Patients with clinical stage I lung cancer staged by computed 
tomography and positron emission tomography benefit little from mediastinoscopy. 
The survival advantage it confers is very small and is dependent on the 
prevalence of N2 metastasis and the unproven superiority of induction therapy 
over adjuvant therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2005.10.045
PMID: 16580440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(4):914-21. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.02.022. Epub
2006  Apr 3.

Efficient inefficiency: biochemical "junk" may represent molecular bridesmaids 
awaiting emergent function as a buffer against environmental fluctuation.

Yun AJ(1), Lee PY, Doux JD.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, Radiology, 470 University Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94301, 
United States. ayun@stanford.edu <ayun@stanford.edu>

The biochemical function of many parts of the genome, transcriptome, proteome, 
and interactome remain largely unknown. We propose that portions of these 
fundamental building blocks of life have no current biochemical function per se. 
Rather, sections of these "omes" may contribute to an inventory of biochemical 
parts and circuits that participate in the development of emergent functions. 
Low fidelity deoxyribonucleic acid replication, transcription, translation, and 
post-translational modification all represent potential mechanisms to produce an 
inventory of parts. Stochastic processes that influence the conformations of 
ribonucleic acid molecules and proteins may also contribute to potential 
biochemical inventory. Some components of the biochemical inventory may enable 
future adaptations, some may produce disease, and some may remain useless. The 
function of many of these components await discovery, not by science, but by 
evolution. While carrying such purposeless biochemical units may appear to 
dilute fitness by exacting a thermodynamic cost, we argue that net fitness 
becomes enhanced when considering the value for potential future innovations. 
One can envision components that intermingle, interact, and act out mock 
pathways, but in most cases remain molecular bridesmaids. Given sufficiently low 
thermodynamic cost, such stochastic cycling may persist until a markedly 
advantageous or cataclysmically disadvantageous trait emerges. Maladaptive 
screening and utilization of inventory content can lead to disease phenotypes, a 
process buffered and regulated in part by the heat shock protein and stress 
response network. Whereas failure of the ubiquitin pathway to recycle misfolded 
proteins has become increasingly recognized as a source of disease, protein 
misfolding may itself represent one step in a process that maximizes functional 
innovation through increasing proteomic diversity. Fractal correlates of these 
processes occur at the organizational level of cells and organisms. That the 
abnormal accumulation of units induces local collapse may serve to limit the 
extension of damage to the greater system at large. The immune and cognitive 
systems that selectively sample and prune environmental content may serve as 
additional portals for innovation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.02.022
PMID: 16581198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2006;118(2):205-12. doi: 10.1093/rpd/ncl034. Epub
2006  Mar 31.

Dosimetric issues in radiation protection of radiotherapy patients.

d'Errico F(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Ingegneria Meccanica, Nucleare e della Produzione, Università 
di Pisa, Italy. francesco.derrico@ing.unipi.it

As life expectancy increases, thanks to improving general medical practices, 
cancer treatments for the ageing population become evermore necessary. Radiation 
therapy is increasingly a treatment of choice, promoted by continuing 
improvements in dose delivery technologies. Some techniques, collectively 
referred to as intensity-modulated radiation therapy, are encountering 
widespread acceptance and implementation, promoted by reports of superior tumour 
control and reduced toxicity. However, these new techniques pose new challenges 
in terms of radiation protection of patients, as they cause a more extensive 
low-dose exposure of normal tissues compared with conventional radiation 
therapy. The related dosimetric challenges and the methods available to tackle 
them are reviewed in this paper, which also emphasises the need for standard 
radiation protection dosimetry procedures so that information may be 
consistently gathered for a comparative evaluation of the different treatment 
modalities.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/ncl034
PMID: 16581918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Laeknabladid. 2006 Apr;92(4):263-9.

[The health risk associated with smoking has been seriously underestimated. The 
Reykjavik Study].

[Article in Icelandic]

Sigfússon N(1), Sigurdsson G, Aspelund T, Gudnason V.

Author information:
(1)nikulas.s@hjarta.is

OBJECTIVE: To assess the risk for coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, 
cancer deaths, and all deaths associated with different smoking categories as 
determined by smoking status at a baseline examination only and at a baseline 
with reexamination 15-19 years later (persistent smokers).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The participants were a random sample of 2930 men and 3084 
women aged 34-61 years (when selected in 1967) invited for various standardized 
examinations under two periods, 1967-1972 and 1979-1991 and followed-up until 
the end of year 2001. The main outcome measures were clinical coronary heart 
disease, myocardial infarction, cancer deaths, and all deaths. Risk was 
calculated for each smoking category as determined by two assessments of smoking 
habits and also compared with the risk as determined by one baseline examination 
only.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up for men was 26 years (SD 9 years). For women the mean 
follow-up was 28 years (SD 7 years). There were substantial differences in 
hazard ratios (HR) and median lifetime in smoking groups as determined by one or 
two examinations. In men the greatest difference in hazard ratios was for cancer 
deaths (one examination: 2.80, two: 3.83) in women for total deaths (3.02 vs. 
3.7). Loss of median lifetime was greatest in "heavy" cigarette smoking men (one 
examination: eight years; two examinations: 13 years), in women the 
corresponding figures were nine and 10 years, in "light" cigarette smokers, the 
figures for men were four and nine years, and for women four and six years.
CONCLUSIONS: Middle-aged men smoking one or more packets of cigarettes per day 
shorten their life expectancy by 13 years and middle-aged women by 10 years. 
Only one baseline determination of smoking status with subsequent follow-up 
underestimates the health risk associated with smoking by 15-40% at least in 
populations where smoking prevalence is declining.

PMID: 16582454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Clin Calcium. 2006 Apr;16(4):647- 54.

[Surgical treatment for metastatic bone tumor].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujimaki Y(1), Tsuchiya H, Kawahara N, Tanzawa Y, Tomita K.

Author information:
(1)Kanazawa University, School of Medicine, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery.

Conventionally, palliative surgery has been commonly performed as pain 
management for bone metastasis which is regarded as terminal. Recently, medical 
treatment in this area has made great advances and so life expectancy of 
patients with cancer has been prolonged. The objective of surgical treatments is 
to maintain activities of daily living. Radical resection and reconstruction are 
used for the patients with long life expectancy, though palliative surgery is 
for the patients with short life expectancy.

PMID: 16582517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2006 Apr;117(4):1223-35; discussion 1236-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.prs.0000201461.71055.83.

A cost/utility analysis of open reduction and internal fixation versus cast 
immobilization for acute nondisplaced mid-waist scaphoid fractures.

Davis EN(1), Chung KC, Kotsis SV, Lau FH, Vijan S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, University of 
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

BACKGROUND: Open reduction and internal fixation and cast immobilization are 
both acceptable treatment options for nondisplaced waist fractures of the 
scaphoid. The authors conducted a cost/utility analysis to weigh open reduction 
and internal fixation against cast immobilization in the treatment of acute 
nondisplaced mid-waist scaphoid fractures.
METHODS: The authors used a decision-analytic model to calculate the outcomes 
and costs of open reduction and internal fixation and cast immobilization, 
assuming the societal perspective. Utilities were assessed from 50 randomly 
selected medical students using the time trade-off method. Outcome probabilities 
taken from the literature were factored into the calculation of quality-adjusted 
life-years associated with each treatment. The authors estimated medical costs 
using Medicare reimbursement rates, and costs of lost productivity were 
estimated by average wages obtained from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
RESULTS: Open reduction and internal fixation offers greater quality-adjusted 
life-years compared with casting, with an increase ranging from 0.21 
quality-adjusted life-years for the 25- to 34-year age group to 0.04 
quality-adjusted life-years for the > or =65-year age group. Open reduction and 
internal fixation is less costly than casting ($7940 versus $13,851 per patient) 
because of a longer period of lost productivity with casting. Open reduction and 
internal fixation is therefore the dominant strategy. When considering only 
direct costs, the incremental cost/utility ratio for open reduction and internal 
fixation ranges from $5438 per quality-adjusted life-year for the 25- to 34-year 
age group to $11,420 for the 55- to 64-year age group, and $29,850 for the > or 
=65-year age group.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with casting, open reduction and internal fixation is cost 
saving from the societal perspective ($5911 less per patient). When considering 
only direct costs, open reduction and internal fixation is cost-effective 
relative to other widely accepted interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/01.prs.0000201461.71055.83
PMID: 16582791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Minerva Ginecol. 2006 Apr;58(2):153-70.

Endocrinology of the aging male.

Lunenfeld B(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Reproductive Endocrinology, Faculty of Life Sciences, BarIlan 
University, Ramat Gan, Israel. brunolo@netvision.net.il

Despite enormous medical progress during the past few decades, the last years of 
life are still accompanied by increasing ill health and disability. The ability 
to maintain active and independent living for as long as possible is a crucial 
factor for ageing healthily and with dignity. The most important and drastic 
gender differences in aging are related to the reproductive organs. In 
distinction to the course of reproductive ageing in women, with the rapid 
decline in sex hormones expressed by the cessation of menses, men experience a 
slow and continuous decline. This decline in endocrine function involves: a 
decrease of testosterone, dehydro epiandrosterone (DHEA), oestrogens, thyroid 
stimulating hormone (TSH), growth hormone (GH), IGF1, and melatonin. The 
decrease of sex hormones is concomitant with a temporary increase of luteinizing 
hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). In addition sex hormone 
binding globulins (SHBG) increase with age resulting in further lowering the 
concentrations of free biologically active androgens. These hormonal changes are 
directly or indirectly associated with changes in body constitution, fat 
distribution (visceral obesity), muscle weakness, osteopenia, osteoporosis, 
urinary incontinence, loss of cognitive functioning, reduction in well being, 
depression, as well as sexual dysfunction. The laboratory and clinical findings 
of partial endocrine deficiencies in the aging male will be described and 
discussed in detail. With the prolongation of life expectancy both women and men 
today live 1/3 of their life with endocrine deficiencies. Interventions such as 
hormone replacement therapy may alleviate the debilitating conditions of 
secondary partial endocrine deficiencies by preventing the preventable and 
delaying the inevitable.

PMID: 16582870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Bull World Health Organ. 2006 Mar;84(3):189-97. doi: 10.2471/blt.05.025874.
Epub  2006 Mar 22.

Assessing adult mortality in HIV-1-afflicted Zimbabwe (1998 -2003).

Lopman BA(1), Barnabas R, Hallett TB, Nyamukapa C, Mundandi C, Mushati P, 
Garnett GP, Gregson S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College London, 
England. b.lopman@imperial.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To compare alternative methods to vital registration systems for 
estimating adult mortality, and describe patterns of mortality in Manicaland, 
Zimbabwe, which has been severely affected by HIV.
METHODS: We compared estimates of adult mortality from (1) a single question on 
household mortality, (2) repeated household censuses, and (3) an adult cohort 
study with linked HIV testing from Manicaland, with a mathematical model fitted 
to local age-specific HIV prevalence (1998 -2000).
FINDINGS: The crude death rate from the single question (29 per 1000 
person-years) was roughly consistent with that from the mathematical model (22 
-25 per 1000 person-years), but much higher than that from the household 
censuses (12 per 1000 person-years). Adult mortality in the household censuses 
(males 0.65; females 0.51) was lower than in the cohort study (males 0.77; 
females 0.57), while mathematical models gave a much higher estimate, especially 
for females (males 0.80 -0.83; females 0.75 -0.80). The population attributable 
fraction of adult deaths due to HIV was 0.61 for men and 0.70 for women, with 
life expectancy estimated to be 34.3 years for males and 38.2 years for females.
CONCLUSION: Each method for estimating adult mortality had limitations in terms 
of loss to follow-up (cohort study), under-ascertainment (household censuses), 
transparency of underlying processes (single question), and sensitivity to 
parameterization (mathematical model). However, these analyses make clear the 
advantages of longitudinal cohort data, which provide more complete 
ascertainment than household censuses, highlight possible inaccuracies in model 
assumptions, and allow direct quantification of the impact of HIV.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.05.025874
PMCID: PMC1808347
PMID: 16583077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Rheumatol. 2006 Apr;33(4):732-40.

The cost-effectiveness of infliximab (Remicade) in the treatment of ankylosing 
spondylitis in Canada.

Kobelt G(1), Andlin-Sobocki P, Maksymowych WP.

Author information:
(1)European Health Economics SAS, Mulhouse, France. Gisela.Kobelt@he-europe.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of the treatment of ankylosing 
spondylitis (AS) with infliximab (Remicade) in Canada over the long term, with 
both international and Canadian treatment regimens.
METHODS: A previously published disease model based on functional capacity and 
disease activity was adapted to the Canadian setting. Current resource 
consumption from a cross-sectional bottom-up burden-of-illness study in 545 
patients at different levels of severity of AS in 4 Canadian provinces was 
incorporated into the model. Cost-effectiveness estimates were based on a 
3-month placebo-controlled clinical trial with 2-year open extension as well as 
a 4-year followup study of clinical practice in Canada. In the 
cost-effectiveness model, patients with insufficient response to treatment at 12 
weeks (> or = 50% reduction in Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity 
Index) discontinue treatment. In view of the long disease duration, simulations 
over a 30-year timeframe were performed, incorporating disease progression from 
cohort studies and assumptions about treatment continuation beyond the clinical 
trial from the trial extension period. Results are presented in Canadian 
dollars, from the societal and healthcare payer perspectives, with both costs 
and effects discounted at 5%.
RESULTS: Over a 30-year timeframe, with the assumption that patients' disease 
would remain stable while on treatment, the cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained in the societal perspective is $37,491, using the treatment 
regimen in the clinical trial (5 mg/kg every 6 weeks). Using the dosing regimen 
of the Canadian study (75% at 3 mg/kg every 8 weeks, 15% at 3 mg/kg every 6 
weeks, and 10% at 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks) the cost per QALY is dollar 10,264. 
Assuming that patients on treatment progress at half the rate of untreated 
patients, the cost-effectiveness ratios are dollar 45,121 and dollar 13,883, 
respectively, while the most conservative assumption that progression is the 
same in both arms, the ratios are dollar 54,137 and dollar 18,712, respectively. 
The results are sensitive to the dosing regimen adopted, the discontinuation 
rate, and assumptions concerning disease progression while on treatment.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that infliximab therapy for patients with 
active AS would be cost-effective (ranges dollar 10,264-dollar 54,137 per QALY) 
in a Canadian setting.

PMID: 16583476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2006 Apr;17(2):194-205. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2005.01192.x.

Dental implants placement in conjunction with osteotome sinus floor elevation: a 
12-year life-table analysis from a prospective study on 588 ITI implants.

Ferrigno N(1), Laureti M, Fanali S.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Course in Clinical Implantology and Biomaterials, School of 
Dental Medicine, University of Chieti, G. D'Annunzio, Chieti, Italy. 
ferrigno.n@tiscali.it

Erratum in
    Clin Oral Implants Res. 2006 Aug;17(4):479.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this prospective study was to evaluate the clinical 
success of placing ITI dental implants in the posterior maxilla using the 
osteotome technique.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All implants were placed following a one-stage protocol 
(elevating the sinus floor and placing the implant at the same time). Five 
hundred and eighty-eight implants were placed in 323 consecutive patients with a 
residual vertical height of bone under the sinus ranging from 6 to 9 mm. The 
mean observation follow-up period was 59.7 months (with a range of 12-144 
months). This prospective study not only calculated the 12-year cumulative 
survival and success rates for 588 implants by life-table analysis but also the 
cumulative success rates for implant subgroups divided per implant length and 
the percentage of sinus membrane perforation were evaluated.
RESULTS: The 12-year cumulative survival and success rates were 94.8% and 90.8%, 
respectively. The analysis of implant subgroups showed slightly more favourable 
cumulative success rates for 12 mm long implants (93.4%) compared with 10 and 8 
mm long implants (90.5% and 88.9%, respectively). During the study period, only 
13 perforations of the Schneiderian membrane were detected with a perforation 
rate of 2.2% (13 perforations/601 treated sites). Ten perforations out of 13 
were caused during the first half of the study period and of these, seven were 
detected during the first 3 years of this prospective study.
CONCLUSION: Based on the results and within the limits of the present study, it 
can be concluded that ITI implant placement in conjunction with osteotome sinus 
floor elevation represents a safe modality of treating the posterior maxilla in 
areas with reduced bone height subjacent to the sinus as survival and success 
rates were maintained above 90% for a mean observation period of approximately 
60 months. Shorter implants (8 mm implants) did not significantly fail more than 
longer ones (10 and 12 mm implants): the differences were small compared with 
the number of events; hence, no statistical conclusion could be drawn. But, from 
the clinical point of view, the predictable use of short implants in conjunction 
with osteotome sinus floor elevation may reduce the indication for complex 
invasive procedures like sinus lift and bone grafting procedures.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2005.01192.x
PMID: 16584416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Transfusion. 2006 Apr;46(4):630-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2006.00764.x.

Additional red blood cell alloantibodies after blood transfusions in a 
nonhematologic alloimmunized patient cohort: is it time to take precautionary 
measures?

Schonewille H(1), van de Watering LM, Brand A.

Author information:
(1)Sanquin Blood Bank, Southwest Region, Leiden, the Netherlands. 
henk.schonewille@bloodrtd.nl

BACKGROUND: Red blood cell (RBC) alloimmunization is common in transfused 
patients. Most studies report on the rate of alloimmunization in chronically 
transfused patients, which can be as high as 60 percent. Less is known on the 
incidence of clinically relevant antibodies in accidentally transfused patients. 
Because the probability of repeat transfusion increases with longer life 
expectancy, it was wondered to which extend non-chronically transfused 
alloimmunized patients are prone to form additional antibodies after repeat 
transfusion events.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A 20-year retrospective multicenter study was 
performed analyzing additional alloantibody formation, against the RH, KEL, FY, 
JK, and MNS blood group systems.
RESULTS: After additional transfusions, 21.4 percent of 653 patients produced 
additional antibodies, resulting in 157 new antibody specificities. At the end 
of the study 33.4 percent of patients had multiple antibodies. Eighty of 140 
patients (57%) who formed additional antibodies did so after one transfusion 
episode of a median of 2 units of RBCs. Based on the antigen profile of 316 
patients, 83 percent of antibodies could have been prevented by extended 
matching for the C, E, c, K, Fy(a), and Jk(a) antigens. Considering the current 
available donors in our region, 1 to 10 percent of potential donors would be 
available for 39 percent of patients and greater than 10 percent of potential 
donors for 61 percent of patients.
CONCLUSION: It has been shown that nonhematooncologic alloimmunized patients are 
high antibody responders, with a more than 20 times increased risk to form 
antibodies compared to first-time alloimmunization risk. If extended matching 
for C, c, E, K, Fy(a), and Jk(a) antigens in the future is considered, this 
group should be taken into account.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2006.00764.x
PMID: 16584440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Emerg Med Clin North Am. 2006 May;24(2):433-48, viii. doi: 
10.1016/j.emc.2006.01.006.

Infectious emergencies in the elderly.

Adedipe A(1), Lowenstein R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Boston Medical Center, 1 Boston Medical 
Center Place, Dowling 1 South, Boston, MA 02188, USA.

As life expectancy continues to rise, the number of geriatric patients will 
increase and the percentages of geriatric patients seen in the emergency 
department will reflect those numbers. Emergency physicians are responsible for 
making immediate diagnoses and initiating expeditious treatment. Infectious 
diseases in the elderly are more prevalent, challenging to diagnose, and are 
associated with greater morbidity and mortality than with the younger patient 
population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.emc.2006.01.006
PMID: 16584965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Hum Reprod. 2006 Jul;21(7):1878-83. doi: 10.1093/humrep/del088. Epub 2006
Apr 3.

A cost-utility analysis of hysterectomy, endometrial resection and ablation and 
medical therapy for menorrhagia.

You JH(1), Sahota DS, MoYuen P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Pharmacoeconomics Research, School of Pharmacy, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, China. joyceyou@cuhk.edu.hk

BACKGROUND: Four types of treatment [hysterectomy, endometrial 
resection/ablation, levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (LNG-IUS) and 
oral medical therapy] are available for management of menorrhagia. The objective 
of this study was to compare the cost and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
gained by these four treatment alternatives.
METHODS: A Markov model was designed to simulate the healthcare resource 
utilization and QALYs of the four treatment alternatives for patients presenting 
with menorrhagia over 5 years. Clinical inputs were estimated from literature, 
and the cost analysis was conducted from the perspective of healthcare provider 
in Hong Kong.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis showed that the hysterectomy group was the most 
effective (4.725 QALYs) alternative with the highest cost (USD6878, 
1USD=7.8HKD). The incremental cost per additional QALY (ICER) gained by 
hysterectomy was USD23 500. The probability of extra surgery in the endometrial 
resection/ablation was an influential factor. Probabalistic sensitivity analysis 
of 10,000 simulations of the Monte Carlo model showed that the hysterectomy 
group gained higher number of QALYs than the LNG-IUS, oral medical treatment and 
endometrial resection/ablation groups, 99, 99 and 98% of the time, and it was 
more costly than the other three groups over 85% of the time.
CONCLUSIONS: Hysterectomy appears to be cost effective, with ICER less than 
USD50,000, for management of menorrhagia.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/del088
PMID: 16585125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. QJM. 2006 May;99(5):327-34. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcl037. Epub 2006 Apr 4.

Life expectancy in patients with hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia.

Sabbà C(1), Pasculli G, Suppressa P, D'Ovidio F, Lenato GM, Resta F, Assennato 
G, Guanti G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Public Health, University of Bari, Bari, 
Italy. c.sabba@dimimp.uniba.it

BACKGROUND: There are few data on life expectancy in patients with hereditary 
haemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT), a disorder with life-threatening 
complications.
METHODS: Seventy HHT patients provided data on age and age at death of their 
HHT-affected parent, which was compared with that of the parent's non-affected 
partner.
RESULTS: At the time of the study, 40 HHT parents (57.1%) vs. 36 (51.4%) non-HHT 
parents had died (p = 0.404). Median age at death was lower in HHT vs. non-HHT 
parents (63.2 vs. 70.0 years, respectively). The mortality of HHT parents showed 
an early peak in the under 50s and a late peak at 60-79 years. HHT was the main 
risk factor influencing life expectancy after 30 years (p < 0.05). No 
differences in survival probability were found in HHT patients with respect to 
sex (p = 0.37), or ENG vs. ALK-1 genotype (p < 0.9).
DISCUSSION: Life expectancy appears to be significantly lower in HHT patients 
than in their partners. Prevention of HHT complications with screening programs 
could increase life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcl037
PMID: 16595564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Support Care Cancer. 2006 Sep;14(9):917-27. doi: 10.1007/s00520-006-0035-8.
Epub  2006 Apr 5.

Anastrozole is cost-effective vs tamoxifen as initial adjuvant therapy in early 
breast cancer: Canadian perspectives on the ATAC completed-treatment analysis.

Rocchi A(1), Verma S.

Author information:
(1)Axia Research, Hamilton, Canada. angela@axiaresearch.com

GOALS OF WORK: To conduct an economic analysis comparing tamoxifen and 
anastrozole (Arimidex) in the adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor-positive 
(HR+), post-menopausal early breast cancer patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An economic model examined typical patients (64 years of 
age, HR+, 64% node negative) from the Arimidex, tamoxifen alone, or in 
combination (ATAC) trial over a lifetime horizon. Rates of events were derived 
from ATAC trial results. Post-trial event rates were drawn from the literature 
for tamoxifen; event rates for anastrozole were modified by the relative risks 
observed in the ATAC trial. Resource utilization was drawn from Statistics 
Canada's Population Health Model for breast cancer, supplemented by an expert 
panel. A public health care system perspective, 2004 Canadian prices and a 5% 
discount rate were employed.
RESULTS: Anastrozole-taking patients incurred additional hormonal treatment 
costs compared to tamoxifen-taking patients (incremental lifetime cost, 6,974 
Canadian dollars per patient), partially offset by reduced downstream 
recurrences of breast cancer (1,143 Canadian dollars lifetime savings per 
patient) for a net incremental cost of 5,796 Canadian dollars per patient on 
anastrozole. The anastrozole-treated patients were projected to experience a 
5.6% absolute risk reduction of first breast cancer recurrence and a 2.8% 
absolute risk reduction in breast cancer death. This corresponded to 30,000 
Canadian dollars per life year gained and 28,000 Canadian dollars per 
quality-adjusted life year gained (95% confidence interval, 17,428 to 54,605 
Canadian dollars). The results were affected by the duration and extent of 
anastrozole benefit under sensitivity analysis but remained cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Compared to tamoxifen, anastrozole therapy is effective and 
cost-effective as initial adjuvant therapy in post-menopausal, HR+ early breast 
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-006-0035-8
PMID: 16596419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Ultraschall Med. 2006 Dec;27(6):577-81. doi: 10.1055/s-2005-858939. Epub
2006  Feb 22.

Intrapericardial teratoma in the newborn--3D-echocardiography and course of 
disease.

Herberg U(1), Berg C, Knöpfle G, Schmitz C, Kamil D, Gembruch U, Breuer J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, University of Bonn, Germany. 
Ulrike.Herberg@ukb.uni-bonn.de

Intrapericardial teratoma is a rare tumour which may become life threatening 
when it causes mediastinal compression. Early sonographic detection and careful 
evaluation is necessary for further management. In this paper, we present a case 
with a large intrapericardial teratoma diagnosed in utero (25 + 0 weeks). After 
birth, 3D-echocardiography was particularly helpful in obtaining a comprehensive 
view of the three-dimensional structure of this complex tumour, in order to 
determine tumour extension and attachment before surgical excision. This case 
illustrates the opportunities which new, noninvasive echocardiographic tools 
create to aid therapeutic management and surgical therapy of critically ill 
patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2005-858939
PMID: 16596514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2006 Oct;131(2):252-60. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20436.

Life history, enamel formation, and linear enamel hypoplasia in the Ceboidea.

Newell EA(1), Guatelli-Steinberg D, Field M, Cooke C, Feeney RN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Elizabethtown College, Pennsylvania 
17022, USA. newellea@etown.edu

Linear enamel hypoplasia (LEH), a developmental defect of enamel, increases in 
frequency from prosimian to monkey to lesser ape to great ape grades 
(Guatelli-Steinberg 2000 Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 112:395-410, [2001] Evol. 
Anthropol. 10:138-151; Newell 1998 Ph.D. dissertation, Temple University). This 
taxonomic pattern in the distribution of LEH is closely related to maturation 
length across the primate order (Newell 1998 Ph.D. dissertation, Temple 
University, 2000 Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. [Suppl.] 30:236). Longer maturation 
periods are associated with higher LEH frequencies; they appear to provide 
greater opportunity for defects to form. The present study explores the 
relationship between maturation length and LEH frequency within the Ceboidea. 
Because of its prolonged period of growth, Cebus is predicted to manifest LEH at 
a higher frequency than the more rapidly maturing ceboid genera. To test this 
hypothesis, two separate researchers (E.A.N. and D.G.-S.) examined LEH in 
nonoverlapping museum series of ceboids. The results support the hypothesis: in 
13 genera (n = 1,276), E.A.N. found that LEH frequencies ranged from 0% in 
Callicebus, Cebuella, and Saimiri to 20% in Cebus. D.G.-S. found similar 
frequencies among five genera (n = 107), from 0% in Saimiri to 32% in Cebus. 
Thus, the broad pattern of LEH distribution evident across major taxonomic 
groups of primates is repeated within the Ceboidea. We also examined a related 
hypothesis linking the spacing of perikymata, which is influenced by enamel 
extension rates (Shellis 1998 J. Hum. Evol. 35:387-400), to LEH. The most likely 
areas of tooth crowns to exhibit LEH in human teeth are those in which 
perikymata are most closely spaced (Hillson and Bond 1997 Am. J. Phys. 
Anthropol. 104:89-103). We hypothesized that the longer-maturing Cebus, with its 
elevated LEH frequency, will also exhibit more closely spaced perikymata than 
other ceboids. Analysis of a small microscopic subsample (n = 8) lends limited 
support to this second hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20436
PMID: 16596595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Clin Child Adolesc Psychol. 2006 Jun;35(2):264-74. doi: 
10.1207/s15374424jccp3502_10.

A prospective test of the hopelessness theory of depression in children.

Gibb BE(1), Alloy LB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Binghamton University, Binghamton, NY 13902, USA. 
bgibb@binghamton.edu

Providing a developmental extension of the cognitive theories of depression, 
researchers and theorists have suggested that during early to middle childhood, 
attributional styles may mediate rather than moderate the association between 
negative life events and the development of depression. Within the context of 
the hopelessness theory of depression, we tested this hypothesis in a 6-month 
longitudinal study of 4th- and 5th-grade children. Using path analysis, we found 
support for the mediating role of attributional styles among both 4th and 5th 
graders. Supporting recent refinements in the hopelessness theory, the best 
fitting mediation model was one in which depressive symptoms exhibited 
reciprocal relations with the other variables. Specifically, attributional 
styles partially mediated the link between verbal victimization and residual 
change in depressive symptoms. In addition, initial depressive symptoms 
predicted negative changes in children's attributional styles and increases in 
verbal victimization across the follow-up. Contrary to our hypothesis, we also 
found support for the moderating role of attributional styles, although this was 
significant only among 5th graders.

DOI: 10.1207/s15374424jccp3502_10
PMID: 16597222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Biostatistics. 2007 Jan;8(1):72-85. doi: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxj034. Epub
2006  Apr 5.

The logistic transform for bounded outcome scores.

Lesaffre E(1), Rizopoulos D, Tsonaka R.

Author information:
(1)Biostatistical Centre, Catholic University of Leuven, U.Z. St. Rafaël, 
Kapucijnenvoer 35, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium. emmanuel.lesaffre@med.kuleuven.be

The logistic transformation, originally suggested by Johnson (1949), is applied 
to analyze responses that are restricted to a finite interval (e.g. (0,1)), 
so-called bounded outcome scores. Bounded outcome scores often have a 
non-standard distribution, e.g. J- or U-shaped, precluding classical parametric 
statistical approaches for analysis. Applying the logistic transformation on a 
normally distributed random variable, gives rise to a logit-normal (LN) 
distribution. This distribution can take a variety of shapes on (0,1). Further, 
the model can be extended to correct for (baseline) covariates. Therefore, the 
method could be useful for comparative clinical trials. Bounded outcomes can be 
found in many research areas, e.g. drug compliance research, quality-of-life 
studies, and pain (and pain relief) studies using visual analog scores, but all 
these scores can attain the boundary values 0 or 1. A natural extension of the 
above approach is therefore to assume a latent score on 0,1) having a LN 
distribution. Two cases are considered: (a) the bounded outcome score is a 
proportion where the true probabilities have a LN distribution on (0,1) and (b) 
the bounded outcome score on [0,1] is a coarsened version of a latent score with 
a LN distribution on (0,1). We also allow the variance (on the transformed 
scale) to depend on treatment. The usefulness of our approach for comparative 
clinical trials will be assessed in this paper. It turns out to be important to 
distinguish the case of equal and unequal variances. For a bounded outcome score 
of the second type and with equal variances, our approach comes close to ordinal 
probit (OP) regression. However, ignoring the inequality of variances can lead 
to highly biased parameter estimates. A simulation study compares the 
performance of our approach with the two-sample Wilcoxon test and with OP 
regression. Finally, the different methods are illustrated on two data sets.

DOI: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxj034
PMID: 16597671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Orthop Surg (Hong Kong). 2006 Apr;14(1):13-6. doi:
10.1177/230949900601400104.

Prevalence and surgical significance of a high-origin anterior tibial artery.

Tindall AJ(1), Shetty AA, James KD, Middleton A, Fernando KW.

Author information:
(1)Medway Maritime Hospital, Windmill Road, Gillingham, Kent, United Kingdom. 
alistair_tindall@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To assess the prevalence of proximal high-origin anterior tibial artery 
and its surgical significance.
METHODS: 100 knees were prospectively studied using colour Doppler 
ultrasonography. No patient had a history of lower-limb arterial pathology or 
previous knee surgery. All ultrasound images were assessed by a single 
experienced vascular technician to eliminate inter-observer variability.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 56 years (range, 21-96 years). 
Prevalence of the high-origin anterior tibial arterial pattern was 6%, greater 
than that reported by previous angiographic or cadaveric studies. In all 
patients with high-origin anterior tibial artery, the artery was in direct 
contact with the posterior cortex of the tibia.
CONCLUSION: This highlights the danger of using sharp instruments in knee 
procedures that involve extension of osteotomy to the posterior tibial cortex, 
particularly high-tibial osteotomy and total knee replacement. Knowledge of the 
anatomical variations in the branching of the popliteal artery is important 
because damage to its branches can be limb- or life-threatening.

DOI: 10.1177/230949900601400104
PMID: 16598080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Clin Res Cardiol. 2006 Jan;95 Suppl 1:i83-7. doi: 10.1007/s00392-006-1103-2.

[Diabetic nephropathy and ACE inhibitors].

[Article in German]

Amann B(1).

Author information:
(1)Innere Abteilung Angiologie und Diabetologie, Franziskuskrankenhaus Berlin, 
Budapester Strasse 15-19, 10787 Berlin, Germany. amann@franziskus-berlin.de

The life expectancy of patients with type 2 diabetes and diabetic nephropathy is 
reduced; the main cause of death is cardiovascular disease. The majority of 
patients with renal replacement therapy are type 2 diabetics. Inhibition of the 
renin-aldosterone-angiotensin system is beneficial in diabetes mellitus. It 
reduces the incidence and slows the progression of nephropathy. ACE inhibitors 
are the accepted standard of care for nephropathy in type-1 diabetics; the role 
of ACE inhibitors versus angiotensin-receptor-blockers in type 2 diabetes is 
less clear. Large studies from the last 15 years and meta-analyses show a 
reduction of mortality of about 20% with ACE inhibitors in type 2 diabetic 
nephropathy; angiotensin-receptor-blockers have no documented effect on 
mortality yet, but do also slow the progression of nephropathy in type 2 
diabetics. From these data and because of economic considerations, ACE 
inhibitors should be first choice therapy for diabetic nephropathy in type 2 
diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-006-1103-2
PMID: 16598556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. BMC Public Health. 2006 Apr 6;6:90. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-90.

Regional differences in multidimensional aspects of health: findings from the 
MRC cognitive function and ageing study.

Matthews FE(1), Miller LL, Brayne C, Jagger C; Medical Research Council 
Cognitive Function and Aging Study (MRC CFAS).

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Institute of Public Health, Cambridge, CB2 2SR, UK. 
fiona.matthews@mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Differences in mortality and health experience across regions are 
well recognised and UK government policy aims to address this inequality. 
Methods combining life expectancy and health have concentrated on specific 
areas, such as self-perceived health and dementia. Few have looked within 
country or across different areas of health. Self-perceived health, 
self-perceived functional impairment and cognitive impairment are linked closely 
to survival, as well as quality of life. This paper aims to describe regional 
differences in healthy life expectancy using a variety of states of health and 
wellbeing within the MRC Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC CFAS).
METHODS: MRC CFAS is a population based study of health in 13,009 individuals 
aged 65 years and above in five centres using identical study methodology. The 
interviews included self-perceived health and measures of functional and 
cognitive impairment. Sullivan's method was used to combine prevalence rates for 
cognitive and functional impairment and life expectancy to produce expectation 
of life in various health states.
RESULTS: The prevalence of both cognitive and functional impairment increases 
with age and was higher in women than men, with marked centre variation in 
functional impairment (Newcastle and Gwynedd highest impairment). Newcastle had 
the shortest life expectancy of all the sites, Cambridgeshire and Oxford the 
longest. Centre differences in self-perceived health tended to mimic differences 
in life expectancy but this did not hold for cognitive or functional impairment.
CONCLUSION: Self-perceived health does not show marked variation with age or 
sex, but does across centre even after adjustment for impairment burden. There 
is considerable centre variation in self-reported functional impairment but not 
cognitive impairment. Only variation in self-perceived health relates to the 
ranking of life expectancy. These data confirm that quite considerable 
differences in life experience exist across regions of the UK beyond basic life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-90
PMCID: PMC1475575
PMID: 16600044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2006 Apr 5;2006(7):pe8. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2006.7.pe8.

SENS and the polarization of aging-related research.

Gray DA(1), Bürkle A.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Health Research Institute, Ottawa K1H 8L6, Canada. dgray@ohri.ca

The second Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence conference (SENS II) 
featured some very provocative ideas. The explicit objective of extending human 
life span indefinitely has opened a large rift between the meeting's organizer 
and those who believe he is acting unscientifically, perhaps recklessly. Two 
SENS conference participants present their views on the divisive nature of SENS.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2006.7.pe8
PMID: 16600918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. BMJ. 2006 Apr 8;332(7545):808. doi: 10.1136/bmj.332.7545.808.

Life expectancy: women now on top everywhere.

Barford A, Dorling D, Davey Smith G, Shaw M.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2006 Apr 22;332(7547):976.
    BMJ. 2006 May 6;332(7549):1095-6.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.332.7545.808
PMCID: PMC1432200
PMID: 16601021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Eur J Public Health. 2006 Dec;16(6):615-6. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl047. Epub
2006  Apr 6.

When are health inequalities a political problem?

Vallgårda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. s.vallgarda@pubhealth.ku.dk

Is it possible to define criteria by which a political decision on which 
inequities in health should be addressed can be made? It has been suggested that 
differences which are unnecessary and avoidable and those which are unfair and 
unjust are inequalities which should lead to political action. In the article it 
is argued that it is not possible to make a clear distinction between avoidable 
and unavoidable differences, and that the extent to which differences are 
considered unfair depends on political and normative standpoints, and generally 
acceptable criteria can therefore not be established.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl047
PMID: 16601106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2006 Aug;14(8):739-49. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-006-0039-4. Epub 2006 Apr 7.

Surgical treatment of multiple knee ligament injuries in 44 patients: 2-8 years 
follow-up results.

Tzurbakis M(1), Diamantopoulos A, Xenakis T, Georgoulis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Evangelismos General Hospital, Diocharous 
10, 11528, Athens, Greece. tzurb@ath.forthnet.gr

The purpose of the study was to evaluate the mid-term results of surgical 
treatment in different groups of patients with multiple knee ligament injuries. 
Review of our patients' records revealed that 48 acute and chronic patients were 
surgically treated for combined knee injury. Due to severe capsular damage in 
these injuries, open techniques were used. In our treatment protocol, avulsed 
ligaments and tears of the posterolateral and posteromedial corner were repaired 
if possible, whereas midsubstance tears of cruciate ligaments and chronic cases 
were reconstructed with autografts. Postoperatively, an accelerated program of 
rehabilitation was introduced, aiming to progressively mobilize the joint and 
improve muscle endurance. For the follow-up evaluation we designed a protocol 
composed of two parts. In the first part, anatomical lesions were recorded and 
in the second part, clinical evaluation was performed using the Lysholm score, 
the Tegner rating system, the IKDC evaluation form, and the KT1000. Student's t 
tests and chi-square tests were used for data analysis. Forty-eight patients 
(mean age 28.6+/-11.9 years; 41 males) were classified according to the specific 
anatomical structures involved. Group A included 12 anterior cruciate ligament 
(ACL) and medial structure injuries, group B included 11 ACL or posterior 
cruciate ligament (PCL) ruptures combined with posterolateral injuries, and 
group C consisted of 25 knee dislocations (ACL and PCL ruptures which might be 
combined with damage of the collateral ligaments). Thirty-eight patients were 
surgically treated during the acute phase and ten patients were treated 
chronically. Forty-four patients (91.6%) were followed up at a mean of 
51.3+/-29.9 months. Average Lysholm score was 87+/-12.3; average Tegner score 
was 5.09+/-2.19 before accident and 4.34+/-2.12 in re-examination; IKDC score 
was A in 10 cases, B in 22, C in 6, and D in 6. The mean range of motion was 
129.9 degrees +/-12.5 degrees . The average loss of extension and flexion were 
1.6 degrees +/-2.5 degrees and 7.6 degrees +/-7.9 degrees , respectively. The 
side-to-side difference in corrected anterior and posterior translation in 
quadriceps neutral angle and in anterior translation in 30 degrees angle was <3 
mm for about 65% of our patients. Surgical treatment of multiple knee ligament 
injuries, using autografts, provided satisfactory stability, range of motion, 
and subjective functional results. However, despite the improvement of the 
quality of life, the preinjury patients' activity level was not fully obtained 
in re-examination. Patients underwent surgical treatment during the acute phase 
had better scores in several points, but finally there was no statistical 
significance between acute and chronic patients. Moreover, no statistically 
significant differences were observed among the groups with specific damaged 
anatomical structures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-006-0039-4
PMID: 16602025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Feline Med Surg. 2006 Aug;8(4):234-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jfms.2006.01.003.
Epub  2006 Apr 17.

Ageing changes in cat brains demonstrated by beta-amyloid and AT8-immunoreactive 
phosphorylated tau deposits.

Gunn-Moore DA(1), McVee J, Bradshaw JM, Pearson GR, Head E, Gunn-Moore FJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh, Hospital for Small Animals, Easter Bush Veterinary 
Centre, Roslin EH25 9RG, UK. danielle.gunn-moore@ed.ac.uk

The life expectancy of domestic pet cats is increasing, along with the 
occurrence of geriatric-onset behavioural problems, such as cognitive 
dysfunction syndrome (CDS). While the cause of CDS is unclear, it has been 
suggested that it may result from age-related neurodegeneration. In aged and in 
particular senile human beings, histopathological changes may include the 
extracellular accumulation of plaque-like deposits of beta-amyloid (Abeta) 
protein and the intracellular accumulation of an abnormally hyperphosphorylated 
form of the microtubule-associated protein, tau. In severe cases, the latter may 
form into neurofibrillary tangles. Brain material was assessed from 19 cats, 
aged from 16 weeks to 14 years; 17 of which had clinical signs of neurological 
dysfunction. Immunohistochemical methods were used to detect Abeta and its 
intracellular precursor protein (amyloid precursor protein (APP)) and 
hyperphosphorylated-tau. APP was constitutively expressed, with diffuse staining 
of neurons and blood vessels being detected in all cats. More intense staining 
and diffuse extracellular Abeta staining deposits were found within the deep 
cortical areas of the anterior- and occasionally mid-cerebrum of seven cats, all 
of which were over 10 years of age. Neurons staining intensely positive for 
AT8-immunoreactivity were seen in two cats, aged 11 and 13 years. However, no 
mature neurofibrillary tangles were detected. This study demonstrated that 
extracellular Abeta accumulation and AT8-immunoreactivity within neurons are 
age-related phenomena in cats, and that they can occur concurrently. There are 
similarities between these changes and those observed in the brains of aged 
people and other old mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfms.2006.01.003
PMID: 16603401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2006 May;1764(5):872-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbapap.2006.02.007.  Epub 2006 Mar 20.

C-terminal residues of plant glutamate decarboxylase are required for 
oligomerization of a high-molecular weight complex and for activation by 
calcium/calmodulin.

Zik M(1), Fridmann-Sirkis Y, Fromm H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Ben-Gurion University, POB 653, Beer-Sheva 
84105, Israel.

Bacterial glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) is a homohexameric enzyme of about 330 
kDa. Plant GAD differs from the bacterial enzyme in having a C-terminal 
extension of 33 amino acids within which resides a calmodulin (CaM)-binding 
domain. In order to assess the role of the C-terminal extension in the formation 
of GAD complexes and in activation by Ca2+/CaM, we examined complexes formed 
with the purified full-length recombinant petunia GAD expressed in E. coli, and 
with a 9 amino acid C-terminal deletion mutant (GADDeltaC9). Size exclusion 
chromatography revealed that the full-length GAD formed complexes of about 580 
kDa and 300 kDa in the absence of Ca2+/CaM, whereas in the presence of Ca2+/CaM 
all complexes shifted to approximately 680 kDa. With deletion of 9 amino acids 
from the C-terminus (KKKKTNRVC(500)), the ability to bind CaM in the presence of 
Ca2+, and to purify it by CaM-affinity chromatography was retained, but the 
formation of GAD complexes larger than 340 kDa and enzyme activation by Ca2+/CaM 
were completely abolished. Hence, responsiveness to Ca2+/CaM is associated with 
the formation of protein complexes of 680 kDa, and requires some or all of the 
nine C-terminal amino acid residues. We suggest that evolution of plant GAD from 
a bacterial ancestral enzyme involved the formation of higher molecular weight 
complexes required for activation by Ca2+/CaM.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2006.02.007
PMID: 16603423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(4):319-34. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624040-00003.

The burden of age-related macular degeneration.
