forced expiratory volume in 1 second 25% of predicted or less; LVRS/LTX group). 
Lung-volume reduction surgery was performed by means of video-assisted, 
bilateral stapled resection of target areas. During the same period, 31 patients 
underwent primary LTX for end-stage emphysema (LTX group). Spirometry, 
plethysmography, carbon monoxide diffusing capacity, 6-minute walking distance, 
and dyspnea score were assessed preoperatively and at predetermined times after 
operation. Survival analysis was performed by use of the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: All the functional variables significantly improved after LVRS and 
peaked within the first year. Subjective improvement was observed for up to 5 
years after LVRS, and 53% (31 of 58) of the patients were still alive and had 
not undergone transplantation after a median follow-up of 44 months. Fourteen 
percent (8 of 58) of the patients underwent secondary LTX because of progressive 
worsening of the respiratory function after a median bridging time between LVRS 
and LTX of 33 months. Postoperative recovery after transplantation and median 
survival time were comparable between the 8 patients of the LVRS/LTX group and 
the 31 patients of the LTX group (96.5 months versus 118.5 months, p = 0.9).
CONCLUSIONS: Lung-volume reduction surgery can significantly improve symptoms 
and lung function in selected patients who are initially potential candidates 
for LTX. Lung-volume reduction surgery can allow the postponement of LTX for up 
to 4 to 5 years and does not impair the chances for a subsequent successful LTX.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.004
PMID: 16798216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):214-8; discussion 219. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.051.

Thoracoscopic lobectomy: a safe and effective strategy for patients receiving 
induction therapy for non-small cell lung cancer.

Petersen RP(1), Pham D, Toloza EM, Burfeind WR, Harpole DH Jr, Hanish SI, 
D'Amico TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 
27710, USA.

BACKGROUND: Thoracoscopic lobectomy is an accepted oncologic approach for early 
stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We conducted a retrospective study of 
patients who underwent lobectomy after induction therapy to determine the 
feasibility of thoracoscopic lobectomy compared with conventional thoracotomy 
lobectomy.
METHODS: The outcomes of 97 consecutive patients with NSCLC who received 
induction therapy followed by lobectomy from 1996 to 2005 were reviewed. Outcome 
variables analyzed included complete resection, chest tube duration, length of 
hospitalization, 30-day mortality, hemorrhage, pneumonia, respiratory failure, 
and other major complications. The Student t test and chi2 or RxC contingency 
tables were used to compare continuous and categoric variables, respectively.
RESULTS: Lobectomy was performed by thoracotomy in 85 patients and 
thoracoscopically in 12 patients (1 conversion), with complete resection in all 
patients. All patients received induction chemotherapy, and 74 (76%) received 
induction radiotherapy as well: 66 of 85 (78%) in the thoracotomy group and 8 of 
12 (67%) in the thoracoscopy group. The overall median survival was 2.3 years, 
with no difference between the groups. Patients undergoing a thoracoscopic 
lobectomy had a shorter median hospital stay (3.5 vs 5 days, p = 0.0024) and 
chest tube duration (2 vs 4 days, p < 0.001). There were no significant 
differences in 30-day mortality, hemorrhage, pneumonia, or respiratory failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Thoracoscopic lobectomy is a feasible approach for selected 
patients undergoing resection after induction therapy, and is associated with 
shorter hospital stay and chest tube duration. Long-term follow-up of survival 
will determine the role of thoracoscopic lobectomy in the management of patients 
after induction therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.051
PMID: 16798217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):220-6. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.032.

Lung cancer staging: a case for a new T definition.

Mulligan CR(1), Meram AD, Proctor CD, Wu H, Zhu K, Marrogi AJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, and United States 
Military Cancer Institute, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC 
20307-5001, USA. charles.mulligan@na.amedd.army.mil

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to determine a more refined T 
definition for lung cancer staging on the basis of clinical outcomes.
METHODS: The Walter Reed Army Medical Center Tumor Registry and the Thoracic 
Surgery Tumor Clinic files were queried for lung cancers diagnosed from 1990 to 
2000. Cox regression analysis and Kaplan-Meier survival curves for tumor size 
were used to analyze the impact of size on survival and relative risk, and then 
used to redefine T. Using the new T definition, the cohort was restaged, and the 
two staging system survivals were compared using Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: Tumor size was documented in 439 males and 226 females. Forty-two 
tumors were 1.0 cm or less, 133 were between 1.01 and 2.0 cm, 133 were between 
2.01 and 3.0 cm, 91 were between 3.01 and 4.0, 96 were between 4.01 and 5.0, and 
166 were greater than 5.0 cm. A survival advantage was noted for smaller 
lesions, with 5-year survivals of 48.6%, 45.9%, 26.6%, 27.0%, 14.4%, and 11.6%, 
respectively. Cox regression analysis revealed increased risk at 2.0 cm (hazards 
ratio, 2.014; 95% confidence interval, 1.24 to 3.26), 4.0 cm (hazards ratio, 
2.51; 95% confidence interval, 1.53 to 4.09), and 5.0 cm (hazards ratio, 3.14; 
95% confidence interval, 1.96 to 5.02). After redefining T, the new staging 
system showed a better 5-year survival in each stage.
CONCLUSIONS: Lung cancer tumor size criteria should be changed to include T1 
tumors 2.0 cm and less; T2 tumors between 2.0 and 4.0 cm or pleural invasion of 
T1 tumor; T3 tumors greater than 4.0 cm or pleural invasion of T2 tumors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.032
PMID: 16798218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):227-31. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.061.

Pneumonectomy after high-dose radiation and concurrent chemotherapy for nonsmall 
cell lung cancer.

Daly BD(1), Fernando HC, Ketchedjian A, Dipetrillo TA, Kachnic LA, Morelli DM, 
Shemin RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Boston Medical Center and Boston 
University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02118, USA. 
benedict.daly@bmc.org

BACKGROUND: Pneumonectomy after high-dose radiotherapy and concurrent 
chemotherapy has been associated with high operative mortality. Therefore, most 
induction protocols limit radiation to 5,000 cGy or less. Additionally, the 
safety of right pneumonectomy after induction therapy has been questioned. The 
feasibility of pneumonectomy after high-dose radiotherapy and concurrent 
chemotherapy is reviewed.
METHODS: From 1990 to 2005, 30 patients with locally advanced nonsmall-cell lung 
cancer underwent pneumonectomy after 5,940 cGy of radiation and two cycles of 
etoposide and cisplatin. To minimize postpneumonectomy pulmonary edema, patients 
were treated with a protocol that included fluid restriction and 48 hours of 
mechanical ventilation. Morbidity, mortality, and survival were examined.
RESULTS: There were 18 right and 12 left pneumonectomies. Death occurred in 4 
patients (13.3%) but in only 1 (5.6%) after right pneumonectomy. Causes of death 
included aspiration, bronchopleural fistula, pneumonia, and massive pulmonary 
embolus. Major morbidity occurred in 5 (pneumonia in 2 and aspiration in 3). 
Median hospital stay was 9 days (range, 2 to 45), and intensive care unit stay 
was 2 days (range, 2 to 35). Median overall survival was 22 months with a 5-year 
survival of 33%. Patients surviving operation had a median survival of 33 months 
and a 5-year survival of 38%.
CONCLUSIONS: The mortality rate after pneumonectomy after high-dose radiation 
and concurrent chemotherapy is relatively high but results in significant 
survival. The mortality rate is not increased after right-sided operations. 
Pneumonectomy should continue to be offered to patients with advanced 
locoregional disease after induction high-dose radiotherapy and concurrent 
chemotherapy when a complete resection cannot be carried out with a lesser 
procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.061
PMID: 16798219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):243-8. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.01.049.

Expression of nuclear factor-kappaB and its clinical significance in 
nonsmall-cell lung cancer.

Zhang Z(1), Ma J, Li N, Sun N, Wang C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Lung Cancer, Affiliated Cancer Hospital, Tian Jin Medical 
University, Tian Jin City, China.

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):248.

BACKGROUND: It has been known that transcription factor nuclear factor 
(NF)-kappaB plays an important role in cell proliferation and oncogenesis. The 
aims of this study were to evaluate expression levels of NF-kappaB in 
nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and to elucidate its clinical significance and 
prognostic value for patients with NSCLC.
METHODS: Using 45 tumor tissue specimens from 45 patients with NSCLC who 
underwent surgery, we investigated the expression of NF-kappaB using Western 
blotting analysis. Apoptotic rate of NSCLC cells with different expression of 
NF-kappaB was determined by TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated 
dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling) assay. Paraffin-embedded tissue blocks from 71 
consecutive patients with NSCLC were obtained for immunohistochemical staining.
RESULTS: The expression level of NF-kappaB in poorly or moderately 
differentiated lung cancer cells was higher than that in well-differentiated 
ones (p = 0.001). The apoptotic rate was lower for lung cancer cells with higher 
NF-kappaB expression than for those with lower NF-kappaB expression (p = 
0.0238). Furthermore, expression of NF-kappaB was correlated with caspase-3, 
cyclooxygenase-2, and p53 expression in lung cancer cells that were examined. 
Most NSCLC cells showed nuclear staining pattern and the nuclear positive rate 
was 67.6% (48 of 71 specimens). Immunohistochemical NF-kappaB expression in 
patients with NSCLC was an independent prognostic factor for overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that expression of NF-kappaB may 
correlate with lung cancer differentiation. Overexpression of NF-kappaB inhibits 
tumor cell apoptosis and indicates an unfavorable prognosis for overall survival 
in some patients with NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.01.049
PMID: 16798222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):254-60. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.027.

Prediction of prognosis and surgical indications for pulmonary metastasectomy 
from colorectal cancer.

Iizasa T(1), Suzuki M, Yoshida S, Motohashi S, Yasufuku K, Iyoda A, Shibuya K, 
Hiroshima K, Nakatani Y, Fujisawa T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba 
University, Inohana, Chiba, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Treatment of pulmonary metastases from colorectal cancer by excision 
has increased rapidly, but reports on indications and prognostic factors are 
inconsistent. We sought to identify poor prognostic factors preoperatively and 
to retrospectively evaluate preoperative clinical indications for surgery.
METHODS: A total of 75 patients with colorectal cancer had pulmonary metastases 
excised from 1986 to 2003. Tumor size, number, laterality, hilar or mediastinal 
lymphadenopathy, and carcinoembryonic antigen level were possible risk factors 
for metastatic tumors, with primary site of colorectal tumor, disease-free 
interval, and hepatectomy for liver metastasis possible risk factors for primary 
tumors. Prognostic factors in univariate and multivariate analyses also included 
age and sex.
RESULTS: Five-year survival rates were 41.3% after pulmonary excision and 73.1% 
after primary colorectal resection. Three factors identified as significant by 
univariate log-rank test for overall survival after pulmonary resection were 
carcinoembryonic antigen (p < 0.0001), tumor laterality (p = 0.0205), and number 
of pulmonary metastases (p = 0.0028). Multivariate analysis found that 
carcinoembryonic antigen, tumor number, tumor size, and patient's age were also 
independent prognostic factors. In contrast, carcinoembryonic antigen, number of 
metastases, and disease-free interval predicted prognosis after primary 
colorectal resection. Prior hepatectomy for metastases did not influence 
prognosis after pulmonary metastasectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated carcinoembryonic antigen level and multiple metastases are 
preoperative predictors of poor prognosis after resection of pulmonary 
metastases from colorectal cancer. Survival rate is sufficient to justify 
pulmonary metastasectomy if there is no local or distant metastatic lesion other 
than in the liver; if needed, sequential pulmonary and hepatic metastasectomy 
can be performed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.02.027
PMID: 16798225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):268-72; discussion 272-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.01.065.

Uncommon primary tracheal tumors.

Gaissert HA(1), Grillo HC, Shadmehr MB, Wright CD, Gokhale M, Wain JC, Mathisen 
DJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery and Center for Clinical Effectiveness in 
Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA. hgaissert@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Primary tracheal tumors other than adenoid cystic or squamous cell 
carcinoma are uncommon and have a heterogeneous histologic appearance. The 
experience regarding their treatment and long-term outcome is limited, and 
alternatives to segmental tracheal resection, including endoscopic treatment or 
radiation, continue to be explored.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed of uncommon tracheal tumors 
among 360 primary tracheal tumors seen over 40 years, excluding adenoid cystic 
and squamous cell carcinoma.
RESULTS: Of 90 patients, 34 (38%) had benign tumors and 56 malignant: 11 
carcinoid tumors, 14 mucoepidermoid carcinomas, 13 sarcomas, 15 nonsquamous 
bronchogenic carcinomas, 2 lymphomas, and 1 melanoma. Three patients had a 
second tracheal malignancy. Dyspnea was the most common symptom in benign tumors 
and hemoptysis in malignant tumors. Twelve patients did not undergo tracheal 
resection (13.3%) and 1 died before resection. Surgical therapy in 77 patients 
(85%) consisted of laryngectomy in 3, laryngotracheal resection in 9, tracheal 
resection in 46, and carinal resection in 19. Hospital mortality was 2.6% (2 of 
77 patients) and major complications occurred in 16% (12 of 77 patients). Mean 
follow-up was 9.7 years. After resection, survival at 10 years was 94% for 
benign and 83% for carcinoid tumors, and at 5 years survival was 60% for 
bronchogenic carcinoma, 100% for mucoepidermoid tumors, and 78% for sarcomas. 
Patients with lymphomas and melanoma are alive more than 8 years after 
resection. Ten patients experienced recurrence (14%).
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical resection of uncommon primary tracheal tumors alleviates 
airway obstruction, is curative in patients with benign or slow-growing 
malignant lesions, and prolongs survival in highly malignant lesions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.01.065
PMID: 16798228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Ann Thorac Surg. 2006 Jul;82(1):279-86; discussion 286-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.01.052.

Postpneumonectomy empyema: results after the Clagett procedure.

Zaheer S(1), Allen MS, Cassivi SD, Nichols FC 3rd, Johnson CH, Deschamps C, 
Pairolero PC.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Thoracic Surgery, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to analyze our experience with the 
management of patients with postpneumonectomy empyema treated by the Clagett 
procedure.
METHODS: Data were analyzed from our prospective database on 84 consecutive 
patients with postpneumonectomy empyema from July 1988 to June 2004.
RESULTS: There were 73 men and 11 women. Median age was 62 years (range, 35 to 
77). Indications for pneumonectomy were malignancy in 77 patients and benign 
disease in 7. The pneumonectomy was done at our institution in 43 patients and 
elsewhere in 41. A right pneumonectomy was performed in 66 patients and a left 
in 18. All patients were managed with the Clagett procedure consisting of open 
pleural drainage, serial operative debridements, and eventual chest closure 
after filling the pleural cavity with antibiotic solution. A bronchopleural 
fistula was present in 55 patients and was closed in all. A muscle flap was used 
to reinforce the bronchial stump in 60 patients (71%), 51 with a bronchopleural 
fistula, and 9 without. Operative mortality was 7.1%. Median follow-up was 1.5 
years (range, 0 to 22). Overall, 81% of patients had a healed chest wall without 
evidence of recurrent infection. The bronchopleural fistula remained closed in 
all patients. Median overall survival was 3.4 years with a 5-year survival of 
44.5%. Age less than 65 years and an interval between pneumonectomy and empyema 
of greater than 15 weeks were independent predictors of improved long-term 
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The Clagett procedure remains safe and successful in the majority 
of patients with postpneumonectomy empyema. Age less than 65 years and a long 
interval between pneumonectomy and empyema are important determinants of 
outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.01.052
PMID: 16798230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2006 Jul;132(1):20-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.01.043.

Risk-corrected impact of mechanical versus bioprosthetic valves on long-term 
mortality after aortic valve replacement.

Lund O(1), Bland M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, United Kingdom. 
olelund@btinternet.com

OBJECTIVE: Choice of a mechanical or biologic valve in aortic valve replacement 
remains controversial and rotates around different complications with different 
time-related incidence rates. Because serious complications will always "spill 
over" into mortality, our aim was to perform a meta-analysis on overall 
mortality after aortic valve replacement from series with a maximum follow-up of 
at least 10 years to determine the age- and risk factor-corrected impact of 
currently available mechanical versus stented bioprosthetic valves.
METHODS: Following a formal study protocol, we performed a dedicated literature 
search of publications during 1989 to 2004 and included articles on adult aortic 
valve replacement with a mechanical or stented bioprosthetic valve if age, 
mortality statistics, and prevalences of well-known risk factors could be 
extracted. We used standard and robust regression analyses of the case series 
data with valve type as a fixed variable.
RESULTS: We could include 32 articles with 15 mechanical and 23 biologic valve 
series totaling 17,439 patients and 101,819 patient-years. The mechanical and 
biologic valve series differed in regard to mean age (58 vs 69 years), mean 
follow-up (6.4 vs 5.3 years), coronary artery bypass grafting (16% vs 34%), 
endocarditis (7% vs 2%), and overall death rate (3.99 vs 6.33 %/patient-year). 
Mean age of the valve series was directly related to death rate with no 
interaction with valve type. Death rate corrected for age, New York Heart 
Association classes III and IV, aortic regurgitation, and coronary artery bypass 
grafting left valve type with no effect. Included articles that abided by 
current guidelines and compared a mechanical and biologic valve found no 
differences in rates of thromboembolism.
CONCLUSION: There was no difference in risk factor-corrected overall death rate 
between mechanical or bioprosthetic aortic valves irrespective of age. Choice of 
prosthetic valve should therefore not be rigorously based on age alone. Risk of 
bioprosthetic valve degeneration in young and middle-aged patients and in the 
elderly and old with a long life expectancy would be an important factor because 
risk of stroke may primarily be related to patient factors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.01.043
PMID: 16798297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Scand J Infect Dis. 2006;38(6-7):497-505. doi: 10.1080/00365540500532803.

Cost-effectiveness of peginterferon alfa-2b in combination with ribavirin as 
initial treatment for chronic hepatitis C in Sweden.

Bernfort L(1), Sennfält K, Reichard O.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medical Technology Assessment, University of Linköping, Stockholm, 
Sweden. lars.benfort@ihs.liu.se

The aim of the study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of peginterferon 
alfa-2b (pegIFN) compared to interferon alfa-2b (IFN), both in combination with 
ribavirin, as initial therapy for chronic hepatitis C in Sweden. A computer 
based Markov model describing the natural course of chronic hepatitis C was used 
to assess costs and quality-adjusted life-y (QALY) for the treatment strategies. 
Study population was a cohort of hepatitis C patients from the age of 43 y until 
death. Natural history and response data were obtained from the literature and 
from Swedish clinical experts. Costs were obtained from different health care 
providers in Sweden and based on Swedish clinical practice. In our base case 
analysis for genotype 1 patients, pegIFN plus ribavirin therapy generated 0.29 
incremental QALYs and was cost saving (dominant strategy). Corresponding results 
for genotype 2/3 patients were 0.09 QALYs at an incremental cost of 941 euros 
(10,500 euros/QALY). A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to study 
the stability of our results. From the results we conclude that for genotype 1 
patients treatment with pegIFN and ribavirin increased quality-adjusted life 
expectancy and was cost-effective as initial therapy for hepatitis C. The 
cost-effectiveness for patients infected with genotype 2/3 was less obvious.

DOI: 10.1080/00365540500532803
PMID: 16798701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Apr;17(2):193-8. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl090. Epub
2006  Jun 23.

Life-years-gained from population risk factor changes and modern cardiology 
treatments in Ireland.

Kabir Z(1), Bennett K, Shelley E, Unal B, Critchley J, Feely J, Capewell S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Trinity College & St. James's 
Hospital Dublin, Ireland. kabirzin@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality rates in Ireland have halved 
since the mid-1980s, and adult life expectancy has also steadily improved. This 
study estimated the life-years-gained by CHD treatments and by changes in 
cardiovascular risk factor levels.
METHODS: A previously validated Irish IMPACT CHD mortality model was used to 
integrate large amounts of data on (i) patient numbers, (ii) treatment uptake, 
(iii) risk factor trends, (iv) effectiveness of cardiology treatments and risk 
factor reductions, and (v) median survival in patients with and without CHD, all 
stratified by age and sex. Results were tested in rigorous sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: There were 3763 fewer CHD deaths than expected in 2000 compared with 
the base year, 1985. This resulted in approximately 44,060 life-years-gained 
among people aged 25-84. Specific medical and surgical treatments given in 2000 
for CHD patients together gained approximately 14,505 life-years. Population 
changes in cholesterol and smoking levels accounted for some 32,705 
life-years-gained, 66% from reductions in cholesterol alone. Adverse changes in 
obesity and diabetes resulted in a loss of approximately 3670 life-years.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of modern cardiology treatments in Ireland from 1985 to 2000 
gained many thousands of life-years. However, twice as many life-years were 
generated by relatively modest reductions in major risk factors. Effective 
policies, such as the promotion of healthy diets, and weight reduction, together 
with the recent nationwide workplace smoking ban, will be essential to maintain 
and further enhance health gain.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl090
PMID: 16798782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Am J Epidemiol. 2006 Sep 1;164(5):487-96. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwj224. Epub 2006
Jun  23.

Pragmatic randomized trial evaluating the clinical and economic effectiveness of 
acupuncture for chronic low back pain.

Witt CM(1), Jena S, Selim D, Brinkhaus B, Reinhold T, Wruck K, Liecker B, Linde 
K, Wegscheider K, Willich SN.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Medicine, Epidemiology, and Health Economics, Charité 
University Medical Center, Berlin, Germany. claudia.witt@charite.de

In a randomized controlled trial plus a nonrandomized cohort, the authors 
investigated the effectiveness and costs of acupuncture in addition to routine 
care in the treatment of chronic low back pain and assessed whether the effects 
of acupuncture differed in randomized and nonrandomized patients. In 2001, 
German patients with chronic low back pain were allocated to an acupuncture 
group or a no-acupuncture control group. Persons who did not consent to 
randomization were included in a nonrandomized acupuncture group. All patients 
were allowed to receive routine medical care in addition to study treatment. 
Back function (Hannover Functional Ability Questionnaire), pain, and quality of 
life were assessed at baseline and after 3 and 6 months, and cost-effectiveness 
was analyzed. Of 11,630 patients (mean age=52.9 years (standard deviation, 
13.7); 59% female), 1,549 were randomized to the acupuncture group and 1,544 to 
the control group; 8,537 were included in the nonrandomized acupuncture group. 
At 3 months, back function improved by 12.1 (standard error (SE), 0.4) to 74.5 
(SE, 0.4) points in the acupuncture group and by 2.7 (SE, 0.4) to 65.1 (SE, 0.4) 
points among controls (difference=9.4 points (95% confidence interval 8.3, 
10.5); p<0.001). Nonrandomized patients had more severe symptoms at baseline and 
showed improvements in back function similar to those seen in randomized 
patients. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was euro10,526 (euros) per 
quality-adjusted life year. Acupuncture plus routine care was associated with 
marked clinical improvements in these patients and was relatively 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwj224
PMID: 16798792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Fam Pract. 2006 Aug;23(4):393-406. doi: 10.1093/fampra/cml032. Epub 2006 Jun
23.

Case finding for hepatitis C in primary care: a cost utility analysis.

Thompson Coon J(1), Castelnuovo E, Pitt M, Cramp M, Siebert U, Stein K.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group, Peninsula Medical School, University 
of Exeter, Noy Scott House, Barrack Road, Exeter, EX2 5DW, UK. 
Joanna.Thompson-Coon@pentag.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis C is an important public health problem. The need for more 
intensified action to identify those infected with the virus has been 
recognized. Primary care is an important setting for case finding.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost utility of case finding for hepatitis C in 
primary care, specifically amongst former injecting drug users (IDUs).
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to investigate the impact of case finding 
and treatment on progression of hepatitis C (HCV) in a hypothetical cohort of 
1000 former IDUs. Comparison was made with a similar cohort in which no 
systematic case finding was implemented but spontaneous presentation for testing 
was allowed. Two scenarios were explored. The testing protocol utilized ELISA 
and PCR tests. Those eligible for treatment received combination therapy with 
pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Parameter estimates were obtained from 
literature searches and experts in the field.
RESULTS: Few estimates of the uptake of HCV testing in primary care are 
available. Cost utility was estimated at around 16,000 pounds sterling/QALY for 
both scenarios. At a willingness to pay of 30,000 pounds sterling/QALY, there is 
approximately a 75% probability that the initiatives would be cost-effective. 
Choices regarding the utility data, discounting and the rates of 
spontaneous/re-presentation outside of a case-finding programme appear to be 
important areas of uncertainty in this model.
CONCLUSION: Case finding for HCV in primary care is likely to be considered 
cost-effective but substantial uncertainties remain. Further research is needed 
on different approaches to case finding in primary care.

DOI: 10.1093/fampra/cml032
PMID: 16799165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Osteoporos Int. 2006 Oct;17(10):1494-500. doi: 10.1007/s00198-006-0131-0.
Epub  2006 Jun 24.

Comparative study of axial and femoral bone mineral density and parameters of 
mandibular bone quality in patients receiving dental implants.

Amorim MA(1), Takayama L, Jorgetti V, Pereira RM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology (Bone Mineral Metabolism Laboratory), University of 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Corrected and republished in
    Osteoporos Int. 2007 May;18(5):703-9.

Comment in
    Osteoporos Int. 2007 Jan;18(1):121-2.

INTRODUCTION: In view of the increase in the life expectancy of humans and in 
edentulism of the population above 50 years of age, in which the prevalence of 
osteoporosis is also higher, it is fundamental to better understand the effects 
of systemic bone mass loss on the healing process of dental implants and to 
determine the quality of the bone that surrounds them. The objective of the 
present study was to compare systemic osteoporosis (axial and femoral) and 
parameters of mandibular bone quality, and to evaluate osseointegration in 
postmenopausal women receiving dental implants.
METHODS: The sample consisted of 39 women aged 48-70 years, 19 with a 
densitometric diagnosis of osteoporosis in the lumbar spine and femoral neck and 
20 controls with a normal densitometric diagnosis. Bone mineral density was 
measured in the patients and controls by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. 
Eighty-two osseointegrated dental implants were placed in the mandible, 39 of 
them in the osteoporosis group and 43 in the control group. Mandibular bone 
quality was evaluated by classifying mandibular inferior cortical and trabecular 
bone on panoramic radiographs and by histomorphometric analysis of a mandibular 
bone biopsy. Osseointegration was analyzed after 9 months.
RESULTS: No significant difference was observed between patients with 
osteoporosis and controls when comparing individuals with a normal cortex and 
those with a severely or moderately eroded cortex determined on panoramic 
radiographs. Histomorphometric analysis also revealed no difference in the 
parameters of bone formation or resorption between the two groups. Implant 
failure was observed in only one case.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that there is no association between systemic 
osteoporosis (axial and femur) and parameters of poor mandibular bone quality. 
The loss of one implant (1.2%) is compatible with the literature and cannot be 
attributed to systemic osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-006-0131-0
PMID: 16799754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24 Suppl 1:21-34. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200624001-00003.

Cost-effectiveness of rosiglitazone combination therapy for the treatment of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus in the UK.

Beale S(1), Bagust A, Shearer AT, Martin A, Hulme L.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium, University of York, Heslington, UK. 
sjb29@york.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(9):927-9; author reply 929-35.

INTRODUCTION: Recent clinical trial results have demonstrated that, in patients 
with type 2 diabetes, second-line treatment of rosiglitazone in combination with 
metformin can lead to significant improvements in the control of fasting plasma 
glucose/ glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) after the failure of metformin 
monotherapy. Our objective was to assess the cost-effectiveness of the use of 
rosiglitazone in combination with metformin in overweight and obese patients 
with type 2 diabetes in the UK, failing to maintain glycaemic control with 
metformin monotherapy compared with conventional care using metformin in 
combination with sulfonylurea.
METHODS: The Diabetes Decision Analysis of Cost--type 2 (DiDACT) model, an 
established long-term economic model of type 2 diabetes, which projects the 
relationship between treatment and HbA1c over extended periods, was used to 
determine the health outcomes and economic impact for matched age and sex 
cohorts of 1000 patients with type 2 diabetes. The perspective was that of the 
UK National Health Service and all costs were in UK pounds sterling.
RESULTS: Treatment with rosiglitazone in combination with metformin provides 
better glycaemic control over the remaining lifetime of patients than metformin 
and sulfonylurea combination therapy. Patients treated with rosiglitazone 
combination therapy were predicted to have a longer life expectancy, gaining 123 
and 140 additional life years per 1000 patients in the obese and overweight 
cohorts, respectively. Improvements in morbidity and a delay in the start of 
insulin therapy resulted in a projected improvement in quality of life. These 
effects combine with projected improved survival to yield 131 and 209 additional 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) per 1000 patients in the obese and 
overweight cohorts, respectively. Discounted incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were estimated at pounds 16,700 per QALY gained for the obese cohort and 
pounds 11,600 per QALY gained for the overweight cohort.
CONCLUSION: The model predicts that rosiglitazone in combination with metformin 
is a cost-effective treatment in the UK for both obese and overweight patients 
failing on metformin monotherapy, compared with conventional therapy using 
metformin in combination with sulfonylurea.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624001-00003
PMID: 16800160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24 Suppl 1:35-48. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200624001-00004.

Cost-effectiveness of rosiglitazone oral combination for the treatment of type 2 
diabetes in Germany.

Shearer AT(1), Bagust A, Liebl A, Schoeffski O, Goertz A.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium, University of York, Heslington, UK. 
as57@york.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(9):927-9; author reply 929-35.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: To assess the cost-effectiveness of rosiglitazone in 
combination with other oral agents for the treatment of overweight and obese 
patients with type 2 diabetes in Germany.
METHODS: The Diabetes Decision Analysis of Cost--type 2 model was adapted for 
clinical practice and healthcare financing rules in Germany. The model was 
calibrated using Cost of Diabetes in Europe Type 2 study data and national 
statistics. The perspective is that of the sickness funds, and includes all 
hospital inpatient, ambulatory, rehabilitation, and diabetes therapy, other 
medications, and sickness leave. The model simulates lifetime treatment 
histories and associated health outcomes and costs for age and sex-matched 
cohorts of 1000 overweight and obese patients. The measures of effectiveness 
used in the analysis were life-years and quality adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The combination therapy of rosiglitazone with metformin or sulfonylurea 
produces better glycaemic control than conventional care of metformin with 
sulfonylurea and insulin in most patients, extends the viability of oral therapy 
before requiring insulin, and typically leads to lifetime cost increases across 
all treatment types. The improvements in glycaemic control lead to survival 
gains and reductions in morbidity, because of the reduced risk of developing or 
progressing to later stages of complications. Improvements in morbidity and 
mortality generate additional QALYs. Costs and health outcomes combine to yield 
favourable incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, which fall below international 
'willingness-to-pay' thresholds in the medium term.
CONCLUSION: The model predicts that rosiglitazone in combination with other oral 
agents is a cost-effective intervention for the treatment of normal weight, 
overweight and obese patients with type 2 diabetes when compared with 
conventional care in Germany.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624001-00004
PMID: 16800161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24 Suppl 1:49-59. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200624001-00005.

Lifetime health consequences and cost-effectiveness of rosiglitazone in 
combination with metformin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in Spain.

Shearer AT(1), Bagust A, Ampudia-Blasco FJ, Martínez-Lage Alvarez B, Pérez 
Escolano I, París G.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium, University of York, Heslington, UK. 
as57@york.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(9):927-9; author reply 929-35.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the lifetime diabetes health consequences and 
cost-effectiveness in Spain of rosiglitazone in combination with metformin for 
the treatment of type 2 diabetes in overweight and obese patients failing to 
maintain glycaemic control with metformin monotherapy compared with conventional 
care of metformin in combination with either sulfonylureas or bedtime insulin.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The Diabetes Decision Analysis of Cost--Type 2 was 
adapted for clinical practice and healthcare funding in Spain, and was 
calibrated with Spanish epidemiological, healthcare resource use and cost data, 
taking the perspective of the Spanish National Health System. The model 
simulates lifetime treatment histories, complications and consequences of type 2 
diabetes, and associated health outcomes and costs for age and sex-matched 
cohorts of 1000 overweight and obese patients. The primary health outcome 
measures compared are glycaemic control, time to insulin, incidence and 
prevalence of coronary heart disease, stroke, clinical nephropathy, ulceration 
and amputation, and severe visual loss, and incremental life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Rosiglitazone in combination with metformin produces better glycaemic 
control than conventional care of metformin in combination with either 
sulfonylureas or bedtime insulin in most patients, and extends the viability of 
combination therapy by between 6 and 13 years before requiring insulin. 
Rosiglitazone patients have a longer life expectancy, gaining between 106 and 
175 additional life-years per 1000 patients, experience fewer episodes of 
coronary disease and clinical nephropathy, and live for longer periods free of 
complications. The improvements in morbidity and mortality are projected to 
yield between 134 and 238 additional QALY per 1000 patients over their lifetime. 
Discounted incremental cost-effectiveness ratios range from euro 9406 to euro 
23,514 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: The model predicts that rosiglitazone in combination with metformin 
is a cost-effective intervention for the treatment of both overweight and obese 
patients with type 2 diabetes when compared with conventional care in Spain.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624001-00005
PMID: 16800162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Biochemistry. 2006 Jul 4;45(26):8067-78. doi: 10.1021/bi052149z.

Probing the secondary structure of expansion segment ES6 in 18S ribosomal RNA.

Alkemar G(1), Nygård O.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Södertörns högskola, S-141 04 Huddinge, Sweden.

Expansion segment ES6 in 18S ribosomal RNA is, unlike many other expansion 
segments, present in all eukaryotes. The available data suggest that ES6 is 
located on the surface of the small ribosomal subunit. Here we have analyzed the 
secondary structure of the complete ES6 sequence in intact ribosomes from three 
eukaryotes, wheat, yeast, and mouse, representing different eukaryotic kingdoms. 
The availability of the ES6 sequence for modification and cleavage by structure 
sensitive chemicals and enzymatic reagents was analyzed by primer extension and 
gel electrophoresis on an ABI 377 automated DNA sequencer. The experimental 
results were used to restrict the number of possible secondary structure models 
of ES6 generated by the folding software MFOLD. The modification data obtained 
from the three experimental organisms were very similar despite the sequence 
variation. Consequently, similar secondary structure models were obtained for 
the ES6 sequence in wheat, yeast, and mouse ribosomes. A comparison of sequence 
data from more than 6000 eukaryotes showed that similar structural elements 
could also be formed in other organisms. The comparative analysis also showed 
that the extent of compensatory base changes in the suggested helices was low. 
The in situ structure analysis was complemented by a secondary structure 
analysis of wheat ES6 transcribed and folded in vitro. The obtained modification 
data indicate that the secondary structure of the in vitro transcribed sequence 
differs from that observed in the intact ribosome. These results suggest that 
chaperones, ribosomal proteins, and/or tertiary rRNA interactions could be 
involved in the in vivo folding of ES6.

DOI: 10.1021/bi052149z
PMID: 16800631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. World J Surg Oncol. 2006 Jun 26;4:35. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-4-35.

Liver metastases of neuroendocrine tumours; early reduction of tumour load to 
improve life expectancy.

Veenendaal LM(1), Borel Rinkes IH, Lips CJ, van Hillegersberg R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Medical Center Utrecht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Neuroendocrine tumours frequently metastasize to the liver. Although 
generally slowly progressing, hepatic metastases are the major cause of 
carcinoid syndrome and ultimately lead to liver dysfunction, cardiac 
insufficiency and finally death.
METHODS: A literature review was performed to define the optimal treatment 
strategy and work-up in patients with neuroendocrine hepatic metastases. Based 
on this, an algorithm for the management of these patients was established.
RESULTS: Platelet serotonin and chromogranin A are useful biomarkers for 
detection and follow-up of neuroendocrine tumour. Helical computed tomography 
and somatostatin receptor scintigraphy are the most sensitive diagnostic 
modalities. Surgical debulking is an accepted approach for reducing hormonal 
symptoms and to establish better conditions for medical treatment, but is 
frequently impossible due to the extent of disease. A novel approach is the 
local ablation of tumour by thermal coagulation using therapies such as 
radiofrequency ablation (RFA) or laser induced thermotherapy (LITT). These 
techniques preserve normal liver tissue. There is a tendency to destroy 
metastases early in the course of disease, thereby postponing or eliminating the 
surgically untreatable stage. This can be combined with postoperative 
radioactive octreotide to eliminate small multiple metastases. In patients with 
extensive metastases who are not suitable for local destruction, systemic 
therapy by octreotide, 131I-MIBG treatment or targeted chemo- and radiotherapy 
should be attempted. A final option for selective patients is orthotopic liver 
transplantation.
CONCLUSION: Treatment for patients with neuroendocrine hepatic metastases must 
be tailored for each individual patient. When local ablative therapies are used 
early in the course of the disease, the occurrence of carcinoid syndrome with 
end stage hepatic disease can be postponed or prevented.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-4-35
PMCID: PMC1524962
PMID: 16800893


983. Actas Dermosifiliogr. 2006 May;97(4):247-52. doi:
10.1016/s0001-7310(06)73392-0.

[Prognosis for cutaneous melanoma according to surgical department: comparative 
study at a tertiary care hospital].

[Article in Spanish]

Avilés JA(1), Lázaro P.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Dermatología, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, 
Madrid, España. dermaviles@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Surgical treatment of melanoma is performed by dermatologists and 
general or plastic surgeons. It is not known whether the type of specialist 
treating the melanoma results in a different prognosis for these patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective study was carried out on the 
epidemiological, clinical/histological and evolutional characteristics of all 
patients diagnosed with melanoma at Hospital Gregorio Marañón over a 10-year 
period (1994-2003). The differences by hospital department where the patients 
were treated (dermatology, general surgery and plastic surgery) were noted.
RESULTS: Over 90 % of the patients with melanoma were treated by the Dermatology 
Department. The thickness of the tumors and the presence of histologic 
ulceration were significantly higher in the melanomas treated by general and 
plastic surgeons (p <0.05). The differences in overall average survival (105, 55 
and 77 months) and disease-free time (88, 24 and 51.3 months) in the melanomas 
operated on by dermatologists, general surgeons and plastic surgeons, 
respectively, were significant (p <0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms that there are significant differences in the 
clinical and histological characteristics and the life prognosis of patients 
with cutaneous melanoma treated by different specialists. The melanomas treated 
by general or plastic surgeons have usually been developing for a longer time, 
and therefore are thicker and more often ulcerated than those treated by 
dermatologists, resulting in a lower survival period. With appropriate medical 
and surgical training, dermatologists are the most suitable specialists for 
early diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-7310(06)73392-0
PMID: 16801017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Support Care Cancer. 2006 Oct;14(10):1030-7. doi: 10.1007/s00520-006-0062-5.
 Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Clinical and economic impact of epoetin in adjuvant-chemotherapy for breast 
cancer.

Fagnoni P(1), Limat S, Chaigneau L, Guardiola E, Briaud S, Schmitt B, Merrouche 
Y, Pivot X, Woronoff-Lemsi MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University Hospital of Besançon, Hospital J. MINJOZ, 
Boulevard Fleming, 25030, Besançon Cedex, France.

INTRODUCTION: Anaemia is a common toxicity in cancer patients and epoetins 
(EPOs) are now an established treatment. The economic profile of EPO treatment 
was assessed in patients with breast cancer treated by adjuvant-chemotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two strategies were compared: without treatment by EPO 
and with the possible use of treatment by EPO (epoetin alfa) when required. The 
clinical effectiveness criterion was time adjusted to quality of life and 
economic data included only direct medical costs.
MAIN RESULTS: One hundred ninety-two patients were included. In the group with 
the strategy containing the possible use of EPO, 45.5% of patients effectively 
received EPO. A significant difference in the haemoglobin level profile over 
time was observed which provided a significant overall benefit of 0.0052 
(p<10(-4)) quality-adjusted life year (QALY) associated with an extra cost of 
<euro>1,615 (p<10(-4)). In the base case analysis, the cost per added QALY was 
estimated as <euro>310,577 with the strategy containing the possible use of EPO.
CONCLUSION: This robust result seems to be unacceptable, but the only relevant 
point of discussion might be the level of acceptable incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for a patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-006-0062-5
PMID: 16802128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Med Klin (Munich). 2006 Mar 22;101 Suppl 1:123-6.

[Myelodysplastic syndromes--new treatment options].

[Article in German]

Germing U(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Hämatologie, Onkologie und klinische Immunologie, 
Universitätsklinik Düsseldorf. germing@med.uni-duesseldorf.de

Myelodysplastic syndromes (MSD) are acquired disorders of the bone marrow, 
characterized by defects in maturation and function of hematopoietic stem cells, 
ineffective hemopoiesis and risk of evolution to acute leukemia. Using 
prognostic scoring systems like the IPSS (International Prognostic Scoring 
System) or the Düsseldorf Score allows to predict the course of the disease, 
separating low-risk patients from high-risk patients. In the past, transfusion 
of red cells was the only treatment in the vast majority of patients. Today, 
there are promising drugs available, either within treatment studies or in the 
near future approved by health authorities. Low-risk patients may respond to 
antithymocyte globulin, valproic acid and Revlimid in 5q-patients. 
Erythropoietin (EPO) +/- granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) should be 
administered in patients with a low EPO level. High-risk patients aged < 60 
years can be cured by allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Older high-risk 
patients are likely to respond to epigenetic treatment with 5-azacytidine or 
decitabine, even in case of chromosomal anomalies. After exact diagnosis using 
FAB and/or WHO classification and evaluation of prognosis, patients should be 
treated according to their individual profile. In the near future, the aim is 
not only to improve quality of life but also to prolong life expectancy.

PMID: 16802536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Acta Med Croatica. 2006;60(1):59-61.

[Severe respiratory distress due to ileal duplication cyst in the newborn].

[Article in Croatian]

Vuković J(1), Sovagović RG, Filipović-Grcić B, Hlupić L, Jelasić D.

Author information:
(1)Klinika za pedijatriju, Klinicki bolnicki centar Zagreb, Zagreb, Hrvatska.

Differential diagnosis of neonatal respiratory distress includes pulmonary and 
systemic disorders and anatomic problems compromising respiratory system. We 
report on a 2770-g female born to a 29-year-old gravida 3, para 2 woman after 34 
weeks of gestation. Antenatal ultrasound performed in week 8 and 21 was normal. 
The infant was delivered by cesarean section after amniotic membranes had been 
ruptured for less than 12 hours due to signs of fetal distress. The Apgar score 
was 3 and 3 at 1 and 5 minutes, respectively. The infant was intubated and 
resuscitated, and transferred immediately to the neonatal intensive care unit. 
She had an extremely protuberant and cyanotic abdomen. Dilated cutaneous 
collateral vessels were apparent in the periumbilical region. Abdominal 
sonography showed cystic multiloculated tumorous mass filled with dense, 
flocculent content at the level of hepatic portal. The tumorous mass occupied 
the majority of the abdomen with caudal extension toward the pelvis and dorsally 
toward the spine. The liver was displaced high under the diaphragm with the left 
liver lobe in the left hemiabdomen. On x-ray the lung were collapsed due to a 
large abdominal mass in the right hemiabdomen that displaced the right diaphragm 
and intestines contralaterally. She soon developed bilateral pneumothoraces. 
Drainage and continuous suction were started. The infant failed to improve 
despite all attempts and died. On autopsy, an extremely large, mobile, 
multichambered, solitary cyst was found. It was attached to the mesenteric side 
of the ileum by its own thin peduncular stalk and had no communication with the 
remainder of the gut. It occupied the majority of the abdomen. Histologic 
section revealed a well-developed smooth muscle wall and inner mucosa of small 
bowel type. Respiratory distress is a common problem in premature infants. The 
majority of cases are due to pulmonary disorders (e. g., hyaline membrane 
disease, meconium aspiration syndrome, pneumonia), hypothermia, metabolic 
acidosis, anemia, and congenital heart disease. Anatomic problems including 
space occupying lesions are less common. Duplications of the alimentary tract in 
infants and children are rare congenital anomalies. Although symptoms can occur 
at any age, they usually present during the first year. In our patient, 
intraabdominal mass caused severe respiratory distress and respiratory failure 
in the first hours of postnatal life. This had been seen before only as a 
complication of intrathoracic lesions extending into the abdominal cavity. 
Pathology revealed spherical intestinal duplication that was completely 
separated from the alimentary tract. Embryologically, it was a localized 
duplication. Respiratory distress in our patient was refractory to all means of 
mechanical ventilation. Poor lung compliance was the consequence of prenatal 
lung hypoplasia and inadequate postnatal lung expansion due to the duplication 
cyst space occupying character and its compressive effect. Prenatal diagnosis 
was the child's only chance for survival but it was not made. Duplications of 
the alimentary tract can present a diagnostic challenge even in the first hours 
of life. They should be included in the differential diagnosis of severe 
respiratory distress, especially in premature infants in which timely prenatal 
diagnosis cannot be always made. We propose their inclusion among other space 
occupying lesions that might be the cause of severe respiratory distress even in 
the earliest neonatal period.

PMID: 16802574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(7):627-9. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624070-00001.

NICE says no to inhaled insulin: what lessons should we learn?

Freemantle N.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624070-00001
PMID: 16802838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(7):661-72. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624070-00005.

Hepatitis C: cost of illness and considerations for the economic evaluation of 
antiviral therapies.

Wong JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts 
University School of Medicine, Tufts-New England Medical Center, Tupper Research 
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA. jwong@tufts-nemc.org

Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection affects 170 million individuals 
worldwide. As it is detected incidentally through the evaluation of liver 
function tests or at the time of blood donor testing, it is usually clinically 
silent until the advanced stages of liver disease have occurred, when treatment 
is less effective and shortages of donor liver organs limit the therapeutic 
