
Nusselder WJ(1), Peeters A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. w.nusselder@erasmusmc.nl

Current research of risk factors potentially associated with successful aging 
faces the difficulty of taking into consideration two distinct outcome measures: 
survival and functioning. Previous studies either used successful aging measures 
restricted to survivors or presented more than one outcome measure to handle the 
dual outcome. This article illustrates the utility of health expectancy 
measures, based on life tables, to integrate the effects of survival and 
functioning across all ages. It is shown that three hypothetical successful 
aging strategies, considered equally successful according to the traditional 
measures restricted to survivors, are associated with vastly different changes 
in the years lived with and without disability. Furthermore, the intervention 
considered most successful when considering multiple successful aging measures, 
was associated with the largest increase in the time lived with disability. It 
is recommended that research on successful aging should be based on summary 
measures of population health that reflect both survival and functioning 
throughout life. These will provide more relevant information than is currently 
available for individuals and societies to evaluate and choose between 
successful aging strategies.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2005.041558
PMCID: PMC2563971
PMID: 16614337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: none.


537. Lung Cancer. 2006 Jun;52(3):265-71. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2006.02.007. Epub
 2006 Apr 17.

Estimated impact of LDCT-identified stage IA non-small-cell lung cancer on 
screening efficacy.

Reich JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Earl A. Chiles Research Institute, Portland Providence Medical Center, Att. 
Claudia Haywood, Bldg A, 4805 NE Glisan St. Portland, OR 97213, United States. 
Reichje@dnamail.com

About one-third of individuals radiographically diagnosed with 
surgical-pathological stage IA non-small-cell lung cancer (IA-NSCLC) harbor 
occult metastases that prove lethal. A comparison of the projected outcome of 
CT-diagnosed IA-NSCLC with actuarial figures for life expectancy of screenees 
suggests that about half of the remainder will succumb to alternative causes. CT 
screening can be efficacious if and only if it leads to an interdiction of 
potentially lethal cancers in the remaining one-third of sufficient magnitude 
that it offsets the surgical mortality and abbreviation of life expectancy in 
the two-thirds who are either understaged or overdiagnosed. Preliminary evidence 
from CT screening trials fails to support the premise that it diminishes the 
absolute number of advanced lung cancers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2006.02.007
PMID: 16616394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Physiol Anthropol. 2006 Jan;25(1):113-8.

Aging, disability, and frailty: implications for universal design.

Crews DE(1), Zavotka S.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Anthropology and Consumer Sciences, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH 43201, USA. Crews.8@osu.edu

Comment in
    J Physiol Anthropol. 2011;30(6):259-62.

Throughout the world all populations are seeing burgeoning numbers of "elders", 
defined as persons aged 65 year and older. In many countries, including Japan, 
the United States, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom, those aged over 65 are 
at or approaching 15% of the population. As their numbers have increased, so 
have their health care expenses, leading to extensive research on the health, 
well being, and life expectancy of these increasingly older elders. Today this 
group is further sub-divided: the young-old ages 65-74, the old-old ages 75-84, 
and the oldest-old ages 85+, for both health care and research purposes. However 
broad variation still characterizes even these groupings. Rates of frailty and 
disability increase with increasing age among these elders. For example, 
inabilities to complete at least one activity of daily living increased from 
about 5-7% at ages 65-69 years to about 28-36% at ages 85+ in 1987. Death rates 
continue to decline at all ages past 50 years and rates of disability seem to be 
doing the same. For the foreseeable future, we may expect increasing numbers of 
older, frail elders than in previous decades. Thus, people are not only living 
longer, they generally are healthier at advanced ages than were previous 
cohorts, thus "old age" disabilities of the 20th century will be put off to even 
older ages during the 21st century. As yet there is no clear way to assess 
senescent changes in humans, although activities of daily living, allostatic 
load, and frailty indices have all been suggested. One future need is greater 
development and use of universal and accessible design in all aspects of the 
built environment.

PMID: 16617216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Physiol Anthropol. 2006 Jan;25(1):119-31. doi: 10.2114/jpa2.25.119.

Parental investment, late reproduction, and increased reserve capacity are 
associated with longevity in humans.

Larke A(1), Crews DE.

Author information:
(1)Kent State University, USA.

Throughout the living world trade-offs between reproductive success and 
longevity have been observed. In general, two extremes of life history 
patterning are reported, r- and K-selected species. The latter tend toward 
larger body sizes, few offspring from any one pregnancy, few offspring over the 
female reproductive span, longer life spans, and greater parental investment 
(PI: all efforts and expenses associated with the production, gestation, 
post-natal care, feeding, and protection of young) (e.g., whales, elephants, 
hominids). r-selected species tend toward smaller body size, multiple 
births/litters per pregnancy, female production of many gametes and offspring 
over the life span, and low levels of PI (e.g., most plants, insects, mice). 
These differences have significant influences on physiological variation among 
human populations. Across human samples, reproductive success (RS: the number of 
offspring successfully birthed and reared to reproductive age) has been reported 
to vary positively, negatively, and not at all with longevity of women. This 
complexity may be in part due to the fact that both early-life and late-life 
fecundity are associated with longevity in women, while total parity seems a 
poor gauge of female longevity in humankind. Large variations in associations of 
RS with longevity in women suggest that multiple factors may confound this 
association. One confounding factor is that among women, RS is largely 
determined not by fecundity, but by the quality of PI available to offspring. 
Among modern humans, PI is more complex, longer lasting (both relatively and 
absolutely), and extensive than for any other mammal. This suggests that modern 
human life history is a reflection of the co-evolution of longevity and 
extensive PI as part of our species' biocultural evolution. The need for 
long-term PI has greatly shaped human physiological variation and patterns of 
longevity.

DOI: 10.2114/jpa2.25.119
PMID: 16617217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Stud Fam Plann. 1999 Jun;30(2):133-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1728-4465.1999.00133.x.

Integrated maternal and infant health care in the postpartum period in a poor 
neighborhood in Santiago, Chile.

Alvarado R(1), Zepeda A, Rivero S, Rico N, López S, Díaz S.

Author information:
(1)Proyecto San Luis de Huechuraba, Santiago, Chile. icmer@huelen.reuna.cl

An integrated postpartum health-care program was established by the Consultorio 
San Luis de Huechuraba (CSLH), a nongovernmental organization in a neighborhood 
of extreme poverty in Santiago, Chile. The main components were education, 
maternal and infant health care, support for the mothers, and active 
participation of women from the community served. The program was evaluated 
through indicators of contraceptive use, breastfeeding performance, infant 
growth and health, and a qualitative assessment of women's satisfaction. 
Controls were women of similar characteristics attending the nearby public 
clinic. Acceptability of contraceptive methods was similar but contraceptive 
options differed between clinics. The total number of pregnancies and of 
respondents lost to follow-up was significantly higher for the public clinic 
than for the CSLH. Breastfeeding duration was significantly longer and infant 
growth and health were found to be significantly better at the CSLH than at the 
public clinic. Women valued being treated with respect, receiving education and 
support, and being offered timesaving services and wider contraceptive choices 
at the CSLH. This study demonstrates that such interventions are possible for 
poor communities, providing significant advantages for women and children.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4465.1999.00133.x
PMID: 16617547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Anticancer Res. 2006 Mar-Apr;26(2C):1673-6.

Chemotherapy treatment options for elderly women with breast cancer.

Kümmel S(1), Elling D, Jeschke S, Schmid P, Thomas A.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Senology, University Medicine Berlin, Charité Campus Mitte, 
Berlin, Germany. sherko.kuemmel@charite.de

Due to improved life expectancy and the increase in incidence of breast cancer 
in old age, ever more older women are developing this disease. Although there is 
only limited evidence-based data from randomized trials on the treatment, older 
patients are still under-represented in clinical studies, and currently there is 
no clear consensus on chemotherapy treatment for older women with breast cancer. 
Adjuvant therapy strategies, in particular, suffer from a lack of uniform 
standards and reflect a generally less aggressive treatment. Recently published 
studies have shown that older women suffering from breast cancer can also profit 
from a treatment based on therapeutic standards and consensus guidelines. In 
spite of developments in adjuvant chemotherapy using increased amounts of 
therapeutic agent to improve survival, many older patients receive instead 
reduced quantities of chemotherapeutic agent. Thus, the questions arise, whether 
undertreatment of older patients with breast cancer can lead to a poorer outcome 
or whether new therapy strategies (e.g., dose-intensive chemotherapy) can be 
used with older patients. A common reason for dose reductions is neutropenia, 
but studies have shown that it is manageable by using granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factors (G-CSFs). In this review, the current status of 
clinical research in the area of adjuvant treatment and the necessity for 
clinical studies that take into account the special therapeutic requirements of 
older women are discussed.

PMID: 16617560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Anticancer Res. 2006 Mar-Apr;26(2C):1707-13.

Postoperative therapy modalities for cervical carcinoma.

Kümmel S(1), Thomas A, Jeschke S, Hauschild M, Sehouli J, Lichtenegger W, 
Blohmer JU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Medicine Berlin, Charité 
Campus Mitte, Berlin, Germany. sherko.kuemmel@charite.de

Currently, the standard therapy for cervical carcinoma of FIGO stage IIB 
following adequate radical surgery is simultaneous radiochemotherapy with a 
platinous chemotherapeutic agent. According to the current state of scientific 
knowledge, all patients of FIGO stages IIA-IB with at least one additional risk 
factor (adenocarcinoma, pN1, L1, V1, pT1b2) also benefit from adjuvant 
radiochemotherapy. Various studies have shown that it is possible to 
successfully carry out a platinous radiochemotherapy. However, one disadvantage 
is that a number of patients have to break off therapy because of 
treatment-related toxicities. It has also been proven that a low hemoglobin 
level during radiochemotherapy is a negative prognostic factor for overall 
survival. The data regarding a possible survival advantage following an increase 
in the hemoglobin content in the blood of cancer patients by erythropoietin 
administration is still contradictory. As a result, the administration of new 
cytostatics, platinous combination chemotherapies, sequential instead of 
simultaneous regimens and appropriate supportive therapies have to be taken into 
account. Several studies are currently being conducted into the effectiveness of 
such new therapies on both life expectancy and quality of life (e.g., 
Cervix-NOGGO-AGO-Uterus 7-study).

PMID: 16617565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Clin Infect Dis. 2006 May 15;42(10):1488-95. doi: 10.1086/503566. Epub 2006
Apr  11.

HIV-associated renal diseases and highly active antiretroviral therapy-induced 
nephropathy.

Röling J(1), Schmid H, Fischereder M, Draenert R, Goebel FD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Medizinische Poliklinik, Ludwig 
Maximilians Universitat, University of Munich, Munich, Germany. 
joerg.roeling@med.uni-muenchen.de

Renal disease is becoming an increasingly prevalent entity in human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients; it occurs in a variety of 
clinical settings and is associated with histopathological changes. HIV-related 
renal impairment can present as acute or chronic kidney disease; it can be 
caused directly or indirectly by HIV and/or by drug-related effects that are 
directly nephrotoxic or lead to changes in renal function by inducing metabolic 
vaculopathy and renal damage. Acute renal failure is frequently caused by the 
toxic effects of antiretroviral therapy or nephrotoxic antimicrobial substances 
used in the treatment of opportunistic infections. Chronic renal disease can be 
caused by multiple pathophysiological mechanisms, leading to HIV-associated 
nephropathy, a form of collapsing focal glomerulosclerosis, thrombotic 
microangiopathy, and various forms of immune complex glomerulonephritis. The 
increase in life expectancy and alteration of lipid metabolism due to receipt of 
highly active antiretroviral therapy are expected to result in an increased 
prevalence of diabetes and hypertension and, thus, to secondary diabetic and 
hypertensive renal damage. Antiretroviral agents, such as indinavir and 
tenofovir, have been associated with nephrotoxic drug effects that have been 
shown to be reversible in most cases. In this article, we review the current 
knowledge about acute and chronic HIV-associated renal disease, metabolic 
alterations and related nephropathies, and toxic drug effects of combination 
antiretroviral pharmacotherapy.

DOI: 10.1086/503566
PMID: 16619164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. J Soc Philos. 2004 Winter;35(4):485-92. doi:
10.1111/j.1467-9833.2004.00248.x.

Life extension and creation: a reply to Silverstein and Boonin.

Hall T.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9833.2004.00248.x
PMID: 16619453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Soc Philos. 2004 Winter;35(4):493-505. doi:
10.1111/j.1467-9833.2004.00249.x.

Creation and abortion: a reply to Hall.

Silverstein HS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9833.2004.00249.x
PMID: 16619454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Klin Oczna. 2005;107(10-12):707-9.

[Quality of life in glaucoma patients].

[Article in Polish]

Jurowska-Liput J(1), Niźankowska MH.

Author information:
(1)Z Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki Akademii Medycznej we Wrocławiu.

Glaucoma as a chronic and often asymptomatic disease in its early stages has a 
great influence on Quality of Life (QOL). Mostly because of disturbances in 
visual functions like damage to the visual field, lower visual acuity, the 
psychological impact of the diagnosis, side effects and the cost of treatment. 
Evaluation of QOL is very useful instrument which helps to decide about the ways 
of treatment. Especially if they are equally beneficial but have totally 
different psychological impact. Considering patients' needs, satisfying their 
expectations and education, there is a guarantee of keeping the therapeutic 
indications and high efficiency of treatment.

PMID: 16619826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Can J Public Health. 2006 Mar-Apr;97(2):100-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03405324.

Farm injuries and fatalities in British Columbia, 1990-2000.

Saar PE(1), Dimich-Ward H, Kelly KD, Voaklander DC.

Author information:
(1)Northern Medical Program, University of Northern British Columbia, Prince 
George, BC. saarp@unbc.ca

BACKGROUND: Farming is considered to be one of the most dangerous occupations in 
Canada and internationally, as it often involves work in a high-risk environment 
due to exposure to such hazards as machinery, large animals and noxious 
chemicals. The objective of this study was to describe the incidence and nature 
of farm-related deaths and injuries on British Columbian farms from 1990-2000, 
with reference to Canadian averages.
METHODS: British Columbian farm fatalities and farm injury hospitalizations data 
from Canadian Agricultural Injury Surveillance Program for 1990-2000 were 
analyzed in conjunction with the 1996 and 2001 Canada Census of Agriculture. The 
incidence and nature of farm injuries were quantified and described for age, 
gender, cause of injury, primary diagnosis and agent of injury.
RESULTS: There were 82 fatal injuries from 1990-2000 and 1,407 hospitalizations 
from 1991/92 to 1999/2000. No significant overall incidence trends were found 
during the study period. The rate of machinery-related injuries requiring 
hospitalization is lower in BC than in Canada as a whole. The net effect of 
higher than expected hospitalization rates in younger BC adults (age 20-49) and 
lower than expected hospitalization rates in older BC adults (age 70+) was a 
much slower increase in hospitalization rates as farmers get older.
CONCLUSION: The current data suggest that higher than expected 
non-machinery-related injuries result in higher hospitalization rates of young 
adult BC farmers. The potential impact of farm fatalities and injury in youth on 
loss of productivity and quality of life years emphasizes the need for education 
and prevention.

CONTEXTE: Au Canada et dans le reste du monde, on considère que la profession 
d’agriculteur est l’une des plus dangereuses, car le travail se fait souvent 
dans un environnement à risque élevé, où l’on est exposé à la machinerie, aux 
gros animaux et à des produits chimiques nocifs. Nous avons voulu décrire la 
fréquence et la nature des décès et des blessures causés par les accidents 
agricoles sur les fermes de la Colombie-Britannique entre 1990 et 2000 en les 
comparant à la moyenne canadienne.
MÉTHODE: Nous avons analysé les décès et les hospitalisations pour blessures 
causés par les accidents agricoles en Colombie-Britannique d’après les données 
du Programme canadien de surveillance des blessures en milieu agricole (1990 à 
2000) et les données du Recensement de l’agriculture du Canada (1996 et 2001). 
La fréquence et la nature des blessures en milieu agricole sont quantifiées et 
décrites selon l’âge, le sexe, la cause de la blessure, le diagnostic primaire 
et le facteur de blessure.
RÉSULTATS: Il y a eu 82 accidents mortels pendant la période de 1990 à 2000 et 1 
407 hospitalisations entre 1991–1992 et 1999–2000. Nous n’avons observé aucune 
tendance générale significative quant à la fréquence des blessures pendant la 
période d’étude. Le taux de blessures dues à la machinerie agricole et 
nécessitant une hospitalisation était plus faible en Colombie- Britannique que 
dans l’ensemble du Canada. Des taux d’hospitalisation plus élevés que prévu chez 
les jeunes adultes et les adultes d’âge moyen de la Colombie-Britannique (20 à 
49 ans) et plus faibles que prévu chez les adultes âgés de la province (70 ans 
et plus) ont eu pour effet net de réduire considérablement la hausse des taux 
d’hospitalisation avec l’âge des agriculteurs.
CONCLUSION: D’après les données actuelles, des taux plus élevés que prévu de 
blessures non causées par la machinerie agricole entraînent des taux 
d’hospitalisation supérieurs chez les agricultrices et les agriculteurs 
britanno-colombiens au début de l’âge adulte. Les blessures et les accidents 
agricoles mortels chez les jeunes contribuent à diminuer la productivité et le 
nombre d’années de qualité de vie, d’où la nécessité des mesures de 
sensibilisation et de prévention.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405324
PMCID: PMC6975838
PMID: 16619994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Drugs. 2006;66(5):711-28. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200666050-00011.

Ibandronic acid: a review of its use in the treatment of bone metastases of 
breast cancer.

McCormack PL(1), Plosker GL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Ibandronic acid (Bondronat) is a potent, new-generation, nitrogen-containing 
bisphosphonate, available in both intravenous and oral formulations, which 
effectively inhibits osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. In clinical trials, 
the two formulations were equally effective in preventing skeletal-related 
events and improving quality of life in patients with bone metastases of breast 
cancer. Both intravenous and oral ibandronic acid reduced metastatic bone pain 
scores below baseline levels for up to 2 years. Oral ibandronic acid is 
administered as a single 50 mg tablet taken once daily. It suppressed bone 
resorption in breast cancer patients with bone metastases to an extent similar 
to that observed with intravenous zoledronic acid. Both intravenous and oral 
ibandronic acid were well tolerated with no evidence of renal toxicity. 
Ibandronic acid is therefore a valuable addition to the bisphosphonates used in 
the treatment of bone metastases of breast cancer, offering high potency and the 
convenience of oral administration, combined with the absence of renal toxicity.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200666050-00011
PMID: 16620148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Dis Manag. 2006 Apr;9(2):73-85. doi: 10.1089/dis.2006.9.73.

Disease management interventions II: What else is in the black box?

Linden A(1), Butterworth SW, Roberts N.

Author information:
(1)Linden Consulting Group, and School of Medicine, Oregon Health & Science 
University, Portland, Oregon, USA. alinden@lindenconsulting.org

The success of any disease management (DM) program ultimately depends upon the 
ability and willingness of participants to change and maintain desired health 
behaviors. To achieve those results, DM program administrators have several 
issues to consider, including the type of behavioral change desired, the scope 
of intervention that the organization is willing and capable of implementing, 
and whether the appropriate support structures are available to ensure 
successful achievement of program goals. An understanding of these issues will 
assist program designers in selecting the appropriate change models. This paper 
serves as an extension of our prior paper in which eight core psychosocial 
behavioral change models were described. Here, five more recently developed 
theory-based approaches are introduced, providing readers with up-to-date 
information in this area.

DOI: 10.1089/dis.2006.9.73
PMID: 16620193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Popul Health Metr. 2006 Apr 18;4:4. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-4-4.

Adjusting for dependent comorbidity in the calculation of healthy life 
expectancy.

Mathers CD(1), Iburg KM, Begg S.

Author information:
(1)Evidence and Information for Policy, World Health Organization, Geneva, 
Switzerland. mathersc@who.int

BACKGROUND: Healthy life expectancy--sometimes called health-adjusted life 
expectancy (HALE)--is a form of health expectancy indicator that extends 
measures of life expectancy to account for the distribution of health states in 
the population. The World Health Organization has estimated healthy life 
expectancy for 192 WHO Member States using information from health interview 
surveys and from the Global Burden of Disease Study. The latter estimates loss 
of health by cause, age and sex for populations. Summation of prevalent years 
lived with disability (PYLD) across all causes would result in overestimation of 
the severity of the population average health state because of comorbidity 
between conditions. Earlier HALE calculations made adjustments for independent 
comorbidity in adding PYLD across causes. This paper presents a method for 
adjusting for dependent comorbidity using available empirical data.
METHODS: Data from five large national health surveys were analysed by age and 
sex to estimate "dependent comorbidity" factors for pairs of conditions. These 
factors were defined as the ratio of the prevalence of people with both 
conditions to the product of the two total prevalences for each of the 
conditions. The resulting dependent comorbidity factors were used for all Member 
States to adjust for dependent comorbidity in summation of PYLD across all 
causes and in the calculation of HALE. A sensitivity analysis was also carried 
out for order effects in the proposed calculation method.
RESULTS: There was surprising consistency in the dependent comorbidity factors 
across the five surveys. The improved estimation of dependent comorbidity 
resulted in reductions in total PYLD per capita ranging from a few per cent in 
younger adult ages to around 8% in the oldest age group (80 years and over) in 
developed countries and up to 15% in the oldest age group in the least developed 
countries. The effect of the dependent comorbidity adjustment on estimated 
healthy life expectancies is small for some regions (high income countries, 
Eastern Europe, Western Pacific) and ranges from an increase of 0.5 to 1.5 years 
for countries in Latin America, South East Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa.
CONCLUSION: The available evidence suggests that dependent comorbidity is 
important, and that adjustment for it makes a significant difference to 
resulting HALE estimates for some regions of the world. Given the data 
limitations, we recommend a normative adjustment based on the available 
evidence, and applied consistently across all countries.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-4-4
PMCID: PMC1484491
PMID: 16620383


551. Br J Cancer. 2006 Apr 24;94(8):1122-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603059.

Pharmacoeconomic analysis of adjuvant oral capecitabine vs intravenous 5-FU/LV 
in Dukes' C colon cancer: the X-ACT trial.

Cassidy J(1), Douillard JY, Twelves C, McKendrick JJ, Scheithauer W, Bustová I, 
Johnston PG, Lesniewski-Kmak K, Jelic S, Fountzilas G, Coxon F, Díaz-Rubio E, 
Maughan TS, Malzyner A, Bertetto O, Beham A, Figer A, Dufour P, Patel KK, Cowell 
W, Garrison LP.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK, Department of Medical Oncology, University of Glasgow, 
Garscube Estate, Bearsden, Glasgow G61 1DB, UK, and Centre René Gauducheau, Site 
Hospitalier Nord, Nantes, France. j.cassidy@beatson.gla.ac.uk

Oral capecitabine (Xeloda) is an effective drug with favourable safety in 
adjuvant and metastatic colorectal cancer. Oxaliplatin-based therapy is becoming 
standard for Dukes' C colon cancer in patients suitable for combination therapy, 
but is not yet approved by the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) in the adjuvant setting. Adjuvant capecitabine is at least as 
effective as 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (5-FU/LV), with significant superiority 
in relapse-free survival and a trend towards improved disease-free and overall 
survival. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of adjuvant capecitabine from payer 
(UK National Health Service (NHS)) and societal perspectives. We used clinical 
trial data and published sources to estimate incremental direct and societal 
costs and gains in quality-adjusted life months (QALMs). Acquisition costs were 
higher for capecitabine than 5-FU/LV, but higher 5-FU/LV administration costs 
resulted in 57% lower chemotherapy costs for capecitabine. Capecitabine vs 
5-FU/LV-associated adverse events required fewer medications and 
hospitalisations (cost savings pound3653). Societal costs, including patient 
travel/time costs, were reduced by >75% with capecitabine vs 5-FU/LV (cost 
savings pound1318), with lifetime gain in QALMs of 9 months. Medical resource 
utilisation is significantly decreased with capecitabine vs 5-FU/LV, with cost 
savings to the NHS and society. Capecitabine is also projected to increase life 
expectancy vs 5-FU/LV. Cost savings and better outcomes make capecitabine a 
preferred adjuvant therapy for Dukes' C colon cancer. This pharmacoeconomic 
analysis strongly supports replacing 5-FU/LV with capecitabine in the adjuvant 
treatment of colon cancer in the UK.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603059
PMCID: PMC2361258
PMID: 16622438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. RETRACTED ARTICLE

J Med Assoc Thai. 2005 Sep;88 Suppl 4:S352-6.

Endoscopic management of pancreatic cancer.

Vilaichone RK(1), Schulz HJ, Mahachai V.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Medicine, Thammasat University Hospital, 
Pathumthani.

Retraction in
    J Med Assoc Thai. 2015 Nov;98(11):1154.

Endoscopic treatment of pancreatic malignancy can be considered as an 
alternative treatment option in inoperable patients. Endoscopic retrograde 
cholangio-pancreatography (ERCP) plays a key role, allowing diagnosis, 
collection of cytologic, biopsy specimens, and insertion of biliary and 
pancreatic stents. A major problem is the patency of plastic stents that will 
eventually clog on average after 3 to 4 months. Self-expandable metallic stents 
have longer patency, but they can also become occluded by tumor ingrowth or 
overgrowth. Furthermore, metallic stents are much more expensive and their uses 
may be considered in patients with longer life expectancy. ERCP can be performed 
on an outpatient basis in selected patients, reducing costs related to 
hospitalization. A team approach is mandatory to obtain the best results.

PMID: 16623054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. BMC Cancer. 2006 Apr 19;6:97. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-97.

Nuclear FABP7 immunoreactivity is preferentially expressed in infiltrative 
glioma and is associated with poor prognosis in EGFR-overexpressing 
glioblastoma.

Liang Y(1), Bollen AW, Aldape KD, Gupta N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Brain Tumor Research Center, University 
of California, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. liangy01@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: We previously identified brain type fatty acid-binding protein 
(FABP7) as a prognostic marker for patients with glioblastoma (GBM). Increased 
expression of FABP7 is associated with reduced survival. To investigate possible 
molecular mechanisms underlying this association, we compared the expression and 
subcellular localization of FABP7 in non-tumor brain tissues with different 
types of glioma, and examined the expression of FABP7 and epidermal growth 
factor receptor (EGFR) in GBM tumors.
METHODS: Expression of FABP7 in non-tumor brain and glioma specimens was 
examined using immunohistochemistry, and its correlation to the clinical 
behavior of the tumors was analyzed. We also analyzed the association between 
FABP7 and EGFR expression in different sets of GBM specimens using published DNA 
microarray datasets and semi-quantitative immunohistochemistry. In vitro 
migration was examined using SF763 glioma cell line.
RESULTS: FABP7 was present in a unique population of glia in normal human brain, 
and its expression was increased in a subset of reactive astrocytes. FABP7 
immunoreactivity in grade I pilocytic astrocytoma was predominantly cytoplasmic, 
whereas nuclear FABP7 was detected in other types of infiltrative glioma. 
Nuclear, not cytoplasmic, FABP7 immunoreactivity was associated with EGFR 
overexpression in GBM (N = 61, p = 0.008). Expression of the FABP7 gene in GBM 
also correlated with the abundance of EGFR mRNA in our previous microarray 
analyses (N = 34, p = 0.016) and an independent public microarray dataset (N = 
28, p = 0.03). Compared to those negative for both markers, nuclear 
FABP7-positive/EGFR-positive and nuclear FABP7-positive/EGFR-negative GBM tumors 
demonstrated shortest survival, whereas those only positive for EGFR had 
intermediate survival. EGFR activation increased nuclear FABP7 immunoreactivity 
in a glioma cell line in vitro, and inhibition of FABP7 expression suppressed 
EGF-induced glioma-cell migration. Our data suggested that in EGFR-positive GBM 
the presence of nuclear FABP7 immunoreactivity increases the risk of poor 
prognosis
CONCLUSION: In this study, we identified a possible mechanism as the basis of 
the association between nuclear FABP7 and poor prognosis of GBM. FABP7 
expression can be found in all grades of astrocytoma, but neoplastic cells with 
nuclear FABP7 were only seen in infiltrative types of tumors. Nuclear FABP7 may 
be induced by EGFR activation to promote migration of GBM tumor cells. Positive 
nuclear FABP7 and EGFR overexpression correlated with short survival in 
EGFR-positive GBM patients. Therefore, nuclear FABP7 immunoreactivity could be 
used to monitor the progression of EGFR-overexpressed GBM.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-97
PMCID: PMC1479358
PMID: 16623952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(5):1251-2. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.02.020. Epub
2006  Apr 19.

Removal of senescent cells from organisms: A way to retard aging or just 
nonsense?

Lim CS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.02.020
PMID: 16624495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Health Commun. 2006 Apr-May;11(3):327-41. doi: 10.1080/10810730600614094.

Quality of life: questionnaires and questions.

Mooney A(1).

Author information:
(1)English Language and Linguistics, Roehampton University, London, UK. 
A.mooney@roehampton.ac.uk

Quality of life (QoL) is a phrase often used in health care settings at policy 
and administration levels, in clinical assessments of therapies, and in clinical 
management of individual cases. While QoL is a broad concept that covers such 
areas as social, environmental, economic, and health satisfaction, 
health-related quality of life (HRQL) is less wide ranging, including mental and 
physical health and their consequences. First, I question the singularity of 
HRQL, suggesting there are at least two distinct meanings of HRQL. Second, 
questionnaires designed to assess individual patients' HRQL allow a limited 
range of ways for patients to express their state of being. The Medical Outcomes 
Study Short Form (SF-36), which operationalises HRQL for a traditional clinical 
setting, is used to show in detail the restricted options that are available for 
patient respondents. The communications limitations of utility-based measures, 
designed as cost-effectiveness measures but often used as though they were HRQL 
instruments, are also discussed. For assessing the HRQL of individuals in a 
health setting, such questionnaires can provide only a starting point, which 
should be supplemented with good interaction and communication.

DOI: 10.1080/10810730600614094
PMID: 16624797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Age Ageing. 2006 Jul;35(4):388-93. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afl006. Epub 2006 Apr
19.

Tai Chi versus brisk walking in elderly women.

Audette JF(1), Jin YS, Newcomer R, Stein L, Duncan G, Frontera WR.

Author information:
(1)Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, Department of Physical Medicine & 
Rehabilitation, Harvard Medical School, 125 Nashua Street, Boston, MA 02114, 
USA. jaudette@partners.org

PURPOSE: to compare the effects of a short style of Tai Chi versus brisk walking 
training programme on aerobic capacity, heart rate variability (HRV), strength, 
flexibility, balance, psychological status and quality of life in elderly women.
METHODS: nineteen community-dwelling, sedentary women (aged 71.4 +/- 4.5 years) 
were randomly assigned to Tai Chi Chuan (TCC; n = 11) or brisk walking group 
(BWG; n = 8). A separate group of elderly women was recruited from the same 
population to act as a sedentary comparison group (SCG; n = 8). The exercise 
groups met for 1 h, three days per week for 12 weeks. Outcomes measured before 
and after training included estimated VO2max, spectral analysis of HRV 
(high-frequency, low-frequency power as well as high- and low-frequency power in 
normalised units) as a measure of autonomic control of the heart, isometric knee 
extension and handgrip muscle strength, single-leg stance time, the State Trait 
Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Profile of Mood States (POMS) and Short Form-36 
(SF-36) questionnaires.
RESULTS: significant improvement was seen in estimated VO(2)max in the TCC group 
(TCC versus SCG P = 0.003, TCC versus BWG P = 0.08). The mean within-person 
change of high-frequency power in normalised units (HFnu) increased [8.2 
(0.14-16.3)], representing increased parasympathetic activity, and low-frequency 
power in normalised units (LFnu) decreased [-8.7 (-16.8-0.5)], representing 
decreased sympathetic activity, in the TCC group only. Significant gains were 
also seen in the non-dominant knee extensor strength and single-leg stance time 
(TCC versus BWG P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: a short style of TCC was found to be an effective way to improve 
many fitness measures in elderly women over a 3-month period. TCC was also found 
to be significantly better than brisk walking in enhancing certain measures of 
fitness including lower extremity strength, balance and flexibility.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afl006
PMID: 16624847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Ann Vasc Surg. 2006 Nov;20(6):834-8. doi: 10.1007/s10016-006-9026-y. Epub
2006  Apr 20.

Superior vena cava bypass with superficial femoral vein for benign superior vena 
cava syndrome.

Erbella J(1), Hess PJ, Huber TS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, FL 32610-0286, USA.

Superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome can result from benign causes such as 
temporary hemodialysis catheters placed into the central veins. The indications 
for open, surgical revascularization are rare and usually reserved for patients 
whose symptoms are refractory to anticoagulation and endovascular treatment. The 
current report documents the case of a 54-year-old woman with recurrent SVC 
syndrome secondary to long-term indwelling central venous catheters for total 
parenteral nutrition. She presented to the vascular service with moderate 
head/neck edema and persistent headaches despite chronic anticoagulation and 
multiple previous endovascular attempts including both angioplasty and stenting. 
An internal jugular-SVC bypass was performed using autogenous superficial 
femoral vein (SFV), which resulted in the resolution of her symptoms and a 
patent graft 12 months postoperatively. Autogenous SFV is an ideal conduit for 
central vein revascularization secondary to its size, relative ease associated 
with harvesting, and handling characteristics. It may be the ideal conduit for 
revascularization in patients with SVC syndrome secondary to benign causes 
because of their favorable life expectancy, although documentation of long-term 
graft patency is necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-006-9026-y
PMID: 16625418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Endocrinol Invest. 2005;28(11 Suppl International):93-9.

Non-functioning pituitary adenomas.

Chanson P(1), Brochier S.

Author information:
(1)Service of Endocrinology and Reproduction Diseases, Bicetre University 
Hospital, Paris, France. philippe.chanson@bct.ap-hop-paris.fr

The vast majority (>80%) of clinically non-functioning pituitary adenomas 
(NFPAs) are gonadotroph-cell adenomas, as demonstrated by immunocytochemistry. 
However, they are rarely associated with increased levels of dimeric LH or FSH. 
Increased levels of uncombined subunits (free alpha-subunit mainly, LH-beta 
subunit more rarely) are more frequently encountered, but are generally modest. 
The main problems raised by NFPA are mass effects problems, responsible for 
optic chiasm compression or deficient hormone secretion resulting from 
compression of normal anterior pituitary cells. The therapeutic management of 
NFPA may require combination of different options. The strategy of observation 
only for patients with incidentally discovered pituitary adenomas may be 
appropriate, provided that the tumor is well-delimited, small, has no extension 
with risk of neurological or visual chiasm compression, and that a meticulous 
hormonal work-up has ruled out the possibility of a minimal hormonal 
hypersecretion. Transsphenoidal surgery allows improvement in visual 
disturbances due to chiasmal syndrome in most patients, and sometimes, in 
pituitary function. After surgery alone, nearly 30% (between 10 and 69%, 
according to the series) of patients relapse within 5 to 10 yr. Radiotherapy is 
proposed either as a systematic adjunct or only if a significant remnant 
persists. Systematic radiation therapy is supported by the low relapse rate 
(mean, 11%; range, 6-21%) observed when radiation therapy is systematically 
associated with surgery. However, irradiation is almost always followed by 
hypopituitarism which might be associated with a reduction in life expectancy, 
despite appropriate replacement therapy. Results of medical treatment are 
disappointing. Dopamine agonist bromocriptine decreases gonadotropin and 
alpha-subunit in vitro and in vivo, but, in clinical studies, was poorly 
effective in reducing supranormal gonadotropins and free subunits levels, and 
rarely produced a minimal tumoral shrinkage. Cabergoline may be more 
efficacious. Somatostatin analogs are able to improve minimally visual problems 
in 20-40% of cases, but reduction in tumoral volume is anecdotic. Whether new 
somatostatin analogs (e.g. SOM230 which is a multiligand agonist) will improve 
these results is presently unknown. Administration of GnRH agonists is generally 
ineffective and may be hazardous. Prolonged administration of GnRH antagonist in 
a small number of patients with a secreting gonadotroph cell adenoma has been 
reported to reduce supranormal gonadotropins levels but not to produce any 
change in tumoral size.

PMID: 16625856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Int Surg. 2005 Nov-Dec;90(5):262-5.

Leiomyosarcoma of the inferior vena cava: a case report and review of 
literature.

Thapar VB(1), Satoskar RR, Kanjan GM, Chaudhary AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Seth G.S. Medical College & K.E.M. Hospital, Parel, 
Mumbai, India. drvinaythapar@hotmail.com

Tumors of the inferior vena cava are rare, and most of these are 
leiomyosarcomas. They are most frequent in the sixth decade of life, with a 
female predominance. We present a 45-year-old male patient with a tumor 
involving the entire extent of the inferior vena cava. Computerized tomography 
revealed a heterogeneously enhancing mass with marked expansion of the inferior 
vena cava with extraluminal extension. Computerized tomography--guided biopsy of 
the extraluminal component showed features of a fasciculated spindle cell tumor 
positive for vimentin, smooth muscle actin, and calponin and negative for S-100 
antigen. We discuss the clinical presentation imaging findings and review the 
literature.

PMID: 16625943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. MMW Fortschr Med. 2006 Mar 23;148(12):29.

[Hypertension, hyperlipidemia and cardiac insufficiency in senior citizens are 
problematic conditions. When it comes to the geriatric patient, medical science 
is on shaky ground].

[Article in German]

Füessl HS(1).

Author information:
(1)Geschäftsführender Schriftleiter MMW-Fortschritte der Medizin, 
Bezirkskrankenhaus Haar.

PMID: 16626002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Value Health. 2006 Mar-Apr;9(2):65-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00084.x.

Determinants of health economic decisions in actual practice: the role of 
behavioral economics. Summary of the presentation given by Professor Daniel 
Kahneman at the ISPOR 10th Annual International Meeting First Plenary Session, 
May 16, 2005, Washington, DC, USA.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00084.x
PMID: 16626409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Value Health. 2006 Mar-Apr;9(2):123-31. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00090.x.

Incorporating direct and indirect evidence using bayesian methods: an applied 
case study in ovarian cancer.

Griffin S(1), Bojke L, Main C, Palmer S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. scg3@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the application of a Bayesian mixed treatment 
comparison (MTC) model to synthesize data from clinical trials to inform 
decisions based on all relevant evidence.
METHODS: The value of an MTC model is demonstrated using a probabilistic 
decision-analytic model developed to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
second-line chemotherapy in ovarian cancer. Three clinical trials were found 
that each made a different pair-wise comparison of three treatments of interest 
in the overall patient population. As no common comparator existed between the 
three trials, an MTC model was used to assess the combined weight of evidence on 
survival from all three trials simultaneously. This analysis was compared to an 
alternative approach that combined two of the trials to make the same comparison 
of all three treatments using a common comparator, and an informal approach that 
did not synthesize the available evidence.
RESULTS: By including all three trials using an MTC model, the credible 
intervals around estimated overall survival were reduced compared with making 
the same comparison using only two trials and a common comparator. Nevertheless, 
the survival estimates from the MTC model result in greater uncertainty around 
the optimal treatment strategy at a cost-effectiveness threshold of 30,000 
pounds per quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: MTC models can be used to combine more data than would typically be 
included in a traditional meta-analysis that relies on a common comparator. They 
can formally quantify the combined uncertainty from all available evidence, and 
can be conducted using the same analytical approaches as standard meta-analyses.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00090.x
PMID: 16626416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2006 Apr 20;4:25. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-4-25.

Do visual analogue scale (VAS) derived standard gamble (SG) utilities agree with 
Health Utilities Index utilities? A comparison of patient and community 
preferences for health status in rheumatoid arthritis patients.

Rashidi AA(1), Anis AH, Marra CA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of British Columbia, Canada. amiradel@interchange.ubc.ca

BACKGROUND: Assessment of Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) has become 
increasingly important and various direct and indirect methods and instruments 
have been devised to measure it. In direct methods such as Visual Analog Scale 
(VAS) and Standard Gamble (SG), respondent both assesses and values health 
states therefore the final score reflects patient's preferences. In indirect 
methods such as multi-attribute health status classification systems, the 
patient provides the assessment of a health state and then a multi-attribute 
utility function is used for evaluation of the health state. Because these 
functions have been estimated using valuations of general population, the final 
score reflects community's preferences. The objective of this study is to assess 
the agreement between community preferences derived from the Health Utilities 
Index Mark 2 (HUI2) and Mark 3 (HUI3) systems, and patient preferences.
METHODS: Visual analog scale (VAS) and HUI scores were obtained from a sample of 
320 rheumatoid arthritis patients. VAS scores were adjusted for end-aversion 
bias and transformed to standard gamble (SG) utility scores using 8 different 
power conversion formulas reported in other studies. Individual level agreement 
between SG utilities and HUI2 and HUI3 utilities was assessed using the 
intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Group level agreement was assessed by 
comparing group means using the paired t-test.
RESULTS: After examining all 8 different SG estimates, the ICC (95% confidence 
interval) between SG and HUI2 utilities ranged from 0.45 (0.36 to 0.54) to 0.55 
(0.47 to 0.62). The ICC between SG and HUI3 utilities ranged from 0.45 (0.35 to 
0.53) to 0.57 (0.49 to 0.64). The mean differences between SG and HUI2 utilities 
ranged from 0.10 (0.08 to 0.12) to 0.22 (0.20 to 0.24). The mean differences 
between SG and HUI3 utilities ranged from 0.18 (0.16 to 0.2) to 0.28 (0.26 to 
0.3).
CONCLUSION: At the individual level, patient and community preferences show 
moderate to strong agreement, but at the group level they have clinically 
important and statistically significant differences. Using different sources of 
preference might alter clinical and policy decisions that are based on methods 
that incorporate HRQL assessment. VAS-derived utility scores are not good 
substitutes for HUI scores.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-4-25
PMCID: PMC1553436
PMID: 16626489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Bull Cancer. 2006 Apr;93(4):407-14.

[Accepting chemotherapy at the age of 70 and over: between autonomy and ageing].

[Article in French]

Anchisi A(1), Anchisi S, Hugentobler V, Luyet V, Pott M.

Author information:
(1)Haute école santé-social Valais, Gravelone 5, 1950 Sion, Valais, Suisse. 
annick.anchisi@hevs.ch

This study is based on the interview of 21 subjects, aged 70 years and over, 
attending an oncology centre. At the end of their treatment, we have explored 
the processes of patient's choice, including goals, resources and constraints. 
The main variables influencing the acceptance of chemotherapy are full awareness 
of one's clinical condition, irrespective of whether a cure is possible or not, 
self perceived state of health, and lastly life expectancy. Age itself initially 
does not appear to be a limiting factor. Every effort should be made to tailor 
communication to individual needs, not least because of a link between learned 
and perceived treatment adverse effects. We found that symptoms, especially 
fatigue, hamper routine activities, leading to social withdrawal. Gradually the 
manifestations of the disease itself and of its treatment, combined with age, 
reveal both personal vulnerability and the role of support networks.

PMID: 16627244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Haematologica. 2006 May;91(5):671-4. Epub 2006 Apr 19.

The significance of minimal residual disease kinetics in adults with newly 
diagnosed PML-RARalpha-positive acute promyelocytic leukemia: results of a 
prospective trial.

Lee S(1), Kim YJ, Eom KS, Min CK, Kim HJ, Cho SG, Lee JW, Min WS, Kim CC.

Author information:
(1)Catholic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Center, College of Medicine, 
The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea. leeseok@catholic.ac.kr

Seventy adults with acute promyelocytic leukemia were studied to clarify the 
significance of the level and kinetics of minimal residual disease (MRD) over 
their entire treatment course by realtime quantitative polymerase chain 
reaction. At a median follow-up of 44 months, nine relapses had occurred. The 
5-year probabilities of relapse and disease-free survival were 17.3+/-5.4% and 
81.5+/-5.4%, respectively. A MRD level of >10-3 after first consolidation was 
the most powerful predictor of relapse (85.7+/-13.2% versus 7.3+/-4.1%, p<0.001) 
and disease-free survival (14.3+/-13.2% versus 91.2%+/-4.3%, p<0.001). 
Prospective MRD monitoring may allow us to identify subgroups of patients at 
high risk of relapse earlier during treatment.

PMID: 16627255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Endocr Pract. 2006 Jan-Feb;12 Suppl 1:16-9. doi: 10.4158/EP.12.S1.16.

Impaired glucose tolerance, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.
