

254. Prev Med. 2006 Mar;42(3):240-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2005.12.004. Epub 2006
Feb  15.

Could a federal program to promote influenza vaccination among elders be 
cost-effective?

Patel MS(1), Davis MM.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-0456, USA.

BACKGROUND: Influenza-related mortality predominately and disproportionately 
impacts the elderly. Rates of annual influenza vaccination among the elderly are 
approximately 65%, far below the Healthy People 2010 target of 90%. We estimated 
the cost-effectiveness of a 10-year federal program to promote influenza 
vaccine, intended to increase vaccination rates among persons > or = 65 years 
old.
METHODS: Published estimates regarding influenza-associated mortality rates and 
vaccine efficacy among the US elderly were used to calculate the number needed 
to vaccinate (NNV) to prevent one all-cause death due to influenza, as well as 
the mortality reduction expected from increased vaccination rates. The costs per 
life-year saved were estimated for a hypothetical federal promotional campaign, 
patterned after a direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising program (2006-2015). The 
base case scenario presumed a 25-percentage-point increase in vaccination rates 
to 90%; in sensitivity analyses, we examined programs that increased rates by 
10-20 points.
RESULTS: The base case NNV was 1116 (95% CI: 993-1348). Over the 10-year 
DTC-style influenza vaccine promotion program, 6516 (5576-7435) elderly lives 
would be saved. The incremental cost-effectiveness (C/E) of the program was 
dollar 16,300 (dollar 11,347-dollar 25,174) per life-year saved in 2006 and 
increased to dollar 199,906 (dollar 138,613-dollar 307,423) per life-year saved 
by 2015. Overall, the C/E for the 10-year program was dollar 37,621 (dollar 
32,644-dollar 43,939) per life-year saved. Programs that yielded a 
15-percentage-point increase or less in vaccination rates would have C/E values 
exceeding dollar 50,000 per life-year saved and save fewer than 4000 total 
lives.
CONCLUSIONS: DTC-style promotional campaigns for influenza vaccine among elders 
may represent a cost-effective strategy for the federal government to pursue as 
a means of increasing elders' vaccination rates and reducing influenza-related 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2005.12.004
PMID: 16480761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2005 Dec;30(6):1131-62. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-30-6-1131.

Can education policy be health policy? Implications of research on the social 
determinants of health.

Low MD(1), Low BJ, Baumler ER, Huynh PT.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas, USA.

Research on the social determinants of health has demonstrated robust 
correlations between several social factors, health status, and life expectancy. 
Some of these factors could be modified through policy intervention. 
National-level public policies explicitly based on population health research 
are in various stages of development in many Western countries, but in spite of 
evident need, seemingly not at all in the United States. Because research shows 
such a strong association between education and good health, we offer evidence 
to show that at least two pressing problems in American society, namely the 
uneven distribution of educational attainment and health disparities linked to 
socioeconomic position, may be ameliorated through policy initiatives that link 
quality early childhood care, child development programs, and parental training 
in a seamless continuum with strengthened K-12 education.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-30-6-1131
PMID: 16481310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Eur Respir J. 2006 May;27(5):895-901. doi: 10.1183/09031936.06.00102705.
Epub  2006 Feb 15.

Cost-utility analysis of chemotherapy in symptomatic advanced nonsmall cell lung 
cancer.

Dooms CA(1), Lievens YN, Vansteenkiste JF.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Oncology Unit (Pulmonology) and Leuven Lung Cancer Group, 
Catholic University, Leuven, Belgium. christophe.dooms@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

When using chemotherapy in patients with a short life expectancy, outcomes such 
as symptom improvement or clinical benefit receive increasing attention. 
Outcomes of subjective benefit to the patient can be rated as a utility in order 
to perform health economic analyses and comparisons with other treatment 
conditions. A cost-utility analysis has been performed alongside a prospective 
randomised clinical trial comparing single agent gemcitabine to cisplatin-based 
chemotherapy in symptomatic advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer patients. Global 
quality of life as well as resource utilisation data were collected during 
first-line chemotherapy for both treatment arms. Incremental costs, utilities 
and cost-utility ratio were calculated. Per patient, an incremental cost of 
1,522 was obtained for gemcitabine compared to cisplatin-vindesine, mainly as a 
consequence of the direct cost of the cytotoxic drugs. When combined with 
utilities, this resulted in an incremental cost-utility ratio for gemcitabine of 
13,836 per quality-adjusted life year gained. In conclusion, although the least 
expensive strategy is cisplatin-vindesine, the greater clinical benefit of 
gemcitabine, resulting in an acceptable incremental cost-utility ratio as 
compared with other healthcare interventions, balances its higher cost. The 
gains in subjective outcome achieved with palliative chemotherapy are critical 
from both a clinical and a health economic point of view.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.06.00102705
PMID: 16481384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Dev Genes Evol. 2006 May;216(5):277-83. doi: 10.1007/s00427-005-0054-3. Epub
 2006 Feb 16.

vasa mRNA accumulates at the posterior pole during blastoderm formation in the 
flour beetle Tribolium castaneum.

Schröder R(1).

Author information:
(1)Interfakultäres Institut für Zellbiologie, Abt. Genetik der Tiere, Auf der 
Morgenstelle 28, D-72076, Tübingen, Germany. reinhard.schroeder@uni-tuebingen.de

The correct specification of germ cells during embryogenesis is a fundamental 
step in life that ensures the existence of the next generation. Although 
different species display various cellular modes of generating germ cells, the 
product of the vasa gene proves to be a reliable marker of primordial germ cells 
in metazoans [Extavour and Akam (2003) 130:5869-5884; Raz (2000) 1:1017]. Here, 
I report the isolation of the vasa ortholog from the red flour beetle Tribolium 
castaneum, named Tc-vasa, and describe its sequence, its genomic organisation 
and its expression pattern during early embryogenesis. Unlike in Drosophila 
where vasa messenger RNA (mRNA) is ubiquitously distributed in the egg, Tc-vasa 
mRNA gradually accumulates at the posterior egg pole during blastoderm 
formation. Shortly before gastrulation, Tc-vasa mRNA marks a group of 
intra-blastodermal cells at the posterior pole. In the germ rudiment, a 
ball-like group of vasa-positive cells adheres to the growth zone at the 
posterior end of the embryo. These vasa-positive cells likely represent the 
primordial germ cells that have not been described in Tribolium prior to gonad 
formation. At the beginning of germ growth, a small band of vasa-positive cells 
starts to migrate along the dorsal side of the growth zone. vasa transcription 
ceases during further germ band extension. In contrast to Drosophila, Tc-vasa 
transcripts cannot be detected in the germ cells within the gonadal anlage after 
segmentation is completed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00427-005-0054-3
PMID: 16482438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. J Surg Oncol. 2006 Mar 1;93(3):173-80. doi: 10.1002/jso.20300.

Rectal cancer surgery in the elderly: a multivariate analysis of outcome risk 
factors.

Bufalari A(1), Giustozzi G, Burattini MF, Servili S, Bussotti C, Lucaroni E, 
Ricci E, Sciannameo F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Surgical Oncology, University of Perugia, 
Perugia, Italy. beatrice.sensi@med.unipg.it

Comment in
    J Surg Oncol. 2006 Mar 1;93(3):167-8.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Geriatric population life expectancy is rapidly 
increasing and the impact of major surgical procedures is not well defined. The 
purpose of this study was to compare short term surgical results assessing 
mortality and morbidity and long-term survival and disease-free interval in 
elective rectal surgery patients older than 65 years of age. The main 
independent risk factors of mortality, morbidity, and overall and disease-free 
survival were also identified.
METHODS: Out of 177 rectal cancer accepted consecutively from 1991 to 2002, we 
studied the main clinical and pathological parameters comparing patients older 
and younger than 65 years. Data have been collected in a database and variables 
considered were studied by univariate analysis; independent predictive factors 
of 30-day mortality and morbidity were identified by multiple logistic 
regression analysis. Overall, cancer specific and disease-free survival curves 
were obtained with the Kaplan-Meier method and results compared with the 
log-rank test. Independent risk factors of overall and disease-free survival 
have been identified by multivariate logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: In patients younger and older than 65 years postoperative mortality 
(3.2% vs. 9.6%) and morbidity (30% vs. 29%) were not significantly different. 
Variables independently associated with 30-day mortality were the duration of 
surgical procedures and postoperative complications. The Kaplan-Meier survival 
curves showed a significantly worst overall survival (P = 0.003), cancer 
specific survival (P = 0.02), and disease-free survival (P = 0.03) in patients 
aged 65 years or more. Multivariate analysis showed that pT, grading, 
preoperative CEA level, gender, and site of the tumor along the rectum, the 
number of blood transfusion and the age group of more than 65 years are 
independent risk factors for both overall survival and disease-free interval. 
The presence of residual disease was an adjunctive factor of overall survival, 
whereas the Astler and Coller staging was a risk factor for the disease-free 
survival.
CONCLUSION: The short-term prognosis for elective rectal cancer procedure in 
patients over 65 years of age was comparable to that of younger patients, 
whereas long term cancer-related survival was statistically worst in older 
patients.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.20300
PMID: 16482596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2006 Feb;10(1):73-6. doi: 10.1188/06.CJON.73-76.

Screening for disease: making evidence-based choices.

Fields MM(1), Chevlen E.

Author information:
(1)pegfields@houston.rr.com

Screening for illness should be an evidence-based activity. Screening tests are 
useful only if they reduce mortality or morbidity. Therefore, healthcare 
professionals must know how to evaluate research about screening tests to be 
sure that, in fact, the tests actually accomplish their goals. Tests that 
generate many false-positive results may cause harm from anxiety and unnecessary 
procedures. Tests that generate many false-negative results may worsen outcomes 
by leading to delayed diagnosis and treatment. Characteristics that make a 
disease amenable to screening include a significant negative impact on health, 
an identifiable asymptomatic period, and improved outcomes with early 
intervention. A useful screening test must have sensitivity and specificity for 
the disease being screened. It also must be cost effective and acceptable to 
patients. Sensitivity, specificity, and disease prevalence all interact to 
determine a test's positive predictive value--the likelihood that a positive 
test result indicates that the disease is present. Several types of test bias 
can undermine the validity of a screening trial. Screening bias occurs when the 
sample of patients used in a trial to evaluate a screening test is not 
representative of the patient population to be screened. Another bias results 
from the fact that indolent disease is more likely to be detected in a screening 
program than aggressive disease. The apparent improved outcome that results is 
called length bias. Finally, lead-time bias occurs when survival of a screened 
population is measured from the date of screening, whereas survival of an 
unscreened population is measured from detection of symptomatic disease. In 
screening for illnesses, the goal must not be merely to do something. It must be 
to do something useful.

DOI: 10.1188/06.CJON.73-76
PMID: 16482730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Health Care Women Int. 2006 Feb;27(2):112-24. doi:
10.1080/07399330500457960.

Health inequality among Estonian women.

Kull M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Exercise Biology and Physiotherapy, University of Tartu, 
Estonia. Merike.Kull@ut.ee

In Eastern Europe, in post-Communist countries, transformations during the past 
10 years have considerably affected the life of women. Our aims were to (a) 
examine health status and socioeconomic inequalities among Estonian women, and 
(b) study the relationships between women's social roles and health. A group of 
659 women, aged 18-45, completed the Health Questionnaire for Adults (HQA) and 
the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ). Income had the largest effect on 
self-related health and psychoemotional health ratings. The second important 
indicator was education. Women's additional social roles (marital status, 
parental role) were not detrimental to their health in our study.

DOI: 10.1080/07399330500457960
PMID: 16484156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. BMJ. 2006 Feb 18;332(7538):401-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.332.7538.401.

Pregnancy and congenital heart disease.

Uebing A(1), Steer PJ, Yentis SM, Gatzoulis MA.

Author information:
(1)Adult Congenital Heart Disease Unit, Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS Trust 
and National Heart and Lung Institute at Imperial College, London SW3 6NP.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.332.7538.401
PMCID: PMC1370974
PMID: 16484266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Feb 20;24(6):898-903. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.03.7309.

Randomized phase II study comparing thalidomide with medroxyprogesterone acetate 
in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

Lee CP(1), Patel PM, Selby PJ, Hancock BW, Mak I, Pyle L, James MG, Beirne DA, 
Steeds S, A'Hern R, Gore ME, Eisen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Royal Marsden Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: To investigate escalating doses of thalidomide compared with 
medroxyprogesterone in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC), who 
had either progressed after first-line immunotherapy or who were not suitable 
for immunotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thalidomide was started at 100 mg/d orally (PO) and 
escalated by 100 mg/d every 2 weeks to the maximum dose of 400 mg/d. 
Medroxyprogesterone was given at a fixed dose of 300 mg PO daily.
RESULTS: Sixty patients were entered (thalidomide:medroxyprogesterone = 29:31; 
median age, 59 [thalidomide], 60 [medroxyprogesterone]; No. of patients 
assessable for response, 22 [thalidomide], 26 [medroxyprogesterone]). In the 
thalidomide arm, there was no objective response seen. The best response was SD 
in three patients lasting 5+, 6+, and 12 months, respectively. All patients in 
the medroxyprogesterone arm progressed. There was no difference in overall 
survival between the two arms; median survival in the thalidomide arm was 8.2 
months compared with 4.8 months in the medroxyprogesterone arm (P = .62). Hazard 
ratio was 0.88 (95% CI, 0.67 to 1.94). Median duration of treatment was 73 days 
(range, 14 to 364 days) in the thalidomide arm, and 84 days (range, 7 to 175 
days) in the medroxyprogesterone arm. The high incidence of toxicity in the 
thalidomide arm, mainly somnolence, constipation, fatigue and paraesthesia, 
meant that only 30.8% of patients were able to tolerate the maximum dose of 400 
mg/d of treatment.
CONCLUSION: Thalidomide is not superior to medroxyprogesterone acetate in 
patients with metastatic RCC. Its risk/benefit ratio does not favor its use in 
this patient population.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.03.7309
PMID: 16484699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Zentralbl Chir. 2006 Feb;131(1):62-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-921400.

[Delirium and dementia in the peri-operative management of elderly surgical 
patients].

[Article in German]

Hamrick I(1), Mertens U, Lippert H, Meyer F.

Author information:
(1)Brody School of Medicine at East Carolina University, Brody 4N-72A, 600 Moye 
Boulevard, Greenville, NC 27858, USA. hamricki@ecu.edu

Increasing life expectancy, medication and disease burden, along with decreased 
functional status and organ reserve, place the elderly surgical patient at high 
risk for delirium in the peri-operative state. Alcohol abuse and an increased 
incidence of dementia may confound the picture. This overview describes 
definition, epidemiology, etiology, diagnosis, and therapy of delirium and 
explores the confounding effects of dementia.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-921400
PMID: 16485213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Theriogenology. 2006 Oct;66(6-7):1618-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2006.01.050. Epub 2006 Feb 17.

CYR61, a cellular proliferation marker in dogs with prostatic disease.

Oliveira KS(1), Araújo EG, Menezes LB, Damasceno AD, Fioravanti MC, Amorim RL.

Author information:
(1)Escola de Veterinária/Universidade Federal de Goiás (EV/UFG), Campus 
Samambaia II, Caixa Postal 131, 74001-970, Goiânia, Goiás, Brazil. 
ksoliver13@hotmail.com

The life expectancy of dogs is increasing and is associated with a greater 
frequency of age-related disease, including that of the prostate gland. A marker 
of cell proliferation, CYR61, may be detected in a number of conditions in 
humans, including hyperplasia and neoplasia. The objective of the present study 
was to investigate the degree of CYR61 expression in a number of different 
prostate diseases in dogs in order to understand the potential of this marker 
for diagnosis of prostatic disease. Immunohistochemistry with a CYR61 antibody 
was performed on prostatic tissue from 22 dogs with different diseases. Intense 
stromal staining was observed in cases of prostatic dysplasia and benign 
prostate hyperplasia. In contrast, CYR61 staining was very intense in alveolar 
epithelial cells in cases of epithelial benign prostate hyperplasia and one case 
of adenocarcinoma. An obvious CYR61 staining pattern was absent in cases of 
prostatitis. In conclusion, CYR61 may be a useful marker of cell proliferation 
in a number of prostatic pathologies, although further studies of normal tissue 
are warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2006.01.050
PMID: 16487580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Anesthesiol Clin. 2006 Mar;24(1):181-204, x. doi: 10.1016/j.atc.2005.12.004.

Hospice: comprehensive care at the end of life.

Fine PG(1), Davis M.

Author information:
(1)Pain Research Center, School of Medicine, University of Utah, Suite 200, 615 
Arapeen Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84108, USA. fine@aros.net

Hospice is a health care service delivery system that provides palliative care 
for patients who have a limited life expectancy and require comprehensive 
biomedical, psychosocial, and spiritual support. This article reviews the 
indications and provisions for hospice care for all age groups, including issues 
of prognosis and the role of the physician on the hospice interdisciplinary 
team. Because most deaths in the United States result from chronic progressive 
illnesses (eg, cancer and cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, pulmonary, and 
neurodegenerative diseases) that affect older individuals, discussion focuses on 
the provisions of the Medicare Hospice Benefit, which has become an important 
entitlement in efforts to improve care of the dying in this country.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atc.2005.12.004
PMID: 16487902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Trends Parasitol. 2006 Apr;22(4):154-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pt.2006.02.003. Epub
2006  Feb 20.

Do trematode parasites disrupt defence-cell signalling in their snail hosts?

Walker AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Kingston University, Penrhyn Road, 
Kingston-upon-Thames, Surrey, UK, KT1 2EE. t.walker@kingston.ac.uk

More than a decade ago, it was postulated that components derived from trematode 
parasites block receptors on the defence cells of their snail intermediate 
hosts, thus preventing host-cell activation and parasite elimination. This 
phenomenon has still not been investigated extensively. However, recent work 
concerning the molecular regulation of the molluscan defence response provides a 
new framework for studies that focus on an extension of this original concept - 
subversion of host cell signalling by trematode parasites. The hypothesis is 
that, to facilitate survival and replication in their intermediate hosts, 
trematode parasites down regulate host defence responses by interfering with key 
signal-transduction pathways in snail defence cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pt.2006.02.003
PMID: 16488192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2006 Feb;31(2):100-10. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.06.013.

Requests to forgo potentially life-prolonging treatment and to hasten death in 
terminally ill cancer patients: a prospective study.

Georges JJ(1), Onwuteaka-Philipsen BD, van der Heide A, van der Wal G, van der 
Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. j.georges@vumc.nl

This study investigates the background and evolution of requests to forgo 
treatment and hasten death in terminally ill cancer patients. Physicians 
participating in a nationwide study on end-of-life decision making were asked 
whether they were treating a terminally ill cancer patient whose life expectancy 
was longer than 1 week but no longer than 3 months and who they would continue 
to treat until the patient's death. Of the 120 physicians who had a patient who 
met the inclusion criteria, 85 (70.8%) completed a questionnaire each month 
until the patient's death. The questionnaire provided information on the 
patient's symptoms, concerns, and requests involving end-of-life decisions. Most 
patients suffered from cancer of the gastrointestinal tract or the respiratory 
system, and 66% died within 2 months of the initial interview. The prevalence of 
requests involving end-of-life decisions increased during the last 3 months of a 
patient's life. The evolution of a request was especially related to an increase 
in the number of severe symptoms and concerns. Requests to forgo treatment were 
related to general weakness, whereas loss of dignity was a major reason for 
requests to hasten death. Physical suffering alone appeared to lead to less 
drastic requests than suffering blended by concerns and psychological problems 
leading to requests for hastened death. The results emphasize the importance of 
gaining insight into the patients' suffering to provide meaningful assistance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2005.06.013
PMID: 16488343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. J Clin Epidemiol. 2006 Mar;59(3):224-33. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2005.08.005.

An unadjusted NNT was a moderately good predictor of health benefit.

Chong CA(1), Tomlinson G, Chodirker L, Figdor N, Uster M, Naglie G, Krahn MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Whether the number needed to treat (NNT) is 
sufficiently precise to use in clinical practice remains unclear. We compared 
unadjusted NNTs to quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, a more 
comprehensive measures of health benefit.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: From a subset (n = 65) of a dataset of 228 
cost-effectiveness analyses, we compared how well NNTs predicted clinically 
important QALY gains using correlation analysis, multivariable models and 
receiver-operator curve (ROC) analysis.
RESULTS: NNT was inversely correlated with QALY gains (P < .001); this 
relationship was affected by quality of life and life-expectancy gains of 
treatment (P <or= .04). The NNT is a moderately accurate predictor of treatments 
that provide large health benefits (area under ROC 0.74-0.81). For ruling out 
therapies with low QALY gains (threshold <or=0.125 to <or=0.5 QALYs), an NNT >15 
had a sensitivity of 82% to 100%. For ruling in therapies with high QALY gains 
(threshold >or=0.125 to >or=0.5 QALYs), an NNT <or=5 had a specificity of 77%.
CONCLUSION: Using NNT thresholds of <or=5 and >15 to rule in and out therapies 
with large QALY gains may provide general guidance regarding the magnitude of 
health benefit.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2005.08.005
PMID: 16488352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Lancet Neurol. 2006 Mar;5(3):235-45. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(06)70373-8.

Non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease: diagnosis and management.

Chaudhuri KR(1), Healy DG, Schapira AH; National Institute for Clinical 
Excellence.

Author information:
(1)Movement Disorders Unit, Kings College Hospital, Guy's King's and St Thomas' 
School of Medicine, London, UK. ray.chaudhuri@uhl.nhs.uk

The clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease rests on the identification of the 
characteristics related to dopamine deficiency that are a consequence of 
degeneration of the substantia nigra pars compacta. However, non-dopaminergic 
and non-motor symptoms are sometimes present before diagnosis and almost 
inevitably emerge with disease progression. Indeed, non-motor symptoms dominate 
the clinical picture of advanced Parkinson's disease and contribute to severe 
disability, impaired quality of life, and shortened life expectancy. By contrast 
with the dopaminergic symptoms of the disease, for which treatment is available, 
non-motor symptoms are often poorly recognised and inadequately treated. 
However, attention is now being focused on the recognition and quantitation of 
non-motor symptoms, which will form the basis of improved treatments. Some 
non-motor symptoms, including depression, constipation, pain, genitourinary 
problems, and sleep disorders, can be improved with available treatments. Other 
non-motor symptoms can be more refractory and need the introduction of novel 
non-dopaminergic drugs. Inevitably, the development of treatments that can slow 
or prevent the progression of Parkinson's disease and its multicentric 
neurodegeneration provides the best hope of curing non-motor symptoms.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(06)70373-8
PMID: 16488379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Mar;90(3):255-7. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2005.084848.

The calculation and use of economic burden data.

Frick KD, Kymes SM.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Mar;90(3):272-5.

Even in a developed economy, visual impairment can limit further economic 
development

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2005.084848
PMCID: PMC1856947
PMID: 16488936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Mar;90(3):272-5. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2005.080986.

The economic impact and cost of visual impairment in Australia.

Taylor HR(1), Pezzullo ML, Keeffe JE.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, 32 Gisborne 
Street, East Melbourne, Vic, Australia 3002. h.taylor@unimelb.edu.au

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Mar;90(3):255-7.

AIMS: To quantify the total economic costs of vision loss in Australia.
METHODS: Prevalence data of visual impairment, unpublished data on indirect 
costs, and national healthcare cost databases were used.
RESULTS: Vision disorders cost Australia an estimated A$9.85 billion in 2004. 
A$4.8 billion is the loss of wellbeing (years of life lost as a result of 
disability and premature mortality). Vision disorders rank seventh and account 
for 2.7% of the national loss of wellbeing. Direct health system costs total 
A$1.8 billion. They have increased by A$1 billion over the last 10 years and 
will increase a further A$1-2 billion in the next 10 years. Cataract, the 
largest direct cost, takes 18% of expenditure. The health system costs place 
vision disorders seventh, ahead of coronary heart disease, diabetes, depression, 
and stroke. Indirect costs, A$3.2 billion, include carers' costs, low vision 
aids, lost earnings, and other welfare payments and taxes.
CONCLUSIONS: Even a developed economy such as Australia's cannot afford 
avoidable vision loss. Priority needs to be given to prevent preventable vision 
loss; to treat treatable eye diseases; and to increase research into vision loss 
that can be neither prevented nor treated.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2005.080986
PMCID: PMC1856946
PMID: 16488942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: none declared


272. J Biosoc Sci. 2006 Mar;38(2):145-67. doi: 10.1017/S0021932005007261.

Premarital fertility in Namibia: trends, factors and consequences.

Garenne M(1), Zwang J.

Author information:
(1)IRD/ISD, Paris, France.

Premarital fertility, defined as fertility before first marriage, was found to 
be highly prevalent in Namibia. According to data from the 1992 and 2000 DHS 
surveys, the proportion of premarital births was 43% for all births, and 60% for 
the first birth. This seemed to be primarily due to a late mean age at first 
marriage (26.4 years) and low levels of contraception before first marriage. 
Data were analysed using a variety of demographic methods, including multiple 
decrement life table and multivariate logistic models. Major variations were 
found by ethno-linguistic groups: Herero and Nama/Damara had the highest levels 
of premarital fertility (above 60%); Ovambo and Lozi had intermediate levels of 
premarital fertility (around 40%); Kavongo and San appeared to have kept a more 
traditional behaviour of early marriage and low levels of premarital fertility 
(around 20%). The largest ethno-linguistic group, the Ovambo, were in a special 
situation, with fast increasing age at marriage and average level of premarital 
fertility. Whites and mixed races also differed, with Afrikaans-speaking groups 
having a behaviour closer to the average, whereas other Europeans had less 
premarital fertility despite an average age at marriage. Ethnic differences 
remained stable after controlling for various socioeconomic factors, such as 
urbanization, level of education, wealth, access to mass media, and religion. 
Results are discussed in light of the population dynamics and political history 
of Namibia in the 20th century.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932005007261
PMID: 16490151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Dev Biol. 2006 Apr 15;292(2):344-57. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2006.01.011. Epub
2006  Feb 21.

Role of PKA as a negative regulator of PCP signaling pathway during Xenopus 
gastrulation movements.

Park E(1), Kim GH, Choi SC, Han JK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular and Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology, San 31, Hyoja-dong, Pohang, Kyungbuk 790-784, South Korea.

Convergent extension (CE) movements in gastrulation are essential for the 
establishment of the body axis during early vertebrate development. Although the 
precise molecular mechanisms of CE movements are not clearly understood, 
noncanonical Wnt pathway is known to be important for the control of CE 
movements. Here, we present evidence that PKA is implicated in noncanonical Wnt 
pathway. Overexpression and specific depletion of PKA inhibit CE movements. PKA 
depletion also disrupts cell morphology, protrusive activity, and cortical actin 
formation in dorsal mesodermal cells. Moreover, PKA activity is negatively 
regulated by major components of planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway. In line 
with this, overexpression of PKA can rescue the inhibition of CE movements 
caused by overexpression of these molecules. We also demonstrate that this 
regulation of PKA activity is dependent upon Galphai signaling. As a negative 
component of PCP signaling, PKA inhibits not only the activation of RhoA and JNK 
but also the Dsh-Daam1-RhoA complex formation which is essential for the 
regulation of RhoA activity. Together, our study suggests a molecular pathway 
from Wnt/Dsh/PKA signaling to Rho activation in PCP signaling.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2006.01.011
PMID: 16490187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Arch Surg. 2006 Feb;141(2):137-42. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.141.2.137.

Surgical treatment of pancreatic head carcinoma in elderly patients.

Brozzetti S(1), Mazzoni G, Miccini M, Puma F, De Angelis M, Cassini D, Bettelli 
E, Tocchi A, Cavallaro A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Rome La Sapienza Medical School, Rome, 
Italy.

HYPOTHESIS: The treatment of cancer in elderly patients has become a global 
clinical issue, considering the increasingly longer life expectancy. Three 
quarters of patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma are older than 60 years. 
Surgical resection is the only chance of cure, and early outcome of 
pancreaticoduodenectomy in elderly patients is comparable with that obtained in 
a younger population.
DESIGN: During an 11-year period, 166 patients underwent curative 
pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Clinical and demographic 
factors were evaluated by univariate and multivariate analyses to test their 
effect on early outcome.
SETTING: State university medical school tertiary care center.
PATIENTS: One hundred sixty-six patients underwent curative 
pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. They were divided into 2 
groups according to age (group A for patients older than 70 years, group B for 
patients younger than 70 years).
INTERVENTION: Pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed using a Whipple procedure. 
An end-to-end pancreaticojejunostomy was constructed. Lymphadenectomy was 
carried out along the hepatoduodenal ligament, common hepatic artery, vena cava, 
superior mesenteric vein, and along the right side of the superior mesenteric 
artery. Four abdominal drainage sites were routinely used.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The postoperative hospital stay was calculated and 
morbidity and mortality were assessed.
RESULTS: Significantly higher operative morbidity and mortality were observed in 
group A (group A, 49.1% vs group B, 45.8% and 10.5% vs 3.7%, respectively). 
Underlying comorbid conditions in group B patients influenced postoperative 
morbidity but not mortality. Rate and nature of surgical complications were 
indicated as causes of significant higher mortality in group B patients.
CONCLUSIONS: An aggressive surgical approach is justified for elderly patients 
with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. However, surgical complications that lead to 
reoperation are responsible for a high mortality in elderly patients. In 
addition to general causes, such as concomitant disorders, reduced functional 
reserve, poor tolerance to stress, and the texture of the pancreatic remnant, 
there are specific prognostic factors affecting pancreaticojejunostomy leakage 
and related mortality.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.141.2.137
PMID: 16490889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Korean J Intern Med. 2005 Dec;20(4):290-4. doi: 10.3904/kjim.2005.20.4.290.

Clinical and bronchoscopic findings in Ugandans with pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma.

Yoo DJ(1), Lee KH, Munderi P, Shin KC, Lee JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Mulago Hospital, Makerere University, Kampala, 
Uganda.

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma (PKS) directly affects the life 
expectancy of those infected and yet the clinical and radiographic features of 
Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) with pulmonary involvement are nonspecific, which makes 
diagnosis difficult. In Uganda, pulmonary tuberculosis, which has clinical 
features that closely resemble those of PKS, also occurs commonly and thus 
confusion is bound to arise. Bronchoscopy is a recognized diagnostic 
investigatory modality for PKS. The aim of present study was to identify unique 
or useful points for the differential diagnosis of PKS and other opportunistic 
infections.
METHODS: The clinical, radiologic, and bronchoscopic findings in thirty-five 
Ugandan patients (age 20-50, median 32) with PKS were analyzed.
RESULTS: Cough and weight loss were most common and occurred in 97.1%, whereas 
fever occurred in 62.9%, and breathlessness in 57.1%. Thirty-four patients 
(97.1%) showed mucocutaneous KS, and palatal KS was most frequent and was 
observed in 74.3%. In addition, 25 patients (71.4%) showed the characteristic 
endobronchial plaques of KS. The most frequently observed radiographic 
abnormality was bilateral reticulonodular density. Histological examinations of 
bronchoscopic biopsies revealed KS in 7 (36.6%) cases. Five PFS patients (25%) 
also had co-existent tuberculosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of patients with PKS showed no specific findings on 
physical examination, apart from mucocutaneous KS. Our findings indicate that 
palatal KS may be a strong predictor of PKS. In Uganda, pulmonary tuberculosis 
may be the most common concomitant pulmonary infection in PKS patients.

DOI: 10.3904/kjim.2005.20.4.290
PMCID: PMC3891074
PMID: 16491826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Mil Med. 2005 Dec;170(12):1069-74. doi: 10.7205/milmed.170.12.1069.

Carotid revascularization in the presence of contralateral carotid artery 
occlusion is safe and durable.

Fitzpatrick CM(1), Chiou AC, DeCaprio JD, Kashyap VS.

Author information:
(1)Wilford Hall Medical Center, Lackland Air Force Base, TX 78236, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Complete occlusion of the contralateral carotid artery has been 
thought to increase the risk of carotid endarterectomy (CEA). This study was 
conducted to determine whether contralateral occlusion (CO) leads to a higher 
rate of complications among patients undergoing CEA or alters long-term 
outcomes.
METHODS: All CEAs (N = 221) performed at our institution between September 1997 
and June 2002 were reviewed. Patients were divided into two groups, i.e., CO and 
contralateral patency. Statistical analyses were performed using Fisher's exact 
test for nominal values and the t test for continuous variables. Life-table 
analyses were performed for patency and survival.
RESULTS: Complete data and follow-up results were available for 170 of the 221 
operations performed during the study period. CO was present in 16 cases (9.4%). 
Preoperative demographic features, indications for surgery, and operative 
techniques did not vary between study groups; there was increased use of general 
anesthesia (p = 0.05) in the CO group. No surgical deaths occurred. The 
perioperative stroke rates were not statistically different between groups (CO 
group, 6.3%; contralateral patency group, 2.6%; p = 0.39). Long-term patency and 
stroke-free survival rates at 5 years exceeded 90% and did not vary 
significantly between groups.
CONCLUSION: Patients undergoing CEA with occlusion of the contralateral carotid 
artery do not have unique preoperative demographic features or indications. 
Contralateral carotid artery occlusion does not increase risk or alter long-term 
outcomes after CEA. Carotid revascularization can be safely performed in 
tertiary military centers.

DOI: 10.7205/milmed.170.12.1069
PMID: 16491950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Blood Press. 2006;15(1):27-36. doi: 10.1080/08037050500493460.

Cost-effectiveness of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in the follow-up of 
hypertension.

Rodriguez-Roca GC(1), Alonso-Moreno FJ, Garcia-Jimenez A, Hidalgo-Vega A, 
Llisterri-Caro JL, Barrios-Alonso V, Segura-Fragoso A, Clemente-Lirola E, 
Estepa-Jorge S, Delgado-Cejudo Y, Lopez-Abuin JM.

Author information:
(1)Health Care Centre, La Puebla de Montalban, Toledo, Spain. 
grodriguez@semergen.es

Comment in
    Blood Press. 2006;15(1):4-5.

AIMS: To study the cost of the follow-up of hypertension in primary care (PC) 
using clinical blood pressure (CBP) and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring 
(ABPM), and to analyse the cost-effectiveness (CE) of both methods.
MAJOR FINDINGS AND PRINCIPAL CONCLUSION: Good control of hypertension was 
achieved in 8.3% with CBP (95% CI 4.8-11.8) and in 55.6% with ABPM (95% CI 
49.3-61.9). The cost of one patient with good control of hypertension is almost 
four times higher with CBP than with ABPM (Euro 940 vs Euro 238). Reaching the 
gold standard (ABPM) involved an after-cost of Euro 115 per patient. The results 
for a 5% discount rate showed a saving of Euro 68,883 if ABPM was performed in 
all the patients included in the study (n = 241, Euro 285 per patient). An 
analysis of sensitivity, changing the discount rate and life expectancy 
indicated that ABPM provides a better CE ratio and a lower global cost. ABPM is 
more cost-effective than CBP. However, if we include the new treatment cost of 
poorly monitored patients, it is less cost-effective. Excellent control of 
hypertension is still an important challenge for all healthcare professionals, 
especially for those working in PC, where most monitoring of hypertensive 
patients takes place.

DOI: 10.1080/08037050500493460
PMID: 16492613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Anesth Analg. 2006 Mar;102(3):956-9. doi:
10.1213/01.ane.0000195420.63817.3a.

General anesthesia does not reduce life expectancy in aged rats.

Culley DJ(1), Loguinov A, Yukhananov R, Crosby G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Division on Aging, Harvard Medical School, Brigham 
& Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    Anesth Analg. 2006 May;102(5):1332.

A recent clinical study demonstrated that deep anesthesia, as measured by 
Bispectral index monitoring, was associated with increased 1-yr mortality among 
middle-aged and elderly surgical patients. We have previously demonstrated 
impaired cognitive performance in aged rats for weeks after general anesthesia 
with 1.2% isoflurane-70% nitrous oxide-30% oxygen. However, the effects of 2 h 
of anesthesia with 1.2% isoflurane-70% nitrous oxide-30% oxygen on rodent life 
expectancy are unknown and may have confounded our results. Accordingly, we 
designed this study to determine if general anesthesia alters life expectancy in 
aged rats. Sixteen 22-mo-old Fischer 344 rats were randomized to anesthesia for 
2 h with 1.2% isoflurane-70% nitrous oxide-30% oxygen or a control group that 
received 30% oxygen (n = 8 per group). Rats recovered in an enriched oxygen 
environment and then were placed in their home cage under routine conditions. 
The number of days between anesthesia administration and death were recorded and 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves generated and compared statistically using the 
log-rank test and bootstrap method. There was no difference in long-term 
survival between the control and anesthesia groups. Hence, general anesthesia 
with 1.2% isoflurane-70% nitrous oxide-30% oxygen does not reduce life 
expectancy in aged Fischer 344 rats.

DOI: 10.1213/01.ane.0000195420.63817.3a
PMID: 16492858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Arch Dis Child. 2006 Mar;91(3):254-8. doi: 10.1136/adc.2005.075002.

Life expectancy in severe cerebral palsy.

Hutton JL(1), Pharoah PO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.

Cerebral palsy comprises an important component of paediatric and obstetric 
practice and has major medico-legal implications. The prognosis for survival in 
cerebral palsy determines the financial provision made in cases that come to 
litigation. Issues of data quality and estimation methods are critical. 
Estimating the probability of survival in cerebral palsy based on clinical 
experience is liable to serious error unless numerical data can be produced. 
Only an actuarial analysis based on a standard life table of cases of cerebral 
palsy will enable a valid estimate of survival. Construction of the table 
requires a total cohort of cases of cerebral palsy with their date of birth. 
Each case must conform to a specified definition of the syndrome. Notification 
of all those who die, with their date of death is mandatory. Estimating the 
probability of survival according to the severity of functional disability 
requires specific definitional criteria for each severity category and for those 
categories to be mutually exclusive. Survival is significantly poorer in those 
with severe disability. Severe cognitive, motor (manual and ambulatory), and 
visual disabilities have independent effects on the probability of survival. 
Severe hearing disability does not add additional information when the other 
four functional disability categories are included.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.2005.075002
PMCID: PMC2065925
PMID: 16492890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: the authors are frequently 
requested to provide estimates of the probability of survival in cases of 
cerebral palsy that are the subject of litigation for medical negligence


280. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2006 Jan-Mar;20(1):49-55. doi: 
10.1097/01.wad.0000201851.52707.c9.

Patient- and proxy-reported utility in Alzheimer disease using the EuroQoL.

Jönsson L(1), Andreasen N, Kilander L, Soininen H, Waldemar G, Nygaard H, 
Winblad B, Jönhagen ME, Hallikainen M, Wimo A.

Author information:
(1)Neurotec, Section for Geriatric Epidemiology, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden. linus.j@healtheconomics.se

This study aims to compare patient- and proxy-rated utilities and health-related 
quality of life from individuals in different stages of Alzheimer disease (AD). 
Two hundred seventy-two patients and their primary caregivers were enrolled in a 
prospective observational study and underwent three consecutive interviews, 6 
months apart. Average Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores were 19.3, 
18.0, and 16.4 at the three interviews; scores ranged from 0 to 30. Using the 
EuroQoL EQ-5D instrument, patient-rated health utilities were on average 0.833 
with little variation across MMSE-based severity levels. Proxy-rated health 
utilities were 0.69 (MMSE >25), 0.64 (MMSE 21-25), 0.50 (MMSE 15-20), 0.49 (MMSE 
10-14), and 0.33 (MMSE <10). Proxy-rated utilities, as well as changes in 
utilities over time, were significantly related to MMSE scores and inversely 
related to scores on a brief version of the neuropsychiatric inventory (NPI) and 
institutionalization. Utilities were highly correlated with the disease-specific 
quality of life instrument QoL-AD. The study shows that the EuroQoL can be used 
to rate utilities in Alzheimer disease, but there are important differences 
between patient- and proxy-ratings.

DOI: 10.1097/01.wad.0000201851.52707.c9
PMID: 16493236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Am J Hum Biol. 2006 Mar-Apr;18(2):214-8. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20485.

Validating the self-reported fertility status of rural Malawian women.

Barden-O'Fallon J(1), Suchindran C, Tsui AO.

Author information:
(1)MEASURE/Evaluation, Carolina Population Center,University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27516, USA. bardenof@email.unc.edu

This study uses data from a population-based survey to examine the fertility 
schedules of 704 women in a rural district of Malawi. The main objective is to 
assess self-reported fecundity status as a measure of fertility impairment. Life 
tables are used to examine the timing and tempo of births for women reporting 
difficulty getting pregnant as compared to women with no reported fecundity 
difficulties. Results of the analysis indicate that women with self-reported 
fecundity difficulties are older at each birth and have longer median birth 
intervals than do women with no reported difficulties. Cox proportional hazards 
models show that the report of a difficulty getting pregnant is significantly 
associated with at least a 30% lower likelihood of a first, second, or third 
birth. The relationships are not modified when accounting for demographic 
characteristics, previous sexual behaviors, or STI status.

Am. J. Hum. Biol. 18:214-218, 2006. (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20485
PMID: 16493633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Am J Gastroenterol. 2006 Apr;101(4):768-74. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00490.x. Epub 2006 Feb 22.

Impact of age on screening and surveillance for primary liver cancer.

Patel T(1), Dangell C, Maheshwari S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Scott and White Clinic, Texas A&M University 
System Health Science Center, College of Medicine, Temple, Texas 76508, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Although screening and surveillance for liver cancers have become 
established practices, the impact of age on these practices is unknown. The age 
at which these could be stopped, if any, is unclear. Our aims were to assess the 
impact of age on developing or dying from liver cancer, and to define the 
relative impact of prematurely stopping screening.
METHODS: Actuarial life-table analyses were performed using age-stratified 
mortality rates for primary liver cancers, and for all other causes combined, 
obtained from population-based databases from the United States. The impact of 
prematurely stopping screening at a given age was expressed as days of life lost 
compared to the maximal benefit expected from lifelong screening.
RESULTS: Mortality from primary liver cancers increases with age and peaks at 37 
per 100,000 persons at ages 85-90 yr. However, mortality from other causes 
increases even more with age. Consequently, the relative proportion of deaths 
from primary liver cancer is maximal at 1.34% of all deaths at age 50 yr, and 
gradually decreases thereafter. Eighty percent of the maximal potential benefit 
of lifetime screening from age 45 yr is achieved by age 77 yr, and 90% by age 82 
yr.
CONCLUSIONS: The relative benefits from screening for primary liver cancer are 
reduced in the elderly due to competing risks for death despite an increasing 
incidence of primary liver cancer with age. The majority of societal benefit is 
gained from screening at younger ages, when the relative proportions of death 
attributable to liver cancer are the greatest.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00490.x
PMID: 16494589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Eur J Haematol. 2006 Jun;76(6):465-72. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.2006.00631.x.  Epub 2006 Feb 23.

Fas and Fas ligand expression on germinal center type-diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma is associated with the clinical outcome.

Kojima Y(1), Tsurumi H, Goto N, Shimizu M, Kasahara S, Yamada T, Kanemura N, 
Hara T, Sawada M, Saio M, Yamada T, Takahashi T, Tomita E, Takami T, Moriwaki H.

