mitochondrial Bcl-x-isoform patterns and mitochondrial dysfunction in the ageing 
heart.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.02.001
PMID: 16564664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 Apr;17(4 Suppl 2):S123-6. doi:
10.1681/ASN.2005121339.

Stem cells and the kidney: a new therapeutic tool?

Zerbini G(1), Piemonti L, Maestroni A, Dell'Antonio G, Bianchi G.

Author information:
(1)Renal Pathophysiology, Division of Medicine, San Raffaele Scientific 
Institute, Via Olgettina 60, I-20132 Milano, Italy. g.zerbini@hsr.it

In the past few years, a number of studies have shown that stem cells can be 
found in virtually every organ of the adult organism. The kidney is not an 
exception, and resident stem cells have been identified both in the papilla and 
along the tubules. Of interest, kidney-bound stem cells have been identified 
also in the bone marrow. When injected, both resident and bone marrow-derived 
stem cells are able to reach the injured renal tissue and, once there, to 
differentiate into renal cells. The evidence that, in humans, some of the acute 
and most of the chronic renal damages lead to ESRD suggests that in normal 
conditions, the reservoir of stem cells (considering both resident and bone 
marrow-derived stem cells) is insufficient to allow a major renal regeneration. 
Probably the number of stem cells that are ready to intervene in an adult kidney 
are sufficient to compensate for the normal cell turnover but largely inadequate 
to counteract a major injury. This is confirmed further by the finding that, 
even by transplanting a syngenic bone marrow in rats with ablation of 5/6 of the 
renal function, it is not possible to increase the life expectancy of the 
animals. Altogether, this evidence suggests that, to clarify the potentiality of 
a stem cell therapy for renal diseases, experiments that aim to clarify the 
ideal concentration of stem cells to be injected and to identify the best way of 
administration are needed.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2005121339
PMID: 16565235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 Apr;17(4 Suppl 2):S44-8. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2005121323.

Economic evaluation of angiotensin receptor blockers in type 2 diabetes, 
hypertension, and nephropathy.

Ravera M(1), Re M, Vettoretti S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Dialysis and Transplantation, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Genoa, Viale Benedetto XV 6, 16123 Genoa, Italy. 
mauraravera@unige.it

There is a rising incidence and prevalence of ESRD as a result of diabetes, with 
poor outcome and growing costs. Recently, two large trials, the Irbesartan 
Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT) and Reduction of Endpoints in NIDDM with the 
Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan (RENAAL), showed that angiotensin receptor 
blockers (ARB) are more effective than traditional antihypertensive therapies at 
reducing progression toward ESRD in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes 
and overt nephropathy, regardless of changes in BP. The results of these two 
trials were used to compare the costs of ARB with those of renal replacement 
therapy (dialysis and renal transplantation) in an effort to establish whether 
ARB are cost-saving because they delay ESRD. Two different pharmacoeconomic 
approaches were used. With regard to the RENAAL trial, the number of ESRD days 
on losartan therapy as compared with the number of ESRD days on standard 
antihypertensive therapy was calculated, and the difference between the two was 
combined with the costs of ESRD. In the IDNT trial, Markov models were applied 
to assess the economic impact of irbesartan and to extrapolate future clinical 
and cost outcomes. Several economic analyses were performed in the United States 
and in European countries. Applying pharmacoeconomic models showed that 
treatment with ARB was associated with a greater improvement in life expectancy 
and lower total costs compared with amlodipine and standard antihypertensive 
therapy. Therefore, treating patients with type 2 diabetes, nephropathy, and 
hypertension with ARB is life- and cost-saving compared with traditional 
antihypertensive therapy.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2005121323
PMID: 16565246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Neurol India. 2005 Dec;53(4):475-82. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.22617.

Percutaneous vertebroplasty: current concepts and local experience.

Hee HT(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Spinal Surgery, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, National 
University of Singapore, 5 Lower Kent Ridge Road, Singapore-119074. 
doshht@nus.edu.sg

With the aging population in our country, symptomatic osteoporotic compression 
fractures are increasingly common. Osteolytic compression fractures from spinal 
metastasis are also becoming more frequently seen because of the longer life 
expectancy from improvements in chemotherapy. Percutaneous vertebroplasty with 
PMMA has been shown to be an efficient procedure to treat pain due to these 
fractures. It is a minimally invasive procedure performed under local anesthesia 
and sedation. Injection of PMMA provides immediate stability when it hardens, 
and permits the patient to ambulate without pain. Appropriate patient selection 
is the key to clinical success. However, this procedure must be treated with 
respect, and has to be performed by physicians with the necessary training. 
Otherwise, increased pain, paralysis, and even death may occur from this 
seemingly innocuous procedure. In this article, I will deal with the background 
issues of osteoporotic and osteolytic vertebral compression fractures, patient 
selection, surgical technique, complications, and review of current literature 
on vertebroplasty. Key areas of development in this field include the use of 
kyphoplasty, defining the role of prophylactic augmentation, and improvements in 
biomaterials.

DOI: 10.4103/0028-3886.22617
PMID: 16565540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Circ J. 2006 Apr;70(4):453-8. doi: 10.1253/circj.70.453.

Pharmacoeconomic analysis of cilostazol for the secondary prevention of cerebral 
infarction.

Inoue T(1), Kobayashi M, Uetsuka Y, Uchiyama S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, St. Luke's International Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. 
tadaoino@luke.or.jp

BACKGROUND: The antiplatelet agent, cilostazol, is known to reduce the risk of 
subsequent cerebral infarction. However, the cost effectiveness of such 
treatment in comparison to aspirin has not been studied.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Markov model was developed to calculate the health 
outcomes and associated costs for 65-year-old patients with cerebral infarction 
who were treated with 200 mg/day cilostazol or 81 mg/day aspirin. Cilostazol was 
more effective, but also more expensive than aspirin. Cilostazol would extend 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) by 0.64, while increasing life-time costs by 
approximately Yen 1.1 million. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
cilostazol in comparison with aspirin was estimated to be Yen 1.8 million per 
QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of cilostazol to prevent recurrence of cerebral infarction 
appears to be cost effective.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.70.453
PMID: 16565564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Med Care. 2006 Apr;44(4):373-7. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000204281.42465.11.

Implications of new geriatric diabetes care guidelines for the assessment of 
quality of care in older patients.

Huang ES(1), Sachs GA, Chin MH.

Author information:
(1)Sections of General Internal Medicine, Pritzker School of Medicine, 
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. 
ehuang@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

BACKGROUND: Current approaches to assessing quality of diabetes care do not 
account for the heterogeneity of older patients.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare conclusions regarding adequacy of glucose and 
blood pressure control using current quality assessment approaches and a 
stratified approach based on geriatric care guidelines.
DESIGN: This was a cross-sectional evaluation of diabetes care.
SUBJECTS: We studied patients older than 65, living with diabetes (n = 554) 
attending clinics of an academic medical center.
MEASUREMENTS: We measured the proportion of patients with and without markers of 
poor health (life expectancy < or = 5 years, age > or = 85, 4-6 activities of 
daily living dependencies, or Charlson Comorbidity Index Score > or = 5) 
achieving treatment goals.
RESULTS: Under general population goals (glycosylated hemoglobin [HbA1C] < or = 
6.5% or < 7%; systolic blood pressure [SBP] < 130 mm Hg), a small proportion of 
our subjects met glucose (24-36%) or SBP control (30%) targets. Under new 
guidelines, less-intense targets (HbA1C < or = 8%, SBP < 140 mm Hg) would be 
applied to patients with diminished health, with general population goals 
reserved for healthier patients. With this stratified approach, the proportion 
of sicker patients achieving their specified glucose (61-83%) and SBP goals 
(37-64%) generally was high, depending on the criteria for poor health, whereas 
the proportion of healthier patients achieving their goals remained low.
CONCLUSIONS: A stratified approach to assessing the quality of diabetes care 
leads to distinct care conclusions for older patients with and without markers 
of diminished health. An approach to quality assessment and quality improvement 
that acknowledges patient heterogeneity could help ensure the clinical relevance 
of such efforts for older patients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000204281.42465.11
PMCID: PMC2291144
PMID: 16565639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. S D Med. 2006 Mar;59(3):103-5.

Spinal stenosis.

Babb A(1), Carlson WO.

Author information:
(1)St. John's University, Collegeville, MN, USA.

Spinal stenosis can be generally described as the narrowing of the spinal canal 
causing compression of the spinal cord. This compression most often occurs in 
the lumbar portion of the spine and has a clinical presentation of pain and 
numbness in the low back, legs and buttocks after walking or extension of the 
lumbar spine. The symptoms associated with lumbar spinal stenosis are usually 
relieved with flexion of the lower back. In addition, compression at the 
cervical spine has occasionally been seen in combination with lumbar spinal 
stenosis, with thoracic spinal stenosis occurring only rarely. Therefore, 
because spinal stenosis is the most prevalent preoperative diagnosis for spine 
surgery and affects nearly 5 of every 1000 Americans older than 50 years old, it 
is imperative to understand the role of spinal stenosis in generating back and 
leg pain. In this article an overview of the etiology, treatment, and outcomes 
will be presented to give a better understanding of this condition.

PMID: 16566302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Am J Kidney Dis. 2006 Apr;47(4 Suppl 2):S86-97. doi:
10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.12.042.

Challenges in the counseling and management of older kidney transplant 
candidates.

Danovitch G(1), Savransky E.

Author information:
(1)Kidney Transplant Program, Division of Nephrology, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1686, USA. gdanovitch@mednet.ucla.edu

Patients aged 60 years and older represent the fastest-growing population with 
chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease (ESRD). In 2002, a total of 
137,000 patients aged 65 years and older were on dialysis therapy in the United 
States, but only a highly selected minority of them (5%) were on the waiting 
list for a kidney transplant. The majority of older patients on dialysis therapy 
are not being referred for the waiting list, presumably because of comorbid 
diseases and lower life expectancy. However, kidney transplantation clearly has 
been shown to improve survival compared with dialysis, even for older patients. 
Because both patient age and time on the transplant waiting list increase the 
risk for death, older patients (ie, > or =60 years) who already have a shorter 
life expectancy than younger patients are more likely to die with a functioning 
graft. The limited supply of deceased-donor kidneys and increasing number of 
patients who would benefit from transplantation have created a dilemma about how 
to fairly allocate donor kidneys among patients of all ages while meeting the 
needs of the increasing number of older patients with ESRD. Although older 
dialysis patients receive fewer kidney transplants than younger patients, their 
patient and graft survival rates are good. Instead of applying rigid age limits, 
the "biological," rather than "chronological," age of individual patients should 
be assessed carefully to help clinicians select the most appropriate candidates 
for kidney transplantation and reduce morbidity and mortality in older 
transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2005.12.042
PMID: 16567243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Arch Intern Med. 2006 Mar 27;166(6):605-9. doi: 10.1001/archinte.166.6.605.

Reconsidering medication appropriateness for patients late in life.

Holmes HM(1), Hayley DC, Alexander GC, Sachs GA.

Author information:
(1)hholmes@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2006 Nov 27;166(21):2404.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.166.6.605
PMID: 16567597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Neurology. 2006 Mar 28;66(6):833-8. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000203112.12554.f4.

Contrasting cognitive trajectories of impending death and preclinical dementia 
in the very old.

Laukka EJ(1), MacDonald SW, Bäckman L.

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Division of Geriatric Epidemiology, Neurotec, 
Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm Gerontology Research Center, Stockholm, 
Sweden. Erika.Jonsson.Laukka@ki.se

BACKGROUND: Both impending death and preclinical dementia are associated with 
cognitive impairment in old age, although their effects on cognitive functioning 
have rarely been examined within the same study.
METHODS: Participants (n = 1,200, aged 75+ years) from a community-based study 
completed a measure of global cognitive performance (the Mini-Mental State 
Examination [MMSE]) at 3-year intervals over an 11-year period. Level and change 
of MMSE performance were compared for three groups: persons in close proximity 
to death, persons in a preclinical phase of dementia, and persons who remained 
alive and nondemented throughout the study.
RESULTS: There were significant group differences in MMSE performance 3 years 
before each outcome (death, dementia, or end of study). Those with preclinical 
dementia performed the poorest and declined twice as fast on the MMSE relative 
to the other groups. Although persons in close proximity to death declined 
faster in general, no accelerated decline was observed for the impending death 
group after persons with dementia or preclinical dementia had been excluded. 
Group differences were attenuated for the oldest-old (81+ years) compared to the 
old-old (75 to 80 years).
CONCLUSIONS: The lack of accelerated decline in proximity to death after 
excluding persons with dementia or preclinical dementia suggests that part of 
the terminal decline effect demonstrated in previous investigations may reflect 
preclinical dementia deficits. Further, accelerated cognitive decline might be a 
more reliable indicator of preclinical dementia than a low cognitive score due 
to confounds associated with cross-sectional cognitive performance.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000203112.12554.f4
PMID: 16567699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2006 Apr;88(4):472-6. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.88B4.17333.

Differences in ion release after ceramic-on-ceramic and metal-on-metal total hip 
replacement. Medium-term follow-up.

Savarino L(1), Greco M, Cenni E, Cavasinni L, Rotini R, Baldini N, Giunti A.

Author information:
(1)The Rizzoli Orthopaedic Institute, Bologna, Italy. lucia.savarino@ior.it

Modern metal-on-metal bearings produce less wear debris and osteolysis, but have 
the potential adverse effect of release of ions. Improved ceramic-on-ceramic 
bearings have the lowest wear of all, but the corrosion process has not been 
analysed. Our aim was to measure the serum ion release (ng/ml) in 23 patients 
having stable hip prostheses with a ceramic-on-ceramic coupling (group A) and to 
compare it with the release in 42 patients with a metal-on-metal bearing (group 
B) in the medium term. Reference values were obtained from a population of 47 
healthy subjects (group C). The concentrations of chromium, cobalt, aluminium 
and titanium were measured. There was a significant increase of cobalt, chromium 
and aluminium levels (p < 0.05) in group B compared with groups A and C. Group A 
did not differ significantly from the control group. Despite the apparent 
advantage of a metal-on-metal coupling, especially in younger patients with a 
long life expectancy, a major concern arises regarding the extent and duration 
of ion exposure. For this reason, the low corrosion level in a 
ceramic-on-ceramic coupling could be advantageous.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.88B4.17333
PMID: 16567781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Curr Treat Options Neurol. 2006 May;8(3):236-44. doi:
10.1007/s11940-006-0014-x.

Huntington's Disease.

Higgins DS Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Center, Albany Medical College, 
215 Washington Avenue Extension, Albany, NY 12205, USA. higgind@mail.amc.edu

Although available treatments for Huntington's disease (HD) are imperfect, 
thoughtful application can positively impact quality of life. Dopamine 
antagonists can provide control of the troublesome hyperkinetic movements. These 
agents can also diminish the frequency of hallucinations and delusions when 
symptoms of psychosis occur. Classical neuroleptics have the widest utilization, 
although atypical antipsychotics are being increasingly used. Suppression of 
choreiform movements has also been reported with amantadine and tetrabenazine, 
which is not currently approved in the United States but under investigation. 
Alteration in mood can be successfully managed with a variety of antidepressant 
medications. Superior tolerability and value in the management of a variety of 
behavioral disturbances have lead to extensive use of serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors. Modest disturbance of mood can sometimes be addressed with 
anticonvulsant medications. Considered a manifestation of advanced disease, 
dementia is less commonly addressed therapeutically. However, gathering 
experience suggests improved cognitive function can occur with cholinesterase 
inhibitor therapy. Frequently overlooked is the value of rehabilitation services 
in the management of diverse symptoms. Although the value of a dysphagia 
evaluation is apparent, the benefit to be derived from physical and occupational 
therapy involvement cannot be overstated. Current therapeutic trials will 
undoubtedly provide additional therapies to moderate symptoms, but once the 
mechanism(s) of selective striatal projection neuron degeneration are 
delineated, a revolution in the management of HD will occur.

DOI: 10.1007/s11940-006-0014-x
PMID: 16569382


464. Osteoporos Int. 2006;17(7):996-1007. doi: 10.1007/s00198-006-0094-1. Epub
2006  Mar 29.

The cost-effectiveness of risedronate in the treatment of osteoporosis: an 
international perspective.

Borgström F(1), Carlsson A, Sintonen H, Boonen S, Haentjens P, Burge R, Johnell 
O, Jönsson B, Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Health Economics, Klarabergsgatan 333tr, SE-111 21, Stockholm, 
Sweden. fredrik.b@healtheconomics.se

INTRODUCTION: Risedronate, a bisphosphonate for treatment and prevention of 
osteoporosis, has been shown in several clinical trials to reduce the risk of 
fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. The cost-effectiveness of 
risedronate treatment has previously been evaluated within different country 
settings using different model and analysis approaches. The objective of this 
study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of risedronate in postmenopausal 
women in four European countries -- Sweden, Finland, Spain, and Belgium -- by 
making use of the same modelling framework and analysis setup.
METHODS: A previously developed Markov cohort model for the evaluation of 
osteoporosis treatments was used to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
risedronate treatment. For each country, the model was populated with local 
mortality, fracture incidence, and cost data. Hip fractures, clinical vertebral 
fractures, and wrist fractures were included in the model.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained from 
a 5-year intervention with risedronate compared to "no intervention" in 
70-year-old women at the threshold of osteoporosis [T-score = -2.5 based on 
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) III data] and previous 
vertebral fracture was estimated to be euro 860, euro 19,532, euro 11,782, and 
euro 32,515 in Sweden, Finland, Belgium, and Spain, respectively. Among 
70-year-old women at the threshold of osteoporosis without previous fracture the 
estimated cost per QALY gained ranged from euro 21,148 (Sweden) to euro 80,100 
(Spain). The differences in cost-effectiveness between countries are mainly 
explained by different costs (fracture and treatment costs), fracture risks, and 
discount rates. Based on cost per QALY gained threshold values found in the 
literature, the study results indicated risedronate to be cost effective in the 
treatment of elderly women with established osteoporosis in all the included 
countries.
CONCLUSIONS: At a hypothetical threshold value of euro 40,000 per QALY gained, 
the results in this study indicate that risedronate is a cost-effective 
treatment in elderly women at the threshold of osteoporosis (i.e., a T-score of 
-2.5) with prevalent vertebral fractures in Sweden, Finland, Belgium, and Spain.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-006-0094-1
PMID: 16570118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Cleve Clin J Med. 2006 Mar;73 Suppl 1:S51-6. doi:
10.3949/ccjm.73.suppl_1.s51.

Perioperative management of the bariatric surgery patient: focus on cardiac and 
anesthesia considerations.

Chand B(1), Gugliotti D, Schauer P, Steckner K.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 
44195, USA.

Obesity is a major public health problem in developed nations worldwide. 
Currently, the only treatment for severe obesity (BMI > or = 35 kg/m2 with 
comorbidity) that provides long-term weight loss is bariatric surgery. 
Restrictive, malabsorptive, and combination procedures have been developed. Each 
type of procedure has its merits and unique set of risks and complications. 
Weight loss after bariatric surgery is accompanied by predictable improvement or 
resolution of obesity-related comorbidities and improved quality of life and 
life expectancy. Candidates for bariatric surgery are often at high risk for 
complications because of obesity-related comorbidities. Therefore, careful 
patient selection for bariatric surgery, together with well-designed strategies 
for preventing and managing complications, are keys to success. Close monitoring 
for nutritional deficiencies and short- and long-term complications is required 
to completely assess outcomes of these procedures.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.73.suppl_1.s51
PMID: 16570549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Med Chem. 2006 Apr 6;49(7):2155-65. doi: 10.1021/jm050252g.

Synthesis and structure-activity relationship effects on the tumor avidity of 
radioiodinated phospholipid ether analogues.

Pinchuk AN(1), Rampy MA, Longino MA, Skinner RW, Gross MD, Weichert JP, Counsell 
RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, The University of Michigan Medical School, 1301 
MSRB III, 1150 W. Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-0632, USA.

Radioiodinated phospholipid ether analogues have shown a remarkable ability to 
selectively accumulate in a variety of human and animal tumors in xenograft and 
spontaneous tumor rodent models. It is believed that this tumor avidity arises 
as a consequence of metabolic differences between tumor and corresponding normal 
tissues. The results of this study indicate that one factor in the tumor 
retention of these compounds in tumors is the length of the alkyl chain that 
determines their hydrophobic properties. Decreasing the chain length from C12 to 
C7 resulted in little or no tumor accumulation and rapid clearance of the 
compound in tumor-bearing rats within 24 h of administration. Increasing the 
chain length had the opposite effect, with the C15 and C18 analogues displaying 
delayed plasma clearance and enhanced tumor uptake and retention in 
tumor-bearing rats. Tumor uptake displayed by propanediol analogues NM-412 and 
NM-413 was accompanied by high levels of liver and abdominal radioactivity 24 h 
postinjection to tumor-bearing rats. Addition of a 2-O-methyl moiety to the 
propanediol backbone also retarded tumor uptake significantly. A direct 
comparison between NM-404 and its predecessor, NM-324, in human PC-3 tumor 
bearing immune-compromised mice revealed a dramatic enhancement in both tumor 
uptake and total body elimination of NM-404 relative to NM-324. On the basis of 
imaging and tissue distribution studies in several rodent tumor models, the C18 
analogue, NM-404, was chosen for follow-up evaluation in human lung cancer 
patients. Preliminary results have been extremely promising in that selective 
uptake and retention of the agent in tumors is accompanied by rapid clearance of 
background radioactivity from normal tissues, especially those in the abdomen. 
These results strongly suggest that extension of the human trials to include 
other cancers is warranted, especially when NM-404 is radiolabeled with 
iodine-124, a new commercially available positron-emitting isotope. The 
relatively long physical half-life of 4 days afforded by this isotope appears 
well-suited to the pharmacodynamic profile of NM-404.

DOI: 10.1021/jm050252g
PMID: 16570911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2006 Spring;22(2):235-41. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462306051051.

Use of quality-adjusted life years for the estimation of effectiveness of health 
care: A systematic literature review.

Räsänen P(1), Roine E, Sintonen H, Semberg-Konttinen V, Ryynänen OP, Roine R.

Author information:
(1)Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital Group, P.O. Box 100, 00029 HUS, Finland. 
pirjo.rasanen@stakes.fil

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to identify, in a systematic 
literature review, published studies having used quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) based on actual measurements of patients' health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) and to determine which HRQoL instruments have been used to calculate 
QALYs. Furthermore, the aims were to characterize studies with regard to medical 
specialty, intervention studied, results obtained, quality, country of origin, 
QALY gain observed, and interpretation of results regarding cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Systematic searches of the literature were made using the MEDLINE, 
Embase, CINAHL, SCI, and Cochrane Library electronic databases. Initial 
screening of identified articles was based on abstracts read independently by 
two of the authors; full-text articles were again evaluated by two authors, who 
made the final decision on which articles should be included.
RESULTS: The search identified 3,882 articles; 624 were obtained for closer 
review. Of the reviewed full-text articles, seventy reported QALYs based on 
actual before-after measurements using a valid HRQoL instrument. The most 
frequently used instrument was EuroQol HRQoL instrument (EQ-5D, 47.5 percent). 
Other instruments used were Health Utilities Index (HUI, 8.8 percent), the 
Rosser-Kind Index (6.3 percent), Quality of Well-Being (QWB, 6.3 percent), Short 
Form-6D (SF-6D, 5.0 percent), and 15D (2.5 percent). The rest (23.8 percent) 
used a direct valuation method: Time Trade-Off (10.0 percent), Standard Gamble 
(5.0 percent), visual analogue scale (5.0 percent), or rating scale (3.8 
percent). The most frequently studied medical specialties were orthopedics (15.5 
percent), pulmonary diseases (12.7 percent), and cardiology (9.9 percent). 
Ninety percent of the studies came from four countries: United Kingdom, United 
States, Canada, the Netherlands. Approximately half of the papers were 
methodologically high quality randomized trials. Forty-nine percent of the 
studied interventions were viewed by the authors of the original studies as 
being cost-effective; only 13 percent of interventions were deemed not to be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Although QALYs gained are considered an important measure of 
effectiveness of health care, the number of studies in which QALYs are based on 
actual measurements of patients' HRQoL is still fairly limited.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462306051051
PMID: 16571199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Sex Transm Dis. 2006 Jul;33(7):428-36. doi:
10.1097/01.olq.0000200577.46261.b0.

The impact of natural history parameters on the cost-effectiveness of Chlamydia 
trachomatis screening strategies.

Hu D(1), Hook EW 3rd, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02138, USA. dhu@camail.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE/GOAL: To understand the potential impact of assumptions about the 
natural history of untreated Chlamydia trachomatis on the cost-effectiveness of 
screening strategies.
STUDY DESIGN: Using a previously developed state-transition model, we explored 
how alternative assumptions about the natural history of disease following 
infection affect the estimated cost-effectiveness of screening for U.S. women. 
The analysis was conducted from a modified societal perspective and incorporated 
a lifetime analytic horizon.
RESULTS: Different natural history assumptions affect cost-effectiveness 
outcomes. Assumptions about the combined risk of persistent and repeat 
infections have the greatest impact on the composition of optimal screening 
strategies, whereas assumptions about the risk of pelvic inflammatory disease 
most greatly influenced the magnitude of incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
CONCLUSIONS: Priorities for future C trachomatis research should include better 
estimates of the risk of pelvic inflammatory disease, persistence, and repeat 
infection. Better delineation of these variables will permit improved evaluation 
of potential screening activities.

DOI: 10.1097/01.olq.0000200577.46261.b0
PMID: 16572038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2006 Mar;7(3):228-33.

[Of defibrillators and guidelines].

[Article in Italian]

Tavazzi L.

Comment in
    G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2006 Jul;7(7):508; author reply 508-9.

Comment on
    G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2006 Mar;7(3):224-7.

PMID: 16572989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. J Econ Entomol. 2006 Feb;99(1):237-43. doi: 10.1093/jee/99.1.237.

Life tables of Venturia canescens (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae) parasitizing the 
Mediterranean flour moth (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).

Eliopoulos PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Crop Production, Technological Educational Institute of 
Kalamata, 24 100 Antikalamos, Kalamata, Greece.

Effects of temperature, adult feeding, and host instar on life table parameters 
of Venturia canescens Gravenhorst (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae) parasitizing 
larvae of Ephestia kuehniella Zeller (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) were studied in 
the laboratory. Experimental adults lived under various regimes of temperature 
(15, 20, 25, and 30 degrees C), food supply (with or without access to honey), 
and host instar (second, third, fourth, and fifth). Temperature increase 
resulted in higher values of the intrinsic rate of natural increase (r(m)), the 
net reproductive rate (R(o)), the finite capacity of increase (lambda), and the 
gross reproductive rate (GRR), whereas it was followed by decrease of the mean 
generation time (G) and the doubling time (DT) values. Feeding on honey caused 
remarkable increase of r(m), R(o), and GRR, whereas r(m) and lambda reached 
their maximum when full-grown hosts (fifth instar) were parasitized. This is the 
first time life table parameters of V. canescens have been studied. The findings 
of the current study are discussed on the basis of improving V. canescens 
performance as a biological agent against moth pests of stored products.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/99.1.237
PMID: 16573345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Crit Care Resusc. 2003 Mar;5(1):53-62.

Difficult airway management in the intensive care unit: alternative techniques.

Lim MS(1), Hunt-Smith JJ.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care Centre, St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria. 
michael.lim@talk21.com

Comment in
    Crit Care Resusc. 2003 Mar;5(1):8-9.

OBJECTIVE: To review alternative airway management techniques and their 
suitability to the intensive care setting.
DATA SOURCES: A review of publications reported from 1975-2002 and identified in 
both the Medline and Pubmed databases on the products used in the management of 
a difficult airway. In addition new airway devices were identified by accessing 
the product catalogues of major manufacturers and third-party vendors. The 
publications were assessed for their relevance to the intensive care setting.
SUMMARY OF REVIEW: Many devices to manage the difficult airway have been 
designed for use in the controlled environment of an anaesthetic room rather 
than the intensive care unit. In addition, there is very little opportunity to 
evaluate and train with alternative techniques in real-life situations in the 
critical care setting. We review products that are considered as alternative 
airway devices to the standard endotracheal tube and include alternative 
intubating devices to the standard laryngoscope and devices to achieve a 
trans-tracheal airway. We also consider their suitability to the intensive care 
setting.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a wide range of techniques available to manage the 
difficult airway. Due to the limited opportunity to train in the use of 
alternative airway techniques, such techniques should ideally involve an 
extension of those skills commonly practised by intensivists (e.g. 
bronchoscopy). Ultimately, the most important features when choosing a technique 
to manage a difficult airway are the training, knowledge and experience of the 
practitioner.

PMID: 16573456


472. Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 Mar;22(3):575-86. doi: 10.1185/030079906X96227.

Counting the costs of overweight and obesity: modeling clinical and cost 
outcomes.

Tucker DM(1), Palmer AJ, Valentine WJ, Roze S, Ray JA.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, a Unit of IMS, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To quantify changes in clinical and cost outcomes associated with 
increasing levels of body mass index (BMI) in a US setting.
RESEARCH METHODS AND PROCEDURES: A semi-Markov model was developed to project 
and compare life expectancy (LE), quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) and 
direct medical costs associated with distinct levels of BMI in simulated adult 
cohorts over a lifetime horizon. Cohort definitions included age (20-65 years), 
gender, race, and BMI (24-45 kg m(-2)). Cohorts were exclusively male or female 
and either Caucasian or African-American. Mortality rates were adjusted 
according to these factors using published data. BMI progression over time was 
modeled. BMI-dependent US direct medical costs were derived from published 
sources and inflated to year 2004 values. A third party reimbursement 
perspective was taken. QALE and costs were discounted at 3% per annum.
RESULTS: In young Caucasian cohorts LE decreased as BMI increased. However, in 
older Caucasian cohorts the BMI associated with greatest longevity was higher 
than 25 kg m(-2). A similar pattern was observed in young adult African-American 
cohorts. A survival paradox was projected in older African-American cohorts, 
with some BMI levels in the obese category associated with greatest longevity. 
QALE in all four race/gender cohorts followed similar patterns to LE. 
Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that simulating BMI progression over time had 
an important impact on results. Direct costs in all four cohorts increased with 
BMI, with a few exceptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Optimal BMI, in terms of longevity, varied between race/gender 
cohorts and within these cohorts, according to age, contributing to the debate 
over what BMI level or distribution should be considered ideal in terms of 
mortality risk. Simulating BMI progression over time had a substantial impact on 
health outcomes and should be modeled in future health economic analyses of 
overweight and obesity.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906X96227
PMID: 16574040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(1):15-20. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.01.055. Epub 2006
Mar  30.

Spend less, live longer. The "thrifty aged" hypothesis.

Zafon C(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital General Vall d'Hebron, c. Llibertat, 65 A, 08150 Parets del Valles, 
Barcelona, Spain. 26276czl@comb.es

Evolutionary biology has rejected any argument in favour of planned ageing. In 
this article, the metabolic changes that follow in ageing have been analysed, 
and in accordance with that, an evolutionary explanation for the senescence 
program has been proposed. Ageing is characterised by a set of metabolic 
features all of them designed to reduce energy expenditure and to promote energy 
storage. Otherwise, the undoubted beneficial effect to fitness that means to 
live longer could generate a conflict between parents and offspring for energy 
resources. The solution to that conflict is an adult economical individual, a 
"thrifty aged". The way to obtain this cheaper individual is through the 
genetically induced physiological changes that finally lead the process. In 
conclusion, it is proposed that ageing is the condition, imposed by natural 
selection, that let organisms to outlast the obligatory reproductive time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2006.01.055
PMID: 16574337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Brain Dev. 2006 Sep;28(8):477-81. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2006.02.005. Epub
2006  Mar 29.

Neurological complications in beta-thalassemia.

Zafeiriou DI(1), Economou M, Athanasiou-Metaxa M.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Pediatrics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Hippokration General Hospital, Greece. jeff@med.auth.gr

Over the years, several reports have demonstrated involvement of the nervous 
system in beta-thalassemia patients. Neurological complications have been 
attributed to various factors such as chronic hypoxia, bone marrow expansion, 
iron overload, and desferrioxamine neurotoxicity. In most cases, neurological 
involvement does not initially present with relevant signs or symptoms (i.e., is 
subclinical) and can only be detected during neurophysiological or neuroimaging 
evaluation. Abnormal findings in the visual, auditory, and somatosensory evoked 
potential recordings are mainly attributed to DFO neurotoxicity. On the other 
hand, nerve conduction velocity abnormalities are associated either to chronic 
hypoxia and older age or to hemosiderosis, whether by means of pancreas 
involvement or not. Neuropsychological studies available reveal a considerably 
high prevalence of abnormal IQ, not correlating, however, to factors such as 
hypoxia or iron overload. It is proposed that factors associated to severe 
chronic illness, rather than the disease per se, could be responsible for these 
findings. Such factors include regular school absence due to transfusions and 
frequent hospitalizations, physical and social restrictions resulting from the 
disease and its treatment, abnormal mental state due to the awareness of being 
chronically ill, and, last, the overly protective family attitude that leads to 
restricted initiative and psychosocial development. As life expectancy for 
beta-thalassemia patients extends, the use of neurophysiologic and 
neuropsychologic monitoring becomes imperative, enabling early detection of 
neural pathway impairment and allowing for appropriate management, in order to 
achieve a better life quality for this patient group.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2006.02.005
PMID: 16574362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Eur J Cancer. 2006 May;42(8):1014-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.01.025. Epub
2006  Mar 30.

EORTC consensus recommendations for the treatment of mycosis fungoides/Sézary 
syndrome.

Trautinger F(1), Knobler R, Willemze R, Peris K, Stadler R, Laroche L, D'Incan 
M, Ranki A, Pimpinelli N, Ortiz-Romero P, Dummer R, Estrach T, Whittaker S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Special and Environmental Dermatology, Department of Dermatology, 
Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, Vienna A-1090, Austria.

Several reviews and guidelines on the management of mycosis fungoides and Sézary 
syndrome (MF/SS) have been published; however, treatment strategies for patients 
with MF/SS vary from institution to institution and no European consensus has 
yet been established. There are few phase III trials to support treatment 
decisions for MF/SS and treatment is often determined by institutional 
experience. In order to summarise the available evidence and review 'best 
practices' from each national group, the European Organisation for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Cutaneous Lymphoma Task Force met in September 2004 
to establish European guidelines for the treatment of MF/SS. This article 
reviews the treatment regimens selected for inclusion in the guidelines and 
summarises the clinical data for treatments appropriate for each stage of MF/SS. 
Guideline recommendations are presented according to the quality of supporting 
data, as defined by the Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine. Skin-directed 
therapies are the most appropriate option for early-stage MF/SS and most 
patients can look forward to a normal life expectancy. Patients with advanced 
disease should be encouraged to participate in clinical trials and maintenance 
of quality of life should be paramount.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.01.025
PMID: 16574401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Stroke. 2006 May;37(5):1217-20. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000217263.55905.89.
Epub  2006 Mar 30.

Not all patients with atrial fibrillation-associated ischemic stroke can be 
started on anticoagulant therapy.

Somerfield J(1), Barber PA, Anderson NE, Kumar A, Spriggs D, Charleston A, 
Bennett P, Baker Y, Ross L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Ischemic stroke patients in atrial fibrillation (AF) 
have a 10% to 20% risk of recurrent stroke. Warfarin reduces this risk by two 
thirds. However, warfarin is underutilized in this patient group. We performed a 
prospective study to determine the reasons why warfarin is not started in these 
patients.
METHODS: All patients with AF-associated ischemic stroke over a 12-month period 
were identified. Demographic and other data, including whether warfarin was 
commenced or recommended at discharge, and if not why not, were recorded.
RESULTS: Ninety-three of 412 (23%) ischemic stroke patients had paroxysmal or 
permanent AF. Of these patients, 17 (18%) died, 48 (52%) were discharged home, 
and 28 (30%) were discharged to institutional care. Only 13 of 64 (20%) patients 
with known AF were taking warfarin at stroke onset. Warfarin was started (or 
recommended) in 35 of 76 (46%) survivors. Of those not commenced on warfarin, 32 
(78%) were dependent (P<0.001) and 23 (56%) were discharged to institutional 
care (P<0.001). Warfarin was not started because of severe disability and 
frailty in 13 (32%), risk of falls in 12 (30%), and limited life expectancy in 4 
(10%).
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of patients with AF, warfarin was primarily 
underutilized before stroke onset, and it was too late to use anticoagulation, 
in approximately half, once a stroke had occurred. The decision to start or 
continue anticoagulation requires clinical judgment and should be made on a case 
by case basis after a complete risk benefit assessment.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000217263.55905.89
PMID: 16574929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2006 Apr;13(2):274-80. doi: 
10.1097/01.hjr.0000192742.81231.91.

Cost effectiveness of a smoking cessation program in patients admitted for 
coronary heart disease.

Quist-Paulsen P(1), Lydersen S, Bakke PS, Gallefoss F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Sorlandet Hospital, Kristiansand, Norway. 
petterqp@online.no

BACKGROUND: Smoking cessation is probably the most important action to reduce 
mortality after a coronary event. Smoking cessation programs are not widely 
implemented in patients with coronary heart disease, however, possibly because 
they are thought not to be worth their costs. Our objectives were to estimate 
the cost effectiveness of a smoking cessation program, and to compare it with 
other treatment modalities in cardiovascular medicine.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed on the basis of a recently 
conducted randomized smoking cessation intervention trial in patients admitted 
for coronary heart disease. The cost per life year gained by the smoking 
cessation program was derived from the resources necessary to implement the 
program, the number needed to treat to get one additional quitter from the 
program, and the years of life gained if quitting smoking. The cost 
effectiveness was estimated in a low-risk group (i.e. patients with stable 
coronary heart disease) and a high-risk group (i.e. patients after myocardial 
infarction or unstable angina), using survival data from previously published 
investigations, and with life-time extrapolation of the survival curves by 
survival function modeling.
RESULTS: In a lifetime perspective, the incremental cost per year of life gained 
by the smoking cessation program was euro 280 and euro 110 in the low and 
high-risk group, respectively (2000 prices). These costs compare favorably to 
other treatment modalities in patients with coronary heart disease, being 
approximately 1/25 the cost of both statins in the low-risk group and 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in the high-risk group. In a 
sensitivity analysis, the costs remained low in a wide range of assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: A nurse-led smoking cessation program with several months of 
intervention is very cost-effective compared with other treatment modalities in 
patients with coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjr.0000192742.81231.91
PMID: 16575284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. J Nurs Scholarsh. 2006;38(1):11-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2006.00071.x.

Genomics, nutrition, obesity, and diabetes.

Johnson RL(1), Williams SM, Spruill IJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of 
Medicine and Center for Human Genetics Research, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN 37240, USA. rolanda.johnson@vanderbilt.edu

Erratum in
    J Nurs Scholarsh. 2006;38(3):206.

PURPOSE: To present evidence of genetic and environmental interactions as they 
relate to nutrition, diabetes, and obesity.
METHODS: A review of seminal literature related to genetics, obesity, and 
diabetes.
FINDINGS: Multifactorial interactions are important in the development of 
nutrition-related disorders, but the challenge remains to explain how these 
interactions are expressed. Treating subpopulations of people might be important 
and useful to some extent at present, but in the future treating people of given 
genetic predispositions and other personal and environmental factors will have 
greater effects on quality-of-life indicators and life expectancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Individualization coupled with multifactorial interactions will 
lead to new and more effective preventive and treatment modalities of 
nutrition-related disorders. With obesity and diabetes, genomics will bridge the 
traditional use of diet, exercise, and weight reduction with other environmental 
factors, ultimately leading to healthier lives.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2006.00071.x
PMID: 16579318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Med Mal Infect. 2006 Apr;36(4):213-8. doi: 10.1016/j.medmal.2006.01.003.
Epub  2006 Mar 31.

[Central-venous-catheter-related bacteremia in neonatalogy].

[Article in French]

Lemarié C(1), Savagner C, Leboucher B, Le Bouedec S, Six P, Branger B.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Bactériologie-Virologie-Hygiène, CHU d'Angers, 49033 Angers 
cedex 01, France. calemarie@chu-angers.fr

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this retrospective study was to identify the risk factors 
for catheter-associated bloodstream infection (CABSI) in neonates.
METHOD AND RESULTS: Fifteen episodes of CABSI occurred in 108 central catheters 
over a period of one year (2002). The univariate analysis risk factors were 
birth weight (1.064 vs 1.413 g; P<0.001), gestation age (28 vs 31 weeks; 
P<0.001), blood transfusion (8/15 vs 3/34; P<0.01), corticosteroids (7/15 vs 
3/34; P<0.01), nasal CPAP duration (13.6 vs 2 days; P<0.01). Nasal CPAP duration 
was the only risk factor independently associated with CASBI (OR=1.2, 95% 
confidence interval=1.09-1.5) in the multivariate logistic regression analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of infection associated with low birth weight is 
multifactorial suggesting that host-related factors are important. Prevention 
remains difficult and a policy of strict aseptic catheter care must be promoted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medmal.2006.01.003
PMID: 16580166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2006 Apr;131(4):822-9; discussion 822-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2005.10.045. Epub 2006 Mar 2.

Cost-effectiveness of routine mediastinoscopy in computed tomography- and 
positron emission tomography-screened patients with stage I lung cancer.

Meyers BF(1), Haddad F, Siegel BA, Zoole JB, Battafarano RJ, Veeramachaneni N, 
Cooper JD, Patterson GA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, 
Saint Louis, Missouri, USA. meyersb@wustl.edu

OBJECTIVE: Accurate preoperative staging is essential for the optimal management 
of patients with lung cancer. An important goal of preoperative staging is to 
identify mediastinal lymph node metastasis. Computed tomography and positron 
emission tomography may identify mediastinal lymph node metastasis with 
sufficient sensitivity to allow omission of mediastinoscopy. This study utilizes 
our experience with patients with clinical stage I lung cancer to perform a 
decision analysis addressing whether mediastinoscopy should be performed in 
clinical stage I lung cancer patients staged by computed tomography and positron 
emission tomography.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed our thoracic surgery database for cases 
between May 1999 and May 2004. Patients deemed clinical stage I by computed 
tomography and positron emission tomography were chosen for further study. 
Individual computed tomography, positron emission tomography, and operative and 
pathology reports were reviewed. The postresection pathologic staging and 
long-term survival were recorded. A decision model was created using TreeAgePro 
software and our observed data for the prevalence of mediastinal lymph node 
metastases and for the rate of benign nodules. Data reported in the literature 
were also utilized to complete the decision analysis model. A sensitivity 
analysis of key variables was performed.
RESULTS: A total of 248 patients with clinical stage I lung tumors were 
identified. One hundred seventy-eight patients (72%) underwent mediastinoscopy 
before resection, and 5/178 (3%) showed N2 disease. An additional 9 patients 
were found to have N2 metastasis in the final resected specimen, resulting in a 
total of 14/248 patients (5.6%) with occult mediastinal lymph node metastases. 
Benign nodules were found in 19/248 (8%) of patients. Decision analysis 
