Effect of body mass index on mortality of patients with lymphoma undergoing 
autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation.

Navarro WH(1), Loberiza FR Jr, Bajorunaite R, van Besien K, Vose JM, Lazarus HM, 
Rizzo JD.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California 
94080-4990, and University Hospitals of Cleveland, OH, USA. wnavarro@gene.com

High-dose therapy with autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (auto-HCT) 
is frequently used to improve outcomes in lymphoma. However, small studies 
suggest a survival disadvantage among obese patients. Using a retrospective 
cohort analysis, we studied the outcomes of 4681 patients undergoing auto-HCT 
for Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin lymphoma between 1990 and 2000 according to body mass 
index (BMI). Four groups categorized by BMI were compared by using Cox 
proportional hazards regression to adjust for other prognostic factors. A total 
of 1909 patients were categorized as normal weight (BMI 18-25 kg/m2), 121 as 
underweight (BMI<18 kg/m2), 1725 as overweight (BMI>25-30 kg/m2), and 926 as 
obese (BMI>30 kg/m2) at the time of HCT. Outcomes evaluated included overall 
survival, relapse, transplantation-related mortality (TRM), and lymphoma-free 
survival. TRM was similar among the normal, overweight, and obese groups; the 
underweight group had a higher risk of TRM (relative risk [RR], 2.46; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.59-3.82; P<0.0001) compared with the normal-BMI 
group. No differences in relapse were noted. Overall mortality was higher in the 
underweight group (RR, 1.48; 95% CI, 1.17-1.88; P=.001) and lower in the 
overweight (RR, 0.87; 95% CI, 0.79-0.96; P=.004) and obese (RR, 0.76; 95% CI, 
0.67-0.86; P<.0001) groups compared with the normal-BMI group. In light of our 
inability to find differences in survival among overweight, obese, and 
normal-weight patients, obesity alone should not be viewed as a contraindication 
to proceeding with auto-HCT for lymphoma when it is otherwise indicated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2005.12.033
PMID: 16635789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2006 May;12(5):560-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2005.12.034.

Thymoglobulin prevents chronic graft-versus-host disease, chronic lung 
dysfunction, and late transplant-related mortality: long-term follow-up of a 
randomized trial in patients undergoing unrelated donor transplantation.

Bacigalupo A(1), Lamparelli T, Barisione G, Bruzzi P, Guidi S, Alessandrino PE, 
di Bartolomeo P, Oneto R, Bruno B, Sacchi N, van Lint MT, Bosi A; Gruppo 
Italiano Trapianti Midollo Osseo (GITMO).

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Ospedale San Martino, Genova.

This is an update of a randomized study on antithymocyte globulin (ATG; 
Thymoglobulin) before transplantation in patients undergoing unmanipulated 
marrow transplantation from unrelated donors. The median follow-up for surviving 
patients is 5.7 years. At last follow-up, chronic graft-versus-host disease 
(GVHD) was scored in 60% of non-ATG and in 37% of ATG patients (P=.05), and 
extensive chronic GVHD was present in 41% and 15%, respectively (P=.01). Chronic 
lung dysfunction was diagnosed in 51% versus 19% of patients (P=.005). Forced 
vital capacity decreased significantly with time in non-ATG patients (P=.005), 
but not in patients who received ATG (P=.30). The proportion of patients with 
Karnofsky scores of >or=90% at 4 years was 57% versus 89% in non-ATG versus ATG 
patients (P=.03). The actuarial 6-year survival for all patients randomized was 
31% versus 44% (non-ATG versus ATG; P=.80). The cumulative incidence of 
transplant-related mortality was 51% versus 41% (P=.70) and of relapse was 32% 
versus 40% (P=.90). For patients who survived 1 year, transplant-related 
mortality was 25% versus 3% (P=.03), and actuarial survival was 58% versus 85% 
(P=.09). In conclusion, the addition of ATG to cyclosporine/methotrexate 
provides significant protection against extensive chronic GVHD and chronic lung 
dysfunction, reduces late transplant mortality, and improves quality of life in 
patients undergoing unrelated donor transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2005.12.034
PMID: 16635791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2006 May;12(5):594-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2006.04.001.

ASBMT committee report: white paper on measurement of quality outcomes.

Jones RB, Anasetti C, Appel P, DiPersio J, Heslop H, Lemaistre F, Silver S, 
Sirilla J, Stiff P; Committee on Hematopoietic Cell Therapy Quality Outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2006.04.001
PMID: 16635795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. J Health Soc Policy. 2006;21(3):17-36. doi: 10.1300/J045v21n03_02.

The rights of the medically uninsured: an analysis of social justice and 
disparate health outcomes.

Chandler M(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Health and Public Affairs, Orlando, FL 32818, USA. 
mchandle@mail.ucf.edu

As technological advances in the United States continue to improve the 
effectiveness of medical interventions, expectations among Americans of both 
improved health and extended life expectancy have also increased. At the same 
time, many of the population continue to lack the insurance necessary to access 
even the most basic healthcare services (Institute of Medicine, 2004; Tunzi, 
2004; Saha & Bindman, 2001). With approximately 18,000 avoidable deaths 
attributed annually to inadequate medical coverage and 43.6 million individuals 
currently without insurance benefits, the need to address the disparity in 
access to treatment and a means of social justice in the distribution of health 
care is all too clear (Crispen & Whalen, 2004). As a nation relying on market 
mechanisms to regulate the costs and quality of available health resources 
(Baldor, 2003; Saha&Bindman, 2001), the welfare of society as a whole may soon 
be threatened by the provision of marginal services to a select minority as 
increasing numbers of the uninsured continue to experience less favorable 
clinical outcomes and higher mortality rates (Tunzi, 2004; Litaker & Cebul, 
2003; Jackson, 2001; Sox, Burstin, Edwards, O'Neil et al., 1998). The author 
will first examine the consequences of being among the growing number of 
uninsured individuals in the United States. Attention will then be given to 
exploring the social justice issues inherent in this critical problem and 
evaluating these issues through the perspective of both libertarian and feminist 
theory. Using these theories, innovative strategies for attaining distributive 
justice in the provision of health care will be offered with recommendations for 
utilizing these alternative approaches to develop and implement future health 
policy.

DOI: 10.1300/J045v21n03_02
PMID: 16635943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Can J Anaesth. 2006 May;53(5):432-6. doi: 10.1007/BF03022613.

Scoring systems for the critically ill: use, misuse and abuse.

[Article in English, French]

Skrobik Y, Kavanagh BP.

Comment on
    Can J Anaesth. 2006 May;53(5):518-23.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03022613
PMID: 16636025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Proc Am Thorac Soc. 2006 May;3(3):227-33. doi: 10.1513/pats.200507-072SF.

Health economics of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Halpin DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, UK. 
david.halpin@rdehc-tr.swest.nhs.uk

Studies describing the economic impact of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) are used for several purposes. There can, however, be limitations as 
costs based on results of a clinical trial are likely to be significantly 
different from real world practice. Sometimes, it may be more useful to capture 
the costs of the important components accurately rather than the often 
unachievable aim of capturing every cost however small. Burden of illness 
studies can help identify clinical targets or patterns of care-for example, 
hospitalization-that are major health care cost drivers. In the United Kingdom, 
burden of COPD studies suggest an annual cost of 781 pounds sterlings- 1,154 
pounds sterlings per patient. Cost analyses can be divided into four types: cost 
minimization, cost-effectiveness, cost benefit, and cost utility. Utilities such 
as quality-adjusted life year (QALY) measure the effectiveness of different 
therapies, and can be obtained in various ways and in different populations, 
potentially leading to significant differences in the results. Payers often 
apply cost per QALY thresholds when assessing whether a new therapy should be 
used or not. In the United Kingdom, it is accepted that there is a sigmoid 
relationship between the cost per QALY and the likelihood of a therapy being 
recommended, with a lower inflection between 5,000 pounds sterlings and 15,000 
sterlings, below which rejection is unlikely and an upper inflection between 
25,000 pounds sterlings and 35,000, above which acceptance is unlikely, but not 
impossible. On this basis, pulmonary rehabilitation and inhaled steroids are 
unlikely to be rejected but lung volume reduction surgery may be.

DOI: 10.1513/pats.200507-072SF
PMID: 16636090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Arch Intern Med. 2006 Apr 24;166(8):921-9. doi: 10.1001/archinte.166.8.921.

End-of-life decision making in Europe and Australia: a physician survey.

Onwuteaka-Philipsen BD(1), Fisher S, Cartwright C, Deliens L, Miccinesi G, Norup 
M, Nilstun T, van der Heide A, van der Wal G; European End-of-Life Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands. b.philipsen@vumc.nl

BACKGROUND: The frequencies with which physicians make different medical 
end-of-life decisions (ELDs) may differ between countries, but comparison 
between countries has been difficult owing to the use of dissimilar research 
methods.
METHODS: A written questionnaire was sent to a random sample of physicians from 
9 specialties in 6 European countries and Australia to investigate possible 
differences in the frequencies of physicians' willingness to perform ELDs and to 
identify predicting factors. Response rates ranged from 39% to 68% (N = 10 139). 
Using hypothetical cases, physicians were asked whether they would (probably) 
make each of 4 ELDs.
RESULTS: In all the countries, 75% to 99% of physicians would withhold 
chemotherapy or intensify symptom treatment at the request of a patient with 
terminal cancer. In most cases, more than half of all physicians would also be 
willing to deeply sedate such a patient until death. However, there was 
generally less willingness to administer drugs with the explicit intention of 
hastening death at the request of the patient. The most important predictor of 
ELDs was a request from a patient with decisional capacity (odds ratio, 
2.1-140.0). Shorter patient life expectancy and uncontrollable pain were weaker 
predictors but were more stable across countries and across the various ELDs 
(odds ratios, 1.1-2.4 and 0.9-2.4, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Cultural and legal factors seem to influence the frequencies of 
different ELDs and the strength of their determinants across countries, but they 
do not change the essence of decision making.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.166.8.921
PMID: 16636220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Commun Agric Appl Biol Sci. 2005;70(3):13-25.

Life without methyl bromide: the Italian experience in replacing the fumigant.

Gullino ML(1), Clini C, Garibaldi A.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Competence for the Innovation in the Agro-environmental Sector 
(AGROINNOVA), University of Torino, Via Leonardo da Vinci 44, I-10095 
Grugliasco, Italy.

Methyl bromide (MB) has been the most widely used chemical for the fumigation of 
soil, commodities, buildings and furniture for over seventy years. Since January 
1st 2005, it has been phased-out in industrialized countries, where only 
critical uses are allowed, because of international regulatory measures designed 
to reduce substances that potentially deplete the stratospheric ozone layer. 
Italy ranked second in the world, after USA, in MB consumption, due to the 
importance of horticultural crop production. In order to replace the use of MB, 
research in Italy was aimed at: a) reducing the use of MB and its emission 
(short-term goal); b) developing alternative pest control methods, based on 
available technologies (mid-term goal); c) developing new MB alternatives (mid- 
and long-term goal). Italian growers switched to other fumigants, applied at 
reduced dosages, lowering their environmental impact and risk of worker 
exposure. Moreover, the adoption of non-chemical alternatives slowly but 
steadily increased as a result of the many activities (demonstration trials, 
seminars, etc.) carried out in the country. The gradual shift to MB alternatives 
over a 10 year period, as well as the use of half rates of MB under virtually 
impermeable plastic films (VIFs), has generally prevented the feared loss of 
competitiveness of Italian horticulture. Extension in cooperation with the 
fumigation companies was able to provide growers with a range of methods for 
soil disinfestation. The experience gained in Italy and how it can help 
developing countries to define strategies and training programmes needed to 
comply with the Montreal Protocol is discussed.

PMID: 16637154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Am Dent Assoc. 2006 Apr;137(4):531-3. doi:
10.14219/jada.archive.2006.0226.

The 'new' operative dentistry.

Christensen GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Associates, 3707 N. Canyon Road, Suite 3D, Provo, Utah 
84604, USA.

During the past few decades, life expectancy has increased significantly. As a 
result, mature patients often have receding gingival tissues, physical and 
mental debilitation, less energy and motivation, and the resultant Class V 
carious lesions. In this article, I suggest the use of high-level fluoride in 
toothpastes, remineralizing pastes and high-level fluoride gels for topical 
application in trays to reduce the progression of caries. To accompany fluoride 
therapy, high-fluoride-releasing restorative materials are indicated for Class V 
carious lesions. Adequate caries-preventive and restorative concepts for mature 
patients require planning, patient education and close patient supervision.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.2006.0226
PMID: 16637483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Health Prog. 2006 Mar-Apr;87(2):36-41.

Ethics consultation in Portland. Providence Health's Oregon Region has created 
an ethics consult service.

Tuohey J(1).

Author information:
(1)Providence St Vincent Medical Center, Portland, OR, USA.

In response to the need for a more structured approach toward the enhancement of 
and preparation for case consultation, the Portland Service Area (PSA) of the 
Providence Health System Oregon Region implemented a "special team" system. 
These teams--an extension of the ethics committees already in place--underwent 
training in areas such as an overview of ethics, patient decision making, 
professionalism, organizational ethics, and palliative and end-of-life care. 
Moving ethics consultation away from the purview of ethics committees generally, 
and into the realm of these trained special teams, has improved PSA's ability to 
respond to ethics needs in the region.

PMID: 16637543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Jun;35(3):796-7; author reply 797-9. doi: 
10.1093/ije/dyl075. Epub 2006 Apr 25.

Economy and mortality in Eastern and Western Europe between 1945 and 1990: the 
largest medical trial of history.

Boncz I, Sebestyén A.

Erratum in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Feb;36(1):261-2.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Dec;34(6):1214-21.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2005 Dec;34(6):1194-202.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl075
PMID: 16638815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2005 Jul;18(4):449-54. doi: 
10.1097/01.yco.0000172067.32014.91.

Patients as parents and young people approaching adulthood: how should we manage 
the interface between mental health services for young people and adults?

Vostanis P(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Leicester, Greenwood Institute of Child Health, Westcotes 
House, Leicester, UK. pv11@le.ac.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The present review discusses critically recent research 
findings (published during the period 2003-2004) on the mental health needs of 
young people in transition (old adolescents and young adults), including those 
of young parents. Also, the evidence on effective interventions and service 
models is considered.
RECENT FINDINGS: Emerging evidence indicates that young people have high rates 
of mental health needs (in addition to high prevalence of psychiatric disorders) 
that may be related to life transitions. These needs often fall between the 
remit of adolescent/adult and mental health/social care services, and therefore 
are not adequately met. With the exception of mental health interventions for 
early psychosis and psychosocial programmes for teenage parents, there is very 
limited knowledge on how best to meet the mental health needs of young people in 
transition.
SUMMARY: It is widely recognized that young people in transition require 
services and interventions tailored to their characteristics, rather than a mere 
extension to either child/adolescent or adult services. Recent policies and 
research findings have led to the development of early psychosis interventions, 
with initial encouraging messages. Similar initiatives are required for young 
people with nonpsychotic disorders.

DOI: 10.1097/01.yco.0000172067.32014.91
PMID: 16639141


606. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2006 Jun;42(2):213-21. doi: 
10.1097/01.qai.0000214812.72916.bc.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV rescreening during late pregnancy to prevent 
mother-to-child HIV transmission in South Africa and other resource-limited 
settings.

Soorapanth S(1), Sansom S, Bulterys M, Besser M, Theron G, Fowler MG.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA.

A decision analysis model, from a health care system perspective, was used to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of HIV rescreening during late pregnancy to 
prevent perinatal HIV transmission in South Africa, a country with high HIV 
prevalence and incidence among pregnant women. Because new HIV prenatal 
prophylactic and pediatric antiretroviral therapy (ART) regimens are becoming 
more widely available, the study was carried out with different combinations of 
the two. With an estimated HIV incidence during pregnancy of 2.3 per 100 
person-years, HIV rescreening would prevent additional infant infections and 
result in net savings when zidovudine plus single-dose nevirapine or single-dose 
nevirapine is used for perinatal HIV prevention, and ART was available to treat 
perinatally HIV-infected children. The cost savings were robust over a wide 
range of parameter values when ART was available to treat perinatally 
HIV-infected children but were more sensitive to variations around the baseline 
when ART was not available. The minimum time interval between the initial and 
repeat screens would be from 3 to 18 weeks, depending on prophylactic and 
treatment regimens, for HIV rescreening to be cost saving. Overall, HIV 
rescreening late in pregnancy in high-prevalence, resource-limited settings such 
as South Africa would be a cost-effective strategy for reducing mother-to-child 
transmission.

DOI: 10.1097/01.qai.0000214812.72916.bc
PMID: 16639346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2006 Dec;244(12):1627-32. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-006-0321-7.

Pars plana vitrectomy and panretinal photocoagulation combined with 
trabeculectomy for successful treatment of neovascular glaucoma.

Kiuchi Y(1), Nakae K, Saito Y, Ito S, Ito N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Otemae Hospital, 1-5-34 Otemae, Chuo-ku, Osaka, 
540-0008, Japan. ykiuchi@otemae.gr.jp

BACKGROUND: Treatment of neovascular glaucoma (NVG) must be focused on the 
reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) and prompt application of pan retinal 
photocoagulation (PRP). A combination of complete PRP during vitrectomy with 
trabeculectomy should theoretically be a better method to lower the IOP rapidly 
in eyes with NVG. The purpose of our study is to assess the efficacy of 
combining pars plana vitrectomy and PRP with trabeculectomy assisted by 
mitomycin C (MMC) on NVG eyes secondary to diabetic retinopathy.
METHODS: Twenty-five eyes with NVG associated with diabetic retinopathy had pars 
plana vitrectomy, followed by PRP and trabeculectomy with MMC. The eyes were 
divided into two groups: nine eyes with vitreous hemorrhage, fibrovascular 
membrane and/ or retinal detachment were placed in the Proliferation group; and 
16 eyes without vitreous hemorrhage, fibrovascular membrane, or retinal 
detachment were placed in the PC (photocoagulation) group. These eyes had 
vitrectomy performed so that PRP could be safely performed from ora to ora. The 
surgical outcome in the two groups was assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival 
analysis. The criteria for success were a postoperative intraocular pressure 
(IOP) < or =21 mmHg and a preservation of light perception.
RESULTS: In the Proliferation group, Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis showed 
that the success rate was 55.6% after 1 year and 18.5% after 2 years. The 
success rate in the PC group was 81.2% from 1 to 3 years after surgery. The 
surgical outcome was significantly better in the PC group than in the 
Proliferation group (P=0.009). In the Proliferation group, four eyes had 
preoperative vitreous hemorrhage, three eyes had a fibrovascular membrane, and 
two eyes had a retinal detachment. Three of four eyes with vitreous hemorrhage 
achieved good IOP control. On the other hand, the IOP of all eyes with retinal 
detachment and fibrovascular membrane were not lowered significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: Complete PRP combined with trabeculectomy with MMC can effectively 
reduce the elevated IOP in eyes with NVG. However, this combined treatment is 
not effective in eyes with proliferative membranes and retinal detachments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-006-0321-7
PMID: 16639623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Integr Environ Assess Manag. 2005 Jul;1(3):181-244. doi:
10.1897/2004-007r.1.

Human-toxicological effect and damage factors of carcinogenic and 
noncarcinogenic chemicals for life cycle impact assessment.

Huijbregts MA(1), Rombouts LJ, Ragas AM, van de Meent D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Science, Institute for Wetland and Water 
Research, Faculty of Science, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
m.huijbregts@science.ru.nl

Chemical fate, effect, and damage should be accounted for in the analysis of 
human health impacts by toxic chemicals in life-cycle assessment (LCA). The goal 
of this article is to present a new method to derive human damage and effect 
factors of toxic pollutants, starting from a lognormal dose-response function. 
Human damage factors are expressed as disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). 
Human effect factors contain a disease-specific and a substance-specific 
component. The disease-specific component depends on the probability of disease 
occurrence and the distribution of sensitivities in the human population. The 
substance-specific component, equal to the inverse of the ED50, represents the 
toxic potency of a substance. The new method has been applied to calculate 
combined human damage and effect factors for 1,192 substances. The total range 
of 7 to 9 orders of magnitude between the substances is dominated by the range 
in toxic potencies. For the combined factors, the typical uncertainty, 
represented by the square root of the ratio of the 97.5th and 2.5th percentile, 
is a factor of 25 for carcinogenic effects and a factor of 125 for 
noncarcinogenic effects. The interspecies conversion factor, the (non)cancer 
effect conversion factor, and the average noncancer damage factor dominate the 
overall uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1897/2004-007r.1
PMID: 16639884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2006 Apr 12;95(15):567-73. doi:
10.1024/0369-8394.95.15.567.

[Recommendations for follow-up of malignant diseases].

[Article in German]

Eckert R(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Onkologie, Gastroenterologie und allgemeine Innere Medizin, 
Städtische Kliniken Esslingen aN. r.eckert@kliniken-es.de

The follow up of patients after primary therapy of cancer is being made 
difficult by the large number of sometimes contradictory recommendations, but 
also by a lack of evidence in many diseases. A chance for cure or a longer life 
expectancy with earlier diagnosis of an asymptomatic recurrence exists in only a 
few diseases. For far more diseases, a symptom oriented follow-up with an 
emphasis on quality of life, treatment associated complications, evaluation of 
symptoms, and psychological support is recommended. In patients with a dislike 
of regular visits or in diseases without options for further treatment it will 
be sufficient if the patient returns in the case of complaints. Recommendations 
for follow-up in selected frequent cancers will be given, based mainly on the 
latest recommendations by the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO).

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.95.15.567
PMID: 16640176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Trop Med Int Health. 2006 May;11(5):660-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-3156.2006.01601.x.

The burden of disease in Zimbabwe in 1997 as measured by disability-adjusted 
life years lost.

Chapman G(1), Hansen KS, Jelsma J, Ndhlovu C, Piotti B, Byskov J, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, School of Medicine, University of 
Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To rank health problems contributing most to the burden of disease in 
Zimbabwe using disability-adjusted life years as the population health measure.
METHODS: Epidemiological information was derived from multiple sources. 
Population size and total number of deaths by age and sex for the year 1997 were 
taken from a nationwide census. The cause of death pattern was determined based 
on data from the Vital Registration System, which was adjusted for 
under-reporting of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and reallocation of 
ill-defined causes. Non-fatal disease figures were estimated based on local 
disease registers, surveys and routine health service data supplemented by 
estimates from epidemiological studies from other settings if no Zimbabwean 
sources were available. Disease and public health experts were consulted about 
the identification of the best possible sources of information, the quality of 
these sources and data adjustments made.
RESULTS: From the information collected, HIV infection emerged as the single 
most serious public health problem in Zimbabwe responsible for 49% of the total 
disease burden. A quarter of the total burden of disease was attributed to 
morbidity rather than premature mortality. The share of the disease burden was 
similar in females and males.
CONCLUSION: Using local sources of information to a large extent, it was 
possible to develop plausible estimates of the size and the relative 
significance of the major health problems in Zimbabwe. The disease pattern of 
Zimbabwe differed substantially from regional estimates for sub-Saharan Africa 
justifying the need for countries to develop their own burden of disease 
estimates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3156.2006.01601.x
PMID: 16640619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Pediatr Res. 2006 Jun;59(6):840-7. doi: 10.1203/01.pdr.0000219387.79887.86.
Epub  2006 Apr 26.

Natural history, outcome, and treatment efficacy in children and adults with 
glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.

Kölker S(1), Garbade SF, Greenberg CR, Leonard JV, Saudubray JM, Ribes A, 
Kalkanoglu HS, Lund AM, Merinero B, Wajner M, Troncoso M, Williams M, Walter JH, 
Campistol J, Martí-Herrero M, Caswill M, Burlina AB, Lagler F, Maier EM, Schwahn 
B, Tokatli A, Dursun A, Coskun T, Chalmers RA, Koeller DM, Zschocke J, 
Christensen E, Burgard P, Hoffmann GF.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Pediatric, University of Children's Hospital 
Heidelberg, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany. Stefan.Koelker@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Comment in
    Pediatr Res. 2007 Jan;61(1):134; author reply 134-5.

Glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase (GCDH) deficiency is a rare inborn disorder of 
L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine, and L-tryptophan metabolism complicated by striatal 
damage during acute encephalopathic crises. Three decades after its description, 
the natural history and how to treat this disorder are still incompletely 
understood. To study which variables influenced the outcome, we conducted an 
international cross-sectional study in 35 metabolic centers. Our main outcome 
measures were onset and neurologic sequelae of acute encephalopathic crises. A 
total of 279 patients (160 male, 119 female) were included who were diagnosed 
clinically after clinical presentation (n = 218) or presymptomatically by 
neonatal screening (n = 23), high-risk screening (n = 24), or macrocephaly (n = 
14). Most symptomatic patients (n = 185) had encephalopathic crises, 
characteristically resulting in bilateral striatal damage and dystonia, 
secondary complications, and reduced life expectancy. First crises usually 
occurred during infancy (95% by age 2 y); the oldest age at which a repeat 
crisis was reported was 70 mo. In a few patients, neurologic disease developed 
without a reported crisis. Differences in the diagnostic criteria and 
therapeutic protocols for patients with GCDH deficiency resulted in a huge 
variability in the outcome worldwide. Recursive partitioning demonstrated that 
timely diagnosis in neurologically asymptomatic patients followed by treatment 
with L-carnitine and a lysine-restricted diet was the best predictor of good 
outcome, whereas treatment efficacy was low in patients diagnosed after the 
onset of neurologic disease. Notably, the biochemical phenotype did not predict 
the clinical phenotype. Our study proves GCDH deficiency to be a treatable 
disorder and a good candidate for neonatal screening.

DOI: 10.1203/01.pdr.0000219387.79887.86
PMID: 16641220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. J Neurosci. 2006 Apr 26;26(17):4567-76. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5236-05.2006.

The dopamine D2 receptor regulates the development of dopaminergic neurons via 
extracellular signal-regulated kinase and Nurr1 activation.

Kim SY(1), Choi KC, Chang MS, Kim MH, Kim SY, Na YS, Lee JE, Jin BK, Lee BH, 
Baik JH.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul 136-701, 
South Korea.

Because the dopaminergic pathways in the midbrain have been closely associated 
with serious neuropsychiatric disorders, the elucidation of the mechanisms 
underlying dopaminergic neuronal development should provide some important clues 
for related disorders. In mice lacking the dopamine D2 receptor (D2R-/-), 
stereological cell counting analysis showed that the number of mesencephalic 
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) cells was significantly low during ontogeny, compared 
with that observed in wild-type (WT) mice, thereby indicating an alteration in 
dopaminergic neuronal development in the absence of D2R. The results of 
immunohistochemical and reverse transcription-PCR analyses revealed that the 
expression of Nurr1, an orphan nuclear receptor, as well as Ptx3 expression, was 
selectively reduced in D2R-/- mice during the embryonic stage. A reporter gene 
assay using the Nur response element linked to the luciferase reporter gene 
indicated that the stimulation of D2R results in the activation of the 
Nurr1-mediated reporter gene. This D2R-mediated Nur response element-dependent 
transcriptional activity was regulated via the activation of extracellular 
signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Furthermore, quinpirole treatment was shown to 
elicit an increase in the number of TH-positive neurons, as well as the neuritic 
extension of TH neurons, coupled with ERK activation and Nurr1 activation in the 
TH-positive neurons in primary mesencephalic cultures from WT mice. However, 
this regulation was not detected in the D2R-/- mice. These results suggest that 
signaling through D2R in association with Nurr1 using ERK, plays a critical role 
in mesencephalic dopaminergic neuronal development.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5236-05.2006
PMCID: PMC6674082
PMID: 16641236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Br J Cancer. 2006 May 22;94(10):1361-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603105.

A model of the natural history of screen-detected prostate cancer, and the 
effect of radical treatment on overall survival.

Parker C(1), Muston D, Melia J, Moss S, Dearnaley D.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Radiotherapy and Oncology, Institute of Cancer Research and 
Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Downs Road, Sutton SM2 5PT, UK. 
chris.parker@rmh.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Br J Cancer. 2006 Oct 23;95(8):1122-3.

The lead time and over-detection associated with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
screening, and generational improvements in all-cause mortality, make prostate 
cancer outcome studies from the pre-PSA era difficult to interpret in a 
contemporary setting. We developed a competing-risks hazard model to estimate 
the natural history of screen-detected prostate cancer, and the impact of 
radical treatment on overall survival. The model of hazard of mortality was 
fitted to clinical outcome data from the pre-PSA era, and the effects of 
screening, generational mortality improvements and radical treatment were 
incorporated. Sensitivities to the choice of baseline data and values of key 
parameters were assessed. Lead-time estimates in men diagnosed aged 55-59 years 
were 14.1, 9.3 and 5.0 years for men with Gleason scores <7, 7 and >7, 
respectively, assuming biennial screening with 100% attendance. Central 
estimates of 15-year prostate cancer mortality for conservative management of 
screen-detected prostate cancer ranged from 0 to 2% for Gleason scores <7, 9 to 
31% for Gleason score 7 and 28-72% for Gleason scores >7. For men aged 55-59 
years at diagnosis, the predicted absolute 15-year survival benefit from 
curative treatment was 0, 12 and 26% for men with Gleason scores <7, 7 and >7, 
respectively. Estimates of the survival benefit of radical treatment were 
relatively insensitive to values of key parameters. The case for curative 
treatment, rather than conservative management, of screen-detected localised 
prostate cancer is strongest in men with high-grade disease. This conclusion 
contrasts with current patterns of care.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603105
PMCID: PMC2361275
PMID: 16641912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Insur Med. 2006;38(1):3-8.

Pediatric liver transplant recipients: mortality analysis over 20 years.

Profumo RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Community Care Plus, St Louis, MO 63132, USA. rprofumo@ccphealth.com

Orthotropic liver transplantation (OLT) has become standard and accepted care 
for pediatric patients with end-stage liver disease. Two large pediatric OLT 
series are analyzed to determine excess death rates (EDR) over 20 years. The EDR 
decreases over time and is lower with more recent transplant recipients who have 
benefited from improved tacrolimus-based immunosuppression and transplant 
techniques. Fifteen- to 20-year EDR is 5 deaths/1000. Biliary atresia is the 
most common pediatric indication, and these recipients do better than those with 
other types of liver disease. Most deaths occur in the first post-transplant 
year, with infection being the largest cause.

PMID: 16642637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2006 Jun;16(3):145-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0838.2006.00554.x.

Is it really important for sick people to perform exercise?

Kujala UM.

Comment on
    Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2004 Dec;14(6):339-45.
    Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2006 Feb;16 Suppl 1:3-63.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0838.2006.00554.x
PMID: 16643191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Br J Health Psychol. 2006 May;11(Pt 2):173-83. doi: 10.1348/135910705X36749.

Hopelessness at the end of life: the utility of the hopelessness scale with 
terminally ill cancer patients.

Abbey JG(1), Rosenfeld B, Pessin H, Breitbart W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Fordham University, Bronx, NY 10458, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to investigate the utility of the Beck Hopelessness Scale 
(HS) in a sample of terminally ill cancer patients by examining the scale 
properties. Moreover, we sought to identify and remove potentially problematic 
items in order to ascertain a "purer" index of hopelessness for this population.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study of 200 hospice inpatients with a life expectancy 
of less than 6 months. The HS, as well as several other distress measures, were 
administered to patients at bedside by trained clinicians.
METHODS: An item analysis of the HS was conducted, looking specifically at item 
endorsement and item-total correlations. Three abbreviated versions (3-item 
7-item, 13-item) were developed based on certain denoted item-total correlation 
cut-offs. Reliability and validity of the original 20-item HS was then compared 
to that of the newly developed abbreviated version.
RESULTS: All scales were found to be reliable and valid measures of 
hopelessness. The three abbreviated versions were more highly correlated with 
the distress measures than the original version, and the 7-item and 13-item 
subscales outperformed the original HS in the prediction of suicidal ideation 
and desire for hastened death.
CONCLUSION: The data suggest that the HS may be improved, when applied to a 
terminally ill sample, by the elimination of problematic items. The development 
of a shorter, purer measure of hopelessness for this population is crucial given 
the need to reduce the burden placed on those who participate in end-of-life 
studies, and the important role of hopelessness in the prediction of suicide and 
desire for hastened death.

DOI: 10.1348/135910705X36749
PMID: 16643692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Mech Ageing Dev. 2006 Aug;127(8):658-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.03.003. Epub
 2006 Apr 27.

Pituitary removal in adult mice increases life span.

Powers RW 3rd(1), Harrison DE, Flurkey K.

Author information:
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME 04609, USA. tpowers@u.washington.edu

Dwarf mutations reduce levels of pituitary hormones and increase life span in 
mice. But because these dwarf mutations confer life-long hormone deficits that 
alter development and dramatically reduce fecundity, the relevance of these 
models to normal aging has been questioned. We examined effects of pituitary 
hormone withdrawal at different ages using hypophysectomy (surgical removal of 
the pituitary). Hypophysectomy at 1 month of age extended life span 
significantly (15%), but hypophysectomy at 9 months of age extended life span to 
the greatest magnitude (21%) of any age we tested. These results demonstrate 
pituitary hormone withdrawal can extend life span even if these hormones are 
removed relatively late in life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.03.003
PMID: 16643985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Diabetes Care. 2006 May;29(5):1007-11. doi: 10.2337/diacare.2951007.

Diabetes as a tracer condition in international benchmarking of health systems.

Nolte E(1), Bain C, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, WC1E 7HT London, UK. 
ellen.nolte@lshtm.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the performance of health systems using diabetes as a 
tracer condition.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We generated a measure of "case-fatality" among 
young people with diabetes using the mortality-to-incidence ratio (M/I ratio) 
for 29 industrialized countries using published data on diabetes incidence and 
mortality. Standardized incidence rates for ages 0-14 years were extracted from 
the World Health Organization DiaMond study for the period 1990-1994; data on 
death from diabetes for ages 0-39 years were obtained from the World Health 
Organization mortality database and converted into age-standardized death rates 
for the period 1994-1998, using the European standard population.
RESULTS: The M/I ratio varied >10-fold. These relative differences appear 
similar to those observed in cohort studies of mortality among young people with 
type 1 diabetes in five countries. A sensitivity analysis showed that using 
plausible assumptions about potential overestimation of diabetes as a cause of 
death and underestimation of incidence rates in the U.S. yields an M/I ratio 
that would still be twice as high as in the U.K. or Canada.
CONCLUSIONS: The M/I ratio for diabetes provides a means of differentiating 
countries on quality of care for people with diabetes. It is solely an indicator 
of potential problems, a basis for stimulating more detailed assessments of 
whether such problems exist, and what can be done to address them.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.2951007
PMID: 16644629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Anesthesiology. 2006 May;104(5):906-9. doi:
10.1097/00000542-200605000-00003.

Is there value in obtaining a patient's willingness to pay for a particular 
anesthetic intervention?

Macario A, Fleisher LA.

Comment on
    Anesthesiology. 2006 May;104(5):1033-9.

DOI: 10.1097/00000542-200605000-00003
PMID: 16645439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. J Neurooncol. 2006 Nov;80(2):171-6. doi: 10.1007/s11060-006-9168-3. Epub
2006  Apr 28.

Radical surgery after chemotherapy: a new therapeutic strategy to envision in 
grade II glioma.

Duffau H(1), Taillandier L, Capelle L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, UMR-S678, Inserm/UPMC, Hôpital Salpêtrière, 
75651, Paris, Cedex 13, France. hugues.duffau@psl.ap-hop-paris.fr

While surgery is proned in low-grade glioma (LGG), the invasion of functional 
areas frequently prevents a complete resection. We report the first case of a 
patient operated on for a left frontal LGG, diagnosed because of seizures, with 
partial resection due to an invasion of the controlateral hemisphere. 
Chemotherapy enabled a regression of this controlateral extension. 
Postchemotherapy surgery performed with intraoperative functional mapping then 
allowed a complete resection, without sequelae. The patient has a normal 
socio-professional life, with no seizure. No other treatment was given. There 
was no recurrence, with a follow-up of 2 years since the second surgery (3.5 
years since the first symptom). We propose a new therapeutic strategy in 
unresectable LGG, with preoperative chemotherapy, to make a radical surgery 
possible in a second step, while preserving the quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-006-9168-3
PMID: 16645710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Med Health Care Philos. 2006;9(1):87-96. doi: 10.1007/s11019-005-2668-7.

Life extension research: an analysis of contemporary biological theories and 
ethical issues.

Marshall J(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Ethics Unit, McGill University, 3647 Peel Street, Montreal, QC, 
H3A 1X1, Canada. jennifer.marshall@mcgill.ca

Many opinions and ideas about aging exist. Biological theories have taken hold 
of the popular and scientific imagination as potential answers to a "cure" for 
aging. However, it is not clear what exactly is being cured or whether aging 
could be classified as a disease. Some scientists are convinced that aging will 
be biologically alterable and that the human lifespan will be vastly extendable. 
Other investigators believe that aging is an elusive target that may only be 
"statistically" manipulatable through a better understanding of the operational 
principles of systems situated within complex environments. Not only is there 
confusion over definitions but also as to the safety of any potential 
intervention. Curing cell death, for example, may lead to cell cancer. The 
search for a cure for aging is not a clearly beneficial endeavour. This paper 
will first, describe contemporary ideas about aging processes and second, 
describe several current life extension technologies. Third, it analyses these 
theories and technologies, focusing on two representative and differing 
scientific points of view. The paper also considers the public health dilemma 
that arises from life extension research and examines two issues, risk/benefit 
ratio and informed consent, that are key to developing ethical guidelines for 
life extension technologies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11019-005-2668-7
PMID: 16645801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2006 
Jun;49(6):547-57. doi: 10.1007/s00103-006-1274-z.

[It is never too late--nutrition in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Strube H(1).

Author information:
(1)Ernährungsmedizinische Beraterin DGE, AG Ernährung und Public Health, Bremer 
Institut für Präventionsforschung und Sozialmedizin, Linzer Strasse 10, 28359 
Bremen. strube@bips.uni-bremen.de

Increasing life expectancy is associated with the hope for independent and 
healthy living in old age. Autonomy and quality of life until old age are goals 
of health policy. A good nutritional status is an essential premise for that. 
Although the aetiology of many chronic diseases has not been studied to the last 
detail yet, one can state that a diet covering needs and age-appropriate 
physical activity increasingly help people to experience old age in a physically 
and mentally good constitution. In the "middle-aged" and young seniors, 
overweight/obesity and related conditions dominate. In old and oldest seniors, 
malnutrition poses a problem caused by unnoticed deficits in nutrient and fluid 
intake. They are often connected with conditions like dementia and should not be 
underestimated. The dietary situation of seniors living independently is 
normally better than that of seniors in nursing homes. Since the therapy of 
malnutrition in old age is very difficult and cumbersome, prevention plays a 
crucial role. Against this background, particular effort is required especially 
in senior housing facilities to ensure a diet covering needs, which preserves 
the pleasure of eating and drinking.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-006-1274-z
PMID: 16645865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Contemp Clin Trials. 2006 Aug;27(4):374-88. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2006.03.005.
Epub  2006 May 2.

Prediction of arrhythmic events with positron emission tomography: PAREPET study 
design and methods.

Fallavollita JA(1), Luisi AJ Jr, Michalek SM, Valverde AM, deKemp RA, Haka MS, 
Hutson AD, Canty JM Jr.

Author information:
(1)VA Western New York Health Care System at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA. 
jaf7@buffalo.edu

BACKGROUND: In medically-treated patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy, 
myocardial viability is associated with a worse prognosis than scar. The risk is 
especially great with hibernating myocardium (chronic regional dysfunction with 
reduced resting flow), and the excess mortality appears to be due to sudden 
cardiac death (SCD). Hibernating myocardium also results in sympathetic nerve 
dysfunction, which has been independently associated with risk of SCD.
OBJECTIVES: PAREPET is a prospective, observational cohort study funded by 
NHLBI. It is designed to determine whether hibernating myocardium and/or 
inhomogeneity of sympathetic innervation by positron emission tomography imaging 
identifies patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy who are at high risk for SCD 
and cardiovascular mortality.
METHODS: Patients with documented ischemic cardiomyopathy, an ejection fraction 
of <or=35%, and with no plans for coronary revascularization will be recruited. 
Major exclusion criteria include: history of resuscitated SCD, sustained VT, ICD 
discharge, or unexplained syncope; recent myocardial infarction (30 days), 
percutaneous coronary intervention (3 months), coronary bypass surgery (1 year); 
or comorbidities that would be expected to reduce life expectancy to <2 years. 
All patients will undergo transthoracic echocardiography, and dynamic cardiac 
positron emission tomography to quantify resting perfusion (13N-ammonia), 
norepinephrine uptake as an index of sympathetic innervation 
(11C-meta-hydroxyephedrine), and metabolic viability (18F-2-deoxyglucose during 
glucose-insulin clamp). The development of SCD or cardiovascular mortality will 
be determined by telephone follow-up every three months. In patients with an 
implantable cardiac defibrillator, appropriate device discharge will be 
considered a surrogate for SCD.
CONCLUSION: The PAREPET study will prospectively determine whether the amount of 
viable dysfunction myocardium and/or cardiac sympathetic dysinnervation is 
associated with the risk of SCD. It is anticipated that the results of this 
trial will more specifically identify myocardial substrates of SCD. This will 
help target therapies intended to reduce arrhythmic death to those patients with 
the greatest likelihood of benefit.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2006.03.005
PMID: 16647885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Clin Transl Oncol. 2006 Apr;8(4):266-70. doi: 10.1007/BF02664937.

Whole brain irradiation and temozolomide based chemotherapy in melanoma brain 
metastases.

Conill C(1), Jorcano S, Domingo-Doménech J, Gallego R, Malvehy J, Puig S, 
Sánchez M, Vilella R, Castel T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital Clinic, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain. cconill@clinic.ub.es

INTRODUCTION: Whole brain irradiation (WBRT) remains a recommended treatment for 
patients with brain metastases from malignant melanoma in terms of symptom 
palliation, especially when extracranial systemic disease is present. 
Temozolomide (TMZ) has shown efficacy in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. 
The objective was to evaluate the potential benefit in survival of two different 
schedules of total dose and fractionation (20 Gy/5 fractions vs 30 Gy/10 
fractions) and further TMZ based chemotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: We have conducted a retrospective study in a group of 
twenty-one patients (RTOG Recursive Partitioning Analysis class II) of the use 
of WBRT with 20 Gy/5 fractions (n = 11) and 30 Gy/10 fractions (n = 10). All 
patients received further TMZ based chemotherapy administered as a single 
chemotherapeutic agent or in combination with chemo-immunotherapy.
RESULTS: Prognostic variables such as: age, Karnofsky performance status, 
extracranial metastases and number of brain metastases, were analyzed in both 
groups of treatment without statistically significant differences. The median 
survival time (MST) for WBRT 20 Gy group was 4 months (CI 95%: range 2- 6 
