differences.
CONCLUSION: Variations in middle aged CV mortality rates in a rapidly changing 
society in CEE are largely accounted for by distinct unfavourable working and 
other psychosocial stress conditions.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2005.042960
PMCID: PMC2566027
PMID: 16905723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: none.


240. Georgian Med News. 2006 Jul;(136):21-7.

Surgical management of renal cell carcinoma invading the inferior vena cava.

Pertia A(1), Chkhotua A, Managadze L.

Author information:
(1)Al. Tsulukidze National Center of Urology, Tbilisi, Georgia.

The aim of the study was the evaluation of long-term outcome and prognosis of 
the patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) extending into the inferior vena 
cava (IVC). Influence of the patient, tumor characteristics and therapeutic 
interventions on the disease prognosis was also assessed. 24 patients (19 male 
and 5 female) with RCC extending into the IVC underwent surgical treatment at 
our institution between 1990 and 2002. The mean patient age was 58.2 years 
(range: 38-78 years). The level of tumor extension was infrahepatic (level I) in 
16 (67%), intrahepatic (level II) in 6 (25%) and suprahepatic without atrial 
invasion (level III) in 2 (8%) patients. All the tumors were resected via 
inferior vena cava; median sternotomy with a control of supradiaphragmatic IVC 
without cardiopulmonary bypass and hypothermia was performed in two cases. 
Mortality rate was 7.5 %. Complications occurred in 6 patients (25 %). The 
5-year Kaplan-Meier survival estimate was 65%, with a mean follow-up of 49.6 
months (range: 10-152 months). The tumor grade, radicality of tumor excision and 
symptoms at the disease presentation (systemic vs. local) were the factors 
associated with the disease-free survival (p=0.02, 0.002 and 0.03, 
respectively). There was no significant difference in survival with regard to 
the level of thrombus extension into the vena cava (p=0.3) Surgical treatment is 
preferred option in the patients with RCC and IVC tumor thrombus as it provides 
markedly better results as compared with other therapeutic modalities. The 
complete surgical excision of the primary RCC and the tumor thrombus with 
appropriate preoperative staging and surgical technique provides an acceptable 
long-term patient survival with a good quality of life.

PMID: 16905838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Epidemiology. 2006 Sep;17(5):498-9. doi: 10.1097/01.ede.0000231371.40737.ad.

Estimating the burden of disease and the benefits of prevention.

Hartge P(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, 6120 
Executive Boulevard, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. hartgep@mail.nih.gov

Comment on
    Epidemiology. 2006 Sep;17(5):512-9.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ede.0000231371.40737.ad
PMID: 16906054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Science. 2006 Aug 11;313(5788):758-60; author reply 758-60.

The ethics of influenza vaccination.

Frey HS.

Comment on
    Science. 2006 May 12;312(5775):854-5.

PMID: 16906648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Anal Chem. 2006 Aug 15;78(16):5925-32. doi: 10.1021/ac060412b.

Silica-shelled single quantum dot micelles as imaging probes with dual or 
multimodality.

Bakalova R(1), Zhelev Z, Aoki I, Ohba H, Imai Y, Kanno I.

Author information:
(1)On-Site Sensing and Diagnosis Research Laboratory, National Institute for 
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, AIST-Kyushu, 807-1 Shuku-machi, Tosu 
841-0052, Japan. r.bakalova-zheleva@aist.go.jp

The present study describes a stabilization of single quantum dot (QD) micelles 
by a "hydrophobic" silica precursor and an extension of a silica layer to form a 
silica shell around the micelle using "amphiphilic" and "hydrophilic" silica 
precursors. The obtained product consists of approximately 92% single 
nanocrystals (CdSe, CdSe/ZnS, or CdSe/ZnSe/ZnS QDs) into the silica micelles, 
coated with a silica shell. The thickness of the silica shell varies, starting 
from 3-4 nm. Increasing the shell thickness increases the photoluminescence 
characteristics of QDs in an aqueous solution. The silica-shelled single 
CdSe/ZnS QD micelles possess a comparatively high quantum yield in an aqueous 
solution, a controlled small size, sharp photoluminescence spectra (fwhm 
approximately 30 nm), an absence of aggregation, and a high transparency. The 
surface of the nanoparticles is amino-functionalized and ready for conjugation. 
A comparatively good biocompatibility is demonstrated. The nanoparticles show 
ability for intracellular delivery and are noncytotoxic during long-term 
incubation with viable cells in the absence of light exposure, which makes them 
appropriate for cell tracing and drug delivery. The presence of the hydrophobic 
layer between the QD and silica-shell ensures an incorporation of other 
hydrophobic molecules with interesting properties (e.g., hydrophobic 
paramagnetic substances, hydrophobic photosensitizers, membrane stabilizers, 
lipid-soluble antioxidants or prooxidants, other hydrophobic organic dyes, etc.) 
in the close proximity of the nanocrystal. Thus, it is possible to combine the 
characteristics of hybrid materials with the priority of small size. The 
silica-shelled single QD micelles are considered as a basis for fabrication of 
novel hybrid nanomaterials for industrial and life science applications, for 
example, nanobioprobes with dual modality for simultaneous application in 
different imaging techniques (e.g., fluorescent imaging and functional magnetic 
resonance imaging).

DOI: 10.1021/ac060412b
PMID: 16906742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. J Eval Clin Pract. 2006 Aug;12(4):463-70. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2006.00731.x.

A comparison between integrating clinical practice setting and randomized 
controlled trial setting into economic evaluation models of therapeutics.

Farahani P(1), Levine M, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Evaluation of Medicines, St. Joseph's Healthcare, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. farahap@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analyses generated from randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs) represent results obtained under ideal experimental conditions 
(efficacy) and the applicability of these data to real-world settings 
(effectiveness) may be questionable.
OBJECTIVE: To compare cost-effectiveness results obtained from a RCT setting 
with the results derived from community-based clinical practice.
METHODS: Using data from a community-based cohort study and from a RCT, two 
cost-effectiveness analyses were performed and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated for the use of etanercept in 
the treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
RESULTS: Using an effectiveness-based analysis, the mean quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained during the 12-month monitoring period were 0.45 and 0.35 
for the treatment and control groups respectively. The ICER for etanercept 
treatment was 174,200 dollars (CDN) per QALY (95% confidence limits between 
119,500 dollars and 285,000 dollars). Incorporating efficacy data obtained from 
the RCT into the analysis, the mean QALYs gained were 0.56 and 0.35 for the 
treatment and control groups respectively. This resulted in a substantially 
lower ICER for etanercept treatment of 82,952 dollars per QALY (95% confidence 
limits between 66,500 dollars and 103,430 dollars).
CONCLUSION: Depending on the type of clinical setting used for the analysis, the 
resulting ICER for etanercept treatment was very different. These results help 
to explain the difference in cost-effectiveness reported in previous modeling 
studies, some based on RCT assumptions and some based on effectiveness setting.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2006.00731.x
PMID: 16907691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Subst Abuse Treat Prev Policy. 2006 Aug 14;1:23. doi:
10.1186/1747-597X-1-23.

A rationale and model for addressing tobacco dependence in substance abuse 
treatment.

Richter KP(1), Arnsten JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas, USA. krichter@kumc.edu

Most persons in drug treatment smoke cigarettes. Until drug treatment facilities 
systematically treat their patients' tobacco use, millions will flow through the 
drug treatment system, overcome their primary drug of abuse, but die prematurely 
from tobacco-related illnesses. This paper reviews the literature on the health 
benefits of quitting smoking for drug treatment patients, whether smoking causes 
relapse to other drug or alcohol abuse, the treatment of tobacco dependence, and 
good and bad times for quitting smoking among drug treatment patients. It also 
presents a conceptual model and recommendations for treating tobacco in 
substance abuse treatment, and provides references to internet and paper-copy 
tools and information for treating tobacco dependence. At present, research on 
tobacco treatment in drug treatment is in its infancy. Although few drug 
treatment programs currently offer formal services, many more will likely begin 
to treat nicotine dependence as external forces and patient demand for these 
services increases. In the absence of clear guidelines and attention to quality 
of care, drug treatment programs may adopt smoking cessation services based on 
cost, convenience, or selection criteria other than efficacy. Because research 
in this field is relatively new, substance abuse treatment professionals should 
adhere to the standards of care for the general population, but be prepared to 
update their practices with emerging interventions that have proven to be 
effective for patients in drug treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/1747-597X-1-23
PMCID: PMC1560115
PMID: 16907984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Nurs Clin North Am. 2006 Sep;41(3):395-408, vi. doi:
10.1016/j.cnur.2006.05.006.

The experience of physical symptoms among women living with HIV.

Lindberg CE(1).

Author information:
(1)The College of New Jersey, School of Nursing, PO Box 7718, Ewing, NJ 08628, 
USA. lindberg@tcnj.edu

As the number of women living with HIV and AIDS increases, so does survival time 
for individuals living with this chronic condition. Symptom existence, 
intensity, and bothersomeness greatly affect quality of life in women living 
with HIV and AIDS. Symptoms experienced by women living with HIV include 
symptoms related to HIV infection itself, those related to opportunistic 
infections, and those related to medications and treatments. Symptoms 
experienced by women include those common to both genders and those specific to 
females. The presence and intensity of symptoms varies with progression of the 
disease and with deteriorating status of HIV disease indicators. While research 
is limited on this topic, some research on the general symptom experience of 
women and on symptoms specific to or common among women has been done. Extended 
life expectancy among women with HIV increases the importance of nursing care 
focused on symptom assessment and symptom management. This article reviews 
research on symptoms commonly experienced by women living with HIV and presents 
implications for the care of women experiencing distressing symptoms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cnur.2006.05.006
PMID: 16908232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Croat Med J. 2006 Aug;47(4):611-8.

Life expectancy and mortality differences between populations on Croatian 
islands and the mainland.

Musić Milanović S(1), Ivicević Uhernik A, Mihel S, Pristas I, Stanić A, 
Stevanović R.

Author information:
(1)Croatian National Institute of Public Health, Rockefellerova 7, 10000 Zagreb, 
Croatia. sanja.music@hzjz.hr

AIM: To examine the differences in life expectancy and mortality between the 
populations on Croatian islands and the mainland, and among the islands 
themselves.
METHOD: Data on population size and mortality collected in Croatia in 2001 were 
analyzed by life table and standardized mortality rates.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at birth (95% confidence interval) of the population on 
Croatian islands was 76.4 yr (75.7-77.1) which was significantly higher than 
life expectancy at birth of general Croatian population which was 73.8 yr 
(73.5-73.9) or mainland Croatian population which was 73.7 yr (73.6-73.8). 
Island population had higher life expectancy until the age of 80 and again in 
the oldest age group, 95+. More than 10% of inhabited islands in Croatia had 
life expectancy at birth over 80 years. Two inhabited islands, Ilovik (Kvarner 
islands) and Lopud (South Dalmatian islands), had one of the highest life 
expectancy at birth recorded in the literature, with 95.0 and 90.6 years 
respectively. Mortality rates on islands were significantly lower for age groups 
50-64 and 65-79 years, and this difference persisted for all island groups 
compared with general Croatian population.
CONCLUSION: Residents of Croatian islands had a higher life expectancy than 
general or mainland Croatian population. Life expectancy at birth on Croatian 
islands was lower than in other European Mediterranean countries, but it 
resembles that in the neighboring Slovenia, and it is considerably higher than 
in central and eastern Europe and Balkan countries.

PMCID: PMC2080454
PMID: 16909459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Scott Med J. 2006 Aug;51(3):6-14. doi: 10.1258/RSMSMJ.51.3.6.

Exercise responses following heart transplantation: 5 year follow-up.

Carter R(1), Al-Rawas OA, Stevenson A, Mcdonagh T, Stevenson RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Glasgow Royal Infirmary.

Heart transplantation is an established treatment for end stage heart failure. 
In addition to increased life expectancy, heart transplant recipients report a 
remarkable improvement in symptoms and functional capacity. Exercise performance 
following heart transplantation, however, remains impaired even in the absence 
of exertional symptoms. We have assessed the response to exercise in 47 patients 
with cardiac failure prior to and then at yearly intervals to five years post 
transplantation. All patients performed incremental symptom limited exercise 
tests during which minute ventilation (V'E), oxygen consumption (V'O2) and 
carbon dioxide production (V'CO2) and heart rate (HR) were measured. Ventilatory 
response (V'E/V'CO2), anaerobic threshold (V'O2 AT %predicted) and heart rate 
response (HR/VO2) were calculated. The dead space to tidal volume ratio (VD/VT) 
and alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient (A-aO2) were computed from transcutaneous 
monitoring. Despite substantial improvement in subjective functional capacity, 
heart transplant recipients continue to have limited exercise performance 
[Maximal V'O2% predicted pre-transplant 41.3 (2.2); 1 year 48.6 (1.7), p <0.001: 
V'O2 AT% 31.5 (1.1); 1 year 35.6 (1.0); respectively p<0.05]. The maximal oxygen 
uptake continued to improve at two years post-transplant but, thereafter, there 
was no further significant change at up to 5 years post transplant [50.9 (1.5)]. 
At one year post-transplantation peak HR [65.2 (0.9) vs 79.1(1.4)] and the 
HR/VO2 response [24.0(1.8) vs 79.6(4.2)] were significantly reduced compared to 
pre-transplant values. The heart rate response remained lower compared to 
predicted at 5 years post-transplant although there was a significant increase 
compared to one year post-transplant (32.9 vs 24.0mls/bt). There was a weak but 
significant relationship between maximal VO2 and peak HR (0.39, p<0.05) and 
HR/VO2 (r= 0.37, p<0.05) at one year post-transplant. Prior to transplantation 
the ventilatory response to exercise was elevated [V'E/V'CO2 45.6 (2.5)] and 
decreased significantly following transplantation [1 yr 34.1 (1.3), respectively 
p<0.001]. In addition, despite significant improvement in VD/VT after 
transplantation, it remained higher than normal [Pre VD/VT at maximum exercise 
0.35 (0.02); 1 yr 0.31 (0.02); p<0.05]. There was a further fall in the VE/VCO2 
and VD/VT at two years post-transplantation with no further change at up to 5 
years post transplantation [VE/VCO2 32.0 (1.0); VD/VT 0.29 (0.01)]. Although 
cardiac output is markedly improved after transplantation, due to chronotropic 
incompetence associated with denervation, its response remains subnormal and 
this may explain the residual abnormalities of ventilatory and gas exchange 
responses to exercise following transplantation.

DOI: 10.1258/RSMSMJ.51.3.6
PMID: 16910044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. An Otorrinolaringol Ibero Am. 2006;33(4):369-76.

[Atypical thyrogloss cyst].

[Article in Spanish]

González Pena M(1), Samitier Pastor A, Martínez Novoa MD, Masgoret Paulau E, 
Merán Gil JL, Risco Arenas J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de ORL, Hospital Universitario Joan XXIII, Tarragona.

The thyrogloss cysts present themselves usually as unique tumorations in the 
anterior cervical zone, more frequently in the second decade of life and 
affecting equally the two sexs. They move typically with the movements of 
deglution and can increase its volume with infections processes. In seldom 
occasions, the thyrogloss cysts can present symptoms as dysphonia, dysphagia or 
dyspnea facts that can suggest its laryngeal extension.
METHODS: We present a case of a patient affected by dysphonia of long evolution, 
associated to the presence of a cervical mass. The CT showed a cervical cyst 
with extension to the left preepiglottic and paraglottic space with compression 
of the left thyroid wing. Although the clinic impression was a laryngeal 
neoplasia, the CT helped to realize the diagnosis ofthyrogloss cyst. During the 
surgery the thyrogloss cyst was removed with success, with the technique of 
Sistrunk and the patient recovered the voice.
CONCLUSIONS: We present this case and realize a bibliographic revision on 
thyrogloss cysts, with atypical symptoms. We discuss also the role of CT in the 
diagnostic process in these types of processes.

PMID: 16910392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nihon Jibiinkoka Gakkai Kaiho. 2006 Jul;109(7):587-93. doi: 
10.3950/jibiinkoka.109.587.

[Clinical study on deep neck infection].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohata A(1), Kikuchi S, Yoshinami H, Takegoshi H, Aoki D, Shigeta K, Ohno T, Tani 
Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Saitama Medical Center, Saitama Medical 
School, Kawagoe.

Deep neck infection (DNI) remains an emergent and life-threatening 
otolaryngologic disease. We examined 69 patients, 52 men and 17 women, with DNI, 
who were treated in our hospital between January 1995 and December 2004. The 
mean age of the patients with DNI was 50.0 years and the peak incidence was in 
the sixth decade. Twenty patients suffered from diabetes mellitus (DM). The 
primary DNI lesion was found in the tonsils in 34 cases, the oral cavity in 16 
cases, and the pharynx in 12 cases, respectivelys. Among the 69 patients with 
DNI, the infection remained in the suprahyoid region in 31 cases, but it 
extended to the infrahyoid region in 33 cases and to the mediastinum in 5 cases. 
The titer of C-reacting protein (CRP) and the duration of admission were 
considered as parameters of the severity of DNI. CRP was significantly higher in 
elderly patients, in patients with DM, and in patients whose infection extended 
to the infrahyoid region and to the mediastinum, however, significant difference 
was not found between men and women, or among the types of primary DNI lesions. 
Moreover, the duration of admission was significantly longer in elderly 
patients, in patients with DM, and in patients with infrahyoid and mediastinal 
DNI, whereas no significant differences were found between men and women or 
among the types of primary lesions. Therefore, age, DM, and the extension of DNI 
are considered to be important factors which determining the severity of DNI.

DOI: 10.3950/jibiinkoka.109.587
PMID: 16910579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2006 May;92(3):290-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0035-1040(06)75739-7.

[Every two year follow-up of arthroplasties: myth or reality?].

[Article in French]

Piriou P(1), Biau D, Judet T.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Orthopédique, Hôpital Raymond-Poincaré, Garches. 
philippe.piriou@rpc.aphp.fr

In this article, we propose a simple calculation to project quantitatively the 
number of consultations implied by a systematic follow-up protocol for 
arthroplasty surgery. In France, this surveillance schedule has become mandatory 
and will have a pertinent impact on health care expenditures. The longevity of 
implanted prostheses as well as patient life expectancies can be used to 
estimate the number of consultations necessary for a regular follow-up. For 
example, a surgeon who performs 200 arthroplasty procedures per year will have 
to see 17 patients per week 20 years later.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-1040(06)75739-7
PMID: 16910614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. J Palliat Med. 2006 Aug;9(4):977-92. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2006.9.977.

Renal palliative care.

Cohen LM(1), Moss AH, Weisbord SD, Germain MJ.

Author information:
(1)Renal Palliative Care Initiative, Baystate Medical Center, Springfield, 
Massachusetts 01199, USA. lewis.cohen@bhs.org

Patients with chronic kidney disease have a shortened life expectancy and carry 
a high symptom burden. Clinicians need sophisticated expertise in pain and 
symptom management and skills in communication to meet the many needs of this 
population. This article reviews the literature and discusses prognosis, ethical 
and legal considerations, symptoms, treatment, and end-of-life issues. The field 
of nephrology is shifting from an exclusive focus on increasing survival to one 
that provides greater attention to quality of life. There is an opportunity to 
integrate many of the advances of palliative medicine into the comprehensive 
treatment of these patients.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2006.9.977
PMID: 16910813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. AWHONN Lifelines. 2006 Aug-Sep;10(4):284-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1552-6356.2006.00058.x.

How well will we age? Why we need to consider our health in old age now.

Ruhl C(1).

Author information:
(1)Women's Health Programs, AWHONN, Washington, DC, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1552-6356.2006.00058.x
PMID: 16911259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Pediatr Transplant. 2006 Sep;10(6):721-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1399-3046.2006.00577.x.

Treatment strategies in pediatric solid organ transplant recipients with 
calcineurin inhibitor-induced nephrotoxicity.

Tönshoff B(1), Höcker B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics I, University Children's Hospital, Heidelberg, 
Germany. burkhard.toenshoff@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Although short-term kidney allograft survival has improved significantly since 
the introduction of the calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) cyclosporine A (CsA) and 
tacrolimus, long-term transplant survival remains a major concern, chronic 
allograft nephropathy (CAN) being the principal reason for graft loss after the 
first post-transplant year. This is particularly major for pediatric renal 
transplant recipients because of their higher life expectancy compared with 
adults. The mechanisms leading to CAN are multiple, including acute and chronic 
alloimmune responses and nephrotoxicity of CNIs. CNI-induced nephrotoxicity is 
also a long-term concern in other pediatric solid organ transplant recipients, 
such as liver and heart. Prevention of allograft nephropathy requires a balance 
of maintaining adequate immunosuppression, while avoiding the toxic effects of 
CNIs. Regimens that are based on mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) alone or in 
combination with newer agents may allow for reduced reliance on CNIs and thus 
may represent an effective treatment paradigm for long-term maintenance of a 
renal allograft. From the available data it appears that the currently safest 
treatment strategy in pediatric renal and heart transplant recipients with CNI 
toxicity is an MMF-based therapy with low-dose CNIs +/- low-dose steroids, while 
in pediatric liver transplant recipients, CNI-free MMF-based immunosuppressive 
therapy with or without steroids appears feasible in a significant subset of 
patients. In renal transplant recipients, the benefit of a CNI-free MMF/steroid 
therapy on renal function is gained at the cost of increased rejection in a 
subset of patients, although the relative importance of rejection vs. overall 
renal function requires further clinical investigation. The introduction of 
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors provides an opportunity for 
unique CNI-sparing regimens that combine two antiproliferative agents (MMF and 
TOR inhibitors). It is possible that a sirolimus-based CNI-free 
immunosuppressive regimen in terms of renal transplant survival is superior to 
CNI minimization, where the detrimental effects of CNIs on allograft function 
and structure are still operative, albeit to a lesser degree. Substitution of 
CNIs by mTOR inhibitors is therefore promising, but requires validation in 
long-term studies in large cohorts.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3046.2006.00577.x
PMID: 16911497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2006 Aug;61(8):844-50. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/61.8.844.

The impact of health status on physicians' intentions to offer cancer screening 
to older women.

Heflin MT(1), Pollak KI, Kuchibhatla MN, Branch LG, Oddone EZ.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Study of Aging and Human Development, Duke University Medical 
Center, 2511 Blue Zone Duke South, Durham, NC 27710, USA. hefli001@mc.duke.edu

BACKGROUND: Screening for breast and cervical cancer reduces disease-specific 
mortality, but high rates of comorbidity and disability among elderly persons 
may alter the risks and benefits of screening.
METHODS: We performed a mail survey of primary care physicians to estimate the 
impact of health status on physicians' intentions to offer cancer screening to 
older women. Respondents were asked to read a scenario about an older woman. 
Each scenario patient was one of three ages (70, 80, or 90) and had one of three 
levels of comorbidity and disability. Respondents were asked to estimate the 
likelihood of offering screening with mammography and Pap smear to these 
patients on a 5-point Likert scale. A logistic regression compared those 
physicians somewhat or very likely to offer screening with those less likely to 
do so. Further analyses examined the characteristics of physicians likely to 
"overscreen" the frailest older women (<5 years median life expectancy) or 
"underscreen" the healthiest (>10 years median life expectancy).
RESULTS: Respondents returned 2003 completed surveys (37.4%). Controlling for 
age and prior screening, higher levels of comorbidity and disability were 
associated with a significantly lower likelihood of offering screening for both 
mammography and Pap smear. Nonetheless, a substantial percentage (30.7%) of 
physicians indicated a high likelihood of offering a frail 90-year-old woman a 
mammogram, and 13.4% would offer her a Pap smear. In general, overscreening was 
more common than underscreening. Female gender was associated with 
"overscreening" with mammography, whereas male gender and lack of board 
certification predicted "underscreening." Lack of board certification was 
associated with "overscreening" with Pap smear.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to age, primary care physicians consider health status 
in deciding to offer cancer screening to older women. Education and guidelines 
for cancer screening should more explicitly address the risks of overscreening 
among frail older women.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/61.8.844
PMID: 16912103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2006 Aug;33(8):1049-53.

[Lung cancer with bone metastasis].

[Article in Japanese]

Katakami N(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Kobe City General Hospital.

Lung cancer is one of the most common solid tumors to develop metastases to 
bone. The prognosis of patients with metastatic lung cancer to bones is 
short,usually less than 6 months. The treatment requires a multidisciplinary 
approach that addresses radiotherapy, surgery, chemotherapy, and medical therapy 
with analgesics and bisphosphonates. Radiotherapy for metastatic bone tumor is a 
mainstay to relieve pain and control the localized disease. Doses in the range 
of 20 Gy in 5 fractions, 30 Gy in 10 fractions are acceptable in most 
circumstances. Prophylactic fixation for long bone fractures is recommended in 
cases where 30 to 50% of the cortex has been destroyed, pain is present after 
radiotherapy, or life expectancy is more than 3 months. Systemic chemotherapy 
has been proved to prolong survival of patients with metastatic non-small-cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) as well as extensive small cell lung cancer (SCLC). 
Combination chemotherapy of platinum and a new drug is recommended in NSCLC 
patients with good performance status (PS). Gefitinib in upfront or second-line 
treatment is an optional therapy in adenocarcinoma patients without a history of 
smoking. Cisplatin combined with etoposide or irinotecan is a standard therapy 
in SCLC patients with PS 0 or 1. Carboplatin and etoposide is a treatment of 
choice in SCLC patients with PS 2 or 3. Medical management of cancer pain 
requires nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and opioids. Cancer pain that 
necessitates more than 120 mg of oral morphine is morphine-resistant pain and 
requires some adjuvant drugs such as corticosteroids, ketamine,anticonvulsants, 
or local anesthetics. The third generation bisphosphonate zoledronate has been 
demonstrated to improve cancer pain and to prevent skeletal morbidity in lung 
cancer patients with metastatic bone disease.

PMID: 16912519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2006 Aug;33(8):1061-4.

[Radiotherapy for bone metastases from hepatocellular carcinoma and pancreas 
cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Harada H(1), Nishimura T, Kamata M, Asakura H, Zenda S, Takahashi M, Katagiri H, 
Takagi T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Oncology, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital.

There are few reports on the treatment for bone metastases from hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) and pancreas cancer. We evaluated the therapeutic effects of 
radiotherapy (RT) in patients with bone metastases from these cancers. Bone 
metastases from HCC are typically lytic and expansive. We evaluated 13 patients 
with 16 bone metastases from HCC undergoing RT (30-40 Gy, median 39 Gy) in our 
department from September 2002 to December 2004. Tumor regression was evaluated 
by CT or MRI. More than 50% tumor regression was achieved in 4 of 16 lesions 
(25%). Pain relief was achieved in 12/13 (92%). The median survival was 7 months 
(95% confidence interval [CI], 4-10 months), and the 6-month and 12-month local 
control rates were 81% and 67%, respectively. For patients with a limited life 
expectancy, standard dose RT is appropriate, however,with more than one year 
life expectancy, investigation employing dose escalation or combination with 
surgery or TAE is needed. Thirteen patients with 18 bone metastases from 
pancreas cancer received RT (20-30 Gy, median 30 Gy) from September 2002 to 
March 2005. The median survival was 3 months (95% CI, 1-6 months). Pain relief 
was achieved in 12/13 (92%). The prognosis of patients with bone metastases from 
pancreas cancer is still very poor, and a single fraction or short fraction 
schedule RT is appropriate.

PMID: 16912522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nervenarzt. 2006 Sep;77 Suppl 1:S5-12; quiz S13-4. doi: 
10.1007/s00115-006-2145-4.

[Asymptomatic carotid stenoses. Course and discussion of their treatment].

[Article in German]

Lanczik O(1), Bäzner H, Hennerici MG, Kern R.

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Universitätsklinik Mannheim, Universität Heidelberg, 
Theodor-Kutzer-Ufer 1-3, 68167, Mannheim.

Asymptomatic carotid stenoses are common. They are associated with the risk 
factors for arteriosclerosis and are a specific risk factor for coronary artery 
disease, with an annual morbidity/mortality (MM) rate of 8-10%. Detection of a 
carotid stenosis should therefore be followed by a complete risk factor analysis 
and modification, if appropriate; a thorough cardiological diagnostic 
investigation is particularly important. Individual risk indicators for stroke 
(annual MM 1-2%) are a rapid progression of the degree of stenosis, certain 
morphological patterns and the presence of extra- and intracranial multi-vessel 
disease. Trials available so far on the treatment of asymptomatic carotid 
stenosis have not revealed any significant parameters that would justify 
individual decisions on whether or not surgery is appropriate. There is 
therefore a danger that many patients will be exposed to a severe risk of 
stroke, which cannot be justified unless the centres where such interventions 
are performed have proven MM complication rates of <3%, the life expectancy of 
the patients treated is not restricted as the result of other illnesses and the 
patients explicitly request surgery after a thorough explanation of the risks. 
Conservative treatment strategies provide the best protection for the majority 
of patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-006-2145-4
PMID: 16912903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Harv Health Lett. 2006 Jul;31(9):1-3.

Lifetime achievements. Americans are staying healthier and living longer than 
ever before, although the United States lags behind other countries.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16913020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2006 Aug;54(8):1277-82. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00834.x.

Ethnic differences in expectations for aging among older adults.

Sarkisian CA(1), Shunkwiler SM, Aguilar I, Moore AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, 90095, USA. 
csarkisian@mednet.ucla.edu

Age-expectations of 611 non-Latino white, African-American, and Latino seniors 
recruited at 14 community-based senior centers in the greater Los Angeles region 
were compared. Participants completed the Expectations Regarding Aging (ERA-38) 
Survey, a self-administered instrument with previously demonstrated reliability 
and validity for measuring age-expectations. Analysis of variance was used to 
compare unadjusted differences between scores across ethnic groups. To examine 
whether observed differences persisted after adjusting for health and 
sociodemographic characteristics, a series of linear regression models was 
constructed, with the dependent variable being total ERA-38 score and the 
primary independent variables being African-American and Latino ethnicity 
(reference group=white), adjusting for age, sex, physical and mental 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL), medical comorbidity, activity of daily 
living (ADL) impairments, depression, and education. Latinos had significantly 
lower overall age-expectations than non-Latino whites or African Americans after 
adjusting for age and sex (parameter estimate=-3.4, P=.01); this difference 
persisted after adjusting for health variables including medical comorbidity, 
HRQoL, ADL impairments, and depression. After adjusting for education, being 
Latino was no longer significantly associated with lower age-expectations 
(parameter estimate=-1.9, P=.18). Being African American was not significantly 
associated with age-expectations in any of the adjusted models. Younger age and 
better HRQoL were associated with higher age-expectations in all models. In 
conclusion, of these 611 older adults recruited at senior centers in the greater 
Los Angeles region, Latinos had significantly lower age-expectations than 
non-Latino whites and African Americans, even after adjusting for health 
characteristics, but differences in educational levels explained this 
difference.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00834.x
PMID: 16913999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2006 Aug;54(8):1295-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00821.x.

The short-lived Chinese emperors.

Zhao HL, Zhu X, Sui Y.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00821.x
PMID: 16914004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Eur J Endocrinol. 2006 Sep;155(3):405-14. doi: 10.1530/eje.1.02223.

Cost-effectiveness of using recombinant human TSH prior to radioiodine ablation 
for thyroid cancer, compared with treating patients in a hypothyroid state: the 
German perspective.

Mernagh P(1), Campbell S, Dietlein M, Luster M, Mazzaferri E, Weston AR.

Author information:
(1)Health Technology Analysts Pty Ltd, PO Box 133, Balmain, Sydney 2041, 
Australia. pmernagh@htanalysts.com

OBJECTIVE: This investigation evaluated the cost-effectiveness of radioiodine 
remnant ablation following preparation with recombinant human TSH (rhTSH), 
compared with the standard preparation, whereby patients are rendered 
hypothyroid.
DESIGN: The economic evaluation relates to patients with well differentiated 
thyroid cancer who have undergone thyroidectomy, but have no metastases. The 
evaluation takes a societal perspective, considering costs and benefits to all 
parties. The benefits were expressed in units of quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY), so differences in life expectancy were captured with consideration of 
quality of life.
METHODS: A lifetime Markov model with Monte Carlo simulation of 100,000 patients 
was used to assess cost per QALY gained. The clinical inputs were sourced from a 
multi-centre, randomised controlled trial comparing remnant ablation success 
after rhTSH-preparation with hypothyroid preparation. The model applied German 
unit costs, however, the structure is generalisable to other jurisdictions. The 
additional cost of rhTSH procurement and administration is considered relative 
to the clinical benefits and cost offsets. These included avoidance of 
hypothyroidism, increased work productivity, earlier discharge from 
radioprotection and a theoretical reduction in the risk of secondary malignancy. 
The latter two benefits relate to faster radioiodine clearance after rhTSH 
preparation.
RESULTS: The additional benefits of rhTSH (0.0495 QALY) are obtained with an 
incremental societal cost of 47 euro, equating to an incremental cost per QALYof 
958 euro. Sensitivity analyses had only a modest impact upon cost-effectiveness, 
with all one-way sensitivity results remaining under 15,000 euro/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of rhTSH prior to radioiodine ablation represents good 
value-for-money with the benefits to patient and society obtained at modest net 
cost.

DOI: 10.1530/eje.1.02223
PMID: 16914594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. J Alzheimers Dis. 2006;9(3 Suppl):257-62. doi: 10.3233/jad-2006-9s328.

Progress from Alzheimer's tangles to pathological tau points towards more 
effective therapies now.

Lee VM(1), Trojanowski JQ.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Department of Pathology 
and Laboratory Medicine, and Institute on Aging, The University of Pennsylvania 
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. VMYLEE@mail.med.upenn.edu

The landmark description of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and senile plaques as 
the pathological hallmarks of an unusual form of dementia 100 years ago by Alois 
Alzheimer launched the quest to understand a neurodegenerative disorder that now 
has become a scourge in the 21st Century due to the unprecedented increase in 
human life expectancy since 1900. Indeed, while there are many benefits to 
individuals and society as a whole that will accrue from the remarkable gains in 
longevity since 1900, the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) increases 
exponentially with advancing age beyond the 7th decade of life. Hence, the 
prevalence of AD will rise inexorably in the coming decades unless effective 
interventions are developed to delay the onset or progression of AD. Widespread 
international recognition of the urgency of this problem has accelerated 
research to discover meaningful therapies for AD, and growing evidence 
implicates impairments of axonal transport in mechanisms underlying AD due to 
pathological alterations in tau, the building block proteins of NFTs. This brief 
review summarizes insights into mechanisms whereby pathological alterations in 
tau impair axonal transport resulting in neurodegeneration and how these 
insights are being exploited now to develop novel therapeutic interventions for 
the treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.3233/jad-2006-9s328
PMID: 16914864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Crit Care Med. 2006 Oct;34(10):2536-40. doi:
10.1097/01.CCM.0000239119.57544.0C.

Albumin administration improves organ function in critically ill hypoalbuminemic 
patients: A prospective, randomized, controlled, pilot study.

Dubois MJ(1), Orellana-Jimenez C, Melot C, De Backer D, Berre J, Leeman M, 
Brimioulle S, Appoloni O, Creteur J, Vincent JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Intensive Care, Erasme Hospital, Free University of Brussels, 
Brussels, Belgium.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2006 Oct;34(10):2677-9.
    Crit Care. 2006;10(6):179.
    Crit Care Med. 2007 Mar;35(3):987-8.

OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that administration of albumin to correct 
hypoalbuminemia might have beneficial effects on organ function in a mixed 
population of critically ill patients.
DESIGN: : Prospective, controlled, randomized study.
SETTING: Thirty-one-bed, mixed medicosurgical department of intensive care.
PATIENTS: All adult patients with a serum albumin concentration < or =30 g/L 
were assessed for eligibility. Principal exclusion criteria were expected length 
of stay <72 hrs, life expectancy <3 months or a do-not-resuscitate order, 
albumin administration in the preceding 24 hrs, or evidence of fluid overload.
INTERVENTIONS: The 100 patients were randomized to receive 300 mL of 20% albumin 
solution on the first day, then 200 mL/day provided their serum albumin 
concentration was <31 g/dL (albumin group), or to receive no albumin (control 
group).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The primary outcome was the effect of albumin 
administration on organ function as assessed by a delta Sequential Organ Failure 
Assessment score from day 1 to day 7 (or the day of intensive care discharge or 
death, whichever came first). The two groups of 50 patients were comparable at 
baseline for age, gender, albumin concentration, and Acute Physiology and 
Chronic Health Evaluation II score. Albumin concentration did not change over 
time in the control group but increased consistently in the albumin group (p < 
.001). Organ function improved more in the albumin than in the control group (p 
= .026), mainly due to a difference in respiratory, cardiovascular, and central 
nervous system components of the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score. 
Diuretic use was identical in both groups, but mean fluid gain was almost three 
times higher in the control group (1679 +/- 1156 vs. 658 +/- 1101 mL, p = .04). 
Median daily calorie intake was higher in the albumin than in the control group 
(1122 [935-1158] vs. 760 [571-1077] kcal, p = .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Albumin administration may improve organ function in 
hypoalbuminemic critically ill patients. It results in a less positive fluid 
balance and a better tolerance to enteral feeding.

DOI: 10.1097/01.CCM.0000239119.57544.0C
PMID: 16915107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. J Cyst Fibros. 2007 May;6(3):179-86. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2006.07.001. Epub
2006  Aug 17.

Cystic fibrosis mortality trends in France.

Bellis G(1), Cazes MH, Parant A, Gaimard M, Travers C, Le Roux E, Ravilly S, 
Rault G.

Author information:
(1)Institut national d'études démographiques, 133 boulevard Davout, 75980 Paris 
Cedex 20, France. bellis@ined.fr

BACKGROUND: In 1992 France set up a national cystic fibrosis observatory 
(Observatoire national de la mucoviscidose, ONM) to monitor the state of health 
of patients on an annual basis. Using the ONM data, this study estimates the 
main indicators for life expectancy and assesses the total number of cystic 
fibrosis patients.
METHODS: The data for the years 1994 to 2003 are divided into 3-year periods. 
Life tables are drawn up for these periods, from which mean and median lengths 
of life are determined. Using the most recent life table, the number of births 
in 2003 and the incidence of the disease, the total population of patients can 
be estimated, assuming a stationary population.
RESULTS: In 2001-2003, life expectancy at birth of patients registered with the 
ONM was 39.1 years and median length of life was 36.4 years. These results, 
substantially better than those of 1994-1996, are linked to improved conditions 
of patient inclusion in the ONM database, to improvements in their healthcare, 
but also to the limitations of the life tables. Based on the 2003 data, the 
total theoretical number of patients is 6490, and coverage by the ONM database 
is thus 63.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: These provisional results demonstrate the need to convert the ONM 
observatory into a registry providing exhaustive coverage of all patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2006.07.001
PMID: 16916626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. NeuroRehabilitation. 2006;21(2):167-76.

A treatment for a chronic stroke patient with a plegic hand combining CI therapy 
with conventional rehabilitation procedures: case report.

Bowman MH(1), Taub E, Uswatte G, Delgado A, Bryson C, Morris DM, McKay S, Mark 
VW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, School of Social & Behavioral Sciences, University 
of Alabama at Birmingham, AL, USA. mbowman@uab.edu

Constraint-Induced Movement therapy (CI therapy) is a recognized rehabilitation 
approach for persons having stroke with mild to moderately severe motor upper 
extremity deficits. To date, no rehabilitation treatment protocol has been 
proven effective that addresses both motor performance and spontaneous upper 
extremity use in the life situation for chronic stroke participants having 
severe upper extremity impairment with no active finger extension or thumb 
abduction. This case report describes treatment of a chronic stroke participant 
with a plegic hand using a CI therapy protocol that combines CI therapy with 
selected occupational and physical therapy techniques. Treatment consisted of 
six sessions of adaptive equipment and upper extremity orthotics training 
followed by a three-week, six-hour daily intervention of CI therapy plus 
neurodevelopmental treatment. Outcome measures included the Motor Activity Log 
for very low functioning patients (Grade 5 MAL), upper extremity portion of the 
Fugl-Meyer Motor Assessment, Graded Wolf Motor Function Test - for very low 
functioning patients (gWMFT- Grade 5), and Modified Ashworth Scale. The 
participant showed improvement on each outcome measure with the largest 
improvement on the Grade 5 MAL. In follow-up, the participant had good retention 
of his gains in motor performance and use of his more affected arm for real 
world activities after 3 months; after a one-week brush-up at 3 months, and at 
one year post-treatment.

PMID: 16917163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2005 Jun;20(2):87-90. doi: 10.1007/s10823-005-9084-6.

Biological anthropology and aging.

Ice GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Ohio University College of Osteopathic 
Medicine, 309 Grosvenor Hall, Athens, 45701, USA. iceg@ohio.edu

As the number of persons aged 65 and older is increasing dramatically in both 
developed and developing nations of the world, the health and well-being of 
elders has become a worldwide public health concern. Although older adults are 
now found in higher proportions across all cultures, the biology, behavior, and 
environment vary tremendously across older populations. Biomedical research 
largely follows a reductionist paradigm separating the domains of culture and 
biology. Even when health is examined in association with culture and behavior, 
biomedical researchers largely focus on static unidirectional associations 
instead of examining the dynamic multidirectional impact of culture, behavior, 
and the environment on physiology and ultimately health. Since aging and the 
processes of senescence clearly involve complex interactions among biological, 
environmental, and cultural domains, anthropologists with a bio-cultural and 
evolutionary perspective are well-equipped to study variation in aging and 
senescence. While relatively few biological anthropologists have focused their 
attention on aging, a growing literature has demonstrated the utility of 
biocultural approaches to aging. This paper serves as an introduction to a 
special issue that highlights the core of the biological anthropology of aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-005-9084-6
PMID: 16917745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. AANA J. 2006 Aug;74(4):261-5.

The life and trial of Dagmar Nelson--part 2.

Van Nest RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Northwestern California University, Sacrmento, USA.

During the more desperate years of the Great Depression a group of physicians 
brought an injunction proceeding against Dagmar Nelson and her employing 
hospital for illegally practicing medicine without a license. She administered 
general anesthesia and her employer knew it and supported her. It was a bizarre 
trial in that the arguments presented by both sides seem incongruous to our way 
of thinking today. The evidence presented at the trial echoed the predominant 
view at the time--the undisputed dominance of the male physician over the female 
nurse, who was portrayed, even by the defense, as only an extension of the 
surgeon who "has the power and therefore the responsibility" to control the 
surgery. Had she lost, anesthesia as a specialty of nursing would not exist. The 
method by which she won, however, has haunted us to this day. Part 1 of this 
2-part column was published in the June 2006 AANA Journal.

PMID: 16918117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Biometrics. 2006 Jun;62(2):471-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1541-0420.2005.00497.x.

Orthonormal transform to decompose the variance of a life-history trait across a 
phylogenetic tree.

Ollier S(1), Couteron P, Chessel D.

Author information:
(1)UMR CNRS 5558, Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive, Université 
Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 69 622 Villeurbanne Cedex, France. 
ollier@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr

In recent years, there has been an increased interest in studying the 
variability of a quantitative life-history trait across a set of species sharing 
a common phylogeny. However, such studies have suffered from an insufficient 
development of statistical methods aimed at decomposing the trait variance with 
respect to the topological structure of the tree. Here we propose a new and 
generic approach that expresses the topological properties of the phylogenetic 
tree via an orthonormal basis, which is further used to decompose the trait 
variance. Such a decomposition provides a structure function, referred to as an 
"orthogram," which is relevant to characterize in both graphical and statistical 
