DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624100-00009
PMID: 17002484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Int J Obes (Lond). 2006 Oct;30(10):1463-75. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803469.

A new approach to assessing the health benefit from obesity interventions in 
children and adolescents: the assessing cost-effectiveness in obesity project.

Haby MM(1), Vos T, Carter R, Moodie M, Markwick A, Magnus A, Tay-Teo KS, 
Swinburn B.

Author information:
(1)Program Evaluation Unit, School of Population Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville Victoria, Australia. michelle.haby@dhs.vic.gov.au

Comment in
    Int J Obes (Lond). 2007 Jul;31(7):1183-4; author reply 1185.

OBJECTIVE: To report on a new modelling approach developed for the assessing 
cost-effectiveness in obesity (ACE-Obesity) project and the likely population 
health benefit and strength of evidence for 13 potential obesity prevention 
interventions in children and adolescents in Australia.
METHODS: We used the best available evidence, including evidence from 
non-traditional epidemiological study designs, to determine the health benefits 
as body mass index (BMI) units saved and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
saved. We developed new methods to model the impact of behaviours on BMI 
post-intervention where this was not measured and the impacts on DALYs over the 
child's lifetime (on the assumption that changes in BMI were maintained into 
adulthood). A working group of stakeholders provided input into decisions on the 
selection of interventions, the assumptions for modelling and the strength of 
the evidence.
RESULTS: The likely health benefit varied considerably, as did the strength of 
the evidence from which that health benefit was calculated. The greatest health 
benefit is likely to be achieved by the 'Reduction of TV advertising of high fat 
and/or high sugar foods and drinks to children', 'Laparoscopic adjustable 
gastric banding' and the 'multi-faceted school-based programme with an active 
physical education component' interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of consistent methods and common health outcome measures 
enables valid comparison of the potential impact of interventions, but 
comparisons must take into account the strength of the evidence used. Other 
considerations, including cost-effectiveness and acceptability to stakeholders, 
will be presented in future ACE-Obesity papers. Information gaps identified 
include the need for new and more effective initiatives for the prevention of 
overweight and obesity and for better evaluations of public health 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803469
PMID: 17003807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Am Nat. 2006 Oct;168(4):521-30. doi: 10.1086/507993. Epub 2006 Aug 31.

Maternal condition and facultative sex ratios in populations with overlapping 
generations.

Schwanz LE(1), Bragg JG, Charnov EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico 
87131, USA. schwanz@unm.edu

Facultative investment in offspring sex is related to maternal condition in many 
organisms. In mammals, empirical support for condition-dependent sex allocation 
is equivocal, and there is some doubt as to theoretical expectations. Much 
theory has been developed to make predictions for condition-dependent sex ratios 
in populations with discrete generations. However, the extension of these 
predictions to populations with overlapping generations (OLGs; e.g., mammals) 
has been limited, leaving doubt as to the specific prediction for 
maternal-condition-dependent sex ratios in mammals. We develop a population 
genetics model that incorporates maternal effects on multiple offspring fitness 
components in a population with OLGs. Using a rare-gene and evolutionarily 
stable strategy approach, we demonstrate that sex ratio predictions of this 
model are identical to those for equivalent discrete generations models. We show 
that the predicted sex ratios depend on the sex-specific ratio of R(o) 
(offspring lifetime fitness) for offspring of good and poor mothers. This 
offspring lifetime fitness rule indicates that empirical research on conditional 
sex ratios should consider all three components of offspring R(o) (juvenile 
survival, adult life span, and fertility).

DOI: 10.1086/507993
PMID: 17004223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2006 May-Jun;(3):8-16.

[Aging of population in Russia as cause of increase in mortality from diseases 
of blood circulation system].

[Article in Russian]

Kharchenko VI, Virin MM, Koriakin MV, Kotliarova LA, Sharapova GA, Chibisova IV.

PMID: 17004374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Med Chem. 2006 Oct 5;49(20):6087-93. doi: 10.1021/jm060515m.

Multivalent effects of RGD peptides obtained by nanoparticle display.

Montet X(1), Funovics M, Montet-Abou K, Weissleder R, Josephson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Geneva Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland, and Department 
of Angiography and Interventional Radiology, Vienna Medical University, Vienna, 
Austria.

The binding of RGD peptides to integrins offers an excellent system to study the 
multivalent mediated changes in affinity that arise when peptides, displayed on 
the surface of a nanoparticle carrier, bind to integrins displayed on the cell 
membrane. The IC50 of an RGD nanoparticle for endothelial adhesion was 1.0 nM 
nanoparticle or 20 nM peptide (20 peptide/nanoparticle) and was associated with 
strong multivalent effects, defined as a multivalent enhancement factor (MVE) of 
38 (MVE=IC50 (peptide)/IC50 (peptide when displayed by nanoparticle)). The 
attachment of RGD peptides to nanoparticles resulted in an extension of the 
peptide blood half-life from 13 to 180 min. Based on the multivalent enhancement 
of affinity and extension of blood half-life, multivalent RGD nanoparticle-sized 
materials should be potent inhibitors of the alpha(V)beta(3) function on 
endothelial cells in vivo.

DOI: 10.1021/jm060515m
PMID: 17004722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Lung. 2006 Jul-Aug;184(4):205-15. doi: 10.1007/s00408-005-2584-x.

Cardiopulmonary support in duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Finsterer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Krankenstalt Rudolfstiftung, Postfach 20, 1180 Vienna, Austria. 
duarte@aonmail.at

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked, rapidly progressive myopathy 
affecting the limb muscles, the respiratory muscles, the heart, the intestines, 
and the brain. Since about 90% of DMD patients die from muscular respiratory 
failure or cardiomyopathy, early and adequate therapy is essential. Ventilatory 
failure from muscle weakness requires mechanical support for ventilation and 
coughing as soon as there is symptomatic nocturnal hypoventilation. Today 
noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is the method of choice for 
supportive long-term mechanical ventilation in DMD. For assisted coughing, 
various methods are available, among which the mechanical in-exsufflator is the 
most widely used device. There is large nonrandomized clinical trial evidence 
that NIPPV improves quality of life and prolongs the lives of DMD patients if 
medical, social, economic, and ethical issues, raised by the availability of 
long-term NIPPV, are adequately addressed. Cardiac involvement in DMD manifests 
as impulse generation or impulse conduction abnormalities or cardiomyopathy. 
Cardiac abnormalities in DMD respond well to adequate therapy. Though DMD is 
ultimately a fatal disease, quality of life and life expectancy can be markedly 
improved if cardiopulmonary manifestations are adequately treated.

DOI: 10.1007/s00408-005-2584-x
PMID: 17006747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Health Econ. 2007 Apr;16(4):395-405. doi: 10.1002/hec.1170.

A comparison of patient and population values for health states in varicose 
veins patients.

Ratcliffe J(1), Brazier J, Palfreyman S, Michaels J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK. j.ratcliffe@sheffield.ac.uk

Cost utility analyses typically incorporate preferences based upon the mean 
values for health states generated from a sample of the general population. The 
main argument for using general population values rests upon the premise that in 
a publicly funded health care system the main objective of the health care 
system is a societal one, namely to maximise health subject to equity concerns. 
Alternatively, it can be argued that patients themselves should be asked to 
value their own health state given that they have first hand experience of the 
state being valued. This paper investigates the relationship between patient and 
general population values within the context of a randomised controlled trial to 
compare alternative treatments for varicose veins. It was found that patients' 
own health valuations tended to be higher than those of the general population 
sample. The results from this study have important implications for economic 
evaluation. The incremental QALY gain for patients receiving treatment for 
moderate varicose veins would be almost halved if patients' own values were used 
to estimate QALYs in contrast to the general population values. The results also 
suggest that the variant of elicitation technique may be more important than the 
source of those values in revealing discrepancies.

Copyright (c) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1170
PMID: 17006963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Health Econ. 2007 Mar;16(3):307-17. doi: 10.1002/hec.1168.

Discounting in economic evaluations: stepping forward towards optimal decision 
rules.

Gravelle H(1), Brouwer W, Niessen L, Postma M, Rutten F.

Author information:
(1)National Primary Care Research and Development Centre (NPCRDC), Centre for 
Health Economics, University of York, UK.

The National Institute for Clinical Excellence has recently changed its 
guidelines on discounting costs and effects in economic evaluations. In common 
with most other regulatory bodies it now requires that health effects should be 
discounted at the same rate as costs. We show that the guideline leads to 
sub-optimal decisions because it fails to account for the changing value of 
health. NICE (and other regulatory bodies) should either use differential 
discounting or stipulate how the changing value of health should otherwise be 
dealt with. We also show how binding health service budget constraints should be 
incorporated in evaluations.

Copyright (c) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1168
PMID: 17006970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Lakartidningen. 2006 Sep 6-12;103(36):2542.

[Clinical research pays off. Big net profits are to be gained by improved health 
according to an American study].

[Article in Swedish]

Jönsson B(1).

Author information:
(1)Handelshögskolan, Stockholm. bengt.jonsson@hhs.se

PMID: 17007197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Cardiothorac Surg. 2006 Sep 28;1:30. doi: 10.1186/1749-8090-1-30.

Repeated successful surgical rescues of early and delayed multiple ruptures of 
ventricular septum, right ventricle and aneurysmal left ventricle following 
massive biventricular infarction.

Kaul P(1).

Author information:
(1)Yorkshire Heart Centre, Leeds General Infirmary, Great George Street, Leeds, 
LS1 3EX, UK. pankaj.kaul@leedsth.nhs.uk

A 58 year old man underwent 6 surgical interventions for various complications 
of massive biventricular myocardial infarction over a period of 2 years 
following acute occlusion of a possibly "hyperdominant" left anterior descending 
coronary artery. These included concomitant repair of apicoanterior 
post-infarction VSD and right ventricular free wall rupture, repeat repair of 
recurrent VSD following inferoposterior extension of VSD in the infarcted septum 
5 weeks later, repair of delayed right ventricular free wall rupture 4 weeks 
subsequently, repair of a bleeding left ventricular aneurysm eroding through 
left chest wall 16 months thereafter, repair of right upper lobe lung tear 
causing massive anterior mediastinal haemorrhage, mimicking yet another cardiac 
rupture, 2 months later, followed, at the same admission, 2 weeks later, by 
sternal reconstruction for dehisced and infected sternum using pedicled 
myocutaneous latissimus dorsi flap. 5 years after the latissimus myoplasty, the 
patient remains in NYHA class 1 and is leading a normal life.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-8090-1-30
PMCID: PMC1613243
PMID: 17007641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Gut. 2007 Feb;56(2):279-82. doi: 10.1136/gut.2006.093195. Epub 2006 Sep 28.

Life expectancy of adult liver allograft recipients in the UK.

Barber K(1), Blackwell J, Collett D, Neuberger J; UK Transplant Liver Advisory 
Group.

Author information:
(1)UK Transplant, Bristol, UK.

BACKGROUND: Liver transplantation is a very successful therapy for those with 
end stage disease. Although there are numerous data on patient and graft 
survival after liver transplantation, life expectancy and possible loss of life 
(compared with a normal matched population) in those who survive remains 
unknown.
AIMS: To assess the life expectancy and life years lost of adult liver allograft 
recipients, compared with an age and sex matched UK population to provide 
patients with more information and to improve the use of a scarce resource.
METHODS: Using the National Transplant Database held by UK Transplant, on over 
3600 adult liver allograft recipients transplanted between 1985 and 2003, we 
analysed survival of all adults who survived more than six months after 
transplantation and compared survival after transplantation with national age 
and sex matched controls to assess life years lost.
RESULTS: Estimated median survival time of the analysis cohort of 2702 adult 
liver allograft recipients was 22.2 years (95% confidence interval 19.3-25.6), 
with an estimated loss of seven life years compared with an age and sex matched 
population.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, female recipients have a longer life expectancy and lose 
fewer life years than male recipients. While younger recipients have a longer 
life expectancy, they also lose more life years. Those transplanted for cancer, 
hepatitis C virus infection, and alcoholic liver disease had the greatest loss 
of life years.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.2006.093195
PMCID: PMC1856771
PMID: 17008365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


474. Osteoporos Int. 2006 Dec;17(12):1781-93. doi: 10.1007/s00198-006-0193-z.
Epub  2006 Sep 29.

An economic evaluation of strontium ranelate in the treatment of osteoporosis in 
a Swedish setting: based on the results of the SOTI and TROPOS trials.

Borgström F(1), Jönsson B, Ström O, Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Health Economics, Vasagatan 38, 2nd floor, SE-111 21 Stockholm, 
Sweden. fredrik.b@healtheconomics.se

INTRODUCTION: Strontium ranelate is a new therapy for the treatment and 
prevention of osteoporosis that has been shown in two phase III clinical trials 
(the Spinal Osteoporosis Therapeutic Intervention [SOTI] and the Treatment Of 
Peripheral OSteoporosis Study [TROPOS] trials) to reduce the risk of 
osteoporotic fractures at the vertebral, non-vertebral and hip level in 
postmenopausal women. The aim of this study was to estimate the potential 
cost-effectiveness of strontium ranelate in the treatment of osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal Swedish patients.
METHODS: A Markov cohort model was adapted to fit patients corresponding to the 
patients in the SOTI and TROPOS clinical trials. The model was populated with 
Swedish cost and epidemiological data. In the base case, the cost-effectiveness 
was estimated for 69-year old women with low bone mineral density (BMD) and 
prevalent vertebral fractures (SOTI) and for 77-year old women with low BMD 
(TROPOS). The cost-effectiveness analysis had a societal perspective.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, the cost per quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) gained of strontium ranelate patients compared to no treatment patients 
was estimated at SEK 472,586 and SEK 259,643, including costs in added life 
years, based on the SOTI and the TROPOS trials, respectively. Excluding cost in 
added life years, the cost per QALY gained was estimated at SEK 336,420 (SOTI) 
and SEK 165,680 (TROPOS). In subgroup analyses, in patients 74 years and older 
with a T-score lower than -2.4 and patients older than 80 years of age, 
strontium ranelate was found to be cost saving compared to no treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The results in the base case analyses and the sensitivity analyses 
of this study indicate that, compared to no treatment, strontium ranelate is 
cost-effective in the treatment of postmenopausal women with low BMD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-006-0193-z
PMID: 17009083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2006;16 Suppl 2:576-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1525-1438.2006.00699.x.

Cost-effectiveness of anastrozole compared to tamoxifen in hormone 
receptor-positive early breast cancer. Analysis based on the ATAC trial.

Moeremans K(1), Annemans L.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Disease Management, Brussels, Belgium and Public Health 
Department, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. KMoeremans@be.imshealth.com

The 5-year completed treatment analysis of the Anastrozole and Tamoxifen-Alone 
or in Combination (ATAC) trial showed the superiority of anastrozole over 
tamoxifen for reduction of disease progression in patients with hormone 
receptor-positive (HR+) early breast cancer (EBC). The objective was to evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness of anastrozole versus tamoxifen in this setting. A health 
economic model was developed comparing the natural history of EBC patients 
treated with anastrozole or tamoxifen. The perspective of the Belgian health 
care system was taken. Disease progression from EBC was obtained from the ATAC 
trial and further progression beyond the clinical trial from published 
literature. Resource use data were obtained from the ATAC study and from 
published local retrospective data. Anastrozole was cost-effective versus 
tamoxifen, provided that a time horizon of at least 9 years is taken. This 
sensitivity to time horizon is inherently associated with the adjuvant setting 
due to the different evolution of costs and outcomes over time. Costs are 
incurred solely during the first 5 years, whereas outcomes are cumulated beyond 
adjuvant treatment. In conclusion, provided that a sufficient time horizon is 
taken and that long-term model predictions are confirmed from further follow-up 
from the ATAC study, anastrozole is a highly cost-effective adjuvant therapy 
compared to tamoxifen.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1438.2006.00699.x
PMID: 17010076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2006 Sep 29;4:74. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-4-74.

Cost-utility of routine cataract surgery.

Räsänen P(1), Krootila K, Sintonen H, Leivo T, Koivisto AM, Ryynänen OP, Blom M, 
Roine RP.

Author information:
(1)Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital Group, Group Administration, P,O,Box 440, 00029 
HUS, Helsinki, Finland. pirjo.rasanen@stakes.fi

BACKGROUND: If decisions on health care spending are to be as rational and 
objective as possible, knowledge on cost-effectiveness of routine care is 
essential. Our aim, therefore, was to evaluate the cost-utility of routine 
cataract surgery in a real-world setting.
METHODS: Prospective assessment of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of 
patients undergoing cataract surgery. 219 patients (mean (SD) age 71 (11) years) 
entering cataract surgery (in 87 only first eye operated, in 73 both eyes 
operated, in 59 first eye had been operated earlier) filled in the 15D HRQoL 
questionnaire before and six months after operation. Direct hospital costs were 
obtained from a clinical patient administration database and cost-utility 
analysis performed from the perspective of the secondary care provider 
extrapolating benefits of surgery to the remaining statistical life-expectancy 
of the patients.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) utility score (on a 0-1 scale) increased statistically 
insignificantly from 0.82 (0.13) to 0.83 (0.14). Of the 15 dimensions of the 
HRQoL instrument, only seeing improved significantly after operation. Mean 
utility score improved statistically significantly only in patients reporting 
significant or major preoperative seeing problems. Of the subgroups, only those 
whose both eyes were operated during follow-up showed a statistically 
significant (p < 0.001) improvement. Cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained was euro5128 for patients whose both eyes were operated and euro8212 for 
patients with only one eye operated during the 6-month follow-up. In patients 
whose first eye had been operated earlier mean HRQoL deteriorated after surgery 
precluding the establishment of the cost per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Mean utility gain after routine cataract surgery in a real-world 
setting was relatively small and confined mostly to patients whose both eyes 
were operated. The cost of cataract surgery per quality-adjusted life year 
gained was much higher than previously reported and associated with considerable 
uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-4-74
PMCID: PMC1592543
PMID: 17010185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. BMC Cancer. 2006 Sep 30;6:231. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-231.

Eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) and angiogenesis: prognostic markers for 
breast cancer.

Zhou S(1), Wang GP, Liu C, Zhou M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, PR China. zhou71@163.com

BACKGROUND: The overexpression of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E 
(eIF4E), a key regulator of protein synthesis, is involved in the malignant 
progression of human breast cancer. This study investigates the relationship 
between eIF4E and angiogenesis, as well as their prognostic impact in patients 
with human breast cancer.
METHODS: Immunohistochemical staining was used to determine protein expression 
of eIF4E, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), interleukin-8 (IL-8), and 
CD105 in a set of 122 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded primary breast cancer 
tissues. Expression of eIF4E in positive cells was characterized by cytoplasmic 
staining. Evaluation of VEGF and IL-8 in the same tissue established the 
angiogenic profiles, while CD105 was used as an indicator of microvessel density 
(MVD).
RESULTS: A significant relationship was found between the level of eIF4E 
expression and histological grade (P = 0.016). VEGF, IL-8, and MVD were closely 
related to tumor grade (P = 0.003, P = 0.022, and P < 0.001, respectively) and 
clinical stage (P = 0.007, P = 0.048, and P < 0.001, respectively). Expression 
of eIF4E was also significantly correlated with VEGF (P = 0.007), IL-8 (P = 
0.007), and MVD (P = 0.006). Patients overexpressing eIF4E had significantly 
worse overall (P = 0.01) and disease-free survival (P = 0.006). When eIF4E, 
histological grade, tumor stage, ER, PR, Her-2 status and the levels of VEGF, 
IL-8, MVD were included in a multivariate Cox regression analysis, eIF4E emerged 
as an independent prognostic factor for breast cancer (P = 0.001), along with 
stage (P = 0.005), node status (P = 0.046), and MVD (P = 0.004).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that higher eIF4E expression correlates with 
both angiogenesis and vascular invasion of cancer cells, and could therefore 
serve as a useful histological predictor for less favorable outcome in breast 
cancer patients, as well as represent a potential therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-231
PMCID: PMC1599748
PMID: 17010208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. NeuroRx. 2006 Oct;3(4):525-34. doi: 10.1016/j.nurx.2006.07.002.

Community neurorehabilitation: a synthesis of current evidence and future 
research directions.

Chard SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, University of Maryland, Baltimore 
County, Baltimore, Maryland 21250, USA. schard@umbc.edu

Over the past decade, community neurorehabilitation has emerged as a promising 
extension of neurological rehabilitation. The goal of community 
neurorehabilitation is to maximize functional ability and quality of life 
through multidimensional rehabilitation that occurs while the individual is 
living in a home versus acute or transitory care setting. Because of its 
multidisciplinary focus, many variations of community neurorehabilitation teams 
have been implemented. Critical gaps exist, however, in understanding of the 
influence of structural and procedural differences among programs, as well as 
patient level variables such as social support, on recovery. This paper examines 
the current evidence of the effectiveness of community neurorehabilitation 
through a review of the findings of systematic reviews and meta-analyses of four 
neurological conditions: stroke, multiple sclerosis, traumatic brain injury, and 
Parkinson's disease. It focuses in particular on the data regarding physical 
therapy and occupational therapy, which are two of the primary components of 
community neurorehabilitation programs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nurx.2006.07.002
PMCID: PMC3593402
PMID: 17012066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. J Med Ethics. 2006 Oct;32(10):571-4. doi: 10.1136/jme.2005.015420.

Killing people: what Kant could have said about suicide and euthanasia but did 
not.

Brassington I(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Law, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. 
Iain.Brassington@manchester.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2008 Sep;34(9):655-7.

An agent who takes his own life acts in violation of the moral law, according to 
Kant; suicide, and, by extension, assisted suicide are therefore wrong. By a 
similar argument, and with a few important exceptions, killing is wrong; 
implicitly, then, voluntary euthanasia is also wrong. Kant's conclusions are 
uncompelling and his argument in these matters is undermined on considering 
other areas of his thought. Kant, in forbidding suicide and euthanasia, is 
conflating respect for persons and respect for people, and assuming that, in 
killing a person (either oneself or another), we are thereby undermining 
personhood. But an argument along these lines is faulty according to Kant's own 
standards. There is no reason why Kantians have to accept that self-killing and 
euthanasia are contrary to the moral law. Even if some Kantians adhere to this 
doctrine, others can reject it.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2005.015420
PMCID: PMC2563317
PMID: 17012496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


480. J Med Ethics. 2006 Oct;32(10):575-9. doi: 10.1136/jme.2005.013391.

Formal and effective autonomy in healthcare.

Schwab AP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, Brooklyn College, 2900 Bedford Ave, Brooklyn, NY 
11210, USA. ASchwab@brooklyn.cuny.edu

This essay lays the groundwork for a novel conception of autonomy that may be 
called "effective autonomy"-a conception designed to be genuinely action guiding 
in bioethics. As empirical psychology research on the heuristics and biases 
approach shows, decision making commonly fails to correspond to people's desires 
because of the biases arising from bounded cognition. People who are classified 
as autonomous on contemporary philosophical accounts may fail to be effectively 
autonomous because their decisions are uncoupled from their autonomous desires. 
Accordingly, continuing attempts to value patient autonomy must go beyond 
existing philosophical conceptions of autonomy to consider the background 
conditions of human decision making.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2005.013391
PMCID: PMC2563308
PMID: 17012497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.481. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2006 Nov;19(6):553-4. doi: 
10.1097/01.yco.0000245748.53008.06.

Efficacy and cost-effectiveness in dementia interventions: the need for an 
international consensus.

Chiu E, Jeste DV.

DOI: 10.1097/01.yco.0000245748.53008.06
PMID: 17012930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2006 Nov;19(6):631-6. doi: 
10.1097/01.yco.0000245759.13997.9d.

Innovations in agonist maintenance treatment of opioid-dependent patients.

Haasen C(1), van den Brink W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University Medical Center Eppendorf, Center for 
Interdisciplinary Addiction Research, Hamburg, Germany. 
haasen@uke.uni-hamburg.de

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To provide an overview of published studies on agonist 
maintenance treatment options for opioid-dependent patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: The recent publication of controlled trials confirms earlier 
clinical evidence of the efficacy of diamorphine (heroin) in the treatment of 
opioid dependence. Findings show not only efficacy with respect to improvement 
of health, reduction of illicit drug use, reduction of criminality and 
stabilization of social conditions, but also cost effectiveness in the treatment 
of chronic treatment-resistant heroin addicts.
SUMMARY: Agonist maintenance treatment has become the first-line treatment for 
chronic opioid dependence. High-quality studies demonstrate the effectiveness of 
a growing number of different agonist maintenance treatments for opioid 
dependence such as methadone and buprenorphine. In addition, there is new 
evidence for the effectiveness of other agonists, mainly slow-release morphine, 
intravenous and inhalable diamorphine and possibly oral diamorphine. Maintenance 
treatment with intravenous or inhalable diamorphine should be implemented into 
the healthcare system to treat a group of severely dependent treatment-resistant 
patients. Furthermore, the opioid-dependent patients not under treatment need to 
be engaged in maintenance treatments through other harm reduction measures. 
Agonist maintenance treatment is very effective in stabilizing the health 
condition and social situation, while also reducing harm, thereby increasing 
life expectancy and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/01.yco.0000245759.13997.9d
PMID: 17012944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2005 Sep;20(3):231-41. doi:
10.1007/s10823-006-9014-2.

Comparative study of functional limitation and disability in old age: Delhi and 
New York city.

Albert SM(1), Alam M, Nizamuddin M.

Author information:
(1)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA. 
smalbert@pitt.edu

Cross-national variation in elder health is well established, with older adults 
in developing countries reporting poorer health than elders in developed 
countries. However, cross-national research using performance-based assessment 
is rare. We examined grip strength in American and Indian elders using a common 
methodology and found that older adults in India had significantly poorer 
strength than the US sample even when matched for age, gender, medical 
conditions, and self-rated disability. The difference in performance is likely 
explained by life-long differences in nutrition, occupational demands, and 
access to medical care. These differences in health among people who have 
survived to old age may also explain differences in life expectancy in later 
life.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-006-9014-2
PMID: 17013664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2005 Dec;20(4):307-18. doi:
10.1007/s10823-006-9010-6.

Experiencing leisure in later life: a study of retirees and activity in 
Singapore.

Thang LL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Japanese Studies, National University of Singapore, Blk AS4, 9, 
Arts Link, Singapore 117570, Singapore. lengthang@nus.edu.sg

In a society faced with rapid aging and extended life expectancy, older persons 
in Singapore are just beginning to see retirement as a new era in their lives 
that can be quite different from the later life experiences of their own 
parents. Presenting an ethnographic case study of one of the first retiree 
activity centers in Singapore, this article will examine (a) how older persons 
cope with retirement, social, and cultural norms, and (b) the strategies older 
adults adopt in order to stay relevant in a fast-paced society. The ethnographic 
study shows that extrafamilial social support and opportunities for new 
experiences in learning and leisure contribute significantly to positive and 
active living in old age. Although the discussion of aging in Asia usually 
focuses on the problems of health, finances, and caregiving, the present study 
suggests the need for policy makers to pay equal attention to issues such as 
activity participation in old age. Participation in leisure activities may act 
as a preventive measure to delay the onset of aging-related problems, while at 
the same time enhancing life satisfaction among seniors.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-006-9010-6
PMID: 17013665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Arthritis Rheum. 2006 Oct 15;55(5):751-6. doi: 10.1002/art.22226.

Assessing utility values in rheumatoid arthritis: a comparison between time 
trade-off and the EuroQol.

Ariza-Ariza R(1), Hernández-Cruz B, Carmona L, Dolores Ruiz-Montesinos M, 
Ballina J, Navarro-Sarabia F; Costs and Quality of Life in Rheumatoid Arthritis 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Service, Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Seville, Spain. 
rariza@supercable.es

OBJECTIVE: To compare the utility values and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
obtained by the Time Trade-Off instrument (TTO) and the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA); to analyze the association between 
utility values and Disease Activity Score 28 (DAS28) and Health Assessment 
Questionnaire (HAQ).
METHODS: We conducted a longitudinal, prospective, 1-year study of RA patients 
selected randomly from 10 rheumatology clinics. TTO and EQ-5D were administered 
at 4 scheduled visits.
RESULTS: The study sample comprised 300 RA patients (82% women, mean age 59 
years, mean disease duration 10.3 years). A total of 260 patients completed both 
the TTO and the EQ-5D at baseline, and the mean +/- SD TTO scores were 
significantly higher than the EQ-5D scores (0.81 +/- 0.22 versus 0.53 +/- 0.35, 
P < 0.0001). The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for the utility 
methods was 0.19. Data about changes in both TTO and EQ-5D scores during the 
study year were available in 163 patients. These changes tended to be larger in 
the TTO scores than the EQ-5D scores (mean +/- SD 0.05 +/- 0.25 versus -0.005 
+/- 0.35, P = 0.054). The ICC for the mean changes in the utility scores was 
0.24. Patients obtained a mean +/- SD of 0.04 +/- 0.20 QALYs based on TTO scores 
and 0.004 +/- 0.27 based on EQ-5D scores (P = 0.12). At baseline, the EQ-5D 
scores were highly correlated with the HAQ (r = -0.74) and moderately correlated 
with the DAS28 (r = -0.47), whereas the TTO correlated poorly with both the HAQ 
and DAS28. Correlation between the mean change in the EQ-5D and in the HAQ was 
moderate (r = -0.55).
CONCLUSION: TTO and EQ-5D do not yield the same utility values. The results 
suggest that the EQ-5D is more representative of RA status than the TTO, a 
valuable conclusion when addressing economic evaluations in RA.

DOI: 10.1002/art.22226
PMID: 17013822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. N Y Times Web. 2006 Sep 27:C1, C7.

The choice: a longer life or more stuff.

Leonhardt D.

PMID: 17014047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2006 Oct;118(5):1151-1158. doi: 
10.1097/01.prs.0000236895.28858.4a.

Long-term outcome of skull base surgery with microvascular reconstruction for 
malignant disease.

Nouraei SAR(1), Ismail Y, Gerber CJ, Crawford PJ, McLean NR, Hodgkinson PD.

Author information:
(1)London, Liverpool, and Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom; and Adelaide, 
Australia From the Charing Cross Hospital; Royal Liverpool Hospital; Northern 
Skull Base and Craniofacial Service, Newcastle General Hospital; and Adelaide 
Craniofacial Unit.

BACKGROUND: Successful resection of malignant skull base disease depends 
implicitly on the ability to reconstruct the resulting defects in the 
craniovisceral diaphragm, to support neural structures, and to prevent ascending 
intracranial infections. Microsurgery reliably achieves these objectives and has 
increased the scope of curative oncologic surgery. The authors assessed the 
reconstructive results and the long-term oncologic outcome of patients having 
skull base surgery with free tissue transfer.
METHODS: A retrospective review of cases between 1989 and 2001 was undertaken. 
Demographics, histology, surgical management, complications, locoregional 
control, and survival were analyzed.
RESULTS: Predominantly male patients (n = 53; 62 percent) with an average age of 
60 years had microvascular reconstruction following oncologic surgery. There was 
a preponderance of cutaneous malignancies (56 percent), and most lesions 
involved the anterior skull base (53 percent). Tumors were mostly resected with 
a combined intracranial or extracranial approach, and reconstruction was 
undertaken with radial forearm, rectus abdominis, or latissimus dorsi flaps with 
94 percent success. Complications occurred in 23 percent of patients, and no 
specific risk factors for developing intracranial complications were identified. 
Specifically, extensive reconstructions did not increase the complication rate. 
The 5-year locoregional control and survival rates were 74 percent and 60 
percent, respectively. A positive resection margin significantly increased the 
risk of locoregional recurrence and worsened disease-specific survival on Cox 
regression. Survival was also influenced by grade of malignancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Microsurgery is highly reliable for reconstructing defects 
resulting from oncologic resections of the cranial base. It can and should be 
undertaken using a small number of highly dependable flaps.

DOI: 10.1097/01.prs.0000236895.28858.4a
PMID: 17016183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol. 2000 Jun;13(3):303-6. doi: 
10.1097/00001503-200006000-00012.

Autotransfusion and blood-sparing techniques in infants and children.

Booke M(1), Reich A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Anästhesiologie und Operative Intensivmedizin, 
Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität, Münster, Germany. booke@uni-muenster.de

While several techniques to reduce perioperative blood loss have been 
established for surgery in adults, not all of them are applicable in paediatric 
surgery. Further, far less is known about the efficacy of these techniques in 
this specific population. Consequently, techniques for the prevention of blood 
loss are often neglected. However, it is these young patients, with their 
remaining life expectancy, who will benefit the most from any prevented 
infection (HIV, hepatitis, etc.) or from any immunological complications. 
Hemodilution is limited because of the high percentage of fetal hemoglobin in 
small infants, as well as the additional anaesthetic needed to obtain blood. 
Until recently, intraoperative autotransfusion was ineffective in small children 
due to technical limitations; however, advanced technology now renders 
intraoperative autotransfusion possible, even in infants weighing less than 20 
kg.

DOI: 10.1097/00001503-200006000-00012
PMID: 17016319


489. Food Nutr Bull. 2003 Dec;24(4 Suppl):S155-9. doi:
10.1177/15648265030244S214.

Public-private sector alliances for food fortification: time for optimism.

Carriere R(1).

Author information:
(1)Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1177/15648265030244S214
PMID: 17016959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Med Lav. 2006 Mar-Apr;97(2):137-42.

Aging and globalization.

Wegman DH(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Environment, University of Massachusetts Lowell, 3 
Solomont Way, Suite 1 Lowell, MA 01854-5121, USA.

PMID: 17017337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Med Lav. 2006 Mar-Apr;97(2):143-7.

Towards a longer and better working life: a challenge of work force ageing.

Ilmarinen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland. 
juhani.ilmarinen@ttl.fi

The aim of this overview is to describe the background of work force ageing and 
its consequences in the society, to introduce concepts for the solutions, to 
emphasize the actions needed, to point out the new challenges for occupational 
health, to review the targets of work life improvements, and to highlight the 
new innovations needed. Work life must be lengthened for the sake of society. 
Early retirement and low employment rates of 55-64-years old employees make the 
dependency ratios an increasingly heavy burden. New innovations and concepts 
like promotion of work ability and age management training have been effective 
tools for the increase of employment rates and decrease of age discrimination in 
Finland. The increase of the prevalence and incidence rates of work-related 
symptoms and diseases during ageing is a serious challenge for occupational 
health experts. The better adjustments of the working life with the individual 
health is a crucial element for a longer career. The European working life has 
not improved markedly for workers over 45 years between 1996 and 2000. 
Therefore, evidence based concepts should be widely and effectively implemented 
and new innovations created. A better co-operation between macro-, meso and 
micro levels is necessary, social partners should create mutual programmes in 
work places and a new deal is needed between the generations. Life course 
approach combines the needs and possibilities of different generations. Age 
management takes into consideration the different strengths of the diverse work 
force.

PMID: 17017338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Med Lav. 2006 Mar-Apr;97(2):148-55.

Social protection sustainability, prolongation of working life and greater 
participation of women in the labour market.

Barea M(1), Cesana G.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autonoma, Madrid, Spain. maite.barea@unam.es

One of the greatest problems of European societies is the financial 
sustainability of social protection systems in Europe. Together with Japan, 
Europe has the highest levels of ageing population in the world. This concern 
explains the reiterated insistence of the European Commission and the OECD 
regarding the reforms that governments should undertake. In this paper, 
reference is made to two of these reforms: prolonging of working life and a 
greater participation of women in the labour market.

PMID: 17017339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Med Lav. 2006 Mar-Apr;97(2):288-94.

Occupational health and general practice: from opportunities lost to 
opportunities capitalised?

van Weel C(1), Orbon K, van der Gulden J, Buijs P, Folgering H, Thoonen B, 
Schermer T.

Author information:
(1)Department of general practice, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands. C.vanweel@hag.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Western populations are in the middle of the epidemiological 
transition of chronic diseases. Care of patients with chronic disease is 
directed at optimising life expectancy and quality of life. Daily and social 
functioning, including paid work are part of the treatment objectives. Yet, 
advice for and support in work related coping with chronic diseases, and 
collaboration with occupational health are not--yet--part of routine curative 
medical care procedures. This is also the case in general practice, where most 
patients with chronic conditions are treated. This 'blind spot' signals a 
generic lost opportunity in optimizing the care of patients with chronic 
disease. This paper analyses from empirical data the importance of integrating 
work-related advice and support in general practice and explores potential 
evidence of the benefits this provides for patients: the opportunities that can 
be capitalised through better interaction between occupational physicians (OP) 
and general practitioners (GP).
METHODS: The paper is based on a review of three sources: (i) Epidemiology of 
chronic diseases: the Nijmegen Continuous Morbidity Registration; (ii) The 
relevant guidelines of the Dutch College of General Practitioners; (iii) Studies 
of work-related implications of asthma and COPD management of GPs of the 
Nijmegen centre of Evidence-Based Practice.
RESULTS: Chronic diseases like cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, COPD 
and asthma dominate general practice and lead annually to a large number of 
consultations. Although a majority of patients are 65 years or older--in 
particular for the first three diseases--GPs also care for a substantial number 
of under-65 years old. General practice guidelines for these disorders advocate 
care directed at normal functioning but do not systematically address 
functioning in the working place. Analysis of work-related functioning in case 
of chronic respiratory diseases, however, highlight that work-related factors 
and circumstances play an important role in patients' coping strategies. 
Patients tend to ignore negative effects of their workplace on their physical 
condition and as a consequence suffer undue limitations. Despite these work 
related risks, COPD patients who were in paid employement perceived higher 
quality of life than COPD patients who were disabled for work, but had similar 
disease severity (airway obstruction). Interestingly, a programme of patients' 
self-management of asthma resulted, in comparison to GP-supervised usual care in 
a substantial and lasting reduction of asthma related absence from work and 
other social-daily activities.
CONCLUSIONS AND DISCUSSION: All consultations with employees with a chronic 
(respiratory) disease can be considered as opportunities to supervise 
work-related implications of the disease. Patients value their ability to work 
but frequently apply inefficient coping through ignoring the implications of 
their circumstances for their disease. A more efficient coping can probably be 
achieved through a more active involvement of patients in managing their own 
disease. Guidelines--like the Dutch College of General Practitioners'--have 
developed into a sophisticated and generally respected system of guidance of 
patient care. Explicit emphasis of management in relation to the workplace may 
present a logical opportunity to capitalise on.

PMID: 17017361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Med Lav. 2006 Mar-Apr;97(2):313-21.

The contribution of occupational risks to the global burden of disease: summary 
and next steps.

Fingerhut M(1), Nelson DI, Driscoll T, Concha-Barrientos M, Steenland K, Punnett 
L, Prüss-Ustün A, Leigh J, Corvalan C, Eijkemans G, Takala J.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Room 715H, Humphrey 
Building, 200 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20201, USA. 
mfingerhut@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: The Comparative Risk Assessment (CRA) project of the World Health 
Organization (WHO) assessed worldwide mortality and morbidity in the year 2000 
resulting from exposures to selected occupational hazards. This article 
summarizes findings of the WHO CRA project, presents the estimates of the 
International Labor Organization (ILO) for total deaths due to workplace risks, 
and calls for action.
OBJECTIVES: Global burden estimates and counts of deaths assist ministers and 
other decision and policy makers to make informed decisions and to take action 
regarding risk reduction.
METHODS: The WHO CRA methodology combined the proportions of the population 
exposed to five occupational hazards (excluding numerous risks due to inadequate 
global data) with relative risk measures to estimate attributable fractions of 
the selected health outcomes for both morbidity and mortality. ILO estimates of 
total numbers of global work-related injury deaths apply national fatality rates 
to employment data for the particular country; for disease deaths ILO uses an 
attributable risk approach.
RESULTS: In 2000, the selected occupational risk factors were responsible 
worldwide for 37% of back pain, 16% of hearing loss, 13% of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD), 11% of asthma, 8% of injuries, 9% of lung cancer and 
2% of leukemia, and about 100% of pneumoconioses and mesothelioma. These 
selected risks at work resulted in the loss of about 24 million years of healthy 
life and caused 850,000 deaths worldwide, about 40% of the ILO estimate of 2.2 
million total deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: These global and regional analyses have identified areas where 
specific preventive actions are required.

PMID: 17017364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2006 Aug;53(8):554-62.

[Estimation of the range of excess death associated with influenza epidemics: 
application of a model using annual mortality rates and the seasonal index for 
determining minimum excess mortality estimates].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Human and Science, Faculty of Nursing, Yamanashi Prefectural 
