
Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 
78229-3900, USA.

Life expectancy has increased considerably over the last century in the United 
States. It is expected that this longevity will be accompanied by an increase in 
the prevalence of osteoporosis and accompanying complications in the elderly 
population. Age-related loss of bone mass and bone fragility are major risk 
factors for osteoporosis, leading to an increased risk of fractures. Therefore, 
nutritional strategies and lifestyle changes that prevent age-related 
osteoporosis and improve the quality of life for the elderly population are 
urgently needed. Hence, the present study compared the effects of corn oil (CO; 
n-6 fatty acids; commonly present in Western diets) and fish oil (FO; n-3 fatty 
acids) on bone mineral density (BMD) in aging C57BL/6 female mice. After 6 
months of dietary treatment, we found that 18-month-old FO-fed mice maintained 
higher BMD in different bone regions compared to CO-fed mice. These findings 
were accompanied by a decreased activity of pro-inflammatory cytokines, tumor 
necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6 in stimulated splenocytes; a 
nonsignificant but greater increase in bone formation markers alkaline 
phosphatase and osteocalcin in the serum; and lower osteoclast generation in 
bone marrow cell cultures in FO-fed mice. In conclusion, these findings suggest 
that providing n-3 fatty acids may have a beneficial effect on bone mass during 
aging by modulating bone formation and bone resorption factors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2006.07.002
PMID: 16963250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Biol Chem. 2006 Nov 17;281(46):35454-66. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M607336200. Epub
 2006 Sep 8.

Solution structures and backbone dynamics of a flavodoxin MioC from Escherichia 
coli in both Apo- and Holo-forms: implications for cofactor binding and electron 
transfer.

Hu Y(1), Li Y, Zhang X, Guo X, Xia B, Jin C.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Center, College of Life Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing 100871, China.

Flavodoxins play central roles in the electron transfer involving various 
biological processes in microorganisms. The mioC gene of Escherichia coli 
encodes a 16-kDa flavodoxin and locates next to the chromosomal replication 
initiation origin (oriC). Extensive researches have been carried out to 
investigate the relationship between mioC transcription and replication 
initiation. Recently, the MioC protein was proposed to be essential for the 
biotin synthase activity in vitro. Nevertheless, the exact role of MioC in 
biotin synthesis and its physiological function in vivo remain elusive. In order 
to understand the molecular basis of the biological functions of MioC and the 
cofactor-binding mechanisms of flavodoxins, we have determined the solution 
structures of both the apo- and holo-forms of E. coli MioC protein at high 
resolution by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The overall structures of 
both forms consist of an alpha/beta sandwich, which highly resembles the 
classical flavodoxin fold. However, significant diversities are observed between 
the two forms, especially the stabilization of the FMN-binding loops and the 
notable extension of secondary structures upon FMN binding. Structural 
comparison reveals fewer negative charged and aromatic residues near the 
FMN-binding site of MioC, as compared with that of flavodoxin 1 from E. coli, 
which may affect both the redox potentials and the redox partner interactions. 
Furthermore, the backbone dynamics studies reveal the conformational flexibility 
at different time scales for both apo- and holo-forms of MioC, which may play 
important roles for cofactor binding and electron transfer.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M607336200
PMID: 16963438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Med Genet. 2007 Feb;44(2):153-60. doi: 10.1136/jmg.2006.044784. Epub 2006
Sep  8.

Development of a genotyping microarray for Usher syndrome.

Cremers FP(1), Kimberling WJ, Külm M, de Brouwer AP, van Wijk E, te Brinke H, 
Cremers CW, Hoefsloot LH, Banfi S, Simonelli F, Fleischhauer JC, Berger W, 
Kelley PM, Haralambous E, Bitner-Glindzicz M, Webster AR, Saihan Z, De Baere E, 
Leroy BP, Silvestri G, McKay GJ, Koenekoop RK, Millan JM, Rosenberg T, Joensuu 
T, Sankila EM, Weil D, Weston MD, Wissinger B, Kremer H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, and Nijmegen Centre for Molecular Life 
Sciences, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
F.Cremers@antrg.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: Usher syndrome, a combination of retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and 
sensorineural hearing loss with or without vestibular dysfunction, displays a 
high degree of clinical and genetic heterogeneity. Three clinical subtypes can 
be distinguished, based on the age of onset and severity of the hearing 
impairment, and the presence or absence of vestibular abnormalities. Thus far, 
eight genes have been implicated in the syndrome, together comprising 347 
protein-coding exons.
METHODS: To improve DNA diagnostics for patients with Usher syndrome, we 
developed a genotyping microarray based on the arrayed primer extension (APEX) 
method. Allele-specific oligonucleotides corresponding to all 298 Usher 
syndrome-associated sequence variants known to date, 76 of which are novel, were 
arrayed.
RESULTS: Approximately half of these variants were validated using original 
patient DNAs, which yielded an accuracy of >98%. The efficiency of the Usher 
genotyping microarray was tested using DNAs from 370 unrelated European and 
American patients with Usher syndrome. Sequence variants were identified in 
64/140 (46%) patients with Usher syndrome type I, 45/189 (24%) patients with 
Usher syndrome type II, 6/21 (29%) patients with Usher syndrome type III and 
6/20 (30%) patients with atypical Usher syndrome. The chip also identified two 
novel sequence variants, c.400C>T (p.R134X) in PCDH15 and c.1606T>C (p.C536S) in 
USH2A.
CONCLUSION: The Usher genotyping microarray is a versatile and affordable 
screening tool for Usher syndrome. Its efficiency will improve with the addition 
of novel sequence variants with minimal extra costs, making it a very useful 
first-pass screening tool.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2006.044784
PMCID: PMC2598068
PMID: 16963483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


382. Proc Am Thorac Soc. 2006 Sep;3(7):630-4. doi: 10.1513/pats.200603-095SS.

Economic modeling in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Rutten-van Mölken M(1), Lee TA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 
DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.rutten-vanmolken@erasmusmc.nl

Calculating the cost-effectiveness of interventions is an important step in 
accurately assessing the health and financial burdens of a disease. Although 
clinical trials that include cost data can be used to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of specific interventions, they only deal with outcomes 
within the time frame of the trial. Health economic models can synthesize 
epidemiologic, clinical, economic, and quality-of-life data from many different 
sources and extrapolate results to a point many years in the future. The models 
generally compare interventions with respect to the costs per life-year gained 
or per quality-adjusted life-year gained. The use of health economic models to 
assess the economic burden of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and 
the value of interventions is growing, and will continue to do so as the burden 
of the disease is better appreciated. Several COPD disease-state models have 
been described; each uses a consistent definition of COPD severity that is based 
on FEV(1)% predicted, but the models differ in the allowed transitions, disease 
progression estimates, utility weights, and costs. This article reviews COPD 
health economic models and discusses the importance of survival benefits and 
utilities (health state valuations) for COPD in economic models.

DOI: 10.1513/pats.200603-095SS
PMID: 16963546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. J Bacteriol. 2006 Nov;188(22):7840-52. doi: 10.1128/JB.01204-06. Epub 2006
Sep  8.

A conserved tetranucleotide repeat is necessary for wild-type expression of the 
Moraxella catarrhalis UspA2 protein.

Attia AS(1), Hansen EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, TX 75390-9048, USA.

The UspA2 protein has been shown to be directly involved in the serum-resistant 
phenotype of Moraxella catarrhalis. The predicted 5'-untranslated regions (UTR) 
of the uspA2 genes in several different M. catarrhalis strains were shown to 
contain various numbers (i.e., 6 to 23) of a heteropolymeric tetranucleotide 
(AGAT) repeat. Deletion of the AGAT repeats from the uspA2 genes in the 
serum-resistant M. catarrhalis strains O35E and O12E resulted in a drastic 
reduction in UspA2 protein expression and serum resistance. PCR and 
transformation were used to construct a series of M. catarrhalis O12E strains 
that differed only in the number of AGAT repeats in their uspA2 genes. 
Expression of UspA2 was maximal in the presence of 18 AGAT repeats, although 
serum resistance attained wild-type levels in the presence of as few as nine 
AGAT repeats. Increased UspA2 expression was correlated with both increased 
binding of vitronectin and decreased binding of polymerized C9. Real-time 
reverse transcription-PCR analysis showed that changes in the number of AGAT 
repeats affected the levels of uspA2 mRNA, with 15 to 18 AGAT repeats yielding 
maximal levels. Primer extension analysis indicated that these AGAT repeats were 
contained in the 5'-UTR of the uspA2 gene. The mRNA transcribed from a uspA2 
gene containing 18 AGAT repeats was found to have a longer half-life than that 
transcribed from a uspA2 gene lacking AGAT repeats. These data confirm that the 
presence of the AGAT repeats in the 5'-UTR of the uspA2 gene is necessary for 
both normal expression of the UspA2 protein and serum resistance.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01204-06
PMCID: PMC1636323
PMID: 16963572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Apr;17(2):122-3. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl074. Epub
2006  Sep 8.

Economics and public health: engaged to be happily married!

Brouwer W(1), Van Exel J, Van Baal P, Polder J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy & Management and Institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam/Erasmus MC Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
w.brouwer@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Eur J Public Health. 2007 Apr;17(2):124.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl074
PMID: 16963790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Methods Inf Med. 2006;45(4):397-403.

A simple method to estimate tobacco-related lung cancer deaths based on smoking 
prevalence data.

Winkler V(1), Gbangou A, Kouyate B, Becher H.

Author information:
(1)Ruprecht-Karls-University Heidelberg, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Tobacco is the major cause of cancer and a relevant risk factor for 
several other chronic diseases. Due to the epidemiological transition in 
developing countries with overall increasing life expectancy there is an 
increasing relevance of chronic diseases to the total burden of diseases. 
Furthermore, there are indications for a rise in the consumption of tobacco 
products in developing countries. Since in Africa data on smoking prevalence are 
scarce and cancer diagnosis is often imprecise or missing, it is difficult to 
estimate the current and future number of cancer cases attributable to tobacco 
smoking. In this paper, we present an approach to estimate the effects of 
smoking on lung cancer in selected developing countries in Africa.
METHODS: We combined data on smoking prevalence from different African countries 
with estimates on age-specific lung cancer rates in smokers and non-smokers from 
industrialized countries and data on age and sex distribution in African 
countries. We perform a sensitivity analysis to evaluate the effect of the 
assumptions necessary for the procedure.
RESULTS: If the smoking prevalence in African countries will remain on the 
current level, we estimate age-specific lung cancer rates lower than those in 
Germany. Despite the relatively small proportion of adults aged 50 and more 
which is the age when most cancer cases occur, there is an appreciable number of 
deaths from lung cancer that could be prevented when smoking prevalence could be 
reduced. Depending on assumptions we estimate up about 50,000 lung cancer deaths 
per year in Africa, most of which could be prevented.
CONCLUSIONS: Efforts for smoking prevalence reduction are much more needed in 
the developing world. Better and more comprehensive data on smoking are needed 
for more precise estimates.

PMID: 16964355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Time. 2006 Aug 21;168(8):68.

New tricks for living past 96.

Kadlec D.

PMID: 16964960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Xue Bao. 2006 Sep;4(5):473-7. doi: 10.3736/jcim20060506.

[Significance and necessity of developing quality of life questionnaire for 
cancer patients adapting to traditional Chinese medicine].

[Article in Chinese]

You J(1).

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Tumor, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 200032, China. yooujieyj@163.com

The clinical evaluation system for therapeutic effects of tumor, which focuses 
on survival period and tumor response rate, has been proved not very proper for 
evaluating the therapeutic effects of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). 
Quality of life (QOL) has been introduced into the effective evaluation system 
of TCM and integrative medicine because of its similarity in concept and 
extension with TCM at theory basis, syndrome differentiation-treatment, and 
evaluation of therapeutic effects. But there are no QOL questionnaires which can 
evaluate the therapeutic effects of TCM and integrative medicine precisely. This 
article discussed the necessity and significance of developing QOL questionnaire 
special for TCM.

DOI: 10.3736/jcim20060506
PMID: 16965739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nurse Pract. 2006 Aug;31(8):17-23; quiz 23-5. doi: 
10.1097/00006205-200608000-00005.

Menopause: studying the research.

Pace DT(1).

Author information:
(1)Regional Medical Center at Memphis/The Health Loop, Memphis, TN, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/00006205-200608000-00005
PMID: 16966972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Trauma. 2006 Sep;61(3):558-66. doi: 10.1097/01.ta.0000233766.60315.5e.

Indications for CT scanning in mild traumatic brain injury: A cost-effectiveness 
study.

Stein SC(1), Burnett MG, Glick HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106, 
USA.

Erratum in
    J Trauma. 2007 May;62(5):1309.

Comment in
    J Trauma. 2007 May;62(5):1314-5; author reply 1315.

BACKGROUND: There is considerable uncertainty about the indications for cranial 
computed tomography (CT) scanning in patient with minor traumatic brain injury 
(TBI). This analysis involves an evidence-based comparison of several strategies 
for selecting patients for CT with regard to effectiveness and cost.
METHODS: We performed a structured literature review of mild traumatic brain 
injury and constructed a cost-effectiveness model. The model estimated the 
impact of missed intracranial lesions on longevity, quality of life and costs. 
Using a 20-year-old patient for primary analysis, we compared the following 
strategies to screen for the need to perform a CT scan: observation in the 
emergency department or hospital floor, skull radiography, Selective CT based on 
the presence of additional risk factors and scanning all.
RESULTS: Outcome measures for each strategy included average years of life, 
quality of life and costs. Selective CT and the CT All policy performed 
significantly better than the alternatives with respect to outcome. They were 
also less expensive in terms of total direct health care costs, although the 
differences did not reach statistical significance. The model yielded similar, 
but smaller, differences between the selective imaging and other strategies when 
run for older patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the incidence of intracranial lesions, especially those 
that require surgery, is low in mild TBI, the consequences of delayed diagnosis 
are forbidding. Adverse outcome of an intracranial hematoma is so costly that it 
more than balances the expense of CT scans. In our cost-effectiveness model, the 
liberal use of CT scanning in mild TBI appears justified.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ta.0000233766.60315.5e
PMID: 16966987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Neurol Neurochir Pol. 2006 Jul-Aug;40(4):354-60.

[Severe cardiovascular complications due to the pituitary adenoma with 
acromegaly. An interdisciplinary approach to the treatment. A case report].

[Article in Polish]

Zieliński G(1), Hendzel P, Szałański P, Gołowicz J, Gryszko L, Podgórski JK.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Neurochirurgii, Wojskowy Instytut Medyczny, ul. Szaserów 128, 00-909 
Warszawa. gmz@wim.mil.pl

Acromegaly reduces life expectancy and leads to 3-5-fold increase in mortality. 
The main causes are cardiovascular, pulmonary and enhanced prevalence of deaths 
from malignancy. Successful therapy ought to normalize GH, IGF-I secretion, 
remove the adenoma mass and its local pressure effects and preserve pituitary 
functions intact to improve systemic morbidity and normalize mortality. The 
primary therapy for most patients with acromegaly is still transsphenoidal 
adenomectomy. The authors present a 64-year-old woman with diagnosed 
GH-secreting pituitary macroadenoma suffering from severe coronary heart disease 
and diabetes mellitus. Somatostatin analogue therapy was ineffective in our 
patient. She was unfit for transsphenoidal adenomectomy. The patient was 
qualified for coronary artery bypass grafting after cardiological investigation. 
We have decided to carry out the bypass grafting and transsphenoidal 
adenomectomy during one anaesthesia. Both surgical procedures and postoperative 
time were uncomplicated. Our patient feels well and she is in outpatient 
follow-up.

PMID: 16967359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. PLoS Med. 2006 Sep;3(9):e260. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030260.

Eight Americas: investigating mortality disparities across races, counties, and 
race-counties in the United States.

Murray CJ(1), Kulkarni SC, Michaud C, Tomijima N, Bulzacchelli MT, Iandiorio TJ, 
Ezzati M.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of 
America.

Erratum in
    PLoS Med. 2006 Dec;3(12):e545.

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2006 Sep;3(9):e357.
    PLoS Med. 2007 Jan;4(1):e41.
    PLoS Med. 2007 Jan;4(1):e42.

BACKGROUND: The gap between the highest and lowest life expectancies for 
race-county combinations in the United States is over 35 y. We divided the 
race-county combinations of the US population into eight distinct groups, 
referred to as the "eight Americas," to explore the causes of the disparities 
that can inform specific public health intervention policies and programs.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: The eight Americas were defined based on race, location of 
the county of residence, population density, race-specific county-level per 
capita income, and cumulative homicide rate. Data sources for population and 
mortality figures were the Bureau of the Census and the National Center for 
Health Statistics. We estimated life expectancy, the risk of mortality from 
specific diseases, health insurance, and health-care utilization for the eight 
Americas. The life expectancy gap between the 3.4 million high-risk urban black 
males and the 5.6 million Asian females was 20.7 y in 2001. Within the sexes, 
the life expectancy gap between the best-off and the worst-off groups was 15.4 y 
for males (Asians versus high-risk urban blacks) and 12.8 y for females (Asians 
versus low-income southern rural blacks). Mortality disparities among the eight 
Americas were largest for young (15-44 y) and middle-aged (45-59 y) adults, 
especially for men. The disparities were caused primarily by a number of chronic 
diseases and injuries with well-established risk factors. Between 1982 and 2001, 
the ordering of life expectancy among the eight Americas and the absolute 
difference between the advantaged and disadvantaged groups remained largely 
unchanged. Self-reported health plan coverage was lowest for western Native 
Americans and low-income southern rural blacks. Crude self-reported health-care 
utilization, however, was slightly higher for the more disadvantaged 
populations.
CONCLUSIONS: Disparities in mortality across the eight Americas, each consisting 
of millions or tens of millions of Americans, are enormous by all international 
standards. The observed disparities in life expectancy cannot be explained by 
race, income, or basic health-care access and utilization alone. Because 
policies aimed at reducing fundamental socioeconomic inequalities are currently 
practically absent in the US, health disparities will have to be at least partly 
addressed through public health strategies that reduce risk factors for chronic 
diseases and injuries.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030260
PMCID: PMC1564165
PMID: 16968116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


392. Aging Cell. 2006 Oct;5(5):437-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2006.00228.x.

New tricks of an old molecule: lifespan regulation by p53.

Bauer JH(1), Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Division of 
Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Laboratories for Molecular Medicine, 
Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA.

As guardian of the genome the tumor suppressor p53 controls a crucial point in 
protection from cellular damage and response to stressors. Activation of p53 can 
have beneficial (DNA repair) or detrimental (apoptosis) consequences for 
individual cells. In either case activation of p53 is thought to safeguard the 
organism at large from the deleterious effects of various stresses. Recent data 
suggest that the function of p53 might also play a role in the regulation of 
organismal lifespan. Increased p53 activity leads to lifespan shortening in 
mice, while apparent reduction of p53 activity in flies leads to lifespan 
extension. Although the mechanism by which p53 regulates lifespan remains to be 
determined, these findings highlight the possibility that careful manipulation 
of p53 activity during adult life may result in beneficial effects on healthy 
lifespan.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2006.00228.x
PMCID: PMC1592233
PMID: 16968311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2006 Sep;15(4):379-85. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2006.00676.x.

Cost of illness of malignant lymphoma in Germany.

Reis A(1), Ihle P, Paulus U, Ferber LV, Diehl V, Walshe R.

Author information:
(1)Cologne Lymphoma Project, Competence Network Malignant Lymphoma, 1st 
Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Cologne, Germany. 
reisa@who.int

Cancer causes a high economic burden. The purpose of this study is to determine 
and compare the direct, indirect and societal costs of illness for Hodgkin's 
Disease (HD), Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL), Plasmocytoma and Chronic Lymphatic 
Lymphoma (CLL). We used a database of 1.9 million individuals enrolled in a 
statutory sickness fund in Germany to identify 4,172 patients treated for 
malignant lymphoma in 2000. Direct, indirect and societal costs were calculated 
using a case-control design and the human capital approach. Direct cost (in 
Euro) for patients with HD was 3604, for NHL patients 6,149, for Plasmocytoma 
8,400, and for CLL patients 3,226. Total indirect cost for HD was 69 million, 
for NHL patients 404 million, for Plasmocytoma 144 million, and for CLL patients 
52 million. Totalling 1.7 billion Euro in economic cost for Germany in 2000, 
with 44,000 productive years lost, malignant lymphomas are a relatively costly 
disease group. As life expectancy increases, costs for malignant lymphoma are 
likely to rise due to the high prevalence among the elderly. Further research 
employing disaggregated, incidence-based cost is needed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2006.00676.x
PMID: 16968321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Annu Proc Assoc Adv Automot Med. 2006;50:253-68.

Quality of life outcomes in a hospitalized sample of road users involved in 
crashes.

Barnes J(1), Thomas P.

Author information:
(1)Vehicle Safety Research Centre, Loughborough University, UK.

A follow-up study of road injury survivors admitted to hospital was conducted in 
the UK. The outcomes of road injury and their impact on quality of life were 
assessed using the SF-36v2, EQ-5D and CES-D scales. Lower extremity injury 
predominated (73%) in the study. Furthermore, there was a substantial impact on 
physical activity, large injury costs and potentially high QALY losses. Analysis 
of psychological effects found that females had higher levels of depression 
compared to males. This study identifies the consequences of road injury on 
individuals, highlighting the effective use of health outcome scales to quantify 
the quality of life changes over a 1-year period.

PMCID: PMC3217474
PMID: 16968641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2006 Dec;32(6):607. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2006.08.001.  Epub 2006 Sep 11.

Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm: time for action.

Ricco JB.

Comment on
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2006 Dec;32(6):608-14.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2006.08.001
PMID: 16968666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. N Engl J Med. 2006 Sep 14;355(11):1141-53. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa060247.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV treatment in resource-poor settings--the case of Côte 
d'Ivoire.

Goldie SJ(1), Yazdanpanah Y, Losina E, Weinstein MC, Anglaret X, Walensky RP, 
Hsu HE, Kimmel A, Holmes C, Kaplan JE, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Program in Health Decision 
Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
sue_goldie@harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: As antiretroviral therapy is increasingly used in settings with 
limited resources, key questions about the timing of treatment and use of 
diagnostic tests to guide clinical decisions must be addressed.
METHODS: We assessed the cost-effectiveness of treatment strategies for a cohort 
of adults in Côte d'Ivoire who were infected with the human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) (mean age, 33 years; CD4 cell count, 331 per cubic millimeter; HIV 
RNA level, 5.3 log copies per milliliter). Using a computer-based simulation 
model that incorporates the CD4 cell count and HIV RNA level as predictors of 
disease progression, we compared the long-term clinical and economic outcomes 
associated with no treatment, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis alone, 
antiretroviral therapy alone, and prophylaxis with antiretroviral therapy.
RESULTS: Undiscounted gains in life expectancy ranged from 10.7 months with 
antiretroviral therapy and prophylaxis initiated on the basis of clinical 
criteria to 45.9 months with antiretroviral therapy and prophylaxis initiated on 
the basis of CD4 testing and clinical criteria, as compared with 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis alone. The incremental cost per year 
of life gained was 240 dollars (in 2002 U.S. dollars) for prophylaxis alone, 620 
dollars for antiretroviral therapy and prophylaxis without CD4 testing, and 
1,180 dollars for antiretroviral therapy and prophylaxis with CD4 testing, each 
compared with the next least expensive strategy. None of the strategies that 
used antiretroviral therapy alone were as cost-effective as those that also used 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis. Life expectancy was increased by 30% 
with use of a second line of antiretroviral therapy after failure of the 
first-line regimen.
CONCLUSIONS: A strategy of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis and 
antiretroviral therapy, with the use of clinical criteria alone or in 
combination with CD4 testing to guide the timing of treatment, is an 
economically attractive health investment in settings with limited resources.

Copyright 2006 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa060247
PMID: 16971720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Technol Health Care. 2006;14(3):189-97.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of telemedical devices for pre-clinical traffic 
accident emergency rescue in Germany.

Auerbach H(1), Schreyögg J, Busse R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Charité - University Medicine Berlin, Campus Mitte, 
Schumannstrasse 20/21, 10117 Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study is to assess the cost-effectiveness (net 
costs per life year gained) of telemedical devices for pre-clinical traffic 
accident emergency rescue in Germany.
METHODS: Two equipment versions of a telemedical device are compared from a 
societal perspective with the baseline in Germany, i.e. the non-application of 
telemedicine in emergency rescues. The analysis is based on retrospective 
statistical data covering a period of 10 years with discounted costs not 
adjusted for inflation. Due to the uncertainty of data, certain assumptions and 
estimates were necessary. The outcome is measured in terms of "life years 
gained" by reducing therapy-free intervals and improvements in first-aid 
provided by laypersons.
RESULTS: The introduction of the basic equipment version, "Automatic Accident 
Alert", is associated with net costs per life year gained of euro 247,977 (at 
baseline assumptions). The full equipment version of the telemedical device 
would lead to estimated net costs of euro 239,524 per life year gained. 
Multi-way sensitivity-analysis with best and worst case scenarios suggests that 
decreasing system costs would disproportionately reduce total costs, and that 
rapid market penetration would largely increase the system's benefit, while 
simultaneously reducing costs.
CONCLUSION: The net costs per life year gained in the application of the two 
versions of the telemedical device for pre-clinical emergency rescue of traffic 
accidents are estimated as quite high. However, the implementation of the device 
as part of a larger European co-ordinated initiative is more realistic.

PMID: 16971757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nurs Stand. 2006 Aug 30-Sep 5;20(51):46-50. doi: 
10.7748/ns2006.08.20.51.46.c4490.

Addressing nursing shortages in sub-Saharan Africa.

Campbell S(1).

Author information:
(1)GOAL Uganda, Kampala. masc@utlonline.co.ug

The desperate situation of the health workforce in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) 
cannot be overstated. This has been a significant and confounding factor in the 
decline in life expectancy in a number of SSA countries. This article identifies 
the reasons for the global shortage of nurses and recommends actions to address 
the crisis in Africa.

DOI: 10.7748/ns2006.08.20.51.46.c4490
PMID: 16972572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Nihon Rinsho. 2006 Sep;64(9):1633-8.

[Medical treatment of osteoporosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Inoue D(1), Matsumoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Bioregulatory Sciences, University of Tokushima 
Graduate School, Institute of Health Biosciences.

Osteoporosis is a skeletal disease characterized by increased risk of fracture 
due to reduced bone strength. Osteoporosis-associated fractures not only impair 
patients' quality of life (QOL) but also diminishes life expectancy. The most 
important goal in the treatment of osteoporosis is fracture prevention. To 
achieve this goal, in addition to lifestyle changes including balanced diet, 
increased exercise and fall prevention, most high-risk patients need 
pharmacological intervention. Based on the currently available evidence, the 
first-line medications are bisphosphonates and raloxifene. Active vitamin D 
alone may not be efficacious enough but may particularly be important in Japan 
as a surrogate for vitamin D and calcium supplementation. A new bone anabolic 
therapy by parathyroid hormone (PTH), which is already in clinical use in other 
countries, is also expected to become available in Japan in the near future.

PMID: 16972671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Health Stat Q. 2006 Autumn;(31):34-41.

Trends in premature mortality in England and Wales, 1950-2004.

Wheller L(1), Baker A, Griffiths C.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

Premature mortality is a major public health concern but there has been little 
consensus among researchers on how it should be defined and reported. In this 
article four means of measuring early deaths are considered using four different 
age thresholds to define prematurity. Using these four indicators, trends in 
premature mortality are reported for England and Wales from 1950 to 2004. All 
measures show that, however 'premature' is defined, levels of premature 
mortality have decreased markedly over time. This article discusses which 
mortality indicator and age threshold would be most appropriate for a measure of 
premature mortality for use in national mortality statistics for England and 
Wales.

PMID: 16972694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2006 Oct;60(10):839-45. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2005.041251.

Effectiveness calculation in economic analysis: the case of statins for 
cardiovascular disease prevention.

Franco OH(1), Steyerberg EW, Peeters A, Bonneux L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. oscar.franco@unilever.com

OBJECTIVES: This report aimed to evaluate the calculation of estimates of 
effectiveness in cost effectiveness analyses of statins for cardiovascular 
disease prevention.
METHODS: Methodological aspects were reviewed of seven primary studies (based on 
trial results) and 12 secondary modelling studies (extrapolated) on the cost 
effectiveness of statin treatment, published between 1995 and 2002. Estimates of 
life years gained were extracted and compared with estimates calculated using 
the Dutch male life table of 1996-2000.
RESULTS: Of the seven primary modelling analyses, six showed all the essential 
data. They estimated that 3 to 5.6 years (average 4.6 years) of statin treatment 
resulted in 0.15 to 0.41 years (average 0.3 years) saved over a lifetime time 
horizon. In contrast none of the 12 secondary modelling studies provided 
transparent results. They assumed lifelong treatment, leading to life table 
estimations of 2.4 and 2.0 (undiscounted) years saved for 40 and 60 year olds, 
with peak savings at around the mean age of death: 75-80 years. With 5% 
discounting, these effects reduced to 0.4 and 0.8 years respectively.
CONCLUSION: Reporting of essential data and assumptions on statin treatment was 
poor for secondary modelling analyses and satisfactory for primary modelling 
studies. Secondary modeling studies made assumptions on long term effectiveness 
that were hard to justify with the available evidence, and that led to the 
majority of life years saved at high ages. Further standardisation in economic 
analyses is important to guarantee transparency and reproducibility of results.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2005.041251
PMCID: PMC3261444
PMID: 16973528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2006 Oct;60(10):875-81. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2005.044719.

The changing relation between education and life expectancy in central and 
eastern Europe in the 1990s.

Shkolnikov VM(1), Andreev EM, Jasilionis D, Leinsalu M, Antonova OI, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The political and social transition in central and eastern Europe 
has been generally associated with widening educational differences in life 
expectancy. However, interpretation of these findings is complicated because the 
size of educational categories within the population has also changed. It is 
therefore important to disentangle these two phenomena.
SETTING: The Czech Republic, Estonia, the Russian Federation and, as a western 
European reference, Finland, in two periods, 1988-89 and 1998-99.
METHODS: Life tables were calculated in three categories: university; secondary; 
and less than secondary education. Changes in life expectancy were decomposed 
into contributions of population composition and within-category mortality.
RESULTS: In Finland and the Czech Republic improvements are seen in all 
educational groups, with only a slight widening of the educational differences. 
Over 80% of the total life expectancy increase is attributable to improved 
mortality within educational categories. In Estonia and Russia, less favourable 
overall trends coincide with a dramatic widening of the educational gap. A 
decrease in life expectancy in those with low and middle education has been 
compensated for, to a small degree in Russia but a greater extent in Estonia, by 
improvements among those with higher education and by the improved population 
composition. For highly educated Estonians, the gains were seen at all ages, the 
greatest at age > or =60 years. In Russia mortality increased in those <60 years 
although compensated for by improvements at older ages.
CONCLUSIONS: Russia and Estonia exhibit much less equitable transitions compared 
with the Czech Republic. Analyses of trends in health inequalities should 
capture the changing population composition. In Russia and Estonia an improved 
educational structure prevented an even greater decline in life expectancy. The 
highly educated Estonians can potentially catalyse a wider health progress.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2005.044719
PMCID: PMC2566056
PMID: 16973535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: none.


403. Am J Health Promot. 2006 Sep-Oct;21(1):45-8. doi:
10.1177/089011710602100108.

Evaluation of a community-based health promotion program for the elderly: 
lessons from Seniors CAN.

Collins CC(1), Benedict J.

Author information:
(1)University of Nevada Cooperative Extension, 8050 S. Maryland Pkwy #100, Las 
Vegas, NV 89123, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effects of a community-based educational program 
designed to promote health by enhancing older adults' mastery while decreasing 
loneliness and stress.
METHODS: Between 1999 and 2004, 339 older adults who participated in Seniors CAN 
completed standardized assessments of mastery, loneliness, and stress, prior to 
and upon completion of the 4-month intervention. Participants'scores were 
compared using paired t-tests to measure changes from preintervention to 
postintervention. Change scores were then subjected to three-way ANOVA to assess 
the relative effectiveness based upon participants' sociodemographic 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Participants demonstrated significant improvements from preintervention 
to postintervention for mastery, loneliness, and stress. Additional analysis 
revealed that improvement in loneliness was significantly greater among 
low-income ethnic minorities and minorities with a high level of formal 
education, p < .05.
CONCLUSION: The 16-week intervention resulted in significant improvements in 
constructs associated with better health and a higher quality of life for 
independent-living older adults. These findings suggest that a community-based 
educational intervention can be an effective strategy to reduce risk and promote 
the health and independence of older adults.

DOI: 10.1177/089011710602100108
PMID: 16977912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2006 Sep 15;6:12. doi: 10.1186/1472-698X-6-12.

Structure, (governance) and health: an unsolicited response.

Reidpath DD(1), Allotey P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health Research, Brunei University, West London, UK.

Comment in
    BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2007;7:1.

BACKGROUND: In a recently published article, it was suggested that governance 
was the significant structural factor affecting the epidemiology of HIV. This 
suggestion was made notwithstanding the observed weak correlation between 
governance and HIV prevalence (r = .2). Unfortunately, the paper raised but left 
unexamined the potentially more important questions about the relationship 
between the broader health of populations and structural factors such as the 
national economy and physical infrastructure.
METHODS: Utilizing substantially the same data sources as the original article, 
the relationship between population health (healthy life expectancy) and three 
structural factors (access to improved water, GDP per capita, and governance) 
were examined in each of 176 countries.
RESULTS: Governance was found to be significantly correlated with population 
health, as were GDP per capita, and access to improved water. They were also 
found to be significantly correlated with each other.
CONCLUSION: The findings are discussed with reference to the growing interest in 
structural factors as an explanation for population health outcomes, and the 
relatively weak relationship between governance and HIV prevalence.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-698X-6-12
PMCID: PMC1584251
PMID: 16978401


405. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2006 Sep;54(7):371-4. doi:
10.1016/j.patbio.2006.07.014.  Epub 2006 Sep 15.

The metabolic syndrome and the Maillard reaction. An introduction.

Robert L(1), Labat-Robert J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de recherche en ophtalmologie, Hôtel-Dieu, université Paris-V, 1, 
place du Parvis-Notre-Dame, 75181 Paris cedex 04, France. lrobert5@wanadoo.fr

With the rapid increase of life expectancy in western societies, appeared also a 
new phenomenon, obesity, which took during the recent decades pandemic 
dimensions. One of the consequences was the appearance of type II diabetes in 
much younger persons than before. The result of intensive research in this field 
over the last decades led, among other achievements to the identification of 
biological and molecular symptoms which together were reclassified as the 
"metabolic syndrome". Questionable as far as its originality is concerned, it 
did however good service to practitioners by formulating criteria for diagnostic 
and therapeutical purposes. Among the underlying biochemical mechanisms the 
Maillard reaction, the non enzymatic glycosylation of proteins and nucleotide 
bases followed by the formation of advanced glycation and products (AGE-s) plays 
an important role. Several recent experimental results confirm this statement, 
some of them are published in this issue. The reviews and original contributions 
form together an up to date report on this important pathology and support again 
the importance of posttranslational and environmental factors influencing gene 
expression and cellular functions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.patbio.2006.07.014
PMID: 16978798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Am J Surg. 2006 Oct;192(4):525-7. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.05.012.

A breast center review of compliance with National Comprehensive Cancer Network 
Breast Cancer guidelines.

Landercasper J(1), Dietrich LL, Johnson JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Gundersen Lutheran Medical Center, La Crosse, WI 
54601, USA. Jlanderc@gundluth.org

BACKGROUND: National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guideline compliance 
for breast cancer was determined in a breast center.
METHODS: A retrospective study of 200 new breast cancer patients seen in 2004 
was performed.
RESULTS: NCCN guideline compliance rates for preoperative evaluation, breast 
surgery, lymph node surgery, radiation treatment, and systemic adjuvant therapy 
were 87%, 97%, 97%, 77%, and 63%, respectively. The most common reasons for 
noncompliance were partial breast radiation, no radiation, limited life 
expectancy, and patient choice to defer systemic treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The investigation of quality of breast cancer care requires 
measurement of compliance and reasons for noncompliance with established 
guidelines. A review that focuses only on percentage compliance has the 
potential to penalize institutions that (1) practice informed consent detailing 
absolute risks of survival with and without systemic therapy, (2) practice 
evidence-based medicine before the standardized guideline is changed to reflect 
it, and (3) serve populations with limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.05.012
PMID: 16978966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2007 Feb;130(2):148-55. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejogrb.2006.08.006. Epub 2006 Sep 15.

The effect of cancer treatment on female fertility and strategies for preserving 
fertility.

Maltaris T(1), Seufert R, Fischl F, Schaffrath M, Pollow K, Koelbl H, Dittrich 
R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Johannes Gutenberg University, 
Mainz, Germany. maltaris@uni-mainz.de

Aggressive chemotherapy and radiotherapy in young patients with cancer has 
greatly enhanced the life expectancy of these patients, but these treatments 
often cause infertility because of the massive destruction of the ovarian 
reserve resulting in premature ovarian failure (POF). This review focuses on the 
effect of cancer treatments on fertility and on the various surgical and 
assisted-reproduction innovations that are available to provide the patient with 
the option of future pregnancies. As the emerging discipline of fertility 
preservation is steadily attracting increasing interest, developments in the 
near future promise to be very exciting. However, in everyday routine work, 
better interdisciplinary cooperation between gynecological and pediatric 
oncologists, surgeons, immunologists and endocrinologists is necessary so that 
individualized options for fertility preservation can be offered in advance of 
surgical procedures or cancer treatments. GnRH analog treatment can preserve 
fertility in some patients, but not in all. At present, cryopreservation of 
ovarian tissue appears as a very promising method of providing the cancer 
patient with a realistic chance of preserving fertility-a prospect that is also 
extremely important to patients for psychological reasons.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejogrb.2006.08.006
PMID: 16979280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Urology. 2006 Sep;68(3):549-53. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2006.03.062. Epub
2006  Sep 18.

Clinical model of lifetime cost of treating bladder cancer and associated 
complications.

Avritscher EB(1), Cooksley CD, Grossman HB, Sabichi AL, Hamblin L, Dinney CP, 
Elting LS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Health Services Research, Department of Biostatistics and Applied 
Mathematics, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 
77030, USA. ecaramel@mdanderson.org

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the lifetime cost of bladder cancer and the contribution 
of complications to the total costs.
METHODS: We reviewed the medical records of a retrospective cohort of 208 
patients with bladder cancer who registered at our comprehensive cancer center 
from 1991 to 1999. We multiplied the number of resources used during management 
of bladder cancer by their unit charges. We converted charges into costs using 
the Medicare cost-to-charge ratio and inflated these to 2005 U.S. dollars. We 
estimated future costs by creating two extreme hypothetical scenarios. In the 
best-case scenario, we assumed patients with superficial disease developed 
recurrences at the cohort's mean rate and that patients with muscle-invasive 
disease were disease free after definitive therapy. Survival was based on the 
U.S. life expectancy in both cases. In the worst-case scenario, we assumed 
patients with superficial disease developed muscle-invasive disease and that all 
patients subsequently died of bladder cancer.
RESULTS: The average cost of bladder cancer was 65,158 dollars among the cohort 
patients. Sixty percent of this cost (39,393 dollars) was associated with 
surveillance and treatment of recurrences, and 30% (19,811 dollars) was 
attributable to complications. The lifetime cost of bladder cancer was lower for 
the worst-case scenario (99,270 dollars) than for the best-case scenario 
(120,684 dollars). However, a greater proportion of the costs were attributable 
to complications with the worst-case scenario (43%, 42,290 dollars) compared 
with the best (28%, 34,169 dollars).
CONCLUSIONS: The management of bladder cancer and its associated complications 
results in a major economic burden. More cost-effective surveillance strategies 
and approaches for preventing complications are crucial to minimizing the 
disease's clinical and economic consequences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2006.03.062
PMID: 16979735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Lancet. 2006 Sep 16;368(9540):1033-7. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69341-0.

Politics and health outcomes.

