patients having 3D-CRT was $21,865 with a survival of 5.62 QALYs. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness comparing IMRT with CRT was $40,101/QALYs. 
Cost-effectiveness acceptability curve analysis revealed a 55.1% probability of 
IMRT being cost-effective at a $50,000/QALY willingness to pay.
CONCLUSION: Intensity-modulated radiation therapy was found to be 
cost-effective, however, at the upper limits of acceptability. The results, 
however, are dependent on the assumptions of improved biochemical disease-free 
survival with fewer patients undergoing subsequent salvage therapy and improved 
quality of life after the treatment. In the absence of prospective randomized 
trials, decision analysis can help inform physicians and health policy experts 
on the cost-effectiveness of emerging technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.04.049
PMID: 16887291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Eur Heart J. 2007 Feb;28(4):392-7. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehl166. Epub 2006
Aug  3.

The cost of implantable defibrillators: perceptions and reality.

Camm J(1), Klein H, Nisam S.

Author information:
(1)St George's University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London SW17 0RE, UK. 
jcamm@sgul.ac.uk

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2007 Feb;28(4):386-7.

AIMS: Recent guidelines have recommended more wide-ranging indications for the 
use of implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) therapy, yet even more 
restrained previous guidelines have not been implemented for a variety of 
reasons.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This brief review critically examines the reasons most 
frequently put forward to explain this failure. Contrary to the frequently 
repeated speculation that the risk stratification for sudden death and hence 
prophylactic placement of ICDs is reasonably accurate, there is little cost 
difference between pharmacotherapy and ICD treatment over the long term. ICD 
therapy does not utilize an undue proportion of the healthcare budget, and the 
healthcare systems in Europe can afford this therapy.
CONCLUSION: Financial reasons are neither accurate nor adequate explanations for 
the failure of the European medical community to implement European guidelines 
for the implantation of ICDs for primary and secondary prevention of sudden 
cardiac death.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehl166
PMID: 16887857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Curr Opin Hematol. 2006 Sep;13(5):351-6. doi: 
10.1097/01.moh.0000239707.63168.ee.

Retrievable vena cava filters: a review.

Imberti D(1), Ageno W, Carpenedo M.

Author information:
(1)Thrombosis Center, Emergency Department, Hospital of Piacenza, Piacenza, 
Italy. d.imberti@ausl.pc.it

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To examine the current literature regarding retrievable 
inferior vena cava filters and to discuss the appropriate indications for their 
clinical use.
RECENT FINDINGS: Permanent filters have been shown to be effective, but have a 
number of long-term complications such as filter thrombosis or migration. 
Indications for their placement should be accurately evaluated, especially in 
patients with a long life expectancy, or in whom the period of contraindication 
to anticoagulation is short. On the other hand, temporary filters are difficult 
to manage and their maximum implantation time is often insufficient to solve the 
clinical problem leading to their placement. Four different retrievable filters 
recently received approval for temporary insertion. Recent data suggest that the 
use of these filters may be related to a low rate of pulmonary embolism and 
insertion complications. Nevertheless, no randomized clinical trials have been 
performed, and the only available data refer to retrospective or prospective 
studies.
SUMMARY: Retrievable filters are a new generation of filter that offers the 
attractive possibility of being left in place permanently or being removed after 
quite a long period when they become unnecessary.

DOI: 10.1097/01.moh.0000239707.63168.ee
PMID: 16888440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. J Ky Med Assoc. 2006 Jul;104(7):306-10.

Limited life expectancy for the American health care system.

Saelinger D.

PMID: 16888855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Biotechnol J. 2006 May;1(5):564-8. doi: 10.1002/biot.200600030.

Operational concept for the improved synthesis of (R)-3,3'-furoin and related 
hydrophobic compounds with benzaldehyde lyase.

Ansorge-Schumacher MB(1), Greiner L, Schroeper F, Mirtschin S, Hischer T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany. 
m.ansorge@biotec.rwth-aachen.de

Biphasic reaction systems for enzyme catalysis are an elegant way to overcome 
limited solubility and stability of reactants and facilitate continuous 
processes. However, many synthetically useful enzymes are not stable in biphasic 
systems of water and organic solvent. The entrapment in polymer beads of 
polyvinyl alcohol has been shown to enable the stable operation of enzymes 
unstable in conventional biphasic reaction systems. We report the extension of 
this concept to continuous operation in a fluidised bed reactor. The enzyme 
benzaldehyde lyase was used for the continuous synthesis of enantiopure 
(R)-3,3'-furoin. The results show enhanced stability with half-life times under 
operation conditions of more than 100 h, as well as superior enzyme utilisation 
in terms of productivity. Furthermore, racemisation and oxidation of the product 
could be successfully prevented under the non-aqueous and inert reaction 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.200600030
PMID: 16892292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Dis Manag. 2006 Aug;9(4):242-56. doi: 10.1089/dis.2006.9.242.

Using individualized predictive disease modeling to identify patients with the 
potential to benefit from a disease management program for diabetes mellitus.

Weber C(1), Neeser K.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Informatics and Biostatistics, Basel, Switzerland. 
weber@imib.ch

Diabetes is an increasing health problem, but efforts to handle this pandemic by 
disease management programs (DMP) have shown conflicting results. Our hypothesis 
is that, in addition to a program's content and setting, the choice of the right 
patients is crucial to a program's efficacy and effectiveness. We used 
individualized predictive disease modeling (IPDM) on a cohort of 918 patients 
with type 2 diabetes to identify those patients with the greatest potential to 
benefit from inclusion in a DMP. A portion of the patients (4.7%) did not have 
even a theoretical potential for an increase in life expectancy and would 
therefore be unlikely to benefit from a DMP. Approximately 16.1% had an increase 
in life expectancy of less than half a year. Stratification of the entire cohort 
by surrogate parameters like preventable 10-year costs or gain in life 
expectancy was much more effective than stratification by classical clinical 
parameters such as high HbA1c level. Preventable costs increased up to 50.6% (or 
1,010 per patient (1 = US dollars 1.28), p < 0.01) and life expectancy increased 
up to 54.8% (or 2.3 years, p < 0.01). IPDM is a valuable strategy to identify 
those patients with the greatest potential to avoid diabetes-related 
complications and thus can improve the overall effectiveness and efficacy of 
DMPs for diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1089/dis.2006.9.242
PMID: 16893337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Int J Clin Pract. 2006 Aug;60(8):922-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2006.01009.x.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of n-3 PUFA (Omacor) treatment in post-MI 
patients.

Quilici S(1), Martin M, McGuire A, Zoellner Y.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK. squilici@innovus.com

Erratum in
    Int J Clin Pract. 2007 Apr;61(4):711-2.

This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of Omacor treatment as a standard 
prevention measure post-MI in the UK. A cost-effectiveness model was developed 
based on the GISSI-P trial, combining a survival and a Markov model, over a 
lifetime period. The base case results for Omacor, at 4 years and over a 
lifetime, respectively, were: cost [corrected] per QALY gained: pound15,189 and 
3,723; [corrected] cost per life years gained (LYG): pound12,011 and pound2,812 
[corrected] The cost per death avoided at 4 years was pound31,786. Deterministic 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses did not change the base case results 
substantially. The use of Omacor as a standard post-MI prevention treatment 
seems warranted in the UK, both on the basis of its efficacy, which is in 
addition to other prophylactic treatments as evidenced by the results of the 
GISSI-P trial, and on cost-effectiveness grounds - both at 4 years and over a 
lifetime's time-horizon, using the current cost-effectiveness thresholds.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2006.01009.x
PMID: 16893435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. BMC Health Serv Res. 2006 Aug 7;6:96. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-6-96.

Mapping oral health related quality of life to generic health state values.

Brennan DS(1), Spencer AJ.

Author information:
(1)Australian Research Centre for Population Oral Health, School of Dentistry, 
Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Adelaide, South Australia. 
david.brennan@adelaide.edu.au

BACKGROUND: A summary utility index is useful for deriving quality-adjusted life 
years (QALY) for cost analyses or disability weights for burden of disease 
studies. However, many quality of life instruments provide descriptive profiles 
rather than a single utility index. Transforming quality of life instruments to 
a utility index could extend the use of quality of life instruments to costs 
analyses and burden of disease studies. The aims of the study were to map a 
specific oral health measure, the Oral Health Impact Profile to a generic health 
state measure, the EuroQol, in order to enable the estimation of health state 
values based on OHIP data.
METHODS: Data were collected from patients treated by a random sample of South 
Australian dentists in 2001-02 using mailed self-complete questionnaires. 
Dentists recorded the diagnosis of dental conditions and provided patients with 
self-complete questionnaires to record the nature, severity and duration of 
symptoms using the EuroQol (EQ-5D) and 14-item version of the Oral Health Impact 
Profile (OHIP-14) instruments. Data were available from 375 patients (response 
rate = 72%). A random two-thirds sample of patients was used in tobit 
regressions of EQ-5D health state values estimated using OHIP-14 in a model with 
categories of OHIP responses as indicator variables and in a model with OHIP 
responses as continuous variables. Age and sex were included as covariates in 
both models. The remaining one-third sample of patients was used to test the 
models.
RESULTS: The OHIP item 'painful aching in mouth' was significantly related to 
health state values in both models while 'life less satisfying' was also 
significant in the continuous model. Mean forecast errors relative to the mean 
observed health state value were higher when fitted to the categorical model 
(17.4%) compared to the continuous model (15.2%) (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The findings enable health state values to be derived from OHIP-14 
scores for populations where utility has not or cannot be measured directly.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-6-96
PMCID: PMC1570134
PMID: 16893470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Popul Health Metr. 2006 Aug 8;4:9. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-4-9.

Burden of premature mortality in rural Vietnam from 1999-2003: analyses from a 
Demographic Surveillance Site.

Huong DL(1), Minh HV, Vos T, Janlert U, Van do D, Byass P.

Author information:
(1)Health Strategy and Policy Institute, Ministry of Health, Vietnam. 
huongminhvn@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Assessing the burden of disease contributes towards evidence-based 
allocation of limited health resources. However, such measures are not yet 
commonly available in Vietnam. Taking advantage of the FilaBavi Demographic 
Surveillance Site (FilaBavi DSS) in Vietnam, this study aimed to establish the 
feasibility of applying the Years of Life Lost (YLL) technique in the context of 
a defined DSS, and to estimate the importance of the principal causes of 
premature mortality in a rural area of Vietnam between 1999 and 2003.
METHODS: Global Burden of Disease methods were applied. Causes of death were 
ascertained by verbal autopsy.
RESULTS: In five years, 1,240 deaths occurred and for 1,220 cases cause of death 
information from verbal autopsy was available. Life expectancy at birth was 71.0 
(95% confidence interval 69.9-72.1) in males and 80.9 (79.9-81.9) in females. 
The discounted, but not age weighted YLL per 1,000 population was 85 and 55 for 
males and females, respectively. The leading causes of YLL and death counts were 
cardiovascular diseases, malignant neoplasms, unintentional injuries, and 
neonatal causes. Males contributed 54% of total deaths and 59% of YLL. Males 
experienced higher YLL than women across all causes. Filabavi mortality 
estimates are considerably lower than 2002 WHO country estimates for Vietnam. 
Also the FilaBavi cause distribution varies considerably from the WHO result.
CONCLUSION: The combination of localised demographic surveillance, verbal 
autopsy and the application of YLL methods enable new insights into the 
magnitude and importance of significant public health issues in settings where 
evidence for planning is otherwise scarce. Local mortality data vary 
considerably from the WHO model-based estimates.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-4-9
PMCID: PMC1559643
PMID: 16893472


197. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 Jan;33(1):94-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2006.06.007.  Epub 2006 Aug 8.

Relatively high pulmonary and cardiovascular mortality rates in 
screening-detected aneurysmal patients without previous hospital admissions.

Lindholt JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Vascular Research Unit, Department of Vascular Surgery, Viborg Hospital, 
Viborg, Denmark. Jes.S.Lindholt@Sygehusviborg.dk

BACKGROUND: Men with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) who are not hospitalised 
for pulmonary and cardiovascular diseases may have higher mortality due to such 
disorders.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Previous discharge diagnoses and causes of death were 
collected for 4,816 men aged 64-73 years attending mass screening for AAA. Of 
these, 191 (4%) had an AAA. Overall, cardiovascular- and 
pulmonary-disease-specific mortality was compared for men with and without AAA 
stratified for earlier pulmonary or cardiovascular hospitalisations by Cox's 
proportional hazards regression while adjusting for age. Absolute risk 
differences after five years were calculated by life table analysis.
RESULTS: The median observation time was 63 months. 362 men died from 
cardiovascular causes other than AAA, and 144 died from pulmonary causes. The 
cardiovascular mortality was significantly higher in aneurysm patients without 
previous related hospitalisation (HR=4.35, 95% CI: 2.73-6.94, P<0.001) with an 
absolute mortality difference after 5 years of 16.3% (95% CI: 10.2-22.5%). 
Pulmonary-cause mortality was higher among men with AAA both with and without 
previous hospitalisation for pulmonary causes (HR=3.05; 95% CI: 1.19-7.83, 
P=0.020, and HR=3.29; 95% CI: 1.78-6.08, P<0.001, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Men with AAA who had not been hospitalised for cardiovascular 
diseases have more than four times higher cardiovascular mortality. Studies of 
cohorts being offered relevant prophylaxis may clarify the potential benefits of 
general preventive actions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2006.06.007
PMID: 16893664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Mol Cell Biol. 2006 Oct;26(20):7506-19. doi: 10.1128/MCB.00430-06. Epub 2006
Aug  7.

Apoptosis inhibition by the human DEK oncoprotein involves interference with p53 
functions.

Wise-Draper TM(1), Allen HV, Jones EE, Habash KB, Matsuo H, Wells SI.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, 3333 Burnet Ave., Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.

The DEK proto-oncogene has been associated with human carcinogenesis-either as a 
fusion with the CAN nucleoporin protein or when transcriptionally upregulated. 
Mechanisms of intracellular DEK functions, however, have remained relatively 
unexplored. We have recently demonstrated that DEK expression is induced by the 
high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) E7 protein in a manner which is dependent 
upon retinoblastoma protein function and have implicated DEK in the inhibition 
of cellular senescence. Additionally, overexpression of DEK resulted in 
significant life span extension of primary human keratinocytes. In order to 
determine whether DEK expression is required for cellular proliferation and/or 
survival, we monitored cellular responses to the knockdown of DEK in cancer and 
primary cells. The results indicate that DEK expression protects both 
HPV-positive cancer and primary human cells from apoptotic cell death. Cell 
death in response to DEK depletion was accompanied by increased protein 
stability and transcriptional activity of the p53 tumor suppressor and 
consequent upregulation of known p53 target genes such as p21CIP and Bax. 
Consistent with a possible role for p53 in DEK-mediated cell death inhibition, 
the p53-negative human osteosarcoma cell line SAOS-2 was resistant to the 
knockdown of DEK. Finally, expression of a dominant negative p53 miniprotein 
inhibited DEK RNA interference-induced p53 transcriptional induction, as well as 
cell death, thus directly implicating p53 activation in the observed apoptotic 
phenotype. These findings suggest a novel role for DEK in cellular survival, 
involving the destabilization of p53 in a manner which is likely to contribute 
to human carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.00430-06
PMCID: PMC1636856
PMID: 16894028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Aug 15;103(33):12219-20. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0605605103. Epub 2006 Aug 7.

Stable neuron numbers from cradle to grave.

Nowakowski RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Medicine and 
Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, NJ 
08873, USA. rsn@umdnj.edu

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Aug 15;103(33):12564-8.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0605605103
PMCID: PMC1567859
PMID: 16894140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts 
declared.


200. Ethiop Med J. 2004 Jul;42(3):165-72.

Burden of diseases in Amhara region, Ethiopia.

Fantahun M(1), Degu G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Faculty of Medicine, Addis Ababa University, 
P.O. Box 9086, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

This community based cross sectional study was conducted to estimate the Burden 
of Diseases in Amhara region of Ethiopia in 1997 - 1998 A total of 7 urban and 
14 rural kebeles (social administrative units) were included in four 
administrative zones where questionnaire on morbidity, disability and mortality 
were administered. A total of 17780 people were included in the study. The total 
DALY was 51775 per 100000 population. The highest number of DALY lost were 
obtained for acute respiratory tract infections (especially children), malaria, 
diarrhoea, tuberculosis, and maternal and perinatal causes. Communicable and 
maternal and perinatal problems contributed to about 68% of the DALY lost. 
Whereas the contribution of noncommunicable diseases was about 17%. Accidents 
and injuries accounted for 6.4% of the DALY lost. The rest 4.9% and 3.7% were 
attributed to long-term disabilities where the cause could not be determined and 
undetermined causes of death respectively. It appears that while the traditional 
public health problems still persist in high prevalence, the so called "diseases 
of civilization" are also emerging thus further stretching the available 
resources for health. The findings of this study can be used to design 
appropriate strategies and use health resources efficiently.

PMID: 16895033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. J Water Health. 2006;4 Suppl 2:187-99. doi: 10.2166/wh.2006.023.

The role of disease burden measures in future estimates of endemic waterborne 
disease.

Rice G(1), Heberling MT, Rothermich M, Wright JM, Murphy PA, Craun MF, Craun GF.

Author information:
(1)US Environmental Protection Agency, 26 W. Martin Luther King Dr. (MS-A110), 
Cincinnati, OH 45268, USA. rice.glenn@epa.gov

The 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act amendments require the US Environmental 
Protection Agency and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to develop 
a national estimate of the occurrence of waterborne infectious disease that is 
attributable to public drinking water systems in the United States. Much of the 
information for developing the national estimate will be derived from 
epidemiologic data, and the primary outcome of this effort will be an estimate 
of the number of cases of gastrointestinal illness. While quantifying the number 
of these cases provides some measure of waterborne disease impact, the 
usefulness of this measure may be limited because the full spectrum of societal 
impact also involves consideration of the additional effects of these diseases 
such as hospitalization costs and lost productivity. If decision-makers wish to 
compare the impact of waterborne infectious diseases to the impact of some other 
public health concern (e.g. to aid in resource allocation decisions), then a 
comparison of case numbers may prove inadequate. Case numbers alone do not 
provide sufficient information about the severity of different illnesses. 
Society may value the avoidance of a few cases of severely debilitating illness 
more than it values the avoidance of many cases of mild illness. In order to 
compare disparate public health concerns, "burden of disease" measures that 
incorporate indicators of disease severity, costs, or societal values may prove 
essential for some types of decisions. We describe epidemiologic measures of 
severity, quality adjusted life years (QALYs), disability adjusted life years 
(DALYs), willingness-to-pay, and cost-of-illness methods commonly used for 
burden of disease estimates, and discuss how some of these summary measures of 
burden might be used for waterborne disease estimates.

DOI: 10.2166/wh.2006.023
PMID: 16895091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nephrol Ther. 2006 Feb;2(1):24-8. doi: 10.1016/j.nephro.2005.11.002. Epub
2005  Dec 5.

[Withdrawal from dialysis: a frequent but sometimes difficult situation].

[Article in French]

Birmelé B(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Néphrologie-Immunologie Clinique, CHRU de Bretonneau, Tours, 
France. b.birmele@chu-tours.fr

Withdrawal from dialysis is a frequent cause of death in chronic dialysis 
patients in a French population, as it is in North America. In both populations 
dialysis was withdrawn in about 20%, but the characteristics of patients and the 
decision-making procedure were different. In France, patients in whom dialysis 
was withdrawn were most often at the end of their life, and the physician 
essentially made the decision. This decision was often difficult to make and be 
accepted, particularly when the patient chose himself to stop the dialysis, even 
if life expectancy would be long on dialysis. A discussion including the 
patient, his family and the medical staff is crucial. The modification of the 
French law about the rights of patients at the end of their life will be 
assistance when such decisions take place, especially in non-conscious patients 
who are at the end of their life, and in those who want to stop dialysis. 
Philosophical and ethical reflection with its concepts for autonomy and dignity 
can be a valuable aid in such situations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nephro.2005.11.002
PMID: 16895712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Clin Epidemiol. 2006 Sep;59(9):1002-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2006.02.008.  Epub 2006 Jun 19.

Modeling predicted that tobacco control policies targeted at lower educated will 
reduce the differences in life expectancy.

Bemelmans WJ(1), van Lenthe F, Hoogenveen R, Kunst A, Deeg DJ, van den Brandt 
PA, Goldbohm RA, Verschuren WM.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Centre for 
Prevention and Health Services Research, P.O. Box 1, Bilthoven 3720 BA, The 
Netherlands. wanda.bemelmans@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effects of reducing the prevalence of 
smoking in lower educated groups on educational differences in life expectancy.
METHODS: A dynamic Markov-type multistate transition model estimated the effects 
on life expectancy of two scenarios. A "maximum scenario" where educational 
differences in prevalence of smoking disappear immediately, and a "policy 
target-scenario" where difference in prevalence of smoking is halved over a 
20-year period. The two scenarios were compared to a reference scenario, where 
smoking prevalences do not change. Five Dutch cohort studies, involving over 
67,000 participants aged 20 to 90 years, provided relative mortality risks by 
educational level, and smoking habits were assessed using national data of more 
than 120,000 persons.
RESULTS: In the reference scenario, the difference in life expectancy at age 40 
between highest and lowest educated groups was 5.1 years for men and 2.7 years 
for women. In the "maximum scenario" these differences were reduced to 3.6 years 
for men and 1.7 years for women (reduction approximately 30%), and in the 
"policy target-scenario" differences were 4.7 years for men and 2.4 years for 
women (reduction approximately 10%).
CONCLUSION: Theoretically, educational differences in life expectancy would be 
reduced by 30% at maximum, if variations in smoking prevalence were eliminated 
completely. In practice, tobacco control policies that are targeted at the lower 
educated may reduce the differences in life expectancy by approximately 10%.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2006.02.008
PMID: 16895825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006 Aug;84(2):419-26. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/84.1.419.

Magnesium and muscle performance in older persons: the InCHIANTI study.

Dominguez LJ(1), Barbagallo M, Lauretani F, Bandinelli S, Bos A, Corsi AM, 
Simonsick EM, Ferrucci L.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Unit, Department of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, University of 
Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The role of magnesium in maintaining muscle integrity and function 
in older adults is largely unknown.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the relation between serum magnesium 
concentrations and muscle performance in older subjects.
DESIGN: Data are from the baseline examination conducted between September 1998 
and March 2000 of the InCHIANTI (aging in the Chianti area) study, a prospective 
epidemiologic survey of risk factors for late-life disability. From among 1453 
randomly selected community residents completing a home interview, 1138 men 
(46%) and women (aged 66.7 +/- 15.2 y; x +/- SD) with complete data on muscle 
performance and serum magnesium who were not severely cognitively compromised 
and had no evidence of kidney disease or hypercalcemia were included in the 
analysis. Muscle performance was evaluated by grip strength, lower-leg muscle 
power, knee extension torque, and ankle extension isometric strength and was 
normalized for age and body mass index (BMI) within each sex.
RESULTS: After adjustment for age, sex, BMI, laboratory variables, presence of 
chronic diseases, muscle area, muscle density, and physical activity level, 
serum magnesium concentrations were significantly associated with indexes of 
muscle performance, including grip strength (beta = 2.0 +/- 0.5, P = 0.0002), 
lower-leg muscle power (beta = 8.8 +/- 2.7, P = 0.001), knee extension torque 
(beta = 31.2 +/- 7.9, P < 0.0001), and ankle extension strength (beta = 3.8 +/- 
0.5, P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The serum magnesium concentration is an independent correlate of 
muscle performance in older persons. Whether magnesium supplementation improves 
muscle function remains to be shown.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/84.1.419
PMCID: PMC2669297
PMID: 16895893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Int J Integr Care. 2003;3:e24. doi: 10.5334/ijic.81. Epub 2003 May 7.

End-of-life care in the United States: policy issues and model programs of 
integrated care.

Wiener JM(1), Tilly J.

Author information:
(1)The Urban Institute, 2100 M Street, NW, Washington, DC 20037, United States 
of America. jwiener@ui.urban.org

BACKGROUND: End-of-life care financing and delivery in the United States is 
fragmented and uncoordinated, with little integration of acute and long-term 
care services.
OBJECTIVE: To assess policy issues involving end-of-life care, especially 
involving the hospice benefit, and to analyse model programs of integrated care 
for people who are dying.
METHODS: The study conducted structured interviews with stakeholders and experts 
in end-of-life care and with administrators of model programs in the United 
States, which were nominated by the experts.
RESULTS: The two major public insurance programs--Medicare and Medicaid--finance 
the vast majority of end-of-life care. Both programs offer a hospice benefit, 
which has several shortcomings, including requiring physicians to make a 
prognosis of a six month life expectancy and insisting that patients give up 
curative treatment--two steps which are difficult for doctors and patients to 
make--and payment levels that may be too low. In addition, quality of care 
initiatives for nursing homes and hospice sometimes conflict. Four innovative 
health systems have overcome these barriers to provide palliative services to 
beneficiaries in their last year of life. Three of these health systems are 
managed care plans which receive capitated payments. These providers integrate 
health, long-term and palliative care using an interdisciplinary team approach 
to management of services. The fourth provider is a hospice that provides 
palliative services to beneficiaries of all ages, including those who have not 
elected hospice care.
CONCLUSIONS: End-of-life care is deficient in the United States. Public payers 
could use their market power to improve care through a number of strategies.

DOI: 10.5334/ijic.81
PMCID: PMC1483949
PMID: 16896381


206. Extremophiles. 2006 Dec;10(6):599-606. doi: 10.1007/s00792-006-0003-8. Epub
2006  Jul 29.

An extracellular halophilic protease SptA from a halophilic archaeon Natrinema 
sp. J7: gene cloning, expression and characterization.

Shi W(1), Tang XF, Huang Y, Gan F, Tang B, Shen P.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430072, People's Republic 
of China.

A gene encoding an extracellular protease, sptA, was cloned from the halophilic 
archaeon Natrinema sp. J7. It encoded a polypeptide of 565 amino acids 
containing a putative 49-amino acid signal peptide, a 103-amino acid propeptide, 
as well as a mature region and C-terminal extension, with a high proportion of 
acidic amino acid residues. The sptA gene was expressed in Haloferax volcanii 
WFD11, and the recombinant enzyme could be secreted into the medium as an active 
mature form. The N-terminal amino acid sequencing and MALDI-TOF mass 
spectrometry analysis of the purified SptA protease indicated that the 152-amino 
acid prepropeptide was cleaved and the C-terminal extension was not processed 
after secretion. The SptA protease was optimally active at 50 degrees C in 2.5 M 
NaCl at pH 8.0. The NaCl removed enzyme retained 20% of its activity, and 60% of 
the activity could be restored by reintroducing 2.5 M NaCl into the NaCl removed 
enzyme. When the twin-arginine motif in the signal peptide of SptA protease was 
replaced with a twin-lysine motif, the enzyme was not exported from Hfx. 
volcanii WFD11, suggesting that the SptA protease was a Tat-dependent substrate.

DOI: 10.1007/s00792-006-0003-8
PMID: 16896523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2006 Dec;73(4):807-14. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-006-0526-z. Epub 2006 Aug 9.

Molecular cloning and characterization of two intracellular beta-glucosidases 
belonging to glycoside hydrolase family 1 from the basidiomycete Phanerochaete 
chrysosporium.

Tsukada T(1), Igarashi K, Yoshida M, Samejima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomaterials Sciences, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, 
Japan.

cDNAs encoding two glycoside hydrolase family 1 beta-glucosidases (BGL1A and 
BGL1B) were cloned from the basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium, and the 
substrate specificities of the recombinant enzymes and the expression patterns 
of the two genes were investigated in relation to cellobiose metabolism by the 
fungus. The cDNA sequences contained open reading frames of 1,389 base pairs 
(bp) (bgl1A) and 1,623 bp (bgl1B), encoding 462 and 530 amino acids, 
respectively. Although high sequence identity (65%) was observed between the 
deduced amino acid sequences of the two enzymes, an apparent difference was 
observed at the C-terminal region: BGL1B has a 63-amino acid extension, which 
has no similarity with any known protein. Both recombinant enzymes expressed in 
Escherichia coli showed hydrolytic activity towards several beta-glycosidic 
compounds. However, the substrate recognition patterns of the two enzymes were 
quite different from each other. In particular, cellobiose was hydrolyzed more 
effectively by BGL1B than by BGL1A. The expression of the two genes in the 
fungus was monitored by reverse transcription-PCR, which showed that bgl1A was 
expressed constitutively in both glucose- and cellobiose-containing culture, 
whereas bgl1B was expressed in cellobiose culture but was repressed in glucose 
culture, possibly because of carbon catabolite repression. We conclude that 
BGL1B contributes to cellobiose metabolism during cellulose degradation by P. 
chrysosporium.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-006-0526-z
PMID: 16896601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Ophthalmologe. 2006 Sep;103(9):759-64. doi: 10.1007/s00347-006-1410-z.

[The aging lens--new concepts for lens aging].

[Article in German]

Dawczynski J(1), Strobel J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum Jena, Bachstrasse 18, 07743 
Jena. jens.dawczynski@med.uni-jena.de

Epidemiological changes within the next decades will lead to an increase in the 
world population and to life expectancy. These changes will in turn lead to an 
increase in age correlated lens opacities and cataracts. Intensive research on 
cataract formation therefore becomes more and more important for socioeconomic 
reasons. In addition to the known risk factors, increased attention is currently 
being paid to oxidative processes. Typically, changes in the old lens are caused 
by the failure of protective systems and an accumulation of metabolic 
end-products and their influence on light transmission. Advanced glycation 
end-products and their potential inhibition seem to play a key role.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-006-1410-z
PMID: 16896680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Sep;7(3):165-72. doi: 10.1007/s10198-006-0347-0.

A decision model to compare health care costs of olanzapine and risperidone 
treatment for schizophrenia in Germany.

Beard SM(1), Maciver F, Clouth J, Rüther E.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Manchester, UK. sbeard@rti.org

Comment in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Sep;7(3):173-5.

Second-generation atypical antipsychotics such as clozapine, olanzapine, 
risperidone, quetiapine, ziprasidone, amisulpride and ariprazole offer the 
potential to reduce the significant health care resource demands in the 
treatment of schizophrenia through improved levels of initial clinical response 
and reduced levels of long-term acute relapse. However, the optimal sequencing 
of these drugs remains unclear. To consider this issue from a health economic 
viewpoint a decision model approach was used comparing healthcare costs and 
clinical outcomes when treating patients with alternative sequences of atypical 
antipsychotic treatment. Treated patients were assumed to be in a current acute 
episode with at least a 10-year history of disease and to be naive to previous 
atypical treatments. Treatment strategies were based on either first-line 
olanzapine or risperidone with switching to the alternative drug as second-line 
treatment following an inadequate clinical response to first-line drug therapy. 
Clinical response data were derived from a pivotal published comparative study 
of both olanzapine and risperidone. Published data on the long-term use of 
antipsychotic drugs where used wherever possible to populate the model for 
relapse rates during the maintenance phase. Health care resource data were 
defined for Germany based on expert clinical opinion. A treatment strategy of 
first-line olanzapine was shown to be cost saving over a 1-year period, with 
additional clinical benefits in the form of avoided relapses. The model suggests 
that over the first year of treatment a strategy of first-line olanzapine is 
associated with lower risk of additional relapse (0.33 fewer acute relapses per 
100 patients per year) and with cost savings (euro 35,306 per 100 patients per 
year). There is a need for longer term direct in-trial comparisons of atypical 
antipsychotics to confirm these indicative results.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-006-0347-0
PMID: 16896764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Exp Brain Res. 2007 Jan;176(2):267-80. doi: 10.1007/s00221-006-0613-5.

The effect of target modality on visual and proprioceptive contributions to the 
control of movement distance.

Sarlegna FR(1), Sainburg RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology, The Huck Institute of Life Sciences, The 
Pennsylvania State University, 29, Recreation Building, University Park, PA 
16802, USA.

Abstract The goal of this study was to determine whether the sensory nature of a 
target influences the roles of vision and proprioception in the planning of 
movement distance. Two groups of subjects made rapid, elbow extension movements, 
either toward a visual target or toward the index fingertip of the unseen 
opposite hand. Visual feedback of the reaching index fingertip was only 
available before movement onset. Using a virtual reality display, we randomly 
introduced a discrepancy between actual and virtual (cursor) fingertip location. 
When subjects reached toward the visual target, movement distance varied with 
changes in visual information about initial hand position. For the 
proprioceptive target, movement distance varied mostly with changes in 
proprioceptive information about initial position. The effect of target modality 
was already present at the time of peak acceleration, indicating that this 
effect include feedforward processes. Our results suggest that the relative 
contributions of vision and proprioception to motor planning can change, 
depending on the modality in which task relevant information is represented.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-006-0613-5
PMID: 16896981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Z Rheumatol. 2006 Sep;65(5):429-38; quiz 439-40. doi:
10.1007/s00393-006-0076-x.

[Systemic sclerosis--a challenge in rheumatology].

[Article in German]

Saar P(1), Müller-Ladner U.

Author information:
(1)Abt. für Rheumatologie und klinische Immunologie, Lehrstuhl für Innere 
Medizin mit Schwerpunkt Rheumatologie der Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen, 
Kerckhoff-Klinik, Bad Nauheim. p.saar@kerckhoff-klinik.de

The connective tissue disease systemic sclerosis (SSc) is still a challenge to 
every rheumatologist. SSc is characterized by progressing fibrosis of the skin 
and internal organs, abnormal activation of the immune system and distinct 
changes in microcirculation. Although it is a rare disease with a prevalence of 
about 20:100,000 one may come across it in daily practice. SSc is classified 
into limited and diffuse forms. Both entities usually involve internal organs. 
Life expectancy is limited and depends predominantly on the extent of the organs 
involved. Therefore, it is essential to diagnose SSc early and to identify and 
closely monitor the organs involved.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-006-0076-x
PMID: 16897099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2007 Mar;101(3):325-33. doi:
10.1007/s10549-006-9299-4.  Epub 2006 Aug 2.

Cost-utility of adjuvant hormone therapies for breast cancer in post-menopausal 
women: sequential tamoxifen-exemestane and upfront anastrozole.

Skedgel C(1), Rayson D, Dewar R, Younis T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Centre for Clinical Research, Dalhousie University, 
5790 University Ave, B3H 1V7, Halifax, NS, Canada. 
chris.skedgel@cdha.nshealth.ca

BACKGROUND: Adjuvant Anastrozole (ANA) for 5 years and Tamoxifen followed by 
Exemestane (TAM-EXE) for 2.5 years each have become acceptable alternatives to 5 
years of Tamoxifen (TAM) for post-menopausal women with breast cancer. As these 
newer options are associated with higher drug costs as well as improved 
outcomes, an economic evaluation was undertaken to compare the cost-utility of 
ANA and TAM-EXE relative to TAM alone and to each other in terms of cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to calculate monthly costs and outcomes in 
a hypothetical cohort of post-menopausal women with early-stage breast cancer. 
Baseline rates of cancer recurrence and adverse effects with TAM, and hazard 
ratios associated with ANA and EXE, were derived from the ATAC and IES trials. 
Patients received hormonal therapy for 5 years and benefit was modeled to 
persist 5 years beyond treatment. The analysis took a direct payer perspective 
with a 20-year time horizon. Costs and outcomes were discounted by 3%. Costs are 
in 2005 Canadian dollars.
RESULTS: ANA and TAM-EXE were associated with increased costs and QALYs, though 
the cost-utility of both relative to TAM alone was strongly favourable 
(<$50,000/QALY). Based on an indirect comparison of ANA and TAM-EXE, using TAM 
alone as a common comparator, the cost-utility of ANA relative to TAM-EXE 
appears unfavourable.
CONCLUSIONS: Both upfront and sequential AI options were cost-effective 
alternatives to TAM alone, but TAM-EXE appears to be the economically preferred 
AI option based on its more favourable cost-utility versus ANA.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-006-9299-4
PMID: 16897433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Orv Hetil. 2006 Jul 2;147(26):1203-13.

[The role of biologic agents in the therapy of ankylosing spondylitis].

[Article in Hungarian]

Géher P(1), Nagy MB, Péntek M, Tóth E, Brodszky V, Gulácsi L.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, Ill. Belgyógyászati 
Klinika, Reumatológiai es Fizioterápiás Tanszéki Csoport, Budai Irgalmasrendi 
Kórház, I. Reumatológiai Osztály, Budapest.

Ankylosing spondylitis is a chronic, inflammatory rheumatic disease which 
etiology and pathogenesis are not yet fully understood. The inflammation 
involves the spine and also the peripheral joints might be affected in some 
cases resulting in a progressive ankylosis, restricted mobility, significant 
disability, loss of productivity and decreased quality of life. Gene technology 
based new drugs of the past decade, the biologic agents, offer an alternative 
opportunity for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis in comparison with the 
previous drugs with doubtful efficiency. In Hungary infliximab and etanercept 
has been registered for ankylosing spondylitis. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the efficacy of infliximab and etanercept by the available randomised 
controlled trials. A systematic search of the literature was performed from 01. 
01. 2000 to 08. 31. 2005. and the relevant publications were analysed following 
the concepts of evidence based medicine. 7 double blind, randomised, placebo 
controlled trials were identified, three for infliximab (n = 389) and four for 
etanercept (n = 431). Although the inclusion criteria, the duration of the 
trials and the primary endpoints were different, the results confirm that both 
drugs significantly decrease symptoms and disease activity, and this effect is 
sustained during the therapy, nevertheless half of the patients did not achieve 
the standardised criteria of 50% decrease in disease activity. Both agents are 
well tolerated by patients. The outcomes of long-term therapy are reassuring by 
open extension studies of three years. Guidelines for biologic therapy has been 
developed in Hungary determining the target patient group, the conditions of the 
therapy and also an arthritis centre network has been established. Though 
individual admission is feasible, biologic drugs are not under reimbursement in 
Hungary. High drug costs makes the implementation of this new therapeutic 
opportunity difficult in the daily medical practice.

PMID: 16898082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Med Phys. 2006 Jul;33(7):2338-43. doi: 10.1118/1.2207135.

X-ray imaging in advanced studies of ophthalmic diseases.

Antunes A(1), Safatle AM, Barros PS, Morelhão SL.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Física, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Microscopic characterization of pathological tissues has one major intrinsic 
limitation, the small sampling areas with respect to the extension of the 
tissues. Mapping possible changes on vast tissues and correlating them with 
large ensembles of clinical cases is not a feasible procedure for studying most 
diseases, as for instance vision loss related diseases and, in particular, the 
cataract. Although intraocular lens implants are successful treatments, cataract 
still is a leading public-health issue that grows in importance as the 
population increases and life expectancy is extended worldwide. In this work we 
have exploited the radiation-tissue interaction properties of hard x-rays--very 
low absorption and scattering--to map distinct lesions on entire eye lenses. At 
the used synchrotron x-ray photon energy of 20 keV (wavelength lambda=0.062 nm), 
scattering and refraction are angular resolved effects. It allows the employed 
x-ray image technique to efficiently characterize two types of lesions in eye 
lenses under cataractogenesis: distributions of tiny scattering centers and 
extended areas of fiber cell compaction. The data collection procedure is 
relatively fast; allowing dozens of samples to be totally imaged (scattering, 
refraction, and mass absorption images) in a single day of synchrotron beam 
time. More than 60 cases of canine cataract, not correlated to specific causes, 
were investigated in this first application of x-rays to image entire lenses. 
Cortical opacity cases, or partial opacity, could be related to the presence of 
calcificated tissues at the cortical areas, clearly visible in the images, whose 
elemental contents were verified by micro x-ray fluorescence as very rich in 
calcium. Calcificated tissues were also observed at nuclear areas in some cases 
of hypermature cataract. Total opacity cases without distinguishable amount of 
scattering centers consist in 70% of the analyzed cases, where remarkable 
fissure marks owing to extended areas of fiber cell compaction are diagnosed.

DOI: 10.1118/1.2207135
PMID: 16898435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(8):783-95. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624080-00005.

A multi-country health economic evaluation of highly concentrated N-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction.

Lamotte M(1), Annemans L, Kawalec P, Zoellner Y.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Unit of IMS Health, Brussels, 
Belgium. MLamotte@be.imshealth.com

BACKGROUND: Patients who survive an acute myocardial infarction (MI) are at an 
increased risk of subsequent major cardiovascular events and (often sudden) 
cardiac death. The use of highly concentrated and purified omega-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs), in addition to standard secondary 
prevention after MI, results in a significant reduction in the risk of sudden 
death versus no n-3 PUFAs. This study assessed the cost effectiveness of adding 
n-3 PUFAs to the current secondary prevention treatment versus standard 
prevention alone after acute MI in five countries: Australia, Belgium, Canada, 
Germany and Poland.
METHODS: Based on the clinical outcomes of GISSI-P (Gruppo Italiano per lo 
Studio della Sopravvivenza nell'Infarto Miocardico - Prevenzione) [MI, stroke, 
revascularisation rate and mortality], a decision model was built in 
DataProtrade mark. The implications of adding n-3 PUFAs to standard treatment in 
patients aged 59 years with a recent history of MI were analysed from the 
healthcare payer's perspective. The time horizon was 3.5 years (identical to 
GISSI-Prevenzione) but the effects on life expectancy through avoidance of 
cardiac events were calculated lifelong. Event costs were based on literature 
data. Life expectancy data for survivors of cardiac disease were taken from the 
Saskatchewan database and then adjusted by country. Results are expressed as 
extra cost (Euro) per life-year gained (LYG). Annual discounting of 5% was 
applied to health effects and costs.
RESULTS: Treatment with highly concentrated n-3 PUFAs yielded between 0.261 
(Poland) and 0.284 (Australia) LYG, at an additional cost of 787 Euros(Canada) 
to 1,439 Euros(Belgium). The ICER varied between 2,788 Euros(Canada) and 5,097 
Euros(Belgium) per LYG. Sensitivity analyses on effectiveness, cost of 
complications and discounting proved the robustness of the results. A 
second-order Monte Carlo simulation based on the 95% confidence intervals 
obtained from GISSI-P suggests that highly concentrated n-3 PUFAs are cost 
effective in 93% of simulations in Poland and in >98% of simulations in the 
other countries, assuming the country-specific societal willingness-to-pay 
threshold. Total costs were considerably increased by including healthcare costs 
incurred during the remaining life-years, but this had no impact on the 
ICER-based treatment recommendation.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding highly concentrated n-3 PUFAs to standard treatment in the 
secondary prevention of MI appears to be cost effective versus standard 
treatment alone in the five countries studied.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624080-00005
PMID: 16898848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Ann Trop Med Parasitol. 2006 Jul-Sep;100(5-6):481-99. doi: 
10.1179/136485906X97417.

Measuring the global burden of disease and epidemiological transitions: 
2002-2030.

Lopez AD(1), Mathers CD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Public Health 
Building, Herston Road, Herston, Brisbane, QLD 4006, Australia. 
a.lopez@sph.uq.edu.au

Any planning process for health development ought to be based on a thorough 
understanding of the health needs of the population. This should be sufficiently 
comprehensive to include the causes of premature death and of disability, as 
well as the major risk factors that underlie disease and injury. To be truly 
useful to inform health-policy debates, such an assessment is needed across a 
large number of diseases, injuries and risk factors, in order to guide 
prioritization. The results of the original Global Burden of Disease Study and, 
particularly, those of its 2000-2002 update provide a conceptual and 
