options. Combination therapy with ribavirin and pegylated interferon has 
resulted in sustained viral negative response rates of 54-61%. Because treatment 
is expensive and not uniformly effective, and because not all chronically 
infected patients will develop complications, concerns have arisen regarding the 
cost effectiveness of combination therapy. This paper reviews the public health 
and individual implications of HCV infections. Because of the latency of 
infection, numerous country-specific population analyses suggest that HCV will 
cause an increasing number of liver-related deaths over the next 10 years, 
despite the dramatic drop in incidence over the past 10-15 years. These deaths 
will be related to prevalent HCV infection from transfusion and injection drug 
use prior to identification of the virus and availability of screening tests in 
the late 1980s and early 1990s. HCV can reduce life expectancy and impair 
quality of life, yet not all patients will develop progressive liver disease, 
and antiviral treatment may have associated adverse effects. Finally, to assess 
the value of antiviral drugs for HCV infection, this paper reviews studies 
examining the costs of antiviral drugs and of the disease itself along with 
response to antiviral therapy and the cost effectiveness of antiviral therapy. 
Although antiviral therapy appears to be expensive, when also considering the 
likelihood of sustained viral response to therapy, and the cost savings, 
quality-of-life improvement and prolongation of life expectancy from the 
prevention of HCV complications, antiviral treatment for HCV appears to be cost 
effective when compared with other well accepted medical interventions.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624070-00005
PMID: 16802842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(7):709-26. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624070-00009.

Clopidogrel: a pharmacoeconomic review of its use in patients with non-ST 
elevation acute coronary syndromes.

Lyseng-Williamson KA(1), Plosker GL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, New Zealand. 
demail@adis.co.nz

Clopidogrel (Plavix) is a selective inhibitor of adenosine diphosphate-induced 
platelet aggregation. In patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) [unstable 
angina or non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction], clopidogrel plus 
aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) for up to 1 year significantly reduced the risk 
of cardiovascular events relative to placebo plus aspirin in the well designed 
clinical trial CURE (Clopidogrel in Unstable angina to prevent Recurrent Events) 
and its substudy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) 
[PCI-CURE]. In pharmacoeconomic evaluations based on data from these trials 
conducted in a number of countries that used a variety of models, methods and/or 
type of costs, clopidogrel plus aspirin was consistently predicted to be cost 
effective relative to aspirin alone in the management of patients with ACS, 
including those undergoing PCI. Clopidogrel plus aspirin in patients with ACS 
reduced the incremental cost per cardiovascular event prevented and/or life-year 
gained (LYG) relative to aspirin alone in analyses using within-trial data 
(including longer-term analyses incorporating life-expectancy estimates) from 
the CURE or PCI-CURE studies. In Markov models of cost effectiveness with a 
lifetime horizon from a healthcare payer perspective based on the CURE trial, 
relative to aspirin alone, clopidogrel plus aspirin for 1 year was predicted to 
have incremental costs per LYG of 8132Euro in Spain (2003 values) and 1365Euro 
in Sweden (2000 values). In similar Swedish analyses from a healthcare payer 
perspective, clopidogrel plus aspirin for 1 year was predicted to have 
incremental costs per LYG of 10,993Euro (2004 values) relative to aspirin alone 
based on data from the PCI-CURE substudy. Broadly similar results have also been 
reported in modelled analyses from other countries. Cost-utility analyses based 
on the CURE trial suggest that, relative to lifelong aspirin alone, clopidogrel 
plus aspirin for 1 year followed by aspirin alone is associated with incremental 
costs per QALY gained that are below the traditional threshold of cost utility 
in Spain, the UK and the US. In patients with ACS, including those undergoing 
PCI, the addition of clopidogrel to standard therapy with aspirin is clinically 
effective in preventing cardiovascular events. Available pharmacoeconomic data 
from several countries, despite some inherent limitations, support the use of 
clopidogrel plus aspirin for up to 1 year as a cost-effective treatment relative 
to aspirin alone in this patient population.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624070-00009
PMID: 16802846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 May;1067:10-21. doi: 10.1196/annals.1354.003.

Free radical theory of aging: an update: increasing the functional life span.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, 68198-4635, USA. vcerino@unmc.edu

Aging is the progressive accumulation of diverse, deleterious changes with time 
that increase the chance of disease and death. The basic chemical process 
underlying aging was first advanced by the free radical theory of aging (FRTA) 
in 1954: the reaction of active free radicals, normally produced in the 
organisms, with cellular constituents initiates the changes associated with 
aging. The involvement of free radicals in aging is related to their key role in 
the origin and evolution of life. Aging changes are commonly attributed to 
development, genetic defects, the environment, disease, and an inborn aging 
process (IAP). The latter produces aging changes at an exponentially increasing 
rate with age, becoming the major risk factor for disease and death for humans 
after the age of 28 years in the developed countries. In them the IAP limits 
human average life expectancy at birth (ALE-B)--a rough measure of the healthy 
life span--to about 85 years; few reach 100 years and only one is known to have 
lived to 122 years. In these countries, improvements in living conditions (ILC) 
have gradually raised ALE-Bs to 76-79 years, 6-9 years less than the limit 
imposed by aging, with no change in the maximum life span (MLS). The extensive 
studies based on the FRTA hold promise that ALE-B and the MLS can be extended, 
the ALE-B possibly by a few years, and the MLS somewhat less.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1354.003
PMID: 16803965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 May;1067:83-93. doi: 10.1196/annals.1354.011.

Extrapolaholics anonymous: why demographers' rejections of a huge rise in cohort 
life expectancy in this century are overconfident.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, UK. ag24@gen.cam.ac.uk

Criticisms of demographers by other demographers have become frequent in 
scientific literature, generally consisting of accusations that trends observed 
in the recent past have been extrapolated unjustifiably into the future. 
Demographers, along with their colleagues in the actuarial profession, are in an 
invidious position in this regard, knowing full well that extrapolation is 
almost always only minimally justifiable, but knowing also that their readers, 
colleagues, and sources of funding tend to be much more interested in the future 
than in the past. It is unfortunate that, while actuaries typically resolve this 
dilemma by emphasizing the limitations of their methods and thereby lowering 
expectations that their predictions will be accurately fulfilled, demographers 
are more prone to respond combatively, attempting to reinforce the credibility 
of their extrapolations by recourse to data from areas in which their expertise 
is less tested, such as biology. This is valuable in that it raises the profile 
of the debate on the likely rate of scientific progress relevant to mortality 
rates, but it also runs the risk of lowering the technical quality of that 
debate, by telling policy makers and the public what they want to hear and 
thereby entrenching their expectations without recourse to the relevant 
biological facts. Extrapolations based on plausible sequences of scientific 
advances and the sociopolitical responses to them, summarized in this article, 
have led to the prediction of four-digit life expectancies of cohorts born in 
the 21st century and possibly even in the 20th. This prediction has attracted 
inevitable ridicule from prominent demographers, but being founded on science 
and sociology rather than on history it may be much more reliable than the 
extrapolations that those demographers presently prefer.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1354.011
PMID: 16803973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 May;1067:94-105. doi: 10.1196/annals.1354.012.

The value of life and the value of life extension.

Horrobin S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Law, University of Edinburgh, Old College, UK. 
s_horrobin@hotmail.com

Recent developments in aging research have added new urgency to the bioethical 
debate concerning life and death issues, the value of life, and the reasonable 
limits of medicine. This paper analyzes the basic structures of the liberal and 
conservative components of this debate, showing that there has hitherto been 
inadequate analysis on both sides concerning the nature and implications of the 
value of life, as well as, and as distinct from the value of life extension. 
Classic concepts of the intrinsic or extrinsic value of life are argued to be 
tangential or actually irrelevant to the value of life's continuance and so to 
the value of life extension. An analysis of personhood is proposed which focuses 
explicitly upon the value of life extension to persons. This analysis shows that 
persons may only intelligibly be understood as processes, for whom life 
extension is an inalienable and fundamental value. It is further proposed that, 
properly understood, such an analysis may significantly narrow the 
liberal/conservative divide in bioethics.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1354.012
PMID: 16803974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 May;1067:343-8. doi: 10.1196/annals.1354.048.

MAP kinases and heat shock-induced hormesis in human fibroblasts during serial 
passaging in vitro.

Nielsen ER(1), Eskildsen-Helmond YE, Rattan SI.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Ageing, Danish Centre for Molecular Gerontology, 
Department of Molecular Biology, University of Aarhus, Denmark. 
elisernielsen@hotmail.com

Adult human skin fibroblasts were exposed repeatedly to 41 degrees C or 42 
degrees C heat shock (HS) for 1 h twice a week during serial passaging 
throughout their replicative life span. On the basis of longevity curves, cell 
size, and morphology, we observed that repeated mild heat shock (RMHS) at 41, 
degrees C had strong anti-aging hormetic effects, including 20% extension of 
cellular longevity. The basal levels of the MAP kinases JNK1, JNK2, and p38 
increased during serial passaging, while that of ERK2 decreased. RMHS further 
exaggerated these effects, which suggests that age-related changes in MAP 
kinases may be an adaptive response for better cell survival.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1354.048
PMID: 16804009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 May;1067:375-82. doi: 10.1196/annals.1354.053.

The necessity of having a proper dose of (-)deprenyl (D) to prolong the life 
spans of rats explains discrepancies among different studies in the past.

Kitani K(1), Kanai S, Miyasaka K, Carrillo MC, Ivy GO.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Longevity Sciences, Morioka-cho, Obu-shi, Aichi, 
Japan. kitani@nils.go.jp

(-)Deprenyl (D) has been shown to be effective in prolonging life span in 
experimental animals, although, there are some discrepancies in its effect on 
the life span the even within the same species (rats). The present study aims to 
clarify the reason for these discrepancies. Male F344/DuCrj rats began receiving 
subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of D at the age of 18 months. Doses used were 
0.25, 0.50, and 1.0 mg/kg/injection (inj.), three times a week. Average life 
spans of animals were significantly longer in male rats given 0.25 and 0.5 
mg/kg/inj.; however, rats given a 1.0 mg/kg dose began dying earlier than 
control rats, leading to an inverse U-shaped dose-efficacy relationship, a 
hormesis. Old (27-month-old) rats given different doses of D for 1 month showed 
a typical hormetic response for antioxidant enzyme activities, indicating a 
significant increase in superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities 
in brain dopaminergic regions with four lower doses (0.25 to 2 mg/kg/inj., 3 
times a week), but a significantly negative response with the highest dose (4 
mg/kg/inj.). Our results clearly indicate that a proper dose of D within a 
certain dose range can significantly increase the life span of rats, but that a 
greater dose becomes less effective and may actually adversely affect the life 
span of rats. A similar hormetic response for its effect on antioxidant enzyme 
activities and the parallel between the two different effects of D suggest a 
possible causal relationship between these two effects of D. The presence of 
this effective dose range of D may explain previously reported discrepancies in 
the effect of D on the life span of animals.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1354.053
PMID: 16804014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Epidemiology. 2006 Sep;17(5):512-9. doi: 10.1097/01.ede.0000229155.05644.43.

An overview of methods for calculating the burden of disease due to specific 
risk factors.

Steenland K(1), Armstrong B.

Author information:
(1)Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, 1518 Clifton Road, 
Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. nsteenl@sph.emory.edu

Erratum in
    Epidemiology. 2007 Jan;18(1):184.

Comment in
    Epidemiology. 2006 Sep;17(5):498-9.
    Epidemiology. 2007 Mar;18(2):283; author reply 283-4.

There are a number of measures that quantify the public health burden due to 
specific risk factors for specific diseases. Although these measures are of 
importance for policymakers, epidemiologists do not often calculate them or may 
be unfamiliar with some of the issues involved when they do. The primary measure 
of interest is the attributable fraction (AF), representing the fraction of 
cases or deaths from a specific disease that would not have occurred in the 
absence of exposure to a specific risk factor either in the exposed population 
or the population as a whole. AFs can be multiplied by the total number of cases 
of a given disease to obtain a "body count"--the absolute number of preventable 
cases due to a specific risk factor. Two other measures of public health burden, 
used in conjunction with AFs, are attributable years-of-life-lost and 
attributable disability-adjusted life-years. We provide an overview of the AF 
and related measures and discuss some of the specific issues involved in 
calculating AFs. These issues include calculating the variance of AFs (such as 
Monte Carlo sensitivity methods), biases arising from some formulas for the AF, 
sources of data for calculating AFs, dependence of AFs on basic decisions about 
what exposure-disease associations are causal, and extrapolation from the source 
population to the target population.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ede.0000229155.05644.43
PMID: 16804473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Natl Bur Econ Res Bull Aging Health. 2006 Spring;(15):3-4.

The determinants of mortality.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 16805057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2006 May;19(5):291-9. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892006000500001.

[The effect of structural adjustment on health conditions in Latin America and 
the Caribbean, 1980-2000].

[Article in Spanish]

Franco-Giraldo A(1), Palma M, Alvarez-Dardet C.

Author information:
(1)Facultad Nacional de Salud Pública, Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín, 
Colombia. alvarofrancogiraldo@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of structural adjustment on health indicators in 
Latin America and the Caribbean during 1980-2000.
METHODS: This was an ecological study. Public spending and per capita gross 
domestic product (pcGDP) figures were obtained from the World Bank, and life 
expectancy (LE) and infant mortality (IM) figures were obtained from the World 
Health Organization. Structural adjustment (government downsizing) was assessed 
by looking at the change in the amount of spending taken up by the government 
(or the reduction in public spending) in Latin American and Caribbean countries 
during 1980-1990. Changes in health indicators were measured in terms of the 
percentage variation in LE and IM. The variations found in Latin America and the 
Caribbean were compared to those seen in different groups of countries in other 
parts of the world during 1980-2000. Pearson's chi squared test was used to 
explore the associations between the decrease in public spending and health 
indicators. In order to estimate the health effects of such changes, a 
multivariate linear regression model was created, with adjustments for pcGDP.
RESULTS: A deceleration in the rise of LE and in the decline of IM in Latin 
America and the Caribbean was noted, especially over the period from 1980 
through 1990. Significant associations were observed between health indicators 
and the change in public spending in all groups of countries included in the 
study. When adjustments were introduced into the multiple regression model, the 
only associations that remained were seen in Latin America and the Caribbean.
CONCLUSIONS: In the decade of 1980, adjustments in macroeconomic policies had a 
negative effect on social indicators, specifically those that had to do with 
health conditions in Latin America and the Caribbean. Such an effect lasted 
throughout the following decade.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892006000500001
PMID: 16805970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Arch Pediatr. 2006 Aug;13(8):1125-8. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2006.04.023. Epub
 2006 Jun 27.

[Complement factor I deficiency revealed by repeated systemic Streptococcus 
pneumoniae infection].

[Article in French]

Monfort-Gouraud M(1), Vignon C, Vincens A, Blouin J, Frémeaux-Bacchi V, Talon P.

Author information:
(1)Service de pédiatrie, centre hospitalier intercommunal de 
Montfermeil-Le-Raincy, 10, avenue du Général-Leclerc, 93370 Montfermeil, France. 
marie.monfortgouraud@laposte.net

Recurrent and serious otitis media, and 2 Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteraemia 
episodes evoked an immune system deficiency in a 6-year-old girl. Upon 
investigation of the complement system, CH50 activity was moderately reduced and 
C4 antigen level was normal contrasting with low C3 antigen level. Factor 1 was 
undetectable. Factor I deficiency is rare, and its diagnosis has important 
practical consequences. Thanks to preventive antibiotic therapy with penicillin 
V and vaccinations against Neisseria meningitidis and S. pneumoniae, life 
expectancy and quality of this child can be significantly improved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2006.04.023
PMID: 16806862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Nefrologia. 2006;26(2):212-7.

[Renal involvement in amyloidosis. Clinical outcomes, evolution and survival].

[Article in Spanish]

Esteve V(1), Almirall J, Ponz E, García N, Ribera L, Larrosa M, Andreu X, García 
M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Corporació Sanitaria Parc Taulí, Institut 
Universitari Parc Taulí (UAB), Sabadell.

BACKGROUND: Systemic amyloidosis is a disease resulting from extracellular 
deposition of fibrillar protein in various organs. Main systemic amyloidosis 
are: primary (AL) and Secondary (AA). The kidney is usually involved, conferring 
and adverse prognosis. In the last decade there has been a change in the 
aetiology of AA amyloidosis.
OBJECTIVES: To analyse the incidence of AL and AA amyloidosis in our current 
population as well as the aetiology of AA amyloidosis. To describe clinical 
outcomes, renal involvement and survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a descriptive analysis of all cases of 
amyloidosis diagnosed from 1992 to 2004 in our hospital. Diagnosis was assessed 
on histological criteria: positivity Congo Red stain. Clinical data, renal 
involvement, dialysis treatment and survival were analysed.
RESULTS: 76 cases, 44 women, mean age 70.7 +/- 12. Types: 55 AA (72%), 21 AL 
(28%) systemic amyloidosis. AA aetiology was: 66% rheumatic disorders, 28% 
infectious disease, 6% others. Incidence for AL was 4.6 and for AA 12.2 
cases/million. Renal involvement was present in 75% at diagnosis (69% Creatinine 
clearance < 60 ml/min, 37% urinary protein > 3 g/24 hours). 21 cases (28%) 
progressed to renal disease stage V in the 8.1 +/- 9.8 months follow up period, 
and 14 cases started dialysis treatment (10 HD, 4 CAPD). In 7 cases (33%) 
dialysis was not indicated due to their poor clinical condition, short life 
expectancy and bad quality of life. Mean global survival at diagnosis was 55% 
and 40% at 12 and 24 months (AL 58% and 19%; AA 55% and 44%). Mean survival from 
the start of dialysis was 30% and 5% at 12 and 24 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Although amyloidosis has a low incidence in our population, the 
kidney is usually involved. Rheumatological disorders are the principal 
aetiology of AA amyloidosis. Long term survival is poor, specially for AL.

PMID: 16808259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Science. 2006 Jun 30;312(5782):1867. doi: 10.1126/science.312.5782.1867a.

Human Behavior and Evolution Society meeting. Long-ago peoples may have been 
long in the tooth.

Holden C.

DOI: 10.1126/science.312.5782.1867a
PMID: 16809504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. J Am Board Fam Med. 2006 Jul-Aug;19(4):429-30; author reply 431-3. doi: 
10.3122/jabfm.19.4.429.

Impact of religious attendance on life expectancy.

Mann JR, Larimore W.

Comment on
    J Am Board Fam Med. 2006 Mar-Apr;19(2):103-9.

DOI: 10.3122/jabfm.19.4.429
PMID: 16809662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Biogerontology. 2006 Jun;7(3):173-7. doi: 10.1007/s10522-006-9008-z.

Caloric restriction and human longevity: what can we learn from the Okinawans?

Willcox DC(1), Willcox BJ, Todoriki H, Curb JD, Suzuki M.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Okinawa Prefectural University, 1-24-1 Yogi, Naha, 
Okinawa 902-0076, Japan. willcox@okinawa-nurs.ac.jp

Caloric (or dietary) restriction (CR) extends lifespan and lowers risk for age 
associated diseases in a phylogenetically diverse group of species. Whether 
prolonged CR increases average or maximum lifespan or promotes a more youthful 
physiology in humans at advanced ages is not yet known. However, available 
epidemiological evidence indicates that CR may already have contributed to an 
extension of average and maximum life span in one human population and appears 
to have lowered risk for age associated chronic diseases in other human 
populations. We review the human studies in the context of a special human 
population, older Okinawans, who appear to have undergone a mild form of 
prolonged CR for about half their adult lives.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-006-9008-z
PMID: 16810568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2006 Jun;32(4 Pt 2):362-71. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-942757.

The impact of clinicopathological studies on staging and survival in essential 
thrombocythemia, chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis, and polycythemia rubra vera.

Kvasnicka HM(1), Thiele J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. 
hm.kvasnicka@uni-koeln.de

In chronic myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs), varying results regarding 
staging of disease and assessment of outcome have been reported. Risk 
classification is mainly based on clinical data; however, in those disorders 
associated with an elevated platelet count, discrimination of (true) essential 
thrombocythemia (ET) may be difficult without the possibility to recognize 
characteristic histopathological bone marrow patterns according to the World 
Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. Patients with ET reveal no relevant 
reduction of life expectancy and the impact of disease is significantly higher 
in elderly patients, especially in chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF) and 
polycythemia rubra vera (PV). In high-risk ET, the overall incidence of 
myelofibrotic transformation after 36 months of follow-up is 2.8% when 
considering the Polycythemia Vera Study Group guidelines. In contrast, 
classification according to WHO fails to show a relevant transformation into 
myelofibrosis either by clinical or morphological standards in (true) ET. Early 
stages of IMF show a more favorable outcome, but in multivariate risk 
classification, signs of myeloid metaplasia have the most important impact on 
prognosis. In PV, the risk for thrombosis increases with age, and furthermore, 
signs of generalization are generally associated with a worsening of prognosis. 
It has been shown that examination of bone marrow specimens enhances the 
diagnostic reliability and also enables the recognition of evolving 
myelofibrotic transformation in MPDs.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-942757
PMID: 16810612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2006 Jun;32(4 Pt 2):430-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-942764.

Update on diagnosis and management of essential thrombocythemia.

Gisslinger H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Division of Hematology and Blood 
Coagulation, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 
heinz.gisslinger@meduniwien.ac.at

Patients with essential thrombocythemia carry a high risk for thromboembolic and 
bleeding events but they have an almost normal life expectancy. A careful 
evaluation of the medical history and an exact diagnosis is mandatory to 
estimate each patient's risk for morbidity and to choose the most appropriate 
treatment measure. In patients with the need of cytoreductive therapy, the 
benefits of therapy have to outweigh the potential risks of drug toxicities. 
Hydroxyurea is the most useful cytoreductive drug for elderly patients; in 
younger persons, interferon alpha or anagrelide may be the drugs of choice. The 
combination of anagrelide with acetylsalicylic acid may be contraindicated in 
patients with a history of bleeding.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-942764
PMID: 16810619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Econ Entomol. 2006 Jun;99(3):691-8. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-99.3.691.

Life tables and development of Bemisia argentifolii (Homoptera: Aleyrodidae) at 
different temperatures.

Yang TC(1), Chi H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Plant Protection, Division of Crop Environment, Hualien 
District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, Council of Agriculture, 
Executive Yuan, Taiwan, Republic of China.

The life history of Bemisia argentifolii Bellows & Perring (Homoptera: 
Aleyrodidae) on tomato (Lycopersicum spp.) was studied based on the age-stage, 
two-sex life table at 15, 20, 25, 28, 30, and 35 degrees C. The intrinsic rate 
of increase (r) at these temperatures is -0.0176, 0.0667, 0.1469, 0.1611, 
0.1745, and 0.0989 d(-1), respectively. The relationship among the gross 
reproductive rate (GRR), the net reproductive rate (R0), and the preadult 
survivorship (l(a)) is consistent with GRR > l(a) x GRR > R0 for all results at 
different temperatures. The mean generation time is 81.9, 48.6, 28.4, 25.3, 
22.1, and 18.2 d, respectively. The developmental rate of the egg stage at 
different temperatures fit a linear equation with a thermal summation 89.2 
degree-days and a developmental threshold of 11.4 degrees C. The developmental 
rates of the nymphal stage fit the model of Stinner et al. and the parameters of 
C, Rmax, k1 and k2 were 0.085, 0.0833, 5.298, and -0.263, respectively.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-99.3.691
PMID: 16813300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Econ Entomol. 2006 Jun;99(3):834-42. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-99.3.834.

Sublethal effects of chronic exposure to tebufenozide on the development, 
survival, and reproduction of the tufted apple bud moth (Lepidoptera: 
Tortricidae).

Biddinger D(1), Hull L, Huang H, McPheron B, Loyer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Fruit Research and Extension Cen ter, The 
Pennsylvania State University, Biglerville, PA 17307-0309, USA.

The lethal and sublethal effects of tebufenozide on the survival, development, 
and reproduction of a field strain of tufted apple bud moth, Platynota 
idaeusalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), were assessed by feeding first 
and third instars tebufenozide-treated diet until pupation. Larval mortality was 
27.4 and 44.7% at 0.1 and 0.2 ppm for first instars and 21.9 and 57.8% at 0.2 
and 0.4 ppm for third instars, respectively. Treated larvae exhibited higher 
pupal mortalities, lower pupal weights, and generally more deformed adults than 
untreated larvae. Larval development was not affected by tebufenozide when 
neonates were exposed, but development was accelerated slightly at 0.4 ppm for 
both males and females when third instars were exposed. All treatments produced 
sex ratios biased toward males. When paired with either treated or untreated 
males, females resulting from neonates treated at 0.2 ppm and from third instars 
treated at both 0.2 and 0.4 ppm laid from 37 to 65% fewer eggs. A reduction in 
fertility was only found when third instars were treated at the higher 0.4 ppm 
rate. These results suggest that tebufenozide can exhibit a significant effect 
on the population dynamics of the tufted apple bud moth.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-99.3.834
PMID: 16813319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Econ Entomol. 2006 Jun;99(3):843-9. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-99.3.843.

Acaricidal properties of spinosad against Tetranychus urticae and Panonychus 
ulmi (Acari: Tetranychidae).

Villanueva RT(1), Walgenbach JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, North Carolina State University, Mountain 
Horticultural Crops Research and Extension Center, Fletcher, NC 28732, USA.

Laboratory bioassays were conducted to characterize the activity of the 
insecticide spinosad against the twospotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae 
Koch, and European red mite, Panonychus ulmi (Koch) (Acari: Tetranychidae). T. 
urticae females and larvae were individually placed on bean, Phaseolus vulgaris 
L. (Fabaceae), leaf disks treated with four rates of spinosad (25, 55, 121, and 
266 ppm) and a water control. Significantly fewer T. urticae completed 
development on any spinosad rates (<15%) compared with the control (>85%), 
whereas spinosad exhibited no significant effects on P. ulmi development; 72.5 
and 83.1% of P. ulmi completed development on apple (Malus pumila P. Mill, 
Rosaceae) leaf disks treated with 75 ppm spinosad and the control, respectively. 
T. urticae adult females placed on spinosad-treated disks had significantly 
higher mortality and lower oviposition rates compared with the water control; no 
significant mortality effects were observed until 3 d after placing adults on 
leaf disks. In choice tests where half of a bean leaf was treated with 55 ppm 
spinosad transversally or longitudinally, T. urticae females were repelled by 
spinosad and largely oviposited and fed on nonspinosad treated areas. Spinosad 
did not affect the behavior of P. ulmi females. When T. urticae females were 
released on potted bean plants (two-leaf stage) in which leaves received 
spinosad sprays on the adaxial or abaxial leaf surfaces, or complete spinosad 
coverage on one or two of the leaves, mite population increase lagged 
significantly behind those released on control plants. These results indicate 
that spinosad has significant acaricidal effects against T. urticae but not P. 
ulmi.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-99.3.843
PMID: 16813320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Colorectal Dis. 2006 Sep;8 Suppl 3:37-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1463-1318.2006.01070.x.

Pathological assessment of rectal carcinoma after preoperative therapy.

Wotherspoon AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Histopathology, Royal Marsden Hospital, London, UK. 
andrew.wotherspoon@rmh.nhs.uk

Increasingly neoadjuvant therapy is being used to improve outcomes in patients 
with rectal carcinoma in which the circumferential resection margins are 
considered to be at risk for involvement if primary surgery were to be 
undertaken. Assessment of the response to this approach relies on radiological 
examination, particularly magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies. Following 
definitive surgery, careful histological examination allows full assessment of 
the tumour response to these preoperative approaches. Histological examination 
requires careful fixation, examination of the entire area occupied by the tumour 
prior to down-staging and careful lymph node harvesting. Adequate fixation helps 
in these endeavours and the lymph node harvest appears to be unaffected by 
neoadjuvant chemo- or radiotherapy. Correlation between preoperative assessment 
of response by MRI and the subsequent histological assessment is close, but the 
presence of isolated residual neoplastic glands in a post-treatment fibrotic 
stroma is impossible to detect prior to resection. The clinical significance of 
these microscopic foci remains uncertain, particularly in view of the prolonged 
tumour doubling time associated with colorectal adenocarcinoma. The preoperative 
discussion with the patient requires a synthesis of their own scan results and 
the experience of detailed clinico-pathological studies. While MRI frequently 
predicts the presence or absence of residual tumour the possibility of 
under-staging remains and this is of crucial importance if a 'watch and wait' 
policy is to be adopted following apparent complete clinical and radiological 
remission. The significance of potential residual microscopic disease in 
patients with apparent radiological complete remission needs further 
investigation but may need to be interpreted in individual patients in the 
context of overall life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2006.01070.x
PMID: 16813592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Urol. 2006 Aug;176(2):511-4. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2006.03.060.

Prostate specific antigen testing in men older than 75 years in the United 
States.

Scales CD Jr(1), Curtis LH, Norris RD, Schulman KA, Albala DM, Moul JW.

Author information:
(1)Duke Prostate Center, Division of Urology, Department of Surgery and Center 
for Clinical and Genetic Economics, Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

PURPOSE: Although there is general agreement that men older than 75 years are 
unlikely to benefit from prostate specific antigen testing, patient reported 
testing rates in these patients exceed 30%. We examined physician reported PSA 
testing in elderly men, and physician and practice characteristics associated 
with testing.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the 1999 to 2002 National Ambulatory Medical Care 
Survey, a nationally representative sample of outpatient visits to nonfederal 
office based physicians, we measured rates of prostate specific antigen testing 
by age group in men without prostate cancer who were 40 years or older and who 
visited outpatient family medicine, internal medicine or urology clinics.
RESULTS: An estimated 42.3 million prostate specific antigen tests were 
performed from 1999 to 2002, of which 5.91 million (14.0%) were performed in men 
older than 75 years. The population based testing rate was 6.1% in patients 40 
to 49-year-old, 26.0% in patients 50 to 75-year-old and 27.8% in patients older 
than 75 years. Urologists performed 35.4% of prostate specific antigen tests in 
men older than 75 years. Controlling for sociodemographic variables physicians 
with a laboratory on site were more likely to perform a prostate specific 
antigen test (OR 1.35, 95% CI 1.07 to 1.71). In men older than 75 years the odds 
of prostate specific antigen testing were 1.58 times higher (95% CI 1.01 to 
2.50) in practices with a laboratory on site.
CONCLUSIONS: Up to a third of men older than 75 years undergo prostate specific 
antigen testing despite an average life expectancy of less than 10 years. 
Physician and practice characteristics are associated with prostate specific 
antigen PSA testing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2006.03.060
PMID: 16813879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Jul 4;48(1):112-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2006.02.051. 
Epub 2006 Jun 9.

Cost-effectiveness of a microvolt T-wave alternans screening strategy for 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placement in the MADIT-II-eligible 
population.

Chan PS(1), Stein K, Chow T, Fendrick M, Bigger JT, Vijan S.

Author information:
(1)VA Center for Practice Management and Outcomes Research, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 
USA. paulchan@umich.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) placement with and without risk 
stratification with microvolt T-wave alternans (MTWA) testing in the MADIT-II 
(Second Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial) eligible 
population.
BACKGROUND: Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators have been shown to prevent 
mortality in the MADIT-II population. Microvolt T-wave alternans testing has 
been shown to be effective in risk stratifying MADIT-II-eligible patients.
METHODS: On the basis of published data, cost-effectiveness of three therapeutic 
strategies in MADIT-II-eligible patients was assessed using a Markov model: 1) 
ICD placement in all; 2) ICD placement in patients testing MTWA non-negative;, 
and 3) medical management. Outcomes of expected cost, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness were determined for 
patient lifetime.
RESULTS: Under base-case assumptions, providing ICDs only to those who test MTWA 
non-negative produced a gain of 1.14 QALYs at an incremental cost of 55,700 
dollars when compared to medical therapy, resulting in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 48,700 dollars/QALY. When compared with a 
MTWA risk-stratification strategy, placing ICDs in all patients resulted in an 
ICER of 88,700 dollars/QALY. Most (83%) of the potential benefit was achieved by 
implanting ICDs in the 67% of patients who tested MTWA non-negative. Results 
were most sensitive to the effectiveness of MTWA as a risk-stratification tool, 
MTWA negative screen rate, cost and efficacy of ICD therapy, and patient risk 
for arrhythmic death.
CONCLUSIONS: Risk stratification with MTWA testing in MADIT-II-eligible patients 
improves the cost-effectiveness of ICDs. Implanting defibrillators in all 
MADIT-II-eligible patients, however, is not cost-effective, with one-third of 
patients deriving little additional benefit at great expense.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2006.02.051
PMID: 16814657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Lancet. 2006 Jul 1;368(9529):44-52. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68813-2.

What is the contribution of smoking and socioeconomic position to ethnic 
inequalities in mortality in New Zealand?

Blakely T(1), Fawcett J, Hunt D, Wilson N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Wellington School of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, University of Otago, PO Box 7343, Wellington, New Zealand. 
tony.blakely@otago.ac.nz

Comment in
    Lancet. 2006 Jul 1;368(9529):4-6.
    Lancet. 2006 Aug 19;368(9536):645.

BACKGROUND: Mortality rates for Māori are twice those for non-Māori in New 
Zealand. We have assessed the contribution of tobacco smoking and socioeconomic 
position to these inequalities in 45-74-year-old census respondents during 
1981-84 and 1996-99 (2.3 and 2.7 million person-years, respectively).
METHODS: We used linked census and mortality cohort datasets with measures of 
socioeconomic position (household income, highest educational qualification, car 
access, labour-force status, and neighbourhood deprivation) and smoking (never, 
ex, current). We used direct standardisation to adjust for smoking and Poisson 
regression to adjust for socioeconomic position.
FINDINGS: The apparent contribution of smoking to mortality differences between 
Māori and non-Māori non-Pacific people was greatest for women in 1996-99 (8% 
reduction in standardised rate difference); it had increased from 3% in 1981-84. 
The corresponding reductions in men were 5% in 1996-99 and -1% in 1981-84. The 
apparent contribution of socioeconomic factors to mortality differences between 
Māori and non-Māori non-Pacific was greatest for men (39% in 1981-84 and 37% in 
1996-99) and increased over time for women (from 23% in 1981-84 to 32% in 
1996-99).
INTERPRETATION: Although small, the contribution of smoking to ethnic 
inequalities in mortality increased over time and might grow more during the 
next two decades if differences in smoking between ethnic groups continue to 
increase. Better measurement of socioeconomic position (eg, lifecourse measures, 
asset wealth) might increase the proportion of ethnic inequalities attributable 
to socioeconomic position, perhaps to about half. Action to redress 
socioeconomic gaps and control of tobacco use will both be important in reducing 
ethnic inequalities in health.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68813-2
PMID: 16815379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nutrition. 2006 Jul-Aug;22(7-8):778-85. doi: 10.1016/j.nut.2006.05.005.

Alterations in glutamine synthetase activity in rat skeletal muscle are 
associated with advanced age.

Pinel C(1), Coxam V, Mignon M, Taillandier D, Cubizolles C, Lebecque P, Darmaun 
D, Meynial-Denis D.

Author information:
(1)UMR INRA 1019, Unité de Nutrition Humaine, Human Nutrition Research Center, 
Clermont-Ferrand Theix, France.

OBJECTIVE: Glutamine synthetase (GS), a key enzyme in the production of 
glutamine, is preserved in skeletal muscle during early aging (<24 mo). Because 
the effects of advanced age on GS are unknown, we investigated the effect of 
advanced age (>24 mo) on GS activity in skeletal muscle. We hypothesized that 
advanced age would enhance muscle GS activity.
METHODS: Muscle GS activities were assessed in adult (8 mo), mature adult (15 
mo), aged (20-22 mo), advanced age (25-27 mo), or very advanced age (29-32 mo) 
female Wistar rats. Male Wistar (6-27 mo) were used to investigate the effect of 
gender on this activity.
RESULTS: Glutamine synthetase activity remained low and unaltered in rats from 8 
to 22 mo of age, as previously demonstrated. In contrast, GS activity was high ( 
approximately 75% of individual values were higher than the low value mean) in 
25-mo to 27-mo-old rats. In very-old-aged rats (29-32 mo), approximately 55% of 
GS activity data points exhibited low values. Changes in GS protein content 
paralleled those in GS activities. In male rats, GS activity was also high ( 
approximately 80% of individual values were higher than the mean value of 6-mo 
to 19-mo-old rats) at the upper limit of life expectancy (27 mo).
CONCLUSION: There is enhanced GS activity in old female and male rats suggesting 
a greater need for glutamine. In some very old rats, low GS activity may be 
associated with longevity or reflect a limitation in glutamine production due to 
extremely advanced age per se.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nut.2006.05.005
PMID: 16815492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. J Med Ethics. 2006 Jul;32(7):373-7; discussion 378-80. doi: 
10.1136/jme.2006.016204.

Wickedness or folly? The ethics of NICE's decisions.

Claxton K(1), Culyer AJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Work & Health, 481 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
M5G 1T4. aculyer@iwh.on.ca

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2005 Jul;31(7):373-5.

A rebuttal is provided to each of the arguments adduced by John Harris, an 
Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Medical Ethics, in two editorials in the 
journal in support of the view that National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence's procedures and methods for making recommendations about healthcare 
procedures for use in the National Health Service in England and Wales are the 
product of "wickedness or folly or more likely both", "ethically illiterate as 
well as socially divisive", responsible for the "perversion of science as well 
as of morality" and are "contrary to basic morality and contrary to human 
rights".

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2006.016204
PMCID: PMC2564481
PMID: 16816034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: KC is a member of the 
National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) Appraisals Committee and was a 
member of the working party which recommended NICE's current methodology for the 
conduct of economic appraisals. AJC was a member of the NICE Board, which 
commissioned and accepted this work and, although no longer on the Board, he 
remains a member of NICE's Research and Development Committee.


14. Medicina (Kaunas). 2006;42(6):492-8.

[Successful treatment of degenerative critical aortic stenosis at stage of 
valvular cardiomyopathy].

[Article in Lithuanian]

Kavoliūniene A(1), Jonkaitiene R, Benetis R, Kozlovaite V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Kaunas University of Medicine, Eiveniu 2, 50009 
Kaunas, Lithuania. ausra.kavoliuniene@kmuk.lt

Degenerative aortic stenosis and mitral annulus calcification are the most 
common valvular abnormalities in elderly population. The incidence of these 
abnormalities has increased due to increased life expectancy. In recent years, 
new diagnostic techniques have improved the accuracy of diagnosis of valvular 
heart disease, however, cases of advanced critical aortic stenosis with valvular 
cardiomyopathy and severe heart failure still occur. A clinical case of critical 
degenerative aortic stenosis and mitral annulus calcinosis, mitral stenosis and 
regurgitation, subsequently significantly decreased ejection fraction (15%) 
accompanied by valvular cardiomyopathy and severe congestive heart failure is 
described. Ischemic heart disease was excluded. Cardiosurgery including 
implantation of aortic and mitral bioprosthesis and tricuspid annuloplasty was 
performed after intensive medical treatment and improvement of heart failure 
symptoms. After follow-up of six months, a 76-year-old female patient has just 
symptoms of mild left-ventricular dysfunction corresponding to New York Heart 
Association functional class II.

PMID: 16816544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Lifetime Data Anal. 2006 Jun;12(2):223-44. doi: 10.1007/s10985-006-9005-1.
Epub  2006 Jul 1.

A comparison of models for dynamic life tables. Application to mortality data 
from the Valencia Region (Spain).

Debón A(1), Montes F, Sala R.

Author information:
(1)Dpt. Estadística e Investigación Operativa Aplicadas y Calidad, Universidad 
Politécnica de Valencia, E-46022, Valencia, Spain. andeau@eio.upv.es

The graduation of mortality data aims to estimate the probabilities of death at 
age x, q ( x ), by means of an age-dependent function, whose parameters are 
adjusted from the crude probabilities that are directly obtainable from the 
data. However, current life tables have a problem, the need for periodic updates 
due to changes in mortality over short periods of time. The table containing 
mortality rates for different ages in different years, q ( xt ), is called a 
dynamic life table, which captures mortality variation over time. This paper 
proposes a review of the most commonly used dynamic models and compares the 
results obtained by each of them when applied to mortality data from the 
Valencia Region (Spain). The result of the comparison leads us to the conclusion 
that the Lee-Carter method offers the best results for both sexes, while that 
based on Heligman and Pollard functions provides the best fit for men alone. Our 
working method is of additional interest as it may be applied to mortality data 
for a wide range of ages in any geographical location, allowing the most 
appropriate dynamic life table to be selected for the case at hand.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-006-9005-1
PMID: 16817005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. An Med Interna. 2006 May;23(5):213-9. doi: 10.4321/s0212-71992006000500003.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of the use of atorvastatin in patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus: a pharmacoeconomic model of the CARDS study].

[Article in Spanish]

Fernández de Bobadilla J(1), López de Sa E, Alonso Troncoso I, Moreno Gómez R, 
Rubio-Terrés C, Soto Alvarez J.

Author information:
(1)Investigación de Resultados en Salud y Farmacoeconomía, Unidad Médica, Pfizer 
I+D+i Madrid.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of the use of 
Atorvastatin 10 mg in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in 
patients with type 2 diabetes (DM2).
METHOD: A deterministic and retrospective model by a decision analysis based on 
CARDS study (Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study) was performed. In the 
CARDS study, a significant reduction in cardiovascular morbimortality by the use 
of Atorvastatin 10 mg versus placebo (5.8 vs. 9.0%, p=0.001) in DM2 patients 
with an additional condition, had previously been demonstrated. In the present 
cost-effectiveness analysis, effectiveness units were life years gained (LYG) 
and quality adjusted life years (QALY), obtained from differences in 
morbimortality and life expectancy in DM2 patients, with and without previous 
cardiovascular events. Costs of the evaluated alternatives were obtained from 
the CARDS results.
RESULTS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of using Atorvastin 10 mg versus 
placebo was 5,886 euro per LYG and 8,046 euro per QALY. Sensitivity analyses 
confirmed the model stability.
CONCLUSIONS: In the primary prevention of the cardiovascular disease in type 2 
diabetic patients, the use of Atorvastatin 10 mg is cost-effective, with a cost 
per LYG and per QALY below that of other alternatives widely used in the Spanish 
National Health System, and also below a value considered as a reasonable 
threshold for our country, which might unofficialy be around 30,000 euro/ QALY.

DOI: 10.4321/s0212-71992006000500003
PMID: 16817698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Int J Equity Health. 2006 Jul 3;5:8. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-5-8.

Demographic and biologic influences on survival in whites and blacks: 40 years 
of follow-up in the Charleston Heart Study.

Nietert PJ(1), Sutherland SE, Keil JE, Bachman DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Bioinformatics, and Epidemiology, Medical 
University of South Carolina, 135 Cannon St, Suite 303, PO Box 250835, 
Charleston, SC 29425, USA. nieterpj@musc.edu

BACKGROUND: In the United States, life expectancy is significantly lower among 
blacks than whites. We examined whether socioeconomic status (SES) and 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors may help explain this disparity.
METHODS: Forty years (1961 through 2000) of all-cause mortality data were 
obtained on a population-based cohort of 2,283 subjects in the Charleston Heart 
Study (CHS). We examined the influence of SES and CVD risk factors on all-cause 
mortality.
RESULTS: Complete data were available on 98% of the original sample (647 white 
men, 728 white women, 423 black men, and 443 black women). After adjusting for 
SES and CVD risk factors, the hazard ratios (HRs) for white ethnicity were 1.14 
(0.98 to 1.32) among men and 0.90 (0.75 to 1.08) among women, indicating that 
the mortality risk was 14% greater for white men and 10% lower for white women 
compared to their black counterparts. However the differences were not 
statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: While there are marked contrasts in mortality among blacks and 
whites in the CHS, the differences can be largely explained by SES and CVD risk 
factors. Continued focus on improving and controlling cardiovascular disease 
