PMID: 16861852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Cancer Biol Ther. 2006 Jul;5(7):729-35. doi: 10.4161/cbt.5.7.2968. Epub 2006
Jul  1.

Tumor cell dormancy induced by p38SAPK and ER-stress signaling: an adaptive 
advantage for metastatic cells?

Ranganathan AC(1), Adam AP, Zhang L, Aguirre-Ghiso JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, School of Public Health and Center for 
Excellence in Cancer Genomics, University at Albany, State University of New 
York, Rensselaer, NY 12144-3456, USA.

The mechanisms that determine whether a tumor cell that has disseminated to a 
secondary site will resume growth immediately, die or enter a state of dormancy 
are poorly understood. Although tumor dormancy represents a common clinical 
finding, studying the mechanisms behind this stage of tumor progression has been 
challenging. Furthermore, it is thought that dormant tumor cells are refractory 
to chemotherapy due to their lack of proliferation. However, whether this is the 
only reason for their chemo-resistance remains to be proven. In this review we 
summarize recent findings that provide a mechanistic explanation about how 
stress signaling through the p38(SAPK) pathway and ER-stress signaling may 
coordinate the induction of growth arrest and drug-resistance in a model of 
squamous carcinoma dormancy. We further discuss how dormant tumor cells may 
enter this stage to adapt to strenuous conditions that do not favor immediate 
growth after dissemination. Finally, we propose that this response may 
recapitulate an evolutionarily conserved program of life-span extension through 
adaptation and tolerance to stress.

DOI: 10.4161/cbt.5.7.2968
PMCID: PMC2516910
PMID: 16861922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Pediatr Radiol. 2006 Sep;36 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):121-5. doi: 
10.1007/s00247-006-0191-5.

Cancer risks following diagnostic and therapeutic radiation exposure in 
children.

Kleinerman RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, 
National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, DHHS, EPS 7044, 6120 
Executive Blvd., Rockville, MD 20852, USA. kleinerr@mail.nih.gov

Comment in
    Pediatr Radiol. 2007 Jan;37(1):109-11.

The growing use of interventional and fluoroscopic imaging in children 
represents a tremendous benefit for the diagnosis and treatment of benign 
conditions. Along with the increasing use and complexity of these procedures 
comes concern about the cancer risk associated with ionizing radiation exposure 
to children. Children are considerably more sensitive to the carcinogenic 
effects of ionizing radiation than adults, and children have a longer life 
expectancy in which to express risk. Numerous epidemiologic cohort studies of 
childhood exposure to radiation for treatment of benign diseases have 
demonstrated radiation-related risks of cancer of the thyroid, breast, brain and 
skin, as well as leukemia. Many fewer studies have evaluated cancer risk 
following diagnostic radiation exposure in children. Although radiation dose for 
a single procedure might be low, pediatric patients often receive repeated 
examinations over time to evaluate their conditions, which could result in 
relatively high cumulative doses. Several cohort studies of girls and young 
women subjected to multiple diagnostic radiation exposures have been informative 
about increased mortality from breast cancer with increasing radiation dose, and 
case-control studies of childhood leukemia and postnatal diagnostic radiation 
exposure have suggested increased risks with an increasing number of 
examinations. Only two long-term follow-up studies of cancer following cardiac 
catheterization in childhood have been conducted, and neither reported an 
overall increased risk of cancer. Most cancers can be induced by radiation, and 
a linear dose-response has been noted for most solid cancers. Risks of 
radiation-related cancer are greatest for those exposed early in life, and these 
risks appear to persist throughout life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-006-0191-5
PMCID: PMC2663653
PMID: 16862418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Rev Clin Exp Hematol. 2005 Dec;9(2):E1.

New therapies in onco-hematology and new infectious risk factors.

Del Giudice I(1), Fo√† R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Dipartimento di Biotecnologie Cellulari ed 
Ematologia, University La Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

The biologic, clinical and therapeutic setting is nowadays such that risk 
factors for infectious complications are constantly changing and progressively 
increasing in patients suffering from onco-hematologic conditions. In addition 
to situations that are well known or that are gradually being recognized related 
both to the underlying disease and to treatment, such as neutropenia, neutrophil 
dysfunction, mucosal damage, concomitant monocytopenia and lymphopenia, 
abnormalities within the host cellular and humoral compartments, impairments in 
cytokine networks, alterations in T lymphocytes/tumor interactions, crosstalks 
between neoplastic cells and accessory cells, etc, over the last few years we 
are witnessing important changes in the overall management of patients with 
hematologic malignancies. Historically, the categories at risk were represented 
by patients with acute leukemia and patients undergoing an allogeneic stem cell 
transplant. In both, the likelihood of eradicating the disease requires 
necessarily a myeloablative therapeutic strategy, complicated in the allografted 
patients by the risks of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), the required 
immunosuppressive treatment and the recently documented role that cytokines may 
play in the development of acute GvHD. Considerable changes have occurred in 
recent years. From the identification of "new" diseases at risk (e.g. lymphomas 
occurring in HIV+ individuals), to the progressive and constant increase in 
allotransplant procedures, to the development of new transplant procedures (cord 
blood, matched-unrelated or mismatched donor transplant, mini-transplant, the 
administration of donor lymphocytes), to the development of new drugs that can 
induce immunosuppression, to the clinical use of certain monoclonal antibodies 
(MoAb), to the combined use of chemotherapy plus MoAb. These developments are 
associated with other general considerations. Within these: 1) the growing use 
of ablative therapies in diseases for which for many years the approach has been 
less aggressive or indeed conservative; 2) the progressive recognition of 
categories of patients with unfavorable prognosis for whom an aggressive 
approach is required; 3) the constant improvement in mean life expectancy and 
"biologic" age of patients; thus, the progressive changes in the definition of 
"old age". Taken together, this has led, on the one hand, to an increase in the 
categories of onco-hematologic patients at risk of infective complications and 
to a major focus on the immune compartment of the affected patients, and, on the 
other hand, to an overall broadening of the infective scenario.

PMID: 16864115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Biol Chem. 2006 Sep 22;281(38):27862-72. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M605856200. Epub
 2006 Jul 24.

Pre-transfer editing by class II prolyl-tRNA synthetase: role of aminoacylation 
active site in "selective release" of noncognate amino acids.

Hati S(1), Ziervogel B, Sternjohn J, Wong FC, Nagan MC, Rosen AE, Siliciano PG, 
Chihade JW, Musier-Forsyth K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Molecular Biology and Biophysics, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, 55455, USA.

Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the attachment of cognate amino acids to 
specific tRNA molecules. To prevent potential errors in protein synthesis caused 
by misactivation of noncognate amino acids, some synthetases have evolved 
editing mechanisms to hydrolyze misactivated amino acids (pre-transfer editing) 
or misacylated tRNAs (post-transfer editing). In the case of post-transfer 
editing, synthetases employ a separate editing domain that is distinct from the 
site of amino acid activation, and the mechanism is believed to involve 
shuttling of the flexible CCA-3' end of the tRNA from the synthetic active site 
to the site of hydrolysis. The mechanism of pre-transfer editing is less well 
understood, and in most cases, the exact site of pre-transfer editing has not 
been conclusively identified. Here, we probe the pre-transfer editing activity 
of class II prolyl-tRNA synthetases from five species representing all three 
kingdoms of life. To locate the site of pre-transfer editing, truncation mutants 
were constructed by deleting the insertion domain characteristic of bacterial 
prolyl-tRNA synthetase species, which is the site of post-transfer editing, or 
the N- or C-terminal extension domains of eukaryotic and archaeal enzymes. In 
addition, the pre-transfer editing mechanism of Escherichia coli prolyl-tRNA 
synthetase was probed in detail. These studies show that a separate editing 
domain is not required for pre-transfer editing by prolyl-tRNA synthetase. The 
aminoacylation active site plays a significant role in preserving the fidelity 
of translation by acting as a filter that selectively releases non-cognate 
adenylates into solution, while protecting the cognate adenylate from 
hydrolysis.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M605856200
PMID: 16864571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Med Sci Monit. 2006 Aug;12(8):RA149-53. Epub 2006 Jul 12.

Towards evidence-based critical thinking medicine? Uses of best evidence in 
flawless argumentations.

Jenicek M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON Canada. jenicekm@mcmaster.ca

Uses of informal logic and critical thinking methodology are increasingly 
taught, learnt and advantageously applied in such diverse domains as law, the 
military, business, and education. Health sciences are also following this 
trend. However, production and critical appraisal of evidence as already 
practiced in Evidence-Based Medicine must be coupled with equally rigorous uses 
in order to ensure appropriate health problem understanding and decision-making. 
Making most proposals and decisions in medicine is the conclusion of an 
argumentation process that lies behind any communication between health 
professionals working with patients, performing research or sharing ideas about 
health problems, their interpretations and solutions with numerous stakeholders 
in public life. Modern critical thinking and decision making in medicine is not 
instantly mastered, but is instead a learnt experience as anything else in 
professional and social interactions. The modern argument as outlined, 
illustrated and applied to health problems in this essay is an extension of a 
previously established way of thinking in Evidence-Based Medicine. Ideally, 
health professionals, their patients and all other stakeholders should speak the 
same language and it is up to us to make this possible. Evidence and critical 
thinking - based medicine might be a solution. As modern critical thinkers, we 
are at the forefront and we must see to it that patients and professional and 
general communities benefit from this more so even than from other remarkable 
historical and current contributions to the well-being of those under our care.

PMID: 16865076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nurs Stand. 2006 Jun 28-Jul 4;20(42):26-7. doi: 10.7748/ns.20.42.26.s29.

Tell it to me straight.

Davis C.

As people with learning disabilities live longer, their risk of getting cancer 
increases. Like the rest of the population, they may also have relatives who are 
affected. Now there is a source of help and information.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.20.42.26.s29
PMID: 16866231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. J Adv Nurs. 2006 Aug;55(3):391-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2006.03907.x.

Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome: a nurse-led domiciliary service.

Tomlinson M(1), John Gibson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK. marktomlinson@lineone.net

AIM: This paper reports a successful transformation of clinical practice from 
inpatient diagnosis and initiation of treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea 
syndrome to a nurse-led domiciliary model increasing patient access and choice.
BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome is common, affecting globally 2-4% 
of the adult population. It is characterized by periodic complete or partial 
collapse of the upper airway, leading to hypoxaemia and sleep fragmentation, 
resulting in daytime sleepiness and impaired quality of life. It can be treated 
successfully with nocturnal continuous positive airway pressure. Strategies for 
diagnosis and initiation of treatment have traditionally been inpatient-based, 
but limited facilities and increasing demand in many countries have necessitated 
alternative strategies.
METHODS: As an extension to our current inpatient provision, we have established 
nurse-led domiciliary investigation and treatment. Patients meeting predefined 
criteria undergo a limited sleep study followed by therapy initiation at home. 
Confirmation of investigation findings, evaluation of treatment, education and 
long-term review are carried out in nurse-led clinics.
RESULTS: We evaluated outcome in the first 150 patients managed in this way 
between August 2002 and December 2003. In our highly selected patient group, 79% 
of those who undertook a trial of treatment continued at 3 months, with average 
compliance >5 hours per night, a figure which compares favourably with our 
overall patient population. Statistically significant sustained improvement in 
sleepiness was seen. Independent predictors of long-term acceptability of 
continuous positive airway pressure were disease severity and magnitude of 
improvement in sleepiness.
CONCLUSION: A nurse-led service for domiciliary diagnosis, treatment initiation 
and on-going management of selected patients with obstructive sleep apnoea 
syndrome is feasible and cost-effective, with outcomes comparable with 
conventional inpatient services. This approach is applicable in most countries 
where increasing demand for investigations greatly exceeds the availability of 
traditional facilities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2006.03907.x
PMID: 16866834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Obes Rev. 2006 Aug;7(3):271-93. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2006.00230.x.

Measuring the full economic costs of diet, physical activity and obesity-related 
chronic diseases.

Popkin BM(1), Kim S, Rusev ER, Du S, Zizza C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC 27516-3997, USA. popkin@unc.edu

Most studies that have focused on the costs of obesity have ignored the direct 
effects of obesity-related patterns of diet and physical activity. This study 
reviews the full effects of each component--poor dietary and physical activity 
patterns and obesity--on morbidity, mortality and productivity. The direct 
healthcare costs are based on a review of the effects of these factors on key 
diseases and the related medical care costs of each disease. The indirect costs 
on reduced disability, mortality and sickness during the period of active labour 
force participation prior to retirement are also examined. A case study is 
prepared for China to provide some guidance in the utilization of this review 
for economic analysis of obesity. The case study shows that the indirect costs 
are often far more important than the direct medical care costs. The Chinese 
case study found that the indirect effects of obesity and obesity-related 
dietary and physical activity patterns range between 3.58% and 8.73% of gross 
national product (GNP) in 2000 and 2025 respectively.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2006.00230.x
PMID: 16866975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Respir Care. 2006 Aug;51(8):913-22; discussion 922-4.

Management of airway clearance in neuromuscular disease.

Boitano LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Care Services, University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, 
Washington 98195, USA. boitano@u.washington.edu

The clearance of airway secretions from the lungs is normally supported by the 
mucociliary escalator and by cough. These protective mechanisms provide an 
effective means of pulmonary-hygiene maintenance in healthy individuals. 
Patients with neuromuscular disease that affects the respiratory pump (the 
muscles of breathing) can experience mild to profound limitation in both 
ventilation and cough. Neuromuscular respiratory insufficiency, when left 
untreated, can substantially impact quality of life and life expectancy. In most 
cases of neuromuscular disease, respiratory failure and pneumonia are the 
primary causes of death. Invasive mechanical ventilation and tracheal suctioning 
have been successfully used when needed to support respiratory insufficiency in 
this population. These modalities, though supportive, have been associated with 
substantial morbidity when used in patients with neuromuscular disease. The 
advent of noninvasive ventilation as a means of supporting chronic neuromuscular 
respiratory insufficiency has spurred the development of noninvasive 
cough-augmentation therapy to support airway clearance. Unfortunately, the need 
to support cough clearance is not always addressed, and few guidelines for the 
management of cough insufficiency have existed until relatively recently. An 
understanding of neuromuscular respiratory pathophysiology and the modes of 
effective noninvasive cough support are key in the evaluation and management of 
neuromuscular diseases. This review is meant to provide a basic understanding of 
cough mechanics, and the pathophysiology and management of neuromuscular cough 
insufficiency.

PMID: 16867201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Int J Hematol. 2006 Jul;84(1):18-22. doi: 10.1532/IJH97.06102.

Current therapy for human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome.

Honda M(1), Oka S.

Author information:
(1)International Medical Center of Japan, Tokyo, Japan. mihonda@imcj.acc.go.jp

Antiretroviral treatments with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) have 
shown remarkable progress in the past decade and resulted in impressive 
improvements in life expectancy and quality of life for patients infected with 
human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1). Despite the clinical benefits, the 
management of HIV infection faces many problems. Although HAART is able to 
suppress the viral load in the plasma, it is unable to eradicate it, and once 
HAART is initiated, treatment needs to be continued over a lifetime. The side 
effects of long-term HAART, such as lipodystrophy, lactic acidosis, insulin 
resistance, and hyperlipidemia, are negative impacts for patients who receive 
HAART. In addition, patients need to demonstrate high adherence to the therapy 
to achieve viral suppression and prevent the development of a drug-resistant 
virus. This review discusses currently recommended antiretroviral treatment 
strategies, the difficulties with antiretroviral treatments, and current issues 
regarding HIV management.

DOI: 10.1532/IJH97.06102
PMID: 16867897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Lifetime Data Anal. 2006 Jun;12(2):117-41. doi: 10.1007/s10985-006-9003-3.
Epub  2006 Jul 26.

Bayesian analysis of quasi-life tables.

Stephens DA(1), Crowder MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Imperial College London, 180 Queen's Gate, London, 
SW7 2BZ, UK. d.stephens@imperial.ac.uk

Quasi-life tables, in which the data arise from many concurrent, independent, 
discrete-time renewal processes, were defined by Baxter (1994, Biometrika 
81:567-577), who outlined some methods for estimation. The processes are not 
observed individually; only the total numbers of renewals at each time point are 
observed. Crowder and Stephens (2003, Lifetime Data Anal 9:345-355) implemented 
a formal estimating-equation approach that invokes large-sample theory. However, 
these asymptotic methods fail to yield sensible estimates for smaller samples. 
In this paper, we implement a Bayesian analysis based on MCMC computation that 
works equally well for large and small sample sizes. We give three simulated 
examples, studying the Bayesian results, the impact of changing prior 
specification, and empirical properties of the Bayesian estimators of the 
lifetime distribution parameters. We also study the Baxter (1994, Biometrika 
81:567-577) data, and uncover structure that has not been commented upon 
previously.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-006-9003-3
PMID: 16868838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2006 Aug 4;131(31-32):1721-6. doi:
10.1055/s-2006-947822.

[Clinical and health economic implications of early treatment with irbesartan of 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and nephropathy].

[Article in German]

Palmer AJ(1), Roze S, Rodby RA, Valentine WJ, Ritz E, Lehnert H.

Author information:
(1)CORE -- Center for Outcomes Research, A Unit of IMS, Binningen, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: It was the aim of this study to project the long-term 
clinical and cost outcomes of irbesartan treatment, based on data from the 
irbesartan in Reduction of Microalbuminuria-2 (IRMA-2) study and the irbesartan 
in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT), in hypertensive patients with type 2 
diabetes and renal disease in Germany.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A Markov model adapted to the German setting simulated 
progression of renal disease and associated changes in mortality in patients 
with hypertension, type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria. Early irbesartan 300 mg 
daily (initiated at microalbuminuria) and late irbesartan (initiated at overt 
nephropathy) were compared to a control scheme of antihypertensive standard 
medications with comparable blood pressure control, initiated at 
microalbuminuria. Cumulative incidence of ESRD, time to onset of ESRD, life 
expectancy (LE), quality-adjusted life years (QALY) and costs were projected 
over 25 years for 1,000 simulated patients, from a third party payer 
perspective. Clinical and cost outcomes were discounted at 5% per annum.
RESULTS: When compared to standard blood pressure control, both early and late 
treatment with irbesartan were projected to reduce the cumulative incidence of 
ESRD fromm23.80.3% to 9.10.6% and 19.83%, increase discounted LE by 0.670.04 and 
0.030.00 years, and improve QALY by 0.750.04 and 0.070.01 years per treated 
patient, respectively. Early irbesartan treatment was associated with a cost 
savings of i 12,658825 per patient while late irbesartan treatment was 
associated with a cost savings of i 4,116575 per patient compared to control 
over the 25-year time horizon.
CONCLUSIONS: Early irbesartan treatment was projected to improve LE and QALY, 
and reduce the onset of ESRD, with cost savings, in hypertensive patients with 
type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria in Germany. Later use of irbesartan in 
overt nephropathy is also superior to standard care. These findings suggest that 
irbesartan should be started earlier and continued long-term.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-947822
PMID: 16868875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J Med Assoc Thai. 2005 Oct;88 Suppl 5:S96-104.

Cost analysis of osteoporotic hip fractures.

Woratanarat P(1), Wajanavisit W, Lertbusayanukul C, Loahacharoensombat W, 
Ongphiphatanakul B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, 
Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand. rapwo@mahidol.ac.th

OBJECTIVE: To assess the total costs of hip fracture treatment subsequently 
incurred in 1 year
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A cohort study was conducted from January 1, 2002 to 
December 31, 2004. All new osteoporotic hip fracture patients were enrolled with 
informed consent. A total cost was estimated, and multivariate analysis was 
performed to determine factors related to costs.
RESULTS: A total of 37 patients were included. Average age was 75 +/- 11.8 
years. Four of them (11%) died. Median total cost of hip fracture treatment in 1 
year was 116,458.6 Baht (range 21,428.5-5,070,665.0). Median direct cost was 
59,881.6 Baht (range 21,428.5-595,520.4). Direct cost per live-year saved was 
118,168. 3 Baht. Preoperative status was the only factor related to direct cost.
CONCLUSION: Cost incurred from hip fracture in 1 year was high. The appropriate 
solution to prevent hip fracture might bring about good health in the Thai 
elderly and reduce its cost in the future.

PMID: 16869109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Downs Syndr Res Pract. 2006 Jul;10(2):83-93. doi: 10.3104/perspectives.309.

Using an epidemiological approach to examine outcomes affecting young children 
with Down syndrome and their families.

Hodapp RM(1), Urbano RC, So SA.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Kennedy Center for Research on Human Development, Vanderbilt 
University, Nashville, TN, USA.

In this paper, we utilise an approach drawn from the field of epidemiology to 
explore what is known and unknown about young children with Down syndrome and 
their families. After describing what we mean by an epidemiological approach, we 
review basic findings for children with intellectual disabilities, as well as 
challenges to performing such research. In considering the epidemiology of Down 
syndrome, we note that most studies to date have focused on prevalence, 
mortality-life expectancy, and rates of diseases and syndrome-related 
health-physical problems, while neglecting many other important issues. In 
considering potential advances in the epidemiology of Down syndrome, then, we 
first overview the process of linking two or more separate administrative 
records, before reviewing several of our own recent studies. We end this paper 
by discussing four challenges to future epidemiological studies of children with 
Down syndrome and their families.

DOI: 10.3104/perspectives.309
PMID: 16869366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Ecology. 2006 Jun;87(6):1497-509. doi: 
10.1890/0012-9658(2006)87[1497:fstaiv]2.0.co;2.

From stage to age in variable environments: life expectancy and survivorship.

Tuljapurkar S(1), Horvitz CC.

Author information:
(1)Biological Sciences, Stanford University, California 94305, USA. 
tulja@stanford.edu

Stage-based demographic data are now available on many species of plants and 
some animals, and they often display temporal and spatial variability. We 
provide exact formulas to compute age-specific life expectancy and survivorship 
from stage-based data for three models of temporal variability: cycles, serially 
independent random variation, and a Markov chain. These models provide a 
comprehensive description of patterns of temporal variation. Our formulas 
describe the effects of cohort (birth) environmental condition on mortality at 
all ages, and of the effects on survivorship of environmental variability 
experienced over the course of life. This paper complements existing methods for 
time-invariant stage-based data, and adds to the information on population 
growth and dynamics available from stochastic demography.

DOI: 10.1890/0012-9658(2006)87[1497:fstaiv]2.0.co;2
PMID: 16869426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Public Health Nutr. 2006 Jun;9(4):415-20. doi: 10.1079/phn2005873.

Using epidemiological models to estimate the health effects of diet behaviour 
change: the example of tailored fruit and vegetable promotion.

Veerman JL(1), Barendregt JJ, Mackenbach JP, Brug J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC - University Medical Centre 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. j.veerman@erasmus.mc

OBJECTIVE: To explore the use of epidemiological modelling for the estimation of 
health effects of behaviour change interventions, using the example of 
computer-tailored nutrition education aimed at fruit and vegetable consumption 
in The Netherlands.
DESIGN: The effects of the intervention on changes in consumption were obtained 
from an earlier evaluation study. The effect on health outcomes was estimated 
using an epidemiological multi-state life table model. Input data for the model 
consisted of relative risk estimates for cardiovascular disease and cancers, 
data on disease occurrence and mortality, and survey data on the consumption of 
fruits and vegetables.
RESULTS: If the computer-tailored nutrition education reached the entire adult 
population and the effects were sustained, it could result in a mortality 
decrease of 0.4 to 0.7% and save 72 to 115 life-years per 100,000 persons aged 
25 years or older. Healthy life expectancy is estimated to increase by 32.7 days 
for men and 25.3 days for women. The true effect is likely to lie between this 
theoretical maximum and zero effect, depending mostly on durability of behaviour 
change and reach of the intervention.
CONCLUSION: Epidemiological models can be used to estimate the health impact of 
health promotion interventions.

DOI: 10.1079/phn2005873
PMID: 16870012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Forensic Sci Int. 2007 Mar 22;167(1):22-9. doi:
10.1016/j.forsciint.2006.06.012.  Epub 2006 Jul 25.

"Life expectancy" of "ecstasy" tablets in Israel in the years 2001-2003.

Levy R(1), Zelkowicz A, Abu E, Ravreby MD.

Author information:
(1)Analytical Chemistry Laboratory, Division of Identification and Forensic 
Science (DIFS), National Police Headquarters, Haim Bar-Lev Road, Jerusalem 
91906, Israel. ar_levy@zahav.net.il

3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) tablets known as "ecstasy" became a 
very popular drug amongst Israeli youth in the last decade. The ecstasy tablets 
have a simple design impressed on them (logos) making it relatively easy to 
distinguish between various logos. The life expectancy of ecstasy tablet logos, 
defined as the period between the first seizure by the police of a certain logo 
until the last seizure of the same logo, was monitored during the years 
2001-2003. During this time interval, 58 different tablet logos were seized. A 
total of 26 logos, defined as common logos with at least 10 independent 
seizures, were observed. At any given time interval during this period, 8-10 
common logos were found with an average life expectancy of approximately 9 
months. Five of the observed 26 common logos were defined as the most common 
logos that appeared in at least 200 independent seizures each. Plots of the 
number of seizures and number of tablets seized as a function of time are 
presented and discussed as well as explanations for the high turnover rate of 
any given logo.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2006.06.012
PMID: 16870373


145. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2006 Jul;61(7):675-84. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/61.7.675.

No decline in skeletal muscle oxidative capacity with aging in long-term 
calorically restricted rats: effects are independent of mitochondrial DNA 
integrity.

Baker DJ(1), Betik AC, Krause DJ, Hepple RT.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4, Canada.

We investigated if calorie restriction (CR) preserved skeletal muscle oxidative 
capacity with aging after accounting for life span extension by CR, and 
determined if mitochondrial content, mitochondrial DNA integrity, and peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha) were 
involved. Ad libitum-fed (AL) and CR animals representing young adult, late 
middle age, and senescence were studied. Whereas citrate synthase and complex IV 
activities were lower in plantaris and gastrocnemius muscle of young adult CR 
animals, in contrast to the 15%-40% decline in senescent AL animals, there was 
no decline with aging in CR animals. There was no decline in citrate synthase 
protein in gastrocnemius with aging in either group, suggesting that CR 
preserves oxidative capacity with aging by protecting mitochondrial function 
rather than content. This protection was independent of mitochondrial DNA damage 
between groups. However, there was a slower decline in PGC-1alpha gene 
expression with aging in CR versus AL animals, suggesting a better maintenance 
of mitochondrial biogenesis with aging in CR animals.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/61.7.675
PMID: 16870628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;35(4):979-80. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl126. Epub 2006
Jul  26.

Commentary: the fading of the dream: widening inequalities in life expectancy in 
America.

Dorling D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, Sheffield University, UK. 
daniel.dorling@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;35(4):969-79.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl126
PMID: 16870674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Appl Biomech. 2006 May;22(2):112-9. doi: 10.1123/jab.22.2.112.

Effects of low-load resistance training with vascular occlusion on the 
mechanical properties of muscle and tendon.

Kubo K(1), Komuro T, Ishiguro N, Tsunoda N, Sato Y, Ishii N, Kanehisa H, 
Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Life Science, Univ. of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

The present study aimed to investigate the effects of low-load resistance 
training with vascular occlusion on the specific tension and tendon properties 
by comparing with those of high-load training. Nine participants completed 12 
weeks (3 days/week) of a unilateral isotonic training program on knee extensors. 
One leg was trained using low load (20% of 1 RM) with vascular occlusion (LLO) 
and other leg using high load (80% of 1 RM) without vascular occlusion (HL). 
Before and after training, maximal isometric knee extension torque (MVC) and 
muscle volume were measured. Specific tension of vastus lateralis muscle (VL) 
was calculated from MVC, muscle volume, and muscle architecture measurements. 
Stiffness of tendon-aponeurosis complex in VL was measured using ultrasonography 
during isometric knee extension. Both protocols significantly increased MVC and 
muscle volume of quadriceps femoris muscle. Specific tension of VL increased 
significantly 5.5% for HL, but not for LLO. The LLO protocol did not alter the 
stiffness of tendon-aponeurosis complex in knee extensors, while the HL protocol 
increased it significantly. The present study demonstrated that the specific 
tension and tendon properties were found to remain following low-load resistance 
training with vascular occlusion, whereas they increased significantly after 
high-load training.

DOI: 10.1123/jab.22.2.112
PMID: 16871002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2004;50(1):139-45.

[Anthropometric and densitometric investigations into the prenatal development 
of the human pelvic bone].

[Article in Polish]

Sulisz T(1).

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Zak≈Çad Anatomii Prawid≈Çowej i Topograficznej Pomorskiej Akademii 
Medycznej w Szczecinic al. Powsta≈Ñc√≥w Wlkp. 72, 70-111 Szczccin.

The aim of this work was to study the prenatal development and mineralization of 
ossification centres (OC) in the pelvic bone (ilium, ischium, and pubic bone) 
using radiography and optical density measurements. The material consisted of 90 
human fetuses (29 males and 61 females) with a gestational age of 12 to 28 
weeks. Both pelvic bones were obtained and radiographs directed at OC were 
taken. Analysis was done with a computer after digitalization of the 
radiographs. The area of each OC was determined. With prior standardisation, 
optical density of the radiographs was measured and mean density was calculated 
for each OC. OC appear in the ischium between week 12 and 16 and in the pubic 
bone between week 19 and 24 of gestation. The pelvic bone does not demonstrate 
sexual differences during prenatal development. Anthropometric findings 
regarding OC of the pelvic bone correlated positively with fetal age. The 
dynamics of OC formation varies, being fastest in the case of ilium in the 
direction from acetabulum to extension of the anterior margin of greater sciatic 
notch. The mineral density of the pelvic bone increases with age and the 
mineralization rate changes throughout fetal life.

PMID: 16871753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Vnitr Lek. 2006 Jun;52(6):602-8.

[Molecular genetic diagnostics and screening of hereditary hemochromatosis].

[Article in Slovak]

Zlocha J(1), Kov√°cs L, Pozgayov√° S, Kupcov√° V, Dur√≠nov√° S.

Author information:
(1)II. detsk√° klinika Lek√°rskej fakulty UK a Detskej fakultnej nemocnice s 
poliklinikou, Bratislava, Slovensk√° republika. zlocha@dfnsp.sk

BACKGROUND: Hereditary hemochromatosis is considered one of the most common 
hereditary diseases in population of Caucasian origin. In recent years, a 
candidate gene for HLA-linked hemochromatosis, HFE, has been cloned, and a 
single G-to-A mutation resulting in a cysteine-to-tyrosine substitution (C282Y) 
has been identified in up to 80% of study patients with type 1 hereditary 
hemochromatosis. The purpose of the paper was to confirm the importance of 
genetic testing for HFE mutations in making the diagnosis of hemochromatosis and 
find out a suitable diagnostic algorithm for the indication of this form of 
diagnostics in patients suspected of hereditary hemochromatosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The examination of C282Y mutation was conducted in 500 
subjects. The most frequent indications for DNA analysis were hepatopathy of 
unknown ethiology, liver cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus, bronze skin pigmentation 
in connection with high serum iron concentration, elevated transferrin 
saturation and elevated serum ferritin levels.
RESULTS: In our group of patients, 29 homozygotes and 75 heterozygotes for C282Y 
mutation were identified, 10 patients carried both C282Y and H63D mutations of 
HFE gene (compound heterozygotes), whereas in 386 subjects the mutation was not 
found. The genotype-phenotype correlation showed that 22 homozygotes had liver 
affection proved by imaging and/or histologic methods. Except the liver 
disorders, the most common symptoms of these patients were type 2 diabetes 
mellitus or glucose tolerance disorder (10 patients), arthritis or joint pain (9 
patients) and cardiovascular disorders, such as cardiomyopathy (2 patients). 
Bronze skin pigmentation was present in 9 homozygotes. Transferin saturation 
values were significantly higher in homozygotes for C282Y mutation as compared 
to C282Y heterozygotes (p < 0.001), C282Y/H63D compound heterozygotes (p < 0.05) 
or wild type subjects (p < 0.001) respectively. Also serum ferritin levels were 
significantly higher in homozygotes for C282Y mutation as compared to C282Y 
heterozygotes (p < 0.001), C282Y/H63D compound heterozygotes (p < 0.001) and 
wild type subjects (p < 0.001) respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Our observations confirm that DNA analysis significantly 
contributes to differential diagnostics of this severe, but in early recognition 
curable disease. Early detection and phlebotomy treatment prior to the onset of 
cirrhosis can reduce morbidity and normalize life expectancy. It is readily 
identified through biochemical testing for iron overload using serum transferrin 
saturation and genetic testing for C282Y homozygosity. DNA analysis is 
recommended in patients whose transferrin saturation is 45% or more on a 
repeated test. General population screening has been waived in preference to 
targeting high-risk groups such as first-degree relatives of affected 
individuals and those with secondary iron overload, especially patients with 
chronic liver disorders and chronic anemia. This screening strategy is likely to 
continue until uncertainties regarding the natural history of the disease, 
age-related penetrance, and management of asymptomatic individuals are 
clarified.

PMID: 16871764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2006;5(2):75-85. doi: 
10.2165/00148365-200605020-00002.

How cost-of-illness studies can be made more useful for illicit drug policy 
analysis.

Moore TJ(1), Caulkins JP.

Author information:
(1)Turning Point Alcohol and Drug Centre, Fitzroy, Victoria, Australia. 
tjmoore1@gmail.com

Cost-of-illness (COI) studies seemingly provide a solid foundation for 
quantifying the potential benefits of illicit drug policy interventions that 
reduce drug use at the population level. However, their usefulness is severely 
limited. In this paper, we suggest several improvements to substance abuse COI 
studies. The first set of improvements can be implemented with little change to 
the current framework: developing estimates that reflect the best available 
information, rather than using lower bound estimates that represent 
'conservative' figures; dealing with uncertainty explicitly by developing 
estimation ranges; and disaggregating social costs by particular illicit drug 
types. The second set of improvements address key conceptual problems in 
transferring a health approach to a 'condition' where healthcare costs are a 
minor component: dealing with the intangible costs of drug dependence; valuing 
property crime; including systemic crime; and considering the spillover effects 
of drug abuse on human capital formation. COI studies can become valuable 
sources of policy-relevant information if their authors improve the current 
approach by making changes such as those identified here.

DOI: 10.2165/00148365-200605020-00002
PMID: 16872249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Andrologia. 2006 Aug;38(4):115-21. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2006.00730.x.

Epidemiology of sexual dysfunction in the male population.

Beutel ME(1), Weidner W, Br√§hler E.

Author information:
(1)Clinic and Policlinic for Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, 
University of Mainz, Mainz, Germany. beutel@psychosomatik.klinik.uni-mainz.de

Sexual dysfunctions have found an increasing attention in recent epidemiological 
studies of the ageing male. The purpose of this paper is to review the 
prevalence of sexual dysfunctions and risk factors based on community samples. 
Studies have not only demonstrated a strong age-related incline of erectile 
dysfunction (ED), but also of ejaculatory and orgasmic disorders (particularly a 
reduced or absent ejaculation). Despite a declining sexual desire, sexual 
interest remains present in old age. Lower urinary tract symptoms have been 
identified as strong risk factors for ED along with cardiovascular, metabolic, 
psychiatric disorders and lifestyle factors. The wide range of prevalence rate 
estimates is likely because of different definitions and criteria of sexual 
dysfunctions. More research is needed on other dysfunctions besides ED and on 
the partner relationship as a major determinant of sexual activity and 
satisfaction. The interrelationship between risk factors calls for 
interdisciplinary prevention and treatment approaches. As disability-free life 
expectancy keeps increasing, the need to identify, adequately assess and treat 
male sexual dysfunction as an important impediment to quality of life most 
likely will become even more pressing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2006.00730.x
PMID: 16872462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Patient Educ Couns. 2006 Dec;64(1-3):378-86. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2006.04.008.
 Epub 2006 Jul 26.

What is a good death? Terminally ill patients dealing with normative 
expectations around death and dying.

Goldsteen M(1), Houtepen R, Proot IM, Abu-Saad HH, Spreeuwenberg C, Widdershoven 
G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Ethics and Philosophy, Maastricht University, P.O. 
Box 616, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands. m.goldsteen@zw.unimaas.nl

OBJECTIVE: Developing good care for dying people is important nowadays. 
Normative expectations about what could be considered as a good death are 
inextricably bound up with this issue. This article aims to offer an insight in 
the way terminally ill patients talk about death and dying and how they refer to 
current western normative expectations about a 'good' death.
METHOD: Thirteen patients with a life expectancy of less than 3 months living at 
home were interviewed about how they experienced the last phase of their lives. 
The analysis focused on the way patients tell their personal stories by using 
normative expectations that are part of a broader cultural western framework.
RESULTS: Five categories of normative expectations were discriminated in the 
stories of patients: awareness and acceptance, open communication, living one's 
life till the end, taking care of one's final responsibilities and dealing 
adequately with emotions.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study show that in the search of a good death 
people show a clear diversity in their way of referring to as well as in dealing 
with normative expectations that are part of the current cultural paradigm.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Professional caregivers should be responsive to how a 
patient deals with and relates to normative expectations about a good death and 
should support patients in their individual process of dying an 'appropriate 
death'.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2006.04.008
PMID: 16872786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2006 Sep;16 Suppl 3:S156-62. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2006.06.002. Epub 2006 Jul 25.

Meeting everyday challenges: antipsychotic therapy in the real world.

Gorwood P(1).

Author information:
(1)AP-HP, Hopital Louis Mourier, Colombes, France. philip.gorwood@lmr.aphp.fr 
<philip.gorwood@lmr.aphp.fr>

Patients with schizophrenia and their physicians face a number of challenges, 
such as long-term control of symptoms, maintaining cognitive function and 
subjective well-being, and preventing relapse. While randomised, 
placebo-controlled trials and open-label extensions can provide valuable 
information about the long-term efficacy and tolerability of newer antipsychotic 
agents, they cannot address all the variables that may affect treatment outcome. 
Factors such as cognitive function, antipsychotic side effects, patients' 
attitudes to medication and subjective well being can all affect the results of 
treatment in real-life clinical practice. Moreover, the patient cohorts enrolled 
in clinical trials are often not reflective of the wider population with 
schizophrenia. For example, patients with conditions such as anxiety and panic 
disorders or comorbid substance abuse, as well as those with severe illness and 
patients from certain ethnic or age groups, may often be excluded from clinical 
trials. In addition, patients themselves may refuse to participate in 
placebo-controlled studies because of a fear of being under-treated. 
Naturalistic studies are, therefore, an important means of providing additional 
data on the safety and effectiveness of antipsychotic agents in 'real-world' 
settings. Studies such as the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention 
Effectiveness (CATIE) study, the Schizophrenia Outpatient Health Outcomes (SOHO) 
study and the Broad Effectiveness Trial with Aripiprazole (BETA) studies, 
together with large-scale database analyses, are now producing results 
supplementary to those observed in long-term, open-label extension studies. Such 
naturalistic studies will continue to provide important data on the real-world 
effectiveness of atypical antipsychotics with respect to key outcomes such as 
treatment continuation and prolonged recovery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2006.06.002
PMID: 16872807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Prof Nurs. 2006 Jul-Aug;22(4):226-35. doi: 10.1016/j.profnurs.2006.03.006.

Ethical concerns in nurse migration.

McElmurry BJ(1), Solheim K, Kishi R, Coffia MA, Woith W, Janepanish P.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, 
USA. mcelmurr@uic.edu

International nurse migration is natural and to be expected. Recently, however, 
those who have fostered nurse migration believe that it will solve nursing 
shortages in developed countries and offer nurse migrants better working 
conditions and an improved quality of life. Whether natural or manipulated, 
migration flow patterns largely occur from developing to developed countries. In 
this article, nurse migration is examined using primary health care (PHC) as an 
ethical framework. The unmanaged flow of nurse migrants from developing to 
developed countries is inconsistent with "health for all" principles. Removing 
key health personnel from countries experiencing resource shortages is contrary 
to PHC equity. Often, nurse migrants are placed in vulnerable, inequitable work 
roles, and employing nurse migrants fails to address basic causes of nurse 
shortages in developed countries, such as dissatisfaction with work conditions 
and decreased funding for academic settings. Nurse migration policies and 
procedures can be developed to satisfy PHC ethics criteria if they (1) leave 
developing countries enhanced rather than depleted, (2) contribute to country 
health outcomes consistent with essential care for all people, (3) are based on 
community participation, (4) address common nursing labor issues, and (5) 
involve equitable and clear financial arrangements.

DOI: 10.1016/j.profnurs.2006.03.006
PMID: 16873045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Forum (Genova). 2006;14(1):E1.

Impact of integrated treatments on patient management in solid tumors: from 
diagnosis to palliative care.

Adamo V(1), Ferraro G, Adamo B, Franchina T, Garipoli C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Pathology, Medical Oncology and Integrated Therapies 
Unit, A.O. Universitaria Policlinico "G. Martino", Messina, Italy.

In consideration of the complexity of tumours, the modern and also the best 
approach to treat the neoplastic diseases is multi-modality therapy. Evidence 
suggests that this approach to cancer offers a patient the greatest change of 
survival. Actually, the involvement of a team of specialists warrants different 
expertise for the formulation of an appropriate treatment plan individualized 
for each patient, based upon tumour stage, medical conditions and patient 
preferences. Treatments are continually being updated and improved and the new 
treatment options provide fresh opportunities for controlling tumours and 
reducing morbidity and mortality. New developments in molecular biology and drug 
discovery are continually moving from the laboratory to clinical practice. This 
article reviews the role of integrated treatments in breast cancer, a common 
malignancy in women, and in head and neck cancers, that encompass a diverse 
group of uncommon tumours and frequently are aggressive in their biological 
behaviour. Careful evaluation of biological prognostic factors, performance 
status along with determination of life expectancy and preferences, represent 
the relevant information on which the oncologists should ground their decision 
for integrated treatments or attenuated or palliative measures, in order to 
maximize the balance of benefits and toxicities. Improving quality of life for 
patients with incurable disease remains an important goal for oncologists and is 
equally important as cure.

PMID: 16873084


156. Am J Public Health. 2006 Sep;96(9):1662-8. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2005.068874.
Epub  2006 Jul 27.

Gender and the burden of disease attributable to obesity.

Muennig P(1), Lubetkin E, Jia H, Franks P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. pm124@columbia.edu

OBJECTIVES: We estimated the burden of disease in the United States attributable 
to obesity by gender, with life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, 
years of life lost annually, and quality-adjusted life years lost annually as 
outcome measures.
METHODS: We obtained burden of disease estimates for adults falling into the 
following body-mass index categories: normal weight (23 to <25), overweight (25 
to <30), and obese (> or = 30). We analyzed the 2000 Medical Expenditure Panel 
Survey to obtain health-related quality-of-life scores and the 1990-1992 
National Health Interview Survey linked to National Death Index data through the 
end of 1995 for mortality.
