Ahmed HU(1), Shergill IS, Arya M, Shah PJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Urology and Nephrology, University College London, London, UK.

Detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia (DSD) is a debilitating problem in 
patients with spinal cord injury. DSD carries a high risk of complications, and 
even life expectancy can be affected. The mainstay of treatment is the use of 
antimuscarinic medication and catheterization, but in those for whom this is not 
possible external sphincterotomy has been the traditional management route. 
External sphincterotomy, however, is associated with significant risks, 
including hemorrhage, erectile dysfunction and the need for repeat procedures, 
and over the last decade alternatives have been investigated, such as urethral 
stents and botulinum toxin injection. We present a review of DSD, including the 
current management strategies and prospects for future treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpuro0521
PMID: 16835625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Med Liban. 2005 Oct-Dec;53(4):191-4.

[A society for all ages. Or how to live better longer].

[Article in French]

Daher M.

PMID: 16836020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Horm Behav. 2006 Sep;50(3):454-62. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2006.06.001. Epub
2006  Jul 11.

Infant temperament predicts life span in female rats that develop spontaneous 
tumors.

Cavigelli SA(1), Yee JR, McClintock MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biobehavioral Health, The Pennsylvania State University, 315 E. 
Health and Human Development Building-East, University Park, PA 16802, USA. 
s-cavigelli@psu.edu

In a recent study, we found that male rats that minimally explored a novel 
environment as infants died significantly faster than their more exploratory 
brothers. At death, these males had various complex pathologies, precluding 
identification of specific hormonal mechanisms underlying adult disease 
progression and mortality. To minimize the variance of disease processes at the 
end of life, we conducted a longitudinal study with female Sprague-Dawley rats 
prone to high rates of spontaneous mammary and pituitary tumors. For females 
that developed either mammary or pituitary tumors, those that had been neophobic 
(least exploratory) as infants died approximately 6 months earlier than their 
neophilic (most exploratory) sisters. In the case of mammary tumors, both benign 
and malignant, neophobic females developed palpable tumors earlier than 
neophilic females, whereas the interval between first palpation and death was 
the same for all females, indicating psychosocial regulation of early rather 
than later stages of the disease. Neophobic females' ovarian function aged more 
rapidly than their neophilic sisters. Concomitantly, they had lower 
corticosterone responses to restraint in late adulthood, ruling out high 
estrogen or corticosterone levels during senescence as causal factors in their 
accelerated mortality. During puberty, when mammary tissue is proliferating and 
differentiating, neophobic females experienced more irregular cycles with 
prolonged "luteal" phases, suggesting a role for prolactin, prolonged 
progesterone and fewer estrogen surges during this sensitive period for mammary 
tumor risk. Thus, we identified prolactin, estrogen, progesterone and possibly 
corticosterone dynamics as candidates for neuroendocrine mechanisms linking 
infant temperament with onset of adult neoplastic disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2006.06.001
PMID: 16836996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Actas Urol Esp. 2006 Apr;30(4):353-8. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(06)73458-1.

[The meaning of PSA progression after radical prostatectomy. Preliminary 
results].

[Article in Spanish]

Luján Galán M(1), Pascual Mateo C, Rodríguez García N, Chiva Robles V, Escalera 
Almendros C, Angulo Cuesta J, Berenguer Sánchez A.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario de Getafe, Servicio de Urología, Madrid. 
marcoslujian@terra.es

OBJECTIVES: To report our findings regarding to the natural history of prostate 
cancer (PCa) that shows recurrence after radical prostatectomy (RP), in terms of 
time to development of metastatic disease and death from PCa. To identify 
independent predictors of PSA recurrence.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Retrospective analysis of 227 patients with clinically 
localized PCa who underwent RP. The event PSA recurrence was defined as the 
presence of a postoperative PSA level of 0,2 ng/ml or higher at least 3 months 
after surgery. Hence, cases with shorter follow-up time were excluded from 
analysis. No adjuvant therapy (radiotherapy or hormonal therapy) was performed 
in the included population. Recurrence free survival was calculated during the 
follow-up period (Kaplan-Meier analysis). Uni and multivariate study was 
performed in order to assess the ability of factors as preoperative PSA level, 
Gleason score in surgical specimen, capsular penetration, positive surgical 
margins (excluding urethral), extracapsular extension, positive pelvic lymph 
nodes, and seminal vesicle invasion, to predict PSA recurrence. Finally, we 
selected the group of patients with PSA recurrence and calculated the 
probability of being free from distant metastatic disease during the follow-up 
period. Also, function of disease-specific survival was calculated.
RESULTS: A total of 208 records were finally included in the study. Median age 
was 61 years. A total of 47 (22.6%) presented with extracapsular extension. 
Median follow-up time was 35.8 months, and 49 (23.6%) developed PSA recurrence. 
Recurrence free survival was 79.9% and 67.4% at 2 and 5 years, respectively. 
Only three factors were identified with the aid of multivariate analysis as 
independent predictors of recurrence: preoperative PSA >= 10 ng/ml (hazard 
ratio--HR--3.03), Gleason score in surgical specimen 8 or higher (HR 3.42), and 
the finding of capsular penetration (HR 2.17). When only patients with PSA 
recurrence were considered, 16.3% developed distant metastasis. Probabilities of 
being free from distant disease after PSA recurrence were 97.7% and 86.9% at 2 
and 5 years respectively (actuarial median time 110.8 months). Only 2 patients 
died from PCa, therefore disease-specific mortality analysis was not performed.
CONCLUSIONS: Although an important proportion of patients present with PSA 
recurrence after RP in our setting, the prognosis in term of development of 
metastatic disease is acceptable in the short-medium term. Anyway, further 
analysis will be needed to ascertain the evolution of these patients in the long 
term.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(06)73458-1
PMID: 16838606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Harefuah. 2006 Jun;145(6):404-7, 472.

[A new minimally invasive procedure for the conservative treatment of uterine 
prolapse--the posterior IVS].

[Article in Hebrew]

Lavy Y(1), Lev-Sagi A, Arbell R, Shimonowitz S, Neuman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Hadassah Mt. Scopus. lavyl@hadassah.org.il

BACKGROUND: The risk of women who undergo surgery for the treatment of pelvic 
organ prolapse (POP) by the age of 80 is reported to exceed 10%, and is expected 
to rise with the increase in life expectancy. Most women affected are in their 
5th or 6th decade, and the majority will suffer other medical problems. The 
current medical literature asserts that the vaginal surgical approach for POP 
operations are followed by less complications and provide a shorter 
rehabilitation period than the abdominal route. Hysterectomy is widely accepted 
as part of POP reconstructive surgery whenever the uterus is significantly 
prolapsed, however, there is no clear evidence to support the role of 
hysterectomy in improving surgery outcome. We present our experience with a new 
minimally invasive procedure - the posterior intravaginal slingplasty (IVS) for 
utero-suspension in the presence of moderate and advanced uterine prolapse.
AIM: To evaluate the feasibility, intra- and post-operative complications and 
short term results of the posterior IVS procedure and uterosuspension for 
uterine prolapse.
METHODS: Reconstructive surgery using the posterior IVS was performed on 18 
women with moderate to severe uterine prolapse who chose to preserve their 
uterus. Patients were then followed 1,6,12 months and 2 years post-operatively 
to assess any recurrence of pelvic organ prolapse.
RESULTS: No major intra- or post-operative complications were reported. 
Follow-up of one to 13 months showed good results.
CONCLUSIONS: Reconstructive POP surgery may not necessitate hysterectomy. The 
posterior IVS is a novel safe, minimally invasive, simple and effective surgical 
procedure for the treatment of POP, permitting uterine preservation. A larger 
number of patients and a longer follow-up period are required for proper 
evaluation of the actual safety and efficacy of this procedure.

PMID: 16838892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Eur Heart J. 2006 Aug;27(15):1824-32. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehl115. Epub
2006  Jul 13.

Cost-effectiveness of neonatal ECG screening for the long QT syndrome.

Quaglini S(1), Rognoni C, Spazzolini C, Priori SG, Mannarino S, Schwartz PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Systems, University of Pavia, Italy.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2007 Jan;28(1):137; author reply137-9.

AIMS: A significant number of preventable cardiac deaths in infancy and 
childhood are due to long QT syndrome (LQTS) and to unrecognized neonatal 
congenital heart diseases (CHDs). Both carry a serious risk for avoidable 
mortality and morbidity but effective treatments exist to prevent lethal 
arrhythmias or to allow early surgical correction before death or irreversible 
cardiac damage. As an electrocardiogram (ECG) allows recognition of LQTS and of 
some of the CHDs that have escaped medical diagnosis, and as LQTS also 
contributes to sudden infant death syndrome, we have analysed the 
cost-effectiveness of a nationwide programme of neonatal ECG screening. Our 
primary analysis focused on LQTS alone; a secondary analysis focused on the 
possibility of identifying some CHDs also.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A decision analysis approach was used, building a decision 
tree for the strategies 'screening'-'no screening'. Markov processes were used 
to simulate the natural or clinical histories of the patients. To assess the 
impact of potential errors in the estimates of the model parameters, a Monte 
Carlo sensitivity analysis was performed by varying all baseline values by 
+/-30%. Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis for the primary analysis shows 
that with the screening programme, the cost per year of life saved is very low: 
11,740 euro. The cost for saving one entire life of 70 years would be 820,000 
euro. Even by varying model parameters by +/-30%, the cost per year of life 
saved remains between 7400 euro and 20,400 euro. These figures define 'highly 
cost-effective' screening programmes. The secondary analysis provides even more 
cost-effective results.
CONCLUSION: A programme of neonatal ECG screening performed in a large European 
country is cost-effective. An ECG performed in the first month of life will 
allow the early identification of still asymptomatic infants with LQTS and also 
of infants with some correctable CHDs not recognized by routine neonatal 
examinations. Appropriate therapy will prevent unnecessary deaths in infants, 
children, and young adults.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehl115
PMID: 16840497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Dairy Sci. 2006 Aug;89(8):3213-20. doi: 10.3168/jds.S0022-0302(06)72596-6.

Productive life including all lactations and longer lactations with diminishing 
credits.

VanRaden PM(1), Dematawewa CM, Pearson RE, Tooker ME.

Author information:
(1)Animal Improvement Programs Laboratory (AIPL), Agricultural Research Service, 
USDA, Beltsville, MD 20705-2350, USA. paul@aipl.arsusda.gov

Alternative measures of productive life (PL) were compared, and life expectancy 
factors were updated to replace estimates from 1993. Alternatives were proposed 
with extra credits for lactations longer than 10 mo and beyond 84 mo of age and 
for each calving so that an extremely long lactation would not receive more 
credits than multiple shorter lactations with dry periods between. Maximum 
credits per lactation of 10 mo (original PL), 12 mo, and unlimited were 
compared. The unlimited credits option either included or excluded a calf value 
equal to 2 mo of production and had credits given for all days either uniformly 
or based on lactation curves (diminishing credits). Standard lactation curves 
(first, second, and greater lactations) were estimated based on the test-day 
yields of Holstein cows remaining in lactation from a set of 903,579 lactation 
records. For the diminishing credits alternative, credit for a given day of a 
parity was derived using the predicted yield of the day proportional to the 
average daily yield of the first 305 d of second parity. Daily yields were 
deviations from a baseline of 13.62 kg. Heritabilities and genetic correlations 
were estimated by multitrait REML for alternative measures of PL, for longevity 
censored at various ages, and for yield traits and SCS in first parity. Data for 
REML analysis included records from 1,098,329 Holsteins born from 1994 through 
1997 from 5,109 sires, and a relationship matrix among sires was included in the 
model. Lactations beyond 84 mo added little information. Heritability of PL was 
0.073 with 10 mo, 0.069 with 12 mo, 0.068 and 0.067 with unlimited (uniform) 
lactation credits (with and without calf credits, respectively), and 0.070 with 
unlimited diminishing credits. Corresponding correlations among predicted 
transmitting abilities for PL and protein yield were 0.07, 0.06, 0.12, 0.23, and 
0.09, all much lower than the 0.46 estimated in 1993. Heritability of PL with 
diminishing credits improved from 0.017 to 0.070 when censoring age increased 
from 36 to 96 mo. There was no further increase in heritability beyond 96 mo. 
Genetic correlation with the final PL was 0.87 when PL was censored at 36 mo, 
but the estimate increased steadily with the censoring age. The PL with 
diminishing credits, which was favorable in both economic and genetic aspects, 
was desirable in crediting cows for complete lactations.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.S0022-0302(06)72596-6
PMID: 16840639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Science. 2006 Jul 14;313(5784):213-7. doi: 10.1126/science.1125721.

Tyrannosaur life tables: an example of nonavian dinosaur population biology.

Erickson GM(1), Currie PJ, Inouye BD, Winn AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL 
32306, USA. gerickson@bio.fsu.edu

Comment in
    Science. 2006 Jul 14;313(5784):158.

The size and age structures for four assemblages of North American 
tyrannosaurs-Albertosaurus, Tyrannosaurus, Gorgosaurus, and 
Daspletosaurus-reveal a pronounced, bootstrap-supported pattern of age-specific 
mortality characterized by relatively high juvenile survivorship and increased 
mortality at midlife and near the maximum life span. Such patterns are common 
today in wild populations of long-lived birds and mammals. Factors such as 
predation and entrance into the breeding population may have influenced 
tyrannosaur survivorship. This survivorship pattern can explain the rarity of 
juvenile specimens in museum collections.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1125721
PMID: 16840697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2006 Aug;60(8):669-71. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2005.038273.

Democratisation and health after the fall of the Wall.

Alvarez-Dardet C(1), Franco-Giraldo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Alicante, Spain. 
carlos.alvarez@ua.es

OBJECTIVES: The fall of the Wall in 1989 can be seen as a natural experiment in 
the epidemiological sense to further examine the relation between democracy and 
health.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Ecological study in the 23 post-communist countries, during 
the last decade of the 20th century, exploring the relations between the level 
of democratisation and health, taking into account as relevant confounders 
wealth and the level of inequality.
MAIN RESULTS: A significant correlation (p<0.01) was found of the democratic 
deficit of the countries with the health indicators circa 2000, with values of 
Pearson's coefficient of -0.629 for life expectancy, 0.760 for infant mortality, 
and 0.555 for maternal mortality. These associations remain significant after 
adjustment by lineal regression for GNP per capita and the Gini coefficient, 
with R(2) values of 0.336 for life expectancy, 0.575 for infant mortality, and 
0.529 for maternal mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings add pieces of evidence to the previously reported 
cross sectional association between democracy and health.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2005.038273
PMCID: PMC2588082
PMID: 16840754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: none.


81. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2006 Aug;60(8):686-93. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2005.041889.

Health underachievement and overachievement in English local authorities.

Doran T(1), Drever F, Whitehead M.

Author information:
(1)National Primary Care Research and Development Centre, University of 
Manchester, UK. tim.doran@man.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To identify English local authorities that "overachieve" and 
"underachieve" in health terms, given their level of deprivation, 
sociodemographic context, and region.
DESIGN: Cross sectional study using data from the 1991 UK census and mortality 
data from 2000-2.
SETTING: England.
PARTICIPANTS: 354 local authorities (total population 49 558 000).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy. Residual life expectancy after 
regression analysis.
RESULTS: In general, the more materially deprived the population of a local 
authority was in 1991, the lower its life expectancy a decade later, with men 
being more sensitive to the effects of deprivation than women. Many local 
authorities, however, did not follow this general trend, and these shared common 
characteristics. Mining, Manufacturing and Industry, and Urban Fringe 
authorities collectively had lower life expectancies than predicted by their 
level of deprivation, as did authorities located in the north west. Outer London 
and Education Centres and Inner London authorities had much higher life 
expectancies than predicted, as did authorities located in the east, south east, 
and south west. Given their level of deprivation, sociodemographic context, and 
region, 11 local authorities significantly overachieved for male life expectancy 
and 10 underachieved, while 12 overachieved for female life expectancy and three 
underachieved.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy in English local authorities is strongly associated 
not only with material deprivation, but with the local sociodemographic context 
and the region where the authority is located. Some authorities defy their 
contexts, however, and overachieve in health terms, while others, including some 
in affluent areas, underachieve.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2005.041889
PMCID: PMC2588077
PMID: 16840758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: none.


82. S Afr Med J. 2006 Jun;96(6):502-4.

Tuberculosis control in South Africa--will HAART help?

Lawn SD(1), Wood R.

Author information:
(1)Desmond Tutu HIV Centre, Institute of Infectious Diseases and Molecular 
Medicine, University of Cape Town, South Africa.

PMID: 16841129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Water Sci Technol. 2006;53(9):247-52. doi: 10.2166/wst.2006.288.

Estimation of reduced and increasing health risks by installation of urban 
wastewater systems.

Aramaki T(1), Galal M, Hanaki K.

Author information:
(1)School of Environment, Resources and Development, Asian Institute of 
Technology, Pathumthani, Thailand. aramaki@ait.ac.th

This paper aims to propose a methodological framework for quantifying the 
reduction and increase of health risks associated with urban wastewater systems. 
A risk assessment model was used to quantify reduction in disease burden while a 
life cycle assessment approach was used to quantify increasing risks by 
environmental loading. Disability adjusted life years (DALYs) was used to 
quantify health risks. This framework was applied to a hypothetical watershed to 
evaluate health risks by installation of wastewater treatment systems. In this 
hypothetical case, 55 DALYs per year of health risk would be reduced for 200,000 
people in the downstream community by constructing wastewater systems for 
200,000 people, while a range from 1.9 to 22 DALYs per year of health risks 
would be generated by materials and energy consumption for construction and 
operation of wastewater systems. However, this result would significantly 
change, depending on the parameters used in this analysis. The proposed 
methodology should be improved to obtain more precise results, but it will 
suggest useful information to discuss the overall effects due to the 
installation of various types of urban wastewater systems.

DOI: 10.2166/wst.2006.288
PMID: 16841749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Viral Hepat. 2006 Jun;13(6):377-86. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2893.2005.00700.x.

The economics of treating chronic hepatitis C patients with peginterferon 
alpha-2a (40 kDa) plus ribavirin presenting with persistently normal 
aminotransferase.

Hornberger J(1), Farci P, Prati D, Zeuzem S, Green J, Patel KK.

Author information:
(1)Acumen LLC/The SPHERE Institute, Burlingame, CA 94010, USA. 
jhornberger@acumen-llc.com

Peginterferon alpha-2a (40 kDa) plus ribavirin is effective at achieving 
sustained viral response compared with no treatment in patients with chronic 
hepatitis C (CHC) and persistently normal aminotransferase levels (PNALT). The 
cost-effectiveness of treating CHC in the setting of PNALT has not been 
assessed. Disease progression in patients with PNALT was simulated in a Markov 
model. The rate of fibrosis progression, quality of life and costs for each 
health state were based on literature estimates. The perspective of the Italian 
National Health Service was adopted and costs (euro 2003) and benefits were 
discounted at 3%. Sensitivity analyses were performed on important parameters. 
The primary analysis compared combination therapy with peginterferon alpha-2a 
(40 kDa) plus ribavirin to no treatment in a cohort of patients with mean age 45 
years, and was based on findings from a multinational, randomized trial in 
patients with PNALT. In genotype 1 patients, the risk of cirrhosis at 30 years 
is forecast to fall from 32% with no treatment to 19% with combination therapy, 
increasing quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) by 0.74 years at an incremental 
cost per QALY gained of euro 16,831. The 30-year risk of cirrhosis in genotype 2 
or 3 is projected to fall to 9% with combination therapy, an increase in QALYs 
of 1.34 years, at an incremental cost per QALY gained of euro 3,000. Thus 
treatment of PNALT with peginterferon alpha-2a (40 kDa) plus ribavirin is 
projected to reduce the incidence of cirrhosis, increase life expectancy and 
have an acceptable cost-effectiveness ratio from a societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2893.2005.00700.x
PMID: 16842440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Aging Cell. 2006 Jun;5(3):275-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2006.00212.x.

Temperature affects longevity and age-related locomotor and cognitive decay in 
the short-lived fish Nothobranchius furzeri.

Valenzano DR(1), Terzibasi E, Cattaneo A, Domenici L, Cellerino A.

Author information:
(1)Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa, Italy.

Temperature variations are known to modulate aging and life-history traits in 
poikilotherms as different as worms, flies and fish. In invertebrates, 
temperature affects lifespan by modulating the slope of age-dependent 
acceleration in death rate, which is thought to reflect the rate of age-related 
damage accumulation. Here, we studied the effects of temperature on aging 
kinetics, aging-related behavioural deficits, and age-associated histological 
markers of senescence in the short-lived fish Nothobranchius furzeri. This 
species shows a maximum captive lifespan of only 3 months, which is tied with 
acceleration in growth and expression of aging biomarkers. These biological 
peculiarities make it a very convenient animal model for testing the effects of 
experimental manipulations on life-history traits in vertebrates. Here, we show 
that (i) lowering temperature from 25 degrees C to 22 degrees C increases both 
median and maximum lifespan; (ii) life extension is due to reduction in the 
slope of the age-dependent acceleration in death rate; (iii) lowering 
temperature from 25 degrees C to 22 degrees C retards the onset of age-related 
locomotor and learning deficits; and (iv) lowering temperature from 25 degrees C 
to 22 degrees C reduces the accumulation of the age-related marker lipofuscin. 
We conclude that lowering water temperature is a simple experimental 
manipulation which retards the rate of age-related damage accumulation in this 
short-lived species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2006.00212.x
PMID: 16842500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Aquat Toxicol. 2006 Aug 23;79(2):176-84. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2006.06.007. 
Epub 2006 Jul 13.

Effects of competition and coal-combustion wastes on recruitment and life 
history characteristics of salamanders in temporary wetlands.

Roe JH(1), Hopkins WA, Durant SE, Unrine JM.

Author information:
(1)Savannah River Ecology Laboratory, University of Georgia, Aiken, SC 29802, 
USA. roe@aerg.canberra.edu.au

Amphibians in natural systems must cope with a number of biotic and abiotic 
stressors that can potentially interact with pollutants to influence toxicity. 
Although interactive effects of short-lived pesticides with various 
environmental stressors have been studied, how persistent and bioaccumulative 
compounds such as metals interact with natural stressors to influence amphibians 
remains unexplored. We exposed the salamander Ambystoma talpoideum to 
coal-combustion wastes (a complex mixture of metals and metalloids, hereafter 
referred to as CCW) at low and high larval density throughout aquatic 
development in mesocosms simulating temporary wetlands. CCW and high density 
reduced survival to metamorphosis by 57-77% and 85-92%, respectively, and the 
effects of these two factors together were additive. Reduced metamorphosis was 
due in part to larval mortality prior to initiation of pond drying, but CCW and 
high density also extended the larval period, causing mortality of larvae that 
were not ready to metamorphose before the pond dried. To our knowledge, this is 
the first demonstration of a pollutant-induced extension of larval period 
leading to reduction in amphibian recruitment. Metamorphs were smaller in high 
density compared to low in reference ponds, but those from CCW emerged at 
similar sizes irrespective of density, suggesting less-than-additive effects of 
density and CCW on metamorph size. The adverse responses of salamanders to CCW 
were likely due to direct toxicity, as A. talpoideum metamorphs accumulated high 
concentrations of a suite of trace elements (As, Se, Sr, and V), and also to 
indirect effects on the community food web. We conclude that in no case did the 
addition of a natural stressor (high density) exacerbate CCW-related effects, 
but that the effects of CCW alone can be detrimental to larvae of salamanders 
that breed in temporary ponds.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2006.06.007
PMID: 16842868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Exp Gerontol. 2006 Aug;41(8):718-26. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.06.003. Epub
2006  Jul 13.

Nampt/PBEF/Visfatin: a regulator of mammalian health and longevity?

Yang H(1), Lavu S, Sinclair DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Paul F. Glenn Laboratories for the Biological 
Mechanisms of Aging, Harvard Medical School, 77 Ave Louis Pasteur, Boston, MA, 
USA.

Eukaryotes have evolved elaborate mechanisms to survive periods of adversity. By 
manipulating genes that control these mechanisms, researchers have found they 
can generate more stress resistant, longer-lived organisms. One of these is the 
PNC1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a master "longevity regulatory gene" that 
translates a variety of environmental stresses into lifespan extension by 
activating the sirtuin family of longevity deacetylases. Master longevity genes 
such as PNC1 are highly adaptive because they allow organisms to respond in a 
concerted way to adversity and to rapidly evolve life strategies to compensate 
for a changing environment. Hence, they should be well conserved. We propose 
that there is a functional equivalent of PNC1 in mammals called Nampt (a.k.a. 
PBEF/Visfatin), a stress-responsive gene that would coordinately regulate 
metabolism, cell defenses, and resistance to diseases of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.06.003
PMCID: PMC3366689
PMID: 16842957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Jul 18;48(2):253-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2006.02.063.
 Epub 2006 Jun 22.

Cost effectiveness of paclitaxel-eluting stents for patients undergoing 
percutaneous coronary revascularization: results from the TAXUS-IV Trial.

Bakhai A(1), Stone GW, Mahoney E, Lavelle TA, Shi C, Berezin RH, Lahue BJ, Clark 
MA, Lacey MJ, Russell ME, Ellis SG, Hermiller JB, Cox DA, Cohen DJ; TAXUS-IV 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Jul 18;48(2):268-9.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to compare aggregate medical care costs for 
patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention with paclitaxel-eluting 
stents (PES) and bare-metal stents (BMS) and to formally evaluate the 
incremental cost effectiveness of PES for patients undergoing single-vessel 
percutaneous coronary intervention.
BACKGROUND: Although the cost effectiveness of SES has been studied in both 
clinical trials and decision-analytic models, few data exist on the cost 
effectiveness of alternative drug-eluting stent (DES) designs. In addition, no 
clinical trials have specifically examined the cost effectiveness of DES among 
patients managed without mandatory angiographic follow-up.
METHODS: We performed a prospective economic evaluation among 1,314 patients 
undergoing percutaneous coronary revascularization randomized to either PES (N = 
662) or BMS (N = 652) in the TAXUS-IV trial. Clinical outcomes, resource use, 
and costs (from a societal perspective) were assessed prospectively for all 
patients over a 1-year follow-up period. Cost effectiveness was defined as the 
incremental cost per target vessel revascularization (TVR) event avoided and was 
analyzed separately among cohorts assigned to mandatory angiographic follow-up 
(n = 732) or clinical follow-up alone (n = 582).
RESULTS: The PES reduced TVR by 12.2 events per 100 patients treated, resulting 
in a 1-year cost difference of 572 dollars per patient with incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of 4,678 dollars per TVR avoided and 47,798 
dollars/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Among patients assigned to 
clinical follow-up alone, the net 1-year cost difference was 97 dollars per 
patient with cost-effectiveness ratios of 760 dollars per TVR event avoided and 
$5,105/QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: In the TAXUS-IV trial, treatment with PES led to substantial 
reductions in the need for repeat revascularization while increasing 1-year 
costs only modestly. The cost-effectiveness ratio for PES in the study 
population compares reasonably with that for other treatments that reduce 
coronary restenosis, including alternative drug-eluting stent platforms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2006.02.063
PMID: 16843171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006 Jul 18;48(2):349-55. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2006.03.041.
 Epub 2006 Jun 22.

Estimates of life expectancy by adolescents and young adults with congenital 
heart disease.

Reid GJ(1), Webb GD, Barzel M, McCrindle BW, Irvine MJ, Siu SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada. greid@uwo.ca

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to determine what adolescents and young adults 
with moderate to complex congenital heart disease (CHD) believe their life span 
to be and to examine correlates of their beliefs.
BACKGROUND: Patients with moderate to complex CHD have a shortened life 
expectancy. Patients' perceptions of their life expectancy have not been 
examined.
METHODS: Young adults and older adolescents with moderate or complex CHD (n = 
296) estimated their own life expectancy and that of healthy peers, and rated 
their health status and risk of CHD complications. Adults with CHD discussed 
reasons for life expectancy ratings in an interview.
RESULTS: Patients with CHD expected to live to age 75 +/- 11 years, only 4 years 
less than their healthy peers. Over 85% of patients expected to live longer than 
our estimates of their life expectancy. Poorer health status and higher 
perceived risk of CHD complications related to shorter perceived life 
expectancy. Young adults lacked awareness and understanding of CHD-specific 
risks, and their life expectancy perceptions often related to risk factors for 
coronary artery disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with moderate to complex CHD expect to live almost as long 
as their healthy peers. For most patients, this is unlikely. The implications of 
these beliefs on health behaviors and life choices are unknown, but should be 
examined. Nevertheless, patients need accurate information delivered in a 
sensitive manner to make informed life choices regarding education, careers, and 
family.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2006.03.041
PMID: 16843186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2006 Oct;46(1):100-4. doi:
10.1016/j.yrtph.2006.05.011.  Epub 2006 Jul 14.

Balancing risks.

Kasamatsu T(1), Kohda K.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Musashino University, 1-1-20 Shinmachi, 
Nishitokyo-shi, Tokyo 202-8585, Japan. toshio-k@sky.plala.or.jp

Regulatory policies designed to reduce the health risk of environmental and/or 
synthetic chemicals generally aim for zero or negligible levels. Foods, on the 
other hand, especially those with a long history in the human diet, have been 
treated as essentially safe, even though they too contain various chemicals 
including nutrients. The recent debate on the presence in food of acrylamide, a 
possible human carcinogen, is likely to shake up the traditional paradigm held 
by regulatory agencies on chemical health risks. The current stance on the 
safety of acrylamide in food seems to be an extension of the traditional 
approach to assessment of environmental and/or synthetic chemicals. However, 
even foods which have long been a part of the human diet contain components that 
do not necessarily meet the safety margins applied to environmental and/or 
synthetic chemicals. In the future, a greater understanding of the effect of 
these agents on biological systems as well as the development of analytical 
methods for testing will result in many questions being raised concerning 
chemicals in foods, such as acrylamide which is under scrutiny today. Regulatory 
policies currently employ various standards for controlling chemical risk. These 
standards are dependent upon the labeling of the chemical in question, e.g., 
whether carcinogenic or non-carcinogenic, synthetic or natural, or whether a 
food or industrial chemical. Regardless of labeling, all chemicals to which we 
are exposed should be evaluated on an equal footing. Then, according to the 
level of the identified health risk, regulations could or could not be applied 
based on local circumstances, e.g., public acceptance, voluntary risk vs. 
involuntary risk, etc. In order to create a standardized system for chemical 
risk assessment, the introduction of uniform measures is essential. Loss of life 
expectancy (LLE) is one possible measure to assess chemical health risk. When 
LLE has been used, animal toxicity data have indicated that an ad libitum diet 
intake has considerably more impact on health risk than the acrylamide 
concentration of the ingested food. Reassessing the health effects of chemicals 
with a system of uniform measures could reveal many risks that need to be 
preferentially addressed above and beyond keeping minor toxicants to zero or 
negligible levels. Recognition of such risks may result in changes that conflict 
with existing regulations. In any case, whether consciously or unconsciously, 
people have always been exposed to a certain degree of chemical risk in their 
daily life. Based on the premise that the public can accept some degree of 
chemical risk in balance with other risks in their lives, regulatory bodies 
should be able to take a flexible and effective approach. In order to 
efficiently and comprehensively maximize the protection of our health against 
potential harm from chemicals using limited public resources, it is now time for 
regulatory agencies to restructure their policy frameworks across categories for 
controlling chemical health risks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2006.05.011
PMID: 16843577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2006 Aug;4(8):1017-24; quiz 976. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2006.05.020. Epub 2006 Jul 14.

Risks and benefits of infliximab for the treatment of Crohn's disease.

Siegel CA(1), Hur C, Korzenik JR, Gazelle GS, Sands BE.

Author information:
(1)Section of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Center, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Dartmouth Medical School, Lebanon, 
New Hampshire, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2006 Aug;4(8):976-8.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Infliximab is effective for the treatment of active Crohn's 
disease. However, rare but serious complications related to infliximab therapy 
including lymphoma, sepsis, and death have been reported. The purpose of this 
study was to analyze the risks and benefits of infliximab for the treatment of 
Crohn's disease with the goal of providing data to aid both physicians and 
patients in the process of making a decision about treatment.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was constructed to determine the risks and 
benefits of infliximab when compared with standard therapy. The analysis 
simulated 2 cohorts of 100,000 patients each, with one arm receiving infliximab 
while the other remained on standard therapy.
RESULTS: Model results showed that in 100,000 patients at 1 year, infliximab 
will lead to 12,216 more patients in remission, 4255 fewer surgeries, and 33 
fewer deaths from flares of disease. This is at the cost of 201 more lymphomas 
and 249 more deaths related to complications from infliximab. Overall, the 
infliximab strategy resulted in more quality-adjusted life years (QALYs/patient) 
than the standard therapy strategy (.77 QALYs/patient vs .75 QALYs/patient).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an increased risk of lymphoma and death associated with use 
of infliximab, the substantial clinical improvement and fewer surgeries as a 
result of infliximab result in an increase in QALYs. In properly selected 
patients, the benefits of infliximab could outweigh its risks. These data should 
help guide decision making and the informed consent process when considering the 
use of infliximab for the treatment of Crohn's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2006.05.020
PMID: 16843733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Thromb Res. 2007;119(6):687-90. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2006.05.013. Epub
2006  Jul 17.

Abdominal obesity and the risk of recurrent deep vein thrombosis.

Romualdi E(1), Squizzato A, Ageno W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Abdominal obesity has been found to be associated with an increased 
risk of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Whether patients with abdominal obesity have 
an increased risk of recurrence is currently unknown.
METHODS: Patients with objective diagnosis of DVT and a life expectancy of 
greater than 6 months underwent measurement of the circumference of the waist. A 
waist circumference of greater than 102 cm for men and greater than 88 cm for 
women defined abdominal obesity. Information on age, gender, and on the presence 
of risk factors for DVT was collected. At follow-up, all patients underwent 
serial compression ultrasound of the lower limbs and were clinically evaluated 
every 6 months.
RESULTS: One hundred patients were enrolled, 58 with abdominal obesity and 42 
without. Mean age was 64.5 and 57.3 years, respectively (p<0.05). Percentage of 
male patients was 32.8% and 81.0% (p<0.01). Unprovoked DVT and transient risk 
factors rates were similar in both groups. Overall, recurrent DVT was documented 
in 29 patients, 16 in patients with abdominal obesity (27.6%) and 13 in patients 
without (31.0%). At the multivariate regression analysis HR for VTE recurrence 
in abdominal obese patients was 1.26 (95% confidence interval=0.47-3.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Abdominal obesity does not seem to modify the risk of recurrent 
DVT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2006.05.013
PMID: 16844200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2006 Aug;4(8):988-997. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2006.05.019. Epub 2006 Jul 17.

The cost-effectiveness and budget impact of intravenous versus oral proton pump 
inhibitors in peptic ulcer hemorrhage.

Spiegel BM(1), Dulai GS, Lim BS, Mann N, Kanwal F, Gralnek IM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Veteran's Administration Greater Los Angeles 
Healthcare System, California, USA.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: The most cost-effective route of administering proton pump 
inhibitor (PPI) therapy in peptic ulcer hemorrhage remains uncertain. Oral (PO) 
PPI therapy may be less effective than intravenous (IV) PPI therapy, but is less 
expensive and does not mandate a 72-hour posthemostasis hospital stay to 
complete a full therapeutic course. Because there are currently no published 
head-to-head clinical trials comparing IV vs PO PPIs, we used decision analysis 
with budget impact modeling to measure the clinical and economic outcomes of 
these competing modes of administration.
METHODS: We compared 3 postendoscopic strategies for high-risk peptic ulcer 
hemorrhage: (1) PO PPI therapy, (2) IV PPI therapy, and (3) IV histamine(2) 
receptor antagonist therapy. The primary outcomes were cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained, and per-member per-month cost in a hypothetical managed care 
organization with 1,000,000 covered lives.
RESULTS: Compared with the PPI strategies, the histamine(2) receptor antagonist 
strategy was more expensive and less effective. Of the 2 PPI strategies, using 
IV instead of PO PPI cost an incremental 708,735 US dollars per year to gain 1 
additional quality-adjusted life-year. Substituting IV in lieu of PO PPI cost 
each member 2.86 US dollars per month to subsidize. The IV PPI strategy became 
dominant when the rebleed rate with PO PPIs exceeded 24% (base case = 13%), and 
when the hospital stay on IV PPIs decreased to less than 72 hours.
CONCLUSIONS: The higher effectiveness of IV PPI therapy may not offset its 
increased costs vs PO PPI therapy in ulcer hemorrhage. The managed care budget 
impact of IV PPIs exceeds most benchmarks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2006.05.019
PMID: 16844422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2006 Jul 15;31(16):1805-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000225971.26117.bf.

Surgical treatment of neck hyperextension in duchenne muscular dystrophy by 
posterior interspinous fusion.

Giannini S(1), Faldini C, Pagkrati S, Grandi G, Romagnoli M, Merlini L.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Department, Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli, Bologna, Italy. 
giannini@ior.it

STUDY DESIGN: Seven patients affected by Duchenne muscular dystrophy with neck 
hyperextension or poor head control in extension have undergone surgery 
consisting of posterior cervical interspinous fusion.
OBJECTIVE: To report the results of surgical treatment of neck hyperextension 
executed simultaneously with the correction of the thoracolumbar scoliosis.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: A severely progressive deformity of the spine in 
patients affected by DMD can involve also the cervical spine presenting a rigid 
neck hyperextension or poor head control in extension, forcing the patients to 
assume awkward compensating postures in order to look straight ahead, worsening 
significantly their quality of life.
METHODS: The procedure consisted of a posterior approach to the cervical spine, 
correction of the hyperextension by releasing the fibrotic muscles and 
ligaments, and stabilization with bone grafts driven into the interspinous 
spaces, to achieve solid fusion.
RESULTS: No surgical complications were observed, and fusion was achieved in all 
patients. The mean angle between C2-C7 decreased from an average of 29.8 degrees 
(7 degrees -56 degrees) before surgery, to an average of 18.5 degrees (6 
degrees-30 degrees) at 1 year of follow-up. Range of motion between C1-C2 was 
preserved.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment of neck hyperextension in these patients 
contributes to a better sitting position, to an easier nursing, to a better 
appearance.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000225971.26117.bf
PMID: 16845355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2006 Jul 15;31(16):1850-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000227288.00378.d5.

Work retention and nonspecific low back pain.

Campello MA(1), Weiser SR, Nordin M, Hiebert R.

Author information:
(1)Occupational & Industrial Orthopaedic Center, NYU Hospital for Joint 
Diseases, New York, NY 10014, USA. campem01@nyu.edu

Comment in
    Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2006 Jul 15;31(16):1858-9.

STUDY DESIGN: A cohort study of patients with nonspecific low back pain (LBP) 
participated in a 4-week multidisciplinary rehabilitation program.
OBJECTIVE: To identify factors that predict work retention 24 months after 
treatment in patients with nonspecific LBP.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: There is evidence that select physical, psychologic, 
and psychosocial factors are related to positive outcome for work-related 
nonspecific LBP. However, there is very little information related to work 
retention following an episode of nonspecific LBP. This is an exploratory study 
to identify select physical and psychosocial factors related to work retention.
METHODS: Patients who returned to work after treatment (n = 67) were followed 
for 2 years. Physical baseline measures included tests of flexibility, strength, 
and functional capacity. Psychosocial baseline measures were The Symptoms 
Checklist 90-R, The Pain Beliefs and Perceptions Inventory, The Oswestry Scale 
of perceived disability, The Work Stress Inventory, and The Quality of Life 
Scale. All physical parameters, perceived disability, and quality of life were 
tested before and after treatment. The dependent variable, work retention, was 
defined as the number of days that the subject worked during the 2-year 
follow-up period. Survival analysis was used to establish the predictive model.
RESULT: The average time out of work before treatment was 9 months (standard 
deviation 12.8) for 67 subjects (mean age 40 years [standard deviation 9.6]), 
including 18 females and 49 males. There were 18 participants (25%) that had 
interruption of work retention at follow-up. Average work retention was 362 days 
(range 47-682). Variables that reached a P value of <0.10 in the bivariate 
analysis were included in the multivariate analysis. They were trunk flexion 
(hazard ratio [HR = 2.4], 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.24-4.38; P = 0.01), 
trunk extension (HR = 2.1, 95% CI 1.02-4.16; P = 0.04), the somatization scale 
from the Symptom Checklist 90 revised (HR = 2.0, 95% CI 1.03-4.05; P = 0.04), 
and the obsessive-compulsiveness scale from the Symptom Checklist 90 revised (HR 
= 0.4, 95% CI 0.12-1.15; P = 0.09). Results showed that post-test trunk flexion, 
somatization, and obsessive compulsiveness predicted work retention (final trunk 
flexion HR = 2.5 [95% CI 1.26-4.79; P = 0.01], somatization scale HR = 2.5 [95% 
CI 1.25-4.93; P = 0.01], and obsessive compulsion HR = 0.2 [95% CI 0.07-0.77; P 
= 0.02]).
CONCLUSION: Psychosocial and physical factors are associated with work retention 
for patients with nonspecific LBP. The predictive value of certain constructs 
may vary with the time when they are assessed and how outcome is 
operationalized. Further studies are needed to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000227288.00378.d5
PMID: 16845363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. J Insur Med. 2006;38(2):94-104.

Use of a mean entry age underestimates expected mean mortality rate.

Singer RB.

OBJECTIVE: To explain the impact of the 10% annual increase in mortality rate in 
the life tables from about age 45 to 90 years on mean expected mortality rate in 
any follow-up (FU) group with a wide age range. Use of the mean age to enter a 
life table invariably underestimates the true mean expected mortality rate in 
small age groups with an age range of 5 to 10 years. As a result, when mean age 
and standard deviation (SD) are the only age characteristic given for the cohort 
reported in a FU study, the mean age must be adjusted upward to enter the life 
table to obtain a valid mean expected mortality rate of the entire cohort.
METHOD: The 1989-91 Decennial US Life Table is used to illustrate the variation 
of expected annual rate, q', with age, x. The magnitude of the error in mean q' 
introduced by failure to adjust mean age to obtain mean q' is illustrated in 
examples of both cardiovascular and cancer FU studies. Other tabular analytical 
data are also presented.
RESULTS: From the 1989-91 US Life Tables for the white population, it is shown 
that the mean increase in annual mortality rate between ages 45 and 90 years has 
been found to be 9.36 +/- 0.79% per year for males and 9.94 +/- 1.13 for 
females. For age groups with a narrow range (10 years or less), a mean age can 
be used to estimate an accurate mean q'. But if the range exceeds about 15 
years, as it does in most groups of patients in a FU study, a tabular q; 
obtained by entering the life table with the mean age is underestimated and is 
lower than the actual mean q'. The magnitude of the error increases with the 
magnitude of the range or SD. Examples are given of the magnitude of the error 
in one group as patients with coronary heart disease and in another group with 
cancer. Summary data on the magnitude of the error are also given for multiple 
groups in each category.
CONCLUSION: Recommendations are made on how to adjust the mean age, when 
possible, to provide a more accurate q', when data by separate age groups are 
not available.

PMID: 16845842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Insur Med. 2006;38(2):105-9; discussion 109-10.

Computing exact excess death rates from a published mortality study.

Shavelle RM(1), Strauss DJ, Paculdo DR.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 - 17th Ave, San Francisco, CA, USA. 
Shavelle@LifeExpectancy.com

We wish to estimate the associated excess death rate (EDR) or mortality ratio 
(MR) from a published study of persons with a given medical condition. This 
requires computation of the expected mortality in the study population. If age- 
and sex-specific person years of data are available, this task is 
straightforward. Most often, however, we have only descriptive 
statistics--percentage male, average and standard deviation of age--at the 
beginning of follow up. We show here how this limited information can be used to 
compute an exact EDR or other quantities of interest.

PMID: 16845843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Card Surg. 2006 Jul-Aug;21(4):379-85. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-8191.2006.00249.x.

The stentless freestyle bioprosthesis: impact of age over 80 years on quality of 
life, perioperative, and mid-term outcome.

Ennker J(1), Dalladaku F, Rosendahl U, Ennker IC, Mauser M, Florath I.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute Lahr/Baden, Lahr, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The steadily increasing life expectancy of the population in the 
Western World, together with the progress in noninvasive diagnostic methods and 
operating techniques lead to an increase in aortic valve surgery in elderly 
people.
AIM OF THE STUDY: Is there an increased risk of adverse perioperative and 
mid-term outcome for octogenarians and do they benefit from aortic valve 
replacement (AVR) with stentless bioprostheses?
METHODS: Between 1996 and 2002, 503 patients older than 60 years underwent AVR 
with a stentless Freestyle bioprosthesis. Seventy-six of them were older than 80 
years. The risk of operative mortality, perioperative complications, 
