Author information:
(1)Department of Traumatology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna General 
Hospital, Vienna, Austria. kambiz.sarahrudi@meduniwien.ac.at

Due to the advances in oncological therapy, the life expectancy of patients with 
malignant tumours and the incidence of pathological fractures have increased 
over the last decades. Pathological fractures of the long bones are common 
complications of metastatic disease; however, the outcome of different surgical 
techniques for the treatment of these fractures has not been clearly defined. 
The aim of this study was to evaluate differences in patient's survival and 
postoperative complications after the treatment of pathological fractures of the 
long bones. Eighty-eight patients with 96 pathological fractures of the long 
bones were analysed retrospectively. Seventy-five patients with 83 fractures 
received surgical treatment. The operative treatments used were intramedullary 
fixation, gliding screws, plate osteosynthesis or arthroplasty. Five patients 
were still alive at the end of data collection at a median time of 42.5 months, 
and 16.2% survived 1 year, 7% 2 years and 4% more than 3 years postoperatively. 
All surgically treated patients had a reduction of local pain and were able to 
walk after the operation. The overall rate of complications was 8%. Early 
palliative treatment of pathological fractures of the long bones is indicated in 
most patients in the advanced stage of metastatic disease. The low complication 
rate, reduction of local pain and early mobilisation justify the surgical 
stabilisation of fractures in this cohort of patients.

En raison des progrés des thérapies oncologiques l’espérance de vie et la 
fréquences des fractures pathologiques ont augmentées chez les patients porteurs 
de tumeurs malignes. Les fractures pathologiques des os long sont une 
complication de la maladie métastatique et l’efficacité des différentes 
techniques de traitement chirurgical ne sont pas clairement définies. Le but de 
cette étude était d’évaluer les différences en terme de survie et de 
complications selon le traitement. C’est une étude rétrospective de 88 patients 
avec 96 fractures pathologiques traitées par clou centro-médullaire, vissage, 
plaque vissée ou arthroplasty. Cinq patients étaient encore en vie à la fin de 
l’étude avec une médiane de 42,5 mois; 16,2, 7 et 4% avaient survécu 
respectivement 1, 2 ou 3 ans ou plus. Tous les patients traités chirurgicalement 
avaient des capacités de déambulation et une réduction de leurs douleurs après 
l’opération. Le taux global de complications était de 8%. Le traitement 
palliatif précoce des fractures pathologiques des os longs est indiqué chez la 
plupart des patients à un stade avancé de la maladie métastatique. Le faible 
taux de complications, la réduction des douleurs et la mobilisation précoce 
justifient la stabilisation chirurgicale chez ces patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-006-0205-9
PMCID: PMC3172736
PMID: 16944144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Neurol Res. 2006 Sep;28(6):588-94. doi: 10.1179/016164106X130489.

Congestive heart failure and Alzheimer's disease.

Polidori MC(1), Mariani E, Mecocci P, Nelles G.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Cognitive Frailty, Neurology Outpatient Clinic Dr. Nelles, Cologne, 
Germany. polidori@uni-duesseldorf.de

The increase in average life expectancy is resulting in an increasing prevalence 
of major invalidating illnesses, such as cardiovascular disease and dementia. 
Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a chronic, progressive disease representing 
the advanced stage of cardiac illnesses. Cognitive impairment is known to be a 
frequent feature of CHF patients. The epidemiologic pictures of mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and CHF are predicted to worsen with 
the demographic expansion of the elderly population. Nevertheless, there has 
been little structured research on cognitive impairment in patients with CHF. 
This is unfortunate not only because CHF is the leading cause of hospitalization 
in the elderly and a leading cause of disability and death, but also for 
important clinical and socioeconomic implications including those related to 
comorbidity in advanced age and the need to early detect factors which may 
precipitate the conversion of MCI to AD. In this review, several aspects of the 
role of CHF in cognitive impairment are evaluated. Owing to the lack of studies 
focusing on CHF in AD, the pathophysiology of cardiac failure in cognitive 
impairment is addressed in light of possible preventive strategies against the 
onset of AD. These include prevention of oxygen radical and peroxynitrite 
production, supplementation of nitric oxide (NO) donors, as well as the 
achievement of an adequate antioxidant supply, better if obtained with a 
targeted and individualized nutritional approach. A systematic neuropsychologic 
testing of older patients with heart failure is to identify those with early 
cognitive impairment and promptly establish traditional therapies such as 
angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, digoxin or beta-blockers. The 
neuropsychologic assessment in CHF patients is also fundamental to disclose 
conditions potentially favoring the onset of cognitive impairment such as 
depression. Finally, management schemes should include exercise training 
programs as well as patient and caregiver education.

DOI: 10.1179/016164106X130489
PMID: 16945209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Neurol Res. 2006 Sep;28(6):645-9. doi: 10.1179/016164106X130380.

Transcranial and extracranial ultrasound assessment of cerebral hemodynamics in 
vascular and Alzheimer's dementia.

Doepp F(1), Valdueza JM, Schreiber SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Charité, Berlin, Germany. 
florian.doepp@charite.de

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy of the population leads to a higher 
incidence of dementia. Exact differentiation between the most common types, 
vascular dementia (VD) and Alzheimer's dementia (AD), is crucial to the 
development and application of new treatment strategies. Both conditions are 
thought to differ greatly by their extent of microvascular affection. 
Transcranial and extracranial ultrasound permits analysis of cerebral 
hemodynamics and should help to differentiate between VD and AD. We compare 
multimodal ultrasound data between VD, AD and controls, and give an overview of 
the literature on this topic.
METHODS: Twenty VD and 20 AD patients were studied and compared with 12 
age-matched controls. Transcranial color-coded ultrasound was performed to 
assess blood flow velocity (V(mean)) and pulsatility indices (PI) of the middle 
cerebral artery (MCA). Extracranial duplex and Doppler ultrasound techniques 
were used to assess the blood volume flow (BVF) in the anterior circulation 
(both internal carotid arteries [ICA]) and posterior circulation (both vertebral 
arteries [VA]), the global cerebral blood flow (CBF = BVF(ICA) + BVF(VA)), the 
global cerebral circulation time (CCT = time delay of echo-contrast bolus 
arrival between ICA and internal jugular vein) and global cerebral blood volume 
(CBV = CCT x CBF).
RESULTS: MCA V(mean) in VD (36 +/- 8 cm/s) and AD (43 +/- 13 cm/s) were 
significantly lower than in controls (59 +/- 13 cm/s) but did not differ 
significantly between VD and AD groups. PI (1.1 +/- 0.2; 1 +/- 0.2; 0.9 +/- 0.2) 
only differed significantly between VD group and controls. CBF and CCT in VD 
(570 +/- 61 ml/min; 8.8 +/- 2.6 s) and AD (578 +/- 77 ml/min; 8.2 +/- 1.4 s) 
were similar but differed significantly from controls (733 +/- 54 ml/min; 6.4 
+/- 0.8 s). BVF in the anterior and posterior circulation of VD group (412 +/- 
62 and 158 +/- 38 ml/min) and AD group (428 +/- 62 and 150 +/- 41 ml/min) were 
significantly lower than in controls (537 +/- 48 and 199 +/- 26 ml/min) but did 
not differ significantly between the patient groups.
DISCUSSION: Transcranial and extracranial ultrasound does not help to 
distinguish between VD and AD. However, our results add insight into the 
pathophysiology of dementia, arguing in favor of a common 'vascular' pathway in 
both conditions.

DOI: 10.1179/016164106X130380
PMID: 16945217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Arch Bronconeumol. 2006 Jul;42(7):344-8. doi: 10.1016/s1579-2129(06)60544-2.

[Thromboembolic events in patients after a negative computed tomography 
pulmonary angiogram: A retrospective study of 165 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Jiménez D(1), Gómez M, Herrero R, Lapresa E, Díaz G, Lanzara L, Escobar C, 
Vicente A, Gaudó J, Máiz L, Sueiro A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología. Hospital Ramón y Cajal. Madrid. España. 
djc_69_98@yahoo.com

Comment in
    Arch Bronconeumol. 2006 Jul;42(7):314-6.
    Arch Bronconeumol. 2007 Jun;43(6):352; author reply 352-3.
    Arch Bronconeumol. 2007 Nov;43(11):640-1 author reply 641.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the value of computed tomography (CT) angiography of the 
chest as a diagnostic test to exclude pulmonary embolism and to assess 
compliance with diagnostic protocols for thromboembolic disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively studied patients who underwent CT 
angiography of the chest because of suspected pulmonary embolism in 2004. All 
the patients were followed for 3 months. The percentage of patients diagnosed 
with a thromboembolic event based on an objective test during the follow-up 
period was determined. We analyzed the percentage of patients with a negative CT 
angiogram on whom additional diagnostic tests (ultrasound of the lower limbs 
and/or ventilation-perfusion lung scintigraphy) were performed.
RESULTS: One hundred sixty-five patients underwent CT angiography of the chest 
because of suspected pulmonary embolism in 2004. Four of the patients were 
excluded from the study because they were on chronic anticoagulation therapy and 
a further 2 were excluded because they had a life expectancy of under 3 months. 
Of the remaining 159 patients, 60 had CT angiograms that were interpreted as 
high probability for pulmonary embolism (prevalence of 38%). Thirty-nine of the 
99 patients with a negative CT angiogram experienced an objectively confirmed 
thromboembolic event (63% sensitivity; 95% confidence interval, 53%-73%). Other 
diagnostic tests were not performed in 46% of the cases.
CONCLUSIONS: In our setting, a negative single-detector helical CT angiogram was 
not sensitive enough to exclude the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. 
Furthermore, compliance with internationally accepted diagnostic protocols was 
far from optimal.

DOI: 10.1016/s1579-2129(06)60544-2
PMID: 16945265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Exp Gerontol. 2006 Oct;41(10):974-91. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.06.060. Epub
 2006 Sep 1.

Long-lived C. elegans mitochondrial mutants as a model for human 
mitochondrial-associated diseases.

Ventura N(1), Rea SL, Testi R.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80302, 
USA. natascia.ventura@med.uniroma2.it

Mitochondria play a pivotal role in the life of cells, controlling diverse 
processes ranging from energy production to the regulation of cell death. In 
humans, numerous pathological conditions have been linked to mitochondrial 
dysfunction. Cancer, diabetes, obesity, neurodegeneration, cardiomyopathy and 
even aging are all associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. Over 400 mutations 
in mitochondrial DNA result directly in pathology and many more disorders 
associated with mitochondrial dysfunction arise from mutations in nuclear DNA. 
It is counter-intuitive then, that a class of mitochondrially defective mutants 
in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, the so called Mit (Mitochondrial) 
mutants, in fact live longer than wild-type animals. In this review, we will 
reconcile this paradox and provide support for the idea that the Mit mutants are 
in fact an excellent model for studying human mitochondrial associated diseases 
(HMADs). In the context of the 'Mitochondrial Threshold Effect Theory', we 
propose that the kinds of processes induced to counteract mitochondrial 
mutations in the Mit mutants (and which mediate their life extension), are very 
likely the same ones activated in many HMADs to delay disease appearance. The 
identification of such compensatory pathways opens a window of possibility for 
future preventative therapies for many HMADs. They may also provide a way of 
potentially extending human life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.06.060
PMID: 16945497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Stroke. 2006 Oct;37(10):2579-87. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000240508.28625.2c.
Epub  2006 Aug 31.

Population-based study of determinants of initial secondary care costs of acute 
stroke in the United Kingdom.

Luengo-Fernandez R(1), Gray AM, Rothwell PM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of specific 
interventions to prevent or treat acute stroke, it is necessary to know the 
costs of stroke according to patient characteristics and stroke subtype and 
etiology. However, very few such data are available and none from 
population-based studies. We determined the predictors of resource use and acute 
care costs of stroke using data from a population-based study.
METHODS: Data were obtained from the Oxford Vascular study, a population-based 
cohort of all individuals in nine general practices in Oxfordshire, UK, which 
identified 346 patients with a first or recurrent stroke during April 1, 2002, 
to March 31, 2004. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to 
identify the main predictors of resource use and costs.
RESULTS: Acute care costs ranged from 326 pounds sterling (lower decile) to 
19,901 pounds sterling (upper decile). There were multiple important univariate 
interrelations of patient characteristics, stroke subtype, and stroke etiology 
with hospital admission, length of stay, and 30-day case-fatality. For example, 
patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage were more likely to be admitted 
than patients with partial anterior circulation ischemic stroke and less likely 
to survive without disability, but length of stay was reduced as a result of 
high early case-fatality such that cost was substantially less. However, the 
majority of univariate predictors of resource use, cost, and outcome were 
confounded by initial stroke severity as measured by the National Institutes of 
Health Stroke Scale score, which accounted for approximately half of the 
predicted variance in cost. Cost increased approximately linearly up to an 
National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score of 18 and then fell steeply at 
higher scores as a result of rising early case-fatality.
CONCLUSIONS: Several patient and event-related characteristics explained the 
wide range of initial secondary care costs of acute stroke, but stroke severity 
was by far the most important independent predictor.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000240508.28625.2c
PMID: 16946157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Obstet Gynecol. 2006 Sep;108(3 Pt 1):535-40. doi: 
10.1097/01.AOG.0000227780.76353.05.

Cost-effectiveness of thromboprophylaxis with intermittent pneumatic compression 
at cesarean delivery.

Casele H(1), Grobman WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Section of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, 
Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of thromboprophylaxis at cesarean 
delivery with intermittent pneumatic compression.
METHODS: A decision tree model using Markov analysis was developed to compare 
two approaches to perioperative care at the time of cesarean delivery: 1) no use 
of perioperative thromboprophylaxis and 2) the use of intermittent pneumatic 
compression for thromboprophylaxis at the time of cesarean delivery. 
Postcesarean deep venous thrombosis was estimated to occur in 0.7% of patients 
(75% of whom were asymptomatic), and result in a 9% chance of postthrombotic 
syndrome. Mechanical prophylaxis was assumed to decrease the risk of deep venous 
thrombosis by 70% and to cost 120 dollars. Probability of morbidity and 
mortality of venous thromboembolism as well as anticoagulation and the costs and 
utilities for different health state were derived from published studies. 
Sensitivity analysis was performed over a wide range of variable estimates.
RESULTS: Using the assumptions in our base case, routine thromboprophylaxis for 
cesarean delivery cost 39,545 dollars per quality-adjusted life year. One-way 
sensitivity analysis revealed that as long as the incidence of postcesarean deep 
venous thrombosis was at least 0.68%, intermittent pneumatic compression reduced 
the incidence of deep venous thrombosis by at least 50%, or the cost of 
intermittent pneumatic compression was less than 180 dollars, the 
cost-effectiveness of mechanical prophylaxis did not exceed 50,000 dollars per 
quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: Mechanical thromboprophylaxis is estimated to be a cost-effective 
strategy under a wide range of circumstances.

DOI: 10.1097/01.AOG.0000227780.76353.05
PMID: 16946212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. J Intensive Care Med. 2006 Sep-Oct;21(5):287-95. doi:
10.1177/0885066606290670.

Obesity and sepsis.

Vachharajani V(1), Vital S.

Author information:
(1)Wake Forest University Health Sciences Center, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
USA. vvidula@hotmail.com

Obesity has reached epidemic proportions over the last few decades. Obesity is 
associated with increased morbidity and mortality in hypertension, 
cardiovascular diseases, stroke, and cancer and is feared to decrease overall 
life expectancy over the next few decades. There is a growing body of evidence 
suggesting that obesity is a chronic inflammatory disease. Obesity is becoming a 
cause of concern in critically ill patients as well. Sepsis is the number one 
cause of morbidity and mortality in noncoronary artery disease critical care 
units all over the world and is associated with a high cost of care. An increase 
in morbidity in obese septic patients compared with lean people is a cause of 
growing concern. Laboratory evidence suggests that there is exaggeration in the 
inflammatory and prothrombogenic phenotype assumed by obese compared with lean 
septic animals. The exact mechanisms underlying this phenomenon are unknown. 
This article reviews some of the pathophysiological processes responsible for 
the underlying inflammation in obesity and sepsis and reviews the literature for 
the association of the two.

DOI: 10.1177/0885066606290670
PMID: 16946444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2006 Sep 1;31(19):E713-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.brs.0000232809.04730.22.

Surgical correction of developmental scoliosis following cardiac 
transplantation: case report.

Tsirikos AI(1), Baker AD, McMaster MJ, Rose M.

Author information:
(1)Scottish National Spine Deformity Center, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom. atsirikos@hotmail.com

STUDY DESIGN: Case report.
OBJECTIVE: To present a pediatric patient who underwent successful 2-stage 
anterior and posterior scoliosis surgery 20 months after cardiac 
transplantation.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Cardiac transplantation has increased the life 
expectancy in children with end-stage cardiac failure caused by congenital heart 
disease or cardiomyopathy. Scoliosis is commonly associated with congenital 
cardiac disease. Previous reports have suggested that anterior scoliosis surgery 
is contraindicated after heart transplantation.
METHODS: We describe the case of a 13-year-old patient who underwent staged 
anterior and posterior spinal arthrodesis to correct a severe thoracic 
developmental scoliosis.
RESULTS: The 2 procedures were performed 1 week apart. Following the first 
stage, pulmonary edema had developed, which required reintubation and 
administration of diuretics. Significant blood loss occurred during the 
posterior spinal fusion. The patient had a satisfactory correction of her 
scoliosis and made a good recovery. Three years after surgery, she had no 
complaints of her back and had a solid spinal fusion.
CONCLUSIONS: Elective anterior and posterior spinal arthrodesis can be safely 
performed in cardiac transplant recipients with severe developmental scoliosis. 
This procedure can achieve optimum correction of the curvature and a successful 
outcome without long-term medical or technical complications.

DOI: 10.1097/01.brs.0000232809.04730.22
PMID: 16946645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. BMC Public Health. 2006 Sep 1;6:222. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-222.

Factors influencing consumer dietary health preventative behaviours.

Petrovici DA(1), Ritson C.

Author information:
(1)Kent Business School, University of Kent, Parkwood Road, Canterbury, Kent, 
CT2 7PE, UK. d.a.petrovici@kent.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The deterioration of the health status of the Romanian population 
during the economic transition from a centrally planned to a free market economy 
has been linked to lifestyles factors (e.g. diet) regarded as a main 
determinants of the disparity in life expectancy between Eastern and Western 
Europe. Reforms in the health care system in this transition economy aim to 
focus on preventive action. The purpose of this study was to identify the 
factors that impact on the individual decision to engage in Dietary Health 
Preventive Behaviour (DHPB) and investigate their influence in the context of an 
adapted health cognition model.
METHODS: A population-based study recruited 485 adult respondents using random 
route sampling and face-to-face administered questionnaires.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Respondents' health motivation, beliefs that diet can 
prevent disease, knowledge about nutrition, level of education attainment and 
age have a positive influence on DHPB. Perceived barriers to healthy eating have 
a negative impact on alcohol moderation. The information acquisition behaviour 
(frequency of reading food labels) is negatively predicted by age and positively 
predicted by health motivation, education, self-reported knowledge about 
nutrition and household financial status. A significant segment of respondents 
believe they are not susceptible to the elicited diseases. Health promotion 
strategies should aim to change the judgments of health risk.
CONCLUSION: The adaptation of the Health Belief Model and the Theory of Health 
Preventive Behaviour represents a valid framework of predicting DHPB. The 
negative sign of perceived threat of disease on DHPB may suggest that, under an 
income constraint, consumers tend to trade off long-term health benefits for 
short-term benefits. This cautions against the use of negative messages in 
public health campaigns. Raising the awareness of diet-disease relationships, 
knowledge about nutrition (particularly sources and risks associated with 
dietary fat and cholesterol) may induce people to adopt preventive dietary 
habits.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-222
PMCID: PMC1584406
PMID: 16948839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Sep;10(32):iii-iv, ix-xii, 1-93. doi: 
10.3310/hta10320.

The cost-effectiveness of testing for hepatitis C in former injecting drug 
users.

Castelnuovo E(1), Thompson-Coon J, Pitt M, Cramp M, Siebert U, Price A, Stein K.

Author information:
(1)Peninsular Technology Assessment Group, Peninsular Medical School, 
Universities of Exeter and Plymouth, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of testing for 
hepatitis C (HCV) among former injecting drug users (IDUs).
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases 1996-October 2004. Trent Regional Database 
Study. Routine UK mortality data.
REVIEW METHODS: A decision analytic model was developed to investigate the 
impact of case-finding and treatment on progression of HCV disease in a 
hypothetical cohort of 1000 people. This was compared with a cohort in whom no 
systematic case-finding is implemented but spontaneous presentation for testing 
is allowed to occur. A group of epidemiological and clinical experts informed 
the structure of the model, which has three main components: (1) testing and 
diagnosis, (2) treatment, and (3) long-term consequences of infection. A fourth 
component, case-finding strategies, examines the potential impact of 
case-finding in three settings: prisons, general practice and drug services.
RESULTS: Case-finding for HCV is likely to prevent, for 1000 people approached, 
three cases of decompensated cirrhosis, three deaths due to HCV and one case of 
hepatocellular cancer (at 30 years). Twenty-five additional people are likely to 
undergo combination therapy as a result of initial case-finding. One liver 
transplant is likely to be prevented for 10,000 people included in case-finding. 
Case-finding is likely to cost, in the general case, around pounds sterling 
760,000 more than a policy of not case-finding. The total cost of either 
strategy is high and driven predominantly by the cost of treatment with 
combination therapy (the costs of long-term consequences are heavily discounted 
owing to the duration of the model). Systematically offering testing to 1000 
people would cost around pounds sterling 70,000. In terms of life-years gained, 
case-finding is likely to result in an additional life-year gained for an 
investment of pounds sterling 20,084. Taking impacts on quality of life into 
account gives an estimate for the cost-utility of case-finding as pounds 
sterling 16,514 per QALY. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis shows that, if 
NHS policy makers view pounds sterling 30,000 per QALY as an acceptable return 
on investment, there is a 74% probability that case-finding for HCV would be 
considered cost-effective. At pounds sterling 20,000 per QALY, the probability 
that case-finding would be considered cost-effective is 64%. In all analyses, 
the probability of case-finding being considered cost-effective at a level of 
pounds sterling 30,000 per QALY was high. Case-finding in drug services is 
likely to be the most expensive, owing to the high prevalence of cases in the 
tested population. Correspondingly, benefits are highest for this strategy and 
cost-effectiveness is similar, in average terms, to the general case. 
Case-finding in general practice by offering testing to the whole population 
aged 30-54 years is, paradoxically, estimated to be the least expensive option 
as only a small number of people accept the offer of testing and HCV prevalence 
in this group is much higher than would be expected from the general population. 
Two approaches to case-finding in prison were considered, based on the results 
of studies in Dartmoor and the Isle of Wight prisons. These differed 
substantially in the prevalence of cases identified in the tested populations. 
The analysis based on data from Dartmoor prison had the least favourable average 
cost-effectiveness of the strategies considered (pounds sterling 20,000 per 
QALY). Subgroup analyses based on duration of infection show that case-finding 
is likely to be most cost-effective in people whose infection is more 
long-standing and who are consequently at greater risk of progression. In people 
who were infected more than 20 years previously, case-finding yields benefits at 
around pounds sterling 15,000 per QALY. Treatment effectiveness was modelled 
using estimates from randomised controlled trials and lower rates of viral 
response may be seen in practice. However, estimates of cost-effectiveness 
remained below pounds sterling 30,000 for all levels of treatment effectiveness 
above 58% of those shown in the relevant trials. The value of information 
analysis, based on assumptions that 10,000 people might be eligible for 
case-finding and that programmes would run for 15 years, suggests that the 
maximum value of further research into case-finding is in excess of pounds 
sterling 19 million. Partial expected value of perfect information (EVPI) 
analysis shows that the utility estimates used in the model eclipse all other 
factors in terms of importance to parameter uncertainty. This is not surprising, 
since the point estimates for differences in utility between states and across 
the arms of the model are small.
CONCLUSIONS: Case-finding for hepatitis C is likely to be considered 
cost-effective by NHS commissioners. Although there remains considerable 
uncertainty, it appears unlikely that cost-effectiveness would exceed the levels 
considered acceptable. Further improvements in the effectiveness of treatments 
to slow or halt disease progression are likely to improve the cost-effectiveness 
of case-finding. Case-finding is likely to be most cost-effective if targeted at 
people whose HCV disease is probably more advanced. Further empirical work is 
required to specify, in practice, different approaches to case-finding in 
appropriate settings and to evaluate their effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
directly.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10320
PMID: 16948891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2006 Sep;4(8):819-29. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2006.0069.

Integrating POLST into palliative care guidelines: a paradigm shift in advance 
care planning in oncology.

Bomba PA(1), Vermilyea D.

Author information:
(1)Excellus BlueCross BlueShield, Rochester, NY 14647, USA. 
Patricia.Bomba@lifethc.com

Because predicting and outlining guidance for all possible scenarios is 
difficult, advance directives are rarely sufficiently precise to dictate patient 
preferences in specific situations as a disease progresses. Nonetheless, advance 
care planning is an essential process that should begin at the time of 
diagnosis, if not already initiated, to ensure that all patient and family 
rights are preserved. Communicating effectively with the patient and family and 
having the patient designate a surrogate decision-maker are critical. Attention 
must be paid to resolving conflicts among patient values and preferences and 
those of family and the health care team. Patient-centered goals for care and 
expectations should be elicited at first assessment and reassessed frequently as 
conditions change. As a disease progresses, advance directives are rarely 
precise enough to predict all possible scenarios and outline guidance for care. 
Therefore, for patients with advanced metastatic cancer and a potential life 
expectancy of less than 1 year, converting patient-centered treatment goals into 
actionable medical orders while the patient maintains capacity is a more 
effective way to ensure that patient preferences are honored. Physician Orders 
for Life-Sustaining Treatment (POLST) and similar medical order forms provide 
explicit direction about resuscitation status ("code status") if the patient is 
pulseless and apneic. POLST also includes directions about additional 
interventions the patient may or may not want. A decade of research in Oregon 
has proved that the POLST Paradigm Program more accurately conveys end-of-life 
preferences that are more likely to be followed by medical professionals than 
traditional advance directives alone.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2006.0069
PMID: 16948957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. An Pediatr (Barc). 2006 Aug;65(2):154-7. doi: 10.1157/13091485.

[Nephrolitiasis in a patient with cystic fibrosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Orive Olondriz B(1), Elorz Lambarri J, Vázquez Cordero C.

Author information:
(1)Nefrología Infantil, Hospital Txagorritxu, Vitoria, España. 
borive@htxa.osakidetza.net

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the CF transmembrane conductance 
regulator (CFTR) gene. Defects in the CFTR gene cause abnormal chloride 
conductance across the apical membrane of epithelial cells, which results in 
progressive lung disease and also affects other organs. Because life expectancy 
has increased, other complications of CF have become more apparent. We present a 
patient with CF and symptomatic nephrolithiasis. Several stones were evident in 
both kidneys. A 24-hour urine sample showed hyperoxaluria (141 mg/24 h/ 1.73 
m(2)) and hypocitraturia and (206 mg/24 h/1.73 m(2), 177 mg citrate/g 
creatinine). Nephrolithiasis should be included in the differential diagnosis of 
patients with CF and abdominal pain; urinary excretion of oxalate and citrate 
should be investigated.

DOI: 10.1157/13091485
PMID: 16948978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Clin Neurophysiol. 2006 Nov;117(11):2473-81. doi:
10.1016/j.clinph.2006.06.715.  Epub 2006 Sep 1.

Dimensional complexity of neuromagnetic activity reduced during finger movement 
of greater difficulty.

Wu YZ(1), Yang TH, Lin YY, Chen SS, Liao KK, Chen LF, Yeh TC, Wu YT, Ho LT, 
Hsieh JC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, School of Life Science, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: We investigated the variation in dimensionality (D2) of neuromagnetic 
activity over the primary sensorimotor cortex (SM1) in healthy adults performing 
motor tasks of different difficulty.
METHODS: Magnetoencephalography (MEG) was used to record neuromagnetic activity 
during self-paced, brisk unimanual finger extension at a rate of 1 and 2 Hz 
using the index finger of the dominant and non-dominant hands in 16 healthy 
subjects. Motor task difficulty was rated by the relative difference in time 
measurement between 1 and 2 Hz finger movements of both hands. The relative 
difference in dimensionality of SM1 activity was calculated by subtracting the 
D2 value in 2 Hz movement from that in 1 Hz one within subjects.
RESULTS: Simple regression analyses show a significantly negative relationship 
between the relative dimensional complexity and the relative motor task 
difficulty in the contralateral SM1 for the left- (p<0.05), but not the right- 
(p=0.447) hand movement.
CONCLUSIONS: The present data suggest that a motor task of greater difficulty 
may engender a reduction of simultaneously active quasi-independent neuronal 
generators in the contralateral SM1 underpinned by stronger neuronal 
connectivity of a relatively low dimensionality.
SIGNIFICANCE: The decrease in dimensional complexity of MEG activity associated 
with a motor task of greater difficulty gives new insights to motor control 
strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2006.06.715
PMID: 16949339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Int J Cardiol. 2007 May 16;118(1):88-96. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2006.03.086.
Epub  2006 Sep 1.

Cost-effectiveness of coronary artery disease screening in asymptomatic patients 
with type 2 diabetes and other atherogenic risk factors in Japan: factors 
influencing on international application of evidence-based guidelines.

Hayashino Y(1), Shimbo T, Tsujii S, Ishii H, Kondo H, Nakamura T, 
Nagata-Kobayashi S, Fukui T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Healthcare Research, Kyoto University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Konoe-cho, Yoshida, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501 Japan. 
hayasino-y@umin.net

BACKGROUND: Screening for coronary artery disease (CAD) in asymptomatic diabetic 
patients with atherogenic risk factors is recommended by the American College of 
Cardiology/American Diabetes Association. It is not clear whether these 
guidelines apply to the Japanese population with a different epidemiology of 
CAD. This study evaluates the applicability of the U.S. guidelines to Japan, 
taking account of cost-effectiveness.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model was performed to 
measure the clinical benefit and cost of CAD screening in asymptomatic patients 
with diabetes and additional atherogenic risk factors. We evaluated cohorts of 
patients stratified by age, gender, and atherogenic risks. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness of not screening, exercise electrocardiography, exercise 
echocardiography, and exercise single-photon emission-tomography (SPECT) was 
calculated. The data used were obtained from the literature. Outcomes are 
expressed as US dollars per quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: Compared with not screening, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of exercise electrocardiography was $31,400/QALY for 60-year-old 
asymptomatic diabetic men, and 46,600 for 65-year-old women with hypertension 
and smoking. The ICER of exercise echocardiography was $31,500/QALY and of SPECT 
was $326,000/QALY, compared with the next dominant strategy. Sensitivity 
analyses found that these results varied according to age, gender, the 
combination of additional atherogenic risk factors, and the frequency of 
screening.
CONCLUSION: From a societal perspective the U.S. guidelines on screening for CAD 
in high risk diabetic patients are applicable to the Japanese population. 
However, the population subjected to screening should be carefully selected to 
obtain greatest benefit from screening.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2006.03.086
PMID: 16949690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Sep;44(3):496-502. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.06.002.

Duplex ultrasound criteria for femorofemoral bypass revision.

Stone PA(1), Armstrong PA, Bandyk DF, Keeling WB, Flaherty SK, Shames ML, 
Johnson BL, Back MR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular & Endovascular Surgery, University of South Florida 
College of Medicine, Tampa, 33606, USA.

PURPOSE: This study was conducted to evaluate the impact of duplex ultrasound 
surveillance on the patency of femorofemoral bypasses performed for symptomatic 
peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD).
METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of 108 patients (78 men, 30 women) 
with a mean age of 62 +/- 10 years who underwent femorofemoral prosthetic (n = 
100) or vein (n = 8) bypass grafting for symptomatic PAOD (claudication, 38%; 
rest pain, 41%; tissue loss, 11%; infection, 10%) during a 10-year period. Prior 
or concomitant inflow iliac artery stenting was performed in 26 patients (24%), 
and a redo femorofemoral bypass was performed in 19 patients (18%). Duplex 
ultrasound surveillance of the reconstruction was performed at 6-month intervals 
to assess patency, graft (midgraft peak systolic flow velocity) hemodynamics, 
and identify inflow or outflow stenotic lesions. Repair was recommended for a 
stenosis with a peak systolic velocity (PSV) >300 cm/s and a PSV ratio >3.5. 
Life-table analysis was used to estimate primary, assisted-primary, and 
secondary graft patency.
RESULTS: During a mean 40-month follow-up (range, 2 to 120 months), 31 bypasses 
(29%) were revised: 19 duplex-detected stenosis involving the inflow iliac 
artery (n = 15) or anastomotic stenosis (n = 4), or both, 11 for graft 
thrombosis, and 1 for graft infection. Abnormal inflow iliac (PSV >300 cm/s) 
hemodynamics or a mid-graft PSV <60 cm/s was measured in eight of 11 grafts 
before thrombosis. Mean time to revision was 30 +/- 17 months. The primary graft 
patency at 1, 3, and 5 years was 86%, 78%, and 62%, respectively. Correction of 
duplex-detected stenosis resulted in assisted-primary patency of 95% at 1 year 
and 88% at 3 and 5 years (P < .0001, log-rank). Secondary graft patency was 98% 
at 1 year and 93% at 3 and 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Vascular laboratory surveillance after femorofemoral bypass that 
included duplex ultrasound imaging of the inflow iliac artery and graft 
accurately identified failing grafts. A duplex-detected identified stenosis with 
a PSV >300 cm/s correlated with failure, and repair of identified lesions was 
associated with excellent 5-year patency.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.06.002
PMID: 16950423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2006 Sep;88 Suppl 1 Pt 2:305-21. doi: 
10.2106/jbjs.f.00324.

Use of distal femoral osteoarticular allografts in limb salvage surgery. 
Surgical technique.

Muscolo DL(1), Ayerza MA, Aponte-Tinao LA, Ranalletta M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Orthopedics Carlos E. Ottolenghi, Italian Hospital of Buenos 
Aires, Potosí 4215, 1199, Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
luis.muscolo@hospitalitaliano.org.ar

BACKGROUND: As diagnostic and therapeutic techniques improve, patients with a 
musculoskeletal sarcoma should expect longer survival, fewer complications and 
side effects, and an improved quality of life. Functional longevity of the 
reconstruction after resection of the tumor becomes a major concern, especially 
in young and physically active patients. The purpose of this study was to 
analyze the mid-term and long-term survival of reconstructions with a distal 
femoral osteoarticular allograft in a series of patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the results of eighty reconstructions with 
a distal femoral osteoarticular allograft following resection of a bone tumor in 
seventy-six patients. The mean duration of follow-up was eighty-two months. The 
rates of survival of the allograft and the joint surface were estimated with use 
of the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox regression analysis was performed to determine 
whether age, gender, the percentage of the femur that had been resected, and the 
use of chemotherapy were independent prognostic factors. Functional and 
radiographic results were documented according to the Musculoskeletal Tumor 
Society scoring system at the time of the latest follow-up.
RESULTS: Five patients were lost to follow-up, leaving seventy-five allografts 
in seventy-one patients available for study. Thirteen patients (thirteen 
allografts) died of tumor-related causes without allograft failure before a 
two-year radiographic follow-up could be performed. Of the remaining sixty-two 
allografts, fourteen failed: six failed as a result of infection; four, because 
of local recurrence; one, because of massive resorption; and three, as a result 
of fracture. At the time of final follow-up, at a mean of 125 months, 
forty-eight allografts were still in place. The overall rate of allograft 
survival was 78% at both five and ten years, and the rate of allograft survival 
without the need for resurfacing with a knee prosthesis was 71% at both five and 
ten years. With the numbers available, age, gender, the percentage of the femur 
that had been resected, and the use of chemotherapy were not found to have a 
significant effect on the overall allograft survival rates. The patients who 
retained the original allograft had good or excellent functional and 
radiographic results.
CONCLUSIONS: The life expectancy for most patients with a highly aggressive or 
malignant tumor in the distal part of the femur is now several decades. In this 
study, we found a high rate of survival of distal femoral allograft 
reconstructions at both five and ten years.

DOI: 10.2106/jbjs.f.00324
PMID: 16951102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Immunol. 2006 Sep 15;177(6):3657-68. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.177.6.3657.

Mechanisms regulating the proliferative potential of human CD8+ T lymphocytes 
overexpressing telomerase.

Menzel O(1), Migliaccio M, Goldstein DR, Dahoun S, Delorenzi M, Rufer N.

Author information:
(1)National Center of Competence in Research Molecular Oncology, Swiss Institute 
for Experimental Cancer Research, Epalinges, Switzerland.

In human somatic cells, including T lymphocytes, telomeres progressively shorten 
with each cell division, eventually leading to a state of cellular senescence. 
Ectopic expression of telomerase results in the extension of their replicative 
life spans without inducing changes associated with transformation. However, it 
is yet unknown whether somatic cells that overexpress telomerase are 
physiologically indistinguishable from normal cells. Using CD8+ T lymphocyte 
clones overexpressing telomerase, we investigated the molecular mechanisms that 
regulate T cell proliferation. In this study, we show that early passage T cell 
clones transduced or not with human telomerase reverse transcriptase displayed 
identical growth rates upon mitogenic stimulation and no marked global changes 
in gene expression. Surprisingly, reduced proliferative responses were observed 
in human telomerase reverse transcriptase-transduced cells with extended life 
spans. These cells, despite maintaining high expression levels of genes involved 
in the cell cycle progression, also showed increased expression in several genes 
found in common with normal aging T lymphocytes. Strikingly, late passage T 
cells overexpressing telomerase accumulated the cyclin-dependent inhibitors 
p16Ink4a and p21Cip1 that have largely been associated with in vitro growth 
arrest. We conclude that alternative growth arrest mechanisms such as those 
mediated by p16Ink4a and p21Cip1 still remained intact and regulated the growth 
potential of cells independently of their telomere status.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.177.6.3657
PMID: 16951325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Clin Calcium. 2006 Sep;16(9):1536-41.

[Treatment of osteoporosis from the socioeconomic perspectives].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka K(1).

Author information:
(1)Kyoto Women's University, Department of Food and Nutrition.

Health economic evaluation for osteoporosis suffers from methodological 
limitations. For example, osteoporosis results in various types of fractures 
each with different impact on patients. Another example is that some therapeutic 
drugs have extraskeletal benefits and adverse events. Osteoporosis and resultant 
fracture has profound effects on patients' life expectancy and quality of life, 
which, however, is not well understood. To promote the health economic 
evaluation for osteoporosis is our urgent research project in Japan.

PMID: 16951480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Am J Gastroenterol. 2006 Nov;101(11):2655-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00737.x. Epub 2006 Sep 4.

Pancreatic involvement in von Hippel-Lindau disease: report of two cases and 
review of the literature.

Elli L(1), Buscarini E, Portugalli V, Reduzzi L, Reduzzi C, Brambilla G, Menozzi 
F, Bardella MT, Piodi LP, Caldato M, Zambelli A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is an autosomal dominant multicancer 
syndrome caused by the germline mutation of a tumor suppressor gene. Affected 
individuals develop benign and malignant tumors of the central nervous system, 
kidneys, adrenal glands, pancreas, and reproductive system. Although VHL disease 
is mainly diagnosed after the detection of central nervous system tumors, they 
may not always be the first presentation.
CASE REPORT: We report the case of a patient presenting with pancreatic cysts 
for whom the final genetic diagnosis of VHL disease was formulated. During 
management, the use of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) proved to be valid in 
the characterization of the pancreatic lesions. Family screening also revealed 
the genetic mutation in the patient's son and imaging investigations showed the 
presence of multiple tumors. The diagnosis allowed us to plan appropriate 
follow-up for both, thus improving their life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Gastroenterologists should be aware of the frequent pancreatic 
involvement in VHL disease and EUS can be useful in this setting.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00737.x
PMID: 16952288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Clin Transl Oncol. 2006 Aug;8(8):547-9. doi: 10.1007/s12094-006-0059-z.

Cancer and aging.

García Jordá E.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-006-0059-z
PMID: 16952842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Curr Oncol Rep. 2006 Sep;8(5):337-42. doi: 10.1007/s11912-006-0055-z.

Hairy cell leukemia.

Dearden C(1), Else M.

Author information:
(1)claire.dearden@rmh.nhs.uk

Hairy cell leukemia is a rare B-cell neoplasm. When treated with either 
pentostatin or cladribine, complete and durable remissions can be secured and 
life expectancy for most patients is normal. A small minority of patients 
require alternative treatment with monoclonal antibodies or immunotoxins. 
Patients who attain a complete response to first-line treatment have the best 
prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-006-0055-z
PMID: 16953542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Sep 5;145(5):I14. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-5-200609050-00001.

Summaries for patients. Cost-effectiveness of a vaccine to prevent herpes zoster 
(shingles) in older adults.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Sep 5;145(5):317-25.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-5-200609050-00001
PMID: 16954354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Sep 5;145(5):317-25. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-5-200609050-00004.

Cost-effectiveness of a vaccine to prevent herpes zoster and postherpetic 
neuralgia in older adults.

Hornberger J(1), Robertus K.

Author information:
(1)SPHERE Institute and Acumen LLC, Burlingame, California 94010, USA. 
jhornberger@acumen-llc.com

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Sep 5;145(5):386-7.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Sep 5;145(5):I14.

BACKGROUND: The Shingles Prevention Study showed that a varicella-zoster virus 
(VZV) vaccine administered to adults 60 years of age or older reduced the 
incidence of herpes zoster from 11.12 to 5.42 cases per 1000 person-years. 
Median follow-up was 3.1 years, and relative risk reduction was 51.3% (95% CI, 
44.2% to 57.6%).
OBJECTIVE: To assess the extent to which clinical and cost variables influence 
the cost-effectiveness of VZV vaccination for preventing herpes zoster in 
immunocompetent older adults.
DESIGN: Decision theoretical model.
DATA SOURCES: English-language data published to March 2006 identified from 
MEDLINE on herpes zoster rates, vaccine effectiveness, quality of life, medical 
resource use, and unit costs.
TARGET POPULATION: Immunocompetent adults 60 years of age or older with a 
history of VZV infection.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: U.S. societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Varicella-zoster virus vaccination versus no vaccination.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental quality-adjusted survival and cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: By reducing incidence and severity of herpes 
zoster, vaccination can increase quality-adjusted survival by 0.6 day compared 
with no vaccination. One scenario in which vaccination costs less than 100,000 
dollars per QALY gained is when 1) the unit cost of vaccination is less than 200 
dollars, 2) the age at vaccination is less than 70 years, and 3) the duration of 
vaccine efficacy is more than 30 years.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Vaccination would be more cost-effective in 
"younger" older adults (age 60 to 64 years) than in "older" older adults (age > 
or =80 years). Longer life expectancy and a higher level of vaccine efficacy 
offset a lower risk for herpes zoster in the younger group. Other factors 
influencing cost-effectiveness include quality-of-life adjustments for acute 
zoster, unit cost of the vaccine, risk for herpes zoster, and duration of 
vaccine efficacy.
LIMITATIONS: The effectiveness of VZV vaccination remains uncertain beyond the 
median 3.1-year duration of follow-up in the Shingles Prevention Study.
CONCLUSIONS: Varicella-zoster virus vaccination to prevent herpes zoster in 
older adults would increase QALYs compared with no vaccination. Resolution of 
uncertainties about the average quality-of-life effects of acute zoster and the 
duration of vaccine efficacy is needed to better determine the 
cost-effectiveness of zoster vaccination in older adults.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-5-200609050-00004
PMID: 16954357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Sep 5;145(5):361-3; discussion 392. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-5-200609050-00009.

Do OSCAR winners live longer than less successful peers? A reanalysis of the 
evidence.

Sylvestre MP(1), Huszti E, Hanley JA.

Author information:
(1)McGill University and Montréal General Hospital, Montréal, Québec, Canada.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Sep 5;145(5):392-3.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 May 15;134(10):955-62.

In an article published in Annals of Internal Medicine in 2001, Redelmeier and 
Singh reported that Academy Award-winning actors and actresses lived almost 4 
years longer than their less successful peers. However, the statistical method 
used to derive this statistically significant difference gave winners an unfair 
advantage because it credited an Oscar winner's years of life before winning 
toward survival subsequent to winning. When the authors of the current article 
reanalyzed the data using methods that avoided this "immortal time" bias, the 
survival advantage was closer to 1 year and was not statistically significant. 
The type of bias in Redelmeier and Singh's study is not limited to longevity 
comparisons of persons who reach different ranks within their profession; it 
can, and often does, occur in nonexperimental studies of life- or time-extending 
benefits of medical interventions. The current authors suggest ways in which 
researchers and readers may avoid and recognize this bias.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-5-200609050-00009
PMID: 16954361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Sep 5;145(5):392-3. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-5-200609050-00016.

Reanalysis of survival of OSCAR winners.

Goodman S, Sox HC.

