
DOI: 10.3171/jns.2006.105.4.527
PMID: 17044553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Rural Remote Health. 2006 Oct-Dec;6(4):640. Epub 2006 Oct 16.

Diabetes on the Navajo nation: what role can gardening and agriculture extension 
play to reduce it?

Lombard KA(1), Forster-Cox S, Smeal D, O'Neill MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, New Mexico State University, 
Las Cruces, New Mexico, USA. klombard@nmsu.edu

Diabetes has emerged as a serious health problem in the Navajo nation, the 
largest Indigenous tribe in the US. Persons with diabetes are at greater risk 
for developing other diseases such as cardiovascular disease. Navajos with 
diabetes almost certainly face a diminished quality of life if their diabetes is 
not managed properly. Aside from genetics, the incidence of diabetes is highly 
correlated with income, poor diet, and limited physical exercise. A review of 
the literature also implicates dietary shifts initiated by historical events and 
contemporary trends. Numerous studies have shown that moderate consumption of 
fruits and vegetables, combined with exercise, reduces the risk of or delays the 
onset of many diseases including diabetes. As part of a larger holistic 
approach, home and community garden projects have successfully addressed 
nutrition and food security issues on a grassroots scale. The Navajos have a 
tradition of farming and therefore expanding Navajo diabetes interventions to 
include the promotion of community and home gardens provides multiple 
opportunities. The benefits of these actions include: (i) a variety of 
nutritious food grown locally; (ii) physical activity attained through the act 
of daily gardening tasks; (iii) positive income garnered in terms of savings in 
food otherwise purchased at stores and excess produce canned, or if desired, 
sold at a farmer's market or trading post; and (iv) positive mental outlook 
through a combined sense of accomplishment at harvest time, bonding with the 
earth, and spiritual growth. The objectives of this article were to review the 
development of diabetes on the Navajo nation though historical and contemporary 
literature, to provide insight into the role of diet and exercise in the 
progression of the disease, and to offer cases and suggestions in the role that 
home and community gardening can play in diabetes reduction. A concluding 
discussion proposes a multidisciplinary approach to tackling diabetes on the 
Navajo nation involving public health officials, nutritionists, and 
horticultural extension agents that could also be applied internationally in 
similar multicultural, semi-arid climates.

PMID: 17044752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Neurobiol Aging. 2007 May;28(5):693-703; discussion 704-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2006.06.028. Epub 2006 Oct 10.

Life-span influences of apoE4 on CNS function.

Teter B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine SFVP, University of California, Los Angeles and 
Veteran's Administration-GLAHS, Sepulveda VA Medical Center, mc 151, 16111 
Plummer St., Sepulveda, CA 91343, United States. bteter@ucla.edu

Comment on
    Neurobiol Aging. 2007 May;28(5):677-86.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2006.06.028
PMID: 17045362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Neurobiol Dis. 2007 Jan;25(1):8-16. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2006.08.018. Epub
2006  Oct 12.

Ivermectin inhibits AMPA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity in cultured motor 
neurons and extends the life span of a transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis.

Andries M(1), Van Damme P, Robberecht W, Van Den Bosch L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine, KU Leuven, Campus 
Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium. maria.andries@med.kuleuven.be

alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) 
receptor-mediated excitotoxicity contributes to the selective motor neuron death 
in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In this study, we investigated the 
effect of P2 receptor-influencing substances on kainate-induced motor neuron 
death in an in vitro model for AMPA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. Complete 
protection was found after preincubation of the motor neurons with ivermectin or 
Cibacron Blue 3G-A. Preincubation with both P2X4 modulators did not influence 
the number or Ca2+ permeability of the AMPA receptors and addition during 
kainate stimulation alone had no effect. Preincubation with a low concentration 
of ATP, the natural agonist of the P2X4 receptor, also protected the motor 
neurons against a subsequent excitotoxic stimulation, while high concentrations 
of ATP were toxic. Moreover, ivermectin increased the toxicity of low ATP 
concentrations, indicating that ivermectin can potentiate the effect of ATP on 
its receptor. Ivermectin and ATP also protected against hypoxia/hypoglycemia. To 
further investigate the relevance of these findings for ALS, we treated 
SOD1(G93A)-mice, a transgenic animal model for familial ALS, with ivermectin. 
This resulted in an extension of the life span of these mice with almost 10%. We 
conclude that ivermectin induces a mechanism in motor neurons, in vivo and in 
vitro, that protects against subsequent excitotoxic insults. Our in vitro data 
indicate that this protective mechanism is due to the potentiation by ivermectin 
of an effect of ATP mediated by the P2X4 receptor.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2006.08.018
PMID: 17045808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Age Ageing. 2006 Nov;35(6):642-3. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afl109.

Fraser syndrome in a 96-year-old female.

Impallomeni M(1), Subramanian D, Mahmood N, Illes J.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College London, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Age Ageing. 2007 Mar;36(2):238. Joseph, Illes [corrected to Illes, Joseph].

Fraser syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder in which the life expectancy 
is <1 year. The main features are cryptophthalmos, ear, nose and skeletal 
malformations, syndactyly, laryngeal stenosis and malformation of the 
uro-genital system, lungs, liver and central nervous system (CNS). We report the 
clinical, laboratory and post-mortem findings of this condition in an elderly 
woman aged 96 years. She is the oldest known patient with Fraser syndrome.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afl109
PMID: 17047011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Parasitol Res. 2006 Dec;100(1):1-9. doi: 10.1007/s00436-006-0280-2. Epub
2006  Sep 20.

Looking for putative functions of the Leishmania cytosolic SIR2 deacetylase.

Sereno D(1), Vergnes B, Mathieu-Daude F, Cordeiro da Silva A, Ouaissi A.

Author information:
(1)UR008 Pathogénie des Trypanosomatidés, 911 Avenue Agropolis, BP 64501, 34394, 
Montpellier Cedex 5, France. sereno@mpl.ird.fr

During the past few years, the silent information regulator SIR2 protein family 
has attracted great interest due to its implication in an organism's life span 
extension. They bear diverse subcellular localization and play a role in 
transcriptional silencing and DNA repair. The biochemical reaction catalysed by 
these enzymes (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependant deacetylase/adenosine 
diphosphate-ribosyl transferase) is supposed to be linked to metabolism. Members 
of this protein family were described in parasitic organisms, but little 
information is available on potential functions of such enzymes in these 
organisms. In this article, we review recent information on structure and 
peculiar functions of SIR2s in eukaryotes, with emphasis on parasitic protozoa, 
particularly the Trypanosomatidae. Through the enzyme localization and the 
diverse substrates and by-products of the enzymatic reactions, we approach the 
potential pathways in which the Leishmania cytosolic SIR2 protein can be 
involved.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-006-0280-2
PMID: 17048004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. J Nephrol. 2006 Jul-Aug;19(4):399-402.

Therapy of secondary hyperparathyroidism to date: vitamin D analogs, 
calcimimetics or both?

Cannella G(1), Messa P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Dialysis and Renal Transplant, San Martino University 
Hospital, Genoa, Italy. giuseppe.cannella@hsanmartino.it

Therapy with i.v. calcitriol (CLT), that had been the mainstay of the cure of 
severe secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) for many years, is often hindered by 
the occurrence of hypercalcemia, that requires discontinuation of the drug with 
consequent rebounding of the parathyroid hormone (PTH) oversecretion. To 
circumvent this shortcoming, CLT-analogs with less calcemic effects with respect 
to CLT have been developed. One of these analogs, paracalcitol (PCLT), proved to 
be at least as powerful as CLT in decreasing serum PTH, but it still remains 
endowed with some calcemic effect as the parent compound. Meanwhile, 
calcimimetics (CaMs) drugs targeting the calcium-sensing receptors on the PTG, 
have been marketed woldwide. Cinacalcet (CNC) is a CaM endowed with the unique 
prerogative to significantly decrease serum PTH while also decreasing serum 
calcium. Thus, one may attempt to speculate that CaMs may completely replace 
vitamin D derivatives from the therapeutic arena. Uremic patients, however, 
suffer from severe deprivation of biological vitamin D effects, that puts them 
in need of highly dosed vitamin D in order to both ameliorate their bone status 
and to preserve their general and cardiovascular health. Thus, a combination 
therapy with PCLT, which has a significant patient-survival advantage over CLT, 
and CNC seems to be more appropriate than only-one-drug based therapy for SHPT. 
Such a combination will hopefully result in a better control of SHPT, avoidance 
of cumbersome hypercalcemia and higher life expectancy for uremic patients than 
ever before.

PMID: 17048195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. BMC Cancer. 2006 Oct 18;6:247. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-247.

Glioblastoma multiforme with oligodendroglial component (GBMO): favorable 
outcome after post-operative radiotherapy and chemotherapy with nimustine (ACNU) 
and teniposide (VM26).

Vordermark D(1), Ruprecht K, Rieckmann P, Roggendorf W, Vince GH, Warmuth-Metz 
M, Kölbl O, Flentje M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Radiation Oncology, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany. 
vordermark_d@klinik.uni-wuerzburg.de

BACKGROUND: The presence of an oligodendroglial component within a glioblastoma 
multiforme (GBM) is considered a prognostically favorable factor, but the 
clinical outcome of patients with glioblastoma multiforme with oligodendroglial 
component (GBMO) after combined post-operative radiotherapy and chemotherapy has 
rarely been reported.
METHODS: We analyzed overall and progression-free survival in a group of ten 
consecutive patients initially diagnosed with GBMO between 1996 and 2004 (4.2% 
of all GBM patients). Median (range) age was 54 (34-73) years, 90% were resected 
and median radiotherapy dose was 54 (45-60.6) Gy. 80% of patients received 
post-operative chemotherapy with nimustine (ACNU) and VM26 (teniposide) for a 
median of 3.5 (1-6) cycles, the remainder were treated with post-operative 
radiotherapy alone. All specimens were reviewed by an experienced 
neuropathologist.
RESULTS: Neuropathological re-evaluation revealed GBM with an oligodendroglial 
component of 30% or less in five cases, predominant oligoastrocytic tumors with 
focal areas of GBM in four patients and WHO grade III oligoastrocytoma with 
questionable transition to GBM in one patient. Four of ten patients were alive 
at at 40, 41, 41 and 82 months. The median overall survival (Kaplan-Meier) was 
26 months, the 2-year survival rate was 60% (progression-free survival: 9.8 
months and 40%, respectively).
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, patients with GBMO treated with post-operative 
radiotherapy and chemotherapy with ACNU/VM26 had a better prognosis than 
reported for GBM in modern chemoradiation series.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-6-247
PMCID: PMC1621074
PMID: 17049083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Nov;10(42):iii-iv, xi-xiii, 1-229. doi: 
10.3310/hta10420.

A systematic review of the effectiveness of adalimumab, etanercept and 
infliximab for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in adults and an economic 
evaluation of their cost-effectiveness.

Chen YF(1), Jobanputra P, Barton P, Jowett S, Bryan S, Clark W, Fry-Smith A, 
Burls A.

Author information:
(1)West Midlands Health Technology Assessment Collaboration (WMHTAC), Department 
of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: This report reviews the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of adalimumab, etanercept and infliximab, agents that inhibit 
tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), when used in the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched up to February 2005.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic reviews of the literature on effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness were undertaken and industry submissions to the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) were reviewed. Meta-analyses 
of effectiveness data were also undertaken for each agent. The Birmingham 
Rheumatoid Arthritis Model (BRAM), a simulation model, was further developed and 
used to produce an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine randomised controlled trials (RCTs), most of high quality, 
were included. The only head-to-head comparisons were against methotrexate. For 
patients with short disease duration (<or=3 years) who were naïve to 
methotrexate, adalimumab was marginally less and etanercept was marginally more 
effective than methotrexate in reducing symptoms of RA. Etanercept was better 
tolerated than methotrexate. Both adalimumab and etanercept were more effective 
than methotrexate in slowing radiographic joint damage. Etanercept was also 
marginally more effective and better tolerated than methotrexate in patients 
with longer disease durations who had not failed methotrexate treatment. 
Infliximab is only licensed for use with methotrexate. All three agents, either 
alone (where so licensed) or in combination with ongoing disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), were effective in reducing the symptoms and signs 
of RA in patients with established disease. At the licensed dose, the numbers 
needed to treat (NNTs) (95% CI) required to produce an American College for 
Rheumatology (ACR) response compared with placebo were: ACR20: adalimumab 3.6 
(3.1 to 4.2), etanercept 2.1 (1.9 to 2.4), infliximab 3.2 (2.7 to 4.0); ACR50: 
adalimumab 4.2 (3.7 to 5.0), etanercept 3.1 (2.7 to 3.6), infliximab 5.0 (3.8 to 
6.7); and ACR70: adalimumab 7.7 (5.9 to 11.1), etanercept 7.7 (6.3 to 10.0), 
infliximab 11.1 (7.7 to 20.0). In patients who were naïve to methotrexate, or 
who had not previously failed methotrexate treatment, a TNF inhibitor combined 
with methotrexate was significantly more effective than methotrexate alone. 
Infliximab combined with methotrexate had an increased risk of serious 
infections. All ten published economic evaluations met standard criteria for 
quality, but the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) ranged from being 
within established thresholds to being very high because of varying assumptions 
and parameters. All three sponsors who submitted economic models made 
assumptions favourable to their product. BRAM incorporates improvements in 
quality of life and mortality, but assumes no effect of TNF inhibitors on joint 
replacement. For use in accordance with current NICE guidance as the third DMARD 
in a sequence of DMARDs, the base-case ICER was around pound30,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) in early RA and pound50,000 per QALY in late 
RA. Sensitivity analyses showed that the results were sensitive to the estimates 
of Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) progression while on TNF inhibitors and 
the effectiveness of DMARDs, but not to changes in mortality ratios per unit 
HAQ. TNF inhibitors are most cost-effective when used last. The ICER for 
etanercept used last is pound24,000 per QALY, substantially lower than for 
adalimumab ( pound30,000 per QALY) or infliximab ( pound38,000 per QALY). First 
line use as monotherapy generates ICERs around pound50,000 per QALY for 
adalimumab and etanercept. Using the combination of methotrexate and a TNF 
inhibitor as first line treatment generates much higher ICERs, as it precludes 
subsequent use of methotrexate, which is cheap. The ICERs for sequential use are 
of the same order as using the TNF inhibitor alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Adalimumab, etanercept and infliximab are effective treatments 
compared with placebo for RA patients who are not well controlled by 
conventional DMARDs, improving control of symptoms, improving physical function, 
and slowing radiographic changes in joints. The combination of a TNF inhibitor 
with methotrexate was more effective than methotrexate alone in early RA, 
although the clinical relevance of this additional benefit is yet to be 
established, particularly in view of the well-established effectiveness of MTX 
alone. An increased risk of serious infection cannot be ruled out for the 
combination of methotrexate with adalimumab or infliximab. The results of the 
economic evaluation based on BRAM are consistent with the observations from the 
review of clinical effectiveness, including the ranking of treatments. TNF 
inhibitors are most cost-effective when used as last active therapy. In this 
analysis, other things being equal, etanercept may be the TNF inhibitor of 
choice, although this may also depend on patient preference as to route of 
administration. The next most cost-effective use of TNF inhibitors is third 
line, as recommended in the 2002 NICE guidance. Direct comparative RCTs of TNF 
inhibitors against each other and against other DMARDs, and sequential use in 
patients who have failed a previous TNF inhibitor, are needed. Longer term 
studies of the quality of life in patients with RA and the impact of DMARDs on 
this are needed, as are longer studies that directly assess effects on joint 
replacement, other morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10420
PMID: 17049139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Mech Ageing Dev. 2006 Dec;127(12):883-91. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.09.003.
Epub  2006 Oct 17.

Calorie restriction and late-onset calorie restriction extend lifespan but do 
not alter protein storage in female grasshoppers.

Hatle JD(1), Wells SM, Fuller LE, Allen IC, Gordy LJ, Melnyk S, Quattrochi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Florida, 4567 St. Johns Bluff Rd. 
S, Jacksonville, FL 32216, United States. jhatle@unf.edu

Calorie restriction (CR) and late-onset CR enhance longevity in many organisms. 
Resource allocation theory suggests that longevity is enhanced by increasing 
somatic storage, at the expense of current reproduction. Phytophagous insects 
accumulate amino acids as hemolymph storage proteins for major developmental 
events. We hypothesized that protein storage is involved in life extension from 
CR. In a longitudinal experiment, we tested whether CR altered protein storage 
in female grasshoppers. Individuals on CR (60 or 70% of ad libitum) or 
late-onset CR had at least 60% greater longevity than ad libitum individuals. 
Age at first oviposition, dry mass of the first clutch, or lifetime fecundity 
were not affected by CR, but CR did increase the number of clutches produced. 
Most important, females on life-extending CR and late-onset CR did not differ in 
the concentration of hemolymph storage of proteins in comparison to ad libitum 
females. Protein storage changed with time in all groups, demonstrating 
sufficient sensitivity in our methods. Previous experiments have shown that 
severe CR ( approximately 30% of ad libitum) can reduce hemolymph storage. 
Therefore, the reduction in intake needed to extend lifespan is not sufficient 
to reduce protein storage in the hemolymph. These results do not support the 
hypothesis that protein storage is involved in life extension from CR.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.09.003
PMCID: PMC1764491
PMID: 17049582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Exp Gerontol. 2007 Jan-Feb;42(1-2):81-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.06.039.
Epub  2006 Oct 17.

The short-lived fish Nothobranchius furzeri as a new model system for aging 
studies.

Terzibasi E(1), Valenzano DR, Cellerino A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Neuroscienze del CNR, Pisa, Italy.

Genetic and pharmacological research on aging is hampered by the lifespan of 
available vertebrate models. We recently initiated studies on Nothobranchius 
furzeri, a species with a maximum life expectancy in captivity of just three 
months which represents the shortest documented captive lifespan for a 
vertebrate. Further research on N. furzeri has demonstrated that 1. Short 
lifespan is tied with explosive growth and accelerated sexual maturation. 2. 
Short lifespan is correlated with expression of age-related behavioral and 
histological changes. 3. Lifespan and expression of age-related markers can be 
modulated by water temperature. 4. Resveratrol, a drug characterized for its 
life-extending action in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila, increases 
lifespan and retards expression of age-related markers. 5. Aging-related genes 
can be easily isolated by homology cloning. Finally, different populations or 
species of Nothobranchius show large-scale differences in captive lifespan. In 
the last three years, N. furzeri has moved from biological curiosity to a 
promising model system for drug validation. Furthermore, this species occupies a 
favorable position in the Teleost's "tree of life". It is very close to the 
Japanese Medaka, and close to the pufferfishes and stickleback and might 
represent a very useful model for comparative genomics of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.06.039
PMID: 17049789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Aging Male. 2006 Sep;9(3):125-34. doi: 10.1080/13685530600714456.

Our common future: a rapidly growing and rapidly aging humankind.

Diczfalusy E(1).

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. egon.diczfalusy@glocalnet.net

DOI: 10.1080/13685530600714456
PMID: 17050111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Health Care Women Int. 2006 Nov-Dec;27(10):908-29. doi: 
10.1080/07399330600880541.

"Having the time of my life": an exploratory study of women with intellectual 
disability growing older.

Dew A(1), Llewellyn G, Gorman J.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. 
a.dew@fhs.usyd.edu.au

In this paper we report on an exploratory study with a group of 13 older women 
with intellectual disability in Sydney, Australia, to add to the limited 
knowledge about how they perceive their lives as they grow older. We report the 
findings from the qualitative data gathered as an extension of a structured 
interviewing process. Analysis revealed five themes: "it's just who I am," 
"enjoying support from family and friends," "being part of the community," 
"feeling healthy," and having "enough money to buy what I need." We discuss 
these themes in relation to the concept of resilience. Overall, the women we 
talked with were ageing well, with meaningful, productive, and sustainable 
lives.

DOI: 10.1080/07399330600880541
PMID: 17050333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. J Low Genit Tract Dis. 2003 Jul;7(3):194-202. doi: 
10.1097/00128360-200307000-00007.

Cost-effectiveness of pap smear screening for vaginal cancer after total 
hysterectomy for benign disease.

Fetters MD(1), Lieberman RW, Abrahamse PH, Sanghvi RV, Sonnad SS.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Family Medicine, University of Michigan Health System, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-0708, USA. mfetters@umich.edu

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost effectiveness of Papanicolaou screening for 
cancer after total hysterectomy for benign disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Decision analysis including Markov modeling applied to 
women aged 40 or older with a history of total hysterectomy for benign disease. 
We derived expected discounted costs and life expectancy.
RESULTS: Maximum gain in life expectancy between no screening and any screening 
strategy was approximately 3 weeks. Cost effectiveness in dollars per life-year 
gained was > or =$143,875 more than no screening for strategies starting at age 
50, and over $12 million for aged 40 or more screening strategy. None of the 
sensitivity analyses caused the incremental cost effectiveness of any strategy 
to come to less than $100,000 per life year gained compared with no screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite significant costs for any strategy, Pap smear screening 
after total hysterectomy for benign disease provides essentially no gain in life 
expectancy. In absence of risks for genital cancer, such screening is not cost 
effective.

DOI: 10.1097/00128360-200307000-00007
PMID: 17051068


564. Can J Psychiatry. 2006 Sep;51(10):635-46. doi: 10.1177/070674370605101003.

Evidenced-based treatment of opioid-dependent patients.

Van den Brink W(1), Haasen C.

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Department of Psychiatry, 
The Netherlands. w.vandenbrink@amc.uva.nl

Comment in
    Can J Psychiatry. 2006 Sep;51(10):621-3.

OBJECTIVE: To provide an overview of treatment options for opioid-dependent 
patients.
METHOD: We screened all published studies on the treatment of opioid dependence, 
with a special focus on systematic literature reviews, formal metaanalyses, and 
recent trials.
RESULTS: Both clinical experience and neurobiological evidence indicate that 
opioid dependence is a chronic relapsing disorder. Treatment objectives depend 
on the pursued goals: crisis intervention, abstinence-oriented treatment 
(detoxification and relapse prevention), or agonist maintenance treatment. The 
high quality of solid evidence in the literature demonstrates that there are 
numerous effective interventions available for the treatment of opioid 
dependence. Crisis intervention, frequently necessary owing to the high overdose 
rate, can be effectively handled with naloxone. Abstinence-oriented 
interventions are effective for only a few motivated patients with stable living 
conditions and adequate social support. Agonist maintenance treatment is 
considered the first line of treatment for opioid dependence. Numerous studies 
have shown efficacy for methadone and buprenorphine treatment, while maintenance 
with other agonists is also becoming available to a greater extent. Maintenance 
treatment with diamorphine should be made available for the small group of 
treatment-resistant, severely dependent addicts. Other harm-reduction measures 
can serve to engage individuals with opioid addiction who are not in treatment.
CONCLUSION: Opioid dependence is a chronic relapsing disease that is difficult 
to cure, but effective treatments are available to stabilize patients and reduce 
harm, thereby increasing life expectancy and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1177/070674370605101003
PMID: 17052031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol Endod. 2006 Nov;102(5):e9-13.
doi:  10.1016/j.tripleo.2006.03.009. Epub 2006 Sep 1.

Subperiosteal abscess of the orbit: an unusual complication of the third molar 
surgery.

Muñoz-Guerra MF(1), González-García R, Capote AL, Escorial V, Gías LN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Hospital La Princesa, 
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain. maxmferm@excite.com 
<maxmferm@excite.com>

Few procedures in oral surgery show severe complications with the potential to 
result in life-threatening problems. Subperiosteal orbital abscess is an 
extremely rare but transcendent complication arising spontaneously or after 
dental surgery. This report describes a case of subperiosteal abscess of the 
orbit in a 57-year-old man that occurred following the uneventful extraction of 
the left maxillary third molar. In the emergency department, proptosis and 
extraocular muscle dysfunction were marked but no decrease in visual acuity was 
observed. Echography, computed tomography scan, and magnetic resonance imaging 
allowed distinction from other types of orbital inflammation. Surgical drainage 
confirmed the diagnosis. In this patient, orbital abscess was probably caused by 
extension of the infection to the pterygopalatine and infratemporal regions 
progressing next to the inferior orbital fissure. This report highlights the 
difficulty in the clinical diagnosis of this complication.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tripleo.2006.03.009
PMID: 17052628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Crit Care Med. 2006 Nov;34(11):2849-51. doi:
10.1097/01.CCM.0000242925.93054.2C.

Wide variations in the cost-effectiveness of critical care.

Rosenberg AL, Tremper KK.

DOI: 10.1097/01.CCM.0000242925.93054.2C
PMID: 17053572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Lifetime Data Anal. 2006 Dec;12(4):505-22. doi: 10.1007/s10985-006-9026-9.
Epub  2006 Oct 20.

A comparative study of tests for paired lifetime data.

Wang Z(1), Ng HK.

Author information:
(1)Statistical Center for HIV/AIDS Research & Prevention, Fred Hutchinson Cancer 
Research Center, Seattle, WA 98109-1024, USA.

In this paper, we investigate different procedures for testing the equality of 
two mean survival times in paired lifetime studies. We consider Owen's M-test 
and Q-test, a likelihood ratio test, the paired t-test, the Wilcoxon signed rank 
test and a permutation test based on log-transformed survival times in the 
comparative study. We also consider the paired t-test, the Wilcoxon signed rank 
test and a permutation test based on original survival times for the sake of 
comparison. The size and power characteristics of these tests are studied by 
means of Monte Carlo simulations under a frailty Weibull model. For less skewed 
marginal distributions, the Wilcoxon signed rank test based on original survival 
times is found to be desirable. Otherwise, the M-test and the likelihood ratio 
test are the best choices in terms of power. In general, one can choose a test 
procedure based on information about the correlation between the two survival 
times and the skewness of the marginal survival distributions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-006-9026-9
PMID: 17053974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. J Infect Dis. 2006 Nov 15;194(10):1450-8. doi: 10.1086/508206. Epub 2006 Oct
3.

HIV infection, antiretroviral therapy, and CD4+ cell count distributions in 
African populations.

Williams BG(1), Korenromp EL, Gouws E, Schmid GP, Auvert B, Dye C.

Author information:
(1)Stop TB Department, World Health Organization, Geneva 1211 CH 1211, 
Switzerland. williamsbg@who.int

Comment in
    J Infect Dis. 2007 Apr 1;195(7):1078-9; author reply 1079.
    J Infect Dis. 2007 May 15;195(10):1550; author reply 1550-1.

BACKGROUND: The variability in CD4+ cell counts within and among human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive and -negative African populations has not 
been explained but has important implications for understanding the incidence of 
HIV-related opportunistic infections, especially tuberculosis, in both 
individuals and populations.
METHODS: In HIV-negative African adults, CD4+ cell counts vary within 
populations (interquartile ranges [IQRs], 169-603 cells/microL) and among 
populations (means vary from 699 to 1244 cells/microL), with similarly wide 
variations in HIV-positive adults. We developed dynamic mathematical models to 
predict the distribution of CD4+ cell counts in HIV-positive adults using the 
distribution in HIV-negative adults.
RESULTS: Under the assumption that survival is independent of the CD4+ cell 
count before seroconversion, we fitted the observed distributions in 
HIV-positive adults. At a CD4+ cell count of 200 cells/microL, the median life 
expectancy of HIV-positive Zambians (4.0 years) was predicted to be 1.7 times 
that of HIV-positive South Africans (2.3 years).
CONCLUSIONS: The model provides a way to estimate the changing distribution of 
CD4+ cell counts and, hence, the changing incidence of HIV-related opportunistic 
infections as the epidemic matures. This could substantially improve the 
planning of health services, including the need and demand for antiretroviral 
therapy. Better data are needed to test the model and its assumptions more 
rigorously and to fully understand the variability in CD4+ cell counts within 
and among populations.

DOI: 10.1086/508206
PMID: 17054076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2006 Oct 18;2006(4):CD001323. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD001323.pub2.

Surgical interventions for age-related cataract.

Riaz Y(1), Mehta JS, Wormald R, Evans JR, Foster A, Ravilla T, Snellingen T.

Author information:
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, City Road, London, UK. yasmin.riaz@gmail.com

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2002;(2):CD001323.

BACKGROUND: Cataract accounts for 50% of blindness globally and remains the 
leading cause of visual impairment in all regions of the world, despite 
improvements in surgical outcomes (WHO 2005). This number is expected to rise 
due to an aging population and increase in life expectancy. Although cataracts 
are not preventable, their surgical treatment is one of the most cost-effective 
interventions in healthcare.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the effects of different surgical interventions for 
age-related cataract.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE up to July 2006, NRR Issue 
3 2005, the reference lists of identified trials and we contacted investigators 
and experts in the field for details of published and unpublished trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTS).
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data 
and discrepancies were resolved by discussion. Where appropriate, risk ratios, 
odds ratios and weighted mean differences were summarised after assessing 
heterogeneity between the studies.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified 17 trials that randomised a total of 9627 people. 
Phacoemulsification gave a better visual outcome than extracapsular surgery but 
similar average cost per procedure in Europe but not in poorer countries. 
Extracapsular surgery with posterior chamber lens implant and ICCE with or 
without an anterior chamber intraocular lens (IOL) implant gave acceptable 
visual outcomes but extracapsular surgery had less complications. Manual small 
incision surgery provides better visual outcome than ECCE but slightly inferior 
unaided visual acuity compared to phacoemulsification.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: This review provides evidence from seven RCTs that 
phacoemulsification gives a better outcome than ECCE with sutures. We also found 
evidence that ECCE with a posterior chamber lens implant provides better visual 
outcome than ICCE with aphakic glasses. The long term effect of posterior 
capsular opacification (PCO) needs to be assessed in larger populations. The 
data also suggests that ICCE with an anterior chamber lens implant is an 
effective alternative to ICCE with aphakic glasses, with similar safety. 
Phacoemulsification provides the best visual outcomes but will only be 
accessible to the poorer countries if the cost of phacoemulsification and 
foldable IOLs decrease. Manual small incision cataract surgery provides early 
visual rehabilitation and comparable visual outcome to PHACO. It has better 
visual outcomes than ECCE and can be used in any clinic that is currently 
carrying out ECCE with IOL. Further research from developing regions are needed 
to compare the cost and longer term outcomes of these procedures e.g. PCO and 
corneal endothelial cell damage.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001323.pub2
PMCID: PMC7096771
PMID: 17054134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Four of the co‐authors (JE, AF, TR,TS) have been 
involved in the funding, design, execution and analysis of three of the trials 
included in this review (LAHAN; MIOLS; SACMS).


570. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2006 Nov-Dec;40(11-12):963-71. doi: 
10.1080/j.1440-1614.2006.01919.x.

What is the value of treating schizophrenia?

Carr VJ(1), Lewin TJ, Neil AL.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Mental Health Studies, University of Newcastle and Hunter New 
England Mental Health, Callaghan, New South Wales, Australia. 
vaughan.carr@newcastle.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: Recent generalized cost-effectiveness analyses contrasting 
schizophrenia with high prevalence mental disorders have noted a need to 
investigate the mechanisms by which the tensions between equity and efficiency 
can be reconciled and inform priority setting in resource allocation. This paper 
explores and illustrates some possible strategies for valuing mental health 
states, with the broad goal of improving resource allocation decisions.
METHOD: Health utility gains derived for current and optimal treatments for 
schizophrenia, depression and anxiety disorders, potential societal preference 
weightings, and annual costs per treated case, are used to illustrate the 
magnitude of the impacts on relative cost-efficiency and societal welfare 
estimates. These estimates are based on costs per additional quality adjusted 
life year (QALY) and costs per additional S-QALY (i.e. QALYs adjusted for 
societal value of health gains) respectively.
RESULTS: When broader societal preferences are ignored, current and optimal 
treatments for depression and anxiety are around 10 times more efficient than 
those for schizophrenia, but treatments for all three disorders appear to give 
rise to similar levels of societal welfare when weighting factors reflecting 
equity concerns are incorporated.
CONCLUSIONS: There is manifest inequality in health between individuals with 
schizophrenia and those with high prevalence mental disorders, even with optimal 
treatment. Schizophrenia is much more costly to treat but other factors require 
consideration. Inclusion of societal preferences should lead to more rational 
decision-making and improved societal welfare. In turn, greater effort needs to 
be given to the development and validation of appropriate weighting factors 
reflecting distributive preferences in mental health.

DOI: 10.1080/j.1440-1614.2006.01919.x
PMID: 17054564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2007 Jul;67(3):411-6. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2006.08.009.  Epub 2006 Oct 19.

Chronic effect of NaCl salinity on a freshwater strain of Daphnia magna Straus 
(Crustacea: Cladocera): a demographic study.

Martínez-Jerónimo F(1), Martínez-Jerónimo L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Hidrobiología Experimental, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias 
Biológicas, IPN Prol. Carpio Esq. Plan de Ayala s/n, Col. Sto. Tomás, México DF 
11340, Mexico. fjeroni@ipn.mx

Daphnia magna is mainly recognized as a freshwater cladoceran, but there are 
some strains that grow in brackish waters. The tolerance to salinity of a 
freshwater strain was assessed at NaCl concentrations of 0, 2, 4, 6, and 7 g 
L(-1). The green microalga Ankistrodesmus falcatus was fed at optimal 
concentration (4 x 10(5)cells mL(-1)). Reproduction and survival were recorded 
in two experimental series: in the first one, 20 female neonates were 
individually studied for each treatment. In the second, cohorts of 10 female 
neonates were distributed in each of five replicates per treatment. In both 
cases, experiments were conducted over a full life-cycle. The determined 48-h 
LC(50) for NaCl was 5.48 g L(-1), but we recorded reproduction at up to 7 g NaCl 
L(-1). The average clutch size, total progeny, number of clutches, and longevity 
were significantly reduced by the NaCl concentration (P<0.01); total progeny 
ranged from 467 to 25 neonates as edge values for NaCl concentrations of 0-7 g 
L(-1). Inter-brood time was significantly higher for females grown at 7 g NaCl 
L(-1) (3.9 days). The Life Table analysis demonstrates that average lifespan, 
life expectancy at birth, net reproductive rate and intrinsic rate of growth 
were also significantly reduced according to NaCl concentration. Based on the 
results for the two highest NaCl concentrations (6 and 7 g L(-1)), we conclude 
that the used D. magna strain was acclimated to develop satisfactorily under 
concentrations of up to 6 g NaCl L(-1); however, the established salinity 
conditions reduced significantly reproduction and survival in this strain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2006.08.009
PMID: 17055052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J Nutr. 2006 Nov;136(11):2735-42. doi: 10.1093/jn/136.11.2735.

Drosophila melanogaster holocarboxylase synthetase is a chromosomal protein 
required for normal histone biotinylation, gene transcription patterns, 
lifespan, and heat tolerance.

Camporeale G(1), Giordano E, Rendina R, Zempleni J, Eissenberg JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Health Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, 
NE 68583-0806, USA.

Post-translational modifications of histones play important roles in chromatin 
structure and genomic stability. Distinct lysine residues in histones are 
targets for covalent binding of biotin, catalyzed by holocarboxylase synthetase 
(HCS) and biotinidase (BTD). Histone biotinylation has been implicated in 
heterochromatin structures, DNA repair, and mitotic chromosome condensation. To 
test whether HCS and BTD deficiency alters histone biotinylation and to 
characterize phenotypes associated with HCS and BTD deficiency, HCS- and 
BTD-deficient flies were generated by RNA interference (RNAi). Expression of HCS 
and BTD decreased by 65-90% in RNAi-treated flies, as judged by mRNA abundance, 
BTD activity, and abundance of HCS protein. Decreased expression of HCS and BTD 
caused decreased biotinylation of K9 and K18 in histone H3. This was associated 
with altered expression of 201 genes in HCS-deficient flies. Lifespan of HCS- 
and BTD-deficient flies decreased by up to 32% compared to wild-type controls. 
Heat tolerance decreased by up to 55% in HCS-deficient flies compared to 
controls, as judged by survival times; effects of BTD deficiency were minor. 
Consistent with this observation, HCS deficiency was associated with altered 
expression of 285 heat-responsive genes. HCS and BTD deficiency did not affect 
cold tolerance, suggesting stress-specific effects of chromatin remodeling by 
histone biotinylation. To our knowledge, this is the first study to provide 
evidence that HCS-dependent histone biotinylation affects gene function and 
phenotype, suggesting that the complex phenotypes of HCS- and BTD-deficiency 
disorders may reflect chromatin structure changes.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/136.11.2735
PMCID: PMC1626655
PMID: 17056793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol Ther. 2006 Sep;11(3):203-10. doi: 
10.1177/1074248406293254.

Oxidative stress in renal transplant patients who develop cardiovascular 
disease.

El-Ghar SM(1), Qureshi M, Shoker A, Prasad K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, 
Royal University Hospital, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada.

Cardiovascular disease limits life expectancy of successful renal transplant 
patients. Reactive oxygen species have been implicated in the development of 
atherosclerosis, and high levels could be due to increased production or a 
decrease in antioxidant reserve. Cardiovascular disease in renal transplant 
recipients could be due to elevated levels of malondialdehyde (an index of 
levels of reactive oxygen species) and homocysteine and reduced levels of 
glutathione. Renal transplant recipients with and without cardiovascular disease 
were studied along with healthy controls. Serum malondialdehyde, plasma 
homocysteine, and red blood cell glutathione were measured. The results suggest 
that levels of serum malondialdehyde and plasma homocysteine were higher in 
patients with or without cardiovascular disease compared with controls; however, 
the values were similar in both groups of transplant patients. Glutathione 
levels in red blood cells were similar in all 3 groups. Renal transplant 
recipients without cardiovascular disease have high levels of oxidative stress 
and may develop cardiovascular disease with time.

DOI: 10.1177/1074248406293254
PMID: 17056834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2006 Nov;187(5):1199-203. doi: 10.2214/AJR.05.0327.

Abdominal manifestations of cystic fibrosis in older children and adults.

Fields TM(1), Michel SJ, Butler CL, Kriss VM, Albers SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, University of Kentucky, 800 Rose St., 
HX-311, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2008 Jan;190(1):W73.

OBJECTIVE: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a disorder of exocrine gland function of 
which the gene mutation has been existing for thousands of years. With recent 
medical advances, neonates presently affected have a life expectancy of 40 
years. The common gastrointestinal presentations of CF patients, including 
pancreatic, hepatobiliary, and bowel manifestations, are thus important to 
recognize.
CONCLUSION: Gastrointestinal manifestations of CF are varied yet common and thus 
increasingly important to recognize. The sonographic, CT, and MRI abdominal 
findings in older children and adults with CF are presented.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.05.0327
PMID: 17056906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Br Dent J. 2006 Oct 21;201(8):527-534. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4814160.

Survival of resin-bonded bridgework provided for post-orthodontic hypodontia 
patients with missing maxillary lateral incisors.

Garnett MJ(1), Wassell RW(2), Jepson NJ(2), Nohl FS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Newcastle Dental Hospital, Richardson 
Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 4AZ.
(2)Newcastle Dental School and Hospital, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
NE2 4BW.
(3)Newcastle Dental Hospital, Richardson Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 4AZ.

OBJECTIVE: To analyse the clinical performance and factors influencing the 
survival of resin-bonded bridgework provided for hypodontia patients with 
missing maxillary lateral incisors, following orthodontic treatment to open, 
maintain or redistribute the missing tooth space.
DESIGN: A retrospective analysis of patients treated at a single centre using 
case notes with all patients invited for review to corroborate findings.
SETTING: Departments of Orthodontics, Child Dental Health and Restorative 
Dentistry, Newcastle upon Tyne Dental Hospital and School.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Between 1989-2000, 59 suitable hypodontia patients were 
identified of whom 45 had complete records. For these patients 73 resin-bonded 
bridges (RBBs) were provided. Following invitation, 24 patients attended for a 
review appointment. The survival of the RBBs, grade of operator providing 
treatment, duration of post-orthodontic retention, the influence of design, 
presence of pontic contact in static and dynamic excursions, and the effect of 
habits were assessed. Life table, Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analysis were 
carried out for the 73 RBBs with complete records. A separate analysis of the 
RBBs provided for patients who attended for the invited review did not show a 
higher failure rate than those patients who did not attend. Therefore both sets 
of data were combined.
RESULTS: Of the 73 RBBs provided, 30 had debonded on at least one occasion 
(41.1%), six of these debonds were due to trauma (20%). The mean survival time 
of all the restorations was 59.3 months, with a median survival time of 59 
months. Senior members of staff (Consultant, Senior Lecturer or Specialist 
Trainee) provided most restorations (n = 39) and achieved the highest mean 
survival of 72.6 months and median survival time of 100+ months. RBBs provided 
by junior staff and students had significantly lower survival times (p <0.05) 
compared with senior staff. Risk of failure was 3.9 times greater with junior 
staff and 2.5 times greater with students (p = 0.01 and p = 0.02, respectively). 
Analysis of all the other factors investigated showed no statistical difference 
in survival times or in hazard ratios. Analysis of fixed/fixed versus 
cantilevered bridges was limited by the number of fixed/fixed bridges (n = 11), 
and only two cantilevered bridges with multiple abutments were provided; both 
failed within one month.
CONCLUSION: RBBs provided for post-orthodontic hypodontia patients with missing 
maxillary lateral incisors can for many patients be an acceptable and definitive 
restoration. Experienced staff achieved the best results, but why this should be 
was not explained by the individual factors analysed in this study.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4814160
PMID: 17057683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2006 Oct 19;126(20):2670-3.

[Vaccination--value for money?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Wisløff T(1), Abrahamsen TG, Bergsaker MA, Løvoll Ø, Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)Nasjonalt kunnskapssenter for helsetjenesten Postboks, 7004 St. Olavs plass 
0130, Oslo, Norway. torbjorn.visloff@kunnskapssenteret.no

Modern vaccines may be very costly, and society needs to consider vaccination 
against other preventive and curative interventions. An economic assessment of 
health care programmes implies to quantify costs and assess health consequences 
in order to set better priorities. The main challenge lies in obtaining valid 
estimates of health effects and side effects and the consequences of herd 
immunity and serotype shift. This article discusses the methods and challenges 
of economic evaluation of vaccination programs, with vaccination against 
whooping cough and pneumococcal disease as examples.

PMID: 17057767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 2005;103:164-71; discussion 171-2.

The utility of strabismus in adults.

Beauchamp GR(1), Felius J, Stager DR, Beauchamp CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, Texas, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the utility (quality-of-life weight) associated with adult 
strabismus.
METHODS: Time tradeoff utility values were measured in physician-conducted 
interviews with 140 adult patients with strabismus in a private practice 
setting. Patients also completed a questionnaire containing six items that rated 
the following aspects of disability: specific health problems, problems with 
tasks of daily living, problems with social interaction, self-image problems, 
concerns about the future, and job-related problems. Patients were characterized 
as presurgical or nonsurgical, and their diplopia and asthenopia were rated by 
the physician on a four-level scale.
RESULTS: About 60% of all patients indicated willingness to trade part of their 
life expectancy in return for being rid of strabismus and its associated 
effects. The median utility was 0.93 (interquartile range, 0.83 to 1.0). A 
significantly smaller proportion (44%) of the nonsurgical patients (N = 41) 
appeared willing to trade time compared with surgical patients (68%; P = .009). 
Median utility in the presurgical patients was 0.90. Strong relationships were 
found between utility and the level of diplopia (P < .0001), and between utility 
and the level of asthenopia (P < .0001). Utility was correlated with all six 
disability ratings (all P < or = .00062).
CONCLUSION: A majority of the patients interviewed would trade a portion of 
their life expectancy in return for being rid of strabismus and its associated 
effects. These results were validated by significant associations with diplopia, 
asthenopia, and disability.

PMCID: PMC1447571
PMID: 17057800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Int J STD AIDS. 2006 Oct;17(10):699-705. doi: 10.1258/095646206780071081.

Cost and cost-effectiveness of antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection in 
Singapore.

Paton NI(1), Chapman CA, Sangeetha S, Mandalia S, Bellamy R, Beck EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Singapore. 
nick.paton@mrc.ctu.ac.uk
