and data on PC incidence and pathological characteristics are scarce.
METHODS: To determine PC incidence and whether screening would be beneficial, we 
studied 1008 consecutive symptomatic patients from the Southern Italy who 
underwent transrectal ultrasonography; 170 of them (age range: 48-93 years; 
median: 70 years) were at risk and underwent transrectal biopsy.
RESULTS: Adenomatous hyperplasia was detected in 105 patients (62%), PC in 51 
(30%), prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) in 5 (3%) and inflammatory 
disease in 5 (3%). The median age of patients with PC was 73.5 and tumors were 
generally well to moderately differentiated (76%, Gleason score < or =7). 
Prostate cancer (or PIN) was more frequent in patients over 70 (p<0.0001). The 
Gleason score also increased with age: >7 in 92% and 8% of patients aged >70 and 
< or =70, respectively (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of our results organized or opportunistic PC screening 
of elderly men does not appear justified because: invasive carcinoma is detected 
in less than 1/3 of symptomatic "healthy" men; patients became symptomatic when 
their life expectancy is often less than 10 years; and PC is more frequent and 
more aggressive after 70 years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cdp.2006.07.009
PMID: 17067751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Exp Gerontol. 2006 Oct;41(10):935-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.09.004. Epub
2006  Oct 24.

Hormesis and aging in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Cypser JR(1), Tedesco P, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado, Institute for Behavioral Genetics, Box 447 Boulder, 
CO 80309, Fedex, 1480 30th St., Boulder, CO 80303, USA. jrcypser@colorado.edu

Hormesis has emerged as an important manipulation for the study of aging. 
Although hormesis is manifested in manifold combinations of stress and model 
organism, the mechanisms of hormesis are only partly understood. The increased 
stress resistance and extended survival caused by hormesis can be manipulated to 
further our understanding of the roles of intrinsic and induced stress 
resistance in aging. Genes of the dauer/insulin/insulin-like signaling (IIS) 
pathway have well-established roles in aging in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, we 
discuss the role of some of those genes in the induced stress resistance and 
induced life extension attributable to hormesis. Mutations in three genes 
(daf-16, daf-18, and daf-12) block hormetically induced life extension. However, 
of these three, only daf-18 appears to be required for a full induction of 
thermotolerance induced by hormesis, illustrating possible separation of the 
genetic requirements for stress resistance and life extension. Mutations in 
three other genes of this pathway (daf-3, daf-5, and age-1) do not block induced 
life extension or induced thermotolerance; daf-5 mutants may be unusually 
sensitive to hormetic conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.09.004
PMCID: PMC1847401
PMID: 17067771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 Jan;33(1):116-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2006.09.005. Epub 2006 Oct 24.

Outcome of ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy for varicose veins: medium-term 
results assessed by ultrasound surveillance.

Myers KA(1), Jolley D, Clough A, Kirwan J.

Author information:
(1)Melbourne Vascular Ultrasound, Epworth Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia. kamyers@bigpond.net.au

OBJECTIVE: To estimate medium-term success after a technique for 
ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy for superficial chronic venous disease.
DESIGN: A prospective study in a single unit with ultrasound surveillance after 
treatment.
MATERIALS: Results after 1189 treatment sessions for 807 venous saphenous veins 
and related tributaries or non-saphenous tributaries in 489 patients.
METHODS: Univariate life table analysis determined primary and secondary success 
rates. Multivariate Cox regression analysis detected covariates that affected 
outcome.
RESULTS: Primary and secondary success rates at 36 months for all veins were 
52.4% (95%CI 46-58%) and 76.8% (95%CI 71-82%). Cox regression analysis for 
primary success for all veins showed significantly worse results for saphenous 
veins compared to tributaries (HR 3.72 - 95%CI 1.9 to 7.3). Cox regression for 
all saphenous veins showed independently worse results for patients less than 40 
years age (HR 2.16 - 95%CI 1.27-3.66), small compared to great saphenous veins 
(HR 1.58 - 95%CI 1.11-2.24), veins greater than 6mm diameter compared to smaller 
veins (HR 2.22 - 95%CI 1.40-3.50), liquid compared to foam sclerotherapy (HR 
2.20 - 95%CI 1.28-3.78), lower volumes of sclerosant compared to volumes greater 
than 12 ml (HR 0.51 - 95%CI 0.33-0.81) and highly diluted compared to 
concentrated sclerosant (HR 2.05 - 95%CI 1.21-3.46) with worse results using 
highly diluted or undiluted 3% sclerosant compared to a 1.5% concentration. 
There were no significant differences for primary success for saphenous veins 
for date of procedure, sex, side, primary or recurrent varicose veins, or 
commercial type of sclerosant.
CONCLUSIONS: Ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy gives satisfactory results if it is 
accepted that treatment may need to be repeated to achieve secondary success. 
Results provide a basis for further research to explore factors that might 
affect outcome. Younger patients with larger diameter saphenous veins may 
warrant alternative forms of treatment, particularly for small saphenous reflux.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2006.09.005
PMID: 17067832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Apr;17(2):124. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl075. Epub
2006  Oct 26.

Economics and public health: an arranged marriage.

Barendregt JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland Brisbane, Australia. 
j.barendregt@sph.uq.edu.au

Comment on
    Eur J Public Health. 2007 Apr;17(2):122-3.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl075
PMID: 17068005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2006;106(9):17-21.

[Late onset alcoholism: gender aspect].

[Article in Russian]

Egorov AIu.

Alcoholism is the most prevalent form of chemical addiction in aged people. 
Late-onset alcoholism is the heterogenic disorder which comprises subjects with 
early-onset alcoholism, who continue drinking later, and late-onset alcoholics 
as such. The development of late onset alcoholism is rather related to social 
and psychological factors than to familial predisposition that results in its 
less progressive course comparing to early-onset alcoholism. Basing on the 
literature and author own clinical data (16 cases of late onset alcoholism), it 
suggested a substantial role of loneliness in development of late onset 
alcoholism in women. Because of specifics demographic situation in Russia where 
life expectancy of women is 14 years longer than that of men, women in their 
second half of life experience a phenomenon of "widow" alcoholism caused, to the 
great extent, by the state of emotional loss and loneliness.

PMID: 17069057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Ugeskr Laeger. 2006 Oct 16;168(42):3623-6.

[Cost-effectiveness of treatment of high blood pressure with losartan in 
Denmark].

[Article in Danish]

Keiding H(1), Hildebrandt P, Burke T, Carides GW.

Author information:
(1)Københavns Universitet, Økonomisk Institut, H:S Frederiksberg Hospital, 
Kardiologisk-endokrinologisk Klinik E, København K. hans.keiding@econ.ku.dk

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this analysis was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of losartan compared with atenolol for the treatment of 
hypertension, both from the point of view of society and from that of the health 
care sector, based on data from the LIFE study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The computations are based on a simple decision tree 
model, where the probability of stroke was obtained from the LIFE study, a 
double-blind, randomised clinical study of 9,193 patients with hypertensive left 
ventricle hypertrophy.
RESULTS: The treatment of hypertension with losartan rather than atenolol 
entails a cost of DKK 19,668 per gained quality-adjusted life year (QALY), when 
only the cost of the health care sector is taken into account, and DKK 72,564 if 
all costs to society are included.
CONCLUSION: The analysis shows that treatment with losartan is cost-effective 
even when the uncertainty in both data and economic evaluations is taken into 
account.

PMID: 17069726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Urol. 2006 Nov;176(5):2132-7. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2006.07.019.

Impact of erectile dysfunction on confidence, self-esteem and relationship 
satisfaction after 9 months of sildenafil citrate treatment.

Althof SE(1), O'Leary MP, Cappelleri JC, Crowley AR, Tseng LJ, Collins S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Marital and Sexual Health of South Florida, West Palm Beach, 
Florida 33401, USA. sxa6@po.cwru.edu

PURPOSE: The first double-blind, placebo controlled trial in the United States 
of the Self-Esteem And Relationship questionnaire revealed that treatment with 
sildenafil citrate improves erectile function and measures of quality of life in 
men with erectile dysfunction. We investigated long-term improvement, and 
correlations between improved erectile function and confidence, self-esteem and 
sexual relationship satisfaction in men with erectile dysfunction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a 36-week open label extension of the 
double-blind, placebo controlled trial. The blind was not broken. Patients were 
18 years or older with clinically diagnosed erectile dysfunction. Erectile 
function was assessed using the International Index of Erectile Function. 
Self-esteem, confidence and relationship satisfaction were assessed using the 
Self-Esteem And Relationship questionnaire. Correlations were determined using 
Pearson's product moment coefficients.
RESULTS: A total of 204 participants were enrolled in the open label extension, 
including 108 on placebo and 96 on sildenafil. In men who received placebo in 
the double-blind, placebo controlled phase mean erectile function scores and 
self-esteem, confidence and relationship satisfaction scores were increased 
significantly at week 36 of the open label extension (p < 0.0001). Men who 
received sildenafil in the double-blind, placebo controlled phase maintained 
high scores in the open label extension. Correlations between improved erectile 
function, and self-esteem, confidence and relationship satisfaction were strong 
and positive (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Open label extension sildenafil after double-blind, placebo 
controlled placebo significantly improved erectile function, self-esteem, 
confidence and relationship satisfaction. Following an initial 12 weeks of 
double-blind, placebo controlled sildenafil therapy for erectile dysfunction 
improvements were sustained an additional 9 months. Positive correlations 
between erectile function, and self-esteem, confidence and relationship 
satisfaction suggest that improved erectile quality can improve long-term 
psychosocial quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2006.07.019
PMID: 17070276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. J AAPOS. 2006 Oct;10(5):394-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jaapos.2006.06.004.

The cost utility of strabismus surgery in adults.

Beauchamp CL(1), Beauchamp GR, Stager DR Sr, Brown MM, Brown GC, Felius J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, USA.

PURPOSE: Cost-utility analysis evaluates the cost of medical care in relation to 
the gain in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Our purpose was to develop a 
cost model for surgical care for adult strabismus, to estimate the mean cost per 
case, to determine the associated gain in QALYs, and to perform cost-utility 
analysis.
METHODS: A cost model incorporated surgery, pre- and postoperative care, and a 
mean of 1.5 procedures per patient. The gain in QALYs was based on the 
improvement of utility on a scale from 0 (death) to 1 (perfect health). Utility 
was measured through physician-conducted interviews employing a time tradeoff 
question (seeking to estimate the portion of life expectancy a patient would be 
willing to trade for being rid of disease and associated effects). The 
interviews were conducted before and 5 to 8 weeks after surgery in 35 strabismic 
patients (age 19-75 years).
RESULTS: The cost model resulted in an estimated total cost of 4,254 dollars per 
case. A significant improvement of utility was found: 0.96 +/- 0.11 
postoperatively versus 0.85 +/- 0.20 preoperatively (p = 0.00008). Based on the 
mean life expectancy (36.0 years) of these patients, and discounting outcomes 
and costs by 3% annually, this resulted in a mean value gain of 2.61 QALYs after 
surgery and a cost-utility for strabismus surgery of 1,632 dollas/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In the United States, treatments <50,000 dollars/QALY are generally 
considered "very cost-effective." Strabismus surgery in adults falls well within 
this range.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaapos.2006.06.004
PMID: 17070471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Math Biosci. 2006 Dec;204(2):215-31. doi: 10.1016/j.mbs.2006.08.022. Epub
2006  Sep 7.

A parity-structured matrix model for tsetse populations.

Artzrouni M(1), Gouteux JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of Pau, 64000 Pau, France. 
marc.artzrouni@univ-pau.fr

A matrix model is used to describe the dynamics of a population of female tsetse 
flies structured by parity (i.e., by the number of larvae laid). For typical 
parameter values, the intrinsic growth rate of the population is zero when the 
adult daily survival rate is 0.970, corresponding to an adult life expectancy of 
1/0.030 = 33.3 days. This value is plausible and consistent with results found 
earlier by others. The intrinsic growth rate is insensitive to the variance of 
the interlarval period. Temperature being a function of the time of the year, a 
known relationship between temperature and mean pupal and interlarval times was 
used to produce a time-varying version of the model which was fitted to 
temperature and (estimated) population data. With well-chosen parameter values, 
the modeled population replicated at least roughly the population data. This 
illustrates dynamically the abiotic effect of temperature on population growth. 
Given that tsetse flies are the vectors of trypanosomiasis ("sleeping sickness") 
the model provides a framework within which future transmission models can be 
developed in order to study the impact of altered temperatures on the spread of 
this deadly disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mbs.2006.08.022
PMID: 17070557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Am J Surg. 2006 Nov;192(5):e46-50. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.08.027.

Discretionary carotid patch angioplasty leads to good results.

Cikrit DF(1), Larson DM, Sawchuk AP, Thornhill C, Shafique S, Nachreiner RD, 
Lalka SG, Dalsing MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, Richard L. Roudebush 
Veteran's Hospital, Indiana University School of Medicine, Third Floor, 1001 W. 
Tenth St., Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. dcikrit@iupui.edu

BACKGROUND: This study evaluated the type and need for angioplasty in 253 
consecutive carotid endarterectomies.
METHODS: Polyester knitted gelatin sealed patch (DP) and polytetrafluoroethylene 
(PTFE) patches were used in, respectively, 159 and 29 patients, with 65 vessels 
closed primarily (no patch [NP]).
RESULTS: Surgical results, estimated blood loss, and surgical time were similar 
in each group. Postoperative hematomas occurred in 6 DP and 3 NP patients. There 
were 3 strokes in the DP group. Long-term duplex evaluation was possible in 201 
patients. The number of patients who had less than 15%, 15% to 50%, 50% to 79%, 
80% to 99%, 100%, or an ungraded degree of narrowing were as follows for each 
group: DP, 117, 2, 5, 0, 1, and 2; PTFE, 18, 1, 1, 0, 0; and NP, 53, 0, 0, 0, 1. 
Statistical analysis failed to show any difference between groups 
postoperatively or in long-term follow-up evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: It appears that selective patching is safe and effective in male 
patients who undergo carotid endarterectomy. The type of patch material also is 
inconsequential. Patch type and its use should be at the surgeon's discretion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.08.027
PMID: 17071181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Am J Surg. 2006 Nov;192(5):572-6. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.08.002.

Does preferential use of endovascular interventions by vascular surgeons improve 
limb salvage, control of symptoms, and survival of patients with critical limb 
ischemia?

Dosluoglu HH(1), O'Brien-Irr MS, Lukan J, Harris LM, Dryjski ML, Cherr GS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Veterans Affairs Western New York Healthcare 
System, Buffalo, NY 14215, USA. dosluoglu@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Our approach to patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) underwent 
a rapid evolution from open surgery to preferential use of endovascular 
procedures. The goal of the current report was to evaluate the impact of this 
change on patients with CLI.
METHODS: Consecutive patients with CLI were compared between 3 periods: June 
2001 to October 2002 (I) versus November 2002 to October 2003 (II) versus 
November 2003 to June 2005 (III).
RESULTS: A total of 275 patients (301 limbs, mean age 70 +/- 11) underwent 
revascularization or primary major amputation (PA) for CLI (81 in I, 76 in II, 
144 in III). PA decreased from 14.8%, 10.5%, and 3.5% (P < .001). Mean follow-up 
was 19.7 +/- 13.6 months (range 0 to 57). Overall 24-month limb salvage (LS) was 
60%, 69%, and 85% (P = .001), and 71%, 77%, and 88% following LS attempt (P = 
.017), with no difference in survival. Length of stay (LOS) decreased from 10.7 
+/- 12.1 (I) to 5.2 +/- 6.2 days (III) (P = .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Preferential use of endovascular interventions in patients 
presenting with CLI resulted in decreased number of PA, improved LS, and 
decreased LOS, without a difference in survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.08.002
PMID: 17071186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Am J Surg. 2006 Nov;192(5):679-84. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2005.09.018.

Ischemic colitis.

Huguier M(1), Barrier A, Boelle PY, Houry S, Lacaine F.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Digestive Surgery, Tenon Hospital, University P. 
and M. Curie, 4 rue de la Chine, 75020, Paris, France. 
michel.huguier@tnn.ap-hop-paris.fr

BACKGROUND: Ischemic colitis almost always occurs in older patients. Because 
life expectancy is increasing, more and more often physicians will face this 
problem. The aim of this study was to identify factors leading to surgery in the 
acute phase of the disease, and to evaluate mortality and long-term follow-up 
evaluation.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective study of 73 patients (mean age, 73 y) in 
the Department of General and Digestive Surgery. Diagnosis was obtained by 
endoscopic and pathologic procedures. The median follow-up period was 4.5 years 
(range, 2-9 y).
RESULTS: Thirty-six patients had 1 or more co-existing medical diseases. All the 
patients had either lower intestinal bleeding (45 patients) or diarrhea (28 
patients). Thirty-three patients had undergone surgery (45%). In the surgical 
group, 13 patients underwent immediate surgery for abdominal tenderness and/or 
shock. Eight of these patients died (62%). Out of 60 patients undergoing 
nonsurgical immediate management, 1 patient died (septic shock). Delayed surgery 
was indicated in 20 out of the 59 remaining patients for clinical or endoscopic 
aggravation. Six of these patients died (30%). Multivariate analysis selected 4 
factors of severity: age younger than 80 years, male sex, absence of bleeding, 
and abdominal tenderness. In the follow-up period 13 patients died from a 
cardiovascular disease. The 2- and 5-year actuarial survival rates of patients 
who survived the initial hospitalization were 88% and 68%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Multivariate analysis selected the risk factors of severity. In 
severely ill patients serial endoscopic evaluations are the best indicator for 
surgery before appearance of tenderness, septic shock, full-thickness gangrene, 
and perforation. At discharge, anticoagulant or anti-arrhythmic therapy should 
be considered for patients who have cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2005.09.018
PMID: 17071206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Lancet. 2006 Oct 28;368(9546):1524-34. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69564-0.

Comprehensive reform to improve health system performance in Mexico.

Frenk J(1), González-Pier E, Gómez-Dantés O, Lezana MA, Knaul FM.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico.

Despite having achieved an average life expectancy of 75 years, much the same as 
that of more developed countries, Mexico entered the 21st century with a health 
system marred by its failure to offer financial protection in health to more 
than half of its citizens; this was both a result and a cause of the social 
inequalities that have marked the development process in Mexico. Several 
structural limitations have hampered performance and limited the progress of the 
health system. Conscious that the lack of financial protection was the major 
bottleneck, Mexico has embarked on a structural reform to improve health system 
performance by establishing the System of Social Protection in Health (SSPH), 
which has introduced new financial rules and incentives. The main innovation of 
the reform has been the Seguro Popular (Popular Health Insurance), the 
insurance-based component of the SSPH, aimed at funding health care for all 
those families, most of them poor, who had been previously excluded from social 
health insurance. The reform has allowed for a substantial increase in public 
investment in health while realigning incentives towards better technical and 
interpersonal quality. This paper describes the main features and initial 
results of the Mexican reform effort, and derives lessons for other countries 
considering health-system transformations under similarly challenging 
circumstances.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69564-0
PMID: 17071286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2006 May;29 Spec No 2:17-21. doi:
10.1016/s0181-5512(06)73949-3.

[How to ensure that glaucoma is stable? Intraocular pressure].

[Article in French]

Romanet JP(1), Palombi K, Noël C, Chiquet C, Savy O, Buguet A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie, CHU-Hôpital Nord, BP 217 38043 Grenoble Cedex. 
Jean-Paul.Romanet@ujf-grenoble.fr

In patients with open-angle glaucoma, intraocular pressure (IOP) obtained 
through treatment should guard against the progression of glaucoma damage. This 
depends on the initial state of intraocular pressure, but also on the stage of 
glaucoma, how fast the alterations are progressing, the patient's age and life 
expectancy, as well as the presence of other risk factors. To determine the 
ideal level of treated IOP, the term "target pressure" is often used. This term 
is very much open to criticism, however, because it calls on a static figure for 
what is highly variable biological information belonging to the body's 
biological rhythms. A large number of formulas are used to calculate this target 
pressure number, but all of them come up against the disadvantage of not taking 
into account the variations in IOP during the day/night cycle. Yet it is these 
very variations that can characterize the severity of the disease in terms of 
IOP. In a glaucoma patient, the IOP curve plotted over 24 h has higher IOP 
values during the day than at night, contrary to a healthy subject. Fluctuations 
of more than 10 mmHg are not rare during the day/night cycle, most often with 
many peaks, which are deleterious for retinal nerve fibers. These dynamic 
pressure parameters are essential both in determining the therapeutic strategy 
and in evaluating the effectiveness of treatment. In practice, with any case of 
open-angle glaucoma and before any treatment is given, a diurnal curve should be 
established. Six to eight measurements between 8 AM and 6 or 8 PM should be 
enough. They should be carefully combined with concomitant measures of systemic 
blood pressure. Once treatment has started, we suggest that a new diurnal curve 
be established 1 month and then 4 months after the beginning of treatment. The 
treatment will be modified if needed, based on IOP criteria established at 1 
month, and on IOP, perimetric, and anatomic criteria determined again at 4 
months. If the disease continues to worsen despite a satisfactory diurnal IOP, 
IOP should be measured over 24 h, associated with Holter monitoring, looking for 
an escape of pressure at night.

DOI: 10.1016/s0181-5512(06)73949-3
PMID: 17072216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2006 Sep;67(4):287-96. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-4266(06)72600-2.

Management strategies for brittle diabetes.

Vantyghem MC(1), Press M.

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology and Metabolism Department/ERIT-M0106, Lille University 
Hospital, 6 Rue du Pr Laguesse, 59037 Lille Cedex, France. 
mc-vantyghem@chru-lille.fr

Type 1 diabetes is an intrinsically unstable condition. However, the term 
"brittle diabetes" is reserved for those cases in which the instability, 
whatever its cause, results in disruption of life and often recurrent and/or 
prolonged hospitalization. It affects 3/1000 insulin-dependent diabetic 
patients, mainly young women. Its prognosis is poor with lower quality of life 
scores, more microvascular and pregnancy complications and shortened life 
expectancy. Three forms have been described: recurrent diabetic ketoacidosis, 
predominant hypoglycemic forms and mixed instability. Main causes of brittleness 
include malabsorption, certain drugs (alcohol, antipsychotics), defective 
insulin absorption or degradation, defect of hyperglycemic hormones especially 
glucocorticoid and glucagon, and above all delayed gastric emptying as a result 
of autonomic neuropathy. Psychosocial factors are very important and factitious 
brittleness may lead to a self-perpetuating condition. The assessment of brittle 
diabetes requires quantification of the variability of blood glucose levels. To 
quantify instability, measures which have been developed, include Mean Amplitude 
of the largest Glycemic Excursions (MAGE), Mean Of Daily Differences (MODD), 
Lability Index (LI), Low Blood Glucose Index (LBGI), Clarke's score, Hyposcore, 
and continuous blood glucose monitoring. Once psychogenic problems have been 
excluded, therapeutic strategies require firstly, the treatment of underlying 
organic causes of the brittleness whenever possible and secondly optimising 
standard insulin therapy using analogues, multiple injections and consideration 
of Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion. Alternative approaches may still be 
needed for the most severely affected patients. Isolated islet transplantation 
(IIT), which restores glucose sensing, should be considered in cases of 
hypoglycaemic unawareness and/or lability especially if the body mass index is < 
25, but with current immunosuppressive protocols patients must have normal renal 
function and preferably no plans for pregnancy. Implantable pumps have 
advantages for patients who either weigh more than 80 kgs or have abnormalities 
of kidney or liver function or are highly sensitised.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4266(06)72600-2
PMID: 17072232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Herz. 2006 Oct;31(7):635-43. doi: 10.1007/s00059-006-2881-z.

[Gene polymorphisms leading to calcified and stenotic aortic valves].

[Article in German]

Anger T(1), Ekici AB, Daniel WG, Garlichs CD.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik II, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, 
Erlangen-Nürnberg. thomas.anger@med2.imed.uni-erlangen.de

In the Caucasian world calcified and stenosed aortic valves are a common 
disease. Due to increasing life expectancy prevalence of aortic valve disease 
will increase dramatically. In order to establish alternative therapeutic 
approaches to valve replacement, we have to get a better understanding of the 
pathophysiological process and genetic determinations leading to calcified and 
stenotic valve disease. Exploring these genetic determinations will open new 
specific fields of therapeutic modulations of the disease process. In the 
literature, different gene polymorphisms have been characterized to develop 
calcifications and further stenosis of the aortic valves.Here, congestive 
polyvalent aortic valve abnormalities without specific genetic determinations 
(i. e., DiGeorge syndrome or fragile x syndrome), autosomal inherited 
alterations leading to congestive aortic valve disease (i. e., Williams-Beuren 
syndrome, Gaucher's disease, tetralogy of Fallot, genetic aberrations of 
chromosomes 2 and 4 as well as trisomy 18), X- and Y-chromosomal specific 
alterations (i. e., Turner syndrome), congestive structure-based aortic valve 
disease (i. e., bicuspid aortic valve with regard to hand-heart syndromes, 
tetracuspid aortic valve associated with DiGeorge syndrome) and genetic 
mutations of specific target genes (i. e., epidermal growth factor receptor, 
NOTCH-1, elastin, angiotensin I conversion enzyme, beta-glucocerebrosidase, 
interleukin-10, chemokine receptor 5, connective tissue growth factor, 
transforming growth factor beta1, vitamin D receptor, estrogen receptor-alpha, 
apolipoproteins A1, B, and E) are summarized. The roles of gene polymorphism in 
the development of calcified and stenosed aortic valve appear slowly in the 
understanding of the process leading to the valve disease and are mainly based 
on studies of supravalvular and bicuspid aortic valve stenoses. New molecular 
biological methods enabling broad gene expression analyses demonstrate the 
similarity in the pathophysiology of atherosclerotic vessel inflammation, bone 
formation/fibrosis, with the processes leading to stenosed and calcified aortic 
valves. Based on to-date knowledge, further analyses have to be done and will 
improve understanding of the pathophysiological processes with regard to the 
development of new therapeutic drug targets.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-006-2881-z
PMID: 17072776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Herz. 2006 Oct;31(7):699-703. doi: 10.1007/s00059-006-2847-1.

[Structural valve deterioration of aortic bioprostheses and reoperation in 
octogenarians. Results and risk factors for survival].

[Article in German]

Eitz T(1), Zittermann A, Fritzsche D, Kleikamp G, Körtke H, Körfer R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Thorax- und Kardiovaskularchirurgie, Herz- und Diabeteszentrum 
Nordrhein-Westfalen, Bad Oeynhausen. teitz@hdz-nrw.de

BACKGROUND: Due to increasing life expectancy of patients with heart valve 
replacement and a limited durability of heart valve bioprostheses, replacement 
of aortic valve prosthesis becomes necessary in a significant percentage of 
patients. However, reliable data on mortality and its risk factors in 
octogenarians after replacement of aortic bioprostheses are limited.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 56 patients aged > or = 80 years who underwent cardiac 
reoperation of a bioprosthesis due to structural valve deterioration at the 
authors' heart center between 1991 and 2004 were analyzed retrospectively. To 
assess predictors of 30-day and 3-year survival, uni- and multivariate Cox 
regression analyses were performed.
RESULTS: 30-day, 1-year, 3-year, and 5-year survival rates were 81.1%, 71.3%, 
67.5%, and 50.8%, respectively. Patients with reoperation had an estimated 
median survival of 5.0 years. Patients who survived their in-hospital stay had a 
very similar life expectancy compared with the general German population. 
Postoperative complications such as low cardiac output syndrome and intestinal 
failure were the only independent predictors of 30-day and 3-year survival (p < 
0.001). Postoperative New York Heart Association functional class improved 
markedly in the study cohort and the majority of survivors was able to live at 
home. As we cannot offer these patients an alternative effective medical 
therapy, octogenarians who need their aortic valve prosthesis to be replaced are 
left in a miserable condition with a poor prognosis, if surgery is denied. 
Therefore, considering that almost the same criteria are used for younger 
patients with the emphasis that surgery should not be delayed until they are 
highly symptomatic, reoperation of the aortic valve in this age group is 
justified.
CONCLUSION: The data demonstrate that it is possible to achieve an acceptable 
outcome in octogenarians who are in need of a replacement of their aortic valve 
prosthesis. Early as well as mid-term survival are predominantly influenced by 
unexpected postoperative complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-006-2847-1
PMID: 17072786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2006 Oct;30(5):457-60. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2006.tb00464.x.

Does geography explain ethnic inequalities in health in New Zealand?

Tobias M(1), Searle P.

Author information:
(1)New Zealand Ministry of Health, New Zealand. martin_tobias@moh.govt.nz

OBJECTIVE: To quantify the potential contribution of inter-district relative to 
intradistrict variation to the Maori disparity in life expectancy in 2000-02, by 
counterfactual modelling. SETTING, DATA SOURCES AND METHODS: The setting was New 
Zealand's 21 health districts (District Health Boards, DHBs). All data 
(population estimates and life expectancy estimates) were sourced from 
Statistics New Zealand and relate to the 2000-02 period. Maori life expectancy 
(nationally) was recalculated under the counterfactual that Maori life 
expectancy in each DHB did not differ from total population life expectancy in 
the corresponding DHB (so eliminating intra-district variation). The difference 
between the observed total population and counterfactual Maori life expectancies 
therefore represents the contribution of inter-district variation to the Maori 
life expectancy disparity.
RESULTS: Observed total population and Maori life expectancies at birth in 
2000-02, pooling sexes, were 78.7 and 71.1 years respectively, giving a total 
disparity of 7.6 years. Under the counterfactual, Maori life expectancy 
increased to 78.4 years (and total population life expectancy to 79.0 years). 
Inter-district variation was therefore estimated to potentially contribute only 
0.6 years or 8% to the total Maori disparity. Allowing for imprecision, 
inter-district variation almost certainly accounts for less than 10.5% of the 
total disparity.
CONCLUSION: Inter-district or geographic variation makes only a small 
contribution to the total Maori disparity in life expectancy. Adjustment or 
standardisation for district is not necessary when comparing Maori and non-Maori 
health outcomes. If the policy goal is to reduce ethnic inequalities in health, 
then the focus of policy (e.g. funding formulae) needs to be on factors directly 
linked to ethnicity, rather than on geographic variations in health and health 
care that have an impact on all ethnic groups more-or-less alike.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2006.tb00464.x
PMID: 17073229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Int J Clin Pract. 2006 Nov;60(11):1471-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2006.01175.x.

Diabetic microvascular complications: can patients at risk be identified? A 
review.

Girach A(1), Manner D, Porta M.

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly & Company Limited, Surrey, UK. girach_aniz@lilly.com

People with diabetes have an increased risk of developing microvascular 
complications, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy and diabetic 
neuropathy, which, if undetected or left untreated, can have a devastating 
impact on quality of life and place a significant burden on health care costs. 
In addition, diabetic microvascular complications can reduce life expectancy. 
The strongest risk factors are glycaemic control and diabetes duration; however, 
other modifiable risk factors such as hypertension, hyperlipidaemia and smoking, 
and unmodifiable risk factors including age at onset of diabetes and genetic 
factors may all play a part. Along with the presence of external risk factors, 
some associations have also been noted between diabetic microvascular 
complications themselves. There is evidence that diabetic retinopathy in 
association with increased blood pressure is an important risk factor for 
diabetic nephropathy progression. Significant correlations have also been shown 
between the presence of diabetic peripheral neuropathy and the presence of 
background or proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Clinical trials are currently 
in progress looking at a number of approaches to designing treatments to prevent 
the adverse effects of hyperglycaemia. It is essential however, that risk 
factors associated with the progression and development of diabetic 
microvascular complications are detected and treated at an early stage in order 
to further reduce morbidity and mortality. Considering all three complications 
as interrelated may well facilitate early detection of microvascular disease. 
Despite good long-term glycaemic and blood pressure control, diabetes remains a 
major cause of blindness, renal failure and amputations. As the incidence of 
diabetes continues to rise, the burden of diabetic microvascular complications 
will increase in future, hence the need for early detection. Considering the 
microvascular complications of diabetes as related, and enquiring proactively 
about complications, may well facilitate early detection of microvascular 
disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2006.01175.x
PMID: 17073842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. J Med Ethics. 2006 Nov;32(11):623-6. doi: 10.1136/jme.2005.015032.

Importance of the advance directive and the beginning of the dying process from 
the point of view of German doctors and judges dealing with guardianship 
matters: results of an empirical survey.

van Oorschot B(1), Simon A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Radiologie, Abt Strahlentherapie, Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena, 
Germany. birgitt.oorschot@med.uni-jena.de

OBJECTIVES: To analyse and compare the surveys on German doctors and judges on 
end of life decision making regarding their attitudes on the advance directive 
and on the dying process.
DESIGN: The respondents were to indicate their agreement or disagreement to 
eight statements on the advance directive and to specify their personal view on 
the beginning of the dying process.
PARTICIPANTS: 727 doctors (anaesthetists or intensive-care physicians, internal 
specialists and general practitioners) in three federal states and 469 judges 
dealing with guardianship matters all over Germany.
MAIN MEASUREMENTS: Comparisons of means, analyses of variance, pivot tables 
(chi(2) test) and factor analyses (varimax with Kaiser normalisation).
RESULTS: Three attitude groups on advance directive were disclosed by the 
analysis: the decision model, which emphasises the binding character of a 
situational advance directive; the deliberation model, which puts more emphasis 
on the communicative aspect; and the delegation model, which regards the advance 
directive as a legal instrument. The answers regarding the beginning of the 
dying process were broadly distributed, but no marked difference was observed 
between the responding professions. The dying process was assumed by most 
participants to begin with a life expectancy of only a few days.
CONCLUSIONS: A high degree of valuation for advance directive was seen in both 
German doctors and judges; most agreed to the binding character of the 
situational directive. Regarding the different individual concepts of the dying 
process, a cross-professional discourse on the contents of this term seems to be 
overdue.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2005.015032
PMCID: PMC2563284
PMID: 17074817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


628. J Insur Med. 2006;38(3):181-91.

Progression of mean age and mean expected mortality rate by duration of follow 
up in cohorts with a wide range of age.

Singer RB.

BACKGROUND: [corrected] In a previous article, it was demonstrated that use of 
mean age to enter a life table to obtain a mean expected mortality rate of a 
cohort with a wide age range invariably underestimates the true mean expected 
mortality rate, q'. This is due to the bias introduced by the average 10% annual 
increase in q' in the approximate age range of 45 to 90 years (rates in the 
population life table, ages 0-109 years were analyzed to illustrate this). The 
magnitude of the error was demonstrated in various examples. All of these data 
were limited to the first year of FU (follow-up) duration. In this article, we 
analyze progression of mean age, x, and mean expected mortality rate, q', with 
FU duration in cohorts with all ages combined. When the age range is only 5 or 
10 years, the mean age of the survivors does increase very nearly a full year 
with each year of FU duration.
RESULTS: We utilized a 1973-1987 cohort in the SEER database for prostate 
cancer, all ages and all stages combined, and from this derived a comparative 
mortality table. We first demonstrated the difference between cumulative 
expected survival rate, P', as calculated in the SEER database, and the 
actuarial calculation of P'. The SEER method results in a 5% underestimate of P' 
vs the actual P' at a duration 14-15 years, and a corresponding overestimate of 
Q' and q'. Second, we found that the annual mean age of the survivors in the 
prostate cancer cohort increased from 72.4 years at entry to 80.2 years in a FU 
of 15 years. Mean expected q' increased from 66.7 per 1000 in the first year to 
93.1 per 1000 in the 15th year. The geometric mean annual increase in mean q' 
was only 2.4% per year, instead of the approximate 10% seen in the life table 
from about age 45 to 90. Progression patterns by duration for mean age and mean 
q' are very different in female thyroid cancer, all ages and all stages 
combined, again for a 1973-1987 cohort. In thyroid cancer, females outnumber 
males; in both sexes, the proportion of younger patients, under age 45, is much 
greater than in typical cancer sites, such as prostate cancer. In female thyroid 
cancer, both mean age and mean q' actually decreased from the mean values at 
entry for 5 years or more. At entry, mean age was 43.9 years, and mean q' was 
8.2 per 1000. These values decreased to 43.5 years and 6.8 per 1000, 
respectively, at duration 1-2 years, then leveled off and began a gradual 
increase. At duration 14-15 years, mean age was 53.7 years, and mean q' was 11.4 
deaths per 1000 per year.
CONCLUSION: Progression of mean q' is erratic and unpredictable, because annual 
mean age of survivors is highly dependent on the proportion of younger patients 
in the cohort being followed. If the proportion of patients under age 45 years 
is high enough, both mean age and mean q' may show an initial decrease from the 
values found in the year of entry, because, even though each survivor is a year 
older, the progression of mean age is so heavily biased by the slower 
progression of q' at the younger than at the older ages. However, with the SEER 
database, if annual expected survival rates are converted to annual expected 
mortality rates, the derivation of mean expected mortality rate, q' is accurate, 
regardless of the width of the age range in the cohort selected and being 
analyzed. The user of the SEER database is warned that the expected cumulative 
survival rate, P', is derived in the SEER survival tables on the basis of the 
first-year age distribution, not on the basis of the changing age distribution 
that is actuarially observed.

PMID: 17076138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Oct 14;150(41):2251-6.

[Summary of the practice guideline 'Diabetes mellitus type 2' (second revision) 
from the Dutch College of General Practitioners].

[Article in Dutch]

Bouma M(1), Rutten GE, de Grauw WJ, Wiersma T, Goudswaard AN; Nederlands 
Huisartsen Genootschap.

Author information:
(1)Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap, afd. Richtlijnontwikkeling en 
Wetenschapsbeleid, Postbus 3231, 3502, GE Utrecht. m.bouma@nhg-nl.org

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Oct 14;150(41):2233-4.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Oct 14;150(41):2235-7.

The practice guideline 'Diabetes mellitus type 2' (second revision) addresses 
the diagnosis, treatment and management of adults with diabetes mellitus type 2 
in general practice. The aim of management is the prevention and treatment of 
diabetes-related symptoms and complications such as cardiovascular disease, 
nephro-, retino- and neuropathy. The general practitioner gives the patient 
education and lifestyle advice and repeats this regularly. In addition, the 
general practitioner and the patient strive to achieve good glycaemic control. 
The agent of first choice in the medicinal treatment of all type 2 diabetic 
patients is metformin. This is continued even after the addition of a 
sulphonylurea derivative or insulin. This represents a change compared to the 
previous version of the practice guideline. The indications for 
thiazolidinediones are limited. To reduce the cardiovascular risk, it is advised 
to aim at a systolic blood pressure below 140 mmHg. It is also recommended that 
each patient be prescribed a statin, unless the patient belongs to a subgroup in 
which the indication for cholesterol lowering therapy is weak or the patient 
refuses it. Compared to the former guideline, more emphasis is placed on the 
prevention of nephropathy. The general practitioner is advised to calculate the 
creatinine clearance yearly and to test for relevant albuminuria in each patient 
with a life expectancy of 10 years or more. If microalbuminuria is present, the 
patient is prescribed an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, even if 
the blood pressure is not elevated. The detection of patients with a high risk 
of diabetic ulcer is also given more emphasis.

PMID: 17076359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. PLoS Med. 2006 Oct;3(10):e397. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030397.

Dementia before death in ageing societies--the promise of prevention and the 
reality.

Brayne C(1), Gao L, Dewey M, Matthews FE; Medical Research Council Cognitive 
Function and Ageing Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health, 
Cambridge University, Cambridge, United Kingdom. carol.brayne@medschl.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2006 Oct;3(10):e430.

BACKGROUND: Dementia and severe cognitive impairment are very closely linked to 
ageing. The longer we live the more likely we are to suffer from these 
conditions. Given population increases in longevity it is important to 
understand not only risk and protective factors for dementia and severe 
cognitive impairment at given ages but also whether protection affects 
cumulative risk. This can be explored by examining the effect on cumulative risk 
by time of death of factors found consistently to reduce risk at particular 
ages, such as education and social status.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: In this analysis we report the prevalence of dementia and 
severe cognitive impairment in the year before death in a large population 
sample. In the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (a 
10-y population-based cohort study of individuals 65 and over in England and 
Wales), these prevalences have been estimated by age, sex, social class, and 
education. Differences have been explored using logistic regression. The overall 
prevalence of dementia at death was 30%. There was a strong increasing trend for 
dementia with age from 6% for those aged 65-69 y at time of death to 58% for 
those aged 95 y and above at time of death. Higher prevalences were seen for 
severe cognitive impairment, with similar patterns. People with higher education 
and social class had significantly reduced dementia and severe cognitive 
impairment before death, but the absolute difference was small (under 10%).
CONCLUSIONS: Reducing risk for dementia at a given age will lead to further 
extension of life, thus cumulative risk (even in populations at lower risk for 
given ages) remains high. Ageing of populations is likely to result in an 
increase in the number of people dying with dementia and severe cognitive 
impairment even in the presence of preventative programmes. Policy development 
and research for dementia must address the needs of individuals who will 
continue to experience these conditions before death.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0030397
PMCID: PMC1626550
PMID: 17076551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


631. J Periodontol. 2006 Nov;77(11):1871-8. doi: 10.1902/jop.2006.060014.

Elevated serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) in solid-organ transplant recipients is 
positively associated with tissue destruction and IL-6 gene expression in the 
periodontium.

Ioannidou E(1), Kao D, Chang N, Burleson J, Dongari-Bagtzoglou A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Health and Diagnostic Sciences, Division of 
Periodontology, School of Dental Medicine, University of Connecticut Health 
Center, Farmington, CT 06030-1710, USA.

BACKGROUND: The number of transplanted solid organs and life expectancy after 
transplantation are steadily rising worldwide. Inflammation is widely recognized 
as playing a pivotal role in transplant rejection, and several studies have 
shown that serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels can identify individuals who are at 
greater risk for rejection. Given the known association between IL-6 and chronic 
periodontitis, the aim of our study was to assess the periodontal status of 
solid-organ transplant subjects compared to systemically healthy controls, to 
quantify the IL-6 levels in the serum and periodontal tissues, and to explore 
their association.
METHODS: Forty-seven heart and kidney transplant and 18 systemically healthy 
age-matched individuals were recruited. Subjects received a complete periodontal 
examination, and blood and periodontal tissue samples were collected for 
quantification of IL-6 protein and mRNA levels, respectively.
RESULTS: Transplant subjects had significantly higher serum IL-6 levels and 
slightly but statistically significantly increased mean probing depths than 
healthy controls. Multivariable linear regression analysis adjusting for gender, 
diabetes, smoking, and immunosuppressant dose showed that the mean probing 
depth, number of missing teeth, and mean percentage of sites with > or =4 mm 
attachment loss were independent predictors for elevated serum IL-6 levels. 
Transplant subjects with chronic periodontitis had higher mean serum IL-6 levels 
than those without chronic periodontitis, and there was a positive correlation 
between periodontal IL-6 gene expression levels and serum IL-6 protein levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Periodontal tissue destruction and local IL-6 synthesis are 
associated with elevated serum IL-6 levels in transplant recipients. This may 
have serious implications in solid-organ transplant deterioration and chronic 
rejection.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2006.060014
PMID: 17076613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 Nov;22(11):2095-100. doi: 10.1185/030079906X132730.

A French cost-consequence analysis of the renoprotective benefits of irbesartan 
in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension.

Palmer AJ(1), Valentine WJ, Tucker DM, Ray JA, Roze S, Annemans L, Lapuerta P, 
Chen R, Gabriel S, Carita P, Rodby RA, de Zeeuw D, Parving HH, Laville M.

Author information:
(1)CORE--Center for Outcomes Research, Allschwil/Basel, Switzerland. 
info@thecenter.ch

OBJECTIVES: We performed a cost-consequence analysis in a French setting of the 
renoprotective benefit of irbesartan in hypertensive type 2 diabetes patients 
over a 25-year period.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A previously published Markov model simulated 
progression from microalbuminuria to overt nephropathy, doubling of serum 
creatinine, end-stage renal disease and death. Three treatment strategies with 
analogous blood pressure control were compared: (A) control--conventionally 
medicated antihypertensive therapy (excluding angiotensin converting enzyme 
inhibitors, other angiotensin-2-receptor antagonists and dihydropyridine calcium 
channel blockers) initiated at microalbuminuria; (B) early irbesartan--(300 mg 
daily added to control, initiated with microalbuminuria) and (C) late 
irbesartan--(300 mg daily, initiated with overt nephropathy). Probabilities came 
from the Irbesartan in Reduction of Microalbuminuria-2 study, Irbesartan in 
Diabetic Nephropathy Trial and other sources. Clinical and economic outcomes 
were projected over 25 years. Annual discount rates were 3%.
RESULTS: Compared to control, early use of irbesartan added (mean +/- standard 
deviation) 1.51 +/- 0.08 undiscounted life years (discounted: 0.94 +/- 0.05 
years), while late irbesartan added 0.07 +/- 0.01 (0.04 +/- 0.01) years/patient. 
Early irbesartan added 1.03 +/- 0.06 discounted quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), while late irbesartan added 0.06 +/- 0.01 QALYs. Early and late 
irbesartan treatments were projected to save 22,314 +/- 1273 euro and 6619 +/- 
820 euro/patient, respectively versus control. Sensitivity analysis showed that 
even over short time horizons both irbesartan treatments were superior to the 
control group.
CONCLUSIONS: In France, early irbesartan treatment improved quality and length 
of life and reduced costs in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and 
microalbuminuria. Late irbesartan therapy is beneficial, but earlier irbesartan 
leads to better outcomes.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906X132730
PMID: 17076969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Br J Nurs. 2006 Oct 12-25;15(18):994-8. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2006.15.18.22024.

Care of patients with haemoglobin abnormalities: history and biology.

Khattab AD(1), Rawlings B, Ali IS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Institute of Health and Community Studies, Bournemouth 
