risk factors may reduce ethnic disparities in survival.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-5-8
PMCID: PMC1533830
PMID: 16817956


18. Laeknabladid. 2006 Jun;92(6):453-7.

[Treatment of diabetes mellitus, type 2, in a rural health center in Iceland].

[Article in Icelandic]

Oskarsdóttir MD(1), Gunnarsson R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Iceland, 101 Reykjavík, Iceland. 
mdo@hi.is

OBJECTIVE: Diabetes mellitus type 2 is a common and serious health problem (1). 
Long term complications reduce quality of life and even life expectancy as well 
as increasing greatly the cost of health care (1). Complications include 
macrovascular changes ,coronary heart disease and stroke and also microvascular 
changes such as ophthalmological, renal and neural damage. With effective 
control of blood glucose levels and blood pressure for instance, the probability 
of these complications can be diminished (2). Increased knowledge, new drugs and 
the publication of clinical guidelines raise the question whether this improves 
the level of care for diabetics in this rural Health-care Center.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This is a retrospective objective research spanning the 
years 1999-2003. Data was collected from the journals of 60 patients chosen 
randomly from the 130 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus type 2 during 
the same period of time. The available data from electrocardiograms, 
ophthalmologic-, foot and neural examinations, blood pressure measurements, body 
mass indexes and weight, were all recorded, along with the year of data 
collection. Also, all the blood tests research data mentioned in the Icelandic 
Diabetic type 2 Clinical Guidelines were recorded (4).
RESULTS: The average age of persons in the sample was 69 +/- 11.5 years. Males 
were in a slight majority (59%) and the average weight was 96 +/- 21 kg amongst 
the 76% who were weighed during the period of investigation. The long term blood 
glucose mean value, HbA1c, dropped significantly from 7.46 +/- 1.2% at the onset 
of the period, to 6.53 +/- 0.7% at the termination of the period (p<0.01). Blood 
pressure dropped from 154 +/- 17,5 and 83 +/- 10,8 mmHg in the year 1999, to 138 
+/- 18,1 and 80 +/- 8.4 mmHg during the year 2003 (p<0.01). In the year 1999 the 
total cholesterol was 5,7 +/- 0,7 mmol/l but in the year 2003 it was 4,7 +/- 0,9 
mmol/l (p<0.01). The percentage of patients reaching the established goal 
increased during the period of investigation (HbA1C; 50 vs 88%, blood pressure; 
17 vs 76% and 39 vs 88%, cholesterol; 35 vs 71 %)(p<0.01). There were few 
significant alterations in the frequency of performed measurements.
CONCLUSION: During the period of investigation there was an improvement in mean 
values and most reached the goal of clinical guidelines in the latter period of 
the investigation.

PMID: 16819005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Biol Pharm Bull. 2006 Jul;29(7):1441-4. doi: 10.1248/bpb.29.1441.

Evaluation of Calvert's formula for dosage adjustment of carboplatin in Japanese 
patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer.

Sato E(1), Yano I, Jiko M, Takahashi K, Motohashi H, Masuda S, Katsura T, 
Nishiyama H, Segawa T, Ito N, Kamoto T, Ogawa O, Inui K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Kyoto University Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, 
Japan.

For hormone refractory prostate carcinoma, a combination therapy of paclitaxel 
and carboplatin is used to expect life extension. We investigated the 
pharmacokinetics of carboplatin in Japanese prostate cancer patients (n=10, 
55-72 years), and evaluated the usefulness of Calvert's formula in the 
individualized dosing adjustment. They were intravenously administered 
carboplatin (area under the free plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC)=5 
mg.min/ml), following the intravenous administration of paclitaxel (175 
mg/m(2)). The dosage of carboplatin for each patient was determined with 
Calvert's formula using individual creatinine clearance values. Plasma 
concentration of total platinum was measured sequentially and the 
pharmacokinetic parameters of carboplatin were determined in each patient. 
Plasma concentration of total carboplatin after intravenous infusion well fitted 
the two-compartment model. Carboplatin clearance was 62.0+/-12.7 ml/min 
(mean+/-S.D.), and linearly related to the individual creatinine clearance 
(r(2)=0.64, p<0.01). The actual AUC for total carboplatin was 8.20+/-1.11 
mg.min/ml, and its inter-individual variability was decreased to 65% of that in 
carboplatin clearance, indicating the effectiveness of Calvert's formula for 
dosage adjustment of carboplatin. Leucopenia of grade 4 according to the 
National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria was found in one patient, 
but no patient demonstrated thrombocytopenia. In conclusion, determining 
carboplatin dosage based on Calvert's formula decreased the inter-individual 
variability in the actual AUC compared with that in the carboplatin clearance, 
and a target AUC of 5 mg.min/ml of carboplatin was comparatively safe for 
Japanese patients with prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.29.1441
PMID: 16819185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jun;23(12):3368-74. doi:
10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04870.x.

Motherhood-induced memory improvement persists across lifespan in rats but is 
abolished by a gestational stress.

Lemaire V(1), Billard JM, Dutar P, George O, Piazza PV, Epelbaum J, Le Moal M, 
Mayo W.

Author information:
(1)University Victor Segalen, INSERM U588 Institut François Magendie, 146 rue 
Léo Saignat, 33077 Bordeaux Cedex, France. lemaire@bordeaux.inserm.fr

Motherhood modifies the biology and behavior of the female, a process which 
prepares the mother's cognitive systems that are needed for nurturance. It has 
recently been shown that motherhood enhances hippocampal-mediated spatial 
learning and synaptic plasticity. Deleterious and long-term effects of a stress 
experienced during gestation have been demonstrated on progeny. Surprisingly 
little is known about the effect of such stress on mothers. Here, we 
investigated the effect of gestational stress on the adaptive changes due to 
motherhood. Female rats were mated and stressed during the last week of 
gestation. Two weeks after weaning, they were submitted to behavioral tests or 
electrophysiological study. A group of females were then kept for 16 months 
after motherhood experience to study the long-term effect of gestational stress 
and motherhood on memory when they were 22 months old. We confirm that a single 
motherhood experience selectively increases hippocampal-mediated spatial memory 
during the entire lifespan of female rats and protects them from age-associated 
memory impairments. However, we demonstrate that a stressful experience during 
gestation totally abolishes the positive effects of motherhood both on spatial 
memory and on hippocampal synaptic plasticity (long-term potentiation). 
Environmental factors that induce biological vulnerability have negative effects 
even for fundamental biological behaviors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04870.x
PMID: 16820026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. BMC Public Health. 2006 Jul 4;6:173. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-173.

National and sub-national under-five mortality profiles in Peru: a basis for 
informed policy decisions.

Huicho L(1), Trelles M, Gonzales F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, School of Medicine, Universidad Nacional Mayor de 
San Marcos and Instituto de Salud del Niño, LI 05, Lima, Peru. 
lhuicho@viabcp.com

BACKGROUND: Information on profiles for under-five causes of death is important 
to guide choice of child-survival interventions. Global level data have been 
published, but information at country level is scarce. We aimed at defining 
national and departmental trends and profiles of under-five mortality in Peru 
from 1996 through 2000.
METHODS: We used the Ministry of Health registered under-five mortality data. 
For correction of under-registration, a model life-table that fitted the age 
distribution of the population and of registered deaths was identified for each 
year. The mortality rates corresponding to these model life-tables were then 
assigned to each department in each particular year. Cumulative reduction in 
under-five mortality rate in the 1996-2000 period was estimated calculating the 
annual reduction slope for each department. Departmental level mortality 
profiles were constructed. Differences in mortality profiles and in mortality 
reduction between coastal, andean and jungle regions were also assessed.
RESULTS: At country level, only 4 causes (pneumonia, diarrhoea, neonatal 
diseases and injuries) accounted for 68% of all deaths in 1996, and for 62% in 
2000. There was 32.7% of under-five death reduction from 1996 to 2000. Diarrhoea 
and pneumonia deaths decreased by 84.5% and 41.8%, respectively, mainly in the 
andean region, whereas deaths due to neonatal causes and injuries decreased by 
37.2% and 21.7%. For 1996-2000 period, the andean, coast and jungle regions 
accounted for 52.4%, 33.1% and 14.4% of deaths, respectively. These regions 
represent 41.0%, 46.4% and 12.6% of under-five population. Both diarrhoea and 
pneumonia constitute 30.6% of under-five deaths in the andean region. As a 
proportion, neonatal deaths remained stable in the country from 1996 to 2000, 
accounting for about 30% of under-five deaths, whereas injuries and "other" 
causes, including congenital anomalies, increased by about 5%.
CONCLUSION: Under-five mortality declined substantially in all departments from 
1996 to 2000, which is explained mostly by reduction in diarrhoea and pneumonia 
deaths, particularly in the andean region. There is the need to emphasize 
interventions to reduce neonatal deaths and emerging causes of death such as 
injuries and congenital anomalies.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-173
PMCID: PMC1524945
PMID: 16820049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I350-6. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000497.

Long-term survival in patients presenting with type A acute aortic dissection: 
insights from the International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection (IRAD).

Tsai TT(1), Evangelista A, Nienaber CA, Trimarchi S, Sechtem U, Fattori R, 
Myrmel T, Pape L, Cooper JV, Smith DE, Fang J, Isselbacher E, Eagle KA; 
International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection (IRAD).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Cardiovascular Center, 24 Frank Lloyd Wright Drive, 
Lobby A, Room 3201, P.O. Box 384, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106-0384, USA. 
hsianshi@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Earlier studies evaluating long-term survival in type A acute aortic 
dissection (TA-AAD) have been restricted to a small number of patients in single 
center experiences. We used data from a contemporary, multi-center international 
registry of TA-AAD patients to better understand factors associated with 
long-term survival.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We examined 303 consecutive patients with TA-AAD enrolled 
in the International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection (IRAD) between 1996 and 
2003. We included patients who were discharged alive and had documented clinical 
follow-up data. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were constructed to depict 
cumulative survival in patients from date of hospital discharge. Stepwise Cox 
proportional hazards analysis was performed to identify independent predictors 
of follow-up mortality. We found that 273 (90.1%) patients had been managed 
surgically and 30 (9.9%) were managed medically. Patients who were dead at 
follow-up were more likely to be older (63.9 versus 58.4 years, P=0.007) and to 
have had previous cardiac surgery (23.9% versus 10.6%, P=0.01). Survival for 
patients treated with surgery was 96.1%+/-2.4% and 90.5%+/-3.9% at 1 and 3 years 
versus 88.6%+/-12.2% and 68.7%+/-19.8% without surgery (mean follow-up overall, 
2.8 years, log rank P=0.009). Multivariate analysis identified a history of 
atherosclerosis (relative risk (RR), 2.17; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.08 to 
4.37; P=0.03) and previous cardiac surgery (RR, 2.54; 95% CI, 1.16 to 5.57; 
P=0.02) as significant, independent predictors of follow-up mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Contemporary 1- and 3-year survival in patients with TA-AAD treated 
surgically are excellent. Independent predictors of survival during the 
follow-up period do not appear to be influenced by in-hospital risks but rather 
preexisting comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000497
PMID: 16820599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I396-401. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000349.

Impact of internal mammary artery conduit on long-term outcomes after 
percutaneous intervention of saphenous vein graft.

Mehta RH(1), Honeycutt E, Peterson ED, Granger CB, Halabi AR, Shaw LK, Smith PK, 
Califf RM, Harrington RA, Sketch MH Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Duke University 
Medical Center and Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, NC, USA. 
mehta007@dcri.duke.edu

Comment in
    Circulation. 2006 Dec 19;114(25):e648; author reply e649.

BACKGROUND: The influence of an internal mammary artery (IMA) graft on long-term 
outcomes after percutaneous saphenous vein graft (SVG) intervention is currently 
unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: To examine the impact of IMA on outcomes in patients 
undergoing SVG interventions, we analyzed 2119 patients from the Duke 
Cardiovascular Disease Database (1986-2003) with prior coronary artery bypass 
surgery undergoing cardiac catheterization who had at least 1 SVG graft. 
Patients were categorized into 4 groups: group I, SVG intervention and patent 
IMA; group II, no SVG intervention and patent IMA; group III, SVG intervention 
without patent IMA; and group IV, no SVG intervention without patent IMA. At a 
median follow-up of 4.8 years (interquartile range, 2.1 to 8.8 years), adjusted 
survival rates in groups I, II, III, and IV were 72.8%, 72.3%, 64.5%, and 58.9%, 
respectively. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards modeling showed similar 
survival for groups I and II (P=0.63) and for groups III and IV (P=0.33). The 
presence of IMA graft was related to lower long-term mortality (adjusted hazard 
ratio [HR], 0.69; 95% CI, 0.58 to 0.82), whereas SVG intervention was not 
associated with long-term mortality (adjusted HR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.81 to 1.10). 
In contrast, the adjusted event-free rates for nonfatal myocardial infarction 
were lower in the SVG intervention groups (groups I and III) than in the non-SVG 
intervention groups (groups II and IV) (HR for SVG intervention versus no SVG 
intervention, 3.19; 95% CI, 2.18 to 4.66), with the presence of patent IMA 
conferring no significant benefit on this outcome (HR, 1.37; 95% CI, 0.91 to 
2.08).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing SVG interventions, survival, but not 
nonfatal myocardial infarction, is favorably influenced by the presence of 
patent IMA. In contrast, SVG intervention had no measurable survival benefit but 
was associated with an increased risk of nonfatal myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000349
PMID: 16820607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I409-13. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000596.

Perioperative increases in serum creatinine are predictive of increased 90-day 
mortality after coronary artery bypass graft surgery.

Brown JR(1), Cochran RP, Dacey LJ, Ross CS, Kunzelman KS, Dunton RF, Braxton JH, 
Charlesworth DC, Clough RA, Helm RE, Leavitt BJ, Mackenzie TA, O'Connor GT; 
Northern New England Cardiovascular Disease Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluative Clinical Sciences, Dartmouth Medical School, 
Lebanon, NH, USA. Jeremiah.R.Brown@Dartmouth.EDU

BACKGROUND: Impaired renal function after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) 
surgery is a key risk factor for in-hospital mortality. However, perioperative 
increases in serum creatinine and the association with mortality has not been 
well-studied. We assessed the hypothesis that perioperative increases in 
creatinine are associated with increased 90-day mortality.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied 1391 patients in northern New England undergoing 
CABG in 2001 and evaluated preoperative and postoperative creatinine. Patients 
with preoperative dialysis were excluded. Data were linked to the National Death 
Index to assess 90-day survival. Kaplan-Meier and log-rank techniques were used. 
Patients were stratified by percent increase in creatinine from baseline: <25%, 
25% to 49%, 50% to 99%, > or =100%. We assessed 90-day survival and calculated 
adjusted hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) for creatinine 
groups, adjusting for age and sex. Patients with the largest creatinine 
increases (50% to 99% or > or =100%) had significantly higher 90-day mortality 
compared with patients with a smaller increase (<50%; P<0.001). Adjusted HR and 
95% CI confirmed patients in the higher 2 groups had an increased risk of 
mortality compared with the <25% (referent); however, the 25% to 49% group was 
not different from the referent: 1.80 (95% CI: 0.73 to 4.44), 6.57 (95% CI, 3.03 
to 14.27), and 22.10 (95% CI, 11.25 to 43.39).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with large creatinine increases (> or = 50%) after CABG 
surgery have a higher 90-day mortality compared with patients with small 
increases. Efforts to identify patients with impaired renal function and to 
preserve renal function before cardiac surgery may yield benefits for patients 
in the future.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000596
PMID: 16820609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I420-4. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000679.

Coronary revascularization (surgical or percutaneous) decreases mortality after 
the first year in diabetic subjects but not in nondiabetic subjects with 
multivessel disease: an analysis from the Medicine, Angioplasty, or Surgery 
Study (MASS II).

Soares PR(1), Hueb WA, Lemos PA, Lopes N, Martinez EE, Cesar LA, Oliveira SA, 
Ramires JA.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute, University of Sao Paulo Medical School, Av. Dr. Enéas de 
Carvalho Aguiar, 44 sala 114, Sao Paulo-SP 05403-000, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: It is currently unknown whether revascularization procedures are 
associated with an improvement in mortality among diabetic subjects, as compared 
with a more conservative medical treatment.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In MASS II, a total of 611 patients with stable multivessel 
coronary disease were randomly assigned to medical treatment, surgery, or 
angioplasty. From these, 190 patients had diabetes (medical, 75 patients; 
angioplasty, 56 patients; surgery, 59 patients) and comprised the present study 
population. Mortality rates were analyzed for the entire 5 years of follow-up. 
Separate analyzes were also performed for mortality at 2 time intervals: during 
the first year and after the first year of follow-up. We calculated the 
probability of death conditional on surviving to the start of the interval 
analyzed. The cumulative 5-year mortality as well as the mortality during the 
first year of follow-up was not significantly different among treatment groups, 
both for diabetic and for nondiabetic subjects. Also, during years 2 to 5, the 
mortality of the 3 treatment groups was not different for nondiabetic subjects. 
Among diabetic subjects, however, patients randomized to angioplasty or surgery 
had a significantly lower mortality between years 2 and 5 than those allocated 
to medical treatment (P=0.039).
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery, angioplasty, and medical treatment appear to be associated 
with similar mortality rates for non-diabetic subjects. For diabetic subjects, 
however, coronary revascularization (percutaneous or surgical) significantly 
decreased the risk of death after the first year and up to 5 years, compared 
with medical treatment alone.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000679
PMID: 16820611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I425-9. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000695.

Long-term outcomes of the symmetry vein graft anastomosis device: a matched 
case-control analysis.

Kachhy RG(1), Kong DF, Honeycutt E, Shaw LK, Davis RD.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Symmetry Bypass Connector (St. Jude Medical) was developed to 
rapidly anastomose saphenous vein grafts to the aorta during coronary bypass 
surgery (CABG) without cross-clamping. Previous uncontrolled studies of this 
device observed vein graft closures at six months, possibly attributable to 
neointimal hyperplasia.
METHODS AND RESULTS: To assess the long-term clinical outcomes of the Symmetry 
device, we performed a retrospective matched case-control analysis of patients 
who underwent CABG at Duke Medical Center between January 1, 2002 and December 
31, 2003. In 121 patients, at least one proximal anastomosis used a Symmetry 
device. Traditional suture methods were used in 178 control patients, matched by 
age group, gender, use of cardiopulmonary bypass, and Hannan perioperative risk 
score. One-year outcomes were compared using the log-rank test and Cox 
proportional hazards regression models. Major adverse events were more frequent 
among cases compared with controls. By unadjusted Kaplan-Meier analysis for the 
composite end point of death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, repeat cardiac 
catheterization, or repeat CABG, there was a trend towards increased events in 
the Symmetry device group (P=0.053). No significant differences were detected 
for stroke, all cause mortality, or the combined end point of death or nonfatal 
myocardial infarction.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the Symmetry Bypass Connector was associated with increased 
risk for major adverse events at 1 year, suggestive of early graft closure. The 
potential reductions in operative stroke risk (from the elimination of aortic 
cross-clamping) must be weighed against the potential risk for later adverse 
events. These findings encourage close follow-up of patients who received this 
device.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000695
PMID: 16820612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I430-4. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000943.

Long-term survival of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.

Leavitt BJ(1), Ross CS, Spence B, Surgenor SD, Olmstead EM, Clough RA, 
Charlesworth DC, Kramer RS, O'Connor GT; Northern New England Cardiovascular 
Disease Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Fletcher Allen Health Care, 111 Colchester Ave, Burlington, VT 05401-1473, 
USA. bruce.leavitt@vtmednet.org

BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is associated with 
increased in-hospital mortality in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass 
surgery (CABG). Long-term survival is less well understood. The present study 
examined the effect of COPD on survival after CABG.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a prospective study of 33,137 consecutive 
isolated CABG patients between 1992 and 2001 in northern New England. Records 
were linked to the National Death Index for long-term mortality data. Cox 
proportional hazards regression was used to calculate hazard ratios (HRs). 
Patients were stratified by: no comorbidities (none), COPD, COPD plus 
comorbidities, and other comorbidities with no COPD. There were 131,434 person 
years of follow-up and 5344 deaths. The overall incidence rate (deaths per 100 
person years) was 4.1. By group, rates were: 2.1 (none), 4.0 (COPD alone), 5.5 
(other), and 9.4 (COPD plus; log rank P<0.001). After adjustment, survival with 
COPD alone was worse compared with none (HR, 1.8; 95% CI, 1.6 to 2.1; P<0.001). 
Patients with other comorbidities compared with none had even worse survival 
(HR, 2.2; 95% CI, 2.1 to 2.4; P<0.001). Patients with COPD plus other 
comorbidities compared with none had the worst long-term survival (HR, 3.6; 95% 
CI, 3.3 to 3.9; P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with only COPD had significantly reduced long-term 
survival compared with patient with no comorbidities. Patients with COPD and > 
or = 1 other comorbidity had the worst survival rate when compared with all of 
the other groups.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000943
PMID: 16820614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I454-60. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001149.

Occurrence and risk factors for reintervention after coronary artery bypass 
grafting.

Sabik JF 3rd(1), Blackstone EH, Gillinov AM, Smedira NG, Lytle BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 
Euclid Avenue/Desk F24, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. sabikj@ccf.org

BACKGROUND: Reintervention after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is 
common. We sought to determine its occurrence and identify patient 
characteristics and operative techniques that influence the need or bias for 
reintervention.
METHODS AND RESULTS: From 1971 to 1998, 48,758 patients underwent primary 
isolated CABG, and 1000 patients per year were actively followed-up every 5 
years (n =26,927). A multivariable time-related analysis was performed to model 
freedom from first coronary reintervention (either reoperation or percutaneous 
coronary intervention) and identify patient and operative characteristics 
associated with first reintervention. A total of 3997 patients underwent 
coronary reintervention, percutaneous in 1638 and reoperation in 2359. Freedom 
from reintervention was 99%, 96%, 88%, 73%, 60%, and 46% at 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 
and 25 years, respectively. Risk of reintervention (hazard function) 
demonstrated a short, rapidly declining early phase followed by a longer, 
slow-rising late phase. Patient variables increasing the likelihood of coronary 
reintervention included younger age (P<0.0001), higher triglycerides (P=0.002), 
lower high-density lipoprotein (P=0.006), diabetes mellitus (P<0.0001), and more 
extensive coronary artery disease (P=0.0005). Increasing extent of arterial 
grafting performed at primary operation decreased the likelihood of coronary 
reintervention (P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Reintervention after primary CABG is common. Risk factors for 
arteriosclerosis and type of bypass conduit influence the need or bias for 
repeat coronary therapy. Aggressive post-CABG risk factor reduction and 
extensive arterial grafting at primary operation should decrease coronary 
reinterventions.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001149
PMID: 16820618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I486-91. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001651.

Long-term results after systematic off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery 
in 1000 consecutive patients.

El-Hamamsy I(1), Cartier R, Demers P, Bouchard D, Pellerin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Montreal Heart Institute, 5000 Belanger 
St, Montreal, Quebec H1T 1C8, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery (OPCAB) is currently used as 
an alternative to conventional "on-pump" surgery, but there are very little data 
available on long-term follow-up. The aim of this study was to review our 
long-term experience with the use of systematic OPCAB.
METHODS AND RESULTS: 1000 consecutive OPCAB surgeries were systematically 
performed between 1996 and 2004, representing 95% of all coronary 
revascularization during that same time frame, with a 97% complete follow-up. 
Average age of the patients was 64+/-10 years (778 men and 222 women). 
Seventy-three percent had triple-vessel disease. Operative 30-day mortality was 
1.6%. Overall survival at 96 months was 74+/-3.5% and cardiac survival was 
94+/-1.3%. By Cox regression analysis, age (odds ratio [OR], 1.07), congestive 
heart failure (CHF) (OR, 1.90), peripheral vascular disease (OR, 1.74), chronic 
renal insufficiency (OR, 2.04), previous myocardial infarction (MI) (OR, 1.60), 
and New York Heart Association functional class (OR, 1.60) were risk factors for 
long- term mortality. Survival free of any cardiac events (cardiac death, MI, 
unstable angina, heart failure, or reintervention) was 80+/-3.4%. Survival free 
of any type of reintervention alone was 90+/-3%. By Cox regression analysis, 
mitral regurgitation (OR, 2.3), peripheral vascular disease (OR, 2.1), and 
diffuse coronary disease (OR, 2.3) were significant predictors of recurrent 
cardiac events. Conversion to "on-pump" (OR, 14.3) was predictor of long-term 
need for repeat revascularization.
CONCLUSIONS: In this series, systematic OPCAB surgery was shown to be an 
acceptable alternative to conventional "on-pump" coronary artery bypass graft 
for the treatment of coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001651
PMID: 16820623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I499-503. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000398.

Mitral valve repair versus revascularization alone in the treatment of ischemic 
mitral regurgitation.

Kang DH(1), Kim MJ, Kang SJ, Song JM, Song H, Hong MK, Choi KJ, Song JK, Lee JW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Ulsan, Asan Medical Center, Songpa-ku 
Poongnap-dong 388-1, Seoul 138-736, Korea. dhkang@amc.seoul.kr

BACKGROUND: For patients with ischemic mitral regurgitation (MR), it is not 
clear whether adjunctive mitral valve (MV) repair at the time of coronary artery 
bypass graft surgery (CABG) is beneficial. We sought to test the hypothesis that 
MV repair with CABG is superior to CABG alone in improving MR without increasing 
operative or long-term mortality.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 107 consecutive patients with moderate or severe 
ischemic MR, as determined by preoperative echocardiography, underwent CABG with 
concomitant MV repair (repair group, n=50) or CABG only (CABG group, n=57). 
Degree of MR was graded as none, mild, moderate, or severe by the proximal 
isovelocity surface area method. The groups were similar with respect to age, 
gender, baseline New York Heart Association class, ejection fraction, and number 
of bypass grafts. The repair group had a higher percentage of patients with 
atrial fibrillation or severe MR than the CABG group. The operative mortality 
was significantly higher for the repair group (12%) than the CABG group (2%), 
whereas the 5-year actuarial survival rate of the 2 groups was similar (88%+/-5% 
versus 87%+/-6%). On multivariate logistic regression analysis, older age, 
higher New York Heart Association class, and atrial fibrillation were 
independent predictors of operative mortality (P<0.05). Among patients with 
severe MR, ischemic MR was improved in all patients of the repair group and in 
67% of patients in the CABG group (P<0.001), whereas improvement rates in 
patients with moderate MR were similar in the 2 groups (75% versus 67%, P=NS).
CONCLUSIONS: Although MV repair appears to be more effective at reducing 
ischemic functional MR, CABG alone may be a preferable treatment option for 
patients with moderate MR and high operative risk factors such as old age or 
atrial fibrillation.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000398
PMID: 16820626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I504-11. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000406.

A critical reappraisal of the Ross operation: renaissance of the subcoronary 
implantation technique?

Sievers HH(1), Hanke T, Stierle U, Bechtel MF, Graf B, Robinson DR, Ross DN.

Author information:
(1)University Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Luebeck, Department of Cardiac Surgery, 
Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538 Luebeck, Germany. 
h.sievers@herzchirurgie-luebeck.de

BACKGROUND: The autograft procedure, an option in aortic valve replacement, has 
undergone technical evolution. A considerable debate about the most favorable 
surgical technique in the Ross operation is still ongoing. Originally described 
as a subcoronary implant, the full root replacement technique is now the most 
commonly used technique to perform the Ross principle.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between June of 1994 and June of 2005, the original 
subcoronary autograft technique was performed in 347 patients. Preoperative, 
perioperative, and follow-up data were collected and analyzed. Mean patient age 
at implantation was 44+/-13 years (range 14 to 71 years; 273 male, 74 female). 
Bicuspid valve morphology was present in 67%. The underlying valve disease was 
aortic regurgitation in 111 patients, stenosis in 46 patients, combined lesion 
in 188 patients, and active endocarditis in 22 patients (in 2 patients without 
stenosis or regurgitation). Concomitant procedures were performed in 130 
patients. Clinical and echocardiographic follow-up visits were obtained annually 
(mean follow up 3.9+/-2.7 years, 1324 patient-years; completeness of follow-up 
99.4%). The in-hospital mortality rate was 0.6% (n =2), and the late mortality 
was 1.7% (n=6), with 5 noncardiac deaths (4 cancer, 1 multiorgan failure after 
noncardiac surgery) and 1 cardiac death (sudden death). At last follow-up, 94% 
of the surviving patients were in New York Heart Association class I. Ross 
procedure-related valvular reoperations were necessary in 9 patients: Three 
received autograft explants, 5 received homograft explants, and 1 received a 
combined auto- and homograft explant. At last follow-up visit, 
autograft/homograft regurgitation grade II was present in 5/10 patients and 
grade III in 4/0. Maximum/mean pressure gradients were 7.4+/-6.2/3.7+/-2.1 mm Hg 
across the autograft and 15.3+/-9.4/7.6+/-5.0 mm Hg across the right ventricular 
outflow tract, respectively. Aortic root dilatation was not observed. Freedom 
from any valve-related intervention was 95% at 8 years (95% confidence interval 
91% to 99%).
CONCLUSIONS: Midterm follow-up of autograft procedures according to the original 
Ross subcoronary approach proves excellent clinical and hemodynamic results, 
with no considerable reoperation rates. Revival of the original subcoronary Ross 
operation should be taken into account when considering the best way to install 
the Ross principle.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.000406
PMID: 16820628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I553-8. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001180.

Long-term outcomes after valve replacement for low-gradient aortic stenosis: 
impact of prosthesis-patient mismatch.

Kulik A(1), Burwash IG, Kapila V, Mesana TG, Ruel M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2006 Dec 5;114(23):e627; author reply e628.

BACKGROUND: The long-term outcomes of patients with low-gradient aortic stenosis 
(LGAS) after aortic valve replacement (AVR) are poorly defined. The purpose of 
this study was to define the long-term outcomes of LGAS patients after AVR and 
to evaluate the potential impact of prosthesis-patient mismatch (PPM) in these 
patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A cohort of 664 patients undergoing AVR for aortic stenosis 
after 1990 were followed-up prospectively with annual clinical assessment and 
echocardiography (total follow-up 3447 patient-years; mean follow-up 5.2+/-3.3 
years). LGAS was defined as an aortic valve area <1.2 cm2, a mean transvalvular 
pressure gradient <40 mm Hg, and a left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction <50%, 
and was present in 79 patients. Rates and correlates of survival, freedom from 
congestive heart failure (CHF), and LV mass regression after AVR were determined 
using multivariate regression methods. Ten-year survival and freedom from CHF 
after AVR were 72.7+/-7.5% and 68.2+/-9.5%, respectively, for patients with 
LGAS, compared with 89.6+/-1.8% and 84.1+/-4.2% for patients without LGAS 
(hazard ratio [HR] for death and postoperative CHF, 3.1+/-1.1 and 2.7+/-0.9, 
respectively; P<0.01). In LGAS patients, PPM, defined as an indexed effective 
orifice area < or = 0.85 cm2/m2, was independently associated with increased 
rates of CHF (HR, 3.6+/-2.2; P=0.039), impaired LV mass regression (P=0.037), 
and a trend toward increased late mortality (HR, 3.0+/-1.9; P=0.084).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with LGAS have worse long-term outcomes after AVR compared 
with patients without LGAS. PPM adversely affects the long-term outcomes of LGAS 
patients and should be avoided in this population.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001180
PMID: 16820636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I573-6. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001230.

Impact of moderate functional mitral insufficiency in patients undergoing 
surgical revascularization.

Grossi EA(1), Crooke GA, DiGiorgi PL, Schwartz CF, Jorde U, Applebaum RM, 
Ribakove GH, Galloway AC, Grau JB, Colvin SB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, New York University School of Medicine, 
New York, NY 10028, USA. grossi@cv.med.nyu.edu

BACKGROUND: Mild and moderate functional ischemic mitral insufficiency present 
at the time of surgical revascularization present clinical uncertainty. It is 
unclear whether the relatively poor outcomes in this cohort are dependent on 
valvular function or related to left ventricular dysfunction. The purpose of 
this study was to examine the early and late outcomes in patients with 
less-than-severe functional ischemic mitral insufficiency at the time of 
isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
METHODS AND RESULTS: From 1996 through 2004, 2242 consecutive patients 
undergoing isolated CABG were identified as having none to moderate mitral 
regurgitation (MR) and no valve leaflet pathology. All of the patients at this 
single institution routinely had an intraoperative transesophageal 
echocardiography, prospectively quantified MR, and ejection fraction (EF). The 
New York State Cardiac Surgery Reporting System infrastructure was used to 
prospectively collect in-hospital patient variables and outcomes. Social 
Security Death Benefit Index was used to determine long-term survival. Odds 
ratio and significance (P value) are presented for each determined risk factor. 
There were 841 patients (37.5%) with no MR, 1137 (50.7%) with mild MR, and 264 
(11.8%) with moderate MR. The patients with moderate MR were more likely to be 
older, female, and have more renal disease, previous MI, congestive heart 
failure, previous cardiac surgery, and lower EFs. Hospital mortality was 
independently and significantly associated with renal disease, decreasing EF, 
increasing age, previous cardiac operation, and cerebral vascular disease. 
Multivariable analysis revealed decreased survival with increasing age, previous 
operation, congestive heart failure, diabetes, nonelective operation, decreasing 
EF, and the presence of moderate MR (expbeta = 1.49; P=0.007) and mild MR 
(expbeta = 1.34; P=0.033).
CONCLUSIONS: Independent of ventricular function, mild and moderate functional 
mitral insufficiency are associated with significantly decreased survival in 
patients undergoing CABG. Whether correction of moderate functional MR at the 
time of CABG improves outcome still needs to be determined.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001230
PMID: 16820640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I577-81. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001263.

Tricuspid valve repair with an annuloplasty ring results in improved long-term 
outcomes.

Tang GH(1), David TE, Singh SK, Maganti MD, Armstrong S, Borger MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Toronto General Hospital, Department of 
Surgery, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to compare the long-term results of 
tricuspid valve (TV) repair with or without an annuloplasty ring.
METHODS AND RESULTS: 702 patients underwent TV repair at our institution (1978 
to 2003), of which 493 had, predominantly, a De Vega procedure (no ring) and 209 
had an annuloplasty ring (ring). TV pathology was functional (secondary) in 74% 
of patients. Concomitant procedures consisted of mitral valve surgery in 80% of 
patients, aortic valve surgery in 33%, and coronary bypass in 14%. Clinical and 
echocardiographic follow-up data were obtained. Follow-up was 99% complete and 
was 5.9+/-4.9 (mean+/-SD) years long. Ring patients were younger (55+/-14 versus 
59+/-14 years; P=0.001) and less likely to have coronary artery disease (10% 
versus 17%; P=0.02), more likely to be female (75% versus 65%; P=0.01) and 
having had previous cardiac surgery (56% versus 42%; P=0.001). Operative times 
were similar between the 2 groups. Long-term survival, event-free survival and 
freedom from recurrent TR were significantly better in the ring group, and there 
was a trend toward fewer TV reoperations. Multivariable analysis demonstrated 
that the use of an annuloplasty ring was an independent predictor of long-term 
survival (hazard ratio [HR], 0.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.5 to 1.0; 
P=0.03) and event-free survival (HR, 0.8; CI, 0.6 to 1.0; P=0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Placement of an annuloplasty ring in patients undergoing tricuspid 
valve repair is associated with improved survival and event-free survival.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001263
PMID: 16820641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I594-9. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001438.

Homograft valved right ventricle to pulmonary artery conduit as a modification 
of the Norwood procedure.

Reinhartz O(1), Reddy VM, Petrossian E, MacDonald M, Lamberti JJ, Roth SJ, 
Wright GE, Perry SB, Suleman S, Hanley FL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA. orx@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: The use of a right ventricle to pulmonary artery (RV-PA) conduit in 
the Norwood procedure has been proposed to increase postoperative hemodynamic 
stability. A valve within the conduit should further decrease RV volume load. We 
report our clinical experience with this modification.
METHODS AND RESULTS: From February 2002 through August 2005, we performed 88 
consecutive Norwood procedures using RV-PA conduits. We used composite valved 
conduits made from cryopreserved homograft and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) in 
66 cases (54 pulmonary, 12 aortic homografts), other valved conduits in 14, and 
unvalved PTFE in 8 cases. Hospital survival was 88.6% overall and increased to 
93.1% after the initial year. Early interventions were required in 18 patients 
(16 for cyanosis). Prestage II cardiac catheterization was performed at a mean 
age of 126 days. Mean Qp/Qs was 1, with mean aortic saturation 71%, mean O2 
extraction 24%, and mean right ventricular end-diastolic pressure 9 mm Hg. 
Patient weight, use of an aortic homograft valve in the conduit, stage I 
palliation within the first year of our experience, and low O2 extraction and 
high transpulmonary gradient prestage II were risk factors for overall death. 
Early interventions were more frequent in aortic valve conduits compared with 
all other conduits.
CONCLUSIONS: The valved RV-PA conduit was associated with low early mortality 
after the Norwood procedure. The majority of these patients had normal cardiac 
output and well-maintained RV function. There may be a higher risk for early 
conduit interventions and death when aortic valve homografts are used in the 
RV-PA conduit.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001438
PMID: 16820644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Circulation. 2006 Jul 4;114(1 Suppl):I62-6. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001412.

Optimal medical therapy is superior to transplantation for the treatment of 
class I, II, and III heart failure: a decision analytic approach.

Freudenberger RS(1), Kim J, Tawfik I, Sonnenberg FA.

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson 
Medical School, New Brunswick, NJ, USA. freuders@umdnj.edu

BACKGROUND: The survival benefit of heart transplantation (HT) compared with 
optimal medical therapy (OMT) has never been tested.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We created a decision analytic model that simulates a 
randomized clinical trial of OMT versus HT for each New York Heart Association 
(NYHA) class. The simulation calculates average life expectancy. The following 
assumptions were made for OMT annual mortality: class I no excess mortality from 
HF; class II and III based on MERIT-HF are 5.3% and 8.1%. Class IV is 12.8%, 
based on COPERNICUS. HT mortality rates were based on survival curves for HT 
1982 to 2001. For classes I, II, and III, OMT demonstrated a life expectancy 
gain of 113 months (232+/-2.2 versus 119+/-2.1), 38 months (152+/-2.1 versus 
114+/-2.1), and 6 months (117+/-1.8 versus 111+/-2.2), respectively, over HT. 
Class IV favored HT with a life expectancy gain of 26 months (107+/-2.1 versus 
81+/-1.4) over OMT. Sensitivity analysis revealed if improvement in OMT 
decreased mortality by 38% for class IV patients, OMT and HT would have 
equivalent life expectancies. If improvement in HT resulted in a 7% increase in 
post-HT survival, OMT and HT would be equivalent for class III patients. If 
improvement in HT resulted in a 30% increase in post-HT survival, OMT and HT 
would be equivalent for class II patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model predicts that currently, OMT is superior to HT for 
classes I, II, and III, but HT is superior for class IV. However, future 
advances in OMT or HT may change the relative benefits of these treatment 
modalities.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.001412
PMID: 16820647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2007 Jan;101(1):37-49. doi:
10.1007/s10549-006-9262-4.  Epub 2006 Jul 4.

Cost-effectiveness of letrozole in the extended adjuvant treatment of women with 
early breast cancer.

El Ouagari K(1), Karnon J, Delea T, Talbot W, Brandman J.

Author information:
(1)Novartis Pharmaceuticals Canada Inc., 385 boul. Bouchard, H9S 1A9, Dorval, 
QC, Canada. khalid.el_ouagari@novartis.com

Adjuvant tamoxifen therapy for 5 years reduces recurrence in hormone receptor 
positive, post-menopausal women with early breast cancer, but offers no 
advantage when prolonged to another 5 years, during which the risk of recurrence 
remains high. Treating patients, who remain disease-free after 5 years of 
tamoxifen, with letrozole significantly reduces recurrence, regardless of nodal 
status. This study evaluated the life-time cost-utility of extended adjuvant 
letrozole therapy in 62-year-old patients from a third-party payer perspective. 
A Markov model incorporated locoregional, contralateral, and metastatic 
recurrences. The comparator was placebo. Event rates were based on published 
trials. Utility values were taken from a clinical trial and published 
literature. Costs were obtained from published literature, provincial payment 
schedules, cancer agencies, and drug plans formularies. Resource use reflected 
Canadian treatment patterns. Robustness of the model was tested using 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Extended adjuvant 
letrozole therapy of a cohort consisting of 50% node-negative and 50% 
node-positive patients prolonged their lives on average by 0.466 years or 0.267 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at an additional cost of Can$8,031 per 
patient, yielding an incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) of $34,058 per QALY. 
Letrozole was more cost-effective in node-positive than in node-negative 
patients (Can$26,553 vs Can$46,049 per QALY). Results were robust to variations 
in age, healthcare costs, and utilities. The degree of confidence that the cost 
per QALY would be below Can$50,000 reached 100% for node-positive and 77% for 
node-negative patients. Extended adjuvant letrozole is cost-effective in both 
node-negative and node-positive patients having ICURs below Can$50,000/QALY.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-006-9262-4
PMID: 16821085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Indian Med Assoc. 2005 Dec;103(12):692, 694, 696-8 passim.

Health sector in India--progress, challenges and the way forward.

Agarwal SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi 110029.

Health is a priority goal in its own right and a central input into economic 
development and poverty reduction. Significant achievements have been made in a 
number of areas which include health parameters, legislation, research and 
technology and disease control. The life expectancy has gone up by 17% since 
1981. In disease control significant achievements are in sight. Some new 
programmes have been introduced with the changes in disease profile. Significant 
progress can be seen in leprosy control, blindness control, TB control and 
iodine deficiency disorder control. Some legislations were also enacted to 
protect life and personal liberty as the constitution holds the right to 
healthcare as a fundamental one. Immediate medical relief and preventing major 
outbreak following disasters is another area to fight with. There are some 
challenges to face with like propulation stabilisation, to reduce infant and 
maternal matality, mobilisationof funds on health, to increase manpower, to 
increase female literacy and so on. Control of some diseases like HIV/AIDS, 
vector borne ones, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, trauma related 
injuries, mental disorders is another point to improve healthcare delivery. To 
meet challenges to the health system the way forward has to be multipronged, 
focusing on finance, manpower, research and social factors like sanitation, 
drainking water availability, female literacy, etc.

PMID: 16821669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Breast Dis. 2005-2006;23:67-71. doi: 10.3233/bd-2006-23109.

Adjuvant systemic therapy in young women.

Carrizosa DR(1), Carey LA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
27599-7305, USA.

About a third of all newly diagnosed breast cancers occur in women under the age 
of 50 [1,2]. Young women face many of the same adjuvant treatment issues that 
their postmenopausal counterparts encounter. Unfortunately, they also experience 
issues that are unique to their age, their hormonal status, and their longer 
life expectancy. We will examine the issues regarding cytotoxic and biologic 
therapy as well as the controversies regarding optimal endocrine and 
chemoendocrine therapy in the premenopausal woman, and we will explore some of 
the survivorship issues faced by young women after breast cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.3233/bd-2006-23109
PMID: 16823168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Fam Plann Reprod Health Care. 2006 Apr;32(2):107-12. doi: 
10.1783/147118906776276549.

Economic evaluation. Part 1: Introduction to the concepts of economic evaluation 
in health care.

McIntosh E(1), Luengo-Fernandez R.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Department of Public 
Health, Oxford, UK. emma.mcintosh@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

Erratum in
    J Fam Plann Reprod Health Care. 2006 Jul;32(3):175.

DOI: 10.1783/147118906776276549
PMID: 16824302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Ren Nutr. 2006 Jul;16(3):237-40. doi: 10.1053/j.jrn.2006.04.011.

Nutritional status in hemodialysis patients: options for on-line convective 
treatment.

Savica V(1), Ciolino F, Monardo P, Mallamace A, Savica R, Santoro D, 
Bellinghieri G.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology University, Messina, Italy. visavica@tin.it

Although hemodialysis (HD) has improved the life expectancy of patients with 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD), uremic patients continue to experience high 
morbidity and mortality. Two of the most important risk factors for morbidity 
and mortality are protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) and inflammation. The causes 
for PEM in ESRD are numerous. The use of materials for dialysis, especially of 
the dialyzer membrane, is reported as one of the recognized causes for chronic 
inflammation in hemodialysis. We performed a 6-month prospective study examining 
the influence of on-line predilution hemodiafiltration on the inflammatory and 
nutritional status in a population of male hemodialysis patients using ultrapure 
dialysis fluid and polyamide dialyzers. We evaluated serum C-reactive protein, 
albumin, and transferrin and some nutritional parameters such as body mass index 
(BMI), phase angle (phi), fatty mass (FM), and free fatty mass (FFM) using 
bioelectrical impedance (BIA). Results showed significant amelioration of BMI 
and the re-equilibrium of the acute phase protein after on-line predilution 
hemodiafiltration. These results support the hypothesis that on-line predilution 
hemodiafiltration, as convective extracorporeal treatment, may be used to treat 
malnourished hemodialysis patients and to prevent malnutrition in the ESRD 
patient at risk for malnutrition.

DOI: 10.1053/j.jrn.2006.04.011
PMID: 16825027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Urol Int. 2006;77(1):18-21. doi: 10.1159/000092929.

Bladder-sparing surgery in locally advanced nonurological pelvic malignancy.

Siva Prasad G(1), Chacko KN, Antony D, Lionel G, Kekre NS, Gopalakrishnan G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, India.

INTRODUCTION: The urinary bladder is commonly involved in pelvic malignancy. The 
incidence of apparent extension into adjacent organs in locally advanced 
colorectal malignancy is 5-12%. It is not known with other pelvic malignancy. No 
guidelines are available for its management. Often a dilemma exists between 
cystectomy and a bladder-sparing procedure. We studied the validity of 
bladder-sparing surgery (BSS) in locally advanced nonurological pelvic 
malignancy.
METHODS: Hospital records of patients who underwent BSS along with other 
surgeries (abdomino-perineal resection, anterior resection, anterior 
exenteration, debulking surgery and total pelvic exenteration) from January 1992 
to May 2003 were reviewed.
RESULTS: BSS was done in 15 patients. 10 had locally advanced colorectal 
malignancy, 3 with soft tissue masses of the lateral pelvic wall, 1 had ovarian 
malignancy and the other had residual mass following radiotherapy and 
