
The objective of this study was to determine the cost and cost-effectiveness of 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) in Singapore. The use and cost of HIV services was 
calculated for patients managed at the national HIV referral centre in Singapore 
between 1996 and 2001 from a hospital perspective. Three groups of patients were 
compared by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) stage of HIV 
infection: those who had never received ART; those who had received only dual 
therapy; and those who had only received highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART). Hospital charges were used to estimate the average hospital inpatient 
and outpatient care costs. Life years gained (LYG) were calculated for different 
stages of HIV infection and the incremental costs per LYG were calculated 
comparing those on dual ART and HAART with those who did not receive ART. 
Patients on ART progressed less rapidly across all CDC stages. For CDC stage A, 
the incremental cost per LYG was 17,007 dollars (Singaporean dollar) 
(interquartile range [IQR] 7963-25,113 dollars ) and 22,511 dollars (IQR 
11,299-33,724 dollars) for those on dual therapy and HAART, respectively. The 
incremental cost per LYG in stage B was 10,868 dollars (IQR 4506-17,239 dollars) 
and 21,094 dollars (IQR 7774-34,431 dollars) for patients on dual therapy and 
HAART, respectively, while the incremental cost per LYG for stage C patients was 
9,848 dollars (IQR 5256-14,419 dollars ) and 16,513 dollars (IQR 8677-24,337 
dollars) for dual therapy and HAART, respectively. Dual ART therapy and HAART 
were cost-effective interventions in Singapore. Cost-effectiveness is likely to 
improve if drug prices continue to decrease.

DOI: 10.1258/095646206780071081
PMID: 17059641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2006 Nov;8(6):399-404. doi: 10.1007/s11886-006-0096-9.

Hypertension in the developing world: a consequence of progress.

Reddy KS(1), Naik N, Prabhakaran D.

Author information:
(1)All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Department of Cardiology, Ansari 
Nagar, New Delhi-110029, India. ksreddy@ccdcindia.org

Hypertension is one of the leading causes of death and disability in developing 
countries. The increasing burden of hypertension in these countries has been 
attributed to several indicators of economic progress such as increased life 
expectancy, urbanization and its attendant lifestyle changes, and the overall 
epidemiologic transition these countries are experiencing currently. The public 
health response to this challenge must be to promote health among all sections 
of the populations of these countries, and a concerted effort to promote 
awareness about hypertension, its risk factors, and risk behaviors. The health 
policies of these countries need to be reoriented to include chronic diseases in 
their ambit. These efforts have the potential to reduce the emergence or lessen 
the toll of hypertension and its complication in many parts of the developing 
world.

DOI: 10.1007/s11886-006-0096-9
PMID: 17059790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nurs Clin North Am. 2006 Dec;41(4):499-511, v-vi. doi: 
10.1016/j.cnur.2006.07.003.

Economics of diabetes mellitus.

Krein SL(1), Funnell MM, Piette JD.

Author information:
(1)VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System, Center for Practice Management and Outcomes 
Research, Ann Arbor, MI 48105, USA. skrein@umich.edu

The increasing prevalence of diabetes and prediabetes makes the cost of diabetes 
care a pressing concern. Nurses in all settings play a critical role in helping 
to reduce the cost of diabetes not only for individual patients but ultimately 
for the health care system. This article focuses on four main issues related to 
the economic impact of diabetes for patients and health systems: (1) overall 
estimates of the direct and indirect costs of diabetes and its associated 
complications, (2) the impact of cost on diabetes care and health outcomes, (3) 
the ways in which federal- and state-mandated insurance for persons with 
diabetes is being used to promote more cost-effective and high-quality diabetes 
care, and (4) the use of cost-effectiveness analysis to evaluate interventions 
designed to prevent diabetes or diabetes-related complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cnur.2006.07.003
PMID: 17059971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Popul Stud (Camb). 2006 Nov;60(3):257-69. doi: 10.1080/00324720600895876.

Relationships between period and cohort life expectancy: gaps and lags.

Goldstein JR(1), Wachter KW.

Author information:
(1)Office of Population Research, Princeton University, Wallace Hall, Princeton, 
NJ 08544, USA. josh@opr.princeton.edu

This paper offers an empirical and analytic foundation for regarding period life 
expectancy as a lagged indicator of the experience of real cohorts in 
populations experiencing steady improvement in mortality. We find that current 
period life expectancy in the industrialized world applies to cohorts born some 
40-50 years ago. Lags track an average age at which future years of life are 
being gained, in a sense that we make precise. Our findings augment Ryder's 
classic results on period-cohort translation.

DOI: 10.1080/00324720600895876
PMID: 17060053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Comput Aided Surg. 2006 Jul;11(4):175-80. doi: 10.3109/10929080600931579.

Febotics - a marriage of fetal surgery and robotics.

Berris M(1), Shoham M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Robotics Laboratory, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Technion - 
Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel. mjberris@techunix.technion.ac.il

For a fetus diagnosed with a severe congenital anomaly, surgery may offer an 
alternative to abortion, intra-uterine death, or a life with disability. 
Expertise is limited however, to a few treatment centers worldwide, and there 
are many technical hurdles to overcome, including requirements for miniaturized 
instrumentation, real-time high-resolution imaging, and harmless fetal access. 
This article highlights recent practices in prenatal intervention and various 
initiatives to integrate robotics into the fetal operating room. While the 
number of potential patients is low, research for implementation of robotics in 
the field of fetal surgery is justified by the morbidity rates of current 
procedures, proven favorable outcomes with intervention, and the educational 
value with potential for extension to other medical disciplines.

DOI: 10.3109/10929080600931579
PMID: 17060076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Palliat Med. 2006 Sep;20(6):611-5. doi: 10.1177/0269216306071064.

Challenges to end of life care in the acute hospital setting.

Willard C(1), Luker K.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK. carole.willard@manchester.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Research exploring patients' care and treatment preferences at the 
end of life (EOL) suggests they prefer comfort more than life-extension, wish to 
participate in decision-making, and wish to die at home. Despite these 
preferences, the place of death for many patients is the acute hospital, where 
EOL interventions are reported to be inappropriately invasive and aggressive.
AIM: This paper discusses the challenges to appropriate EOL care in acute 
hospitals in the UK, highlighting how this setting contributes to the patients' 
and families' care and treatment requirements being excluded from 
decision-making.
METHODS: Twenty-nine cancer nurse specialists from five hospitals participated 
in a grounded theory study, using observation and semi-structured interviews. 
Data were collected and analysed concurrently using the constant comparative 
method.
RESULTS: EOL interventions in the acute setting were driven by a preoccupation 
with treatment, routine practice and negative perceptions of palliative care. 
All these factors shaped clinical decision-making and prevented patients and 
their families from fully participating in clinical decision-making at the EOL.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216306071064
PMID: 17060254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Jun;17(3):314-7. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl238. Epub
2006  Oct 23.

Evidence-based guidelines, time-based health outcomes, and the Matthew effect.

Essink-Bot ML(1), Kruijshaar ME, Barendregt JJ, Bonneux LG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC/University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. M.ESSINK-BOT@ERASMUSMC.NL

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular risk management guidelines are 'risk based'; health 
economists' practice is 'time based'. The 'medical' risk-based allocation model 
maximises numbers of deaths prevented by targeting subjects at high risk, for 
example, elderly and smokers. The time-based model maximises numbers of life 
years gained by treating the young and non-smokers, or 'the one who has will be 
given more' (Matthew 25:29). We explored practical consequences of risk- or 
time-based allocation.
METHODS: We used epidemiological modelling to generate semi-quantitative 
scenarios comparing the distributional effects of allocating a fixed number of 
prescriptions of a (hypothetical) preventive cardiovascular drug ('CVStop') 
either to avert the maximum number of deaths (risk-based) or to save the maximum 
number of life years (time based) in the male Dutch population. We subsequently 
asked 123 Dutch guideline developers which distribution they preferred.
RESULTS: Time- and risk-based allocations resulted in different distributions of 
the drug across the population. There were also differences in absolute numbers 
of life years gained and deaths averted, and in the distribution of these across 
the population. For example, risk-based allocation of 'CVStop' resulted in 
preferential treatment of elderly, leading to more deaths averted (mostly among 
70 and above) but fewer life years gained, if compared with time-based 
allocation. The guideline developers experienced the choice dilemmas as 
difficult. No priority choice was dominant among the respondents.
CONCLUSION: In evidence-based resource allocation the choice to save time or to 
avert deaths may introduce moral choices because of the various origins of 
increased disease risk. Evidence-based guideline development inevitably has 
moral implications.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl238
PMID: 17060334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Br J Cancer. 2006 Dec 4;95(11):1474-82. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603437. Epub
2006  Oct 24.

Telomerase peptide vaccination of patients with non-resectable pancreatic 
cancer: A dose escalating phase I/II study.

Bernhardt SL(1), Gjertsen MK, Trachsel S, Møller M, Eriksen JA, Meo M, Buanes T, 
Gaudernack G.

Author information:
(1)Ullevål University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

Patients with inoperable pancreatic cancer have a dismal prognosis with a mean 
life expectancy of 3-6 months. New treatment modalities are thus urgently 
needed. Telomerase is expressed in 85-90% of pancreas cancer, and immunogenic 
telomerase peptides have been characterised. A phase I/II study was conducted to 
investigate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenecity of telomerase peptide 
vaccination. Survival of the patients was also recorded. Forty-eight patients 
with non-resectable pancreatic cancer received intradermal injections of the 
telomerase peptide GV1001 at three dose levels, in combination with 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. The treatment period was 10 
weeks. Monthly booster vaccinations were offered as follow-up treatment. Immune 
responses were measured as delayed-type hypersensitivity skin reaction and in 
vitro T-cell proliferation. GV1001 was well tolerated. Immune responses were 
observed in 24 of 38 evaluable patients, with the highest ratio (75%) in the 
intermediate dose group. Twenty-seven evaluable patients completed the study. 
Median survival for the intermediate dose-group was 8.6 months, significantly 
longer for the low- (P = 0.006) and high-dose groups (P = 0.05). One-year 
survival for the evaluable patients in the intermediate dose group was 25%. The 
results demonstrate that GV1001 is immunogenic and safe to use. The survival 
data indicate that induction of an immune response is correlated with prolonged 
survival, and the vaccine may offer a new treatment option for pancreatic cancer 
patients, encouraging further clinical studies.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603437
PMCID: PMC2360729
PMID: 17060934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Cancer. 2006 Dec 1;107(11):2552-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22291.

Identifying breast cancer patients most likely to benefit from aromatase 
inhibitor therapy after adjuvant radiation and tamoxifen.

Freedman GM(1), Anderson P, Li T, Ross E, Swaby R, Goldstein L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA. Gary.Freedman@FCCC.edu

Comment in
    Cancer. 2007 May 1;109(9):1927-8; author reply 1928.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the current study was to examine patient selection 
for an aromatase inhibitor in breast cancer patients who were free from adverse 
events 5 years after treatment with tamoxifen.
METHODS: In all, 471 women were treated with breast-conserving surgery, axillary 
lymph node dissection, and radiation. Eligibility included T1-2 disease, 
tamoxifen use, follow-up of >/=5 years, no prior breast cancer, and freedom from 
all events at 5 years of follow-up. Patients treated with chemotherapy more 
often had T2 disease and positive lymph nodes, and were aged <60 years compared 
with patients treated with tamoxifen alone. No patient during the period of the 
current study (1982-1999) received an aromatase inhibitor. The median follow-up 
was 8.25 years.
RESULTS: There were 36 events: 10 contralateral breast cancers (CBCs) and 26 
recurrences (8 local, 1 regional, and 17 distant). The 10-year risk of 
locoregional recurrence was 2.5%, the 10-year risk of CBC was 3.6%, and the 
10-year risk of distant metastasis was 4.4%. The event-free survival rate for 
all patients was 93%. Only >/=4 positive lymph nodes and premenopausal status 
were found to be independent variables for decreased event-free survival on 
multivariate analysis. The overall survival rate was 89%. Only younger age and 
lower lymph node status were found to be significant predictors of improved 
overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: In the current study, a 40% reduction in recurrence/CBC with the 
addition of an aromatase inhibitor after 5 years of tamoxifen treatment would 
have had a marginal benefit of 1% to 2%. Women who were premenopausal and 
patients with >/=4 positive lymph nodes would have the greatest absolute benefit 
of >3% in the 10-year event-free survival rate from extended therapy. The 
decision needs to be individualized for patients aged >/=60 years based on their 
initial lymph node status and the presence of comorbidities that could lower 
their 5-year life expectancy.

(c) 2006 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22291
PMID: 17061250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. DePaul J Health Care Law. 2005;9(1):735-91.

Tragedy and remedy: reparations for disparities in black health.

Outterson K(1).

Author information:
(1)West Virginia College of Law, USA.

PMID: 17061385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Arch Iran Med. 2006 Oct;9(4):329-34.

Prevalence of growth and puberty failure with respect to growth hormone and 
gonadotropins secretion in beta-thalassemia major.

Moayeri H(1), Oloomi Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. hmoayeri@softhome.net

BACKGROUND: Present transfusion protocols have increased the life expectancy of 
patients with beta-thalassemia major, but siderosis is a major clinical 
complication of the treatment. Short stature and hypogonadism are extremely 
frequent in patients with thalassemia. To investigate the influence of age at 
the onset of blood transfusion, iron chelation therapy, and serum ferritin 
levels on growth and pubertal development in thalassemic patients, and the 
prevalence of these endocrine complications with respect to pituitary 
somatotropic and gonadotropic functions, this study was designed.
METHODS: Clinical data of 158 patients (82 females and 76 males) with 
thalassemia major, aged 10 - 20 years (mean age: 15.1 +/- 4.8 years) were 
collected from a pediatric hematology clinic in Tehran. Height was measured and 
stages of puberty were determined by a pediatric endocrinologist. Serum ferritin 
concentration, liver function tests, serum calcium and phosphorus, blood sugar, 
free thyroxine (FT4), TSH, FSH, LH, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, testosterone 
(in boys), estradiol (in girls), and insulin-like growth factor I were measured 
after overnight fasting. In patients with a height more than 2 standard 
deviation below the mean, the growth hormone stimulation test was considered. 
Bone age was determined in all patients.
RESULTS: Thalassemic patients in this study showed a high prevalence of short 
stature (62%) and hypogonadism (69%). We found a low serum level of 
gonadotropins (FSH and LH) in over 14-year-old patients with impaired puberty, 
which indicated that hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is responsible for this 
complication. Results of growth hormone provocative tests and serum insulin-like 
growth factor I levels in short stature patients showed a reduced growth hormone 
response in 38% and low insulin-like growth factor I levels in 42% of 
thalassemic patients. Short stature and hypogonadism were more common in 
patients with serum ferritin levels above 2000 microg/L and these complications 
were significantly more frequent in patients who started treatment later than 
that of the patients who started treatment in the first years of life (P < 
0.001).
CONCLUSION: Short stature and hypogonadism are extremely frequent in our 
patients with thalassemia, but correct blood transfusion and appropriate iron 
chelation therapy can prevent or limit these complications. These data support 
the need for vigilant follow-up of patients with thalassemia in order to treat 
endocrine dysfunction at an appropriate age.

PMID: 17061604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Arch Iran Med. 2006 Oct;9(4):455.

More life expectancy through reduction of cardiovascular mortality.

Shahraz S.

PMID: 17061628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Clin Cancer Res. 2006 Oct 15;12(20 Pt 1):6087-93. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-1015.

A phase I trial of twice-weekly 17-allylamino-demethoxy-geldanamycin in patients 
with advanced cancer.

Nowakowski GS(1), McCollum AK, Ames MM, Mandrekar SJ, Reid JM, Adjei AA, Toft 
DO, Safgren SL, Erlichman C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Cancer Center Statistics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicity, 
and pharmacokinetics of 17-allylamino-demethoxy-geldanamycin (17-AAG) 
administered on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 every 21 days and to examine the effect of 
17-AAG on the levels of chaperone and client proteins.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A phase I dose escalating trial in patients with advanced 
solid tumors was done. Toxicity and tumor responses were evaluated by standard 
criteria. Pharmacokinetics were done and level of target proteins was measured 
at various points during cycle one.
RESULTS: Thirteen patients were enrolled in the study. MTD was defined as 220 
mg/m2. Dose-limiting toxicities were as follows: dehydration, diarrhea, 
hyperglycemia, and liver toxicity. At the MTD, the mean clearance of 17-AAG was 
18.7 L/h/m2. There was a significant decrease in integrin-linked kinase at 6 
hours after infusion on day 1 but not at 25 hours in peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells. Treatment with 17-AAG on day 1 significantly increased 
pretreatment levels of heat shock protein (HSP) 70 on day 4, which is consistent 
with the induction of a stress response. In vitro induction of a stress response 
and up-regulation of HSP70 resulted in an increased resistance to HSP90-targeted 
therapy in A549 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The MTD of 17-AAG on a twice-weekly schedule was 220 mg/m2. 
Treatment at this dose level resulted in significant changes of target proteins 
and also resulted in a prolonged increase in HSP70. This raises the possibility 
that HSP70 induction as part of the stress response may contribute to resistance 
to 17-AAG.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-1015
PMID: 17062684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Interdiscip Top Gerontol. 2007;35:1-17. doi: 10.1159/000096552.

The role of hormesis in life extension by dietary restriction.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, San Antonio, TX, USA. masoro@aol.com

The level of food restriction that results in life extension and retarded aging 
in rodents also enhances their ability to cope with intense stressors. Moreover, 
this level of dietary restriction (DR) leads to a modest increase in the daily 
peak concentration of plasma free corticosterone, which strongly points to DR as 
a low-intensity stressor. These findings suggest that hormesis plays a role in 
the life-extending and anti-aging actions of DR. The evidence for and against 
this possibility is considered, and it is concluded that hormesis does have an 
important role.

DOI: 10.1159/000096552
PMID: 17063030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Interdiscip Top Gerontol. 2007;35:18-38. doi: 10.1159/000096554.

Metabolic reprogramming in dietary restriction.

Anderson RM(1), Weindruch R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, and VA Hospital, 2500 
Overlook Terrace, Madison, WI 53705, USA. rmanderson5@wisc.edu

It is widely accepted that energy intake restriction without essential nutrient 
deficiency delays the onset of aging and extends life span. The mechanism 
underlying this phenomenon is still unknown though a number of different, 
nonmutually exclusive explanations have been proposed. In each of these, 
different facets of physiology play the more significant role in the mechanism 
of aging retardation. Some examples include the altered lipid composition model, 
the immune response model and models describing changes in endocrine function. 
In this paper we propose the hypothesis that metabolic reprogramming is the key 
event in the mechanism of dietary restriction, and the physiological effects at 
the cellular, tissue and organismal level may be understood in terms of this 
initial event.

DOI: 10.1159/000096554
PMCID: PMC5842671
PMID: 17063031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Interdiscip Top Gerontol. 2007;35:69-82. doi: 10.1159/000096556.

Effects of dietary restriction on the expression of insulin-signaling-related 
genes in long-lived mutant mice.

Bartke A(1), Masternak MM, Al-Regaiey KA, Bonkowski MS.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Research, Departments of Internal Medicine and Physiology, 
Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, PO Box 19628, Springfield, IL 
62794, USA. abartke@siumed.edu

Hypopituitary Ames dwarf mice and growth-hormone-resistant (growth hormone 
receptor knockout, GHRKO) mice have reduced plasma levels of insulin-like growth 
factor 1 and insulin, enhanced insulin sensitivity and a remarkably increased 
life span. This resembles the phenotypic characteristics of genetically normal 
animals subjected to dietary restriction (DR). Interestingly, DR leads to 
further increases in insulin sensitivity and longevity in Ames dwarfs but not in 
GHRKO mice. It was therefore of interest to examine the effects of DR on the 
expression of insulin-related genes in these two types of long-lived mutant 
mice. The effects of DR partially overlapped but did not duplicate the effects 
of Ames dwarfism or GHR deletion on the expression of genes related to insulin 
signaling and cell responsiveness to insulin. Moreover, the effects of DR on the 
expression of the examined genes in different insulin target organs were not 
identical. Some of the insulin-related genes were similarly affected by DR in 
both GHRKO and normal mice, some were affected only in GHRKO mice and some only 
in normal animals. This last category is of particular interest since genes 
affected in normal but not GHRKO mice may be related to mechanisms by which DR 
extends longevity.

DOI: 10.1159/000096556
PMID: 17063033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Interdiscip Top Gerontol. 2007;35:98-114. doi: 10.1159/000096558.

Dietary restriction in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.

Houthoofd K(1), Gems D, Johnson TE, Vanfleteren JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ghent University, K.L. Ledeganckstraat 35, BE-9000 
Ghent, Belgium.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has proved to be an excellent model organism 
for the study of development and aging. Many aging mutants have been discovered 
in the past two decades, and much has been discovered about the physiology of 
long-lived mutants. It therefore seems surprising that dietary restriction (DR) 
has not been extensively studied using C. elegans. The main reason for this is 
the lack of an ideal method to subject C. elegans to DR. However, several 
authors have tried to study the effect of DR on the metabolism and physiology of 
C. elegans, and epistasis-type interaction studies have been carried out in 
order to detect genes that might be involved in DR effects. These studies show 
that DR life extension is not caused by a reduced metabolic rate, consistent 
with results in other species. Moreover, the well-known insulin/IGF-1 pathway 
seems not to mediate life-extending effects. One possibility is that target of 
rapamycin signaling mediates the effects of DR on life span in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1159/000096558
PMID: 17063035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Acta Orthop Traumatol Turc. 2006;40(4):291-300.

[Comparison of primary arthroplasty with early salvage arthroplasty after failed 
internal fixation for displaced femoral neck fractures in elderly patients].

[Article in Turkish]

Oztürkmen Y(1), Karamehmetoğlu M, Azboy I, Açikgöz I, Caniklioğlu M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology (2. Ortopedi ve Travmatoloji 
Kliniği), Istanbul Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey. 
yozturkmen@superposta.com

OBJECTIVES: We compared the results of primary total hip arthroplasty (THA) with 
those of early salvage THA following failure of internal fixation for acute 
displaced femoral neck fractures in elderly patients.
METHODS: Patients with displaced femoral neck fractures (Garden type III, IV) 
were treated with either early salvage arthroplasty following failure of 
internal fixation (n=34; mean age 68 years) or THA (n=34; mean age 67.5 years). 
Both groups consisted of 8 men and 26 women with the same age range (60 to 75 
years). Uncemented THA was performed in both groups. All patients were 
physiologically and socially active before the initial trauma. The hips were 
evaluated with the use of the Merle D'Aubigne scoring system. Prognostic risk 
factors were determined on radiographs obtained before or shortly after internal 
fixation. The mean follow-up was 5.2 years in the secondary and 5 years in the 
primary THA groups.
RESULTS: During the first year of THA, there were 21 complications in 16 
patients and nine complications in six patients in the secondary and primary THA 
groups, respectively (p<0.05). The results with respect to pain were worse and 
reoperation rate was higher in the revision group (p<0.05). The mean Merle 
D'Aubigne hip scores for pain, mobility, and walking were higher in the primary 
THA group. Radiographs taken before or after internal fixation showed prognostic 
risk factors in 32 patients (94.1%).
CONCLUSION: Primary THA is a good choice of treatment for femoral neck fractures 
in physiologically and socially active elderly patients with a high life 
expectancy and cognition level.

PMID: 17063052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Med Care. 2006 Nov;44(11):990-7. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000228021.89490.2a.

The lifetime cost of current human immunodeficiency virus care in the United 
States.

Schackman BR(1), Gebo KA, Walensky RP, Losina E, Muccio T, Sax PE, Weinstein MC, 
Seage GR 3rd, Moore RD, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New 
York, New York 10021, USA. brs2006@med.cornell.edu

OBJECTIVE: We sought to project the lifetime cost of medical care for human 
immunodefiency virus (HIV)-infected adults using current antiretroviral therapy 
(ART) standards.
METHODS: Medical visits and hospitalizations for any reason were from the HIV 
Research Network, a consortium of high-volume HIV primary care sites. HIV 
treatment drug regimen efficacies were from clinical guidelines and published 
sources; data on other drugs used were not available. In a computer simulation 
model, we projected HIV medical care costs in 2004 U.S. dollars.
RESULTS: From the time of entering HIV care, per person projected life 
expectancy is 24.2 years, discounted lifetime cost is Dollars 385,200, and 
undiscounted cost is Dollars 618,900 for adults who initiate ART with CD4 cell 
count < 350/microL. Seventy-three percent of the cost is antiretroviral 
medications, 13% inpatient care, 9% outpatient care, and 5% other HIV-related 
medications and laboratory costs. For patients who initiate ART with CD4 cell 
count < 200/microL, projected life expectancy is 22.5 years, discounted lifetime 
cost is Dollars 354,100 and undiscounted cost is Dollars 567,000. Results are 
sensitive to drug manufacturers' discounts, ART efficacy, and use of enfuvirtide 
for salvage. If costs are discounted to the time of infection, the discounted 
lifetime cost is Dollars 303,100.
CONCLUSIONS: Effective ART regimens have substantially improved survival and 
have increased the lifetime cost of HIV-related medical care in the U.S.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000228021.89490.2a
PMID: 17063130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Kidney Int. 2006 Dec;70(12):2109-15. doi: 10.1038/sj.ki.5001983. Epub 2006
Oct  25.

Effects of amlodipine and valsartan on oxidative stress and plasma 
methylarginines in end-stage renal disease patients on hemodialysis.

Aslam S(1), Santha T, Leone A, Wilcox C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, 
Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, District of Columbia 20007, USA. 
shakil2@msn.com

Comment in
    Kidney Int. 2006 Dec;70(12):2053-5.

Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) receiving hemodialysis (HD) 
treatment have a markedly shortened life expectancy in large part owing to 
cardiovascular disease (CVD), not explained by established risk factors. We 
tested the hypothesis that therapy with valsartan, an angiotensin receptor 
blocker and amlodipine, an antioxidant calcium channel blocker will reduce 
oxidative stress and the plasma levels of asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an 
endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. We confirmed that compared with 
age- and gender-matched healthy controls, ESRD patients have excessive oxidative 
stress and arginine methylation as indexed by elevated plasma levels of 
oxidation products of lipids (13-hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid (13-HODE)), thiols 
(oxidized:reduced glutathione, oxidized glutathione (GSSG):GSH), proteins, and 
nucleic acids, and the methylation products ADMA and symmetric dimethylarginine 
(SDMA). We undertook a double blind, crossover study of equi-antihypertensive 
treatment with amlodipine and valsartan for 6 weeks each to test our hypothesis. 
Both treatments significantly reduced GSSG:GSH, 8-hydroxy 2-deoxyguanosine, 
ADMA, and SDMA levels and amlodipine reduced 13-HODE. We conclude that 
hypertensive patients with ESRD receiving HD have evidence of extensive 
oxidation of lipids, thiols, proteins, and nucleic acids and methylation of 
arginine that could contribute to CVD. Many of these changes can be reduced by 
short-term treatment with amlodipine and valsartan.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ki.5001983
PMID: 17063175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Dec;7(4):276-84. doi: 10.1007/s10198-006-0374-x.

Assessment of clinical and economic benefits of weight management with 
sibutramine in general practice in Germany.

Brennan A(1), Ara R, Sterz R, Matiba B, Bergemann R.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.

Obesity is associated with major health risks and a high economic burden 
impacting on health care systems. This study utilises the latest evidence from 
randomised clinical trials (RCTs) to explore and to assess the cost 
effectiveness of sibutramine in combination with diet and lifestyle advice 
compared to diet and lifestyle advice alone for the treatment of obese subjects 
without comorbidities at baseline in Germany. New evidence from recently 
published RCTs and post-marketing surveillance studies, including health 
economic data as well as quality of life (QoL) data, were used to model the 
long-term outcomes of weight management with sibutramine in German practice. 
German healthcare costs and new data from over 8,000 patients were analysed 
based on a recently published model. These new RCT data were used to model 
weight losses, proportion of responders to treatment, utilities by weight loss 
and variability in weight regain post-treatment. Costs and QoL benefits 
associated with weight loss (using SF-36 data from sibutramine trials), reduced 
incidence of coronary heart disease (using Framingham equations) and diabetes 
were used to estimate the cost per quality adjusted life year of sibutramine 
treatment. For 1,000 patients treated with sibutramine for 1 year, extrapolating 
outcomes over 4 further years, sibutramine is estimated to save 4.18 CHD events, 
2.58 diabetes incident cases and give 51.5 more quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). The cost-utility analysis (CUA) estimates 13,706 euro per QALY gained. 
Results are sensitive to changes in weight loss, rate of weight regain and 
discounting rate. Although the non-pharmacological weight management programme 
in the comparator arm yielded higher weight losses than generally observed in 
clinical practice, these results demonstrate that additional sibutramine 
treatment is a cost effective therapy for an obese population without 
comorbidities in Germany. The CUA results are within the range generally 
accepted as cost effective and should be viewed as conservative when 
generalizing to settings offering standard non-pharmacological treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-006-0374-x
PMID: 17063345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Vet Intern Med. 2006 Sep-Oct;20(5):1049; author reply 1049-51. doi: 
10.1892/0891-6640(2006)20[1049:c]2.0.co;2.

Epilepsy in Irish Wolfhounds.

Urfer S, Steiger A.

Comment on
    J Vet Intern Med. 2006 Jan-Feb;20(1):131-5.

DOI: 10.1892/0891-6640(2006)20[1049:c]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17063694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. J Vet Intern Med. 2006 Sep-Oct;20(5):1074-9. doi: 
10.1892/0891-6640(2006)20[1074:eotceo]2.0.co;2.

Evaluation of the clinical efficacy of benazepril in the treatment of chronic 
renal insufficiency in cats.

Mizutani H(1), Koyama H, Watanabe T, Kitagawa H, Nakano M, Kajiwara K, King JN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Veterinary Internal Medicine, Nippon Veterinary and Life Science 
University, Tokyo, Japan. hisashi-m@nvau.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) is a common disease in cats. 
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) have beneficial effects in 
humans with CRI by reducing the loss of protein in the urine and increasing life 
expectancy.
HYPOTHESIS: The ACEI benazepril has beneficial effects on survival, clinical 
variables, or both as compared with placebo in cats with CRI.
ANIMALS: 61 cats with naturally occurring CRI.
METHODS: The cats were enrolled into a prospective, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial. Cats received placebo or 0.5-1 mg/kg 
benazepril once daily for up to 6 months.
RESULTS: Urine protein/urine creatinine ratios were significantly (P < .05) 
lower with benazepril as compared with placebo at days 120 and 180. Three cats 
with placebo and 1 cat with benazepril were removed prematurely from the study 
because of deterioration of CRI or death. Cats were classified into 4 stages of 
CRI according to the International Renal Interest Society (IRIS) classification 
scheme. Incidence rates of cats with IRIS classification stage 2 or stage 3 that 
remained in stage 2 or 3 without progressing to stage 4 were higher with 
benazepril (93 +/- 5%) as compared with placebo (73 +/- 13%).
CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: These results suggest a potential for benazepril to delay 
the progression of disease, extend survival time, or both in cats with CRI.

DOI: 10.1892/0891-6640(2006)20[1074:eotceo]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17063698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Dev Psychopathol. 2006 Fall;18(4):1055-103. doi: 10.1017/S0954579406060524.

A cognitive vulnerability-stress perspective on bipolar spectrum disorders in a 
normative adolescent brain, cognitive, and emotional development context.

Alloy LB(1), Abramson LY, Walshaw PD, Keyser J, Gerstein RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia 19122, USA. 
lalloy@temple.edu

Why is adolescence an "age of risk" for onset of bipolar spectrum disorders? We 
discuss three clinical phenomena of bipolar disorder associated with adolescence 
(adolescent age of onset, gender differences, and specific symptom presentation) 
that provide the point of departure for this article. We present the cognitive 
vulnerability-transactional stress model of unipolar depression, evidence for 
this model, and its extension to bipolar spectrum disorders. Next, we review 
evidence that life events, cognitive vulnerability, the cognitive 
vulnerability-stress combination, and certain developmental experiences (poor 
parenting and maltreatment) featured in the cognitive vulnerability-stress model 
play a role in the onset and course of bipolar disorders. We then discuss how an 
application of the cognitive vulnerability-stress model can explain the 
adolescent age of onset, gender differences, and adolescent phenomenology of 
bipolar disorder. Finally, we further elaborate the cognitive 
vulnerability-stress model by embedding it in the contexts of normative 
adolescent cognitive (executive functioning) and brain development, normative 
adolescent development of the stress-emotion system, and genetic vulnerability. 
We suggest that increased brain maturation and accompanying increases in 
executive functioning along with augmented neural and behavioral 
stress-sensitivity during adolescence combine with the cognitive 
vulnerability-stress model to explain the high-risk period for onset of bipolar 
disorder, gender differences, and unique features of symptom presentation during 
adolescence.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954579406060524
PMID: 17064429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Environ Manage. 2007 Oct;85(1):171-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2006.09.002.
Epub  2006 Oct 24.

Assessment of using unleaded fuel in the harsh environment of the United Arab 
Emirates.

Ibrahim TH(1), Al-Zubaidy EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, American University of Sharjah, P.O. Box 
26666, United Arab Emirates. italeb@aus.edu

The service life of lubricating oil produced in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) 
was examined using a car fueled with leaded or unleaded gasoline of the same 
grade in harsh local conditions. In addition, the economic impact of using 
leaded vs. unleaded gasoline via the effects on the useful life of engine oil 
was investigated. Every 500 km that the car was operated, the physical 
properties of the oil were examined to determine the optimum oil life before 
replacement. It was found that relative to unleaded gasoline, leaded gasoline 
resulted in a faster deterioration of lube oil properties and a reduced useful 
life of the oil. Many of the effects of use on the physical properties of oil 
became apparent from the beginning of its service, especially when leaded 
gasoline was used. Our findings indicate that the recommended useful life of oil 
when using leaded gasoline is 2500 km. With unleaded gasoline, deterioration of 
the physical properties of the lubricating oil became a concern after 3000 km. 
Thus with unleaded gasoline, it is recommended to have an oil change every 3500 
km. These findings indicate that the decision of the UAE government to stop 
using lead compound additives to improve the octane number of gasoline will not 
only protect the environment from the harmful effects of lead compounds, but 
will also extend the useful life of oil. This extension will reduce the amount 
of used oil that is disposed of by up to 4678 tons/year. This reduction in oil 
use translates to a cost savings of about 23.4 million UAE Dirhams (=$6.37 
million US Dollars) per year.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2006.09.002
PMID: 17064840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2006 Sep-Oct;21(5):769-76.

Short dental implants as a treatment option: results from an observational study 
in a single private practice.

Arlin ML(1).

Author information:
(1)murray.arlin@utoronto.ca

PURPOSE: The purpose was to evaluate clinical outcome of short (6- and 8-mm) 
dental implants placed in sites with low bone availability (7 to 11 mm) in a 
single private practice and to compare their survival with that of longer 
implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Implants were placed by a single private practitioner in 
a variety of clinical indications. Exclusion criteria included uncontrolled 
diabetes mellitus, alcoholism, and systemic immune disorders. Clinical data 
relating to implant placement and follow-up appointments, including adverse 
events, were entered into an electronic database. Two-year survival rates were 
calculated and life table analyses undertaken for implants measuring 6, 8, and 
10 to 16 mm.
RESULTS: A total of 630 Straumann implants were placed in 264 patients between 
April 1994 and December 2003. Of these, 35 implants were 6 mm long, 141 were 8 
mm long, and 454 were 10 to 16 mm long. Maximum follow-up was 64.6 months, 83.7 
months, and 102 months for implants measuring 6 mm, 8 mm, and 10 to 16 mm, 
respectively. Two-year survival rates were 94.3%, 99.3%, and 97.4% for 6-mm, 
8-mm, and 10- to 16-mm implants, respectively.
DISCUSSION: The results indicated that the 2-year outcome for 6-mm and 8-mm 
implants was comparable to that for longer (10- to 16-mm) implants in this 
patient population.
CONCLUSION: In this study, short (6- or 8-mm) implants were used with good 
reliability in patients with limited bone availability, without the need for 
ridge augmentation. Shorter implant length was not associated with reduced 
survival at 2 years, compared with longer implants.

PMID: 17066639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Health Soc Behav. 2006 Sep;47(3):209-26. doi: 10.1177/002214650604700302.

Early-life origins of the race gap in men's mortality.

Warner DF(1), Hayward MD.

Author information:
(1)Carolina Population Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 123 
West Franklin Street, Chapel Hill, NC 27516, USA. david.warner@unc.edu

Using a life course framework, we examine the early life origins of the race gap 
in men's all-cause mortality. Using the National Longitudinal Survey of Older 
Men (1966-1990), we evaluate major social pathways by which early life 
conditions differentiate the mortality experiences of blacks and whites. Our 
findings indicate that early life socioeconomic conditions, particularly 
parental occupation and family structure, explain part of the race gap in 
mortality. Black men's higher rates of death are associated with lower 
socioeconomic standing in early life and living in homes lacking both biological 
parents. However these effects operate indirectly through adult socioeconomic 
achievement processes, as education, family income, wealth, and occupational 
complexity statistically account for the race gap in men's mortality. Our 
findings suggest that policy interventions to eliminate race disparities in 
mortality and health should address both childhood and adult socioeconomic 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1177/002214650604700302
PMCID: PMC5240189
PMID: 17066773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. J Food Prot. 2006 Oct;69(10):2487-92. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-69.10.2487.

Investigation of the risk of exposure to antimicrobial residues present in 
marketed milk in Tanzania.

Kurwijila LR(1), Omore A, Staal S, Mdoe NS.

Author information:
(1)Sokoine University of Agriculture, P.O. Box 3004, Morogoro, Tanzania.

Concerns about food safety are increasing in developing countries where 
urbanization and changing life styles are associated with greater dependence on 
marketed foods. Ensuring the safety of animal products supplied from smallholder 
and pastoral systems in these countries presents a great challenge. The risk of 
consumer exposure to marketed milk containing antimicrobial residues was 
investigated by testing 986 samples of unpasteurized milk collected in dry and 
wet seasons from market agents along milk supply chains in and around Mwanza and 
Dar es Salaam in Tanzania during 1999 and 2000 and estimating the frequency of 
consuming such milk. With the Charm-AIM screening test kit, antimicrobial 
residues were detected in 36% of marketed milk samples, suggesting an average 
risk of about 11 exposures per month for a daily consumer of milk. The higher 
prevalence levels of the residues were not significantly different by site or 
season, as had been hypothesized. Recommendations to address this problem are 
(i) creation of awareness among policy makers, who are currently unaware of the 
milk safety problem, and development of potential interventions to address the 
problem, (ii) testing for the residues at milk collection centers, and (iii) 
further investigation of milk production practices used by the predominantly 
smallholder producers and market agents. Risks should be characterized and 
estimated to provide a basis for designing appropriate extension messages and 
effective management strategies for protecting the health of consumers without 
unnecessarily jeopardizing the livelihood benefits derived from dairying by 
producers and market agents.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-69.10.2487
PMID: 17066932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Palliat Support Care. 2006 Sep;4(3):273-8. doi: 10.1017/s1478951506060342.

Physicians' interpretation of the prognostic term "terminal": a survey among 
Norwegian physicians.

Rogg L(1), Graugaard PK, Loge JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Ulleval University Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
l.v.rogg@usit.uio.no

OBJECTIVE: Optimal clinical practice depends upon a precise language with common 
understanding of core terms. The aim of the present study was to examine how 
Norwegian physicians understand the commonly used but poorly defined term 
"terminal".
METHODS: A questionnaire was mailed to 1605 Norwegian physicians, representative 
of the Norwegian medical community. Nine hundred and sixty-eight responded and 
defined "terminal" in expected weeks left to live. The effects of gender, age, 
specialty, and experience with prognostication toward end of life on the 
estimation of "terminal" were investigated.
RESULTS: Norwegian physicians on average expect a "terminal" patient to have 3.6 
(+/- 3.5 SD) weeks to live with expectation ranging from 0 to 26 weeks. The 
majority (83.5%) defined "terminal" as less than 5 weeks' survival; 15.0% as 5 
to 12 weeks' survival and 1.5% as more than 12 weeks' survival. No difference 
between genders was observed, whereas the youngest physicians (27-39 years) held 
shorter definitions than the other age groups. Physicians in internal medicine, 
surgery, and anaesthesiology held significantly shorter estimations of 
"terminal" than did physicians in general practice, public health, and 
psychiatry.
SIGNIFICANCE OF RESULTS: Our study shows that the majority of Norwegian 
physicians restrict "terminal" to the last 2-4 weeks of patients' lives. A life 
expectancy of a few days compared to several weeks should lead to different 
clinical actions. Efforts should therefore be made to come to a common 
definition of the term. In our opinion the use of "terminal" should be limited 
to when death is expected within a few days.

DOI: 10.1017/s1478951506060342
PMID: 17066968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2006 Sep;99(9):813-7.

[Evolution of the treatment of chronic post-traumatic aneurysms of the 
descending thoracic aorta: 30 years experience].

[Article in French]

Kieffer E(1), Chiche L, de Warnier Wailly G, Lefevre F, Koskas F, Cluzel P.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie vasculaire, CHU Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris. 
edouard.kieffer@psl.aphp.fr

The authors present the early and late results of a series of 40 patients 
treated for chronic post-traumatic aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta 
from 1975 to 2005. With the exception of a patient who died of an intra-pleural 
rupture before surgery, the patients were treated by aortotomy and prosthetic 
graft (N=17), aortotomy and direct suture (N=17) or endoprosthesis (N=5). The 
use of distal aortic perfusion in 22 patients enabled 17 direct sutures (77.3%) 
thanks to extensive mobilisation of the aortic arch. Endoprostheses have been 
used since 1997 in high surgical risk patients with severe comorbid conditions. 
There were no deaths, one transient paraparesia after simple aortic clamping, 
one reoperation for a haemothorax and four cases of dysphonia due to paralysis 
of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Thirty-five patients (90%) were followed up 
for an average of 119.7 +/- 16.4 months. There were no clinical complications 
and the late morphological results were good in all cases with the exception of 
one type 1 endoprosthetic leak. The treatment of chronic post-traumatic 
aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta gives excellent early and late 
results, justifying wide operative indications. The wish to avoid use of a 
prosthesis in young patients with a long life expectancy should give preference 
to conventional surgical techniques which, providing distal aortic perfusion is 
employed, allow direct suture of three quarters of cases. Endovascular treatment 
is reserved only for "poor surgical risks".

PMID: 17067100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Cancer Detect Prev. 2006;30(5):455-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cdp.2006.07.009. Epub
2006  Oct 25.

Incidence and pathological characteristics of prostate cancer in Italy: a 
contribution to the screening debate.

Picone GM(1), Pizzi C, Quartuccio A, Scognamiglio G, Tauchmanova L, Di Maio M, 
Cifarelli P, Contegiacomo A.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Radiologia, Clinica Stabia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The scientific, social and financial aspects of prostate cancer (PC) 
organized or opportunistic screening to identify early PC are hotly debated. The 
incidence of prostate cancer is lower in Italy than in America and North Europe 
