chemotherapy of cancer cervix. In those with locally advanced colorectal 
malignancy, symptoms suggestive of lower urinary tract involvement were present 
in 8 (80%). Urine examination and ultrasonography was not helpful in suggesting 
bladder involvement, unlike CT scan of abdomen and pelvis. Preoperative 
cystoscopy showed endoscopic evidence of bladder involvement in 7 (87.5%). 
Bladder was involved supratrigonally in 7. Partial cystectomy was done in 9 
patients. The left ureter was involved in 6 patients, and they required ureteric 
reimplantation. Palliative transurethral resection was done in 1 patient with 
tumor infiltration at the bladder neck and prostate. 50% patients had bothersome 
lower urinary tract symptoms at 1 year. One patient died in the immediate 
postoperative period due to a nonurological cause. Overall 3-year survival rate 
was 40%.
CONCLUSION: Unlike primary bladder cancers these lesions are not multifocal and 
hence en block conservative bladder-sparing surgery can be offered. Preoperative 
CT scan or MRI can predict lower urinary tract involvement and help in 
decision-making by both surgeon and patient. The ultimate decision for bladder 
sparing is based on intraoperative findings. Sparing the bladder might provide 
better quality of life by avoiding urinary diversion without altering survival.

DOI: 10.1159/000092929
PMID: 16825810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Orthop Trauma. 2006 Jul;20(6):388-95. doi:
10.1097/00005131-200607000-00004.

Muscle strength recovery and its effects on outcome after open reduction and 
internal fixation of acetabular fractures.

Borrelli J Jr(1), Ricci WM, Anglen JO, Gregush R, Engsberg J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. 
borrellij@msnotes.wustl.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relationship between muscle strength recovery and 
functional outcome in patients who were treated for an acetabular fracture via 
an anterior approach.
DESIGN: Case series.
SETTING: University Medical Center.
PATIENTS: Fifteen patients with a displaced acetabular fracture treated via an 
anterior, ilioinguinal approach were studied. Hip muscle strength of these 
patients was then compared with the muscle strength of a similar group of 
patients treated via a Kocher-Langenbeck approach (posterior approach). These 
patient groups were then combined and muscle strength recovery was compared with 
the functional outcome.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Primary outcome measures included hip muscle strength, 
including work (J/min) and maximum torque (Nm/kg) for abductors/adductors and 
flexors/extensors. Clinical outcome was assessed with the Musculoskeletal 
Function Assessment (MFA) questionnaire and the results correlated with muscle 
strength. Secondary outcome measures included adequacy of fracture reduction, 
radiographic grade, severity of heterotopic ossification, and range of motion of 
the affected and unaffected hips.
RESULTS: At an average follow-up of 44 months, patients treated via an anterior 
approach had an overall muscle strength deficit of 9%. Hip extension strength 
was affected to the least extent (6% deficit when compared with the unaffected 
hip) whereas abduction, adduction, and flexion strength was affected to a 
greater degree. For each measure the affected side was typically weaker than the 
unaffected side. The average MFA score for the anterior approach group was 17 
(range, 0 to 47) with most patients reporting poorest results in those domains 
assessing activities of the arms and legs, and those involving life changes and 
feelings. When MFA scores were compared with the muscle strength, a relationship 
was found between hip extension/flexion work and maximum torque and hip 
adduction work and maximum torque and MFA score. For each of these muscle 
groups, patients reported worsening function with decreased muscle strength. 
Assessment of the most recent radiographs revealed 9 patients with an excellent 
radiographic grade, 3 patients with a good grade, 1 patient with a fair grade, 
and 2 patients with a poor grade. Hip range of motion was not statistically 
different when the affected hip was compared with the unaffected hip, and none 
of these variables correlated with outcome. Heterotopic ossification was found 
in 8 patients; 4 with grade 1, and 4 with grade 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Standardized muscle strength determination and completion of an MFA 
questionnaire provided a thorough evaluation of patients who had undergone open 
reduction and internal fixation of a displaced acetabular fracture. In these 
patients, hip muscle strength after operative treatment of a displaced 
acetabular fracture directly influences patient outcome. Therefore, in order to 
maximize the outcome of these patients, particular attention must be paid to 
postoperative muscle strengthening protocols and accurate and validated methods 
to assess strength and outcomes.

DOI: 10.1097/00005131-200607000-00004
PMID: 16825963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Strahlenther Onkol. 2006 Jul;182(7):376-81. doi: 10.1007/s00066-006-1500-5.

Comparative planning study for proton radiotherapy of benign brain tumors.

Cozzi L(1), Clivio A, Vanetti E, Nicolini G, Fogliata A.

Author information:
(1)Medical Physics, Oncology Institute of Southern Switzerland, Bellinzona, 
Switzerland. lucozzi@iosi.ch

PURPOSE: A comparative study of different systems for proton-based radiotherapy 
was conducted.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The Paul Scherrer Institute method for spot scanning was 
compared with the systems for passive scattering from the Helax-TMS and the 
Varian Eclipse. Twelve cases of "benign" brain tumors were considered 
(meningiomas, neurinomas, and hypophyseal adenomas). Organs at risk included 
chiasm, brainstem, eyes and optic nerves as well as the not otherwise specified 
healthy brain tissue in view of long-term toxicity.
RESULTS: The results showed that high target coverage was achievable (V(90) > 
98% for all systems). Plans designed with the spot-scanning technique presented 
the minimum involvement of healthy tissue (e. g., the lowest maximum significant 
dose to healthy brain [25.6 Gy] or the lowest conformity index [CI(95) = 1.3], 
between 38% and 46% lower than for the other techniques).
CONCLUSION: In this study, no definitive indication of superiority of any 
technique can be drawn but spot scanning can better conform dose distributions 
and minimize the irradiation of healthy volumes at medium to low dose levels, a 
factor of interest when long life expectancy is considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-006-1500-5
PMID: 16826355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Biogerontology. 2006 Aug;7(4):221-30. doi: 10.1007/s10522-006-9018-x. Epub
2006  Jul 7.

Lifespan extension of Caenorhabditis elegans following repeated mild hormetic 
heat treatments.

Olsen A(1), Vantipalli MC, Lithgow GJ.

Author information:
(1)The Buck Institute, 8001 Redwood Blvd, Novato, CA 94945, USA. 
aolsen@buckinstitute.org

Mild hormetic heat treatments early in life can significantly increase the 
lifespan of the nematode C. elegans. We have examined the effects of heat 
treatments at different ages and show that treatments early in life cause the 
largest increases in lifespan. We also find that repeated mild heat treatments 
throughout life have a larger effect on lifespan compared to a single mild heat 
treatment early in life. We hypothesize that the magnitude of the hormetic 
effect is related to the levels of heat shock protein expression. Following heat 
treatment young worms show a dramatic increase in the levels of the small heat 
shock protein HSP-16 whereas old worms are a 100-fold less responsive. The 
levels of the heat shock proteins HSP-4 and HSP-16 correlate well with the 
effects on lifespan by the hormetic treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-006-9018-x
PMID: 16826446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Eur J Epidemiol. 2006;21(6):449-58. doi: 10.1007/s10654-006-9014-0. Epub 2006
 Jul 7.

Apheis: Health impact assessment of long-term exposure to PM(2.5) in 23 European 
cities.

Boldo E(1), Medina S, LeTertre A, Hurley F, MÃ¼cke HG, Ballester F, Aguilera I, 
Eilstein D; Apheis Group.

Author information:
(1)Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid, Spain. eiboldo@isciii.es

INTRODUCTION: Apheis aims to provide European decision makers, 
environmental-health professionals and the general public with up-to-date and 
easy-to-use information on air pollution (AP) and public health (PH). In the 
Apheis-3 phase we quantified the PH impact of long-term exposure to PM(2.5) 
(particulate matter < 2.5 microm) in terms of attributable number of deaths and 
the potential gain in life expectancy in 23 European cities.
METHODS: We followed the World Health Organization (WHO) methodology for Health 
Impact Assessment (HIA) and the Apheis guidelines for data collection and 
analysis. We used the programme created by PSAS-9 for attributable-cases 
calculations and the WHO software AirQ to estimate the potential gain in life 
expectancy. For most cities, PM(2.5) levels were calculated from PM10 
measurements using a local or European conversion factor.
RESULTS: The HIA estimated that 16,926 premature deaths from all causes, 
including 11,612 cardiopulmonary deaths and 1901 lung-cancer deaths, could be 
prevented annually if long-term exposure to PM(2.5 )levels were reduced to 15 
microg/m3 in each city. Equivalently, this reduction would increase life 
expectancy at age 30 by a range between one month and more than two years in the 
Apheis cities.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to the number of attributable cases, our HIA has 
estimated the potential gain in life expectancy for long-term exposure to fine 
particles, contributing to a better quantification of the impact of AP on PH in 
Europe.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-006-9014-0
PMID: 16826453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Lakartidningen. 2006 May 31-Jun 6;103(21-22):1726-33.

[Health economy assessments--how to find them].

[Article in Swedish]

Alton V(1), Eckerlund I, Norlund A.

Author information:
(1)SBU, Stockholm.

PMID: 16826717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Lakartidningen. 2006 May 31-Jun 6;103(21-22):1734-9.

[Quality-adjusted life years and Q-5D. An introduction].

[Article in Swedish]

Henriksson M(1), BurstrÃ¶m K.

Author information:
(1)Centrum fÃ¶r utvÃ¤rdering av medicinsk teknologi, LinkÃ¶pings universitet. 
martin.henriksson@ihs.liu.se

PMID: 16826718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Kinderkrankenschwester. 2006 Jun;25(6):242-5.

["We are becoming fewer"--shrinking society. Consequences for politics, career 
and daily nursing practice].

[Article in German]

ThÃ¶nnessen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Fachhochschule OsnabrÃ¼ck, FakultÃ¤t Wirtschafts- und Sozialwissenschaften. 
j.thoennessen@fh-osnabrueck.de

PMID: 16826934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nepal Med Coll J. 2006 Mar;8(1):49-53.

A method for estimating infant mortality rate for Nepal.

Patel SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Department of Statistics, Tribhuvan University, Kirtipur, Kathmandu, 
Nepal. sp2003np@yahoo.com

This study aims to estimate Infant Morality Rate (IMR) for Nepal from the 
minimum relevant parameters i.e. Life Expectancy at Birth ( ) and Life 
Expectancy at Age one ( ). The estimates of for the purpose were extracted from 
various sources whereas the estimates of were derived from a suitable regression 
model proposed in this paper. The validity of the model was ascertained by 
applying the models to obtain estimates for Nepal possibly over a wide range of 
periods; comparing the estimates of the models with those from other sources; 
and by computing various relevant tests of model adequacy whenever possible. The 
model is found to provide quite satisfactory estimates of IMR for Nepal. For 
instance, the model provides IMR for 70.6 (per thousand live births) for Nepal 
for the year 2003, which is, closely consistent to the estimates provided by the 
other sources. The model may be considered suitable for estimation of IMR for 
Nepal when accurate estimates of and are available.

PMID: 16827092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Med Sci (Paris). 2006 Jun-Jul;22(6-7):589-94. doi:
10.1051/medsci/20062267589.

[Air pollution and the lung: epidemiological approach].

[Article in French]

Annesi-Maesano I(1), Dab W.

Author information:
(1)EPAR, UMRS-S 707, Inserm UniversitÃ© Pierre-et-Marie-Curie, FacultÃ© de 
mÃ©decine Saint-Antoine, 27 rue Chaligny, 75571 Paris Cedex 12, France. 
annesi@u707.jussieu.fr

Epidemiological evidence has concurred with clinical and experimental evidence 
to correlate current levels of ambient air pollution, both indoors and outdoors, 
with respiratory effects. In this respect, the use of specific epidemiological 
methods has been crucial. Common outdoor pollutants are particulate matter, 
nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds and ozone. 
Short-term effects of outdoor air pollution include changes in lung function, 
respiratory symptoms and mortality due to respiratory causes. Increase in the 
use of health care resources has also been associated with short-term effects of 
air pollution. Long-term effects of cumulated exposure to urban air pollution 
include lung growth impairment, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), 
lung cancer, and probably the development of asthma and allergies. Lung cancer 
and COPD have been related to a shorter life expectancy. Common indoor 
pollutants are environmental tobacco smoke, particulate matter, nitrogen 
dioxide, carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds and biological allergens. 
Concentrations of these pollutants can be many times higher indoors than 
outdoors. Indoor air pollution may increase the risk of irritation phenomena, 
allergic sensitisation, acute and chronic respiratory disorders and lung 
function impairment. Recent conservative estimates have shown that 1.5-2 million 
deaths per year worldwide could be attributed to indoor air pollution. Further 
epidemiological research is necessary to better evaluate the respiratory health 
effects of air pollution and to implement protective programmes for public 
health.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/20062267589
PMID: 16828033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Jul;44(1):29-37. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.02.055.

Endovascular management of isolated iliac artery aneurysms.

Boules TN(1), Selzer F, Stanziale SF, Chomic A, Marone LK, Dillavou ED, Makaroun 
MS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, PA 
15213, USA.

OBJECTIVE: We reviewed our experience with endovascular treatment of isolated 
iliac artery aneurysms (IAAs).
METHODS: Medical records for consecutive patients undergoing endovascular IAA 
repair from 1995 to 2004 were reviewed. Computed tomography (CT) angiograms were 
used to assess IAA location, size, and presence of endoleaks after endovascular 
repair. Rates of primary patency and freedom from secondary interventions were 
estimated using the Kaplan-Meier life-table method.
RESULTS: From July 1995 to November 2004, 45 patients (42 men), with a mean age 
of 75 years, underwent endovascular repair of 61 isolated IAAs: 41 common iliac, 
19 internal iliac, and one external iliac. Five patients (11%) were symptomatic, 
although none presented with acute rupture. The mean preoperative IAA diameter 
was 4.2 +/- 1.7 cm. Fifteen patients (33%) had prior open abdominal aortic 
aneurysm repair. Local or regional anesthesia was used in 28 cases (62%). 
Thirty-four patients (75%) were treated with unilateral iliac stent-grafts, 
eight (18%) with bifurcated aortic stent-grafts, and three (7%) with coil 
embolization alone. Perioperative major complications included one early graft 
thrombosis that eventually required conversion to open repair and one groin 
hematoma that required operative evacuation. On follow-up, late complications 
included one additional graft thrombosis and one late death after amputation. No 
late ruptures occurred after endovascular repair, with a mean follow-up of 22 
months (range, 0 to 60 months). The mean postoperative length of stay was 1.3 
+/- 1.0 days. On postoperative CT scans obtained at 1, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months, 
aneurysm shrinkage was noted in 18%, 29%, 57%, 67%, and 83% of IAAs, 
respectively, compared with the baseline diameter. One hypogastric aneurysm 
enlarged in the presence of a later identified type II endoleak. Five endoleaks 
were noted (4 type II, 1 indeterminate) at 1 month, with four other endoleaks (1 
type II, 1 type III, 2 indeterminate) identified on later CT scans. At 2 years, 
primary patency was 95%, and freedom from secondary interventions was 88%.
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular repair of isolated IAAs appears safe and effective, 
with initial results similar to those after endovascular abdominal aortic 
aneurysm repair.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.02.055
PMID: 16828423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Jul;44(1):62-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.03.010.

Natural history of carotid artery occlusion contralateral to carotid 
endarterectomy.

AbuRahma AF(1), Stone PA, Abu-Halimah S, Welch CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center, West Virginia 
University, Charleston, WV, USA. ali.aburahma@camc.org

BACKGROUND: The natural history of patients with carotid artery occlusion is 
controversial. A few studies have concluded that patients with internal carotid 
artery occlusion carry a high risk of neurologic events. None of these 
previously reported studies analyze the natural history of internal artery 
occlusion contralateral to carotid endarterectomy (CEA), except for a small 
series including a subset of patients from two randomized trials, the 
Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study and the North American Symptomatic 
Carotid Endarterectomy Trial. This study analyzes the natural history of 
patients with carotid artery occlusion contralateral to CEA, specifically 
assessing long-term neurologic events occurring in the hemisphere associated 
with the occluded carotid artery.
METHODS: Of the 599 CEAs in 544 patients that were included in two previously 
updated prospective studies, 63 patients had contralateral internal carotid 
artery occlusion, and their perioperative and long-term outcomes were evaluated. 
A Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate the rate of freedom from late 
stroke occurring in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the occluded carotid artery. 
The stroke-free survival rate was also noted.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 58 months (range, 1 to 147 months). One 
perioperative stroke (1.6%) occurred, which was not in the cerebral hemisphere 
ipsilateral to the occluded carotid artery. Two late strokes (3.2%) and nine 
transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) (14.3%) occurred involving the hemisphere of 
the occluded carotid artery. There were also three late TIAs (4.8%) and no late 
strokes involving the hemisphere supplied by the operative site. There were a 
total of 14 late deaths. Fifteen patients had late > or =50% restenosis of the 
operative side. Six of these had neurologic events (TIA/stroke) involving the 
hemisphere of the occluded carotid artery, in contrast to five of 48 patients 
with no restenosis who had neurologic symptoms (P < .001). Freedom from late 
strokes in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the occluded carotid artery at 1, 3, 5, 
and 10 years was 98%, 96%, 96%, and 96%, respectively. The stroke-free survival 
rates at 1, 3, 5, and 10 years were 90%, 87%, 80%, and 59%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The natural history of carotid artery occlusion contralateral to 
CEA is relatively benign. This may suggest a protective effect of carotid 
endarterectomy on the cerebral hemisphere ipsilateral to the carotid occlusion 
from late strokes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.03.010
PMID: 16828427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Jul;44(1):108-114. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.03.026.

Natural history of limbs with arterial insufficiency and chronic ulceration 
treated without revascularization.

Marston WA(1), Davies SW, Armstrong B, Farber MA, Mendes RC, Fulton JJ, Keagy 
BA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7212, USA. 
sky@med.unc.edu

OBJECTIVES: The natural history of limbs affected by ischemic ulceration is 
poorly understood. In this report, we describe the outcome of limbs with stable 
chronic leg ulcers and arterial insufficiency that were treated with 
wound-healing techniques in patients who were not candidates for 
revascularization.
METHODS: A prospectively maintained database of limb ulcers treated at a 
comprehensive wound center was used to identify patients with arterial 
insufficiency, defined as an ankle-brachial index (ABI) <0.7 or a toe pressure 
<50 mm Hg. Patients were treated without revascularization when medical 
comorbidity or anatomic considerations did not allow revascularization with 
acceptable risk. Ulcers were treated with a protocol emphasizing pressure 
relief, dÃ©bridement, infection control, and moist wound healing. Risk factors 
analyzed for their affect on healing and amputation risk included age, gender, 
diabetes mellitus, chronic renal insufficiency (serum creatinine > 2.5 mg/dL), 
severity of ischemia measured by ABI or toe pressure, wound grade, wound size, 
and wound location.
RESULTS: Between January 1999 and March 2005, 142 patients with 169 limbs having 
arterial insufficiency and full-thickness ulceration were treated without 
revascularization. Mean patient age was 70.8 +/- 4.5. Diabetes mellitus was 
present in 70.4% of limbs and chronic renal insufficiency in 27.8%. Toe 
amputations or other foot-sparing procedures were performed in 28% of limbs. 
Overall, limb loss occurred in 37 patients. By life-table analysis, 19% of limbs 
required amputation < or =6 months of initial treatment and 23% at 12 months. 
Complete wound closure was achieved in 25% by 6 months and in 52% by 12 months. 
Statistical analysis showed a correlation between ABI and the risk of limb loss. 
In patients with an ABI <0.5, 28% and 34% of limbs experienced limb loss at 6 
and 12 months, respectively, compared with 10% and 15% of limbs in patients with 
an ABI >0.5 (P = .01). The only risk factor associated with wound closure was 
initial wound size (P < .005).
CONCLUSIONS: Limb salvage can be achieved in most patients with arterial 
insufficiency and uncomplicated chronic nonhealing limb ulcers using a program 
of wound management without revascularization. Healing proceeds slowly, however, 
requiring more than a year in many cases. Patients with an ABI <0.5 are more 
likely to require amputation. Interventions designed to improve outcomes in 
critical limb ischemia should stratify outcomes based on hemodynamic data and 
should include a comparative control group given the natural history of ischemic 
ulcers treated in a dedicated wound program.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.03.026
PMID: 16828434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Cyst Fibros. 2007 Apr;6(2):161-2. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2006.05.014. Epub 2006
 Jul 7.

Cystic fibrosis: a balancing act?

Havermans T(1), De Boeck K.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Leuven, Belgium. trudy.havermans@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

Cystic fibrosis has evolved from an illness where children died in their teens 
to one with a longer life expectancy into adult life. Patients now usually keep 
themselves in a good physical condition, which gives them an opportunity to live 
a relatively 'normal' life. There is a catch: a patient can only achieve this by 
adhering to a strict, complex and time-consuming therapeutic schedule, thereby 
introducing an abnormal element into a 'normal' life. In this paper we discuss 
the issue of balancing 'being ill' with 'living like healthy children', and 
argue that 'normality' is as crucial in any developing CF child as the 
'permission' to be ill. An important question arises as a consequence of the 
major improvements in CF care, namely--'Should all care be done at home or are 
there advantages in doing part of it in hospital or clinic?' We contend that 
this is where the balance lies as there are advantages for some care to continue 
to be done in hospital.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2006.05.014
PMID: 16829215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Cancer Imaging. 2006 Jul 4;6(1):83-94. doi: 10.1102/1470-7330.2006.0014.

Current staging of hepatocellular carcinoma: imaging implications.

Bhosale P(1), Szklaruk J, Silverman PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Division of Diagnostic Imaging, University of Texas 
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. 
Priya.Bhosale@di.mdacc.tmc.edu

The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma has been rising in the USA in the past 
two decades. Hepatocellular carcinoma primarily affects older people and reaches 
its highest prevalence among those aged between 50 and 70 years. Chronic 
infection by the hepatitis B virus is the most common cause of this disease. 
Since hepatocellular carcinoma is an indolent tumor, it has a low life 
expectancy. In patients with suspected hepatocellular carcinoma, CT, MRI, and 
ultrasound techniques are useful for formulating the diagnosis based on 
vascularity and specific enhancement features. In this paper we will discuss the 
multimodal approach for diagnosis and surveillance of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
We will also furnish the latest staging and treatment, epidemiology, clinical 
presentation, pathology and laboratory findings in hepatocellular carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1102/1470-7330.2006.0014
PMCID: PMC1693764
PMID: 16829469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J Exp Bot. 2006;57(11):2775-84. doi: 10.1093/jxb/erl048. Epub 2006 Jul 7.

Isolation and characterization of chitinase genes from pitchers of the 
carnivorous plant Nepenthes khasiana.

Eilenberg H(1), Pnini-Cohen S, Schuster S, Movtchan A, Zilberstein A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, The George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, 
Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv 69978, Israel.

The genus Nepenthes represents carnivorous plants with pitcher traps capable of 
efficient prey capture and digestion. The possible involvement of plant 
chitinases in this process was studied in Nepenthes khasiana. Two different 
types of endochitinases were identified in the liquid of closed traps exhibiting 
substrate specificity for either long chitin polymers or N-acetylglucosamine 
(GlcNAc) oligomers. Injection of chitin into such closed sterile pitchers 
induced the appearance of additional endochitinase isoenzymes, with substrate 
specificity only for long chitin polymers. No significant exochitinase 
(N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase) or chitobiosidase activity could be detected in 
the non-induced or induced trap liquid. Four genes representing two subgroups of 
basic chitinases, denoted as Nkchit1b and Nkchit2b, were isolated from the 
secretory region of N. khasiana pitchers. The main differences between the two 
subgroups are the presence of a proline-rich hinge region only in NkCHIT1b and a 
C-terminal putative vacuole targeting extension only in NkCHIT2b, indicating 
different compartmentalization of the two enzymes. Reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) evaluation of mRNA levels 
showed that the Nkchit2b genes are constitutively expressed in the secretory 
cells while transcription of Nkchit1b genes is induced by chitin injection. 
These results show for the first time the involvement of genes encoding 
chitinases in prey-trap interaction and their differential expression and 
activity during prey trapping.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/erl048
PMID: 16829546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2006 May;156(9-10):270-4. doi:
10.1007/s10354-006-0288-3.

[Joint decision making--a challenge. A psychiatric patient with end-stage cancer 
refuses antitumor treatment].

[Article in German]

Henry A(1).

Author information:
(1)Palliativstation, Caritas Socialis Hospiz Rennweg, Wien, Osterreich. 
michael.henry@chello.at

Decision making concerning patients with end stage cancer is a challenging 
process. Since quality of life is a very important issue for patients with 
short-term life expectancy, benefits of antitumor therapy and possible negative 
side effects have to be considered carefully. The patient's desires play a 
pivotal role in the final decision. Informed consent becomes even more difficult 
when the competence of a patient in choosing treatment is questionable. In this 
case report, a 60 year old female patient with exulcerating breast cancer, brain 
metastases and long-term untreated schizophrenia refuses antitumor treatment. 
How can the palliative care team make the best possible decision on her behalf? 
Medical, ethical and legal aspects are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-006-0288-3
PMID: 16830245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2006 May;156(9-10):305-8. doi:
10.1007/s10354-006-0295-4.

[Malnutrition due to malignant bowel obstruction].

[Article in German]

Schnedl AM(1), Karthaus M, Zelle B.

Author information:
(1)Institut fÃ¼r AnÃ¤sthesiologie, Krankenhaus Grieskirchen, Osterreich. 
anna-maria.schnedl@gmx.at

A reduced nutritional state in cancer patients is associated with an 
unfavourable prognosis, can increase morbidity or be the primary cause of death 
in patients with progressed disease. Furthermore malnutrition can be the cause 
of additional hospitalisation. For the diagnosis of malnutrition there are 
simple assessments, e. g. the Nutritional Assessment SGA (Subjective Global 
Assessment; Detsky et al) available. If malnutrition is diagnosed, a specific 
nutritional therapy should be initiated after obtaining informed consent. 
Whenever possible, the enteral route should be preferred. In case of malignant 
intestinal obstruction this is often not possible, which leaves parenteral 
nutrition as the only choice. Currently available data indicate that especially 
patients, whose estimated life expectancy is three months or more and whose 
Karnofsky-Index is above 50 or whose Performance Status is above 2, profit from 
total parenteral nutrition. We report on a patient with advanced GI-cancer and 
bowel obstruction who developed malnutrition. Nutrition of advanced cancer 
patients and their limitations are discussed in a case report on a patient with 
advanced GI-cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-006-0295-4
PMID: 16830252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. AIDS Care. 2006 Aug;18(6):621-8. doi: 10.1080/09540120500471895.

Psychosocial factors and treatment adherence in paediatric HIV/AIDS.

Naar-King S(1), Arfken C, Frey M, Harris M, Secord E, Ellis D.

Author information:
(1)Wayne State University, USA. snaarkin@med.wayne.edu

A social ecological model provides a promising framework for understanding the 
individual, family, and societal factors contributing to non-adherence to 
treatment of paediatric HIV. This study explored which factors relevant to this 
model are associated with caregivers' adherence and child health outcomes. A 
cross-sectional design was utilized to assess relationships among current 
individual, familial, extra-familial factors, caregiver adherence, and viral 
load. Data were collected from 43 caregivers, and viral load data were obtained 
from the medical records of their HIV+ children. Caregiver drug and alcohol use 
and HIV+ status were associated with non-adherence and elevated viral load. 
Negative outcome expectancy was associated with lower adherence but was not 
significant in the multivariate analyses. Family factors were not significant, 
but these measures had low reliability in this sample. Extra-familial factors 
such as dissatisfaction with medical specialty care and more stressful life 
events were not directly associated with adherence but were related to increased 
caregiver substance use. Results of this first study to explore multiple 
predictors of adherence and health outcomes in paediatric HIV require 
replication with larger samples, but findings suggest caregiver characteristics 
that place children at risk for disease progression due to poor adherence to 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/09540120500471895
PMID: 16831791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 Apr;1068:564-7. doi: 10.1196/annals.1346.053.

NFATc1: a novel anabolic therapeutic target for osteoporosis.

Yeo H(1), McDonald JM, Zayzafoon M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, 533 LHRB, 
701 19th Street South, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.

Bone loss and osteoporosis are major public health problems in the elderly. With 
increasing life expectancy in the United States, the number of people that will 
develop age-related bone loss and osteoporosis is expected to rise to over 61 
million by 2020. Osteoblast differentiation is a crucial aspect of bone 
formation and remodeling, a process severely compromised in osteoporosis. Almost 
all the FDA-approved treatments for building healthier bones, excluding 
parathyroid hormone (PTH), do not address the decrease in osteoblast 
differentiation seen in osteoporosis and rather are designed to target 
osteoclasts and bone resorption. The purpose of this study is to examine the 
effects of NFAT inhibition on osteoblast differentiation and to elucidate the 
mechanism of its action. Here we demonstrate that the inhibition of calcineurin 
(Cn) by using cyclosporine A (CsA) increases osteoblast differentiation, both in 
vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, the specific inhibition of NFATc1 by siRNA 
increased Fra-2 expression in osteoblasts. Taken together, our results point the 
way to a novel mechanism to aid in the development of anabolic treatment for 
osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1346.053
PMID: 16831953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Occup Environ Med. 2006 Jul;48(7):662-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.jom.0000229968.74906.8f.

Tenth revision U.S. mortality rates for use with the NIOSH Life Table Analysis 
System.

Robinson CF(1), Schnorr TM, Cassinelli RT 2nd, Calvert GM, Steenland NK, Gersic 
CM, Schubauer-Berigan MK.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Division of 
Surveillance, Hazard Evaluations and Field Studies, Surveillance Branch, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45226, USA. cfr2@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to update rate files for the NIOSH 
Life Table Analysis System for Personal Computers (PC LTAS) reflecting the newly 
adopted tenth revision changes to the International Classification of Diseases.
METHODS: PC LTAS allows researchers to conduct comparative mortality and 
morbidity analyses for the purpose of identifying disease-exposure associations 
using person-time-at-risk for age, race, sex, and calendar time-specific 
reference rates from 1940. Previously available through 1998, files for the 
United States and individual states were updated through 2004 using uncensored 
population data. Tenth revision causes were added if compatible with earlier 
NIOSH death categories, based on revisions 5 through 9. A few new cause 
categories were added.
RESULTS: The resulting NIOSH categories are described for two new U.S. rate 
files: 1960 through 2004 and 1940 through 2004.
CONCLUSION: The new U.S. rate files are available online or on request.

DOI: 10.1097/01.jom.0000229968.74906.8f
PMID: 16832222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Neurologist. 2006 Jul;12(4):214-23. doi: 10.1097/01.nrl.0000215782.78763.fa.

Impact of functional age on the use of dopamine agonists in patients with 
Parkinson disease.

Silver D(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Neurology, Scripps Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, California 92037, 
USA. deeesilver@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Parkinson disease (PD) is primarily a neurodegenerative disorder 
that affects as many as 1,500,000 people in the United States. It is 
predominantly a disease of the elderly, and special treatment challenges must be 
addressed in this patient population.
REVIEW SUMMARY: It has been generally accepted that PD patients over the age of 
70 will have a shorter lifespan than younger patients and are at less risk for 
developing treatment-emergent complications by virtue of their lower exposure to 
medication over the course of the disease. Consequently, elderly patients are 
often treated aggressively when motor symptoms start to become disabling. Recent 
statistics, however, suggest that effective treatments for PD have helped to 
increase the longevity of PD patients, suggesting that elderly patients may, in 
fact, have sufficient medication exposure to raise concern over levodopa-induced 
motor complications. If this is the case, physicians should consider treating 
their elderly PD patients with dopamine agonists, which have several advantages 
over levodopa therapy, not the least of which is a lower prevalence of motor 
complications.
CONCLUSION: Dopamine agonists are safe and effective in elderly patients and 
offer numerous advantages when used as either monotherapy or adjunctive therapy, 
particularly in patients requiring long-term treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/01.nrl.0000215782.78763.fa
PMID: 16832240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Cad Saude Publica. 2006 Aug;22(8):1525-46. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2006000800002.  Epub 2006 Jul 7.

[Social capital and the research agenda in epidemiology].

[Article in Portuguese]

Pattussi MP(1), MoysÃ©s SJ, Junges JR, Sheiham A.

Author information:
(1)Programa de PÃ³s-graduaÃ§Ã£o em SaÃºde Coletiva, Universidade do Vale do Rio dos 
Sinos, SÃ£o Leopoldo, Brasil. mppattussi@unisinos.br

Social capital refers to those features of social organization that enable 
participants to act together and more effectively pursue common goals. A growing 
body of evidence suggests that societies with high levels of social capital have 
lower morbidity and mortality rates and higher life expectancy and are less 
violent. The main goal of this article is to review the relationship between 
social capital and health. First, the main concepts and criticisms of social 
capital theory are discussed. Next, commonly used assessment tools are 
elucidated. Then, the relationship between social capital and health is 
analyzed. Finally, the article comments on the theory's application to Brazilian 
reality. If scientific rigor is applied to social capital research, recognizing 
theoretical and methodological difficulties, it can expand the research agenda 
and contribute to a better understanding of how to effectively deal with health 
inequalities.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2006000800002
PMID: 16832525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Clin Exp Hypertens. 2006 Apr-May;28(3-4):217-24. doi:
10.1080/10641960600549090.

Cardiovascular disorders and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.

Coccagna G(1), Pollini A, Provini F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. 
coccagna@neuro.unibo.it

The first polysomnographic recordings with concomitant monitoring of 
cardiocirculatory parameters demonstrated that obstructive apneas arising during 
sleep are accompanied by a marked increase in pulmonary and systemic arterial 
pressure and severe alveolar hypoventilation. Apneas also may give rise to 
cardiac arrhythmias, namely potentially life-threatening bradyarrhythmias. The 
long-term repercussions of these nocturnal cardiocirculatory changes on 
subsequent cardiovascular diseases and the patient's life expectancy are more 
controversial. There is little doubt that patients with obstructive sleep apnea 
syndrome (OSAS) have systemic arterial hypertension, ischemic heart disease, 
transient ischemic attacks, or stroke more often than control populations and 
have a shorter life expectancy. However, these clinical manifestations may be at 
least partly due to myriad other risk factors almost always present in OSAS 
patients (in particular obesity, diabetes, alcoholism, and cigarette smoking). 
Few multivariate epidemiological surveys have addressed all these confounding 
factors. The effectiveness of continuous positive airway pressure treatment in 
reducing the incidence of cardiovascular comorbidity in OSAS patients is not 
disputed, even though controlled epidemiological surveys on large populations 
are scant. This overview of cardiovascular disorders and OSAS examines the 
latest literature findings aimed at establishing the true impact of nocturnal 
apneas on cardiocirculatory disease (systemic arterial hypertension, ischemic 
heart disease, stroke, pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure and 
mortality).

DOI: 10.1080/10641960600549090
PMID: 16833027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Am J Manag Care. 2006 Jul;12(7):374-86.

Cost-effectiveness of extended adjuvant letrozole therapy after 5 years of 
adjuvant tamoxifen therapy in postmenopausal women with early-stage breast 
cancer.

Delea TE(1), Karnon J, Smith RE, Johnston SR, Brandman J, Sung JC, Gross PE.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc, 4 Davis Court, Brookline, MA 02245, USA. tdelea@pai2.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of extended adjuvant letrozole in 
postmenopausal women with early breast cancer and estrogen or progesterone 
receptor-positive tumors who had completed 5 years of adjuvant tamoxifen.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, we estimated the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained with extended adjuvant letrozole vs no 
extended adjuvant therapy. Probabilities of breast cancer recurrence or new 
contralateral tumor adverse effects and death were estimated using data from the 
MA.17 study and other secondary sources. Costs (in 2004 US dollars) and 
quality-of-life effects (utilities) of breast cancer events and adverse effects 
were derived from the literature.
RESULTS: In base-case analyses, extended adjuvant letrozole vs no extended 
adjuvant therapy results in an expected gain of 0.34 QALYs per patient (13.62 vs 
13.28 QALYs), at an additional lifetime cost of 9699 dollars per patient (55,254 
dollars vs 45,555 dollars). The incremental cost per QALY gained with letrozole 
is 28,728 dollars. Cost-effectiveness is sensitive to the assumed reduction in 
risk of breast cancer events with letrozole but is insensitive to the risks, 
costs, and quality-of-life effects of osteoporosis and hip fracture. 
Cost-effectiveness is less than 100,000 dollars per QALY for node-positive 
patients younger than 81 years and for node-negative patients younger than 73 
years.
CONCLUSION: For postmenopausal women with early breast cancer who have completed 
5 years of adjuvant tamoxifen, the cost-effectiveness of extended adjuvant 
letrozole is within the range of other generally accepted medical interventions 
in the United States.

PMID: 16834524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Am J Manag Care. 2006 Jul;12(7):412; author reply 412-5.

Comparison of a scheduled narcotic for chronic pain with a similar medication 
for breakthrough pain only is not a clinically relevant comparison.

Basskin L.

Comment on
    Am J Manag Care. 2006 Apr;12(4):205-14.

PMID: 16834528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Risk Anal. 2006 Jun;26(3):641-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2006.00774.x.

What affects the quality of economic analysis for life-saving investments?

Hahn RW(1), Kosec K, Neumann PJ, Wallsten S.

Author information:
(1)AEI-Brookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies, Washington, DC 20036, USA. 
rhahn@aei-brookings.org

Economic analysis of life-saving investments in both the public and private 
sectors has the potential to dramatically improve longevity and the quality of 
life, but only if the analyses on which decisions are based are done well. In 
this article, we analyze a data set that provides information on the content and 
quality of journal articles that measure the cost-effectiveness of life-saving 
investments. Our study is the first to provide a detailed multivariate analysis 
of factors affecting objective measures of quality. We also explore whether a 
series of recommendations by an expert panel convened by the U.S. Public Health 
Service affect the way analyses of specific life-saving investments are done. 
Our results suggest that four factors are positively correlated with an index we 
construct to measure analytical quality: (1) having at least one author 
affiliated with a university, (2) publication in a journal that has experience 
in publishing these analyses, (3) if the life-saving investment is located in 
the United States, and (4) if the analysis considers a measure of social costs 
or benefits. Somewhat surprisingly, a study's funding source and whether it is 
affiliated with industry are not significantly correlated with the quality 
index. Finally, neither time nor the panel guidelines had an impact on the 
index.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2006.00774.x
PMID: 16834624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 Jul;22(7):1415-24. doi: 10.1185/030079906X115531.

Acarbose in addition to existing treatments in patients with type 2 diabetes: 
health economic analysis in a German setting.

Roze S(1), Valentine WJ, Evers T, Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, Binningen, Switzerland. 
info@thecenter.ch

OBJECTIVE: A recent retrospective meta-analysis of cardiovascular events from 
long-term studies with acarbose in type 2 diabetes showed that treatment was 
associated with a significant reduction in the risk of cardiovascular events, 
supporting the hypothesis that postprandial hyperglycemia is a risk factor for 
cardiovascular disease. The aim of the present study was to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of acarbose, given in addition to existing treatments, in 
type 2 diabetes patients, based on these findings, in the German setting.
METHODS: The CORE Diabetes Model, a published, validated computer simulation 
model, was used to project long-term clinical and cost outcomes in type 2 
diabetes patients receiving acarbose or placebo in addition to existing 
treatments. Direct costs were retrieved from published sources and projected 
over patient lifetimes from a third party payer perspective. Costs and clinical 
benefits were discounted at 5% annually. Extensive sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: Acarbose treatment was associated with improvements in discounted life 
expectancy (0.21 years) and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) (0.19 QALYs) 
but was on average marginally more expensive than treatment in the placebo arm 
(euro135 per patient). This led to incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 
euro633 per life year and euro692 per quality-adjusted life year gained. 
Sensitivity analysis showed that these findings were robust under variation in a 
range of assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Addition of acarbose to existing treatment was associated with 
improvements in life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy, and 
provides excellent value for money over patient lifetimes in the German setting.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906X115531
PMID: 16834840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Eur Urol. 2007 Mar;51(3):684-8; discussion 689. doi: 
10.1016/j.eururo.2006.06.022. Epub 2006 Jun 28.

Radical prostatectomy in Austria: a nationwide analysis of 16,524 cases.

Mohamad BA(1), Marszalek M, BrÃ¶ssner C, Ponholzer A, Wehrberger C, Willinger M, 
Madersbacher S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Andrology, Donauspital, Vienna, Austria.

OBJECTIVES: To analyse demographics and outcome of radical prostatectomy (RPE) 
in Austria in a nationwide series.
METHODS: All patients (n=16,524) who underwent RPE in public hospitals (covering 
95% of all surgical procedures) in Austria between 1992 and 2003 were analysed. 
Patient demographics, interventions for anastomotic strictures/urinary 
incontinence/inguinal hernias, perioperative mortality, and overall survival 
(OS) were determined. Data were provided by the Austrian Health Institute 
(OBIG). For decades Austria has had a public and equal access health system with 
compulsory insurance coverage.
RESULTS: The annual number of RPEs increased from 396 in 1992 to 2640 (+666%) in 
2003; the mean age at surgery declined from 64+/-6.3 yr (1992) to 62.0+/-6.7 yr 
(2003). An endourologic intervention for anastomotic strictures was performed in 
8.5% (45-49 yr: 5.8%; 70-74 yr: 10.8%). An artificial urinary sphincter was 
implanted in 1.6% with a 5-fold increase from the youngest (0.5%; 45-49 yr) to 
2.5% in those aged 70-74 yr. Overall, 6.4% of men underwent an inguinal 
herniotomy after RPE. The 30-d mortality rate was 0.12%. The 5-yr OS declined 
from 95% in those aged 50-59 yr to 89.8% in those aged 60-69 yr to 82% in the 
oldest age group (70-79 yr).
CONCLUSIONS: This nationwide analysis describes the current standard of RPE in 
Austria. The perioperative mortality was low, the risk of total incontinence 
acceptable, and the OS indistinguishable to the life expectancy of the 
age-matched male population in Austria.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2006.06.022
PMID: 16835007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Aging Health. 2006 Aug;18(4):491-506. doi: 10.1177/0898264305286074.

The burden of selected diseases among older people in Denmark.

BrÃ¸nnum-Hansen H(1), Juel K, Davidsen M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Ãster Farimagsgade 5, DK 1399 
K,Copenhagen K, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

OBJECTIVE: The study evaluated the health impact of specific diseases.
METHOD: Life tables and health survey data are combined to estimate expected 
lifetime with and without long-standing illness. We compared estimates based on 
observed rates of mortality and prevalence of illness with those based on 
hypothetical rates from which a specific disease has been eliminated.
RESULTS: Life expectancy would increase by 4.0 years for 65-year-olds if 
circulatory diseases are eliminated, and the proportion of expected lifetime 
without long-standing, limiting illness would increase from 59.2% to 66.5% for 
men and from 52.2% to 55.6% for women. Elimination of musculoskeletal diseases 
would not change life expectancy but would increase the proportion of expected 
lifetime without long-standing illness.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of comorbidity, more years of illness are to be expected if 
lethal diseases are to be eliminated. Elimination of nonfatal diseases would 
mainly transfer years with long-standing illness to years without illness.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264305286074
PMID: 16835386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2006 Jul;3(7):368-80. doi: 10.1038/ncpuro0521.

Management of detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia.

