    Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):167-78.
    Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):179-84.
    Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):185-90.
    Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):191-227.
    Br J Health Psychol. 2007 Sep;12(Pt 3):315-21.

Wilkinson contends that economic inequality reduces the health and life 
expectancy of the whole population but his argument does not make sense within 
its own evolutionary framework. Recent evolutionary psychological theory 
suggests that the human brain, adapted to the ancestral environment, has 
difficulty comprehending and dealing with entities and situations that did not 
exist in the ancestral environment and that general intelligence evolved as a 
domain-specific adaptation to solve evolutionarily novel problems. Since most 
dangers to health in the contemporary society are evolutionarily novel, it 
follows that more intelligent individuals are better able to recognize and deal 
with such dangers and live longer. Consistent with the theory, the macro-level 
analyses show that income inequality and economic development have no effect on 
life expectancy at birth, infant mortality and age-specific mortality net of 
average intelligence quotient (IQ) in 126 countries. They also show that an 
average IQ has a very large and significant effect on population health but not 
in the evolutionarily familiar sub-Saharan Africa. At the micro level, the 
General Social Survey data show that, while both income and intelligence have 
independent positive effects on self-reported health, intelligence has a 
stronger effect than income. The data collectively suggest that individuals in 
wealthier and more egalitarian societies live longer and stay healthier, not 
because they are wealthier or more egalitarian but because they are more 
intelligent.

DOI: 10.1348/135910705X69842
PMID: 17032488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Ugeskr Laeger. 2006 Oct 2;168(40):3424-9.

[Medical treatment of Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Danish]

Johannsen P(1).

Author information:
(1)H:S Hukommelsesklinikken, Neurologisk Klinik, H:S Rigshospitalet, København 
Ø. peterj@dadlnet.dk

Comment in
    Ugeskr Laeger. 2006 Oct 30;168(44):3833; author reply 3833.

In Denmark, Alzheimer drugs have been registered since 1997. Three 
cholinesterase inhibitors (donepezil, rivastigmin og galantamin) are approved 
mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease and one partial NMDA receptor antagonist 
(memantin) with the indication moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. The 
treatment is symptomatic with a parallel shift of the course. The life 
expectancy does not seem to be altered. There is documented effect on the 
cholinesterase inhibitors of up to two years and for memantine for 6 months. New 
disease modifying agents are under clinical development.

PMID: 17032609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Eur Heart J. 2007 Feb;28(4):388-91. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehl311. Epub 2006
Oct  10.

The high cost of implantable defibrillators.

Hlatky MA(1), Mark DB.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, HRP Redwood Building, Room 150, 
Stanford, CA 94305-5405, USA. hlatky@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2007 Feb;28(4):386-7.

Increased use of ICDs in patients with cardiac disease has the potential to 
strain national health care budgets because of the large numbers of eligible 
patients and the high cost of the ICDs. Randomized trials show ICDs increase 
life-expectancy in some groups of patients and also increase total medical costs 
significantly. ICDs exemplify the role of new technology as the main force 
behind rising health care costs. ICDs have not been used in all eligible 
patients, in part because of cost, but also because of patient resistance and a 
shortage of specialists able to implant and manage complex ICDs. The 
cost-effectiveness of ICDs would be improved by development of simpler and 
cheaper devices, and by better tools to identify patients who benefit from an 
ICD.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehl311
PMID: 17032689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Anim Sci. 2006 Nov;84(11):2914-24. doi: 10.2527/jas.2005-707.

Analysis of longevity and exterior traits on Large White sows in Switzerland.

Tarrés J(1), Bidanel JP, Hofer A, Ducrocq V.

Author information:
(1)Station de Génétique Quantitative et Appliquée, Institut National de la 
Recherche Agronomique, 78352 Jouy-en-Josas Cedex, France. 
joaquim.tarres@dga.jouy.inra.fr

Records of length of productive life, from first farrowing to culling, of 16,464 
Large White purebred sows from SUISAG were studied using survival analysis. The 
major aims of the study were to model the risk of culling within parity and to 
assess the influence of exterior traits, such as the number of teats or feet and 
leg scores, on culling. Culling was concentrated at the first day after each 
farrowing or at the first day after weaning. Weaning itself was mostly between 
21 and 49 d after farrowing, with an average weaning age of 35 d. Because of the 
definition of culling date used, there was practically no risk of culling from 
these periods. The culling rates at different periods suggested a modeling of 
the baseline hazard function within parity instead of over the entire productive 
life of the animals. A piecewise Weibull function and a simple graphical method 
to validate its adequacy were proposed for sow longevity analysis. The risk of 
culling increased with older parities (P < 0.001) and with decreasing litter 
size at weaning (P < 0.001). The exterior traits analyzed (number of teats, and 
feet and leg scores, on a scale from 1 to 7) had a moderate effect on the risk 
of culling compared with other factors but were still influential on survival, 
productive life expectancy, and annual replacement rate. Sows with less than 13 
good teats had 1.35 times greater risk of being culled than sows with more good 
teats (P < 0.05). Sows with an X-O rear leg score of 2 had 1.4 times greater 
risk of being culled than sows with an intermediate score of 4 (P < 0.05). Sows 
at the optimum score of 4 for the size of inner claws of the rear leg had 0.83 
times less risk of being culled (P < 0.01) than sows with scores of 2 and 3. 
Furthermore, when a phenotypic index for feet and legs was used to group these 
variables, the effect was highly significant (P < 0.001). Therefore, a means to 
improve longevity is through phenotypic selection of replacement gilts based on 
exterior traits: gilts with 13 or less good teats or with extreme feet and leg 
scores should be culled. From a genetic point of view, sows with the best value 
in the current index for exterior traits had a lower risk of culling (P < 0.01), 
and therefore, it is possible to obtain a response for sow longevity via 
indirect selection for exterior traits. From 1999 to 2003, the trend has been to 
eliminate extreme animals on exterior traits. This may partly explain the 
improvement of sow length of productive life longevity from 560 d in 2000 to 
nearly 710 d in 2003 observed in the data set.

DOI: 10.2527/jas.2005-707
PMID: 17032784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 2006;(36):15-9. doi:
10.1093/jncimonographs/lgj004.

Competing risks to breast cancer mortality.

Rosenberg MA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Business and Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA. mrosenberg@bus.wisc.edu

BACKGROUND: Simulation models analyzing the impact of treatment interventions 
and screening on the level of breast cancer mortality require an input of 
mortality from causes other than breast cancer, or competing risks.
METHODS: This chapter presents an actuarial method of creating cohort life 
tables using published data that removes breast cancer as a cause of death.
RESULTS: Mortality from causes other than breast cancer as a percentage of 
all-cause mortality is smallest for women in their forties and fifties, as small 
as 85% of the all-cause rate, although the level and percentage of the impact 
varies by birth cohort.
CONCLUSION: This method produces life tables by birth cohort and by age that are 
easily included as a common input by the various CISNET modeling groups to 
predict mortality from other causes. Attention to removing breast cancer 
mortality from all-cause mortality is worthwhile, because breast cancer 
mortality can be as high as 15% at some ages.

DOI: 10.1093/jncimonographs/lgj004
PMID: 17032889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Qual Life Res. 2006 Dec;15(10):1577-85. doi: 10.1007/s11136-006-0037-5. Epub
 2006 Oct 11.

Girls growing through adolescence have a higher risk of poor health.

Cavallo F(1), Zambon A, Borraccino A, Raven-Sieberer U, Torsheim T, Lemma P.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica, University of Torino, Turin, Italy. 
franco.cavallo@unito.it

INTRODUCTION: Self rated health, in adult population, is strongly associated 
with mortality and life expectancy. In younger people this association is less 
evident, but it may anticipate a similar risk in adult life. Our research, based 
on the HBSC (Health Behaviour in School-Aged Children) International 
collaboration, contributes to deepen the knowledge in this field by monitoring 
adolescents' health through a multi-national survey involving 29 European 
countries, plus North America (Canada and USA) and Israel.
METHODS: Following an established methodology, the HBSC survey has elaborated a 
questionnaire on health and health behaviour, filled in by a representative 
national sample of 11-, 13- and 15-year-old boys and girls. The sample is 
constituted of more than 160,000 subjects interviewed during the 2001/2002 
survey. Reported symptoms and self-rated health have been analysed by sex and 
age and through the different countries.
RESULTS: Girls resulted to have a poorer perception of their health, with 
respect to males, at all ages and in all countries (Overall OR = 1.70, 95% CI: 
1.66-1.76). Age increases this risk both for males and females, with an average 
increase of 32% (95% CI: 29-34%) per year in the age-range 11-15. The situation 
is similar for reported symptoms, with an overall OR of 1.81 (95% CI: 1.77-1.85) 
for females of reporting three or more symptoms at least once a week; also this 
risk increases of 26% (95% CI: 24-27%) per year during the pre-adolescence 
phase. In both cases it could be shown a significant interaction effect between 
age and gender: OR = 1.19 (CI: 1.15-1.23) for perceived health and OR = 1.26 
(CI: 1.23-1.29) for reported symptoms in females with respect to males.
CONCLUSIONS: Even if adolescence is described as the healthiest period of life, 
a consistent minority of young people perceive and report a poor health and a 
high number of symptoms. Females are constantly in a worse position than males 
and older age groups are worse than younger ones.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-006-0037-5
PMID: 17033911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Food Chem Toxicol. 2007 Feb;45(2):272-7. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2006.08.006.
Epub  2006 Aug 30.

Radiological impact of dietary intakes of naturally occurring radionuclides on 
Pakistani adults.

Akhter P(1), Rahman K, Orfi SD, Ahmad N.

Author information:
(1)Health Physics Division, Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science and 
Technology, P.O. Nilore, Islamabad, Pakistan.

Daily dietary intakes of three naturally occurring long-lived radionuclides 
(232)Th, (238)U and (40)K were estimated for the adult population of Pakistan 
using neutron activation analysis (NAA), inductively coupled plasma mass 
spectrometry (ICP-MS) and atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS), respectively. 
The daily intakes of (232)Th ranged from 4 to 29 mBq, (238)U ranged from 17 to 
82 mBq and (40)K ranged from 51 to 128 Bq. The geometric means of these intakes 
were 10 mBqd(-1) for (232)Th, 33 mBqd(-1) for (238)U and 78.5 Bqd(-1) for (40)K. 
The measured values give annual committed effective doses of 0.80, 0.53 and 
178.75 microSvyr(-1) for (232)Th, (238)U and (40)K, respectively to Pakistani 
population. The net radiological impact of these radionuclides is 180.08 
microSvyr(-1). This value gives cancer risk factor of 4.5 x 10(-4) and loss of 
life expectancy of 0.87 days only. Whereas ICRP cancer risk factor for general 
public is 2.5 x 10(-3) and total risk involve from the all natural radiation 
sources based on global average annual radiation dose of 2.4 mSvyr(-1) is 6.0 x 
10(-3). The estimated cancer risk shows that probability of increase of cancer 
risk from daily Pakistani diet is only a minor fraction of ICRP values. 
Therefore, the diet does not pose any significant health hazard and is 
considered radiologically safe for human consumption.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2006.08.006
PMID: 17034921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Int J Dev Neurosci. 2006 Nov;24(7):431-6. doi:
10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2006.08.008.  Epub 2006 Oct 10.

Age-dependent loss of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor immunoreactive cells 
in the supraoptic hypothalamus is reduced in calorically restricted mice.

Yaghmaie F(1), Saeed O, Garan SA, Voelker MA, Gouw AM, Freitag W, Sternberg H, 
Timiras PS.

Author information:
(1)Virginia Commonwealth University, School of Medicine, Richmond, VA, USA.

Both life-long caloric restriction (CR) and the suppression of insulin-like 
growth factor-1 (IGF-1) signaling reliably extend the mammalian lifespan. The 
neuroendocrine system, regulated by the hypothalamus, remains the most 
convincing site of action for both these modes of life extension. Yet, 
determining whether CR actions are mediated by the modulation of neuroendocrine 
IGF-1 signaling remains unclear. Of the hypothalamic nuclei that express the 
IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R), the cells of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) display some 
of the most robust IGF-1R expression. Taking IGF-1R immunoreactivity as an index 
of sensitivity to IGF-1, we counted IGF-1R immunoreactive and non-immunoreactive 
cells in the SON of young-ad-libitum fed (young-Al, 6 weeks), old-ad-libitum fed 
(Old-Al, 22 months), and old-calorie-restricted (Old-CR, 22 months) female 
B6D2F1 mice. An automated imaging microscopy system (AIMS) was used to generate 
cell counts for each section of supraoptic hypothalamus. Results show that while 
the total number of cells in the SON of ad-libitum fed mice does not change 
significantly with aging, a significant reduction in IGF-1R immunoreactive cells 
does occur in ad-libitum fed mice with aging. In contrast to this, calorie 
restricted mice show both a decline in the total number of cells and IGF-1R 
immunoreactive cells in the SON with age, but with the decrease in the latter 
being notably attenuated when compared to the degree of loss seen in ad-libitum 
fed mice. Thus, while CR induces greater loss in the total number of cells in 
the SON with age, it reduces the degree of age-dependent loss seen in IGF-1R 
expressing cells. As a result, when compared to Old-AL mice, the SON of Old-CR 
mice displays a greater proportion of IGF-1R cells and thus possibly enhanced 
IGF-1 sensitivity with aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2006.08.008
PMID: 17034982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Int J Dev Neurosci. 2006 Nov;24(7):425-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2006.08.006.  Epub 2006 Oct 10.

Differential activities in adhesion and neurite growth of fibronectin type III 
repeats in the PTP-delta extracellular domain.

Gonzalez-Brito MR(1), Bixby JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, University of 
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Lois Pope LIFE Center, Room 4-17, 1095 NW 14th 
Terrace, Miami, FL 33136, USA.

The full-length extracellular domain (ECD) of protein tyrosine phosphatase delta 
(PTP-delta) functions as a ligand to promote cell adhesion and neurite 
outgrowth; this ECD contains three immunoglobulin (Ig) repeats and eight 
fibronectin type III (FN III) repeats. However, it is not known which regions of 
the ECD regulate its ligand functions. Therefore, we constructed and expressed a 
fusion protein of the PTP-delta ECD lacking FN III repeats 4-8, and tested this 
protein for neuronal adhesion and neurite-promoting ability. Compared to the 
full-length isoform, the truncated ECD was poorer at promoting adhesion, but a 
more potent promoter of neurite growth. The results suggest that distal FN III 
repeats of PTP-delta are important in adhesive functions, but dispensable for 
neurite outgrowth promotion. As the predominant isoform of PTP-delta during 
neural development (type D) also lacks distal FN III repeats, the functional 
properties we observe may be relevant to periods of axon extension, suggesting 
that splice variants of receptor PTPs play distinct roles in neural development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2006.08.006
PMCID: PMC1702485
PMID: 17034983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Eur J Orthod. 2006 Dec;28(6):513-9. doi: 10.1093/ejo/cjl046. Epub 2006 Oct
11.

How do we evaluate the economics of health care?

Kumar S(1), Williams AC, Sandy JR.

Author information:
(1)The Crescent Specialist Centre, Plymouth, Devon, UK.

Economic evaluation has become an integral component of health service research 
in recent years and will no doubt become more influential. As resources are 
reduced in health services, more questions are likely to be asked on the costs 
and benefits of new treatments. Questions are also likely to be aimed at 
treatments that are currently provided. Economics related to health care is 
complex and numerous methods of economic evaluation exist. Full economic 
evaluation involves the assessment of both costs and outcomes and is ideal for 
comparing the efficiency of treatments. Partial evaluations can also provide 
useful information on the contribution of component costs to treatment costs as 
a whole. The aim of this review is to assess the various methods available to 
evaluate the economics of health care and to place in context how these methods 
may be used within dentistry.

DOI: 10.1093/ejo/cjl046
PMID: 17035484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Eur Neurol. 2006;56(3):139-54. doi: 10.1159/000096178. Epub 2006 Oct 11.

Asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: past, present and future. How to improve 
patient selection?

Rijbroek A(1), Wisselink W, Vriens EM, Barkhof F, Lammertsma AA, Rauwerda JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Kennemer Gasthuis, NK-2000 AK Haarlem, The 
Netherlands. rijbroek@jg.nl

BACKGROUND: The role of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) for asymptomatic carotid 
artery stenosis (aCAS) remains a matter of debate. It seems that not only the 
degree of stenosis, but also other factors have to be taken in account to 
improve patient selection and increase the benefit of CEA for aCAS.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The literature pertaining aCAS was reviewed in order to 
describe the natural history, risk of stroke and benefit of CEA for patients 
with aCAS in regard to several factors.
CONCLUSION: The benefit of CEA for aCAS is low. Current factors influencing the 
indication for CEA are severity of stenosis, age, contralateral disease, 
stenosis progression to >80%, gender, concomitant operations and life 
expectancy. To improve patient selection investigations will concentrate on 
plaque characteristics and instability and cerebral hemodynamics and metabolism.

Copyright (c) 2006 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000096178
PMID: 17035702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Neuroepidemiology. 2006;27(4):177-87. doi: 10.1159/000096131. Epub 2006 Oct
11.

Socio-demographic variation of dementia subtypes in china: Methodology and 
results of a prevalence study in Beijing, Chengdu, Shanghai, and Xian.

Zhang ZX(1), Zahner GE, Román GC, Liu XH, Wu CB, Hong Z, Hong X, Tang MN, Zhou 
B, Qu QM, Zhang XJ, Li H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Beijing, PR China. zhangzx@pumch.cn

OBJECTIVE: To characterize sociodemographic variations in the prevalence of AD 
and VaD in China.
METHODS: Data were collected in a 1997-1998, cross-sectional, door-to-door 
prevalence survey of 34,807 community residents ages > or =55 years in Beijing, 
Shanghai, Chengdu and Xian. Initial diagnoses of AD and VaD were assessed by 
clinicians using standardized protocols, according to the NINCDS-ADRDA and 
NINDS-AIREN criteria; diagnoses were confirmed after 6 months by repeating 
neuropsychological evaluations. Prevalence odds ratios were estimated in 
logistic models adjusting for survey design, age, and other sociodemographic 
factors.
RESULTS: We identified 732 prevalent cases of AD and 295 cases of VaD. Adjusting 
for all sociodemographic factors concurrently, prevalence odds of AD and VaD 
were higher in northern versus southern China. Age trends for AD appeared 
different in western and eastern China. AD also showed an age-adjusted elevation 
among women and, in the fully adjusted model, a gender education interaction 
indicating a female preponderance in the highest education group. North-south 
variation for VaD was age-dependent. In the fully adjusted model, for AD, 
widowed had significantly higher prevalence odds; for VaD, widowed persons and 
minorities had significantly lower prevalence odds; professionals had 
statistically significant and borderline lower prevalence odds for both VaD and 
AD; sales-service occupations had significantly lower odds for AD only.
CONCLUSION: We observed variations in prevalence for AD and VaD in different 
regions and demographic groups in China that persisted after controlling for 
potential confounding factors. Sociodemographic factors are probable surrogates 
for conditions such as lifestyle, environment, comorbidities, and life 
expectancy.

Copyright 2006 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000096131
PMID: 17035714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 1999 Jun;12(3):257-63. doi: 
10.1097/00001432-199906000-00017.

Rational treatment of pulmonary infections in patients with cystic fibrosis.

Foca M(1), Rajan S, Saiman L.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric 
Infectious Diseases, New York, New York 10032, USA.

The life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis has increased markedly 
during the past two decades due in large part to improved clinical care, 
including the use of more effective antimicrobial agents for Pseudomonas. 
However, the chronic lung disease of CF remains the principal cause of 
mortality. A growing understanding of the complex interactions between infection 
and inflammation has led to new approaches for treatment, including chronic use 
of aerosolized antibiotics, particularly tobramycin, in patients known to be 
colonized/infected with P. aeruginosa and anti-inflammatory treatments to slow 
the progression of lung disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00001432-199906000-00017
PMID: 17035789


534. MMW Fortschr Med. 2006 Sep 21;148(38):37-8, 40.

[Physical activity in patients with renal insufficiency and patients on 
dialysis].

[Article in German]

Amann K(1), Halle M.

Author information:
(1)Nephrologie, Präventive und Rehabilitative Sportmedizin, Klinikum rechts der 
Isar, TU München. amann@sport.med.tum.de

Regular exercise as a measure aimed at preventing renal failure results in a 
positive influence on blood pressure, a reduction in weight, reduction in 
peripheral insulin resistance, and a reduction in vessel rigidity.The same 
applies to patients who already have renal failure. With regard to weight 
reduction, however, it must be remembered that in the terminal stage of the 
disease, an elevated BMI is associated with a higher life expectancy, since with 
the need for dialysis a catabolic process with muscular atrophy and a loss of 
stored fat begins. In this situation, the aim of physical activity is to help 
reduce mortality in dialysis patients by improving cardiorespiratory function 
and muscular strength, as well as their quality of life.

PMID: 17036962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2006 Sep;22(5):779-83.

[Gene construction, expression and activities analysis of human leptin].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu N(1), Zhang CG, Xie LY, Wang Z, Yan JH.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Xiamen University, China.

Six 89bp primers were designed on the base of the cDNA sequence encoding the 
human leptin reported on the NCBI. The synthetic gene with 464bp encoding rhLep 
was obtained by SOE ( splicing by overlap extension) PCR. The expression vector 
pET22b(+)/rhLep was constructed and transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3). The 
rhLep protein was expressed as inclusion bodies with the yield of more than 50% 
of total bacterial proteins after IPTG induction. The rhLep protein, which has a 
molecular weight about 16kD, was purified by Ni2+ affinity chromatography column 
and identified by SDS-PAGE. The MTT Assay shows that rhLep promotes EC304 cells 
growth at the low concentration of 10ng/mL to 30 ng/mL, and rhLep appears 
cytotoxic to EC304 cells with the high dose of 50ng/mL to 225ng/mL. The 
viability of EC304 cells decreases to 1.2% with the concentration of 225ng/mL of 
rhLep. The massive apoptosis of rhLep on EC304 cells is observed by AO-staining 
under fluorescent microscope. All these results would lay the foundation for the 
further study of its biological functions in vitro and in vivo.

PMID: 17037201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Psychol Rep. 2006 Aug;99(1):274-6. doi: 10.2466/pr0.99.1.274-276.

Cultural differences and economic development of 31 countries.

Nadler S(1), Zemanek JE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Marketing, School of Business, East Carolina University, 3414 
General Classroom Building, Greenville, North Carolina 27858-4353, USA.

To update and extend the empirical research of Hofstede, the influence of 
culture on 31 nations' economic development was examined and support for 
modernization theory provided. Per capita gross domestic product, literacy 
rates, the negative of the population growth rate, and life expectancy 
development data were collected from 31 countries. The pattern of correlations 
among measures provided partial support for Hofstede's 1980 findings.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.99.1.274-276
PMID: 17037480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Med Klin (Munich). 2006 Oct 15;101(10):804-11. doi:
10.1007/s00063-006-1108-7.

[Epidemiology and demographic evolution exemplified for cardiovascular diseases 
in Germany].

[Article in German]

Löwel H(1), Meisinger C.

Author information:
(1)GSF-Forschungszentrum für Umwelt und Gesundheit, Neuherberg. 
hannelore.loewel@gsf.de

The interplay between demographic and epidemiologic evolutions is presented 
exemplified for cardiovascular diseases in Germany. The actually 82 million 
inhabitants of Germany build the frame for disease occurrence; currently, 2.1 
million men and 4.4 million women are > or = 75 years old. The ongoing increase 
of life expectancy to 75.6 years in men and 81.3 years in women was associated 
with a remarkable decrease of cardiovascular and ischemic heart disease (IHD) 
mortality and an increasing disease-specific mean age of death. Each third male 
and each fourth female death from IHD could be prevented, whereas the absolute 
number of nonfatal acute myocardial infarction (AMI) increased in the younger 
ages and decreased in the higher age groups. Since 1985, the total number of 
fatal and nonfatal cases of AMI has decreased by 24% in men and by 22% in women; 
two thirds of male and one third of female cases occur before the 75th year of 
age. These positive trends are mainly the result of a more effective acute and 
long-term therapy after AMI onset. Actually, 35% of all AMI patients do not 
survive the first day after acute onset and in up to 90% of them classic risk 
factors (hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes, cigarette smoking) were present. 
Therefore, the theme number 1 for the population must be intensified activities 
of primary prevention.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-006-1108-7
PMID: 17039323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Gesundheitswesen. 2006 Aug-Sep;68(8-9):551-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-926988.

[Regional mortality differences in Bavaria].

[Article in German]

Kuhn J(1), Zirngibl A, Wildner M, Caselmann WH, Kerscher G.

Author information:
(1)Bayerisches Landesamt für Gesundheit und Lebensmittelsicherheit, Bayern. 
joseph.kuhn@lgl.bayern.de

OBJECTIVE: In completion of a decision of the Bavarian Parliament we examined 
the regional mortality differences within Bavaria.
DATA: The analysis was based on the number of deaths in Bavaria in the years of 
2000-2002. Data on regional demographic and socioeconomic indicators were used 
to identify potential associations.
METHODS: Deaths were analysed by cause of death and region. Crude and age 
standardised mortality rates were calculated. Additionally, we assessed the 
potential years of life lost in order to obtain some indication of the potential 
effects of preventive action. The association with likely explanatory factors 
was investigated on an ecological level.
RESULTS: The regional mortality differences in Bavaria show a 
northeast-southwest gradient favouring the southwest, which reflects the 
socioeconomic situation within Bavaria. This may be due to the economic 
disadvantage northeast Bavaria had to endure as a result of its marginal 
location within a divided Europe. We found strong bivariate correlations of the 
mortality rate with individual socioeconomic factors (e. g. with available 
income: -0.582; with unemployment: +0.416; with the immigration rate: -0.473). 
Exploratory analysis suggest that about 50 % of the regional variation in 
mortality could be explained by socioeconomic factors.
DISCUSSION: The results for cause of death indicate that behavioural factors in 
relation to socioeconomic aspects may well play a role in the mortality 
gradient. This will be the focus of a future piece of research of our unit.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-926988
PMID: 17039434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Am J Hum Biol. 2006 Nov-Dec;18(6):783-90. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20551.

Male lifespan and the secondary sex ratio.

Catalano R(1), Bruckner T.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, 
California 94720-7360, USA. rayc@berkeley.edu

Literature speculating on the fetal origins of later life morbidity often 
invokes the "damaged cohort" theory, i.e., that maternal responses to exogenous 
shocks induce "stress reactivity" in fetuses and thereby shorten the lifespan of 
males in utero during stressful times. A rival, or "culled cohort," theory 
posits that exogenous shocks to gravid females induce spontaneous abortions of 
frail male fetuses, leaving relatively hardy survivors who enjoy, on average, 
lifespans longer than males in less stressed birth cohorts. A recent test based 
on archival data from Sweden supported the culled cohort theory. Several 
characteristics of the Swedish data, however, raise questions regarding the 
external validity of the findings. We repeat the test with data from Denmark, 
Iceland, and England and Wales. We use time-series methods that control for 
trends, seasonal cycles, and other forms of autocorrelation that could confound 
the test. None of the results supports the "damaged cohort" theory. Consistent 
with the Swedish findings and with evolutionary theory, we find support in 
Iceland and England and Wales for the "culled cohort" theory. We discuss the 
implications of our findings for basic research as well as for public health.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20551
PMID: 17039467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Health Econ. 2007 Apr;16(4):421-33. doi: 10.1002/hec.1181.

Unrelated medical care in life years gained and the cost utility of primary 
prevention: in search of a 'perfect' cost-utility ratio.

van Baal PH(1), Feenstra TL, Hoogenveen RT, de Wit GA, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prevention and Health Services Research (PZO), National Institute 
for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), The Netherlands. 
pieter.van.baal@rivm.nl

An important subject of debate in cost-utility analysis of health care 
programmes is whether to include costs of unrelated medical care in life years 
gained. The inclusion of such costs is likely to be of consequence in the case 
of primary prevention. This paper presents different strategies regarding the 
inclusion not only of the costs, but also of the health effects of unrelated 
medical care in economic evaluations. Four different cost-utility ratios are 
presented and related to the criterion of internal consistency. In addition, the 
possibility to relate the ratios to a well-posed decision problem is analysed. 
An example computes the different ratios for smoking cessation interventions in 
different age groups. Including health care costs of unrelated medical care in 
life years gained increases cost utility ratios, but excluding unrelated medical 
costs favours smoking cessation interventions targeted at older smokers over 
those at younger smokers. We conclude that for primary prevention only a cost 
utility ratio that includes both the costs and effects of unrelated medical care 
meets the criterion of internal consistency and is related to a meaningful 
decision problem. Therefore, this type of cost-utility ratio should be preferred 
even if the data requirements may be substantial.

Copyright (c) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1181
PMID: 17039573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Ethics. 2006 Jul;116(4):656-79. doi: 10.1086/505233.

The reversal test: eliminating status quo bias in applied ethics.

Bostrom N, Ord T.

DOI: 10.1086/505233
PMID: 17039628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Nephrol News Issues. 2006 Oct;20(11):76, 78-9.

Why we need the option of more dialysis.

Hodge MH.

PMID: 17039973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Palliat Support Care. 2005 Dec;3(4):281-7. doi: 10.1017/s1478951505050443.

Are palliative cancer patients willing and able to participate in a physical 
exercise program?

Oldervoll LM(1), Loge JH, Paltiel H, Asp MB, Vidvei U, Hjermstad MJ, Kaasa S.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Cancer Society, Oslo, Norway. line.oldervoll@ntnu.no

OBJECTIVE: The primary aim of the present article was to identify palliative 
care patient populations who are willing to participate in and able to complete 
a group exercise/physical training program designed specifically for the 
individual patient.
METHOD: We conducted a prospective phase II intervention study examining the 
willingness and ability of palliative care cancer patients to participate in a 
group exercise physical training program. Patients who were diagnosed with 
incurable cancer and had a life expectancy of less than 1 year at two outpatient 
clinics were invited to participate in an exercise program in the hospitals. The 
groups met twice a week over a 6-week period.
RESULTS: One hundred one consecutive patients were asked for inclusion. 
Sixty-three patients agreed to participate. Sixteen (25%) of the 63 patients 
dropped out after consent was given, but before the program started due to 
medical problems, social reasons, or death. Thus, 47 patients started the 
exercise program. Thirteen patients withdrew during the program due to sudden 
death, medical problems, or social reasons. The most frequent reasons for 
withdrawal were increased pain or other symptoms. Thirty-four patients completed 
the exercise program.
SIGNIFICANCE OF RESULTS: A high proportion of incurable cancer patients were 
willing to participate (63%) in a structured exercise program. The attrition 
rate was high, but despite being severely ill, 54% of the patients completed the 
exercise period. This shows that a physical exercise program tailored to the 
individual patient is feasible in this population.

DOI: 10.1017/s1478951505050443
PMID: 17039983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. J Intern Med. 2006 Nov;260(5):435-41. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2006.01705.x.

Characteristics and outcome amongst young adults suffering from out-of-hospital 
cardiac arrest in whom cardiopulmonary resuscitation is attempted.

Herlitz J(1), Svensson L, Silfverstolpe J, Angquist KA, Wisten A, Engdahl J, 
Holmberg S.

Author information:
(1)Institution of Internal Medicine, Department of Metabolism and Cardiovascular 
Research, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden. 
johan.herlitz@hjl.gu.se

OBJECTIVES: Amongst patients suffering from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, 
young adults represent a minority. However, these victims suffer from the 
catastrophe when they are in a very active phase of life and have a long life 
expectancy. This survey aims to describe young adults in Sweden who suffer from 
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and in whom cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) 
is attempted in terms of characteristics and outcome.
DESIGN: Prospective and descriptive design.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Young adults (18-35 years) who suffered from 
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in whom CPR was attempted and who were included 
in the Swedish Cardiac Arrest Registry between 1990 and 2004.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Survival to 1 month.
RESULTS: In all, 1105 young adults (3.1% of all the patients in the registry) 
were included, of which 29% were females, 51% were nonwitnessed and 15% had a 
cardiac aetiology. Only 17% were found in ventricular fibrillation, 53% received 
bystander CPR. The overall survival to 1 month was 6.3%. High survival was found 
amongst patients found in ventricular fibrillation (20.8%) and those with a 
cardiac aetiology (14.8%). Ventricular fibrillation at the arrival of the rescue 
team remained an independent predictor of an increased chance of survival (odds 
ratio: 7.43; 95% confidence interval: 3.44-16.65).
CONCLUSION: Amongst young adults suffering from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest 
and in whom CPR was attempted, a minority survived to 1 month. Subgroups with a 
higher survival could be defined (patients found in ventricular fibrillation and 
patients in whom there was a cardiac aetiology). However, only one independent 
predictor of an increased chance of survival could be demonstrated, i.e. 
ventricular fibrillation at the arrival of the rescue team.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2006.01705.x
PMID: 17040249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Anim Sci. 2007 Feb;85(2):503-11. doi: 10.2527/jas.2006-352. Epub 2006 Oct
13.

Development of computational models for the purpose of conducting individual 
livestock and premises traceback investigations utilizing National Animal 
Identification System-compliant data.

Scanga JA(1), Hoffman T, Picanso J, Rajopadhye SV, Kim DG, Gupta A, Forbes R, 
Ladd J, Burns PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 
80523-1171, USA. john.scanga@csumeats.com

Many of the efforts surrounding the development of the National Animal 
Identification System have encompassed the identification of livestock 
production and handling premises as well as individuals or herds of animals, 
whereas little effort has been directed toward the ultimate goal of animal 
traceback within 48 h. A mock data set representative of the Colorado cattle 
population was created for modeling of cattle traceability. Using this data set, 
algorithms were developed to complete rapid and accurate traceback and 
traceforward of animals or premises or both. On July 19, 2005, the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment, in conjunction with the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture, conducted a test exercise pertaining to homeland 
security. The exercise team randomly identified animal number 926,583 (of the 2 
million total animals) as a potentially infected animal of interest and 
requested a traceback of this animal. Traceback was accomplished in 215 s, and 
540 primary coresident animals were identified. However, due to animal 
movements, the number of coresidents (animals exposed, directly or indirectly, 
to the animal of interest) expanded with coresidency level (level 1 = direct 
contact; level 2 = direct contact with an animal that had direct contact with 
the animal of interest; level 3 = direct contact with an animal that had contact 
with an animal that had direct contact with the animal of interest, etc.) to 
more than 1.2 million coresidents at level 4, and more than 90% of all animals 
identified as a coresident at some level. In addition to the coresidency 
results, the premises containing the coresidents were identified and sorted by 
the number of coresidents. Because of animal movement, all 19,391 premises 
included in the data set had coresidents at some level. This exercise 
demonstrated the capability of the developed algorithms to complete rapid 
traceback and the complexity of the resulting animal traceback output.

DOI: 10.2527/jas.2006-352
PMID: 17040946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2005 Sep;20(3):243-55. doi:
10.1007/s10823-006-9015-1.

Demography of aging in China and the United States and the economic well-being 
of their older populations.

Kincannon CL(1), He W, West LA.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Census Bureau, Washington, DC 20233-8860, USA.

Today China has the world's largest older population, defined as aged 65 and 
over. The size of the older population in the United States is also large, 
ranking third in the world in 2000. The combined older populations of China and 
the United States represented 29 percent of the world's population 65 and older 
in 2000. The large older populations in these two countries are projected to 
more than double in size over the next three decades. Although currently China 
is younger than the United States and many other countries, its aging process 
will accelerate in the next few decades, with a speed surpassing the experience 
of many Western European countries and the United States. This paper examines 
the current and future situation of the older population in China and compares 
China's aging with that of the United States, using 2000 and earlier censuses 
from both countries as well as the population projections data from the U.S. 
Census Bureau. Growth of the older population, changes in the age distribution 
in China with comparisons to the United States, and the projections of the older 
population's future growth are analyzed and presented. The paper also discusses 
sources of financial support and living arrangements in China and the United 
States. Finally, the paper assesses trends in the older population support ratio 
and the implications for the economic well-being of an aging population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-006-9015-1
PMID: 17041789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Arch Surg. 2006 Oct;141(10):985-90; discussion 990. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.141.10.985.

Treatment of elderly breast cancer patients in a community hospital setting.

Litvak DA(1), Arora R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Michigan State University, Lansing, USA. 
david.a.litvak@kp.org

Erratum in
    Arch Surg. 2006 Dec;141(12):1245.

HYPOTHESIS: Elderly breast cancer patients are underdiagnosed and undertreated 
in a community hospital setting.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of tumor registry patients.
SETTING: Community hospital.
PATIENTS: A total of 354 breast cancer patients aged 70 years or older diagnosed 
between 1992 and 2002 were identified from the tumor registry. The data for 3 
prospectively chosen age subgroups (aged 70-74, 75-79, and > or =80 years) were 
subsequently analyzed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Data were collected regarding the method of detection of 
cancer, tumor characteristics and staging, type of treatment, and patient 
comorbidities. Comparisons between age subgroups were made using a likelihood 
ratio chi2 test.
RESULTS: Forty-six percent of all patients presented with palpable breast 
cancer. Mammography was frequently used as an adjunct to the physical 
examination but was helpful in detecting occult disease in only 54% of all 
patients and 38% of patients older than 80 years. Although more than 70% of 
patients were considered stage I or II, complete pathologic staging was only 
performed in 64% of patients. Approximately 50% of patients were treated with 
breast-conservation surgery; however, adjuvant radiation therapy was omitted in 
55% of these patients. Additionally, only 29% of patients with positive lymph 
nodes received chemotherapy, and 67% patients who were estrogen 
receptor-positive received adjuvant hormonal therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Older breast cancer patients are more likely to be diagnosed and 
staged clinically. Mammography is underused as a screening modality. While 
breast-conservation surgery was performed in about half of the patients, 
adjuvant radiation, chemotherapy, and hormonal therapies were frequently 
excluded.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.141.10.985
PMID: 17043276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Bioethics. 2006 Aug;20(4):191-202. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2006.00494.x.

Making the case for human life extension: personal arguments.

Schloendorn J(1).

Author information:
(1)1001 S McAllister Ave, Tempe, AZ 85287, USA. Zauberkugel@yahoo.com

In the close to medium future, the life sciences might permit a vast extension 
of the human life span. I will argue that this is a very desirable development 
for the individual person. The question whether death is a harm to the dying is 
irrelevant here. All it takes is that being alive is good for the living person 
and not being alive is not good for anyone. Thus, living persons who expect to 
live on happily are rationally required to want to stay alive. Eventual 
uncertainty whether it will be possible to be happy in the future provides no 
objection, but rather an incentive to try. This view, however, may be naive in 
assuming that persons are unchanging entities that exist separately from their 
psychological information. Objections have been derived from reductionistic 
views that value our future experiences in a way that declines with time, so 
that there will be a future point beyond which only negligible value accrues. If 
we adopt such a view, then we cannot now be concerned to have experiences beyond 
that point. I argue that these arguments fail to take into account all the 
reasons we might have to be concerned for the future and all kinds of such 
concern that come from them. The adoption of a plausible reductionistic account 
can arguably weaken our concern for the future and certainly change its quality 
in important ways. But this provides no objection to the desire to live forever, 
nor to live at all.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2006.00494.x
PMID: 17044153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Heart Valve Dis. 2006 Sep;15(5):630-7; discussion 637.

Current hospital mortality of aortic valve replacement in octogenarians.

Langanay T(1), Verhoye JP, Ocampo G, Vola M, Tauran A, De La Tour B, Derieux T, 
Ingels A, Corbineau H, Leguerrier A.

Author information:
(1)Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery Department, University Hospital, Rennes, 
France. thierry.langanay@chu-rennes.fr

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: The increasing incidence of cardiovascular 
disease with age, coupled to a constant extension of life expectancy in 
industrialized countries, is leading to an ever-increasing number of elderly 
patients being referred for aortic valve replacement (AVR). In light of advances 
in surgical technology and cardiac protection, the operative mortality and risk 
factors have been updated in order to specify surgical indications.
METHODS: Between January 2000 and December 2004, a total of 442 patients (203 
males, 239 females) aged > or =80 years (mean age 82.7 +/- 2.3 years) underwent 
AVR at the authors' institution. Surgery was either isolated (n = 344) or 
associated with coronary revascularization (n = 86), mitral valvuloplasty (n = 
5) or aortic surgery (n = 7). Seventeen patients had undergone previous cardiac 
surgery. The EuroScore was calculated for each patient.
RESULTS: Overall operative mortality was 7.5% (n = 33). Independent predictive 
factors of mortality were: aortic insufficiency (30%, p <0.004), NYHA class IV 
(20.5%, p < 0.001), left and right heart failure (11.5% and 19.4%, p <0.02), 
chronic renal insufficiency (18.5%, p <0.04), emergency (37.5%, p <0.001, OR = 
4.7), left ventricular ejection fraction (21.1%, p <0.004, OR = 0.9), and redo 
surgery (35.3%, p <0.001, OR = 6). Mortality was also increased in case of 
associated coronary revascularization (11.6%), mitral or tricuspid surgery (20%) 
and ascending aorta procedure (25%).
CONCLUSION: Patient functional improvement achieved after valve replacement at 
the cost of a rather low operative mortality justifies considering octogenarians 
for surgery. However, decisions should be taken on an individual basis. An 
earlier referral to surgery before the onset of altered cardiac function could 
lead to further reductions in hospital mortality.

PMID: 17044367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Neurosurg. 2006 Oct;105(4):527-35. doi: 10.3171/jns.2006.105.4.527.

Improved preservation of hearing and facial nerve function in vestibular 
schwannoma surgery via the retrosigmoid approach in a series of 200 patients.

Samii M(1), Gerganov V, Samii A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, International Neuroscience Institute, Hannover, 
Germany.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Oct;105(4):526; discussion 526.
    J Neurosurg. 2007 May;106(5):937-8; author reply 938.

OBJECT: The aim of this study was to evaluate and present the results of current 
surgical treatment of vestibular schwannomas (VSs) and to report the refinements 
in the operative technique.
METHODS: The authors performed a retrospective study of 200 consecutive patients 
who had undergone VS surgery over a 3-year period. Patient records, operative 
reports, follow-up data, and neuroradiological findings were analyzed. The main 
outcome measures were magnetic resonance imaging, neurological status, patient 
complaints, and surgical complications. Complete tumor removal was achieved in 
98% of patients. Anatomical preservation of the facial nerve was possible in 
98.5% of patients. In patients treated for tumors with extension Classes T1, T2, 
and T3, the rate of facial nerve preservation was 100%. By the last follow-up 
examination, excellent or good facial nerve function had been achieved in 81% of 
the cases. By at least 1 year postsurgery, no patients had total facial palsy. 
In the patients with preserved hearing, the rate of anatomical preservation of 
the cochlear nerve was 84%. The overall rate of functional hearing preservation 
was 51%. There was no surgery-related permanent morbidity in this series of 
patients. Cerebrospinal fluid leakage was diagnosed in 2% of the patients. The 
mortality rate was 0%.
CONCLUSIONS: The goal of VS treatment should be total removal in one stage and 
preservation of neurological function, as they determine a patient's quality of 
life. This goal can be safely and successfully achieved using the retrosigmoid 
approach.
