colorectal cancer: implications for screening.

Gross CP(1), McAvay GJ, Krumholz HM, Paltiel AD, Bhasin D, Tinetti ME.

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program and Primary Care Center, Yale 
University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. 
cary.gross@yale.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):700-1.
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 May 15;146(10):758; author reply 758-9.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):I20.

BACKGROUND: Older adults with shorter life expectancies may receive less benefit 
from colorectal cancer screening than younger, healthier patients.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the degree to which life expectancy after diagnosis of 
an early-stage cancer varies according to age or coexisting chronic illness.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Population-based cancer registry with linked administrative claims 
data.
PATIENTS: Patients 67 years of age or older who received a diagnosis of 
colorectal cancer from 1993 through 1999.
MEASUREMENTS: Chronic conditions were identified by searching Medicare claims. 
Using a life-table approach, the authors quantified the degree to which life 
expectancy associated with each cancer stage at diagnosis varied with patient 
age, sex, and burden of chronic conditions.
RESULTS: The final study sample consisted of 35 755 patients. After accounting 
for cancer stage at diagnosis, the authors found that life expectancy was 
strongly related to both age and the burden of chronic illness. Among men who 
received a diagnosis of stage I cancer at 67 years of age, life expectancy 
decreased from 19.1 years (95% CI, 17.8 to 20.5 years) for patients with no 
chronic conditions to 12.4 years (CI, 11.4 to 13.5 years) for those with 1 or 2 
conditions and 7.6 years (CI, 6.1 to 9.4 years) for those with 3 or more 
conditions. A similar trend was noted among female counterparts, with life 
expectancy decreasing from approximately 23 years to 16 years and 7 years for 
the 3 chronic condition groups, respectively. For men and women 81 years of age 
with no chronic illnesses, life expectancy after stage I cancer diagnosis was 
10.3 years (CI, 9.2 to 11.9 years) and 13.8 years (CI, 12.3 to 15.3 years), 
respectively.
LIMITATIONS: Administrative claims may not identify all chronic conditions. Life 
expectancy estimates at the population level are averages and, therefore, may 
not accurately predict the life expectancy of individual patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Coexisting chronic illness is associated with a substantial 
reduction in life expectancy after diagnosis of early-stage colorectal cancer. 
Physicians should consider this when deciding whether to screen older persons.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-9-200611070-00006
PMID: 17088577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):700-1. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-9-200611070-00014.

The median is not the (only) message.

Casarett D.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):637-45.
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):646-53.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-9-200611070-00014
PMID: 17088585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2006 Sep;92(5):473-84. doi: 
10.1016/s0035-1040(06)75834-2.

[Influence of rotatory malposition of femoral implant in failure of 
unicompartimental medial knee prosthesis].

[Article in French]

Assor M(1), Aubaniac JM.

Author information:
(1)Centre Orthos, 427, rue Paradis, 13008 Marseille.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Rotatory malposition of the femoral component of a 
unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) is a key element of mechanical failure 
despite proper alignment and position of the tibial implant. The purpose of this 
study was to describe a method for measuring femoral implant rotation on the 
anteroposterior x-ray using an original geometric model.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 276 medial UKA (227 non-cemented Uni Goeland, Depuy; Uni, 
AMP) and 49 cemented (Miller-Galante, Zimmer) were reviewed and analyzed at a 
mean 11 years (range 7 - 15) using the Knee Society Score. Mean objective and 
functional scores were 43 and 47 points preoperatively. Postoperative alignment 
and position of the femorotibial contact point were determined. The frontal and 
sagittal position of the tibial plateau was noted by the angle formed with the 
mechanical axis. Angles alpha and B of the femoral implant formed between the 
mechanical axis and the greater condylar axis and the inferior condylar line 
passing through the apex of the condylar convexity respectively were measured on 
the AP view. Frontal rotation (angle B) of the femoral implant reflected the 
orientation of the distal condylar cut. The frontal measurement (angle alpha) 
was validated using simple geometric formulas: knowing angles alpha and B and 
the size of the implant and the displacement of the point of contact was 
measured together with the true rotation of the femoral implant or 
anteroposterior divergence, function of the difference alpha-B which is its 
frontal projection and reflects the orientation of the posterior condylar cut.
RESULTS: Mean alignment was 3 degrees varus. At last follow-up, outcome was 
satisfactory in 81.2% of the knees (224 UKA). Mean objective and functional 
scores were 90 and 87 points. Angles alpha and B were parallel and orthogonal to 
the mechanical axis or off by less than 4 degrees external rotation (+6 degrees 
to -4 degrees). The mean difference alpha-B (frontal projection of the femoral 
implant transverse rotation) was 1 degrees. The point of contact was 4 mm or 
less from the middle of the tibia. Failures were observed in 18.8% of knees (52 
UKA): 4 for diverse reasons and 48 for mechanical failure, including 3 with 
polyethylene wear without loosening (two by eccentric point of contact and 
neutral position and one by inverted misalignments). 45 UKA (16.3%) presented 
loosening of the tibial plateau alone with rotatory femoral malposition: mean a 
angle off 13% from the mechanical axis (+16 degrees to -9 degrees ), mean B 
angle off 8 degrees (+12 degrees to -8 degrees), mean alpha-B difference 5 
degrees , femoral implant in square position on polyethylene with a peripheral 
point of contact > or 5 mm from the middle of the tibial plateau. The tibial 
implant exhibited mean varus of 1.5 degrees.
DISCUSSION: The main cause of failure was rotatory malposition of the condylar 
implant often associating frontal with transversal rotation. This increased 
mediolateral translation of the point of contact during knee motion causing 
abrasion and excessive pressure on the medial portion of the plateau. Frontal 
malrotation externalizes the posterior cut on the condyle tilted by the varus 
position, without correcting the varus of the mechanical axis in flexion. To 
avoid such prosthetic malrotations, three corrections must be made before making 
the bone cuts: cancel the external rotation of the condyles in flexion by 
positioning the distal cut guide in extension; re-establish the mechanical axis 
by reducing the internal tilt of the condyles resulting from the varus position 
both in extension (distal cut) and flexion (posterior cut). Improved 
instrumentations and reproducible techniques are needed to re-establish the 3D 
anatomic orientation of the femoral component, a key element for longer life of 
unicompartmental prostheses. This method for measuring the rotation of the 
femoral implant and the displacement of the point of contact using a geometric 
model applied to the AP view is useful for better understanding UKA failures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-1040(06)75834-2
PMID: 17088741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2006 Sep;92(5):490-4. doi: 
10.1016/s0035-1040(06)75836-6.

[Prevalence of osteoporotic fractures in Tunisian women].

[Article in French]

Sellami S(1), Sahli H, Meddeb N, Hamza S, Chahed M, Ben M'Barek R, Zouari B, 
Ladab F.

Author information:
(1)Service de Rhumatologie, HÃ´pital la Rabta, 1007 Tunis, Tunisie. 
slaheddine.sellami@rns.tn

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Osteoporotic fractures are an important public health 
problem due to significant morbidity and mortality and the socioeconomic burden. 
In Tunisia, the impact of such fractures is often underestimated due to lack of 
epidemiological data. We evaluated the prevalence of these fractures in a sample 
population at risk in order to better ascertain the amplitude of this problem in 
our country.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This prospective study involved 2,000 menopaused women 
aged 50 years or more. The sample was randomly selected among the population of 
Manouba, an urban administrative district of the capital of Tunisia. One 
thousand three hundred eleven women agreed to participate in this survey. Women 
with a risk of secondary osteoporosis were excluded. We retained for study 
fractures related to primary osteoporosis. History taking recorded 
anthropometric data and medical history, particularly gyn-ob history. All 
fractures occurring after minor trauma, in women aged 50 years or more, and 
involving the femoral neck, the wrist, or the proximal humerus were noted. 
Lateral x-rays of the thoracolumbar spine were studied to search for 
unrecognized vertebral fractures.
RESULTS: The study population included 1,311 women, mean age 64.07 +/- 9.31 
years, menopaused at mean 48.29 +/- 3.84 years. Among these women, 212 (16.2%) 
had presented a fracture at one of the localizations retained for study. 
Vertebral wedge fractures accounted for 59.83% of all fractures, wrist fractures 
31.96%, proximal femoral fractures 4.51% and proximal humeral fractures 3.69%.
DISCUSSION: Osteoporotic fractures are not uncommon in women in Tunisia. 
Increasing life expectancy in our country suggests this public health problem 
will grow in the years to come, pointing out the importance of better management 
of osteoporosis to prevent fractures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-1040(06)75836-6
PMID: 17088743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Dev Genes Evol. 2007 Jan;217(1):29-37. doi: 10.1007/s00427-006-0115-2. Epub
2006  Nov 3.

Monomeric mature protein of Nodal-related 3 activates Xbra expression.

Haramoto Y(1), Takahashi S, Asashima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, 153-8902, Japan.

Nodal and related proteins play central roles in axes formation, mesendoderm 
induction, neural patterning, and left-right development. However, Xenopus 
nodal-related 3 (Xnr3) has unique activities in regulating neural induction and 
convergent extension movements. Xnr3 is distinguished from other transforming 
growth factor-beta superfamily members by the absence of the seventh conserved 
cysteine at the C terminus of the protein, and little is known about the 
molecular mechanism of Xnr3 action. In this study, we report a novel and unique 
mechanism of action that the mature region of Xenopus tropicalis nodal-related 3 
(Xtnr3) functions as a monomer. Comparative analyses between Xtnr3 and Xnr5 
revealed regions required for dimerization: (1) a conserved glycine, (2) the 
seventh cysteine, and (3) a putative alpha-helix located between the third and 
the fourth cysteines. These results indicate that the mature region of 
Nodal-related 3 entirely differs from other Nodal-related proteins in its 
mechanism of action.

DOI: 10.1007/s00427-006-0115-2
PMID: 17089091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Agri. 2006 Jul;18(3):20-3.

Thoracic epidural anesthesia and analgesia for gastric resection at 26 week 
pregnant woman.

CaliÅkan E(1), Sener M, Nursal TZ, CaliÅkan K, TÃ¼rkÃ¶z A, BaÄiÅ T.

Author information:
(1)Baskent University, Faculty of Medicine, Adana Teaching and Medical Research 
Center, Department of Anesthesiology, Adana, Turkey. esra_ertr@yahoo.com

Anesthesia and surgery are required in up to 1.5% to 2% of all pregnancies. 
Alterations in maternal anatomy and physiology create potential risks for both 
mother and fetus. The anesthetic considerations for any surgery during pregnancy 
must take both patients into account. Gastric adenocarcinoma presenting during 
pregnancy is a rare condition and has a poor prognosis. This report describes 
anaesthetic management of a woman who was diagnosed with gastric adenocarcinoma 
at 26 weeks' gestation. Distal subtotal gastrectomy was planned in an attempt to 
maximize the mother's life expectancy while maintaining the pregnancy until the 
fetus reached viable gestation. A combination of general anesthesia and thoracic 
epidural anesthesia was used. The goal was to reduce physiological stress and 
minimize anesthesia risk for both mother and fetus and also diminish the 
neuroendocrine response during the surgery. The patient was discharged from the 
hospital 10 days after the surgery and was then readmitted at 30 weeks' 
gestation for an elective cesarean section.

PMID: 17089226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Kardiol Pol. 2006 Oct;64(10):1063-70; discussion 1071-2.

A new programme of multidisciplinary care for patients with heart failure in 
PoznaÅ: one-year follow-up.

Wierzchowiecki M(1), Poprawski K, Nowicka A, Kandziora M, Piatkowska A, 
Jankowiak M, MichaÅowicz B, Stawski W, Dziamska M, Kaszuba D, Szymanowska K, 
Michalski M.

Author information:
(1)II Klinika Kardiologii, Szpital im. F. Raszei, ul. Mickiewicza 2, 60-834 
PoznaÅ. kardio2@am.poznan.pl

INTRODUCTION: Recent trials have demonstrated the effectiveness of 
multidisciplinary care (MDC) for patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). 
However, results of the assessment of different programmes in individual 
countries could be different because of local specificities of health care 
systems.
AIM: We sought to determine whether MDC for patients with CHF has an influence 
on mortality, rate of rehospitalisation, quality of life (QoL) and self-care 
(SC) during a one-year study period.
METHODS: 160 patients with CHF treated in our unit were randomly assigned to 
receive either MDC or routine care (RC). Patients from the MDC group (n=80; mean 
age 67+/-10.2 years) attended follow-up visits at the heart failure clinic after 
14 days and 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after discharge. They were cared for by a team 
which consisted of a cardiologist, a heart failure nurse (HF nurse), a 
psychologist and a physiotherapist. This group of patients received 
comprehensive education from the HF nurse and the cardiologist. Telephone 
counselling and home-based interventions by the HF nurse were also available 
daily. Patients from the RC group (n=80, mean age 69.5+/-10.7 years) were cared 
for by their primary care physician only. In both groups QoL and SC scores were 
calculated based on a 21 and 12-item questionnaire completed by the patients at 
discharge and after one year.
RESULTS: After one-year follow-up the two groups did not differ in terms of 
either total and HF mortality or number of sudden deaths. In the MDC group when 
compared to the RC group we observed a significant decrease in the total number 
of hospital readmissions (by 37%, p <0.05), a decrease in hospital admissions 
due to HF (by 48%; p <0.05) and decreased length of stay during both all-cause 
readmissions and those due to HF (p <0.05). After one year of follow-up both QoL 
and SC scores were significantly lower in the MDC group than in the RC group (p 
<0.001), indicating improved QoL in the MDC group.
CONCLUSIONS: The one-year multidisciplinary care programme for patients with 
chronic heart failure in PoznaÅ demonstrated significant improvement of 
treatment results in terms of frequency of readmissions and length of hospital 
stay as well as improved Qol. A tendency to decreased total and heart failure 
related mortality and decreased number of sudden deaths was also observed.

PMID: 17089238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Free Radic Res. 2006 Dec;40(12):1339-49. doi: 10.1080/10715760600953859.

Clinical oxidation parameters of aging.

Voss P(1), Siems W.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Environmental Medicine, Molecular Aging Research, 
Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf, D-40225, Duesseldorf, Germany.

Aging is a complex progressive physiological alteration of the organism which 
ultimately leads to death. During the whole life a human being is confronted 
with oxidative stress. To measure how this oxidative stress is developing during 
the aging process and how it changes the cellular metabolism several substances 
have been pronounced as biomarkers including lipid peroxidation (LPO) products, 
protein oxidation products, antioxidative acting enzymes, minerals, vitamins, 
glutathione, flavonoids, bilirubin and uric acid (UA). But none of them could 
develop to the leading one which is accepted by the whole scientific community 
to determine the life expectancy of the individual person or biological age or 
age-related health status. Further there are many conflicting data about the 
changes of each single biomarker during the aging process. There are so many 
different influences acting on the concentration or activity of single 
substances or single enzymes that it is not possible to measure only one 
clinical marker and determine how healthy an individual is or to predict the 
life expectancy of the corresponding person. Therefore, always a set or pattern 
of clinical biomarkers should be used to determine the oxidation status of the 
person. This set should include at least one marker for the LPO, the protein 
oxidation and the total antioxidative status and ideally also one for DNA 
damages.

DOI: 10.1080/10715760600953859
PMID: 17090423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Ann Surg Oncol. 2007 Feb;14(2):348-54. doi: 10.1245/s10434-006-9134-5. Epub
2006  Nov 8.

Evaluation of intensive adjuvant chemotherapy in gastric cancer using life 
expectancy compared with log-rank test as a measure of survival benefit.

Nishikawa T(1), Maetani S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Abdominal Surgery, Tenri Institute of Medical Research and 
Tenri Hospital, , Tenri, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The goal of radical cancer surgery with or without adjuvant therapy 
is to cure disease rather than to delay death. There is concern that the 
survival benefit of curative treatment may not be properly appreciated by the 
log-rank test (LRT), which is more sensitive to treatment that delays death than 
to treatment that achieves cure. To confirm this concern and to evaluate the 
survival benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy, the data from a previous randomized 
controlled trial are analyzed using both traditional and new methods.
METHODS: In this trial, 1410 gastric cancer patients with serosal or subserosal 
invasion had been classified by nodal and serosal status into four strata and 
randomized to receive high-dose or low-dose adjuvant regimens (mitomycin and 
tegafur-uracil) after gastrectomy. The two treatment groups were compared using 
the LRT as well as the life expectancy (LE) derived from the Boag model and the 
competing risk model.
RESULTS: The LRT showed no significant difference between the two groups, 
whereas the LE increased significantly with high-dose chemotherapy (1.4-year 
gain; 95% CI = 0.1-2.8). A greater gain of 4.4 years occurred exclusively in the 
serosa-negative node-positive stratum, associated with a 21% increase in cure 
rate. The gain in LE was particularly greater in younger patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Parametric LE analysis offers more relevant information about 
curative treatment than LRT. It suggests that high-dose chemotherapy may achieve 
cure in a subset of patients, eradicating residual malignancies left behind 
after gastrectomy and providing greater survival benefit than expected from LRT.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-006-9134-5
PMID: 17091331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. J Pak Med Assoc. 2006 Sep;56(9):421-2.

Relation of gender education and health seeking behaviour of the general 
population regarding psychiatric illness.

Ali F(1), Sami F, Rehman H, Siddique I, Haider K.

Author information:
(1)Hamdard College of Medicine and Dentistry, Karachi.

Erratum in
    J Pak Med Assoc. 2007 Apr;57(4):220. Siddique, Irfanullah [added].

The aim of this study was to find out the health seeking behaviour of mentally 
ill patients in Karachi. This was a cross sectional survey of two hundred adults 
who were selected from five districts of Karachi on the basis of convenient 
sampling. A questionnaire was used to inquire about mental illness. SPSS version 
11 was used for statistical analysis. Out of the total 200 sampled, 96 were to 
have some mental illness (53 males and 43 females). No significant difference 
was found in the health seeking behaviour of males and females (p > 0.05). 
Education had a significant effect on the health seeking behaviour (p < 0.05). 
Gender was not found to have significant effect on the health seeking behaviour. 
However, education had significant association with health seeking behaviour of 
the persons studied.

PMID: 17091759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Feb;36(1):58-65. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl241. Epub 2006
Nov 7.

Self-rated life expectancy and lifetime socio-economic position: cross-sectional 
analysis of the British household panel survey.

Popham F(1), Mitchell R.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit in Health, Behaviour and Change, University of Edinburgh 
Medical School, Teviot Place, Edinburgh, UK. f.popham@ed.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The association between mortality risk and socio-economic position 
(SEP) across the lifecourse is established. This study investigates whether 
people's own ratings of their life expectancy are also associated with lifetime 
SEP. Health behaviour messages, which often emphasize the long-term benefits of 
behavioural change, may be received differently depending on people's 
perceptions of their life chances.
METHODS: Cross-sectional analysis of 4780 adults aged 25-64 interviewed in the 
British Household Panel Survey in 2001.
RESULTS: Just under a quarter of respondents did not think it likely they would 
live to 75 or older. People in lower SEPs were more likely to be pessimistic 
about their life expectancy. This applied across a number of socio-economic 
measures (father's social class, educational achievement, own social class, and 
household income). Eight socio-economic lifecourse pathways were compared. In 
comparison to those following the most advantaged pathway, those experiencing 
sustained socio-economic disadvantage were most likely to be pessimistic about 
their longevity, but those experiencing sustained upward mobility did not 
differ. Comparisons with measures of self-rated general health and limiting 
illness suggest that self-rated life expectancy is at least partially 
independent of current health status.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that people's own perceptions of their life 
expectancy are associated with lifetime SEP. Self-rated life expectancy, in 
part, appears to reflect something over and above current health status and 
smoking behaviour. Given its ease of collection, it would be informative to 
include self-rated life expectancy in future studies.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl241
PMID: 17092949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. N Engl J Med. 2006 Nov 9;355(19):1978-90. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa063618.

Pallidal deep-brain stimulation in primary generalized or segmental dystonia.

Kupsch A(1), Benecke R, MÃ¼ller J, Trottenberg T, Schneider GH, Poewe W, Eisner 
W, Wolters A, MÃ¼ller JU, Deuschl G, Pinsker MO, Skogseid IM, Roeste GK, 
Vollmer-Haase J, Brentrup A, Krause M, Tronnier V, Schnitzler A, Voges J, 
Nikkhah G, Vesper J, Naumann M, Volkmann J; Deep-Brain Stimulation for Dystonia 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)CharitÃ© UniversitÃ¤tsmedizin Berlin, Campus Virchow, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Neurostimulation of the internal globus pallidus has been shown to 
be effective in reducing symptoms of primary dystonia. We compared this surgical 
treatment with sham stimulation in a randomized, controlled clinical trial.
METHODS: Forty patients with primary segmental or generalized dystonia received 
an implanted device for deep-brain stimulation and were randomly assigned to 
receive either neurostimulation or sham stimulation for 3 months. The primary 
end point was the change from baseline to 3 months in the severity of symptoms, 
according to the movement subscore on the Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating 
Scale (range, 0 to 120, with higher scores indicating greater impairment). Two 
investigators who were unaware of treatment status assessed the severity of 
dystonia by reviewing videotaped sessions. Subsequently, all patients received 
open-label neurostimulation; blinded assessment was repeated after 6 months of 
active treatment.
RESULTS: Three months after randomization, the change from baseline in the mean 
(+/-SD) movement score was significantly greater in the neurostimulation group 
(-15.8+/-14.1 points) than in the sham-stimulation group (-1.4+/-3.8 points, 
P<0.001). During the open-label extension period, this improvement was sustained 
among patients originally assigned to the neurostimulation group, and patients 
in the sham-stimulation group had a similar benefit when they switched to active 
treatment. The combined analysis of the entire cohort after 6 months of 
neurostimulation revealed substantial improvement in all movement symptoms 
(except speech and swallowing), the level of disability, and quality of life, as 
compared with baseline scores. A total of 22 adverse events occurred in 19 
patients, including 4 infections at the stimulator site and 1 lead dislodgment. 
The most frequent adverse event was dysarthria.
CONCLUSIONS: Bilateral pallidal neurostimulation for 3 months was more effective 
than sham stimulation in patients with primary generalized or segmental 
dystonia. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00142259 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).

Copyright 2006 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa063618
PMID: 17093249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Minerva Pediatr. 2006 Dec;58(6):571-4.

Successful desensitization of a case with desferrioxamine hypersensitivity.

GÃ¼len F(1), Demir E, TanaÃ§ R, Aydinok Y, Gulen H, YenigÃ¼n A, Can D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy , Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Ege 
University, Izmir, Turkey. figen.gulen@ege.edu.tr

Thalassaemia major is a severe chronic hemolytic disease, resulted with iron 
overload mainly due to regular blood transfusions. Iron overload may lead to 
serious organ toxicity and even fatal complications, if no iron excretion is 
achieved by a chelating agent. First introduced in 1976 as s.c. treatment for 
thalassaemia major, desferrioxamine (DFO) has substantially improved the life 
expectancy in the disease. While DFO can cause local allergic reactions 
including redness, itching, pain and lumps, on rare occasion anaphylactic 
reactions can occur. The mechanism of anaphylaxis like reactions is not well 
understood. In this case report, we presented a 10 years-old girl with 
thalassaemia major who had to stop DFO therapy after appearing of systemic 
allergic reactions with hypotension, tachycardia, pruritus and urticaria against 
this drug. Serum IgE level was normal, specific IgE and skin prick tests were 
negative. Intradermal test was resulted with positive reaction to DFO. The 
patient was hospitalized and desensitization protocol was initiated with rapid 
s.c. infusions per 15 min. The protocol was stopped at the 17th cycle because of 
local reaction reappeared. After that, DFO was further diluted and was restarted 
with lower dosage and longer infusion period. Then, DFO dosage was increased and 
the dilutions and infusion times were decreased gradually. By this 
desensitization programme, the patient would continue to use DFO chelation 
safely for 10 months.

PMID: 17093379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Osteoporos Int. 2007 Jan;18(1):9-23. doi: 10.1007/s00198-006-0257-0. Epub
2006  Nov 9.

Cost-effectiveness of the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis--a review of 
the literature and a reference model.

Zethraeus N(1), BorgstrÃ¶m F, StrÃ¶m O, Kanis JA, JÃ¶nsson B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, P.O. Box 6501, 
S-113 83 Stockholm, Sweden. henz@hhs.se

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the paper is to update and review the latest 
developments related to modelling and economic evaluation of osteoporosis in the 
period 2002-2005 and further to present a reference model for the assessment of 
the cost-effectiveness of the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis.
DISCUSSION: The reference model is intended to be used for fracture specific 
interventions affecting the risk of fracture. An interface version and an 
extensive description of the model is available on the internet ( 
http://www.healtheconomics.se ) and also accessible via the International 
Osteoporosis Foundation ( http://www.osteofound.org ). The purpose of the 
reference model is to improve the quality and comparability of 
cost-effectiveness analysis in the osteoporosis field and to serve as a tool for 
validation of present and future cost-effectiveness models. The reference model 
allows the cost-effectiveness analysis to be carried out from a societal 
perspective including intervention, morbidity and mortality costs. The model has 
been extensively tested and calibrated, and meets the properties of good 
decision analytic modelling. The model is a state transition Markov cohort 
model, which is characterised by a 50-year time horizon divided into one year 
cycle lengths. The following health states are included: "healthy", "hip 
fracture", "spine fracture", "wrist fracture", "other fracture", and "dead".
CONCLUSION: The model is flexible and allows for the estimation of the 
cost-effectiveness over different ranges for a selected number of variables 
(e.g., age, fracture risk, cost of intervention).

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-006-0257-0
PMID: 17093892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2007 Feb;23(2):100-10. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.693.

Preventing microalbuminuria in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Jermendy G(1), Ruggenenti P.

Author information:
(1)Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Teaching Hospital, Budapest, Hungary. 
gyjermendy@mail.datanet.hu

The public health burden of type 2 diabetes mellitus has been dramatically 
increasing world-wide. The chronic complications of type 2 diabetes play an 
important role in decreasing life expectancy and adversely affecting quality of 
life. Diabetic nephropathy, which is originally microvascular in nature, is 
widely considered an important complication of diabetes. In prospective clinical 
investigations, increased urinary albumin excretion proved to be associated not 
only with subsequent renal outcomes but also with cardiovascular 
morbidity/mortality independently of other risk factors. Therefore, 
microalbuminuria as an early sign of increased urinary albumin excretion should 
be considered important for both treatment and even for prevention. Preventing 
microalbuminuria might diminish progression to overt nephropathy and, hopefully, 
might limit cardiovascular events. Regarding primary prevention of diabetic 
nephropathy, therapeutic intervention should optimally be initiated at the stage 
of normoalbuminuria. Although additional factors such as smoking cessation, 
reduction of protein intake, and treatment of lipid abnormalities are important, 
providing optimal diabetic control as well as targeting optimal blood pressure 
are the key elements of a prevention strategy in diabetic patients. Recently, 
the Bergamo Nephrologic Diabetes Complications Trial (BENEDICT) documented that 
a significant decrease of the development of persistent microalbuminuria could 
be achieved by using an ACE-inhibitor, trandolapril alone or in combination with 
verapamil SR, a non-dihydropyridine calcium-channel blocker in hypertensive type 
2 diabetic patients with normoalbuminuria. The results of this 
primary-prevention strategy should be corroborated by further investigations to 
determine whether these beneficial changes could later result in improvement of 
renal clinical outcomes, macrovascular complications, or both.

Copyright 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.693
PMID: 17094161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Ai Zheng. 2006 Nov;25(11):1406-10.

[Estimation of life expectancy for selecting surgical procedure and predicting 
prognosis of extradural spinal metastases].

[Article in Chinese]

Zou XN(1), Grejs A, Li HS, HÃ¸y K, Hansen ES, BÃ¼nger C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Aarhus University Hospital, 8000 Aarhus C, 
Denmark. zxnong@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: Clinically, whether and how to make a surgical 
interventional decision for the patients with spinal metastases is still 
controversial. Life expectancy is a significant determinant in the selection of 
surgical procedure for spinal metastases. This study was to evaluate Tomita and 
Tokuhashi scoring systems in selecting surgical procedure and predicting 
prognosis of extradural spinal metastases.
METHODS: A total of 169 patients with spinal metastases, treated in the Spine 
Unit of Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark, from Jan. 2001 to Apr. 2004, were 
enrolled. The life expectancy was scored according to both Tomita system and 
Tokuhashi system before operation, the spinal metastases were classified 
according to Tomita system, and the patients underwent surgery accordingly. 
Follow-up was done 6, 12, and 24 months after operation. The precise of Tomita 
system and Tokuhashi system in estimating "death within 3 months", "death within 
6 months", and "death within 12 months" was compared using Receiver Operating 
Characteristic curves (ROC curves). The mean survival time of the patients was 
calculated by Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: ROC curves of "death within 3 months", "death within 6 months", and 
"death within 12 months" showed no significant difference between Tomita score 
and Tokuhashi score in each group (P = 0.16, P = 0.47, and P = 0.38, 
respectively). Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed that Tomita system 
overestimated the prognosis in scores from 4 to 7, and Tokuhashi system 
underestimated the prognosis in scores from 0 to 8.
CONCLUSIONS: Both Tomita and Tokuhashi scoring systems could be used to predict 
prognosis of spinal metastases after operation. Tokuhashi scoring system can 
predict early death more accurately, which can be used to avoid major operation 
for these patients.

PMID: 17094910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Jan;43(1):104-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.09.007. Epub
2006  Nov 13.

Putting the 'Q' in quality adjusted life years (QALYs) for advanced ovarian 
cancer - An approach using data clustering methods and the internet.

Stein K(1), Sugar C, Velikova G, Stark D.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group, Peninsula Medical School, University 
of Exeter, Noy Scott House, Barrack Road, Exeter, Devon EX2 5DW, United Kingdom. 
ken.stein@exeter.ac.uk

There are few clearly described utility studies in advanced ovarian cancer, 
despite the public health importance of condition and the need for preference 
based measures of quality of life in economic evaluation of the new treatments. 
We used data clustering techniques to develop health state descriptions based on 
data from 66 women who completed the EORTC QLQ-C30 over a six month period while 
receiving chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. The health state descriptions were 
presented to a group of members of the general public (n=38), via the internet, 
and preferences elicited using the standard gamble technique. Mean utility 
values ranged from 0.685 to 0.977, although the range of individual preferences 
was wider, including values as low as 0.125. This is the first study to use data 
clustering methods combined with internet preference elicitation in oncology. 
The resulting health state model is parsimonious, data driven, and incorporates 
quality of life items tailored to cancer. The estimates therefore meet the needs 
of policy makers while reflecting more accurately the experience of disease than 
those based on generic preference measures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.09.007
PMID: 17095206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Ann Oncol. 2007 Feb;18(2):293-8. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdl410. Epub 2006 Nov
9.

Modeling for cost-effective-adjuvant aromatase inhibitor strategies for 
postmenopausal women with breast cancer.

Younis T(1), Rayson D, Dewar R, Skedgel C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University at Queen Elizabeth II Health 
Sciences Centre, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. tallal.younis@cdha.nshealth.ca

BACKGROUND: To determine cost-effective (CE) strategies comparing adjuvant 
upfront aromatase inhibitor (AI) with sequential tamoxifen (TAM) AI in 
postmenopausal (PM) women with breast cancer (BC).
DESIGN: A Markov model was constructed to calculate cumulative costs and 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gains for upfront AI and TAM-AI in a 
hypothetical cohort of 60-year-old PM women with BC. Costs, utilities and 
probabilities were derived from the literature. The hazard ratios (HRs) of AI 
strategies were applied to a baseline cancer recurrence risk (RR) to determine 
CE strategies at the $50,000/QALY gain threshold. A direct payer perspective is 
utilized, and costs and benefits were discounted at 3%.
RESULTS: Two-way sensitivity analyses are presented to determine CE strategies 
across a wide range of HRs and in different clinical scenarios including varying 
RRs (low, average, high and very high). TAM-AI is the preferred CE strategy at 
low and average RR, while upfront AI is CE at very high RR. The CE strategy in 
patients with high RR was dependent on the scenario examined.
CONCLUSIONS: This model may help health care providers select CE-adjuvant AI 
strategies in PM women with BC, until further direct evidence is available from 
randomized clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdl410
PMID: 17095569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. BMJ. 2006 Nov 11;333(7576):1009-11. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39024.568738.43.

ABC of obesity. Risk factors for diabetes and coronary heart disease.

Wild SH(1), Byrne CD.

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39024.568738.43
PMCID: PMC1635590
PMID: 17095784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2006 Nov;25(11):1336-43. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2006.09.011.

Cost-effectiveness of ventricular assist device use in the United Kingdom: 
results from the evaluation of ventricular assist device programme in the UK 
(EVAD-UK).

Sharples LD(1), Dyer M, Cafferty F, Demiris N, Freeman C, Banner NR, Large SR, 
Tsui S, Caine N, Buxton M.

Author information:
(1)Papworth Hospital NHS Trust, Papworth Everard, Cambridge, UK. 
linda.sharples@mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk <linda.sharples@mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk>

BACKGROUND: The UK Department of Health funds ventricular assist device (VAD) 
implantation as a bridge to transplantation (BTT) at three centers. The 
cost-effectiveness of this program has not been established.
METHODS: All 70 VAD implants for BTT and a consecutive cohort of 71 
inotrope-dependent transplant candidates, between April 2002 and December 2004, 
were prospectively monitored for survival, transplantation, quality of life and 
resource use. Costs and quality-adjusted life-years were estimated for these 
groups, and for a hypothetical scenario in which VAD patients would die within 
30 days in the absence of the program.
RESULTS: Mean quality-adjusted life-years for a VAD patient was 3.27 at a 
lifetime cost of 173,841 pounds (316,078 US dollars). The majority of the cost 
was attributable to the VAD implant (63,830 pounds, 116,056 US dollars) and the 
initial hospital stay in the ITU and ward (14,500 pounds, 26,364 US dollars). 
Inotrope-dependent transplant candidates had mean quality-adjusted life-years of 
4.99 at a lifetime cost of 130,905 pounds (238,011 US dollars). The worst 
clinical scenario resulted in a lifetime cost of 14,400 pounds (26,182 US 
dollars), based on 1 month in the ICU (mean 15 days). These figures were robust 
to a range of plausible assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: A lifetime model based on current UK practice demonstrates that BTT 
VAD patients had significant quality-adjusted life-years, but treatment was 
expensive when compared with the worst clinical scenario. If device technology 
improves, costs are reduced, or referral practice changes, results should be 
re-assessed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2006.09.011
PMID: 17097498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Soc Sci Med. 2007 Feb;64(3):589-603. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.09.034.
Epub  2006 Nov 13.

Towards an epidemiological understanding of the effects of long-term 
institutional changes on population health: a case study of Canada versus the 
USA.

Siddiqi A(1), Hertzman C.

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, USA. asiddiqi@utk.edu

This paper uses a comparative case study of Canada and the USA to argue that, in 
order to fully understand the associations between population health and the 
socioeconomic environment we must begin to place importance on the dynamic 
aspect of these factors--examining them as they evolve over time. In particular, 
for institutional and policy shifts that often unfold over decades, population 
health must attend to these big, slow moving processes by adopting a historical 
perspective to the knowledge base. We compare Canada and the USA on basic health 
outcomes and a range of determinants of health for which routine data have been 
collected for all or most of the period between 1950 and the present. During the 
analysis that follows, we are able to establish that, at the level of society 
(i) greater economic well being and spending on health care does not yield 
better health outcomes, that (ii) public provision and income redistribution 
trump economic success where population health is concerned, and (iii) that the 
gradual development of public provision represents the buildup of social 
infrastructure that has long-lasting effects on health status. Our case study 
shows what can be gleaned from a comparative perspective and a long-term view. 
The long view allows us to detect the gradual divergence in health status 
between these two societies and to trace potential institutional causes that 
would otherwise go unnoticed. The perspective introduced here, and in particular 
the comparison of Canada and the USA, provides strong support for the use of 
cross-national comparative work, and a historical perspective on the 
investigation of societies that successfully support population health.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.09.034
PMID: 17097790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Transplant Proc. 2006 Oct;38(8):2374-5. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2006.08.036.

Expanded donor criteria due to age: an effort rewarded.

Daga D(1), Frutos MA, SÃ©ller G, Ruiz P, Mansilla JJ, Carballo M.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Victoria, Malaga, Spain. 
domingo.daga.sspa@juntadeandalucia.es

The life expectancy of the current Spanish population is 78 years, with some 20% 
of the population aged over 65 years. The continuing increase in the demand for 
transplants has led to widening of the criteria for acceptance of donors without 
worsening the results, but without reducing transplant waiting lists or 
mortality. This has resulted in the need to include the concept of the expanded 
criteria donor (ECD). We undertook a retrospective study of 77 donors from a 
hospital with no neurosurgery service from January 2000 to December 2005. Four 
of the donors younger than 60 years of age (n = 38) were not appropriate 
(10.5%), whereas five of the donors older than 60 years of age (n = 39) were not 
appropriate (12.8%; P = NS). The older donors provided 47 used kidneys (60.2%) 
and 22 livers (56.4%), slightly fewer than those obtained from the younger 
donors, though the difference was not significant. Thus, ECDs, those older than 
60 years of age, did not result in a significant loss of kidneys or livers 
available for transplantation. Other factors associated with systemic vascular 
disease and accompanying disorders could be determinant when predicting the 
usefulness of organs for transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2006.08.036
PMID: 17097938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Lancet. 2006 Nov 11;368(9548):1689-95. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69704-3.

Diabetes care in sub-Saharan Africa.

Beran D(1), Yudkin JS.

Author information:
(1)International Insulin Foundation, International Health and Medical Education 
Centre, University College London, London N19 5LW, UK. 
david.beran@access2insulin.org

The increasing numbers of people with type 2 diabetes is a worldwide concern. It 
presents an added challenge in sub-Saharan Africa, where diabetes must compete 
for resources with communicable diseases. A scarcity of financial resources and 
appropriate staff mean that many people with type 2 diabetes have complications 
and that those with type 1 diabetes have an extremely short life-expectancy, 
whether or not they have been diagnosed with the disorder. We review the current 
evidence on diabetes care in sub-Saharan Africa and propose an 11-point action 
plan to address this problem in the region.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69704-3
PMID: 17098088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Nov;44(5):920-29; discussion 929-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2006.06.048.

Endovascular aneurysm repair at 5 years: Does aneurysm diameter predict outcome?

Zarins CK(1), Crabtree T, Bloch DA, Arko FR, Ouriel K, White RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-5450, 
USA. zarins@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVE: The appropriate size threshold for endovascular repair of small 
abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) is unclear. We studied the outcome of 
endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) as a function of preoperative aneurysm 
diameter to determine the relationship between aneurysm size and long-term 
outcome of endovascular repair.
METHODS: We reviewed the results of 923 patients treated in a prospective, 
multicenter clinical trial of EVAR. Small aneurysms were defined according to 
two size thresholds of 5.5 cm and 5.0 cm. Two-way analysis was used to compare 
patients with small aneurysms (<5.5 cm, n = 441) to patients with large 
aneurysms (> or =5.5 cm, n = 482). An ordered three-way analysis was used to 
compare patients with small AAA (<5.0 cm, n = 145), medium AAA (5.0 to 5.9 cm, n 
= 461), and large AAA (> or =6.0 cm, n = 317). The primary outcome measures of 
rupture, AAA-related death, surgical conversion, secondary intervention, and 
survival were compared using Kaplan-Meier estimates at 5 years.
RESULTS: Median aneurysm size was 5.5 cm. The two-way comparison showed that 5 
years after EVAR, patients with small aneurysms (<5.5 cm) had a lower 
AAA-related death rate (1% vs 6%, P = .006), a higher survival rate (69% vs 57%, 
P = .0002), and a lower secondary intervention rate (25% vs 32%, P = .03) than 
patients with large aneurysms (> or =5.5 cm). Three-way analysis revealed that 
patients with small AAAs (<5.0 cm) were younger (P < .0001) and were more likely 
to have a family history of aneurysm (P < .05), prior coronary intervention (P = 
.003), and peripheral occlusive disease (P = .008) than patients with larger 
AAAs. Patients with smaller AAAs also had more favorable aortic neck anatomy (P 
< .004). Patients with large AAAs were older (P < .0001), had higher operative 
risk (P = .01), and were more likely to have chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (P = .005), obesity (P = .03), and congestive heart failure (P = .004). 
At 5 years, patients with small AAAs had better outcomes, with 100% freedom from 
rupture vs 97% for medium AAAs and 93% for large AAAs (P = .02), 99% freedom 
from AAA-related death vs 97% for medium AAAs and 92% for large AAAs (P = .02) 
and 98% freedom from conversion vs 92% for medium AAAs and 89% for large AAAs (P 
= .01). Survival was significantly improved in small (69%) and medium AAAs (68%) 
compared to large AAAs (51%, P < .0001). Multivariate Cox proportional hazards 
modeling revealed that aneurysm size was a significant independent predictor of 
rupture (P = .04; hazard ratio [HR], 2.195), AAA-related death (P = .03; HR, 
2.007), surgical conversion (P = .007; HR, 1.827), and survival (P = .001; HR, 
1.351). There were no significant differences in secondary intervention, 
endoleak, or migration rates between small, medium, and large AAAs.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative aneurysm size is an important determinant of long-term 
outcome following endovascular repair. Patients with small AAAs (<5.0 cm) are 
more favorable candidates for EVAR and have the best long-term outcomes, with 
99% freedom from AAA death at 5 years. Patients with large AAAs (> or =6.0 cm) 
have shorter life expectancy and have a higher risk of rupture, surgical 
conversion, and aneurysm-related death following EVAR compared to patients with 
smaller aneurysms. Nonetheless, 92% of patients with large AAAs are protected 
from AAA-related death at 5 years. Patients with AAAs of intermediate size (5 to 
6 cm) represent most of the patients treated with EVAR and have a 97% freedom 
from AAA-related death at 5 years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.06.048
PMID: 17098519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Asian J Surg. 2006 Oct;29(4):217-22. doi: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60091-9.

Laparoscopic surgery for obesity.

Jones DB(1).

Author information:
(1)Bariatric Program, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. djones1@bidmc.harvard.edu

DOI: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60091-9
PMID: 17098651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. J Chin Med Assoc. 2006 Oct;69(10):503-6. doi: 10.1016/S1726-4901(09)70318-1.

Junctional epidermolysis bullosa.

Kao CH(1), Chen SJ, Hwang B, Yang AH, Hsu CY, Huang CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, National 
Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.

Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) encompasses a heterogeneous group of genodermatoses, 
characterized by fragility and blistering of the skin, often associated with 
extracutaneous manifestations. The level of vesiculation within the skin defines 
3 major subtypes of EB: EB simplex, junctional EB, and dystrophic EB. We present 
the case of a male neonate of 36 weeks of gestation, who was born with a few 
blisters with erosions and who rapidly developed extensive blistering of the 
skin. Histopathology revealed subepidermal blistering. Electron microscopy 
confirmed the cleavage of epidermis from dermis within the lamina lucida. 
Junctional EB was the diagnosis. The patient was discharged after 
hospitalization for 28 days. The development of new blisters with erosions were 
gradually improved after AQUACEL Ag dressing, and the general condition was much 
better than at admission. The patient likely has a subtype of junctional EB 
termed generalized atrophic benign EB that clinically improves with age. He has 
the potential to father children and has a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S1726-4901(09)70318-1
PMID: 17098678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. BMJ. 2006 Dec 2;333(7579):1145. doi: 10.1136/bmj.38993.731725.BE. Epub 2006
Nov  10.

Lifetime cost effectiveness of simvastatin in a range of risk groups and age 
groups derived from a randomised trial of 20,536 people.

Heart Protection Study Collaborative; Mihaylova B, Briggs A, Armitage J, Parish 
S, Gray A, Collins R.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2007 Mar-Apr;146(2):50.
    Evid Based Med. 2007 Apr;12(2):58.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of 40 mg simvastatin daily 
continued for life in people of different ages with differing risks of vascular 
disease.
DESIGN: A model developed from a randomised trial was used to estimate lifetime 
risks of vascular events and costs of treatment and hospital admissions in the 
United Kingdom.
SETTING: 69 hospitals in the UK.
PARTICIPANTS: 20,536 men and women (aged 40-80) with coronary disease, other 
occlusive arterial disease, or diabetes.
INTERVENTIONS: 40 mg simvastatin daily versus placebo for an average of 5 years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost effectiveness of 40 mg simvastatin daily expressed 
as additional cost per life year gained. Major vascular event defined as 
non-fatal myocardial infarction or death from coronary disease, any stroke, or 
revascularisation procedure. Results were extrapolated to younger and older age 
groups at lower risk of vascular disease than were studied directly, as well as 
to lifetime treatment.
RESULTS: At the April 2005 UK price of 4.87 pounds sterling (7 euros; 9 dollars) 
per 28 day pack of generic 40 mg simvastatin, lifetime treatment was cost saving 
in most age groups and vascular disease risk groups studied directly. Gains in 
life expectancy and cost savings decreased with increasing age and with 
decreasing risk of vascular disease. People aged 40-49 with 5 year risks of 
