methodological framework to quantify and compare the health of populations using 
a summary measure of both mortality and disability: the disability-adjusted 
life-year (DALY). Globally, it appears that about 56 million deaths occur each 
year, 10.5 million (almost all in poor countries) in children. Of the child 
deaths, about one-fifth result from perinatal causes such as birth asphyxia and 
birth trauma, and only slightly less from lower respiratory infections. 
Annually, diarrhoeal diseases kill over 1.5 million children, and malaria, 
measles and HIV/AIDS each claim between 500,000 and 800,000 children. HIV/AIDS 
is the fourth leading cause of death world-wide (2.9 million deaths) and the 
leading cause in Africa. The top three causes of death globally are ischaemic 
heart disease (7.2 million deaths), stroke (5.5 million) and lower respiratory 
diseases (3.9 million). Chronic obstructive lung diseases (COPD) cause almost as 
many deaths as HIV/AIDS (2.7 million). The leading causes of DALY, on the other 
hand, include causes that are common at young ages [perinatal conditions (7.1% 
of global DALY), lower respiratory infections (6.7%), and diarrhoeal diseases 
(4.7%)] as well as depression (4.1%). Ischaemic heart disease and stroke rank 
sixth and seventh, retrospectively, as causes of global disease burden, followed 
by road traffic accidents, malaria and tuberculosis. Projections to 2030 
indicate that, although these major vascular diseases will remain leading causes 
of global disease burden, with HIV/AIDS the leading cause, diarrhoeal diseases 
and lower respiratory infections will be outranked by COPD, in part reflecting 
the projected increases in death and disability from tobacco use.

DOI: 10.1179/136485906X97417
PMID: 16899150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Hepatol. 2006 Oct;45(4):575-83. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2006.04.007. Epub 2006
May  16.

Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) in the elderly: a systematic retrospective analysis 
of a large group of consecutive patients with definite AIH followed at a 
tertiary referral centre.

Al-Chalabi T(1), Boccato S, Portmann BC, McFarlane IG, Heneghan MA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Liver Studies, King's College Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2006 Oct;45(4):480-2.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: A few reports have suggested that AIH may be less severe in the 
elderly and may be underdiagnosed, but there is a paucity of data.
METHODS: We have undertaken a systematic analysis of 164 consecutive patients 
(36 males, 128 females) with definite AIH (median score 23, range 18-28) 
attending our clinics, comparing those presenting at age >60 years (Group 1, 
n=43) with those presenting at <60 years (Group 2, n=121).
RESULTS: Median (range) duration of follow-up was 9 years (1-28) in Group 1 and 
14 years (1-33) in Group 2. Median ages (ranges) at presentation were: Group 
1=65 (60-79) and Group 2=41 (6-59). Group 1 patients had a significantly 
increased incidence of ascites at presentation (p<0.001) and a lower incidence 
of relapse (42% vs. 70%, p=0.002), but there were no significant differences 
between the groups with respect to mode of onset (acute, insidious, 
asymptomatic), other clinical signs at presentation, biochemical parameters, 
types or titres of autoantibodies, incidence of histological cirrhosis, response 
to therapy or related side effects. There were also no significant differences 
in liver-related deaths or transplantation, or the frequencies of HLA DR3 or DR4 
- although there was an increased frequency of the A1-B8-DR3/4 haplotype in 
Group 2 (40% vs. 22%, p=0.138).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that AIH often presents in older patients, 
who frequently have severe disease. Active management in these patients can lead 
to a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2006.04.007
PMID: 16899323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2007 Mar;46(3):460-6. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kel249.  Epub 2006 Aug 9.

Individual fracture risk and the cost-effectiveness of bisphosphonates in 
patients using oral glucocorticoids.

van Staa TP(1), Geusens P, Zhang B, Leufkens HG, Boonen A, Cooper C.

Author information:
(1)Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: There are few data on the cost-effectiveness of bisphosphonates with 
oral glucocorticoids (GCs). An individual patient-based pharmaco-economic model 
was developed.
METHODS: Data were obtained from a cohort of oral GC users aged 40+ (n = 190 
000) in the UK General Practice Research Database. Individualized fracture and 
mortality risks were calculated specific for age, sex, daily and cumulative GC 
dose, indication and other clinical risk factors. UK costs of medication and 
direct costs of fracture were obtained from National Institute for Clinical 
Excellence and used to estimate costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained and fracture prevented for bisphosphonates in patients treated for 5 yrs 
with GCs.
RESULTS: With the use of 5 mg GCs daily, the cost per one QALY gained with 
bisphosphonates was 41k UK pounds (95% confidence intervals 22-72k) in women 
aged <60 [men 40k pounds (29-54k)], 17k pounds (13-24k) in women aged 60-79 [men 
43k pounds (31-60k)], 5k pounds(3-6k) in women aged 80+ [men 35k pounds 
(25-46k)]. With 15 mg GC, these figures were 17k pounds (14-21k), 13k pounds 
(10-16k) and 15k pounds (9-26k) in women and 22k pounds (17-26k), 34 pounds 
(23-53k) and 33k pounds (27-42k) in men, respectively. When stratifying by 
overall fracture risk and life expectancy at the start of GC therapy, cost per 
QALY increased with decreasing life expectancy. Patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis had comparatively better cost-effectiveness, given higher fracture 
risk and better life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of bisphosphonates varied substantially. 
Bisphosphonates can be considered cost-effective in patients with higher 
fracture risks, such as elderly patients (with a life expectancy over 5 yrs), 
and younger patients with a fracture history, low body mass index, rheumatoid 
arthritis or using high GC doses.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kel249
PMID: 16899499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2006 Jul;14(7):1264-73. doi: 10.1038/oby.2006.144.

Adult obesity and number of years lived with and without cardiovascular disease.

Pardo Silva MC(1), De Laet C, Nusselder WJ, Mamun AA, Peeters A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the differences in number of years lived free of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and number of years lived with CVD between men and 
women who were obese, pre-obese, or normal weight at 45 years of age.
RESEARCH METHODS AND PROCEDURES: We constructed multistate life tables for CVD, 
myocardial infarction, and stroke, using data from 2551 enrollees (1130 men) in 
the Framingham Heart Study who were 45 years of age.
RESULTS: Obesity and pre-obesity were associated with fewer number of years free 
of CVD, myocardial infarction, and stroke and an increase in the number of years 
lived with these diseases. Forty-five-year-old obese men with no CVD survived 
6.0 years [95% confidence interval (CI), 4.1; 8.1] fewer than their normal 
weight counterparts, whereas, for women, the difference between obese and normal 
weight subjects was 8.4 years (95% CI: 6.2; 10.8). Obese men and women lived 
with CVD 2.7 (95% CI: 1.0; 4.4) and 1.4 years (95% CI: -0.3; 3.2) longer, 
respectively, than normal weight individuals.
DISCUSSION: In addition to reducing life expectancy, obesity before middle age 
is associated with a reduction in the number of years lived free of CVD and an 
increase in the number of years lived with CVD. Such information is paramount 
for preventive and therapeutic decision-making by individuals and practitioners 
alike.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2006.144
PMID: 16899808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2006 Sep;31(5):623-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2230.2006.02164.x.

Dermatological manifestations of Down's syndrome.

Madan V(1), Williams J, Lear JT.

Author information:
(1)Dermatology Centre, Hope Hospital, Stott Lane, Salford, Manchester M6 8HD, 
UK. vishalmadan@doctors.net.uk

Comment in
    Clin Exp Dermatol. 2007 Jan;32(1):116.

Down's syndrome (DS) is associated with rare dermatological disorders and 
increased frequency of some common dermatoses. Owing to advances in medical care 
and changes in attitude, the median age of death in this population has 
increased to 49 years, and the life expectancy of a 1-year-old person with DS 
today is more than 60 years and is likely to improve. With the increase in the 
number of individuals with DS in the population and an increased life span, 
dermatologists are more likely to encounter the wide spectrum of dermatological 
disorders that occurs in these patients. Furthermore, new reports of possible 
associations are frequent in the literature. The purpose of this article is to 
discuss the various dermatological conditions that affect DS individuals. A 
brief overview is given of the new information on genetics and the immunology of 
DS. We also discuss the molecular mechanisms of premature ageing, to which DS 
individuals are prone. We review the literature and discuss the known 
dermatological manifestations, concentrating on recent reports.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2230.2006.02164.x
PMID: 16901300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Obes Surg. 2006 Aug;16(8):1087-91. doi: 10.1381/096089206778026442.

Assessing sexual function in obese women preparing for bariatric surgery.

Assimakopoulos K(1), Panayiotopoulos S, Iconomou G, Karaivazoglou K, Matzaroglou 
C, Vagenas K, Kalfarentzos F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Patras Medical School, University 
Hospital, Rion, Greece.

BACKGROUND: Obesity has become a modern epidemic, increasingly affecting the 
general population worldwide. Obese people are vulnerable to a variety of 
co-morbidities, including cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, osteoarthritis, 
diabetes, cancer and psychiatric conditions, that not only diminish life 
expectancy but also impair quality of life. Research has shown that obesity is 
further linked to sexual dysfunction, although relevant studies are limited and 
further investigation is needed.
METHODS: We assessed the sexual function of 60 obese women scheduled to undergo 
bariatric surgery and 50 healthy controls matched by age, education and marital 
status. All participants were administered the Female Sexual Function Index 
(FSFI). Additionally, participants completed the Hospital Anxiety and Depression 
Scale (HADS).
RESULTS: Obese women reported significant impairment on most domains of sexual 
function, including sexual desire, arousal, lubrication, orgasm, and 
satisfaction, compared to healthy controls. The observed sexual impairment was 
associated with BMI but was not entirely attributed to the presence of anxiety 
or depression.
CONCLUSION: Obese women complain of significant sexual impairment. 
Obesity-related sexual dysfunction appears to be a complex condition linked to a 
range of social, psychological and biological factors. Clinicians are encouraged 
to evaluate routinely sexual function in this patient population in order to 
detect those who are in need of intervention.

DOI: 10.1381/096089206778026442
PMID: 16901365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Curr Treat Options Gastroenterol. 2006 Jun;9(3):272-80. doi: 
10.1007/s11938-006-0046-z.

Adjuvant Therapy for Stage II Colorectal Cancer: Who and with What?

Chung KY(1), Kelsen D.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Oncology Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 
1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021, USA. chungk@mskcc.org.

The role of adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with stage II colon 
adenocarcinoma remains controversial. The high surgical cure rate for patients 
with "low-risk" stage II colon cancer, ranging from 75% to 80%, and the 
available clinical trials and meta-analyses provide conflicting recommendations 
for or against adjuvant chemotherapy for this group of patients. For fit 
"high-risk" stage II patients with clinical obstruction or perforation at 
presentation, in which the 5-year survival rate is 60% to 70%, there is little 
controversy, as these patients are routinely treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. 
Other potential high-risk factors, including high histologic grade, 
microsatellite instability, and loss of 18q, have yet to be validated in 
prospective trials. Patients with fewer than 12 regional lymph nodes identified 
in the surgical specimen have a statistically unclear risk of lymph node 
involvement. These patients may have stage III disease and should receive 
adjuvant therapy. The decision to use adjuvant chemotherapy to treat low-risk 
stage II colon cancer patients (no obstruction or perforation) should be an 
informed decision weighing the magnitude of a net 2% to 5% survival benefit, a 
0.5% to 1.0% risk of mortality with chemotherapy in addition to 6 months of 
chemotherapy-related toxicities, other coexisting patient morbidities, and the 
anticipated life expectancy of each patient. As adjuvant chemotherapy is therapy 
addressing local or metastatic microscopic disease, and the effectiveness of 
systemic and biologically targeted therapy for advanced macroscopic colon cancer 
continues to improve rapidly, it remains to be determined by clinical trials 
whether therapies including newer agents such as cetuximab and bevacizumab 
administered in the adjuvant setting may affect survival for stage II cancer 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11938-006-0046-z
PMID: 16901391


223. J Gerontol Soc Work. 2006;47(1-2):71-87. doi: 10.1300/J083v47n01_06.

Mapping your future--a proactive approach to aging.

Spira M(1).

Author information:
(1)Loyola University Chicago, School of Social Work, Water Tower Campus, 820 N 
Michigan, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

As the number of older adults who live healthy and extended lives increases, 
people will need to envision the ways in which they choose to live. More 
emphasis will be given to the potential and strengths that older adults maintain 
in to later years rather than anticipating the consequences of decline. This 
paper describes the development of a tool to be used by older adults in planning 
their futures. It provides an individualized portfolio that encourages older 
adults to contemplate their future needs and resources. It includes the domains 
of health, work/leisure, finances, housing, and relationship/support systems. It 
is a means of encouraging conversations about life choices and maintaining a 
sense of empowerment and well-being.

DOI: 10.1300/J083v47n01_06
PMID: 16901878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. J Mol Endocrinol. 2006 Aug;37(1):97-104. doi: 10.1677/jme.1.02072.

Genetic association studies of the FOXP3 gene in Graves' disease and autoimmune 
Addison's disease in the United Kingdom population.

Owen CJ(1), Eden JA, Jennings CE, Wilson V, Cheetham TD, Pearce SH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, International Centre for Life, University of 
Newcastle, Central Parkway, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. c.j.owen@ncl.ac.uk

Regulatory T lymphocytes play a crucial role in modulating potentially 
self-reactive clones, and dysfunction of this cell type contributes to 
autoimmune disease. FOXP3 is a critical determinant of CD(4+)CD(25+)T regulatory 
(T(reg)) cell development and function. The aim of this study was to investigate 
whether genetic polymorphisms at the FOXP3 locus predispose to autoimmune 
endocrinopathies. Five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and two 
microsatellite polymorphisms were genotyped in our Caucasian cohorts of 633 
unrelated Graves' disease (GD) subjects, 104 autoimmune Addison's disease (AAD) 
subjects and 528 healthy controls. SNP genotyping was performed by either 
restriction enzyme digestion or by primer-extension-MALDI-TOF (matrix-assisted 
laser desorption/ionisation time-of-flight) assay. Microsatellites were analysed 
using fluorescent PCR. Case-control analysis was performed using chi(2) testing 
on contingency tables for allele frequency. Haplotype analysis was performed 
using the UNPHASED package. No evidence for disease association was found with 
any of the seven polymorphisms in either of the GD or AAD subjects as compared 
with controls (P = 0.26-0.94). Haplotype analysis found a weak evidence for the 
association of a minor haplotype with GD; this was not significant when 
corrected for multiple testing. This study has found no robust evidence that 
FOXP3 gene polymorphism contributes to the susceptibility to GD or AAD in the UK 
population.

DOI: 10.1677/jme.1.02072
PMID: 16901927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2006 Aug 18;131(33):1819-24. doi:
10.1055/s-2006-949161.

[Surgical treatment of carotid artery stenosis: still indicated today? Current 
indications and future requirements--a review].

[Article in German]

Kniemeyer HW(1), Rudofsky G, Bongers V, Beckmann H, Soliman A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Angiologie, Universität Essen. h.w.kniemeyer@elisabeth-essen.de

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-949161
PMID: 16902907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Palliat Med. 2006 Jul;20(5):533-40. doi: 10.1191/0269216306pm1164oa.

The last two days of life of nursing home patients--a nationwide study on causes 
of death and burdensome symptoms in The Netherlands.

Brandt HE(1), Ooms ME, Deliens L, van der Wal G, Ribbe MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing Home Medicine, Institute for Research in Extramural 
Medicine, VU University Medical Center, Van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081 BT 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to identify the direct causes of death and 
to evaluate the presence of burdensome symptoms in the last two days of life of 
terminally ill nursing home (NH) patients.
METHODS: Prospective study of patients with a maximum life-expectancy of six 
weeks in 16 nursing homes representative for The Netherlands (n = 463). Symptoms 
were measured after death in conscious patients with the Edmonton Symptom 
Assessment Scale (ESAS) and the Resident Assessment Instrument Minimum Data-Set 
Palliative Care (RAI MDS-PC draft 1.8). Direct causes of death were assessed in 
all patients.
RESULTS: Most patients died from pneumonia, renal failure or dehydration. Loss 
of consciousness was common. The prevalence of burdensome symptom(s) at 48 and 
24 hours before death was 51.3 and 28.4%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: In practice, it appears that, for many patients, the last days of 
life are spent unconscious or conscious with one or more burdensome symptom(s), 
which suggests the potential for improvement of symptom management.

DOI: 10.1191/0269216306pm1164oa
PMID: 16903407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Poult Sci. 2006 Aug;85(8):1466-71. doi: 10.1093/ps/85.8.1466.

The effect of water extract of sumac (Rhus coriaria L.) and lactic acid on 
decontamination and shelf life of raw broiler wings.

Gulmez M(1), Oral N, Vatansever L.

Author information:
(1)Food Hygiene and Technology Department, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Kafkas, 36200 Kars, Turkey. mgulmez@kafkas.edu.tr

In an attempt to improve the bacteriological quality and refrigerated shelf life 
of broiler meat, 10-min surface wash treatments with sterile distilled water 
(DW), 8% (wt/vol) water extract of sumac (Rhus coriaria L.) fruits (WES), and 2% 
(vol/vol) lactic acid (LA) were compared by using a broiler wing model. The 
aerobic plate counts (log10 cfu/g) of psychrotrophs, mesophilic aerobes, 
Enterobacteriaceae, coliforms and presumptive fecal coliforms on the samples 
were determined. Immediately after a 10-min decontaminaton, the mean count of 
all the bacterial groups was determined to be 3.9, 2.6, and 1.7 (log10 cfu/g) 
for DW, WES, and LA, respectively. Because the postdecontamination population 
level of psychrotrophs, mesophiles, and Enterobacteriaceae were low in the 
LA-treated group compared to the WES group, an equity between the 2 groups in 
the point of view of the 3 bacterial groups existed at d 10 of cold storage (3 
+/- 1 degrees C). Shelf life was 7 and 14 d for wings treated with DW and WES, 
respectively, whereas the LA-treated wings did not spoil after 14 d of cold 
storage (3 +/- 1 degrees C). Nevertheless, an undesirable pale color and an 
acidulous odor occurred in the LA-treated wings. In contrast, a good color 
appeared on the WES-treated wings, which was also superior to the color of the 
DW-treated wings. Such advantages of WES may be important for poultry processors 
and for consumers. However, the immediate decontamination and refrigerated shelf 
life extension potential of WES should be intensively studied in antimicrobial 
interventions in poultry processing plants.

DOI: 10.1093/ps/85.8.1466
PMID: 16903480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Value Health. 2006 Jul-Aug;9(4):213-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00116.x.

Trends in the measurement of health utilities in published cost-utility 
analyses.

Brauer CA(1), Rosen AB, Greenberg D, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA. cbrauer@hsph.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: The Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine recommended 
the compilation of a catalog of health state utility weights for use in 
cost-utility analyses (CUAs), and has given methodological recommendations. This 
study presents an update, through 2001, to our current registry of utility 
weights (available at http://www.tufts-nemc.org/cearegistry; previously at 
http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/cearegistry), and documents recent changes in 
methods used for utility weight elicitation.
METHODS: We searched the English-language medical literature for original CUAs 
reporting outcomes as cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Two trained 
readers independently audited each article, abstracting data on the health state 
descriptions, corresponding utility weights, methods of elicitation, and sources 
of the estimates. The utility elicitation methods from 1998 to 2001 were 
compared with the methods used to obtain utilities before 1998.
RESULTS: We identified 306 CUAs published after 1998, reporting 1210 separate 
health-related utility estimates, bringing the total in our catalog to 2159 
weights. Most frequently, health states pertained to the circulatory system and 
oncology. Methods varied substantially: 36% of authors used direct elicitation 
(standard gamble, time trade-off or rating scale), 23% used generic health 
status instruments (EQ-5D, Health Utilities Index, etc.), and 25% estimated 
weights based on clinical judgment. Community preferences were used in 27% of 
the values. Compared with pre-1998, utilities published from 1998 to 2001 were 
more likely to be elicited using a generic instrument, more likely elicited from 
community samples, and less likely derived from expert opinion, with no formally 
employed methodology.
CONCLUSIONS: Increasingly, analysts conducting CUAs are using generic, 
preference-weighted instruments, and relying on community-based preferences. Our 
catalog of utility weights provides a useful reference tool for producers and 
consumers of CUAs, but also highlights the continued need for improvement in 
methods and transparency.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00116.x
PMID: 16903990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Value Health. 2006 Jul-Aug;9(4):227-35. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00106.x.

Estimating the cost-effectiveness of fluticasone propionate for treating chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease in the presence of missing data.

Briggs AH(1), Lozano-Ortega G, Spencer S, Bale G, Spencer MD, Burge PS.

Author information:
(1)Public Health & health Policy, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. 
a.briggs@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To explore the cost-effectiveness of fluticasone propionate (FP) for 
the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), we estimated 
costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over 3 years, based on an economic 
appraisal of a previously reported clinical trial (Inhaled Steroids in 
Obstructive Lung Disease in Europe [ISOLDE]).
METHODS: Seven hundred forty-two patients enrolled in the ISOLDE trial who 
received either FP or placebo had data available on health-care costs and 
quality of life over the period of the study. The SF-36-based utility scores for 
quality of life were used to calculate QALYs. A combined imputation and 
bootstrapping procedure was employed to handle missing data and to estimate 
statistical uncertainty in the estimated cumulative costs and QALYs over the 
study period. The imputation approach was based on propensity scoring and 
nesting this approach within the bootstrap ensured that multiple imputations 
were performed such that statistical estimates included imputation uncertainty.
RESULTS: Complete data were available on mortality within the follow-up period 
of the study and a nonsignificant trend toward improved survival of 0.06 (95% 
confidence interval [CI]-0.01 to 0.15) life-years was observed. In an analysis 
based on a propensity scoring approach to missing data we estimated the 
incremental costs of FP versus placebo to be 1021 sterling pound(95% CI 619-1338 
sterling pound) with an additional effect of 0.11 QALYs (CI 0.04-0.20). 
Cost-effectiveness estimates for the within-trial period of 17,700 sterling 
pound per life-year gained (6900 sterling pound to infinity) and 9500 sterling 
pound per QALY gained (CI 4300-26,500 sterling pound) were generated that 
include uncertainty due to the imputation process. An alternative imputation 
approach did not materially affect these estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Previous analyses of the ISOLDE study showed significant 
improvement on disease-specific health status measures and a trend toward a 
survival advantage for treatment with FP. This analysis shows that joint 
considerations of quality of life and survival result in a substantial increase 
in QALYs favoring treatment with FP. Based on these data, the inhaled 
corticosteroid FP appears cost-effective for the treatment of COPD. Confirmation 
or refutation of this result may be achieved once the Towards a Revolution in 
COPD Health (TORCH) study reports, a large randomized controlled trial powered 
to detect mortality changes associated with the use of FP alone, or in 
combination with salmeterol, which is also collecting resource use and utility 
data suitable for estimating cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00106.x
PMID: 16903992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Value Health. 2006 Jul-Aug;9(4):253-61. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00114.x.

Indirect costs and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Ernst R(1).

Author information:
(1)Rilernst@aol.com

This article examines the methodological implications of the societal 
perspective in cost-effectiveness analyses in which the costs of health-care 
interventions are defined as the sums of direct and indirect costs. In the model 
of cost-effectiveness analysis in which the planner distributes patients among 
many treatments for many illnesses, the definition requires that total indirect 
costs be constrained, and the article proposes an iterative computational 
procedure for choosing a constraint under the assumption that the planner 
maintains a target trade-off rate between losses of health benefits and 
reductions in indirect costs. In the more common model in which the planner 
decides which of two treatments for one illness to provide to patients, the 
adoption of a societal perspective introduces ambiguities into the welfare 
properties of the decision rule, and in general the conclusion that a treatment 
is cost-effective is valid only if switching or assigning patients to the 
cost-effective treatment does not increase the planner's total direct costs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00114.x
PMID: 16903995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Aug;10(28):iii-iv, xi-xiv, 1-183. doi: 
10.3310/hta10280.

Adefovir dipivoxil and pegylated interferon alfa-2a for the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis B: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Shepherd J(1), Jones J, Takeda A, Davidson P, Price A.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
adefovirdipivoxil (ADV) and pegylated interferon alfa-2a (PEG) for the treatment 
of adults with chronic hepatitis B infection (CHB).
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases for the period from 1995-6 to April 2005. 
Websites of the relevant organisations.
REVIEW METHODS: Searches were made for studies of clinical effectiveness, 
cost-effectiveness, quality of life, resource use/costs and epidemiology/natural 
history. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were included that compared PEG and 
ADV with currently licensed treatments for CHB, including non-pegylated 
('standard') interferon alfa (IFN), lamivudine (LAM), and best supportive care. 
The trials were reviewed in a narrative synthesis but meta-analysis was not 
undertaken owing to heterogeneity in the interventions and comparators 
evaluated. A model was developed to estimate the cost-effectiveness 
(cost-utility) of PEG and of ADV compared with IFN, LAM and best supportive care 
in a UK cohort of adults with CHB. The perspective of the cost-effectiveness 
analysis was that of the NHS and personal social services. A Markov state 
transition model was constructed, informed by a systematic search of the 
literature to identify source material on the natural history, epidemiology and 
treatment of CHB. Interventions were evaluated against their closest comparator 
(for PEG this is IFN, and for ADV this is LAM). In addition, the 
cost-effectiveness of sequential treatment scenarios was modelled.
RESULTS: A total of 1086 references to clinical effectiveness studies were 
identified, of which seven fully published RCTs and one systematic review met 
the inclusion criteria. Four of the RCTs evaluated the effectiveness of ADV and 
three reported results for PEG. In addition, a conference abstract was included 
reporting interim results from an on-going Phase II RCT of ADV in combination 
with LAM. The published trials were of good quality, although details of 
randomisation and allocation of concealment were poorly reported. ADV was 
significantly more effective than placebo. Response rates were in the range 
21-51% compared with 0%, respectively. For patients resistant to LAM, response 
rates were significantly higher for those treated with ADV in addition to 
on-going LAM (35-85%) than those who continued on LAM with placebo (0-11%). 
Significant alanine aminotransferase (ALT) reductions to normal levels were 
observed in all studies. For treatment-naive patients, seroconversion rates were 
12-14% for ADV compared with 6% for placebo (statistically significant), rates 
were higher for LAM-resistant patients who received ADV in addition to on-going 
LAM (8%) than those who continued on LAM with placebo (2%) (no significance 
value was reported), and rates were higher for LAM-resistant patients who 
switched to ADV than those who continued on LAM with placebo (11 versus 0%, 
respectively; not statistically significant). HBsAg loss or seroconversion was 
observed in less than 5% of patients taking ADV. Two ADV studies reported 
changes in liver histology. In general, histological improvement and 
necroinflammatory activity/fibrosis scores were significantly better in ADV 
groups than in placebo groups. Dose discontinuations for safety reasons were low 
for patients receiving ADV. With the exception of headache, the most commonly 
reported adverse events were often seen in the placebo groups in similar 
proportions to the ADV groups, with different trials reporting conflicting 
results. PEG/LAM dual therapy and PEG monotherapy were similar in effect on HBV 
DNA and ALT levels, and both were significantly superior to LAM monotherapy. 
Response rates were higher for HBeAg-negative patients than for HBeAg-positive 
patients. HBeAg seroconversion rates at follow-up were significantly higher for 
PEG monotherapy patients than for those receiving either a combination of PEG 
and LAM or LAM monotherapy (32, 27 and 19%, respectively). For the comparison 
between PEG and IFN-2a, there was a significant difference in the combined 
outcome of ALT normalisation, HBV DNA response and HBeAg seroconversion at 
follow-up (24 versus 12%, respectively). Changes in liver histology were 
reported by two studies. There was no statistically significant difference in 
histological improvement between the PEG monotherapy groups, the LAM monotherapy 
groups and the dual therapy groups. Two PEG trials reported small percentages 
(up to 5%) of HBsAg loss or seroconversion among patients receiving PEG either 
as monotherapy or in combination with LAM, but no HBsAg loss or seroconversion 
was reported in those receiving LAM monotherapy. Health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) scores, as measured by the Short Form with 36 Items, decreased during 
treatment, but returned to at least baseline levels at follow-up (based on 
unpublished data). For HBeAg-positive patients, there were no significant 
differences in scores between treatment groups. Dose discontinuations for safety 
reasons were significantly higher for patients receiving PEG than for patients 
receiving LAM monotherapy. The most commonly reported adverse events in the PEG 
studies were headache, pyrexia, fatigue, myalgia and alopecia. Only one fully 
published economic evaluation was identified, reporting a US cost-effectiveness 
study of ADV as salvage therapy for chronic hepatitis B with LAM resistance. A 
Markov model was used to estimate cost-effectiveness of interferon alfa (6-12 
months), LAM and LAM followed by ADV when resistance occurs. ADV generated the 
most (undiscounted) life-years, but at highest costs, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US$14,204 per life-year gained. Using our 
model, incremental cost per QALY estimates (baseline cohort of all patients) 
were: 5994 pounds for IFN compared with best supportive care, 6119 pounds for 
PEG compared with IFN, 3685 pounds for LAM compared with best supportive care, 
and 16,569 pounds for ADV compared with LAM. Incremental cost per QALY estimates 
(HBeAg-positive patients only) were: 7936 pounds for IFN (24 weeks) compared 
with best supportive care, 16,166 pounds for PEG (48 weeks) compared with IFN 
(24 weeks), 3489 pounds for LAM compared with best supportive care, and 15,289 
pounds for ADV compared with LAM. Incremental cost per QALY estimates 
(HBeAg-negative patients only) were: 3922 pounds for IFN (48 weeks) compared 
with best supportive care, 2162 pounds for PEG (48 weeks) compared with IFN (24 
weeks), 4131 pounds for LAM compared with best supportive care, and 18,620 
pounds for ADV compared with LAM. For the sequential treatment strategies, 
incremental cost per QALY estimates ranged from 3604 pounds (IFN followed by LAM 
versus IFN alone) to 11,402 pounds (IFN followed by LAM with adefovir salvage 
versus IFN followed by LAM). In all of these cases, the ICERs are well within 
the range that would conventionally be regarded as being cost-effective. The 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis found that LAM is a cost-effective option at 
lower willingness-to-pay thresholds for health outcomes, but as the threshold is 
increased adefovir is increasingly likely to be the optimal intervention. Where 
a willingness-to-pay threshold of above 10,000 pounds per QALY is employed, PEG 
is highly likely to be the optimal intervention compared with IFN (based on a 
cohort of HBeAg-positive and -negative patients). Interferon alfa (non-pegylated 
or pegylated) followed by LAM would be the optimal strategy at lower 
willingness-to-pay thresholds. As the threshold increases, the sequential 
treatment strategy of PEG followed by LAM with adefovir added as salvage therapy 
is increasingly likely to be the optimal intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: ADV and PEG are associated with significant improvements in a 
number of biochemical, virological and histological outcomes in both 
HBeAg-positive and -negative patients. For a small proportion of patients this 
is associated with resolution of infection. For another proportion it leads to 
remission and a reduced risk of progressing to cirrhosis, hepatocellular 
carcinoma, liver transplant and death. For others who do not respond or who 
relapse, retreatment with another agent is necessary. The results of our 
cost-effectiveness analysis demonstrate that incremental costs per QALY for a 
range of comparisons were between 5994 pounds and 16,569 pounds and within the 
range considered by NHS decision-makers to represent good value for money. When 
subjected to sensitivity analysis, most costs per QALY estimates remained under 
30,000 pounds. Further RCT evidence of the effectiveness of anti-viral treatment 
is required, particularly for subgroups of patients with different genotypes, 
patients with cirrhosis, patients from different ethnic groups, patients with 
co-infections (e.g. HIV, HCV) and co-morbidities, liver transplant patients and 
children and adolescents.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10280
PMID: 16904047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Aug;10(29):iii-iv, ix-xi, 1-133. doi: 
10.3310/hta10290.

An evaluation of the clinical and cost-effectiveness of pulmonary artery 
catheters in patient management in intensive care: a systematic review and a 
randomised controlled trial.

Harvey S(1), Stevens K, Harrison D, Young D, Brampton W, McCabe C, Singer M, 
Rowan K.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of managing 
critically ill patients in adult, general intensive care with or without 
pulmonary artery catheters (PACs).
DESIGN: An open, multi-centre, randomised controlled trial with economic 
evaluation (cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analysis).
SETTING: The setting was general (mixed medical/surgical) intensive care units 
(ICUs) in the UK admitting adults.
PARTICIPANTS: Adult patients in participating ICUs deemed by the responsible 
treating clinician to require management with a PAC.
INTERVENTIONS: These were insertion of a PAC and subsequent clinical management, 
at the discretion of the responsible treating clinicians, using data derived 
from the PAC. The control group were managed without a PAC but with the option 
of using alternative cardiac output monitoring devices.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome measure was hospital mortality. 
Secondary outcome measures were length of stay in the ICU, length of stay in an 
acute hospital and organ-days of support in the ICU. For the economic 
evaluation, the main outcome measure was quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and 
the secondary outcome measure was hospital mortality.
RESULTS: Sixty-five ICUs in the UK participated. Of these, 43 (66%) used 
alternative cardiac output monitoring devices in control group patients. A total 
of 1263 patients were identified as being eligible for the trial. Of these, 1041 
(82.4%) were randomised and allocated to management with (n = 519) or without (n 
= 522) a PAC. There were no losses to follow-up. However, 27 patients (13 in the 
PAC group and 14 in the control group) were withdrawn from the trial because 
either the patient withdrew consent on recovering mental competency or the 
relatives withdrew agreement following randomisation. Data on 1014 patients were 
included in the analysis. Participants in the two groups had similar baseline 
characteristics. There was no difference in hospital mortality for patients 
managed with (68.4%) or without (65.7%) a PAC. The adjusted hazard ratio (PAC 
versus no PAC) was 1.09 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.94 to 1.27]. There was 
no difference in the median length of stay in ICU, the median length of stay in 
an acute hospital or mean organ-days of support in ICU between the two groups. 
The economic evaluation found that the expected cost per QALY gained from the 
withdrawal of PAC was 2985 pounds. The expected cost per life gained from the 
withdrawal of PAC was 22,038 pounds.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical management of critically ill patients with a PAC, as 
currently practised in the UK, neither improves hospital survival for adult, 
general intensive care patients nor reduces length of stay in hospital. The lack 
of demonstrable benefit from a device previously believed to be beneficial could 
be explained by statistical chance, by misinterpretation of PAC-derived data, by 
ineffective treatment strategies based on data correctly interpreted using the 
current paradigm or by subsequent inaction following insertion of the device. It 
is also possible that detailed data on haemodynamics, however used, cannot 
modify the disease process sufficiently to influence disease outcome. The 
economic evaluation, using decision analysis techniques rather than conventional 
hypothesis testing, suggests that the withdrawal of the PAC from routine 
clinical practice in the NHS would be considered cost-effective in the current 
decision-making climate, and might result in lives or life-years being saved at 
modest cost. With the declining use of PACs in the UK and the findings of this 
report indicating no overall benefit from management with a PAC, it should now 
be possible to examine protocolised management with a PAC in selected groups of 
critically ill patients against appropriate controls, something that was 
difficult while PACs were the considered standard of care.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10290
PMID: 16904048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Blood Cells Mol Dis. 2006 Sep-Oct;37(2):116-24; discussion 125-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.bcmd.2006.06.006. Epub 2006 Aug 10.

Early allogeneic stem cell transplantation for chronic myelogenous leukemia in 
the imatinib era: a preliminary assessment.

Simon W(1), Segel GB, Lichtman MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Rochester School of 
Medicine, NY 14642, USA.

We have examined the role of early allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation in patients with chronic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia 
(CML) who enter a complete cytogenetic remission with imatinib mesylate. Three 
kinds of data were used to examine the effect of the outcome of current BCR-ABL 
inhibitor treatment compared to early allogeneic stem cell transplantation: (1) 
the life expectancy of the general population of the United States as a function 
of age, (2) the life expectancy of CML patients as a function of the age of 
patients treated with imatinib mesylate (imatinib) who achieve a complete 
cytogenetic remission, and (3) the life expectancy of patients with CML treated 
with matched-related or matched-unrelated stem cell transplantation as a 
function of age, derived from data provided by the Center for International 
Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMTR). We also considered separately the 
transplant results of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center (FHCRC), which 
are substantially better than the "average" outcome from the CIBMTR. We have 
calculated the projected life expectancy from the age at which patients with CML 
enter complete cytogenetic remission with imatinib and that of those who receive 
allogeneic stem cell transplantation. The outcome with imatinib therapy of newly 
diagnosed patients with CML has been documented for only 4 and 1/2 years, 
whereas transplant data were available for up to 25 years. Thus, in order to 
compare life expectancy and 10-year survival probability, it was necessary to 
extrapolate the imatinib data. A basis for extrapolation is offered and 
conservative estimates have been used for comparison. Our best estimate is that 
patients receiving imatinib who have a complete cytogenetic remission have a 
higher projected probability of 10-year survival than patients who are 
transplanted, based on results provided by the CIBMTR, and have about the same 
probability compared to the data from the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center for 
patients in the 30- to 60-year-old range. The mathematical approach used here 
permits reexamining the analysis using future data on BCR-ABL inhibitor therapy 
or allogeneic stem cell transplantation therapy or both.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcmd.2006.06.006
PMID: 16904348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Urology. 2006 Aug;68(2):427.e1-3. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2006.02.013.

Management of a malignant urinary fistula by ureteral embolization with coils.

Amsellem-Ouazana D(1), Cornud F, Conquy S, Beuzeboc P, Massault PP, Vieillefond 
A, Flam T, Zerbib M, Debré B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Hôpital Cochin, Paris, France. 
d.amsellem-ouazana@cch.aphp.fr

We report the case of a 42-year-old man with a synovial sarcoma of the prostate, 
metastatic at presentation, who after aggressive chemotherapy followed by 
extensive surgery developed a complex pelvic fistula involving the lower ureter, 
bladder, and enteral structures. The patient was a poor candidate for surgery 
because of his short life expectancy and poor health status. Conservative 
management with bilateral nephrostomy tubes did not allow sufficient fistulous 
output for symptomatic relief. Using the percutaneous access already in place, 
we performed bilateral ureteral embolization with coils. Complete ureteral 
occlusion was obtained with a minimally invasive procedure and allowed total 
symptomatic relief.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2006.02.013
PMID: 16904469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2006 Sep 1;66(1):263-70. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.05.010.

Response of intracerebral human glioblastoma xenografts to multifraction 
radiation exposures.

Ozawa T(1), Faddegon BA, Hu LJ, Bollen AW, Lamborn KR, Deen DF.

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumor Research Center, Department of Neurological Surgery, University 
of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

PURPOSE: We investigated the effects of fractionated radiation treatments on the 
life spans of athymic rats bearing intracerebral brain tumors.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: U-251 MG or U-87 MG human glioblastoma cells were 
implanted into the brains of athymic rats, and the resulting tumors were 
irradiated once daily with various doses of ionizing radiation for 5 consecutive 
days or for 10 days with a 2-day break after Day 5.
RESULTS: Five daily doses of 1 and 1.5 Gy, and 10 doses of 0.75 and 1 Gy, cured 
some U-251 MG tumors. However, five daily doses of 0.5 Gy increased the survival 
time of animals bearing U-251 MG tumors 5 days without curing any animals of 
their tumors. Ten doses of 0.3 Gy given over 2 weeks extended the lifespan of 
the host animals 9 days without curing any animals. For U-87 MG tumors, 5 daily 
doses of 3 Gy produced an increased lifespan of 8 days without curing any 
animals, and 10 doses of 1 Gy prolonged lifespan 5.5 days without curing any 
animals. The differences in extension of life span between the 5- and 
10-fraction protocols were minor for either tumor type.
CONCLUSION: The finding that the U-251 MG tumors are more sensitive than U-87 MG 
tumors, despite the fact that U-251 MG tumors contain many more hypoxic cells 
than U-87 MG tumors, suggests the intrinsic cellular radiosensitivities of these 
cell lines are more important than hypoxia in determining their in vivo 
radiosensitivities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.05.010
PMID: 16904526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Biol Psychiatry. 2006 Oct 1;60(7):741-51. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2006.03.080.  Epub 2006 Aug 14.

Acetylcholinesterase modulates stress-induced motor responses through catalytic 
and noncatalytic properties.

Sklan EH(1), Berson A, Birikh KR, Gutnick A, Shahar O, Shoham S, Soreq H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Institute of Life Sciences, Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, Givat Ram, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Cholinergic neurotransmission notably participates in stress-induced 
motor responses. Here we report the contribution of alternative splicing of 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) pre-mRNA to modulate these responses. More 
specifically, we induced stress-associated hypofunction of dopaminergic, mainly 
D2 dopamine receptor-mediated neurotransmission by haloperidol and explored 
stress induced hyperlocomotion and catalepsy, an extreme form of immobility, 
induced in mice with AChE deficiencies.
METHODS: Conditional transgenic (Tet/AS) mice were created with 
tetracycline-induced antisense suppression of AChE gene expression. Locomotion 
and catalepsy times were measured in Tet/AS and strain-matched control mice, 
under open-field exposure threat and under home-cage safety.
RESULTS: In vitro, NGF-treated PC12 cells failed to extend neurites upon Tet/AS 
suppression. In vivo, Tet/AS but not control mice showed stress-associated 
hippocampal deposits of heat-shock protein 70 and GRP78 (BiP), predicting 
posttranscriptional changes in neuronal reactions. Supporting this notion, their 
striatal cholinergic neurons demonstrated facilitated capacity for neurite 
extension, attributing these in vivo changes in neurite extension to network 
interactions. Tet/AS mice presented stress-induced hyperlocomotion. Moreover, 
the dopamine antagonist haloperidol induced longer catalepsy in threatened 
Tet/AS than in control mice. When returned to home-cage safety, Tet/AS mice 
showed retarded release from catalepsy.
CONCLUSIONS: Acetylcholinesterase modulates stress-induced motor responses and 
facilitates resumption of normal motor behavior following stress through both 
catalytic and noncatalytic features.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2006.03.080
PMID: 16904653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Int J Cardiol. 2007 May 16;118(1):10-3. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2006.05.031.
Epub  2006 Aug 10.

Metamorphosis: the natural history of coronary heart disease. Sudden death is 
common. Unexpected death is not.

Jelinek M(1), Santamaria J.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Unit and Intensive Care Unit, St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne, 
Vic., Australia. michael.jelinek@svhm.org.au

It is a common practice to perform percutaneous or open coronary artery 
revascularisation in CHD to prevent sudden or unexpected death. Such a practice 
assumes that sudden and unexpected death is common in stable patients with 
uncomplicated CHD. This is a retrospective analysis of 248 patients (199, 80% 
men, 49, 20% women) who had median age 65.1 when assessed after stabilisation of 
their CHD and were followed up to 25 years until their death. Myocardial 
revascularisation was only performed after the patients had stabilised if they 
developed either progressive clinical disability or acute coronary syndromes. At 
stabilisation, 181 (73%) were uncomplicated, 59 (24%) had heart failure (HF) and 
8 (3%) had other comorbidities. At their last visit before death, 67 (27%) were 
uncomplicated, 121 (49%) had HF, 41 (17%) had cancer and 19 (8%) had other 
comorbidities. Their median age at death was 72.4 years. 77 (31%) died suddenly, 
47 (19%) of HF, 39 (16%) of cancer, 35 (14%) of acute myocardial infarction 
(AMI) and 50 (20%) had miscellaneous modes of dying. Unexpected death occurred 
in 26 (10%) of cases: sudden 12, AMI 7, stroke 3, suicide 2, abdominal aneurysm 
1, motor vehicle accident 1. We conclude that the clinical condition of most 
patients with CHD deteriorates between their initial stabilisation and their 
final visit before their death-metamorphosis. Only a small proportion of deaths 
occur in patients with stable CHD and no HF. Intervention in stable patients 
without CHF is unlikely to reduce sudden or unexpected death in patients with 
CHD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2006.05.031
PMID: 16904770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2006 Oct 1;66(2):477-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.05.031. Epub 2006 Aug 14.

Assessing the ability of the antiangiogenic and anticytokine agent thalidomide 
to modulate radiation-induced lung injury.

Anscher MS(1), Garst J, Marks LB, Larrier N, Dunphy F, Herndon JE 2nd, Clough R, 
Marino C, Vujaskovic Z, Zhou S, Dewhirst MW, Shafman TD, Crawford J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. ansch001@notes.duke.edu

PURPOSE: Thalidomide has broad anticytokine properties, which might protect 
normal tissues in patients undergoing chemoradiotherapy. The purpose of this 
study was to determine the maximal tolerated dose of thalidomide when used in 
combination with vinorelbine plus thoracic radiotherapy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Eligible patients had inoperable Stage III non-small-cell 
lung cancer, a Karnofsky Performance Status>or=70, and life expectancy>or=6 
months. Patients underwent pretreatment evaluation of lung function. 
Radiotherapy consisted of 66 Gy in 6.5 weeks. Vinorelbine was administered i.v. 
(5 mg/m2) 3 times per week just before radiotherapy. Thalidomide was begun at 50 
mg, p.o., on day 1 of chemoradiotherapy and continued once daily for 6 months. 
Side effects were scored using National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity 
Criteria.
RESULTS: Ten patients were enrolled. Of the first 6 patients, 2 developed major 
thrombotic events that were believed to be possibly related to thalidomide. The 
study was suspended and modified to require prophylactic anticoagulation. Of the 
last 4 patients, 2 developed dose-limiting toxicity attributable to thalidomide; 
both patients required a dose reduction of thalidomide to <50 mg/day. Because 
the drug is not available in an oral product providing <50 mg/day, the study was 
closed.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of thalidomide concurrently with thoracic 
radiotherapy and vinorelbine resulted in excessive toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.05.031
PMID: 16904841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2006 Sep;60(9):782-8. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2005.042960.

Psychosocial determinants of premature cardiovascular mortality differences 
within Hungary.

Kopp M(1), Skrabski A, Szántó Z, Siegrist J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Behavioural Sciences, Semmelweis University, H-1089 Budapest, 
Nagyvárad tér 4, Hungary. kopmar@net.sote.hu

OBJECTIVES: The life expectancy gap between Central-Eastern European (CEE) 
countries, including Hungary, and Western Europe (WE) is mainly attributable to 
excess cardiovascular (CV) mortality in midlife. This study explores the 
contribution of socioeconomic, work related, psychosocial, and behavioural 
variables to explaining variations of middle aged male and female CV mortality 
across 150 sub-regions in Hungary.
DESIGN: Cross sectional, ecological analyses.
SETTING: 150 sub-regions of Hungary.
PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: 12 643 people were interviewed in Hungarostudy 2002 
survey, representing the Hungarian population according to sex, age, and 
sub-regions. Independent variables were income, education, control in work, job 
insecurity, weekend working hours, social support, depression, hostility, 
anomie, smoking, body mass index, and alcohol misuse.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Gender specific standardised premature (45-64 years) 
total CV, ischaemic heart disease, and cerebrovascular mortality rates in 150 
sub-regions of Hungary.
RESULTS: Low education and income were the most important determinants of 
mid-aged CV mortality differences across sub-regions. High weekend workload, low 
social support at work, and low control at work account for a large part of 
variation in male premature CV mortality rates, whereas job insecurity, high 
weekend workload, and low control at work contribute most noticeably to 
variations in premature CV mortality rates among women. Low social support from 
friends, depression, anomie, hostility, alcohol misuse and cigarette smoking can 
also explain a considerable part of variations of premature CV mortality 
