University.

Haemoglobinopathies refer to a range of genetically inherited disorders of red 
blood cell haemoglobin and include sickle cell disorders and thalassaemias. They 
occur most commonly in populations whose ancestors come from Africa, Asia, 
Mediterranean Islands, and the Middle and Far East. Haemoglobin (Hb) 
abnormalities (or haemoglobinopathies) are caused by (i) abnormalities of the 
protein structure; (ii) imbalanced globin chain production owing to reduced rate 
of synthesis of normal a or b globin chains; or (iii) a combination of the two. 
This article will focus on the biological basis of sickle cell disorders and 
will discuss the history and pathology of the conditions.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2006.15.18.22024
PMID: 17077770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Int J Palliat Nurs. 2006 Sep;12(9):422-7. doi:
10.12968/ijpn.2006.12.9.21870.

Respite care for children, young people and families--are their needs addressed?

Corkin DA(1), Price J, Gillespie E.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Medical Biology Centre, Queen's University 
Belfast, 97 Lisburn Road, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT9 7BL. d.corkin@qub.ac.uk

In recent years there has been an increasing demand for respite care in the 
community setting, as advances in medicine and technology have enhanced the life 
expectancy of children and young people with a life-limiting illness. However, 
the need for flexible respite provision in the home frequently presents a 
challenge for those health care professionals involved in caring for these 
children and their families. Following a review of literature this paper will 
demonstrate how a family-centred approach to respite provision and palliative 
care can enhance the quality of life for a child nearing the end of life and 
support the expressed needs of the child's family with accessible respite care.

DOI: 10.12968/ijpn.2006.12.9.21870
PMID: 17077801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2007 Jan;132(1):40-7. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20502.

An elusive paleodemography? A comparison of two methods for estimating the adult 
age distribution of deaths at late Classic Copan, Honduras.

Storey R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Houston, Houston, TX 77204-5020, 
USA. rstorey@uh.edu

Comparison of different adult age estimation methods on the same skeletal sample 
with unknown ages could forward paleodemographic inference, while researchers 
sort out various controversies. The original aging method for the auricular 
surface (Lovejoy et al., 1985a) assigned an age estimation based on several 
separate characteristics. Researchers have found this original method hard to 
apply. It is usually forgotten that before assigning an age, there was a 
seriation, an ordering of all available individuals from youngest to oldest. 
Thus, age estimation reflected the place of an individual within its sample. A 
recent article (Buckberry and Chamberlain, 2002) proposed a revised method that 
scores theses various characteristics into age stages, which can then be used 
with a Bayesian method to estimate an adult age distribution for the sample. 
Both methods were applied to the adult auricular surfaces of a Pre-Columbian 
Maya skeletal population from Copan, Honduras and resulted in age distributions 
with significant numbers of older adults. However, contrary to the usual 
paleodemographic distribution, one Bayesian estimation based on uniform prior 
probabilities yielded a population with 57% of the ages at death over 65, while 
another based on a high mortality life table still had 12% of the individuals 
aged over 75 years. The seriation method yielded an age distribution more 
similar to that known from preindustrial historical situations, without 
excessive longevity of adults. Paleodemography must still wrestle with its 
elusive goal of accurate adult age estimation from skeletons, a necessary base 
for demographic study of past populations.

(c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20502
PMID: 17078034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Mov Disord. 2006 Dec;21(12):2255-7. doi: 10.1002/mds.21166.

Long-term benefit to pallidal deep brain stimulation in a case of dystonia 
secondary to pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration.

Krause M(1), Fogel W, Tronnier V, Pohle S, Hörtnagel K, Thyen U, Volkmann J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Ruprecht-Krals-University, INF 400, Heidelberg, 
Germany. martin_krause@med.uni-hedelberg.de

Pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) is a rare autosomal 
recessive disorder with onset in childhood and rapid progression. There is no 
causative and insufficient symptomatic drug therapy. Deep brain stimulation 
(DBS) of the internal pallidum (GPi) has been reported to improve motor 
function. Most case reports, however, are limited to short observational 
periods. The impact of DBS on the progression and life expectancy in PKAN is 
unknown. We present a 5-year outcome and video documentation of bilateral 
GPi-DBS of an adolescent patient suffering from genetically defined PKAN.

Copyright 2006 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21166
PMID: 17078094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Wests N Y Suppl. 1993;600:414-6.

Dwight B. v. Board of Education.

New York. Supreme Court, Orange County.

KIE: Court Decision: 600 New York Supplement, 2d Series 414: 1993 May 3 (date of 
decision). The Supreme Court of Orange County, New York, denied a motion to 
exclude evidence that the plaintiff, an infant hemophiliac, had also tested HIV 
positive, in spite of the fact that this information had been negligently 
disclosed by the hospital to the defendant-counsel. The infant had suffered a 
head wound at school and allegedly was negligently diagnosed and treated. 
Although information concerning the infant's HIV status did not play a part in 
the actual injury, the court ruled that this information would be useful to a 
jury that might be assessing damages based on life expectancy.

PMID: 17078151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Med Law. 2006 Sep;25(3):435-43.

Compensation of asbestos victims in France.

Manaouil C(1), Graser M, Jardé O.

Author information:
(1)Amiens Nord Teaching Hospital, France.

The alarming development of pathologies linked to asbestos led to the creation 
in France of two funds to indemnify the victims of asbestos-related illnesses: 
the FCAATA (Fund for asbestos workers who take early retirement), which 
compensates for their reduced life expectancy, and the FIVA (Indemnification 
fund for asbestos victims) which ensures full compensation for harm suffered by 
asbestos victims.

PMID: 17078518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. J Neurophysiol. 2007 Jan;97(1):680-91. doi: 10.1152/jn.00348.2006. Epub 2006
Nov  1.

Control of 3D limb dynamics in unconstrained overarm throws of different speeds 
performed by skilled baseball players.

Hirashima M(1), Kudo K, Watarai K, Ohtsuki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. 
pingdao@tkf.att.ne.jp

This study investigated how the human CNS organizes complex three-dimensional 
(3D) ball-throwing movements that require both speed and accuracy. Skilled 
baseball players threw a baseball to a target at three different speeds. 
Kinematic analysis revealed that the fingertip speed at ball release was mainly 
produced by trunk leftward rotation, shoulder internal rotation, elbow 
extension, and wrist flexion in all speed conditions. The study participants 
adjusted the angular velocities of these four motions to throw the balls at 
three different speeds. We also analyzed the dynamics of the 3D multijoint 
movements using a recently developed method called "nonorthogonal torque 
decomposition" that can clarify how angular acceleration about a joint 
coordinate axis (e.g., shoulder internal rotation) is generated by the muscle, 
gravity, and interaction torques. We found that the study participants utilized 
the interaction torque to generate larger angular velocities of the shoulder 
internal rotation, elbow extension, and wrist flexion. To increase the 
interaction torque acting at these joints, the ball throwers increased muscle 
torque at the shoulder and trunk but not at the elbow and wrist. These results 
indicates that skilled ball throwers adopted a hierarchical control in which the 
proximal muscle torques created a dynamic foundation for the entire limb motion 
and beneficial interaction torques for distal joint rotations.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00348.2006
PMID: 17079349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Assist Inferm Ric. 2006 Jul-Sep;25(3):189-90.

[What is the cost of health in low income countries].

[Article in Italian]

Pulcinelli C.

PMID: 17080629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. J Commun Dis. 2005 Sep;37(3):165-72.

On the construction of clinical life table for studying the survivability of 
diagnosed AIDS cases.

Grover G(1), Das D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Faculty of Mathematical Sciences, University of 
Delhi.

In this paper, an attempt has been made to estimate the various survival 
functions of clinically diagnosed AIDS cases by the life table method. The 
actuarial life table method has already been applied to clinical data for many 
decades. To exhibit computations for the clinical life table, we have used the 
clinical data gathered on diagnosed 731 male and female AIDS patients recorded 
from Dec.1993 up to Dec.2002 in Delhi. The method is also used to study the 
nature of the survival functions for the AIDS patients with different causes of 
death. The comparisons among various survival functions are shown with the help 
of the graphs.

PMID: 17080699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Biol Chem. 2006 Oct-Nov;387(10-11):1357-61. doi: 10.1515/BC.2006.170.

Mitochondrial signaling, TOR, and life span.

Schieke SM(1), Finkel T.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, NHLBI, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1622, USA.

Growing evidence supports the concept that mitochondrial metabolism and reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) play a major role in aging and determination of an 
organism's life span. Cellular signaling pathways regulating mitochondrial 
activity, and hence the generation of ROS and retrograde signaling events 
originating in mitochondria, have recently moved into the spotlight in aging 
research. Involvement of the energy-sensing TOR pathway in both mitochondrial 
signaling and determination of life span has been shown in several studies. This 
brief review summarizes the recent progress on how mitochondrial signaling might 
contribute to the aging process with a particular emphasis on TOR signaling from 
invertebrates to humans.

DOI: 10.1515/BC.2006.170
PMID: 17081107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Ann Surg Oncol. 2007 Feb;14(2):998-1004. doi: 10.1245/s10434-006-9000-5.
Epub  2006 Nov 3.

Prognosis scores of Tokuhashi and Tomita for patients with spinal metastases of 
renal cancer.

Ulmar B(1), Naumann U, Catalkaya S, Muche R, Cakir B, Schmidt R, Reichel H, Huch 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, University of Ulm, Oberer Eselsberg 45, D-89081, 
Ulm, Germany. benjamin.ulmar@uni-ulm.de

BACKGROUND: Retrospective evaluation of the prognosis scores of Tokuhashi and 
Tomita for life expectancy in 37 consecutive patients with spinal metastases 
secondary to renal cancer who underwent surgery. The score of Tokuhashi, 
composed of six parameters, each rated from zero to two, has been proposed in 
1990 for the prognostic assessment of patients with spinal metastases. In 2001, 
Tomita et al. created another prognostic score, composed of three parameters, 
growth behaviour of the primary tumor (slow, moderate and rapid) and the 
evidence of visceral and bony metastases.
METHODS: Thirty-seven patients, surgically treated for vertebral metastases 
secondary to renal cancer were studied. The scores according to Tokuhashi and 
Tomita were calculated for each patient.
RESULTS: Applying the Tokuhashi Score for the estimation of life expectancy of 
renal cancer patients with vertebral metastases was found to provide very 
reliable results with a statistically high significance. The analysis according 
to Tomita showed no correlation between predicted and real survival. The 
statistical analysis did not show any significance.
CONCLUSION: For surgical decisions in renal cancer patients with spinal 
metastases, the prognostic score of Tokuhashi appears to be much more valuable 
than the Tomita score.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-006-9000-5
PMID: 17083006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Popul Health Metr. 2006 Nov 3;4:14. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-4-14.

Estimating health-adjusted life expectancy conditional on risk factors: results 
for smoking and obesity.

van Baal PH(1), Hoogenveen RT, de Wit GA, Boshuizen HC.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands. pieter.van.baal@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: Smoking and obesity are risk factors causing a large burden of 
disease. To help formulate and prioritize among smoking and obesity prevention 
activities, estimations of health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) for cohorts 
that differ solely in their lifestyle (e.g. smoking vs. non smoking) can provide 
valuable information. Furthermore, in combination with estimates of life 
expectancy (LE), it can be tested whether prevention of obesity and smoking 
results in compression of morbidity.
METHODS: Using a dynamic population model that calculates the incidence of 
chronic disease conditional on epidemiological risk factors, we estimated LE and 
HALE at age 20 for a cohort of smokers with a normal weight (BMI < 25), a cohort 
of non-smoking obese people (BMI>30) and a cohort of 'healthy living' people 
(i.e. non smoking with a BMI < 25). Health state valuations for the different 
cohorts were calculated using the estimated disease prevalence rates in 
combination with data from the Dutch Burden of Disease study. Health state 
valuations are multiplied with life years to estimate HALE. Absolute compression 
of morbidity is defined as a reduction in unhealthy life expectancy (LE-HALE) 
and relative compression as a reduction in the proportion of life lived in good 
health (LE-HALE)/LE.
RESULTS: Estimates of HALE are highest for a 'healthy living' cohort (54.8 years 
for men and 55.4 years for women at age 20). Differences in HALE compared to 
'healthy living' men at age 20 are 7.8 and 4.6 for respectively smoking and 
obese men. Differences in HALE compared to 'healthy living' women at age 20 are 
6.0 and 4.5 for respectively smoking and obese women. Unhealthy life expectancy 
is about equal for all cohorts, meaning that successful prevention would not 
result in absolute compression of morbidity. Sensitivity analyses demonstrate 
that although estimates of LE and HALE are sensitive to changes in disease 
epidemiology, differences in LE and HALE between the different cohorts are 
fairly robust. In most cases, elimination of smoking or obesity does not result 
in absolute compression of morbidity but slightly increases the part of life 
lived in good health.
CONCLUSION: Differences in HALE between smoking, obese and 'healthy living' 
cohorts are substantial and similar to differences in LE. However, our results 
do not indicate that substantial compression of morbidity is to be expected as a 
result of successful smoking or obesity prevention.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-4-14
PMCID: PMC1636666
PMID: 17083719


645. Health Technol Assess. 2006 Nov;10(45):1-141, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta10450.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic surgery for 
colorectal cancer: systematic reviews and economic evaluation.

Murray A(1), Lourenco T, de Verteuil R, Hernandez R, Fraser C, McKinley A, 
Krukowski Z, Vale L, Grant A.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic, laparoscopically assisted (hereafter 
together described as laparoscopic surgery) and hand-assisted laparoscopic 
surgery (HALS) in comparison with open surgery for the treatment of colorectal 
cancer.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched from 2000 to May 2005. A review 
of economic evaluations was undertaken by the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence in 2001. This review was updated from 2000 until July 2005.
REVIEW METHODS: Data from selected studies were extracted and assessed. 
Dichotomous outcome data from individual trials were combined using the relative 
risk method and continuous outcomes were combined using the Mantel-Haenszel 
weighted mean difference method. Summaries of the results from individual 
patient data (IPD) meta-analyses were also presented. An economic evaluation was 
also carried out using a Markov model incorporating the data from the systematic 
review. The results were first presented as a balance sheet for comparison of 
the surgical techniques. It was then used to estimate cost-effectiveness 
measured in terms of incremental cost per life-year gained and incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for a time horizon up to 25 years.
RESULTS: Forty-six reports on 20 studies [19 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) 
and one IPD meta-analysis] were included in the review of clinical 
effectiveness. The RCTs were of generally moderate quality with the number of 
participants varying between 16 and 1082, with 10 having less than 100 
participants. The total numbers of trial participants who underwent laparoscopic 
or open surgery were 2429 and 2139, respectively. A systematic review of four 
papers suggested that laparoscopic surgery is more costly than open surgery. 
However, the data they provided on effectiveness was poorer than the evidence 
from the review of effectiveness. The estimates from the systematic review of 
clinical effectiveness were incorporated into a Markov model used to estimate 
cost-effectiveness for a time horizon of up to 25 years. In terms of incremental 
cost per life-year, laparoscopic surgery was found to be more costly and no more 
effective than open surgery. With respect to incremental cost per QALY, few data 
were available to differentiate between laparoscopic and open surgery. The 
results of the base-case analysis indicate that there is an approximately 40% 
chance that laparoscopic surgery is the more cost-effective intervention at a 
threshold willingness to pay for a QALY of pound 30,000. A second analysis 
assuming equal mortality and disease-free survival found that there was an 
approximately 50% likelihood at a similar threshold value. Broadly similar 
results were found in the sensitivity analyses. A threshold analysis was 
performed to investigate the magnitude of QALY gain associated with quicker 
recovery following laparoscopic surgery required to provide an incremental cost 
per QALY of pound 30,000. The implied number of additional QALYs required would 
be 0.009-0.010 compared with open surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic resection is associated with a quicker recovery 
(shorter time to return to usual activities and length of hospitalisation) and 
no evidence of a difference in mortality or disease-free survival up to 3 years 
following surgery. However, operation times are longer and a significant number 
of procedures initiated laparoscopically may need to be converted to open 
surgery. The rate of conversion may be dependent on experience in terms of both 
patient selection and performing the technique. Laparoscopic resection appears 
more costly to the health service than open resection, with an estimated extra 
total cost of between pound 250 and pound 300 per patient. In terms of relative 
cost-effectiveness, laparoscopic resection is associated with a modest 
additional cost, short-term benefits associated with more rapid recovery and 
similar long-term outcomes in terms of survival and cure rates up to 3 years. 
Assuming equivalence of long-term outcomes, a judgement is required as to 
whether the benefits associated with earlier recovery are worth this extra cost. 
The long-term follow-up of the RCT cohorts would be very useful further research 
and ideally these data should be incorporated into a wider IPD meta-analysis. 
Data on the long-term complications of surgery such as incisional hernias and 
differences in outcomes such as persisting pain would also be valuable. Once 
available, further data on both costs and utilities should be included in an 
updated model. At this point, further consideration should then be given as to 
whether additional data should be collected within ongoing trials. Few data were 
available to assess the relative merits of HALS. Ideally, there should be more 
data from methodologically sound RCTs. Further research is needed on whether the 
balance of advantages and disadvantages of laparoscopic surgery varies within 
subgroups based on the different stages and locations of disease. Research 
relating to the effect of experience on performance is also required.

DOI: 10.3310/hta10450
PMID: 17083853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Urol. 2006 Dec;176(6 Pt 2):S42-6. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2006.06.082.

The case for systemic therapy alone for prostate cancer.

Sweeney C(1).

Author information:
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, 535 Barnhill Drive No. 473, 
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. chsweene@iupui.edu

PURPOSE: This review details clinical scenarios that may be appropriate for the 
use of primary androgen deprivation alone for organ confined prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Medline and National Cancer Institute clinical trials 
databases were used. Searches were made regarding current and potential data to 
guide therapeutic decision making.
RESULTS: Data integration that incorporates patient comorbidities and cancer 
histological features can identify patients at low vs high risk for death from 
prostate cancer. Observational databases have documented an increase in the use 
of primary androgen deprivation for low and high risk disease. Outcome data on 
androgen deprivation therapy alone in patients with metastatic as well as 
localized disease were reviewed. The potential of newer therapies, including 
chemotherapy, and therapies that target aberrant signaling pathways was also 
reviewed. The latter holds the potential to more effectively eradicate distant 
metastatic disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with high risk prostate cancer are those with a high 
chance of relapse with systemic disease despite treatment with definitive local 
therapy. Moreover, a patient with multiple comorbidities, and associated short 
life expectancy and high risk cancer may be a suitable candidate for systemic 
therapy alone with the goal of local and systemic disease control. In contrast, 
deferred systemic therapy alone until local progression and/or metastatic 
disease can be considered in a patient with low risk, indolent disease and a 
life expectancy of less than 10 years with the goal of avoiding over treating 
most patients, who often do not require any therapy during life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2006.06.082
PMID: 17084165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Urol. 2006 Dec;176(6 Pt 2):S76-80; discussion S81-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.juro.2006.06.080.

Management of high risk metastatic prostate cancer: the case for novel 
therapies.

Brand TC(1), Tolcher AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, 7703 Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA. brandt2@uthscsa.edu

PURPOSE: We reviewed the results of preliminary studies of select novel agents 
for metastatic prostate cancer and discuss the potential benefit of these agents 
for earlier stage disease, eg biochemically recurrent prostate cancer with high 
risk features.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Available data on select investigational immunotherapies 
as well as endothelin-A receptor antagonists and survivin inhibitors were 
obtained and reviewed through PubMed searches, conference proceedings and 
unpublished proprietary information, when available.
RESULTS: A large number of promising agents are in varying stages of 
development. Phase III results have been reported for the endothelin-A receptor 
antagonist atrasentan. Several immunotherapies are currently in phase II/III 
trials, namely the GM-CSF transduced tumor cell vaccine GVAX, the prostatic acid 
phosphatase loaded dendritic cell vaccine Provenge and the prostate specific 
antigen expressing poxvirus vaccine PROSTVAC-VF. Another immunotherapy, the 
prostate specific membrane antigen immunoconjugate MLN2704 (Millennium 
Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, Massachusetts), is in phase I/II study. The first 
clinical inhibitors of survivin are in early phase I studies. Several of these 
agents, including atrasentan, have shown statistically significant but modest 
effects in the advanced disease setting in which they have been studied.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical trial design with these novel therapies presents 
particular challenges since most of these agents may induce disease 
stabilization rather than disease regression. There is a risk of false-negative 
results and failure to recognize a potentially efficacious agent if these 
cytostatic agents are studied only in men with advanced, heavily pretreated 
disease in whom life expectancy is measured in months. We advocate the early 
referral and enrollment of men with high risk prostate cancer in clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2006.06.080
PMID: 17084174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Environ Res. 2007 May;104(1):128-34. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2006.09.007. Epub
 2006 Nov 7.

Social sexual inequality and sex difference in cancer incidence.

Benigni R(1).

Author information:
(1)Environment and Health Department, Istituto Superiore di Sanita, Viale Regina 
Elena 299-00161 Rome, Italy. rbenigni@iss.it

Socioeconomic factors play many roles in influencing health including overall 
health status, lifestyle and occupational exposures, and access to preventive, 
diagnostic and treatment services. This paper reviews evidence on the 
geographical distribution of the sex differences in cancer incidence and life 
expectancy. The analyses reported are at the regional (Italy), continental 
(Europe), and world-wide scales. In agreement with other contributions on the 
social epidemiology of cancer, these results indicate that there is a close link 
between the health of the populations, and socioeconomic and cultural factors, 
and support the notion that environment contributes strongly to total cancer 
incidence. Thus, the emphasis for reducing cancer incidence needs to focus more 
on reducing environmental contributions. In order to improve the health status 
of the populations, not only applications of the present etiologic knowledge are 
necessary (for example, it is estimated that around up to 50% of cancers are 
nowadays technically preventable), but also further research on environmental 
topics should be stimulated. Within this perspective the indicators of health 
differences between genders-which are demonstrated to be very sensitive to 
socioeconomic and cultural factors--can play a very useful role for monitoring 
environmental factors, and for health planning by agencies and governments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2006.09.007
PMID: 17084838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Vet Clin North Am Small Anim Pract. 2006 Nov;36(6):1377-84, viii. doi: 
10.1016/j.cvsm.2006.08.011.

Nutritional management of chronic renal disease in dogs and cats.

Elliott DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Canin USA, 500 Fountain Lakes Boulevard, Suite 100, St. Charles, MO 
63301, USA. Denise.elliott@royalcain.us

Chronic renal disease is a leading cause of death in dogs and cats. Recent 
clinical studies show that nutrition plays a key role in improving quality of 
life and life expectancy of these patients. Typical nutritional interventions 
include modifying the protein, phosphorus, and lipid concentrations. Nutritional 
therapy, however, does not simply mean changing the diet; consideration must 
also be given to ensuring adequate caloric intake and to the method of feeding. 
Monitoring the effects of the dietary therapy is also crucial to ensure that the 
patients are responding appropriately to the selected nutritional modifications. 
Nutritional management must be coordinated with medical management for long term 
successful treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvsm.2006.08.011
PMID: 17085241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1398-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl237. Epub 2006
Nov  3.

Commentary: the health crisis in the USSR: looking behind the facade.

McKee M(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London WC1E 
7HT, UK. martin.mckee@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1384-94.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl237
PMID: 17085454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Am Heart Hosp J. 2006 Fall;4(4):279-89. doi:
10.1111/j.1541-9215.2006.05728.x.

Cost-effectiveness of impedance cardiography testing in uncontrolled 
hypertension.

Ferrario CM(1), Smith RD; CONTROL Trial Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Hypertension and Vascular Disease Center, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. cferrari@wfubmc.edu

To evaluate the short- and long-term cost-effectiveness of impedance 
cardiography (ICG) testing in uncontrolled hypertensives, we analyzed the 
Consideration of Noninvasive Hemodynamic Monitoring to Target Reduction of Blood 
Pressure Levels (CONTROL) trial results that compared the blood 
pressure-lowering effects of standard vs ICG care. Short-term cost-effectiveness 
was evaluated as the incremental cost per incremental mm Hg reduced during the 
trial. Long-term cost-effectiveness was evaluated as incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained over 10 years. ICG care short-term 
cost-effectiveness was 20 US dollar per incremental mm Hg reduced for systolic 
blood pressure (vs standard care, 36 US dollar per mm Hg reduced) and 23 US 
dollar per incremental mm Hg reduced for diastolic blood pressure (vs standard 
care, 79 US dollar per mm Hg reduced). In the long term, ICG resulted in a 476 
US dollar cost savings and 0.109 quality-adjusted life-years gained per patient 
(-4,371 US dollar per quality-adjusted life-year gained, sensitivity analysis 
-8,764 to 13,163 US dollar). The use of ICG testing to reduce blood pressure in 
uncontrolled hypertensive patients is cost-effective from both a short- and 
long-term perspective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1541-9215.2006.05728.x
PMID: 17086009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 2006 Nov-Dec;15(6):367-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1076-7460.2006.05935.x.

Why cardioverter-defibrillator implantation might not be the best idea for your 
elderly patient.

Yarnoz MJ(1), Curtis AB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Disease, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL 
33612, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 2006 Nov-Dec;15(6):336-7.

Over the last decade, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) have become 
a part of mainstream clinical practice, with improvements in survival in a broad 
range of patients. Given the overall limited life expectancy of elderly 
patients, their frequent comorbidities, and the complications associated with 
ICD implantation, it may not be reasonable to expect results with ICD 
implantation in the elderly to be comparable to that found in the clinical 
trials. In this paper, the authors review the available scientific literature 
and discuss why mainstream ICD use in the elderly may not be advisable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1076-7460.2006.05935.x
PMID: 17086030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. AIDS. 2006 Nov 14;20(17):2207-15. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e328010c7d0.

Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of strategies to expand antiretroviral 
therapy in St. Petersburg, Russia.

Long EF(1), Brandeau ML, Galvin CM, Vinichenko T, Tole SP, Schwartz A, Sanders 
GD, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA 94305, USA. elisa46@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of treating 
HIV-infected injection drug users (IDUs) and non-IDUs in Russia with highly 
active antiretroviral therapy HAART.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A dynamic HIV epidemic model was developed for a population 
of IDUs and non-IDUs. The location for the study was St. Petersburg, Russia. The 
adult population aged 15 to 49 years was subdivided on the basis of injection 
drug use and HIV status. HIV treatment targeted to IDUs and non-IDUs, and 
untargeted treatment interventions were considered. Health care costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) experienced in the population were measured, 
and HIV prevalence, HIV infections averted, and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios of different HAART strategies were calculated.
RESULTS: With no incremental HAART programs, HIV prevalence reached 64% among 
IDUs and 1.7% among non-IDUs after 20 years. If treatment were targeted to IDUs, 
over 40 000 infections would be prevented (75% among non-IDUs), adding 650 000 
QALYs at a cost of USD 1501 per QALY gained. If treatment were targeted to 
non-IDUs, fewer than 10 000 infections would be prevented, adding 400 000 QALYs 
at a cost of USD 2572 per QALY gained. Untargeted strategies prevented the most 
infections, adding 950 000 QALYs at a cost of USD 1827 per QALY gained. Our 
results were sensitive to HIV transmission parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Expanded use of antiretroviral therapy in St. Petersburg, Russia 
would generate enormous population-wide health benefits and be economically 
efficient. Exclusively treating non-IDUs provided the least health benefit, and 
was the least economically efficient. Our findings highlight the urgency of 
initiating HAART for both IDUs and non-IDUs in Russia.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e328010c7d0
PMID: 17086061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Eye (Lond). 2007 Dec;21(12):1455-63. doi: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702636. Epub 2006
Nov  10.

Using contrast sensitivity to estimate the cost-effectiveness of verteporfin in 
patients with predominantly classic age-related macular degeneration.

Bansback N(1), Davis S, Brazier J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR (School of Health and Related 
Research), University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. n.j.bansback@sheffield.ac.uk

AIMS: To re-evaluate the cost-effectiveness of photodynamic therapy with 
verteporfin (Visudyne, Novartis AG, Switzerland) in patients with predominantly 
classic and classic choroidal neovascularization (CNV) owing to age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD), using new evidence on the impact of contrast 
sensitivity on health status.
METHOD: A health economic model is used to synthesise the evidence on contrast 
sensitivity and treatment rates from the TAP Investigation with health state 
utilities and costs. Impairment of visual function is estimated using a Markov 
model to predict transitions between states of contrast sensitivity. Each state 
is associated with costs and a health state utility. Total expected costs and 
benefits for a cohort of patients over a defined number of cycles are 
calculated. The expected health state utility for each disease state was 
estimated using results from a study of 209 patients with AMD in Sheffield. The 
model includes the costs associated with treatment and monitoring in the 
verteporfin treatment arm and costs offset by delaying the deterioration of 
visual function.
RESULTS: Beyond 3 years, the annual costs of the verteporfin arm are estimated 
to be less than the annual costs of the control arm, owing to the cost 
associated with higher blindness prevalence in the control arm. Over time, the 
results show that both the incremental utility and cost decreases. By 10 years, 
the estimated incremental cost-effectiveness is approximately pound20 996 per 
Quality-Adjusted Life Years.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that the verteporfin therapy in 
the treatment for patients with predominantly classic and classic CNV owing to 
AMD is encouraging.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702636
PMID: 17086167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Osteoporos Int. 2007 Mar;18(3):261-70. doi: 10.1007/s00198-006-0248-1. Epub
2006  Nov 4.

Persistence, reproducibility, and cost-effectiveness of an intervention to 
improve the quality of osteoporosis care after a fracture of the wrist: results 
of a controlled trial.

Majumdar SR(1), Johnson JA, Lier DA, Russell AS, Hanley DA, Blitz S, Steiner IP, 
Maksymowych WP, Morrish DW, Holroyd BR, Rowe BH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. 
me2.majumdar@ualberta.ca

INTRODUCTION: Older patients with fragility fractures are not commonly tested or 
treated for osteoporosis. Compared to usual care, a previously reported 
intervention led to 30% absolute increases in osteoporosis treatment within 6 
months of wrist fracture. Our objective was to examine longer-term outcomes, 
reproducibility, and cost-effectiveness of this intervention.
METHODS: We conducted an extended analysis of a non-randomized controlled trial 
with blinded ascertainment of outcomes that compared a multifaceted intervention 
to usual care controls. Patients >50 years with a wrist fracture treated in two 
Emergency Departments in the province of Alberta, Canada were included; those 
already treated for osteoporosis were excluded. Overall, 102 patients 
participated in this study (55 intervention and 47 controls; median age: 66 
years; 78% were women). The interventions consisted of faxed physician reminders 
that contained osteoporosis treatment guidelines endorsed by opinion leaders and 
patient counseling. Controls received usual care; at 6-months post-fracture, 
when the original trial was completed, all controls were crossed-over to 
intervention. The main outcomes were rates of osteoporosis testing and treatment 
within 6 months (original study) and 1 year (delayed intervention) of fracture, 
and 1-year persistence with treatments started. From the perspective of the 
healthcare payer, the cost-effectiveness (using a Markov decision-analytic 
model) of the intervention was compared with usual care over a lifetime horizon.
RESULTS: Overall, 40% of the intervention patients (vs. 10% of the controls) 
started treatment within 6 months post-fracture, and 82% (95%CI: 67-96%) had 
persisted with it at 1-year post-fracture. Delaying the intervention to controls 
for 6 months still led to equivalent rates of bone mineral density (BMD) testing 
(64 vs. 60% in the original study; p = 0.72) and osteoporosis treatment (43 vs. 
40%; p = 0.77) as previously reported. Compared with usual care, the 
intervention strategy was dominant - per patient, it led to a $13 Canadian (U.S. 
$9) cost savings and a gain of 0.012 quality-adjusted life years. Base-case 
results were most sensitive to assumptions about treatment cost; for example, a 
50% increase in the price of osteoporosis medication led to an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $24,250 Canadian (U.S. $17,218) per quality-adjusted 
life year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: A pragmatic intervention directed at patients and physicians led to 
substantial improvements in osteoporosis treatment, even when delivered 6-months 
post-fracture. From the healthcare payer's perspective, the intervention appears 
to have led to both cost-savings and gains in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-006-0248-1
PMID: 17086470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. J Rheumatol. 2006 Nov;33(11):2124-31.

Cost-effectiveness of biologic agents for treatment of autoimmune disorders: 
structured review of the literature.

Fleurence R(1), Spackman E.

Author information:
(1)Health Care Analytics Group, United BioSource Corporation, 7101 Wisconsin 
Avenue, Suite 600, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. 
rachael.fleurence@unitedbiosource.com

Comment in
    J Rheumatol. 2007 Jun;34(6):1437.

OBJECTIVE: Four new biologic treatments have been approved for several 
autoimmune disorders. Economic evaluations have been used to model their 
cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: We conducted a structured literature review in Embase and PubMed to 
identify all relevant cost-effectiveness models investigating one or more of 
these 4 drugs in autoimmune disorders.
RESULTS: Fifteen full economic evaluations were identified [13 for rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA), 2 for Crohn's disease (CD), and 1 for ankylosing spondylitis 
(AS)]. While several studies found adalimumab, etanercept, and infliximab to be 
cost-effective (using a threshold around $50,000/quality-adjusted life-year) for 
treatment of severe RA, not all studies concurred, and there was significant 
variation in the range of cost-effectiveness ratios reported. Neither study in 
CD found treatment with infliximab to be cost-effective. Only one study was 
identified in AS: treatment with infliximab was found to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Modeling treatment strategies in chronic relapsing diseases such as 
RA, CD, and AS presents particular challenges, as reflected in the variation in 
cost-effectiveness results reported. A reference case for economic evaluations, 
such as that suggested by the OMERACT (Outcome Measures in Rheumatology) Health 
Economics Working Group will facilitate comparison and interpretation of 
results.

PMID: 17086602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Gig Sanit. 2006 Sep-Oct;(5):26-8.

[Estimation of environmental factors-caused damage to human health in the 
Republic of Kazakhstan].

[Article in Russian]

Korchevskiĭ AA.

The author proposes a theoretical rationale for estimation of environmental 
factor-induced damage to human health in the Republic of Kazakhstan. The 
stochastic nature of damage is shown and an association of the latter with the 
health risk category has been established. The author has developed a model of a 
relationship of health life expectancy to the level of gross domestic product 
and a procedure for economic evaluation of environment-induced damage to human 
health.

PMID: 17087206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Dev Psychol. 2006 Nov;42(6):1089-102. doi: 10.1037/0012-1649.42.6.1089.

Life-span development of visual working memory: when is feature binding 
difficult?

Cowan N(1), Naveh-Benjamin M, Kilb A, Saults JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 
65211, USA. CowanN@missouri.edu

Erratum in
    Dev Psychol. 2016 Oct;52(10 ):1544.

We asked whether the ability to keep in working memory the binding between a 
visual object and its spatial location changes with development across the life 
span more than memory for item information. Paired arrays of colored squares 
were identical or differed in the color of one square, and in the latter case, 
the changed color was unique on that trial (item change) or was duplicated 
elsewhere in the array (color-location binding change). Children (8-10 and 11-12 
years old) and older adults (65-85 years old) showed deficits relative to young 
adults. These were only partly simulated by dividing attention in young adults. 
The older adults had an additional deficiency, specifically in binding 
information, which was evident only when item- and binding-change trials were 
mixed together. In that situation, the older adults often overlooked the more 
subtle, binding-type changes. Some working memory processes related to binding 
undergo life-span development in an inverted-U shape, whereas other, bias- and 
salience-related processes that influence the use of binding information seem to 
develop monotonically.

DOI: 10.1037/0012-1649.42.6.1089
PMCID: PMC1635970
PMID: 17087544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2006 Nov;54(11):1658-65. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00939.x.

Can hip protector use cost-effectively prevent fractures in community-dwelling 
geriatric populations?

Honkanen LA(1), Mushlin AI, Lachs M, Schackman BR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Weill Medical College of Cornell 
University, New York, NY 10021, USA. lih2002@med.cornell.edu

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2007 Jun;55(6):959-60; author reply 960.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness from a societal perspective of a 
hip protector (HP) program over the remaining lifetime of individuals initially 
living at home.
DESIGN: A state-transition Markov model considering outcomes of HP use in 
cohorts stratified by age, sex, and functional and residential status. Costs, 
transition probabilities, HP adherence, and efficacy were derived from published 
sources.
SETTING: Community and nursing homes in the United States.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohort of individuals aged 65 and older without a hip 
fracture and initially living at home.
INTERVENTION: HP program.
MEASUREMENTS: Fractures, life years, and dollars saved, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER).
RESULTS: HP use prevented fractures and increased life expectancy in all 
cohorts. HP use saved costs and improved QALYs in women initiating HP use at age 
80 and in men at age 85. In women initiating HP use at age 75, the HP ICER was 
19,000 dollars/QALY. In men initiating HP use at age 80, HP use saved costs but 
slightly decreased QALYs. In younger cohorts, HP use was neither cost saving nor 
QALY improving. In sensitivity analyses, if there was no QALY loss from wearing 
a HP, the ICER was less than 50,000 dollars/QALY for all age and sex cohorts. If 
HP cost was reduced 50%, HP use was cost saving for women initiating HP use at 
age 75. In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, the HP ICER was less than 50,000 
dollars/QALY in 68% of simulations for women initiating HP use at age 75 and 61% 
of simulations for men initiating at age 85.
CONCLUSION: HP use saved costs and QALYs for older age cohorts of both sexes. 
Additional research on the quality-of-life effects and obstacles to wearing HP 
is warranted.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00939.x
PMID: 17087691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2006 Nov;54(11):1719-24. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00921.x.

Low alanine aminotransferase activity in older people is associated with greater 
long-term mortality.

Elinav E(1), Ackerman Z, Maaravi Y, Ben-Dov IZ, Ein-Mor E, Stessman J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, Mount 
Scopus Campus, Jerusalem, Israel. eelina97@md.huji.ac.il

OBJECTIVES: To find possible association between liver enzymes and mortality in 
older people.
DESIGN: A prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Jerusalem.
PARTICIPANTS: A systematically selected representative sample of 455 70-year-old 
ambulatory individuals was prospectively followed for 12 years.
MEASUREMENTS: An extensive social and medical profile was developed at age 70 
using a detailed interview and physical and ancillary examination. Information 
on mortality was obtained annually. Differences in survival between subjects 
stratified according to liver enzyme levels were assessed using the Kaplan-Meier 
method. Multivariable survival analyses using a Cox proportional hazards model 
were performed to determine the association between liver enzyme levels at age 
70 and mortality over 12 years.
RESULTS: Median alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity of the study population 
was 11.00 U/L for women and 13.00 U/L for men. Twelve-year survival rates for 
women with ALT below and above the median levels were similar (78%). For men, 
these rates were 54% and 65%, respectively (P < .001). Proportional hazards 
models demonstrated that this greater mortality risk was independent of numerous 
common risk factors for mortality (hazard ratio (HR) = 1.5, 95% confidence 
interval (CI) = 1.08-2.19). Adding an interaction between sex and low ALT to the 
model demonstrated a higher risk of mortality for men with low ALT levels (HR = 
2.42, 95% CI = 1.15-5.08). No such risk was demonstrated for the other liver 
enzymes.
CONCLUSION: ALT activity represents a strong and independent surrogate marker 
for mortality in community-dwelling elderly men.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00921.x
PMID: 17087699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. J Addict Dis. 2006;25(4):37-47. doi: 10.1300/J069v25n04_04.

Life expectancy and productivity loss among narcotics addicts thirty-three years 
after index treatment.

Smyth B(1), Fan J, Hser YI.

Author information:
(1)UCLA Substance Abuse Programs, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human 
Behavior, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90025, USA.

This study computed the life expectancy of a cohort of male narcotics addicts 
followed for 33 years and assessed the productivity lost as a result of 
premature mortality. The future life expectancy was constructed for the 
narcotics addicts and for a comparable cohort from the general U.S. population. 
The average future life expectancy of the cohort was 18.84 years compared to 
33.48 years for comparable U.S. males (t = 49.49, p < .00001). As a result of 
this premature mortality, the estimated monetary value of lost productivity was 
greater than 174 million dollars. The lives of heroin addicts were severely 
truncated at productive ages resulting in a loss of potential productivity that 
increases social and economic burdens.

DOI: 10.1300/J069v25n04_04
PMID: 17088224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):I20. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-9-200611070-00002.

Summaries for patients. Age, chronic illness, and life expectancy after a 
diagnosis of colorectal cancer.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):646-53.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-9-200611070-00002
PMID: 17088573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):646-53. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-9-200611070-00006.

The effect of age and chronic illness on life expectancy after a diagnosis of 
