for high voluntary exercise.

Bronikowski AM(1), Morgan TJ, Garland T Jr, Carter PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa State 
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA. abroniko@iastate.edu

We tested whether selective breeding for early-age high voluntary exercise 
behavior over 16 generations caused the evolution of lifelong exercise behavior, 
life expectancy, and age-specific mortality in house mice (Mus domesticus). 
Sixteenth-generation mice from four replicate selection lines and four replicate 
random-bred control lines were individually housed from weaning through death 
and divided between two activity treatments (either with or without running 
wheels). Thus, there were four treatment groups: selection versus control 
crossed with active versus sedentary. The effects of selective breeding on life 
expectancy and age-specific mortality differed between females and males. In 
females, sedentary selection mice had early and high initial adult mortality and 
thus the lowest increases in mortality with age. Active selection females had 
the lowest early adult mortality, had limited mortality during midlife, and 
exhibited rapid increases in mortality rates at the very end of life; thus, they 
had deferred senescence. Median life expectancy was greater for both groups of 
selection females than for the two complementary groups of control females. Like 
females, sedentary selection males had the highest early adult mortality, and 
slow but steadily increasing mortality over the entire lifetime. Unlike the 
active selection females, active control males had the lowest mortality across 
the lifespan (until the end of life). Interestingly, the males with the lowest 
median life expectancy were those in the active selection treatment group. In 
both sexes, running (km/week) decreased over the lifetime to very low and 
virtually equivalent levels at the end of life in control and selection mice. 
Overall, these results demonstrate an evolutionary cost of selective breeding 
for males, regardless of exercise level, but a benefit for females when they 
have an outlet for the up-selected behavior. We conclude that correlated 
evolution of senescence occurs in mice selectively bred for high voluntary wheel 
running; exercise per se is beneficial for control mice of both sexes, but the 
impact on the effect of selection depends on sex; and the behavioral effect of 
exercise selection at an early age declines throughout the life span, which 
demonstrates decreasing genetic correlations over age for the genes involved in 
increased exercise.

PMID: 16929666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Drugs Aging. 2006;23(7):535-58. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200623070-00001.

Chronic non-infectious uveitis in the elderly: epidemiology, pathophysiology and 
management.

Gupta R(1), Murray PI.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Ophthalmology, Division of Immunity and Infection, 
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

Intraocular inflammatory diseases are collectively known as uveitis. The 
aetiology of this condition can be diverse, as inflammation may result from 
direct involvement of the uveal tract or indirect inflammation of adjacent 
tissues. Uveitis can present challenges to diagnosis and treatment, and is 
potentially a severe sight-threatening disease. In the elderly, uveitis can 
present de novo after the age of 60 years or may represent a process earlier in 
life continuing after the age of 60 years, although many cases will have become 
quiescent by that time. More recent studies suggest that uveitis presenting 
after 60 years of age is more common than previously believed. Most cases of 
uveitis are of unknown aetiology and are classed as idiopathic, although 
sarcoidosis, ocular ischaemia and birdshot chorioretinopathy are recognised 
non-infectious causes of uveitis in the elderly. Systemic immunosuppression, 
with its well known complications, may be required to preserve vision. In this 
age group, one should always have high suspicion of a masquerade syndrome, 
particularly a primary CNS non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. With the demographics of the 
elderly population changing and mean life expectancy increasing, it is important 
that clinicians are familiar with uveitis as a potential cause of visual 
impairment in this age group.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200623070-00001
PMID: 16930083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Am J Cardiol. 2006 Sep 4;98(5A):3J-7J. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2006.07.002.
Epub  2006 Jul 24.

Changing scenario in chronic ischemic heart disease: therapeutic implications.

Marzilli M(1), Affinito S, Focardi M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Postgraduate School of Cardiology, University of 
Siena, Siena, Italy. marzilli@unisi.it

Over the last 30 years, considerable progress has been made in drug therapy for 
chronic ischemic heart disease (IHD). Most pharmacologic therapies act by 
reducing myocardial oxygen consumption, increasing coronary blood flow, 
improving ventricular relaxation, dilating collateral vessels, and reducing 
peripheral resistances. Despite "optimal" medical therapy, a large fraction of 
patients continue to present with angina and myocardial ischemia. Coronary 
angioplasty (percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) may improve 
symptoms, but several subgroups of patients, including the elderly, or those who 
have diabetes mellitus or heart failure, represent high-risk populations that do 
not always benefit from coronary revascularization. Epidemiologic studies show 
that life expectancy is longer compared with previous decades and that the 
prevalence of diabetes is increasing sharply worldwide. In addition, the 
prevalence of heart failure is growing because of the decreased death rate from 
acute myocardial infarction and improved survival of patients who have undergone 
coronary revascularization. We focus on this changing scenario of chronic IHD 
and propose an innovative approach to the treatment of angina in this context.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2006.07.002
PMID: 16931199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. AIDS. 2006 Aug 22;20(13):1753-61. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000242822.74624.5f.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV post-exposure prophylaxis in France.

Herida M(1), Larsen C, Lot F, Laporte A, Desenclos JC, Hamers FF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Institut de Veille Sanitaire, 12 rue du 
Val d'Osne, 94415 Saint-Maurice cedex, France. magid.herida@ecdc.eu.int

Comment in
    AIDS. 2006 Sep 11;20(14):1889-90.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of HIV post-exposure prophylaxis 
(PEP) in France.
METHODS: We used a decision tree to evaluate, from a society's perspective, the 
cost of PEP per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved. We used 1999-2003 PEP 
surveillance data and literature-derived data on per event transmission 
probabilities, PEP efficacy and quality of life with HIV. HIV prevalence and 
lifetime cost of HIV/AIDS management in the HAART era were derived from French 
studies. We assumed that mean life expectancy in full health was 65 years among 
uninfected individuals and that the mean survival time after HIV infection was 
22.5 years. The costs of PEP drugs and follow-up were derived from the French 
public sector. A 3% annual rate was used to discount future costs and effects.
RESULTS: During 1999-2003, PEP was prescribed to 8958 individuals (heterosexual 
sex: 47.6%; homosexual sex: 28.4%; occupational exposure: 23.4%; drug injection: 
0.6%); of those, 2143 were exposed to a known HIV-infected source. PEP was 
estimated to prevent 7.7 infections and saved 64.5 QALY at a net cost of euro 
5.7 million, resulting in an overall cost-effectiveness ratio of euro 88,692 per 
QALY saved. PEP was cost saving for 4.4% of cases and cost effective (< euro 
50,000 per QALY) in a further 11.3% of cases. In contrast, 72 and 52% of 
prescriptions had a cost-effectiveness ratio exceeding euro 200,000 and euro 2 
millions, respectively, per QALY saved.
CONCLUSION: Overall, the French PEP programme is only moderately cost effective. 
PEP guidelines should be revised to target high-risk exposures better.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000242822.74624.5f
PMID: 16931940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2006 Sep;118(3):587-93; discussion 594-6. doi: 
10.1097/01.prs.0000233038.47009.04.

Breast cancer diagnosis and prognosis in augmented women.

Handel N(1), Silverstein MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic Surgery, The David Geffen School of Medicine, University 
of California at Los Angeles, and the Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, USA. drhandel@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Recent years have witnessed growing concerns about the possible 
adverse effects of implants on breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. Numerous 
reports describe how implants might interfere with mammography and impair the 
ability to detect cancer. Several publications document the diminished 
sensitivity of mammography in augmented patients with palpable tumors. However, 
epidemiologic studies comparing stage of disease at time of diagnosis in 
augmented and nonaugmented women are equivocal. The purpose of this study was to 
review the authors' experience with a large number of breast cancer patients to 
determine whether implants impair early diagnosis or adversely affect prognosis.
METHODS: The authors reviewed their prospective database, which contains 
detailed information on 3953 nonaugmented and 129 augmented breast cancer 
patients. Various parameters of the two groups were compared and differences 
were analyzed using appropriate statistical methodology.
RESULTS: The authors' data reveal that augmented patients present with a 
statistically greater frequency of palpable lesions, have a slightly greater 
risk of invasive tumors, and have an increased likelihood of axillary lymph node 
metastases. Despite this, there was no statistically significant difference in 
stage of disease between augmented and nonaugmented patients; mean tumor size, 
recurrence rates, and breast cancer-specific survival were virtually identical 
in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on these findings, the authors conclude that despite the 
diminished sensitivity of mammography in women with implants, augmented and 
nonaugmented patients are diagnosed at a similar stage and have a comparable 
prognosis. While implants may impair mammography, they appear to facilitate 
detection of palpable breast cancers on physical examination.

DOI: 10.1097/01.prs.0000233038.47009.04
PMID: 16932162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nat Clin Pract Neurol. 2006 Feb;2(2):87-94; quiz 116. doi:
10.1038/ncpneuro0116.

Surgery insight: current management of epidural spinal cord compression from 
metastatic spine disease.

Witham TF(1), Khavkin YA, Gallia GL, Wolinsky JP, Gokaslan ZL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

Metastatic epidural spinal cord compression (MESCC) is becoming a more common 
clinically encountered entity as advancing systemic antineoplastic treatment 
modalities improve survival in cancer patients. Although treatment of MESCC 
remains a palliative endeavor, emerging surgical techniques, in combination with 
imaging modalities that detect spinal metastatic disease at an early stage, are 
resulting in improved outcomes. Here, we review the clinical presentation, 
diagnostic work-up and management options in the management of MESCC. A 
treatment paradigm is outlined with emphasis on early circumferential surgical 
decompression of the spinal cord with concomitant spinal stabilization. 
Radiation therapy has a clearly defined role in the treatment of patients with 
MESCC, particularly those with radiation-sensitive tumors in the setting of 
non-bony spinal cord compression and those with a limited life expectancy. 
Spinal stereotactic radiosurgery, vertebroplasty, and kyphoplasty, are emerging 
treatment options that are beginning to be used in selected patients with MESCC.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpneuro0116
PMID: 16932530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2006 Aug 24;126(16):2141-2.

[Is Norway the best country to live in?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Waaler HT(1).

Author information:
(1)Nasjonalt kunnskapssenter for helsetjenesten,Postboks 7004 St. Olavs 
plass,0130 Oslo. hans.vaaler@kunnskapssenteret.no

PMID: 16932789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Can J Psychiatry. 2006 Jul;51(8):492-501. doi: 10.1177/070674370605100804.

Metabolic monitoring for patients treated with antipsychotic medications.

Cohn TA(1), Sernyak MJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario. Tony_Cohn@camh.net

OBJECTIVES: Metabolic side effects of antipsychotic treatment include weight 
gain, dyslipidemia and increased susceptibility to diabetes. Patients with 
schizophrenia have increased coronary heart disease mortality and reduced life 
expectancy. There is an urgent clinical need to monitor antipsychotic-treated 
patients for metabolic disturbance. Our objectives were to review published 
international monitoring guidelines, establish goals for metabolic monitoring, 
and make recommendations for practice.
METHOD: We reviewed the major published consensus guidelines for metabolic 
monitoring of patients treated with antipsychotic medications and selectively 
reviewed practice guidelines for the management of diabetes, dyslipidemia, and 
hypertension.
RESULTS: Patients with serious mental illness have markedly elevated rates of 
metabolic disturbance and limited access to general medical care. Monitoring, 
but not necessarily medical treatment of metabolic disorder, falls within the 
scope of psychiatric practice and should include screening for metabolic 
disturbance as well as tracking the effects of antipsychotic treatment. In 
addition, psychiatrists and psychiatric services should work toward facilitating 
patients' access to medical care. There is considerable consensus in the 
published guidelines. Areas of dissent include which patients to monitor, the 
utility of glucose tolerance testing, and the point at which to consider 
switching antipsychotics.
CONCLUSION: We encourage clinicians to adopt a structured system for conducting 
and recording metabolic monitoring and to develop collaborations with family 
physicians, diabetes specialists, dieticians, and recreation therapists to 
facilitate appropriate medical care for antipsychotic-treated patients.

DOI: 10.1177/070674370605100804
PMID: 16933586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Eur Urol. 2006 Nov;50(5):914-26; discussion 926. doi: 
10.1016/j.eururo.2006.07.042. Epub 2006 Aug 11.

Prostate cancer nomograms: an update.

Chun FK(1), Karakiewicz PI, Briganti A, Gallina A, Kattan MW, Montorsi F, Huland 
H, Graefen M.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2006 Nov;50(5):884-6.

OBJECTIVE: Several nomograms have been developed to predict outcomes related to 
prostate cancer (PCa).
METHODS: We provide a descriptive and an analytic comparison of nomograms. 
Further, we report a set of recent PCa nomograms, in which we recorded predictor 
variables, number of patients used to develop each nomogram, and 
nomogram-specific features. Moreover, accuracy estimates and type of validation 
are considered.
RESULTS: Our findings suggest a demand for updated nomograms in selected fields 
of PCa outcomes. Moreover, an increasing number of nomograms address important 
end points such as prostate-specific antigen recurrence, distant metastases, or 
androgen-independent PCa-specific survival.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that nomograms are available for many 
PCa-related outcomes. They represent a valid methodologic approach if correct 
criteria are met.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2006.07.042
PMID: 16935414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Neuromuscul Disord. 2006 Oct;16(9-10):614; author reply 614-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.nmd.2006.07.006. Epub 2006 Aug 28.

Chest infections in young neuromuscular patients: the critical importance of 
preserving Vital Capacity.

Vianello A, Trani B, Greggio C, Donà A.

Comment on
    Neuromuscul Disord. 2006 May;16(5):325-8.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2006.07.006
PMID: 16935503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Ann Rheum Dis. 2007 Feb;66(2):228-34. doi: 10.1136/ard.2006.055111. Epub
2006  Aug 25.

Selective costimulation modulation using abatacept in patients with active 
rheumatoid arthritis while receiving etanercept: a randomised clinical trial.

Weinblatt M(1), Schiff M, Goldman A, Kremer J, Luggen M, Li T, Chen D, Becker 
JC.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology and Immunology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis Street, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. mweinblatt@partners.org

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy and safety of abatacept in combination 
with etanercept in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis during a 1-year, 
randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind phase, followed by an open-label, 
long-term extension (LTE).
METHODS: Patients continued etanercept (25 mg twice weekly) and were randomised 
to receive abatacept 2 mg/kg (n = 85) or placebo (n = 36). As the effective dose 
of abatacept was established as 10 mg/kg in a separate trial, all patients 
received abatacept 10 mg/kg and etanercept during the LTE.
RESULTS: A total of 121 patients were randomised; 80 completed double-blind 
treatment and entered the LTE. During double-blind treatment, the difference in 
the percentage of patients achieving the primary end point (modified American 
College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20 response at 6 months) was not significant 
between groups (48.2% v 30.6%; p = 0.072). At 1 year, no notable changes in 
modified ACR responses were observed. Subsequent to the dosing change, similar 
modified ACR responses were seen during the LTE. Significant improvements in 
quality of life were observed with abatacept and etanercept versus placebo and 
etanercept in five of the eight short-form 36 subscales at 1 year. More 
abatacept and etanercept-treated patients experienced serious adverse events 
(SAEs) at 1 year than patients receiving placebo and etanercept (16.5% v 2.8%), 
with 3.5% v 0% experiencing serious infections.
CONCLUSION: The combination of abatacept (at a dose of 2 mg/kg during the 
double-blind phase and 10 mg/kg during the LTE) and etanercept was associated 
with an increase in SAEs, including serious infections, with limited clinical 
effect. On the basis of the limited efficacy findings and safety concerns, 
abatacept in combination with etanercept should not be used for rheumatoid 
arthritis treatment.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2006.055111
PMCID: PMC1798511
PMID: 16935912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: MW has received consulting 
fees (< US $10 000/year) from the sponsor of this study, Bristol‐Myers Squibb, 
as a consultant. In addition, he has received research funding for support of 
this study. He has also received consulting fees (< US $10 000/year) from Wyeth, 
Amgen, Genentech, Centocor and Abbott and research funding from Amgen, Abbott 
and Genentech. MS has received research funding and consulting fees from 
Bristol‐Myers Squibb, Abbott, Amgen, Wyeth and Centocor. JK has received 
research grants from Bristol‐Myers Squibb and has also served as a consultant 
for research and on the development of educational presentations. AG and ML have 
no competing financial interests. TL is an employee of Bristol‐Myers Squibb and 
owns Bristol‐Myers Squibb stocks. DC and J‐CB are both employees of 
Bristol‐Myers Squibb.


308. Kinderkrankenschwester. 2006 Aug;25(8):324-5.

[Aging without limits].

[Article in German]

Schult TJ.

PMID: 16937828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2006 Jul;43(4):462-4. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.43.462.

[How far should life-style be corrected in the elderly?].

[Article in Japanese]

Shimokata H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Institute for Longevity Sciences.

To ensure a healthy elderly population, correction of life-style is one of the 
most important approaches. Smoking cessation, regulation of alcohol intake, 
prevention of obesity, improvement of nutrition, promotion of physical activity 
are key factors for prevention of bed-ridden and extension of healthy life span. 
Although corrections of life-style are essential in childhood, adolescence, and 
the middle-aged and elderly periods, the methods and purpose are different in 
each life stage. The risks of emaciation and malnutrition are more important 
rather than that of obesity in the elderly aged 75 years or over. As for the 
influence of smoking in cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, smoking can be 
a trigger for arrhythmia, peripheral vascular constriction, and irritation of 
the respiratory tract in the elderly. Smoking cessation is necessary even among 
elderly people. It is also necessary to decrease the amount of alcohol intake, 
because the ability of metabolize alcohol is limited in the elderly. Physical 
activity in the elderly people is fundamental not only to maintain the ability 
of daily living, but also to improve metabolic function and to prevent 
depression. Vigorous intervention to increase physical activity such as exercise 
class is recommended, especially in the elderly.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.43.462
PMID: 16937934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Eur J Anaesthesiol. 2006 Oct;23(10):815-23. doi: 10.1017/S0265021506001268.
Epub  2006 Aug 29.

Pulmonary endarterectomy.

Valchanov K(1), Vuylsteke A.

Author information:
(1)Papworth Hospital NHS Trust, Cambridge, UK.

Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension is a condition that is recognised 
in an increased percentage of patients. Pulmonary endarterectomy is recognised 
as being the only curative option for a subgroup of those patients, but 
anaesthesiologists and intensivists face many challenges in how they manage 
these patients perioperatively. Ultimately, it is the combination of skills in a 
multidisciplinary team that leads to a successful procedure and dramatically 
improves patient's quality of life and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1017/S0265021506001268
PMID: 16938154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Am J Clin Pathol. 2006 Oct;126(4):593-601. doi: 10.1309/GQFCCJMH5KHNVX73.

Mitochondrial DNA D-loop in pancreatic cancer: somatic mutations are 
epiphenomena while the germline 16519 T variant worsens metabolism and outcome.

Navaglia F(1), Basso D, Fogar P, Sperti C, Greco E, Zambon CF, Stranges A, Falda 
A, Pizzi S, Parenti A, Pedrazzoli S, Plebani M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Padova, Italy.

We ascertained the frequency of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) D-loop region somatic 
mutations in pancreatic cancer (PC) and verified whether polymorphisms were 
linked to diagnosis, prognosis, and PC-associated diabetes mellitus (DM) in 99 
PC cases, 42 chronic pancreatitis (CP) cases, 18 pancreatobiliary tract tumors, 
and 87 healthy control subjects (CSs). Tissue samples were obtained from 19 
patients with PC and 5 with CP. The D-loop region was sequenced from all tissue 
samples and from blood DNA of the same patients and 12 CSs. D-loop somatic 
mutations were found in 3 PC tissue samples (16%). Four single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs; T152C, T16189C, T16519C, A73G), more frequently found in PC 
than in CS, were analyzed by denaturing high-performance liquid 
chromatography-restriction fragment length polymorphism using blood DNA as the 
starting template in all cases. The T allele of 16519 SNP correlated with DM. 
The survival of patients with PC correlated with tumor stage and grade and with 
DM at diagnosis. When survival analysis was performed considering only patients 
with locally advanced disease, the T allele of mtDNA 16519 SNP correlated with 
shorter life expectancy. mtDNA D-loop somatic mutations, rarely found in PC, 
cannot be considered causative events for this tumor type and probably are 
epiphenomena; the mtDNA D-loop 16519 variant, which worsens PC prognosis, seems 
to be a predisposing genetic factor for DM.

DOI: 10.1309/GQFCCJMH5KHNVX73
PMID: 16938655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Acta Oncol. 2006;45(6):736-42. doi: 10.1080/02841860600849075.

Chemoradiotherapy of anal cancer is feasible in elderly patients: treatment 
results of mitomycin-5-FU combined with radiotherapy at Helsinki University 
Central Hospital 1992-2003.

Saarilahti K(1), Arponen P, Vaalavirta L, Tenhunen M, Blomqvist C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland. kauko.saarilahti@hus.fi

The number of elderly patients with cancer is steadily increasing in developed 
countries and their treatment is a growing challenge for oncological 
departments. Anal cancer is the first tumour in which chemoradiotherapy with the 
intent of organ preservation has largely replaced surgery and is an interesting 
model of modern multimodal oncological treatment. At the Department of Oncology 
of the Helsinki University Central Hospital we have treated all patients 
irrespective of age following the same guidelines if there have been no specific 
contraindications on the basis of intercurrent diseases. The results suggest 
that the chemoradiotherapy protocol used in the treatment of anal cancer is 
reasonably well tolerated in elderly patients and the tumour control is 
comparable to those achieved in younger patients. After successful cancer 
therapy the life expectancy in these patients can be very long.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860600849075
PMID: 16938817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Int J Clin Pract. 2006 Sep;60(9):1129-37. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2006.01089.x.

Which patients should receive aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular 
disease? An economic evaluation.

Annemans L(1), Lamotte M, Kubin M, Evers T, Verheugt FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Ghent University, Ghent, 
Belgium. lieven.annemans@ugent.be

Low-dose aspirin is a standard care for secondary prevention of cardiovascular 
disease (CVD). Its use in primary prevention is less widely accepted, however, 
despite recent meta-analyses and US and European guidelines supporting its use 
in individuals at increased CVD risk. The aim of this study was to define which 
patients should receive aspirin for primary prevention of CVD using data from 
four European countries. Based on the clinical data from two meta-analyses, a 
state-transition model was developed to compare the costs and effects of no 
treatment and low-dose aspirin as primary prevention for CVD over 10 years. The 
model was applied to patients at different 10-year risks (2-5%) of fatal CVD 
according to the SCORE equation. Direct costs from the perspective of the 
healthcare payer were used (base year 2003). Country-specific discounting was 
applied. Treating patients with a 10-year risk of fatal CVD of 2% or higher with 
low-dose aspirin resulted in lower total costs and more quality-adjusted 
life-years gained in the UK, Germany and Spain. In Italy, savings started at a 
10-year fatal CVD risk of 3%. This difference was due to the higher cost of 
gastrointestinal bleeding in Italy. Monte Carlo analysis showed that aspirin was 
dominant in more than 90% of patients at a 10-year risk of 4% and 5% in the four 
countries. In conclusion, low-dose aspirin treatment becomes cost-saving at a 
very low 10-year risk of fatal CVD. The cost of gastrointestinal bleeding 
defines the level at which low-dose aspirin becomes cost-saving.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2006.01089.x
PMID: 16939558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Int J Clin Pract. 2006 Sep;60(9):1138-45. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2006.01102.x.

Improving life expectancy and decreasing the incidence of complications 
associated with type 2 diabetes: a modelling study of HbA1c targets.

Valentine WJ(1), Palmer AJ, Nicklasson L, Cobden D, Roze S.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, Binningen/Basel, Switzerland. 
valentine@thecenter.ch

To project the long-term clinical and cost outcomes that accompany predefined 
improvements in glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. A 
peer-reviewed, validated, non-product-specific Markov model of type 2 diabetes 
was used to project the long-term clinical and cost outcomes associated with 
three HbA1c reduction scenarios (vs. no reduction): (i) decreasing mean HbA1c 
from 9.5% to 8.0%; (ii) from 8.0% to 7.0%; and (iii) from 7.0% to 6.5%. A 
typical baseline US type 2 diabetes cohort derived from National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey data was simulated over a lifetime horizon (35 
years). Incidence of diabetes-related complications and costs (2005 USD) were 
accounted based on published data. Discount rates (3% per annum) were applied to 
clinical benefits and costs. Sensitivity analyses were performed. Stepwise 
reductions in HbA1c as an independent variable correlated with delayed time to 
diabetes-related complications and a reduced cumulative incidence of 
complications, including cardiovascular, renal and neurologic comorbidities. 
Related costs also decreased. Reductions in both poorly- (9.5-8.0%) and 
better-controlled (7.0-6.5%) patients produced incremental gains in undiscounted 
life expectancy (LE) [1.06 (0.31) and 0.32 (0.34) years [mean (SD)], 
respectively]. Similar improvement patterns were observed in quality-adjusted 
life expectancy (QALE). Benefits from sequential reduction scenarios, when 
aggregated, exhibited the most dramatic effect. Improved glycaemic control was 
associated with reductions in complication rates and costs, as well as increased 
LE and QALE among type 2 patients. These data illustrate the long-term 
importance of reaching normoglycaemia and support intensified HbA1c control as a 
cornerstone of effective long-term type 2 diabetes management.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2006.01102.x
PMID: 16939559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Eur Radiol. 2007 Mar;17(3):716-24. doi: 10.1007/s00330-006-0373-4. Epub 2006
Aug  29.

Proton MRI appearance of cystic fibrosis: comparison to CT.

Puderbach M(1), Eichinger M, Gahr J, Ley S, Tuengerthal S, Schmähl A, Fink C, 
Plathow C, Wiebel M, Müller FM, Kauczor HU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology (E010), DKFZ, Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, 69120, 
Heidelberg, Germany. m.puderbach@dkfz.de

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most frequent inherited disorder leading to 
premature death in the Caucasian population. As life expectancy is limited by 
pulmonary complications, repeated imaging [chest X-ray, multislice 
high-resolution computed tomography (MS-HRCT)] is required in the follow-up. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lung parenchyma is a promising new 
diagnostic tool. Its value for imaging lung changes caused by CF compared with 
CT is demonstrated. MRI performs well when compared with CT, which serves as the 
gold standard. Its lack in spatial resolution is obvious, but advantages in 
contrast and functional assessment compensate for this limitation. Thus, MRI is 
a reasonable alternative for imaging the CF lung and should be introduced as a 
radiation-free modality for follow-up studies in CF patients. For further 
evaluation of the impact of MRI, systematic studies comparing MRI and 
conventional imaging modalities are necessary. Furthermore, the value of the 
additional functional MRI (fMRI) information has to be studied, and a scoring 
system for the morphological and functional aspect of MRI has to be established.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-006-0373-4
PMID: 16941092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(9):833-6. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624090-00001.

US FDA guidance: apropos of PROs.

Kind P.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624090-00001
PMID: 16942118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(9):845-53. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624090-00003.

The value of thinly spread QALYs.

Mortimer D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Faculty of Business & Economics, Monash 
University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia. duncan.mortimer@buseco.monash.edu.au

A number of recent findings from the literature imply that the value of a QALY 
varies depending on the concentration or dispersion of that QALY over treated 
individuals. Given that funding decisions are currently made under either the 
assumption of distributive-neutrality or some combination of explicit decision 
criteria and implicit adjustment for distributional concerns, it is likely that 
substantial social welfare gains are available if distributional objectives 
could be more accurately reflected in funding decisions. This paper considers 
three alternative approaches to explicitly adjust for distributional concerns 
with regard to the concentration or dispersion of individual health gains. 
Including non-health arguments in the objective function by 'weighting' QALYs 
for distributional effects or imposing differential funding thresholds for 
interventions with different distributional effects might be considered first- 
and second-best solutions, and would likely deliver the greatest social welfare 
gains. However, there is some doubt that first- or second-best solutions would 
be: (i) feasible given current data gaps; and (ii) politically acceptable. 
Rather, a simple and transparent approach is suggested wherein the sponsors of 
interventions that deliver health gains that are of questionable 
'welfare-significance' for the treated individual would be required to provide 
decision-makers with an estimate of willingness to pay for the QALYs in question 
and would only be eligible for funding in the event that the positive net 
present value criterion is met.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624090-00003
PMID: 16942120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(9):903-15. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200624090-00007.

Public funding of bosentan for the treatment of pulmonary artery hypertension in 
Australia: cost effectiveness and risk sharing.

Wlodarczyk JH(1), Cleland LG, Keogh AM, McNeil KD, Perl K, Weintraub RG, 
Williams TJ.

Author information:
(1)John Wlodarczyk Consulting Services, New Lambton, New South Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: In Australia, no therapeutic agents were subsidised for the 
treatment of idiopathic pulmonary artery hypertension (iPAH), a rare progressive 
and severe disease with short life expectancy, until 1 March 2004, when bosentan 
(a dual endothelin receptor antagonist of high cost) was listed on the 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS). Bosentan, in addition to conventional 
therapy, has been shown to slow iPAH progression and improve clinical and 
haemodynamic status and symptomatology, compared with placebo and conventional 
therapy. The objective of this paper is to describe the process of the 
Australian Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme listing for bosentan (Tracleer), which 
included a health economic model assessing the cost effectiveness of bosentan 
from a healthcare payer perspective, and a risk-sharing arrangement based on the 
establishment of a patient registry.
METHODS: The health economic model predicted the cost, hospitalisation and 
mortality rates of a population of iPAH patients treated with either the 
conventional therapy regimen used in Australia or bosentan plus the conventional 
therapy regimen. The model was implemented as a first-order Monte Carlo 
simulation with mortality modelled directly as the main clinical outcome. The 
impacts of proposed continuation criteria, restricting the ongoing use of the 
drug, were evaluated. Costs and outcomes were discounted at 5% and a sensitivity 
analysis examined the robustness of the key assumptions.
RESULTS: The model predicted that after 5, 10 and 15 years, the difference in 
average cumulative costs between bosentan plus conventional therapy and 
conventional therapy alone would be 116,929 Australian dollars (A dollars), 
A181,808 dollars and A216,331 dollars for each patient, respectively. There 
would be an associated increase in average life expectancy of 1.39, 2.93 and 
3.87 years at 5, 10 and 15 years, respectively, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio at 15 years of A55,927 dollars for each life-year 
gained. Removing the continuation criteria from the model increased the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio to A62,267 dollars (1996-2002 values).
CONCLUSIONS: Economic modelling based on improved survival suggests bosentan to 
be a potentially cost-effective treatment for iPAH. However, the structure of 
the model and its inputs should be reviewed and updated as more data become 
available.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624090-00007
PMID: 16942124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Gac Sanit. 2006 Jul-Aug;20(4):303-10. doi: 10.1157/13091146.

[Trends in social inequalities in mortality in the city of Seville [Spain] 
[1994-2002]].

[Article in Spanish]

Ruiz-Ramos M(1), Escolar Pujolar A, Sánchez Perea J, Garrucho Rivero G.

Author information:
(1)Consejería de Salud de la Junta de Andalucía, Sevilla, España. 
miguel.ruz.ext@juntadeandalucia.es

OBJECTIVES: To know trends of social inequalities in general mortality in 
Seville (Spain) between 1997 and 2002.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Socioeconomic level of its the residential census tracts 
was assigned for each death, taken from the Socio-economic Synthetic Index built 
up after applying a principal components analysis from 2001 census variables. 
Using mortality indicators its magnitude and trend was described according 
socio-economic level.
RESULTS: General mortality standardized rates by age in the census tracts of 
lowest socio-economic level were 1.32 and 1.25 times greater than in the highest 
census tracts in men and 1.19 and 1.08 in women respectively in each periods. 
The truncated rates ratio and potential years of lost life in men went from 1.66 
to 2.28 in men and 1.74 to 2.10 in women, respectively. The four years 
difference in life expectancy at birth between the census tracts of highest and 
lower level remained unchanged in men, and fell from 1.90 to 0.82 in women. The 
population attributable risk (all ages) went from 13.18% to 10.46% in men and 
10.02% to 2.58% in women.
CONCLUSIONS: Social inequalities in mortality for the general population 
decreased mainly in women. The inequalities increased in the early death and 
between 35-64 years old in men, basically due to a reduced mortality in higher 
socio-economic level census tracts.

DOI: 10.1157/13091146
PMID: 16942718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Food Microbiol. 2006 Aug;23(5):423-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2005.08.004. Epub
2005  Oct 18.

Shelf-life of a chilled precooked chicken product stored in air and under 
modified atmospheres: microbiological, chemical, sensory attributes.

Patsias A(1), Chouliara I, Badeka A, Savvaidis IN, Kontominas MG.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Food Microbiology, Section of Industrial and 
Food Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of Ioannina, Ioannina 45110, 
Greece.

This study evaluated the effect of modified atmosphere packaging on shelf-life 
extension of a precooked chicken meat product stored at 4 degrees C using 
microbiological, physico-chemical and sensory analyses. The following gas 
mixtures were used: M1: 30%/70% (CO2/N2), M2: 60%/40% (CO2/N2) and M3: 90%/10% 
(CO2/N2). Identical chicken samples were aerobically packaged and used as 
control samples. Sampling was carried out at predetermined time intervals 
namely: 0, 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20 days. Total viable counts (TVC), Lactic acid 
bacteria (LAB), Brochothrix thermosphacta, pseudomonads, yeasts and molds, and 
Enterobacteriaceae were monitored. TVC of precooked chicken product reached 7 
log cfu/g, after days 12 and 16 of storage (air and M1 samples), respectively. 
The M2 and M3 gas mixture packaged samples did not reach this value throughout 
the 20 days storage period under refrigeration. LAB and to a lesser degree B. 
thermosphacta, constituted part of the natural microflora of precooked chicken 
samples stored in air and under MAP reaching 7.0-8.1 log cfu/g at the end of 
storage period. Of the remaining bacterial species monitored, both pseudomonads 
and yeasts/molds were significantly higher (P<0.05) for chicken samples stored 
in air than under MAP (M1, M2, M3) throughout the entire storage period under 
refrigeration. Finally, counts of Enterobacteriaceae were low (<2 log cfu/g) in 
all chicken samples irrespective of the packaging conditions throughout the 
entire storage period. Of the chemical indices determined, thiobarbituric (TBA) 
values in all cases remained low, equal or lower than 3.0 mg malonaldehyde 
(MA)/kg during the entire storage period. Results of the present work show that 
the limit of sensory acceptability was only reached for the aerobically stored 
and M1 gas mixture chicken samples somewhat before days 16 and 20 of storage, 
respectively. This limit coincided with high TVC and LAB populations (>6.8 log 
cfu/g), increased lipid oxidation (aerobic storage only) and apparent growth of 
yeasts/moulds on the surface of chicken samples. The use of MAP as shown in the 
present study, resulted in an extension of shelf-life of precooked chicken by 
ca. 4 days (M1 gas mixture), and by more than 6 days (M2 and M3 gas mixtures), 
respectively. Precooked chicken meat was better preserved under M2 and M3 
mixtures maintaining desirable odor/taste attributes even on final day of 
storage tested.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2005.08.004
PMID: 16943033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. N Engl J Med. 2006 Aug 31;355(9):873-84. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa061355.

Celecoxib for the prevention of sporadic colorectal adenomas.

Bertagnolli MM(1), Eagle CJ, Zauber AG, Redston M, Solomon SD, Kim K, Tang J, 
Rosenstein RB, Wittes J, Corle D, Hess TM, Woloj GM, Boisserie F, Anderson WF, 
Viner JL, Bagheri D, Burn J, Chung DC, Dewar T, Foley TR, Hoffman N, Macrae F, 
Pruitt RE, Saltzman JR, Salzberg B, Sylwestrowicz T, Gordon GB, Hawk ET; APC 
Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, USA. mbertagnolli@partners.org

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Aug 31;355(9):950-2.
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Nov 30;355(22):2371; author reply 2371-3.

BACKGROUND: Studies showing that drugs that inhibit cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) 
reduce the number of colorectal adenomas in animals and patients with familial 
adenomatous polyposis suggest that COX-2 inhibitors may also prevent sporadic 
colorectal neoplasia.
METHODS: We randomly assigned patients who had adenomas removed before study 
entry to receive placebo (679 patients) or 200 mg (685 patients) or 400 mg (671 
patients) of celecoxib twice daily. Randomization was stratified for the use of 
low-dose aspirin. Follow-up colonoscopies were performed at one and three years 
after randomization. The occurrence of newly detected colorectal adenomas was 
compared among the groups with the life-table extension of the Mantel-Haenszel 
test.
RESULTS: Follow-up colonoscopies were completed at year 1 in 89.5 percent of 
randomized patients, and at year 3 in 75.7 percent. The estimated cumulative 
incidence of the detection of one or more adenomas by year 3 was 60.7 percent 
for patients receiving placebo, as compared with 43.2 percent for those 
receiving 200 mg of celecoxib twice a day (risk ratio, 0.67; 95 percent 
confidence interval, 0.59 to 0.77; P<0.001) and 37.5 percent for those receiving 
400 mg of celecoxib twice a day (risk ratio, 0.55; 95 percent confidence 
interval, 0.48 to 0.64; P<0.001). Serious adverse events occurred in 18.8 
percent of patients in the placebo group, as compared with 20.4 percent of those 
in the low-dose celecoxib group (risk ratio, 1.1; 95 percent confidence 
interval, 0.9 to 1.3; P=0.5) and 23.0 percent of those in the high-dose group 
(risk ratio, 1.2; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.0 to 1.5; P=0.06). As 
compared with placebo, celecoxib was associated with an increased risk of 
cardiovascular events (risk ratio for the low dose, 2.6; 95 percent confidence 
interval, 1.1 to 6.1; and risk ratio for the high dose, 3.4; 95 percent 
confidence interval, 1.5 to 7.9).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that celecoxib is an effective agent for 
the prevention of colorectal adenomas but, because of potential cardiovascular 
events, cannot be routinely recommended for this indication. (ClinicalTrials.gov 
number, NCT00005094 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).

Copyright 2006 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa061355
PMID: 16943400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. N Engl J Med. 2006 Aug 31;355(9):920-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa054744.

The value of medical spending in the United States, 1960-2000.

Cutler DM(1), Rosen AB, Vijan S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Harvard University, and the National Bureau of 
Economic Research, Cambridge, Mass 02138, USA. dcutler@harvard.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 7;355(23):2491; author reply 2492.
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 7;355(23):2492; author reply 2492.
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 7;355(23):2491-2; author reply 2492.

BACKGROUND: The increased use of medical therapies has led to increased medical 
costs. To provide insight into the value of this increased spending, we compared 
gains in life expectancy with the increased costs of care from 1960 through 
2000.
METHODS: We estimated life expectancy in 1960, 1970, 1980, 1990, and 2000 for 
four age groups. To control for the influence of nonmedical factors on survival, 
we assumed in our base-case analysis that 50 percent of the gains were due to 
medical care. We compared the adjusted increases in life expectancy with the 
lifetime cost of medical care in the same years.
RESULTS: From 1960 through 2000, the life expectancy for newborns increased by 
6.97 years, lifetime medical spending adjusted for inflation increased by 
approximately 69,000 dollars, and the cost per year of life gained was 19,900 
dollars. The cost increased from 7,400 dollars per year of life gained in the 
1970s to 36,300 dollars in the 1990s. The average cost per year of life gained 
in 1960-2000 was approximately 31,600 dollars at 15 years of age, 53,700 dollars 
at 45 years of age, and 84,700 dollars at 65 years of age. At 65 years of age, 
costs rose more rapidly than did life expectancy: the cost per year of life 
gained was 121,000 dollars between 1980 and 1990 and 145,000 dollars between 
1990 and 2000.
CONCLUSIONS: On average, the increases in medical spending since 1960 have 
provided reasonable value. However, the spending increases in medical care for 
the elderly since 1980 are associated with a high cost per year of life gained. 
The national focus on the rise in medical spending should be balanced by 
attention to the health benefits of this increased spending.

Copyright 2006 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa054744
PMID: 16943404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Sep 1;24(25):4116-22. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.07.0409.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of computerized tomography in the routine follow-up 
of patients after primary treatment for Hodgkin's disease.

Guadagnolo BA(1), Punglia RS, Kuntz KM, Mauch PM, Ng AK.

Author information:
(1)Joint Center for Radiation Therapy/Harvard Radiation Oncology Program, 
Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
aguadagnolo@post.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: To estimate the clinical benefits and cost effectiveness of computed 
tomography (CT) in the follow-up of patients with complete response (CR) after 
treatment for Hodgkin's disease (HD).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to evaluate 
follow-up strategies for two hypothetical cohorts of 25-year-old patients with 
stage I-II or stage III-IV HD, treated with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, 
and dacarbazine-based chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy, 
respectively. We compared three strategies for observing asymptomatic patients 
after CR: routine annual CT for 10 years, annual CT for 5 years, or follow-up 
with non-CT modalities only. We used Markov models to calculate life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and lifetime costs. Baseline probabilities, 
transition probabilities, and utilities were derived from published studies. 
Cost data were derived from the Medicare fee schedule and medical literature. We 
performed sensitivity analyses by varying baseline estimates.
RESULTS: Annual CT follow-up is associated with minimal survival benefit. With 
adjustments for quality of life, we found a decrement in quality-adjusted life 
expectancy for early-stage patients followed with CT compared with non-CT 
modalities. Sensitivity analyses showed annual CT for 5 years becomes more 
effective than non-CT follow-up if the specificity of CT is 80% or more or if 
the disutility associated with a false-positive CT result is less than 0.01 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). For advanced-stage patients, annual CT for 
5 years is associated with a very small quality-adjusted survival gain over 
non-CT follow-up with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 9,042,300 
dollars/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis suggests that routine CT should not be used in the 
surveillance of asymptomatic patients in CR after treatment for HD.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.07.0409
PMID: 16943528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Sep 1;24(25):4209-13. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.06.007.

Discussing prognosis: "how much do you want to know?" talking to patients who 
are prepared for explicit information.

Back AL(1), Arnold RM.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA, USA. tonyback@u.washington.edu

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.06.007
PMID: 16943539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Sep 1;24(25):4214-7. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.06.008.

Discussing prognosis: "how much do you want to know?" talking to patients who do 
not want information or who are ambivalent.

Back AL(1), Arnold RM.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA, USA. tonyback@u.washington.edu

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.06.008
PMID: 16943540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Sep 1;24(25):4218-9; author reply 4219-20. doi: 
10.1200/JCO.2006.07.4211.

Immunotherapy and prognostic factors.

Fumagalli LA, Brivio F.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2006 May 1;24(13):1997-2005.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.07.4211
PMID: 16943541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Int Orthop. 2006 Dec;30(6):519-24. doi: 10.1007/s00264-006-0205-9. Epub 2006
Aug  30.

Treatment results of pathological fractures of the long bones: a retrospective 
analysis of 88 patients.

Sarahrudi K(1), Hora K, Heinz T, Millington S, Vécsei V.

