University.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the range of excess death associated with influenza in 
Japan.
METHODS: The monthly rates for mortality from all causes other than accidents 
(ICD9: E800-E949, ICD-10: V01-X59) were determined from the Japanese national 
vital statistics for 1987-2003. By employing a model using the annual mortality 
rates and the seasonal index, the number of expected deaths and the 95% range of 
mortality in the absence of influenza-associated deaths (normal range) were 
obtained. Point estimation of excess mortality during an influenza season was 
performed by calculation of differences between the number of deaths observed 
and the number of deaths expected. The range of excess death was defined: the 
lower limit of the excess death was performed by calculation of difference 
between the number of deaths observed and the upper limit of the normal range. 
The upper limit of the excess death, on the contrary, was performed by 
calculation of difference between the number of deaths observed and the lower 
limit of the normal range. Based on the results of a survey of tendencies in the 
occurrence of infectious diseases, months showing a high prevalence of influenza 
and associated deaths were regarded as "months when the rate of death from 
influenza was 0.9 deaths/100,000 person-years or higher".
RESULTS: The excess death determined by point estimation was largest in 1999, 
followed by 1995, 1993, 1997, 2000, and 2003. The point estimation (range of 
excess death) in 1999 was approximately 49,000 (approximate range, 
37,000-60,000). Correspondingly, the excess death in 1995 was approximately 
38,000 (approximate range, 27,000-48,000). While values in 1993, 1997, 2000, and 
2003 were in the approximate range of 21,000 to 25,000, the range of excess 
death of each year showed the differences: approximate range from 15,000 to 
36,000 in 1993, from 18,000 to 31,000 in 1997, from 18,000 to 28,000 in 2000, 
and from 11,000 to 34,000 in 2003, respectively. From comparison of the range of 
excess deaths by year, that in 1995 appeared to be the largest among the 
examined years.
CONCLUSION: By considering the range of variation in the number of deaths in the 
years when no influenza epidemics occurred, the increase (the largest number and 
smallest number of deaths) associated with elevation the prevalence of influenza 
could be determined. Estimation of the range of excess deaths can be considered 
a useful method for understanding the influence of influenza on public health.

PMID: 17017427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Acta Chir Belg. 2006 Jul-Aug;106(4):413-6. doi:
10.1080/00015458.2006.11679918.

Surgery for gastrointestinal endometriosis: indications and results.

Houtmeyers P(1), Ceelen W, Gillardin JM, Dhondt M, Pattyn P.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Surgery, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Although gastrointestinal endometriosis is an uncommon and often 
unexpected finding, the best treatment requires removal of all endometriotic 
lesions. The purpose of our study was to report our experience with the 
diagnosis and treatment of bowel endometriosis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: From January 1997 to January 2004, 13 patients (mean 35.7y 
; range 21-55y) were operated for bowel endometriosis. We noted: age, history of 
endometriosis, previous pregnancies, preoperative investigations and symptoms, 
operative procedure and intraoperative findings. Follow-up varied between one 
month postoperative examination and seven years.
RESULTS: Presenting symptoms of the cases were: acute appendicitis (3), 
dysmenorrhoea (7), constipation (6), pelvic pain (2), rectal bleeding (3) and 
dyspareunia (2). Operative management was performed in accordance with the 
anatomical distribution. Seven patients had a history of previous operations and 
multifocal involvement was present in 61.5% of cases. At a median follow-up of 
12.2 months, 83.3% had complete relief of their initial complaints, with only 
one reoperation needed. The pregnancy rate after surgery was 66.6%. Preoperative 
tests were: ultrasound for ovarian endometriomas, coloscopy, barium enema, 
vaginal palpation for detecting rectovaginal involvement, MRI and CT scan. These 
tests predicted the extension of endometriotic process correctly in 50% of the 
cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Endometriosis of the sigmoid and rectum is rare but can give rise 
to severe gastrointestinal and pelvic symptoms. Preoperative investigations are 
not infallible in predicting the extent of the disease, sometimes placing the 
surgeon before a dilemma, because it involves mostly young women in the 
reproductive phase of life. The colorectal surgeon, therefore, should seek the 
advice of an experienced gynaecologist and vice versa. Removal of all 
endometriotic lesions is mandatory for obtaining an optimal relief of symptoms.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2006.11679918
PMID: 17017695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2006 Oct;11(4):225-30. doi: 
10.1258/135581906778476508.

Is self-care a cost-effective use of resources? Evidence from a randomized trial 
in inflammatory bowel disease.

Richardson G(1), Sculpher M, Kennedy A, Nelson E, Reeves D, Roberts C, Robinson 
A, Rogers A, Thompson D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK. gar2@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To determine if a whole-system approach to self-management in 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), using a guidebook developed with patients and 
physicians trained in patient-centred care, leads to cost-effective use of 
health system resources.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis over a one-year time horizon comparing the 
whole systems self-management approach to treatment with usual treatment. 
Nineteen hospitals in the northwest England were randomized to the intervention 
or to be controls; 651 patients (285 at intervention sites and 366 at control 
sites) with established IBD were included. The economic evaluation related 
differential health service costs, from a UK NHS perspective, to differences in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) based on patients' responses to the EQ-5D.
RESULTS: The intervention was associated with a mean reduction in costs of 148 
pounds sterling per patient and a small mean reduction in QALYs of 0.00022 per 
patient compared with the control group. This resulted in an incremental cost 
per QALY gained of 676,417 pounds sterling for treatment as usual and a 
probability of around 63% that the whole-system approach to self-management is 
cost-effective, assuming a willingness to pay up to 30,000 pounds sterling for 
an additional QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Although there is uncertainty associated with these estimates, more 
widespread use of this method in chronic disease management seems likely to 
reduce health care costs without evidence of adverse effect on patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1258/135581906778476508
PMID: 17018196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2006 Jul;20(1):29-38. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892006000700004.

[Women's empowerment and life expectancy at birth in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Idrovo AJ(1), Casique I.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Salud Poblacional, Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Pública, Av. Universidad 655, Colonia Santa María Ahuacatitlán, CP. 62508, 
Cuernavaca, Morelos, México. idrovoaj@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect of women's empowerment (WE) on life expectancy 
at birth (LEB) in the federative states of Mexico and to compare the results of 
measuring WE with various compound indicators that reflect, to a greater or 
lesser degree, an individual or population focus.
METHODS: This was an ecological study conducted in Mexico's 32 federative 
states. We estimated the correlations between overall and sex-specific LEB on 
the one hand, and a measure of gender empowerment (MGE), the index of women's 
ability to make decisions within the household (WADH), the index of women's 
autonomy (IWA), income inequality, certain aspects of the physical environment, 
the proportion of the population who spoke an indigenous language, and the net 
migratory rate on the other. By using robust regressions, we studied the effect 
on LEB of MGE, IWA, and WADH, after mutually adjusting for other independent 
variables.
RESULTS: A very strong inverse correlation (-0.93) was found between overall LEB 
and factors of the physical environment linked to population vulnerability and 
biodiversity. Significant direct and inverse correlations were also found 
between LEB on the one hand and WADH, IWA, net migratory rate, the percentage of 
the population that spoke an indigenous language, and the Gini coefficient on 
the other. Multiple robust regressions showed inverse associations between MGE 
and LEB in women (beta: -1.44; 95% confidence interval [95% CI]: -2.71 to 
-0.17). WAI was positively associated with LEB in men (beta: 0.88; 95% CI: 0.01 
to 1.75) and women (beta: 0.66; 95% CI: 0.03 to 1.30).
CONCLUSION: The use of MGE as a surrogate for WE failed to reveal a positive 
effect of WE on LEB in Mexico. It is necessary to review the components that 
make up MGE and the relevance of using such a measure in different contexts. WAI 
showed a greater association with LEB and its effect was greater among men. This 
indicator made it possible to measure WE in Mexico and its use is recommended, 
as long as there are no other indicators available for capturing more 
effectively all the components that affect WE.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892006000700004
PMID: 17018222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2006 Oct;160(10):1070-6. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.160.10.1070.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of palivizumab in premature infants without chronic 
lung disease.

Elhassan NO(1), Sorbero ME, Hall CB, Stevens TP, Dick AW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine, 
University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2007 May;161(5):519-20; author reply 520.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of palivizumab as respiratory 
syncytial virus prophylaxis in premature infants without chronic lung disease 
and to evaluate the impact on cost-effectiveness of a potential reduction in 
risk of asthma following respiratory syncytial virus infection among infants 
receiving palivizumab.
DESIGN: Two decision analytic models were designed, one with and the other 
without accounting for increased risk of asthma following respiratory syncytial 
virus infection.
SETTING: A hypothetical community or university hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohorts of infants without chronic lung disease born 
at 26 to 32 weeks' gestation.
INTERVENTIONS: Palivizumab prophylaxis vs no prophylaxis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Expected costs and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
expressed as cost per quality-adjusted life-year.
RESULTS: The expected costs were higher for palivizumab prophylaxis as compared 
with no prophylaxis. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were high for all 
gestations and are not considered cost-effective by today's standards (<$200 000 
per quality-adjusted life-year). Both models were sensitive to variation in the 
cost of palivizumab. The model that included asthma was sensitive to variation 
in quality of life for children with asthma. In instances where asthma was 
considered severe with profound worsening in quality of life compared with life 
without asthma, some infants had an incremental cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year that was less than $200 000.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model supports implementing more restrictive guidelines for 
palivizumab prophylaxis. Palivizumab was cost-effective for some infants in an 
analysis that accounted for increased risk of severe asthma following 
respiratory syncytial virus infection.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.160.10.1070
PMID: 17018467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Laeknabladid. 2000 Sep;86(9):587-90.

[Lung transplantation.].

[Article in Icelandic]

Guðmundsson G(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of internal medicine, Landspitali University Hospital, Hringbraut, 
101 Reykjavík, Iceland. ggudmund@landspitali.is.

Lung transplantation is an option in the treatment of end stage lung diseases, 
excluding lung cancer, that lead to short life expectancy and poor quality of 
life. Now they are mostly limited by shortage of donor organs and longterm 
complications. They are used for various lung diseases such as pulmonary 
vascular diseases, fibrosing diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases 
and diseases that cause chronic infections. Depending on the indication it is 
possible to perform heart and lung transplantation, single lung or double lung 
transplantation.Indications, contraindications, surgical methods, 
immunosuppression, complications and outcomes will be discussed. Survival is not 
as good as for other solid organ transplantation. Measurement of pulmonary 
function and quality of life improve with lung transplantation. Bronchiolitis 
obliterans is the most common complication and is the most limiting factor. A 
few Icelanders have undergone lung transplantation, most of them in Gothenburg, 
Sweden. The future of lung transplantation depends on limiting the incidence of 
bronchiolitis obliterans and finding more organ donors.

PMID: 17018950


501. Osteoporos Int. 2007 Feb;18(2):201-10. doi: 10.1007/s00198-006-0218-7. Epub
2006  Sep 20.

Potential for bone turnover markers to cost-effectively identify and select 
post-menopausal osteopenic women at high risk of fracture for bisphosphonate 
therapy.

Schousboe JT(1), Bauer DC, Nyman JA, Kane RL, Melton LJ, Ensrud KE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Services Research and Policy, School of Public Health, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. schouj@parknicollet.com

Comment in
    Nat Clin Pract Endocrinol Metab. 2007 Aug;3(8):570-1.

INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: Over half of all fractures among post-menopausal 
women occur in those who do not have osteoporosis by bone density criteria. 
Measurement of bone turnover may cost-effectively identify a subset of women 
with T-score >-2.5 for whom anti-resorptive drug therapy is cost-effective.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, we estimated the cost per quality adjusted life 
year (QALY) for five years of oral bisphosphonate compared to no drug therapy 
for osteopenic post-menopausal women aged 60 to 80 years with a high (top 
quartile) or low (bottom 3 quartiles) level of a bone turnover marker.
RESULTS: For women with high bone turnover, the cost per QALY gained with 
alendronate compared to no drug therapy among women aged 70 years with T-scores 
of -2.0 or -1.5 were $58,000 and $80,000 (U.S. 2004 dollars), respectively. If 
bisphosphonates therapy also reduced the risk of non-vertebral fractures by 20% 
among osteopenic women with high bone turnover, then the costs per QALY gained 
were $34,000 and $50,000 for women age 70 with high bone turnover and T-scores 
of -2.0 and -1.5, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Measurement of bone turnover markers has the potential to identify a 
subset of post-menopausal women without osteoporosis by bone density criteria 
for whom bisphosphonate therapy to prevent fracture is cost-effective. The size 
of that subset highly depends on the assumed efficacy of bisphosphonates for 
fracture risk reduction among women with both a T-score >-2.5 and high bone 
turnover and the cost of bisphosphonate treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-006-0218-7
PMID: 17019515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Natl Med Assoc. 2006 Sep;98(9):1518-22.

Influence of medical education on students' attitudes towards the elderly.

Cankurtaran M(1), Halil M, Ulger Z, Dagli N, Yavuz BB, Karaca B, Ariogul S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Hacettepe University, 
Sihhiye, Ankara, Turkey.

As life expectancy increases, the elderly population grows accordingly. Today, 
physicians interface with elderly patients more frequently and, therefore, 
geriatric education should be a part of medical training. Examining medical 
students' knowledge and attitudes about elderly will provide valuable 
information in planning the geriatric education in medical school. The aim of 
this study is to determine and compare the attitudes and knowledge of class-1, 
-4 and -6 Turkish medical students about the elderly. A questionnaire that 
included statements about physical and social situations of the elderly, 
developed by Reuben et al., was used. Five-hundred-thirty-five students 
educating in Hacettepe University Medical Faculty took part in the study. Age, 
gender and the number of people aged >65 living with the students were also 
asked. Gender and number of old people living with the students had no 
significant effect on the answers. Social statements were answered positively, 
and there were no significant changes among the classes. Statements about 
physical situations and illnesses were significantly associated with the 
students' years of education. Geriatric education in developing countries needs 
more attention because the students' attitudes towards elderly and caregiver 
preference are mostly affected by the students' own experiences and knowledge.

PMCID: PMC2569732
PMID: 17019923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Environ Health. 2006 Oct 4;5:27. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-5-27.

Mortality and life expectancy of professional fire fighters in Hamburg, Germany: 
a cohort study 1950-2000.

Wagner NL(1), Berger J, Flesch-Janys D, Koch P, Köchel A, Peschke M, Ossenbach 
T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, Sri Ramachandra Medical 
College & Research Institute 1, Ramachandra Nagar, Porur, Chennai 600 116, 
India. nlwagner@web.de

BACKGROUND: The healthy worker effect may hide adverse health effects in 
hazardous jobs, especially those where physical fitness is required. Fire 
fighters may serve as a good example because they sometimes are severely exposed 
to hazardous substances while on the other hand their physical fitness and their 
strong health surveillance by far exceeds that of comparable persons from the 
general population.
METHODS: To study this effect a historic cohort study was conducted to assess 
mortality and life expectancy of professional fire fighters of the City of 
Hamburg, Germany. Fire departments and trade unions questioned the validity of 
existing studies from outside Germany because of specific differences in the 
professional career. No mortality study had been conducted so far in Germany and 
only few in Europe. Information on all active and retired fire fighters was 
extracted from personnel records. To assure completeness of data the cohort was 
restricted to all fire fighters being active on January 1, 1950 or later. Follow 
up of the cohort ended on June 30th 2000. Vital status was assessed by personnel 
records, pension fund records and the German residence registries. Mortality of 
fire fighters was compared to mortality of the Hamburg and German male 
population by means of standardized mortality ratios. Life expectancy was 
calculated using life table analysis. Multivariate proportional hazard models 
were used to assess the effect of seniority, time from first employment, and 
other occupational characteristics on mortality.
RESULTS: The cohort consists of 4640 fire fighters accumulating 111,796 person 
years. Vital status could be determined for 98.2% of the cohort. By the end of 
follow up 1052 person were deceased. Standardized Mortality Ratio (SMR) for the 
total cohort was 0.79 (95% CI, 0.74-0.84) compared to Hamburg reference data and 
0.78 (95% CI, 0.74-0.83) compared to National German reference data. Conditional 
life expectancy of a 30 year old fire fighter was 45.3 years as compared to 42.9 
year of a German male in normal population. Job tasks, rank status and early 
retirement negatively influenced mortality. For fire fighters with comparably 
short duration of employment the mortality advantage diminished with longer time 
since first employment. SMR of persons who retired early was 1.25 (95% CI, 
1.13-1.60) in reference to the general German population and the SMR of 1.71 
(1.18-2.50) in the multivariate regression model.
CONCLUSION: A strong healthy worker effect was observed for the cohort, which 
diminished with longer time since first employment for fire fighters with 
shorter duration of employment, as expected. The negative effects on mortality 
of job tasks, rank status and in particular early retirement indicate the 
presence of undetermined and specific risks related to occupational hazards of 
fire fighters.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-5-27
PMCID: PMC1601953
PMID: 17020604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol. 2004 Jun;17(3):277-83. doi: 
10.1097/00001503-200406000-00014.

Anaesthesia in patients with dementia.

Verborgh C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, University Hospital, Vrije University, 
Brussels, Belgium. christian.verborgh@az.vub.ac.be

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The next couple of decades will be characterized by an 
increase in life expectancy, leading to an older population. As the incidence of 
Alzheimer's dementia and vascular dementia is rising with age, the future 
anaesthesiologist will be increasingly confronted with perioperative care of 
patients with impaired cognitive function. This paper tries to highlight some 
topics specifically related to demented patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: Psychometric testing and behaviour vary according to the type 
of dementia. Neuroanatomical and biochemical correlates for different types of 
dementia are more precise and better documented. Evidence exists that cognition 
may be impaired for weeks after anaesthesia, but the mental capacities of those 
who have undergone surgery are comparable to those of age controls in the long 
term. Most research efforts are focused on improving the daily functioning of 
people with cognitive impairment. Several new anticholinesterases are being 
evaluated. It is advantageous to keep cognition optimal throughout the 
perioperative period. Neuroleptics may be badly tolerated and, most importantly, 
pain pathways may be differentially affected in dementia.
SUMMARY: Anaesthesia in the demented patient may be complicated by a number of 
potential problems, including the comorbid pathology, the concomitant 
anticholinesterase activity, the need for normoventilation, monitoring of 
anaesthesia depth and the evaluation of postoperative pain. Anaesthesia in 
variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is aimed at preventing the spread of the 
causing prion. There is a broad consensus that early return to the preoperative 
level of cognition is to be pursued, with the help of short-acting drugs and 
loco-regional anaesthesia.

DOI: 10.1097/00001503-200406000-00014
PMID: 17021564


505. Lifetime Data Anal. 2006 Dec;12(4):481-504. doi: 10.1007/s10985-006-9019-8.
Epub  2006 Oct 5.

An alternative competing risk model to the Weibull distribution for modelling 
aging in lifetime data analysis.

Bousquet N(1), Bertholon H, Celeux G.

Author information:
(1)INRIA Futurs, Université Paris-Sud, 91405, Orsay, France. 
nicolas.bousquet@math.u-psud.fr

A simple competing risk distribution as a possible alternative to the Weibull 
distribution in lifetime analysis is proposed. This distribution corresponds to 
the minimum between exponential and Weibull distributions. Our motivation is to 
take account of both accidental and aging failures in lifetime data analysis. 
First, the main characteristics of this distribution are presented. Then, the 
estimation of its parameters are considered through maximum likelihood and 
Bayesian inference. In particular, the existence of a unique consistent root of 
the likelihood equations is proved. Decision tests to choose between an 
exponential, Weibull and this competing risk distribution are presented. And 
this alternative model is compared to the Weibull model from numerical 
experiments on both real and simulated data sets, especially in an industrial 
context.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-006-9019-8
PMID: 17021959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 Oct;22(10):2055-63. doi: 10.1185/030079906X132631.

Economic implications of growth hormone use in patients with short bowel 
syndrome.

Migliaccio-Walle K(1), Caro JJ, Möller J.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, Concord, MA 01742, USA. kmw@caroresearch.com

OBJECTIVE: Short bowel syndrome is a rare, life-threatening condition that can 
result in nutritional malabsorption. Parenteral nutrition provides life-saving 
support but can lead to complications and affect quality of life. Recombinant 
human growth hormone, somatropin (rDNA origin), has been shown to significantly 
reduce dependence on nutritional support (p < 0.05). This study evaluates the 
economic impact of somatropin use in the management of short bowel syndrome.
METHODS: A discrete event simulation (DES) model was developed to estimate the 
benefits and costs associated with somatropin use. Risks of treatment 
complications and of disease-related events were modeled in identical patient 
pairs--one receiving parenteral nutrition alone, the other receiving 4 weeks of 
somatropin--for 2 years following initiation of treatment. Life expectancy was 
assumed equivalent. Risk functions were estimated from the literature and one 
randomized clinical trial. Total and component costs associated with each 
strategy were determined. The distribution of patients reducing parenteral 
nutrition need and the final parenteral nutrition frequency were also estimated. 
Sensitivity analyses were completed for key inputs. Direct medical costs are 
reported in US 2004 dollars.
RESULTS: The model predicted that 96.0% of patients receiving somatropin reduce 
or eliminate parenteral nutrition within 6 weeks: average use was reduced by 2.8 
days and one-third weaned completely. Based on 1.9 L of parenteral nutrition per 
day, estimated costs were 118,098 dollars in year one and 132,935 dollars in 
year two. With somatropin, costs dropped to 84,309 dollars in year one--despite 
the 17,459 dollars cost of somatropin treatment--and 81,250 dollars in year two. 
Over 2 years savings totaled 85,474 dollars.
LIMITATIONS: Insufficient data required that assumptions be made for some 
inputs. DES is new in pharmacoeconomics and may be perceived as a limitation.
CONCLUSIONS: Somatropin use improves quality of life by reducing the need for 
parenteral nutrition and results in health care cost savings.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906X132631
PMID: 17022865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Eur J Cancer. 2006 Nov;42(17):2867-75. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.08.010. Epub
 2006 Oct 4.

Methodological issues in the economic analysis of cancer treatments.

Tappenden P(1), Chilcott J, Ward S, Eggington S, Hind D, Hummel S.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, Regent 
Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. p.tappenden@Sheffield.ac.uk 
<p.tappenden@Sheffield.ac.uk>

Cost-effectiveness analysis may be applied to the full range of interventions 
that make up a cancer service, including screening programmes and early 
treatments, diagnostic test and referral processes, surgery, radiotherapy, 
chemotherapy and palliative care. Numerous methodologies have been employed 
within existing models of cancer interventions. However, not all methodologies 
are equal; inappropriate modelling approaches may bias cost-effectiveness 
results. Generic guidelines for good practice in decision-analytic modelling 
provide a useful basis for critically appraising cost-effectiveness models, yet 
explicit consideration of a range of cancer-specific issues is required to avoid 
bias in cost-effectiveness results. These cancer-specific issues include the 
appropriate representation of relevant costs and health effects associated with 
unplanned treatments for metastatic disease administered beyond disease 
progression, the appropriate extrapolation of long-term outcomes and resources 
from clinical trials, assumptions concerning the nature of the event hazard 
function beyond the duration of the trial, and relationships between surrogate 
outcomes and final outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.08.010
PMID: 17023160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Exp Biol. 2006 Oct;209(Pt 20):4129-39. doi: 10.1242/jeb.02492.

Delayed development and lifespan extension as features of metabolic lifestyle 
alteration in C. elegans under dietary restriction.

Szewczyk NJ(1), Udranszky IA, Kozak E, Sunga J, Kim SK, Jacobson LA, Conley CA.

Author information:
(1)NASA Ames Research Center, M/S 239-11, Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000, USA. 
nate@alumni.cmu.edu

Studies of the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans have almost exclusively 
utilized growth on a bacterial diet. Such culturing presents a challenge to 
automation of experimentation and introduces bacterial metabolism as a secondary 
concern in drug and environmental toxicology studies. Axenic cultivation of C. 
elegans can avoid these problems, yet past work suggests that axenic growth is 
unhealthy for C. elegans. Here we employ a chemically defined liquid medium to 
culture C. elegans and find development slows, fecundity declines, lifespan 
increases, lipid and protein stores decrease, and gene expression changes 
relative to that on a bacterial diet. These changes do not appear to be random 
pathologies associated with malnutrition, as there are no developmental delays 
associated with starvation, such as L1 or dauer diapause. Additionally, 
development and reproductive period are fixed percentages of lifespan regardless 
of diet, suggesting that these alterations are adaptive. We propose that C. 
elegans can exist as a healthy animal with at least two distinct adult life 
histories. One life history maximizes the intrinsic rate of population increase, 
the other maximizes the efficiency of exploitation of the carrying capacity of 
the environment. Microarray analysis reveals increased transcript levels of 
daf-16 and downstream targets and past experiments demonstrate that DAF-16 
(FOXO) acting on downstream targets can influence all of the phenotypes we see 
altered in maintenance medium. Thus, life history alteration in response to diet 
may be modulated by DAF-16. Our observations introduce a powerful system for 
automation of experimentation on healthy C. elegans and for systematic analysis 
of the profound impact of diet on animal physiology.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.02492
PMID: 17023606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2005 Dec;20(4):319-34. doi:
10.1007/s10823-006-9009-z.

Stress among family caregivers of older persons in Singapore.

Mehta KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work, National University of Singapore, Blk AS6 4th 
Floor, 11, Law Link, Singapore 117570, Singapore. swkkkm@nus.edu.sg.

It is projected that, in the 21st century, the majority of the world's older 
people will be living in Asia. After Japan, Singapore is the most rapidly aging 
country in Asia. With an increasing life expectancy, many older persons will 
require health and instrumental care during later life stages. In Singapore, 
close to 95% of older people co-reside with family members, highlighting the 
importance of community support for family caregivers. Using a study of 61 
principal family caregivers in Singapore, this article highlights the nature of 
and relationship between caregivers' stress and gender, patients' activities of 
daily living (ADL) and instrumental ADL dependency, and caregivers' attitudes. 
Findings from the study suggest that female caregivers tended to be more 
stressed than male caregivers. Results also showed a significant inverse 
relationship between the level of stress experienced by caregivers and the ADL 
and instrumental ADL dependency of patients. Caregivers looking after patients 
suffering from dementia, Parkinson's disease, and hypertension were more likely 
to be stressed than those caring for persons with stroke, depression, and other 
illnesses. This article concludes by describing some implications of this 
research for social worker practice and for informal as well as formal support 
programs for family caregivers.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-006-9009-z
PMID: 17024577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. BJU Int. 2007 Feb;99(2):364-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2006.06569.x. Epub
2006  Oct 9.

Ureteric embolization with stainless-steel coils for managing refractory lower 
urinary tract fistula: a 12-year experience.

Shindel AW(1), Zhu H, Hovsepian DM, Brandes SB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, Washington University, St. Louis, 
MO, USA. retinol13@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To report our 12-year experience with radiological treatment 
(ureteric embolization) for refractory urinary fistula, as malignancy, radiation 
therapy, and/or chronic inflammation increase the risk of lower urinary tract 
fistula after surgical urinary diversion, which can lead to significant 
morbidity, and for patients who are not surgical candidates permanent 
nephrostomy drainage and ureteric embolization offer an alternative form of 
urinary diversion.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed patients who had ureteric 
occlusion for refractory urinary fistula at our institution between 1993 and 
2005. Stainless-steel coils, with or without gelatine sponge, were placed 
antegradely through a percutaneous nephrostomy tract. Patients were then managed 
by long-term nephrostomy drainage until death or definitive reconstructive 
surgery.
RESULTS: In all, 29 patients (23 women and six men; mean age 59 years, sd 16) 
were identified who had urinary fistulae that were refractory to nephrostomy 
drainage alone. One patient had a history of severe perineal trauma and the 
remaining 28 had a history of cancer. Seventeen fistulae occurred in the setting 
of previous surgery, 20 patients had received adjunctive pelvic irradiation and 
11 had had chemotherapy. In all, 52 ureters were embolized; occlusion was 
successful in all cases, with complete or near-complete (<1 pad/day) dryness 
within 3 days. No repeat embolization was required and there were no significant 
complications. Two patients were lost to follow-up. Three patients had 
definitive urinary diversion surgery and currently are well. One patient is 
alive and living with nephrostomy tubes; 23 patients have died.
CONCLUSION: Ureteric embolization is a viable option for managing complex lower 
urinary tract fistulae in patients with a poor performance status. It can be 
used as definitive management in patients with a limited life-expectancy or as a 
temporary measure in those for whom another management plan is anticipated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2006.06569.x
PMID: 17026590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Public Health. 2006 Nov;120(11):1013-9. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2006.08.012.
Epub  2006 Oct 4.

Are we getting what we pay for?

George S(1), Julious S.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Sciences and Medical Statistics, University of Southampton, 
Mailpoint 805, Level C, South Academic Block, Southampton General Hospital, 
Tremona Road, Southampton SO16 6YD, UK. pluto@soton.ac.uk

The British NHS delivers health care free at the point of access to whomever 
needs it. It is often claimed to be the envy of the world. But does it deliver 
health? Or could the resource put into the health service be better spent 
elsewhere? In this article, we discuss the determinants of health in the United 
Kingdom in the past, the rise of public health and the impact medical technology 
has had on health. We discuss resource distribution in health care, and apply 
the principles of health economics to the wider context of the delivery of 
health, rather than health care. With a background of rising demand for health 
care and rationing of resources in the UK, combined with inequalities in life 
expectancy related to position in society, we conclude that wealth 
redistribution, environmental regulation, improved nutrition and better 
education must come first in the priorities for achieving a healthy population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2006.08.012
PMID: 17027051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Public Health. 2006 Nov;120(11):989-91. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2006.09.002.
Epub  2006 Oct 4.

When the boat comes in.

Mackie P, Sim F.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2006.09.002
PMID: 17027053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Ann Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;16(12):880-7. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2006.06.001.
Epub  2006 Oct 4.

Impact of hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy on race-specific rates of 
corpus, cervical, and ovarian cancers in the United States.

Merrill RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science, College of Health and Human Performance, 
Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602, USA. ray_merrill@byu.edu

PURPOSE: Population-based cancer incidence rates of the corpus uteri, cervix 
uteri, and ovaries are underestimated if they fail to remove women not at risk 
for developing the cancers from the denominator in the race calculation. This 
study compares incidence rates among selected racial groups for these cancers 
before and after correction for prevalence of hysterectomy and bilateral 
oophorectomy.
METHODS: The study covers 1998 through 2002 and involves Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results Program; Behavior Risk Factor Surveillance System; 
and National Health Interview Survey data. Prevalence data were obtained by 
using survey and life-table methods. Four racial groups are considered: whites, 
blacks, American Indians/Alaska Natives, and Asians/Pacific Islanders.
RESULTS: Risk correction significantly increased rates of corpus uterine cancer 
by 73.1% for whites, 93.0% for blacks, 86.3% for American Indians/Alaska 
Natives, and 41.0% for Asians/Pacific Islanders. Corresponding percentages among 
these racial groups for cervical cancer were 37.7%, 60.2%, 45.6%, and 33.0%, and 
for ovarian cancer, 32.5%, 31.1%, 35.0%, and 23.6%, respectively. Risk 
correction had large influences on the comparison of rates among racial groups. 
For example, for uterine corpus cancer, Asians/Pacific Islanders had 32.9% lower 
rates than whites before correction, but 45.3% lower rates after correction. For 
cervical cancer, blacks had 27.6% higher rates than whites before correction, 
but 48.5% higher rates after correction; and for ovarian cancer, Asians/Pacific 
Islanders had 31.2% lower rates than whites before correction and 35.8% lower 
rates after correction.
CONCLUSIONS: Corrected rates of corpus uteri, cervix uteri, and ovarian cancers 
have a large, but differential, impact on the racial groups considered.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2006.06.001
PMID: 17027290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Med Wieku Rozwoj. 2006 Jan-Mar;10(1 Pt 2):275-87.

[Genetic markers in the pathogenesis of osteopenia and osteoporosis in cystic 
fibrosis].

[Article in Polish]

Norek A(1), Romanowska-Pietrasiak B, Bal J.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Genetyki Medycznej, Instytut Matki i Dziecka, ul. Kasprzaka 17a, 
01-211 Warszawa, Poland. aleksia_n@interia.pl

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common recessive autosomal disorder in the 
Caucasian population. Advancements in treatment of CF patients have increased 
life expectancy from approximately 2 to over 30 years. Complex approach to the 
health status and management of CF children increased the interest in 
osteoarticular system pathology in these patients. This particularly concerns 
osteopenia and osteoporosis. Multiple studies indicate that osteoporosis is a 
genetic disease in which the phenotype is determined by both environmental and 
genetic factors and by mutual interactions between them. It is postulated that 
osteoporosis occurs as the result of mutations and/or polymorphisms in many 
different genes. The evidence for the genotype-phenotype correlation came from 
the analysis of mutations and polymorphisms in Collagen Type I Alpha 1 (COL1A1), 
Vitamin D Receptor (VDR) and Calcitonin receptor (CALCR) genes. Determination of 
osteoporotic genetic background may lead to better understanding of the 
pathomechanism of osteoporosis in CF patients and to help further define 
treatment guidelines.

PMID: 17028393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2006 Oct;162(10):997-1001. doi: 
10.1016/s0035-3787(06)75110-4.

[Finnish amyloid polyneuropathy in a French patient].

[Article in French]

Contégal F(1), Bidot S, Thauvin C, Lévèque L, Soichot P, Gras P, Moreau T, 
Giroud M.

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurologie, CHU Dijon, France. fabienne.contegal@chu-dijon.fr

INTRODUCTION: Finnish amyloid variety is a rare familial amiloidosis 
polyneuropathy essentially observed in Finland. It concerns about six hundred 
people in the world in which five hundred reside in Finland.
OBSERVATION: We report a case of a 58-year-old French woman with a 10-year 
history of lattice cornea dystrophy. She consulted in January 2004 for impaired 
swallowing, facial paralysis principally of the right superior territory and 
symptoms of arthritis which had developed a few months earlier. Observation 
revealed facial cutis laxa, tongue amyotrophy and some fasciculation. 
Electroneuromyography showed chronic neurogenic involvement of the facial 
muscles. Limbs and the sympathetic neuronal system were free of involvement. 
Pathological examination revealed areas of peri vascular amiloid deposits. 
Molecular biology confirmed the diagnosis of Finnish amiloidosis: substitution 
of aspartic acid by tyrosine in the 187 codon in the 9th chromosome (gelsoline 
gene). This mutation has been previously found in Denmark and the Czech 
Republic.
CONCLUSION: Finnish amiloidosis is a familial polyneuropathy characterized by an 
association of cornea lattice dystrophy, cutis laxa and a chronic neurogenic 
involvement of the cranial nerves. Two mutations are known. Life expectancy is 
not affected, but quality of life is altered.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-3787(06)75110-4
PMID: 17028568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Surg Technol Int. 2006;15:265-75.

Interspinous process decompression (IPD) system (X-STOP) for the treatment of 
lumbar spinal stenosis.

Chiu JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurospine Surgery, California Center for Minimally Invasive 
Spine Surgery, California Spine Institute Medical Center, Newbury Park, CA, USA.

With increased life expectancy and an aging population, many patients suffering 
from progressive lumbar spinal stenosis with symptomatic neurogenic intermittent 
claudication (NIC) have been limited to a choice between nonsurgical therapies 
or a more traumatic decompressive surgical procedure, with or without lumbar 
fusion. The interspinous process decompression (IPD) system, the X-STOP implant, 
was developed to provide a minimally invasive alternative therapeutic treatment 
of lumbar spinal stenosis. The X-STOP IPD system, surgical indications, 
operative techniques, and the potential complications and their avoidance are 
described and discussed herein.

PMID: 17029185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Neurochem. 2006 Oct;99(2):470-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2006.04111.x.

Regulation of alpha-synuclein expression in alcohol-preferring and -non 
preferring rats.

Liang T(1), Carr LG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
46202, USA.

The alpha-synuclein (Snca) gene is expressed at higher levels in alcohol-naïve, 
inbred alcohol-preferring (iP) rats than in alcohol-non preferring (iNP) rats. 
Snca modulates dopamine transmission and the dopamineregic system, which play a 
role in mediating the rewarding properties of alcohol consumption. Thus, 
understanding regulation of Snca gene expression could provide insight into the 
relationship of Snca and alcohol consumption. To study regulation of rat Snca 
expression, 1,912 bp of the iP and iNP 5'-regions were cloned and sequenced. 
5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE), primer extension and RT-PCR mapped 
three transcription start site clusters (clusters TSS1, TSS2 and TSS3), 
suggesting that the Snca proximal promoter region has a complex architecture. 
This proximal promoter region has three TATA-less core promoters containing SP1 
binding sites, initiator elements and downstream core promoter elements, which 
are often located in such promoters. Snca-luc constructs transiently transfected 
into SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells showed that the region from - 1,912 to - 1,746 
contained a strong core promoter, and that the entire approximately 2 kb region 
had significant promoter activity. Five polymorphisms identified between the iP 
and iNP in the proximal promoter region did not influence differential 
expression between the strains. In contrast, a single nucleotide polymorphism 
(SNP) at + 679 in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) resulted in a 1.3-fold longer 
half-life of iP mRNA compared with iNP mRNA, which is consistent with the 
differential expression observed between the iP and iNP strains. These results 
suggest that regulation of rat Snca gene expression is complex and may 
contribute to alcohol preference in the iP rats.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2006.04111.x
PMCID: PMC4455882
PMID: 17029600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. J Neurol Phys Ther. 2006 Sep;30(3):148-56. doi: 
10.1097/01.npt.0000281952.93934.6b.

Attempting to improve function and quality of life using the FTM Protocol: case 
report.

Butler A(1), Blanton S, Rowe V, Wolf S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA, USA. andrew.butler@emory.edu

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The Functional Tone Management (FTM) arm training 
program uses repetitive task practice, stretching, and electrical stimulation as 
patients with moderate upper extremity hemiparesis wear a dynamic hand orthosis 
to retrain grasp and release of objects. The case study quantitatively evaluates 
the extent to which FTM training improved function and quality of life in a 
patient who met criteria for which the device was intended.
CASE DESCRIPTION: The participant, a 44-year-old male in the chronic stage of 
stroke recovery with moderate right upper extremity motor impairment, was 
trained for 10 days over a 2-week period by a licensed clinician with extensive 
experience in FTM training methods. Measurements were taken over 3 baseline 
visits, then immediately preintervention, postintervention, and at a 3-month 
follow-up. The outcome measures, following the International Classification of 
Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF) Model, included the: Fugl-Meyer 
assessment (FMA) (upper extremity portion), UE range of motion (ROM), Modified 
Ashworth scale, Wolf Motor Function Test (WMFT), and the Motor Activity Log 
(MAL). Health related quality of life was measured using the Stroke Impact Scale 
(SIS).
OUTCOMES: The participant showed limited gains in upper extremity function 
immediately postintervention. Increases in AROM occurred in forearm supination 
and wrist flexion and extension, but no improvements were noted in finger ROM. A 
slight decrease in tone was found in forearm pronators (1 to 0) and wrist 
flexors (1+ to 1). WMFT values for the more affected upper extremity did not 
change immediately after training, but a 17% reduction in time occurred at 
follow-up, with improvements, most notably in the tasks of lifting a pencil and 
lifting a paper clip. No changes occurred in UE-FMA scores immediately following 
the intervention, however, a 17% improvement was measured at followup. A slight 
improvement in MAL scores was noted but not to a level of independent functional 
use of the impaired upper extremity. SIS scores improved in the domains of 
strength, communication, mobility, social participation, hand recovery, and 
overall physical component, while decreases were seen in the ADL/IADL, hand 
function, emotion, and cognitive domains.
DISCUSSION: The case study indicates that for this patient with chronic, 
moderate upper extremity impairment following stroke, a 2-week FTM training 
regimen resulted in modest changes occurring as a decrease in impairment, with 
functional improvement and improved quality of life. Further investigation of 
the innovative training program should be undertaken before the efficacy of its 
use can be ascertained amongst patients with limitations comparable to the 
participant.

DOI: 10.1097/01.npt.0000281952.93934.6b
PMID: 17029658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Circulation. 2006 Oct 24;114(17):1847-54. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.593483. Epub 2006 Oct 9.

Elevated matrix metalloproteinase-9 associated with stroke or cardiovascular 
death in patients with carotid stenosis.

Eldrup N(1), Grønholdt ML, Sillesen H, Nordestgaard BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University 
Hospital, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Matrix metalloproteinase-9 could exhibit an important role in the 
destabilization of atherosclerotic carotid plaques. We hypothesized that in 
patients with carotid stenosis, elevated levels of plasma matrix 
metalloproteinase-9 are associated with ipsilateral stroke or cardiovascular 
death.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We followed up 207 patients with > or = 50% carotid 
stenosis initially for a mean of 4.4 years, during which time 53 patients 
developed ipsilateral stroke or died of cardiovascular causes. The cumulative 
incidence of ipsilateral stroke or cardiovascular death was higher in those with 
matrix metalloproteinase-9 above versus below the median of 41.9 ng/mL (log-rank 
P=0.002). Matrix metalloproteinase-9 above versus below the median had a hazard 
ratio for ipsilateral stroke or cardiovascular death of 1.9 (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 1.1 to 3.5); during extended follow-up, this remained significant 
until 10 years. The absolute risk of ipsilateral stroke or cardiovascular death 
at 4.4 years was 34% and 17% in those with matrix metalloproteinase-9 above and 
below the median, respectively. Elevated matrix metalloproteinase-9 and an 
echolucent plaque on B-mode ultrasound versus a low matrix metalloproteinase-9 
and an echorich plaque had a hazard ratio for ipsilateral stroke or 
cardiovascular death of 4.4 (95% CI, 1.8 to 11.1) and for ipsilateral stroke of 
3.3 (95% CI, 1.1 to 9.7).
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated levels of matrix metalloproteinase-9 in patients with > or 
= 50% carotid stenosis were associated with a 2-fold risk of ipsilateral stroke 
or cardiovascular death. Combining elevated matrix metalloproteinase-9 and 
plaque echolucency was associated with a 4-fold risk for ipsilateral stroke or 
cardiovascular death and a 3-fold risk for ipsilateral stroke.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.105.593483
PMID: 17030690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Pers Disord. 2006 Oct;20(5):466-81. doi: 10.1521/pedi.2006.20.5.466.

The cost-effectiveness of cognitive behavior therapy for borderline personality 
disorder: results from the BOSCOT trial.

Palmer S(1), Davidson K, Tyrer P, Gumley A, Tata P, Norrie J, Murray H, 
Seivewright H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York. sjp21@york.ac.uk

Borderline personality disorder places a significant burden on healthcare 
providers and other agencies. This study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 
cognitive behavior therapy plus treatment as usual compared to treatment as 
usual alone for patients with borderline personality disorder. The economic 
analysis was conducted alongside a multi-center, randomized controlled trial. 
The costs of primary and secondary healthcare utilization, alongside the wider 
economic costs, were estimated from medical records and patient self-report. The 
primary outcome measure used was the quality-adjusted life year (QALY), assessed 
using EuroQol. On average, total costs per patient in the cognitive behavior 
therapy group were lower than patients receiving usual care alone (-689 pounds 
sterling), although this group also reported a lower quality of life (-0.11 
QALYs). These differences were small and did not approach conventional levels of 
statistical significance. The use of cognitive therapy for borderline 
personality disorder does not appear to demonstrate any significant 
cost-effective advantage based on the results of this study.

DOI: 10.1521/pedi.2006.20.5.466
PMCID: PMC1852260
PMID: 17032159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Br J Health Psychol. 2006 Nov;11(Pt 4):623-42. doi: 10.1348/135910705X69842.

Mind the gap... in intelligence: re-examining the relationship between 
inequality and health.

Kanazawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Institute of Management, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, London, UK. S.Kanazawa@lse.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):159-60.
    Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):161-6.
