incontinence", 5.1% with "falls+urinary incontinence", and 2.0% with "functional 
decline+falls+urinary incontinence". The group reporting multiple symptoms had 
poor self-rated health, had a high percentage currently taking three or more 
medications, had a fear of falling and had a significantly (P < 0.05) higher 
likelihood of a history of stroke and urinary disease. In addition, the group 
with multiple symptoms were older, and had significantly (P < 0.05) poorer 
results for grip strength, usual walking speed, maximum walking speed, 
functional reach, knee extension strength, and one leg standing time with eyes 
open. Within this group, the "functional decline+falls" subgroup had the lowest 
level of physical fitness. Analysis of factors related to the presence (1) or 
absence (0) of multiple symptoms identified fear of falling and usual walking 
speed as two significant variables.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that: (1) physical fitness is significantly lower 
in the group with multiple symptoms of the geriatric syndrome compared with 
healthy persons, and was the lowest in the subgroup with "functional 
decline+falls"; and (2) fear of falling and usual walking speed were two factors 
related to multiple geriatric syndromes. These results suggest directions for 
future intervention strategies.

PMID: 17338193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Soins Pediatr Pueric. 2007 Feb;(234):39-46.

[Maternal-child health in Romania].

[Article in French]

Binel G(1).

Author information:
(1)Cadre Infirmier Supérieur, Paris.

PMID: 17338417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Soc Sci Med. 2007 May;64(9):1892-903. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.01.016.
Epub  2007 Mar 6.

Does increased gender equality lead to a convergence of health outcomes for men 
and women? A study of Swedish municipalities.

Backhans MC(1), Lundberg M, Månsdotter A.

Author information:
(1)Swedish National Institute of Public Health, Department of Public Health 
Sciences, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. mona.backhans@ki.se

This study examines associations between indicators of gender equality and 
public health. We compare Swedish municipalities on nine indicators in both the 
private and public sphere, and an additive index, and study the correlations 
with indicators of morbidity and mortality. The hypothesis that a higher level 
of gender equality is associated with a convergence of health outcomes (life 
expectancy, sickness absence) between men and women was supported for equality 
of part-time employment, managerial positions and economic resources for 
morbidity, and for temporary parental leave for mortality. Our main finding is 
that gender equality was generally correlated with poorer health for both men 
and women. Our conclusions are tentative due to the methodological 
uncertainties. However, the results suggest an unfortunate trade-off between 
gender equality as we know it and public health. Sweden may have reached a 
critical point where further one-sided expansion by women into traditionally 
male roles, spheres and activities will not lead to positive health effects 
unless men also significantly alter their behaviour. Negative effects of this 
unfinished equality might be found both for women, who have become more 
burdened, and men, who as a group have lost many of their old privileges. We 
propose that this contention be confronted and discussed by policymakers, 
researchers and others. Further studies are also needed to corroborate or 
dispute these findings.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.01.016
PMID: 17339070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Circulation. 2007 Mar 6;115(9):1147-53. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.106.623595.

Advances in coronary heart disease surgery in Latin America.

Gurfinkel EP(1), Lernoud VS, Laguens RP, Favaloro RR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology and Cardiovascular Surgery, Favaloro Foundation, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina. epgurfinkel@ffavaloro.org

BACKGROUND: The beginnings of coronary artery bypass graft in Latin America 
could be set in the year 1971. Since then, improvements in technique and greater 
experience have resulted in a rapid increase in the rate of interventions 
performed in the region.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Searches through PubMed and Literatura Latinoamericana y 
del Caribe en Ciencias de la Salud, as well as personal communications from 
specialists from Latin America, have been the source of information. Articles 
were selected by their content related to the theme, and the authors' 
nationality and information is mainly from Latin America. Demographic 
information of the population of Latin America denotes higher age averages, and 
this implies an increase in the severity of comorbidities in patients who 
undergo surgery. Longer life expectancy and improvements in medical therapy have 
implied that patients survive a first intervention beyond the expected time a 
bypass persists patent. Wall vessel properties of arterial conduits, plus a 
better anastomotic technique, seem to be the current solution to worsening in 
the coronary health of patients who undergo revascularization surgery in Latin 
America.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite scarce economic investment in medical sciences, many 
academic groups contribute to the exploration of therapeutic pharmacological 
combinations and inclusively apply genetic strategies.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.106.623595
PMID: 17339572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Calcif Tissue Int. 2007 Mar;80(3):147-53. doi: 10.1007/s00223-006-0242-9.
Epub  2007 Mar 5.

Burden of hip fracture in Iran.

Ahmadi-Abhari S(1), Moayyeri A, Abolhassani F.

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Shariati Hospital, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Northern Kargar Avenue, Tehran, 14114, Iran.

To measure the burden caused by hip fracture in Iran and to compare it with 
other parts of the world, we applied the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) method 
created by the World Health Organization. The GBD method uses 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY), which is comprised of years of life lost 
(YLL) and years of life lived with disability (YLD). To calculate YLD, incidence 
of hip fracture was obtained from the Iranian Multicenter Study on Accidental 
Injuries, a large-scale nationwide prospective study. Disability weights were 
applied to the remaining duration of disease. To calculate YLL, remaining years 
of potential life at any age at death were calculated using the standard life 
table. A discount rate of 3% and age weighting were applied. Hip fracture 
generated 16,708 DALYs, comprising 8,812 (52.7%) YLL and 7,896 (47.3%) YLD. Iran 
accounted for 0.85% of the global burden of hip fracture and 12.4% of the burden 
of hip fracture in the Middle East. The female to male ratio in Iran (1.1) was 
lower than the global (2.2) and the Middle Eastern (1.4) ratios and higher than 
the ratios in China and India (1.0 and 0.9, respectively). In conclusion, hip 
fracture is not as much a cause of disease burden in Iran as in the developed 
regions of the world. We recommend utilization of the standardized GBD method to 
calculate burden of osteoporosis in different countries and to set local 
priorities according to these measures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00223-006-0242-9
PMID: 17340222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Arch Sci Med (Torino). 1969 Sep;126(9):567-76.

[Development, configuration and structure of the temporal fascia in humans].

[Article in Italian]

Levi AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Anatonzia Umana Normale dell'Università di Torino.

The genesis, configuration and structure of the temporal fascia in humans, 
during the various stages of fetal development and in the adult were studied in 
order to contribute to the knowledge of its morphological and topographical 
characteristics. The most remarkable results are: (1) In the adult, there is a 
thin connective laminar layer interposed between the "galea capitis" and the 
temporal fascia, derived from the deep subcutaneous layer; (2) the temporal 
fascia develops about the third month of intra-uterine life and is well outlined 
at the fourth month. In this period it seems to be subdivided, in its lower 
third, into two layers (superficial and deep) reaching the zygomatic arch and 
circumscribing a triangular space in the frontal sections, originally occupied 
by loose connective tissue and then, beginning from the fifth month, by fatty 
tissue; (3) the two uncoupling or unlaminar layers of the temporal fascia in the 
adult join the lateral surface of the zygomatic arch; (4) from the end of the 
fifth fetal month, an accumulation of primary fat is interposed between the 
temporal m. and its fascia: this is to be interpreted as a temporal extension of 
the Bichat's fat-ball in the cheek.

PMID: 17340805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. JAMA. 2007 Mar 7;297(9):986-94. doi: 10.1001/jama.297.9.986.

Aging, adiposity, and calorie restriction.

Fontana L(1), Klein S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics and Nutritional Science and Center for Human 
Nutrition, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Mo 63110, USA. 
lfontana@im.wustl.edu

Comment in
    Forsch Komplementmed. 2007 Jun;14(3):186-7.

CONTEXT: Excessive calorie intake and subsequent obesity increases the risk of 
developing chronic disease and decreases life expectancy. In rodent models, 
calorie restriction with adequate nutrient intake decreases the risk of 
developing chronic disease and extends maximum life span.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the physiological and clinical implications of calorie 
restriction with adequate nutrient intake.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: Search of PubMed (1966-December 2006) using terms 
encompassing various aspects of calorie restriction, dietary restriction, aging, 
longevity, life span, adiposity, and obesity; hand search of journals that focus 
on obesity, geriatrics, or aging; and search of reference lists of pertinent 
research and review articles and books. Reviewed reports (both basic science and 
clinical) included epidemiologic studies, case-control studies, and randomized 
controlled trials, with quality of data assessed by taking into account 
publication in a peer-reviewed journal, number of animals or individuals 
studied, objectivity of measurements, and techniques used to minimize bias.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: It is not known whether calorie restriction extends maximum 
life span or life expectancy in lean humans. However, calorie restriction in 
adult men and women causes many of the same metabolic adaptations that occur in 
calorie-restricted rodents and monkeys, including decreased metabolic, hormonal, 
and inflammatory risk factors for diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and possibly 
cancer. Excessive calorie restriction causes malnutrition and has adverse 
clinical effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Calorie restriction in adult men and women causes beneficial 
metabolic, hormonal, and functional changes, but the precise amount of calorie 
intake or body fat mass associated with optimal health and maximum longevity in 
humans is not known. In addition, it is possible that even moderate calorie 
restriction may be harmful in specific patient populations, such as lean persons 
who have minimal amounts of body fat.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.297.9.986
PMID: 17341713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Pflege Z. 2007 Feb;60(2):80-3.

[Kidney transplantation as therapy option--1: A gain in life expectancy and 
quality of life].

[Article in German]

Schmidt D(1).

Author information:
(1)DieterSchmidtCH@web.de

PMID: 17343094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Feb 17;151(7):441; author reply 441-2.

[The cost per year of life gained: trends and internal contradictions].

[Article in Dutch]

van Dam J.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Nov 11;150(45):2467-70.

PMID: 17343145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Rheumatol. 2007 Mar;34(3):534-42.

A model to estimate health utilities index mark 3 utility scores from WOMAC 
index scores in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee.

Grootendorst P(1), Marshall D, Pericak D, Bellamy N, Feeny D, Torrance GW.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a formula to translate Western Ontario and McMaster 
University Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) scores collected in clinical trials of 
patients with osteoarthritis (OA) into Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3) 
utility scores for application in economic evaluation.
METHODS: Data from a previously published open-label randomized controlled trial 
of appropriate care with hylan G-F 20 versus appropriate care without hylan G-F 
20 in 255 outpatients with knee OA. We estimated linear regression models of 
HUI3 scores using various functions of WOMAC, demographics, and clinical 
variables. Out-of-sample predictive performance of the models was assessed using 
the mean absolute error and several other criteria.
RESULTS: The preferred formula included WOMAC pain, stiffness, function 
subscales, demographic variables; it accounted for almost 40% of the variation 
in the HUI3 utility scores. At the group level, absolute differences between 
predicted and actual overall HUI3 utility scores were < 0.001 and not 
statistically significantly different from zero.
CONCLUSION: A formula was derived from the WOMAC index to estimate overall 
utility scores based on the HUI3 for studies of patients with OA for whom 
utility has not been recorded. Researchers can estimate overall utility scores, 
compute quality-adjusted life-years, and perform cost-utility analyses within a 
defined range of certainty.

PMID: 17343301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2007 Jun;292(6):F1751-60. doi: 
10.1152/ajprenal.00307.2006. Epub 2007 Mar 6.

Adult-onset calorie restriction delays the accumulation of mitochondrial enzyme 
abnormalities in aging rat kidney tubular epithelial cells.

McKiernan SH(1), Tuen VC, Baldwin K, Wanagat J, Djamali A, Aiken JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, WI 53706, USA. mckiernan@svm.vetmed.wisc.edu

Adult-onset calorie restriction (A-CR) is an experimental model of life 
extension and healthy aging less explored, compared with calorie restriction 
begun at early ages, but one more realistic for human application. We examined 
the effect of A-CR on the aging rat kidney with respect to common structural 
age-dependent changes and the accumulation of mitochondrial enzyme abnormalities 
in tubular epithelial cells. A 40% calorie restriction was initiated in 
middle-aged rats, before the onset of significant age-related changes in the 
Fischer x Brown Norway rat kidney. This dietary intervention effectively reduced 
glomerulosclerosis and tubular atrophy within 6 mo and changed the rate of 
interstitial fibrosis formation within 1 yr and vascular wall thickening and the 
expression cytochrome c oxidase (COX)-deficient tubular epithelial cells in 18 
mo compared with age-matched ad libitum-fed rats. Our histological approach 
(histochemical staining for mitochondrial enzyme activity and laser capture 
microdissection) coupled with mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) PCR analyses 
demonstrated that COX-deficient renal tubular epithelial cells accumulated mtDNA 
deletion mutations and that these cells contained unique, clonally expanded 
mtDNA deletion mutations. Renal tubular epithelial cells with mitochondrial 
abnormalities presented cellular characteristics indicative of physiological 
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00307.2006
PMID: 17344189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 2007 Jan-Feb;145(1):61-7. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-960509.

[Total hip replacement in the G-DRG-system].

[Article in German]

Kaufmann MM(1), Franz D, Lassahn C, Siebert CH.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädisches Fachkrankenhaus Annastift, Klinik 1, Hannover, Germany. 
Kaufmann@annastift.de

AIM: Due to the continuing increase in life expectancy, the ageing process of 
the German population in general and the high demands placed on activity levels 
and quality of life today, the demand for primary and secondary joint 
replacement surgery continues to increase. To distribute the economic and 
medical resources properly, while still making technical and surgical 
innovations available to a broad public, hospitals must be able to adequately 
finance these procedures with the help of the proper diagnosis related groups.
METHOD: The development of the German DRG-system over the past years, as well as 
the new calculation for the year 2006 are to be reviewed and analysed in this 
article with this in mind.
RESULTS: An improvement in the degree of differentiation between the individual 
procedures can be documented.
CONCLUSION: Whether or not these changes will ensure the long-term financial 
survival of the German health care system will remain to be seen.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-960509
PMID: 17345545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Med Sci Law. 2007 Jan;47(1):56-60. doi: 10.1258/rsmmsl.47.1.56.

Elderly suicide rates in the United Kingdom: trends from 1979 to 2002.

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)West London Mental Health NHS Trust, London, United Kingdom. 
ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

The proportion of elderly in the population is increasing due to a falling birth 
rate and increased life expectancy, and suicide rates increase with age. Trends 
in elderly suicide rates over a 24-year period, 1979 to 2002, were examined. 
Differences in suicide rates between elderly men and women and between the 
age-bands 65 to 74 years and 75+ years were examined. Data was ascertained from 
the WHO website. Suicide rates for men and women for the age-bands 65 to 74 
years and 75+ years declined over the 24-year study period. Suicide rates were 
higher in men than women for both the age bands. In men, suicide rates were 
higher in the 75+ age-band than in the 65 to 74 years age-band. Various national 
initiatives may have contributed to the decline in suicide rates. The challenge 
will be to sustain the decline, given that the population is ageing and suicide 
rates generally increase with age.

DOI: 10.1258/rsmmsl.47.1.56
PMID: 17345891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Int Psychogeriatr. 2007 Jun;19(3):497-507. doi: 10.1017/S1041610207004930.
Epub  2007 Mar 9.

Clinical and economic outcomes--friend or foe?

Wimo A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Care and Society, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Anders.Wimo@ki.se

The growing interest in analyzing the cost-effectiveness of interventions 
presents a challenge to anyone involved in dementia research. Although not yet 
often expressed as a formal requirement, drug authorities and budget holders 
also wish to have information on cost effectiveness. Clinical outcomes must 
therefore be combined with outcomes suitable for cost effectiveness analysis. 
However, issues about cost effectiveness are seldom included in empirical 
clinical trials, but are more often analyzed using modeling approaches. Clinical 
researchers and economists need to bridge these areas of potential conflict when 
long-term cost effectiveness is being considered. Randomized clinical trials 
(RCTs), observational studies, register data and economic models all have their 
advantages and drawbacks, and in making statements about cost effectiveness it 
is necessary to make a comprehensive judgment based on several methodological 
approaches. RCTs with a duration of at least 12 months should include 
assess-ments of resource utilization, and outcomes should offer a link to 
population-based cohort studies to discuss generalizability (e.g. a cognitive 
measure avail-able both in trials and cohort studies, such as the Mini-mental 
State Examination (MMSE), staging instruments, quality of life instruments) of 
the costs, while also serving as one source of modeling. Both dementia-specific 
and generic quality of life instruments are required. Models are necessary but 
must be transparent so that the assumptions on which the models are built can be 
critically analyzed.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610207004930
PMID: 17346367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Mar;11(12):1-128, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta11120.

Systematic review and economic evaluation of bevacizumab and cetuximab for the 
treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer.

Tappenden P(1), Jones R, Paisley S, Carroll C.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
bevacizumab and cetuximab in the treatment of individuals with metastatic 
colorectal cancer (CRC).
DATA SOURCES: Searches of main electronic databases were conducted in April and 
May 2005.
REVIEW METHODS: For the assessment of bevacizumab, trials were included if they 
recruited participants with untreated metastatic CRC for first-line treatment. 
Only trials comparing bevacizumab in combination with irinotecan and/or 
established fluorouracil (5-FU)-containing or releasing regimens given as 
first-line therapy were included. For the assessment of cetuximab, trials were 
included if they recruited participants with epidermal growth-factor 
receptor-expressing metastatic CRC who had previously failed 
irinotecan-including therapy. Independent cost-effectiveness models of 
bevacizumab and cetuximab were developed using survival modelling methods.
RESULTS: Adding bevacizumab to irinotecan in combination with 5-FU/folic acid 
(FA) plus irinotecan resulted in a statistically significant increase in median 
overall survival (OS) of 4.7 months. Adding bevacizumab to 5-FU/FA resulted in a 
non-significant increase in median OS of 3.7 months within one study and 7.7 
months in another. Adding bevacizumab to irinotecan, fluorouracil and leucovorin 
(IFL) resulted in a statistically significant increase in median 
progression-free survival (PFS) of 4.4 months. Adding bevacizumab to 5-FU/FA 
resulted in a statistically significant increase in median PFS of 3.7 months, 
and a statistically significant increase in time to disease progression of 3.8 
months compared to FU/FA alone. An overall tumour response rate of 44.8% was 
reported for bevacizumab plus IFL compared to 34.8% for IFL plus placebo. This 
addition was statistically significant. The addition of bevacizumab to 5-FU/FA 
resulted in a significant difference in tumour response rate within one study, 
but not another. Bevacizumab in combination with IFL or 5-FU/FA was observed to 
result in an increase of grade 3/4 adverse events. The independent health 
economic assessment suggests that the cost-effectiveness of bevacizumab plus IFL 
is unlikely to be better than pound 46,853 per life-year gained (LYG); the 
cost-utility of bevacizumab plus IFL is unlikely to be better than pound 62,857 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. The cost-effectiveness of 
bevacizumab plus 5-FU/FA versus 5-FU/FA is unlikely to be better than pound 
84,607 per LYG; the cost-utility of bevacizumab plus 5-FU/FA versus 5-FU/FA is 
unlikely to be better than pound 88,658 per QALY gained. A Phase II trial 
reported a median OS duration of 8.6 months for patients receiving cetuximab 
plus irinotecan, plus a median time to progression of 4.1 months, a tumour 
response rate of 22.9% and suggested that treatment with cetuximab in 
combination with irinotecan is associated with significantly more adverse events 
(any grade 3 or grade 4 adverse event) than cetuximab monotherapy. The single 
arm study of cetuximab plus irinotecan reported a median OS duration of 8.4 
months, a median time to progression of 2.9 months and a tumour response rate of 
15.2%. The cost-effectiveness model suggested that the expected survival 
duration of patients receiving cetuximab plus irinotecan is 0.79 years (9.5 
months) when the proposed continuation rule is applied. In order for cetuximab 
plus irinotecan to achieve a cost-utility ratio of pound 30,000 per QALY gained, 
treatment with cetuximab plus irinotecan must provide an additional 0.65 life 
years (7.8 months) over treatment with active/best supportive care, implying 
that survival in the active/best supportive care group must be 0.14 life years 
(1.7 months) or less.
CONCLUSIONS: The trials indicate that bevacizumab in combination with 5-FU/FA, 
and bevacizumab in combination with IFL, is clinically effective in comparison 
to standard chemotherapy options for the first-line treatment of metastatic CRC. 
The health economic analysis suggests that the marginal cost-utility of 
bevacizumab plus IFL versus IFL is unlikely to be better than pound 62,857 per 
QALY gained, and the marginal cost-utility of bevacizumab plus 5-FU/FA versus 
5-FU/FA is unlikely to be better than pound 88,658 per QALY gained. There is no 
direct evidence to demonstrate whether cetuximab in combination with irinotecan 
improves health-related quality of life or OS in comparison to active/best 
supportive care or oxaliplatin plus 5-FU/FA, although the evidence on tumour 
response rates suggests that cetuximab plus irinotecan has some clinical 
activity. While it is difficult to suggest whether cetuximab represents value 
for money, indirect comparisons suggest that the incremental cost-utility of 
cetuximab plus irinotecan is unlikely to be better than pound 30,000 per QALY 
gained. This review highlights a number of areas for further research, including 
clarifying the true impact of first-line bevacizumab in combination with 
irinotecan and/or infusional 5-FU/FA, without subsequent bevacizumab treatment 
following disease progression, on OS in patients with metastatic CRC who are 
representative of the typical population of CRC patients in England and Wales. 
Further research concerning the impact of therapies on health-related quality of 
life is essential.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11120
PMID: 17346499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Lung Cancer. 2007 Jun;56(3):433-43. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2007.01.028. Epub
 2007 Mar 7.

Patient attitudes towards chemotherapy as assessed by patient versus physician: 
a prospective observational study in advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Chu DT(1), Kim SW, Kuo HP, Ozacar R, Salajka F, Krishnamurthy S, Damyanov D, 
Altug S, Reece WH, Wang L.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Institute & Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Peking Union Medical College, China.

BACKGROUND: In the treatment of advanced cancer, a physician's ability to 
accurately identify a patient's attitude towards treatment is critical. This 
paper describes the extent of any differences observed between patient attitudes 
towards chemotherapy for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) as assessed 
by patients themselves versus their physicians.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with stage IIIB or IV NSCLC who received 
gemcitabine plus cisplatin or carboplatin were enrolled into this prospective 
observational study. Patients and their physicians completed questionnaires 
containing descriptions of seven patient-specific attitudes. A pre-defined 
algorithm was used to categorize patients into one of the three 'need' 
categories based on the questionnaire responses: (A) "maximum extension of 
survival with acceptance of high toxicity", (B) "maximum extension of survival 
only if coupled with normal life style", and (C) "relief of symptoms". Each 
patient was categorized based on his own response, as well as his physician's 
response.
RESULTS: A total of 1895 patients were enrolled from 19 countries across 3 
continents. Data from 1884 patients were analysed. Based on patient versus 
physician responses, respectively, the distribution of patients was 60% versus 
39% in need category A, 26% versus 33% in B, and 14% versus 29% in C. Patient 
self-assessed versus physician-assessed need category identification was aligned 
for 891 patients (47.3%): 541 (29%) in A, 218 (12%) in B, 132 (7%) in C. While 
there was slight agreement between the identification of 'need' categories by 
physicians and patients (kappa=0.18, 95% CI: 0.15-0.21), physicians also tended 
to place patients further down the scale (towards C) than patients placed 
themselves (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients have varying needs from cancer chemotherapy and it may not 
always be correctly identified by the treating physician. Physicians may 
underestimate patient's desire for extended survival compared with symptom 
relief.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2007.01.028
PMID: 17346847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2007 Feb-Mar;24(1):63-6. doi:
10.1177/1049909106295385.

Should age limit admission to the intensive care unit?

Marik PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Thomas Jefferson 
University, 834 Walnut Street, Suite 650, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. 
paul.marik@jefferson.edu

People who are older than 65 years of age are the fastest growing segment of the 
United States population. With the projected exponential increase in the number 
of elderly patients and the increasing burden of chronic disease, the number of 
elderly patients who will require treatment in an intensive care unit is 
expected to increase. Owing to the elderly patient's reduced life expectancy and 
higher intensive care unit and hospital mortality, it could be argued that 
elderly patients should not be admitted to the intensive care unit. However, an 
analysis of available data suggests that functional elderly patients have a 
favorable "long-term" outcome after intensive care unit admission. This suggests 
that age alone should not be used in making intensive care unit triage 
decisions.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909106295385
PMID: 17347508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Gesundheitswesen. 2007 Jan;69(1):26-33. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-960491.

[Health indicator-based cluster analysis of districts and urban districts in 
North Rhine-Westphalia].

[Article in German]

Strohmeier KP(1), Schultz A, Bardehle D, Annuss R, Lenz A.

Author information:
(1)Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Bochum, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW's) indicator set for health reporting 
activities comprises more than 70 regional health indicators, which means that 
these data are available for health reporting purposes for all 54 districts and 
urban districts. Morbidity and mortality indicators differ in part quite 
considerably and require further interpretation. With the help of selected 
indicators, the authors of the following article try to explain the relation 
between social status and health status.
METHODOLOGY: Ten years ago, NRW, as part of its health reporting activities, 
started to carry out multivariate analyses to classify socio-demographically 
different types of regions, leading to the establishment of six types of regions 
which can be linked to health-related data. Social structure indicators are part 
of a first step submitted to a main component analysis and grouped together by a 
small number of features and/or factors which clearly reflect differences in 
living conditions. As a result, two factors were extracted: an economic 
prosperity factor which is mainly determined by the disposable income and a 
so-called A-factor which mainly describes the fact that poorer, elderly, 
unemployed and foreign population groups live concentrated in regions with a 
declining population but high population density. These factors are, in a second 
step, used for a cluster analysis aimed at classifying the 54 districts and 
urban districts and at establishing different types of regions. In a subsequent 
step, the cluster method is used to explain regional variations of selected 
health indicators.
RESULTS: It is a proven fact that morbidity and mortality are influenced by 
social status. With the help of selected indicators, six clusters with a 
different socio-economic structure influencing the health status of the 
population can be established for NRW. Special attention should be paid to the 
cluster of the Ruhr area with its below-average social situation. With 90% NRW's 
population primarily living within the other 5 clusters which are differently 
structured but increasingly adjusting their living conditions to each other. The 
authors of this publication assign four health status indicators to predefined 
clusters and analyse the relation between the social and health status: female 
and male life expectancy, the proportion of underweight live births, infant 
mortality and avoidable deaths.In regions with high A-factor values (poverty 
pole), i. e., in several ways socially deprived regions, male and female average 
life expectancy is significantly lower than in regions with a clearly less 
pronounced accumulation of problems. Moreover, a significantly higher life 
expectancy for male live births can be observed in regions with a high 
disposable income. The model fails to establish a convincing correlation between 
social status and infant mortality and breast cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Knowledge about socio-demographic differences in the health status 
of the population is particularly important for prevention measures in order to 
be able to react appropriately to health risks in districts and urban districts. 
The analysis shows that an intense regional accumulation of problems will have a 
negative influence on health status, an influence which is more significant than 
the positive influence of prosperous regions on the health status.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-960491
PMID: 17347929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Biosoc Sci. 2007 Nov;39(6):875-93. doi: 10.1017/S0021932007001915. Epub
2007  Mar 9.

Biosocial covariates of adult male body mass index in Central India.

Gautam RK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Dr H. S. Gour University Sagar, Madhya Pradesh, 
India.

Body mass index (BMI) is the 'measuring rod' of nutritional status. This study 
investigates the type and extent of correlation between adult male BMI and 
socioeconomic, cultural and bio-demographical variables using data from 11,496 
individuals from 38 districts of Central India. For each individual, stature, 
body weight and sitting height data were collected, their Cormic index and BMI 
computed, and averages for each district calculated. Mean BMI was found to be 
lowest for the population of Tikamgarh (17.90+/-1.91 kg m(-2)) and highest for 
that of Durg district (19.33+/-2.16 kg m(-2)), whereas the mean BMI for the 
total population of Central India was 18.67+/-2.18 kg m(-2), which is lower than 
that of well-to-do individuals in India as a whole. The F ratio indicates that 
there is inter-district variation in anthropometric characteristics of 
populations. District-wise biosocial indicators were obtained, namely population 
density per square kilometre, percentage urban population, percentage of 
population that is of scheduled caste/tribe, sex ratio, average rural population 
per PHC/CHC (primary or community health centre), literacy rate, life 
expectancy, total fertility rate, infant mortality rate, gender development 
index and human development index. Most of these variables were found to be 
significantly correlated with each other, but BMI was only significantly 
correlated with three of them, viz. gender development index (R2=0.211), life 
expectancy (R2=0.130) and infant mortality rate (R2=0.128). Gender development 
index and life expectancy were positively correlated with BMI, whereas infant 
mortality rate was negatively correlated. It is concluded that if BMI increases 
then life expectancy will also increase. Thus better nutritional status may be a 
helpful tool for reducing infant mortality rate, which is an indicator of 
socioeconomic status, health condition, health care and ultimately overall 
development of a region or population.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932007001915
PMID: 17349067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Ann Vasc Surg. 2007 Jan;21(1):39-44. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2006.06.002.

Open endarterectomy of the SPT segment: an experience.

Abbas M(1), Claydon M, Ponosh S, Hamilton M, Yahya M, Angel D, Mwipatayi P, 
Sieunarine K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia. manzooorabbas@bigpond.com

Comment in
    Ann Vasc Surg. 2009 Nov-Dec;23(6):821.

The purpose of the study was to evaluate the results of open endarterectomy in 
short atherosclerotic occlusions of the SPT segment (superficial femoral, 
popliteal, and tibioperoneal arteries). Retrospectively, records from July 1999 
to June 2004 of patients who underwent open endarterectomy of lower limb 
arteries were verified; 63 patients with 66 lesions had open endarterectomy of 
the SPT segment as a primary procedure. At the time of this study, there were 57 
patients alive and six dead, with the cause of death being unrelated to the 
procedure. The patients had a mean age of 71 +/- 10.73 years, and there were 18 
females and 45 males. All patients underwent routine follow-up at 1, 3, 6, and 
12 months and yearly thereafter. Routine clinical examination and ultrasound 
were done to assess the outcome. The mean length of endarterectomized 
superficial femoral artery was 7.42 +/- 3.66 cm (range 2-15). The lesions 
involved were the superficial femoral, popliteal, and tibioperoneal arteries 
(SPT segment). The primary cumulative patency rate by means of life-table 
analysis was 48.8% at 5 years (mean 12.7 months, range 1-60). During follow-up, 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was necessary in nine patients, for a 
primary assisted patency rate of 85.1% at 5 years. The location of recurrent 
stenoses after endarterectomy was usually at one of the ends of the 
endarterectomy site. Once a preferred technique, endarterectomy is now 
overshadowed by bypass procedures. Our clinical experience suggests that, in a 
select group of patients with SPT segment occlusions, open endarterectomy is 
technically feasible and should be used in cases with insufficient vein for 
bypass grafting. It also can be used as an alternative to allow the long 
saphenous vein to be reserved for a bypass procedure in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2006.06.002
PMID: 17349334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Am J Med. 2007 Mar;120(3):272-9. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2006.06.036.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment for hepatitis C in an urban cohort co-infected 
with HIV.

Campos NG(1), Salomon JA, Servoss JC, Nunes DP, Samet JH, Freedberg KA, Goldie 
SJ.

Author information:
(1)Program in Health Policy, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass, USA. 
gastin@post.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: Recent clinical trials have evaluated treatment strategies for chronic 
infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) in patients co-infected with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Our objective was to use these data to examine the 
cost-effectiveness of treating HCV in an urban cohort of co-infected patients.
METHODS: A computer-based model, together with available published data, was 
used to estimate lifetime costs (2004 US dollars), life expectancy, and 
incremental cost per year of life saved (YLS) associated with 3 treatment 
strategies: (1) interferon-alfa and ribavirin; (2) pegylated interferon-alfa; 
and (3) pegylated interferon-alfa and ribavirin. The target population included 
treatment-eligible patients, based on an actual urban cohort of HIV-HCV 
co-infected subjects, with a mean age of 44 years, of whom 66% had genotype 1 
HCV, 16% had cirrhosis, and 98% had CD4 cell counts >200 cells/mm3.
RESULTS: Pegylated interferon-alfa and ribavirin was consistently more effective 
and cost-effective than other treatment strategies, particularly in patients 
with non-genotype 1 HCV. For patients with CD4 counts between 200 and 500 
cells/mm3, survival benefits ranged from 5 to 11 months, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were consistently less than $75,000 per YLS for men 
and women of both genotypes. Due to better treatment efficacy in non-genotype 1 
HCV patients, this group experienced greater life expectancy gains and lower 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination therapy with pegylated interferon-alfa and ribavirin 
for HCV in eligible co-infected patients with stable HIV disease provides 
substantial life-expectancy benefits and appears to be cost-effective. 
Overcoming barriers to HCV treatment eligibility among urban co-infected 
patients remains a critical priority.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2006.06.036
PMCID: PMC2034752
PMID: 17349451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Apr;43(6):1051-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.01.031. Epub
2007  Mar 8.

Lactate dehydrogenase as a prognostic factor for survival time of terminally ill 
cancer patients: a preliminary study.

Suh SY(1), Ahn HY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Dongguk University International Hospital, 814 
Siksa-dong, Ilsan-dong-gu, Koyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. 
lisasuhmd@hotmail.com

This study evaluated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) as a prognostic factor for 
survival time in terminal cancer patients. We prospectively followed 93 
consecutive inpatients with terminal cancer in one general hospital. Cox's 
proportional hazard model was used to adjust the influence of some clinical and 
laboratory variables on survival time. For 25 patients, LDH levels at 2 weeks 
and 1 week before death were compared by paired t test. In multivariate 
analysis, elevated LDH level (313 IU/L) was confirmed as an unfavourable 
indicator for survival time (hazard ratio=2.087, p=0.002). Serum LDH levels were 
significantly increased as the patients approached death. A combined index 
comprising LDH levels, C reactive protein levels, uric acid levels, presence of 
moderate to severe pain, fatigue, hypotension and performance status 
demonstrated a good stratification value for predicting survival time. Our 
results showed that serum LDH level can be a useful predictor of survival time 
of terminally ill cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.01.031
PMID: 17349786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Lancet. 2007 Mar 10;369(9564):825. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60406-1.

Coronary heart disease in Chile.

Bambs C(1), Cerda J(2), Zárate V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile. Electronic address: cbambs@med.puc.cl.
(2)Department of Public Health, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60406-1
PMID: 17350450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2007 Feb;21(1):43-57. doi: 
10.1016/j.berh.2006.09.002.

Management of established rheumatoid arthritis with an emphasis on 
pharmacotherapy.

Blom M(1), van Riel PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, PO 
Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands. m.blom@reuma.umcn.nl

The goals for the management of established rheumatoid arthritis (RA) differ 
slightly from the goals for the management of early RA. In established RA, in 
most cases, joint damage will be present, therefore the main goals are aimed at 
keeping the disease activity as low as possible to prevent joint damage 
progression. Furthermore, patients with RA have a reduced life expectancy, 
mainly due to co-morbid conditions such as cardiovascular disease. As in early 
disease, pharmacotherapy is the cornerstone of the management of patients with 
established RA. In this article we will discuss the characteristic 
manifestations of established RA, the pharmacological treatment strategies 
available for reaching the management goals of established RA, the role of 
prognostic factors and the measurements available for evaluating the outcomes of 
the management of individual patients with established RA in daily clinical 
practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.berh.2006.09.002
PMID: 17350543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J Rehabil Med. 2007 Mar;39(2):97-102. doi: 10.2340/16501977-0043.

Facilitating recovery: evidence for organized stroke care.

Kalra L(1), Langhorne P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Stroke Medicine, King's College London School of Medicine, 
London, UK. lalit.kalra@kcl.ac.uk

Despite dramatic advances in the management of thrombolysis and acute stroke, 
organized rehabilitation remains the cornerstone of recovery from stroke. The 
importance of organized stroke care in facilitating recovery has been recognized 
for the last 10 years, but it is still unclear how organized rehabilitation 
contributes to improved outcomes. This paper presents a synthesis of evidence of 
the benefits of organized care, especially with respect to stroke severity and 
different types of organized stroke care. It presents an overview of possible 
processes within organized rehabilitation that may contribute to good outcomes. 
The role of integrated care pathways within rehabilitation settings is 
discussed, highlighting the limitations of current evidence and uncertainty 
about their benefits. Finally, some key challenges have been identified for 
stroke units in improving rehabilitation outcomes over the next decade and for 
healthcare planners in investing adequately in organized stroke services.

DOI: 10.2340/16501977-0043
PMID: 17351689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. J Rehabil Med. 2007 Mar;39(2):145-51. doi: 10.2340/16501977-0017.

Mortality after spinal cord injury in Norway.

Lidal IB(1), Snekkevik H, Aamodt G, Hjeltnes N, Biering-Sørensen F, Stanghelle 
JK.

Author information:
(1)Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital, Faculty Division Ullevaal University 
Hospital, University of Oslo, pb 1130 Blindern, Oslo, Norway. 
ingeborg.lidal@sunnaas.no

OBJECTIVES: To study mortality, cause of death and risk indicators for death in 
Norwegian patients with spinal cord injury.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study with retrospective data.
SUBJECTS: All patients (n=387) with traumatic spinal cord injury admitted to 
Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital, Norway, during the period 1961-82.
METHODS: Medical records were reviewed retrospectively. Causes of death were 
collected from Statistics Norway and death certificates. Standardized mortality 
ratios (SMRs) were calculated for the entire sample and for causes of death. To 
explore risk indicators for death, a Cox regression model was used.
RESULTS: During the observation period, 1961-2002, 142 patients died. The main 
causes of death were pneumonia/influenza (16%), ischaemic heart diseases (13%) 
and urogenital diseases (13%). SMR was 1.8 for men and 4.9 for women. 
Cause-specific SMRs were markedly elevated for urogenital diseases, suicide, 
pneumonia/influenza, urogenital cancer, and diseases of the digestive system. 
Risk indicators for death were: higher age at injury, tetraplegia, functionally 
complete spinal cord injury, pre-injury cardiovascular disease, alcohol or 
substance abuse and psychiatric diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: The SMRs show that life expectancy is reduced in chronic spinal cord 
injury in Norway, more for women than for men. Cause-specific SMRs and risk 
indicators suggest that the high mortality rates after spinal cord injury to a 
certain degree are related to preventable aetiologies. To maximize longevity in 
chronic spinal cord injury, more attention must be paid to co-morbidity.

DOI: 10.2340/16501977-0017
PMID: 17351697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2007 Mar;34(3):374-9.

[Medical treatment for older breast cancer patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Osaki A(1), Saeki T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Breast Oncology, Saitama Medical University.

The incidence of breast cancer and the percentage of the population 65 years of 
age or older is increasing in Japan. So many elderly patients with breast cancer 
are given medical treatment. The first-line treatment for elderly patients with 
hormone responsiveness is endocrine therapy prior to cytotoxic chemotherapy in 
principle. In terms of chemotherapy, treatment for elderly patients should not 
be avoided simply because of their age. Oncologists must determine whether 
chemotherapy should be prescribed after they assess the benefits and risk, 
including comorbidity and life expectancy, in elderly patients. In future, 
combinations with low harm treatments, including biologic agents, should be 
considered in treatment strategy for elderly patients with breast cancer.

PMID: 17353627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Minerva Ginecol. 2007 Feb;59(1):35-41.

[Ageing and male sexuality].

[Article in Italian]

Jannini EA(1), Carosa E, Rossi S, Di Sante S, Sebastiani G, Lenzi A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale, Università dell'Aquila, 67100 
L'Aquila, Italy.

Visceral, hormonal and neuroendocrine changes after the sixth decade of life 
result from slowing down and alteration in metabolic, hormonal, protein, lipid 
and glucose turnover, progressive receptor insensitivity, degenerative 
processes--primarily arteriosclerosis--of the endocrine and non endocrine 
tissues. Unlike menopause, andropause has no biological speed; it is neither 
rapid nor marked by macroscopically evident psychobehavioral change, as occurs 
in women. Because of its indistinct and widely variable nosographic contours, 
the male climacterium is more complex. The challenge to the clinical sexologist, 
therefore, is to identify appropriate treatment approaches for an ageing 
population with an increasingly longer life expectancy and the right to a 
sexually satisfying life.

PMID: 17353872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Rev Biol Trop. 2005 Mar-Jun;53(1-2):175-86.

Nesting biology of four Tetrapedia species in trap-nests (Hymenoptera: Apidae: 
Tetrapediini).

Camillo E(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de 
Ribeirão Preto-USP. 14040-901. Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brasil. 
ecamillo@ffclrp.usp.br

The nests used in this study were obtained from trap-nests (tubes of cardboard 
and cut bamboo stems) placed on Santa Carlota Farm (Itaoca Section-IS, Santana 
Section-SS and Cerrado-Ce), Cajuru, SP, Brazil. The number of nests and 
corresponding species obtained were as follows: 516 nests of T. curvitarsis, 104 
of T. rugulosa, 399 of T. diversipes and 98 of T. gamfaloi. The most abundant 
species from SS and Ce was T. curvitarsis, and from IS it was T. diversipes. In 
general, most nests were collected during the hot and wet season (September to 
April). The nests were constructed with sand and an oily substance, and a single 
female established them. The cells were constructed in a linear series, 
sometimes followed by a vestibular cell. The number of brood cells ranged from 1 
to 10 in T. curvitarsis (n=200), and in T. garofaloi (n-51), from 1 to 8 (n-30) 
in T. rugulosa, and from 1 to 6 (n=37) in T. diversipes. The pollen mass (pollen 
+ oily substance) contained a hollow, sometimes divided by a transverse ridge, 
on the exposed face of the pollen mass. The egg was vertically positioned in the 
lower part of the hollow. At times, the closing of a cell was initiated before 
provisioning was completed, with a construction of a collar at the cell limit. 
In some nests the final cellular partition also acted as a closure plug. Females 
began activities at 6:18 a.m. and ended between 3:31 and 6:26 p.m. Some females 
(T. curvitarsis, T. rugiulosa and T. ganrfaloi) did not spend the nights at 
their nests, returning to them only the following morning with additional 
material. In general, the development period (for males and females) was greater 
in nests collected near the end of the hot and wet season than it was for nests 
