
DOI: 10.1007/s00330-007-0587-0
PMID: 17429644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Health Serv J. 2006 Nov 23;116(6033):suppl 8-9.

Life expectancy. Know your gap.

Perrow F.

PMID: 17429876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2007 May;51(5):530-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-6576.2007.01273.x.

Long-term outcome of elderly patients requiring intensive care admission for 
abdominal pathologies: survival and quality of life.

Merlani P(1), Chenaud C, Mariotti N, Ricou B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Intensive Care, Department of Anesthesiology, 
Pharmacology and Surgical Intensive Care, University Hospital of Geneva, Rue 
Micheli-du-Crest 24, 1211 Geneva 14, Switzerland. Paolo.Merlani@hcuge.ch

Comment in
    Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2007 May;51(5):519-21.

BACKGROUND: Medical developments have allowed the management of patients aged 
over 70 years with severe abdominal pathologies requiring intensive care unit 
(ICU) admission. These patients require enhanced life support and present a high 
ICU mortality. We investigated the outcome and quality of life (QOL) of elderly 
patients 2 years after their ICU stay for abdominal pathologies.
METHODS: Patients aged 70 years or over with abdominal pathologies, admitted to 
our ICU over a period of 2 years, were included. Two years following their ICU 
stay, a letter informed the patients about the present study. Consent to 
participate was obtained by telephone. QOL was assessed by the Euro-QOL and 
Short Form-36 questionnaires. Other patient-centered outcomes were evaluated.
RESULTS: Overall, 2780 patients were admitted to the ICU during the study 
period; 141 (5%) patients were eligible; 112 of the 141 (79%) survived their ICU 
stay, 95 (67%) survived their hospital stay and 52 (37%) were alive 2 years 
after their ICU stay; 36 of the 52 survivors (69%) answered the questionnaire. 
Their QOL 2 years after their ICU stay was decreased in comparison with an 
age-matched population. Eighty-one per cent of patients lived at home and 57% 
were totally independent. They perceived their ICU stay as positive and 75% 
stated that they would agree to go through intensive care again. Factors 
associated with 2-year survival were the absence of co-morbidity, absence of 
malignancy and a lower Simplified Acute Physiology II score on ICU admission.
CONCLUSIONS: A high mortality rate and a decrease in QOL were observed in 
elderly patients with severe abdominal pathologies. Nonetheless, these patients 
were able to adapt well to their physical disabilities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-6576.2007.01273.x
PMID: 17430312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Clin Exp Allergy. 2007 Apr;37(4):592-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2222.2007.02680.x.

Association and functional relevance of E237G, a polymorphism of the 
high-affinity immunoglobulin E-receptor beta chain gene, to airway 
hyper-responsiveness.

Kim YK(1), Park HW, Yang JS, Oh SY, Chang YS, Shin ES, Lee JE, Kim S, Gho YS, 
Cho SH, Min KU, Kim YY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Postech Biotech Center, Pohang University of 
Science and Technology, Pohang, Korea.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Allergy. 2007 Oct;37(10):1574-5.

BACKGROUND: The hyper-sensitivity reaction of IgE, with its high-affinity 
receptors (FcepsilonRI), is central to the phenomenon of atopic diseases.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the genetic effects of non-synonymous single-nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) of FcepsilonRI on intermediate phenotypes of asthma, i.e. 
atopy and airway hyper-responsiveness (AHR), in the Korean general population.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Atopy and AHR were evaluated in a cohort of 2055 subjects, 
aged 10-18 years, using skin prick tests (SPTs) for common aeroallergens and 
total serum IgE and methacholine bronchial provocation tests. All 
FcepsilonRI-alpha, FcepsilonRI-beta, and FcepsilonRI-gamma gene exons of 24 
healthy subjects were sequenced to locate informative non-synonymous SNPs (minor 
allele frequency>2%). Informative SNPs were then scored, using the 
high-throughput single base extension method. Relative risk (RR) was determined 
by multiple logistic regression analysis, after adjusting for confounding 
factors. The functional relevance of non-synonymous SNPs was analysed using the 
sorting intolerant from tolerant (SIFT) program.
RESULTS: The SNP search found only one informative non-synonymous SNP in 
FcepsilonRI-beta: E237G (minor allele frequency=0.21). The positive rate of AHR 
was lower among subjects with the 237*E allele than among those with 237*G [RR 
(95% confidence interval)=0.41 (0.19-0.89); P=0.01]. However, the E237G 
substitution was not associated with either a positive SPT response or total 
serum IgE levels. Sequence evolution analysis predicted that the E237G variation 
is an intolerant amino acid substitution, with functional importance.
CONCLUSION: In the Korean general population, AHR is significantly associated 
with the E237G polymorphism of FcepsilonRI-beta, which results in an intolerant 
amino acid substitution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2222.2007.02680.x
PMID: 17430357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Pediatr Transplant. 2007 May;11(3):267-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-3046.2006.00644.x.

Optimizing outcomes for neonatal ARPKD.

Beaunoyer M(1), Snehal M, Li L, Concepcion W, Salvatierra O Jr, Sarwal M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Transplant Surgery, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94304, 
USA.

A retrospective analysis was conducted on 10 consecutive cases of neonatal 
ARPKD, 9 of whom received kidney transplants (KT). All were diagnosed 
antenatally (n = 6) or at birth. In the first month of life 70% required 
ventilatory support. Pre-emptive bilateral nephrectomy and peritoneal dialysis 
(PD) catheter placement were performed in 9 at a mean age of 7.8 +/- 11.9 
months. The indications for nephrectomy were massive kidneys, resulting in 
suboptimal nutrition and respiratory compromise. All patients received assisted 
enteral nutrition, with significant increase in mean tolerated feeds following 
nephrectomy (p < 0.05), with increase in mean normalized weight and height (0.92 
and 1.2 delta SDS respectively), by one year post-transplantation. KT was 
performed at a mean age and weight of 2.5 +/- 1.4 years and 13.3 +/- 6.1 kg. The 
mean creatinine clearance at one year post-KT was 91.3 +/- 38.1 mls/min/1.73 
m(2), with a projected graft life expectancy of 18.4 years. Patient survival was 
89% and death censored graft survival was 100%, at a mean follow-up of 6.1 +/- 
4.5 years post-transplant. Six patients demonstrated evidence of hepatic 
fibrosis, one of which required liver transplantation. In patients with massive 
kidneys from ARPKD, pre-emptive bilateral nephrectomy, supportive PD and early 
aggressive nutrition, can minimize early infant mortality, so that subsequent KT 
can be performed with excellent patient and graft survival.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3046.2006.00644.x
PMID: 17430481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2007 Apr;9(2):87-92. doi: 10.1007/BF02938333.

Are vasodilators still indicated in the treatment of severe aortic 
regurgitation?

Inamo J(1), Enriquez-Sarano M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Aortic regurgitation (AR) is a valve disease that causes severe complications 
and reduces life expectancy. Surgical correction is required in the late stages 
of the disease. In less advanced forms, treatment with vasodilators is a 
consideration. The available evidence suggests that this type of treatment has a 
favorable effect on the consequences of AR, particularly left ventricular 
remodeling. However, the impact of vasodilators on clinical endpoints 
complicating the course of AR remains in doubt. The limited evidence supporting 
or opposing the utilization of vasodilators in AR hinders drawing firm 
conclusions and emphasizes the process of individualized interpretation of the 
clinical presentation of patients with the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02938333
PMID: 17430674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Orv Hetil. 2007 Apr 8;148 Suppl 1:25-30. doi: 10.1556/OH.2007.28031.

[When does an autoimmune disease begin? Importance of the early diagnosis].

[Article in Hungarian]

Bodolay E(1), Dérfalvi B, Gergely P, Poór G.

Author information:
(1)Debreceni Egyetem, Orvos- és Egészségtudományi Centrum, III. sz. 
Belgyógyászati Klinika, Debrecen. bodolai@iiibel.dote.hu

In autoimmune diseases, such as type I diabetes mellitus, systemic autoimmune 
diseases and the early phase of rheumatoid arthritis, before the development of 
a definitive disease, clinical and laboratory alterations can be observed. Being 
aware of these symptoms is crucial both for family practitioners and 
specialists, handling autoimmune and early arthritis patients. The early 
recognition and prognosticating of the disease and sending the patient 
immediately to a specialist will lead to the exponential improvement of the 
patient's life expectancies and will also help to avoid complications. The need 
for special diagnostics, care and treatment made the development of national 
immunological and rheumatological centers imperative, where sufficient 
experience and professional knowledge helps the proper medical attendance.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2007.28031
PMID: 17430790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Can J Aging. 2007 Spring;26(1):1-18. doi: 10.3138/01v7-0287-9231-q854.

A health profile of community-living nonagenarians in Canada.

Wister AV(1), Wanless D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver, BC. 
wister@sfu.ca

Due to increasing life expectancy over time, persons who live into their ninety, 
known as nonagenarians, are an important and growing segment of the Canadian 
population. In 2001, there were 130,325 nonagenarians (compared to 3,795 
centenarians), and it is estimated that they will top 400,000 by 2026. This 
paper provides a health profile and an exploratory analysis of selected social 
determinants of health for community-living nonagenarians, using the 2001 
Canadian Community Health Survey (Statistics Canada, 2003). Perceived health, 
selection of prevalent chronic illnesses, and several health behaviours are 
examined. One dominant pattern is the tendency for male nonagenarians to be in 
better health than their female counterparts. This finding is consistent with 
research on centenarians and is discussed in terms of a mortality selection 
effect. Other key findings include the strength of sense of belonging, income, 
and physical activity as potential social determinants of health, connected to 
particular dimensions of health status.

DOI: 10.3138/01v7-0287-9231-q854
PMID: 17430800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Br J Ophthalmol. 2007 Sep;91(9):1244-6. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2007.116616. Epub
2007  Apr 12.

Ranibizumab (Lucentis) versus bevacizumab (Avastin): modelling cost 
effectiveness.

Raftery J(1), Clegg A, Jones J, Tan SC, Lotery A.

Author information:
(1)Wessex Institute for Health R&D, Medical School, University of Southampton, 
Southampton, UK. raftery@soton.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2008 Jun;92(6):866-7.
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2008 Jul;92(7):1010.

Two new drugs provide startling benefits in the treatment of age-related macular 
degeneration (AMD). The clinical and cost effectiveness of ranibizumab 
(Lucentis) was compared to that of bevacizumab (Avastin), which costs up to 100 
times less. A cost effectiveness model was developed to assess the cost per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) over 10 years. For predominantly classic AMD, 
the efficacy of bevacizumab relative to ranibizumab would have to be around 40% 
for the latter to achieve 30 k pounds per QALY, a NICE threshold. Similar but 
worse results applied to the other main forms of AMD, minimally occult and 
occult with no classic lesions. The price of ranibizumab would have to be 
drastically reduced for it to be cost effective. Continued unlicensed use of 
bevacizumab raises ethical, legal and policy questions. Public pressure may be 
the most potent weapon in persuading Genentech to license bevacizumab for AMD.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2007.116616
PMCID: PMC1954941
PMID: 17431015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


412. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 2007 Mar;59(1):53-7.

Lymph node disease after radical prostatectomy.

Wirth MP(1), Froehner M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technical 
University of Dresden, Dresden, Germany. Manfred.Wirth@uniklinikum-dresden.de

Most patients with lymph node involvement at radical prostatectomy are destined 
to experience disease progression. Since the detection rate of lymph node 
metastases depends on the extension of lymphadenectomy, comparison between 
series may be biased and there is no generally accepted treatment approach. 
Although one small randomized study demonstrated a survival benefit for patients 
receiving immediate hormonal treatment compared with treatment onset at clinical 
progression, in patients with minimal lymph node involvement the benefit of 
immediate treatment is uncertain. It is possible that treatment onset at PSA 
relapse is sufficient in such cases thus sparing side effects and costs of 
hormonal treatment. The role of adjuvant radiotherapy is unclear in patients 
with lymph node involvement at radical prostatectomy. Since spread into the 
lymph nodes in most cases indicates systemic disease, local measures only are 
unlikely to cure those patients. Possibly, in select cases, adjuvant 
radiotherapy may improve local control and maintain quality of life, even if no 
survival benefit may be expected. Overall, there is a need to enroll patients 
with lymph node involvement at radical prostatectomy onto clinical studies to 
improve the body of knowledge on optimal management in these cases.

PMID: 17431370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Can J Gastroenterol. 2007 Apr;21(4):217-22. doi: 10.1155/2007/791062.

Photodynamic therapy for Barrett's esophagus with high-grade dysplasia: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Comay D(1), Blackhouse G, Goeree R, Armstrong D, Marshall JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Divison of Gastroenterology, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of photodynamic therapy (PDT) and 
esophagectomy (ESO) relative to surveillance (SURV) for patients with Barrett's 
esophagus (BE) and high-grade dysplasia (HGD).
METHODS: A Markov decision tree was constructed to estimate costs and health 
outcomes of PDT, ESO and SURV in a hypothetical cohort of male patients, 50 
years of age, with BE and HGD. Outcomes included unadjusted life-years (LYs) and 
quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs). Direct medical costs (2003 CDN$) were measured 
from the perspective of a provincial ministry of health. The time horizon for 
the model was five years (cycle length three months), and costs and outcomes 
were discounted at 3%. Model parameters were assigned unique distributions, and 
a probabilistic analysis with 10,000 Monte Carlo simulations was performed.
RESULTS: SURV was the least costly strategy, followed by PDT and ESO, but SURV 
was also the least effective. In terms of LYs, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were 814 dollars/LY for PDT versus SURV and 3,397 
dollars/LY for ESO versus PDT. PDT dominated ESO for QALYs in the base-case. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of PDT versus SURV was 879 dollars/QALY. In 
probabilistic analysis, PDT was most likely to be cost-effective at 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) values between 100 dollars/LY and 3,500 dollars/LY, and 
ESO was most likely to be cost-effective for WTP values over 3500 dollars/LY. 
For quality-adjusted survival, PDT was most likely to be cost-effective for all 
WTP thresholds above 1,000 dollars/QALY. The likelihood that PDT was the most 
cost-effective strategy reached 0.99 at a WTP ceiling of 25,000 dollars/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In male patients with BE and HGD, PDT and ESO are cost-effective 
alternatives to SURV.

BUT : L’étude avait pour but d’évaluer la rentabilité de la thérapie 
photodynamique (TPD) et de l’oesophagectomie (OE) par rapport à la surveillance 
(SURV) chez des patients porteurs d’un œsophage de Barrett (OB) avec dysplasie 
de degré élevé (DDE) de malignité.
MÉTHODE : Un arbre de décision markovien a été élaboré afin de permettre 
l’estimation des coûts et des résultats cliniques de la TPD, de l’OE et de la 
SURV dans une cohorte hypothétique d’hommes âgés de 50 ans et porteurs d’un OB 
avec DDE de malignité. Les résultats comprenaient le nombre d’années de vie (AV) 
non redressées et d’années de vie pondérées par la qualité de vie (AVPQ). Les 
coûts médicaux directs ($CAN 2003) étaient présentés du point de vue d’un 
ministère provincial de la Santé. L’horizon temporel du modèle était de cinq ans 
(durée des cycles : trois mois), et les coûts ainsi que les résultats ont été 
actualisés à un taux de 3 %. Il y a eu distribution unique des paramètres du 
modèle et nous avons procédé à une analyse probabiliste fondée sur 10 000 
simulations produites selon la méthode Monte Carlo.
RÉSULTATS : La SURV s’est révélée la stratégie la moins coûteuse, suivie de la 
TPD et de l’OE, mais elle s’est révélée aussi la moins efficace. En ce qui 
concerne le nombre d’AV, les rapports coût-efficacité différentiels étaient de 
815 $/AV pour la TPD par rapport à la SURV et de 3397 $/AV pour l’OE par rapport 
à la TPD. Quant au nombre d’AVPQ, la TPD dominait l’OE dans le scénario de 
référence. Le rapport coût-efficacité différentiel de la TPD par rapport à la 
SURV était de 879 $/AVPQ. Dans l’analyse probabiliste, la TPD était 
vraisemblablement rentable à des valeurs de la disposition à payer (DP) variant 
de 100 à 3500 $/AV; quant à l’OE, elle était vraisemblablement rentable à des 
valeurs supérieures à 3500 $/AV. Pour ce qui est de la survie pondérée par la 
qualité, la TPD était vraisemblablement rentable à tous les seuils de la DP 
supérieurs à 1000 $/AVPQ. La probabilité que la TPD soit la stratégie la plus 
rentable atteignait 0,99 à un plafond de la DP de 25 000 $/AVPQ.
CONCLUSIONS : La TPD et l’OE constituent, chez les hommes porteurs d’un OB avec 
DDE de malignité, des solutions de rechange rentables à la surveillance.

DOI: 10.1155/2007/791062
PMCID: PMC2657694
PMID: 17431509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2007;175:33-63. doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-40901-4_4.

The prevention of prostate cancer.

Griffiths K(1), Prezioso D, Turkes A, Denis LJ.

Author information:
(1)Laurel Cottage, Castleton, Cardiff, UK.

From our better understanding of the natural history of prostate cancer, it is 
not unreasonable to believe that the disease is preventable. Prostate cancer has 
become a major healthcare problem worldwide, as life expectancy increases. 
Moreover, the cancer is slow growing, with a period of about 20-25 years from 
initiation to the stage when the clinically detectable phenotype can be 
identified. This review provides a simple overview of the endocrinology of 
prostate cancer and discusses some of the pharmaceutical agents that have been 
or are being tested to restrain, possibly arrest, the progression of this slowly 
growing cancer. Also discussed are many of the dietary factors that may 
influence the molecular or endocrine events implicated in its development. 
Dietary factors are considered responsible for the geographical differences in 
prostate cancer incidence and mortality. Since about 50% of all men worldwide, 
from both East and West, show evidence of microscopic cancer by 50 years of age, 
growth restraint would appear to be the pragmatic option to the possibility of 
preventing initiation.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-40901-4_4
PMID: 17432553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2007;175:163-78. doi:
10.1007/978-3-540-40901-4_10.

Choices for surgery.

Larré S(1), Salomon L, Abbou CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France.

Surgical treatment of prostate cancer has seen many improvements in the past two 
decades, including laparoscopy, robotic surgery, and better assessment of 
quality of life and functional results. The limits of surgery for locally 
advanced disease and after failure of radiotherapy have been better defined, 
together with the roles of neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment. Patients with 
clinically organ-confined prostate cancer, reasonable life expectancy, and 
little or no co-morbidity are the best candidates for radical prostatectomy. 
This chapter reviews the different technical options for the treatment of 
prostate cancer, with their respective indications and functional and 
oncological results.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-40901-4_10
PMID: 17432559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Minn Med. 2007 Mar;90(3):51-3.

The "healthy migrant" effect.

Fennelly K(1).

Author information:
(1)Hubert H Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota, USA.

In many ways, first-generation immigrants to the United States are healthier 
than people of similar ethnic backgrounds who were born in this country. 
However, overtime, the newcomers' health advantages diminish dramatically. This 
article discusses factors that contribute to the deterioration of immigrants' 
health: poverty, living in substandard housing, not having access to medical 
care, adoption of an American diet, smoking, and substance abuse.

PMID: 17432759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Inorg Chem. 2007 May 14;46(10):3984-95. doi: 10.1021/ic062098+. Epub 2007
Apr  14.

Molecular tectonics of mixed-ligand metal-organic frameworks: positional 
isomeric effect, metal-directed assembly, and structural diversification.

Du M(1), Jiang XJ, Zhao XJ.

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Life Science, Tianjin Normal University, Tianjin 
300074, P. R. China.

A series of nine mixed-ligand metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have been prepared 
by the combination of a bent dipyridyl linker 
4-amino-3,5-bis(4-pyridyl)-1,2,4-triazole (bpt) and three benzenedicarboxylate 
isomers (pa = phthalate, ip = isophthalate, and tp = terephthalate), 
respectively, with different metal ions such as CoII, NiII, CuII, ZnII, and 
CdII. The framework structures of these neutral polymeric complexes have been 
determined by the X-ray single-crystal diffraction technique. Structural 
analysis reveals that the benzenedicarboxylate isomers display versatile 
coordination modes to manage the metal ions to form 1-D chain or ribbon arrays, 
which are further extended via the exo-bidentate bpt connectors to give rise to 
a variety of coordination networks, such as a simple (4,4) layer, 2-D double 
layer with decorated (4,4) topology, 2-D layer with decorated (3,6) topology, 
2-D bilayer with 82.10 topology (2-fold interpenetration), 3-D polythreaded 
architecture (1-D + 2-D), and 2-fold interpenetrating porous lattice of (4,4) 
layers. The accessorial secondary interactions such as hydrogen bonding and/or 
aromatic stacking are also helpful for the extension and stabilization of the 
final supramolecular aggregates. This work evidently indicates that the isomeric 
effect of the anionic benzenedicarboxylate is significant in the construction of 
these network structures, which are also well regulated by the metal centers. 
The ZnII and CdII MOFs exhibit strong solid-state luminescence emissions at room 
temperature, which originate differently from intraligand transition or 
ligand-to-metal charge transfer. Thermal stability of these crystalline 
materials has been explored by thermogravimetric analysis of mass loss. The 3-D 
host frameworks of MOFs 8 and 9 show similar porous cavities, and their 
desorption/adsorption behaviors of guest solvents have also been investigated.

DOI: 10.1021/ic062098+
PMID: 17432846


418. Med Intensiva. 2007 Mar;31(2):62-7. doi: 10.1016/s0210-5691(07)74777-0.

[Allocation of resources in patients with bad prognosis: the need for debate].

[Article in Spanish]

Solsona JF(1), Díaz Y, Iglesias ML, Gracia MP, Pérez A, Vázquez A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital Universitario del Mar, Barcelona, 
España. 13713@imas.imim.es

OBJECTIVE: Assess the opinion of health care professions on the awarding of 
resources when the patient has a bad prognosis.
DESIGN: Survey type test where a scenario of a patient with a 6 month life 
prognosis is posed, differentiating between good and bad quality of life. It is 
evaluated if the following resources would be indicated if necessary: admission 
to ICU, hemodialysis, hip prosthesis, transplant, Hospital admission, 
antibiotics for bacterial infection, permanent pacemaker and surgery. To analyze 
the possible association between the variables, the Pearson's Chi Square Test or 
that of linear tendency was used. To determine if each person interviewed was 
appropriate in a different way based on the patient's quality of life status, 
the McNemar test was used.
SETTING: University Hospital of 480 beds.
PARTICIPANTS: Sample of 256 volunteers (physicians and nurses) from the 
Emergency Service, Intensive Care Unit and Operating Room.
INTERVENTIONS: A responsible physician was in charge of personally distributing 
the survey during a 2-week period and to explain the possible doubts that could 
arise on it.
RESULTS: A total of 23.8% of those surveyed considered that transplant would be 
indicated and 79.8% that permanent pacemaker would be indicated if the patient 
had a good quality of life. If there was bad quality of life, 9.1% would have 
always indicated hemodialysis (60.5% never), 2.8% hip prosthesis (81.1% never) 
and 4% complex surgery (78.8% never). There were also significant differences in 
all the variables studied, depending on whether the patient had good or bad 
quality of life.
CONCLUSION: There is great variability on the allotment of resources for 
patients with limited possibilities of survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-5691(07)74777-0
PMID: 17433183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2008 Jan-Feb;46(1):57-66. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2007.02.007. Epub 2007 Apr 12.

Assessing selected quality of life factors of nursing home residents in Turkey.

Luleci E(1), Hey W, Subasi F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Education, Faculty of Health Education, Marmara 
University, 34865 Kartal, Istanbul, Turkey.

As a result of improved public health and medical advances, not only has life 
expectancy among older people increased, but the importance of quality of life 
in terms of health in later life has also increased. The aim of this study was 
to investigate the relationship between socio-demographic factors, 
health-related behaviors, residents' satisfaction, and functional disability 
levels among elderly people living in nursing homes in Turkey using the World 
Health Organization's Quality of Life-BREF (WHOQOL-BREF). Data regarding 
socio-demographic characteristics, chronic health problems, health-related 
behaviors (smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, etc.) were collected 
from the study group (N=107) by a structured questionnaire during face-to-face 
interviews. Dependencies in activities of daily living (ADL) of the study group 
were also assessed using Katz's ADL index. The mean WHOQOL-BREF scores were 
significantly higher in participants who had independence in performing ADL 
(bathing, dressing, toileting, transfer, continence, feeding) (p<0.0001, 
p<0.0001, p<0.0001, p<0.001, p<0.0001, and p<0.001, respectively). It was found 
that WHOQOL-BREF scores were positively associated with having physical exercise 
habits and residents' satisfaction with nursing homes; being dependent in 
dressing were significant predictors of in the study (R(2): 0.38, p<0.003, 
p<0.0001, and p<0.0001, respectively). Residents' satisfaction from living 
nursing homes and participation in physical exercise were significant predictors 
of WHOQOL-BREF scores for those that participated in this study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2007.02.007
PMID: 17433462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Bone. 2007 Jun;40(6):1602-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2007.02.027. Epub 2007 Mar
7.

The societal burden of osteoporosis in Sweden.

Borgström F(1), Sobocki P, Ström O, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)European Health Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. fredrik.b@healtheconomics.se

In osteoporosis, the bone mass is decreased, thereby increasing the risk of 
fractures. Common osteoporotic fractures include those at the hip, the spine and 
the forearm. Fractures are a burden to society; in terms of costs, morbidity and 
mortality. The main objective of this study was to estimate the burden of 
osteoporosis in Sweden. The study used a prevalence-based bottom-up approach to 
estimate the total annual burden of osteoporosis in Sweden. The burden was 
assessed from a societal perspective including medical care costs, non-medical 
care costs, informal care and indirect costs. Moreover, the value of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) lost because of fractures was included in 
the total burden estimations. The total annual fracture cost was estimated at 
MSEK 5639, which is about 3.2% of the total health care costs in Sweden. 
Community care was the most important cost category accounting for 66% of the 
total annual cost followed by medical care costs (31%), informal care (2%) and 
indirect costs (1%). By combining the annual value of QALYs lost (MSEK 10354) 
and the annual fracture costs, the total annual societal burden of osteoporosis 
in Sweden was estimated at MSEK 15183. Assuming no changes in the 
age-differentiated fracture risk, the annual burden of osteoporosis was 
projected to increase to MSEK 26301 in the year 2050. The present study shows 
the societal burden of osteoporosis in Sweden to be higher than previously 
perceived. This burden is substantial and must be acknowledged as an important 
health problem. Osteoporosis-related fractures do not only lead to high medical 
care costs but also to high community care costs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2007.02.027
PMID: 17433804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Adv Cancer Res. 2007;98:221-59. doi: 10.1016/S0065-230X(06)98007-5.

The effect of cell-matrix interactions and aging on the malignant process.

Labat-Robert J(1), Robert L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Recherche Ophtalmologique, Hôtel-Dieu, Université Paris V, 1 
place du parvis Notre Dame, 75181 Paris cedex 04, France.

The malignant process, transformation of normal cells, proliferation, and 
metastasis formation, was considered as if originating from one single cell. 
Although the intrinsic mechanisms of transformation from the normal to the 
malignant state were both confirmed, an increasing body of evidence points to 
the surrounding matrix and cell-matrix interactions as major players in this 
process. Some of the most important arguments in favor of this contention are 
cited and commented in this chapter. Another important question concerns the 
relationship between the aging process and malignant transformation. A few 
decades ago, the frequency of clinically manifest tumors of several organs and 
tissues appeared to increase with age. As, however, average life expectancy 
increased rapidly over the last decades, clinical frequency of malignant tumors 
did not follow this tendency. It was argued that late in life the malignant 
process appears to decline. This justly inspired several teams to study the 
relationship between cellular senescence and malignant transformation. This is 
now an actively growing field which deserves special attention. Some of the 
pertinent experimental and theoretical arguments in favor of an 
antioncogene-mediated switch between these two processes are also reviewed with 
the caveat that this important and new subject of basic and clinical research on 
the malignant process is just at its beginning. It will certainly take an 
increasing importance during the coming years and decades with the hope to 
contribute to answer one of the most burning questions concerning the aging 
process: will life expectancy continue to increase linearly as predicted by some 
gerontologists, or will life expectancy level off or even decline as predicted 
by other epidemiologists. The relationship between cellular senescence and 
malignant transformation will play in this respect an important role.

DOI: 10.1016/S0065-230X(06)98007-5
PMID: 17433912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Genetics. 2007 Jun;176(2):1283-97. doi: 10.1534/genetics.106.065011. Epub
2007  Apr 15.

Genetic modifiers of the Drosophila blue cheese gene link defects in lysosomal 
transport with decreased life span and altered ubiquitinated-protein profiles.

Simonsen A(1), Cumming RC, Lindmo K, Galaviz V, Cheng S, Rusten TE, Finley KD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center for Cancer Biomedicine, The Norwegian 
Radium Hospital, Montebello, 0310 Oslo, Norway.

Defects in lysosomal trafficking pathways lead to decreased cell viability and 
are associated with progressive disorders in humans. Previously we have found 
that loss-of-function (LOF) mutations in the Drosophila gene blue cheese (bchs) 
lead to reduced adult life span, increased neuronal death, and widespread CNS 
degeneration that is associated with the formation of ubiquitinated-protein 
aggregates. To identify potential genes that participate in the bchs functional 
pathway, we conducted a genetic modifier screen based on alterations of an eye 
phenotype that arises from high-level overexpression of Bchs. We found that 
mutations in select autophagic and endocytic trafficking genes, defects in 
cytoskeletal and motor proteins, as well as mutations in the SUMO and ubiquitin 
signaling pathways behave as modifiers of the Bchs gain-of-function (GOF) eye 
phenotype. Individual mutant alleles that produced viable adults were further 
examined for bchs-like phenotypes. Mutations in several lysosomal trafficking 
genes resulted in significantly decreased adult life spans and several mutants 
showed changes in ubiquitinated protein profiles as young adults. This work 
represents a novel approach to examine the role that lysosomal transport and 
function have on adult viability. The genes characterized in this study have 
direct human homologs, suggesting that similar defects in lysosomal transport 
may play a role in human health and age-related processes.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.106.065011
PMCID: PMC1894590
PMID: 17435236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2007 May;18(3):201-5. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0b013e32810c8df4.

Age-related macular degeneration: the costs to society and the patient.

Gupta OP(1), Brown GC, Brown MM.

Author information:
(1)Retina Service, Wills Eye at Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, USA. 
ogupta@hotmail.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The current literature was reviewed to assess the patient and 
societal costs associated with age-related macular degeneration (ARMD).
RECENT FINDINGS: An increasing number of studies discuss the growing direct 
ophthalmologic, direct nonophthalmologic, and indirect costs associated with 
ARMD. Most reports, however, focus on only one of these aspects. The prevalence 
of this debilitating disease will increase as life expectancy increases.
SUMMARY: ARMD continues to be a major public health problem in developed 
countries. The treatment and management of exudative ARMD are changing 
dramatically. These therapies will likely become a more significant portion of 
the overall healthcare burden of ARMD. To date, no comprehensive study exists 
that attempts to calculate the total cost of ARMD.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32810c8df4
PMID: 17435426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Epidemiology. 2007 May;18(3):393-401. doi:
10.1097/01.ede.0000259967.21114.45.

A prospective study of dietary patterns and mortality in Chinese women.

Cai H(1), Shu XO, Gao YT, Li H, Yang G, Zheng W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt Epidemiology Center, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashvill, TN, USA. hui.cai@vanderbilt.edu

BACKGROUND: Many foods and nutrients have been suggested to influence life 
expectancy. However, previous studies have not examined the relationship between 
dietary patterns and cause-specific mortality. Our study prospectively examines 
the relationship of dietary patterns with total mortality and cause-specific 
mortality in a population-based cohort study of Chinese women.
METHODS: The Shanghai Women's Health Study is a population-based cohort study of 
74,942 women age 40 to 70 years at the time of recruitment (September 1996 to 
May 2000). Detailed dietary information was collected using a validated, 
quantitative food frequency questionnaire. The cohort has been followed using a 
combination of in-person interviews and record linkage with various registries. 
Dietary patterns, derived from principal component analysis, were examined for 
their relation to total mortality and cause-specific mortality using Cox 
regression models.
RESULTS: After an average of 5.7 years of follow-up (423,717 person-years of 
observation), there were 1565 deaths. We derived 3 major dietary patterns 
(vegetable-rich, fruit-rich, and meat-rich). The adjusted hazard ratios for the 
fruit-rich diet were 0.94 (95% CI = 0.89-0.98) for all causes of death and 0.89 
(0.81-0.99), 0.79 (0.69-0.91), and 0.51 (0.39-0.65) for death caused by 
cardiovascular disease, stroke, and diabetes, respectively. The meat-rich diet 
was associated with increased risk of diabetes (HR = 1.18; 95% CI = 0.98-1.42) 
and a slightly elevated risk of total mortality.
CONCLUSION: In general, a fruit-rich diet was related to lower mortality, 
whereas a meat-rich diet appeared to increase the probability of death.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ede.0000259967.21114.45
PMID: 17435450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Reumatismo. 2007 Jan-Mar;59(1):38-49. doi: 10.4081/reumatismo.2007.38.

[Atherosclerosis in rheumatoid arthritis: the role of high-resolution B mode 
ultrasound in the measurement of the arterial intima-media thickness].

[Article in Italian]

Carotti M(1), Salaffi F, Mangiacotti M, Cerioni A, Giuseppetti GM, Grassi W.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Reumatologica, Università degli Studi di Ancona, Ospedale A. Murri, 
Jesi AN, Italia.

BACKGROUND: Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have a reduced life 
expectancy and high cardiovascular morbidity and mortality as compared to the 
general population. A number of possible factors for the atherogenesis in this 
disease have been described, such as homocysteine, altered serum levels of 
selected lipoproteins and treatment. Recent findings indicate that the systemic 
inflammation may contribute to the development of atherosclerosis and confer an 
additional risk for cardiovascular death among patients with RA. The aim of our 
study was to evaluate the ability of high resolution Bmode ultrasound and color 
Doppler to assess the existence of subclinical atherosclerosis in RA patients, 
measuring the intima-media thickness (IMT) and resistance index of the common 
carotid arteries.
METHODS: Carotid IMT and carotid plaque were measured using high-resolution 
B-mode ultrasound in 40 patients with RA and 40 age- and sex-matched healthy 
persons. We used color Doppler ultrasound to assess vascular damage of the 
common carotid arteries and the resistance index (RI) was determined by analysis 
of the spectral waveforms. Serum total cholesterol, triglycerides-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, rheumatoid factor, 
body mass index (BMI), visual analogue scale (VAS) were determined in patients 
and controls. C-reactive protein (CRP) and the DAS28 were used to measure 
systemic inflammation.
RESULTS: Common carotid IMT were significantly higher (p=0.0009) in RA patients 
(0.83 +/- 0.23) compared with controls (0.66 +/- 0.22). In RA patients common 
carotid IMT was significantly correlated with serum total cholesterol 
(p=0.0008), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (p=0.006), triglycerides 
(p=0.042), age (p=0.031) and disease duration (p=0.019). No significant 
correlation was found with clinical and laboratory parameters reflecting disease 
activity. The prevalence of plaques was higher in RA patients compared with 
controls (25% vs 12.5%). There was no significant difference in color Doppler 
findings, and in particular in RI, between patients and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results confirm an accelerated atherosclerosis, as shown by 
increased common carotid IMT, in patients with RA compared with controls and it 
is related mainly to lipid levels. High-resolution B-mode ultrasound may be 
considered a promising, sensitive and non invasive tool for assessing the 
existence of subclinical atherosclerosis in RA patients.

DOI: 10.4081/reumatismo.2007.38
PMID: 17435841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Cad Saude Publica. 2007 Apr;23(4):767-74. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2007000400004.

Infant mortality in the Federal District, Brazil: time trend and socioeconomic 
inequalities.

Monteiro RA(1), Schmitz Bde A.

Author information:
(1)Secretaria de Atenção à Saúde, Ministério da Saúde, Esplanada dos 
Ministérios, Brasília, DF 70058-900, Brazil. renata.monteiro@globo.com

This study examined the trend in the infant mortality rate in the Federal 
District of Brazil (or Greater Metropolitan Brasilia, the national capital) from 
1990 to 2000, analyzing the rate according to 5 administrative areas stratified 
by mean family income, from 1996 to 2000. An ecological time-series study was 
conducted using the Information Systems on Live Births and Mortality, produced 
by the Brazilian Ministry of Health. The infant mortality rate (IMR) decreased 
by 45.2% from 1990 to 2000, from 26.3 per 1000 live births to 14.4, or a mean 
annual reduction of 5.34% (R(2) = 0.9397; p < 0.0001). During this period there 
was a higher proportion of neonatal deaths. However, a higher percentage change 
occurred in the post-neonatal period (-59.0%, R(2) = 0.8452, p < 0.0001). 
Investigation of the IMR in the various areas of the Federal District showed a 
reduction in differences among the regions with respect to the component rates; 
however, substantial disparities persisted in relation to the income variable. 
The results suggest the need for effective interventions in the determinants of 
neonatal and post-neonatal mortality in order to improve maternal and infant 
health in all socioeconomic groups in the Federal District.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2007000400004
PMID: 17435874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Jun;8(2):83-8. doi: 10.1007/s10198-007-0046-5.

The time for cost-effectiveness in the new European Union member states: the 
development and role of health economics and technology assessment in the mirror 
of the Hungarian experience.

Gulácsi L.

Sophisticated methodology and research centres of health economics and health 
technology assessment were established in the developed countries over the past 
30 years, releasing more and more studies of better and better quality every 
year. A crucial factor in health policy and reimbursement decisions in these 
countries is cost-effectiveness results. Due to methodological diversification, 
results of locally performed health economics studies are constrained in 
international utility. This fact encourages us to set the current goal of 
greatest importance, i.e. to standardise country-specific methods, thereby 
promoting transferability and adaptability of results, being backed by each 
important health care organisation all over Europe. The situation in the new 
member states [European Union (EU)12] is profoundly different compared with 
EU15. In these countries, neither the necessary research institutions nor 
professionals are in place in sufficient numbers; even in most EU12 countries, 
the importance of cost-effectiveness has not yet been realised. The present 
study focuses mainly on the EU12. These countries are absolutely dependent on 
cost-effectiveness results from abroad, and this seems to persist in the 
long-term. Transferability and adaptability of the results of health economics 
studies carried out elsewhere through European collaboration is vital for these 
countries.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-007-0046-5
PMID: 17436027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Int J Sports Med. 2007 Aug;28(8):697-702. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-964863. Epub
2007  Apr 13.

Elite athletes: is survival shortened in boxers?

Bianco M(1), Fabbricatore C, Sanna N, Fabiano C, Palmieri V, Zeppilli P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sports Medicine, Catholic University, Rome, Italy. 
massimiliano.bianco@fastwebnet.it

Moderate exercise and intense physical training are associated with increased 
life expectancy (LE). Boxing is characterized by intentional and repetitive head 
blows, sometimes causing brain injury, possibly reducing LE. We examined a 
sample of male athletes born between 1860 and 1930 selected from the 
international "hall of fame" inductees in baseball (n = 154), ice hockey (n = 
130), tennis (n = 83), football (n = 81), boxing (n = 81), track and field (n = 
59), basketball (n = 58), swimming (n = 37) and wrestling (n = 32). In boxing, 
we analyzed the number of disputed bouts/rounds and career records. Sports were 
also analyzed according to physiological demand and occurrence and kind of 
contact (intentional, unintentional). The Kaplan-Meier product limit method was 
used to compare survival curves (significance: p <or= 0.05). Median LE of the 
samples was 76.0 yrs and no differences were observed in different sports, 
although it was lower in boxers (73.0 yrs) and higher in tennis players (79.0 
yrs). Sports of different physiological demand were similar in respect to LE. No 
differences in LE were found related to occurrence and kind of impact. Similar 
LE was found in boxers of different weight or career records. In conclusion, 
this study indicates that LE in top-level athletes is unaffected by the type of 
discipline, and not related to physiological demand and intentional contact.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-964863
PMID: 17436206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Int J Health Serv. 2007;37(1):111-26. doi: 10.2190/3431-G6T7-37M8-P224.

Quantifying the health benefits of primary care physician supply in the United 
States.

Macinko J(1), Starfield B, Shi L.

Author information:
(1)RWJ Health and Society Scholars Program, University of Pennsylavnia, 
Philadelphia 19104-6218, USA. macinko@wharton.upenn.edu

This analysis addresses the question, Would increasing the number of primary 
care physicians improve health outcomes in the United States? A search of the 
PubMed database for articles containing "primary care physician supply" or 
"primary care supply" in the title, published between 1985 and 2005, identified 
17 studies, and 10 met all inclusion criteria. Results were reanalyzed to assess 
primary care effect size and the predicted effect on health outcomes of a 
one-unit increase in primary care physicians per 10,000 population. Primary care 
physician supply was associated with improved health outcomes, including 
all-cause, cancer, heart disease, stroke, and infant mortality; low birth 
weight; life expectancy; and self-rated health. This relationship held 
regardless of the year (1980-1995) or level of analysis (state, county, 
metropolitan statistical area (MSA), and non-MSA levels). Pooled results for 
all-cause mortality suggest that an increase of one primary care physician per 
10,000 population was associated with an average mortality reduction of 5.3 
percent, or 49 per 100,000 per year.

DOI: 10.2190/3431-G6T7-37M8-P224
PMID: 17436988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Artif Organs. 2007 Apr;31(4):245-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.2007.00382.x.

The role of circulatory assistance and heart transplantation in Chagas' disease 
cardiomyopathy.

Leirner AA, Moreira LF, Stolf NA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.2007.00382.x
PMID: 17437490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Artif Organs. 2007 Apr;31(4):253-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.2007.00372.x.

Left ventricular circulatory support as bridge to heart transplantation in 
Chagas' disease cardiomyopathy.

Moreira LF(1), Galantier J, Benício A, Leirner AA, Cestari IA, Stolf NA.

Author information:
(1)Cardiothoracic Surgery Division of the Heart Institute (InCor), University of 
São Paulo Medical School, São Paulo, Brazil. dcimoreira@incor.usp.br

This study was performed to assess the safety and feasibility of the 
implantation of ventricular assist devices (VADs) as a bridge to heart 
transplantation in patients with advanced biventricular failure due to Chagas' 
disease. Six patients were submitted to paracorporeal left VAD implantation, 
while right ventricular dysfunction was managed clinically. The mean time of 
circulatory support was 27 days. Two patients were bridged to heart 
transplantation successfully, while the other four patients died under 
assistance with complications that correlated with the final situation of 
multiple organ failure. Nevertheless, persistent right ventricular dysfunction 
was observed only in one patient who survived more than 15 days, despite the 
general significant preoperative compromise of the right ventricle. This 
paradoxical observation indicates that left VAD implantation may be regarded as 
a valuable treatment option for patients with Chagas' disease cardiomyopathy who 
evolve with decompensated heart failure or cardiogenic shock.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.2007.00372.x
PMID: 17437492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2007 Apr;9(1):50-6. doi: 10.1007/s11926-007-0022-1.

Cost-effectiveness modeling research of pharmacologic therapy to prevent 
osteoporosis-related fractures.

Schousboe JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Park Nicollet Osteoporosis Center, Park Nicollet Health Services, 3800 Park 
Nicollet Blvd., Minneapolis, MN 55416, USA. john.schousboe@parknicollet.com

Osteoporotic fractures are common among postmenopausal women and elderly men, 
and they cause substantial direct medical costs and loss of quality of life. The 
potential costs of widespread intervention strategies to reduce the incidence of 
fractures are also quite high. Therefore, the cost-effectiveness of such 
interventions is highly significant to large-scale health insurers and 
healthcare systems. Most modeling studies to date have examined the 
cost-effectiveness of pharmacologic treatment for subsets of postmenopausal 
women selected on the basis of bone mineral density and/or prevalent vertebral 
fracture. They generally suggest that oral bisphosphonates and raloxifene are 
cost-effective therapies for these subsets. Increasingly, modeling studies of 
treatments for those selected on the basis of absolute fracture risk rather than 
bone density criteria are being done to establish absolute fracture risk 
thresholds at which various treatments are cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s11926-007-0022-1
PMID: 17437668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Menopause. 2007 Sep-Oct;14(5):900-4. doi: 10.1097/gme.0b013e318032b2e6.

Age at natural menopause in Yazd, Islamic Republic of Iran.

Fallahzadeh H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Faculty of Health, Yazd 
University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Islamic Republic of Iran. hofaab@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: With increasing life expectancy, menopause is an increasingly 
important aspect of women's health. Although research suggests that age at 
menopause varies in different ethnic groups, data on age at menopause among 
Iranian women are limited. We recorded the age at natural menopause among women 
