collected in other months. Sex ratios for each species were as follows: T. 
curvitarsis. 1:1: T. rugulosa, 1.6:1 female; T. diversipes, 1.9:1: T. garofaloi, 
2.8:1. Males and females of T. diversipes exhibited statistically similar sizes 
and in the other three species the females were larger than the males. The 
mortality rates were statistically similar: 33.2% for T. curvitarsis, 25.8% for 
T. rugulosa, 26.8% for T. diversipes and 38.2% for T. garnfaloi. The parasitoids 
were: Coelioxoides exulans, Leucospis cayenensis, Anthrax sp., Coelioxys sp., 
Coelioxoides sp. and individuals of the family Meloidae.

PMID: 17354430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Rev Biol Trop. 2005 Mar-Jun;53(1-2):187-90.

[Life table for Selenothrips rubrocinctus (Thripidae: Panchaetothripinae) under 
laboratory conditions].

[Article in Spanish]

Soto-Rodriguez GA(1), Retana-Salazar AP.

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Biología, Universidad de Costa Rica, Apdo. Postal 2060, San José, 
Costa Rica. hiperiam@amnet.co.cr

The tropical thrip Selenothrips rubrocinctus Giard is a polyphagous species 
sometimes found in commercially important crops that include cocoa and cotton. 
Laboratory data from specimens collected in Psidium friedrichsthalianum trees in 
Costa Rica were used to prepare a life table. There was a high mortality in the 
egg (72.5%) and larva II (18.4%) stages. On leaves, inmature stages presented 
subvascular distribution and pupae presented submarginal distribution.

PMID: 17354431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2007 Mar;19(2):135-42. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2006.10.006.

Challenges in treating patients with Down's syndrome and testicular cancer with 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy: The Royal Marsden experience.

Hafeez S(1), Sharma RA, Huddart RA, Dearnaley DP, Horwich A.

Author information:
(1)Radiotherapy Department, Royal Marsden Hospital NHS Trust, Downs Road, 
Sutton, Surrey SM2 5PT, UK.

AIMS: With a life expectancy similar to the general population, greater numbers 
of patients with Down's syndrome are being diagnosed with testicular cancer. 
Learning difficulties and medical co-morbidity are common in this patient 
population and may lead to non-standard oncological treatment. We aimed to 
identify and discuss management challenges in the treatment of these patients 
with chemotherapy and radiotherapy and report their clinical outcome.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Royal Marsden Hospital urology database was searched 
from 1982 to 2005 to identify all cases of patients with Down's syndrome and 
histologically confirmed testicular cancer who were referred for consideration 
of chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
RESULTS: Nine patients were identified, of whom eight received chemotherapy or 
radiotherapy. Two patients had bilateral tumours and four had crypto-orchidism. 
At the time of diagnosis, the patients were 21-50 years of age. Of the 11 
tumours identified, nine were seminomas and two were malignant teratoma 
undifferentiated. Five patients presented with stage I disease, of whom three 
received carboplatin and one received para-aortic radiotherapy as adjuvant 
treatment. Three patients presented with stage II disease, of whom two were 
treated with carboplatin and one received combination chemotherapy followed by 
radiotherapy. One patient with stage IV disease was treated with carboplatin. 
Five of nine patients relapsed within 30 months, of whom three were successfully 
salvaged with radiotherapy and one with combination chemotherapy.
CONCLUSION: After standard and non-standard therapy for seminoma, the relapse 
rate for patients in our cohort was high. Since relapsed disease is much more 
difficult to manage with combination chemotherapy on account of respiratory, 
cardiac and renal co-morbidity, adequate initial treatment is advised. 
Consideration of psycho-social issues and the multiple treatment strategies 
available is vital in delivering optimal care to patients with Down's syndrome 
and testicular cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2006.10.006
PMID: 17355110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. BJOG. 2007 May;114(5):588-95. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2007.01289.x. Epub
2007  Mar 13.

Cost-effectiveness of antenatal screening for neonatal alloimmune 
thrombocytopenia.

Killie MK(1), Kjeldsen-Kragh J, Husebekk A, Skogen B, Olsen JA, Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Transfusion Medicine, University Hospital of 
North Norway, Tromsø, Norway. mette.kjaer.killie@unn.no

Erratum in
    BJOG. 2007 Nov;114(11):1453.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2008 Feb;115(3):412-3; author reply 413-4; discussion 414.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the costs and health consequences of three different 
screening strategies for neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAIT).
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis on the basis of a decision tree that incorporates 
the relevant strategies and outcomes.
SETTING: Three health regions in Norway encompassing a 2.78 million population.
POPULATION: Pregnant women (n = 100,448) screened for human platelet antigen 
(HPA) 1a and anti-HPA 1a antibodies, and their babies.
METHOD: Decision tree analysis. In three branches of the decision tree, pregnant 
women entered a programme while in one no screening was performed. The three 
different screening strategies included all HPA 1a negative women, only HPA 1a 
negative, HLA DRB3*0101 positive women or only HPA 1a negative women with high 
level of anti-HPA 1a antibodies. Included women underwent ultrasound examination 
and elective caesarean section 2-4 weeks before term. Severely thrombocytopenic 
newborn were transfused immediately with compatible platelets.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, a programme of screening and subsequent 
treatment would generate between 210 and 230 additional QALYs among 100,000 
pregnant women, and at the same time, reduce health care costs by approximately 
1.7 million euros. The sensitivity analyses indicate that screening is cost 
effective or even cost saving within a wide range of probabilities and costs.
CONCLUSION: Our calculations indicate that it is possible to establish an 
antenatal screening programme for NAIT that is cost effective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2007.01289.x
PMID: 17355359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2007 Mar;49(3):167-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2007.00167.x.

Growth patterns in a population of children and adolescents with cerebral palsy.

Day SM(1), Strauss DJ, Vachon PJ, Rosenbloom L, Shavelle RM, Wu YW.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, California, USA. Day@Life 
Expectancy.com

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2007 Mar;49(3):164.

This study examined growth of children and adolescents with cerebral palsy (CP) 
who received services from the California Department of Developmental Services 
from 1987 to 2002. In all, 141 961 measurements of height and weight were taken 
from 24920 patients with CP (14103 males, 10817 females). Centiles of weight and 
height were determined by age, sex, and five levels of functional ability 
ranging from fully ambulatory to unable to walk, crawl, or feed self, and fed 
via gastrostomy tube. Resulting charts of height and weight centiles were 
compared with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention weight and height 
charts for the general population of the US. Centiles of height and weight of 
patients with CP were close to those of the general population for the highest 
functioning groups with CP, but lagged substantially for other groups. Presence 
of a feeding tube was associated with greater height and weight in the lowest 
functioning groups, with centiles for weight being 2 to 5 kg higher for those 
with gastrostomy tubes. The charts may assist in early identification of 
nutritional or metabolic difficulties beyond what might be expected for patients 
with similar functional disabilities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2007.00167.x
PMID: 17355471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Mar;23(3):609-22. doi: 10.1185/030079907X178685.

Exenatide versus insulin glargine in patients with type 2 diabetes in the UK: a 
model of long-term clinical and cost outcomes.

Ray JA(1), Boye KS, Yurgin N, Valentine WJ, Roze S, McKendrick J, Tucker DM, 
Foos V, Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)CORE--Center for Outcomes Research, A Unit of IMS, Allschwil/Basel, 
Switzerland. jray@ch.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term clinical and 
economic outcomes associated with exenatide or insulin glargine, added to oral 
therapy in individuals with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with 
combination oral agents in the UK setting.
METHODS: A published and validated computer simulation model of diabetes was 
used to project long-term complications, life expectancy, quality-adjusted life 
expectancy and direct medical costs. Probabilities of diabetes-related 
complications were derived from published sources. Treatment effects and patient 
characteristics were extracted from a recent randomised controlled trial 
comparing exenatide with insulin glargine. Simulations incorporated published 
quality of life utilities and UK-specific costs from 2004. Pharmacy costs for 
exenatide were based on 20, 40, 60, 80 and 100% of the US value (as no price for 
the UK was available at the time of analysis). Future costs and clinical 
benefits were discounted at 3.5% annually. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis exenatide was associated with improvements in 
life expectancy of 0.057 years and in quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.442 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) versus insulin glargine. Long-term 
projections demonstrated that exenatide was associated with a lower cumulative 
incidence of most cardiovascular disease (CVD) complications and CVD-related 
death than insulin glargine. Using the range of cost values, evaluation results 
showed that exenatide is likely to fall in a range between dominant (cost and 
life saving) at 20% of the US price and cost-effective (with an ICER of 22,420 
pounds per QALY gained) at 100% of the US price, versus insulin glargine.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings of a recent clinical trial, long-term 
projections indicated that exenatide is likely to be associated with improvement 
in life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy compared to insulin 
glargine. The results from this modelling analysis suggest that that exenatide 
is likely to represent good value for money by generally accepted standards in 
the UK setting in individuals with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on 
oral therapy.

DOI: 10.1185/030079907X178685
PMID: 17355742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Chest. 2007 Mar;131(3):823-832. doi: 10.1378/chest.06-1790.

Updated evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of lung volume reduction surgery.

Ramsey SD(1), Shroyer AL(2), Sullivan SD(3), Wood DE(4).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA. 
Electronic address: sramsey@fhcrc.org.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Colorado, Denver, CO.
(3)Departments of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA.
(4)Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA.

BACKGROUND: The National Emphysema Treatment Trial, a randomized clinical trial 
of lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS) vs medical therapy for severe emphysema, 
included a prospective economic analysis. We present an updated analysis of 
cost-effectiveness with 1-year additional follow-up data.
METHODS: Following pulmonary rehabilitation, 1,218 patients at 17 medical 
centers were randomized to receive LVRS or continued medical treatment. The 
cost-effectiveness of LVRS vs medical therapy was calculated over the duration 
of the trial (January 1998 to December 2003) and estimated at 10 years using 
modeling based on observed trends in survival, cost, and quality of life.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of LVRS vs medical therapy was $140,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained (95% confidence interval, $40,155 to 
$239,359) at 5 years, and was projected to be $54,000 per QALY gained at 10 
years. In subgroup analysis, the cost-effectiveness of LVRS in patients with 
upper-lobe emphysema and low exercise capacity was $77,000 per QALY gained at 5 
years, and was projected to be $48,000 per QALY at 10 years. Compared to the 
initial results, the updated results are similar for the overall cohort but vary 
substantially for the subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS: LVRS is costly relative to other health-care programs during the 
time horizon when costs and outcomes are known. The extended follow-up period 
offers more certainty regarding the long-term value and economic impact of this 
procedure.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.06-1790
PMID: 17356099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Urologe A. 2007 Apr;46(4):429-36; quiz 437. doi: 10.1007/s00120-007-1321-x.

[Therapy options in relapsing prostate cancer after external radiation therapy].

[Article in German]

Häcker A(1), Alken P.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Universitätsklinik Mannheim, 68135, Mannheim. 
axel.haecker@chir.ma.uni-heidelberg.de

In the near future, the number of young patients suffering from locoregional 
recurrence of their prostate cancer after external beam radiation will increase. 
For these patients, androgen deprivation is the most widely used therapy, but it 
is only palliative. Salvage radical prostatectomy, cryoablation, interstitial 
brachytherapy, and high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) are treatment 
options with the potential of curing the patient. Currently, salvage radical 
prostatectomy offers the best chance for cure. Although a significant reduction 
in peri- and postoperative complication rates has been reported, surgery remains 
technically challenging, with a high rate of urinary incontinence. We believe 
that salvage prostatectomy should be considered only for patients in good 
general health whose life expectancy is more than 10 years and whose cancer was 
initially organ-confined before radiation therapy. Salvage cryotherapy might be 
an alternative to surgery. Complication rates have decreased as technical 
application has improved considerably within the last years. A major drawback of 
cryoablation is its lack of reliable and complete ablation of all prostate 
cells. HIFU and interstitial brachytherapy are minimally invasive salvage 
options that have been investigated in small clinical studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-007-1321-x
PMID: 17356831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Endoscopy. 2007 Apr;39(4):319-24. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-966263. Epub 2007 Mar
15.

Covered self-expandable metal stents in pancreatic malignancy regardless of 
resectability: a new concept validated by a decision analysis.

Kahaleh M(1), Brock A, Conaway MR, Shami VM, Dumonceau JM, Northup PG, Tokar J, 
Rich TA, Adams RB, Yeaton P.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Health Center, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908-0708, USA. mk5ke@virginia.edu

BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: The current treatment model for the management of 
malignant biliary obstruction is to place a plastic stent for unstaged 
pancreatic cancer. In patients with unresectable disease but a life expectancy 
of more than 6 months, self-expandable metal stents (SEMS) are favored because 
of their more prolonged patency. We analyzed the efficacy and cost-effectiveness 
of covered SEMS (CSEMS) in patients with pancreatic cancer and distal biliary 
obstruction without regard to surgical resectability.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between March 2001 and March 2005, 101 consecutive 
patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to pancreatic cancer underwent 
placement of a CSEMS. Patients with resectable tumor were offered 
pancreaticoduodenectomy. A model was developed to compare the costs of CSEMS and 
polyethylene and DoubleLayer stents.
RESULTS: A total of 21 patients underwent staging laparoscopy, of whom 16 had a 
resection (76%). The 85 patients who did not have a resection had a mean 
survival of 5.9 months (range 1-25 months) and a mean CSEMS patency duration of 
5.5 months (range 1-16 months). Life-table analysis demonstrated CSEMS patency 
rates of 97% at 3 months, 85% at 6 months, and 68% at 12 months. In a cost model 
that accounted for polyethylene and DoubleLayer stent malfunction and surgical 
resections, initial CSEMS placement (3177 euros per patient) was a less costly 
intervention than either DoubleLayer stent placement (3224 euros per patient) or 
polyethylene stent placement with revision (3570 euros per patient).
CONCLUSIONS: Covered SEMS are an effective treatment for distal biliary 
obstructions caused by pancreatic carcinoma. Their prolonged patency and 
removability makes them an attractive option for biliary decompression, 
regardless of resectability. The strategy of initial covered SEMS placement 
might be the most cost-effective strategy in these patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-966263
PMID: 17357951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Mar 13;104(11):4321-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0606356104. Epub 2007 Mar 5.

Structure and reactivity of LpxD, the N-acyltransferase of lipid A biosynthesis.

Buetow L(1), Smith TK, Dawson A, Fyffe S, Hunter WN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Microbiology, School of Life 
Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, United Kingdom.

The external layer of the Gram-negative bacterial outer membrane is primarily 
composed of a protective, selectively permeable LPS. The biosynthesis of LPS 
relies on UDP-3-O-acyl-glucosamine N-acyltransferase (LpxD), which transfers 
3-hydroxy-arachidic acid from acyl carrier protein to the 2' amine of 
UDP-3-O-myristoyl glucosamine in Chlamydia trachomatis. Our crystallographic 
study reveals that LpxD is a homotrimer, each subunit of which is constructed 
from a novel combination of an N-terminal uridine-binding domain, a core 
lipid-binding domain, and a C-terminal helical extension. Highly conserved 
residues dominate nucleotide binding. Phe-43 and Tyr-49 form pi-stacking 
interactions with uracil, and Asn-46 and His-284 form hydrogen bonds with the 
phosphate groups. These interactions place the glucosamine moiety at the 
catalytic center formed by two adjacent subunits. Here His-247 and His-284 
contribute to a mechanism involving nucleophilic attack by the amine of one 
substrate on the carbonyl carbon of an acyl carrier protein thioester conjugate. 
Serendipitously, our study reveals a fatty acid (FA) binding groove near the 
catalytic center. MS elucidated the presence of a FA mixture binding to LpxD, 
with palmitic acid the most prevalent. The placement of UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 
and the FA provides details of N-acyltransferase ligand interactions and allows 
for a description of structure and reactivity at an early stage of LPS assembly.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0606356104
PMCID: PMC1810333
PMID: 17360522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


242. J Biol Chem. 2007 May 4;282(18):13692-702. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M610873200. Epub
 2007 Mar 13.

LIM kinase and slingshot are critical for neurite extension.

Endo M(1), Ohashi K, Mizuno K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku 
University, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan.

Cofilin and its closely related protein, actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF), are 
key regulators of actin cytoskeleton dynamics that have been implicated in 
growth cone motility and neurite extension. Cofilin/ADF are inactivated by LIM 
kinase (LIMK)-catalyzed phosphorylation and reactivated by Slingshot 
(SSH)-catalyzed dephosphorylation. Here we examined the roles of cofilin/ADF, 
LIMKs (LIMK1 and LIMK2), and SSHs (SSH1 and SSH2) in nerve growth factor 
(NGF)-induced neurite extension. Knockdown of cofilin/ADF by RNA interference 
almost completely inhibited NGF-induced neurite extension from PC12 cells, and 
double knockdown of SSH1/SSH2 significantly suppressed both NGF-induced 
cofilin/ADF dephosphorylation and neurite extension from PC12 cells, thus 
indicating that cofilin/ADF and their activating phosphatases SSH1/SSH2 are 
critical for neurite extension. Interestingly, NGF stimulated the activities of 
both LIMK1 and LIMK2 in PC12 cells, and suppression of LIMK1/LIMK2 expression or 
activity significantly reduced NGF-induced neurite extension from PC12 cells or 
chick dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Inhibition of LIMK1/LIMK2 activity 
reduced actin filament assembly in the peripheral region of the growth cone of 
chick DRG neurons. These results suggest that proper regulation of cofilin/ADF 
activities through control of phosphorylation by LIMKs and SSHs is critical for 
neurite extension and that LIMKs regulate actin filament assembly at the tip of 
the growth cone.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M610873200
PMID: 17360713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. NeuroRehabilitation. 2006;21(4):327-33.

American Community Survey: earnings and employment for persons with traumatic 
brain injury.

Gamboa AM Jr(1), Holland GH, Tierney JP, Gibson DS.

Author information:
(1)Vocational Economics, Inc., Louisville, KY 40243, USA.

In 2000, the United States Census Bureau began the annual American Community 
Survey (ACS), which collects data on earnings and employment for persons with 
various types of impairment. One of the impairments is cognitive disability, 
defined as existing when a person has a condition lasting six months or more 
that results in difficulty learning, remembering, or concentrating. Individuals 
with such limitations are often defined as having mild traumatic brain injury 
(TBI). Persons with mild TBI often retain the ability to work competitively. 
Such individuals, however, typically earn less when employed year-round, 
full-time than do persons without disability and have lower levels of 
employment, resulting in reduced worklife expectancy. This article focuses on 
the effects of cognitive disability on earnings and employment. The ACS data are 
reported by gender and education level for those without disability or with 
cognitive disability. Employment levels are translated into worklife 
expectancies and the method of conversion through use of a joint probability of 
life, participation, and employment is examined.

PMID: 17361049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Rev Biol Trop. 2004 Sep;52(3):451-66. doi: 10.15517/rbt.v1i2.15278.

Evolution and innovations of the National Neonatal and High Risk Screening 
Program in Costa Rica.

de Céspedes C(1), Saborío M, Trejos R, Abarca G, Sánchez A, Rojas L.

Author information:
(1)National Newborn and High Risk Screening Program, Center for Prevention of 
Disabilities, National Children Hospital, San José, Costa Rica.

We present the evolution, organization and results of the National Neonatal and 
High Risk Screening Program in Costa Rica (PNT). This program has been working 
uninterruptedly for more than fourteen years. Costa Rica currently has a 
literacy rate of 95%. To August 2004 the rate of infant mortality was 9.74 per 
1000 births and to 2003, life expectancy was 76.3 years for men and 81.1 years 
for women. The control of infectious and parasitic diseases, as well as of 
severe malnutrition, has given room to a prevalence of chronic diseases with a 
pathology profile similar to that of a developed country. The clinical 
observation, mainly starting from early 70s, of a growing number of patients 
with mental retardation and other disabilities caused by congenital 
hypothyroidism and hereditary metabolic diseases that could have been prevented 
in many cases with an early diagnosis and opportune treatment, led us to the 
decision to implement a systematically massive neonatal screening for these 
diseases. The presence of a single Public System of Social Security in Costa 
Rica, which currently includes from primary health care up to the hospitals of 
tertiary attention, with a single Children's Hospital for the whole country, as 
well as communication facilities, are factors that offered, in principle, 
favorable conditions for this effort, even for a developing country. To 
September 2004, 835,217 children have been screened. There is a coverage of 
95.1% of the newborns in the country. Also to this date, 259 children with 
congenital hypothyroidism, 18 with phenylketonuria, 20 with the maple syrup 
disease, 30 with congenital adrenal hyperplasia and 10 with galactosemia have 
been detected, confirmed and treated, for a total of 337 children that were 
spared of mental retardation, other disabilities and even death. Massive 
neonatal screening for organic acidemias recently started in June of 2004. 
Cystic fibrosis is under a pilot study and the screening for hemoglobinopathies 
and toxoplasmosis is planned. The Center for Prevention of Disabilities, which 
started its functions on September 23, 2002, made feasible to integrate neonatal 
screening, high risk screening and diagnostic confirmation of the diseases now 
included in the national screening program as well as those to be added in the 
future.

DOI: 10.15517/rbt.v1i2.15278
PMID: 17361538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2007 Feb 28;96(9):327-36. doi:
10.1024/1661-8157.96.9.327.

[Medical therapy of progressive colorectal cancer].

[Article in German]

Andre N(1), Schmiegel W.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Knappschaftskrankenhaus, Bochum. 
meduni-kkh@rub.de

Progress in the systemic treatment of colorectal cancer is evident, not only due 
to the significant increase in life expectancy in advanced colorectal cancer. It 
became possible mainly through the consequent and broad clinical introduction of 
irinotecan and oxaliplatin who should be embraced as standard chemotherapy 
treatment by now. Oral fluoropyrimidines are on their way to replace parenteral 
fluorouracil application not only in single drug regimens but also in the new 
and effective combination protocols. And the innovative concepts of targeted 
therapies against VEGF and the EGF-receptor have entered clinical treatment. How 
therapy standards will emerge from the current multiplicity of possible 
combinations can not be answered yet. The rapid approval of multiple active 
substances has made the design and completion of clinical trials to answer this 
question difficult. It has also led to uncertainty in the choice of wich therapy 
to choose at what time and in wich combination. And escalating costs caused 
mainly by the use of targeted therapies will seriously challenge the already 
restricted resources of public healthcare. Carefully defined, individual 
treatment indications using yet to be developed predictive tools are urgently 
needed to adress this problem. In conclusion further progress is at the horizon 
but can only take place through interdisciplinary cooperation and careful design 
and completion of randomized clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157.96.9.327
PMID: 17361634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Ann Urol (Paris). 2006 Dec;40 Suppl 2:S24-8. doi:
10.1016/s0003-4401(06)80015-x.

[Localized prostate cancer. Local treatment and what place for lymphadenectomy].

[Article in French]

Rossi D(1).

Author information:
(1)CHU Nord, Université de la Méditerranée, chemin des Bourrely, 13915 Marseille 
cedex 20, France. dominique.rossi@mail.ap-hm.fr

The pretreatment PSA level, the Gleason score, the presence of lymph-node 
metastases, the status of surgical positive margins are poor pathological risk 
factors for patients who have a pathologic stage T3 prostate cancer. The 
increase in PSA level during the year prior to diagnostic is associated with the 
risk of death due to prostate cancer following radical prostatectomy or external 
beam radiation therapy. The assessment of Locoregional extension is indicated 
for such patients. The extended pelvic lymphadenectomy remains the most accurate 
procedure for a correct staging of the detection of nodal involvement in these 
patients with high-risk localized prostate cancer. For such patients with a 
high-risk of progression and, whose the life expectancy is greater than 10 
years, treatment must be a combined modality therapy since radical prostatectomy 
alone correlates with a poor clinical outcome. Adjuvant hormonal therapy 
following local curative treatment by prostatectomy (or radiotherapy) needs to 
be often considered. Collegial decision-making is by far the most appropriate 
setting for the discussion among medical specialists of these complex clinical 
cases for patients often having associated medical conditions and whose adjuvant 
treatment will have a significant impact of their future quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4401(06)80015-x
PMID: 17361915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2007 Mar;9(1):6-14. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2006.00026.x.

A study on variances in multivariate analyses of oral implant outcome.

Herrmann I(1), Kultje C, Holm S, Lekholm U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, The Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Göteborg University, Göteborg, Sweden. irene.herrmann@lifecore.com

BACKGROUND: Elaborate studies have shown that interdependency exists between 
implants being placed in the same patient/jaw. Therefore, interdependency ought 
to be an important aspect to address, whenever performing statistical analyses 
of oral implant outcomes. A Jackknife method could be an option when conducting 
statistical evaluations of oral implant failure prognoses.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate whether a statistical difference 
can be detected by using the Jackknife method in conjunction with life table 
analyses and/or a log rank test of four different combinations of jaw density 
and quantity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four multicenter studies were pooled and adjusted in 
order to create a research database consisting of 486 patients and 1,737 
implants in preparation for the Jackknife resampling method. Combinations of jaw 
shapes and bone qualities were constructed to select at-risk patients.
STATISTICAL METHODS: Life tables with confidence intervals were calculated and a 
log rank test was used to determine whether a statistical difference between the 
combinations could be established.
RESULTS: Both statistical analyses, after the Jackknife resampling method, 
showed that patients with poor bone quality and resorbed jaws (combination IV) 
had a statistically higher risk of implant failure.
CONCLUSION: By rearranging data using the Jackknife method, standardized 
statistical tests seem to work well even when the study population tested was 
affected by interdependency.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2006.00026.x
PMID: 17362492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Health Policy. 2007 Oct;83(2-3):295-303. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.01.011.  Epub 2007 Mar 23.

Cost-effectiveness of a folic acid fortification program in Chile.

Llanos A(1), Hertrampf E, Cortes F, Pardo A, Grosse SD, Uauy R.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Nutrición y Tecnología de los Alimentos (INTA), Universidad de 
Chile, Chile. adolfo_llanos@pediatrix.com

OBJECTIVE: Periconceptional intake of folic acid reduces the risk of neural tube 
defects (NTDs), a frequent birth defect that can cause significant infant 
mortality and disability. In Chile, fortification of wheat flour with folic acid 
has resulted in significant reduction in the risk of anencephaly and spina 
bifida. We investigated the cost-effectiveness implications of this policy.
METHODS: We conducted an ex-post economic analysis of this intervention. 
Estimates of the effect of fortification in decreasing NTDs and deaths were 
derived from a prospective evaluation. The costs of fortification and provision 
of medical care to children with spina bifida in Chile were based on primary 
data collection.
FINDINGS: The intervention costs per NTD case and infant death averted were I$ 
1200 and 11,000, respectively. The cost per DALY averted was I$ 89, 0.8% of 
Chile's GDP per capita. Taking into account averted costs of care, fortification 
resulted in net cost savings of I$ 2.3 million.
CONCLUSION: Fortification of wheat flour with folic acid is a cost-effective 
intervention in Chile, a middle income country in the post-epidemiological 
transition. This result supports the continuation of the Chile fortification 
program and constitutes valuable information for policy makers in other 
countries to consider.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.01.011
PMID: 17363103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Clin Cancer Res. 2007 Mar 15;13(6):1675-83. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-2489.

Targeted therapy for brain metastases: improving the therapeutic ratio.

Patel RR(1), Mehta MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Oncology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53792, 
USA. patel@humonc.wisc.edu

Brain metastasis is the most common intracranial malignancy in adults. 
Improvements in modern imaging techniques are detecting previously occult brain 
metastases, and more effective therapies are extending the survival of patients 
with invasive cancer who have historically died from extracranial disease before 
developing brain metastasis. This combination of factors along with increased 
life expectancy has led to the increased diagnosis of brain metastases. 
Conventional treatment has been whole brain radiotherapy, which can improve 
symptoms, but potentially results in neurocognitive deficits. Several strategies 
to improve the therapeutic ratio are currently under investigation to either 
enhance the radiation effect, thereby preventing tumor recurrence or progression 
as well as reducing collateral treatment-related brain injury. In this review 
article, we discuss new directions in the management of brain metastases, 
including the role of chemical modifiers, novel systemic agents, and the 
management and prevention of neurocognitive deficits.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-2489
PMID: 17363520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Mol Genet Genomics. 2007 Jun;277(6):601-17. doi: 10.1007/s00438-007-0225-1.
Epub  2007 Mar 16.

Public and private mechanisms of life extension in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Houthoofd K(1), Vanfleteren JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ghent University, K. L. Ledeganckstraat 35, 9000 
Ghent, Belgium.

Model organisms have been widely used to study the ageing phenomenon in order to 
learn about human ageing. Although the phylogenetic diversity between 
vertebrates and some of the most commonly used model systems could hardly be 
greater, several mechanisms of life extension are public (common characteristic 
in divergent species) and likely share a common ancestry. Dietary restriction, 
reduced IGF-signaling and, seemingly, reduced ROS-induced damage are the best 
known mechanisms for extending longevity in a variety of organisms. In this 
review, we summarize the knowledge of ageing in the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans and compare the mechanisms of life extension with knowledge from other 
model organisms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00438-007-0225-1
PMID: 17364197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2007 Feb 1;70(3-4):316-31. doi: 
10.1080/15287390600884966.

Improving policy responses to the risk of air pollution.

Rabl A(1), Nathwani J, Pandey M, Hurley F.

Author information:
(1)Ecole des Mines, Paris Cedex, France. ari.rabl@ensmp.fr

This paper offers a brief review of the need for cost-benefit analysis (CBA) and 
the available policy instruments for air pollution. To prioritize different 
possible actions, one needs to know which source of pollution causes how much 
damage. This requires an impact pathway analysis, that is, an analysis of the 
chain emission --> dispersion --> dose-response function --> monetary valuation. 
The methodology for this is described and illustrated with the results of the 
ExternE (External Costs of Energy) project series of the European Commission. 
Two examples of an application to CBA are shown: one where a proposed reduction 
of emission limits is justified, and one where it is not. It is advisable to 
subject any proposed regulation to a CBA, including an analysis of the 
uncertainties. Even if the uncertainties are large and a policy decision may 
have to take other considerations into account, a well-documented CBA clarifies 
the issues and provides a basis for rational discussion. One of the main sources 
of uncertainty lies in the monetary valuation of premature mortality, the 
dominant contribution to the damage cost of air pollution. As an alternative, an 
innovative policy tool is described, the Life Quality Index (LQI), a compound 
indicator comprising societal wealth and life expectancy. It is applied to the 
Canada-wide standards for particulate matter and ozone. Regardless of monetary 
valuation, a 50% reduction of PM10 concentrations in Europe and North America 
has been shown to yield a population-average life expectancy increase on the 
order of 4 to 5 mo.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390600884966
PMID: 17365594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Popul Stud (Camb). 2007 Mar;61(1):85-97. doi: 10.1080/00324720601103833.

Increase in common longevity and the compression of mortality: the case of 
Japan.

Cheung SL(1), Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Health and Medical Research (INSERM), Health and 
Demography, Montpellier, France. SLKCheung@valdorel.fnclcc.fr

This study shows a strong increase in the modal age at death (M) in Japan over a 
period of 50 calendar years, accompanied by a clear decrease in the standard 
deviation of ages at death above M (SD(M+)) until the 1990s for men and the 
mid-1980s for women. For the most recent periods SD(M+) appears to have stopped 
decreasing, even though M has continued to increase linearly. This stagnation in 
SD(M+) has been accompanied by stagnation in q(M). The number of deaths at M 
(d(M)) and the number of deaths at and above M (d(M+)) have increased, but 
significantly more slowly since the period 1975-79. Since the 1980s an 
acceleration in the increase of M+kSD(M+), our indicator of the longest life 
durations, has been essentially due to the pause in SD(M+). Our data do not 
suggest that we are approaching an upper limit in human longevity.

DOI: 10.1080/00324720601103833
PMID: 17365875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Opioid Manag. 2007 Jan-Feb;3(1):35-43. doi: 10.5055/jom.2007.0037.

A randomized, open-label, multicenter trial comparing once-a-day AVINZA 
(morphine sulfate extended-release capsules) versus twice-a-day OxyContin 
(oxycodone hydrochloride controlled-release tablets) for the treatment of 
chronic, moderate to severe low back pain: improved physical functioning in the 
ACTION trial.

Rauck RL(1), Bookbinder SA, Bunker TR, Alftine CD, Gershon S, de Jong E, 
Negro-Vilar A, Ghalie R.

Author information:
(1)Carolinas Pain Institute, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.

This multicenter trial compared the efficacy, safety, and effect on quality of 
life and work limitation of once-daily extended-release morphine sulfate 
capsules (AVINZA, A-MQD) and twice-daily controlled-release oxycodone HCI 
tablets (OxyContin, O-ER) in subjects with chronic, moderate to severe low back 
pain. After randomization and a period of opioid dose titration, subjects 
(n=266) underwent an eight-week evaluation phase and an optionalf our-month 
extension phase (n=174 in extension phase). Subjects were assessed using the 
12-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-12) and the Work Limitations Questionnaire 
(WLQ). In both groups, significant improvements were observed in the SF-12 mean 
scores forp hysicalf unctioning (p < 0.001), role physical (p < 0.0001), bodilyp 
ain (p < 0.0001), physical summary (p < 0.001), and mental component summary (p 
< 0.005). At the end of the titration period, greater relative improvements from 
baseline were seen in the SF-12 section on physical components in the A-MQD 
group versus the O-ER group, with significant differences observed for physical 
functioning (p = 0.0374), role physical (p = 0.0341), bodily pain (p = 0.0001), 
andp hysical summary (p = 0.0022). In both groups, SF-12 mean scores improved 
significantly for mental health (p < 0.01), role emotional (p < 0.01), 
socialfunctioning (p < 0.0005), vitality (p < 0.005), and the mental component 
summary (p < 0.005), but no significant differences were noted between the two 
groups. Both groups reported improvement from baseline in WLQ physical demands 
scores, with no significant differences noted between the two groups. At the end 
of the evaluation phase, fewer subjects were unable to work due to illness or 
treatment in the A-MQD group than in the O-ER group (8.5 percent versus 19.4 
percent, respectively; p = 0.0149). In conclusion, compared to twice-daily 
OxyContin, once-daily A VINZA resulted in significantly better and earlier 
improvement ofp hysicalf unction and ability to work.

DOI: 10.5055/jom.2007.0037
PMID: 17367093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Waste Manag. 2008;28(2):442-9. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2007.01.007. Epub 2007
Mar  23.

A system dynamics approach for hospital waste management.

Chaerul M(1), Tanaka M, Shekdar AV.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Natural Science and Technology, Okayama University, 1-1 
Naka 3-Chome, Tsushima, Okayama 700-8530, Japan. dns16607@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp

Healthcare services provided by hospitals may generate some infectious wastes. 
Although a large percentage of hospital waste is classified as general waste, 
which has similar nature as that of municipal solid waste and, therefore, could 
be disposed in municipal landfills, a small portion of infectious waste has to 
be managed in the proper manner in order to minimize risk to public health. Many 
factors involved in the hospital waste management system often link to one 
another, which require a comprehensive analysis to determine the role of each 
factor in the system. In this paper, we present a hospital waste management 
model based on system dynamics to determine the interaction among factors in the 
system using a software package, Stella. A case study of the City of Jakarta, 
Indonesia is selected. The hospital waste generation is affected by various 
factors including the number of beds in the hospitals and the NIMBY (not in my 
back yard) syndrome. To minimize the risk to public health, we found that waste 
segregation, as well as infectious waste treatment prior to disposal, has to be 
conducted properly by the hospital management, especially when scavenging takes 
place in landfill sites in developing countries.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2007.01.007
PMID: 17368013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Mar;5(3):312-8. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2006.12.008.

Cost utility of screening for Barrett's esophagus with esophageal capsule 
endoscopy versus conventional upper endoscopy.

Rubenstein JH(1), Inadomi JM, Brill JV, Eisen GM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Michigan Medical School, and the 
Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA. 
jhr@umich.edu

Comment in
    Rev Gastroenterol Disord. 2008 Winter;8(1):71-3.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Screening for Barrett's esophagus with conventional 
esophagoduodenoscopy (EGD) is recommended to decrease mortality from esophageal 
adenocarcinoma. Esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) has recently been shown to be 
accurate in detecting Barrett's esophagus. We aimed to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of screening by ECE with screening by EGD.
METHODS: A Markov model of 50-year-old white men with symptoms of 
gastroesophageal reflux was constructed to compare screening modalities. The 
model incorporated direct medical costs and indirect costs of lost productivity 
and followed the patients until age 80 years or death. Outcomes were analyzed 
from the societal perspective.
RESULTS: EGD screening prevented 60% of cancer deaths at a cost of $11,254 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained compared with no screening. ECE prevented 53% 
of cancer deaths and provided 9 fewer quality-adjusted days at greater cost than 
EGD. If society were only willing to pay $50,000 per quality-adjusted life year 
gained, then capsule screening would be preferred if the income of the patient 
and driver were each greater than $280,682. Otherwise, the findings were robust 
to all sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for Barrett's esophagus with either EGD or ECE results in 
similar outcomes, but EGD is the preferred strategy. Both strategies appear 
cost-effective, and the model does not take into account patient preferences for 
screening modality or adherence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2006.12.008
PMID: 17368230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Mar;5(3):319-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2006.12.022.

Cost-benefit analysis of capsule endoscopy compared with standard upper 
endoscopy for the detection of Barrett's esophagus.

Gerson L(1), Lin OS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5202, USA. lgerson@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Rev Gastroenterol Disord. 2008 Winter;8(1):71-3.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) is a promising new 
technology for the detection of esophageal pathology. Potential advantages for 
Barrett's esophagus (BE) screening include ability to return to work as a result 
of lack of intravenous sedation.
METHODS: We designed a Markov model to compare lifetime costs and life 
expectancy for a cohort of 50-year old men with chronic GERD for the presence of 
BE. We compared the base-case strategy of no screening for BE to 2 competing 
screening strategies: (1) ECE followed by upper endoscopy (EGD) if BE were 
suspected or if there was poor visualization on the ECE; and (2) standard 
sedated EGD with biopsy. Cost estimates were obtained from a third-party payer 
perspective. For each strategy we determined lifetime costs, life-years gained, 
numbers of esophageal cancers detected, death rates from esophageal cancer, and 
procedural deaths.
RESULTS: Initial EGD was more expensive but more effective compared with the no 
screening strategy. Assuming a theoretical cohort of 10,000 patients with GERD, 
initial EGD cost $1988 and was associated with 18.54 life-years compared with 
$2392 and 18.36 life-years for the ECE arm and $901 and 18.30 life-years for the 
no screening arm. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of screening with EGD 
compared with the no screening arm was $4530 per life-year gained. The model was 
robust to a wide range of sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Initial EGD appears more effective and less costly compared with 
ECE under base-case conditions for patients with chronic GERD undergoing 
screening for BE.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2006.12.022
PMID: 17368231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Neurosci Methods. 2007 Jun 15;163(1):17-23. doi: 
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2007.02.005. Epub 2007 Feb 15.

Novel applications of common stereology software to represent the complete 
distribution, density and spatial organization of anterogradely labelled fibers 
in neuroanatomical tract-tracing studies.

Leite-Almeida H(1), Almeida A.

Author information:
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Health 
Sciences, University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.

In a recent study we have adapted for the first time available software used in 
spatial neuronal organization studies to represent the complete fiber 
distribution of a brain projection [Leite-Almeida H, Valle-Fernandes A, Almeida 
A. Brain projections from the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus: an anterograde 
and retrograde tracing study in the rat. Neuroscience 2006;140:577-95]. Here we 
describe the technique in detail using the injection of biotinylated-dextran 
amine (BDA) in the rat cuneate nucleus and its projection through the pyramidal 
decussation as an example. Camera-lucida-like computer drawings were produced 
with StereoInvestigator software. Using high magnification lens, rat brain 
sections were screened and lines superimposed with virtually all fibers and 
terminal boutons present in each brain section. Additionally, in each screening 
field of the section, all focal planes were inspected and lines depicted only on 
focused fibers and/or fiber segments. Later, NeuroExplorer software was used to 
interpret fiber depth information and obtain the three-dimensional pathway of 
each fiber bundle along the rostrocaudal extension of each section. This 
computer methodology presents several advantages over classical camera-lucida 
hand-made drawings: (i) the software is prepared to work interchangeably in 
different magnifications without misplacements, which allows the representation 
of virtually all labelled fibers and, therefore, results in a much more accurate 
fiber location in each brain section; (ii) three-dimensional information of all 
individual fibers and fiber bundles is recorded; (iii) the method is more 
flexible allowing, for example, to colour differently labelled fibers according 
to their profiles (e.g. terminal or ramified fiber arborizations and terminal 
boutons).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2007.02.005
PMID: 17368789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Health Policy. 2007 Oct;83(2-3):287-94. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.02.001.  Epub 2007 Mar 21.

Why invest in a national public health program for stroke? An example using 
Australian data to estimate the potential benefits and cost implications.

Cadilhac DA(1), Carter RC, Thrift AG, Dewey HM.

Author information:
(1)National Stroke Research Institute, Heidelberg Heights, Vic. 3081, Australia. 
dcadilhac@nsri.org.au

OBJECTIVES: Stroke is the world's second leading cause of death in people aged 
over 60 years. Approximately 50,000 strokes occur annually in Australia with 
numbers predicted to increase by about one third over 10-years. Our objectives 
were to assess the economic implications of a public health program for stroke 
by: (1) predicting what potential health-gains and cost-offsets could be 
achieved; and (2) determining the net level of annual investment that would 
offer value-for-money.
METHODS: Lifetime costs and outcomes were calculated for additional cases that 
would benefit if 'current practice' was feasibly improved, estimated for one 
indicative year using: (i) local epidemiological data, coverage rates and costs; 
and (ii) pooled effect sizes from systematic reviews.
INTERVENTIONS: blood pressure lowering; warfarin for atrial fibrillation; 
increased access to stroke units; intravenous thrombolysis and aspirin for 
ischemic events; and carotid endarterectomy. Value-for-money threshold: 
AUD$30,000/DALY recovered.
RESULTS: Improved, prevention and management could prevent about 27,000 (38%) 
strokes in 2015. In present terms (2004), about 85,000 DALYs and AUD$1.06 
billion in lifetime cost-offsets could be recovered. The net level of annual 
warranted investment was AUD$3.63 billion.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary prevention, in particular blood pressure lowering, was most 
effective. A public health program for stroke is warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.02.001
PMID: 17368861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. JAMA. 2007 Mar 21;297(11):1224-32. doi: 10.1001/jama.297.11.1224. Epub 2007
Mar  16.

Trends in the black-white life expectancy gap in the United States, 1983-2003.

Harper S(1), Lynch J, Burris S, Davey Smith G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Quebec.

CONTEXT: Since the early 1980s, the black-white gap in life expectancy at birth 
increased sharply and subsequently declined, but the causes of these changes 
have not been investigated.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the contribution of specific age groups and causes of 
death contributing to the changes in the black-white life expectancy gap from 
1983-2003.
DESIGN AND SETTING: US vital statistics data from the US National Vital 
Statistics System, maintained by the National Center for Health Statistics. 
Standard life table techniques were used to decompose the change in the 
black-white life expectancy gap by combining absolute changes in age-specific 
mortality with relative changes in the distribution of causes of death.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The gap in life expectancy at birth between blacks and 
