
DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2006.09.015
PMID: 17210144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2007 Sep;33(7):914-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2006.11.018.
Epub  2007 Jan 8.

Evaluation of the Tokuhashi prognosis score and its modifications in 217 
patients with vertebral metastases.

Ulmar B(1), Huch K, Naumann U, Catalkaya S, Cakir B, Gerstner S, Reichel H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, University of Ulm, c/o Rehabilitation Hospital Ulm 
(RKU), Oberer Eselsberg 45, D-89081 Ulm, Germany.

AIM: The Tokuhashi prognosis score consists of six parameters. The sum of points 
rated for each parameter can be correlated with the prognosis. This study 
evaluates the score variations that have been done by different authors and 
Tokuhashi et al. themselves.
METHODS: Two hundred and seventeen consecutive patients, surgically treated for 
vertebral metastases, were studied retrospectively. We calculated the original 
and modified score of Tokuhashi and evaluated the predictive value for the 
individual life expectancy.
RESULTS: The original and modified Tokuhashi score assured a significant 
predictive value. Modified criteria by the authors showed the highest 
reliability between the predicted and real survival, and the patients could be 
allocated correctly to the desirable instrumentation.
CONCLUSION: The original and modified Tokuhashi score showed a significant 
predictive value. The modified criteria by the authors showed the highest 
reliability between predicted and real survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2006.11.018
PMID: 17210240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Health Aff (Millwood). 2007 Jan-Feb;26(1):111-23. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.26.1.111.

The value of coronary heart disease care for the elderly: 1987-2002.

Rosen AB(1), Cutler DM, Norton DM, Hu HM, Vijan S.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan and Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs, USA. abrosen@umich.edu

We examine trends in the value of coronary heart disease (CHD) care in the 
United States over a fifteen-year period, finding major improvements in life 
expectancy from investment in CHD care for the elderly. For those with acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI), the value of care is good, although medical 
management might provide higher value than revascularization. Progress also has 
been made in preventing AMI. Overall, the value of our CHD spending is quite 
good. Despite this wise investment of resources to date, considerable 
opportunities remain for additional investment to improve the adoption of 
valuable but underused health services.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.26.1.111
PMID: 17211020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Pediatr Res. 2007 Jan;61(1):72-6. doi: 10.1203/01.pdr.0000249980.95264.dd.

Reduced life expectancy in rats after neonatal dexamethasone treatment.

Kamphuis PJ(1), de Vries WB, Bakker JM, Kavelaars A, van Dijk JE, Schipper ME, 
van Oosterhout MF, Croiset G, Heijnen CJ, van Bel F, Wiegant VM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Anatomy, Rudolph Magnus Institute of 
Neuroscience, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The glucocorticoid dexamethasone (Dex) is widely used in preterm infants for the 
prevention of chronic lung disease. However, major concern has arisen about the 
long-term sequelae of this therapy. Here we report that neonatal treatment with 
dexamethasone significantly shortens the lifespan by 25% of male rats (28.6 +/- 
1.1 to 21.3 +/- 0.8 mo) and by 18% of female rats (26.9 +/- 1.8 to 22.0 +/- 0.7 
mo). Histopathological examination indicated end-stage cardiac and renal failure 
as the cause of premature death. Furthermore, Dex-treated rats showed symptoms 
of hypertension at young adult age, which worsened with increasing age. Thus, a 
brief period of glucocorticoid treatment during early life results in untimely 
death presumably due to cardiovascular and renal disease later in life. These 
serious, adverse long-term consequences call for prudence with glucocorticoid 
treatment of human preterm infants and careful follow-up of young adults with a 
history of neonatal glucocorticoid treatment.

DOI: 10.1203/01.pdr.0000249980.95264.dd
PMID: 17211144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Minerva Stomatol. 2006 Nov-Dec;55(11-12):647-54.

Buccal-masseteric mycotic abscess as a consequence of dental procedures.

[Article in English, Italian]

Maglione M(1), Angerame D, Costantinides F, Visintini E.

Author information:
(1)Dental Clinic, Department of Biomedicine University of Trieste, Trieste, 
Italy.

Trismus may represent an external sign of masticatory or lateral pharyngeal 
abscess that in rare cases is the consequence of pathogen action by 
micro-organisms introduced in deep tissues after inferior alveolar block. The 
case presented shows a buccal-masseteric mycotic abscess following restorative 
procedure involving inferior alveolar anesthesia on the same side. A 49-year-old 
woman was referred to the Dental Clinic (University of Trieste) complaining of a 
progressive inability to open her mouth since one week associated to a 
hemifacial edema in the right parotid region. The symptoms initially started one 
week before. Infection developed after restorative procedures performed 10 days 
before on the same side. Based on clinical signs and cultural exam findings, a 
buccal-masseteric mycotic abscess was found and magnetic resonance (MR) was 
performed to assess its localization and extension. Initial pharmacological 
therapy with piperacillin/tazobactam administered intravenously, was replaced by 
appropriate antimycotic therapy on the basis of sensitivity test to antibiotics. 
Infection resolution was obtained but complete absence of facial asymmetry 
occurred after 5 months only. Introduction of micro-organisms during anesthetic 
alveolar block is a documented source of infection and may occur after dental 
procedure involving inferior alveolar anesthesia. Complete medical history, 
cultural exam with sensitivity test to antibiotics and RM or computed tomography 
(CT) images, are necessary to perform an adequate treatment plan and to 
administer a correct therapy. Presence of trismus, accompanied by pain or facial 
edema after dental procedure or during dental or perioral infections has to be 
carefully considered by clinician to diagnose as soon as possible a deep spaces 
infection and to avoid serious or life-threatening complications.

PMID: 17211370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. J Mol Med (Berl). 2007 Apr;85(4):405-13. doi: 10.1007/s00109-006-0140-7.
Epub  2007 Jan 9.

Copper and clioquinol treatment in young APP transgenic and wild-type mice: 
effects on life expectancy, body weight, and metal-ion levels.

Schäfer S(1), Pajonk FG, Multhaup G, Bayer TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Division of Neurobiology, Saarland University, 
Homburg, Germany.

Erratum in
    J Mol Med. 2007 Apr;85(4):421.
    J Mol Med (Berl). 2007 Apr;85(4):421.

There is mounting evidence that the amyloid precursor protein (APP), the key 
protein in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is involved in the copper (Cu) homeostasis 
in the brain. Conflicting results about the potential use of dietary Cu and 
clioquinol (CQ), a known Cu chelator, have been reported using APP transgenic 
mice. Previously, in vitro studies have demonstrated that CQ can act as a Cu 
transporter. To analyze the potential function of CQ as a Cu transporter in 
vivo, the nutritional effect of Cu and CQ was analyzed in young APP transgenic 
mice and nontransgenics with food pellets containing either Cu, CQ, Cu plus CQ 
(Cu + CQ), or without addition of supplements (control). The offspring were fed 
with corresponding food pellets until the age of 14 weeks. We observed an 
increased lethality of APP transgenics upon CQ treatment, which could be rescued 
by a co-treatment with Cu. The exposure of Cu + CQ led to a modest but 
significant increase in cerebral Cu levels, most likely due to an enhanced 
transport of CQ-Cu complexes. In CQ or Cu + CQ treatment groups, the plasma 
levels of Cu, zinc, and iron were reduced in all animals; moreover, Cu treatment 
alone reduced only plasma iron levels. We conclude not only that CQ has certain 
toxicity but also that the chelating effect, perhaps, plays a secondary role 
with respect to its properties as an intracellular Cu transporter, thus, 
counteracting the supposed therapeutic effects of CQ as an agent for chelating 
therapy in AD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-006-0140-7
PMID: 17211610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2006 Dec;156(23-24):612-8. doi:
10.1007/s10354-006-0357-7.

[Relevance of pharmacoeconomic analyses to price and reimbursement decisions in 
Austria].

[Article in German]

Führlinger S(1).

Author information:
(1)Hauptverband der Osterreichischen Sozialversicherungsträger, Wien, 
Osterreich. vertragspartnermedikamente@hvb.sozvers.at

Since the social sick funds have only limited amounts of money at their 
disposal, whereas the pharmaceutical market is constantly growing, thorough 
evaluations have to be undertaken how contributions are to be spent to get 
adequate value for money and especially to gain utmost benefit for the patients. 
When deciding on whether a pharmaceutical is listed in the Code of Reimbursement 
or not, pharmacoeconomic studies are obligatory in two cases: for real 
innovations with substantial therapeutic benefit and for applications for 
inclusion in the Yellow Box, when there are no alternatives listed in the Yellow 
Box. On the basis of the pharmacoeconomic study a comprehensible and justifiable 
cost/use relation of the pharmaceutical applied for should be proven in 
comparison with therapeutic alternatives in Austria. However, a pharmacoeconomic 
study is always only one aspect among others deciding on reimbursement and 
price. Even though the pharmaceutical applied for is not included in the Code of 
Reimbursement, reimbursement is possible in special cases if there is no 
adequate pharmaceutical listed in the Code of Reimbursement and the 
pharmaceutical is absolutely needed for therapeutic reasons. In these cases 
prior approval from a chief medical officer is required. Pharmacoeconomic 
studies for the purpose of section sign 25 of the Rules of Procedure for 
publishing the Code of Reimbursement (VO-EKO) must meet the following 
requirements: From a methodical point of view both cost-effectiveness analyses 
and--in justified cases--cost-utility analyses may be used. Due to required 
accuracy and traceability incremental analyses are preferred. Medical and 
economic data underlying the pharmacoeconomic study have to show a high degree 
of validity and evidence. The perspective to be taken is that of the Austrian 
Health Insurance. When determining the therapeutic alternatives, the most 
frequent indication, the most purposeful medical dosage and the main group of 
affected patients have to be considered. Hereby the order "Green Box-Yellow 
Box-Red Box" has to be taken into account. The direct costs of the obligatory 
benefits of the social insurance institutions of medical treatment (medical 
assistance, drugs, substitute assistance), institutional care (based on LKF 
points) and the medical measures of rehabilitation are to be set. Due to 
required transparency and traceability quantity and cost structure have to be 
listed separately. Prices of single items and resource usage in form of units of 
measurement have to be stated. Studies performed in other countries than Austria 
may be subject to different health care systems, general conditions, therapeutic 
alternatives and costs and have therefore to be adapted to Austrian conditions. 
It must not be disregarded that pharmacoeconomics as any other science comprises 
different opinions and basic approaches and that pharmacoeconomics is making 
progress all the time. However, considering their limitations with regard to the 
interpretation of the results, pharmacoeconomic studies are a key factor for 
assessing new pharmaceuticals and represent an important contribution to 
reimbursement and price decisions in Austria.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-006-0357-7
PMID: 17211765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Handel Maatsch Geschied Oudheidk Gent. 2002;56:111-44.

[A contribution to the study of mortality rates in Ghent during the 18th 
century: the case of Sint-Salvator].

[Article in Dutch]

Vermeulen I.

PMID: 17211942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Ig Sanita Pubbl. 2005 Mar-Apr;61(2):133-48.

[Assessment of supply and demand for hip arthroplasty in Puglia (Italy) in the 
years 1996-2003].

[Article in Italian]

Prato R(1), Lopalco PL, Germinario C.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche e del Lavoro - Cattedra di Igiene - 
Università degli Studi di Foggia.

Hip arthroplasty is one of the major achievements of orthopaedic surgery. In the 
Puglia region the demand for this procedure is moderately met. This study 
evaluates the regional distribution of hip arthroplasty procedures in Puglia in 
the years 1996-2003. Demand and supply was estimated through analysis of 
discharge abstract forms. Between 1996 and 203, 21,392 hip arthroplasty 
procedures were performed. of these, 12,491 (58,4%) were total hip 
arthroplasties, 7,742 (36,2%) were hip endoprostheses and 1,159 (5,4%) wee 
revisions. The median age of patients undergoing any of these procedures was 70 
years and the proportion of females was almost double that of males (64%). The 
main indication was primary osteoarthrosis and 52,1% of all procedures were 
performed in the province of Bari. The average annual crude hospitalisation rate 
for hip arthroplasty procedures was 75,9 cases/100.000 inhabitants; this rate 
places the Puglia region in an intermediate position with respect to other 
Italian regions and is lower than that found in the literature. Discharge 
abstract forms are currently the sole source of data regarding hip arthroplasty 
procedures and this presents several limits. This factor, in addition to the 
complexity and high costs of these procedures and to the increasing average life 
expectancy of the general population all point to the need for a regional Hip 
arthroplasty Register, which would allow better planning for patients.

PMID: 17211956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2006 Nov;33(12):1881-4.

[Improvements in quality of life and survival of patients with T4 gastric cancer 
which invaded organs after multivisceral resections through the extension of 
palliative gastrectomy and post-operative chemotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujisaki S(1), Takashina M, Tomita R, Takayama T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Fujisaki Hospital.

For patients with a locally advanced gastric cancer, palliative gastrectomy 
could improve local complications, such as bleeding or obstruction, but had no 
impact on prognosis. This study was designed to evaluate improvements in quality 
of life and survival of patients with T4 gastric cancer which invaded organs 
exhibiting bleeding or obstruction, after multivisceral resections of these 
organs through the extension of palliative gastrectomy and postoperative 
chemotherapy. Multivisceral resections were performed on 6 patients with T4 
gastric cancer with local complications, such as bleeding or obstruction, at the 
Department of Surgery of Fujisaki hospital from 2003-2005. The sites of the 
organs invaded were the pancreas in five cases, and transverse colon and 
gallbladder in one case. The invaded organs were resected completely in five 
cases, and partially in one case. Surgical margins were microscopically negative 
in four cases. Anatomical leakage (sutured failure) occurred to none of the 
patients. All in all, the oral ingestion after the surgery went well. 
Chemotherapy (TS-1 plus CDDP) was started with 3 patients during their stay in 
the hospital. In addition, post-operative chemotherapy (TS-1) at the outpatient 
clinic was performed on 5 of the 6 patients. More than 1 year of the performance 
test (PS 0 or 1 in ECOG) went well for 4 patients. Two of the 4 patients could 
resume their work. The median survival time was more than 419.5 days. In 
conclusion, we consider that multivisceral resections through the extension of 
palliative gastrectomy and postoperative chemotherapy for patients with T4 
gastric cancer could improve quality of life and prognosis.

PMID: 17212135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Lakartidningen. 2006 Nov 22-28;103(47):3716-8.

[Guidelines of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Board for health economics 
evaluations. Cost-efficiency analysis from a national perspective].

[Article in Swedish]

Lundin D(1), Carlsson P, Levin LA, Persson U.

Author information:
(1)Linköpings universitet.

PMID: 17212321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Clin Ther. 2006 Nov;28(11):1764-78. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2006.11.020.

Role of abatacept in the management of rheumatoid arthritis.

Nogid A(1), Pham DQ.

Author information:
(1)Arnold & Marie Schwartz College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Long Island 
University, Brooklyn, New York 11201-5497, USA. anna.nogid@liu.edu

BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has been associated with significant 
morbidity and economic burden. Traditional pharmacotherapy (eg, NSAIDs, 
corticosteroids, disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs [DMARDs]) can be 
inadequate in controlling symptoms and disease progression. Abatacept is the 
first selective co-stimulation modulator approved by the US Food and Drug 
Administration for the management of RA. It is a fusion protein developed to 
modulate the T-cell co-stimulatory signal that is mediated through the 
CD28-CD80/86 pathway.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this manuscript was to review the clinical 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties, tolerability, and 
clinical efficacy of abatacept.
METHODS: MEDLINE and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts were searched 
through June and May, respectively, of 2006 using the term abatacept or 
CTLA4-Ig. All prospective, randomized, Phase II and III trials, and their 
extension phases, were included.
RESULTS: Phase II and III clinical trials found that abatacept, at a dose of 10 
mg/kg administered as a short i.v. infusion in combination with DMARDs, was 
associated with significant clinical benefit in patients with active RA. After 6 
months of treatment, the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria for 20% 
clinical improvement (ACR20 response) was attained in 41.9% to 67.9% of patients 
who received abatacept compared with 19.5% to 39.7% of patients who received 
placebo (P < 0.001). The percentages of patients achieving the ACR criteria for 
50% and 70% clinical improvement (ACR50 and ACR70) were 20.3% to 39.9% and 10.2% 
to 19.8%, respectively, in the groups that received abatacept compared with 3.8% 
to 16.8% and 1.5% to 6.5%, respectively, in the patients who received placebo (P 
= 0.03 and P < 0.001). Additionally, abatacept was found to improve disease 
activity, physical function, pain, and health-related quality of life (HRQOL). 
The most commonly reported adverse effects associated with abatacept treatment 
were headache (18.2%), upper respiratory tract infection (12.7%), 
nasopharyngitis (11.5%), and nausea (11.5%). The incidences of infections and 
serious infections were higher in the group that received abatacept compared 
with patients who received placebo (53.8% vs 48.3% and 3.0% vs 1.9%, 
respectively; P not reported). No significant between-group differences in 
mortality were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Available evidence suggests that abatacept was effective in 
controlling symptoms and improving HRQOL in patients with active RA and an 
inadequate response to DMARD therapy. The most commonly reported adverse effects 
associated with abatacept treatment were headache, upper respiratory infection, 
nausea, and nasopharyngitis. Additional trials are needed to determine the 
long-term safety profile of this agent and whether the clinical benefits of 
abatacept found in the current clinical trials will be sustained over time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2006.11.020
PMID: 17212998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Health Promot Pract. 2007 Jan;8(1):28-30. doi: 10.1177/1524839906295944.
Epub  2006 Dec 1.

"Health for all": An ethical imperative or unattainable ideal?

Marks R(1), Shive SE.

Author information:
(1)Society of Public Health Education (SOPHE) Ethics committee, USA.

DOI: 10.1177/1524839906295944
PMID: 17213373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2006 Dec;31(6):952-9.

[Trend of death cause of residents in Changde from 1973 to 2002].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang XW(1), Hu LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, School of Public Health, 
Central South University, Changsha 410078, China. wangwan@xysm.net

OBJECTIVE: To discuss the cause of death for residents in Changde and guarantee 
the evidence for the health decision-making and control of diseases by the use 
of YPLL analysis and comprehensive evaluation on the dynamic cause of death of 
residents in Changde from 1973 to 2002.
METHODS: The data is processed by the use of SPSS software package (version 
11.0) and EXCEL software (version 2000) with the statistic methods of Cause 
Eliminated Life Table, Life Table, YPLL and etc.
RESULTS: The average population reached 5384519 and the average gender 
proportion of male and female is 1.12 to 1 in Changed during 1973-2002. Since 
1973, total population has risen from 483 to 596 at average annual rate of 7.89% 
while the birthrate has decreased from 53.78% in 1973 to 8.39% in 2002. The 
composition of population in Changde experienced great shift in the past 30 
years. The proportion of children (0 - 14) in 2002 declined by 16.15% compared 
with that in 1973 and the proportion of elder people has increased by 2.88% 
compared with that in 1973. The proportion of gender has ranged little by 
1973-2002 although that of neonatal has ranged greatly.
CONCLUSION: The total death number of Changde in 2002 reached 1103233 and the 
mortality rate has sustained decline since 1973. The top 5 causes of death were 
diseases of respiratory system, circular system, damnification & poisoning, 
contagion & schistosomiasis, tumor and etc in 2002 and shifted a lot compared 
with that in 1973. The average life expectancy of residents in Changde was 67.6 
from 1973 to 2002. The average life expectancy of males and females increased 
12.63 and 11.93 years in 2002 compared with those in 1972. In the past 30 years, 
the diseases of respiratory system has greatly influenced the life span of 
residents in Changde.

PMID: 17213606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. J Egypt Public Health Assoc. 1995;70(3-4):307-22.

Use of breast feeding indicators for assessment of current feeding practices.

El-Sahn FF(1), Kharboush IF, Nossier SA.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Department, High Institute of Public Health.

To investigate the current breast feeding practices, a survey was conducted 
cross sectionally on 2000 children aged less than 2 years recruited from 6 MCH 
centers in Alexandria governorate. The median duration of breast feeding was 
19.4 months. Only one quarter of infants were exclusively breast fed for the 
first four months of age with a mean duration of 2.4+2.5 months. Predominantly 
breast feeding rate was 0.36, while timely complementary breast feeding rate(6-9 
months) was 0.66. Continued breast feeding rate(one year) was 0.73 while that 
for two years was 0.3. Results also indicated that 40% of infants were receiving 
food from a bottle with a nipple/teat regardless of whether or not the infant 
was breast fed. These findings implicate that promotion of breast feeding should 
receive priority in health programs activities.

PMID: 17214160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Egypt Public Health Assoc. 1995;70(3-4):323-41.

Comparison of the life table characteristics of Anopheles sergentii (Diptera: 
Culicidae) from two malarious areas in Egypt.

Kenawy MA(1), Mohamed M, Sowilem, Hamed MS, Merdan AI.

Author information:
(1)Entomology Dept., Faculty of Science and Research, Training Center on Vectors 
of Diseases, Ain Shams University, Abbassia, Cairo, Egypt.

Life table characteristics were examined for the malaria vector, An. serenti 
from two Faiyum villages: Tersa (T) and El Nazlah (N) from Siwa oasis (Sw) under 
constant laboratory conditions at 25 degrees C and 70% RH. Females of T, N and 
Sw completed 4, 5, and 2 gonotrophic cycles (gc) respectively. The first gc 
required a significantly longer period (p<0.05) than the subsequent ones. 
Development times for Sw immatures were longer (p<0.05) than for the other 
colonies. Life expectancies at emergence for males of the 3 colonies were 
significantly shorter than for their respective females. Generation time was 
shorter (p<0.05) for T (mean = 31.15 days) than for Sw (37.81 days) or N (43.64 
days) colonies. The birth rate of Sw colony (mean = 0.33 female female/female) 
was significantly higher (p<O.05) than those of the other colonies. The other 
biological parameters: fecundity, egg hatch times and rates, survivorship from 
egg eclosion to adult emergence, male and survivorships, net reproductive rate, 
intrinsic rate of increase all showed no colony variations. The study concluded 
that variation among colonies in certain biological aspects may not reflect 
strain differences.

PMID: 17214161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Ann Urol (Paris). 2006 Dec;40(6):336-41. doi: 10.1016/j.anuro.2006.09.002.

[Prostate cancer in the elderly patient].

[Article in French]

Waldert M(1), Djavan B.

Author information:
(1)Department of urology, University of Vienna, Xähringer Gürtel 18-20, 1090 
Vienna, Autriche.

Although malignant tumours occur at all ages, cancer disproportionately strikes 
individuals in the age group 65 years and older. The increasing statistical life 
expectancy of men together with the introduction of prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) as a screening tool have both contributed to a rising number of elderly 
men with a diagnosis of prostate cancer. Age is generally considered to be a key 
prognostic factor in terms of therapeutic decision making, perhaps as important 
as PSA level and Gleason score. Even in men over 70 years, treatment without 
curative intent may deprive frail patients of years of life. When considering 
local treatment, strong consideration should be given to radical surgery. Modern 
radical prostatectomy is associated with low perioperative morbidity, excellent 
clinical outcomes as well as long term disease control. Besides, overdiagnosis 
has led to the concept of expectant management for screening-detected 
small-volume, low grade disease, with intention of providing therapy for those 
men experiencing disease progression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anuro.2006.09.002
PMID: 17214231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Care Manag J. 2006 Summer;7(2):86-91. doi: 10.1891/cmaj.7.2.86.

Financial preservation and protection for the elderly.

Lammers LJ(1), Eudaly CA.

Author information:
(1)Riverstone Advisors, Scarsdale, NY 10583, USA. 
Llammers@riverstoneadvisors.com

This article's objective is to share various financial approaches, facts, and 
opinions that may be helpful to those assisting the elderly. This document has 
four main sections: a tool kit of ideas for dealing with financial affairs; 
investment facts, financial planning, and recommendations--a road map for 
planning and investing; long-term care insurance--who might benefit, and; toward 
the end, steps to take to preserve wealth when life expectancy is short.

DOI: 10.1891/cmaj.7.2.86
PMID: 17214241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Res Sports Med. 2006 Oct-Dec;14(4):239-43. doi: 10.1080/15438620600985795.

The healthy worker effect in professional football.

Abel EL(1), Kruger ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Psychology, Wayne State 
University, Detroit, Michigan, USA. eabel@wayne.edu

We investigated the "healthy athlete effect" (HAE) in American professional 
football. Ages of death of professional football players who debuted prior to 
1940 were obtained and differences between those ages and age-adjusted life 
expectancies were examined to determine if longevity increased with career 
length, controlling for birth year, body mass index (BMI), position, and type. 
Professional football players (N=1,512) lived an average of 6.1 (+/- 11.9 SD) 
years longer than age-matched controls from the general public. Career length 
significantly and incrementally increased longevity of players from an average 
of 5.5 years for players playing one season to 6.7 years for players playing 4 
or more seasons. Both birth year and BMI had a statistically significant 
association with longevity, but position type did not. These data provide strong 
support for the healthy worker effect (HWE) in professional football.

DOI: 10.1080/15438620600985795
PMID: 17214401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. FASEB J. 2007 Apr;21(4):1271-5. doi: 10.1096/fj.06-6994com. Epub 2007 Jan
10.

Impaired respiration is positively correlated with decreased life span in 
Caenorhabditis elegans models of Friedreich Ataxia.

Zarse K(1), Schulz TJ, Birringer M, Ristow M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Inst. of Nutrition, University of Jena, 29 
Dornburger St., Jena D-07743, Germany.

Impaired expression of mitochondrial genes causes alterations in life span of 
the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Intriguingly, although some of these genes 
have been shown to extend life expectancy and reduce aging processes, others are 
known to shorten life span in the same model organism. Reduced expression of a 
mitochondrial protein called frataxin causes a neurodegenerative disorder named 
Friedreich Ataxia, which decreases life span in humans. Surprisingly, reduced 
expression of the C. elegans frataxin homologue frh-1 has been associated with 
both increased as well as decreased life span by different laboratories. To 
further elucidate these conflicting findings, here we show that different RNA 
interference (RNAi) constructs directed against frh-1 reduce C. elegans life 
span. Moreover, we show that frh-1-inhibiting RNAi impairs oxygen consumption 
and that respiratory rate is positively correlated with life span in this 
multicellular eukaryote (r=0.8566), suggesting that >73% of life span variance 
in C. elegans is explained by changes in respiratory rate. Taken together, 
impaired mitochondrial metabolism due to RNAi-mediated inhibition of the 
frataxin homologue frh-1 causes both impaired respiration as well as decreased 
life span in the multicellular eukaryote C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.06-6994com
PMID: 17215485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Clin Drug Investig. 2007;27(2):85-93. doi: 10.2165/00044011-200727020-00001.

Cost effectiveness of imatinib mesylate in the treatment of advanced 
gastrointestinal stromal tumours.

Huse DM(1), von Mehren M, Lenhart G, Joensuu H, Blanke C, Feng W, Finkelstein S, 
Demetri G.

Author information:
(1)Thomson Medstat, Cambridge, MA 02140, USA. Dan.Huse@thomson.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Imatinib mesylate is the first effective therapy for 
advanced unresectable gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). Adoption of this 
therapy in clinical practice is partly dependent on reimbursement by third-party 
payers in many countries. The objective of this study was to estimate the cost 
effectiveness of imatinib mesylate in the treatment of GIST.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model of GIST treatment was developed. Long- term 
survival and duration of imatinib mesylate benefit were projected by fitting 
curves to 52-month follow-up data from a phase II clinical trial of imatinib and 
projecting weekly probabilities of survival and continued treatment over 10 
years. Weekly cost estimates in 2005 US dollars included cost of imatinib 
mesylate 400 mg/day ($US685), other medical services for imatinib 
mesylate-treated patients ($US359) and palliative care for patients in the end 
stage of GIST ($US2575). Utility associated with successful treatment was 
estimated at 0.935 and that of treatment failure and progressive disease at 
0.875. Costs, life-years and quality- adjusted life-years (QALYs) were 
calculated over the 10-year time horizon and discounted to treatment initiation 
at an annual rate of 3%.
RESULTS: Imatinib mesylate therapy for unresectable GIST was projected to 
increase life expectancy to 5.8 years, an increase of 2.7 years over the control 
group. This translated into an increase of 1.9 QALYs at a marginal cost of $US74 
369, yielding a cost-effectiveness ratio of $US38 723 per QALY. Cost 
effectiveness was not very sensitive to model parameters other than the cost of 
imatinib mesylate itself.
CONCLUSION: The cost effectiveness of imatinib mesylate in the treatment of GIST 
is within the commonly accepted range for life-saving interventions, based on US 
data.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200727020-00001
PMID: 17217313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2007 Jan 12;56(1):7-9.

Suicide trends and characteristics among persons in the Guaraní Kaiowá and 
Nandeva communities--Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil, 2000-2005.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Suicide rates among indigenous communities around the world vary substantially; 
in many nations these groups have the highest suicide risk of any identifiable 
cultural or ethnic group. Mato Grosso do Sul is a state in the southwest corner 
of Brazil that borders Bolivia and Paraguay. In 2004, the Guaraní, an indigenous 
ethnic group in the region, accounted for 2.6% of Mato Grosso do Sul's 
population (approximately 2,230,702). During 1975-2000, the infant mortality 
rate decreased, and overall life expectancy increased in Mato Grosso do Sul; 
however, suicide increased as a proportion of overall mortality among the Kaiowá 
and Nandeva communities of the Guaraní population. In 2000, the National Health 
Foundation (FUNASA) of the Brazilian Ministry of Health (BMH) initiated a study 
of suicide trends and characteristics in these two Guaraní communities; data 
were collected during 2000-2005, and epidemiologic assistance was provided by 
CDC. This report summarizes the results of that study, which suggested that the 
suicide rate among Guaraní was 19 times higher than the national rate in Brazil 
and 10 times higher than the rate in Mato Grosso do Sul and that suicides 
disproportionately affected Guaraní adolescents and young adults. To decrease 
suicide rates, BMH initiated research and prevention programs among the Guaraní, 
and the Guaraní initiated measures to increase their economic self-sufficiency.

PMID: 17218936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2007 Jan 19;132(3):91-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-959294.

[Werner's syndrome].

[Article in German]

Tsianakas A(1), Müller FB, Hunzelmann N, Kuwert C.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Münster, Klinik und Poliklinik für Hautkrankheiten. 
Athanasios.Tsianakas@ukmuenster.de

HISTORY AND CLINICAL FINDINGS: A 49-year-old man of German parentage with 
Werner's syndrome (including insulin-dependent type 2 diabetes mellitus) was 
treated in our department for extensive ulcers on his lower legs.
GENETICS: Genetic analysis detected a novel compound heterozygous defect 
(1396delA and 2334delAC) of the WRN gene.
TREATMENT AND FURTHER COURSE: The ulcer clearly decreased in size on local and 
antibiotic treatment as well as autologous fibroplast transplantation. The most 
severely affected right small finger required amputation with exarticulation. 
The severe pain caused by the ulcer was successfully treated with temporary 
blockage of the stellate ganglion and permanent sympathetic blockage at the 
level of the 2nd thoracic and lumbar vertebrae.
CONCLUSION: Werner's syndrome is a rare form of progeria with an autosomal 
recessive mode of inheritance mimicking the symptoms of accelerated aging. The 
reduced life expectancy is caused by the increased incidence and early onset of 
atherosclerosis and malignant tumors. The detection of underlying molecular 
mechanisms will have an important impact in the field of anti-aging research.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-959294
PMID: 17219342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. J Hosp Med. 2006 Sep;1(5):277-84. doi: 10.1002/jhm.104.

Predictors of regaining ambulatory ability during hospitalization.

Brown CJ(1), Roth DL, Peel C, Allman RM.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham/Atlanta Veterans Affairs Geriatric Research, Education and 
Clinical Center, Birmingham, Alabama 35294-0001, USA. cbrown@aging.uab.edu

BACKGROUND: Loss of ambulatory ability with acute hospitalization is common and 
often does not improve by discharge.
OBJECTIVES: To define admission predictors of regaining ambulatory ability 
during hospitalization in patients with expected activity limitations.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: University teaching hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred and eighty-six patients at least 55 years of age whose 
activity was expected to be limited to a bed or chair for at least the first 5 
days of hospitalization or who had a hip fracture, who were ambulatory in the 4 
weeks prior to hospital admission, and whose length of stay in the hospital was 
less than 32 days.
MEASUREMENTS: Baseline data collected from admission physician and nurse 
interviews and abstracted from the medical records included length of stay, 
demographic characteristics, global health measures, presence of specific 
diseases, and hospital-related factors hypothesized to affect ambulation. Nurses 
were asked weekly if patient activity was still expected to be limited to a bed 
or chair.
RESULTS: Despite initially being limited to a bed or chair, 42% had regained 
ambulatory ability by discharge. Recovery of ambulatory ability was 
independently associated with not being married (odds ratio [OR] = 3.0, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 1.4-6.2), higher physician-rated life expectancy (OR = 
1.9, 95% CI 1.3-2.8), absence of restraints (OR = 2.5, 95% CI 1.2-5.5), having a 
urinary catheter (OR = 2.2, 95% CI 1.2-5.5), having deep vein thrombosis (OR = 
11.4, 95% CI 1.2-105.1), and having a higher level of bed mobility at admission 
(OR = 1.7, 95% CI 1.1-2.6).
CONCLUSIONS: Recovery of ambulatory ability is closely associated with 
physician-rated life expectancy and hospital-related factors, particularly those 
that affect mobility. Early recognition of who will recover ambulatory ability 
may help with discharge planning and potential interventions.

(c) 2006 Society of Hospital Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/jhm.104
PMID: 17219513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Am J Med Sci. 2007 Jan;333(1):35-47. doi: 10.1097/00000441-200701000-00005.

Management of diabetes in older adults.

Rizvi AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, 
University of South Carolina School of Medicine, Columbia, South Carolina, USA. 
arizvi@gw.mp.sc.edu

Enhanced life expectancy and the aging of society have conspired with rising 
rates of obesity and physical inactivity to cause an unprecedented increase in 
diabetes prevalence worldwide. The disease and its chronic complications have 
unique presentations and challenges in the elderly. Postprandial hyperglycemia 
may be the predominant manifestation, comorbid health conditions are often 
present, and the risk of cardiovascular disease is vastly increased. Periodic 
screening is essential for early diagnosis and proper treatment. The principles 
of multidisciplinary management emphasizing nutrition, exercise, education, 
psychosocial care, attention to concomitant metabolic risk factors, and prudent 
use of pharmacologic agents are the mainstay of therapy for older adults. 
Treatment should be tailored to the individual patient, and the assistance of 
family and caregivers should be combined with rational utilization of community 
resources. An evidence-based, comprehensive, and proactive approach is needed to 
reduce the burden of morbidity and mortality from diabetes in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1097/00000441-200701000-00005
PMID: 17220692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2007
Apr;193(4):471-6.  doi: 10.1007/s00359-006-0203-9. Epub 2007 Jan 13.

Escape flight initiation in the fly.

Hammond S(1), O'Shea M.

Author information:
(1)Sussex Centre for Neuroscience, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Sussex, Brighton, BN1 9QG, UK.

Visually evoked escape flight initiation in Drosophila, according to the 
accepted account, involves a rapid extension of the middle legs that propels the 
fly into the air while the wings are still folded. This description has remained 
unchallenged and is accounted for in terms of the activation of a simple neural 
circuit, the Giant fibre (GF) system. The accepted description of escape is 
however inconsistent with the sequence of events recorded when the GF system is 
stimulated. Specifically, previous electrophysiological recordings have shown 
that the wing depressor muscles are activated before the wings are in a position 
to be depressed because they have not yet been elevated. Here we show that the 
accepted behavioural description is wrong. Escape flight initiation actually 
begins with wing elevation. The current model of the GF system is revised to 
account for the actual sequence of events that occur when a fly escapes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-006-0203-9
PMID: 17221263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. An Med Interna. 2006 Nov;23(11):519-24. doi:
10.4321/s0212-71992006001100003.

[Hospital morbidity in HIV infected patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Arias Miranda IM(1), González García ME, García-Alcalde Fernández ML, de la 
Fuente García B, Campoamor Serrano MT, Morís de la Tassa J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital de Cabueñes, Gijón (Asturias).

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: With the increasing life expectancy in human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected patients since the highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART), other underlying comorbilities such as chronic 
liver pathology, cardiovascular diseases or side effects of treatment may lead 
to hospitalization. The purpose of this study is to determine the clinical and 
epidemiological characteristics of these patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A descriptive-retrospective study. We reviewed the 
clinical records of patients with HIV infection admitted in our medical 
departments through a year.
RESULTS: There were 125 hospitalizations of 82 patients. 77% were males and 71% 
had hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. The median age was 42 years. 64% HIV 
infection had been acquired by sharing material for intravenous drug use. A 36% 
were receiving HAART and 51% had AIDS. The respiratory tract pathology (32%) and 
AIDS-defining illnesses (22%) were the most frequent causes of hospitalization, 
and the main opportunistic disease was tuberculosis (TBC). Ten per cent were 
admitted in the Intensive Care Unit. Mortality rate was 11% patients/year.
CONCLUSIONS: Most of the patients were male, drug users and HCV positive, and 
the admissions to hospital were mostly due to respiratory patology and 
opportunistic diseases. TBC remains like the most frequent AIDS-defining 
illness.

DOI: 10.4321/s0212-71992006001100003
PMID: 17222066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Annu Rev Public Health. 2007;28:365-91. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.28.021406.144046.

Lessons from cost-effectiveness research for United States public health policy.

Grosse SD(1), Teutsch SM, Haddix AC.

Author information:
(1)National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, Coordinating 
Center for Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA 30333, USA. sgrosse@cdc.gov

The application of cost-effectiveness analysis to health care has been the 
subject of previous reviews. We address the use of economic evaluation methods 
in public health, including case studies of population-level policies, e.g., 
environmental regulations, injury prevention, tobacco control, folic acid 
fortification, and blood product safety, and the public health promotion of 
clinical preventive services, e.g., newborn screening, cancer screening, and 
childhood immunizations. We review the methods used in cost-effectiveness 
analysis, the implications for cost-effectiveness findings, and the extent to 
which economic studies have influenced policy and program decisions. We discuss 
reasons for the relatively limited impact to date of economic evaluation in 
public health. Finally, we address the vexing question of how to decide which 
interventions are cost effective and worthy of funding. Policy makers have 
funded certain interventions with rather high cost-effectiveness ratios, notably 
nucleic acid testing for blood product safety. Cost-effectiveness estimates are 
a decision aid, not a decision rule.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.28.021406.144046
PMID: 17222080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Jan 12;7:7. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-7.

HEE-GER: a systematic review of German economic evaluations of health care 
published 1990-2004.

Schwappach DL(1), Boluarte TA.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Public Health and Addiction, Konradrstrasse 32, 8031 
Zurich, Switzerland. David.Schwappach@isgf.unizh.ch

BACKGROUND: Studies published in non-English languages are systematically 
missing in systematic reviews of growth and quality of economic evaluations of 
health care. The aims of this study were: to characterize German evaluations, 
published in English or German-language, in terms of various key parameters; to 
investigate methods to derive quality-of-life weights in cost-utility studies; 
and to examine changes in study characteristics over the years.
METHODS: We conducted a country-specific systematic review of the German and 
English-language literature of German economic evaluations (assessment of or 
application to the German health care system) published 1990-2004. Generic and 
specialized health economic databases were searched. Two independent reviewers 
verified fulfillment of inclusion criteria and extracted study characteristics.
RESULTS: The fulltexts of 730 articles were reviewed of which 283 fulfilled all 
entry criteria. 32% of included studies were published in German-language. 51% 
of studies evaluated pharmaceuticals and 63% were cost-effectiveness analyses. 
Economic appraisals concentrate on few disease categories and important health 
areas are strongly underrepresented. Declaration of sponsorship was associated 
with article language (49% English articles vs. 29% German articles, p < 0.001). 
The methodology used to obtain quality-of-life weights in published cost-utility 
studies was very diverse, poorly reported and most studies did not use German 
patients' or community health state evaluations.
CONCLUSION: Many of the German-language evaluations included in our study are 
likely to be missing in international reviews and may be systematically 
different from English-language reviews from Germany. Lack of transparency and 
adherence to recommended reporting practices constitute a serious problem in 
German economic evaluations.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-7
PMCID: PMC1781069
PMID: 17222334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2007 Feb;31(2):236-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2006.11.035. Epub 2007 Jan 11.

Surgical management of pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect in late 
adolescence and adulthood.

Belli E(1), Macé L, Ly M, Dervanian P, Pineau E, Roussin R, Lebret E, Serraf A.

Author information:
(1)Marie Lannelongue Hospital, Paris-Sud University, Le Plessis-robinson, 
France. ebelli@ccml.com

OBJECTIVE: In presence of adequate pulmonary blood flow, patients presenting 
with unoperated or palliated pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect 
(PA/VSD) can reach adult age. However, they remain symptomatic with a limited 
life expectancy.
METHODS: Since 1993, 27 patients underwent surgery for unrepaired PA/VSD. Median 
age was 20 (range: 15-43) years. Nineteen patients had 33 previous palliative 
procedures while eight were unoperated survivors. Major aortopulmonary 
collateral artery (MAPCA) had been observed in all but 2 and were still patent 
in 23. All bronchopulmonary segments were connected to the native pulmonary 
arteries (NPA) in 4 (type A), to both NPA and MAPCA in 18 (type B) and only to 
MAPCA in 5 (type C). The biventricular repair was performed in 17 patients: 3 
type A, 12 type B and 2 type C. Ten patients underwent palliative procedure: 
eight aortopulmonary shunt, with unifocalisation in two and one right ventricle 
to NPA restrictive conduit.
RESULTS: One (4%) hospital death occurred following the failure of a palliative 
procedure. No clinical improvement was observed in seven patients including one 
repaired and six palliated survivors. Two late cardiac death occurred 1 and 7 
years after repair. At last visit, 15 of 16 repaired survivors were in NYHA 
class I or II. Only one patient awaits septation, while eight other with 
subsequent palliation were considered not repairable.
CONCLUSION: The outcome was encouraging in patients who were eligible for 
completed biventricular repair. Although considered as unique alternative to 
cardiopulmonary transplantation, the justification for palliative surgery to 
improve pulmonary blood flow remains to be established.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2006.11.035
PMID: 17222560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Arch Surg. 2007 Jan;142(1):43-8; discussion 49. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.142.1.43.

Optimizing choledocholithiasis management: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Poulose BK(1), Speroff T, Holzman MD.

Author information:
(1)Section of Surgical Sciences,Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 1161 
21st Avenue, Nashville, TN 37232, USA. benjamin.poulose@vanderbilt.edu

HYPOTHESIS: Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is more 
cost-effective for managing incidental choledocholithiasis (CDL) after 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy and intraoperative cholangiogram (LC/IOC) than 
laparoscopic common bile duct exploration (LCBDE).
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to compare ERCP with LCBDE. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed to determine the key contributors to 
cost-effectiveness between the 2 treatment options.
SETTING: Costs were approached from the institutional perspective considering a 
typical patient undergoing LC/IOC at a large referral center.
PATIENTS: The base case patient evaluated was a woman 18 years of age or older 
with symptomatic cholelithiasis and incidental CDL discovered at the time of 
LC/IOC.
INTERVENTIONS: Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with drainage 
procedure performed after LC/IOC or LCBDE during LC/IOC.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, quality-adjusted life years gained, mean 
cost-effectiveness ratios, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, ERCP was the optimal treatment choice with a 
cost of $24 300 for 0.9 quality-adjusted life years gained compared with $28 400 
