weekly and 50 mg once weekly in patients with psoriasis.

Elewski B(1), Leonardi C, Gottlieb AB, Strober BE, Simiens MA, Dunn M, Jahreis 
A.

Author information:
(1)Uniuversity of Alabama at Birmingham, 700 18th Street S., Birmingham, AL 
35233, USA. beelewski@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Etanercept is a tumour necrosis factor antagonist that is approved 
in the U.S.A., Canada and Europe for treating adult patients with chronic 
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.
OBJECTIVES: To assess whether clinical efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetic (PK) 
profiles of etanercept 50 mg once weekly are comparable to etanercept 25 mg 
twice weekly.
METHODS: Patients from a U.S. phase 3 study and a global phase 3 study were 
subsequently enrolled in an open-label extension study (extension study) where 
they all received etanercept at a dose of 50 mg once weekly for an initial 12 
weeks. Patients who had received at least 24 weeks of etanercept 25 mg twice 
weekly in the global phase 3 study and were enrolled in the extension study (n = 
265) were assessed for efficacy and safety at extension study baseline and after 
12 weeks of etanercept 50 mg once weekly. Efficacy endpoints included the 
Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI), the Dermatology Life Quality Index and 
the Physician's Global Assessment of psoriasis. In addition, PK profiles from 
patients in the U.S. phase 3 study were compared with PK profiles from another 
set of patients in the extension study. Comparison was made between a subset of 
patients receiving etanercept 25 mg twice weekly dosing in the U.S. phase 3 
study (n = 13) and those receiving etanercept 50 mg once weekly in the extension 
study (n = 84).
RESULTS: The mean PASI score was 5.77 at extension study baseline after 
treatment with etanercept 25 mg twice weekly, which was sustained at 5.82 after 
12 weeks of etanercept 50 mg once weekly. Similar results were observed in other 
efficacy endpoints. Etanercept 50 mg once weekly was generally well tolerated. 
No new safety findings were reported. PK profiles overlapped extensively between 
the two dosing regimens.
CONCLUSIONS: In this report, we demonstrate that efficacy, safety and PK 
profiles were comparable between etanercept 25 mg twice weekly and 50 mg once 
weekly in patients who had received at least 24 weeks of etanercept 25 mg twice 
weekly prior to receiving etanercept 50 mg once weekly in the extension study.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2006.07585.x
PMID: 17199580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2007 Jan;9(1):103-13. doi: 
10.1111/j.1463-1326.2006.00581.x.

Insulin therapy in type 2 diabetes patients failing oral agents: 
cost-effectiveness of biphasic insulin aspart 70/30 vs. insulin glargine in the 
US.

Ray JA(1), Valentine WJ, Roze S, Nicklasson L, Cobden D, Raskin P, Garber A, 
Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, A unit of IMS, Binningen/Basel, 
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Diabetes Obes Metab. 2008 Jan;10(1):94-5.

OBJECTIVES: To project the long-term clinical and economic outcomes of treatment 
with biphasic insulin aspart 30 (BIAsp 70/30, 30% soluble and 70% protaminated 
insulin aspart) vs. insulin glargine in insulin-na√Øve type 2 diabetes patients 
failing to achieve glycemic control with oral antidiabetic agents alone (OADs).
METHODS: Baseline patient characteristics and treatment effect data from the 
recent 'INITIATE' clinical trial served as input to a peer-reviewed, validated 
Markov/Monte-Carlo simulation model. INITIATE demonstrated improvements in HbA1c 
favouring BIAsp 70/30 vs. glargine (-0.43%; p < 0.005) and greater efficacy in 
reaching glycaemic targets among patients poorly controlled on OAD therapy. 
Effects on life expectancy (LE), quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE), 
cumulative incidence of diabetes-related complications and direct medical costs 
(2004 USD) were projected over 35 years. Clinical outcomes and costs were 
discounted at a rate of 3.0% per annum. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Improvements in glycaemic control were projected to lead to gains in LE 
(0.19 +/- 0.24 years) and QALE (0.19 +/- 0.17 years) favouring BIAsp 70/30 vs. 
glargine. Treatment with BIAsp 70/30 was also associated with reductions in the 
cumulative incidences of diabetes-related complications, notably in renal and 
retinal conditions. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $46 533 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained with BIAsp 70/30 vs. glargine (for patients 
with baseline HbA1c >/= 8.5%, it was $34 916). Total lifetime costs were 
compared to efficacy rates in both arms as a ratio, which revealed that the 
lifetime cost per patient treated successfully to target HbA1c levels of <7.0% 
and </= 6.5% were $80 523 and $93 242 lower with BIAsp 70/30 than with glargine, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term treatment with BIAsp 70/30 was projected to be 
cost-effective for patients with type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled on 
OADs alone compared to glargine. Treatment with BIAsp 70/30 was estimated to 
represent an appropriate investment of healthcare dollars in the management of 
type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1326.2006.00581.x
PMID: 17199725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Intern Med J. 2007 Jan;37(1):59-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2006.01247.x.

Characteristics and outcome of type 2 diabetes in urban Aboriginal people: the 
Fremantle Diabetes Study.

Davis TM(1), McAullay D, Davis WA, Bruce DG.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, 
Fremantle Hospital, Western Australia, Australia. tdavis@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

Comment in
    Intern Med J. 2007 Jan;37(1):4-5.
    Intern Med J. 2007 Aug;37(8):581-2; author reply 582-3.

We analysed data from Aboriginal patients with type 2 diabetes recruited to the 
community-based Fremantle Diabetes Study and compared them with those from the 
Anglo-Celt participants. Diabetes prevalence among Aboriginal people in the 
Fremantle area was more than double that of Anglo-Celts and the average age at 
diagnosis was 14 years or younger. Glycaemic control, urinary albumin 
:creatinine and the proportion of smokers were all higher in the Aboriginal 
group and there was evidence of lower diabetes-related quality of life and high 
rates of disability at a young age. The Aboriginal patients died 18 years or 
younger than their Anglo-Celt counterparts. Specialized, culturally-sensitive 
and sustainable programmes are urgently needed to improve the management of 
diabetes in urban Aboriginal communities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2006.01247.x
PMID: 17199846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. J Biol Chem. 2007 Mar 2;282(9):6161-71. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M607661200. Epub
2007  Jan 2.

The dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase is a novel metabolic longevity factor and 
is required for calorie restriction-mediated life span extension.

Easlon E(1), Tsang F, Dilova I, Wang C, Lu SP, Skinner C, Lin SJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, California 95616, 
USA.

Calorie restriction (CR) extends life span in a wide variety of species. Recent 
studies suggest that an increase in mitochondrial metabolism mediates CR-induced 
life span extension. Here we present evidence that Lat1 (dihydrolipoamide 
acetyltransferase), the E2 component of the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase 
complex, is a novel metabolic longevity factor in the CR pathway. Deleting the 
LAT1 gene abolishes life span extension induced by CR. Overexpressing Lat1 
extends life span, and this life span extension is not further increased by CR. 
Similar to CR, life span extension by Lat1 overexpression largely requires 
mitochondrial respiration, indicating that mitochondrial metabolism plays an 
important role in CR. Interestingly, Lat1 overexpression does not require the 
Sir2 family to extend life span, suggesting that Lat1 mediates a branch of the 
CR pathway that functions in parallel to the Sir2 family. Lat1 is also a 
limiting longevity factor in nondividing cells in that overexpressing Lat1 
extends cell survival during prolonged culture at stationary phase. Our studies 
suggest that Lat1 overexpression extends life span by increasing metabolic 
fitness of the cell. CR may therefore also extend life span and ameliorate 
age-associated diseases by increasing metabolic fitness through regulating 
central metabolic enzymes.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M607661200
PMCID: PMC2440684
PMID: 17200108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Pediatrics. 2007 Jan;119(1):e12-21. doi: 10.1542/peds.2006-1573.

Cost-effectiveness of routine childhood vaccination for hepatitis A in the 
United States.

Rein DB(1), Hicks KA, Wirth KE, Billah K, Finelli L, Fiore AE, Hoerger TJ, Bell 
BP, Armstrong GL.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, 2951 Flowers Rd, Suite 119, Atlanta, GA 30306, USA. 
drein@rti.org

OBJECTIVES: Economic analysis is an important component in formulating national 
policy. We evaluated the economic impact of hepatitis A vaccination of all US 
children ages 12 to 23 months as compared with no vaccination and with current 
implementation of the preexisting (issued in 1999), regional policy.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model of hepatitis A that followed a single 
cohort from birth in 2005 through death or age 95 years. From the societal 
perspective, the model compared the outcomes that resulted from routine 
vaccination at age 1 year to 2 scenarios: no hepatitis A vaccination and 
hepatitis A vaccination at levels observed in 2003 under the preexisting policy. 
We evaluated the economic impact of vaccination nationwide, in areas where 
vaccination was already recommended, and in areas where no previous 
recommendation existed.
RESULTS: Without childhood vaccination, the approximately 4 million children in 
the 2005 birth cohort would be expected over their lifetimes to have 199,000 
hepatitis A virus infections, including 74,000 cases of acute hepatitis A and 82 
deaths, resulting in 134 million dollars in hepatitis A-related medical costs 
and productivity losses. Compared with no vaccination, routine vaccination at 
age 1 year would prevent 172,000 infections, at a cost of 28,000 dollars per 
quality-adjusted life year saved. Compared with maintaining the levels of 
hepatitis A vaccination under the preexisting regional policy, routine 
vaccination at age 1 year would prevent an additional 112,000 infections, at a 
cost of 45,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life year saved.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of nationwide hepatitis A vaccination 
compared with no vaccination, and the incremental cost-effectiveness of this 
recommendation compared with preexisting recommendations, is similar to that of 
other accepted public health interventions. In October 2005, the Advisory 
Committee on Immunization Practices recommended extending hepatitis A 
immunization to all US children ages 12 to 23 months.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2006-1573
PMID: 17200237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Pediatrics. 2007 Jan;119(1):e22-9. doi: 10.1542/peds.2006-1572.

The economics of routine childhood hepatitis A immunization in the United 
States: the impact of herd immunity.

Armstrong GL(1), Billah K, Rein DB, Hicks KA, Wirth KE, Bell BP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Viral Hepatitis, National Center for Infectious Diseases, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd NE, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA. 
garmstrong@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVES: Because of the herd-immunity phenomenon, the benefits of 
immunization against hepatitis A extend beyond those received by those who are 
vaccinated. This analysis estimates the impact of herd immunity on the 
cost-effectiveness of routine hepatitis A immunization among US children.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In an economic model, the costs and benefits of hepatitis 
A immunization were estimated for immunizing all US children at age 1 year over 
a 10-year period starting in 2005. The future burden of disease from hepatitis A 
was also estimated with this model, and the fraction that would be prevented by 
herd immunity was modeled by using a previously published analysis of the 
relationship between hepatitis A vaccination coverage and declines in hepatitis 
A incidence.
RESULTS: Without accounting for herd-immunity effects, the costs of routine 
immunization would average 32,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year gained 
for the first 10 cohorts immunized starting with the 2005 birth cohort. 
Herd-immunity effects would be expected to produce substantial additional 
benefits, lowering the cost of the immunization program to 1000 dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained for the first 10 cohorts. Herd-immunity 
benefits would be greatest for the first few cohorts, more than doubling the 
benefits of immunization, and would decline over time. In a univariate 
sensitivity analysis, estimates were most sensitive to vaccination costs but 
remained below 20,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year under all of the 
assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Herd-immunity effects more than double the savings from hepatitis A 
immunization during the first 10 years of the program. After accounting for 
these effects, immunization is close to cost-neutral on a 
cost-per-quality-adjusted-life-year basis.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2006-1572
PMID: 17200247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Epilepsia. 2006 Dec;47(12):2032-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00802.x.

Assessing the disease burden due to epilepsy by disability adjusted life year in 
rural China.

Ding D(1), Hong Z, Wang WZ, Wu JZ, de Boer HM, Prilipko L, Sander JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Institute of Neurology, Fudan 
University, WHO Collaborating Center for Research and Training in Neurosciences, 
Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: To demonstrate the application of Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) 
as an aid in health outcome measures to evaluate the epilepsy disease burden in 
rural China and to provide Chinese data to achieve a better understanding of 
disease burden due to epilepsy.
METHODS: The DALY is the sum of the number of years of survival with disability 
(Years Lived with Disability, YLD) and the number of years lost because of 
premature mortality (Years of Life Lost, YLL). We calculated the YLD based on 
the prevalence survey of epilepsy among 66,393 people sampled in Heilongjiang, 
Henan, Jiangsu, Ningxia, Shanghai, and Shanxi provinces in 2000. The epilepsy 
mortality data from Chinese literature provided the YLL due to epilepsy. We 
applied sensitivity analysis to evaluate the influence of uncertainty on the 
epilepsy mortality value and disability weight in the study.
RESULTS: In 2000, epilepsy caused 1.83 and 2.48 DALY lost per 1,000 population 
in Henan and Ningxia province, which had the lowest and the highest DALY lost 
among the six study areas. Overall, epilepsy caused 1.41 YLLs and 0.67 YLDs per 
1,000 population; thus the DALYs lost because of epilepsy was 2.08 per 1,000 
population, representing the epilepsy disease burden in rural China.
CONCLUSIONS: The DALY measure, which includes the extent of disability from 
epilepsy, provides a useful tool for the epilepsy disease burden assessment. The 
disease burden of epilepsy in China is considered higher than previous 
estimations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2006.00802.x
PMID: 17201700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. World J Surg Oncol. 2007 Jan 4;5:1. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-5-1.

Cervical mature teratoma 17 years after initial treatment of testicular 
teratocarcinoma: report of a late relapse.

Omranipour R(1), Alavion M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Cancer Institute, Tehran University of 
Medical Science, Tehran, Iran. omranipour@sina.tums.ac.ir

BACKGROUND: Late relapses of testicular germ cell tumor are uncommon. We report 
a case of cervical mature teratoma appeared 17 years after treatment of 
testicular teratocarcinoma.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 20-year-old patient underwent left sided orchiectomy 
followed by systemic therapy and retroperitoneal residual mass resection in 
1989. He remained in complete remission for 200 months. In 2005 a huge left 
supraclavicular neck mass with extension to anterior mediastinum appeared. 
Radical surgical resection of the mass was performed and pathologic examination 
revealed mature teratoma.
CONCLUSION: This is one of the longest long-term reported intervals of a mature 
teratoma after treatment of a testicular nonseminoma germ cell tumor. This case 
emphasizes the necessity for follow up of testicular cancer throughout the 
patient's life.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-5-1
PMCID: PMC1779787
PMID: 17201931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Harm Reduct J. 2007 Jan 4;4:1. doi: 10.1186/1477-7517-4-1.

Factors associated with premature mortality among young injection drug users in 
Vancouver.

Miller CL(1), Kerr T, Strathdee SA, Li K, Wood E.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St, Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, Canada. cmiller@cfenet.ubc.ca

BACKGROUND: Young injection drug users (IDUs) may be at increased risk of 
premature mortality due to the health risks associated with injection drug use 
including overdoses and infections. However, there has been little research 
conducted on mortality causes, rates and associations among this population. We 
undertook this study to investigate patterns of premature mortality, prior to 
age 30 years, among young IDUs.
METHODS: Since 1996, 572 young (< or = 29 years) IDUs have been enrolled in the 
Vancouver Injection Drug Users Study (VIDUS). Semi-annually, participants have 
completed an interviewer-administered questionnaire and have undergone serologic 
testing for HIV and hepatitis C (HCV). Mortality data have been continually 
updated through linkages with the Provincial Coroner's Office. Crude and 
age-specific mortality rates, standardized mortality ratios, and life expectancy 
measures were calculated using person-time methods. Predictors of mortality were 
identified using Cox regression analyses.
FINDINGS: Twenty-two participants died prior to age 30 years during the 
follow-up period for an overall crude mortality rate of 1,368 per 100,000 
person-years. Overall, young IDUs were 16.4 times (95% confidence interval [CI]; 
9.1-27.1) more likely to die; young women IDUs were 54.1 times (95%CI; 
29.6-90.8) and young men IDUs were 12.9 times (95%CI; 5.5, 25.3) more likely to 
die when compared to the Canadian non-IDU population of the same age. The 
leading observed cause of death among females was: homicide (N = 9); and among 
males: suicide (N = 3) and overdose (N = 3). In Cox regression analyses, factors 
associated with mortality were, HIV infection (Hazard Ratio [HR]: 4.55; CI: 
1.92-10.80) and sex work (HR: 2.76; CI: 1.16-6.56).
INTERPRETATION: Premature mortality was 13 and 54 times higher among young men 
and women who use injection drugs in Vancouver than among the general population 
in Canada. The majority of deaths among the women were attributable to homicide, 
suggesting that interventions should occur not only through harm reduction 
services but also through structural interventions at the legal and policy 
level.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7517-4-1
PMCID: PMC1769365
PMID: 17201933


931. Epidemiology. 2007 Mar;18(2):208-12. doi:
10.1097/01.ede.0000253923.68352.48.

Innate handedness and disease-specific mortality in women.

Ramadhani MK(1), Elias SG, van Noord PA, Grobbee DE, Peeters PH, Uiterwaal CS.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Epidemiology. 2007 Mar;18(2):191-3.

BACKGROUND: Left-handedness has been reported to be associated with reduced life 
expectancy, but the evidence is far from conclusive.
METHODS: We studied the association between innate handedness and total 
mortality, as well as cause-specific mortality, in a cohort of 12,178 
middle-aged Dutch women who were followed for almost 13 years. The relation 
between handedness and mortality was analyzed using Cox regression in a 
case-cohort approach, in which a random sample of 1500 women was used to 
represent person-years under observation for the entire cohort.
RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 12.6 years, 252 women died. Hazard ratios 
comparing left-handed women with other women were 1.4 for all-cause mortality 
(95% confidence interval = 0.9-2.0), 1.7 for total cancer mortality (1.0-2.7), 
2.0 for breast cancer mortality (0.8-4.6), 4.6 for colorectal cancer mortality 
(1.5-14.3), 1.3 mortality from diseases of the circulatory system (0.5-3.3), and 
3.7 for cerebrovascular mortality (1.1-12.1), after adjusting for potential 
confounders (socioeconomic status, age, body mass index, and cigarette smoking 
status at study recruitment).
CONCLUSIONS: Left-handedness is associated with higher mortality in women.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ede.0000253923.68352.48
PMID: 17202907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. EMBO Rep. 2007 Jan;8(1):18-20. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400876.

Is eternal youth scientifically plausible? Research on the role of free radicals 
in ageing gives cause for optimism.

Hunter P.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400876
PMCID: PMC1796744
PMID: 17203097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Clin Genet. 2007 Jan;71(1):46-58. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2006.00727.x.

Hereditary hemochromatosis screening: effect of mutation penetrance and 
prevalence on cost-effectiveness of testing algorithms.

Gagn√© G(1), Reinharz D, Laflamme N, Adams PC, Rousseau F.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Development, Evaluation and Rational Implementation of New 
Diagnostic Tools in Medicine, Qu√©bec City, Canada.

Screening for hereditary hemochromatosis, although largely discussed, is not yet 
implemented in clinical practice. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 165 
hemochromatosis population-screening algorithms involving two or three of 
several screening tests by developing a computer program that simulates all 
possible screening scenarios. Input data comprised government estimates of 
health services data and costs and a virtual population with user-defined 
demographic characteristics (including variable HFE mutation frequencies and 
penetrance values). We show that when C282Y homozygote prevalence is set at 
3:1000, population screening appears cost-effective when penetrance of the 
biochemical phenotype is >0.70. When only hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis 
are considered as the cost-driving complications, population-based screening is 
not significantly more cost-efficient than no screening, but life expectancy of 
individuals identified with hereditary hemochromatosis and treated is still 
improved by 7 years. Among the 165 screening algorithms tested in 91 different 
virtual populations of one million individuals, biochemical tests usually 
perform better as the initial test than genetic testing. Indeed, the genetic 
testing is most cost-effective as the final confirmatory test. Finally, for most 
combinations of prevalence and penetrance of HFE, one screening 
algorithm--unbound iron-binding capacity + transferrin saturation--appeared 
robust enough to be always within the top 5 most cost-effective strategies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2006.00727.x
PMID: 17204047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Am J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr 1;165(7):727-33. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwk062. Epub 2007
Jan  4.

Wilhelm Weinberg's 1913 Large Retrospective Cohort Study: a rediscovery.

Morabia A(1), Guthold R.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Biology of Natural Systems, Queens College, City University of 
New York, Flushing, NY 11365, USA. alfredo.morabia@qc.cuny.edu

Wilhelm Weinberg, German physician, founder, and president of the Stuttgart 
Society for Racial Hygiene, published in 1913 the results of a large, 
retrospective cohort study entitled Die Kinder der Tuberkuloesen (Children of 
the Tuberculous). The exposed cohort comprised 18,212 children whose 3,246 
fathers and 2,022 mothers died of tuberculosis between 1873 and 1902. The 
unexposed cohort comprised 7,574 children whose 1,830 parents died of causes 
other than tuberculosis in 1876, 1879, or 1886. He found that children of 
tuberculous parents had higher mortality rates and lower fertility than did 
children of nontuberculous parents. Because of its size, rigorous design, and 
meticulous analysis, Weinberg's cohort study stands as one of the major 
epidemiologic works carried out before 1945.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwk062
PMID: 17204512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2007 Jan 4;127(1):38-42.

[Surgical treatment of morbid obesity].

[Article in Norwegian]

Aasheim ET(1), Mala T, S√∏vik TT, Kristinsson J, B√∏hmer T.

Author information:
(1)Medisinsk klinikk, Aker universitetssykehus, 0514 Oslo. 
e.t.aasheim@medisin.uio.no

BACKGROUND: Patients with morbid obesity are prone to weight-related disease, 
reduced quality of life and shortened life expectancy. Long-term weight loss is 
unsatisfactory with conservative treatment and weight-reducing surgery is 
increasingly performed in all Norwegian health regions.
METHODS: This review is based on electronic database searches. We describe the 
two procedures most commonly performed in Norway, i.e. gastric bypass and 
biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch, including preoperative workup 
and expected results after surgery. The domestic use of different surgical 
techniques is also outlined.
RESULTS: In Norway, around 750 bariatric procedures were planned in 2006. 
Gastric bypass yields a weight reduction of 30% two years after the operative. 
Resolution of type 2-diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and obstructive 
sleep apnea has been demonstrated in most patients. A majority of patients 
report improved quality of life. Procedure-related mortality is less than 1% and 
surgical complications occur in approximately 20%. Nutritional deficiencies are 
frequent. Weight loss is somewhat greater after biliopancreatic diversion with 
duodenal switch, but the procedure is more complex. Life-long follow-up is 
recommended after bariatric surgery.
INTERPRETATION: In selected patients with morbid obesity, bariatric surgery is a 
viable treatment. However, prospective long- term studies are needed.

PMID: 17205088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2007 Jan 4;127(1):54-7.

[Prioritization and health--should maximum-price life years be introduced?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Kristiansen IS(1), Gyrd-Hansen D.

Author information:
(1)Institutt for helseledelse og helse√∏konomi, Universitetet i Oslo, Postboks 
1089 Blindern, 0317 Oslo. ivarsk@c2i.net

PMID: 17205092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Liver Transpl. 2007 Feb;13(2):206-14. doi: 10.1002/lt.20931.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for hepatopulmonary syndrome in liver transplant 
candidates.

Roberts DN(1), Arguedas MR, Fallon MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 
35294-0007, USA.

Comment in
    Liver Transpl. 2007 Feb;13(2):183-4.
    Nat Clin Pract Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Sep;4(9):486-7.

The hepatopulmonary syndrome (HPS) is present in 15-20% of patients with 
cirrhosis undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) evaluation. Both 
preoperative and post-OLT mortality is increased in HPS patients particularly 
when hypoxemia is severe. Screening for HPS could enhance detection of OLT 
candidates with sufficient hypoxemia to merit higher priority for transplant and 
thereby decrease mortality. However, the cost-effectiveness of such an approach 
has not been assessed. Our objective was to perform a cost-effectiveness 
analysis from a third-party payer's perspective of screening for HPS in liver 
OLT candidates. The costs and outcomes of 3 different strategies were compared: 
(1) no screening, (2) screening patients with a validated dyspnea questionnaire, 
and (3) screening all patients with pulse oximetry. Arterial blood gas analyses 
and contrast echocardiography were performed in patients with dyspnea or a pulse 
oximetry (SpO(2)) < or =97% to define the presence of HPS. A Markov model was 
constructed simulating the natural history of cirrhosis in a cohort of patients 
50 years old over a time horizon of their remaining life expectancy. Transition 
probabilities were obtained from published data available through Medline and 
U.S. vital statistics. Costs represented Medicare reimbursement data at our 
institution. Costs and health effects were discounted at a 3% annual rate. No 
screening was associated with a total cost of 291,898 dollars and a life 
expectancy of 11.131 years. Screening with pulse oximetry was associated with a 
cost of 299,719 dollars and a life expectancy of 12.27 years. Screening patients 
with the dyspnea-fatigue index was associated with a cost and life expectancy of 
300,278 dollars and 12.28 years, respectively. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of screening with pulse oximetry (compared to no 
screening) was 6,867 dollars per life year gained, whereas that of the 
dyspnea-fatigue index (compared to pulse oximetry) was 55,900 dollars per life 
year gained. The cost-effectiveness of screening depended on the prevalence and 
severity of HPS, and the choice of screening strategy was dependent on the 
sensitivity of the screening modality. In conclusion, screening for HPS, 
especially with pulse oximetry, is a cost-effective strategy that improves 
survival in transplant candidates predominantly by targeting the transplant to 
the subgroup of patients most likely to benefit. The utility of screening 
depends on the prevalence and severity of HPS in the target population.

(c) 2006 AASLD.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.20931
PMID: 17205561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Jan;19(1):83-6. doi: 
10.1097/MEG.0b013e32801222f9.

Repeated coaxial colonic stenting in the palliative management of benign colonic 
obstruction.

Dafnis G(1).

Author information:
(1)Colorectal Unit, Department of Surgery and Urology, Eskilstuna County 
Hospital, Eskilstuna, Sweden. george.dafnis@telia.com

In inflammatory bowel disease, strictures of the colon, causing bowel 
obstruction, is not uncommon. Usually an operative procedure can deal with these 
strictures. We describe a case of an unfit patient with pulmonary malignancy 
having a Crohn's stricture of the recto-sigmoid junction in which repeated 
coaxial placement of self-expanding metallic stents eliminated the need to 
perform an operation. This is the first report of multiple coaxial colonic 
stenting. It shows that there is a place for stents in selected cases of 
inflammatory bowel disease with a limited life expectancy and that repeated 
colonic stenting makes colonic stenting possible also in patients requiring 
stents for longer time periods.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e32801222f9
PMID: 17206082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Ig Sanita Pubbl. 2006 Sep-Oct;62(5):463-74.

[Trends in mortality due to the main causes of death in Umbria (Italy), 
1994-2004].

[Article in Italian]

Canosa A(1), Stracci F, Cassetti T, Minelli L, Romagnoli C, La Rosa F.

Author information:
(1)Registro Nominativo delle Cause di Morte della Regione dell'Umbria.

In order to obtain information regarding the efficacy of healthcare services in 
the region of Umbria (Italy), trends in mortality due to the main causes of 
death in this region, between 1994-2004, were analysed. Mortality data was 
collected from the Nominal Registry of Causes of Death. Standardized mortality 
and years of potential life lost (YPLL) rates, and cumulative death risk were 
used as indicators. Joinpoint regression was used to determine whether temporal 
changes in indicator trends were statistically significant. The joinpoint 
analysis of mortality trends has shown that general mortality, as well as 
specific mortality due to malignant tumors, cardiovascular disease, 
gastrointestinal disease and accidental causes declined over the examined time 
period. Statistically significant decreases in the indicators used were constant 
over time: in fact, joinpoints were found only for YPLL and cumulative risk 
trends for cardiovascular disease-related mortality. These results have provided 
important information regarding healthcare in the Umbria region.

PMID: 17206222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2007 Mar;264(3):211-22. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-006-0217-5. Epub 2007 Jan 6.

Paraneoplastic syndromes in patients with primary head and neck cancer.

Ferlito A(1), Elsheikh MN, Manni JJ, Rinaldo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Sciences, ENT Clinic, University of Udine, Policlinico 
Universitario Piazzale S. Maria della Misericordia, 33100, Udine, Italy. 
a.ferlito@uniud.it

Paraneoplastic syndromes represent the clinical manifestations of the indirect 
and remote effects produced by tumor metabolites or other products. The clinical 
spectrum of the various paraneoplastic syndromes related to primary malignancies 
of the head and neck region is presented. A review of the literature on 
paraneoplastic syndromes in patients with primary head and neck cancer was 
carried out. Paraneoplastic syndromes related to primary malignancies of the 
head and neck region can be categorized as: endocrine, cutaneous or 
dermatologic, hematologic, neurologic, osteoarticular or rheumatologic, ocular 
syndromes. Sometimes, paraneoplastic syndromes can be more serious than the 
consequences of the primary tumor itself and can precede, follow or be 
concurrent to the diagnosis of a malignancy; moreover, they can dominate the 
clinical picture and thus lead to errors with respect to the origin and type of 
the primary tumor. Physicians who deal with cancer-associated syndromes should 
be able to differentiate the paraneoplastic syndromes from the benign disorders 
that mimic them. Patients with a suspected paraneoplastic disorder should 
undergo a complete panel of laboratory studies, in addition to imaging studies 
and endoscopy. Identification of paraneoplastic syndromes allow the clinician to 
make an early diagnosis and to provide adequate treatment of tumors, with a 
favorable oncologic outcome and improved life expectancy for the patient. These 
syndromes can follow the clinical course of the tumor and thus be useful for 
monitoring its evolution.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-006-0217-5
PMID: 17206403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2007 Feb;30(1):68-78. doi: 10.1007/s10545-006-0484-8.
Epub  2007 Jan 5.

The Dutch Fabry cohort: diversity of clinical manifestations and Gb3 levels.

Vedder AC(1), Linthorst GE, van Breemen MJ, Groener JE, Bemelman FJ, Strijland 
A, Mannens MM, Aerts JM, Hollak CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine/Endocrinology and Metabolism, Academic 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Fabry disease (OMIM 301500) is an X-linked lysosomal storage 
disorder with characteristic vascular, renal, cardiac and cerebral 
complications. Globotriaosylceramide (Gb(3)) accumulates in Fabry patients as a 
result of alpha-galactosidase A deficiency. The phenotypic variability is high, 
but the relationship between clinical symptoms in individual Fabry patients has 
not been uniformly documented. Also, the relation between the most prominent 
biochemical abnormalities, elevated Gb(3) levels in plasma and urine, and 
clinical symptoms is not firmly established.
METHODS: Clinical and biochemical characteristics of 96 (25 deceased) Dutch 
Fabry patients were collected retrospectively and before the initiation of 
enzyme therapy.
RESULTS: Clinical assessment revealed that median life expectancy was 57 years 
for male and 72 years for female patients. Cerebral complications, 
acroparaesthesias and gastrointestinal complications, but not cardiac and 
auditory complications, were all seen more frequently in male than female 
patients. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was highly variable in male patients, 
including 2 patients with GFR < 30 ml/min, but median GFR did not differ between 
males and females (103 and 101 ml/min, respectively). Hyperfiltration was more 
frequently observed in the female patient group. Microalbuminuria was present in 
60% of males and 45% of females. No specific pattern of combined symptoms 
existed except for a relationship between left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and 
cerebral complications (males 36%, females 32%), or proteinuria (males 35%, 
females 31%). Gb(3) was found to be more elevated in plasma samples from male (n 
= 26; median 6.27 micromol/L (1.39-9.74)) than female Fabry patients (n = 37; 
median 2.16 (0.77-4.18)). This was also observed for urinary Gb(3): males (n = 
22) median 1851 nmol/24 h (40-3724); females (n = 29) median 672 (86-2052). 
Plasma and urinary Gb(3) levels correlated with each other in both males (r = 
0.4, p = 0.05) and females (r = 0.4, p = 0.03), but no correlation between 
elevated Gb(3) levels and clinical symptoms could be detected.
CONCLUSION: Analysis of the characteristics of the Dutch Fabry cohort has 
revealed that a limited relationship between various disease manifestations 
exists and that individual symptoms do not correlate with elevated urinary or 
plasma Gb(3) levels, limiting their value as surrogate disease markers.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-006-0484-8
PMID: 17206462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Breast. 2007 Jun;16(3):252-61. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2006.12.002. Epub 2007
Jan  4.

Cost-utility of adjuvant hormone therapies with aromatase inhibitors in 
post-menopausal women with breast cancer: upfront anastrozole, sequential 
tamoxifen-exemestane and extended tamoxifen-letrozole.

Skedgel C(1), Rayson D, Dewar R, Younis T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
chris.skedgel@cdha.nshealth.ca <chris.skedgel@cdha.nshealth.ca>

This evaluation adapts a previous Canadian analysis of upfront and sequential 
adjuvant AI strategies in postmenopausal women with breast cancer to a Belgian 
perspective and includes an extended aromatase inhibitor (AI) strategy. A Markov 
model calculated monthly costs and outcomes in a hypothetical cohort of 
postmenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer. Baseline event rates and 
hazard ratios were derived from the Arimidex, Tamoxifen Alone or in Combination 
trial, International Exemestane Study and MA.17 trials. The analysis took a 
Belgian healthcare payer perspective with a 20-year time horizon. Costs and 
outcomes were discounted by 3%. Costs are in 2005 Euros. The cost-utility of all 
three strategies was favourable (<30,000 euros per QALY gained). Based on 
indirect comparisons using tamoxifen (TAM) alone as a common comparator, 
sequential TAM-AI was less costly and more effective than upfront or extended 
strategies. All three AI strategies were cost-effective alternatives to TAM 
alone, but sequential TAM-AI appears to be the economically preferred strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2006.12.002
PMID: 17207623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Lancet. 2007 Jan 6;369(9555):3-5. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60004-X.

Questions about adjuvant trastuzumab still remain.

Hind D(1), Pilgrim H, Ward S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. d.hind@sheffield.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2007 Feb 24;369(9562):642.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2007 Jan 6;369(9555):29-36.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60004-X
PMID: 17208620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Am J Clin Nutr. 2007 Jan;85(1):96-101. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/85.1.96.

Nutritional status in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease: a 
prospective study.

Raffaitin C(1), Lasseur C, Chauveau P, Barthe N, Gin H, Combe C, Rigalleau V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition-Diabetology, Universit√© Victor Segalen-Bordeaux 2 and 
Centre Hospitalier de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France. christelleraf@yahoo.fr

BACKGROUND: A poor nutritional status reduces the life expectancy of diabetes 
patients undergoing hemodialysis.
OBJECTIVE: The study objective was to specify the nutritional outcome in 
patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and well-controlled diabetes.
DESIGN: Forty-five diabetes patients with CKD were enrolled in a 
cooperative-care program designed to control glucose, blood pressure, LDL 
cholesterol, and the albumin excretion rate (AER). Their glomerular filtration 
rate (GFR), body composition, serum albumin (SA), and resting energy expenditure 
were assessed and compared at baseline and 2 y later.
RESULTS: Thirty-five patients did not start dialysis. Their glycated hemoglobin, 
blood pressure, LDL cholesterol, and AER improved; their GFR declined slowly 
(-3.3 mL x min(-1) x 1.73 m(-2) x y(-1)). Their body mass index (BMI), lean body 
mass, and SA increased. The GFR decline was correlated negatively with the 
initial BMI (r = -0.37, P < 0.05) and positively with the initial GFR (r = 0.34, 
P < 0.05). Ten patients started hemodialysis: except for higher total body water 
(P < 0.05) and extracellular volume (P < 0.01), their initial nutritional status 
did not differ significantly from that of 10 patients with comparable baseline 
severe CKD but without dialysis. At the second evaluation, patients on 
hemodialysis lost lean body mass, and their SA was lower than that of the 
patients with severe CKD (P = 0.05); lean body mass was unchanged and SA was 
higher (P = 0.01) in the patients with severe CKD. No significant difference was 
detected for resting energy expenditure.
CONCLUSIONS: Nutritional status improved in CKD patients with well-controlled 
diabetes without dialysis, and it deteriorated in patients who started dialysis. 
A high initial BMI was associated with a slower decline in GFR.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/85.1.96
PMID: 17209183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2006 Oct;17(10):1933-6.

[Control effect of natural enemies on Plutella xylostella under ecological 
restoration condition].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen K(1), Huang S, He Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou. 
chenkewei@scau.edu.cn

A field study on the life table of diamondback moth (DBM) Plutella xylostella 
showed that the population increase index of DBM in chemical control plot was 
52.52, while that of four continuous generations of DBM in ecological 
restoration plot was 16. 9, 7.16, 3.71 and 4.02, respectively, indicating that 
the control effect of natural enemies on target pest was greatly improved. The 
main factor affecting the first and forth generations of DBM was the parasitism 
of Cotesia plutella, while those affecting the second and third generations of 
DBM were the predator of the 4'h instar larva and the parasitism of 
Trichogramma, with the corresponding exclusive index of population control 
(EIPC) being 1.39, 1.54, 1.56 and 1.74, respectively. There was an obvious time 
lag effect of natural enemies on their target pest, and thus, to protect and 
multiply the population of natural enemies in the field should be the key point 
of fully exerting the potential of natural enemies in their pest control.

PMID: 17209396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2007 Jan;49(1):56-61. doi:
10.1017/s001216220700014x.x.

Motor function following multilevel botulinum toxin type A treatment in children 
with cerebral palsy.

Desloovere K(1), Molenaers G, De Cat J, Pauwels P, Van Campenhout A, Ortibus E, 
Fabry G, De Cock P.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Motion Analysis Laboratory, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, 
University Hospital Pellenberg, Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. 
kaat.desloovere@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

This study evaluated the effects of multilevel botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) 
treatments on the gait pattern of children with spastic cerebral palsy (Gross 
Motor Function Classification System Levels I-III). In this nested case-control 
design, 30 children (mean age 6y 11mo [SD 1y 5mo]; 21 males, nine females; 19 
with hemiplegia, 11 with diplegia) were treated according to best practice 
guidelines in paediatric orthopaedics, including BTX-A injections. A matched 
control group of 30 children (mean age 7y 8mo [SD 1y 10mo]; 13 males, 17 
females; 19 with hemiplegia, 11 with diplegia) were treated identically, but 
without BTX-A. Motor development status at 5 to 10 years of age was assessed by 
means of three-dimensional gait analysis at a mean time of 1 year 10 months (SD 
10mo) after the last BTX-A treatment. The control group showed a significantly 
more pronounced pathological gait pattern than the BTX-A group. Major 
differences were found for pelvic anterior tilt, maximum hip and knee extension, 
and internal hip rotation. These results provide evidence for a prolonged effect 
of BTX-A and suggest that BTX-A injections, in combination with common 
conservative treatment options, result in a gait pattern that is less defined by 
secondary problems (e.g. bony deformities) at 5 to 10 years of age, minimizing 
the need for complex surgery at a later age and enhancing quality of life.

DOI: 10.1017/s001216220700014x.x
PMID: 17209978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Evol Biol. 2007 Jan;20(1):87-103. doi: 10.1111/j.1420-9101.2006.01225.x.

Correlated responses to artificial body size selection in growth, development, 
phenotypic plasticity and juvenile viability in yellow dung flies.

Teuschl Y(1), Reim C, Blanckenhorn WU.

Author information:
(1)Zoologisches Museum, Universit√§t Z√ºrich, Z√ºrich, Switzerland.

Most life history traits are positively influenced by body size, whereas 
disadvantages of large body size are poorly documented. To investigate presumed 
intrinsic costs of large size in the yellow dung fly (Scathophaga stercoraria; 
Diptera: Scathophagidae), we established two replicates each of three body size 
laboratory selection lines (small, control and large; selection on males only), 
and subjected flies of the resulting extended body size range to various abiotic 
stresses. Response to selection was symmetrical in the small and large lines 
(realized h(2) = 0.16-0.18). After 24 generations of selection body size had 
changed by roughly 10%. Female size showed a correlated response to selection on 
male size, whereas sexual size dimorphism did not change. Development time also 
showed a correlated response as, similar to food limited flies, small line flies 
emerged earlier at smaller body size. At the lowest larval food limit possible, 
flies of all lines emerged at the same small body size after roughly the same 
development time; so overall phenotypic plasticity in body size and development 
time strongly increased following selection. Juvenile mortality increased 
markedly when food was extremely limited, large line flies showing highest 
mortality. Winter frost disproportionately killed large (line) flies because of 
their longer development times. Mortality at high temperatures was high but 
size-selective effects were inconsistent. In all environments the larger males 
suffered more. Initial growth rate was higher for males and at unlimited food. 
Small line individuals of both sexes grew slowest at unlimited larval food but 
fastest at limited larval food, suggesting a physiological cost of fast growth. 
Overall, extension of the natural body size range by artificial selection 
revealed some otherwise cryptic intrinsic juvenile viability costs of large 
size, mediated by longer development or faster growth, but only in stressful 
environments.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1420-9101.2006.01225.x
PMID: 17210003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2007 Jan 8;2:3. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-2-3.

Essential thrombocythemia.

Bri√®re JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'h√©matologie clinique, H√¥pital Beaujon, Clichy, France. 
jean.briere@bjn.ap-hop-paris.fr

Essential thrombocythemia (ET) is an acquired myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) 
characterized by a sustained elevation of platelet number with a tendency for 
thrombosis and hemorrhage. The prevalence in the general population is 
approximately 30/100,000. The median age at diagnosis is 65 to 70 years, but the 
disease may occur at any age. The female to male ratio is about 2:1. The 
clinical picture is dominated by a predisposition to vascular occlusive events 
(involving the cerebrovascular, coronary and peripheral circulation) and 
hemorrhages. Some patients with ET are asymptomatic, others may experience 
vasomotor (headaches, visual disturbances, lightheadedness, atypical chest pain, 
distal paresthesias, erythromelalgia), thrombotic, or hemorrhagic disturbances. 
Arterial and venous thromboses, as well as platelet-mediated transient 
occlusions of the microcirculation and bleeding, represent the main risks for ET 
patients. Thromboses of large arteries represent a major cause of mortality 
associated with ET or can induce severe neurological, cardiac or peripheral 
artery manifestations. Acute leukemia or myelodysplasia represent only rare and 
frequently later-onset events. The molecular pathogenesis of ET, which leads to 
the overproduction of mature blood cells, is similar to that found in other 
clonal MPDs such as chronic myeloid leukemia, polycythemia vera and 
myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia of the spleen. Polycythemia vera, 
myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia of the spleen and ET are generally 
associated under the common denomination of Philadelphia (Ph)-negative MPDs. 
Despite the recent identification of the JAK2 V617F mutation in a subset of 
patients with Ph-negative MPDs, the detailed pathogenetic mechanism is still a 
matter of discussion. Therapeutic interventions in ET are limited to decisions 
concerning the introduction of anti-aggregation therapy and/or starting platelet 
cytoreduction. The therapeutic value of hydroxycarbamide and aspirin in high 
risk patients has been supported by controlled studies. Avoiding 
thromboreduction or opting for anagrelide to postpone the long-term side effects 
of hydrocarbamide in young or low risk patients represent alternative options. 
Life expectancy is almost normal and similar to that of a healthy population 
matched by age and sex.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-2-3
PMCID: PMC1781427
PMID: 17210076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Biol Psychiatry. 2007 Aug 15;62(4):282-93. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2006.09.015.  Epub 2007 Jan 8.

Successful aging: from phenotype to genotype.

Glatt SJ(1), Chayavichitsilp P, Depp C, Schork NJ, Jeste DV.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Medical Research Foundation, University of California at San Diego, 
La Jolla, CA 92093-0603, USA. sglatt@ucsd.edu

Despite worldwide interest in the increasing human "healthspan," inadequate 
experimental attention has been dedicated to identifying genetic influences on 
successful aging beyond those that influence longevity alone. Although it is an 
under-studied topic, some promising leads have emerged from the existing genetic 
studies of successful aging. Here we describe the results of a systematic review 
of published family, twin, linkage, and association studies of successful aging 
that evaluated at least one other characteristic of healthy aging in addition to 
longevity. We identified 29 studies that met our criteria. Although 
methodological inconsistencies in sampling and phenotypes were frequent, we 
found evidence for a substantial genetic contribution to successful aging, 
including several specific genes (APOE, GSTT1, IL6, IL10, PON1, and SIRT3) that 
are promising candidates for future molecular genetic research. In addition to 
reviewing this literature, we provide recommendations for advancing our 
understanding of the genetic basis of successful aging.
