failure and hypertension.

Plosker GL(1), Keam SJ.

Author information:
(1)Wolters Kluwer Health, Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

The addition of candesartan cilexetil (Atacand, Amias, Blopress, Kenzen, 
Ratacand) to standard therapy for chronic heart failure (CHF) provided important 
clinical benefits at little or no additional cost in France, Germany and the UK, 
according to a detailed economic analysis focusing on major cardiovascular 
events and prospectively collected resource-use data from the CHARM-Added and 
CHARM-Alternative trials in patients with CHF and left ventricular (LV) systolic 
dysfunction. Results of a corresponding cost-effectiveness analysis showed that 
candesartan cilexetil was either dominant over placebo or was associated with 
small incremental costs per life-year gained, depending on the country and 
whether individual trial or pooled data were used. Preliminary data from a US 
cost-effectiveness analysis based on CHARM data also showed favourable results 
for candesartan cilexetil. Two cost-effectiveness analyses of candesartan 
cilexetil in hypertension have been published, both conducted in Sweden. Data 
from the SCOPE trial in elderly patients with hypertension, which showed a 
significant reduction in nonfatal stroke with candesartan cilexetil-based 
therapy versus non-candesartan cilexetil-based treatment, were incorporated into 
a Markov model and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of euro12 824 per 
QALY gained was calculated (2001 value). Another modelled cost-effectiveness 
analysis of candesartan cilexetil was based on the ALPINE trial, in which the 
incidence of new-onset diabetes was significantly lower in patients with newly 
diagnosed hypertension who were randomised to candesartan cilexetil (with or 
without felodipine) than among those who received hydrochlorothiazide (with or 
without atenolol). Although candesartan cilexetil was dominant over 
hydrochlorothiazide, the ALPINE cost-effectiveness analysis relied on a small 
number of clinical events and did not evaluate the incremental cost of 
candesartan cilexetil per life-year or QALY gained. In conclusion, despite some 
inherent limitations, economic analyses incorporating CHARM data and conducted 
primarily in Europe have shown that candesartan cilexetil appears to be cost 
effective when added to standard CHF treatment in patients with CHF and 
compromised LV systolic function. The use of candesartan cilexetil as part of 
antihypertensive therapy in elderly patients with elevated blood pressure was 
also deemed to be cost effective in a Swedish analysis, primarily resulting from 
a reduced risk of nonfatal stroke (as shown in the SCOPE study); however, the 
generalisability of results to other contexts has not been established. 
Cost-effectiveness analyses comparing candesartan cilexetil with ACE inhibitors 
or other angiotensin receptor blockers in CHF or hypertension are lacking, and 
results reported for candesartan cilexetil in a Swedish economic analysis of 
ALPINE data focusing on outcomes for diabetes require confirmation and 
extension.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624120-00008
PMID: 17129078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(12):1273-4; author reply 1275-6. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-200624120-00009.

Discounting health effects in pharmacoeconomic evaluations: current 
controversies.

Birks S.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2005;23(7):639-49.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624120-00009
PMID: 17129079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Nucleic Acids Res. 2007 Jan;35(Database issue):D810-4. doi:
10.1093/nar/gkl1000.  Epub 2006 Nov 27.

Organelle DB: an updated resource of eukaryotic protein localization and 
function.

Wiwatwattana N(1), Landau CM, Cope GJ, Harp GA, Kumar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology and Life 
Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2216, USA.

Organelle DB (http://organelledb.lsi.umich.edu) is a web-accessible relational 
database presenting a supplemented catalog of organelle-localized proteins and 
major protein complexes. Since its release in 2004, Organelle DB has grown by 
20% to encompass over 30,000 proteins from 138 eukaryotic organisms. Each 
protein in Organelle DB is presented with its subcellular localization, primary 
sequence and a detailed description of its function, as available. All records 
in Organelle DB have been annotated using controlled vocabulary from the Gene 
Ontology consortium. Protein localization data are inherently visual, and 
Organelle DB is a significant repository of biological images, housing 1500 
micrographs of yeast cells carrying stained proteins. Furthermore, we report 
here the development of Organelle View, an extension of Organelle DB for the 
interactive visualization of organelles and subcellular structures in the 
budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Organelle View offers a dimensional 
representation of a yeast cell; users can search Organelle View for proteins of 
interest, and the organelles housing these proteins will be highlighted in the 
cell image. Among other applications, Organelle View may serve as an educational 
aid engaging introductory biology students through a visually 'fun' interface. 
Organelle View can be accessed from the Organelle DB home page or directly at 
http://organelleview.lsi.umich.edu.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkl1000
PMCID: PMC1716721
PMID: 17130152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Asian Cardiovasc Thorac Ann. 2006 Dec;14(6):479-84. doi: 
10.1177/021849230601400608.

Coronary artery bypass surgery in the elderly: experience of tertiary care 
hospital.

Siddiqui FJ(1), Sami SA, Sarwar G, Shahabuddin S, Ahmed B.

Author information:
(1)Cardiothoracic Surgery Section, Department of Surgery, The Aga Khan 
University, PO Box 3500, Stadium Road, Karachi 74800, Pakistan.

In the subcontinent, improving life expectancy may increase the number of 
elderly patients requiring coronary artery bypass. The elderly have a higher 
risk of mortality, and cost vs benefit is presumed to be unrewarding, leading to 
a disinclination to operate on such patients. We reviewed the records of 
patients >or= 70 years old undergoing coronary revascularization in a 10-year 
period. Between 1995 and 2004, 3,312 coronary bypass operations were performed, 
including 242 (7.3%) in patients >or= 70 years. Of these, 207 (86%) were male, 
73 (30%) had non-elective surgery, and 177 (73%) had a high-risk EuroSCORE. 
Early postoperative mortality was 8.7% (21/242), and 33 (13.6%) patients 
experienced morbidity. One-year follow-up of 106 (44%) patients was possible. 
There were 4 (1.7%) late deaths from noncardiac causes. Death, morbidity, and 
postoperative functional class were significantly associated with preoperative 
functional class. Meticulous selection of elderly patients for coronary artery 
bypass may help maximize the benefits of this surgery.

DOI: 10.1177/021849230601400608
PMID: 17130323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Neurology. 2006 Nov 28;67(10):1744-7. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000249340.45774.ec.

Is the Canadian health care system better for neurologic care?

Feasby TE(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and 
Dentistry, University of Alberta, Canada. tomfeasby@cha.ab.ca

Comment in
    Neurology. 2007 May 22;68(21):1870; author reply 1871.
    Neurology. 2007 May 22;68(21):1870-1; author reply 1871.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000249340.45774.ec
PMID: 17130404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Rev Med Chil. 2006 Jun;134(6):679-88. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872006000600002.
Epub  2006 Aug 14.

[Potential cost effectiveness of a rotavirus vaccine in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Constenla D(1), O'Ryan M, Navarrete MS, Antil L, Rheingans RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA. dagnaconstenla@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Cost effectiveness studies are essential to assess the real value of 
interventions with preventive or therapeutic objectives.
AIM: To assess the theoretical cost-effectiveness of a vaccine against rotavirus 
in Chilean children of less than five years of age.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: An economic model was developed based on information on 
disease incidence, health care costs associated with treatment and the 
effectiveness and costs of vaccination. Net disease and vaccination costs were 
estimated from the health system perspective and were compared with life years 
and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) gained using a 3% discount rate. 
Local administrative and accounting hospital data and vaccine efficacy data were 
used to estimate healthcare costs and cost-effectiveness of vaccination.
RESULTS: A rotavirus vaccination program would prevent 10 deaths due to 
rotavirus gastroenteritis, 6,245 related hospitalizations and 41,962 outpatient 
visits during the first five years of life, per vaccinated cohort. For every 
1,000 children born, the healthcare service spends US$15,077 on treatment of 
gastroenteritis. From the healthcare perspective, vaccination would yield a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of US$11,261 per DALY when the price of the vaccine is 
US$24 per course.
CONCLUSIONS: Rotavirus vaccine can effectively reduce the disease burden and 
healthcare costs of rotavirus gastroenteritis and can be a cost-effective 
investment compared to other options.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872006000600002
PMID: 17130941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Nov 4;150(44):2430-4.

[Prevalence of urinary and faecal incontinence among community-dwelling elderly 
patients in Nijmegen, The Netherlands, January 1999-July 2001].

[Article in Dutch]

Teunissen TA(1), van den Bosch WJ, van den Hoogen HJ, Largo-Janssen AL.

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum St Radboud, afd. Huisartsgeneeskunde, HAG 117, 
Postbus 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen. d.teunissen@hag.umcn.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Nov 4;150(44):2415-6.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of urinary, faecal and double incontinence 
in community-dwelling elderly patients.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional population-based survey.
METHOD: By means of a postal questionnaire, data were collected in the period 
January 1999-July 2001 from patients aged 60 and over from 9 general practices 
associated with the academic general practitioner registration network of the St 
Radboud University Medical Centre (the Nijmegen Monitoring Project). Excluded 
were patients living in a home for the elderly, as well as patients with 
dementia, patients who were too ill to participate and patients with a catheter.
RESULTS: Of the 5278 patients who received a questionnaire, 4650 (88%) returned 
it. 885 (19%) respondents had involuntary loss of urine twice a month or more, 
299 (6%) had involuntary loss of faeces and 153 (3%) had both. The prevalence of 
urinary, faecal and double incontinence increased with age in both men and 
women, in men especially in the age group > 80 years. Urinary incontinence was 
more prevalent in women (29%) than in men (9%). The prevalence of faecal 
incontinence showed no sex differences (women: 6%; men: 7%), but the loss of 
slimy faeces occurred twice as often in men as in women (60% versus 29%). Double 
incontinence was also more or less equally prevalent in men and women (men: 2%; 
women: 4%), except in the age group 65-74 years (men: 1%; women: 4%).
CONCLUSION: Especially urinary, but also faecal incontinence was common in the 
community-dwelling elderly. The prevalence increased with age. Because of ageing 
of the population and the increasing life expectancy in the next decennia, the 
prevalence of incontinence can be expected to increase considerably.

PMID: 17131703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2006;52(1):111-8.

[Influence of psychological therapy on duration of survival in patients with 
metastatic cancer].

[Article in Polish]

Siemińska MJ(1), Zarek A, Tyszkiewicz M.

Author information:
(1)Samodzielna Pracownia Psychologii i Socjologii Lekarskiej Pomorskiej Akademii 
Medycznej ul. Rybacka 1, 70-204 Szczecin.

The work of A. J. Cunningham has created new perspectives for extension of 
survival through psychological intervention in patients with advanced cancer. 
Therapeutic techniques exploiting unique subjective psychic and social 
experiences may be particularly helpful at the time when life of the patient is 
threatened by an incurable disease. Psychological therapy should be based on an 
individual plan for living with cancer. Novel qualitative research and 
therapeutic methods need to be developed.

PMID: 17131854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2006;52(1):119-24.

[Explosion of the subjective world].

[Article in Polish]

Zukrowska A(1).

Author information:
(1)Katedra Pedagogiki Wyzszej Szkoły Pedagogicznej w Warszawie ul. Unisławy 26, 
71-413 Szczecin.

PURPOSE: This text was inspired by an article in psycho-oncology: "The influence 
of psychotherapy on the extension of life in people with advanced cancer". I 
intend to show that cancer causes disintegration ("explosion") of a person's 
subjective world.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: (philosophical discourse): Categories of the personal 
world and the subjective world are introduced and the reality of the subjective 
world is accepted. The following connotations are essential to further 
discussion: The mind acts on the body. The psychic state (therefore the state of 
the brain) is reflected in states and processes localized outside the brain. The 
epistemologist desires to discover the causal mechanism that explains these 
effects. The body may act on the mind. Overwhelming evidence has accumulated 
that disorders of the mind may be caused by disturbances of processes in the 
nervous system. I reject the view that "the brain is the cause of the mind".
CONCLUSIONS: Every person lives in his or her own, private, subjective world. It 
is a relatively stable world of personal memories, observations and 
imaginations. This world extends in subjective time and space. Its content is 
composed of conscious psychic experiences, one after another. Experiences create 
the stream of consciousness. Serious illness leads to the explosion or 
disintegration of subjective world, destruction of one's sense of personal 
identity, impossibility of autoreflection, and loss of sense of living. In such 
cases, individualized psychotherapeutic intervention proves to be irreplaceable.

PMID: 17131855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2006;5(3):167-76. doi: 
10.2165/00148365-200605030-00003.

Community-based youth tobacco control interventions: cost effectiveness of the 
Full Court Press project.

Ross H(1), Powell LM, Bauer JE, Levy DT, Peck RM, Lee HR.

Author information:
(1)International Tobacco Surveillance, Epidemiology and Surveillance Research, 
American Cancer Society - National Home Office, Atlanta, Georgia 30329-4251, 
USA. hana.ross@cancer.org

BACKGROUND: We evaluated the impact of a community-based tobacco control project 
that was implemented in the city of Tucson, Arizona, USA, between 1996 and 2001.
AIM: The project's goal was to reduce the prevalence of youth smoking through 
change in social norms at schools and in communities and workplaces. As is often 
the case, these community-based health promotion interventions were implemented 
in conjunction with other broader programmes, in this case implemented on the 
state level.
METHOD: Taking into account state level interventions as well as changes in 
sociodemographic and economic environment over the course of the project (e.g. 
increases in cigarette prices), we measure the net effect of the intervention in 
terms of the number of people who quit or did not initiate smoking and by the 
discounted life-years gained. To establish the value of investing into 
community-based intervention, we calculated the real discounted cost per quit 
and per life-year gained of 3789 US dollars and 3942 US dollars, respectively. 
These compare favourably with the real cost per quit of 4270 US dollars when 
implementing the 1996 US Clinical Practice Guideline for smoking cessation but 
exceed the real cost of 2923 US dollars per discounted life-year gained when 
following the guideline.
RESULTS: A sensitivity analysis that assumed 5% programme persistence (i.e. 5% 
of the programme's impact would last forever in the absence of future funding 
for the programme), one-third would relapse and that one-third of those who quit 
may have quit smoking even without the programme, suggested a lower cost per 
discounted life-year saved of 3476 US dollars. The cost effectiveness of this 
project compares favourably with other tobacco control interventions.
CONCLUSION: Despite its relatively small target group, this community-based 
intervention was cost effective.

DOI: 10.2165/00148365-200605030-00003
PMID: 17132031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Biol Chem. 2006 Dec;387(12):1583-91. doi: 10.1515/BC.2006.197.

The human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum expresses an atypical 
N-terminally extended pyrophosphokinase with specificity for thiamine.

Eschbach ML(1), Müller IB, Gilberger TW, Walter RD, Wrenger C.

Author information:
(1)Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine, D-20359 Hamburg, Germany.

Vitamin B(1) is an essential cofactor for key enzymes such as 2-oxoglutarate 
dehydrogenase and pyruvate dehydrogenase. Plants, bacteria and fungi, as well as 
Plasmodium falciparum, are capable of synthesising vitamin B(1)de novo, whereas 
mammals have to take up this cofactor from their diet. Thiamine, a B(1) vitamer, 
has to be pyrophosphorylated by thiamine pyrophosphokinase (TPK) to the active 
form. The human malaria parasite P. falciparum expresses an N-terminally 
extended pyrophosphokinase throughout the entire erythrocytic life cycle, which 
was analysed by Northern and Western blotting. The recombinant enzyme shows a 
specific activity of 27 nmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein and specificity for thiamine 
with a K(m) value of 73 microM, while thiamine monophosphate is not accepted. 
Mutational analysis of the N-terminal extension of the plasmodial TPK showed 
that it influences thiamine binding as well as metal dependence, which suggests 
N-terminal participation in the conformation of the active site. Protein 
sequences of various plasmodial TPKs were analysed for their phylogeny, which 
classified the Plasmodium TPKs to a group distinct from the mammalian TPKs. To 
verify the location of the parasite TPK within the cell, immunofluorescence 
analyses were performed. Co-staining of PfTPK with a GFP marker visualised its 
cytosolic localisation.

DOI: 10.1515/BC.2006.197
PMID: 17132104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Drug Alcohol Rev. 2006 Nov;25(6):503-13. doi: 10.1080/09595230600944453.

Global burden of disease from alcohol, illicit drugs and tobacco.

Rehm J(1), Taylor B, Room R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
jtrehm@aol.com

The use of alcohol, tobacco and illicit drugs entails considerable burden of 
disease: in 2000, about 4% of the global burden as measured in disability 
adjusted life years was attributable to each alcohol and tobacco, and 0.8% to 
illicit drugs. The burden of alcohol in the above statistic was calculated as 
net burden, i.e. incorporating the protective health effects. Tobacco use was 
found to be the most important of 25 risk factors for developed countries in the 
comparative risk assessment underlying the data. It had the highest mortality 
risk of all the substance use categories, especially for the elderly. Alcohol 
use was also important in developed countries, but constituted the most 
important of all risk factors in emerging economies. Alcohol use affected 
younger people than tobacco, both in terms of disability and mortality. The 
burden of disease attributable to the use of legal substances clearly outweighed 
the use of illegal drugs. A large part of the substance-attributable burden 
would be avoidable if known effective interventions were implemented.

DOI: 10.1080/09595230600944453
PMID: 17132570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Drug Alcohol Rev. 2006 Nov;25(6):515-36. doi: 10.1080/09595230600944461.

Mental health and alcohol, drugs and tobacco: a review of the comorbidity 
between mental disorders and the use of alcohol, tobacco and illicit drugs.

Jané-Llopis E(1), Matytsina I.

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Programme, World Health Organization Regional Office for 
Europe, Copenhagen, Denmark. EJA@euro.who.int

This paper reviews some major epidemiological studies undertaken in high-income 
countries during the last 15 years which have reported the prevalence of mental 
disorders and substance use disorders and their relationship. Comorbidity 
between mental and substance use disorders is highly prevalent across countries. 
In general, people with a substance use disorder had higher comorbid rates of 
mental disorders than vice versa, and people with illicit drug disorders had the 
highest rates of comorbid mental disorders. There is a strong direct association 
between the magnitude of comorbidity and the severity of substance use 
disorders. While causal pathways differ across substances and disorders, there 
is evidence that alcohol is a casual factor for depression, in some European 
countries up to 10% of male depression. Policies that reduce the use of 
substances are likely to reduce the prevalence of mental disorders. Treatment 
should be available in an integrated fashion for both mental and substance use 
disorders. There is a need to expand the evidence base on comorbidity, 
particularly in low-income countries.

DOI: 10.1080/09595230600944461
PMID: 17132571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Mov Disord. 2007 Jan 15;22(2):203-6. doi: 10.1002/mds.21252.

Progression of tremor and ataxia in male carriers of the FMR1 premutation.

Leehey MA(1), Berry-Kravis E, Min SJ, Hall DA, Rice CD, Zhang L, Grigsby J, 
Greco CM, Reynolds A, Lara R, Cogswell J, Jacquemont S, Hessl DR, Tassone F, 
Hagerman R, Hagerman PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences 
Center, Denver, Colorado 80262, USA. maureen.leehey@uchsc.edu

Premutation alleles of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene give rise 
to a late-onset movement disorder, fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome 
(FXTAS), characterized by progressive intention tremor and gait ataxia, with 
associated dementia and global brain atrophy. The natural history of FXTAS is 
largely unknown. To address this issue, a family-based, retrospective, 
longitudinal study was conducted with a cohort of 55 male premutation carriers. 
Analysis of the progression of the major motor signs of FXTAS, tremor and 
ataxia, shows that tremor usually occurs first, with median onset at 
approximately 60 years of age. From the onset of the initial motor sign, median 
delay of onset of ataxia was 2 years; onset of falls, 6 years; dependence on a 
walking aid, 15 years; and death, 21 years. Preliminary data on life expectancy 
are variable, with a range from 5 to 25 years.

(c) 2006 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21252
PMID: 17133502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Heart. 2007 Sep;93(9):1081-6. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2005.086728. Epub 2006 Nov
29.

Cost effectiveness of perindopril in reducing cardiovascular events in patients 
with stable coronary artery disease using data from the EUROPA study.

Briggs A(1), Mihaylova B, Sculpher M, Hall A, Wolstenholme J, Simoons M, Deckers 
J, Ferrari R, Remme WJ, Bertrand M, Fox K; EUROPA Trial Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Health Policy, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. 
a.briggs@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

Comment in
    Heart. 2007 Sep;93(9):1015-6.

BACKGROUND: The EUropean trial on Reduction Of cardiac events with Perindopril 
in stable coronary Artery disease (EUROPA) trial has recently reported.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of perindopril in stable coronary 
heart disease in the UK.
METHODS: Clinical and resource use data were taken from the EUROPA trial. Costs 
included drugs and hospitalisations. Health-related quality of life values were 
taken from published sources. A cost-effectiveness analysis is presented as a 
function of the risk of a primary event (non-fatal myocardial infarction, 
cardiac arrest or cardiovascular death) in order to identify people for whom 
treatment offers greatest value for money.
RESULTS: The median incremental cost of perindopril for each quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) gained across the heterogeneous population of EUROPA was 
estimated as 9700 pounds(interquartile range 6400-14,200 pounds). Overall, 88% 
of the EUROPA population had an estimated cost per QALY below 20,000 pounds and 
97% below 30,000 pounds. For a threshold value of cost effectiveness of 30,000 
pounds per QALY gained, treatment of people representing the 25th, 50th (median) 
and 75th centiles of the cost effectiveness distribution for perindopril has a 
probability of 0.999, 0.99 and 0.93 of being cost effective, respectively. Cost 
effectiveness was strongly related to higher risk of a primary event under 
standard care.
CONCLUSIONS: Whether the use of perindopril can be considered cost effective 
depends on the threshold value of cost effectiveness of healthcare systems. For 
the large majority of patients included in EUROPA, the incremental cost per QALY 
gained was lower than the apparent threshold used by the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence in the UK.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2005.086728
PMCID: PMC1955018
PMID: 17135223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: All authors have some 
potential conflicts of interest through research grants, consultancy 
arrangements, speaker's fees, honoraria and other activities funded by the 
sponsor. AB and MS hold a minority shareholding in Oxford Outcomes Ltd, the 
company contracted to undertake the analysis.


768. Urologe A. 2006 Dec;45(12):W1549-57; quiz W1558. doi:
10.1007/s00120-006-1247-8.

[Urological rehabilitation of spinal cord injury patients].

[Article in German]

Grigoleit U(1), Pannek J.

Author information:
(1)Schwerpunkt Neuro-Urologie, Marienhospital Herne, Klinikum, Ruhr-Universität 
Bochum, Widumer Strasse 8, 44627 Herne, Deutschland. 
ute.grigoleit@marienhospital-herne.de

The urological rehabilitation of spinal cord injury patients depends on an 
optimal urological treatment plan and good cooperation between the patient, 
general practitioner, urologist, and a centre that specialises in treating 
spinal cord injuries. Because of medical advancements in neuro-urology, one can 
assume that in cases of lifelong urological care, the individual's life 
expectancy will be almost normal. The recognition that nonphysiological bladder 
storage pressure results in restricted kidney function has led to various 
therapeutic strategies with complementary goals, such as protection of the upper 
urinary tract, urinary continence, individualized bladder management.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-006-1247-8
PMID: 17136410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Int Urogynecol J Pelvic Floor Dysfunct. 2007 Aug;18(8):889-93. doi: 
10.1007/s00192-006-0262-z. Epub 2006 Nov 30.

Conservation of the prolapsed uterus is a valid option: medium term results of a 
prospective comparative study with the posterior intravaginal slingoplasty 
operation.

Neuman M(1), Lavy Y.

Author information:
(1)Urogynecology, Department of Gynecology, Shaare Zedek M.C., The Ben-Gurion 
University of the Negev, Jerusalem, Assuta M.C., Tel Aviv, Israel. 
mneuman@netvision.net.il

It has been reported that, by the age of 80, the risk of women to undergo 
surgery for the treatment of pelvic organ prolapse (POP) exceeds 10%, a 
percentage expected to increase with the rise in life expectancy. The vaginal 
approach for POP reconstructive operations is associated with fewer 
complications and results in a shorter rehabilitation period than the abdominal 
route, whereas hysterectomy is widely performed concomitantly whenever the 
uterus is significantly prolapsed. However, there is no clear evidence 
supporting the role of hysterectomy in improving surgery outcome. We present our 
experience with a new minimally invasive procedure--the posterior intravaginal 
slingplasty (PIVS) for correction of advanced uterine prolapse--at the same 
time, comparing additive vaginal hysterectomy to uterine preservation, to 
evaluate the therapeutic significance of hysterectomy when vaginal apical 
prolapse is reconstructed with PIVS. Seventy-nine women presenting with moderate 
to severe uterine prolapse were enrolled into the current PIVS study. Vaginal 
hysterectomy was concomitantly performed upon patient's request (44 patients), 
whereas those wishing to preserve their uterus underwent reconstructive surgery 
only (35 patients). No intraoperative or postoperative major complications were 
recorded during an average follow-up of 29.8 months: One patient (1.3%) 
presented with surgical failure, whereas 71 (89.9%) of the operated patients 
reported satisfaction with the therapeutic results. Bladder overactivity 
symptoms declined from three thirds of the patients preoperatively to below 10% 
postoperatively. Ten (12.7%) patients had vaginal tape protrusion; all underwent 
segmental tape resection at the out-patient clinic. Because the PIVS procedure 
does not require either laparotomy or deep transvaginal dissection, as 
previously required for operative intervention, the hospitalization period was 
relatively short: 4.2 days for the hysterectomy group and 1.5 for the 
non-hysterectomy group. Other statistically significant differences between the 
hysterectomy and non-hysterectomy groups were the average ages (63.5 vs 51.0 
years, respectively) and concomitant surgery (87% vs 69%, respectively, the 
higher percentage due to additive amputation of elongated uterine cervices). No 
other significant differences were recorded. The current results support the 
previously reported efficacy, safety, and simplicity of the PIVS procedure as 
well as the legitimacy of uterine preservation. Moreover, unstable bladder 
symptoms were found to be improved after this operation. However, long-term data 
are required to be able to draw solid conclusions concerning the superiority of 
the discussed operation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00192-006-0262-z
PMID: 17136484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2007 Jul;22(7):649-55. doi: 10.1002/gps.1725.

Health utilities in mild cognitive impairment and dementia: a population study 
in Sweden.

Ekman M(1), Berg J, Wimo A, Jönsson L, McBurney C.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Health Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. mattias@healthecomonics.se

OBJECTIVE: To collect new primary data on community-based health utilities (time 
trade-off values) in different stages of mild cognitive impairment and dementia 
from a general population sample.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study including 1,800 randomly selected members of 
the Swedish public aged 45-84 was performed through a postal survey; 42% 
response rate. The Clinical Dementia Rating scale was used for describing 
progressive stages of dementia in vignettes that were used in combination with 
time trade-off questions for valuing the perceived quality of life in these 
stages.
RESULTS: The time-trade off values varied considerably across the progressive 
disease stages. The mean score was 0.82 for mild cognitive impairment, 0.62 for 
mild dementia, 0.40 for moderate dementia, and 0.25 for severe dementia. In 
multiple regression analyses, the scores were relatively insensitive to 
demographic factors like age, gender and self-assessed health.
CONCLUSIONS: The results showed that the average time trade-off values declined 
sharply from mild cognitive impairment to progressing stages of dementia. Since 
there are many methodological challenges involved in measuring health state 
utilities in mild cognitive impairment and dementia, more research that 
evaluates different methods would be welcome.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.1725
PMID: 17136704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Nov 11;150(45):2467-70.

[The cost per year of life gained: trends and internal contradictions].

[Article in Dutch]

Smulders YM(1), Thijs A.

Author information:
(1)VU Medisch Centrum, afd. Algemene Inwendige Geneeskunde, Postbus 7057, 1007 
MB Amsterdam. y.smulders@vumc.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Feb 17;151(7):441; author reply 441-2.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Apr 14;151(15):895; author reply 895.

Recently, a Dutch advisory committee to the Ministry of Health presented a 
report proposing criteria for health insurance coverage. A central role has been 
given to the criterion of cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) associated 
with medical interventions. The proposal is to limit the health-insurance 
coverage of such costs to 80,000 euro per QALY gained. Previously, 20,000 euro 
was generally considered a reasonable critical level for QALY-cost, whether for 
preventive or for curative interventions. Although a higher cut-off-level is now 
proposed by the advisory committee, recent cardiovascular prevention guidelines 
propose treatment criteria that are associated with much lower QALY costs, 
sometimes as low as 1,000 euro. With respect to financial considerations, the 
central role of QALY costs has been replaced in these prevention guidelines by 
national health budget implications. For individual patient care, these 
apparently opposing trends in the role and financial appreciation of QALYs have 
complex repercussions.

PMID: 17137090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Drugs. 2006;66(17):2173-87. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200666170-00003.

Polycythaemia vera and essential thrombocythaemia: current treatment strategies.

Penninga EI(1), Bjerrum OW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, National University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, 
Copenhagen, Denmark. epenninga@hotmail.com

Polycythaemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocythaemia (ET) are classified as 
Philadelphia-negative chronic myeloproliferative diseases. Both PV and ET are 
rare diseases, but the prevalence is high. Patients who have not been treated 
for the diseases are at great risk of morbidity and mortality as a result of 
thrombohaemorrhagic events. However, if patients have been well treated, their 
prognosis is good and life-expectancy approaches normal. This article provides 
diagnostic tools and flowcharts for treatment of PV and ET. Treatment of PV and 
ET should be risk-adjusted and individualised. Low-dose aspirin is recommended 
as an antiaggregative drug in both diseases. For PV, phlebotomy to control a 
haematocrit at <0.45 is the cornerstone in treatment, and treatment with 
hydroxycarbamide (hydroxyurea) or interferon (IFN)-alpha is added to reduce 
hypermetabolic symptoms or splenomegaly becoming cytoreductive. In ET, 
hydroxycarbamide and anagrelide are the most used drugs, and anagrelide may also 
be added in PV to reduce thrombocytosis. IFNalpha is the only myelosuppressive 
treatment available during pregnancy. Current controversies regarding treatment 
illustrate the need for more randomised clinical trials. Demonstration of over 
expression of the PV-1 gene and in particular the JAK-2 mutation will be novel 
diagnostic criteria and may have an impact for future therapy of both PV and ET.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200666170-00003
PMID: 17137402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. BMC Public Health. 2006 Nov 30;6:291. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-291.

Levels and trends of demographic indices in southern rural Mozambique: evidence 
from demographic surveillance in Manhiça district.

Nhacolo AQ(1), Nhalungo DA, Sacoor CN, Aponte JJ, Thompson R, Alonso P.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigação em Saúde da Manhiça, Ministério de Saúde, Manhiça, 
Maputo, Mozambique. ariel.nhacolo@manhica.net

BACKGROUND: In Mozambique most of demographic data are obtained using census or 
sample survey including indirect estimations. A method of collecting 
longitudinal demographic data was introduced in southern Mozambique since 1996 
(DSS -Demographic Surveillance System in Manhiça district, Maputo province), but 
the extent to which it yields demographic measures that are typical of southern 
rural Mozambique has not been evaluated yet.
METHODS: Data from the DSS were used to estimate the levels and trends of 
fertility, mortality and migration in Manhiça, between 1998 and 2005. The 
estimates from Manhiça were compared with estimates from Maputo province using 
the 1997 National census and 1997 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS). The DHS 
data were used to estimate levels and trends of adult mortality using the 
siblings' histories and the orphanhood methods.
RESULTS: The populations in Manhiça and in Maputo province are young (44% <15 
years in Manhiça and 42% in Maputo); with reduced adult males when compared to 
females (all ages sex ratio of 78.7 in Manhiça and 89 in Maputo). Fertility in 
Manhiça is at a similar level as in Maputo province and has remained around 5 
children per woman, during the eight years of surveillance in Manhiça. Although 
the infant mortality rate (IMR) in Mozambique has decreased during the last two 
decades (from 148 deaths per 1000 live births in 1980 to 101 in 2003), it has 
remained stable around 80 in Manhiça during the surveillance period. Adult 
mortality has increased both in Manhiça (probability of dying from ages 15 to 60 
increased from 0.4 in 1998 to 0.6 in 2005 in Manhiça, from 0.3 in 1992 to 0.4 in 
1997 in Maputo province and from 0.1 in 1980 to 0.6 in 2000 in Mozambique). 
Consequently, the life expectancy decreased from 53 to 46 in Manhiça and from 42 
years in 1997 to 38 in 2004 in Mozambique. Migration is high in Manhiça but 
tends to stabilise after the movements of resettlement that followed the end of 
the civil war in 1992.
CONCLUSION: The population under demographic surveillance in Manhiça district 
presents characteristics that are typical of southern rural Mozambique, with 
predominance of young people and reduction of adult males. Labour migration and 
excess adult male mortality are the major factors for the reduction of adult 
males. Mortality is high and only infant mortality has started to stabilise 
while adult mortality has increased, and as consequence, life expectancy has 
decreased. The Manhiça DSS is an adequate tool to report demographic measures 
for southern rural Mozambique.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-6-291
PMCID: PMC1712340
PMID: 17137494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2006 Oct;73(5):321-8.

[Surgical treatment of fracture of the ring of axis - "hangman's fracture"].

[Article in Czech]

Suchomel P(1), Hradil J, Barsa P, Buchvald P, Lukás R, Taller S, Fröhlich R.

Author information:
(1)Neurocentrum, Krajská nemocnice Liberec. petr.suchomel@nemlib.cz

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: To evaluate surgical management of the fracture of the 
ring of axis (FRA), known as "hangman's fracture", and to discuss adequacy of 
this treatment.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Between 1994 and 2004, 41 patients with FRA were 
surgically treated in our hospital. We present a retrospective study of 30 cases 
treated by anterior cervical fixation and fusion and 11 cases treated by a 
posterior, CT-guided approach (published recently). Our diagnostic algorithm for 
evaluation of FRA included plain radiographs for basic diagnosis, detailed CT 
scan, MRI and finally passive lateral flexion-extension fluoroscopy (performed 
by physician) to assess stability. We also consider discography in selected 
cases, allowing further evaluation of discoligamentous injury. Fractures were 
classified according to Levine. Posterior compressive osteosynthesis according 
to Judet was performed in 11 patients with Levine type I fractures with fracture 
fragment distraction > 3 mm. Anterior graft and plate fixation was chosen in 30 
patients with type II (25 patients) and type I (5 patients) fractures where C2/3 
disc injury was confirmed by MRI or discography. There was no case of facet 
dislocation in our series (type III). Pain, motion restriction and overall 
satisfaction with neck status were assessed on a scale 1-5 (1 = best) in 
patients treated with anterior approach. Self-evaluation questionnaires were 
administered during follow-up (average, 7.3 years; 24 months to 11 years).
RESULTS: Anatomically reduced fracture fusion was achieved in all cases (100%) 
at one year follow-up. Both autologous tricortical (22) and fibular allografts 
(8) were used for anterior approach. No perioperative complications occurred and 
no case was aborted. Average hospital stay in patients with standalone FRA was 
6.8 days (3-15). Patients wore Philadelphia collar for 4-6 weeks. One patient 
died during follow up due to unrelated causes. None of the 29 patients treated 
with the anterior approach reported severe or very severe pain (grades 4 or 5). 
The average pain score was 1.28. Three patients with isolated FRAs reported 
slight subjective restriction of movement (grade 2). The "satisfaction with 
overall neck status" scale showed an average score of 1.62, never worse than 
grade 2.
DISCUSSION: Despite increasing popularity of anterior surgical approach in the 
treatment of type II FRA, most authors still recommend conservative treatment. 
Surgical treatment is consensually recommended in type III fractures only. Type 
I is treated exclusively conservatively. There is currently no evidence-based 
data supporting any method of treatment of so called "hangman's fracture". The 
majority of treating surgeons do not consider the status of the intervertebral 
disc. Dynamic films, simulating the peak point of injury, are usually not 
performed. Hence, potentially unstable fractures are overlooked. This also 
explains the lack of long term follow-up data regarding the radiological status 
of C2/3 intervertebral disc as well as patients' subjective complaints.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery provides plausible results. Compared to conservative 
treatment, it can offer significant benefits: 1) immediate, better and stable 
reposition; 2) high fusion rate; 3) shortening of the treatment period with 
better quality of life. Contrary to conservative treatment modalities, surgery 
possesses a potential for further development.

PMID: 17140513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Eur Arch Paediatr Dent. 2006 Sep;7(3):148-52. doi: 10.1007/BF03262556.

Progression of proximal caries in children with different caries indices: a 
4-year radiographic study.

Vanderas AP(1), Gizani S, Papagiannoulis L.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Paediatric Dentistry, Dental School, University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.

AIM: This was to investigate survival rate, median survival time and differences 
in the progression of different stages of proximal caries in 196 children, aged 
6 to 8 years old, with different caries index at baseline examination.
METHODS: Based on DMFS/dmfs values, children were categorized as low, moderate 
and high caries index groups. Subjects with DMFS/dmfs smaller or equal to half 
of a child's age were classified as low caries index group, children with 
DMFS/dmfs greater to half and smaller than or equal to the child's age as 
moderate, while those with DMFS/dmfs greater than the child's age as high. 
Proximal caries and its progression were diagnosed from bitewing radiographs 
taken at 1-year intervals over a period of 4 years. The mesial surface of the 
first permanent molars, mesial and distal surfaces of the first and second 
primary molars and distal surfaces of the primary canines were examined. Sound 
surfaces, caries lesions in the external and internal half of the enamel and 
external, middle, internal third of the dentine as well as filled, extracted and 
exfoliated teeth were recorded.
STATISTICS: A life table analysis was performed to estimate survival rate and 
median survival time of each state of proximal caries and differences between 
the groups in the progression of the proximal lesions were tested with the 
Wilcoxon pairwise comparison statistic.
RESULTS: There were statistically significant differences in the caries rate of 
the sound proximal surfaces of the primary teeth between the low and high caries 
index groups. Also, statistically significant differences between these two 
groups were found in the progression of the external half of the enamel caries 
in the first permanent molars and in the primary teeth.
CONCLUSIONS: A high caries index increases the risk of developing caries in the 
sound proximal surfaces of posterior primary teeth and causes faster progression 
of the external half of the enamel lesions in the first permanent molars and 
posterior primary teeth.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03262556
PMID: 17140544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Eur J Intern Med. 2006 Dec;17(8):529-35. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2006.07.012.

Idiosyncratic drug-induced agranulocytosis: Update of an old disorder.

Andrès E(1), Zimmer J, Affenberger S, Federici L, Alt M, Maloisel F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Strasbourg, France.

In this paper, we review the literature on idiosyncratic drug-induced 
agranulocytosis, a rare but life-threatening potential adverse event of most 
drugs. Articles were identified through MEDLINE searches (1966-2005). Additional 
references were localized through a review of textbooks on hematology and 
internal medicine, and information gleaned from international meetings. 
Additional unpublished data from our cohort with drug-induced agranulocytosis at 
the University Hospital of Strasbourg, France, were also considered. Searches 
were done using the following key words: "agranulocytosis", "drug-induced 
agranulocytosis", and "idiosyncratic agranulocytosis" and were restricted to: 
English- and French-language, human subjects, clinical trial, review, and 
guidelines. All of the papers and abstracts were reviewed by at least two senior 
researchers who selected the data used in the study. What we found is that, over 
the last 20 years, the incidence of idiosyncratic drug-induced agranulocytosis 
has remained stable - 2.4-15.4 cases per million - despite the emergence of new 
causative drugs, mainly antibiotics, antiplatelet agents, and antithyroid drugs. 
To date, drug-induced agranulocytosis remains a serious adverse event due to the 
frequency of severe sepsis with severe deep infections (such as pneumonia), 
septicemia, and septic shock in about two-thirds of all patients. In this 
setting, old age (>65 years), septicemia or shock, metabolic disorders such as 
renal failure, and a neutrophil count below 0.1x10(9)/L are poor prognostic 
factors. Nevertheless, with appropriate management using pre-established 
procedures, with intravenous broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy, and 
hematopoietic growth factors, the mortality rate is currently around 5%. Given 
the increased life expectancy and subsequent longer exposure to drugs, as well 
as the development of new agents, health care professionals should be aware of 
this adverse event and its management.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2006.07.012
PMID: 17142169


777. J Bacteriol. 2007 Feb;189(3):958-67. doi: 10.1128/JB.01474-06. Epub 2006 Dec
1.

Expression of the major porin gene mspA is regulated in Mycobacterium smegmatis.

Hillmann D(1), Eschenbacher I, Thiel A, Niederweis M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 609 Bevill 
Biomedical Research Building, 845 19th Street South, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.

MspA is the major porin of Mycobacterium smegmatis and is important for 
diffusion of small and hydrophilic solutes across its unique outer membrane. The 
start point of transcription of the mspA gene was mapped by primer extension and 
S1 nuclease experiments. The main promoter driving transcription of mspA was 
identified by single point mutations in lacZ fusions and resembled sigma(A) 
promoters of M. smegmatis. However, a 500-bp upstream fragment including P(mspA) 
in a transcriptional fusion with lacZ yielded only low beta-galactosidase 
activity, whereas activity increased 12-fold with a 700-bp fragment. Activation 
of P(mspA) by the 200-bp element was almost eliminated by increasing the 
distance by 14 bp, indicating binding of an activator protein. The chromosomal 
mspA transcript had a size of 900 bases and was very stable with a half-life of 
6 minutes, whereas the stabilities of episomal mspA transcripts with three other 
5' untranslated region (UTRs) were three- to sixfold reduced, indicating a 
stabilizing role of the native 5' UTR of mspA. Northern blot experiments 
revealed that the amount of mspA mRNA was increased under nitrogen limitation 
but reduced under carbon and phosphate limitation at 42 degrees C in stationary 
phase in the presence of 0.5 M sodium chloride, 18 mM hydrogen peroxide, and 10% 
ethanol and at acidic pH. These results show for the first time that M. 
smegmatis regulates porin gene expression to optimize uptake of certain 
nutrients and to protect itself from toxic solutes.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01474-06
PMCID: PMC1797333
PMID: 17142388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Gut. 2007 May;56(5):677-84. doi: 10.1136/gut.2006.095109. Epub 2006 Dec 1.

Option appraisal of population-based colorectal cancer screening programmes in 
England.

Tappenden P(1), Chilcott J, Eggington S, Patnick J, Sakai H, Karnon J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, Regent 
Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. P.Tappenden@Sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and resource 
impact of faecal occult blood testing (FOBT) and flexible sigmoidoscopy (FSIG) 
screening options for colorectal cancer to inform the Department of Health's 
policy on bowel cancer screening in England.
METHODS: We developed a state transition model to simulate the life experience 
of a cohort of individuals without polyps or cancer through to the development 
of adenomatous polyps and malignant carcinoma and subsequent death in the 
general population of England. The costs, effects and resource impact of five 
screening options were evaluated: (a) FOBT for individuals aged 50-69 (biennial 
screening); (b) FOBT for individuals aged 60-69 (biennial screening); (c) 
once-only FSIG for individuals aged 55; (d) once-only FSIG for individuals aged 
60; and (e) once-only FSIG for individuals aged 60, followed by FOBT for 
individuals aged 61-70 (biennial screening).
RESULTS: The model suggests that screening using FSIG with or without FOBT may 
be cost-saving and may produce additional benefits compared with a policy of no 
screening. The marginal cost-effectiveness of FOBT options compared to a policy 
of no screening is estimated to be below pound3000 per quality adjusted life 
year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening using FOBT and/or FSIG is potentially a cost-effective 
strategy for the early detection of colorectal cancer. However, the practical 
feasibility of alternative screening programmes is inevitably limited by current 
pressures on endoscopy services.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.2006.095109
PMCID: PMC1942136
PMID: 17142648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


779. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2007 Aug;60(3):321-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00280-006-0380-9. Epub 2006 Dec 2.

Phase II study of capecitabine and cisplatin in previously untreated advanced 
biliary tract cancer.

Hong YS(1), Lee J, Lee SC, Hwang IG, Choi SH, Heo JS, Park JO, Park YS, Lim HY, 
Kang WK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical 
Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 50 Irwon-dong, Kangnam-gu, 
Seoul 135-710, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Biliary tract cancer is one of the most aggressive and 
chemotherapy-refractory tumors. Although only curative treatment modality is 
surgery, most patients are not suitable for surgery due to advanced stage of the 
disease at diagnosis. Thus most patients with biliary tract cancer are possible 
candidates for palliative chemotherapy. The standard chemotherapeutic regimen is 
still to be defined, however. We performed a phase II study of combination 
chemotherapy with capecitabine and cisplatin in these patients to evaluate 
efficacy and toxicity of the regimen.
METHODS: Patients with previously untreated metastatic, recurrent, or inoperable 
biliary tract cancer were enrolled. Eligible patients were screened as 
