multiple sclerosis (MS) related to disease severity in Sweden as part of a study 
in nine European countries. Information on demographics, disease, resource 
utilisation, informal care needs, work capacity and QOL (utility) was collected 
using a questionnaire that was sent to patients registered with the Swedish 
organisation of patients with neurological disabilities (Neurologiskt 
Handikappades Riksförbund). The study used a prevalence-based and 
cross-sectional approach, and costs were estimated from a societal perspective. 
A total of 1,339 patients were included in the analysis. Seventy-three percent 
of patients were female, and the mean age was 53 years (standard deviation [SD], 
12 years). The mean Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score was 5.1 (SD, 
2.2); only 29% of patients had mild disease (EDSS score <4), 46% had moderate 
disease and 25% had severe disease (EDSS score > or =7). Costs were 
significantly correlated with disease severity, increasing sevenfold from around 
euro 16.000 at EDSS scores of 0-1 to euro 116.000 at EDSS scores of 8-9. At the 
same time, utility decreased with worsening disease from 0.825 to 0.047, with a 
mean established at 0.546 (SD, 0.287). This is significantly lower than 
utilities for an age- and gender-matched sample of the general population, which 
would be estimated at 0.80-0.85. Patients with a relapse during the last 3 
months had a significant cost increase, of euro 3.080, and a utility loss of 
0.088. Costs and utilities are highly correlated with EDSS score, and the mean 
cost per patient in the sample is thus heavily influenced by the severity 
distribution in the sample. Compared to European estimates, patients with 
moderate and severe disease in our sample appear to be overrepresented, and 
costs can therefore not be directly extrapolated to the overall MS population in 
Sweden without adjustment. When correcting for estimated actual prevalence and 
use of disease modifying drugs (DMDs), the total cost of MS in Sweden is 
estimated at euro 600 million. Compared to an earlier cost study in 1998 that 
included a similar sample, and adjusting for differential timing and estimated 
national use of DMDs, costs have increased by approximately 5% between 1998 and 
2005.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-006-0379-5
PMID: 17310342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Sep;7 Suppl 2:S55-64. doi:
10.1007/s10198-006-0378-6.

Costs and quality of life in multiple sclerosis in The Netherlands.

Kobelt G(1), Berg J, Lindgren P, Anten B, Ekman M, Jongen PJ, Polman C, 
Uitdehaag B.

Author information:
(1)Lund University, Lund, Sweden. gisela.kobelt@he-europe.com

Erratum in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Dec;8(4):359. Anten, Bert [added]; Ekman, Mattias 
[added]; Jongen, Peter J H [added]; Polman, Chris [added]; Uitdehaag, Bernard 
[added].

This cost-of-illness analysis based on information from 1.549 patients in The 
Netherlands is part of a Europe-wide study on the costs of multiple sclerosis 
(MS). The objective was to analyze the costs and quality of life (QOL) related 
to the level of disease severity and progression. Patients from three 
specialized MS centres participated in the survey by answering a mail 
questionnaire (response rate, 52%). In addition to details on the disease (type 
of disease, relapses, level of functional disability), the questionnaire asked 
for information on all resource consumption, medical, non-medical, work absence, 
early retirement and informal care as well as QOL (expressed as utility). The 
mean age of the cohort was 47 years, and 7.6% of patients were 65 years of age 
or more. Forty-eight percent of patients had mild disease [Expanded Disability 
Status Scale (EDSS) score of 0-3], 40% moderate disease (EDSS score of 4-6.5) 
and 11% severe disease (EDSS score of 7 and above). The mean EDSS score in the 
sample was 3.9 (median 4.0), with a utility of 0.61. Costs and utility are 
highly correlated with disease severity. Workforce participation decreases from 
around 75 to 80% in early disease to less than 5% in the very late stages. 
Hospitalization is very infrequent in early disease, representing less than euro 
500 per year for patients at EDSS scores below 6, but increases steeply for 
patients at an EDSS score of 7 and above. Ambulatory care increases fivefold 
between early and late disease, while services rise from basically no cost to 
almost euro 8.000 per year at an EDSS score of 7 and euro 19.000 per year at 
EDSS scores of 8-9. Productivity losses are multiplied by 10 in late disease, 
while informal care increases from euro 300 per year at EDSS scores of 0-1 to 
nearly euro 15.000 per year at EDSS scores of 8-9. Hence, total mean costs per 
patient are driven essentially by the distribution of the severity levels in the 
sample, increasing from euro 9.300 per year at EDSS scores of 0-1 to euro 50.000 
per year at an EDSS score of 7 and euro 78.000 per year at EDSS scores of 8-9. 
The same is true for utility, which decreases from 0.85 to 0.05 as the disease 
becomes severe. However, the utility loss compared to the age- and 
gender-matched general population is high at all levels of the disease (0.25 at 
an EDSS score of 2 to 0.4 at EDSS scores of 5-6), leading to an estimated annual 
loss of 0.24 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) per patient. Relapses for 
patients with an EDSS score below 5 are associated with a cost of around euro 
2.800 and a utility loss of 0.15 during the quarter in which they occur.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-006-0378-6
PMID: 17310343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Sep;7 Suppl 2:S5-13. doi: 10.1007/s10198-006-0365-y.

Costs and quality of life in multiple sclerosis in Europe: method of assessment 
and analysis.

Kobelt G(1), Berg J, Lindgren P, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Lund University, Lund, Sweden. gisela.kobelt@he-europe.com

The objective of this observational study in nine European countries was to 
establish the current cost of MS at different levels of disease severity. The 
study used a prevalence-based bottom-up to estimate costs from a societal 
perspective. Patients were recruited via patient organizations and neurology 
centres and asked by mail to complete a detailed questionnaire concerning their 
resource consumption, work capacity, quality of life and current disease status. 
Resources included all health-care and social services, personal expenditures, 
informal care and temporary or definitive work absence. Quality of life was 
collected as utility and disease information collected related to functional 
capacity, relapses and fatigue. The data were analyzed separately for each 
country, using local unit costs but a fully standardized methodology. A total of 
13 186 patients at all levels of disease severity participated in the survey, 
with an average response rate of around 40% (range 20-75%). This paper describes 
the methodology used for the study, while results are presented in the 
individual country reports.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-006-0365-y
PMID: 17310344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Cancer. 2007 Mar 15;109(6):1011-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22506.

Impact of a 21-gene RT-PCR assay on treatment decisions in early-stage breast 
cancer: an economic analysis based on prognostic and predictive validation 
studies.

Lyman GH(1), Cosler LE, Kuderer NM, Hornberger J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, James P. Wilmot Cancer Center, University of 
Rochester, Rochester, New York 14642, USA. Gary_Lyman@urmc.rochester.edu

BACKGROUND: The prognostic accuracy for distant recurrence-free survival using a 
21-gene reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay underwent 
validation in 668 lymph node-negative, estrogen receptor-positive women with 
early-stage breast cancer receiving tamoxifen on National Surgical Adjuvant 
Breast Program (NSABP) B-14. The predictive accuracy for treatment efficacy also 
underwent validation in 651 patients randomized on NSABP B-20 and 645 patients 
on NSABP B-14.
METHODS: Patients were classified as high (recurrence score [RS] >or= 31), 
intermediate (RS 18-30), or low (RS < 18) risk for distant recurrence at 10 
years. Cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated for RS-guided treatment compared 
with either tamoxifen alone or the combined chemotherapy and tamoxifen.
RESULTS: Distant recurrence was reported in RS low-risk, intermediate-risk, and 
high-risk patients at 10 years in 3.7%, 17.8%, and 38.3% receiving tamoxifen 
alone and 5.0%, 10.1%, and 11.1% receiving the chemotherapy and tamoxifen. 
RS-guided therapy is associated with a gain in individual life expectancy of 2.2 
years compared with tamoxifen alone, whereas it is associated with similar life 
expectancy to that seen with the chemotherapy and tamoxifen strategy. RS-guided 
therapy is estimated to provide a net cost savings of $2256 compared with 
chemotherapy and tamoxifen with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $1944 
per life year saved compared with tamoxifen alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment decisions based on RS-guided therapy compared with 
tamoxifen alone are associated with greater efficacy with acceptable 
cost-effectiveness ratios, and associated with similar efficacy and lower cost 
compared with chemotherapy and tamoxifen for patients with lymph node-negative, 
estrogen receptor-positive early-stage breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22506
PMID: 17311307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Health Econ. 2007 Oct;16(10):1109-26. doi: 10.1002/hec.1213.

Population ageing and health care expenditure: a school of 'red herrings'?

Werblow A(1), Felder S, Zweifel P.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Business Management and Economics, Technical University Dresden, 
Magdeburg, Germany.

This paper revisits the debate on the 'red herring', viz. the claim that 
population ageing will not have a significant impact on health care expenditure 
(HCE). It decomposes HCE into seven components, includes both survivors and 
deceased individuals, and estimates a two-part model of the demand for health 
care services, using a large Swiss data set for 1999. It finds no or weak age 
effects on HCE for the components of HCE when proximity to death is controlled 
for, and points to differences between users and non-users of long-term care 
(LTC). For deceased non-users of LTC services, a falling age curve for all 
components of HCE except for inpatient care is observed, while survivors show a 
weak age effect in ambulatory and inpatient care once proximity to death is 
controlled for. As to surviving users of LTC services, their probability of 
incurring LTC expenses markedly increases in old age, while most of the 
components of their conditional HCE show a decreasing age profile. Thus, a 
'school of red herrings' can be claimed to exist-with the possible exception of 
LTC, where ageing might matter regardless of proximity to death.

John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1213
PMID: 17311357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Biol Lett. 2007 Jun 22;3(3):268-70. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2006.0610.

Bigger teeth for longer life? Longevity and molar height in two roe deer 
populations.

Veiberg V(1), Mysterud A, Gaillard JM, Delorme D, Laere GV, Klein F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Arctic Biology, University Centre in Svalbard, PO Box 156, 9171 
Longyearbyen, Norway.

The role of tooth wear as a proximate cause of senescence in ruminants has 
recently been highlighted. There are two competing hypotheses to explain 
variation in tooth height and wear; the diet-quality hypothesis predicting 
increased wear in low-quality habitats, and the life-history hypothesis 
predicting molar height to be related to expected longevity. We compared tooth 
height and wear from roe deer of known age from two contrasting populations of 
roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) in France: Trois Fontaines (TF) with good habitat 
and shorter animal life expectancy and Chizé (CH) with poor habitat and longer 
animal life expectancy. There was no population difference in tooth wear, 
leading to rejection of the diet-quality hypothesis. However, despite their 
smaller body size, initial molar height for animals from CH was larger than for 
animals from TF. This provides the first evidence that variation in longevity 
between populations can lead to differences in molar height within a species.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2006.0610
PMCID: PMC2464678
PMID: 17311776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Afr J Med Med Sci. 2006 Sep;35(3):365-8.

Ocular health status of subjects with Down's syndrome in Benin City, Nigeria.

Ebeigbe JA(1), Akpalaba R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Optometry, University of Benin, Benin City, Nigeria. 
petedidi2000@yahoo.co.uk

Down's syndrome is the commonest cause of mental retardation worldwide. In 
Nigeria, persons with Down's syndrome remain largely stigmatised and neglected. 
There is a dearth of literature on the ocular health status of Nigerian subjects 
with Down's syndrome. To determine the ocular health status of Nigerian subjects 
with Down's syndrome in 4 special schools in Benin City, Nigeria, one hundred 
and forty four subjects with Down's syndrome had external ocular examination, 
visual acuity testing and Ophthalmoscopy in a school setting. Majority of the 
subjects had poor visual acuity of 6/18 or worse (59.0%), in at least one eye. 
There was a high incidence of refractive errors. Hyperopia was present in 29.2% 
of subjects; Astigmatism 22.2%; Myopia 6.3%; Strabismus 18.1%; Nystagmus 4.2% 
and cataracts in 2.8%. Liberal early use of corrective lenses is advocated in 
persons with Down's syndrome. Community based enlightenment programmes to 
encourage parents of children with Down's syndrome to bring their children for 
ocular examination early, preferably in infancy, and to enrol the children in a 
continuous ocular screening programme need be put in place. This will go a long 
way in improving their intellectual abilities, quality of life and life 
expectancy.

PMID: 17312746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Immunology. 2007 Apr;120(4):435-46. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2567.2007.02555.x.
Epub  2007 Feb 15.

Immunosenescence: emerging challenges for an ageing population.

Aw D(1), Silva AB, Palmer DB.

Author information:
(1)Royal Veterinary College, Host Response and Genes and Development Group, 
Department of Veterinary Basic Sciences, Royal College Street, London, United 
Kingdom.

It is now becoming apparent that the immune system undergoes age-associated 
alterations, which accumulate to produce a progressive deterioration in the 
ability to respond to infections and to develop immunity after vaccination, both 
of which are associated with a higher mortality rate in the elderly. 
Immunosenescence, defined as the changes in the immune system associated with 
age, has been gathering interest in the scientific and health-care sectors 
alike. The rise in its recognition is both pertinent and timely given the 
increasing average age and the corresponding failure to increase healthy life 
expectancy. This review attempts to highlight the age-dependent defects in the 
innate and adaptive immune systems. While discussing the mechanisms that 
contribute to immunosenescence, with emphasis on the extrinsic factors, 
particular attention will be focused on thymic involution. Finally, we 
illuminate potential therapies that could be employed to help us live a longer, 
fuller and healthier life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2567.2007.02555.x
PMCID: PMC2265901
PMID: 17313487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Nov;40(6):405-8.

[Analysis of mortality trend of cancer from 1980 to 2002 in Linqu County 
Shandong Province].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma JL(1), Liu WD, Zhang L, Feng GS, Zhao HJ, You WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Oncology, Peking University, Beijing 
100036, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the trend of total cancer mortality in Linqu County 
Shandong Province from 1980 to 2002.
METHODS: A retrospective survey on all causes of death in 1980 - 1982, 1990 - 
1992 and 2000 - 2002 was conducted in Linqu County, a high risk area of gastric 
cancer in Northeast of China, respectively.
RESULTS: The cancer death, was found the third leading cause of death in 1980 - 
1982 in Linqu County, and the second to that of vascular disease in 2000 - 2002. 
The cancer mortality (standardized mortality) was 108.97/100,000 
(111.48/100,000), 132.38/100,000 (127.94/100,000) and 148.48/100,000 
(105.53/100,000) in 1980 - 1982, 1990 - 1992 and 2000 - 2002, respectively. The 
trend of cancer mortality was significantly increased (Z = 13.42, P < 0.0001). 
The added cancer-eliminated life expectancy in three periods was 2.46 years, 
3.29 years and 3.76 years in male (F = 13.99, P < 0.0001), and 1.67 years, 2.30 
and 2.33 years in female (F = 13.61, P < 0.0001), respectively. The standardized 
mortality of gastric cancer (percentage in all cancer death) was 44.93/100,000 
(40.29%), 41.37/100,000 (32.34%) and 27.73/100,000 (26.90%) in 1980 - 1982, 1990 
- 1992 and 2000 - 2002, respectively. The trend of gastric cancer standardized 
mortality was significantly reduced (Z = 6.35, P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The mortality of cancer in Linqu County has been increased from 1980 
to 2002, but no such trend was found after adjusting ages. However, there was a 
decreased trend on standardized mortality of gastric cancer in the past 20 
years.

PMID: 17313740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Ugeskr Laeger. 2007 Feb 19;169(8):721-4.

[Methods for cost-effectiveness evaluation of intensive care].

[Article in Danish]

Heslet L(1), Andersen JS, Keiding H.

Author information:
(1)Rigshospitalet, Intensiv Terapiafdeling ITA 4131, København Ø. 
heslet@image.dk

Intensive care costs are a challenge to the health care system. Because of a 
political strategy aiming at competition as well as the documentation of 
treatment quality, cost-effectiveness evaluations are important in order to 
clarify the association between quality and the costs of treating critically-ill 
patients. The context of cost-effect analyses is important. Most studies apply 
the hospital's perspective based on surrogate markers such as organ failure and 
length of stay as a replacement for health status evaluation in the context of 
society. The treatment of critically-ill patients aims at improved health. 
Cost-effectiveness analyses should therefore include quality variables in that 
the healthcare system is an integral and inseparable part of society.

PMID: 17313927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Cancer Lett. 2007 Aug 18;253(2):180-204. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2006.12.014.
Epub  2007 Feb 20.

Circulating tumor cells (CTC) detection: clinical impact and future directions.

Paterlini-Brechot P(1), Benali NL.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, Unité 807, Paris, F-75730 France. paterlini@necker.fr

Recent molecular and clinical studies have shown that invasion may occur very 
early in tumor development, thus emphasizing the potential importance of 
specific and sensitive detection of circulating tumor cells (CTC) and 
circulating tumor microemboli (CTM). The technical challenge in this field 
consists of finding "rare" tumor cells (just a few CTCs mixed with the 
approximately 10 million leukocytes and 5 billion erythrocytes in 1ml of blood) 
and being able to distinguish them from epithelial non-tumor cells and 
leukocytes. Many recent studies have discussed the clinical impact of detecting 
CTC/CTM. Although conflicting results have been obtained, these studies suggest 
the vast potential of CTC/CTM detection in cancer prognosis and follow up. 
However, the variable technical approaches which were used, as well as the 
number of millilitres of blood analyzed, the quality of sensitivity and 
specificity tests, the number of patients versus controls and the data 
interpretation make it very difficult to draw firm conclusions. A particularly 
important recent finding is that invasive tumor cells tend to loose their 
epithelial antigens by the epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) process. 
Furthermore, it is known that non-tumor epithelial cells can also be present in 
blood. Thus, it appears that a reliable diagnostic identification of CTC and CTM 
cannot be based on the expression of epithelial-specific transcripts or 
antigens. Cytopathological examination of CTC/CTM, sensitively enriched from 
blood, represents a potentially useful alternative and can now be employed in 
routine analyses as a specific diagnostic assay, and be tested in large, blind, 
multicenter clinical trials. This basic approach can be complemented by 
immunological and molecular studies for further characterization of CTC/CTM and 
of their malignant potential. This review is aimed at helping oncologists 
critically evaluate past and future research work in this field. The interest in 
development and assessment of this noninvasive marker should lead to more 
effective and better tailored anticancer treatments for individual patients, 
thus resulting in their improved life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2006.12.014
PMID: 17314005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Am J Nurs. 2007 Mar;107(3):75-7, 79. doi: 10.1097/00000446-200703000-00038.

The Cuban paradox.

Birch SE(1), Norlander L.

Author information:
(1)Northwest Colorado Visiting Nurse Association, Steamboat Springs, CO, USA. 
sbirch@nwcovna.org

DOI: 10.1097/00000446-200703000-00038
PMID: 17314570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2005;1(2):163-9. doi: 10.2147/vhrm.1.2.163.64086.

Treatment of high blood pressure and gain in event-free life expectancy.

Kassaï B(1), Boissel JP, Cucherat M, Boutitie F, Gueyffier F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Claude Bernard University, Lyon, France. 
bk@ucpl.univ-lyon1.fr

OBJECTIVE: Consideration of absolute risk has been recommended for making 
decisions concerning preventive treatment in hypertension. We performed 
simulations to estimate the benefit of antihypertensive therapy over a 
life-time.
METHODOLOGY: The rate of nonfatal and fatal events of untreated hypertensives in 
the US population were estimated using data from Individual Data ANalysis of 
Antihypertensive drug intervention trials (INDANA; a meta-analysis on individual 
data in hypertension) and specific cause of death from national statistics. 
Disease-free survival curves until all patients have died were built using the 
"life-table" method. The treatment effect estimated from INDANA was applied to 
this curve to obtain the disease-free survival curve of the life-long treated 
population. Gains in event-free life expectancy (GLE) were estimated from 
survival curves. A sensitivity analysis was performed to assess the impact of 
possible death misclassifications.
RESULTS: For a 40-year-old man, the gain in life expectancy without stroke and 
major cardiovascular events were 27 and 32 months, respectively, and were more 
substantial than those without coronary disease (19 months). The GLE decreased 
slowly with increasing age at the beginning of treatment, whereas short-term 
absolute risk reductions increase sharply with age.
CONCLUSIONS: Policies based on the selection of patients to treat according to 
absolute benefit do not maximize the GLE compared with strategies that treat 
low-risk patients.

DOI: 10.2147/vhrm.1.2.163.64086
PMCID: PMC1993937
PMID: 17315403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Health Serv J. 2007 Jan 4;117(6037):17.

On national and local tensions.

Christie S(1).

Author information:
(1)Birmingham East and North PCT.

PMID: 17315578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2006 Oct;20(4):273-86. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892006000900013.

[Chile: social protection in health].

[Article in Spanish]

Urriola R(1).

Author information:
(1)FONASA, Monjitas 665, Santiago, Chile. rurriola@fonasa.cl

This piece begins with a brief discussion of the concepts leading to the social 
right to health protection. Special emphasis is placed on the principle of 
social cohesion, which has influenced social health protection in European 
countries. Chile's experience in this field from the 1990s to the present is 
described, as exemplified in three dimensions. In the first place, social 
security coverage is presented as a means to achieve universal (horizontal) 
coverage. A discussion follows on vertical coverage, where the author identifies 
health problems for which insured persons have guaranteed rights of access to 
medical care. This section describes available emergency care, primary health 
care, and the special plan for Universal Access to Explicit Guarantees (Acceso 
Universal de Garantías Explícitas de salud, or AUGE). Thirdly, the discussion 
covers the funding sources supporting the Chilean health care system: Government 
subsidies, contributions to social security, and out-of-pocket disbursements for 
private care. Chile's public health system has various special programs. One of 
them is catastrophic insurance, which covers 100% of the care needed for complex 
and very costly treatments. Older persons (over 65) have coverage for 100% of 
the cost of eyeglasses and hearing aids, and for 50% of the cost of home care. 
If life expectancy is an appropriate indicator of health system results, it is 
worth noting that Chile and the United States of America have both achieved a 
life expectancy of 77 years, even though Chile spends only 5.9% of its gross 
domestic product on health care, as compared to the 15% spent by the United 
States.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892006000900013
PMID: 17316485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Eur J Health Econ. 2006 Sep;7 Suppl 2:S24-33. doi:
10.1007/s10198-006-0377-7.

Costs and quality of life for patients with multiple sclerosis in Belgium.

Kobelt G(1).

Author information:
(1)Lund University, Lund, Sweden. gisela.kobelt@he-europe.com

This cost-of-illness analysis for Belgium is part of a Europe-wide study on the 
costs of multiple sclerosis (MS). The objective was to analyze the costs and 
quality of life (QOL) related to the level of disease severity. Patients from 
four specialized MS centres participated in the survey by answering a mail 
questionnaire. In addition to details on the disease (type of disease, relapses, 
level of functional disability), the questionnaire asked for information on all 
medical and non-medical resource consumption, sick leave, early retirement, 
informal care as well as QOL (in the form of utility weights). A total of 799 
respondents were included in the analysis (response rate 38%). The mean age of 
the cohort was 48 years, and 12% of patients were 65 years or older. Forty-six 
percent of patients had mild disease (Expanded Disability Status Scale [EDSS] 
score 0-3), 20% severe disease (EDSS score > or =7), and the mean EDSS score in 
the sample was 4.2 (median 4.0), with a utility of 0.51. Costs and utility are 
highly correlated with disease severity. Workforce participation decreases from 
approximately 75 to 80% in early disease to approximately 6% in the very late 
stages. Hospitalization and ambulatory visits increase by a factor of 10 between 
early and late disease; investments and services increase from basically no cost 
to euro 6.000 to euro 7.000 per year; productivity losses increase ninefold; and 
informal care increases from euro 300 per year at an EDSS score of 0-1 to euro 
15.000 to euro 16.000 per year at an EDSS score > or =7. Hence, total mean costs 
per patient are driven essentially by the distribution of the severity levels in 
the sample, increasing from approximately euro 12.000 per year at an EDSS score 
of 0-1 to euro 51.500 per year at an EDSS score of 8-9. The same is true for 
utility, which decreases from 0.85 to 0.06 as the disease becomes severe. 
However, the utility loss compared to the general population is high at all 
levels of the disease (0.25 at an EDSS score of 2 to 0.44 at an EDSS score 5-6 
leading to an estimated loss of 0.3 quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) per 
patient. Relapses for patients with an EDSS score < 5 are associated with a cost 
of approximately euro 3.360 and a utility loss of 0.1 during the quarter in 
which they occur. Public payers (health-care costs, community care, sick 
payments and invalidity pensions) cover an estimated 55% of all costs.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-006-0377-7
PMID: 17318662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Aust Nurs J. 2007 Feb;14(7):21-4.

A call to action. Health equality for Indigenous Australians.

Dragon N.

PMID: 17319183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2006;2(2):139-44. doi: 10.2147/vhrm.2006.2.2.139.

The use of metoprolol CR/XL in the treatment of patients with diabetes and 
chronic heart failure.

De Freitas O(1), Lenz O, Fornoni A, Materson BJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Department of Medicine, Miller 
School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, Florida 33131, USA.

About 5 million Americans suffer from heart failure. Given the correlation of 
heart failure with age and the rising life expectancy, the prevalence of heart 
failure continues to increase in the general population. Sympathetic stimulation 
intensifies with progressive heart failure. The rationale to use beta-blockers 
in individuals with impaired myocardial function is based on experimental 
evidence supporting the notion that prolonged alpha- and beta-adrenergic 
stimulation leads to worsening heart failure. Until recently, safety concerns 
have precluded the use of beta-blockers in patients with diabetes and heart 
failure. However, several large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials 
such as Metoprolol Randomized Intervention Trial in Congestive Heart Failure 
(MERIT-HF) have shown that beta-blockers can be safely used in patients with 
diabetes and heart failure. Moreover, beta-blockers significantly improved 
morbidity and mortality in this population. Based on this evidence, it is now 
recommended to add beta-blockers such as metoprolol CR/XL with an escalating 
dosage regimen to the treatment of patients with symptomatic heart failure who 
already are receiving a stable medical regimen including angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, diuretics, vasodilators, or 
digitalis.

DOI: 10.2147/vhrm.2006.2.2.139
PMCID: PMC1994002
PMID: 17319457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Epilepsia. 2007 May;48(5):990-1001. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2007.00981.x.
Epub  2007 Feb 23.

Cross-country measures for monitoring epilepsy care.

Begley CE(1), Baker GA, Beghi E, Butler J, Chisholm D, Langfitt JT, Levy P, 
Pachlatko C, Wiebe S, Donaldson KL; ILAE Commission on Healthcare Policy.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Texas 77030, USA. 
charles.e.begley@uth.tmc.edu

PURPOSE: The International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) Commission on 
Healthcare Policy in consultation with the World Health Organization (WHO) 
examined the applicability and usefulness of various measures for monitoring 
epilepsy healthcare services and systems across countries. The goal is to 
provide planners and policymakers with tools to analyze the impact of healthcare 
services and systems and evaluate efforts to improve performance.
METHODS: Commission members conducted a systematic literature review and 
consulted with experts to assess the nature, strengths, and limitations of the 
treatment gap and resource availability measures that are currently used to 
assess the adequacy of epilepsy care. We also conducted a pilot study to 
determine the feasibility and applicability of using new measures to assess 
epilepsy care developed by the WHO including Disability-Adjusted Life Years 
(DALYs), responsiveness, and financial fairness.
RESULTS: The existing measures that are frequently used to assess the adequacy 
of epilepsy care focus on structural or process factors whose relationship to 
outcomes are indirect and may vary across regions. The WHO measures are 
conceptually superior because of their breadth and connection to articulated and 
agreed upon outcomes for health systems. However, the WHO measures require data 
that are not readily available in developing countries and most developed 
countries as well.
CONCLUSION: The epilepsy field should consider adopting the WHO measures in 
country assessments of epilepsy burden and healthcare performance whenever data 
permit. Efforts should be made to develop the data elements to estimate the 
measures.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2007.00981.x
PMID: 17319922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Mar;133(3):601-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.04.027.

The cost and value of cardiothoracic procedures.

Starr A, Grunkemeier GL.

Comment on
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Mar;133(3):603-7.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Mar;133(3):608-13.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.04.027
PMID: 17320550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Mar;133(3):603-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.08.042.

The value of aortic valve replacement in elderly patients: an economic analysis.

Wu Y(1), Grunkemeier GL, Starr A.

Author information:
(1)Providence Heart and Vascular Institute, Providence Health System, Portland, 
Ore 97225, USA. yingxing.wu@providence.org

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Mar;133(3):601-2.

OBJECTIVE: Economists have designed frameworks to measure the economic value of 
improvements in health and longevity. Heart valve replacement surgery has 
significantly prolonged life expectancy and quality of life. For the example of 
aortic valve replacement, what is its economic value according to this 
framework?
METHODS: From 1961 through 2003, a total of 4617 adult patients underwent aortic 
valve replacement by one team of cardiac surgeons. These patients were provided 
with a prospective lifetime follow-up service. As of 2005, observed follow-up 
was 31,671 patient-years, with a maximum of 41 years. A statistical model was 
used to generate the future life-years of patients currently alive. The value of 
life-years proposed by economists was applied to determine the economic value of 
the additional life given to these patients by aortic valve replacement.
RESULTS: The total life-years after aortic valve replacement were 53,323, with a 
gross value of 14.6 billion dollars. The total expected life-years without 
surgery were 10,157, with an estimated value of 3.0 billion dollars. Thus the 
net life-years gained by AVR were 43,166, worth 11.6 billion dollars. 
Subtracting the 451 million dollars total lifetime cost of surgery, the net 
value of the life-years gained by AVR was 11.2 billion dollars. The mean net 
value decreases according to age at surgery but is still worth 600,000 dollars 
for octogenarians and 200,000 dollars for nonagenarians.
CONCLUSION: According to the economic concept of the value of a statistical 
life, the return on the investment for aortic valve replacement is enormous for 
patients of all ages, even very elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.08.042
PMID: 17320551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Mar;133(3):608-13. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.10.044.

Cost-effectiveness of aortic valve replacement in the elderly: an introductory 
study.

Wu Y(1), Jin R, Gao G, Grunkemeier GL, Starr A.

Author information:
(1)Providence Heart and Vascular Institute, Providence Health System, Portland, 
Ore 97225, USA. yingxing.wu@providence.org

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Mar;133(3):601-2.

OBJECTIVE: With increased life expectancy and improved technology, valve 
replacement is being offered to increasing numbers of elderly patients with 
satisfactory clinical results. By using standard econometric techniques, we 
estimated the relative cost-effectiveness of aortic valve replacement by drawing 
on a large prospective database at our institution. By using aortic valve 
replacement as an example, this introductory report paves the way to more 
definitive studies of these issues in the future.
METHODS: From 1961 to 2003, 4617 adult patients underwent aortic valve 
replacement at our service. These patients were provided with a prospective 
lifetime follow-up. As of 2005, these patients had accumulated 31,671 
patient-years of follow-up (maximum 41 years) and had returned 22,396 yearly 
questionnaires. A statistical model was used to estimate the future life years 
of patients who are currently alive. In the absence of direct estimates of 
utility, quality-adjusted life years were estimated from New York Heart 
Association class. The cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated by the patient's 
age at surgery.
RESULTS: The overall cost-effectiveness ratio was approximately 13,528 dollars 
per quality-adjusted life year gained. The cost-effectiveness ratio increased 
according to age at surgery, up to 19,826 dollars per quality-adjusted life year 
for octogenarians and 27,182 dollars per quality-adjusted life year for 
nonagenarians.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the limited scope of this introductory study, aortic valve 
replacement is cost-effective for all age groups and is very cost-effective for 
all but the most elderly according to standard econometric rules of thumb.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.10.044
PMID: 17320552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Ophthalmology. 2007 Jun;114(6):1170-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.09.019.
Epub  2007 Feb 23.

A value-based medicine comparison of interventions for subfoveal neovascular 
macular degeneration.

Brown GC(1), Brown MM, Brown HC, Kindermann S, Sharma S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-Based Medicine, Flourtown, Pennsylvania 19031, USA. 
gbrown@valuebasedmedicine.com

OBJECTIVE: To perform a value-based medicine analysis of clinical trials that 
evaluate the interventions of laser photocoagulation, intravitreal pegaptanib 
therapy, and photodynamic therapy (PDT) with verteporfin for the treatment of 
classic subfoveal choroidal neovascularization.
DESIGN: Reference case cost-utility analysis using value-based medicine 
principles, which use patient-based utility values and standardized, input 
variable criteria.
PARTICIPANTS: Data from participants in the Macular Photocoagulation Study, 
Pegaptanib for Neovascular Age-Related Macular Degeneration Study, and the 
Treatment of Age-Related Macular Degeneration with Photodynamic Therapy Study.
METHODS: Visual data were converted to a value-based format using time tradeoff 
utility analysis values from patients with macular degeneration. Costs were 
obtained from 2005 Medicare data. Outcomes (quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) 
and costs were discounted at a 3% annual rate.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Interventional QALYs gained, percent improvement in 
quality of life, and dollars spent per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Laser photocoagulation confers a 4.4% (P = 0.03 versus pegaptanib 
therapy) improvement in quality of life for the reference case, whereas 
pegaptanib therapy confers a 5.9% improvement and PDT confers an 8.1% (P = 
0.0002 versus pegaptanib therapy) improvement. The cost-utility associated with 
laser photocoagulation is $8179, that for pegaptanib therapy is $66978, and that 
for PDT is $31544. All sensitivity analyses remain within the conventional 
standards of cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Photodynamic therapy confers greater patient value than 
intravitreal pegaptanib therapy and laser photocoagulation for the treatment of 
classic subfoveal choroidal neovascularization. Despite the fact that laser 
photocoagulation is the most cost-effective intervention, both PDT and 
pegaptanib therapy deliver greater value, and thus are both preferred over laser 
photocoagulation. Using an economic measure, photodynamic therapy is the 
preferred treatment among these 3 interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.09.019
PMID: 17320964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Lancet. 2007 Feb 24;369(9562):708-13. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60323-7.

Male circumcision and HIV/AIDS: challenges and opportunities.

Sawires SR(1), Dworkin SL, Fiamma A, Peacock D, Szekeres G, Coates TJ.

Author information:
(1)AIDS Policy Development Center, UCLA Program in Global Health, Division of 
Infectious Diseases, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA. SSawires@mednet.ucla.edu

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60323-7
PMCID: PMC4096793
PMID: 17321321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2007 Feb;55(1):3-11. doi: 
10.1016/j.respe.2006.12.001.

Describing socioeconomic inequalities in health in European countries: an 
overview of recent studies.

Kunst AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. a.kunst@erasmusmc.nl

Many studies have documented, for all European populations for which data are 
available, that people from lower socioeconomic groups have shorter lives and 
more often suffer from health problems. The reduction of socioeconomic 
inequalities in health is an important challenge for health policies. 
Descriptive research is important to inform these policies, together with 
explanatory and interventions research. The specific challenges of descriptive 
research are (a) to document health inequalities for populations, places, and 
periods not yet covered by previous studies, (b) to move from generic health 
measures to disease-specific health outcomes, (c) to document inequalities in 
specific risk factors such as smoking, and (d) to apply improved measures of 
socioeconomic position. For each area, this paper gives a brief overview of 
recent progress made in descriptive studies at European level. The illustrations 
in this paper showed how existing data sources could be used to describe 
socioeconomic inequalities in health, and how new insights can be obtained by 
applying innovative methods. Further descriptive work should aim to identify 
priority areas for explanatory and intervention studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.respe.2006.12.001
PMID: 17321711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Microbiology (Reading). 2007 Mar;153(Pt 3):701-710. doi: 
10.1099/mic.0.2006/002253-0.

Regulation of the kduID operon of Bacillus subtilis by the KdgR repressor and 
the ccpA gene: identification of two KdgR-binding sites within the kdgR-kduI 
intergenic region.

Lin JS(1), Shaw GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Life Science, 
National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Transcription of the Bacillus subtilis kdgRKAT operon, which comprises genes 
involved in the late stage of galacturonate utilization, is known to be 
negatively regulated by the KdgR repressor. In this study, Northern analysis was 
carried out to demonstrate that the kdgR gene also negatively regulates the 
kduID operon, encoding ketodeoxyuronate isomerase and ketodeoxygluconate 
reductase. It has also been demonstrated that expression of the kduID operon can 
be induced by galacturonate and is subject to catabolite repression by glucose. 
The ccpA gene was found to be involved in this catabolite repression. Primer 
extension analysis identified a sigma(A)-like promoter sequence preceding kduI. 
Gel mobility shift assays and DNase I footprinting analyses indicated that KdgR 
is capable of binding specifically to two sites within the kdgR-kduI intergenic 
region in vitro. Reporter gene analysis revealed that these two KdgR-binding 
sites function in vivo. One site is centred 33.5 bp upstream of the 
translational start site of kdgR and can serve as an operator for controlling 
expression of the kdgRKAT operon. The other is centred 57.5 bp upstream of the 
translational start site of kduI and can serve as an operator for controlling 
expression of the kduID operon. Possible physiological significance of this 
regulation is discussed.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.2006/002253-0
PMID: 17322190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Orthopade. 2007 Mar;36(3):281-90; quiz 291. doi: 10.1007/s00132-007-1044-0.

[Congenital multiple arthrogryposis].

[Article in German]

Parsch K(1), Pietrzak S.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik, Klinik am Olgahospital, stuttgart. kparsch@t-online.de

From 1975 to 2004 a total of 38 children handicapped by congenital multiple 
arthrogryposis were cared for. The congenital joint contractures demand a major 
effort in terms of surgical reconstruction. In the case of distal arthrogryposis 
the chances that patients will be able to walk without help are good, while 
those with amyoplasia are likely to be dependent on mobility aids throughout 
their lives. The ultimate goal of treatment for patients is to develop into 
self-confident adults who can cope with life despite their handicaps. The hip in 
arthrogryposis shows variable forms of pathology, ranging from the almost normal 
hip to hip contractures with dislocation. Its treatment has some limited 
advantages, but hardly improves mobility. The knee contractures are actively 
treated to allow patients to sit, stand and walk better. The club foot and the 
rocker-bottom foot need sophisticated conservative and operative treatments. If 
conservative manipulation of bilateral extension contractures of the elbow fails 
operative treatment is carried out on the dominant side. For shoulder, hand and 
finger contractures conservative manipulation brings about little improvement, 
and surgical approaches help hardly at all.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-007-1044-0
PMID: 17323063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2007 Aug;133(2):126-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejogrb.2007.01.006. Epub 2007 Feb 26.

Why do women live longer than men?

Eskes T(1), Haanen C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, University Medical Centre 6500 HB Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. tkabeskes@hotmail.com

Factors responsible for the gender difference in life-span being 4-5 years in 
favor of women were investigated. Cardiovascular risks are responsible for a 
five times higher mortality and three times higher morbidity in men compared 
with women. Genetics demonstrate marked gender differences in chromosomal 
constitution and female preponderance of the life-guard telomeres on chromosomes 
during mitotic cell division. This difference, however, cannot explain the 
gender gap fully. Endogenous estradiol - acting in picomoles - provokes marked 
cardiovascular changes. Cardiac output increases around 20% during the second 
half of the menstrual cycle and in pregnancy. This continuous biological 
challenge during the reproductive years creates optimal cardiovascular 
compliance comparable to the effects of exercise. The "jogging female heart" may 
explain the lower incidence of cardiovascular disease before menopause and the 
equalization after the menopause.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejogrb.2007.01.006
PMID: 17324494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Hematology. 2006 Jun;11(3):197-202. doi: 10.1080/10245330600702851.

Unbalanced bone turnover in children with beta-thalassemia.

Salama OS(1), Al-Tonbary YA, Shahin RA, Eldeen OA.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pathology Department, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.

The life expectancy of patients with thalassemia has greatly improved over the 
last decade as a result of regular transfusions and increased compliance with 
iron chelation therapy, however, this improvement is often accompanied by a 
series of serious complications including osteopenia and osteoporosis. The 
pathogenesis of these skeletal disorders is multifactorial which may be due to 
hormonal deficiency, compromised nutritional status, bone marrow expansion due 
to erythroid hyperplasia, increased iron stores or desferrioxamine toxicity. The 
non invasive assessment of bone turnover has markedly improved with the 
development of specific and sensitive markers of bone formation. The aim of this 
work is to assess the value of bone formation markers in patients with 
beta-thalassemia. To achieve this goal, 36 patients with thalassemia were 
recruited in this study. There were 20 males (56.6%) and 16 females (44.4%) and 
their ages ranged from 3 to 18 years. A control group of 20 apparently healthy 
subjects of matched age and sex was used. The patients were selected from the 
outpatient clinic and inpatients of the Hematology/Oncology Unit of Mansoura 
University Children's Hospital (MUCH). The selected subjects were subjected to 
thorough history taking, clinical examination, radiological evaluation and 
laboratory investigations in the form of: complete blood count, serum iron, 
serum ferritin, total iron binding capacity, serum calcium, serum phosphorus and 
estimation of bone formation markers as alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin. 
The results were as follows: serum calcium level was within normal range and 
showed no statistical significance (p = 0.176) when compared to the control 
group, while serum phosphorus level was significantly higher in thalassemic 
patients than the controls (p = 0.002); this may reflect hypoparathyroidism. 
Analysis of the level of bone formation markers showed serum alkaline 
phosphatase levels slightly higher in patients than controls but not significant 
(p = 0.055), and this elevation can be referred to associated liver disease in 
these patients. On the other hand, osteocalcin level was significantly lower in 
patients than controls (p = 0.011), and this may be due to osteoblast poisoning 
by iron overload. In conclusion, thalassemic patients have unbalanced bone 
turnover between the bone formation and resorption markers and this is evidenced 
by non significant changes or decreased levels of bone formation markers, while 
bone resorption is an active process.

DOI: 10.1080/10245330600702851
PMID: 17325962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. PLoS Med. 2007 Feb;4(2):e84. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0040084.

"The right stuff": the global burden of disease.

Olusanya BO.

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 3:e512.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0040084
PMCID: PMC1808104
PMID: 17326716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


175. Int J STD AIDS. 2007 Jan;18(1):1-6. doi: 10.1258/095646207779949871.

HIV infection and subfertility.

Waters L(1), Gilling-Smith C, Boag F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genitourinary Medicine, St Stephen's Centre, London, UK. 
laura.waters@chelwest.nhs.uk

With the improvements in life expectancy and quality of life for HIV-infected 
individuals in the developed world, and the increasing rates of HIV transmission 
