Dual priming oligonucleotide system for the multiplex detection of respiratory 
viruses and SNP genotyping of CYP2C19 gene.

Chun JY(1), Kim KJ, Hwang IT, Kim YJ, Lee DH, Lee IK, Kim JK.

Author information:
(1)Seegene Institute of Life Science, 65-5 Bangyi-dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul 
138-050, South Korea. chun@seegene.com

Successful PCR starts with proper priming between an oligonucleotide primer and 
the template DNA. However, the inevitable risk of mismatched priming cannot be 
avoided in the currently used primer system, even though considerable time and 
effort are devoted to primer design and optimization of reaction conditions. 
Here, we report a novel dual priming oligonucleotide (DPO) which contains two 
separate priming regions joined by a polydeoxyinosine linker. The linker assumes 
a bubble-like structure which itself is not involved in priming, but rather 
delineates the boundary between the two parts of the primer. This structure 
results in two primer segments with distinct annealing properties: a longer 
5'-segment that initiates stable priming, and a short 3'-segment that determines 
target-specific extension. This DPO-based system is a fundamental tool for 
blocking extension of non-specifically primed templates, and thereby generates 
consistently high PCR specificity even under less than optimal PCR conditions. 
The strength and utility of the DPO system are demonstrated here using multiplex 
PCR and SNP genotyping PCR.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkm051
PMCID: PMC1874606
PMID: 17287288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Minerva Chir. 2007 Feb;62(1):69-72.

[Late complication after colon self-expandable metal stent placement: a case 
report].

[Article in Italian]

Pericoli Ridolfini M(1), Sofo L, Di Giorgio A, Gourgiotis S, Di Miceli D, 
Alfieri S, Doglietto GB.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Chirurgia Digestiva, Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche, Università 
Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Policlinico A. Gemelli, 9 Piano, ala B, Largo A. 
Gemelli 8, 00168 Rome, Italy. marcoprmed@libero.it

Treatment of acute colorectal malignant obstruction, by using self-expandable 
metallic stents is useful for both palliative and decompressive therapy before 
the final surgical treatment. In this case, the patient may be benefit from a 
period of medical optimization prior to undergoing planned surgical resection by 
a colorectal surgeon. This is a minimally invasive procedure, relatively safe, 
which obviates the need for colostomy for evacuation relieving physical and 
psychological burden and contributing the improvement of quality of life. 
Furthermore, this method also has the advantage of being cost-effective. The 
previous experience in the benign biliary stenosis allowed the extension of 
using the metallic stents also for the treatment of benign colorectal diseases 
(diverticular occlusion, anastomotic strictures, colonic endometriosis). 
Complications of colon self-expandable metallic stents placement may occur 
during the procedure and soon after placement (early complications) or, rarely, 
late after insertion (late complications). These include bleeding, 
re-obstruction, pain, tenesmus, stent migration, and perforation. The authors 
report a case of an 81 year-old woman with inoperable rectal carcinoma with 
liver metastasis who underwent palliative treatment of self-expanding metallic 
stent endoscopic placement. One month later, the patient presented with acute 
abdomen at Accidents and Emergencies Department. The diagnosis was a late 
rectosigmoid junction perforation by stent placement.

PMID: 17287698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Przegl Lek. 2006;63(10):1095-8.

[Subjective and objective health status ex-smokers among elderly persons. CINDI 
WHO survey].

[Article in Polish]

Suwała M(1), Drygas W, Gerstenkorn A.

Author information:
(1)Katedra Medycyny Społecznej i Zapobiegawczej Uniwersytetu Medycznego w Lodzi.

Smoking tobacco increases the risk of numerous diseases as well as death due to 
tumours, cardiovascular and respiratory system diseases. It has been estimated 
that one of three smokers will die prematurely because of complications induced 
by smoking tobacco. Quitting smoking after turning 65 years old decreases the 
risk of chronic diseases and increases the estimated life expectancy. The aim of 
the research conducted within CINDI WHO Programme is exploring the influence of 
quitting smoking on subjective health perception and its objective condition 
among people of 65 and older depending on demographic and social factors as well 
as analysis of the reasons for quitting smoking by long-time tobacco smokers. 
The research included a group of 828 people of 65 years old and older living in 
an urban population. 10.7% of the senior citizen group were ex-smokers. Men more 
frequently than women quit smoking. A vast majority of ex-smokers (87.4%) quit 
before turning 65, however, 12.6% did it when they are above that age. The 
average age of quitting smoking was 45.9 +/- 15.8 years and the average smoking 
period was 26.9 +/- 15 years. The motivation for quitting smoking was mainly 
health reasons. Only 1/3 of ex-smokers assessed their health condition as poor 
or rather poor in spite of frequent risk factors such as hypertension, type 2 
diabetes, obesity, lipid disorders.

PMID: 17288227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Feb;23(2):251-8. doi: 10.1185/030079907X159498.

Cost-utility comparison of escitalopram and sertraline in the treatment of major 
depressive disorder.

Armstrong EP(1), Skrepnek GH, Haim Erder M.

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona College of Pharmacy, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA. 
Armstrong@pharmacy.arizona.edu

OBJECTIVE: To construct a cost-utility model comparing escitalopram with 
sertraline in the treatment of major depressive disorders.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was created to compare the cost-utility of 
these two antidepressants from the perspective of a managed-care organization. 
The model was designed to compare 10-20 mg/day of escitalopram to 50-200 mg/day 
of sertraline. Benefits (utility) scores were calculated based on clinical and 
utility data obtained from the literature. Direct medical costs included costs 
of the antidepressants, titration, treatment failures, and adverse events. Costs 
and benefits were modeled for a 6-month period and the model was subjected to 
thorough sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The estimated 6-month total cost was 919 dollars for escitalopram and 
1351 dollars for sertraline. The estimated QALYs were 0.40296 for escitalopram 
and 0.39268 for sertraline. These differences were mostly due to differences in 
drug acquisition costs and adverse events. The robustness of the cost-utility 
model results were tested in a Monte Carlo simulation of 10 000 patients and it 
indicated an 88.5% probability that escitalopram was the dominant therapy, 
suggesting both lower costs and greater QALYs.
CONCLUSION: This cost-utility model that incorporated the costs of titration and 
impact of side-effects comparing escitalopram 10-20 mg per day and sertraline 
50-200 mg per day shows that escitalopram appeared to be less costly and 
produced efficacy (utility) at least as good as and maybe slightly better than 
that of sertraline.

DOI: 10.1185/030079907X159498
PMID: 17288678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Feb;23(2):357-68. doi: 10.1185/030079906X167282.

Erythropoietic therapy for the treatment of anemia in patients with cancer: a 
valuable clinical and economic option.

Cornes P(1), Coiffier B, Zambrowski JJ.

Author information:
(1)Bristol Haematology & Oncology Centre, Horfield Road, Bristol, UK. 
paul.cornes@ubht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Healthcare organizations must evaluate the cost effectiveness of the 
alternative therapies that are available to treat anemia and improve quality of 
life (QoL) of patients with cancer, that is, erythropoietic protein therapy and 
blood transfusion.
METHODS: Pharmacoeconomic studies that evaluated the cost of not treating anemia 
or treating with transfusion or erythropoietic protein therapy were reviewed and 
compared. Studies of individual erythropoietic proteins (epoetin alfa, epoetin 
beta or darbepoetin alfa) were also assessed. As no prospective trials have 
compared the erythropoietic proteins, retrospective studies and the results of 
separate trials were analyzed. The database searched for this review was PubMed 
(open date to August 2006). Recent conference abstracts were also searched 
(2003-July 2006).
RESULTS: There is a high cost associated with anemia in cancer patients. 
Treatment of anemia is likely to lead to increased hemoglobin (Hb) levels and 
improved QoL as principal outcomes. Therefore, in assessing erythropoietic 
protein versus transfusion, it is more appropriate to use Hb or QoL as endpoint 
rather than quality adjusted life year. Studies with the former approach showed 
that erythropoietic protein therapy is more cost effective than transfusion. 
Also, its cost effectiveness should be improved with the use of evidence-based 
guidelines for patient selection and more tailored utilization. Increasing 
evidence suggests there might be differences among the erythropoietic proteins 
in terms of response rate, speed of response, and need for dose escalation.
CONCLUSION: Significant costs are incurred when anemia in cancer is not treated. 
Erythropoietic protein therapy is more cost effective than blood transfusion for 
the treatment of cancer-related anemia. Transfusion should be reserved for 
patients with poor responses to erythropoietic protein or for the emergency 
setting, when rapid improvement in Hb is required.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906X167282
PMID: 17288690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2006 Nov;32(4):617-29. doi:
10.1016/j.rdc.2006.08.003.

Epidemiology of osteoporosis.

Dennison E(1), Mohamed MA, Cooper C.

Author information:
(1)MRC Epidemiology Resource Centre, Southampton General Hospital, Tremona Road, 
Southampton SO16 6YD, United Kingdom. emd@mrc.soton.ac.uk

Osteoporotic fractures represent a significant public health burden, which is 
set to increase in future generations. Lifetime risk is high and lies within the 
range of 40% to 50% in women and 13% to 22% in men. Life expectancy is 
increasing worldwide, and it is estimated that the number of individuals aged 65 
years and older will increase from the current figure of 323 million to 1555 
million by the year 2050. These demographic changes alone can be expected to 
cause the number of hip fractures occurring worldwide to increase from 1.66 
million in 1990 to 6.26 million in 2050. Based on current trends, hip fracture 
rates might increase in the United Kingdom from 46,000 in 1985 to 117,000 in 
2016. The societal cost of these fractures is high; cost-effectiveness analyses 
showed cost-effectiveness in treating high-risk patients with antiresorptive 
drugs, particularly if administered as soon as possible after a first fragility 
fracture.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rdc.2006.08.003
PMID: 17288968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2007 Apr 1;67(5):1323-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.11.033. Epub 2007 Feb 7.

A Phase II multi-institutional trial of chemoradiation using weekly docetaxel 
and erythropoietin for high-risk postoperative head and neck cancer patients.

Willey CD(1), Murphy BA, Netterville JL, Burkey BB, Shyr Y, Shakhtour B, Kish B, 
Raben D, Chen C, Song JI, Kane MA, Cmelak AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee 37232, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine efficacy and toxicities of postoperative concurrent 
chemoradiation using docetaxel in high-risk head and neck cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: High-risk patients were enrolled 2-8 weeks after surgery. 
Treatment included 60 Gy for 6 weeks with weekly docetaxel 25 mg/m(2) and 
erythropoietin alpha 40,000 U for hemoglobin < or =12 g/dL. Primary endpoints 
included locoregional control (LC), disease-free survival (DFS), and patterns of 
failure (POF). Secondary endpoints were toxicity and quality of life.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients were enrolled (14 male, 4 female), aged 24-70 years 
(median, 55 years). Primary site included oropharynx = 7, oral cavity = 8, 
hypopharynx = 1, and larynx = 2. Pathologic American Joint Committee on Cancer 
Stage was III = 3 patients, IV = 15 patients. High-risk eligibility included > 
or =2 positive lymph nodes = 13, extracapsular extension = 10, positive margins 
= 8 (11 patients with two or more risk factors). Docetaxel was reduced to 20 
mg/m(2)/week after 5 patients had prolonged Grade 3 or higher mucositis. 
Overall, number of doses delivered was 2 of 6 = 1, 3 of 6 = 2, 4 of 6 = 2, 5 of 
6 = 4, 6 of 6 = 9 patients. With median follow-up of 30 months (range, 5-66), 10 
(56%) patients are alive and have no evidence of disease (NED); POF: three local 
recurrences (two with distant) and 1 distant only. One-year survival was 76%, 
median PFS and DFS had not been reached. Three-year LC was 82%. No Grade 3 or 
higher late toxicities were observed, although a few cases of prolonged 
mucositis and taste loss (>3 months) were seen, particularly at 25 mg/m(2)/week.
CONCLUSION: Postoperative radiation therapy with weekly docetaxel 20 or 25 
mg/m(2)/week for high-risk postoperative head and neck cancer caused intolerable 
mucosal toxicity, prompting early study termination. Further studies should 
consider 15 mg/m(2). Actuarial 3-year LC is 82%, similar to cisplatin-based 
chemoradiation regimens. Distant metastasis remains an important issue requiring 
additional systemic interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.11.033
PMID: 17289289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Presse Med. 2007 Jun;36(6 Pt 2):965-71. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2007.01.002. Epub 
2007 Feb 7.

[Steinert disease].

[Article in French]

Bouhour F(1), Bost M, Vial C.

Author information:
(1)Service d'ENMG et pathologies neuromusculaires, Hôpital neurologique, Bron 
(69), France. francoise.bouhour@chu-lyon.fr

Steinert disease, also known as myotonic dystrophy type 1, is a muscle disease 
characterized by myotonia and by multiorgan damage that combines various degrees 
of muscle weakness, arrhythmia and/or cardiac conduction disorders, cataract, 
endocrine damage, sleep disorders and baldness. It is the most frequent of the 
adult-onset muscular dystrophies; its prevalence is estimated at 1/20,000 
inhabitants. Diagnosis is confirmed by the demonstration of an abnormality at 
the 19q13-2 locus, with the use of molecular genetic techniques. Its 
transmission is autosomal dominant, and anticipation may occur, that is, disease 
may be more severe and occur earlier in offspring. Genetic counseling is often 
delicate for this condition because of the great variability of clinical 
expression, both within and between families. Prenatal diagnosis is proposed 
especially for maternal transmission because of the severity of the possible 
neonatal forms. Management ideally includes multidisciplinary annual follow-up. 
Disease course is usually slowly progressive but rapid deterioration may 
sometimes be observed. Life expectancy is reduced by the increased mortality 
associated with the pulmonary and cardiac complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2007.01.002
PMID: 17289339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Semin Nucl Med. 2007 Mar;37(2):120-43. doi:
10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2006.10.005.

The aging of the heart and blood vessels: a consideration of anatomy and 
physiology in the era of computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and 
positron emission tomographic imaging methods with special consideration of 
atherogenesis.

Botvinick EH(1), Perini R, Bural G, Chen W, Chryssikos T, Houseni M, 
Hernandez-Pampaloni M, Torigian DA, Alavi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. botvinicke@medicine.ucsf.edu

Physicians have long told their patients that the doctor's job is to help 
patients "get as old as they can." As physicians, we have been aided in this 
objective by many other scientists in other disciplines. The entity of aging and 
its related changes blends imperceptibly with a variety of age-related diseases. 
However, these entities do appear to be separate though interrelated. Curing 
disease is important and a goal that we all work toward to add years to life 
expectancy. Here, we consider aging as it affects the heart and great vessels 
and as it serves to influence and support, if not cause, age-related cardiac 
diseases. This relationship is drawn as cardiac mechanics, hemodynamics, 
perfusion, metabolism and innervation, anatomy, and pathophysiology are each 
considered. The effects of aging are presented in 2 sections related to the 
early and recent "spikes" in aging related information. The latter is largely 
based in recent developments in chemistry, genetic engineering, molecular 
biology and the new imaging methods. The purpose of this manuscript is to 
present these new imaging methods, especially PET, and their impact on the 
second "spike." This is emphasized particularly in the second half of this 
review. As a method of demonstrating these imaging tools and their finest 
potential application, we decided to "showcase" atherosclerosis as the 
age-related disease for which these methods have made their greatest impact, for 
which yet more is promised, and for which the influence on longevity is most 
obvious. The application of positron emission tomography and other imaging 
methods to the characterization and image identification of atherosclerotic 
plaques and particularly the "vulnerable" plaque is emphasized. Yet, even with 
the eradication of coronary disease, the potential for very long life would not 
be likely. Only with the identification and eradication of the causative factors 
of aging can this possibility have a chance of becoming reality.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2006.10.005
PMID: 17289459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Clin Cancer Res. 2007 Feb 1;13(3):953-7. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-2167.

Epidermal growth factor receptor protein expression and gene amplification in 
small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder.

Wang X(1), Zhang S, MacLennan GT, Eble JN, Lopez-Beltran A, Yang XJ, Pan CX, 
Zhou H, Montironi R, Cheng L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Indiana University, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, 
USA, and United Hospitals, Ancona, Italy.

PURPOSE: Small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder is a highly aggressive 
malignancy with an average life expectancy of only a few months. Epidermal 
growth factor receptor (EGFR) has been implicated in the pathogenesis and 
progression of many malignancies. This study was done to investigate EGFR 
protein expression and gene amplification in a large series of small cell 
carcinomas of the urinary bladder.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Fifty-two cases of urinary bladder small cell carcinoma 
were included in this study. Immunostaining for EGFR was done on 
paraffin-embedded tissue sections, and gene amplification for EGFR was done by 
fluorescence in situ hybridization. EGFR expression was correlated with 
clinicopathologic characteristics and clinical outcome.
RESULTS: All 52 patients, except 1, had advanced disease (T2 or above) at 
presentation. Immunohistochemically, positive EGFR expression was observed in 14 
of 52 (27%) cases. No EGFR gene amplification was observed in any of 52 cases by 
fluorescence in situ hybridization. Forty cases had polysomy and the remaining 
12 cases displayed disomy. No correlation between EGFR protein expression and 
gene amplification was shown. There was no correlation between EGFR expression 
and clinicopathologic characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: EGFR is expressed in a subset of urinary bladder small cell 
carcinomas; however, expression of EGFR does not correlate with 
clinicopathologic variables. At the molecular level, EGFR overexpression in 
small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder does not seem to be caused by gene 
amplification. The expression of EGFR raises the possibility that EGFR may be a 
potential therapeutic target in the treatment of this malignancy.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-2167
PMID: 17289890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Natl Bur Econ Res Bull Aging Health. 2006 Fall;(17):2-3.

Differential mortality, uncertain medical expenditures, and the savings 
decisions of the elderly.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 17290543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Prev Med. 2007 Apr;44(4):369-74. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2006.10.003. Epub 2007
Feb  8.

Years of potential life lost among heroin addicts 33 years after treatment.

Smyth B(1), Hoffman V, Fan J, Hser YI.

Author information:
(1)Integrated Substance Abuse Programs, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and 
Human Behavior, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los 
Angeles 1640 S. Sepulveda Blvd., Ste. 200 Los Angeles, CA 90025, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine premature mortality in terms of years of potential life 
lost (YPLL) among a cohort of long-term heroin addicts.
METHOD: This longitudinal, prospective study followed a cohort of 581 male 
heroin addicts in California for more than 33 years. In the latest follow-up 
conducted in 1996/97, 282 subjects (48.5%) were confirmed as deceased by death 
certificates. YPLL before age 65 years was calculated by causes of death. Ethnic 
differences in YPLL were assessed among Whites, Hispanics, and African 
Americans.
RESULTS: On average, addicts in this cohort lost 18.3 years (SD=10.7) of 
potential life before age 65. Of the total YPLL for the cohort, 22.3% of the 
years lost was due to heroin overdose, 14.0% due to chronic liver disease, and 
10.2% to accidents. The total YPLL and YPLL by death cause in addict cohort were 
significantly higher than that of US population. The YPLL among African 
Americans was significantly lower than that among Whites or Hispanics.
CONCLUSION: The YPLL among addicts was much higher than that in the national 
population; within the cohort, premature mortality was higher among Whites and 
Hispanics compared to African American addicts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2006.10.003
PMCID: PMC2039886
PMID: 17291577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2007 Mar;22(3):283-96. doi:
10.1016/j.acn.2007.01.004.  Epub 2007 Feb 12.

Normative data on cross-cultural neuropsychological tests obtained from 
Mandarin-speaking adults across the life span.

Hsieh SL(1), Tori CD.

Author information:
(1)Alliant International University, San Francisco, CA, United States.

Although Mandarin is the world's most commonly spoken native language, normative 
data on neuropsychological tests for this population are limited. Therefore, 
samples of young (n=142, M age=35.77 years), middle-aged (n=71, M age=52.65), 
and elderly (n=111, M age=69.27) Mandarin speaking adults living in Beijing, 
China were given a battery of neuropsychological measures. The instruments 
selected for use were easily administered and had been validly used in other 
cultural settings (e.g., Trails A, Five Digit Test, Fuld Object-Memory 
Evaluation, Symbol Digit Modality Test (SDMT)). As expected, age and education 
where significantly related to neuropsychological performance. Gender, however, 
was a moderating variable only for the elderly group. In addition to their 
clinical applicability, findings are used to exemplify a particular 
multicultural assessment strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acn.2007.01.004
PMID: 17293080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2006 Nov-Dec;21(6):451-6. doi: 
10.1097/00005082-200611000-00007.

A framework for addressing disparities in cardiovascular health.

Mensah GA(1), Dunbar SB.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30341-3717, USA. GMensah@cdc.gov

Health disparities are pervasive in the United States. Life expectancy remains 
higher in women than in men and higher in whites than in blacks by approximately 
5 years. In general, the health of racial and ethnic minorities, poor and 
uneducated people, and those without health insurance is worse than the health 
of the overall population. The care of these vulnerable groups tends to be of 
worse overall quality because they have trouble accessing the system, because 
standards of care are applied to them unevenly, and because health professionals 
are not consistently trained in culturally sensitive approaches. These 
disparities have been demonstrated in all aspects of health and healthcare for 
cardiovascular diseases, including the use of diagnostic and therapeutic 
interventions, prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors, and access to health 
information. Examination of national surveys revealed disparities in all 
cardiovascular disease risk factors, hospitalizations for major cardiovascular 
disease, overall mortality, and quality of life. Eliminating these disparities 
is a major public health challenge in the United States. Their causes and 
underlying mechanisms, however, remain incompletely understood. The healthcare 
delivery system itself, access to care, quality of care received, communication 
barriers, individual behaviors, culture and lifestyles, and discrimination and 
bias all play a part. The pursuit of systems and policy changes to address these 
determinants remains crucial. We present a strategic framework for eliminating 
health disparities that takes these determinants into account and provides an 
opportunity for cardiovascular nurses to make an impact on this important issue.

DOI: 10.1097/00005082-200611000-00007
PMID: 17293734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Health Econ. 2007 Oct;16(10):1091-107. doi: 10.1002/hec.1211.

Improving the measurement of health system output growth.

Castelli A(1), Dawson D, Gravelle H, Street A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York YO10 5DD UK.

National income accounting practice is to weight health service activities by 
their cost so that they can be aggregated into an output index. Quality changes 
are ignored. We propose an 'ideal' value weighted output index in which the 
value attached to each output reflects its contribution to health outcomes and 
other characteristics valued by patients. Calculation of the index for the 
health system as a whole is currently infeasible because of a lack of data, 
especially on health outcomes. We demonstrate alternative ways of combining 
health outcome data with existing information on post-treatment survival, life 
expectancy and waiting times to construct quality adjusted cost weighted and 
health outcome weighted indices for a small set of hospital activities for which 
there are health outcome data.

John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1211
PMID: 17294495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Urologe A. 2007 Mar;46(3):293-6. doi: 10.1007/s00120-007-1295-8.

[Botulinum toxin for the treatment of neurogenic detrusor hyperactivity. 
Consensus paper on use for neurogenic bladder dysfunction].

[Article in German]

Sievert KD(1), Bremer J, Burgdörfer H, Domurath B, Hampel C, Kutzenberger J, 
Seif C, Stöhrer M, Wefer B, Pannek J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum, Hoppe-Seyler-Strasse 3, 72076, 
Tübingen, Deutschland. karl.sievert@med.uni-tuebingen.de

Due to elevated intravesical storage pressures, neurogenic bladder dysfunction 
carries a high risk of renal damage. Thus, the goals of neurourologic treatment 
are reduction of intravesical storage pressure and intermittent bladder emptying 
in order to protect renal function and to achieve continence. If anticholinergic 
medication is either ineffective or intolerable, several open and controlled 
studies showed that the injection of botulinum toxin A into the detrusor muscle 
is a minimally invasive, safe, and effective treatment option. These studies 
demonstrated an effective reduction of storage pressures and a significant 
increase in bladder capacity. The effect has been shown to last up to a year. As 
this treatment is not approved by European administrations, botulinum toxin A 
treatment fulfills all criteria for "justified off-label use." The reduction of 
intravesical storage pressure leads to an improvement of life expectancy due to 
upper urinary tract protection. Furthermore, quality of life can be improved by 
low incidence of urinary tract infections, secure continence, and physiologic 
catheterization intervals.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-007-1295-8
PMID: 17295036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Mol Cancer. 2007 Feb 12;6:15. doi: 10.1186/1476-4598-6-15.

Modeling survival in colon cancer: a methodological review.

Ahmed FE(1), Vos PW, Holbert D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The Brody School of Medicine and East 
Carolina University, Greenville, NC 27858 USA. ahmedf@ecu.edu

The Cox proportional hazards model is the most widely used model for survival 
analysis because of its simplicity. The fundamental assumption in this model is 
the proportionality of the hazard function. When this condition is not met, 
other modifications or other models must be used for analysis of survival data. 
We illustrate in this review several methodological approaches to deal with the 
violation of the proportionality assumption, using survival in colon cancer as 
an illustrative example.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-4598-6-15
PMCID: PMC1810545
PMID: 17295918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Psicothema. 2006;18 Suppl:165-71.

Cognitions as determinants of (mal)adaptive emotions and emotionally intelligent 
behavior in an organizational context.

Spörrle M(1), Welpe IM, Försterling F.

Author information:
(1)Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München, Germany. 
spoerrle@psy.uni-muenchen.de

This study applies the theoretical concepts of Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy 
(REBT; Ellis, 1962, 1994) to the analysis of functional and dysfunctional 
behaviour and emotions in the workplace and tests central assumptions of REBT in 
an organizational setting. We argue that Ellis' appraisal theory of emotion 
sheds light on some of the cognitive and emotional antecedents of emotional 
intelligence and emotionally intelligent behaviour. In an extension of REBT, we 
posit that adaptive emotions resulting from rational cognitions reflect more 
emotional intelligence than maladaptive emotions which result from irrational 
cognitions, because the former lead to functional behaviour. We hypothesize that 
semantically similar emotions (e.g. annoyance and rage) lead to different 
behavioural reactions and have a different functionality in an organizational 
context. The results of scenario experiments using organizational vignettes 
confirm the central assumptions of Ellis' appraisal theory and support our 
hypotheses of a correspondence between adaptive emotions and emotionally 
intelligent behaviour. Additionally, we find evidence that irrational 
job-related attitudes result in reduced work (but not life) satisfaction.

PMID: 17295975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Arch Intern Med. 2007 Feb 12;167(3):290-5. doi: 10.1001/archinte.167.3.290.

Aspirin for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in women: a 
cost-utility analysis.

Pignone M(1), Earnshaw S, Pletcher MJ, Tice JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of General Medicine, University of North 
Carolina, 5039 Old Clinic Building, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA. 
pignone@med.unc.edu

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2007 Jul-Aug;147(1):24.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of aspirin for primary prevention of 
cardiovascular events in women is unclear. We sought to perform a cost-utility 
analysis to address this issue.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model, based on published literature, to compare 
aspirin prevention with no therapy. We used the perspective of a third-party 
payer and a lifetime time horizon. Our main outcome measure was cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Our base case analysis considered 
65-year-old women with a 7.5% 10-year risk of coronary heart disease events and 
a 2.8% risk of stroke.
RESULTS: Aspirin use cost $13 300 per additional QALY gained in the base case. 
Results were sensitive to age, cardiovascular disease risk, relative risk 
reductions with aspirin for ischemic strokes and myocardial infarction, excess 
risk of hemorrhagic stroke and gastrointestinal bleeding, and the disutility of 
taking medication. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis for 65-year-old women at 
moderate cardiovascular disease risk found a 27% chance that aspirin produces 
fewer QALYs than no treatment, a 35% chance that the cost-utility ratio was less 
than $50 000 per QALY gained, and a 37% probability that it was greater than $50 
000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Aspirin use appears to have a favorable cost-utility ratio for 
older women with moderate cardiovascular risk, but firm conclusions about its 
effects are limited by the imprecision of available evidence, which comes mainly 
from 1 trial. Aspirin is indicated for women at higher risk for stroke but 
should not be prescribed for low-risk women, including most younger women.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.167.3.290
PMID: 17296886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2007 Apr;191(2):181-93. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-007-0703-5. Epub 2007 Feb 13.

The psychotherapeutic potential of MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine): an 
evidence-based review.

Parrott AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wales Swansea, Swansea, SA2 8PP, 
Wales, UK. a.c.parrott@swansea.ac.uk

AIMS AND RATIONALE: The purpose of this study was to review whether 
methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) has the appropriate pharmacodynamic profile 
to be a therapeutic agent.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Empirical descriptions of MDMA's subjective effects in 
humans will be reviewed to evaluate the proposal that MDMA has psychotherapeutic 
properties. The focus will be published evidence on its functional effects in 
therapeutic, medical, and other situations.
RESULTS: MDMA is a powerful central nervous system (CNS) stimulant which affects 
several neurotransmitter systems and intensifies a range of psychobiological 
functions. Its acute mood effects can be very positive and life enhancing, and 
the affirmative cognitions engendered during MDMA therapy may well endure 
afterwards. However, MDMA also has a number of potential anti-therapeutic 
characteristics. Acutely, it can also intensify negative cognitions, and these 
may similarly endure over time. Psychotherapists have found that setting, 
intention, and expectancy are crucial for a positive outcome, but these factors 
cannot be guaranteed. Post-MDMA, there is a period of neurotransmitter recovery 
when low moods predominate, and these may exacerbate psychiatric distress. The 
explanations proposed for MDMA-assisted therapy are all psychodynamic, and a 
neurochemical model needs to be outlined. It has been suggested that enduring 
therapeutic gains can follow a single session, but again, this lacks a clear 
psychopharmacological rationale. Finally, diathesis-stress models suggest that 
psychiatric individuals are more prone to acute and chronic abreactions to CNS 
stimulants such as MDMA.
CONCLUSIONS: There are a number of issues which need to be addressed before it 
can be argued that MDMA might be clinically useful for psychotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-007-0703-5
PMID: 17297639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Afr J Health Sci. 2002 Jul-Dec;9(3-4):169-80. doi: 10.4314/ajhs.v9i2.30771.

The burden of natural and technological disaster-related mortality on gross 
domestic product (GDP) in the WHO African region.

Kirigia JM(1), Sambo LG, Aldis W, Mwabu GM.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization Regional Office for Africa, Parirenyatwa Hospital, 
Harare, Zimbabwe. kirigia@whoafr.org

The WHO Africa region has the highest disaster mortality rate compared to the 
other five regions of the organization. Those deaths are hypothesized to have 
significantly negative effect on per capita gross domestic product (GDP). The 
objective of this study was to estimate the loss in GDP attributable to natural 
and technological disaster-related mortality in the WHO African Region. We 
estimated the impact of disaster-related mortality on GDP using double-log 
econometric model and cross-sectional data (from the UNDP and the World Bank 
publications) on 45 out of 46 countries in the WHO African Region. The 
coefficients for capital (K), educational enrolment (EN), life expectancy (LE) 
and exports (X) had a positive sign; while imports (M) and disaster mortality 
(DS) were found to impact negatively on GDP. The abovementioned explanatory 
variables were found to have statistically significant effect on GDP at 5% level 
in a t-distribution test. Disaster mortality of a single person was found to 
reduce GDP by US$0.018. We have demonstrated that disaster mortality has a 
significant negative effect on GDP. Thus, as policy-makers strive to increase 
GDP through capital investment, export promotion and increase in educational 
enrolment, they should always recall that investments in strengthening national 
capacity to mitigate the effects of national disasters expeditiously and 
effectively shall yield significant economic returns.

DOI: 10.4314/ajhs.v9i2.30771
PMID: 17298162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. J Palliat Med. 2007 Feb;10(1):24-9. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2006.0175.

Alleviation of severe compressive symptoms in a patient with advanced lung 
carcinoma using tracheal and superior vena cava stents.

Morales JP(1), Sabharwal T, Man-Harun S, Adam A.

Author information:
(1)Interventional Radiology, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Hospital, 
Lambeth Palace Road, London SE1 7EH, United Kingdom. jpmorales@doctors.org.uk

Lung cancer is now the leading cause of death from cancer worldwide. Although 
surgery remains the treatment of choice, the majority of patients will be 
unresectable at presentation with a poor survival outcome. In those patients who 
also have tracheobronchial involvement; the aim of intervention is to restore 
airway patency, thus improving quality of life in a minimally invasive way. 
Superior vena cava (SVC) infiltration by lung carcinoma is present in 3%-5% of 
patients with lung cancer. In patients with malignant SVC syndrome, the average 
life expectancy is 3 to 10 months. In these cases the disease progresses rapidly 
and obstruction develops before there is time for collaterals to develop. We 
present a case of a 75-year-old man who had alleviation of severe compressive 
symptoms secondary to advanced lung carcinoma using tracheal and SVC stents 
placed as a single procedure.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2006.0175
PMID: 17298248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Perit Dial Int. 2007 Mar-Apr;27(2):196-202.

Development of peritoneal dialysis and renal replacement therapy in the Czech 
Republic since the postcommunist transition.

Opatrná S(1), Sefrna F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I, Charles University Medical School, Pilsen, Czech 
Republic. opatrna@fnplzen.cz

The healthcare system of the Czech Republic at the time the country was made 
part of the Eastern Bloc was characterized by scarcity of funds as a result of 
its poorly functioning economy combined with difficult access to up-to-date 
medical information because of restricted communication with Western 
democracies. These were the main causes for Czech medicine lagging behind that 
of industrialized nations. The political changes occurring in 1989 were soon 
followed by economic and societal changes that led to, among other things, badly 
needed healthcare reform, gradually involving all areas of medicine. This 
resulted in extending, over the period from 1989 to 2004, life expectancy at 
birth (from 71.8 to 75.8 years); this figure is still below the average of the 
15 Western European nations that were European Union members prior to 1 May 2004 
(79.4 years in 2004). The availability of all methods of renal replacement 
therapy also increased, particularly peritoneal dialysis, which was virtually 
unavailable prior to 1990.

PMID: 17299158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. J Cardiovasc Med (Hagerstown). 2007 Feb;8(2):119-22. doi: 
10.2459/01.JCM.0000260214.27450.c9.

Previous palliation in patients with tetralogy of Fallot does not influence the 
outcome of later repair.

Seddio F(1), Migliazza L, Borghi A, Crupi G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Congenital Heart Defects, Ospedali 
Riuniti di Bergamo, Bergamo, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Primary repair is the treatment of choice in patients with tetralogy 
of Fallot. The timing of repair, however, remains controversial, and an initial 
palliative procedure might be considered a valuable option in the early 
management of symptomatic young infants and in those with either unfavourable 
anatomy, major associated lesions or chromosomal abnormalities with a poor life 
expectancy.
METHODS: We reviewed the management of 100 consecutive patients with tetralogy 
of Fallot who were operated upon at our department during an 8-year period from 
June 1995 to March 2003. The rationale for the choice of the initial management 
and the outcome in terms of morbidity and mortality in patients who underwent 
primary repair was compared to that observed in patients who had had a two-stage 
repair.
RESULTS: Age less than 3 months, the presence of either an unfavourable anatomy 
or major associated defects and genetic disorders with poor life expectancy were 
the indications for an initial palliation, which was carried out in 31 patients. 
There were no hospital deaths, and 28 of these patients underwent later repair 
with one hospital death (3.5%). Two patients with severe chromosomal 
abnormalities died at home and the remainder required a further palliation 
because of severely hypoplastic pulmonary arteries. Primary repair was carried 
out in 69 patients with one hospital death (1.4%). A transannular patch, which 
was used in 80% of our patients, was not an incremental risk factor for death 
regardless of the type of repair. Eight patients were reoperated on because of 
either residual right ventricular outflow tract obstruction with (four patients) 
or without (one patient) residual ventricular septal defect or isolated residual 
ventricular septal defect (three patients). All reoperations occurred in 
patients undergoing primary repair.
CONCLUSIONS: The outcome of patients undergoing repair of tetralogy of Fallot is 
not influenced in terms of either mortality or morbidity by an initial 
palliative procedure.

DOI: 10.2459/01.JCM.0000260214.27450.c9
PMID: 17299294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. J Infect Dis. 2007 Mar 15;195(6):817-25. doi: 10.1086/511987. Epub 2007 Feb
7.

Delayed but not early glucocorticoid treatment protects the host during 
experimental herpes simplex virus encephalitis in mice.

Sergerie Y(1), Boivin G, Gosselin D, Rivest S.

Author information:
(1)Centre Hospitalier de l'Universite Laval Research Center and Laval 
University, Quebec, G1V 4G2, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Glucocorticoids (GCs) have not been established as an evidence-based 
therapy for herpes simplex virus (HSV) encephalitis. We sought to evaluate the 
effects of early versus delayed GC administration in a model of HSV-1 
encephalitis.
METHODS: Mice were inoculated intranasally with a clinical HSV-1 strain and had 
access to corticosterone (Cort; 0.2 mg/mL) in drinking water or received 
dexamethasone (DEX; 10 mg/kg) intraperitoneally. Cort was started immediately or 
72 h after infection, whereas DEX was administrated 3 days after infection.
RESULTS: Expression of the thymidine kinase transcript indicated widespread 
viral replication in the brain stem and many regions of the mediovestibular 
system. This neurovirulence provoked neuronal death and transcriptional 
activation of several immune genes. Notably, Toll-like receptors 2, 3, and 9 
transcripts were strongly up-regulated. Mean life expectancy was higher in the 
group of mice that received delayed Cort (56%) than in the mice that received no 
Cort (44%) or early Cort treatments (13%) (P<.05, early vs. delayed or no Cort 
treatments). Delayed DEX treatment suppressed not only the expression of 
inflammatory genes as expected but also that of viral genes.
CONCLUSIONS: Administration of GCs at a critical time during viral infection is 
associated with neuroprotection and survival in experimental HSV-1 encephalitis.

DOI: 10.1086/511987
PMID: 17299711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Interv Cardiol. 2007 Feb;20(1):1-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1540-8183.2007.00214.x.

The costs and quality-of-life outcomes of drug-eluting coronary stents: a 
systematic review.

Groeneveld PW(1), Suh JJ, Matta MA.

Author information:
(1)Philadelphia Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
USA. peter.groeneveld@va.gov

OBJECTIVES: While the efficacy of drug-eluting coronary stents (DES) has been 
demonstrated by several clinical trials, the impact of DES on health-care costs 
and recipient quality of life (QOL) is controversial. We performed a systematic 
review of the published literature on DES costs and the QOL effects of 
restenosis and target vessel revascularization (TVR).
METHODS: Among 536 potential articles initially identified by a broad search, 12 
publications ultimately met inclusion criteria. Data were independently 
abstracted, evaluated for quality and relevance, and summarized by two 
reviewers. Excessive heterogeneity among these studies prevented formal 
meta-analysis, thus a narrative synthesis of the literature was performed.
RESULTS: In four economic studies, DES recipients had 1,600 dollars-3,200 
dollars higher up-front costs than recipients of bare metal stents, but the 
differences in total costs after 1 year were less pronounced (200 dollars-1,200 
dollars), and estimates of the average cost of an avoided revascularization 
ranged widely (1,800 dollars-36,900 dollars). All eight QOL studies indicated 
that restenosis was associated with lower QOL, but only two studies quantified 
this in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), with estimates ranging 
from 0.06 to 0.08. An additional study estimated that the median willingness to 
pay to prevent restenosis was 2,400 dollars-3,600 dollars.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a lack of convergence in the literature on the cost of DES 
in avoiding TVR. There is more agreement that the average QALY benefit of an 
avoided revascularization is 0.04-0.08. This implies that use of DES in patients 
where the average cost per avoided revascularization exceeds 8,000 dollars may 
be less likely to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8183.2007.00214.x
PMID: 17300390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2007 Mar;51(Pt 3):228-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.2006.00862.x.

The profile and incidence of cancer in Down syndrome.

Sullivan SG(1), Hussain R, Glasson EJ, Bittles AH.

Author information:
(1)School of Exercise, Biomedical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, 
Perth, WA, Australia. sheena.sullivan@edu.au

BACKGROUND: Down syndrome is one of the commonest causes of intellectual 
disability. As life expectancy improves with early and more intensive surgical 
and medical treatments, people with the disorder are more likely to exhibit 
classic morbidity and mortality patterns and be diagnosed with diseases such as 
cancer.
METHODS: A profile of cancer cases among people with Down syndrome has been 
compiled, based on the analysis of a linked data set that included information 
from the Disability Services Commission of Western Australian and the State 
Cancer Registry.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Although the total age- and sex-standardized incidence 
ratios (SIRs) for people with Down syndrome were similar to that for the general 
population, SIRs for leukaemia were significantly higher while the incidence of 
certain other types of cancers was reduced. Overall, there was a lower incidence 
of solid tumours in Down syndrome, possibly reflecting the age profile of the 
study cohort.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.2006.00862.x
PMID: 17300418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Regul Pept. 2007 Jun 7;141(1-3):35-43. doi: 10.1016/j.regpep.2006.12.020.
Epub  2007 Jan 11.

Study on preparation and activity of a novel recombinant human parathyroid 
hormone(1-34) analog with N-terminal Pro-Pro extension.

Chunxiao W(1), Jingjing L, Yire X, Min D, Zhaohui W, Gaofu Q, Xiangchun S, 
Xuejun W, Jie W, Taiming L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Minigene Pharmacy, School of Life Science and Technology, China 
Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China. cxwang@shfu.edu.cn

A recombinant human parathyroid hormone fragment, Pro-Pro-hPTH(1-34), with 
molecular weight of 4311.46 was acquired through gene engineering. It was then 
isolated and purified. The homogeneity of this fragment was characterized by 
sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), high 
performance liquid chromatography(HPLC), isoelectronic focusing (IEF) 
electrophoresis and mass spectrometry(MS) methods. Its isoelectric point is 8.0 
which was determined by IEF. It was found that the hormone fragment 
significantly induced calcium increment as compared to the control group 
(P<0.001) in Parsons's Chicken Assay, an established bioassay for the evaluation 
of the PTH effect. After the 3-month-old ovariectomized (OVXed) rats, the OVXed 
rat is one of the two models required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
for the preclinical assessment of drugs for treating osteoporosis [DeLuca PP, 
Dani BA. Skeletal effects of parathyroid hormone (1-34) in ovariectomized rats 
with or without concurrent administration of salmon calcitonin. Am Assoc Pharm 
Sci 2001;3(4):E27 [1]]. Sprague-Dawley rats were fed for 14 weeks, daily 
subcutaneous injections of Pro-Pro-hPTH(1-34) for 16 weeks (0.4, 0.6 or 0.9 
nmol/100 g body weight), reduced the ovariectomy (OVX)-triggered mass loss of 
vertebral trabecular bone. The mean Bone Material Density (BMD) increased to 
29.2-34.5% in 3-month-old OVXed rats compared to control-vehicle group (P<0.001) 
and increased to 17.5-22.3% compared to sham-operated groups (P<0.01). In short, 
A recombinant Pro-Pro-hPTH(1-34) was harvested in purified form and its 
physico-chemical characterization was determined. It showed significantly 
enhanced activity upon two typical models for PTH fragments. It can increase the 
mineral density of vertebral trabecular bone just as synthetic hPTH(1-34), and 
the functional activity of Pro-Pro-hPTH(1-34) should be due to the removing of 
Pro-Pro- by Dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPPIV). This study opened out a simplified 
method which was cheaper, faster than the conventional one for producing active 
hPTH fragment, and its applied prospect would be good; Furthermore, it may open 
up our own path in finding new methods for post-processing of gene-engineering 
product.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regpep.2006.12.020
PMID: 17300845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2007 Jan;62(1):18-26. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/62.1.18.

Effects of caloric restriction and growth hormone resistance on insulin-related 
intermediates in the skeletal muscle.

Al-Regaiey KA(1), Masternak MM, Bonkowski MS, Panici JA, Kopchick JJ, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University, School of 
Medicine, Springfield, USA. kalregai@gmail.com

Growth hormone receptor-deficient (GHRKO) mice are long-lived and have reduced 
insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 and insulin levels and enhanced insulin 
sensitivity thus resembling the phenotype of animals subjected to calorie 
restriction (CR). In contrast to its effects in normal mice, CR does not improve 
insulin sensitivity or increase longevity in GHRKO males. In an attempt to 
