
DOI: 10.1007/s10545-007-0485-2
PMID: 17407002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. J Manag Care Pharm. 2007 Apr;13(3):245-61. doi: 10.18553/jmcp.2007.13.3.245.

Cost-effectiveness of four immunomodulatory therapies for relapsing-remitting 
multiple sclerosis: a Markov model based on long-term clinical data.

Bell C(1), Graham J, Earnshaw S, Oleen-Burkey M, Castelli-Haley J, Johnson K.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, USA.

Comment in
    J Manag Care Pharm. 2007 Apr;13(3):287-9.

BACKGROUND: Before the introduction of the immunomodulatory therapies for 
multiple sclerosis (MS), treatment options for MS consisted of symptomatic 
management (physical therapy and pharmacological treatment for symptom 
management). Symptomatic management for MS has been supplemented in the past 
decade by 2 new classes of immunomodulatory therapies that have been approved as 
first-line treatments for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS): 
subcutaneous glatiramer acetate (SC GA) and 3 beta-interferons: intramuscular 
interferon beta-1a (IM IFNbeta-1a), SC IFNbeta-1a, and SC IFNbeta-1b.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the economic outcomes of 5 treatment strategies: symptom 
management alone, symptom management combined with SC GA, IM IFNbeta1-a, SC 
IFNbeta1-a, or SC IFNbeta1-b in patients diagnosed with RRMS.
METHODS: A literature-based Markov model was developed to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of 5 treatment strategies for managing a hypothetical cohort 
of patients diagnosed with RRMS in the United States--4 immunomodulatory drug 
therapies and symptom management alone. Health states were based on the Kurtzke 
Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), a widely accepted scale for assessing 
RRMS (higher EDSS scores = increased disease severity). Baseline relapse and 
disease progression transition probabilities for symptom management were 
obtained from natural history studies. Treatment effects of the immunomodulatory 
therapies were estimated by applying a percentage reduction to the symptom 
management transition probabilities for relapse (27% reduction) and disease 
progression (30% reduction). Transition probabilities were subsequently adjusted 
to account for (1) the effects of neutralizing antibodies, specifically on 
relapse rates by assuming no additional therapy benefits after the second year 
of continuous therapy, and (2) treatment discontinuation. Therapy-specific data 
were obtained from clinical trials and long-term follow-up observational 
studies. Transitions among health states occurred in 1-month cycles for the 
lifetime of a patient. Costs (2005 US$) and outcomes were discounted at 3% 
annually.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year for the 4 
immunomodulatory therapies is $258,465, $303,968, $416,301, and $310,691 for SC 
GA, IM IFNbeta-1a, SC IFNbeta-1a, and SC IFNbeta-1b, respectively, compared with 
symptom management alone. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that results were 
sensitive to changes in utilities, disease progression rates, time horizon, and 
immunomodulatory therapy cost.
CONCLUSIONS: The pharmacoeconomic model determined that SC GA was the best 
strategy of the 4 immunomodulatory therapies used to manage MS and resulted in 
better outcomes than symptom management alone. Sensitivity analyses indicated 
that the model was sensitive to changes in a number of key parameters, and thus 
changes in these key parameters would likely influence the estimated 
cost-effectiveness results. Head-to-head randomized clinical trials comparing 
the immunomodulatory therapies for the treatment of MS are necessary to validate 
the projections from the pharmacoeconomic analyses, particularly since the 
results available today from the clinical trials do not account adequately for 
treatment dropouts.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2007.13.3.245
PMCID: PMC10438176
PMID: 17407391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. J Manag Care Pharm. 2007 Apr;13(3):287-9. doi: 10.18553/jmcp.2007.13.3.287.

Pharmacoeconomic modeling of drug therapies for multiple sclerosis--are we 
building houses on sand?

Curtiss FR.

Comment on
    J Manag Care Pharm. 2007 Apr;13(3):245-61.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2007.13.3.287
PMCID: PMC10437631
PMID: 17407397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. BMC Genet. 2007 Apr 2;8:9. doi: 10.1186/1471-2156-8-9.

A mitochondrial mutator plasmid that causes senescence under dietary restricted 
conditions.

Maas MF(1), Hoekstra RF, Debets AJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Génétique Moléculaire, Centre Nationale de la Recherche 
Scientifique, Gif-sur-Yvette, France. Maas@cgm.cnrs-gif.fr

BACKGROUND: Calorie or dietary restriction extends life span in a wide range of 
organisms including the filamentous fungus Podospora anserina. Under dietary 
restricted conditions, P. anserina isolates are several-fold longer lived. This 
is however not the case in isolates that carry one of the pAL2-1 homologous 
mitochondrial plasmids.
RESULTS: We show that the pAL2-1 homologues act as 'insertional mutators' of the 
mitochondrial genome, which may explain their negative effect on life span 
extension. Sequencing revealed at least fourteen unique plasmid integration 
sites, of which twelve were located within the mitochondrial genome and two 
within copies of the plasmid itself. The plasmids were able to integrate in 
their entirety, via a non-homologous mode of recombination. Some of the 
integrated plasmid copies were truncated, which probably resulted from 
secondary, post-integrative, recombination processes. Integration sites were 
predominantly located within and surrounding the region containing the 
mitochondrial rDNA loci.
CONCLUSION: We propose a model for the mechanism of integration, based on innate 
modes of mtDNA recombination, and discuss its possible link with the plasmid's 
negative effect on dietary restriction mediated life span extension.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2156-8-9
PMCID: PMC1864894
PMID: 17407571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. BMC Public Health. 2007 Apr 3;7:49. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-49.

Are passive smoking, air pollution and obesity a greater mortality risk than 
major radiation incidents?

Smith JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, Winfrith Technology Centre, Dorchester, 
Dorset, UK. Jts@ceh.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Following a nuclear incident, the communication and perception of 
radiation risk becomes a (perhaps the) major public health issue. In response to 
such incidents it is therefore crucial to communicate radiation health risks in 
the context of other more common environmental and lifestyle risk factors. This 
study compares the risk of mortality from past radiation exposures (to people 
who survived the Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bombs and those exposed after the 
Chernobyl accident) with risks arising from air pollution, obesity and passive 
and active smoking.
METHODS: A comparative assessment of mortality risks from ionising radiation was 
carried out by estimating radiation risks for realistic exposure scenarios and 
assessing those risks in comparison with risks from air pollution, obesity and 
passive and active smoking.
RESULTS: The mortality risk to populations exposed to radiation from the 
Chernobyl accident may be no higher than that for other more common risk factors 
such as air pollution or passive smoking. Radiation exposures experienced by the 
most exposed group of survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki led to an average loss 
of life expectancy significantly lower than that caused by severe obesity or 
active smoking.
CONCLUSION: Population-averaged risks from exposures following major radiation 
incidents are clearly significant, but may be no greater than those from other 
much more common environmental and lifestyle factors. This comparative analysis, 
whilst highlighting inevitable uncertainties in risk quantification and 
comparison, helps place the potential consequences of radiation exposures in the 
context of other public health risks.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-49
PMCID: PMC1851009
PMID: 17407581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Apr;23(4):895-901. doi: 10.1185/030079907x182194.

An economic assessment of analogue basal-bolus insulin versus human basal-bolus 
insulin in subjects with type 1 diabetes in the UK.

Palmer AJ(1), Valentine WJ, Ray JA, Foos V, Lurati F, Smith I, Lammert M, Roze 
S.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health AG, Allschwil/Basel, Switzerland, Allschwil/Basel, Switzerland. 
info@thecenter.ch <info@thecenter.ch>

BACKGROUND: A recent study demonstrated that treatment of type 1 diabetes with 
an analogue basal-bolus insulin regimen was associated with improved glycaemic 
control (HbA(1c) -0.22% points, p < 0.001), reduced risk of hypoglycaemic events 
(-21%, p = 0.036) and reduction in body mass index (-0.30 kg/m(2), p < 0.001) 
compared to a human basal-bolus regimen after 18 weeks.
METHODS: A published and validated computer simulation model was used to project 
long-term economic and clinical outcomes in a simulated cohort of type 1 
diabetes patients treated with either insulin detemir plus insulin aspart 
(analogue) or Neutral Protamine Hagedorn plus human soluble insulin (human), in 
a UK setting. Probabilities of complications and HbA(1c)-dependent adjustments 
were derived from major clinical and epidemiological studies. Complication and 
treatment costs were projected over patient lifetimes from a National Health 
Service perspective. Costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 3.5% 
annually.
RESULTS: Quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) was 0.66 quality-adjusted life 
years (QALY) higher in the analogue insulin versus the human insulin group (mean 
+/- SD) (7.65 +/- 0.09 versus 6.99 +/- 0.08). Direct lifetime costs were 1654 
pounds greater with analogue versus human insulin treatment (40,876 pounds +/- 
1119 versus 39,222 pounds+/- 1141), producing an incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of 2500 pounds per QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses showed the 
results were robust under a range of plausible scenarios.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with analogue insulin was associated with a decreased 
incidence of long-term complications and improved QALE, but slightly higher 
treatment costs compared to human insulin therapy. Analogue insulin treatment 
had an ICER within the range generally considered to represent good value for 
money in the UK.

DOI: 10.1185/030079907x182194
PMID: 17407646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2007 Apr;12(2):80-5. doi:
10.1258/135581907780279495.

Prioritizing health technologies in a Primary Care Trust.

Wilson E(1), Sussex J, Macleod C, Fordham R.

Author information:
(1)UEA/NHS Health Economics Support Programme, Health Economics Group, School of 
Medicine, Health Policy & Practice, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. 
ed.wilson@uea.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: In the English National Health Service (NHS), Primary Care Trusts 
(PCTs) are responsible for commissioning health-care services on behalf of their 
populations. As resources are finite, decisions are required as to which 
services best fulfil population needs. Evidence on effectiveness varies in 
quality and availability. Nevertheless, decisions still have to be made.
METHODS: We report the development and pilot application of a multi-criteria 
prioritization mechanism in an English PCT, capable of accommodating a wide 
variety of evidence to rank six service developments.
RESULTS: The mechanism proved valuable in assisting prioritization decisions and 
feedback was positive. Two community-based interventions were expected to save 
money in the long term and were ranked at the top of the list. Based on weighted 
benefit score and cost, two preventive programmes were ranked third and fourth. 
Finally, two National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
(NICE)-approved interventions were ranked fifth and sixth. Sensitivity analysis 
revealed overlap in benefit scores for some of the interventions, representing 
diversity of opinion among the scoring panel.
CONCLUSION: The method appears to be a practical approach to prioritization for 
commissioners of health care, but the pilot also revealed interesting 
divergences in relative priority between nationally mandated service 
developments and local health-care priorities.

DOI: 10.1258/135581907780279495
PMID: 17407656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Br J Nutr. 2007 May;97(5):823-31. doi: 10.1017/S000711450765795X.

N-3 fatty acids, cancer and cachexia: a systematic review of the literature.

Colomer R(1), Moreno-Nogueira JM, García-Luna PP, García-Peris P, 
García-de-Lorenzo A, Zarazaga A, Quecedo L, del Llano J, Usán L, Casimiro C.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Service, Catalan Institute of Oncology, Girona, Spain. 
rcolomer@icogirona.scs.es

Use of n-3 fatty acids (FA) has been reported to be beneficial for cancer 
patients. We performed a systematic review of the literature in order to issue 
recommendations on the clinical use of n-3 FA in the cancer setting. A 
systematic search was performed in MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane and Healthstar 
databases. We selected clinical trials or prospective observational studies 
including patients with cancer and life expectancy >2 months, in which enteral 
supplements with n-3 FA were administered. Parameters evaluated individually 
were clinical (nutritional status, tolerance, survival and hospital stays), 
biochemical (inflammatory mediators), and functional (functional status, 
appetite and quality of life (QoL)). Seventeen studies met the inclusion 
criteria; eight were of high quality. The panel of experts established the 
following evidence: (1) oral supplements with n-3 FA benefit patients with 
advanced cancer and weight loss, and are indicated in tumours of the upper 
digestive tract and pancreas; (2) the advantages observed were: increased weight 
and appetite, improved QoL, and reduced post-surgical morbidity; (3) there is no 
defined pattern for combining different n-3 FA, and it is recommended to 
administer > 1.5 g/day; and (4) better tolerance is obtained administering 
low-fat formulas for a period of at least 8 weeks. All the evidences were grade 
B but for 'length of treatment' and 'advantage of survival' it was grade C. Our 
findings suggest that administration of n-3 FA (EPA and DHA) in doses of at 
least 1.5 g/day for a prolonged period of time to patients with advanced cancer 
is associated with an improvement in clinical, biological and QoL parameters.

DOI: 10.1017/S000711450765795X
PMID: 17408522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Apr;11(13):1-202, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta11130.

A systematic review and economic evaluation of epoetin alpha, epoetin beta and 
darbepoetin alpha in anaemia associated with cancer, especially that 
attributable to cancer treatment.

Wilson J(1), Yao GL, Raftery J, Bohlius J, Brunskill S, Sandercock J, Bayliss S, 
Moss P, Stanworth S, Hyde C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of epoetin alpha, 
epoetin beta and darbepoetin alpha (referred to collectively in this report as 
epo) in anaemia associated with cancer, especially that attributable to cancer 
treatment.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched from 2000 (1996 in the case of 
darbepoetin alpha) to September 2004.
REVIEW METHODS: Using a recently published Cochrane review as the starting 
point, a systematic review of recent randomised controlled trials (RCTs) 
comparing epo with best standard was conducted. Inclusion, quality assessment 
and data abstraction were undertaken in duplicate. Where possible, meta-analysis 
was employed. The economic assessment consisted of a systematic review of past 
economic evaluations, an assessment of economic models submitted by the 
manufacturers of the three epo agents and development of a new individual 
sampling model (the Birmingham epo model).
RESULTS: In total 46 RCTs were included within this systematic review, 27 of 
which had been included in the Cochrane systematic review. All 46 trials 
compared epo plus supportive care for anaemia (including transfusions), with 
supportive care for anaemia (including transfusions), alone. Haematological 
response (defined as an improvement by 2 g/dl(-1)) had a relative risk of 3.4 
[95% confidence interval (CI) 3.0 to 3.8, 22 RCTs] with a response rate for epo 
of 53%. The trial duration was most commonly 16-20 weeks. There was little 
statistical heterogeneity in the estimate of haematological response, and there 
were no important differences between the subgroups examined. Haemoglobin (Hb) 
change showed a weighted mean difference of 1.63 g/dl(-1) (95% CI 1.46 to 1.80) 
in favour of epo. Treatment with erythropoietin in patients with cancer-induced 
anaemia reduces the number of patients who receive a red blood cell transfusion 
(RBCT) by an estimated 18%. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) data were 
analysed using vote counting and qualitative assessment and a positive effect 
was observed in favour of an improved HRQoL for patients on epo. Published 
information on side-effects was of poor quality. New trials provided further 
evidence of side-effects with epo, particularly thrombic events, but it is still 
unclear whether these could be accounted for by chance alone. The results of the 
previous Cochrane review had suggested a survival advantage for epo (HR 0.84, 
95% CI 0.69 to 1.02), based on 19 RCTs. The update, based on 28 RCTs, suggests 
no difference (HR 1.03, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.21). Subgroup analysis suggested some 
explanations for this heterogeneity, but it is difficult to draw firm 
conclusions without access to the substantial amounts of missing or unpublished 
data, or more detailed results from some of the trials with heterogeneous 
patient populations. The conclusions are, however, broadly in line with those of 
a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) safety briefing, which recommended that 
patients with a haemoglobin above 12 g/dl(-1) should not be treated; the target 
rate of rise in Hb should not be too great, and further carefully conducted 
trials are required to determine which subgroups of patients may be harmed by 
the use of these products, in particular through the stimulation of tumour 
activity. Five published economic evaluations identified from the literature had 
inconsistent results, with estimates ranging from a cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) under pound 10,000 through to epo being less effective and more 
costly than standard care. The more favourable evaluations assumed a survival 
advantage for epo. The three company models submitted each relied on assumed 
survival gains to achieve relatively low cost per QALY, from pound 13,000 to 
pound 28,000, but generated estimates from pound 84,000 to pound 159,000 per 
QALY when no survival gain was assumed. Each of these models relied on Hb levels 
alone driving utility, and each assumed gradual normalisation of Hb in the 
standard treatment arm after the end of treatment. The Birmingham epo model 
followed the company models in regard to the relationship between Hb levels and 
utility, and also assumed normalisation in the base case. With no survival gain, 
the incremental cost per QALY was pound 150,000, falling to pound 40,000 when 
the lower, more favourable, confidence interval for survival was used.
CONCLUSIONS: Epo is effective in improving haematological response and reducing 
RBCT requirements, and appears to have a positive effect on HRQoL. The incidence 
of side-effects and effects on survival remains highly uncertain. However, if 
there is no impact on survival, it seems highly unlikely that epo would be 
considered a cost-effective use of healthcare resources. The main target for 
further research should be improving estimates of impact on survival, initially 
through more detailed secondary research, such as the individual patient data 
meta-analysis started by the Cochrane group. Further trials may be required, and 
have been recommended by the FDA, although many trials are in progress, 
completed but unreported or awaiting mature follow-up. The Birmingham epo model 
developed as part of this project contains new features that improve its 
flexibility in exploring different scenarios; further refinement and validation 
would therefore be of assistance. Finally, further research to resolve 
uncertainty about other parameters, particularly quality of life, adverse 
events, and the rate of normalisation, would also be beneficial.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11130
PMID: 17408534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Med Clin (Barc). 2007 Mar 31;128(12):463-7. doi: 10.1157/13100564.

[Health, economy and freedom: forty years of economic growth, political 
transition and health conditions in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Tapia Granados JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, School of Social Work, 
Universidad de Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2054, USA. jatapia@umich.edu

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2007 Oct 20;129(14):557; author reply 557-8.

DOI: 10.1157/13100564
PMID: 17408541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Brain Res Rev. 2007 Jun;54(2):251-73. doi:
10.1016/j.brainresrev.2007.02.007.  Epub 2007 Mar 1.

Stress and ageing interactions: a paradox in the context of shared etiological 
and physiopathological processes.

Pardon MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, School of Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Nottingham Medical School, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, NG7 2UH, UK. 
marie.pardon@nottingham.ac.uk

Gerontology has made considerable progress in the understanding of the 
mechanisms underlying the ageing process and age-related neurodegenerative 
disorders. However, ways to improve quality of life in the elderly remain to be 
elucidated. It is now clear that stress and the ageing process share a number of 
underlying mechanisms bound in a very close, if not indissociable, relationship. 
The ageing process is regulated by the factors underlying the ability to adjust 
to stress, whilst stress has an influence on the life span and the quality of 
ageing. In addition, the ability to cope with stress in adulthood predicts life 
expectancy and quality of life at senescence. The ageing process and stress also 
share several common mechanisms, particularly in relation to the energy factor. 
Stress consumes energy and ageing may be considered as a cost of the energy 
expended to deal with the stressors to which the body is exposed throughout its 
lifetime. This suggests that the ageing process is associated with and/or a 
consequence of a long-lasting activation of the major stress responsive systems. 
However, despite common features, the interaction between stress and the ageing 
process gives rise to some paradoxes. Stress can either diminish or exacerbate 
the ageing process just as the ageing process can worsen or counter the effects 
of stress. There has been little attempt to understand how ageing and stress 
might interact to promote "successful" or pathological ageing. A key factor in 
this respect is the individual's ability to adapt to stress. Viewed from this 
angle, the quality of life of aged subjects may be improved through therapy 
designed to improve the tolerance to stress.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresrev.2007.02.007
PMID: 17408561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2007 Aug;33(6):783-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2007.02.015.
Epub  2007 Apr 3.

Prostate cancer screening strategies with re-screening interval determined by 
individual baseline prostate-specific antigen values are cost-effective.

Kobayashi T(1), Goto R, Ito K, Mitsumori K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Hamamatsu Rosai Hospital, Hamamatsu, Japan. 
selecao@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp

AIMS: To determine whether prostate cancer screening strategies with 
re-screening interval determined by individual baseline prostate-specific 
antigen values are cost-effective.
METHODS: Based on the results of an actual contemporary screening program, we 
established Markov decision analytic models of prostate cancer screening with 
personalized re-screening interval strategies using cutoff baseline PSA levels 
for biennial screening as well as a model of uniformly annual or biennial 
screening. These strategies were compared in terms of cumulative incidence of 
early cancer and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Early cancer detection rates were similar among all strategies. 
Personalized strategies were more cost-effective compared to uniform screening 
strategies. If all participants with negative PSA results uniformly omit annual 
screening, it would be more costly but less effective (dominated). Contrary, 
annual screening for all participants would cost too much. These results were 
robust throughout sensitivity analysis incorporating every assumption in the 
models.
CONCLUSIONS: This study adds important evidence that personalized rescreening 
strategies based on individual baseline PSA have advantages of 
cost-effectiveness against conventional uniform strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2007.02.015
PMID: 17408910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2007 Jul;46(7):1096-101. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/kem054. Epub 2007 Apr 4.

The cost-effectiveness of mycophenolate mofetil as firstline therapy in active 
lupus nephritis.

Wilson EC(1), Jayne DR, Dellow E, Fordham RJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, School of Medicine, Health Policy and Practice, 
University of East Anglia, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK. ed.wilson@uea.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disorder that 
can affect any system of the body. Involvement of the kidneys, lupus nephritis 
(LN), affects up to 50% of SLE patients during the course of their disease, and 
is characterized by periods of active disease (flares) and remission. For more 
severe nephritis, an induction course of immunosuppressive therapy is 
recommended. Options include intravenous cyclophosphamide (IVC) or mycophenolate 
mofetil (MMF), followed by a maintenance course, typically of azathioprine. The 
objective of this study is to determine which therapy results in better quality 
of life (QoL) for patients and which represents best value for money for finite 
health service resources.
METHODS: A patient-level simulation model is developed to estimate the costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of a patient treated with IVC or MMF for an 
induction period of six months. Efficacy, QoL, resource use and cost data are 
extracted from the literature and standard databases and supplemented with 
expert opinion where necessary.
RESULTS: On average, the model predicts MMF to result in improved QoL compared 
with IVC. MMF is also less expensive than IVC, costing pound 1600 (euro 2400; 
US$ 3100) less over the period, based on 2005 NHS prices. The major determinant 
and cost driver of this result is the requirement for a day-case procedure to 
administer IVC. Sensitivity analysis shows an 81% probability that MMF will be 
cost-effective compared with IVC at a willingness to pay of pound 30,000 (euro 
44,700; US$ 58,500) per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: MMF is likely to result in better QoL and be less expensive than IVC 
as induction therapy for LN.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kem054
PMID: 17409128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007 May;18(5):1547-57. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2006080816. Epub
2007  Apr 4.

Sustained, long-term renal stabilization after 54 months of agalsidase beta 
therapy in patients with Fabry disease.

Germain DP(1), Waldek S, Banikazemi M, Bushinsky DA, Charrow J, Desnick RJ, Lee 
P, Loew T, Vedder AC, Abichandani R, Wilcox WR, Guffon N.

Author information:
(1)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France. 
dominique.germain@egp.aphp.fr

Comment in
    J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007 May;18(5):1368-70.

Fabry disease, an inherited deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme 
alpha-galactosidase A, causes progressive intralysosomal accumulation of 
globotriaosylceramide (GL-3) and premature death from renal, cardiac, and 
cerebrovascular manifestations. To determine the long-term safety and efficacy 
of recombinant human alpha-galactosidase A, an open-label, phase III extension 
study was conducted, involving 58 patients who had classic Fabry disease and 
completed a 20-wk, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, phase III study 
of agalsidase beta and were transitioned to an extension trial to receive 
biweekly 1 mg/kg agalsidase beta for up to an additional 54 mo. GL-3 
accumulation was evaluated in the capillary endothelia of the skin, kidney, and 
heart. Renal function was assessed. By month 54, all patients with optional 
kidney biopsies (n = 8) maintained complete GL-3 clearance in renal capillary 
endothelial cells and multiple cell types. Continued, complete clearance of skin 
(31 of 36) and heart (six of eight) capillary endothelium was demonstrated. Mean 
plasma GL-3 levels remained decreased in the normal range. Median serum 
creatinine and estimated GFR remained stable (normal) in patients with renal 
data at month 54 (n = 41). Six patients had renal disease progression; most 
(four of six) were older than 40 yr and had significant proteinuria at baseline 
and evidence of sclerotic glomeruli pretreatment. Adverse events were generally 
mild and unrelated to treatment. The most common treatment-related adverse 
events were infusion-associated reactions, which decreased over time. Long-term 
agalsidase beta therapy stabilizes renal function in patients without renal 
involvement at baseline, maintains reduction of plasma GL-3, and sustains GL-3 
clearance in capillary endothelial cells and multiple renal cell types.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2006080816
PMID: 17409312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Med Decis Making. 2007 Mar-Apr;27(2):112-27. doi: 10.1177/0272989X06297393.

Value of information on preference heterogeneity and individualized care.

Basu A(1), Meltzer D.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Center for 
Health and Social Sciences, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. 
abasu@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analysis traditionally focuses on identifying 
when treatments are cost-effective based on their average benefits and costs in 
the population. However, there may be considerable value in identifying when 
treatments are cost-effective for individual patients given their preferences or 
other personal attributes.
OBJECTIVES: To present a theoretical framework to assess the potential value of 
identifying cost-effective treatments for individual patients given their 
preferences and to compare the value of individualized treatment decisions with 
the value of treatment decisions based on traditional population-level 
cost-effectiveness analysis. Methods . The authors calculate the expected value 
of individualized care (EVIC), which represents the potential value of providing 
physicians information on the preferences of individual patients, such as 
quality-of-life (QOL) weights, so as to make individualized treatment decisions. 
They also show how EVIC varies with insurance structures that do not internalize 
relative costs of treatments. They illustrate this theory using an example in 
which physicians make treatment choices for 65-year-old prostate cancer 
patients.
RESULTS: The value of identifying cost-effective treatments at the individual 
level for 65-year-old prostate cancer patients in the United States is about $70 
million annually. This is more than 100 times the $0.7 million annual value of 
identifying the cost-effective treatment on average for this population. 
However, failure to internalize costs almost eliminates the value of 
individualized care.
CONCLUSIONS: The value of individualizing care can be far greater than the value 
of improved decision making at the group level. However, this can vary immensely 
with insurance. EVIC can provide a guide as to when the high value of 
individualized care may make population-level decision making especially at risk 
of providing poor guidance for coverage decisions. Future studies of the value 
of individualized care should also consider baseline levels of individualization 
of care.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X06297393
PMID: 17409362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Med Decis Making. 2007 Mar-Apr;27(2):128-37. doi: 10.1177/0272989X06297396.

Efficiency, equity, and budgetary policies: informing decisions using 
mathematical programming.

Epstein DM(1), Chalabi Z, Claxton K, Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. dme2@york.ac.uk

The standard decision rules of cost-effectiveness analysis either require the 
decision maker to set a threshold willingness to pay for additional health care 
or to set an overall fixed budget. In practice, neither are generally taken, but 
instead an arbitrary decision rule is followed that may not be consistent with 
the overall budget, lead to an allocation of resources that is less than 
optimal, and is unable to identify the program that should be displaced at the 
margin. Recent work has shown how mathematical programming can be used as a 
generalization of the standard decision rules. The authors extend the use of 
mathematical programming, first to incorporate more complex budgetary rules 
about when expenditure can be incurred, and show the opportunity loss, in terms 
of health benefit forgone, of each budgetary policy. Second, the authors 
demonstrate that indivisibility in a patient population can be regarded as 
essentially a concern for horizontal equity and represent this and other equity 
concerns as constraints in the program. Third, the authors estimate the 
different opportunity costs of a range of equity concerns applied to particular 
patient populations, and when imposed on all patient populations. They apply 
this framework of analysis to a realistic and policy-relevant problem.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X06297396
PMID: 17409363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Med Decis Making. 2007 Mar-Apr;27(2):161-77. doi: 10.1177/0272989X06297388.

Cost-effectiveness of echocardiography to identify intracardiac thrombus among 
patients with first stroke or transient ischemic attack.

Meenan RT(1), Saha S, Chou R, Swarztrauber K, Pyle Krages K, O'Keeffe-Rosetti 
MC, McDonagh M, Chan BK, Hornbrook MC, Helfand M.

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health & Science University Evidence-based Practice Center, Portland, 
USA. Richard.meenan@kpchr.org

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Echocardiography to select stroke patients for targeted 
treatments, such as anticoagulation (AC), to reduce recurrent stroke risk is 
controversial. The authors' objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
imaging strategies that use transthoracic (TTE) and transesophageal (TEE) 
echocardiography for identifying intracardiac thrombus in new stroke patients.
METHODS: Model-based cost-effectiveness analysis of 7 echocardiographic imaging 
strategies and 2 nontesting strategies with model parameters based on systematic 
evidence review related to effectiveness of echocardiography in newly diagnosed 
ischemic stroke patients (white males aged 65 years in base case). Primary 
outcome was cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: All strategies containing TTE were dominated by others and were 
eliminated from the analysis. Assuming that AC reduces recurrent stroke risk 
from intracardiac thrombus by 43% over 1 year, TEE generated a cost per QALY of 
$137,000 (relative to standard treatment) among patients with 5% thrombus 
prevalence. Cost per QALY dropped to $50,000 in patients with at least 15% 
intracardiac thrombus prevalence, or, if an 86% relative risk reduction with AC 
is assumed, in patients with thrombus prevalence of at least 6%. Probabilistic 
analyses indicate considerable uncertainty around the cost-effectiveness of 
echocardiography across a wide range of intracardiac thrombus prevalence 
(pretest probability).
CONCLUSIONS: Current evidence on cost-effectiveness is insufficient to justify 
widespread use of echocardiography in stroke patients. Additional research on 
recurrent stroke risk in patients with intracardiac thrombus and on the efficacy 
of AC in reducing that risk may contribute to a better understanding of the 
circumstances under which echocardiography will be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X06297388
PMID: 17409366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Med Decis Making. 2007 Mar-Apr;27(2):212-4. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07300428.

Correction: interpretation of random effects meta-analysis in decision models.

Welton NJ, White IR, Lu G, Higgins JP, Hilden J, Ades AE.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 2005 Nov-Dec;25(6):646-54.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07300428
PMID: 17409370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Zoolog Sci. 2007 Feb;24(2):159-71. doi: 10.2108/zsj.24.159.

Inbred strains of brine shrimp derived from Artemia franciscana: lineage, RAPD 
analysis, life span, reproductive traits and mode, adaptation, and tolerance to 
salinity changes.

Nambu F(1), Tanaka S, Nambu Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology, School of Health Sciences, University of 
Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan.

Inbred strains of the brine shrimp were developed from dry dormant cysts of 
wild-type Artemia franciscana produced in the Great Salt Lake, U.S.A. The 
established strains were named GSL2, 4, and 7. They were raised in 2% natural 
sea salt solution at 28 degrees C under a long-day condition, and fed on food 
sold for Artemia. Ovoviviparous offspring (free-swimming nauplii) in each brood 
derived from full sib (sister x brother) matings were used for succeeding 
generations. The ordinal number of the filial generation increased at a rate of 
ten generations per year. The number was over 60, and the lineage was recorded. 
Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analyses of the inbred strains revealed 
the uniqueness, homogeneity, and genetic similarity among them. Their life span, 
the time required to become sexually mature, brood size, mode of reproduction, 
and adaptation and tolerance to salinity changes were investigated. The inbred 
strains usually released free-swimming nauplii rather than spawning encysted 
gastrulae (dormant cysts). On the other hand, the opposite results were obtained 
from wild-type Artemia under the same conditions. Both adults and nauplii of the 
inbred strains appeared to be less adaptive and less tolerant to salinity 
changes compared to those of the wild type. The established inbred strains 
should provide a wider and deeper scope for Artemia biology in particular, and 
the life sciences in general.

DOI: 10.2108/zsj.24.159
PMID: 17409729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Apr;55(3):199-200. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-924412.

Bilateral surgical resection in pulmonary epitheloid hemangioendothelioma.

Schattenberg T(1), Pfannschmidt J, Herpel E, Schnabel PA, Mechtersheimer G, 
Dienemann H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.

Epitheloid hemangioendothelioma is a vascular tumour with an epitheloid 
appearance, originating from endothelial cells. Although it is a slow growing 
tumour, extensive pulmonary involvement, intrathoracic spread, and systemic 
spread have been documented. We present a case of epitheloid 
hemangioendothelioma of the lung in a patient with an initial diagnosis made by 
transthoracic biopsy. The prognosis is unpredictable, with life expectancy 
ranging from 1 to 20 years. There is no single effective treatment, though 
spontaneous regression and response to chemotherapy and interferon are reported. 
Our patient underwent pulmonary lobectomy of the right lower lobe and pulmonary 
wedge resection of the nodule located in the left lower lobe.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-924412
PMID: 17410510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Health Econ. 2008 Jan;17(1):31-40. doi: 10.1002/hec.1235.

The construction of standard gamble utilities.

van Osch SM(1), Stiggelbout AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

Health effects for cost-effectiveness analysis are best measured in life years, 
with quality of life in each life year expressed in terms of utilities. The 
standard gamble (SG) has been the gold standard for utility measurement. 
However, the biases of probability weighting, loss aversion, and scale 
compatibility have an inconclusive effect on SG utilities. We determined their 
effect on SG utilities using qualitative data to assess the reference point and 
the focus of attention. While thinking aloud, 45 healthy respondents provided SG 
utilities for six rheumatoid arthritis health states. Reference points, goals, 
and focuses of attention were coded. To assess the effect of scale 
compatibility, correlations were assessed between focus of attention and mean 
utility. The certain outcome served most frequently as reference point, the SG 
was perceived as a mixed gamble. Goals were mostly mentioned with respect to 
this outcome. Scale compatibility led to a significant upward bias in utilities; 
attention lay relatively more on the low outcome and this was positively 
correlated with mean utility. SG utilities should be corrected for loss aversion 
and probability weighting with the mixed correction formula proposed by prospect 
theory. Scale compatibility will likely still bias SG utilities, calling for 
research on a correction.

Copyright (c) 2007 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1235
PMID: 17410521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Proteome Res. 2007 May;6(5):1846-54. doi: 10.1021/pr060685n. Epub 2007 Apr
6.

Metabonomic investigations of aging and caloric restriction in a life-long dog 
study.

Wang Y(1), Lawler D, Larson B, Ramadan Z, Kochhar S, Holmes E, Nicholson JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Medicine, SORA Division, Faculty of Medicine, 
Imperial College London, Sir Alexander Fleming Building, South Kensington, 
London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom.

Long-term restriction of energy intake without malnutrition is a robust 
intervention that has been shown to prolong life and delay age-related 
morbidity. A 1H NMR-based metabonomic strategy was used to monitor urinary 
metabolic profiles throughout the lifetimes of control-fed and diet-restricted 
dogs. Urinary metabolic trajectories were constructed for each dog, and 
metabolic variation was found to be predominantly influenced by age. Urinary 
excretion of creatinine increased with age, reaching a maximum between ages 5 
and 9 years and declining thereafter. Excretion of mixed glycoproteins was noted 
at earlier ages, which may be a reflection of growth patterns. In addition, 
consistent metabolic variation related to diet was also characterized, and 
energy-associated metabolites, such as creatine, 1-methylnicotinamide, lactate, 
acetate, and succinate, were depleted in urine from diet-restricted dogs. Both 
aging and diet restriction altered activities of the gut microbiotia, manifested 
by variation of aromatic metabolites and aliphatic amine compounds. This 
analysis allowed the metabolic response to two different physiological processes 
to be monitored throughout the lifetime of the canine population and may form 
part of a strategy to monitor and reduce the impact of age related diseases in 
the dog, as well as providing more general insights into extension of longevity 
in higher mammals.

DOI: 10.1021/pr060685n
PMID: 17411081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. PLoS Med. 2007 Jan;4(1):e38. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0040038.

Noncommunicable diseases and injuries: action needed in South Asia too.

Khuwaja AK, Qureshi R, Fatmi Z.

Comment on
    PLoS Med. 2006 Sep;3(9):e344.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0040038
PMCID: PMC1796638
PMID: 17411313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


370. BMC Public Health. 2007 Apr 5;7:52. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-52.

The effect of different public health interventions on longevity, morbidity, and 
years of healthy life.

Diehr P(1), Derleth A, Cai L, Newman AB.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. 
pdiehr@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Choosing cost-effective strategies for improving the health of the 
public is difficult because the relative effects of different types of 
interventions are not well understood. The benefits of one-shot interventions 
may be different from the benefits of interventions that permanently change the 
probability of getting sick, recovering, or dying. Here, we compare the benefits 
of such types of public health interventions.
METHODS: We used multi-state life table methods to estimate the impact of five 
types of interventions on mortality, morbidity (years of life in fair or poor 
health), and years of healthy life (years in excellent, very good, or good 
health).
RESULTS: A one-shot intervention that makes all the sick persons healthy at 
baseline would increase life expectancy by 3 months and increase years of 
healthy life by 6 months, in a cohort beginning at age 65. An equivalent amount 
of improvement can be obtained from an intervention that either decreases the 
probability of getting sick each year by 12%, increases the probability of a 
sick person recovering by 16%, decreases the probability that a sick person dies 
by 15%, or decreases the probability that a healthy person dies by 14%. 
Interventions aimed at keeping persons healthy increased longevity and years of 
healthy life, while decreasing morbidity and medical expenditures. Interventions 
focused on preventing mortality had a greater effect on longevity, but had 
higher future morbidity and medical expenditures. Results differed for older and 
younger cohorts and depended on the value to society of an additional year of 
sick life.
CONCLUSION: Interventions that promote health and prevent disease performed 
well, but other types of intervention were sometimes better. The value to 
society of interventions that increase longevity but also increase morbidity 
needs further research. More comprehensive screening and treatment of new 
Medicare enrollees might improve their health and longevity without increasing 
future medical expenditures.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-52
PMCID: PMC1853080
PMID: 17411436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Am Coll Radiol. 2005 May;2(5):401-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2004.12.008.

The inappropriate use of imaging studies: a report of the 2004 Intersociety 
Conference.

Dunnick NR(1), Applegate KE, Arenson RL.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Health System, Department of Radiology, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan 48109-0030, USA. rdunnick@umich.edu

The participants of the 2004 Intersociety Conference met to discuss the growing 
problem of self-referral. The United States spends more of its gross national 
product on health care than other countries, especially Japan and those in 
Western Europe. Imaging accounts for a large and growing portion of those costs. 
Despite spending so much on health care, the United States ranks relatively low 
in measures of national health, including such parameters as infant mortality 
and even life expectancy. Because the federal government must keep health care 
expenditures to a "sustainable growth rate," increases in use are likely to be 
accompanied by decreases in reimbursement per case. Thus, conference 
participants agreed that the real problem is inappropriate use, which may arise 
from (1) ignorance of what specific imaging studies are needed when, (2) high 
public expectations for imaging tests, (3) the fear of liability for a missed 
diagnosis (defensive medicine), and (4) self-referral. The Stark laws have been 
largely ineffective in preventing self-referral because there are many 
loopholes, and the laws are inconsistently enforced. Among the many potential 
solutions are the education of our clinical colleagues on appropriateness 
criteria; the education of the public on the costs of inappropriate use; tort 
reform; and working with third-party payers, especially the private insurance 
industry, to develop vigorous privileging programs, to require precertification 
for self-referred studies, or to establish differential payments for 
self-referred and non-self-referred imaging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2004.12.008
PMID: 17411843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Am J Public Health. 2007 Apr;97 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S158-62. doi: 
10.2105/AJPH.2006.100081. Epub 2007 Apr 5.

The effect of the 1995 heat wave in Chicago on all-cause and cause-specific 
mortality.

Kaiser R(1), Le Tertre A, Schwartz J, Gotway CA, Daley WR, Rubin CH.

Author information:
(1)Division for Emergency and Environmental Health Services, National Center for 
Environmental Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Ga, 
USA. rkaiser@ke.cdc.gov

OBJECTIVES: We sought to reexamine the effects of the 1995 Chicago heat wave on 
all-cause and cause-specific mortality, including mortality displacement, using 
advanced time-series analysis methods.
METHODS: We used Poisson regression with penalized regression splines to model 
excess mortality and mortality displacement over a 50-day period centered on the 
day in which the heat wave temperature peaked, adjusting for meteorological and 
other variables. We controlled for temporal trends by using daily mortality data 
during 1993-1997. We estimated relative risks (RRs) with reference to the first 
day of the 50-day period.
RESULTS: We estimated that there were 692 excess deaths from June 21, 1995, to 
August 10, 1995; 26% of these deaths were owing to mortality displacement. RR 
for all-cause mortality on the day with peak mortality was 1.74 (95% confidence 
interval=1.67, 1.81). Risk of heat-related death was significantly higher among 
Blacks, and mortality displacement was substantially lower.
CONCLUSIONS: The 1995 Chicago heat wave substantially effected all-cause and 
cause-specific mortality, but mortality displacement was limited. Mortality 
risks and displacement affected Blacks disproportionally. Appropriately targeted 
interventions may have a tangible effect on life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.100081
PMCID: PMC1854989
PMID: 17413056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol. 2007 Apr;20(2):137-42. doi: 
10.1097/ACO.0b013e328049557b.

Sedation in palliative care.

Vissers KC(1), Hasselaar J, Verhagen SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Pain and Palliative Medicine, Radboud 
University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. k.vissers@anes.umcn.nl

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Palliative sedation, the conscious induction of sleep in 
patients with a very short life expectancy who suffer intractable physical and 
existential distress, may offer the patient and his or her relatives a more 
peaceful dying. This technique is still subject to several ethical and medical 
controversies justifying a review of the recent literature on this subject.
RECENT FINDINGS: The available evidence consists of few prospective trials and 
mainly retrospectively collected case reports. Two guidelines are published in 
the period under review. The most important points stressed in these reviews are 
the careful information exchange with the patient, if possible, and his or her 
proxies, a gradually increased sedation allowing respite if possible to evaluate 
the effect of the sedation and the need for consultation with colleagues, 
preferentially physicians experienced in palliative care. Stopping artificial 
nutrition and hydration is a medical decision that should be taken after 
evaluation of the potential side effects and consultation with the patient and 
relatives.
SUMMARY: Palliative sedation may be considered for terminally ill patients who 
suffer intractable symptoms. Ideally it should be included in the patient's 
trajectory that has been described and discussed earlier when the disease was 
judged to be incurable. The main goal is to offer comfort.

DOI: 10.1097/ACO.0b013e328049557b
PMID: 17413397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Psychiatr Genet. 2007 Apr;17(2):103-7. doi: 10.1097/YPG.0b013e328012a3b0.

Familial association of schizophrenia symptoms retrospectively measured on a 
lifetime basis.

Choi KS(1), Jeon HO, Lee YS, Jang YL, Kim CH, Ha KS, Shin MH, Hong KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Samsung 
Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to characterize the familial 
associations of symptoms or symptom dimensions of schizophrenia, as a component 
of the effort to delineate suitable phenotypic markers under the homogenous 
genetic control.
