following: (1) histologically confirmed, (2) age between 18 and 75 years, (3) at 
least one measurable lesion according to RECIST criteria, (4) ECOG performance 
status <or=2, (5) a life expectancy of at least 3 months, and (6) adequate 
laboratory values. Patients received capecitabine (2,500 mg/m2/day, days 1 to 
14) and cisplatin (60 mg/m2, day 1) every 3 weeks. Response was assessed for 
every two cycles of chemotherapy and treatment was stopped when tumor had 
progressed or stable with no further response.
RESULTS: Thirty-two patients were enrolled, 20 (62.5%) were male and 12 (37.5%) 
were female and the median age was 54 years (33-71 years). Fifteen patients 
(46.9%) had gallbladder cancer, 13 (40.6%) had intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, 
and 4 (12.5%) had extrahepatic biliary cancer. The most frequent metastatic 
sites were lymph nodes (20/32, 62.5%) and liver (28/32, 56.3%). No complete 
response was observed and partial response was observed in 13/32 patients. By 
the intent-to-treat analysis, the overall response rate was 40.6% (95% CI, 
23.7-59.4) with 0 CR and 13 PRs. Stable disease was observed in 3 patients 
(9.4%), and 11 patients (34.4%) had progressive disease. The median time to 
progression was 3.5 months (95% CI, 1.3-5.8), and the median overall survival 
was 12.4 months (95% CI, 6.3-18.5) after the median follow-up duration of 9.5 
months (4.8-26.1 months). A total of 108 cycles of chemotherapy was delivered. 
Grade 3 hematologic toxicities included neutropenia (5, 15.6%), anemia (1, 
3.1%), and thrombocytopenia (1, 3.1%) per patient, and no grade 4 hematologic 
toxicities were observed. Grade 3 non-hematologic toxicities included 
hyperbilirubinemia (2, 6.3%), increase of alkaline phosphatase (2, 6.3%), 
hand-foot syndrome (2, 6.3%), anorexia, and diarrhea (1, 3.1%) per patient, 
respectively. There was no treatment-related death.
CONCLUSION: The combination chemotherapy of capecitabine and cisplatin 
demonstrated a promising antitumor activity with mild toxicity profile in 
patients with advanced biliary tract cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-006-0380-9
PMID: 17143602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Oftalmologia. 2006;50(3):38-43.

[Medical therapy of primitive hypertensive glaucoma-therapeutic principles, 
perspectives].

[Article in Romanian]

Cucea R(1).

Author information:
(1)C.M.D.T.A Acad. St. Milcu, Bucuresti.

The present-day glaucoma therapy is aiming to preserve visual function by 
decreasing the intraocular pressure below a certain level, that prevents the 
optic nerve damage to occur. The target IOP must be individualized, considering 
the IOP level at presentation, the severity of the optic nerve damage, life 
expectancy and associated risk factors. In order to prevent the glaucoma 
progression, the more serious the damages are at presentation, the lower the 
target IOP level must be. New ocular hypotensive agents that have been created 
during the last few years allowed a more efficient control of the glaucoma 
progression.

PMID: 17144504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2006 Jul;6 Suppl F:82-94. doi: 10.1157/13091628.

[Mechanical cardiac assist devices and heart transplantation. Treatment 
indications and the current situation in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez Bueno M(1), Segovia Cubero J, Alonso-Pulpón Rivera L.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Insuficiencia Cardiaca y Trasplante, Servicio de Cardiología, 
Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro, Madrid, Spain.

Despite advances in all areas of cardiology, the incidence of heart failure 
increases each year. Pharmacologic treatment, cardiac resynchronization therapy, 
and heart failure surgery have resulted in prolonged survival in these patients 
and in symptomatic improvement. However, in more advanced phases of the disease, 
these therapeutic options become less effective. This is when heart 
transplantation and cardiac assist devices are the only techniques that can 
lengthen survival and improve quality of life. For the past 25 years, heart 
transplantation has been the most effective therapeutic option for patients with 
end-stage heart failure. The scarcity of suitable donors and the development of 
alternative forms of treatment that are effective in less advanced disease 
stages have led to heart transplantation being reserved for young heart disease 
patients whose life-expectancy is short. Cardiac assist devices have been shown 
to be effective as temporary therapy, providing a bridge to heart 
transplantation or recovery, or as permanent support in patients with 
contraindications to heart transplantation. Currently both paracorporeal and 
intracorporeal assist devices are available, and there are even systems that can 
replace the heart completely. More widespread use of these devices depends on 
the establishment of appropriate indications, on an improvement in the devices' 
cost-benefit ratios, and on a reduction in the still high rate of complications.

DOI: 10.1157/13091628
PMID: 17144980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Dec;44(6):1162-8; discussion 1168-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2006.08.047.

Outcome after hypogastric artery bypass and embolization during endovascular 
aneurysm repair.

Lee WA(1), Nelson PR, Berceli SA, Seeger JM, Huber TS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, Department of Surgery, 
University of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville, Fl 32610-0286, USA.

BACKGROUND: Multiple strategies have been devised to extend the applicability of 
endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) in patients with common iliac artery (CIA) 
aneurysms. This study was designed to examine outcome in patients undergoing 
EVAR with either hypogastric artery embolization or common iliac artery 
bifurcation advancement by hypogastric bypass.
METHODS: A retrospective review of all patients undergoing EVAR since the 
inception of our program (1997-2006) was performed. Data were prospectively 
collected in an EVAR registry. Patients with large common iliac artery aneurysms 
(> or = 20 mm) and patent hypogastric arteries not amenable to a cuff or "bell 
bottom" technique were treated with coil embolization (EMBO) and/or hypogastric 
revascularization (BYPASS). The perioperative and mid-term outcomes were 
compared with the larger group of patients undergoing EVAR that did not require 
either treatment (CTRL). Bilateral common iliac artery aneurysms were treated 
with unilateral coil embolization and contralateral bypass.
RESULTS: Common iliac artery aneurysms were present in 137 (31%) of the 444 
patients undergoing EVAR, but only 57 (42%) of 137 required direct management. 
This included hypogastric artery embolization alone (EMBO) in 31 or hypogastric 
artery revascularization (BYPASS) in 26, with and without contralateral 
embolization (both revascularization/embolization in 46%). The procedure length 
(CTRL, 159 +/- 72 minutes; EMBO, 153 +/- 39 minutes; BYPASS, 283 +/- 75 minutes) 
and estimated blood loss (CTRL, 251 +/- 313 mL; EMBO, 233 +/- 158 mL; BYPASS, 
400 +/- 287 mL) were significantly greater (P < .05) in the BYPASS group. The 
incidence of any postoperative complication (CTRL, 26%; EMBO, 68%; BYPASS, 54%), 
any ischemic complication (CTRL, 6%; EMBO, 55%; BYPASS, 27%), and new-onset 
buttock claudication (CTRL, 3%; EMBO, 39%; BYPASS, 27%) were all significantly 
greater in the BYPASS and EMBO group relative to the control (CTRL) group (n = 
387). The incidence of new-onset buttock claudication ipsilateral to the 
hypogastric bypass was 4%; the balance of the new onset claudication in the 
BYPASS group was due to the contralateral embolization. The primary hypogastric 
artery bypass patency was 91 +/- 11% (SE) at 36 months by life-table analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite its increased complexity, hypogastric artery bypass is an 
excellent alternative to embolization in terms of patency and freedom from 
ischemic symptoms for patients with large common iliac artery aneurysms 
undergoing EVAR.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.08.047
PMID: 17145415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Vasc Surg. 2006 Dec;44(6):1176-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.08.028.

The role of aortic neck dilation and elongation in the etiology of stent graft 
migration after endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair with a passive 
fixation device.

Litwinski RA(1), Donayre CE, Chow SL, Song TK, Kopchok G, Walot I, White RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA 90509, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is complicated 
by the potential for stent graft migration over time. Factors including the type 
of fixation, initial proximal fixation length, and dilation and elongation of 
the infrarenal aortic neck may contribute to device migration. We sought to 
determine when device migration is a real phenomenon with actual device movement 
that compromises aneurysm exclusion.
METHODS: Computed tomographic (CT) scans and computer reconstructions of all 
patients undergoing endovascular AAA repair with a passive fixation device at 
our institution from June 1996 to October 2004 were retrospectively reviewed. 
The distance from the distal renal artery to the proximal end of the stent graft 
at the time of initial deployment was determined for each patient. Migration was 
defined as a distance increase greater than 5 mm in the follow-up period; 
proximal fixation length, aortic neck enlargement and elongation, and neck angle 
were then measured. Data were further analyzed with respect to AAA growth, 
development of endoleak, AAA rupture, and the need for reintervention.
RESULTS: A total of 308 patients with endovascular AAA repairs using a passive 
fixation device had complete postoperative imaging data sets; 48 patients 
(15.6%) with stent graft migration of 5 mm or more were identified, and 25 
(8.1%) of these had a migration of 10 mm or more. Seventeen (35.4%) of 48 
migration patients had a total loss of the proximal seal zone (loss patients); 
their average migration distance was 17.7 +/- 12.0 mm, with a mean neck 
shortening of 13.6 +/- 14.2 mm, and the average proximal fixation length loss 
was 14.0 +/- 7.6 mm. Those 31 patients with an intact proximal seal zone 
(nonloss patients) showed an average migration of 9.4 +/- 3.7 mm, with a mean 
neck lengthening of 9.6 +/- 8.4 mm and an average proximal fixation length 
change of 0.7 +/- 8.0 mm. Univariate analysis demonstrated significant 
differences between the loss and nonloss patients in follow-up duration (65.9 
+/- 20.4 months vs 45.9 +/- 26.4 months; P = .01), neck dilatation at the distal 
renal artery (4.6 +/- 4.5 mm vs 1.8 +/- 1.9 mm; P = .026), stent graft migration 
distance (17.7 +/- 12.0 mm vs 9.4 +/- 3.7 mm; P = .001), change in aortic neck 
length (-13.6 +/- 14.2 mm vs 9.6 +/- 8.4 mm; P < .0001), change in proximal 
fixation length (-14.0 +/- 7.6 mm vs 0.7 +/- 8.0 mm; P < .0001), change in AAA 
size (1.8 +/- 7.1 mm vs -3.6 +/- 9.7 mm; P = .033), and use of a stiff body 
stent graft (47.1% vs 19.4%; P = .043). However, only change in aortic neck 
length was statistically significant on multivariate analysis (odds ratio, 0.75; 
95% confidence interval, 0.591-0.961; P = .022). There were no differences 
between the loss and nonloss patients in time to migration discovery, initial 
AAA size, initial aortic neck diameter or length, initial device oversizing, 
initial neck angle, neck angle increase, type II endoleak, or AAA rupture. Eight 
of the 17 loss patients have been treated with proximal aortic cuffs; the 
remainder have refused reintervention, died of unrelated causes, or elected to 
have open repair.
CONCLUSIONS: Postoperative elongation of the infrarenal aortic neck may create 
the radiographic perception of migration without necessarily causing a loss of 
proximal stent graft fixation. Patients with a total loss of the proximal seal 
zone actually have infrarenal aortic neck shortening, with a degree of neck 
dilatation beyond initial device oversizing that may compromise proximal 
fixation length. Conversely, those with an intact proximal seal zone demonstrate 
aortic neck elongation equivalent to migration, with no loss of proximal 
fixation length; these patients have a benign natural history without 
intervention. Thus, aortic neck dilatation beyond oversizing, aortic neck 
shortening, and loss of proximal fixation length are more clinically relevant 
predictors of proximal stent graft failure than simple migration distance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2006.08.028
PMID: 17145418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Clin Cancer Res. 2006 Dec 1;12(23):7059-62. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-1419.

Phase I study of bryostatin 1 and gemcitabine.

El-Rayes BF(1), Gadgeel S, Shields AF, Manza S, Lorusso P, Philip PA.

Author information:
(1)Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48201, 
USA. elrayesb@karmanos.org

PURPOSE: Bryostatin 1 is a macrocyclic lactone with protein kinase C inhibitory 
activity. Gemcitabine is a nucleotide analogue with a broad spectrum of 
anticancer activity. Bryostatin 1 enhanced the activity of antitumor agents 
including gemcitabine in preclinical models. The primary objective of this phase 
I study was to determine the recommended doses for phase II trials of bryostatin 
1 and gemcitabine.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Eligible patients had histologic or cytologic diagnosis of 
nonhematologic cancer refractory to conventional treatment; life expectancy of 
>3 months; normal renal, hepatic, and bone marrow function; and a Southwest 
Oncology Group performance status of 0 to 2. Gemcitabine was administered i.v. 
over 30 minutes and was followed by bryostatin 1 by i.v. infusion over 24 hours 
on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28-day cycle. Bryostatin 1 (microg/m(2)) and 
gemcitabine (mg/m(2)) doses were escalated as follows: 25/600, 25/800, 25/1,000, 
30/1,000, 35/1,000, and 45/1,000, respectively.
RESULTS: Thirty-six patients (mean age, 57 years; male/female 15:21) were 
treated. The median number of treatment cycles per patient was 3 (range, 0-24). 
Four patients developed dose limiting toxicities: myalgia, 2; myelosuppression, 
1; and elevation of serum alanine aminotransferase levels, 1. Ten grade 3 
toxicities were observed (anemia, 2; neutropenia, 5; thrombocytopenia, 3). No 
treatment-related death was seen. The recommended doses for phase II trials for 
bryostatin 1 and gemcitabine were 35 microg/m(2) and 1,000 mg/m(2), 
respectively. Two heavily pretreated patients with breast and colon cancer 
experienced partial responses lasting 22 and 8 months, respectively. Eight 
patients had stable disease.
CONCLUSION: The combination of bryostatin 1 and gemcitabine seemed to be well 
tolerated with limited grade 3 toxicity. The recommended dose of bryostatin 1 in 
combination with full doses of gemcitabine was 35 microg/m(2).

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-1419
PMID: 17145828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2006 Dec;63(12):1345-53. doi:
10.1001/archpsyc.63.12.1345.

The costs and benefits of enhanced depression care to employers.

Wang PS(1), Patrick A, Avorn J, Azocar F, Ludman E, McCulloch J, Simon G, 
Kessler R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis Street, 
Boston, MA, USA. wangphi@mail.nih.gov

CONTEXT: Although outreach and enhanced treatment interventions improve 
depression outcomes, uptake has been poor in part because purchasers lack 
information on their return on investment.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the costs and benefits of enhanced depression care for 
workers from the societal and employer-purchaser perspectives.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses using state-transition 
Markov models. Simulated movements between health states were based on 
probabilities drawn from the clinical literature.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohort of 40-year-old workers. Intervention Enhanced 
depression care consisting of a depression screen and care management for those 
depressed vs usual care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Our base-case cost-effectiveness analysis was from the 
societal perspective; costs and quality-adjusted life-years were used to compute 
the incremental cost-effectiveness of the intervention relative to usual care. A 
secondary cost-benefit analysis from the employer's perspective tracked monetary 
costs and monetary benefits accruing to employers during a 5-year time horizon.
RESULTS: From the societal perspective, screening and depression care management 
for workers result in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $19 976 per 
quality-adjusted life-year relative to usual care. These results are consistent 
with recent primary care effectiveness trials and within the range for medical 
interventions usually covered by employer-sponsored insurance. From the 
employer's perspective, enhanced depression care yields a net cumulative benefit 
of $2895 after 5 years. In 1-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses, these 
findings were robust to a variety of assumptions.
CONCLUSION: If these results can be replicated in effectiveness trials directly 
assessing effects on work outcomes, they suggest that enhanced treatment quality 
programs for depression are cost-beneficial to purchasers.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.63.12.1345
PMID: 17146009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Dec 5;145(11):I30. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-11-200612050-00001.

Summaries for patients. Expanded HIV screening in the United States: effect on 
clinical outcomes, HIV transmission, and costs.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Dec 5;145(11):797-806.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-11-200612050-00001
PMID: 17146061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Ann Intern Med. 2006 Dec 5;145(11):797-806. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-145-11-200612050-00004.

Expanded HIV screening in the United States: effect on clinical outcomes, HIV 
transmission, and costs.

Paltiel AD(1), Walensky RP, Schackman BR, Seage GR 3rd, Mercincavage LM, 
Weinstein MC, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8034, USA. david.paltiel@yale.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Dec 5;145(11):857-9.
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 Jul 17;147(2):145-6; author reply 146-7.
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 Jul 17;147(2):146; author reply 146-7.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Dec 5;145(11):I30.

BACKGROUND: An extensive literature supports expanded HIV screening in the 
United States. However, the question of whom to test and how frequently remains 
controversial.
OBJECTIVE: To inform the design of HIV screening programs by identifying 
combinations of screening frequency and HIV prevalence and incidence at which 
screening is cost-effective.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis linking simulation models of HIV screening 
to published reports of HIV transmission risk, with and without antiretroviral 
therapy.
DATA SOURCES: Published randomized trials, observational cohorts, national cost 
and service utilization surveys, the Red Book, and previous modeling results.
TARGET POPULATION: U.S. communities with low to moderate HIV prevalence (0.05% 
to 1.0%) and annual incidence (0.0084% to 0.12%).
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: One-time and increasingly frequent voluntary HIV screening of all 
adults using a same-day rapid test.
OUTCOME MEASURES: HIV infections detected, secondary transmissions averted, 
quality-adjusted survival, lifetime medical costs, and societal 
cost-effectiveness, reported in discounted 2004 dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Under moderately favorable assumptions regarding 
the effect of HIV patient care on secondary transmission, routine HIV screening 
in a population with HIV prevalence of 1.0% and annual incidence of 0.12% had 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 30,800 dollars/QALY (one-time 
screening), 32,300 dollars/QALY (screening every 5 years), and 55,500 
dollars/QALY (screening every 3 years). In settings with HIV prevalence of 0.10% 
and annual incidence of 0.014%, one-time screening produced cost-effectiveness 
ratios of 60,700 dollars/QALY.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The cost-effectiveness of screening policies 
varied within a narrow range as assumptions about the effect of screening on 
secondary transmission varied from favorable to unfavorable. Assuming moderately 
favorable effects of antiretroviral therapy on transmission, cost-effectiveness 
ratios remained below 50,000 dollars/QALY in settings with HIV prevalence as low 
as 0.20% for routine HIV screening on a one-time basis and at prevalences as low 
as 0.45% and annual incidences as low as 0.0075% for screening every 5 years.
LIMITATIONS: This analysis does not address the difficulty of determining the 
prevalence and incidence of undetected HIV infection in a given patient 
population.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine, rapid HIV testing is recommended for all adults except in 
settings where there is evidence that the prevalence of undiagnosed HIV 
infection is below 0.2%.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-11-200612050-00004
PMID: 17146064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. COPD. 2005 Dec;2(4):411-8. doi: 10.1080/15412550500346469.

Cost-effectiveness of population screening for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency: a 
decision analysis.

Shermock KM(1), Gildea TR, Singer M, Stoller JK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, The Johns Hopkins Hospital, 
Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

The objective was to assess the cost-effectiveness of population screening for 
alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency. The design was a Markov-based decision 
analytic model. Hypothetical cohorts were analyzed from birth and followed over 
time until death using Monte Carlo simulation. The following strategies were 
compared: 1) screen all newborns, 2) screen all 10-year-old children, and 3) do 
not screen. Screenees found to have PI*ZZ AAT deficiency received the benefits 
of lower smoking rates and were offered augmentation therapy. In keeping with 
reported experience, most (96%) non-screened AAT deficient individuals remained 
undiagnosed and, therefore, missed these benefits. Under base conditions, 
screening all newborns cost nearly $422,000 per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained; this estimate fell to $92,135 per QALY when the cost of screening 
was minimized to $6 in the model. Delaying screening until age 10 decreased the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) to nearly $317,000. In sensitivity 
analysis, when the prevalence of PI*ZZ individuals increased from a baseline of 
1.96 to 16 per 10,000, the ICER for newborn screening decreased below $100,000 
per QALY. When the cost of screening and augmentation therapy were decreased 
simultaneously with increasing PI*ZZ prevalence, there were many scenarios in 
which the ICER decreased below $50,000. While population-based screening for AAT 
deficiency is not cost-effective under current conditions, cost-effectiveness 
criteria could be satisfied when case-finding in a high prevalence population is 
undertaken.

DOI: 10.1080/15412550500346469
PMID: 17147006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 2006 Jul-Sep;46(3):261-388.

[Demographic analysis of occupations].

[Article in French]

Doan BD.

PMID: 17147311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Brachial Plex Peripher Nerve Inj. 2006 Dec 1;1:5. doi:
10.1186/1749-7221-1-5.

Comparison of visual and objective quantification of elbow and shoulder movement 
in children with obstetric brachial plexus palsy.

Bialocerkowski AE(1), Galea M.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Sciences Research Centre, School of Physiotherapy, The 
University of Melbourne, VIC, 3010, Australia. aebial@unimelb.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The Active Movement Scale is a frequently used outcome measure for 
children with obstetric brachial plexus palsy (OBPP). Clinicians observe upper 
limb movements while the child is playing and quantify them on an 8 point scale. 
This scale has acceptable reliability however it is not known whether it 
accurately depicts the movements observed. In this study, therapist-rated Active 
Movement Scale grades were compared with objectively-quantified range of elbow 
flexion and extension and shoulder abduction and flexion in children with OBPP. 
These movements were chosen as they primarily assess the C5, C6 and C7 nerve 
roots, the most frequently involved in OBPP. Objective quantification of elbow 
and shoulder movements was undertaken by two-dimensional motion analysis, using 
the v-scope.
METHODS: Young children diagnosed with OBPP were recruited from the Royal 
Children's Hospital (Melbourne, Australia) Brachial Plexus registry. They 
participated in one measurement session where an experienced paediatric 
physiotherapist facilitated maximal elbow flexion and extension, shoulder 
abduction and extension through play, and quantified them on the Active Movement 
Scale. Two-dimensional motion analysis captured the same movements in degrees, 
which were then converted into Active Movement Score grades using normative 
reference data. The agreement between the objectively-quantified and 
therapist-rated grades was determined using percentage agreement and Kappa 
statistics.
RESULTS: Thirty children with OBPP participated in the study. All were able to 
perform elbow and shoulder movements against gravity. Active Movement Score 
grades ranged from 5 to 7. Two-dimensional motion analysis revealed that full 
range of movement at the elbow and shoulder was rarely achieved. There was 
moderate percentage agreement between the objectively-quantified and 
therapist-rated methods of movement assessment however the therapist frequently 
over-estimated the range of movement, particularly at the elbow. When adjusted 
for chance, agreement was equal to chance.
CONCLUSION: Visual estimates of elbow and shoulder movement in children with 
OBPP may not provide true estimates of motion. Future work is required to 
develop accurate, clinically-acceptable methods of quantifying upper limb active 
movements. Since few children attained full range of motion, elbow and shoulder 
movement should be monitored and maintained over time to reduce disability later 
in life.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-7221-1-5
PMCID: PMC1713230
PMID: 17147776


791. J Health Commun. 2006;11 Suppl 2:7-45. doi: 10.1080/10810730600973862.

The cost-effectiveness of health communication programs: what do we know?

Hutchinson P(1), Wheeler J.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health and Development, School of Public Health 
and Tropical Medicine, Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana 70112, USA. 
phutchin@tulane.edu

While a considerable body of evidence has emerged supporting the effectiveness 
of communication programs in augmenting health, only a very small subset of 
studies has examined also whether these programs are cost-effective, that is, 
whether they achieve greater health gains for available financial resources than 
alternative interventions. In this article, we examine the available literature 
on the cost-effectiveness of health behavior change communication programs, 
focusing on communication interventions involving mass media, and, to a lesser 
extent, community mobilization and interpersonal communication or counseling. 
Our objective is to identify the state of past and current research efforts of 
the cost-effectiveness of behavior change communication programs. This review 
makes three principal conclusions. First, the analysis of the cost-effectiveness 
of health communication programs commonly has not been performed. Second, the 
studies reviewed here have utilized a considerable diversity of methods and have 
reflected varying levels of quality and adherence to standard cost-effectiveness 
methodologies. This leads to problems of transparency, comparability, and 
generalizability. Third, while the available studies generally are indicative of 
the cost-effectiveness of communication interventions relative to alternatives, 
the evidence base clearly needs to be expanded by additional rigorous 
cost-effectiveness analyses.

DOI: 10.1080/10810730600973862
PMID: 17148098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Health Commun. 2006;11 Suppl 2:47-67. doi: 10.1080/10810730600973987.

Cost-effectiveness analysis for health communication programs.

Guilkey DK(1), Hutchinson P, Lance P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and the MEASURE Evaluation Project, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA. 
david-guilkey@unc.edu

This article describes methods for analyzing the cost-effectiveness of health 
communication programs, focusing in particular on estimating program 
effectiveness with econometric methods that address experimental and 
quasi-experimental designs (and their absence), national or subnational program 
coverage, and endogenously targeting of programs. Experimental designs provide a 
gold standard for assessing effectiveness but are seldom feasible for 
large-scale health communication programs. Even in the absence of such designs, 
however, fairly simple methods can be used to examine intermediate objectives, 
such as program reach, which in turn can be linked to program costs to estimate 
cost effectiveness. When moving beyond program reach to behavioral or other 
outcome measures, such as contraceptive use or fertility, or when faced with 
full-coverage national programs, more elaborate data and methods are required. 
We discuss data requirements and assumptions necessary in each case, focusing on 
single-equation multiple regression models, structural equations models, and 
fixed effects estimators for use with longitudinal data, and then describing how 
cost information can be incorporated into econometric models so as to get 
measures of the cost-effectiveness of communication interventions.

DOI: 10.1080/10810730600973987
PMID: 17148099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. J Health Commun. 2006;11 Suppl 2:123-42. doi: 10.1080/10810730600974829.

Cost-effectiveness of environmental-structural communication interventions for 
HIV prevention in the female sex industry in the Dominican Republic.

Sweat M(1), Kerrigan D, Moreno L, Rosario S, Gomez B, Jerez H, Weiss E, 
Barrington C.

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins University, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department 
of International Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. msweat@jhsph.edu

Behavior change communication often focuses on individual-level variables such 
as knowledge, perceived risk, self-efficacy, and behavior. A growing body of 
evidence suggests, however, that structural interventions to change the policy 
environment and environmental interventions designed to modify the physical and 
social environment further bolster impact. Little is known about the 
cost-effectiveness of such comprehensive intervention programs. In this study we 
use standard cost analysis methods to examine the incremental cost-effectiveness 
of two such interventions conducted in the Dominican Republic in sex 
establishments. In Santo Domingo the intervention was environmental; in Puerto 
Plata it was both environmental and structural (levying financial sanctions on 
sex establishment owners who failed to follow the intervention). The 
interventions in both sites included elements found in more conventional 
behavior change communication (BCC) programs (e.g., community mobilization, peer 
education, educational materials, promotional stickers). One key aim was to 
examine whether the addition of policy regulation was cost-effective. Data for 
the analysis were gleaned from structured behavioral questionnaires administered 
to female sex workers and their male regular paying partners in 41 sex 
establishments conducted pre- and post-intervention (1 year follow-up); data 
from HIV sentinel surveillance, STI screening results conducted for the 
intervention; and detailed cost data we collected. We estimated the number of 
HIV infections averted from each of the two intervention models and converted 
these estimates to the number of disability life years saved as compared with no 
intervention. One-way, two-way, three-way, and multivariate sensitivity analysis 
were conducted on model parameters. We examine a discount rate of 0%, 3% (base 
case), and 6% for future costs and benefits. The intervention conducted in Santo 
Domingo (community mobilization, promotional media, and interpersonal 
communication) was estimated to avert 64 HIV infections per 10,000 clients 
reached, and resulted in a cost per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) saved 
of $1,186. In Puerto Plata a policy/regulatory intervention was added, which 
resulted in 162 HIV infections averted per 10,000 clients reached, and yielded a 
cost per DALY saved of $457. Cost-effectiveness estimates were most correlated 
to the discount rate used and base rates of sexually transmitted infection 
(which affects the HIV transmission rate). Both intervention models resulted in 
cost-effective outcomes; however, the intervention that included policy 
regulation resulted in a substantially more cost-effective outcome.

DOI: 10.1080/10810730600974829
PMID: 17148102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1406-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl242. Epub 2006
Dec  4.

Commentary: N Eberstadt's 'The health crisis in the USSR' and sustainable 
mortality reversal in the post-Soviet space during communism and after.

Shkolnikov VM(1), Leon DA.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Insitute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Str., 1 D-18057 
Rostock, Germany. Shkolnikov@demogr.mpg.de

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1384-94.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl242
PMID: 17148462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1394-7. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl236. Epub 2006
Dec  4.

Commentary: reflections on 'The Health Crisis in the USSR'.

Eberstadt N(1).

Author information:
(1)American Enterprise Institute in Public Policy Research, 1150 17th Street, 
NW, Washington, DC 20036, USA. eberstadt@aei.org

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1384-94.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl236
PMID: 17148464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1400-5. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl235. Epub 2006
Dec  4.

Commentary: the health crisis in the USSR: reflections on the Nicholas Eberstadt 
1981 review of rising infant mortality in the USSR in the 1970s.

Davis C(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Oxford, Wolfson College, UK. 
christopher.davis@economics.ox.ac.uk

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1384-94.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl235
PMID: 17148465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1384-94. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl238. Epub 2006
Dec  4.

The health crisis in the USSR.

Eberstadt N.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1398-9.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1406-9.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1394-7.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;35(6):1400-5.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl238
PMID: 17148466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Oncol Nurs Forum. 2006 Nov 27;33(6):1183-8. doi: 10.1188/06.ONF.1183-1188.

Impact of an educational program on pain management in patients with cancer 
living at home.

Aubin M(1), Vézina L, Parent R, Fillion L, Allard P, Bergeron R, Dumont S, 
Giguère A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Laval University, Quebec City, Canada. 
michele.aubin@mfa.ulaval.ca

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect of an educational homecare program on 
pain relief in patients with advanced cancer.
DESIGN: Quasi-experimental (pretest post-test, nonequivalent group).
SETTING: Four community-based primary care centers providing social and 
healthcare services in the Quebec City region of Canada.
SAMPLE: 80 homecare patients with advanced cancer who were free of cognitive 
impairment, who presented with pain or were taking analgesics to relieve pain, 
and who had a life expectancy of six weeks or longer.
METHODS: The educational intervention included information regarding pain 
assessment and monitoring using a daily pain diary and the provision of specific 
recommendations in case of loss of pain control. Pain intensity data were 
collected prior to the intervention, and reassessments were made two and four 
weeks later. Data on beliefs were collected at baseline and two weeks. All data 
were collected by personal interviews.
MAIN RESEARCH VARIABLES: Patients beliefs about the use of opioids; average and 
maximum pain intensities.
FINDINGS: Patients beliefs regarding the use of opioids were modified 
successfully following the educational intervention. Average pain was unaffected 
in the control group and was reduced significantly in patients who received the 
educational program. The reduction remained after controlling for patients 
initial beliefs. Maximum pain decreased significantly over time in both the 
experimental and control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: An educational intervention can be effective in improving the 
monitoring and relief of pain in patients with cancer living at home.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: Homecare nurses can be trained to effectively 
administer the educational program during their regular homecare visits.

DOI: 10.1188/06.ONF.1183-1188
PMID: 17149401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Vascular. 2006 Nov-Dec;14(6):321-7. doi: 10.2310/6670.2006.00056.

Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 in lower limb ischemia.

Ho TK(1), Abraham DJ, Black CM, Baker DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Royal Free Hospital, The Royal Free & University 
College Medical School, London, UK.

In the Western world, peripheral vascular disease (PVD) has a high prevalence 
and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. More patients are 
presenting with critical limb ischemia (CLI), the end stage of PVD, because of 
an increased life expectancy owing to improved medical care. In a large 
percentage of these patients, lower limb amputation is still required, despite 
current advances in surgery and interventional radiology. Studies of ischemic 
skeletal muscles disclosed evidence of endogenous angiogenesis and adaptive 
skeletal muscle metabolic changes in response to hypoxia. Many of the genes 
responsible for these responses are regulated by hypoxia-inducible factor 
(HIF)-1. HIF-1, consisting of HIF-1alpha and HIF-1beta subunits, is a major 
transcription factor that functions as a master regulator of oxygen homeostasis 
that plays essential roles in cellular and systemic pathophysiology. HIF-1alpha 
expression and HIF-1 transcriptional activity increase exponentially as cellular 
oxygen concentration is decreased. More than 60 target genes that are 
transactivated by HIF-1 have been identified. Many of the target genes, such as 
vascular endothelial growth factor, have been studied extensively, especially in 
tumors. However, only recently that interest in HIF-1 is growing in relation to 
ischemic diseases. Most of the studies concentrated mainly on the angiogenic 
property of HIF-1. In contrast, there is a lack of information on the role of 
HIF-1 in skeletal muscle metabolic adaptive changes as the end-organ in PVD. 
This review aims to summarize our current understanding of HIF-1 roles and the 
therapeutic potential in PVD.

DOI: 10.2310/6670.2006.00056
PMID: 17150152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Am J Psychiatry. 2006 Dec;163(12):2029-31. doi:
10.1176/ajp.2006.163.12.2029.

The costs of drugs for schizophrenia.

Freedman R, Carpenter WT Jr, Davis JM, Goldman HH, Tamminga CA, Thomas M.

Comment on
    Am J Psychiatry. 2006 Dec;163(12):2080-9.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.2006.163.12.2029
PMID: 17151146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Am J Psychiatry. 2006 Dec;163(12):2080-9. doi: 10.1176/ajp.2006.163.12.2080.

Cost-effectiveness of second-generation antipsychotics and perphenazine in a 
randomized trial of treatment for chronic schizophrenia.

Rosenheck RA(1), Leslie DL, Sindelar J, Miller EA, Lin H, Stroup TS, McEvoy J, 
Davis SM, Keefe RS, Swartz M, Perkins DO, Hsiao JK, Lieberman J; CATIE Study 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, USA. Robert.Rosenheck@Yale.Edu

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 2006 Dec;163(12):2029-31.
    Am J Psychiatry. 2007 Apr;164(4):678; author reply 678-9.

BACKGROUND: Second-generation antipsychotics have largely replaced 
first-generation antipsychotics for the treatment of schizophrenia, but a 
large-scale cost/effectiveness analysis has not been attempted.
METHOD: Patients with schizophrenia (N=1,493) were assigned to treatment with a 
first-generation antipsychotic (perphenazine) or one of four second-generation 
drugs (olanzapine, quetia-pine, risperidone, or ziprasidone) and followed for up 
to 18 months. Patients with tardive dyskinesia were prohibited from assignment 
to perphenazine. Patients could be reassigned at any time to another 
second-generation drug, including clozapine, but not to perphenazine. The cost 
analysis included medications plus health services use. Quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) ratings were assessed on the basis of Positive and Negative Syndrome 
Scale (PANSS) subscale scores and side effects. An intention-to-treat analysis 
included all available observations, classified by initial drug assignment, and 
costs of reassignment of most patients to another second-generation drug. The 
analysis was repeated considering only treatment on initially assigned 
medications.
RESULTS: Although QALY ratings, PANSS scores, and other quality of life measures 
indicated modest improvement over 18 months, there were no significant 
differences between perphenazine and any second-generation medication. Average 
total monthly health care costs were 300 dollars-600 dollars (20%-30%) lower for 
perphenazine than for second-generation antipsychotics because of lower drug 
cost. Differences in costs remained when maximally discounted drug prices were 
used for all patients and when only observations during treatment with the first 
medication were included.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with perphenazine was less costly than treatment with 
second-generation antipsychotics with no significant differences in measures of 
effectiveness. However, the trial was limited by a high dropout rate, and 
longer-term neurological and metabolic side effects require further study.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.2006.163.12.2080
PMID: 17151158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 7;355(23):2491; author reply 2492. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc062711.

The value of medical spending in the United States.

Barr DA.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Aug 31;355(9):920-7.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc062711
PMID: 17151374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Lakartidningen. 2006 Nov 1-7;103(44):3375-6.

[Emphysema surgery--considerably improved quality of life for a specially 
selected group of patients. Strict selection criteria are very important].

[Article in Swedish]

Hillerdal G(1), Ström K.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Universitetssjukhuset, Stockholm. gunnar.hillerdal@karolinska.se

PMID: 17152259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Acta Orthop Belg. 2006 Oct;72(5):592-7.

Evaluation of lung cancer metastases to the spine.

Aydinli U(1), Ozturk C, Bayram S, Sarihan S, Evrensel T, Yilmaz HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Spine Surgery Unit, Uludag 
University Medical School, Bursa, Turkey.

Most metastatic spinal lesions (70%) are found at the thoracic level, 20% in the 
lumbar region, and 10% in the cervical region. A variety of benign and malignant 
tumours may arise in the lung, but the vast majority is bronchogenic carcinomas 
(90 to 95%). The aim of this study was to evaluate the lung cancer metastases to 
the vertebral column in terms of type, localisation and metastasis pattern. 
Between the years 1995 and 2003, 168 lung cancer patients with metastatic spinal 
tumour who had received radiotherapy and chemotherapy were retrospectively 
evaluated. The total number of vertebrae in which metastases were detected was 
328. The most common site for metastasis was the thoracic spine. In 49 (29%) 
patients, there was only one vertebral involvement. Additional extravertebral 
bony metastases were present in 37 (22%) patients; the femur (20 patients) was 
the most common site. Only 25 of 168 patients were operated due to spinal cord 
compression leading to neurological deficit. The rest of the patients were 
treated by appropriate chemotherapy and radiotherapy protocols. The mean 
survival after diagnosis of vertebral metastasis was 7.1 months. Squamous cell 
carcinoma and adenocarcinoma are the lung cancers that mostly metastasise to 
vertebrae. Most of the metastases involve multiple spinal levels. After the 
diagnosis of vertebral metastasis, the mean survival is seven months. Pain 
relief and maintaining quality of life must be balanced with the patient's life 
expectancy, comorbidities and immunological, nutritional and functional status 
in treatment decision.

PMID: 17152424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 7;355(23):2492; author reply 2492.

The value of medical spending in the United States.

Braithwaite RS, Roberts MS.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Aug 31;355(9):920-7.

PMID: 17152684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Adv Gerontol. 2006;19:33-5.

[The influence of ecdysone-containing phytopreparations on life span of 
Drosophila melanogaster strains depending on the genotype].

[Article in Russian]

Moskalev AA, Shaposhnikov MV, Zaĭnullin VG, Punegov VV.

The longevity of Drosophila strains has been investigated after treatment by a 
hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (80% solution) and a phytoecdysteroid-containing 
metaverone preparation (contains 5-7% of 20-hydroxyecdysone) in preimaginal 
stages of development. It is shown, that life expectancy of ecdysone-deficient 
woc strain exceeds life expectancy of wild type Canton-S strain by 46%, whereas 
ecdysone or metaverone treatment removes these distinctions. At the same time, 
treatment by ecdysteroid-containing preparations of Canton-S has not induced any 
essential alteration of life span. Thus, the new ageing gene woc has been 
discovered, the woc mutation essentially increases the life span of Drosophila, 
and its effect is mediated by a hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone and has the threshold 
corresponding natural physiological concentration of this hormone in an insect 
organism. The data have confirmed the conception of "antagonistic pleiotropy" 
according to which only mutations having advantages during the prereproductive 
and reproductive period are fixed in evolution, and their negative effect is 
delayed up to a postreproductive stage of life cycle. As a result we can see 
accumulation with age of structural and functional damages which increase 
probability of death. Indeed, genes of ecdysone synthesis play fundamentally 
important role in early development and sexual reproduction of insects, however 
essentially reduce their life span.

PMID: 17152718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Hepatogastroenterology. 2006 Nov-Dec;53(72):828-30.

Anxiety in outpatients receiving chemotherapy for solid cancer.

Tsutsumi S(1), Yamaki S, Yamaguchi S, Asao T, Kuwano H.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgical Science (Surgery I), Gunma University Graduate 
School of Medicine Maebashi, Japan. chuchumi@showa.gunma-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND/AIMS: We conducted this prospective study to assess the anxiety in 
outpatients receiving chemotherapy for solid cancers.
METHODOLOGY: Patients were eligible if they were receiving chemotherapy for 
solid cancer in an outpatient setting, had a life expectancy of more than 6 
months, and were able to complete self-administered questionnaires. The 
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) was used to measure the anxiety levels.
RESULTS: From January to December 2004, 119 patients were recruited, and, of 
these, 114 completed the questionnaires. Their median age was 60.6 years, and 
the male-to-female ratio was 1.04:1. Of the 114 patients, 36 had breast cancer, 
35, colorectal cancer, 23, gastric cancer, 8, esophageal cancer, 5, 
non-small-cell cancer, 4, pancreatic cancer, and 3, liver cancer. The state- and 
trait-anxiety levels were higher for women (p=0.019). Age did not influence the 
trait-anxiety level, but the state-anxiety levels of younger patients were 
higher. The periods of chemotherapy raised the state and trait-anxiety levels 
(p=0.023 and 0.015, respectively). No statistically significant differences were 
observed according to the type of cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: The anxiety levels of outpatients with solid cancer receiving 
chemotherapy were significantly high. Having access to such information will 
help oncologists provide appropriate support to their patients.

PMID: 17153433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Cancer. 2007 Jan 15;109(2):239-47. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22401.

Effect of routine follow-up after treatment for laryngeal cancer on life 
expectancy and mortality: results of a Markov model analysis.

Ritoe SC(1), de Vegt F, Scheike IM, Krabbe PF, Kaanders JH, van den Hoogen FJ, 
Verbeek AL, Marres HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. s.ritoe@kno.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: Routine follow-up is offered to all patients with laryngeal cancer 
who are treated with curative intent. Although time and resources are devoted to 
surveillance, the effect of asymptomatic recurrence detection is not well 
understood. For this study, the authors evaluated the effect that routine 
follow-up may have on life expectancy and disease-specific mortality rate for 
patients with laryngeal cancer.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, a cohort simulation was performed on 4 
hypothetical age groups of patients with laryngeal cancer. Three different 
follow-up strategies were compared-the current schedule, no follow-up, and the 
perfect follow-up-in which all recurrences were detected asymptomatically. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed to study the impact of variations in the 
transition rates on life expectancy.
RESULTS: Compared with no follow-up, the current schedule showed a gain in life 
expectancy with a range from 0.3 years to 1.5 years that decreased with 
advancing age. Abolishing the current follow-up schedule raised the 
disease-specific mortality rate; the increase ranged from 2.8% to 5.9%. 
Variations of +/-25% in the transition rates produced only a modest effect on 
life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: A small reduction in life expectancy was observed when follow-up 
was withheld from the majority of patients. Disease-specific mortality rates 
rose when no follow-up was provided. These rates probably were overestimated. A 
simplified version of the current follow-up protocol may be implemented.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22401
PMID: 17154185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


