METHODS: In-study event data were accrued for cardiac and vascular events, 
cancers and fractures. These event incidence data were applied to first-year 
direct medical costs for these events, derived from published sources. Reference 
event incidence data were derived from hospital discharge records and relevant 
national registries for age-matched women (aged 50-70 years) in Finland with an 
assumed HRT usage rate of 40%. Cost-effectiveness was expressed as additional 
cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for women on ccHRT compared 
with the general population. All input data were discounted at 3% per annum.
RESULTS: The additional cost per QALY gained for ccHRT was less than 5000 euro 
throughout the nine calendar years examined and remained well below the 
threshold of acceptability of 50,000 euro in a range of sensitivity analyses. 
The lowest dose-combination of ccHRT examined improved quality of life at no 
greater cost than no treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: This appraisal, based on event data from a uniquely long study of 
ccHRT, indicates that this intervention is cost-effective for the relief of 
symptoms of menopause.

DOI: 10.1185/030079907X159542
PMID: 17257466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Cir Cir. 2006 Jan-Feb;74(1):59-68.

[Perioperative evaluation in elderly patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Gallardo-Prieto LM(1), Nellen-Hummel H, Hamui-Sutton A, Castañón-González JA, 
Ibarra-Herrera E, Halabe-Cherem J.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Interna del Hospital de Especialidades, Centro 
Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, IMSS, Av. Cuauhtémoc 330, Col. Doctores, Deleg. 
Cuauhtémoc, 06725 México, D.F., México. dralencha@yahoo.com

With the multiple advances in the field of medicine and the resulting increase 
in life expectancy, the population pyramid is showing a tendency towards 
inversion; each day it becomes more feasible to surgically treat elderly 
patients. These patients represent a challenge not only because of the 
comorbidity that generally is associated with the elderly patient, but because 
of the multiple endemic physiological changes that alter and usually diminish 
their ability to cope with stressful situations. The elderly also experience 
social, economic and motivational problems during their illnesses, which should 
be considered during the surgical period in order to optimize the results of 
surgery and contribute to improve the quality of life of our patients. The 
approach with patients >65 years of age during the perioperative period should 
be multifactorial. It is necessary to acknowledge the physiological changes, 
poly-pathology, poly-pharmaceutical, and social situation of our elderly 
patients since these are factors that will determine their response to, and 
recuperation from, the surgical treatment.

PMID: 17257491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Resuscitation. 2007 May;73(2):309-13. doi:
10.1016/j.resuscitation.2006.09.011.  Epub 2007 Jan 25.

Successful extracorporeal life support in cardiac arrest with recurrent 
ventricular fibrillation unresponsive to standard cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

Shin JS(1), Lee SW, Han GS, Jo WM, Choi SH, Hong YS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thorasic and Cardiovascular Surgery, College of Medicine, Korea 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Extracorporeal life support has been used as an extension of conventional 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). However, the appropriate indications for 
extracorporeal CPR (ECPR) including the duration of CPR are unknown. We present 
a case of a male, 37-year-old out-of-hospital cardiac arrest patient who 
received prolonged CPR followed by ECPR. Despite advanced cardiac life support, 
he did not regain a sustained spontaneous circulation and had recurrent 
ventricular fibrillation (VF) during the prolonged CPR. VF was unresponsive to 
CPR, defibrillation, adrenaline (epinephrine), and antiarrhythmics. The CPR time 
before ECPR was approximately 2h. During extracorporeal life support, the VF did 
not recur and percutaneous coronary angioplasty was achieved. Ultimately, the 
patient was discharged without neurological complications. Although cardiac 
arrest occurred out-of-hospital and CPR was performed for a long time, a patient 
might be a candidate for ECPR if perfusing rhythms are restored transiently but 
not successfully maintained due to recurrent VF. ECPR may be used for VF 
unresponsive to standard CPR techniques.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resuscitation.2006.09.011
PMID: 17257730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Optometry. 2007 Feb;78(2):55-62. doi: 10.1016/j.optm.2006.08.015.

Prostate cancer metastasis to clivus causing cranial nerve VI palsy.

Malloy KA(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennsylvania College of Optometry, Elkins Park, Pennsylvania 19027, USA. 
kmalloy@pco.edu

BACKGROUND: An abduction deficit can have many potential etiologies. Clinical 
testing can help distinguish a neurogenic from a restrictive process. For any 
patient with a current or past history of cancer, even in the setting of 
vasculopathic risk factors, a further workup is necessary to rule out a 
metastatic process.
CASE REPORT: A 66-year-old man reported sudden blurry vision but did not 
describe a definite diplopia. Clinical evaluation found left cranial nerve (CN) 
VI palsy. Although he did have vasculopathic risk factors, neuroimaging found 
prostate cancer metastasis to the mid to left clivus, extending to the left 
cavernous sinus region as well as a smaller metastasis to the left temporal 
lobe. The patient underwent radiation treatment with improvement in his clinical 
presentation and symptoms. His prostate cancer was subsequently treated more 
aggressively, and 2 years later, despite spinal metastases, he was doing 
relatively well.
CONCLUSION: Prostate cancer commonly metastasizes, with a high propensity to 
invade bone. CN VI runs along the midline-structured bony clivus, between the 
pons and the cavernous sinuses. Therefore, a metastatic lesion to the clivus can 
be responsible for unilateral or bilateral CN VI palsy. In men, a common primary 
site of cancer metastasis to the clivus is the prostate. Eye doctors must look 
closely for evidence of even subtle abduction deficits in all patients with a 
history of prostate cancer. Early detection can lead to improved medical 
treatment and extended life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.optm.2006.08.015
PMID: 17258159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. FEBS Lett. 2007 Feb 20;581(4):667-72. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2007.01.030.
Epub  2007 Jan 22.

Knockout of frataxin gene causes embryo lethality in Arabidopsis.

Vazzola V(1), Losa A, Soave C, Murgia I.

Author information:
(1)Sezione di Fisiologia e Biochimica delle Piante, Dipartimento di Biologia, 
Università degli Studi di Milano, via Celoria 26, 20133 Milano, Italy.

Frataxin is present in mitochondria of all eukaryotes as well as in the 
cytoplasm of bacteria. In humans, reduced expression of frataxin is associated 
with Friedreich's ataxia, a recessive inherited neurodegenerative and cardiac 
disorder leading to reduced life expectancy. Experimental evidences suggest that 
frataxin acts as an iron-chaperone protein, donating iron to the proteins 
involved in [Fe-S] cluster assembly and heme synthesis. It also possibly 
contributes to the process of iron detoxification and storage. The frataxin 
homolog from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtFH) is a single nuclear-encoded gene 
targeted to mitochondria and sharing 65% similarity with animal frataxin. In the 
present work, we show that the knocking out of AtFH gene causes arrest of 
Arabidopsis embryo development at the globular stage. Consistently with that, we 
also show by in situ hybridization that AtFH is expressed, in wt Arabidopsis 
plants, in ovule primordia as well as in embryos at various stages of 
development, suggesting a key role of plant frataxin during embryogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2007.01.030
PMID: 17258206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Int J Cardiol. 2007 May 16;118(1):1-3. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2006.05.054.
Epub  2007 Jan 25.

How should we cost ICD therapy?

Fox DJ, Davidson NC, Fitzpatrick AP.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2006.05.054
PMID: 17258335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Bacteriol. 2007 Apr;189(7):2769-76. doi: 10.1128/JB.01509-06. Epub 2007 Jan
 26.

Mutational analysis of the Escherichia coli DEAD box protein CsdA.

Turner AM(1), Love CF, Alexander RW, Jones PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Winston-Salem State University, Winston-Salem, 
NC 27110, USA.

The Escherichia coli cold shock protein CsdA is a member of the DEAD box family 
of ATP-dependent RNA helicases, which share a core of nine conserved motifs. The 
DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) motif for which this family is named has been 
demonstrated to be essential for ATP hydrolysis. We show here that CsdA exhibits 
in vitro ATPase and helicase activities in the presence of short RNA duplexes 
with either 3' or 5' extensions at 15 degrees C. In contrast to wild-type CsdA, 
a DQAD variant of CsdA (Glu-157-->Gln) had no detectible helicase or ATPase 
activity at 15 degrees C in vitro. A plasmid encoding the DQAD variant was also 
unable to suppress the impaired growth of the csdA null mutant at 15 degrees C. 
Plasmid-encoded CsdADelta444, which lacks most of the carboxy-terminal 
extension, enhanced the growth of a csdA null mutant at 25 degrees C but not at 
15 degrees C; this truncated protein also has limited in vitro activity at 15 
degrees C. These results support the physiological function of CsdA as a DEAD 
box ATP-dependent RNA helicase at low temperature.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01509-06
PMCID: PMC1855801
PMID: 17259309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2007 Mar;64(6):752-67. doi: 10.1007/s00018-007-6381-y.

Calorie restriction and the nutrient sensing signaling pathways.

Dilova I(1), Easlon E, Lin SJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Microbiology, College of Biological Sciences, University of 
California, One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

Calorie restriction (CR) is the most potent regimen known to extend the life 
span in multiple species. CR has also been shown to ameliorate several 
age-associated disorders in mammals and perhaps humans. CR induces diverse 
metabolic changes in organisms, and it is currently unclear whether and how 
these metabolic changes lead to life span extension. Recent studies in model 
systems have provided insight into the molecular mechanisms by which CR extends 
life span. In this review, we summarize and provide recent updates on multiple 
nutrient signaling pathways that have been connected to CR and longevity 
regulation. The roles of highly conserved longevity regulators--the Sirtuin 
family--in CR are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-007-6381-y
PMID: 17260088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 2006;85(12):1463-7. doi:
10.1080/00016340600984647.

Follow-up after incomplete hysteroscopic removal of uterine fibroids.

Van Dongen H(1), Emanuel MH, Smeets MJ, Trimbos B, Jansen FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology K6-76, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Albinusdreef 2, 2300, RC Leiden, The Netherlands. h.van_dongen@lumc.nl

BACKGROUND: In this observational study, we analysed whether a period of wait 
and see was reasonable following incomplete removal of submucous fibroids, with 
regard to symptoms of abnormal uterine bleeding, and whether factors predicting 
subsequent surgery could be identified.
METHODS: In 3 affiliated hospitals, patients with incomplete removal of 
submucous fibroids, treated with hysteroscopic myomectomy for abnormal uterine 
bleeding, between January 1997 and January 2005, were followed over time. Using 
life-table analysis (Kaplan-Meier method), the cumulative proportion of women 
having surgery-free survival following incomplete removal of submucous fibroids 
was calculated. Cox-proportional hazard analyses were used to analyse 
relationships of variables with recurrence of symptoms.
RESULTS: Forty-one consecutive patients met the inclusion criteria, and were 
followed over time. The mean age was 42.5 years (range 27-55). The majority of 
patients with incomplete removal of submucous fibroids were diagnosed with type 
2 fibroids. Termination of the procedure before complete removal was achieved, 
was principally caused by reaching the maximum fluid deficit (90.2%). The 
surgery-free percentages were 70.2% (95%-CI: 55.3-85.1) at 1 year, 54.8% 
(95%-CI: 38.1-70.7) at 2 years, and 44.2% (95%-CI: 26.9-61.5) at 3 years. Size 
of fibroid (diameter) pre-operatively turned out to be of statistically 
significant influence, with a hazard ratio of 1.762 (95%-CI: 1.114-2.787) per cm 
increase in diameter (p=0.016).
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that incomplete removal does not always seem 
to necessitate subsequent surgery. Instead of subsequent surgery immediately 
post-operatively, a wait and see policy is worth considering after incomplete 
removal.

DOI: 10.1080/00016340600984647
PMID: 17260223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Value Health. 2007 Jan-Feb;10(1):13-22. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00140.x.

Cost-benefit analysis of preventing sudden cardiac deaths with an implantable 
cardioverter defibrillator versus amiodarone.

Caro JJ(1), Ward A, Deniz HB, O'Brien JA, Ehreth JL.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, Concord, MA 01742, USA. jcaro@caroresearch.com

Comment in
    Value Health. 2007 Jan-Feb;10(1):1-2.

OBJECTIVES: To conduct a cost-benefit assessment of prevention of sudden cardiac 
deaths with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) versus amiodarone 
from the perspective of the health-care systems in the UK and France.
METHODS: Course after implantation with an ICD or taking amiodarone was modeled 
using discrete event simulation; 1000 pairs of identical patients were simulated 
100 times for each analysis. Rates of life-threatening arrhythmia and death from 
other causes were assumed identical, but the case fatality of arrhythmia and 
hospitalization differ between treatments. Rates were based on published data, 
primarily from the Sudden Cardiac Death in Heart Failure Trial (SCD-HeFT). 
Direct medical costs (in 2004 Euros) and lives saved were estimated over 5 
years. The monetary value of a life (UK euro2.1 million, France euro2.0 million) 
was applied to this benefit and examined relative to the net investment 
required.
RESULTS: ICDs decreased deaths during the 5 years from 37.0% to 29.7% at a net 
cost of euro26,222 to euro20,008 per patient, yielding cost-benefit ratios of 
0.17 (UK) and 0.14 (France)-more than a 5 to 1 return on investment. Sensitivity 
analyses showed ICDs represent value for money whenever a life is valued at 
least at euro274,000.
CONCLUSION: In these European countries where society values a life at more than 
euro2 million, ICDs are a worthwhile investment compared with amiodarone for 
primary prevention of sudden cardiac deaths in patients with heart failure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00140.x
PMID: 17261112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Value Health. 2007 Jan-Feb;10(1):23-31. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00141.x.

Cost-effectiveness of aprepitant for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced 
nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic chemotherapy.

Moore S(1), Tumeh J, Wojtanowski S, Flowers C.

Author information:
(1)Winship Cancer Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is a significant 
problem for cancer patients. Aprepitant, a novel NK-1 receptor antagonist, is 
approved for use with 5-HT3 antagonists and corticosteroids to prevent CINV 
associated with highly emetogenic chemotherapy. Nevertheless, the 
cost-effectiveness of standard aprepitant use has not been established.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to compare three strategies for CINV: 
conventional treatment with a 5-HT3 antagonist and a corticosteroid, 
conventional treatment plus aprepitant, and conventional treatment with 
aprepitant added after the onset of CINV. Data from published clinical trials 
provided probabilities and utilities for the model. Data from the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services and the Federal Supply Scale provided costs for 
medical resources and medications utilized. Resource use data were based on a 
randomized clinical trial and routine clinical practice. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for each aprepitant strategy was calculated in 
US$ per healthy day equivalent (HDE) and converted to dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses addressed uncertainty in model parameters.
RESULTS: Adding aprepitant after CINV occurred cost $264 per HDE ($96,333/QALY). 
The three-drug strategy cost $267/HDE with a 95% confidence range of 
$248-$305/HDE ($97,429/QALY; $90,396-$111,239/QALY). In univariate analyses, the 
most influential factors on the ICER were: the cost of aprepitant, the 
likelihood of delayed CINV without aprepitant, the likelihood of acute CINV 
with/without aprepitant, and the increase in HDE from avoiding CINV.
CONCLUSIONS: Aprepitant provides modest incremental benefits compared with 
conventional management of CINV. Routine aprepitant use appears most 
cost-effective when the likelihood of delayed CINV or the cost of rescue 
medications is high.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00141.x
PMID: 17261113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Value Health. 2007 Jan-Feb;10(1):32-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00142.x.

The cost-effectiveness of lanthanum carbonate in the treatment of 
hyperphosphatemia in patients with end-stage renal disease.

Brennan A(1), Akehurst R, Davis S, Sakai H, Abbott V.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK. a.brennan@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of lanthanum carbonate (LC) as a 
second-line therapy for hyperphosphatemia in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
patients not achieving target phosphorus levels.
METHODS: A cohort of ESRD patients not adequately maintained on calcium 
carbonate (CC) and three subgroups of patients with baseline phosphorus levels 
of 5.6 to 6.5 mg/dl, 6.6 to 7.8 mg/dl, and more than 7.9 mg/dl were modeled. The 
following policy options were considered: continued CC (Policy 1); LC trial-if 
successful continue LC, if unsuccessful switch to CC (Policy 2). The survival 
benefit of using second-line LC to improve phosphorus control has been 
extrapolated from the relationship between hyperphosphatemia and mortality. 
Lifetime UK National Health Service drug and monitoring costs, expected 
survival, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were examined (discounting at 
3.5% per annum).
RESULTS: Policy 2 had a cost-effectiveness ratio (cost/QALY) of pound25,033 
relative to Policy 1. The results show it is particularly cost-effective to 
treat patients with phosphorus levels above 6.6 mg/dl. The outcomes did not vary 
significantly during the one-way sensitivity analysis carried out on important 
model parameters and assumptions except when the utility value for ESRD was 
decreased by more than 30%.
CONCLUSIONS: Applying a cost-effectiveness threshold of pound30,000 per QALY, 
the model shows it is cost-effective to follow current treatment guidelines and 
treat all patients who are not adequately maintained on CC (serum phosphorus 
above 5.6 mg/dl) with second-line LC. This is particularly the case for patients 
with serum phosphorus above 6.6 mg/dl. Our estimates are probably conservative 
as the possible compliance difference in favor of LC and the reduced number of 
hypercalcemic events with LC relative to CC was not considered.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00142.x
PMID: 17261114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Value Health. 2007 Jan-Feb;10(1):42-53. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00143.x.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a quality-controlled mammography screening 
program from the Swiss statutory health-care perspective: quantitative 
assessment of the most influential factors.

Neeser K(1), Szucs T, Bulliard JL, Bachmann G, Schramm W.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute for Medical Decision Support (SIMEDES), Muttenz, Switzerland. 
neeser@simedes.org

OBJECTIVES: Quality-controlled mammography screening programs (MSP) have led to 
a reduction in breast cancer mortality. The purpose of this economic analysis 
was to assess the cost-effectiveness of MSP compared with an established 
opportunistic screening strategy (OS) in Switzerland, to identify the major 
factors influencing the economic outcome.
METHODS: Using cancer registries and clinical data, a Markov-based decision 
model was designed to compare MSP with OS in the Swiss female population, 
considering the main screening-specific performance parameters.
RESULTS: The discounted incremental life expectancy amounted to 0.022 life-years 
gained in favor of MSP when screening started at age 40 years and decreased to 
0.008 years at the age of 70 years (number needed to screen to avoid one death 
over 10 years ranged from 10,000 to 2439 women depending on the baseline age). 
The total discounted life-time cost for screening, treatment at the baseline age 
of 40 years amounted in MSP to $4366 (OS: $2802) and decreased with the baseline 
age of 70 years to $2412 (OS: $1446). The discounted incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio comparing MSP versus OS ranged from $73,018 (age 40 
years) to $118,193 (age 70 years) per life-year gained. Testing all model 
variables confirmed that both incidence and mortality of breast cancer play the 
most important role in the health economic outcome, whereas cost and 
performances (sensitivity, specificity) of screening had a minor impact on the 
efficiency.
CONCLUSION: This analysis, performed under conservative assumptions, supports 
that MSP in Switzerland enables a relevant reduction of breast cancer mortality, 
at moderate additional cost, compared with OS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00143.x
PMID: 17261115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Value Health. 2007 Jan-Feb;10(1):61-72. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00145.x.

Economic evaluation of palliative management versus peritoneal dialysis and 
hemodialysis for end-stage renal disease: evidence for coverage decisions in 
Thailand.

Teerawattananon Y(1), Mugford M, Tangcharoensathien V.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand. yot@ihpp.thaigov.net

OBJECTIVE: To examine the value for money of including peritoneal dialysis (PD) 
or hemodialysis (HD) into the universal health insurance scheme of Thailand.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model applied to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
patients aged 20 to 70 years was developed to examine the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of palliative care versus 1) providing PD as an 
initial treatment followed by HD if complications/switching occur; and 2) 
providing HD followed by PD if complications/switching occur. Input parameters 
were extracted from a national cohort, the Thailand Renal Replacement Therapy 
Registry, and systematic reviews, where possible. The study explored the effects 
of uncertainty around input parameters, presented as cost-effectiveness 
acceptability frontier, as well as the value of obtaining further information on 
chosen parameters, i.e., partial expected value of perfect information.
RESULTS: Using a societal perspective, the average ICER of initial treatment 
with PD and the average ICER of initial treatment with HD were 672,000 and 
806,000 Baht per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained (52,000 and 63,000 
purchasing power parity [PPP] US$/QALY) compared with palliative care. Providing 
treatments for younger ESRD patients resulted in a significant improvement of 
survival and gain of QALYs compared with the older aged group. The 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility ratios of both options for the older age 
group were relatively similar.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that offering PD as initial treatment was a 
better choice than offering HD, but it would only be considered a cost-effective 
strategy if the social willingness-to-pay threshold was at or higher than 
700,000 Baht per QALY (54,000 PPP US$/QALY) for the age 20 group and 750,000 
Baht per QALY (58,000 PPP US$/QALY) for age 70 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00145.x
PMID: 17261117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Value Health. 2007 Jan-Feb;10(1):73-81. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00146.x.

Using EQ-5D to derive general population-based utilities for the quality of life 
assessment of growth hormone deficiency in adults (QoL-AGHDA).

Kołtowska-Häggström M(1), Jonsson B, Isacson D, Bingefors K.

Author information:
(1)KIGS/KIMS/ACROSTUDY Medical Outcomes, Pfizer Endocrine Care, Pfizer Health 
AB, Sollentuna, Sweden. maria.koltowska-haggstrom@pfizer.com

OBJECTIVE: Disease-oriented quality of life (QoL) measures that are not 
preference-based lack legitimacy for direct use in cost-utility analyses. This 
has prompted the search for other methods for deriving utilities. The QoL 
Assessment of Growth Hormone Deficiency in Adults questionnaire (QoL-AGHDA) is a 
disease-oriented measure used to assess impairment in QoL in adults with growth 
hormone deficiency. The present study was designed to generate a model for 
deriving utilities from the QoL-AGHDA.
METHODS: The EQ-5D, the QoL-AGHDA, and demographic questions were mailed to a 
random sample (n = 3005) of the Swedish population (response rate 65%). Multiple 
regression analysis was used to obtain cross-validated parameters of 
QoL-AGHDA-based utilities. Two models were developed (simple and full versions). 
The simple version used the EQ-5D(index) (derived from European values) as the 
dependent variable, and age, sex, and QoL-AGHDA score as independent variables 
in a regression analysis. The full model utilized all available demographic 
information. The QoL-AGHDA scores were thus transformed into a single score 
(0-1), corresponding to the QoL-AGHDA-based utility.
RESULTS: The simple transformation algorithm was U (QoL-AGHDA-based utilities) = 
1.05 - 0.0189 x QoL-AGHDA score - 0.00238 x age - 0.0127 x sex (male = 0; female 
= 1). The mean of the weighted estimate for the population (n = 1752) was 0.85 
(SD 0.10). The estimate for men (n = 861; mean 0.86; SD 0.10) was higher (P < 
0.001) than for women (n = 891; mean 0.84; SD 0.10).
CONCLUSION: For practical reasons, the simple model can be recommended for 
deriving utilities directly from the QoL-AGHDA for the Swedish population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00146.x
PMID: 17261118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Am J Kidney Dis. 2007 Feb;49(2):180-2. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2006.11.046.

Allocating deceased donor kidneys: maximizing years of life.

Danovitch GM, Bunnapradist S.

Comment on
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2007 Feb;49(2):284-93.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2006.11.046
PMID: 17261419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 Nov;1089:516-37. doi: 10.1196/annals.1386.051.

Immunogenetics, gender, and longevity.

Candore G(1), Balistreri CR, Listì F, Grimaldi MP, Vasto S, Colonna-Romano G, 
Franceschi C, Lio D, Caselli G, Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)Gruppo di Studio sull' Immunosenescenza, Dipartimento di Biopatologia e 
Metodologie Biomediche, Corso Tukory 211, 90134 Palermo, Italy.

In this article we discuss relevant data on aging, longevity, and gender with 
particular focus on inflammation gene polymorphisms which could affect an 
individual's chance to reach the extreme limit of human life. The present review 
is not an extensive revision of the literature, but rather an expert opinion 
based on selected data from the authors' laboratories. In 2000-2005 in the more 
developed regions, the life expectancy at birth is 71.9 years for men (78.3 in 
Japan) and 79.3 years for women (86.3 in Japan). Indeed, gender accounts for 
important differences in the prevalence of a variety of age-related diseases. 
Considering people of far-advanced age, demographic data document a clear-cut 
prevalence of females compared to males, suggesting that sex-specific mortality 
rates follow different trajectories during aging. In Italy this female/male 
ratio is relatively lower (about 5/1; F/M ratios are usually 5-6:1 in other 
developed countries), but significant differences have been observed between 
Italian regions in the distribution of centenarians by gender--from two women 
per man in the South to more than eight in certain regions in the North. Thus, a 
complex interaction of environmental, historical, and genetic factors, 
differently characterizing the various parts of Italy, likely plays an important 
role in determining the gender-specific probability of achieving longevity. This 
can be due to gender-specific cultural and anthropological characteristics of 
Italian society in the last 100 years. Age-related immunoinflammatory factors 
increase during proinflammatory status, and the frequency of 
pro/anti-inflammatory gene variants also show gender differences. There is some 
suggestion that people genetically predisposed to weak inflammatory activity may 
be at reduced chance of developing coronary heart disease (CHD) and, therefore, 
may achieve longer lifespan if they avoid serious life-threatening infectious 
disease thoroughout life. Thus, the pathogen burden, by interacting with host 
genotype, could determine the type and intensity of the immune-inflammatory 
response responsible for both proinflammatory status and CHD. These findings 
point to a strong relationship between the genetics of inflammation, successful 
aging, and the control of cardiovascular disease, but seem to suggest that the 
evidence for men is much stronger. The importance of these studies lies in the 
fact that half of the population (males) lives approximately 10% shorter lives 
than the other half (females). Understanding the different strategies that men 
and women seem to follow to achieve longevity may help us to comprehend better 
the basic phenomenon of aging and allow us to search for safe ways to increase 
male lifespan.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1386.051
PMID: 17261795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Ann Fam Med. 2007 Jan-Feb;5(1):29-38. doi: 10.1370/afm.626.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of treatment options for acute otitis media.

Coco AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Von Hess Healthcare Research Center, Family and Community Medicine, Lancaster 
General Hospital, Lancaster, PA 17604-3555, USA. ascoco@lancastergeneral.org

PURPOSE: This study evaluated the costs and utility of observation and routine 
antibiotic treatment options for children with acute otitis media.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness analysis was performed among children aged 6 
months to 12 years seen in primary care offices. The interventions studied were 
watchful waiting as practiced in the Netherlands, delayed prescription, 5 days 
of amoxicillin, and 7 to 10 days of amoxicillin. The main outcome measure was 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, delayed prescription was the least costly 
option and 7 to 10 days of amoxicillin was the most effective. The incremental 
cost utility ratio (ICUR) of 7 to 10 days of amoxicillin compared with delayed 
prescription was 56,000 dollars per QALY gained. Watchful waiting and 5 days of 
amoxicillin were inferior options. The results were sensitive to the rate of 
nonattendance in the delayed prescription strategy: when the rate was less than 
23%, watchful waiting was the least costly option and delayed prescription was 
an inferior option. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis, in which all model 
variables were simultaneously varied, showed with 95% certainty that compared 
with delayed prescription, 7 to 10 days of amoxicillin had a 61% probability of 
having an ICUR of greater than 50,000 dollars per QALY gained, and watchful 
waiting had a 23% probability of having an ICUR of less than 50,000 dollars per 
QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Economically, an approach to the treatment of acute otitis media 
with either an initial period of observation or routine treatment with 
amoxicillin is reasonable.

DOI: 10.1370/afm.626
PMCID: PMC1783919
PMID: 17261862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Palliat Care. 2006 Winter;22(4):261-6.

Quality of life of patients with terminal cancer receiving palliative home care.

Yan S(1), Kin-Fong C.

Author information:
(1)Palliative Medical Unit, Grantham Hospital, Hong Kong, China.

The purpose of this study was to determine the levels of quality of life of 
patients with terminal cancer who received palliative care in home settings. 
Data were collected from 85 cancer patients with a life expectancy of less than 
12 months using the McGill Quality of Life Questionnaire-Hong Kong version 
(MQOL-HK). The mean total quality of life score was 6.36 +/- 1.37 out of 10. 
Among the various domains, the physical and existential domains scored 
relatively low with mean scores of 4.9 +/- 1.28 and 6.12 +/- 1.6 out of 10, 
respectively. Conversely, the subscales of sexual functioning and support 
yielded the highest scores with mean values of 7.45 +/- 4 and 6.8 +/- 1.9, 
respectively. There was a significant moderate correlation between age and the 
mean total quality of life scores (r = 0.53, p < 0.01). In addition, a moderate 
negative correlation was found between pain intensity and physical subscale (r = 
-0.57, p < 0.01). In conclusion, patients with terminal cancer receiving 
palliative home care experienced a moderately high level of quality of life, 
especially in the sphere of support.

PMID: 17263052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Br J Dermatol. 2007 May;156(5):913-21. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2006.07707.x.
 Epub 2007 Jan 30.

Cost-effectiveness of tacrolimus ointment vs. standard treatment in patients 
with moderate and severe atopic dermatitis: a health-economic model simulation 
based on a patient survey and clinical trial data.

Hjelmgren J(1), Svensson A, Jörgensen ET, Lindemalm-Lundstam B, Ragnarson 
Tennvall G.

Author information:
(1)IHE, The Swedish Institute for Health Economics, Lund, Sweden.

Erratum in
    Br J Dermatol. 2008 Sep;159(4):994-5.

BACKGROUND: Atopic dermatitis (AD) affects health and quality of life (QoL) and 
also has great impact on both healthcare costs and costs to society.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to analyse the cost-effectiveness of 
treatment with tacrolimus ointment vs. standard treatment in patients with 
moderate to severe AD.
METHODS: A Markov simulation model was constructed capturing several key 
features of AD and its treatment: disease severity, treatment alternatives, and 
QoL. The model was populated with data from three sources: (i) efficacy data 
from a randomized controlled trial including patients with moderate to severe AD 
treated with either tacrolimus ointment or standard treatment (corticosteroids), 
(ii) resource utilization and QoL data from a patient survey including 161 
Swedish patients with AD, and (iii) official price lists. Costs were calculated 
according to disease severity for the two treatment alternatives using the 
perspective of the Swedish healthcare sector. Two analyses were performed, one 
based on the quantity of medication used in the trial and one based on the 
survey data. The relationship between effectiveness of tacrolimus ointment and 
the amount of medication used was tested in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In the model simulations patients with severe AD treated with 
tacrolimus ointment experienced on average 4.6 more AD-free weeks per year than 
patients given standard treatment. The corresponding figure for patients with 
moderate AD was 6.5 more AD-free weeks per year. The cost-effectiveness ratios 
[cost per Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) gained] for treatment with 
tacrolimus ointment vs. standard treatment were 2,334 British pound for moderate 
AD and 3,875 British pound for severe AD when treatment patterns from the survey 
were assumed, and 8,269 British pound for moderate AD and 12,304 British pound 
for severe AD when treatment patterns from the clinical trial were assumed. The 
results of sensitivity analyses were all well within limits to be considered 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio are far below 
the currently discussed threshold in Sweden, corresponding to approximately 
48,700 British pound per QALY gained, and equivalent thresholds in other 
countries. Treatment with tacrolimus ointment in patients with moderate and 
severe AD can therefore be considered cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2006.07707.x
PMID: 17263826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Diabetologia. 2007 Apr;50(4):733-40. doi: 10.1007/s00125-006-0561-4. Epub
2007  Jan 31.

Cost-effectiveness of primary prevention of cardiovascular disease with 
atorvastatin in type 2 diabetes: results from the Collaborative Atorvastatin 
Diabetes Study (CARDS).

Raikou M(1), McGuire A, Colhoun HM, Betteridge DJ, Durrington PN, Hitman GA, 
Neil HA, Livingstone SJ, Charlton-Menys V, Fuller JH; CARDS Investigators.

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE, UK. m.raikou@lse.ac.uk

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: We estimated the cost-effectiveness of atorvastatin treatment 
in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 
diabetes using data from the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study (CARDS).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A total of 2,838 patients, who were aged 40 to 75 years 
and had type 2 diabetes without a documented history of cardiovascular disease 
and without elevated LDL-cholesterol, were recruited from 32 centres in the UK 
and Ireland and randomly allocated to atorvastatin 10 mg daily (n = 1,428) or 
placebo (n = 1,410). These subjects were followed-up for a median period of 3.9 
years. Direct treatment costs and effectiveness were analysed to provide 
estimates of cost per endpoint-free year over the trial period for alternative 
definitions of endpoint, and of cost per life-year gained and cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained over a patient's lifetime.
RESULTS: Over the trial period, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
was estimated to be 7,608 pounds per year free of any CARDS primary endpoint; 
the ICER was calculated to be 4,896 pounds per year free of any cardiovascular 
endpoint and 4,120 pounds per year free of any study endpoint. Over lifetime, 
the incremental cost per life-year gained was 5,107 pounds and the cost per QALY 
was 6,471 pounds (costs and benefits both discounted at 3.5%).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Primary prevention of cardiovascular disease with 
atorvastatin is a cost-effective intervention in patients with type 2 diabetes, 
with the ICER for this intervention falling within the current acceptance 
threshold ( 20,000 pounds per QALY) specified by the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE).

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-006-0561-4
PMID: 17265034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Cancer. 2007 Mar 15;109(6):1082-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22512.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of oxaliplatin compared with 
5-fluorouracil/leucovorin in adjuvant treatment of stage III colon cancer in the 
US.

Aballéa S(1), Chancellor JV, Raikou M, Drummond MF, Weinstein MC, Jourdan S, 
Bridgewater J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes, i3 Innovus, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK. 
samuel.aballea@i3innovus.com

BACKGROUND: The MOSAIC trial demonstrated that 
oxaliplatin/5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (FU/LV) (FOLFOX4) as adjuvant treatment of 
TNM stage II and III colon cancer significantly improves disease-free survival 
compared with 5-FU/LV alone. For stage III patients the 4-year disease-free 
survival (DFS) was 69% in the FOLFOX4 arm vs 61% in the LV5FU2 arm, P = .002). 
The cost-effectiveness of FOLFOX4 in stage III patients was evaluated from a US 
Medicare perspective.
METHODS: By using individual patient-level data from the MOSAIC trial (median 
follow-up: 44.2 months), DFS and overall survival (OS) were estimated up to 4 
years from randomization. DFS was extrapolated from 4 to 5 years by fitting a 
Weibull model and subsequent survival was estimated from life tables. OS beyond 
4 years was predicted from the extrapolated DFS estimates and observed survival 
after recurrence. Costs were calculated from trial data and external estimates 
of resources to manage recurrence.
RESULTS: Patients on FOLFOX4 were predicted to gain 2.00 (95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 0.63, 3.37) years of DFS over those on 5-FU/LV. The predicted 
life expectancy of stage III patients on FOLFOX4 and 5-FU/LV was 17.61 and 16.26 
years, respectively. Mean total lifetime disease-related costs were $56,300 with 
oxaliplatin and $39,300 with 5-FU/LV. Compared with 5-FU/LV, FOLFOX4 was 
estimated to cost $20,600 per life-year gained and $22,800 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained, discounting costs and outcomes at 3% per annum.
CONCLUSIONS: FOLFOX4 is likely to be cost-effective compared with 5-FU/LV in the 
adjuvant treatment of stage III colon cancer. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio compares favorably with other funded interventions in oncology.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22512
PMID: 17265519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Arthritis Rheum. 2007 Feb 15;57(1):86-93. doi: 10.1002/art.22465.

Health values of patients with systemic sclerosis.

Khanna D(1), Ahmed M, Furst DE, Ginsburg SS, Park GS, Hornung R, Tsevat J.

Author information:
(1)University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Institute for the Study of Health, 
University of Cincinnati, and Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
USA. dinesh.khanna@uc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess health values in subjects with systemic sclerosis (SSc) and 
determine variability explained by demographics, clinical factors, health 
status, and disease severity.
METHODS: We interviewed 107 individuals with SSc who attended national and local 
Scleroderma Foundation meetings in 2005. Health status was measured using the 
Short Form 36 (SF-36) Physical Component Summary (PCS; range 0-100) and Mental 
Component Summary (MCS; range 0-100), the Center for Epidemiologic Studies 
Depression Scale (CES-D; range 0-60), and the Health Assessment Questionnaire 
(HAQ) disability index (DI; range 0-3). Disease severity was assessed using a 
visual analog scale (VAS; range 0-150). Health value measures included the 0-100 
health rating scale (RS), standard gamble (SG; range 0.0-1.0), and time 
trade-off (TTO; range 0.0-1.0). We performed univariate analyses to compare 
scores between participants with limited cutaneous SSc (lcSSc) and diffuse 
cutaneous SSc (dcSSc), and multivariable analyses for 3 outcome measures: RS, 
SG, and TTO, controlling for demographics, type of SSc, health status, and 
disease severity.
RESULTS: Of the 107 participants, 48 had dcSSc and 59 had lcSSc. Ninety-seven 
were women and 83 were white. The median scores for the PCS, MCS, and HAQ DI 
were 36.9, 45.5, and 0.9, respectively. Fifty-five subjects had significant 
depressive symptoms (CES-D score >or=16). The median RS, SG, and TTO scores were 
62, 0.83 (indicating a willingness to accept up to a 17% risk of immediate death 
in exchange for perfect health), and 0.88 (indicating a willingness to give up a 
median of 12% of life expectancy in exchange for perfect health), respectively. 
Subjects with dcSSc had lower RS scores but higher SG scores (corresponding to a 
willingness to accept only a smaller risk of death) than subjects with lcSSc. 
TTO scores were similar in the 2 groups. Health values were variably related to 
factors such as demographics, VAS score, disease classification, and SF-36 PCS 
and MCS scores (R(2) = 0.22, 0.23, and 0.66 for the SG, TTO, and RS models, 
respectively).
CONCLUSION: Individuals with dcSSc have lower health ratings but higher SG 
health values than individuals with lcSSc. These findings have implications for 
decision analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis.

DOI: 10.1002/art.22465
PMID: 17266070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Aging Cell. 2007 Feb;6(1):63-71. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2006.00261.x.

The functional costs and benefits of dietary restriction in Drosophila.

Burger JM(1), Hwangbo DS, Corby-Harris V, Promislow DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Georgia, Life Sciences Building, 
Athens, GA 30602-7223, USA. jozef.burger@unifr.ch

Dietary restriction (DR) extends lifespan in an impressively wide array of 
species spanning three eukaryotic kingdoms. In sharp contrast, relatively little 
is known about the effects of DR on functional senescence, with most of the work 
having been done on mice and rats. Here we used Drosophila melanogaster to test 
the assumption that lifespan extension through DR slows down age-related 
functional deterioration. Adult virgin females were kept on one of three diets, 
with sucrose and yeast concentrations ranging from 7% to 11% to 16% (w/v). 
Besides age-specific survival and fecundity, we measured starvation resistance, 
oxidative stress resistance, immunity, and cold-stress resilience at ages 1, 3, 
5, and 7 weeks. We confirmed that DR extends lifespan: median lifespans ranged 
from 38 days (16% diet) to 46 days (11% diet) to 54 days (7% diet). We also 
confirmed that DR reduces fecundity, although the shortest-lived flies only had 
the highest fecundity when males were infrequently available. The most striking 
result was that DR initially increased starvation resistance, but strongly 
decreased starvation resistance later in life. Generally, the effects of DR 
varied across traits and were age dependent. We conclude that DR does not 
universally slow down functional deterioration in Drosophila. The effects of DR 
on physiological function might not be as evolutionarily conserved as its effect 
on lifespan. Given the age-specific effects of DR on functional state, imposing 
DR late in life might not provide the same functional benefits as when applied 
at early ages.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2006.00261.x
PMID: 17266676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2007 Feb 1;9(3):1-17. doi: 10.1017/S1462399407000221.

Age-related changes in immunity: implications for vaccination in the elderly.

Kovaiou RD(1), Herndler-Brandstetter D, Grubeck-Loebenstein B.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biomedical Aging Research, Austrian Academy of Sciences, 
Innsbruck, Austria.

Average life expectancy is continuously rising in all developed countries, 
leading to an ever-increasing elderly population. Of the many functions of the 
body affected by the complex process of ageing, the immune system in particular 
undergoes various changes, collectively termed immunosenescence. As a result, 
elderly people are more susceptible to infections and are frequently less 
protected by vaccines. This review summarises the effect of ageing on immunity, 
emphasising the age-associated changes within T and B cells at a molecular and 
cellular level. Furthermore, it discusses strategies, such as the addition of 
immunostimulatory adjuvants and the use of potent antigen-delivery systems, that 
may counteract age-related defects in immune responses to vaccination. A proper 
understanding of how immunological memory is affected by ageing, and the 
introduction of strategies to ameliorate vaccine efficacy in the elderly, might 
reduce the incidence and the severity of infectious disease within this fragile 
age group and have a strong impact on the quality of life of elderly 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1017/S1462399407000221
PMID: 17266794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2007 Apr;31(4):578-85. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2006.12.017. Epub 2007 Jan 30.

Antithrombotic therapy following bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement.

Nowell J(1), Wilton E, Markus H, Jahangiri M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery and Neurosciences, St George's Hospital, 
University of London, UK.

The life expectancy of the general population is increasing. This has meant that 
more elderly patients are requiring aortic valve replacement (AVR). The choice 
of valve replacement and its durability are important. Bioprosthetic (tissue) 
heart valves were introduced into clinical use in the 1960s and were developed 
primarily to reduce the complications associated with thromboembolism (TE) and 
the need for lifelong oral anticoagulation, due to their low thrombogenicity 
compared to mechanical prostheses. This makes them suitable for use in elderly 
patients (aged>65 years) and in others where the risks of anticoagulation are 
higher or anticoagulation is contraindicated. There is thought to be a higher 
risk of TE for up to 90 days following bioprosthetic AVR. Guidelines for the 
management of patients with valvular heart disease published by the American 
College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association (AHA), the American 
College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) 
all recommend the use of an anticoagulation regimen for the first 3 months 
following bioprosthetic AVR. However, there is division of opinion and practice, 
despite these recommendations, and more recent studies have not supported the 
evidence for these guidelines. In this article, we review the literature on the 
use of anticoagulation in the first 90 days following bioprosthetic AVR.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2006.12.017
PMID: 17267235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Postgrad Med J. 2007 Jan;83(975):16-20. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.2006.048587.

Understanding frailty.

Lally F(1), Crome P.

Author information:
(1)Keele University Medical School, City General Hospital, Stoke-on-Trent, 
Staffordshire, UK.

The term "frailty" is used loosely to describe a range of conditions in older 
people, including general debility and cognitive impairment. There is no clear 
consensus on the definition of frailty; however, it is proposed that frailty 
comprises a collection of biomedical factors which influences an individual's 
physiological state in a way that reduces his or her capacity to withstand 
environmental stresses. Only a subset of older people are at risk of becoming 
frail; these are vulnerable, prone to dependency and have reduced life 
expectancy. These health outcomes contribute to an increased demand for medical 
and social care, and are associated with increased economic costs. As 
demographic trends indicate a rise in the older population, this healthcare 
burden will increase. This review aims to encapsulate the current debate 
surrounding the concept of frailty, with emphasis on proposed definitions of 
frailty which may be relevant to its identification in the clinical setting.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.2006.048587
PMCID: PMC2599957
PMID: 17267673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


63. Am J Public Health. 2007 Mar;97(3):392; author reply 392-3. doi: 
10.2105/AJPH.2006.105320. Epub 2007 Jan 31.

Hispanic paradox.

Ho A, Shih M, Simon P.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 2006 Sep;96(9):1686-92.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.105320
PMCID: PMC1805020
PMID: 17267705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Am J Psychiatry. 2007 Feb;164(2):206-14. doi: 10.1176/ajp.2007.164.2.206.

Measuring the impact of medical research: moving from outputs to outcomes.

Weiss AP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, MGH-East, Charlestown, MA 02129, USA. 
aweiss@partners.org

Billions of dollars are spent every year to support medical research, with a 
substantial percentage coming from charitable foundations. To justify these 
expenditures, some measure of the return on investment would be useful, 
particularly one aligned with the intended ultimate outcome of this scientific 
effort: the amelioration of disease. The current mode of reporting on the 
success of medical research is output based, with an emphasis on measurable 
productivity. This approach falls short in many respects and may be contributing 
to the well-described efficacy-effectiveness gap in clinical care. The author 
argues for an outcomes-based approach and describes the steps involved, using an 
adaptation of the logic model. A shift in focus to the outcomes of our work 
would provide our founders with clearer mission-central return-on-investment 
feedback, would make explicit the benefits of science to an increasingly 
skeptical public, and would serve as a compass to guide the scientific community 
in playing a more prominent role in reducing the efficacy-effectiveness gap. 
While acknowledging the enormous complexity involved with the implementation of 
this approach on a large scale, the author hopes that this essay will encourage 
some initial steps toward this aim and stimulate further discussion of this 
concept.
