The SANAD study of effectiveness of valproate, lamotrigine, or topiramate for 
generalised and unclassifiable epilepsy: an unblinded randomised controlled 
trial.

Marson AG(1), Al-Kharusi AM, Alwaidh M, Appleton R, Baker GA, Chadwick DW, Cramp 
C, Cockerell OC, Cooper PN, Doughty J, Eaton B, Gamble C, Goulding PJ, Howell 
SJ, Hughes A, Jackson M, Jacoby A, Kellett M, Lawson GR, Leach JP, Nicolaides P, 
Roberts R, Shackley P, Shen J, Smith DF, Smith PE, Smith CT, Vanoli A, 
Williamson PR; SANAD Study group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurological Science, University of Liverpool, UK. 
a.g.marson@liv.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2007 Mar 24;369(9566):970-1.
    Lancet. 2007 Jul 28;370(9584):313-4; author reply 315-6.
    Lancet. 2007 Jul 28;370(9584):313; author reply 315-6.
    Lancet. 2007 Jul 28;370(9584):314; author reply 315-6.
    Lancet. 2007 Jul 28;370(9584):315; author reply 315-6.
    ACP J Club. 2007 Nov-Dec;147(3):74-5.
    Epilepsy Curr. 2007 Sep-Oct;7(5):125-7.
    Rev Neurol Dis. 2008 Winter;5(1):36-7.

BACKGROUND: Valproate is widely accepted as a drug of first choice for patients 
with generalised onset seizures, and its broad spectrum of efficacy means it is 
recommended for patients with seizures that are difficult to classify. 
Lamotrigine and topiramate are also thought to possess broad spectrum activity. 
The SANAD study aimed to compare the longer-term effects of these drugs in 
patients with generalised onset seizures or seizures that are difficult to 
classify.
METHODS: SANAD was an unblinded randomised controlled trial in hospital-based 
outpatient clinics in the UK. Arm B of the study recruited 716 patients for whom 
valproate was considered to be standard treatment. Patients were randomly 
assigned to valproate, lamotrigine, or topiramate between Jan 12, 1999, and Aug 
31, 2004, and follow-up data were obtained up to Jan 13, 2006. Primary outcomes 
were time to treatment failure, and time to 1-year remission, and analysis was 
by both intention to treat and per protocol. This study is registered as an 
International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial, number ISRCTN38354748.
FINDINGS: For time to treatment failure, valproate was significantly better than 
topiramate (hazard ratio 1.57 [95% CI 1.19-2.08]), but there was no significant 
difference between valproate and lamotrigine (1.25 [0.94-1.68]). For patients 
with an idiopathic generalised epilepsy, valproate was significantly better than 
both lamotrigine (1.55 [1.07-2.24] and topiramate (1.89 [1.32-2.70]). For time 
to 12-month remission valproate was significantly better than lamotrigine 
overall (0.76 [0.62-0.94]), and for the subgroup with an idiopathic generalised 
epilepsy 0.68 (0.53-0.89). But there was no significant difference between 
valproate and topiramate in either the analysis overall or for the subgroup with 
an idiopathic generalised epilepsy.
INTERPRETATION: Valproate is better tolerated than topiramate and more 
efficacious than lamotrigine, and should remain the drug of first choice for 
many patients with generalised and unclassified epilepsies. However, because of 
known potential adverse effects of valproate during pregnancy, the benefits for 
seizure control in women of childbearing years should be considered.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60461-9
PMCID: PMC2039891
PMID: 17382828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 Apr;83(4):1257-64. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.11.061.

Defining the optimal treatment of locally advanced esophageal cancer: a 
systematic review and decision analysis.

Graham AJ(1), Shrive FM, Ghali WA, Manns BJ, Grondin SC, Finley RJ, Clifton J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Thoracic Surgery, University of Calgary, 
Institute of Health Economics, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
andrew.graham@calgaryhealthregion.ca

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 Apr;83(4):1264.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to combine systematic review and 
decision analytic techniques to determine the optimal treatment strategy for 
patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review of all randomized trials of patients 
with locally advanced esophageal cancer that included one of the following 
strategies compared with surgery alone: chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery, 
chemotherapy followed by surgery, or surgery with adjuvant chemoradiotherapy. 
Using the estimates of relative risk for mortality and overall quality of life 
we constructed a decision model. The outcome of interest was expected 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY).
RESULTS: The meta-analysis showed for the first year, the relative risk (95% 
confidence interval) of death for treatments compared with surgery were 0.87 
(0.75 to 1.02) for chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery, 0.94 (0.82 to 1.08) 
for chemotherapy followed by surgery, and 1.33 (0.93 to 1.93) for surgery with 
adjuvant chemoradiotherapy. The QALYs gained for surgery alone, 
chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery, chemotherapy followed by surgery, and 
surgery with adjuvant chemoradiotherapy strategies were 2.07, 2.18, 2.14, and 
1.99, respectively. If the reduction in utility for multimodality treatment was 
increased to 21%, the QALYs gained for surgery alone, chemoradiotherapy followed 
by surgery, chemotherapy followed by surgery, and surgery with adjuvant 
chemoradiotherapy were 2.07, 2.03, 1.99, and 1.85, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery appears to be associated with 
the best survival and the largest expected gain in QALYs. However, the 
improvement in quality-adjusted life expectancy is modest at 40 days, and 
surgery alone becomes the preferred strategy if the reduction in utility 
associated with multimodality treatment is increased to 21%.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.11.061
PMID: 17383322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Ophthalmology. 2007 Sep;114(9):1670-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.12.013.
Epub  2007 Mar 26.

Global cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery.

Lansingh VC(1), Carter MJ, Martens M.

Author information:
(1)Fundacion Vision, Asuncion, Paraguay.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery worldwide and 
to compare it with the cost-effectiveness of comparable medical interventions.
DESIGN: Meta-analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: Approximately 12,000 eyes in the studies selected.
METHODS: Articles were identified by searching the literature using the phrase 
cataract surgery, in combination with the terms cost, cost-effectiveness, and 
cost-utility. Terms used for the comparable medical interventions search 
included epileptic surgery, hip arthroplasty, knee arthroplasty, carpal tunnel 
surgery, and defibrillator implantation. The search was restricted to the years 
1995 through 2006. Cataract surgery costs were converted to 2004 United States 
dollars (US$). Cost-utility was calculated using: (1) costs discounted at 3% for 
12 years with a discounted quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gain of 1.25 
years, and (2) costs discounted at 3% for 5 years with a discounted QALY gain of 
0.143 years. The Cataract Surgery Affordability Index (CSAI) for each country 
was calculated by dividing the cost of cataract surgery by the gross national 
income per capita for the year 2004.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost-utility in 2004 US$/QALY and affordability of 
cataract surgery relative to the United States.
RESULTS: Cost-utility values for cataract surgery (first eye) varied from $245 
to $22,000/QALY in Western countries and from $9 to $1600 in developing 
countries. In developed countries, the cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery 
estimated by Choosing Interventions That Are Cost Effective ranged from, in 
international dollars (I$), I$730 to I$2400/disability-adjusted life years 
(DALY) averted, and I$90 to I$370/DALY averted in developing countries. The CSAI 
varied from 17% to 189% in developed countries and 29% to 133% in developing 
countries compared with the United States. The cost-utility of other comparable 
medical interventions was: epileptic surgery, $4000 to $20,000/QALY; hip 
arthroplasty, $2300 to $4800/QALY; knee arthroplasty, $6500 to $12,700/QALY; 
carpal tunnel surgery, $140 to $280/QALY; and defibrillator implantation, $700 
to $23,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-utility of cataract surgery varies substantially, 
depending how the benefit is assessed and on the duration of the assumed 
benefit. Cataract surgery is comparable in terms of cost-effectiveness to hip 
arthroplasty, is generally more cost-effective than either knee arthroplasty or 
defibrillator implantation, and is cost-effective when considered in absolute 
terms. The operation is considerably cheaper in Europe and Canada compared with 
the United States and is affordable in many developing countries, particularly 
India.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.12.013
PMID: 17383730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Arch Bronconeumol. 2007 Mar;43(3):131-5. doi: 10.1016/s1579-2129(07)60036-6.

[Pulmonary hypertension treatment: future prospects].

[Article in Spanish]

Baloira A.

DOI: 10.1016/s1579-2129(07)60036-6
PMID: 17386188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Apr;17(2):119-20. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm012.

A new year, a new era: Romania and Bulgaria join the European Union.

McKee M, Balabanova D, Steriu A.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm012
PMID: 17387108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Radiats Biol Radioecol. 2007 Jan-Feb;47(1):22-7.

[Life expectency and fertility of postembrio stage drosophila after the 
pulse-periodic X-ray irradiation].

[Article in Russian]

Bol'shakov MA, Librikht OK, Kniazeva IR, El'chaninov AA, Klimov AI, Rostov VV.

The effect of 13 Hz repetition rate X-ray pulses with 3 x 10(-6)-1.5 x 10(-4) Gr 
per pulse dose during 5 minute on drosophila's larvae and on pupae vas 
investigated. It was shown that the effect depends on drosophila's age as well 
as on X-ray dose and manifests itself in variation of life expectancy and 
fertility.

PMID: 17387992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2007 Feb;93(1):23-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0035-1040(07)90200-7.

[Low incidence of hip fractures among the elderly in Guadeloupe: a spared 
Caribbean island population].

[Article in French]

Naudi S(1), Mehdi N, Gatti S, Stroppa S, Fleurat E.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Orthopédique A, CHU de Lille, avenue Oscar-Lambret, 
59000 Lille. snaudi@hotmail.fr

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence 
of hip fractures among the elderly population in Guadeloupe, a French Caribbean 
archipelago with 440,000 inhabitants who present two rarely associated 
characteristics: 90% of the population is of African descent and life expectancy 
is similar to that of European populations.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Using the recent census report, we established that in 
2002, 61,000 persons aged 60 years or more (27,000 men and 34,000 women) lived 
in Guadeloupe. All new cases of hip fracture among the population aged 60 years 
or more were recorded in 2002, 2003, and 2004 in the seven islands that compose 
Guadeloupe. For each case, we noted patient age and gender, type of hip 
fracture, and treatment administered. We excluded open and pathologic fractures. 
Overall and age-specific incidence of hip fractures were determined and compared 
with rates reported for other countries.
RESULTS: Three hundred and two new cases of hip fracture were recorded from 2002 
to 2005 in 211 women (70%) and 91 men (30%). The age of patients was 82 years on 
average (range 60-102). There were 134 neck fractures and 168 intertrochanteric 
fractures which were treated by osteosynthesis for 193 and arthroplasty for 108. 
Only one orthopedic treatment was noted. The incidence of hip fracture for 
people aged over 60 years was 16.9/10,000; for the population aged 65 years or 
more, it was 22.2/10,000.
DISCUSSION: Osteoporotic fracture is a pandemic problem. Incidence is increasing 
worldwide. Our findings demonstrate that Guadeloupeans are spared from this 
pathology. This population offers an interesting field for research into the 
causal mechanisms of osteoporotic fractures and potential means of prevention or 
screening.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of hip fractures among the elderly population in 
Guadeloupe is the lowest recorded in the world. We suggest that an environmental 
and genetic study in this spared population could provide interesting insight 
into the cause of hip fractures and appropriate means of prevention and 
screening among the elderly. The geographic and environmental characteristics of 
Guadeloupe make this area a unique zone of research and should enable new 
insight into the genetic and environmental factors involved in hip fractures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-1040(07)90200-7
PMID: 17389821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Int J Obes (Lond). 2007 Jul;31(7):1183-4; author reply 1185. doi: 
10.1038/sj.ijo.0803557. Epub 2007 Mar 27.

Economic evaluation of obesity interventions in children and adults.

Segal L, Dalziel K.

Comment on
    Int J Obes (Lond). 2006 Oct;30(10):1463-75.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803557
PMID: 17389868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Int J Oncol. 2007 May;30(5):1037-49. doi: 10.3892/ijo.30.5.1037.

The growing incidence of cancer: role of lifestyle and screening detection 
(Review).

Belpomme D(1), Irigaray P, Sasco AJ, Newby JA, Howard V, Clapp R, Hardell L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, European Hospital Georges Pompidou, 
University of Paris, Paris, France. artac.cerc@wanadoo.fr

The increasing incidence of a variety of cancers after the Second World War 
confronts scientists with the question of their origin. In Western countries, 
expansion and ageing of the population, as well as progress in cancer detection 
using new diagnostic and screening tests cannot fully account for the observed 
growing incidence of cancer. Our hypothesis is that environmental factors play a 
more important role in cancer genesis than it is usually agreed: i) over the 
last 2-3 decades, alcohol consumption and tobacco smoking in men have 
significantly decreased; ii) obesity is increasing in many countries, but the 
growing incidence of cancer also concerns cancers not related to obesity nor to 
other lifestyle-related factors; iii) there is evidence that the environment has 
changed over the same time scale as the recent rise in cancer incidence, and 
that this change included the accumulation of many new carcinogenic factors in 
the environment; iv) genetic susceptibility to cancer due to genetic 
polymorphism cannot have changed over one generation and actually favours the 
role of exogenous factors through gene-environment interactions; v) age is not 
the unique factor to be considered since the rising incidence of cancers is seen 
across all age categories, including children; vi) the fetus is specifically 
vulnerable to exogenous factors. A fetal exposure during a critical window 
period may explain why current epidemiological studies may be negative in 
adults. We therefore propose that the involuntary exposure to many carcinogens 
in the environment contributes to the rising trend in cancer incidence.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.30.5.1037
PMID: 17390005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Oncol Rep. 2007 May;17(5):1249-57.

Generation of anti-tumor response by JAWS II mouse dendritic cells transduced 
with murine interleukin 12 genes.

Pajtasz-Piasecka E(1), Rossowska J, Szyda A, Krawczenko A, Dus D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy PAS, Laboratory of 
Experimental Anticancer Therapy, 53-114 Wroclaw, Poland. 
pajtasz@iitd.pan.wroc.pl

Murine dendritic cells (DCs) of the established JAWS II cell line were 
transduced with a retroviral vector carrying murine interleukin 12 (IL-12) genes 
(JAWS II/IL-12 cells). The JAWS II/IL-12 cells produced approximately 9-18 ng 
IL-12 protein/ml/5 x 10(5) cells/48 h and displayed an increased CD80 and CD86 
expression as well as major histocompatibility complex antigen up-regulation. 
The JAWS II/IL-12 cells were used as a temporary source of IL-12 for the 
immunotherapy of C57BL/6 mice bearing transplantable murine colon carcinoma 
(MC38). The cell vaccines were administered according to different application 
schedules into the vicinity of subcutaneously growing palpable MC38 tumors. The 
JAWS II/IL-12 cells were delivered alone or in combination with JAWS II cells 
pulsed with MC38 tumor cell lysate (TAg) (JAWS II/TAg cells). The anti-tumor 
response was estimated as the tumor growth delay--the time (days) required for 
the tumor to reach a volume of 1 cm3 (TRV), and as the increase in animal 
life-span (ILS). Mice treated with three consecutive injections of JAWS II/IL-12 
or JAWS II/TAg cells responded with moderate tumor growth delay (up to 6.5 and 
9.5 days, respectively). After the administration of the JAWS II/IL-12 and JAWS 
II/TAg cell combination, the TRV was prolonged up to 12.5 days and there was a 
long-lasting tumor growth delay. Increasing the number of DC-based vaccines to 
four, resulted in the ILS extension of up to 87% over the control. A similar 
effect was observed when the vaccine containing the combination of both DC 
components was delivered prior to the three consecutive injections of JAWS 
II/IL-12 or JAWS II/TAg cells administered independently. The JAWS II/IL-12 cell 
vaccination of MC38 tumor-bearing mice was accompanied by an increased 
percentage of IFN-gamma-producing CD8+ spleen cells. Concluding, JAWS II DCs 
transduced with IL-12 genes could be used as an adjuvant vaccine for immuno- as 
well as combined immuno-chemotherapy of experimental tumors.

PMID: 17390073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Urol Nurs. 2007 Feb;27(1):81-3, 92.

Women and health care.

Broome B(1).

Author information:
(1)University of South Alabama College of Nursing, Mobile, AL, USA.

Women have specific health risks not only because of their race, ethnicity, and 
lifestyle, but they also have unique risks related to gender. Women in 
industrialized countries such as the United States have multiple indicators of 
morbidity but lower rates of mortality than men. Among women from different 
racial and ethnic groups, there are clear differences in morbidity and 
mortality. Insight into the differences and challenges that confront women are 
important in the delivery of optimal health care.

PMID: 17390932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Eur J Haematol. 2007 Jun;78(6):540-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2007.00840.x.
 Epub 2007 Mar 28.

Correction of anemia in a transfusion-dependent patient with primary 
myelofibrosis receiving iron chelation therapy with deferasirox (Exjade, 
ICL670).

Di Tucci AA(1), Murru R, Alberti D, Rabault B, Deplano S, Angelucci E.

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa Ematologia e Centro Trapianti Midollo Osseo, Ospedale 
Oncologico Armando Businco, Cagliari, Italy.

Transfusional iron overload in patients with chronic anemias can result in 
multiple organ failure. Experience in the management of iron overload in 
patients with myelodysplastic syndromes is limited, as many do not receive 
chelation therapy due to short-life expectancy and the difficulties associated 
with the administration of the current reference standard chelator, 
deferoxamine. There have, however, been some reports of reduced transfusion 
requirement associated with chelation therapy in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes and myelofibrosis. Here, we discuss a patient with primary 
myelofibrosis and related transfusion-dependent anemia who received chelation 
therapy with the once-daily oral iron chelator, deferasirox. In addition to the 
reduced iron levels, the patient demonstrated an unexpected reduction in blood 
transfusion requirement, ultimately resulting in long-lasting transfusion-free 
survival.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2007.00840.x
PMCID: PMC1974812
PMID: 17391307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Value Health. 2007 Mar-Apr;10(2):83-97. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00156.x.

The cost-effectiveness of expanding newborn screening for up to 21 inherited 
metabolic disorders using tandem mass spectrometry: results from a 
decision-analytic model.

Cipriano LE(1), Rupar CA, Zaric GS.

Author information:
(1)Richard Ivey School of Business, University of Western Ontario, London, ON, 
Canada.

OBJECTIVES: In 2005, in Ontario, Canada, newborns were only screened for 
phenylketonuria (PKU) and hypothyroidism. Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) has 
since been implemented as a new screening technology because it can screen for 
PKU and many other diseases simultaneously. We estimated the cost-effectiveness 
of using this technology to expand the Ontario newborn screening program to 
screen for each disease independently and for hypothetical bundles of up to 21 
metabolic diseases.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model to estimate the incremental 
costs and life-years of survival that can be gained by screening or changing 
screening technologies. Costs and health benefits were estimated for a cohort of 
babies born in Ontario in 1 year. Secondary sources and expert opinion were used 
to estimate the test characteristics, disease prevalence, treatment 
effectiveness, disease progression rates, and mortality. The London Health 
Sciences Centre Case Costing Initiative, the Ontario Health Insurance Plan 
Schedule, and the Ontario Drug Benefits plan formulary were used to estimate 
costs.
RESULTS: Changing screening technologies, from the Guthrie test to MS/MS, for 
PKU detection had an incremental cost of $5,500,000 per life-year (LY) gained. 
We identified no diseases for which the incremental cost of screening for just 
that disease was less than $100,000 per LY gained. The incremental costs of 
screening ranged from $222,000 (HMG-CoA lyase deficiency) to $142,500,000 
(glutaric acidemia type II) per LY gained. Screening for a bundle of diseases 
including PKU and the 14 most cost-effective diseases to screen for cost less 
than $70,000 per LY gained, and the incremental cost-effectiveness of adding 
each of the 14 diseases to the bundle was less than $100,000 per LY gained. The 
incremental cost of adding the 15th most cost-effective disease was $309,400 per 
LY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Early diagnosis and treatment of metabolic disease is important to 
reduce disease severity and delay or prevent the onset of the disease. Screening 
at birth reduces the morbidity, mortality, and social burden associated with the 
irreversible effects of disease on the population. Our analysis suggests that 
the cost-efficiencies gained by using MS/MS to screen for bundles of diseases 
rather than just one disease are sufficient to warrant consideration of an 
expanded screening program. It is, however, not cost-effective to screen for all 
diseases that can be screened for using this technology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00156.x
PMID: 17391418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Value Health. 2007 Mar-Apr;10(2):98-116. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00157.x.

The cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination for people aged 50 to 64 years: 
an international model.

Aballéa S(1), Chancellor J, Martin M, Wutzler P, Carrat F, Gasparini R, 
Toniolo-Neto J, Drummond M, Weinstein M.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Uxbridge, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Routine influenza vaccination is currently recommended in several 
countries for people aged more than 60 or 65 years or with high risk of 
complications. A lower age threshold of 50 years has been recommended in the 
United States since 1999. To help policymakers consider whether such a policy 
should be adopted more widely, we conducted an economic evaluation of lowering 
the age limit for routine influenza vaccination to 50 years in Brazil, France, 
Germany, and Italy.
METHODS: The probabilistic model was designed to compare in a single season the 
costs and clinical outcomes associated with two alternative vaccination policies 
for persons aged 50 to 64 years: reimbursement only for people at high risk of 
complications (current policy), and reimbursement for all individuals in this 
age group (proposed policy). Two perspectives were considered: third-party payer 
(TPP) and societal. Model inputs were obtained primarily from the published 
literature and validated through expert opinion. The historical distribution of 
annual influenza-like illness (ILI) incidence was used to simulate the uncertain 
incidence in any given season. We estimated gains in unadjusted and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and the cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
conducted.
RESULTS: Comparing the proposed to the current policy, the estimated mean costs 
per QALY gained were R$4,100, EURO 13,200, EURO 31,400 and EURO 15,700 for 
Brazil, France, Germany, and Italy, respectively, from a TPP perspective. From 
the societal perspective, the age-based policy is predicted to yield net cost 
savings in Germany and Italy, whereas the cost per QALY decreased to R$2800 for 
Brazil and EURO 8000 for France. The results were particularly sensitive to the 
ILI incidence rate, vaccine uptake, influenza fatality rate, and the costs of 
administering vaccination. Assuming a cost-effectiveness threshold ratio of EURO 
50,000 per QALY gained, the probabilities of the new policy being cost-effective 
were 94% and 95% for France, 72% and near 100% for Germany, and 89% and 99% for 
Italy, from the TPP and societal perspectives, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Extending routine influenza vaccination to people more than 50 
years of age is likely to be cost-effective in all four countries studied.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00157.x
PMID: 17391419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Value Health. 2007 Mar-Apr;10(2):153-60. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00162.x.

Health-related quality of life measured with EQ-5D in patients treated for 
depression in primary care.

Sobocki P(1), Ekman M, Agren H, Krakau I, Runeson B, Mårtensson B, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. patrik.sobocki@ki.se

OBJECTIVE: The objective of the present study was to assess the impact of 
depression on patients' health-related quality of life (HRQL) with the EQ-5D 
instrument over 6 months while on antidepressant treatment.
METHODS: A total of 447 patients were recruited at 56 primary care centers to 
this naturalistic longitudinal observational study. Patients older than 18 years 
with depressive symptoms, and who initiated an antidepressant therapy because of 
depression were included in the study. Data on patients' sociodemographics, 
daily activity, and quality of life (EQ-5D) were collected using questionnaires 
completed during outpatient general practitioner visits for a follow-up period 
of 6 months.
RESULTS: The mean EQ-5D utility score at baseline was 0.47 (0.44-0.49). Milder 
cases of depression reported a health utility of 0.60, whereas moderately and 
severely depressed patients reported utility values of 0.46 and 0.27, 
respectively (P < 0.01). At end of follow up the average utility was 0.69 
(0.67-0.72), corresponding to an increase of 0.23 over 6 months (P < 0.01). 
Regression analyses showed that, all else equal, patients who were on sick leave 
were associated with 10% lower utility.
CONCLUSIONS: Depression has a substantial impact on HRQL. Our results indicate 
that treatments for depression are associated with significant improvement in 
EQ-5D index score over a course of 6 months. Self-reported patient valuations 
are important outcomes for cost-utility analysis of new treatments for 
depression and the present study provides important evidence for future economic 
evaluations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2006.00162.x
PMID: 17391424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Int Semin Surg Oncol. 2007 Mar 29;4:9. doi: 10.1186/1477-7800-4-9.

Metastatic duodenal GIST: role of surgery combined with imatinib mesylate.

Mohiuddin K(1), Nizami S, Munir A, Memon B, Memon MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan. 
drkamran@cyber.net.pk

BACKGROUND: The best possible treatment of metastatic high grade large duodenal 
GIST is controversial. Surgery (with or without segmental organ resection) 
remains the principal treatment for primary and recurrent GIST. However, 
patients with advanced duodenal GIST have a high risk of early tumour recurrence 
and short life expectancy.
METHOD: We present a case of a young man treated with a combined modality of 
surgery and imatinib for an advanced duodenal GIST.
RESULTS: He remains asymptomatic and disease free 42 months following this 
combined approach.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with imatinib has dramatically improved the outlook for 
patients with advanced, unresectable and/or metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7800-4-9
PMCID: PMC1851968
PMID: 17391535


305. Int Psychogeriatr. 2007 Jun;19(3):483-95. doi: 10.1017/S1041610207005157.
Epub  2007 Mar 29.

Economic outcomes and levers: impacts for individuals and society.

Knapp M(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics and Political Science, and Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, UK. m.knapp@lse.ac.uk

The pervasive scarcity of resources relative to the demands upon them makes it 
necessary for decision makers to think carefully about choices. Evidence from 
economics can help to inform such choices, particularly as it relates to costs, 
outcomes, the efficiency with which resources are used, the distribution of 
benefits and burdens across different individuals and budgets, and the processes 
by which care and treatment are delivered. However, there is still insufficient 
economic evidence to inform the full range of decisions to be taken in the 
dementia field; indeed the accumulated volume of evidence remains very modest. 
The measurement of cost is often too narrow, and there is some disagreement 
about whether and how to include the costs (direct or indirect) incurred by 
caregivers. The conceptualization of outcomes for certain purposes has generated 
argument, especially when attempts are made to introduce generic measures that 
apply across many clinical areas. It has not always been demonstrated that such 
measures have any validity in the dementia field. Other comparatively neglected 
areas have been research on equity and the processes by which care is delivered. 
Finally, the paper looks at economic barriers to implementation of 
evidence-based interventions, and the policy levers that might prove 
influential.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610207005157
PMID: 17391570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2007;16 Suppl 1:318-22.

Advances in nutrition support for quality of life in HIV+/AIDS.

Suttajit M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Science and Technology, Naresuan University, Phayao Campus, Phayao, 
Thailand 56000. msuttjit@mail.med.cmu.ac.th

Globally, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is an epidemic, severe and 
fatal disease. Along with the etiological factors of human immunodeficiency 
virus infection (HIV+) and decreased immunity, there are a number of other risk 
factors including opportunistic infection, malnutrition, wasting syndrome, and 
oxidative stress. The nutritional problems have been shown to be significant and 
contribute to health and death in HIV+/AIDS patients. Weight loss, lean tissue 
depletion, lipoatrophy, loss of appetite, diarrhea, and the hypermetabolic state 
each increase risk of death. The role of nutrition and how oxidative stress is 
involved in the pathogenesis of HIV+ leading to AIDS is reviewed. Studies 
consistently show that serum antioxidant vitamins and minerals decrease while 
oxidative stress increases during AIDS progression. The optimization of 
nutritional status, intervention with foods and supplements, including nutrients 
and other bio-active food components, are needed to maintain the immune system. 
Various food components may be recommended to reduce the incidence and severity 
of infectious illnesses by forms of bio-protection which include reduced 
oxidative stress due to reactive oxygen species which stimulate HIV replication 
and AIDS progression. Probiotics or lactic acid bacteria and prebiotics are 
sometimes given on the presumed basis that they help maintain integrity of 
mucosal surfaces, improve antibody responses and increase white blood cell 
production. People with HIV+/AIDS can be informed about the basic concepts of 
optimal nutrition by identifying key foods and nutrients, along with lifestyle 
changes, that contribute to a strengthened immune system. Moreover, nutritional 
management, counseling and education should be beneficial to the quality and 
extension of life in AIDS.

PMID: 17392127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Med Sci Monit. 2007 Apr;13(4):CR206-10.

Risk of hip fracture in Poland.

Jaworski M(1), Lorenc RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Experimental Medicine, The Children's Memorial 
Health Institute, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Bone fractures generate significant social costs, particularly in 
highly developed countries. This study was aimed at defining the number of hip 
fractures in Poland and evaluating absolute risk of fractures of this type 
within a period of 10 years and to the end of life.
MATERIAL/METHODS: Figures concerning hip fractures in the Mazowsze Province were 
provided by the Mazowsze Division of the National Health Fund. Data concerning 
male and female populations divided into age groups and with specified life 
expectancy were taken from the Central Bureau of Statistics. The number of hip 
fractures in Poland was estimated based on data for the Mazowsze Province. 
Lifetime and 10-year risks of hip fracture were calculated based on a model used 
by J. A. Kanis et al.
RESULTS: The estimated number of hip fractures in Poland was 27,434 (7970 in 
men, 19,464 in women). Lifetime risk of a hip fracture among men was 7.6% (40 
years) to 1.6% (90 years) and from 13.6% to 2% among women, respectively. 
Ten-year risk of a hip fracture was maximal at the age of 80 and was 4.9% among 
men and 9.2% among women.
CONCLUSIONS: The study revealed a relatively large number hip fractures in 
Poland, amounting to approx. 30 thousand fractures per year. The expected 
increase in life expectancy in Poland, particularly among women, may result in 
significantly increased numbers of fractures in the nearest future and increased 
costs of their treatment.

PMID: 17392653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nat Genet. 2007 Apr;39(4):443-5. doi: 10.1038/ng0407-443.

Drosophila melanogaster neurofibromatosis-1: ROS, not Ras?

Walker JA, Bernards A.

Comment on
    Nat Genet. 2007 Apr;39(4):476-85.

DOI: 10.1038/ng0407-443
PMID: 17392804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nephrol News Issues. 2007 Mar;21(4):24-5, 27.

Renal transplantation for ADPKD patients: a 2007 update.

Bennett WM(1).

Author information:
(1)Legacy Transplant Services, Portland, OR, USA.

PMID: 17393922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Arthritis Rheum. 2007 Apr 15;57(3):466-73. doi: 10.1002/art.22606.

A brief pain management program compared with physical therapy for low back 
pain: results from an economic analysis alongside a randomized clinical trial.

Whitehurst DG(1), Lewis M, Yao GL, Bryan S, Raftery JP, Mullis R, Hay EM.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Musculoskeletal Research Centre, Keele University, 
Staffordshire, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Guidelines for the management of acute low back pain in primary care 
recommend early intervention to address psychosocial risk factors associated 
with long-term disability. We assessed the cost utility and cost effectiveness 
of a brief pain management program (BPM) targeting psychosocial factors compared 
with physical therapy (PT) for primary care patients with low back pain of <12 
weeks' duration.
METHODS: A total of 402 patients were randomly assigned to BPM or PT. We adopted 
a health care perspective, examining the direct health care costs of low back 
pain. Outcome measures were quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 12-month 
change scores on the Roland and Morris disability questionnaire. Resource use 
data related to back pain were collected at 12-month followup. Cost 
effectiveness was expressed as incremental ratios, with uncertainty assessed 
using cost-effectiveness planes and acceptability curves.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in mean health care 
costs or outcomes between treatments. PT had marginally greater effectiveness at 
12 months, albeit with greater health care costs (BPM 142 pounds, PT 195 
pounds). The incremental cost-per-QALY ratio was 2,362 pounds. If the UK 
National Health Service were willing to pay 10,000 pound per additional QALY, 
there is only a 17% chance that BPM provides the best value for money.
CONCLUSION: PT is a cost-effective primary care management strategy for low back 
pain. However, the absence of a clinically superior treatment program raises the 
possibility that BPM could provide an additional primary care approach, 
administered in fewer sessions, allowing patient and doctor preferences to be 
considered.

DOI: 10.1002/art.22606
PMID: 17394176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Br J Gen Pract. 2007 Apr;57(537):332-3.

On the sanctity of life.

Weingarten MA.

PMCID: PMC2043345
PMID: 17394748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Med Clin (Barc). 2007 Mar 24;128(11):422-8. doi: 10.1157/13100338.

[Cardiac surgery in the elderly: new prospects for an increasing population].

[Article in Spanish]

Carrascal Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Cardíaca, Hospital Universitario de Valladolid, Ramón y 
Cajal 5, 47005 Valladolid, Spain. aguerrerop@medynet.com

Improvement in socioeconomic and sanitary conditions during last 2 decades has 
lead to 4 year-life expectancy increasing in Spanish population. Increasing in 
age-related cardiovascular pathologies makes more necessary cardiac surgery in 
the elderly. Analysis of current characteristics of elderly population, cardiac 
surgery indications in this group, as well as morbimortality published results 
and future expectations, constitute the topic of this review.

DOI: 10.1157/13100338
PMID: 17394859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Adv Chronic Kidney Dis. 2007 Apr;14(2):206-11. doi:
10.1053/j.ackd.2007.01.010.

Ethical considerations regarding pregnancy in chronic kidney disease.

Davison SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Immunology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Alberta, Canada. sara.davison@ualberta.ca

Pregnancy in the context of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a daunting clinical 
scenario for both health-care providers and patients and raises ethical and 
social questions that have important implications for health policy and funding. 
Despite potential problems, women with CKD will continue to conceive and deliver 
babies, and nephrologists will be faced with the challenge of caring for them. 
This paper discusses ethical issues regarding pregnancy in CKD and highlights 
the controversies surrounding parental, fetal, and societal rights.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ackd.2007.01.010
PMID: 17395123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Neurotherapeutics. 2007 Apr;4(2):225-32. doi: 10.1016/j.nurt.2007.01.002.

Hypokalemic periodic paralysis: a model for a clinical and research approach to 
a rare disorder.

Fontaine B(1), Fournier E, Sternberg D, Vicart S, Tabti N.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM), UMR S546, 
Paris, France. bertrand.fontaine@psl.aphp.fr

Rare diseases have attracted little attention in the past from physicians and 
researchers. The situation has recently changed for several reasons. First, 
patient associations have successfully advocated their cause to institutions and 
governments. They were able to argue that, taken together, rare diseases affect 
approximately 10% of the population in developed countries. Second, almost 80% 
of rare diseases are of genetic origin. Advances in genetics have enabled the 
identification of the causative genes. Unprecedented financial support has been 
dedicated to research on rare diseases, as well as to the development of 
referral centers aimed at improving the quality of care. This expenditure of 
resources is justified by the experience in cystic fibrosis, which demonstrated 
that improved care delivered by specialized referral centers resulted in a 
dramatic increase of life expectancy. Moreover, clinical referral centers offer 
the unique possibility of developing high quality clinical research studies, not 
otherwise possible because of the geographic dispersion of patients. This is the 
case in France where national referral centers for rare diseases were created, 
including one for muscle channelopathies. The aim of this center is to develop 
appropriate care, clinical research, and teaching on periodic paralysis and 
myotonia. In this review, we plan to demonstrate how research has improved our 
knowledge of hypokalemic periodic paralysis and the way we evaluate, advise, and 
treat patients. We also advocate for the establishment of international 
collaborations, which are mandatory for the follow-up of cohorts and conduct of 
definitive therapeutic trials in rare diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nurt.2007.01.002
PMID: 17395132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2007 Jun;64(11):1323-8. doi: 10.1007/s00018-007-6470-y.

Ruminations on dietary restriction and aging.

Kennedy BK(1), Steffen KK, Kaeberlein M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7350, 
USA. bkenn@u.washington.edu

Calorie restriction has been known for many decades to extend the life span of 
rodents. Since the more recent discovery that a long-term reduction in nutrient 
intake also extends life span in nearly every invertebrate model organism used 
for aging research, the mechanisms behind the longevity benefits of this 
intervention have been under intense scrutiny. While models have been developed 
in yeast, worms, and flies, the molecular mechanisms governing life span 
extension by calorie restriction remain controversial, resulting in great 
anticipation of mammalian studies testing these models. Here we discuss the 
links between nutrient reduction and enhanced longevity with emphasis on 
evolutionarily conserved nutrient response signaling.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-007-6470-y
PMID: 17396225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Biotechnol Lett. 2007 Jul;29(7):1125-8. doi: 10.1007/s10529-007-9356-z. Epub
 2007 Mar 30.

An improved primer extension method for detection of mRNA start-points using 
non-radioactive digoxigenin-labeling primers.

Qi X(1), Chai X, Chai T.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Capital Normal University, Beijing, PR China. 
qixiaoting@mail.cnu.edu.cn

An improved primer extension method using non-radioactive digoxigenin 
(DIG)-labeling primers is described which uses a commercially-available 
DIG-labeling and detection system to perform alternative hybridization-based 
"labeling" procedure of DNA markers and DIG chemiluminescent detection assay. 
The time-consuming annealing step and relatively low specificity of conventional 
protocol are also improved considerably by an application of one-step 
primer/mRNA annealing procedure and subsequent high-temperature reverse 
transcription reaction. This new protocol is convenient, simple, cost-effective 
and safe, and can allow the detection of even low abundance mRNA start-points in 
enriched poly(A)(+) RNA samples.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-007-9356-z
PMID: 17396236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. J Rural Health. 2007 Spring;23(2):124-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1748-0361.2007.00079.x.

The health trade-off of rural residence for impaired older adults: longer life, 
more impairment.

Laditka JN(1), Laditka SB, Olatosi B, Elder KT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Arnold School of Public Health, 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA. jladitka@gwm.sc.edu

CONTEXT: Years lived with and without physical impairment are central measures 
of public health.
PURPOSE: We sought to determine whether these measures differed between rural 
and urban residents who were impaired at the time of a baseline measurement. We 
examined 16 subgroups defined by rural/urban residence, gender, race, and 
education.
METHODS: This is a 20-year retrospective cohort study, following 2,939 Americans 
who were aged 65-69 in 1982 and physically impaired at the time of the baseline 
measurement, with data from the National Long-Term Care Survey. Interpolated 
Markov chain analysis and microsimulation estimated life expectancy at age 65 
and expected number of years with physical impairment. Impairment was defined as 
requiring help in 1 or more activities of daily living.
FINDINGS: Among older individuals with physical impairments at baseline, rural 
residents lived notably longer than urban residents. In all but 1 group, rural 
residents lived more years with physical impairment, and they also had a notably 
larger proportion of remaining life impaired.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest a notable public health impact of rural residence 
for impaired individuals, a longer expected period of impairment. Needs for 
services for people with impairments may be greater in rural areas.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-0361.2007.00079.x
PMID: 17397368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Soc Sci Med. 2007 Jun;64(11):2355-61. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.02.032.
Epub  2007 Apr 2.

When time is more than money: the allocation of time between work and leisure in 
HIV-infected patients.

Sendi P(1), Brouwer WB, Bucher HC, Weber R, Battegay M; Swiss HIV Cohort Study.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases & Hospital Epidemiology, Basel University 
Hospital, Basel, Switzerland. pedram.sendi@unibas.ch

Time is a limited resource and individuals have to decide how many hours they 
should allocate to work and to leisure activities. Differences in wage rate or 
availability of non-labour income (financial support from families and savings) 
may influence how individuals allocate their time between work and leisure. An 
increase in wage rate may induce income effects (leisure time demanded 
increases) and substitution effects (leisure time demanded decreases) whereas an 
increase in non-labour income only induces income effects. We explored the 
effects of differences in wage rate and non-labour income on the allocation of 
time in HIV-infected patients. Patients enrolled in the Swiss HIV Cohort Study 
(SHCS) provided information on their time allocation, i.e. number of hours 
worked in 1998. A multinomial logistic regression model was used to test for 
income and substitution effects. Our results indicate that (i) the allocation of 
time in HIV-infected patients does not differ with level of education (i.e., 
wage rate), and that (ii) availability of non-labour income induces income 
effects, i.e. individuals demand more leisure time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.02.032
PMID: 17399879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Gynecol Obstet Fertil. 2007 Apr;35(4):367-74. doi:
10.1016/j.gyobfe.2007.02.008.  Epub 2007 Apr 2.

[Mass neonatal screening using biological testing].

[Article in French]

Ardaillou R(1), Le Gall JY; Commission I (Annexe A) de l'Académie Nationale de 
Médecine.

Author information:
(1)Académie nationale de médecine, 16, rue Bonaparte, 75006 Paris, France.

Comment in
    Gynecol Obstet Fertil. 2007 Apr;35(4):366.

Implementation of a generalized screening program for neonatal diseases obeys 
precise guidelines. The disease must be severe, recognizable at an early stage, 
accessible to an effective treatment, detected with a non expansive and widely 
applicable test and it must represent an important health problem. In case of 
positive results, treatment or prevention shall be offered immediately and any 
screening program has to be regularly evaluated. There is in France since 1978 a 
national screening program that depends on a private association ("Association 
française pour le dépistage et la prévention des handicaps de l'enfant") and is 
supervised by the "Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie" and the "Direction 
Générale de la Sante". Presently, five diseases are included in the screening 
program: phenylketonuria, hypothyroidism, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, cystic 
fibrosis and sickle cell disease, the latter only in at risk newborns. 
Toxoplasmosis represents a particular problem because screening takes place only 
in children of mothers that have not been controlled during their pregnancy or 
in case of seroconversion. Neonatal screening of phenylketonuria and 
hypothyrodism is unanimously recommended. That of congenital adrenal hyperplasia 
is approved in most countries. The cases of sickle cell disease and cystic 
fibrosis are more complex because: 1) all the children that carry the mutations 
are not affected with a severe disease; 2) there is no curative treatment; 3) 
parents given information are made anxious, sometimes wrongly if the disease is 
mild or asymptomatic. The supporters of the screening insist on the interest of 
an early diagnosis which makes longer the life time of these children, the 
possibility for the parents to utilize prenatal screening in case of a future 
pregnancy, and the information given to the heterozygous carriers following a 
familial screening. The question is raised of the extension of neonatal 
screening to other diseases. This is now possible due to technical progresses 
such as the tandem mass spectrometry that can detect about 50 diseases in an 
only testing. In addition of its cost and of the difficulty to ensure an 
efficient organization, increasing the number of the screened diseases will 
raise ethical problems including how the parents will be informed of an 
incurable disease or a late-onset disease or an entirely asymptomatic disease. 
It is unanimously admitted that only mendelian diseases should be detected 
excluding genetic polymorphisms. Analysis of the present situation suggests the 
following developments: 1) to actualize the guidelines for deciding of a new 
neonatal screening; 2) to experiment on a local scale any new screening before 
its extension to the whole country; 3) to create an evaluation committee 
including paediatricians and epidemiologists and to evaluate on the long term 
