METHODS: Clinical symptoms of the patients were evaluated on a lifetime basis, 
with the Korean version of the Diagnostic Interview for Genetic Studies and the 
Krawieka scale. Our sample consisted of 54 sibling pairs who were concordant for 
Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorder-IV schizophrenia or 
schizoaffective disorder.
RESULTS: At the individual symptom level measured by the Diagnostic Interview 
for Genetic Studies, we observed a statistically significant degree of 
concordance within the sibling pairs for auditory hallucination (kappa=0.600, 
chi(2)=15.193, P=0.000). The within-sibling resemblance of this symptom was also 
indicated by the results of correlation analyses of individual items of the 
Krawiecka scale (partial correlation coefficient=0.423, P=0.005). Among the 
individual symptoms or symptom dimensions of the Krawiecka scale, the 'anxious' 
(partial correlation coefficient=0.469, P=0.001) and the 'affective dimension' 
(including the items of 'anxious' and 'depressed') (partial correlation 
coefficient=0.436, P=0.003) were also determined to indicate significant 
intra-pair correlations after controlling for potential confounding variables, 
such as sex, duration of illness, and age of onset.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that familial factors, possibly 
genetic factors, contribute a liability to the development of auditory 
hallucinations. This symptom might then prove useful as a phenotype marker in 
future genetic studies.

DOI: 10.1097/YPG.0b013e328012a3b0
PMID: 17413449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. AIDS. 2007 Mar 30;21(6):685-92. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32802ef30c.

Continued improvement in survival among HIV-infected individuals with newer 
forms of highly active antiretroviral therapy.

Lima VD(1), Hogg RS, Harrigan PR, Moore D, Yip B, Wood E, Montaner JS.

Author information:
(1)BC Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada. vlima@cfenet.ubc.ca

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the temporal changes in mortality and life expectancy 
among HIV-positive individuals initiating antiretroviral therapy in British 
Columbia, Canada, from 1993 to 2004.
METHODS: This analysis was restricted to 2238 antiretroviral-naive HIV-positive 
individuals who started antiretroviral therapy between January 1993 and 
September 2004. The primary analysis endpoint was all-cause mortality stratified 
by four time periods: 1993-1995, 1996-1998, 1999-2001, and 2002-2004. Cox 
proportional hazard models, with associated 95% confidence intervals (CI), were 
used to estimate the hazard of death. Abridged life tables were constructed to 
compare life expectancies at the age of 20 years.
RESULTS: Product limit estimates of the cumulative mortality rate at 12 months 
after therapy initiation decreased from 15.8% (+/- 1.6%) in 1993-1995 to 6.1% 
(+/- 1.1%) in 2002-2004. Life expectancy at the age of 20 years has increased 
from 9.1 years (+/- 2.3 years) in 1993-1995 to 23.6 years (+/- 4.4 years) in 
2002-2004. Subjects in 1993-1995 were more likely to die than those who started 
therapy in 2002-2004 (hazard ratio 2.78; 95% CI 1.92-3.85). Patients who 
initiated dual therapy or therapies containing three or more antiretroviral 
drugs were, respectively, 1.49 (95% CI 1.23-1.82) and 2.56 (95% CI 2.13-3.13) 
times less likely to die than those who started on monotherapy.
CONCLUSION: A significant and progressive decrease in mortality and increase in 
life expectancy were observed over the 12-year study period. The increase in 
life expectancy and decrease in mortality were directly associated with the use 
of modern forms of HAART.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32802ef30c
PMID: 17413689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2007 Apr;29(4):233-8. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0b013e3180437e02.

Thalassemia in Iran: epidemiology, prevention, and management.

Abolghasemi H(1), Amid A, Zeinali S, Radfar MH, Eshghi P, Rahiminejad MS, Ehsani 
MA, Najmabadi H, Akbari MT, Afrasiabi A, Akhavan-Niaki H, Hoorfar H.

Author information:
(1)Iranian Pediatric Hematology and Oncology Society, Tehran, Iran. 
HassanAbol@Yahoo.com

PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence and geographic distribution of thalassemia 
and to evaluate the success of the thalassemia prevention and treatment programs 
in Iran.
METHODS: Data were obtained from the National Thalassemia Registry of Iran, 
Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization, genetic laboratories involved in 
prenatal diagnosis, related pharmaceutical companies, and centers performing 
bone marrow transplantation for thalassemic patients.
RESULTS: A total of 13,879 living patients have been registered, mostly from the 
northern and southern parts of Iran with the median age of 15 years. 
Twenty-three percent of patients were older than 20 years. The number of newly 
diagnosed cases has been decreased considerably after the start of the 
prevention program. Since the introduction of prenatal diagnosis, 2819 couples 
(2549 fetuses) have been tested, with only 6 false results. Elective abortion 
was not performed in 10 affected fetuses. Most common mutations detected were 
IVS II-1 and IVS I-5. In 2003, approximately 25% of the national blood products 
and 6 million vials of desferal were used for thalassemic patients. Overall, 340 
patients have received allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, of those 46 
patients deceased. Bloodborne infections have also been decreased significantly 
owing to the national screening of blood products for bloodborne viral 
infections.
DISCUSSION: Owing to the national prevention program and provided special care, 
the age distribution of thalassemic patients in Iran is getting adapted to a 
full prevention and treatment program and life expectancy of these patients has 
been increased considerably. This shift in the age distribution of thalassemia, 
a traditionally considered pediatric disease, will face us with new challenges 
and the health care system should be prepared for this new face of thalassemia.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0b013e3180437e02
PMID: 17414565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2007 Jun;16(3):167-77. doi: 
10.1097/01.cej.0000228408.68353.ba.

Cumulative cancer mortality risk and potential years of life lost to 64 years of 
age in Ireland, 1953-2002.

O'Lorcain P(1), Walsh PM, Comber H.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Registry, Cork, Ireland.

Premature cancer mortality trends were examined by reviewing cumulative 
mortality risk ('cumulative risk' hereafter) and potential years of life lost 
(PYLL) up to and including 64 years of age between 1953 and 2002 in Ireland. 
Trends were assessed quantitatively by Joinpoint analysis of both measures (with 
PYLL expressed as an age-standardized rate). The age of 64 years was used for 
these summary measures to reflect the focus of the Irish Government's cancer 
strategy on cancer in the under-65 population. Some differences emerged when 
ranking the significant types of cancer using cumulative risk and PYLL values. 
In general, however, the two methods generated similar overall trends, although 
PYLL rates tended to show steeper or longer-term declines, presumably reflecting 
the greater weight given to deaths at younger ages. Most cancers have, in recent 
years, shown a downward, or levelling-off of, trend for both sexes. The only 
exceptions were significant increases for oesophageal cancer in men (both 
measures), and prostate cancer (cumulative risk), cervical cancer (PYLL rate) 
and lymphoma in both sexes (cumulative risk). Rankings based on both cumulative 
risk and PYLL showed that male lung cancer is still the leading cause of 
premature death from cancer in Ireland, despite recent falls in mortality rates. 
Breast cancer has consistently been the leading cause of premature cancer death 
in women since the 1950s. Stomach cancer was once the second leading cause of 
premature cancer death in women, but since the 1960s it has been replaced by 
lung cancer. Ovarian cancer, having had a middle ranking for many years has, 
since the early 1990s, become the third leading cause of premature cancer death 
for women.

DOI: 10.1097/01.cej.0000228408.68353.ba
PMID: 17415086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2007 Jun;64(12):1518-30. doi: 10.1007/s00018-007-6554-8.

Monothiol glutaredoxins: a common domain for multiple functions.

Herrero E(1), de la Torre-Ruiz MA.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Ciències Mèdiques Bàsiques, IRBLLEIDA, Universitat de Lleida, 
Montserrat Roig 2, Lleida, Spain. enric.herrero@cmb.udl.es

Monothiol glutaredoxins with the CGFS sequence at the active site are widespread 
among prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Two subclasses exist, those with a single 
glutaredoxin domain and those with a thioredoxin-like region followed by one or 
more glutaredoxin domains. Studies in Saccharomyces cerevisiae have demonstrated 
the role of the Grx5 protein in the biogenesis of iron-sulfur clusters. Grx5 
homologues in other eukaryotes could carry out similar functions. Two S. 
cerevisiae monothiol glutaredoxins with the thioredoxin-like extension, Grx3 and 
Grx4, are modulators of the transcriptional activator Aft1, which regulates iron 
uptake in yeast. The human PICOT protein is a Grx3/Grx4 homologue with the same 
hybrid primary structure that regulates protein kinase C activity and may 
participate in physiological processes such as control of cardiac function. 
Therefore, monothiol glutaredoxins share a common basic structural motif and 
biochemical mechanism of action, while participating in a diversity of cellular 
functions as protein redox regulators.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-007-6554-8
PMID: 17415523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Qual Life Res. 2007 Aug;16(6):1065-72. doi: 10.1007/s11136-007-9206-4. Epub
2007  Apr 6.

US and UK versions of the EQ-5D preference weights: does choice of preference 
weights make a difference?

Huang IC(1), Willke RJ, Atkinson MJ, Lenderking WR, Frangakis C, Wu AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Policy Research, College of Medicine, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Most US studies that estimate EQ-5D index score generally apply the 
UK preference weights. We compared the validity of a newly-developed US weights 
to the UK weights for use of EQ-5D as a measure of health-related quality of 
life.
METHODS: Data were collected from a randomized clinical trial for patients with 
HIV (n = 1,126) in the US. Convergent validity was examined by comparing Pearson 
correlations of EQ-5D index scores with the MOS-HIV Health Survey scale scores 
and Physical and Mental Health Summary (PHS, MHS) scores using the US and UK 
weights. Known-groups validity of EQ-5D US versus UK index scores was compared 
using clinical variables (CD4+ cell count and HIV viral load), and the MOS-HIV 
PHS and MHS. Score changes in the EQ-5D index from baseline to week 50 were 
examined using effect size (ES) estimates.
RESULTS: The mean EQ-5D index scores was slightly higher using US weights than 
UK weights (0.87 vs. 0.84, respectively). The correlation coefficient for EQ-5D 
utilities using the US and UK weights was 0.98. The correlations of EQ-5D index 
scores with the MOS-HIV scores were moderate and similar using the US and UK 
weights. The EQ-5D index scores discriminated equally well for both versions 
between levels of CD4+ count, HIV viral load, and PHS and MHS scores (P < 0.05), 
suggesting equivalent known-groups validity. The changes in EQ-5D index scores 
from baseline to week 50 were similar for both versions (ES: 0.21 vs. 0.22 for 
US and UK, respectively), suggesting equivalent responsiveness to score changes.
CONCLUSIONS: EQ-5D index scores generated using UK and US preference weights 
showed equivalent psychometric properties. For assessing treatment benefit in a 
single population, the use of either the UK or US weights as a measure of HRQOL 
will not change inferences. However, for comparisons across US and UK 
populations, the choice between these two weights should be based on their 
relevance to the study population.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-007-9206-4
PMID: 17415683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J BUON. 2004 Apr-Jun;9(2):161-5.

Paclitaxel and carboplatin in relapsed or metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma: a 
multicenter phase II study.

Ciuleanu TE(1), Fountzilas G, Ciuleanu E, Plataniotis M, Todor N, Ghilezan N.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Institute Ion Chiricuta, Cluj, Romania.

PURPOSE: This multicenter phase II study was conducted to investigate the 
activity and toxicity of a combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin delivered 
on an outpatient basis in relapsed/ metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients aged>/= 18 years with histologically proven 
recurrent or metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma, an Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status </=2, and a life expectancy of >/= 12 
weeks were eligible. Measurable disease outside prior radiotherapy ports was 
required, unless a subsequent progression of the lesion was documented. An 
interval of >/= 12 months was required between the previous chemotherapy 
(neoadjuvant, concurrent chemoradiotherapy or adjuvant) and study entry. Prior 
radiotherapy or surgery were allowed. All patients had adequate bone marrow (WBC 
>4000/mL, platelets >100000/mL), hepatic (bilirubin <1,5 mg/dL, SGPT <1.5xN), 
and renal function (serum creatinine <1.5 mg/dL or creatinine clearance >60 
mL/min). Chemotherapy consisted of paclitaxel 175 mg/m(2), given as a 3-hour 
infusion, followed by carboplatin dosed to an area under the concentration- time 
curve (AUC) of 6 mg*min/mL, administered every 21 days.
RESULTS: 40 patients entered the study. There were 3 complete responders (CR) 
and 8 partial responders (PR), for an overall response rate (ORR) of 27.5% (95% 
confidence interval - C.I.: 14.5-44). Median time to progression (TTP) was 3.5 
months, and median survival was 11.5 months. Grade 3-4 toxicity included 
leucopenia (17.5% of the patients), anaemia (17.5%), thrombocytopenia (10%), 
neutropenia (7.5%), and peripheral neuropathy (2.5%).
CONCLUSION: These data indicate that the combination of paclitaxel and 
carboplatin can be safely administered on an outpatient basis, but it is only 
moderately active against relapsed/metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients.

PMID: 17415808


381. Rev Prat. 2006 Dec 15;56(19):2187-95.

[Normal ageing: biological, functional and relational aspects. Epidemiological 
and sociological date. Prevention of the pathological ageing].

[Article in French]

Belmin J(1), Konrat C.

Author information:
(1)Service de gériatrie, hôpital Charles-Foix et université Paris-6, 94205 
Ivry-sur-Seine. joel.belmin@cfx.aphp.fr

PMID: 17416059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Food Microbiol. 2007 Sep;24(6):559-70. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2006.11.001. Epub
2006  Dec 28.

Antibiotic resistance in non-enterococcal lactic acid bacteria and 
bifidobacteria.

Ammor MS(1), Flórez AB, Mayo B.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Productos Lácteos de Asturias (CSIC), Carretera de Infiesto s/n, 
33300 Villaviciosa, Asturias, Spain. ammor@ipla.csic.es

Over the last 50 years, human life expectancy and quality of life have increased 
dramatically due to improvements in nutrition and the use of antibiotics in the 
fight against infectious diseases. However, the heyday of antibiotic treatment 
is on the wane due to the appearance and spread of resistance among harmful 
microorganisms. At present, there is great concern that commensal bacterial 
populations from food and the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) of humans and 
animals, such as lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and bifidobacteria, could act as a 
reservoir for antibiotic resistance genes. Resistances could ultimately be 
transferred to human pathogenic and opportunistic bacteria hampering the 
treatment of infections. LAB species have traditionally been used as starter 
cultures in the production of fermented feed and foodstuffs. Further, LAB and 
bifidobacteria are normal inhabitants of the GIT where they are known to exert 
health-promoting effects, and selected strains are currently been used as 
probiotics. Antibiotic resistance genes carried by LAB and bifidobacteria can be 
transferred to human pathogenic bacteria either during food manufacture or 
during passage through the GIT. The aim of this review is to address well-stated 
and recent knowledge on antibiotic resistance in typical LAB and bifidobacteria 
species. Therefore, the commonest antibiotic resistance profiles, the 
distinction between intrinsic and atypical resistances, and some of the genetic 
determinants already discovered will all be discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2006.11.001
PMID: 17418306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Food Microbiol. 2007 Sep;24(6):607-17. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2006.12.005. Epub
2007  Jan 12.

Combined effect of oregano essential oil and modified atmosphere packaging on 
shelf-life extension of fresh chicken breast meat, stored at 4 degrees C.

Chouliara E(1), Karatapanis A, Savvaidis IN, Kontominas MG.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Food Microbiology, Department of Chemistry, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina 45110, Greece.

The combined effect of oregano essential oil (0.1% and 1% w/w) and modified 
atmosphere packaging (MAP) (30% CO2/70% N2 and 70% CO2/30% N2) on shelf-life 
extension of fresh chicken meat stored at 4 degrees C was investigated. The 
parameters that were monitored were: microbiological (TVC, Pseudomonas spp., 
lactic acid bacteria (LAB), yeasts, Brochothrix thermosphacta and 
Enterobacteriaceae), physico-chemical (pH, TBA, color) and sensory (odor and 
taste) attributes. Microbial populations were reduced by 1-5 log cfu/g for a 
given sampling day, with the more pronounced effect being achieved by the 
combination of MAP and oregano essential oil. TBA values for all treatments 
remained lower than 1 mg malondialdehyde (MDA) kg(-1) throughout the 25-day 
storage period. pH values varied between 6.4 (day 0) and 5.9 (day 25). The 
values of the color parameters L*, a* and b* were not considerably affected by 
oregano oil or by MAP. Finally, sensory analysis showed that oregano oil at a 
concentration of 1% imparted a very strong taste to the product for which reason 
these lots of samples were not scored. On the basis of sensory evaluation a 
shelf-life extension of breast chicken meat by ca. 3-4 days for samples 
containing 0.1% oregano oil, 2-3 days for samples under MAP and 5-6 days for 
samples under MAP containing 0.1% of oregano oil was attained. Thus oregano oil 
and MAP exhibited an additive preservation effect.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2006.12.005
PMID: 17418312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Eur Psychiatry. 2007 Sep;22(6):347-53. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2007.02.003.
Epub  2007 Apr 5.

Economic consequences of alternative medication strategies in first episode 
non-affective psychosis.

Stant AD(1), TenVergert EM, Wunderink L, Nienhuis FJ, Wiersma D.

Author information:
(1)Office for Medical Technology Assessment, University Medical Center 
Groningen, University of Groningen, P.O. Box 30.001, 9700 RB Groningen, The 
Netherlands. a.d.stant@mta.umcg.nl

BACKGROUND: Maintenance treatment appears to be successful in preventing 
relapses in first episode psychosis, but is also associated with side effects. 
Guided discontinuation strategy is a less intrusive intervention, but may lead 
to more relapses. In the current economic evaluation, costs and health outcomes 
of discontinuation strategy will be compared with the results of maintenance 
treatment in patients with remitted first episode psychosis.
METHOD: The study was designed as a randomised clinical trial. In total 128 
patients were prospectively followed for 18 months after six months of stable 
remission. The economic evaluation was conducted from a societal perspective. 
Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were used as primary health outcome in the 
economic evaluation. Relapse rates were assessed in addition to various other 
secondary outcomes.
RESULTS: There were no relevant differences in mean costs between groups during 
the study. Total costs were largely influenced by costs related to admissions to 
psychiatric hospitals. No differences between groups were found for QALY 
results.
CONCLUSIONS: There were no indications that either of the examined interventions 
is superior to the other in terms of costs or QALY results. Additional results 
indicated that the relapse rate in discontinuation strategy was twice as high, 
but without an increase in hospital admissions or negative consequences on other 
clinical outcomes. For a minority of remitted first episode patients, guided 
discontinuation strategy may offer a feasible alternative to maintenance 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2007.02.003
PMID: 17418538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Clin Plast Surg. 2007 Apr;34(2):251-69, ix. doi: 10.1016/j.cps.2006.10.004.

Tissue transplantation in plastic surgery.

Siemionow M(1), Agaoglu G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery A/60, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. siemiom@ccf.org

The functional and aesthetic outcome following application of conventional 
reconstructive procedures or prosthetic materials is not satisfactory, 
especially in patients who have severe deformities and disabilities. Since the 
first successful hand transplantation in France in 1998, composite tissue 
allograft transplantation has gained a great deal of interest in the field of 
plastic surgery. It is obvious that composite tissue allograft transplantation 
will improve patients' life quality, but this might be at the expense of 
decreasing life expectancy. Currently, the main obstacle for composite tissue 
allograft transplantation is the use of life-long immunosuppression therapy 
because of their well-known side effects. In addition, the ethical, social, and 
psychologic issues are raised when discussing face transplantation. The 
long-term results of the recently performed partial face transplantations will 
be critical to judge the future applications of partial or total face 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cps.2006.10.004
PMID: 17418675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Vnitr Lek. 2007 Feb;53(2):169-78.

[Fever of unknown origin--etiology and diagnostic algorithm].

[Article in Czech]

Krivanová A(1), Adam Z, Mayer J, Husa P, Fojtík Z, Skricková J, Rehák Z, 
Vorlícek J.

Author information:
(1)Interni hematoonkologická klinika Lékatské fakulty MU a FN Brno. 
akrivan@volny.cz

Fever of unknown origin is a frequent and significant diagnostic problem often 
faced by physicians. The first part of the text is dedicated to its definition 
and wide-ranging aetiology. On the one hand, fever may be a banal and benign 
condition, on the other, it can be the symptom of a life threatening disease. 
The second part presents our suggestions for diagnostic approach to fever of 
unknown origin. We believe this text may become a useful tool for this extremely 
complex and interesting differential diagnostic. In view of extension and 
complexity of the topic, the text of this part is presented in full.

PMID: 17419180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nihon Kokyuki Gakkai Zasshi. 2007 Mar;45(3):237-42.

[Prognostic significance of neutrophil elastase inhibitor in patients with acute 
lung injury and interstitial pneumonia].

[Article in Japanese]

Sato N(1), Sutani A, Oya H, Yamaguchi T, Saito K, Kobayashi K, Nagata M, 
Hagiwara K, Kanazawa M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Saitama Respiratory Center, Saitama 
Medical University.

The prognostic significance of a neutrophil elastase inhibitor, sivelestat 
sodium hydrate (SSH), was evaluated in patients on mechanical ventilation due to 
acute lung injury (ALI)/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) associated 
with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). We studied 20 consecutive 
patients in our hospital, where patients complicated with interstitial pneumonia 
(IP) were separately analyzed (ARDS group, n = 10; IP group, n = 10). There was 
no significance difference between the two groups in the average lung injury 
score (3.0 in the ARDS group versus 2.8 in the IP group), the mean P/F ratio 
(96.3 mmHg in the ARDS group versus 96.7 mmHg in the IP group), plateau pressure 
(30.5 mmHg in the ARDS group versus 27.0 mmHg in the IP group), ventilator-free 
days, the duration of intensive care unit stay, and the hospitalization period. 
Four ARDS patients and 5 IP patients were treated with SSH within 3 days from 
SIRS onset. In the ARDS group, 5 patients (50%) were complicated with 4 or more 
organ dysfunctions and 3 patients (30%) died. IP patients all received 
corticosteroid, but the mortality was significantly higher among patients with 
IP than among those with ARDS by Kaplan-Meier survival curves. Of the clinical 
variables, only the diagnosis of IP was found to be independently related to 
mortality by a multivariate Cox proportional-hazards analysis. We conclude that 
IP patients have poor life expectancy if they are treated with SSH.

PMID: 17419435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Eur J Haematol. 2007 Jun;78(6):532-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2007.00850.x.
 Epub 2007 Apr 5.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of caspofungin vs. liposomal amphotericin B for 
treatment of suspected fungal infections in the UK.

Bruynesteyn K(1), Gant V, McKenzie C, Pagliuca T, Poynton C, Kumar RN, Jansen 
JP.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, De Molen, Houten, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of caspofungin vs. liposomal 
amphotericin B in the treatment of suspected fungal infections in the UK.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of caspofungin vs. liposomal amphotericin B was 
evaluated using a decision-tree model. The decision tree was populated using 
both data and clinical definitions from published clinical studies. Model 
outcomes included success in terms of resolution of fever, baseline infection, 
absence of breakthrough infection, survival and quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) saved. Discontinuation due to nephrotoxicity or other adverse events 
were included in the model. Efficacy and safety data were based on additional 
analyses of a randomised, double blind, multinational trial of caspofungin 
compared with liposomal amphotericin B. Information on life expectancy, quality 
of life, medical resource consumption and costs were obtained from peer-reviewed 
published data.
RESULTS: The caspofungin mean total treatment cost was 9762 pounds (95% 
uncertainty interval 6955-12,577), which was 2033 pounds (-2489; 6779) less than 
liposomal amphotericin B. Treatment with caspofungin resulted in 0.40 (-0.12; 
0.94) additional QALYs saved in comparison with liposomal amphotericin B. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis found a 95% probability of the incremental 
cost per QALY saved being within the generally accepted threshold for 
cost-effectiveness (30,000 pounds). Additional analyses with varying dose of 
caspofungin and liposomal amphotericin B confirmed these findings.
CONCLUSION: Given the underlying assumptions, caspofungin is cost-effective 
compared with liposomal amphotericin B in the treatment of suspected fungal 
infections in the UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2007.00850.x
PMCID: PMC1974808
PMID: 17419744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Gac Sanit. 2007 Mar-Apr;21(2):97-104; discussion 105. doi: 10.1157/13101034.

[Cost-effectiveness of the addition of acarbose to the treatment of patients 
with type-2 diabetes in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Piñol C(1), Roze S, Valentine W, Evers T.

Author information:
(1)Química Farmacéutica Bayer, S. A., Barcelona, España. 
carmen.pinol.cp@bayer.es

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the addition of acarbose to 
existing treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) in Spain.
METHODS: The CORE Diabetes Model (a published and validated computer simulation 
model) was used to project long-term clinical and cost outcomes in DM2. 
Transition probabilities and risk adjustments were derived from published 
sources. Treatment effects and baseline cohort characteristics were based on a 
meta-analysis. Direct costs were retrieved from published sources and projected 
over patient lifetimes from the perspective of the Spanish National Health 
Service. Costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 3% per year. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Acarbose treatment was associated with improved life expectancy (0.23 
years) and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) (0.21 years). Direct costs were on 
average euro 468 per patient more expensive with acarbose than with placebo. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were euro 2,002 per life year gained and 
euro 2,199 per QALY gained. An acceptability curve showed that with a 
willingness to pay euro 20,000, which is generally accepted to represent very 
good value for money, acarbose treatment was associated with a 93.5% probability 
of being cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This long-term economic study showed that the addition of acarbose 
to existing therapy for DM2 was associated with improvements in life expectancy 
and QALYs in these patients.

DOI: 10.1157/13101034
PMID: 17419924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. J Clin Epidemiol. 2007 May;60(5):479-90. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2006.08.008.  Epub 2006 Dec 11.

Racial/ethnic differences in preferences for the EQ-5D health states: results 
from the U.S. valuation study.

Shaw JW(1), Johnson JA, Chen S, Levin JR, Coons SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Administration, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Illinois at Chicago, 833 South Wood Street, M/C 871, Chicago, IL 60612-7231, 
USA. jw.shaw@uic.edu

OBJECTIVE: We examined differences in preferences for the EQ-5D health states 
among blacks, Hispanics, and others living in the United States.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: A multi-stage probability sample was selected from the 
adult U.S. population. Each respondent valued a subset of the 243 EQ-5D health 
states. Regression analysis was used to analyze differences in mean valuations 
for 13 health states among the racial/ethnic groups. First, we compared 
unadjusted mean valuations among the three groups. Second, we evaluated 
differences in mean valuations among the groups after adjusting for other 
sociodemographic characteristics. Third, we evaluated the impact of 
race/ethnicity on estimates derived from the U.S. health state valuation (i.e., 
D1) model.
RESULTS: Valuations differed among the groups for seven of the 13 health states, 
and these differences persisted after adjusting for other sociodemographic 
factors. Blacks appeared to perceive extreme health problems to be associated 
with less disutility than did members of the other two groups.
CONCLUSION: Within the United States, there exist racial/ethnic differences in 
the perceived desirability of the EQ-5D health states that cannot be readily 
explained by socioeconomic disparities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2006.08.008
PMID: 17419959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. J Epidemiol. 2007 Mar;17(2):31-7. doi: 10.2188/jea.17.31.

Life expectancy among Japanese of different smoking status in Japan: NIPPON 
DATA80.

Murakami Y(1), Ueshima H, Okamura T, Kadowaki T, Hozawa A, Kita Y, Hayakawa T, 
Okayama A; NIPPON DATA80 Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science, Shiga University of Medical Science, Japan. 
ymura@belle.shiga-med.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy is an important measure for describing health 
status among population. Several studies from the United States and Europe 
showed the harm of smoking by describing the life expectancies with different 
smoking status. No such study is examined in Japan, the country with the world's 
highest life expectancy irrespective of high smoking rate among men.
METHODS: The abridged life table method was applied to calculate the life 
expectancies of men and women among different smoking status from age 40 until 
age 85. Age-specific mortality rates stratified by different smoking status were 
obtained from follow-up data from random sample in Japanese population (NIPPON 
DATA80).
RESULTS: Proportion of current smokers was 62.9% in men and 8.8% in women at the 
baseline survey in 1980. The life expectancies of 40-year-old never smokers, 
ex-smokers and current smokers were 42.1, 40.4, and 38.6 years in men and 45.6, 
45.9, and 43.4 years in women. The life expectancy of 40-year-old men who smoked 
less than one pack per day was 39.0 and was longer than that of those who smoked 
one or two packs (38.8) and more than two packs (38.1).
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy decreased gradually as the grade of smoking 
increased in the Japanese population.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.17.31
PMCID: PMC7058458
PMID: 17420610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Am J Hum Biol. 2007 May-Jun;19(3):376-98. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20600.

Mortality experience of Tsimane Amerindians of Bolivia: regional variation and 
temporal trends.

Gurven M(1), Kaplan H, Supa AZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California-Santa Barbara, Santa 
Barbara, California 93106, USA. gurven@anth.ucsb.edu

This paper examines regional and temporal trends in mortality patterns among the 
Tsimane, a population of small-scale forager-horticulturalists in lowland 
Bolivia. We compare age-specific mortality in remote forest and riverine regions 
with that in more acculturated villages and examine mortality changes among all 
age groups over the past 50 years. Discrete-time logistic regression is used to 
examine impacts of region, period, sex, and age on mortality hazard. Villages in 
the remote forest and riverine regions show 2-4 times higher mortality rates 
from infancy until middle adulthood than in the acculturated region. While there 
was little change in mortality for most of the life course over the period 
1950-1989, overall life expectancy at birth improved by 10 years from 45 to 53 
after 1990. In both periods, over half of all deaths were due to infectious 
disease, especially respiratory and gastrointestinal infections. Accidents and 
violence accounted for a quarter of all deaths. Unlike typical patterns 
described by epidemiologic transition theory, we find a much larger period 
reduction of death rates during middle and late adulthood than during infancy or 
childhood. In the remote villages, infant death rates changed little, whereas 
death rates among older adults decreased sharply. We hypothesize that this 
pattern is due to a combination of differential access to medical interventions, 
a continued lack of public health infrastructure and Tsimane cultural beliefs 
concerning sickness and dying.

Copyright 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20600
PMID: 17421012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Crit Care Med. 2007 Mar;35(3):981; author reply 981.

Intensive care unit treatment in patients > 65 yrs with a first-day sequential 
organ failure assessment score > 15 is not futile.

Zandstra DF, Bosman RJ.

Comment on
    Crit Care Med. 2006 Aug;34(8):2120-6.

PMID: 17421106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Rev Med Univ Navarra. 2006 Oct-Dec;50(4):31-8.

[Obesity and functional foods: are the new ingredients and products effective?].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez-Alvarez Jr(1), Gómez-Candela C, Villarino-Marín AL.

Author information:
(1)Sociedad Española de Dietética y Ciencias de la Alimentación. 
Jrmartin@med.ucm.es

According to WHO data, obesity and overweight have reached the level of a 
world-wide epidemic: more than one billion adults are overweight, and at least 
three hundred million of them are obese. Obesity is associated with the main 
chronic diseases of our time. Obesity can reduce the life expectancy by 10 years 
and in Spain it is calculated that the health care costs account for 7% of the 
total. In the Spanish adult population, 14.5% are obese, and 38.5% are 
overweight. In the fight against obesity, the food industry has been 
incorporating new ingredients intended to help consumers obtain a suitable 
weight. In this study, we review the scientific evidence about some products and 
ingredients, discussing the fact that the main problem is their scant scientific 
support. Advertisers make much of supposed benefits which often lack a 
scientific basis, as in the case of products with a supposed effect on 
thermogenesis, metabolism and oxidation of fats, products which make people feel 
full, products affecting fat absorption, diuretics, laxatived, sedatives and 
substances affecting the central nervous system.

PMID: 17424767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Arh Hig Rada Toksikol. 2007 Mar;58(1):25-32. doi: 10.2478/v10004-007-0005-7.

[Osteoporosis in men].

[Article in Croatian]

Kastelan D(1).

Author information:
(1)Zavod za endokrinologiu Klinike za unutrasnje bolesti, Klinicki bolnicki 
centar Zagreb, Zagreb, Hrvatska. dkastelan@inet.hr

With the prolongation of life expectancy, osteoporosis has become an increasing 
problem in the majority of developed countries worldwide. The paper discusses 
the frequency, pathogenesis, diagnostic criteria and treatment options for 
osteoporosis in men. Every third hip fracture occurs in men, and more than 11% 
of the male population over the age of 50 years suffer the fracture. Diagnostic 
tests for idiopathic osteoporosis are performed in men under 60 years of age 
without other potential risk factors of developing the disease. In the majority 
of cases, their low bone mineral density (BMD) is caused by a low peak bone 
mass. Secondary osteoporosis occurs in about 30 % of men, and involutionary 
osteoporosis developed in men over 60 years of age results from their decreased 
testosterone and IGF-1 levels. The study results showing that BMD levels in both 
sexes provide similar fracture risk information suggest that the existing 
diagnostic criteria for female osteoporosis can also be employed in men. It has 
been proved that biphosphonate and teriparitide therapy significantly increase 
BMD levels in men. The administration of androgens has been shown to be 
effective in men with hypogonadism, although their validity for patients with 
eugonadism has not yet been discussed. An improved knowledge of the bone 
metabolism and bone remodelling has recently opened the door to an extensive 
series of molecules that may play a key role in the treatment of male 
osteoporosis in the future.

DOI: 10.2478/v10004-007-0005-7
PMID: 17424782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Water Sci Technol. 2007;55(4):193-200. doi: 10.2166/wst.2007.109.

Local infiltration devices at parking sites--experimental assessment of temporal 
changes in hydraulic and contaminant removal capacity.

Achleitner S(1), Engelhard C, Stegner U, Rauch W.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Civil Engineering, 
University of Innsbruck, Technikerstr. 13, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria. 
Stefan.Achleitner@uibk.ac.af

On site infiltration of stormwater is a common practice in order to avoid 
hydraulic overload of the urban drainage system. If hydrological conditions 
allow on-site infiltration--this is even mandatory from a legal point of view. 
Focus in this work is on surface infiltration of stormwater from parking lots. 
Proper operation of those devices is assumed to be appr. 15 years, as permits 
granted are limited to this time. Questions are raised whether this considered 
life expectancy is feasible. One apprehension is a possible clogging effect 
reducing the hydraulic capacity of the swale. The second aim was to identify 
magnitudes of accumulated pollutant loads with respect to limitations onto 
lifetime. The experimental investigation covered infiltration swales of 
different ages from eleven supermarket parking lots in Tyrol. Hydraulic 
permeabilities were assessed as well as chemical conditions of the soil material 
regarding hydrocarbon index (HI) and heavy metals (Cu, Zn, Pb and Cd). Further 
mass balance of contaminants has been performed in order to assess the 
operational life time based on pollutant load consideration. Calculations were 
based on load estimations using literature based minima and maxima 
concentrations from surface flows. Testing the correlation of hydraulic and 
pollutant measurements against site specific parameters (age, traffic load) 
revealed no distinct relation. In general all measured pollutants were found 
under limit concentrations. Mass balance calculations showed that limit 
concentrations are not exceeded either for worst case loading and considering 15 
years of operation.

DOI: 10.2166/wst.2007.109
PMID: 17425086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Paediatr Nurs. 2007 Mar;19(2):30-3.

Resilience in Afghan children and their families: a review.

Kanji Z(1), Drummond J, Cameron B.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, University of Alberta, Canada.

Resilience enables individuals to survive the horrors of war and other such 
tragedies. This article draws on personal reflections of living in the 
post-Taliban period in Afghanistan and a review of the literature to explore 
resilience processes that may be present in the Afghan population. Adverse 
factors that Afghan children and families face include: destruction of 
infrastructure, danger, traumatic experiences, post traumatic stress disorder, 
political and ideological commitment. The protective factors that may have 
enabled them to survive, and subsequently rebuild in the face of multiple 
challenges are absolute faith in Allah (God), family support and community 
support. Understanding more about the kinds of adversities they face and the 
nature of their protective processes gives healthcare professionals a basis for 
working with them to improve their health and wellbeing.

PMID: 17425128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2007 Apr;76(4):659-65.

Daily survival rates and dispersal of Aedes aegypti females in Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil.

Maciel-de-Freitas R(1), Codeço CT, Lourenço-de-Oliveira R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Transmissores de Hematozoários, Departamento de Entomologia, 
Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Fiocruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. freitas@ioc.fiocruz.br

Daily survival rates, life expectancy, dispersal, and parity are important 
components of vectorial capacity of Aedes aegypti. These parameters were 
estimated for mosquito populations from a slum and a suburban district in Rio de 
Janeiro, during the wet and dry seasons in 2005. In each mark-release-recapture 
experiment, three cohorts of dust-marked Ae. aegypti females were released. 
Recaptures were carried out daily in randomly selected houses, using backpack 
aspirators, adult traps, and sticky ovitraps. Recapture varied between 6.81% and 
14.26%. Daily survival was estimated by fitting two alternative models: 
exponential and nonlinear models with correction for the removal of individuals. 
Slum area presented higher survival and parity rates (68.5%). Dispersal rates 
were higher in the suburban area, where a maximum dispersal of 363 m was 
observed. Results suggest intense risk of dengue epidemic, particularly in the 
urban area.

PMID: 17426166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Prev Med Public Health. 2007 Mar;40(2):169-76. doi: 
10.3961/jpmph.2007.40.2.169.

[General population time trade-off values for 42 EQ-5D health states in South 
Korea].

[Article in Korean]

Jo MW(1), Lee SI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, College of Medicine, Dongguk University, 
Korea.

OBJECTIVES: This study was conducted to elicit quality weights for 42 EQ-5D 
health states with the time trade-off (TTO) method from the general population 
of South Korea.
METHODS: We selected the same EQ-5D health states as those in the UK MVH study. 
The Korean version of EQ-5D questionnaire and TTO method were used for the 
valuation process. We interviewed 500 people as a representative sample of the 
general population in Seoul and Gyeonggi-do. The result was compared with those 
from UK, Japan, and USA by Spearman's rank correlation and t-test.
RESULTS: TTO values for 42 EQ-5D health states and 'unconscious' state were 
obtained from the general South Korean population. The best one was '11112' 
state and the worst one was 'unconscious' state. The states worse than death 
were '33323', '33333', and 'unconscious' states, which had negative TTO values. 
There was a strong correlation between TTO values of the EQ-5D health states and 
those of their corresponding states from UK, Japan, and USA (Spearman's 
correlation coefficient: 0.885, 0.882, and 0.944, respectively, p <0.001). 
However, absolute TTO values of most EQ-5D health states were significantly 
different from those of their corresponding states in other foreign studies (UK: 
41/42, USA: 32/42, Japan: 15/17).
CONCLUSIONS: We found that the Korean general population TTO values for EQ-5D 
health states were different from those of other foreign studies, suggesting 
that a specific Korean valuation set should be developed and used for economic 
evaluation studies in South Korea.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.2007.40.2.169
PMID: 17426430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Stat Med. 2007 Nov 20;26(26):4746-69. doi: 10.1002/sim.2890.

Mapping disability-adjusted life years: a Bayesian hierarchical model framework 
for burden of disease and injury assessment.

MacNab YC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Department of Health Care and 
Epidemiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. 
ymacnab@interchange.ubc.ca

This paper presents a Bayesian disability-adjusted life year (DALY) methodology 
for spatial and spatiotemporal analyses of disease and/or injury burden. A 
Bayesian disease mapping model framework, which blends together spatial 
modelling, shared-component modelling (SCM), temporal modelling, ecological 
modelling, and non-linear modelling, is developed for small-area DALY estimation 
and inference. In particular, we develop a model framework that enables SCM as 
well as multivariate CAR modelling of non-fatal and fatal disease or injury 
rates and facilitates spline smoothing for non-linear modelling of temporal rate 
and risk trends. Using British Columbia (Canada) hospital admission-separation 
data and vital statistics mortality data on non-fatal and fatal road traffic 
injuries to male population age 20-39 for year 1991-2000 and for 84 local health 
areas and 16 health service delivery areas, spatial and spatiotemporal 
estimation and inference on years of life lost due to premature death, years 
lived with disability, and DALYs are presented. Fully Bayesian estimation and 
inference, with Markov chain Monte Carlo implementation, are illustrated. We 
present a methodological framework within which the DALY and the Bayesian 
disease mapping methodologies interface and intersect. Its development brings 
the relative importance of premature mortality and disability into the 
assessment of community health and health needs in order to provide reliable 
information and evidence for community-based public health surveillance and 
evaluation, disease and injury prevention, and resource provision.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.2890
PMID: 17427183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Nephrol News Issues. 2007 Apr;21(5):69-70, 72, 74-6 passim.

DOPPS estimate of patient life years attributable to modifiable hemodialysis 
practices in Canada.

Mendelssohn DC(1), Yeates KE, Ethier J, Trpeski L, Na Y, Bragg-Gresham JL, 
Eichleay MA, Pisoni RL, Port FK.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

We examined data from the Canadian Organ Replacement Registry, and from a 
special substudy of CORR, to determine whether changes have occurred in practice 
patterns before and after the 1999 Canadian Society of Nephrology guidelines 
were published. Second, we used data from the Dialysis Outcomes and Practice 
Patterns Study to calculate the impact of observed deviations from guideline 
targets and estimated potential gains in life years that might accrue if 
guideline targets were achieved in all Canadian hemodialysis patients. For 
dialysis dose and hemoglobin targets, there was a significant improvement in 
Canadian facility performance over time. On the other hand, vascular access care 
showed a worse pattern with increased catheter use. A calculation of 
attributable risk, which assumes causality, suggests that 49 percent of deaths 
could be averted if all patients currently outside the guidelines achieved them 
over the next five years. When expressed as an annual death rate per hundred 
patient years, this corresponds to a decrease from 18 to 10.1 deaths per 100 
patient years. We conclude that promoting a facility-based culture of quality 
improvement based on achievement of guideline targets is supported by 
international and Canadian observational data from the DOPPS. In the future, the 
impact of such an approach should be assessed empirically by correlating changes 
in practice over time with changes in outcomes.

PMID: 17427445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Diabetologia. 2007 Jun;50(6):1351-3. doi: 10.1007/s00125-007-0641-0. Epub
2007  Apr 11.

A diabetic life before and after the insulin era.

Brostoff JM, Keen H, Brostoff J.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-007-0641-0
PMID: 17429604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Eur Radiol. 2007 Aug;17(8):2062-70. doi: 10.1007/s00330-007-0587-0. Epub
2007  Feb 15.

Actual role of radiofrequency ablation of liver metastases.

Pereira PL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Eberhard-Karls-University of Tübingen, 
Hoppe-Seyler-Str.3, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany. 
philippe.pereira@med.uni-tuebingen.de

The liver is, second only to lymph nodes, the most common site for metastatic 
disease irrespective of the primary tumour. More than 50% of all patients with 
malignant diseases will develop liver metastases with a significant morbidity 
and mortality. Although the surgical resection leads to an improved survival in 
patients with colorectal metastases, only approximately 20% of patients are 
eligible for surgery. Thermal ablation and especially radiofrequency ablation 
emerge as an important additional therapy modality for the treatment of liver 
metastases. RF ablation shows a benefit in life expectancy and may lead in a 
selected patient group to cure. Percutaneous RF ablation appears safer (versus 
cryotherapy), easier (versus laser), and more effective (versus ethanol 
instillation and transarterial chemoembolisation) compared with other minimally 
invasive procedures. RF ablation can be performed by a percutaneous, 
laparoscopical or laparotomic approach, and may be potentially combined with 
chemotherapy and surgery. At present ideal candidates have tumours with a 
maximum diameter less than 3.5 cm. An untreatable primary tumour or a systemic 
disease represents contraindications for performing local therapies. Permanent 
technical improvements of thermal ablation devices and a better integration of 
thermal ablation in the overall patient care may lead to prognosis improvement 
in patients with liver metastases.
