
DOI: 10.1176/ajp.2007.164.2.206
PMID: 17267781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Rev Mal Respir. 2006 Nov;23(5 Pt 3):16S95-16S99.

[Non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly. What chemotherapy?].

[Article in French]

Quoix E(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de pneumologie, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg, 
Strasbourg, France. elisabeth.quoix@chru-strasbourg.fr

Half the patients with lung cancer are over 65 and one third are over 70 years 
of age. The increased incidence with age and the increase in life expectancy 
explains the large number of lung cancers found in elderly people. The correct 
management comes up against many obstacles: a certain nihilism among patients 
and doctors, the false idea that cancer progresses less quickly in elderly 
people and finally the near absence of clinical trials in elderly subjects. This 
situation is changing with population based studies as well as therapeutic 
trials specifically in elderly people which should allow better adaption of 
treatment to age and co-morbidities without being sub-optimal.

PMID: 17268344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Community Health. 2007 Feb;32(1):21-36. doi: 10.1007/s10900-006-9032-6.

Effect of maternal HIV infection on child survival in Ghana.

Hong R(1), Banta JE, Kamau JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health, School of Public Health and Health Services, 
George Washington University, 2175 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20037, USA 
rhong@gwu.edu

The purpose of this study was to measure the association between maternal HIV 
infection and infant mortality in Ghana. Using a censored synthetic cohort life 
table based on the birth history of 3639 childbirths during 1999-2003 obtained 
from the interviews of a nationally representative sample of 5691 women age 
15-49 in 6251 households in the 2003 Ghana Demographic and Health Survey. The 
survey collected demographic, socioeconomic, and health data of the respondents 
as well as obtained voluntary counseling test for HIV infection from all 
eligible women. The effects of maternal HIV status and other factors on infant 
mortality were estimated using multivariate survival regression analysis and the 
results are presented as Hazard Ratios (HR) with 95% confident interval (95% 
CI). Children born to HIV infected mothers were three times as likely to die 
during infancy as those born to uninfected mothers (HR = 3.01; 95% CI: 1.64, 
5.50). Controlling for other factors affecting infant mortality further sharpens 
this relationship (HR = 3.51; 95% CI: 1.87, 6.61). Not receiving antenatal care, 
low birth weight, and living in households that use high pollution cooking fuels 
were associated with a higher risk of infant mortality. Maternal HIV status is a 
strong predictor of infant mortality in Ghana, independent of several other 
factors. The results of this study suggest that HIV/AIDS epidemic has had great 
impact on child well-being and child survival. This impact tends to increase as 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic matures and infection in adults increases.

DOI: 10.1007/s10900-006-9032-6
PMID: 17269311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2006 Dec;78(4):161-2.

PSA: an update.

Schulman C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Clinics of Brussels, Erasme Hospital, 
Belgium. claude.Schulman@ulb.ac.be

We know there is no cut-off of PSA that can rule out prostate cancer, a little 
more than zero and you may be at risk, the problem is to know if you are at risk 
of dying from of this disease or not. So PSA is not so specific, and we know 
also that between 2 and 8 ng/ml there is no big difference, and that PSA is 
partly related to the transition zone. PSA is related to age and to the size of 
the transition zone, which is BPH, so you have to exclude this, and keep in mind 
the reference data that Joe Oesterling published in the JAMA in 1996 which is 
that PSA is age dependeant. I would say that for patients who are at high risk 
of dying of the disease, those who have a life expectancy of 10 or 15 years, 
that are under 60 and have high Gleason, if you consider treatment, then you 
have to treat them early if you want to cure them. But let's not overtreat 
patients who have no risk or limited risk of dying from prostate cancer, let's 
be more conservative. The difficulty is to define criteria. Age, of course, is 
the major criteria. High Gleason, i.e., a Gleason with pattern 4 or 5, and PSA 
velocity is very important.

PMID: 17269624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Proteome Sci. 2007 Feb 1;5:4. doi: 10.1186/1477-5956-5-4.

An informatic pipeline for the data capture and submission of quantitative 
proteomic data using iTRAQ.

Siepen JA(#)(1), Swainston N(#)(2), Jones AR(1)(3), Hart SR(4), Hermjakob H(5), 
Jones P(5), Hubbard SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, M13 9PT, UK.
(2)Manchester Interdisciplinary Biocentre, University of Manchester, UK.
(3)School of Computer Science, Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences, 
University of Manchester, UK.
(4)MBCMS, School of Chemistry, Manchester Interdisciplinary Biocentre, 
University of Manchester, UK.
(5)EMBL Outstation EBI, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambs, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Proteomics continues to play a critical role in post-genomic science 
as continued advances in mass spectrometry and analytical chemistry support the 
separation and identification of increasing numbers of peptides and proteins 
from their characteristic mass spectra. In order to facilitate the sharing of 
this data, various standard formats have been, and continue to be, developed. 
Still not fully mature however, these are not yet able to cope with the 
increasing number of quantitative proteomic technologies that are being 
developed.
RESULTS: We propose an extension to the PRIDE and mzData XML schema to 
accommodate the concept of multiple samples per experiment, and in addition, 
capture the intensities of the iTRAQ reporter ions in the entry. A simple 
Java-client has been developed to capture and convert the raw data from common 
spectral file formats, which also uses a third-party open source tool for the 
generation of iTRAQ reported intensities from Mascot output, into a valid PRIDE 
XML entry.
CONCLUSION: We describe an extension to the PRIDE and mzData schemas to enable 
the capture of quantitative data. Currently this is limited to iTRAQ data but is 
readily extensible for other quantitative proteomic technologies. Furthermore, a 
software tool has been developed which enables conversion from various mass 
spectrum file formats and corresponding Mascot peptide identifications to PRIDE 
formatted XML. The tool represents a simple approach to preparing quantitative 
and qualitative data for submission to repositories such as PRIDE, which is 
necessary to facilitate data deposition and sharing in public domain database. 
The software is freely available from http://www.mcisb.org/software/PrideWizard.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-5956-5-4
PMCID: PMC1796855
PMID: 17270041


69. J Am Dent Assoc. 2007 Feb;138(2):144-6. doi: 10.14219/jada.archive.2007.0115.

The health of the nation: why you should care.

Glick M.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.2007.0115
PMID: 17272361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 2007 Jan;31(1):55-67. doi: 
10.1016/s0399-8320(07)89326-2.

[Surgical treatment of recurrent locoregional rectal cancer].

[Article in French]

Ghouti L(1), Portier G, Kirzin S, Guimbaud R, Lazorthes F.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Digestive et Oncologique, Hôpital Purpan, Toulouse. 
ghouti.l@chu-toulouse.fr

Local recurrence (LR) after curative surgery for rectal cancer occurs in 4 to 
33% of cases especially if surgery is sub-optimal (without total excision of the 
mesorectum). In many cases, diagnosis of LR is made at a late stage because of 
the high rate of asymptomatic patients, 56% in the experience of the Mayo 
Clinic. MRI and PETscan are most effective for assessing local and general 
extension, with a high diagnostic accuracy. Surgical treatment alone or with 
radiation (preoperative and/or intraoperative) is the only curative treatment of 
LR with R0 resectability rates of 30% to 45%. Morbidity and mortality rates are 
high, especially for total exenteration and abdomino-sacral resection. After 
curative surgery, 5-year global survival is between 30% and 40%. Palliative 
resection of macroscopic residues is not recommended. Careful patient selection 
for curative surgery is the best way to optimize treatment in these cases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0399-8320(07)89326-2
PMID: 17273131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Bras Pneumol. 2006;32 Suppl 4:S182-9. doi: 10.1590/s1806-37132006000900004.

[Malignant pleural effusion].

[Article in Portuguese]

Teixeira LR(1), Pinto JA, Marchi E.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The malignant pleural effusion is a frequent complication in patients with of 
advanced tumors. The presence of malignant cells in the pleural fluid or in the 
pleural biopsy is indicative of dissemination of the primary disease, with 
consequent reduction of life expectancy. The early diagnosis and treatment of 
the malignant effusion is pivotal in promoting a better quality of life to 
patients with advanced cancer.

DOI: 10.1590/s1806-37132006000900004
PMID: 17273622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Rev Saude Publica. 2007 Feb;41(1):131-8. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102007000100018.

[Life satisfaction among elderly population in the city of Botucatu, Southern 
Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Joia LC(1), Ruiz T, Donalisio MR.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade Sao Francisco de Barreiras, Barreiras, BA, Brasil. 
lucianejoia@yahoo.com.br

OBJECTIVE: As a result of overall growing population's life expectancy, it has 
become increasingly important to ensure not only that the elderly have greater 
longevity but also happiness and life satisfaction. The objective of the study 
was to describe factors associated with life satisfaction among elderly people.
METHODS: Three hundred and sixty-five older persons, selected by means of random 
stratified proportional sampling, were interviewed in 2003. The instrument used 
was a combination of Flanagan and Nahas questionnaires and WHOQOL-100. There 
were added questions concerning physical activity extracted from International 
Physical Activity Questionnaire, questions regarding reported morbidity and 
emotional assessment, sociodemographic condition and an open question. The level 
of life satisfaction was measured using a scale from one to seven by means of 
visual recognition. Hierarchical logistic regression analysis was performed 
including "life satisfaction" as a dependent variable and those included the 
final questionnaire, in blocks, as independent variables.
RESULTS: Most elderly were generally rather satisfied with life as well as with 
specific aspects. The level of life satisfaction was associated with: comfort at 
home (OR=11.82; 95% CI: 3.27; 42.63); appraising leisure as quality of life 
(OR=3.82; 95% CI: 2.28; 6.39); waking up feeling well in the morning (OR=2.80; 
95% CI: 1.47; 5.36); not reporting loneliness (OR=2.68; 95% CI: 1.54; 4.65); 
having three or more daily meals (OR=2.63; 95% CI: 1.75; 5.90) and not reporting 
Diabetes Mellitus (OR=2.63; 95% CI: 1.31; 5.27).
CONCLUSIONS: Most elderly in the study were satisfied with life and their 
satisfaction was associated with situations related to "being well" and not 
being diabetic.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102007000100018
PMID: 17273644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Ethn Dis. 2007 Winter;17(1):40-8.

Black-white differences in age trajectories of hypertension prevalence among 
adult women and men, 1999-2002.

Geronimus AT(1), Bound J, Keene D, Hicken M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public Health, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2029, USA. arline@umich.edu

Summary for patients in
    Ethn Dis. 2007 Winter;17(1):172.

OBJECTIVES: To describe age patterns of hypertension prevalence in young through 
middle-aged adults and to test the hypothesis that hypertension prevalence rises 
more rapidly with age among Blacks than Whites in the United States.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Using multiple logistics regression, we 
predicted probability of being hypertensive for participants ages 15-65 years in 
the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) IV, 1999-2002. We 
estimated age-specific Black-to-White odds ratios of hypertension overall, by 
sex, and adjusted for body mass index (BMI) and poverty income ratio. We also 
followed NHANES cohorts to test whether differential age patterns of 
hypertension prevalence by race or gender represented cohort effects.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Hypertension: systolic blood pressure > or = 140 mm Hg, 
diastolic blood pressure > or = 90 mm Hg, or current antihypertensive medication 
use.
RESULTS: Black/White odds of hypertension increased from 1.71 to 3.12 between 
ages 15 and 65. Odds for women increased faster, from 2.11 to 4.04. By age 40, 
Black women had the highest hypertension rates and steepest age-gradient of 
race/sex groups. Adjustment for poverty income ratio did not affect results. 
Adjustment for BMI reduced Black women's hypertension risk somewhat but not 
men's. Cohort analysis confirmed a more rapid increase in hypertension 
prevalence among Blacks and women.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypertension screening of Blacks should begin at young ages. Early 
diagnosis and vigilant management are critical to addressing racial and sex 
differences and their effect on cardiovascular disease, life expectancy, and 
maternal and infant health. Psychosocial stressors merit consideration as 
candidates for primary prevention. Addressing fundamental causes is needed. 
Understanding the growing age-gradient increase among US Black women is 
pressing.

PMID: 17274208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Mil Med. 2007 Jan;172(1):53-7. doi: 10.7205/milmed.172.1.53.

Mortality, length of life, and physical examination attendance in participants 
of the Air Force Health Study.

Ketchum NS(1), Michalek JE, Pavuk M.

Author information:
(1)Air Force Research Laboratory, 8315 Hawks Road, Building 1168, Brooks 
City-Base, TX 78235-5368, USA.

Begun in 1982, the Air Force Health Study (AFHS) has assessed the mortality of 
veterans of Operation Ranch Hand, the unit responsible for aerially spraying 
herbicides in Vietnam. A comparison group of other Air Force veterans involved 
with aircraft missions in Southeast Asia during the same period, but not 
involved with spraying herbicides, was included in the study. Among 18,082 
veterans, this report examined whether attendance at AFHS physical examinations 
from 1982 to 1999 played a role in mortality experience and potential 
lengthening of life relative to veterans who did not attend. The years of 
potential life lost for 1173 veterans who died before age 65 was calculated. No 
statistically significant difference in risk of death was found from all causes, 
cancer, or circulatory disease between attendees and nonattendees. No evidence 
was found to suggest that attending physical examinations decreased mortality or 
substantially lengthened life in AFHS participants.

DOI: 10.7205/milmed.172.1.53
PMID: 17274267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Spinal Cord Med. 2006;29(5):511-9. doi: 10.1080/10790268.2006.11753901.

Long-term survival of persons ventilator dependent after spinal cord injury.

Shavelle RM(1), DeVivo MJ, Strauss DJ, Paculdo DR, Lammertse DP, Day SM.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, California 94122, USA. 
shavelle@lifeexpectancy.com

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: Identify factors related to long-term survival, and 
quantify their effect on mortality and life expectancy.
SETTING: Model spinal cord injury systems of care across the United States.
STUDY DESIGN: Survival analysis of persons with traumatic spinal cord injury who 
are ventilator dependent at discharge from inpatient rehabilitation and who 
survive at least 1 year after injury.
METHODS: Logistic regression analysis on a data set of 1,986 person-years 
occurring among 319 individuals injured from 1973 through 2003.
RESULTS: The key factors related to long-term survival were age, time since 
injury, neurologic level, and degree of completeness of injury. The life 
expectancies were modestly lower than previous estimates. Pneumonia and other 
respiratory conditions remain the leading cause of death but account for only 
31% of deaths of known causes.
CONCLUSIONS: Whereas previous research has suggested a dramatic improvement in 
survival over the last few decades in this population, this is only the case 
during the critical first few years after injury. There was no evidence for such 
a trend in the subsequent period.

DOI: 10.1080/10790268.2006.11753901
PMCID: PMC1949034
PMID: 17274490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Transplant Proc. 2007 Jan-Feb;39(1):45-50. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2006.10.199.

Renal transplantation in dialysis patients with the history of coronary artery 
bypass grafting and cardiac valve replacement.

Debska-Slizień A(1), Lizakowski S, Wołyniec W, Giergielewicz B, Zadrozny D, 
Milecka A, Moszkowska G, Dudziak M, Rogowski J, Sledziński Z, Rutkowski B.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of Gdansk, Department of Nephrology, Transplantation, and 
Internal Medicine, Gdansk, Poland.

Erratum in
    Transplant Proc. 2007 Mar;39(2):579. Rutkowski, B [added].

Death with a functioning kidney is the most frequent cause of graft failure. 
Cardiovascular disease is the most frequent cause of death after renal 
transplantation. Therefore, prior to grafting, it is mandatory to diagnose and 
treat coronary artery disease and heart valve impairment. Transplantation is the 
best option for renal replacement therapy as far as the quality of life and life 
expectancy are concerned, although patients with such comorbidities may 
experience a higher short-term mortality risk. The objective for this study was 
to analyze both short- and long-term results of patients after coronary artery 
bypass grafting (CABG) or cardiac valve replacement (CVR). The cardiac surgery 
recipient group (CSR) included 16 patients (15 men, 1 woman) aged from 44 to 73 
(mean 54.9 +/- 7.8) years. CABG was performed in 13/16 patients, and CVR in 
3/16. The rest of our patients were treated as a comparative noncardiac surgery 
recipient (non-CSR) group. It consisted of 422 patients (264 men, 158 women) 
aged from 14 to 68 years (mean 43.2 +/- 12.9). The comparison revealed that 
graft function estimated at 1 year after transplantation was not different: 
serum creatinine concentrations of 1.7 +/- 0.2 and 1.6 +/- 0.5 mg/dL in CSR and 
non-CSR, respectively. One-year patient survival in the CVR group of 93.8% was 
slightly worse than that in the non-CSR group (97.9%), but death-censored 1-year 
graft survivals were comparable in both groups (93.8% vs 92%). Urinary tract and 
cytomegalovirus infections were the most common complications in the CSR group. 
One patient lost his graft in month 3(rd) due to many serious infectious 
complications. One patient died at the end of 12 months as a result of a 
cardiovascular event (1/16). Our single-center results confirm that 
transplantation in patients after CABG or CVR is a safe procedure; therefore, 
such patients should be referred into the waiting list.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2006.10.199
PMID: 17275472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care. 2007 Jan-Feb;18(1 Suppl):S2-10. doi: 
10.1016/j.jana.2006.11.012.

Long-Term suppression of HIV infection: benefits and limitations of current 
treatment options.

Sension MG(1).

Author information:
(1)HIV Clinical Research, North Broward Hospital District, Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, USA.

HIV type 1, a causative agent of AIDS, is a source of worldwide morbidity and 
mortality. There are an estimated 1 million people in North America currently 
living with HIV infection, and more than 40,000 new cases occur annually. Before 
the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), the mortality rate 
of HIV infection was nearly 100%, and life expectancy was short. However, 
successful HAART delays the onset of AIDS, allowing patients to live with 
chronic HIV infection for 20 years or more. HAART usually consists of a 
combination of protease inhibitors (PIs), nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors (NRTIs), and/or nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
(NNRTIs). Although these agents are highly efficacious in delaying the onset of 
AIDS, their clinical utility is limited by viral resistance, nonadherence to 
therapy, and drug toxicity. Consequently, multidrug regimens are necessary for 
successful treatment. Initial NNRTI-based HAART regimens are effective at 
reducing viral load and boosting CD4(+) cell counts. NNRTI resistance is 
uncommon, but should it occur, the NNRTI-based therapy needs to be quickly 
replaced by a PI-based therapy. Triple NRTI-based regimens are recommended only 
if NNRTI- or PI-based regimens cannot be used. When developing a multidrug 
regimen, it is also important to select HAART agents with limited adverse 
effects. Because each HAART agent has its own unique adverse effect profile, 
selecting a regimen with a favorable profile may be difficult. For example, 
certain PIs produce adverse metabolic effects that may increase the risk of 
developing cardiovascular disease. In contrast, NNRTI-based therapies have a 
different side effect profile. Because each HAART agent has specific 
limitations, tailoring a regimen to the individual patient is of paramount 
importance for achieving optimal outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jana.2006.11.012
PMID: 17275719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Drug Discov Today. 2007 Feb;12(3-4):112-24. doi:
10.1016/j.drudis.2006.12.008.  Epub 2006 Dec 15.

Targeting mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) for health and diseases.

Tsang CK(1), Qi H, Liu LF, Zheng XF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Institute of New Jersey (CINJ) Robert 
Wood Johnson Medical School, 675 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, NJ 08854 USA.

Erratum in
    Drug Discov Today. 2008 Sep;13(17-18):824.

The macrolide rapamycin is used clinically to treat graft rejection and 
restenosis. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a central controller of 
cellular and organism growth that integrates nutrient and hormonal signals, and 
regulates diverse cellular processes. New studies have linked mTOR to several 
human diseases including cancer, diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular diseases and 
neurological disorders. Recent data have also revealed that mTOR is involved in 
the regulation of lifespan and in age-related diseases. These findings 
demonstrate the importance of growth control in the pathology of major diseases 
and overall human health, and underscore the therapeutic potential of the mTOR 
pathway.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2006.12.008
PMID: 17275731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Health Econ. 2007 Sep 1;26(5):877-95. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2006.12.005. 
Epub 2006 Dec 30.

Does education affect smoking behaviors? Evidence using the Vietnam draft as an 
instrument for college education.

de Walque D(1).

Author information:
(1)Development Research Group, The World Bank, Washington, DC 20433, USA. 
ddewalque@worldbank.org

This paper tests the hypothesis that education improves health and increases 
people's life expectancy. It does so by analyzing the effect of education on 
smoking behaviors. To account for the endogeneity of smoking, the analysis 
develops an instrumental variable approach which relies on the fact that during 
the Vietnam War college attendance provided a strategy to avoid the draft. The 
results indicate that education does affect smoking decisions: educated 
individuals are less likely to smoke, and among those who initiated smoking, 
they are more likely to have stopped.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2006.12.005
PMID: 17275938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2007 Mar;33(3):460-71. doi: 
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2006.09.006.

Objective performance testing and quality assurance of medical ultrasound 
equipment.

Thijssen JM(1), Weijers G, de Korte CL.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Physics Laboratory, University Children's Hospital, Radboud 
University Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
j.thijssen@cukz.umcn.nl

There is an urgent need for a measurement protocol and software analysis for 
objective testing of the imaging performance of medical ultrasound equipment 
from a user's point of view. Methods for testing of imaging performance were 
developed. Simple test objects were used, which have a long life expectancy. 
First, the elevational focus (slice thickness) of the transducer was estimated 
and the in-plane transmit focus was positioned at the same depth. Next, the 
postprocessing look-up-table (LUT) was measured and linearized. The tests 
performed were echo level dynamic range (dB), contrast resolution (i.e., gamma 
of display, number of gray levels/dB) and sensitivity, overall system 
sensitivity, lateral sensitivity profile, dead zone, spatial resolution and 
geometric conformity of display. The concept of a computational observer was 
used to define the lesion signal-to-noise ratio, SNR(L) (or Mahalanobis 
distance), as a measure for contrast sensitivity. All the measurements were made 
using digitized images and quantified by objective means, i.e., by image 
analysis. The whole performance measurement protocol, as well as the 
quantitative measurements, have been implemented in software. An extensive 
data-base browser was implemented from which analysis of the images can be 
started and reports generated. These reports contain all the information about 
the measurements, such as graphs, images and numbers. The approach of 
calibrating the gamma by using a linearized LUT was validated by processing 
simultaneously acquired rf data. The contrast resolution and echo level of the 
rf data had to be compressed by a factor of two and amplified by a gain factor 
corresponding to 12 dB. This resulted in contrast curves that were practically 
identical to those obtained from DICOM image data. The effects of changing the 
transducer center frequency on the spatial resolution and contrast sensitivity 
were estimated to illustrate the practical usefulness of the developed approach 
of quality assurance by measuring objective performance characteristics. The 
developed methods might be considered as a minimum set of objective quality 
assurance measures. This set might be used to predict clinical performance of 
medical ultrasound equipment, taking into account the performance at a unique 
point in space i.e., the coinciding depths of the elevation and in-plane 
(azimuth) foci. Furthermore, it should be investigated whether the approach 
might be used to compare objectively various brands of equipment and to evaluate 
the performance specifications given by the manufacturer. Last but not least, 
the developed approach can be used to monitor, in a hospital environment, the 
medical ultrasound equipment during its life cycle. The software package may be 
viewed and downloaded at the website http://www.qa4us.eu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2006.09.006
PMID: 17275983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 2007 Apr;36(2):119-28. doi: 
10.1016/j.jgyn.2006.12.020. Epub 2007 Feb 2.

[Management of endometriosis: clinical and biological assessment].

[Article in French]

Panel P(1), Renouvel F.

Author information:
(1)Service de Gynécologie - Obstétrique, Centre Hospitalier de Versailles, 
Hôpital André-Mignot, 177, rue de Versailles, 78157 Le Chesnay, France. 
ppanel@ch-versailles.fr

No symptom is pathognomonic for endometriosis. Main symptoms are pain (chronic 
pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea, deep dyspareunia, pain on defecation, cyclic pain) 
and infertility (grade C). There is no relation between rAFS endometriosis 
classification and symptoms intensity and frequency (grade B). Endometriosic 
lesions location and symptoms type are related to each other as well as symptoms 
intensity and lesions deepness or adhesion numbers (grade B). Clinical evidence 
is the same for infertile endometriosic women (grade C). Screening for 
depression is required among patients suffering from chronic endometriosic 
pelvic pain (grade C). Clinical examination includes: 1) retrocervix area 
inspection as well as upper part of posterior vaginal wall in search for typical 
bluish lesions (grade B); 2) vaginal examination in search for: a) uterosacral 
ligaments nodules (grade B); b) pain in uterosacral ligaments extension (grade 
B); 3) re-examination during menstruation increases its performance (grade B). 
No biological check-up in endometriosis diagnosis is necessary (grade A). CA 125 
increase is related to: endometriomas and deep lesions volume (grade B), 
surgically treated infertile women prognosis (grade B). Presurgical 
endometriosis diagnosis is bettered by using diagnosis pattern in selected 
population (grade B). Rating scales are recommended in diagnosis and therapeutic 
follow up (grade B). Quality of life scales are useful to evaluate therapeutic 
efficiency (grade B).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgyn.2006.12.020
PMID: 17276015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Presse Med. 2007 Jul-Aug;36(7-8):1084-97. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2007.01.006.
Epub  2007 Feb 2.

[Fabry disease: proposed guidelines from a French expert group for its 
diagnosis, treatment and follow-up].

[Article in French]

Lidove O(1), Bekri S, Goizet C, Khau Van Kien A, Aractingi S, Knebelmann B, 
Choukroun G, Tsimaratos M, Redonnet-Vernhet I, Lacombe D, Jaussaud R.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, Hôpital Bichat, Paris. 
olivier.lidove@bch.aphp.fr

Fabry disease is a rare and under-recognized disease associated with an altered 
X-linked gene controlling hydrolase alpha-galactosidase A activity. This 
mutation impairs the glycosphingolipid metabolism. A multisystemic disease with 
a highly variable clinical presentation, its principal symptom is 
acroparesthesia. Manifestations of Fabry disease occur mostly in hemizygous 
males but also in heterozygous females. Before enzyme replacement therapy was 
available, life expectancy was about 50 years in men and 70 years in women. 
Early diagnosis is essential to prevent irreversible organ damage. Diagnosis is 
based on an assay of alpha-galactosidase A activity in male patients and on 
genetic analysis in female patients. Prognosis is related principally to three 
complications: involvement of the central nervous system, kidneys, and heart. 
Management of Fabry patients should in all cases combine symptomatic therapy and 
regular clinical, laboratory and morphological follow-up by specialists in 
genetic metabolic diseases. Enzyme replacement therapy should be considered in 
all adult male patients and should probably begin early. In adult heterozygous 
female patients and in children, this treatment should be considered only for 
patients with severe pain, organ damage, or central nervous system, kidney, or 
heart involvement. After a proband is identified, a genealogical tree should be 
used to identify other affected members of the family.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2007.01.006
PMID: 17276649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. QJM. 2007 Feb;100(2):97-105. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcl141.

Life expectancy of patients with newly-diagnosed HIV infection in the era of 
highly active antiretroviral therapy.

Fang CT(1), Chang YY, Hsu HM, Twu SJ, Chen KT, Lin CC, Huang LY, Chen MY, Hwang 
JS, Wang JD, Chuang CY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, No. 7 
Chung San South Road, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Limited data are available on the life expectancy of patients with 
newly-diagnosed HIV infection in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART).
AIM: To provide such an estimate using a semi-parametric projection.
DESIGN: Statistical analysis.
METHODS: Follow-up data for patients newly diagnosed with HIV infection in 
Taiwan (HIV/AIDS Cohort) from 1 May 1997 to 30 April 2003 (n = 3351, only 1% are 
injecting drug users) were analysed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The survival 
function for an age- and gender-matched reference population was generated by 
the Monte Carlo method from the life-table of the general population. A constant 
excess hazard model was used to project long-term survival of HIV-infected 
patients, with linear extrapolation of a logit-transformed curve of survival 
ratio between HIV-infected patients and the reference population.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival rate was 58% in patients who had already developed 
AIDS at diagnosis (AIDS group), and 89% in those who had not (non-AIDS group). 
Extrapolation yielded an expected mean survival time of 10.6 years after 
diagnosis for the AIDS group, and 21.5 years after diagnosis for the non-AIDS 
group.
DISCUSSION: Our results support the expansion of HIV screening programs to 
minimize delay in diagnosis. With continuing advances in HAART, this estimate of 
survival in initially asymptomatic patients may be conservative. Their long life 
expectancy raises questions about what kind of preventive heath services should 
be offered. These should be addressed through further analysis of overall 
benefit and cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcl141
PMID: 17277317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Support Care Cancer. 2007 Jun;15(6):603-611. doi: 10.1007/s00520-006-0191-x. 
Epub 2007 Feb 3.

Speed of haemoglobin response in patients with cancer: a review of the 
erythropoietic proteins.

Oberhoff C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Marienhospital Altenessen, 
Hospitalstraβe 24, D-45329, Essen, Germany. c.oberhoff@kkenw.de.

BACKGROUND: Patients with cancer-related anaemia generally have a poor 
prognosis. Evidence suggests that an effective erythropoietic protein 
(epoetin)-mediated haemoglobin (Hb) response provides marked improvement in 
quality of life (QoL). An early Hb response to erythropoietic protein therapy in 
these patients would appear ideal but few studies have compared the speed of 
response to different erythropoietic proteins, or the potential benefits 
associated with an early Hb response.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profiles of 
commercially available erythropoietic proteins are reviewed along with available 
clinical data to examine Hb response and associated clinical outcomes for each 
of these agents. Randomised, head-to-head trials comparing epoetin alfa and 
darbepoetin alfa suggest that patients administered with epoetin alfa achieve a 
satisfactory Hb response significantly earlier than those given darbepoetin 
alfa, and with consistently lower monthly transfusion rates. Non-comparative 
studies support this, suggesting also that epoetin beta may provide a relatively 
faster Hb response in a greater number of patients than either epoetin alfa or 
darbepoetin alfa, irrespective of malignancy or chemotherapy type. Moreover, 
studies suggest consistently that a 'front-loading' dosing regimen with epoetin 
alfa does not convey improved speed of Hb response over epoetin beta 
administered according to current clinical practice guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the poor prognosis of anaemic patients with cancer, the use 
of an agent which provides clinical benefits quickly but with minimal 
thromboembolic risk, should be considered an essential component of anaemia 
management in these patients. However, more head-to-head studies are required to 
confirm the relative efficacy of currently available erythropoietic proteins.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-006-0191-x
PMID: 17277926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Commun Dis. 2005 Dec;37(4):261-8.

Health related quality of life (HRQL) scoring (DR-12 score) in 
tuberculosis--additional evaluative tool under DOTS.

Dhingra VK(1), Rajpal S.

Author information:
(1)New Delhi Tuberculosis Centre, Jawahar Lal Nehru Marg, New Delhi-110002.

The study was conducted among patients diagnosed as pulmonary or extra pulmonary 
tuberculosis attending DOTS facilities at New Delhi Tuberculosis Centre, Delhi. 
The objectives of the study are; to evaluate the impairment of health related 
quality of life in patients of tuberculosis by evolving a HRQL questionnaire 
(DR-12 score) and to validate the new scoring method by making serial 
assessments of health related quality of life of the patients during 
anti-tubercular therapy initially, at the end of intensive phase (IP) and at the 
completion of treatment. Seventy eight consecutive patients aged between 15-60 
years put on DOTS treatment at New Delhi Tuberculosis Centre, Delhi were 
subjected to a HRQL questionnaire (DR-12 score) at 0 week, 8 weeks and at the 
completion of treatment. The new scoring method contained questions on twelve 
parameters related to symptoms, physiological, psychological and social 
well-being of TB patients. The patients were asked to evaluate these twelve 
parameters on a score of 1-3. All the individual parameters were equally 
weighted. The data so obtained regarding these scores was analysed using 
unpaired t-test, paired t-test, one way Anova test and Pearson corelation 
coefficient test. The patients who converted at the end of intensive phase had a 
significantly higher gain in scores as against, those who failed to convert even 
after extension of intensive phase (p=0.019). Significantly higher scores were 
observed among those who had a favourable outcome as against those who had 
unfavourable outcome at the completion of treatment (p=0.029). Thus, DR-12 score 
was found to have a strong construct validity and useful additional evaluative 
tool for patients under DOTS therapy.

PMID: 17278655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Feb;11(6):iii-iv, 1-85. doi: 10.3310/hta11060.

Oral naltrexone as a treatment for relapse prevention in formerly 
opioid-dependent drug users: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Adi Y(1), Juarez-Garcia A, Wang D, Jowett S, Frew E, Day E, Bayliss S, Roberts 
T, Burls A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
naltrexone for relapse prevention in detoxified formerly opioid-dependent 
individuals compared with any strategy that does not use naltrexone, including 
treatment with placebo, other pharmacological treatments, psychosocial 
interventions or no treatment.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases were searched from inception to 
September 2005.
REVIEW METHODS: Selected studies were screened and quality assessed. 
Meta-analyses were carried out as appropriate. A decision-analytic model using 
Monte Carlo simulation was developed that compared naltrexone as an adjunctive 
therapy to no naltrexone. It assumed compliance rates that were not enhanced by 
contingent management rewards (because this is current UK practice). Utility 
values could not be identified from the literature and so were obtained by 
research specially commissioned from the Value of Health Panel.
RESULTS: The methodological quality of the 26 randomised controlled trials 
(RCTs) that met the inclusion criteria was poor to moderate. The results suggest 
that naltrexone as maintenance therapy may be better than placebo in terms of 
retention in treatment, but this was not statistically significant. A 
meta-analysis of seven included RCTs gave the relative risk (RR) of loss of 
retention in treatment in the naltrexone arm as 0.94. The pooled hazard ratio 
(HR) reported in five of the RCTs for retention in treatment data followed up to 
35 weeks was calculated as 0.90 in favour of naltrexone and also did not reach 
statistical significance. The risk of drug abuse in naltrexone versus placebo, 
with or without psychological support given in both arms, gave a pooled RR of 
0.72, which was a statistically significant difference in favour of naltrexone. 
The pooled HR from three RCTs for opioid relapse-free rates was significantly 
different from placebo in favour of naltrexone 0.53; however, this fell off over 
time and may be of limited clinical significance. The RR of reimprisonment while 
on naltrexone therapy showed results in favour of naltrexone in the combined two 
studies of parolees or people on probation, but the number of participants was 
small. One study of 52 participants found that the difference in improvement 
score for risky sexual behaviour in the naltrexone group compared with the 
placebo group was not statistically significant. The adverse events data 
reported showed no significant difference between the naltrexone and placebo 
arms. The quality of the nine RCTs of interventions designed to increase 
retention with naltrexone was poor to moderate; however, all three different 
modalities of enhanced care showed some evidence of effectiveness. All of the 
contingency management programmes used incentive vouchers; the mean duration of 
treatment retention was 7.4 weeks for the contingency management intervention 
compared with 2.3-5.6 weeks for the naltrexone treatment alone. The mean length 
of time for which patients stayed on naltrexone was 84-103 days with additional 
psychosocial therapy compared with 43-64 days for the control group. In trials 
with added pharmacological agents the RRs of stopping treatment were 1.63 at 6 
months and 1.31 at 12 months (in favour of naltrexone plus fluoxetine). It 
became statistically significant at 6 months, but not at 12 months. A 
meta-analysis of the RR of stopping treatment at week 12 (the minimum follow-up 
period) was carried out using six of the nine studies. The pooled RR of stopping 
treatment was 0.81. The results indicated that overall the intervention groups 
had 19% fewer patients who stopped treatment compared with the control group, 
but there was only a small number of studies and their quality was relatively 
poor. No existing economic evaluations were identified. The point estimate for 
the cost-effectiveness of naltrexone was pound42,500 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY). Sensitivity analysis was carried out and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio varied between pound34,600 and pound42,500 per QALY 
gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Following successful withdrawal from opioids, naltrexone may be 
administered on a chronic basis to block any future effects of opioids. 
Naltrexone appears to have some limited benefit in helping formerly 
opioid-dependent individuals to remain abstinent, although the quality of the 
evidence is relatively poor and heterogeneous. The limited quality and extent of 
the studies precluded an analysis of subgroups likely to benefit from naltrexone 
prescribing. Oral naltrexone is used infrequently in current UK practice, and 
this review suggests that this is appropriate as there is little evidence to 
support its wider implementation. There is an important deficit in information 
about the quality of life of people who use illicit opioids and this would 
perhaps be a worthwhile area of research in informing policy questions about the 
cost-effectiveness of different programmes and interventions.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11060
PMID: 17280624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2005;2005:6021-4. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2005.1615864.

Different plantar interface effects on dynamics of the lower limb.

Hao ZH(1), Zhou JB, Jin DW, Zhou DW, Li XD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Intelligent & Biomechdanical System, State Key Laboratory of 
Tribology, Tsinghua University, Beijing. China.

The moments acting on the lower limb joints influence the life of the arthrosis. 
These loads may depend on the footwear and action style. The footwear factor was 
studied with three-dimensional gait measure system. Five young women in their 
20s, wear 7 cm high-heeled shoes and sneakers, and walked in 10 m gait 
laboratory walkway. Inversed dynamics was used to analysis the torques at the 
ankle, knee and hip. Results showed that peak adduction moments at the knee and 
ankle increased and flexion/extension moments at hip increased with high-heel 
shoes compared with the sneakers. The high-heeled shoes result in greater load 
in lower limb joints especial to the knee and hip.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2005.1615864
PMID: 17281634


88. Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2005;2005:7648-51. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2005.1616283.

Life-like Control for Neural Prostheses: "Proximal Controls Distal".

Popovic D(1), Popovic M, Sinkjaer T.

Author information:
(1)Member IEEE, Department of Health Science and Technology Aalborg University, 
Denmark and Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University of Belgrade, Serbia. 
(+45 96358726; fax: +45 98154008; e-mail: dbp@smi.auc.dk).

We describe the model and implementation of the hierarchical hybrid method for 
controlling of the lower-arm (pronation/supination and elbow flexion/extension) 
in humans with disabilities. The control follows the strategy found in 
ablebodied humans where the movement is planned based on the task and the most 
distal part of the arm; yet, the command starts from the most proximal segment. 
The controller uses a black box of the movement and relies on temporal and 
spatial synergies. The driving signals are the shoulder flexion/extension 
velocity and acceleration, the outputs are four stimulation patterns for the 
control of elbow flexion/extension and pronation/supination. The operation is 
discrete at the voluntary and coordination levels, and continuous at the 
actuator level. The repertoire of movement that were considered was limited to a 
set of typical daily activities within the normal workspace in the sitting 
position only. The main application of this control is the therapeutic 
electrical stimulation in post-stroke hemiplegic patients.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2005.1616283
PMID: 17282052


89. Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2005;2006:720-2. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2005.1616515.

Electrostatic Self-assemble and Nanomedicine.

Ji J(1), Shen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Polymer Science, Zhejiang University, 310027, Hangzhou, China 
(e-mail: jijian@jzju. Edu.cn).

Electrostatic self-assemble (ESA), which based on the alternating physisorption 
of oppositely charged polyelectrolyte, appears to be a promising method in 
preparing nanolayer films of biopolymers and controlling the structures and 
properties in nanoscale. It provides great potential in surface design of 
nanolayer for bioactive coordinated coating for biomedical device, drug delivery 
systems and novel gene delivery systems. Although biomedical device developments 
have increased the quality and life expectancy of patients, the recognition of a 
foreign material by living organism is still a problem, as it often leads to a 
serial of adverse reactions, such as thrombus formation and complement 
activation, etc. The new strategies in this regard aim at surface tailoring of 
biomaterials in nanoscale to present different biologically activity. 
Self-assembling of polymers has been increasingly explored for the preparation 
of well-defined surfaces and interfaces in recent years [1]. Electrostatic 
self-assemble (ESA), which based on the alternating physisorption of oppositely 
charged polyelectrolyte, appears to be a promising method in preparing 
multilayer films of biopolymers [2]. The buildup of such layer is easy and the 
method can be used whatever the shape of the solid. The procedure may be carried 
out not only with linear polyions and boladiions, but also with DNA, proteins, 
virus, ceramics, and charged nanoparticles. Successful protein/polyion 
multilayer assembly provides new possibilities in the line of efforts to create 
a method of organizing proteins in layers and to build up such layers following 
;molecular architecture' plans [3]. The method was extended to build up protein 
superlattices, i.e.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2005.1616515
PMID: 17282284


90. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2007 Mar;22(2):92-5. doi: 10.1097/HCO.0b013e32802086bc.

Aortic valve replacement in elderly patients: what are the limits?

Cohn LH(1), Narayanasamy N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. lcohn@partners.org

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Increased life expectancy has led to a growing elderly 
population frequently presenting with aortic stenosis. This review focuses on 
modalities of aortic valve replacement designed to cope with the risks from 
multiple co-morbidities prevalent in the elderly.
RECENT FINDINGS: Cardiac surgery is safe in octogenarians; very low risks are 
associated with aortic valve replacement. Good short-term and medium-term 
results are seen with early surgical intervention for aortic stenosis in the 
relatively asymptomatic patient. The benefits seen with minimally invasive 
surgery make it more acceptable. A hybrid approach that deploys a drug-eluting 
stent for concomitant moderate coronary artery disease has shown promising 
results. An extension of this concept is the percutaneous aortic valve 
implantation that offers hope to the nonsurgical candidate. A systematic 
approach of minimally invasive surgery in patients with prior coronary artery 
bypass grafting minimizes injury to grafts. Bioprosthetic tissue valves are the 
valves of choice in all the above interventions.
SUMMARY: Cardiac surgery is used increasingly for aortic stenosis in elderly 
patients. Current experiences in minimally invasive and percutaneous approaches 
have opened the doors to hybrid strategies, which may be the mainstay of 
treatment for older patients needing aortic valve replacements in the future.

DOI: 10.1097/HCO.0b013e32802086bc
PMID: 17284986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Qual Life Res. 2007 Jun;16(5):777-86. doi: 10.1007/s11136-006-9162-4. Epub
2007  Feb 8.

The relationship between gender, social support, and health-related quality of 
life in a community-based study in Washington County, Maryland.

Gallicchio L(1), Hoffman SC, Helzlsouer KJ.

Author information:
(1)Prevention and Research Center, Weinberg Center for Women's Health and 
Medicine Mercy Medical Center, Baltimore, MD 21202, USA. Lgallic@mdmercy.com

OBJECTIVE: Men tend to report higher health-related quality of life (HRQOL) than 
women of the same age, despite higher mortality rates and lower life expectancy. 
Social support is one factor related to HRQOL that may contribute to the 
observed gender difference. The purpose of this study was to determine the 
factors associated with HRQOL, especially levels of social support, and 
variation by gender.
METHODS: Multivariable logistic regression was used to analyze data from 4,498 
men and 6,948 women participating in an ongoing community-based cohort study in 
Washington County, Maryland (CLUE-II).
RESULTS: The results showed that men reported significantly better HRQOL than 
women. Men reported having higher levels of social support than women, but the 
magnitude of the association with HRQOL was similar. Having two or less close 
friends was associated with a statistically significant increase in the odds of 
reporting poorer HRQOL compared to having 10 or more close friends among both 
genders (men: OR = 1.49; women: OR = 1.53). Differences in the level of social 
support did not explain the gender difference in HRQOL.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show that social support is an important correlate of 
HRQOL for both men and women. However, the gender differences in HRQOL are not 
explained by social support or the other factors examined.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-006-9162-4
PMID: 17286195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Nucleic Acids Res. 2007;35(6):e40. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkm051. Epub 2007 Feb 7.

