whites.
RESULTS: Among females, the black-white life expectancy gap increased 0.5 years 
in the period 1983-1993, primarily due to increased mortality from human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (0.4 years) and slower declines in heart disease 
(0.1 years), which were somewhat offset by relative improvements in stroke (-0.1 
years). The gap among males increased by 2 years in the period 1983-1993, 
principally because of adverse changes in HIV (1.1 years), homicide (0.5 years), 
and heart disease (0.3 years). Between 1993 and 2003, the female gap decreased 
by 1 year (from 5.59 to 4.54 years). Half of the total narrowing of the gap 
among females was due to relative mortality improvement among blacks in heart 
disease (-0.2 years), homicide (-0.2 years), and unintentional injuries (-0.1 
years). The decline in the life expectancy gap was larger among males, declining 
by 25% (from 8.44 to 6.33 years). Nearly all of the 2.1-year decline among males 
was due to relative mortality improvement among blacks at ages 15 to 49 years 
(-2.0 years). Three causes of death accounted for 71% of the narrowing of the 
gap among males (homicide [-0.6 years], HIV [-0.6 years], and unintentional 
injuries [-0.3 years]), and lack of improvement in heart disease at older ages 
kept the gap from narrowing further.
CONCLUSIONS: After widening during the late 1980s, the black-white life 
expectancy gap has declined because of relative mortality improvements in 
homicide, HIV, unintentional injuries, and, among females, heart disease. 
Further narrowing of the gap will require concerted efforts in public health and 
health care to address the major causes of the remaining gap from cardiovascular 
diseases, homicide, HIV, and infant mortality.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.297.11.1224
PMID: 17369405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nat Genet. 2007 Apr;39(4):476-85. doi: 10.1038/ng2004. Epub 2007 Mar 18.

Life extension through neurofibromin mitochondrial regulation and antioxidant 
therapy for neurofibromatosis-1 in Drosophila melanogaster.

Tong JJ(1), Schriner SE, McCleary D, Day BJ, Wallace DC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Molecular and Mitochondrial Medicine and Genetics with Department 
of Biological Chemistry, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of 
California, Irvine, California 92697, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Genet. 2007 Apr;39(4):443-5.

We investigated the pathophysiology of neurofibromatosis-1 (NF1) in Drosophila 
melanogaster by inactivation or overexpression of the NF1 gene. NF1 gene mutants 
had shortened life spans and increased vulnerability to heat and oxidative 
stress in association with reduced mitochondrial respiration and elevated 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Flies overexpressing NF1 had increased 
life spans, improved reproductive fitness, increased resistance to oxidative and 
heat stress in association with increased mitochondrial respiration and a 60% 
reduction in ROS production. These phenotypic effects proved to be modulated by 
the adenylyl cyclase/cyclic AMP (cAMP)/protein kinase A pathway, not the Ras/Raf 
pathway. Treatment of wild-type D. melanogaster with cAMP analogs increased 
their life span, and treatment of NF1 mutants with metalloporphyrin catalytic 
antioxidant compounds restored their life span. Thus, neurofibromin regulates 
longevity and stress resistance through cAMP regulation of mitochondrial 
respiration and ROS production, and NF1 may be treatable using catalytic 
antioxidants.

DOI: 10.1038/ng2004
PMID: 17369827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Rev Med Chil. 2007 Jan;135(1):103-10. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872007000100015.
Epub  2007 Mar 6.

[One hundred years of Alzheimer's disease: immunotherapy a hope?].

[Article in Spanish]

Behrens P MI(1), Vergara E F.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Neurología y Neurocirugía, Hospital Clínico, Universidad de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile. mbehrens@redclinicauchile.cl

In 1906 Alois Alzheimer, described the cerebral lesions characteristic of the 
disorder that received his name: senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is now, 100 years after, the most prevalent form of 
dementia in the world. The longer life expectancy and aging of the population 
renders it as a serious public health problem of the future. Urgent methods of 
diagnosis and treatment are required, since the definitive diagnosis of AD 
continues to be neuropathologic. In the last 30 years several drugs have been 
approved to retard the progression of the disease; however, there are still no 
curative or preventive treatments. Although still in experimentation, the 
visualization of amyloid deposition by positron emission tomography or magnetic 
resonance imaging will allow in vivo diagnosis of AD. In addition, experiments 
with the amyloid vaccine are still ongoing, and very recent data suggest that 
intravenous gammaglobulins may be beneficial and safe for the treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872007000100015
PMID: 17369991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Jun;8(2):123-35. doi: 10.1007/s10198-007-0039-4.
Epub  2007 Mar 17.

Modelling the 5-year cost effectiveness of tiotropium, salmeterol and 
ipratropium for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in Spain.

Rutten-van Mölken MP(1), Oostenbrink JB, Miravitlles M, Monz BU.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 
DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.rutten@bmg.eur.nl

Our objective was to assess the 5-year cost effectiveness of bronchodilator 
therapy with tiotropium, salmeterol or ipratropium for chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) from the perspective of the Spanish National Health 
System (NHS). A probabilistic Markov model was designed wherein patients moved 
between moderate, severe or very severe COPD and had the risk of exacerbation 
and death. Probabilities were derived from clinical trials. Spanish healthcare 
utilisation, costs and utilities were estimated for each COPD and exacerbation 
state. Outcomes were exacerbations, exacerbation-free months, quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), and cost(-effectiveness). The mean (SE) 5-year number of 
exacerbations was 3.50 (0.14) for tiotropium, 4.16 (0.40) for salmeterol and 
4.71 (0.54) for ipratropium. The mean (SE) number of QALYs was 3.15 (0.08), 3.02 
(0.15) and 3.00 (0.20), respectively. Mean (SE) 5-year costs were 6,424 euro 
(305 euro) for tiotropium, 5,869 euro (505 euro) for salmeterol, and 5,181 euro 
(682 euro) for ipratropium (2005 values). Ipratropium and tiotropium formed the 
cost-effectiveness frontier, with tiotropium being preferred when willingness to 
pay (WTP) exceeded 639 euro per exacerbation-free month and 8,157 euro per QALY. 
In Spain, tiotropium demonstrated the highest expected net benefit for ratios of 
the willingness to pay per QALY, well within accepted limits.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-007-0039-4
PMCID: PMC1913175
PMID: 17370096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Swiss Med Wkly. 2007 Mar 10;137(9-10):133-8. doi: 10.4414/smw.2007.11675.

Cheyne-Stokes respiration in patients with heart failure: ominous sign or 
innocent bystander?

Brack T(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin, Kantonsspital, Glarus, Switzerland. 
thomas.brack@ksgl.ch

Cheyne-Stokes respiration (CSR) during the day and at night is common in 
patients with severe heart failure. CSR harms the failing heart through 
recurrent sympathetic overstimulation caused by sleep disturbances and 
intermittent hypoxia brought about by apnoea and hypopnoea. CSR impairs 
patients' quality of life and wakefulness, and probably also increases cardiac 
mortality in patients with heart failure. Thus, CSR should be actively sought in 
patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction <40%. When CSR persists 
despite optimal drug therapy for heart failure, non-invasive ventilation, 
particularly as adaptive servoventilation, and cardiac resynchronisation therapy 
are currently the most promising treatment options.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2007.11675
PMID: 17370153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Proteomics. 2007 Mar;7(6):910-20. doi: 10.1002/pmic.200600547.

Cellular processes underlying maturation of P19 neurons: Changes in protein 
folding regimen and cytoskeleton organization.

Inberg A(1), Bogoch Y, Bledi Y, Linial M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Life Sciences Institute, The Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel.

Embryonal carcinoma P19 cells provide an ideal model to study molecular programs 
along differentiation. Upon induction by retinoic acid (RA), the cells undergo a 
program of differentiation that generates functioning neurons within 60 h. RA 
induced cells that were plated as sparse (1000 cells/mm(2)) or dense (4000 
cells/mm(2)) cultures showed a marked difference in the culture morphology with 
the dense cultures exhibiting rapid maturation and accelerated neurite 
outgrowth. The protein expression levels of the sparse and dense cultures were 
compared 48 h following RA. Cell extracts were separated by 1-DE and 2-DE and 
differential expression (>four-fold) proteins were identified by MS. Here, we 
focus on 20 proteins associated with cytoskeletal regulation and 
stress-dependent protein refolding. The first group includes drebrin, cofilin, 
alpha-internexin, vimentin, and nestin. Among the proteins in the second group 
are subunits of the TCP-1, and several chaperones of the Hsp70 and Hsp90 
families. We show that coordinated remodeling of the cytoskeleton and 
modulations in chaperone activity underlie the change in neurite extension rate. 
Furthermore, a proteomics-based analysis applied on P19 neurons demonstrated 
pathways underlying neuronal outgrowth, suggesting that a malfunction of such 
pathways leads to neuropathological conditions.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.200600547
PMID: 17370269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Arch Pediatr. 2006 Oct;13 Suppl 1:S44-7.

[Pseudomonas aeruginosa and cystic fibrosis: non-antibiotic strategy].

[Article in French]

Foucaud P(1), de Truchis A, Tassin E, Allouch P, Pangon B.

Author information:
(1)Service de pédiatrie-néonatologie, centre hospitalier de Versailles, hôpital 
André-Mignot, 177, rue de Versailles, 78150 Le Chesnay, France 
pfoucaud@ch-versailles.fr

The Pseudomonas aeruginosa bronchopulmonary infection is, when chronical, a poor 
prognosis factor for cystic fibrosis children. The higher life expectancy is 
partly linked to the progresses of the antipseudomonal antibiotherapy: treatment 
modulated to the stage of infection; possible use of nebulized and oral 
(ciprofloxacin) antibiotics. But the antipseudomonal strategy does not limit to 
the antibiotherapy. The preventive approach includes: preservation of a good 
nutritional status; daily chest physiotherapy with combined use of aerosolized 
recombinant human DNase for more than 5 years old children with significative 
bronchorrea; early anti-infammatory treatment with inhaled corticosteroids, 
despite a poor efficacy proof level; hygiene measures to reduce the 
environmental and domestic reservoirs and to avoid nosocomial infections. The 
development of vaccines for the prevention of P. aeruginosa infection is a 
promising way but stays in the field of clinical research. In case of chronical 
infection, long-term macrolids reduce the virulence factors expression of the 
bacteria, leading to antibiofilm properties in spite of subinhibitory 
concentrations.

PMID: 17370395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Oncology (Williston Park). 2006 Dec;20(14 Suppl 9):26-31.

Management of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia in the older cancer patient.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, 
Tampa, Florida 33612, USA. balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

The chemotherapy of most cancers may be beneficial to older individuals as long 
as patients are selected on the basis of their life expectancy and functional 
reserve, conditions that may interfere with the tolerance of chemotherapy are 
corrected, and adequate doses of chemotherapy are administered. Prevention of 
neutropenia-related infection may both improve the outcome of cancer and reduce 
the risk of toxic deaths in older patients. The prophylactic use of myelopoietic 
growth factors is recommended in individuals aged 65 and older when the risk of 
chemotherapy-induced neutropenic infection is at least 10% or higher. In this 
article we explore the management of neutropenia and neutropenic infections in 
older cancer patients, as well as review the causes and the risk of this 
complication.

PMID: 17370926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Pigment Cell Res. 2007 Apr;20(2):80-91. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0749.2006.00356.x.

Molecular markers of circulating melanoma cells.

Medic S(1), Pearce RL, Heenan PJ, Ziman M.

Author information:
(1)School of Exercise, Biomedical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, 
WA, Australia.

Of all skin cancers, cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM) is the most aggressive 
and the life expectancy of patients with lymphatic or systemic metastases is 
dramatically reduced. Understandably therefore, scientists and clinicians have 
focused on improving diagnostic and prognostic techniques. Of these, perhaps the 
most promising are multimarker real-time RT-PCR and microarray for detection of 
circulating CMM cells in peripheral blood. While the optimal set of markers is 
still to be identified that can accurately assess disease severity and 
progression at all clinical stages of the disease, recent progress has been 
dramatic. Here we provide an exhaustive review of recent studies in which a 
variety of markers are assessed. Moreover, the efficacy of the markers relative 
to clinical stage is discussed in light of experimental findings. From these 
studies, it is apparent that researchers are now much closer to defining a set 
of markers of circulating cells that can be utilized in routine diagnostic 
tests.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0749.2006.00356.x
PMID: 17371435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Bull Cancer. 2007 Mar;94(3):259-66.

[Trastuzumab (Herceptin) and breast cancer: mechanisms of resistance].

[Article in French]

Dieras V(1), Vincent-Salomon A, Degeorges A, Beuzeboc P, Mignot L, de Cremoux P.

Author information:
(1)Département d'oncologie médicale, Institut Curie, 26, rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris 
Cedex 05. veronique.dieras@curie.net

The detection of overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2) in some breast cancer tumors has led to the development of a targeted 
treatment that is tumor selective, effective at extending life expectancy in the 
patients with advanced or early breast cancers. Trastuzumab (Herceptin), a 
humanized monoclonal antibody to HER2 is indicated for patients whose tumor 
demonstrates an amplified copy number for the HER2 oncogene and/or overexpresses 
the HER2 oncoprotein. Despite a high level of efficacy in combination with 
chemotherapy, trastuzumab as single agent has limited effectiveness (up to 30% 
response rates) and patients who respond to trastuzumab will relapse despite 
continued treatment. The mechanism of trastuzumab action is not fully understood 
but has been related to cell cycle inhibition. As to mechanisms of resistance, 
little is known but many preclinical data raised different hypothesis. Thus, the 
co-expression of growth factor receptors (EGFR family, IGF-1 R), and the 
activation of PI3K-Akt pathway, mainly by loss of PTEN function may be 
responsible for the resistance phenotype. It would be interesting to identify 
the mechanisms of trastuzumab resistance in breast tumors in order to reverse or 
prevent it. The characterization of these mechanisms would also provide novel 
strategies for alternative treatments.

PMID: 17371768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Ann Intern Med. 2007 Mar 20;146(6):443-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-146-6-200703200-00011.

"I'm not ready for hospice": strategies for timely and effective hospice 
discussions.

Casarett DJ(1), Quill TE.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion at the Philadelphia Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center and the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA. casarett@mail.med.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 Dec 4;147(11):816; author reply 817.

Hospice programs offer unique benefits for patients who are near the end of life 
and their families, and growing evidence indicates that hospice can provide 
high-quality care. Despite these benefits, many patients do not enroll in 
hospice, and those who enroll generally do so very late in the course of their 
illness. Some barriers to hospice referral arise from the requirements of 
hospice eligibility, which will be difficult to eliminate without major changes 
to hospice organization and financing. However, the challenges of discussing 
hospice create other barriers that are more easily remedied. The biggest 
communication barrier is that physicians are often unsure of how to talk with 
patients clearly and directly about their poor prognosis and limited treatment 
options (both requirements of hospice referral) without depriving them of hope. 
This article describes a structured strategy for discussing hospice, based on 
techniques of effective communication that physicians use in other "bad news" 
situations. This strategy can make hospice discussions both more compassionate 
and more effective.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-146-6-200703200-00011
PMID: 17371889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Diabetes Care. 2007 Jun;30(6):1562-6. doi: 10.2337/dc06-2544. Epub 2007 Mar
19.

Effect of BMI on lifetime risk for diabetes in the U.S.

Narayan KM(1), Boyle JP, Thompson TJ, Gregg EW, Williamson DF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA. kmvnarayan@sph.emory.edu

OBJECTIVE: At birth, the lifetime risk of developing diabetes is one in three, 
but lifetime risks across BMI categories are unknown. We estimated BMI-specific 
lifetime diabetes risk in the U.S. for age-, sex-, and ethnicity-specific 
subgroups.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: National Health Interview Survey data (n = 780,694, 
1997-2004) were used to estimate age-, race-, sex-, and BMI-specific prevalence 
and incidence of diabetes in 2004. U.S. Census Bureau age-, race-, and 
sex-specific population and mortality rate estimates for 2004 were combined with 
two previous studies of mortality to estimate diabetes- and BMI-specific 
mortality rates. These estimates were used in a Markov model to project lifetime 
risk of diagnosed diabetes by baseline age, race, sex, and BMI.
RESULTS: Lifetime diabetes risk at 18 years of age increased from 7.6 to 70.3% 
between underweight and very obese men and from 12.2 to 74.4% for women. The 
lifetime risk difference was lower at older ages. At 65 years of age, compared 
with normal-weight male subjects, lifetime risk differences (percent) increased 
from 3.7 to 23.9 percentage points between overweight and very obese men and 
from 8.7 to 26.7 percentage points for women. The impact of BMI on diabetes 
duration also decreased with age.
CONCLUSIONS: Overweight and especially obesity, particularly at younger ages, 
substantially increases lifetime risk of diagnosed diabetes, while their impact 
on diabetes risk, life expectancy, and diabetes duration diminishes with age.

DOI: 10.2337/dc06-2544
PMID: 17372155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2007 Apr;61(4):287-96. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2006.047092.

Avoidable mortality by neighbourhood income in Canada: 25 years after the 
establishment of universal health insurance.

James PD(1), Wilkins R, Detsky AS, Tugwell P, Manuel DG.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, G-119, 2075 Bayview Avenue, 
Toronto, ON M4N 3M5, Canada.

AIM: To examine neighbourhood income differences in deaths amenable to medical 
care and public health over a 25-year period after the establishment of 
universal insurance for doctors and hospital services in Canada.
METHODS: Data for census metropolitan areas were obtained from the Canadian 
Mortality Database and population censuses for the years 1971, 1986, 1991 and 
1996. Deaths amenable to medical care, amenable to public health, from ischaemic 
heart disease and from other causes were considered. Data on deaths were grouped 
into neighbourhood income quintiles on the basis of the census tract percentage 
of population below Canada's low-income cut-offs.
RESULTS: From 1971 to 1996, differences between the richest and poorest 
quintiles in age-standardised expected years of life lost amenable to medical 
care decreased 60% (p<0.001) in men and 78% (p<0.001) in women, those amenable 
to public health increased 0.7% (p = 0.94) in men and 20% (p = 0.55) in women, 
those lost from ischaemic heart disease decreased 58% in men and 38% in women, 
and from other causes decreased 15% in men and 9% in women. Changes in the 
age-standardised expected years of life lost difference for deaths amenable to 
medical care were significantly larger than those for deaths amenable to public 
health or other causes for both men and women (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Reductions in rates of deaths amenable to medical care made the 
largest contribution to narrowing socioeconomic mortality disparities. 
Continuing disparities in mortality from causes amenable to public health 
suggest that public health initiatives have a potentially important, but yet 
un-realized, role in further reducing mortality disparities in Canada.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2006.047092
PMCID: PMC2652935
PMID: 17372287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


272. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2007 Apr;61(4):344-8. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2006.050807.

The burden of physical activity-related ill health in the UK.

Allender S(1), Foster C, Scarborough P, Rayner M.

Author information:
(1)British Heart Foundation Health Promotion Research Group, Department of 
Public Health, University of Oxford, Rosemary Rue Building, Old Road Campus, 
Oxford OX3 7LF, UK. steven.allender@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Despite evidence that physical inactivity is a risk factor for a 
number of diseases, only a third of men and a quarter of women are meeting 
government targets for physical activity. This paper provides an estimate of the 
economic and health burden of disease related to physical inactivity in the UK. 
These estimates are examined in relation to current UK government policy on 
physical activity.
METHODS: Information from the World Health Organisation global burden of disease 
project was used to calculate the mortality and morbidity costs of physical 
inactivity in the UK. Diseases attributable to physical inactivity included 
ischaemic heart disease, ischaemic stroke, breast cancer, colon/rectum cancer 
and diabetes mellitus. Population attributable fractions for physical inactivity 
for each disease were applied to the UK Health Service cost data to estimate the 
financial cost.
RESULTS: Physical inactivity was directly responsible for 3% of disability 
adjusted life years lost in the UK in 2002. The estimated direct cost to the 
National Health Service is pound 1.06 billion.
CONCLUSION: There is a considerable public health burden due to physical 
inactivity in the UK. Accurately establishing the financial cost of physical 
inactivity and other risk factors should be the first step in a developing 
national public health strategy.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2006.050807
PMCID: PMC2652953
PMID: 17372296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


273. J Gen Intern Med. 2007 Apr;22(4):495-501. doi: 10.1007/s11606-007-0104-9.

Changes in preferences for life-sustaining treatment among older persons with 
advanced illness.

Fried TR(1), Van Ness PH, Byers AL, Towle VR, O'Leary JR, Dubin JA.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Research Center, VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West 
Haven, CT 06516, USA. terri.fried@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: There are conflicting assumptions regarding how patients' 
preferences for life-sustaining treatment change over the course of serious 
illness.
OBJECTIVE: To examine changes in treatment preferences over time.
DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study with 2-year follow-up.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred twenty-six community-dwelling persons age > or =60 
years with advanced cancer, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease.
MEASUREMENTS: Participants were asked, if faced with an illness exacerbation 
that would be fatal if untreated, whether they would: a) undergo high-burden 
treatment at a given likelihood of death and b) undergo low-burden treatment at 
a given likelihood of severe disability, versus a return to current health.
RESULTS: There was little change in the overall proportions of participants who 
would undergo therapy at a given likelihood of death or disability from first to 
final interview. Diversity within the population regarding the highest 
likelihood of death or disability at which the individual would undergo therapy 
remained substantial over time. Despite a small magnitude of change, the odds of 
participants' willingness to undergo high-burden therapy at a given likelihood 
of death and to undergo low-burden therapy at a given likelihood of severe 
cognitive disability decreased significantly over time. Greater functional 
disability, poorer quality of life, and lower self-rated life expectancy were 
associated with decreased willingness to undergo therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Diversity among older persons with advanced illness regarding 
treatment preferences persists over time. Although the magnitude of change is 
small, there is a decreased willingness to undergo highly burdensome therapy or 
to risk severe disability in order to avoid death over time and with declining 
health status.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-007-0104-9
PMCID: PMC1839865
PMID: 17372799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Health Stat Q. 2007 Spring;(33):69-70.

Health expectancies in the United Kingdom, 2003.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 17373383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Biotechnol J. 2007 Jun;2(6):736-42. doi: 10.1002/biot.200600101.

Heterologous expression and characterization of recombinant glycerol dehydratase 
from Klebsiella pneumoniae in Escherichia coli.

Wang F(1), Qu H, Tian P, Tan T.

Author information:
(1)Beijing key lab of bioprocess, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing, China.

Glycerol dehydratase (EC 4.2.1.30), as one of the key enzymes in converting 
glycerol to the valuable intermediate 1,3-propanediol, is important for 
biochemical industry. The dhaB genes encoding coenzyme B(12)-dependent glycerol 
dehydratase in Klebsiella pneumoniae were cloned and expressed in Escherichia 
coli. An effective co-expression system of multiple subunits protein was 
constructed. Heterologous expression vectors were constructed using the splicing 
by overlap extension-PCR technique to co-express the three subunits of the 
glycerol dehydratase. After induction by isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside, 
SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that: (i) only the alpha subunit of glycerol 
dehydratase was expressed in direct expression system, (ii) the three subunits 
of glycerol dehydratase with predicted molecular massess of 64 (agr;), 22 
(beta), and 16 kDa (gamma) were expressed simultaneously in co-expression 
system, and (iii) the fusion expression system expressed the fusion protein of 
99 kDa. Enzyme assay showed that the activities of three heterologous expression 
products were 27.4, 2.3, and 0.2 U/mg. The highest enzyme activity was almost 17 
times of that in K. pneumoniae. The recombinant enzyme was purified and 
biochemically characterized. The apparent Km values of the enzyme for coenzyme 
B(12) and 1, 2-propanediol were 8.5 nM and 1.2 mM, respectively. The enzyme 
showed maximum activity at pH 8.5 and 37 degrees C.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.200600101
PMID: 17373646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. J Nutr. 2007 Apr;137(4):1078-86. doi: 10.1093/jn/137.4.1078.

Starving for life: what animal studies can and cannot tell us about the use of 
caloric restriction to prolong human lifespan.

Speakman JR(1), Hambly C.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 2TZ, 
Scotland, UK. j.speakman@abdn.ac.uk

Caloric restriction (CR) is the only experimental nongenetic paradigm known to 
increase lifespan. It has broad applicability and extends the life of most 
species through a retardation of aging. There is considerable interest in the 
use of CR in humans, and animal studies can potentially tell us about the 
impacts. In this article we highlight some of the things that animal studies can 
tell us about CR in humans. Rodent studies indicate that the benefits of CR on 
lifespan extension are related to the extent of restriction. The benefits of CR, 
however, decline as the age of onset of treatment is delayed. Modeling these 
impacts suggests that if a 48-y-old man engaged in 30% CR until his normal life 
expectancy of 78, he might increase his life expectancy by 2.8 y. Exercise and 
cold exposure induce similar energy deficits, but animals respond to these 
energy deficits in different ways that have a minor impact on lifespan. 
Measurements of animal responses when they cease restriction indicate that 
prolonged CR does not diminish hunger, even though the animals may have been in 
long-term energy balance. Neuroendocrine profiles support the idea that animals 
under CR are continuously hungry. The feasibility of restricting intake in 
humans for many decades without long-term support is questionable. However, what 
is unclear from animal studies is whether taking drugs that suppress appetite 
will generate the same impact on longevity or whether the neuroendocrine 
correlates of hunger play an integral role in mediating CRs effects.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/137.4.1078
PMID: 17374682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Diabetes Metab. 2006 Sep;32 Spec No2:2S21-7. doi:
10.1016/s1262-3636(06)70481-5.

How should postprandial glycemia be treated?

Charpentier G(1), Dardari D, Riveline JP.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Endocrinologie-Diabétologie, Centre Hospitalier Sud Francilien, 
Corbeil-Essonnes, France. guillaume.charpentier@ch-sud-francilien.fr

In an attempt to prevent the complications of type 2 diabetes, particular 
attention should be paid to controlling postprandial glycemia (PPG): on the one 
hand, it contributes substantially to the HbAlc level in moderately controlled 
patients, on the other hand, the postprandial glucose peak induces oxidative 
stress and endothelial dysfunction, the first step toward accelerated 
atherogenesis. Metformin, glitazones, and insulin secretagogues have an additive 
effect on fasting blood glucose (FBG), and a significant impact on PPG. 
Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors can reduce PPG by a mean 0.50 g/l, no matter what 
the insulin resistance or insulinopenia status or the other diabetes treatments 
already in use. After evolving for several years and the failure of oral 
antidiabetics to normalize fasting blood glucose, long-acting (slow-acting) 
insulin analogues, well titrated, can reach this goal. They will have no effect 
on PPG other than a simple level effect. At this stage, rather than overtreating 
high fasting blood glucose concentrations, systematic PPG exploration should be 
the rule so as to better define PPG treatment: the advantages of 
alpha-glucosidase inhibitors and the role of GLP-1 analogs should be defined, 
the use of a rapid-acting insulin analog before the meal causing the highest 
postprandial blood glucose excursions, even systematically at all three meals, 
should be considered, or inhaled insulin. As natural life expectancy is on the 
rise, these active strategies designed to normalize the daily glycemic profile, 
necessary in a strict strategy to prevent the complications of diabetes, will 
need to be discussed for an increasing number of patients with type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1016/s1262-3636(06)70481-5
PMID: 17375403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Semin Reprod Med. 2007 Mar;25(2):131-3. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-970052.

Reproductive performance after ectopic pregnancy.

Buster JE(1), Krotz S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. jbuster@bcm.edu

Reproductive performance may be an important variable in treatment selection for 
unruptured ectopic pregnancy. The impact of treatment choice on reproductive 
performance is not known. We searched the literature and then tabulated 
published case reports on laparoscopic salpingostomy, multiple-dose 
methotrexate, single-dose methotrexate, and expectant management. From this 
analysis, we are unable to conclude any clinically detectable differences in the 
efficacy of these four most common treatments for unruptured ectopic pregnancy. 
Even more recent reports using life tables are inconclusive because the studies 
are not randomized. We conclude that concern for long-term reproductive 
performance should not be a factor in selecting between any of these four 
commonly used treatments for unruptured ectopic pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-970052
PMID: 17377900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Nagoya J Med Sci. 2007 Jan;69(1-2):61-70.

Avoidable mortality measured by years of potential life lost (YPLL) aged 5 
before 65 years in Kyrgyzstan, 1989-2003.

Bozgunchievz M(1), Ito K.

Author information:
(1)Young Leaders' Program, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya 
466-8550, Japan. taramcar@mail.ru

There is considerable willingness in the entire medical society of Kyrgyzstan, 
which was directly involved in the reform process, to obtain reliable 
information about changes in population health that have occurred in the last 
decade, as well as about changes in mortality, which is the basic component of 
population health. The objective of this paper is to introduce the Year of 
Potential Life Lost (YPLL) in Kyrgyzstan caused by avoidable mortality in the 
population between 5 and 65 years of age during 1989-2003, and to provide a 
basis for setting the priorities for the reducing YPLL in the coming years. YPLL 
was calculated using data from the annual mortality tables according to causes 
of deaths and age for 1989, 1996, 1999 and 2003. YPLL is defined as the 
summation of the difference between 65 years of age and the age at death from 
the age of 5 and before 65. In 2003, the total number of YPLL due to avoidable 
mortality among those who died was 216,860, which represents a decline of 5.0% 
in comparison with 228,266 in 1989. During the study years, the largest 
proportion of YPLL in the population between 5 and 65 years of age resulted from 
injury and poisoning. In 2003, this proportion represented 41.5% of the total 
amount of YPLL due to all the causes studied here, followed by infections and 
parasitic diseases (12.0%), circulatory disturbance of the brain (11.5%), 
chronic liver diseases and cirrhosis (11.4%), diseases of the respiratory system 
(9.2%), and malignant neoplasm of the upper airways and digestive tract (4.6%). 
The decline in avoidable mortality caused by injury and poisoning, infections 
disease, malignant neoplasm of the female breast and uterus has to be 
priority-driven direction for developing Health Policy in the coming years in 
Kyrgyzstan. Attention also has to be given to reducing of avoidable mortality 
caused by malignant neoplasm of the female breast by implementing screening 
programs.

PMID: 17378182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. BMJ. 2007 Mar 24;334(7594):607. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39160.651157.BD.

Overweight doctors have increased mortality.

Dobson R.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39160.651157.BD
PMCID: PMC1832001
PMID: 17379896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Endocr J. 2007 Apr;54(2):295-302. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.k06-147. Epub 2007
Mar  20.

Long-term follow-up of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1.

Sakurai A(1), Katai M, Yamashita K, Mori J, Fukushima Y, Hashizume K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging Medicine and Geriatrics, Shinshu University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Japan.

Whether early surgical treatment of non-functioning pancreas islet cell tumor 
(NFPT) provides a favorable quality of life and life expectancy in patients with 
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) remains controversial. We analyzed 
the long-term clinical courses and surgical outcomes of 14 Japanese patients 
with MEN1-associated NFPTs. NFPTs smaller than 20 mm in diameter did not show 
any apparent growth over a long monitoring period. Furthermore, these small 
NFPTs did not metastasize to regional lymph nodes or the liver. On the other 
hand, the development of additional NFPTs or metastasis was found in five of six 
patients with large (35 mm or larger) NFPTs. Among the seven patients who 
underwent a partial pancreatectomy, six patients developed impaired glucose 
tolerance or diabetes. The accumulation of more prospective data is needed to 
clarify the optimal surgical indications for patients with NFPTs, especially 
among the Japanese population, which has a relatively low insulin secretion 
potency compared with non-Hispanic white and African-American populations.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.k06-147
PMID: 17379960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2007 Apr;8(4):275-83. doi: 10.1038/nrm2147.

p53 in health and disease.

Vousden KH(1), Lane DP.

Author information:
(1)Beatson Institute for Cancer Research, Garscube Estate, Switchback Road, 
Bearsden, Glasgow G61 1BD, UK. k.vousden@beatson.gla.ac.uk

As a component of the response to acute stress, p53 has a well established role 
in protecting against cancer development. However, it is now becoming clear that 
p53 can have a much broader role and can contribute to the development, life 
expectancy and overall fitness of an organism. Although the function of p53 as a 
tumour suppressor ensures that we can't live without it, an integrated view of 
p53 suggests that not all of its functions are conducive to a long and healthy 
life.

DOI: 10.1038/nrm2147
PMID: 17380161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nat Clin Pract Cardiovasc Med. 2007 Apr;4(4):173. doi:
10.1038/ncpcardio0858.

A polypill for secondary prevention: time to move from intellectual debate to 
action.

Fuster V, Sanz G.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpcardio0858
PMID: 17380163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Dis Colon Rectum. 2007 May;50(5):586-97. doi: 10.1007/s10350-006-0847-0.

Patient preferences between surgical and medical treatment in Crohn's disease.

Byrne CM(1), Solomon MJ, Young JM, Selby W, Harrison JD.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Outcomes Research Centre (SOuRCe), Sydney South West Area Health 
Service & University of Sydney, P.O. Box M157, Missenden Road, NSW, 2050, 
Sydney, Australia.

PURPOSE: Crohn's disease poses difficult choices in which the most appropriate 
treatment option is not always obvious. When this state of uncertainty exists, 
patients' preferences should have an increasingly important part of clinical 
decision making. The purpose of this study was to compare patients' preferences 
for surgical intervention in Crohn's disease with the preferences of surgeons 
and gastroenterologists.
METHODS: Outpatients with Crohn's disease were interviewed to quantify their 
preferences for six scenarios by using the prospective preference measure. An 
identical questionnaire was mailed to all Australian and New Zealand colorectal 
surgeons and a random sample of 300 Australian gastroenterologists.
RESULTS: Forty-one of 123 patients with Crohn's disease (33 percent), 92 of 127 
colorectal surgeons (72 percent), and 74 of 272 gastroenterologists (27 percent) 
participated. There were significant differences between patients and 
gastroenterologists for three of six scenarios and between surgeons and 
gastroenterologists in four of six scenarios. Seventy-six percent of 
gastroenterologists were willing to gamble to avoid an ileocolic resection 
compared with 37 percent of surgeons (chi-squared = 25.44; P < 0.0001) and 39 
percent of patients (chi-squared = 15.44; P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients and clinicians were able to trade and gamble life 
expectancy as a measure of preference for varying hypothetical surgical 
treatments, even though these treatment options impacted on quality of life 
rather than survival. Patients' preferences did not align with clinicians. For 
most scenarios, colorectal surgeons' preferences were significantly different to 
those of gastroenterologists.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-006-0847-0
PMID: 17380368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Biogerontology. 2007 Oct;8(5):499-504. doi: 10.1007/s10522-007-9090-x. Epub
2007  Mar 23.

Radiation-induced life span alteration of Drosophila lines with genotype 
differences.

Moskalev A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biology, Komi Science Center of Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Kommunisticheskaja St. 28, Syktyvkar 167982, Russia. amoskalev@list.ru

The research shows that unirradiated Drosophila lines with defects of DNA 
repair, antioxidant protection and apoptosis have higher speed of ageing, than 
wild type line. At the same time, depending on the line genotype, the 
irradiation results in change of life span. Mechanism of postponed effect of low 
dozes of ionizing radiation on the life span is elaborated. As cells with 
weakened protection will accumulate damages and will be exposed to ageing with 
the greater speed, than steady cells, their radio-induced elimination at early 
development stages will result in delay of age-dependent changes and will lower 
speed of ageing. In the subsequent irradiated generations the given somatic 
answer to stress (hormesis) may be replaced by negative genetic effects on the 
population level (shorter life span).

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-007-9090-x
PMID: 17380421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. CNS Drugs. 2007;21(4):319-34. doi: 10.2165/00023210-200721040-00005.

Cost effectiveness of long-term treatment with eszopiclone for primary insomnia 
in adults: a decision analytical model.

Botteman MF(1), Ozminkowski RJ, Wang S, Pashos CL, Schaefer K, Foley DJ.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit North America LLC, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA.

Erratum in
    CNS Drugs. 2006;21(5):405.

OBJECTIVE: Although the clinical benefits of pharmacological treatments for 
insomnia have been studied, no systematic assessment of their economic value has 
been reported. This analysis assessed, from a broad payer and societal 
perspective, the cost effectiveness of long-term treatment with eszopiclone 
(LUNESTA, Sepracor Inc., [Marlborough, MA, USA]) for chronic primary insomnia in 
adults in the US.
METHODS: A decision analytical model was developed based on the reanalysis of a 
6-month placebo-controlled trial, which demonstrated that eszopiclone 3mg 
significantly improved sleep and daytime function measures versus placebo in 
adults with primary insomnia. Patients were classified as either having remitted 
or not remitted from insomnia based upon a composite index of eight sleep and 
daytime function measures collected during the trial. These data were 
supplemented with quality-of-life and healthcare and lost productivity cost data 
from the published literature and medical and absenteeism claims databases.
RESULTS: Compared with non-remitted patients, patients classified as remitted 
had lower monthly healthcare and productivity costs (in 2006 dollars) [a 
reduction of $US242 and $US182, respectively] and higher quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) weight (a net gain of 0.0810 on a scale ranging from 0 to 1). 
During the study, eszopiclone-treated patients were about 2.5 times more likely 
to have remitted than placebo-treated patients. Six months of eszopiclone 
treatment reduced direct (healthcare) and indirect (productivity) costs by an 
estimated $US245.13 and $US184.19 per patient, respectively. Eszopiclone use was 
associated with a cost of $US497.15 per patient over 6 months (including drug 
cost, dispensing fee, physician visit and time loss to receive care). Thus, 
after considering the above savings and the costs associated with eszopiclone 
treatment over 6 months, cost increased by $US252.02 (excluding productivity 
gains) and $US67.83 (including productivity gains) per person. However, 
eszopiclone treatment was also associated with a net QALY gain of 0.006831 per 
patient over the same period. Consequently, the incremental cost per QALY gained 
associated with eszopiclone was approximately $US9930 (including productivity 
gains [i.e. $US67.83 / 0.006831]) and $US36 894 (excluding productivity gains 
[i.e. $US252.02 / 0.006831]). Sensitivity analyses using a variety of scenarios 
suggested that eszopiclone is generally cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis suggested that long-term eszopiclone treatment was 
cost effective over the 6-month study period, particularly when the impact on 
productivity costs is considered. Given the increasing interest in new 
pharmacological interventions to manage insomnia, payers and clinicians alike 
should carefully consider the balance of health and economic benefits that these 
interventions offer. Accordingly, additional research in this area is warranted.

DOI: 10.2165/00023210-200721040-00005
PMID: 17381185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Hum Resour Health. 2007 Mar 23;5:9. doi: 10.1186/1478-4491-5-9.

Human resources for health planning and management in the Eastern Mediterranean 
region: facts, gaps and forward thinking for research and policy.

El-Jardali F(1), Jamal D, Abdallah A, Kassak K.

Author information:
(1)Health Management and Policy Department, Faculty of Health Sciences, American 
University of Beirut, Lebanese Republic. fe08@aub.edu.lb

BACKGROUND: The early decades of the 21st century are considered to be the era 
of human resources for health (HRH). The World Health Report (WHR) 2006 launched 
the Health Workforce Decade (2006-2015), with high priority given for countries 
to develop effective workforce policies and strategies. In many countries in the 
Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR), particularly those classified as Low and 
Low-Middle Income Countries (LMICs), the limited knowledge about the nature, 
scope, composition and needs of HRH is hindering health sector reform. This 
highlights an urgent need to understand the current reality of HRH in several 
EMR countries.The objectives of this paper are to: (1) lay out the facts on what 
we know about the HRH for EMR countries; (2) generate and interpret evidence on 
the relationship between HRH and health status indicators for LMICs and middle 
and high income countries (MHICs) in the context of EMR; (3) identify and 
analyze the information gaps (i.e. what we do not know) and (4) provide forward 
thinking by identifying priorities for research and policy.
METHODS: The variables used in the analysis were: nurse and physician density, 
gross national income, poverty, female literacy, health expenditure, Infant 
Mortality Rate (IMR), Under 5 Mortality Rate (U5MR), Maternal Mortality Rate 
(MMR) and Life Expectancy (LE). Univariate (charts), bivariate (Pearson 
correlation) and multivariate analysis (linear regression) was conducted using 
SPSS 14.0, besides a synthesis of HRH literature.
RESULTS: Results demonstrate the significant disparities in physician and nurse 
densities within the EMR, particularly between LMICs and MHICs. Besides this, 
significant differences exist in health status indicators within the EMR. 
Results of the Pearson correlation revealed that physician and nurse density, as 
well as female literacy in EMR countries were significantly correlated with 
lower mortality rates and higher life expectancy. Results of the regression 
analysis for both LMICs and MHICs reveal that physician density is significantly 
associated with all health indicators for both income groups. Nurse density was 
found to be significantly associated with lower MMR for the two income groups. 
Female literacy is notably related to lower IMR and U5MR for both income groups; 
and only with MMR and LE in LMICs. Health expenditure is significantly 
associated with lower IMR and U5MR only for LMICs. Based on results, gap 
analysis and the literature synthesis, information gaps and priorities were 
identified.
CONCLUSION: The implication of the results discussed in this paper will help EMR 
countries, particularly LMICs, determine priorities to improve health outcomes 
and achieve health-related Millenium Development Goals.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-4491-5-9
PMCID: PMC1839108
PMID: 17381837


288. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2007;21(2):347-61. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2006.11.004.

The health economics of Helicobacter pylori infection.

Moayyedi P(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, McMaster University Medical Centre, 1200 Main 
Street West, HSC room 4W8E, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5, Canada. moayyep@mcmaster.ca

Economic considerations are becoming increasingly important as health care 
becomes more expensive. Evidence for effectiveness is usually gained from 
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) but often there is insufficient evidence of 
the costs of alternative strategies in trials. Often, therefore, economic models 
are needed to extrapolate data from a variety of sources to give an indication 
of which strategy is cost effective. Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) testing and 
treating in a wide variety of upper gastrointestinal diseases is a good example 
of the application of economic analyses to health care interventions. H. pylori 
eradication in peptic ulcer disease is very effective with systematic reviews 
giving a number needed to treat of around two compared to no therapy. RCTs have 
also suggested that treating H. pylori is also more effective and less expensive 
than continuous H(2) receptor antagonist therapy and is therefore the dominant 
strategy in treating peptic ulcer disease. The impact of H. pylori eradication 
in infected patients with functional dyspepsia is less dramatic, with systematic 
reviews suggesting a number needed to treat of 14. Economic models suggest that 
in Europe H. pylori eradication is cost-effective compared to offering no 
treatment (e.g. in the UK we can be 95% certain this approach is cost effective 
if you are willing to pay $51/month free from dyspepsia). In the USA it is less 
certain that this is a cost-effective approach due to the higher cost of 
eradication therapy. H. pylori test and treat has been proposed as an 
alternative to early endoscopy in patients with uninvestigated dyspepsia. We 
have conducted an individual patient data meta-analysis of five RCTs that has 
addressed the cost effectiveness of this approach. Endoscopy was slightly more 
effective than H. pylori test and treat at relieving dyspepsia at one year but 
was not cost-effective as it cost $9000/dyspepsia cure at one year. Population 
H. pylori test and treat has been proposed as a strategy to prevent noncardia 
gastric cancer. RCTs have suggested this approach may be cost saving but more 
data are needed on whether H. pylori eradication will reduce gastric cancer 
mortality before this strategy can be recommended.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2006.11.004
PMID: 17382282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Lancet. 2007 Mar 24;369(9566):1016-26. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60461-9.

