the future of the children; 4) to precisely define the conditions in which the 
heterozygous carriers will be informed following a familial investigation; 5) to 
store in a resource biological centre the blood samples in order to utilize this 
bank for epidemiology studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gyobfe.2007.02.008
PMID: 17400505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2007 Dec;78(12):1304-9. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.2006.100107. Epub 2007 Mar 30.

Estimated life expectancy of Parkinson's patients compared with the UK 
population.

Ishihara LS(1), Cheesbrough A, Brayne C, Schrag A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To calculate the best possible estimates for age specific life 
expectancy (LE) and anticipated age at the time of death (AAD) in patients with 
Parkinson's disease (PD) compared with the general population in the UK. These 
may be of greater value to patients than standardised mortality ratios (SMRs), 
which are usually reported in studies on mortality in PD.
METHODS: A literature review identified articles with data on age stratified 
life expectancy or SMRs to calculate estimations of LE using the Gompertz 
function and data on mortality and LE in the UK from the Office of National 
Statistics and Actuarial Department for the year 2003.
RESULTS: Two UK studies and four from Western Europe were used to estimate LE 
and AAD for patients with PD from SMRs. The mean LEs of patients with PD 
compared with the general population were: 38 (SD 5) years for onset between 25 
and 39 years compared with 49 (SD 5) years; 21 (SD 5) years for onset between 40 
and 64 years compared with 31 (SD 7) years; and 5 (SD 4) years for onset age > 
or = 65 years compared with 9 (SD 5) years. The average AAD of patients with PD 
with onset between 25 and 39 years was 71 (SD 3) years and considerably lower 
than that of the general population (82 (SD 2) years). The difference between 
average AAD for older individuals with PD (onset > or = 65 years) and the 
general population was smaller, with an AAD of approximately 88 (SD 7) years 
compared with 91 (SD 5) years.
CONCLUSIONS: The calculations showed that LE and AAD in PD are reduced for all 
onset ages but this reduction is greatest in individuals with a young onset. 
While the results are average estimates, these can provide useful indications of 
LE and AAD.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.2006.100107
PMCID: PMC2095626
PMID: 17400591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: GlaxoSmithKline 
Pharmaceuticals paid for the research for the manuscript. LI's PhD studentship 
was sponsored by GSK and she is now an employee at GSK. AC is an employee of 
GSK.


321. Tob Control. 2007 Apr;16(2):107-13. doi: 10.1136/tc.2006.017715.

Mortality and life expectancy in relation to long-term cigarette, cigar and pipe 
smoking: the Zutphen Study.

Streppel MT(1), Boshuizen HC, Ock√© MC, Kok FJ, Kromhout D.

Author information:
(1)Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands. martinet.streppel@rivm.nl

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of long-term smoking on all-cause and 
cause-specific mortality, and to estimate the effects of cigarette and cigar or 
pipe smoking on life expectancy.
DESIGN: A long-term prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Zutphen, The Netherlands.
PARTICIPANTS: 1373 men from the Zutphen Study, born between 1900 and 1920 and 
studied between 1960 and 2000.
MEASUREMENTS: Hazard ratios for the type of smoking, amount and duration of 
cigarette smoking, obtained from a time-dependent Cox regression model. Absolute 
health effects of smoking are expressed as differences in life expectancy and 
the number of disease-free years of life.
MAIN RESULTS: Duration of cigarette smoking was strongly associated with 
mortality from cardiovascular disease, lung cancer and chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, whereas both the number of cigarettes smoked as well as 
duration of cigarette smoking were strongly associated with all-cause mortality. 
Average cigarette smoking reduced the total life expectancy by 6.8 years, 
whereas heavy cigarette smoking reduced the total life expectancy by 8.8 years. 
The number of total life-years lost due to cigar or pipe smoking was 4.7 years. 
Moreover, cigarette smoking reduced the number of disease-free life-years by 5.8 
years, and cigar or pipe smoking by 5.2 years. Stopping cigarette smoking at age 
40 increased the life expectancy by 4.6 years, while the number of disease-free 
life-years was increased by 3.0 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Cigar or pipe smoking reduces life expectancy to a lesser extent 
than cigarette smoking. Both the number of cigarettes smoked and duration of 
smoking are strongly associated with mortality risk and the number of life-years 
lost. Stopping smoking after age 40 has major health benefits.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2006.017715
PMCID: PMC2598467
PMID: 17400948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


322. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2007 Oct;16(7):421-9. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-007-0615-2.

Long-acting medications for the hyperkinetic disorders. A note on 
cost-effectiveness.

Schlander M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Innovation & Valuation in Health Care, Eschborn, Germany. 
michael.schlander@innoval-hc.com

New long-acting medications for attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) 
have become available, which combine certain advantages over conventional 
short-acting drugs with higher acquisition costs. Choices between these drugs 
should thus be driven by their clinical profiles and by an acceptable balance of 
increased costs and additional benefits. Accordingly, the notion of relative 
cost-effectiveness should be central to recommendations about the use of these 
drugs in practice. A recent technology assessment on behalf of the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) did not identify differences 
between compounds in terms of clinical efficacy and described drug cost as the 
major driver of cost-effectiveness. The underlying economic model was restricted 
to a cost-utility analysis that used only a fraction of the available clinical 
evidence base and did not address the distinction between efficacy and 
effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness evaluations including the potential impact of 
improved treatment compliance indicate a relatively more attractive 
cost-effectiveness of long-acting medications than suggested by the NICE 
assessment. These evaluations provide health economic support to treatment 
recommendations recently published by the European Network for Hyperkinetic 
Disorders. Limitations of currently available economic evaluations include their 
short time horizon, and future research should assess treatment effects on 
long-term sequelae associated with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-007-0615-2
PMID: 17401606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Behav Genet. 2007 Jul;37(4):621-30. doi: 10.1007/s10519-007-9150-7. Epub
2007  Mar 31.

Genetic mixed linear models for twin survival data.

Ha ID(1), Lee Y, Pawitan Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Asset Management, Daegu Haany University, Gyeongsan 712-715, 
Korea. idha@dhu.ac.k.

Twin studies are useful for assessing the relative importance of genetic or 
heritable component from the environmental component. In this paper we develop a 
methodology to study the heritability of age-at-onset or lifespan traits, with 
application to analysis of twin survival data. Due to limited period of 
observation, the data can be left truncated and right censored (LTRC). Under the 
LTRC setting we propose a genetic mixed linear model, which allows general fixed 
predictors and random components to capture genetic and environmental effects. 
Inferences are based upon the hierarchical-likelihood (h-likelihood), which 
provides a statistically efficient and unified framework for various 
mixed-effect models. We also propose a simple and fast computation method for 
dealing with large data sets. The method is illustrated by the survival data 
from the Swedish Twin Registry. Finally, a simulation study is carried out to 
evaluate its performance.

DOI: 10.1007/s10519-007-9150-7
PMID: 17401640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Tuberk Toraks. 2007;55(1):51-8.

The cost of lung cancer in Turkey.

Cakir Edis E(1), Karlikaya C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chest Diseases, Faculty of Medicine, Trakya University, Edirne, 
Turkey. ebruckr@yahoo.com

The aim of this study was to evaluate the individual and societal burden of lung 
cancer in Turkey. A total of 103 cases with lung cancer attended our department 
between January 2002 and February 2003 were included in our study prospectively. 
The primary outcome measure was the cost of disease until death of the patients 
or the end of study. All the costs were expressed as United States dollars (USD) 
and were estimated regarding the effective exchange rate at the time of 
recording. Descriptive statistics, chi-square, Fisher's exact test, Kaplan-Meier 
analysis and non-parametric "Bootsraping" tests were performed to evaluate the 
data. The average survival was 6.8 months. The estimated total direct cost for 
the entire group was 564.490 USD, and the direct cost per patient was 5.480 +/- 
4.088 USD. The total cost of lung cancer in the study group was 1.473.530 USD, 
with a per-patient cost of 14.306 +/- 17.705 USD. The average direct cost per 
life year was 18.058 +/- 25.775 USD. Age, gender and histopathology did not 
affect the cost, whereas direct medical costs were increased with increasing 
stage. With the low life expectancy and cure rates, lung cancer has been 
alerting for the cost minimization and disease control measures.

PMID: 17401794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J R Soc Promot Health. 2007 Mar;127(2):64-71. doi: 10.1177/1466424007075454.

Health, spending and the effort to improve quality in OECD countries: a review 
of the data.

Kelley E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Healthcare Quality Report, Agency for Healthcare Research and 
Quality, and Head, Health Care Quality Indicators Project Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development, Paris, France. edward.kelley@AHRQ.hhs.gov

The performance of health systems is of concern to both policy-makers and 
academics and a large body of recent literature has advanced the debate 
significantly on methods and results of health system performance assessments. 
In this article, I attempt to summarize what is known about a range of areas of 
health system performance, specifically in the areas of spending and outcomes, 
using data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) 
in the areas of health, spending, risk factors and quality of care. In so doing, 
we use new data from the OECD's Health Care Quality Indicators (HCQI) to examine 
a factor that is frequently cited at the national level but rarely compared at 
the international level, namely the quality of the healthcare provided. In 
keeping with other assessments of trends in health, we show that health has 
improved dramatically since the 1970s in all of the countries of the OECD. 
Likewise, all of the OECD countries are spending many times more on health per 
person than in 1970. However, the gains in health as well as the spending levels 
vary tremendously across countries. Quality of care is relatively high in some 
areas such as vaccination rates. In other areas such as breast cancer survival, 
the HCQI data show that most countries are making progress somewhat universally, 
but that all countries still have progress to be made. Finally, in other areas, 
such as inpatient care for acute myocardial infarction (AMI), there is wide 
variation in quality. Future work will need to be undertaken in order to examine 
possible best practices at the policy and operational level of health care 
delivery, their impact on spending and, most importantly, on health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/1466424007075454
PMID: 17402312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2007 Jan-Feb;(1):8-14.

[The impact of the mode of life on health].

[Article in Russian]

Efimenko SA.

On the basis of the Rosstat data and the results of numerous medical 
sociological studies, the causes of the prevalence in the Russian Federation of 
such adverse habits as alcoholism and tobacco smoking which negatively affect 
the health level of various population groups are analyzed.

PMID: 17402568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2007 Jan-Feb;(1):14-5.

[The social hygienic risk factors during the involutional processes in males].

[Article in Russian]

Kulikova NG.

The issues related to the involutional period in males are discussed. It is 
demonstrated that the development of complicated involutional period is under 
considerable impact of not only genetic factors but such socially important 
factors as alcoholism in family, nicotine dependence of mother or father, 
pecuniary component in family, etc. The malignancy of the combined effect of 
biogenetic, exogenous and acquired factors is verified.

PMID: 17402569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(4):269-86. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200725040-00002.

Measuring patient-reported outcomes in solid organ transplant recipients: an 
overview of instruments developed to date.

Cleemput I(1), Dobbels F.

Author information:
(1)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre (KCE), Brussels, Belgium. 
Irina.Cleemput@kce.fgov.be

Improvements in organ preservation methods, immunosuppressive regimens and 
general post-transplant care have resulted in an increased life expectancy and a 
continually decreasing morbidity after solid organ transplantation. As attention 
gradually moves towards improving subjective patient outcomes, the use of 
patient-reported outcome measures (PROs) thus becomes increasingly important in 
post-transplant patient management. This paper provides a brief systematic 
overview of the transplant-specific PRO measures, and their psychometric 
properties, developed and used in solid organ transplant recipients to date. PRO 
measures may focus on or encompass different aspects of life relevant to organ 
transplant patients: overall quality of life (QOL), physical, psychological and 
social functioning, and adherence. Overall QOL can be measured using 
transplant-specific or generic QOL instruments, or a combination of both. In 
general, very little information is available on the psychometric properties of 
PRO measures, and there is no gold standard for PRO measurement. 
Transplant-specific and generic PRO instruments are complementary. Generic 
instruments will continue to be important for economic evaluations, but 
transplant-specific instruments may be more useful for patient management 
purposes, as they are generally more sensitive to small but clinically relevant 
changes in outcomes in transplant populations.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725040-00002
PMID: 17402802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Clin Nurs. 2007 Apr;16(4):734-41. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2005.01545.x.

Watching, waiting and uncertainty in prostate cancer.

Bailey DE Jr(1), Wallace M, Mishel MH.

Author information:
(1)Duke University School of Nursing, Durham, NC 27710, USA. 
chip.bailey@duke.edu

AIM: This study explores the problems and uncertainties of older men, with 
prostate cancer, who have undergone watchful waiting and the strategies they use 
to manage their concerns.
BACKGROUND: With life expectancy rising, the number of older men with prostate 
cancer has increased. Nearly 50% of all new prostate cancers are diagnosed in 
men over 70 years old. For many of these older men, improvements in medical care 
have increased the likelihood of living for years with prostate cancer. Thus, 
watchful waiting has been proposed as a reasonable alternative to treatment for 
older men with localized prostate cancer.
METHODS: A qualitative, descriptive design was used for this study. The results 
from interviews with 10 men who were undergoing watchful waiting for prostate 
cancer were analysed using the Mishel's Reconceptualized Uncertainty in Illness 
model.
RESULTS: Domains of uncertainty, appraisal of danger and appraisal of 
opportunity were identified and each was supported by participant's experience.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study may be used to expand the Uncertainty in 
Illness model and develop interventions for men undergoing watchful waiting for 
prostate cancer.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: These findings may be used to enhance current 
nursing interventions for men electing for watchful waiting as an alternative to 
treatment for prostate cancer, including patient teaching and support services. 
Future study should examine the role of nurses in managing uncertainty, 
especially in patient teaching and in the development, implementation and 
evaluation of interventions to manage uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2005.01545.x
PMID: 17402955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Cell Metab. 2007 Apr;5(4):265-77. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2007.02.009.

Reduced TOR signaling extends chronological life span via increased respiration 
and upregulation of mitochondrial gene expression.

Bonawitz ND(1), Chatenay-Lapointe M, Pan Y, Shadel GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06520, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2007 Apr;5(4):233-5.

The relationships between mitochondrial respiration, reactive oxygen species 
(ROS), and life span are complex and remain controversial. Inhibition of the 
target of rapamycin (TOR) signaling pathway extends life span in several model 
organisms. We show here that deletion of the TOR1 gene extends chronological 
life span in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, primarily by increasing mitochondrial 
respiration via enhanced translation of mtDNA-encoded oxidative phosphorylation 
complex subunits. Unlike previously reported pathways regulating chronological 
life span, we demonstrate that deletion of TOR1 delays aging independently of 
the antioxidant gene SOD2. Furthermore, wild-type and tor1 null strains differ 
in life span only when respiration competent and grown in normoxia in the 
presence of glucose. We propose that inhibition of TOR signaling causes 
derepression of respiration during growth in glucose and that the subsequent 
increase in mitochondrial oxygen consumption limits intracellular oxygen and 
ROS-mediated damage during glycolytic growth, leading to lower cellular ROS and 
extension of chronological life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2007.02.009
PMCID: PMC3460550
PMID: 17403371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Dec;17(6):587-92. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm024. Epub
 2007 Apr 2.

Increasing life expectancy in Germany: quantitative contributions from changes 
in age- and disease-specific mortality.

Klenk J(1), Rapp K, B√ºchele G, Keil U, Weiland SK.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Epidemiology, Ulm University, Germany. jochen.klenk@uni-ulm.de

BACKGROUND: Between 1962 and 2002 the average life expectancy in Germany has 
increased from 67.1 years to 75.6 years in men and from 72.7 years to 81.3 in 
women.
METHODS: The cumulative and annual contributions of different age- and 
disease-groups on life expectancy were calculated using Pollard's actuarial 
method of decomposing mortality rates. Mortality data were provided by the 
German Statistical Office.
RESULTS: Considering the cumulative contribution over the period of 40 years, 
the largest contributions came from persons with at least 65 years of age (2.9 
years in men and 4.0 years in women). Reductions in cardiovascular disease 
mortality had the greatest cumulative impact on life expectancy (2.7 years in 
men and 3.0 years in women). The contribution from reduced cancer mortality on 
life expectancy was substantially lower (0.6 and 0.9 years, respectively). The 
annual contributions of several disease-groups varied considerably over time. 
The positive contribution from cardiovascular diseases started only after 1970, 
and in men it became solid only after 1980. Regarding malignant neoplasms, the 
largest cumulative contribution came from stomach cancer (0.4 in both sexes). 
The annual analyses showed increasing contributions from reduced cancer 
mortality after 1990. These were strongly influenced by lung, stomach, prostate 
and colorectal cancer in men, and by breast, colorectal and stomach cancer in 
women.
CONCLUSIONS: While life expectancy has increased by about 2.2 years per decade 
the observed variations in the age- and disease-specific contributions over time 
have implications for future health care planning and prevention strategies.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm024
PMID: 17403787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Dec;17(6):593-9. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm022. Epub
2007  Apr 2.

Estimating mortality and causes of death in Turkey: methods, results and policy 
implications.

Akg√ºn S(1), Rao C, Yardim N, Basara BB, Aydin O, Mollahaliloglu S, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Baskent University School of Medicine, Ankara, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Cause-specific mortality statistics are primary evidence for health 
policy formulation, programme evaluation, and epidemiological research. In 
Turkey, a partially functioning vital registration system in urban areas yields 
fragmentary evidence on levels and causes of mortality. This article discusses 
the application of innovative methods to develop national mortality estimates in 
Turkey, and their implications for national health development policies.
METHODS: Child mortality levels from the Demography and Health Survey (DHS) were 
applied to model life tables to estimate age-specific death rates. Reported 
causes of death from urban areas were adjusted using re-distribution algorithms 
from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study. Rural cause structure was 
estimated from epidemiological models. Local epidemiological data was used to 
adjust model-based estimates.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at birth in 2000 was estimated to be 67.7 years (males) 
and 71.9 years (females), about 8-10 years lower than in Western Europe. Leading 
causes of death include major vascular diseases (ischaemic heart disease, 
stroke) causing 35-38% of deaths, chronic obstructive lung disease and lung 
cancer in men, but also perinatal causes, lower respiratory infections and 
diarrhoeal diseases. Injuries cause about 6-8% of deaths, although this may be 
an underestimate.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality estimates are uncertain in Turkey, given the poor quality 
of death registration systems. Application of burden of disease methods suggests 
that there has been progress along the epidemiological transition. Key health 
development strategies for Turkey include improved access to communicable 
disease control technologies, and urgent attention to the development of a 
reliable, nationally representative health information system.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm022
PMID: 17403788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Jan;1095:45-52. doi: 10.1196/annals.1397.006.

Effect of distinct anticancer drugs on the phosphorylation of p53 protein at 
serine 46 in human MCF-7 breast cancer cells.

Wesierska-Gadek J(1), Gueorguieva M, Herbacek I, Ranftler C.

Author information:
(1)Cell Cycle Regulation Group, Department of Medicine I, Division: Institute of 
Cancer Research, Medical University of Vienna, Borschkegasse 8 A, A-1090 Vienna, 
Austria. Jozefa.Gadek-Wesierski@meduniwien.ac.at

Roscovitine (ROSC), a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CDI), 
inactivates cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)2 resulting in the arrest of human 
MCF-7 breast cancer cells in G2 phase of the cell cycle. We have recently 
observed a strong activation of wild-type (wt) p53 protein in human MCF-7 breast 
cancer cells upon treatment with ROSC implicating that upregulated p53 might 
additionally modulate the primary action of ROSC. ROSC stabilized wt p53 protein 
resulting in a marked extension of its half-life. Since ROSC exhibits low 
cytotoxicity, it seems to upregulate p53 protein in a way different from DNA 
damage. ROSC induced phosphorylation of p53 protein at serine 46. Therefore, we 
decided to examine whether other anticancer drugs are also able to induce 
phosphorylation of wt p53 protein at serine 46. Exposure of MCF-7 cells to 
doxorubicin (DOX) at doses inducing a strong G2 arrest resulted in a weak 
upregulation of p53. No site-specific phosphorylation of p53 at serine 46 was 
detected. These results indicate that p53 activation is dispensable for 
DOX-induced G2 arrest. Moreover, the pattern of p53 phosphorylation strongly 
depends on the type of the stimulating factor.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1397.006
PMID: 17404016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Ann Intern Med. 2007 Apr 3;146(7):493-501. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-146-7-200704030-00005.

Geography matters: relationships among urban residential segregation, dialysis 
facilities, and patient outcomes.

Rodriguez RA(1), Sen S, Mehta K, Moody-Ayers S, Bacchetti P, O'Hare AM.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco General Hospital, University of California, San Francisco, 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, California 94110, USA. 
rrodriguez@medsfgh.ucsf.edu

BACKGROUND: End-stage renal disease disproportionately affects black Americans. 
However, the impact of residential segregation by race-a prominent feature of 
many U.S. cities--on outcomes of patients receiving dialysis and on facility 
performance has not been evaluated.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the relationship among racial composition of ZIP codes in 
metropolitan areas, outcomes of patients receiving dialysis, and characteristics 
of dialysis facilities.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study of patients receiving dialysis and 
cross-sectional study of dialysis facilities.
SETTING: U.S. metropolitan ZIP codes with differing percentages of black 
residents.
PATIENTS: Black and non-Hispanic white patients who initiated long-term dialysis 
between 1 January 1995 and 31 December 2002 (n = 399,424) and dialysis 
facilities in operation in December 2004 (n = 3244).
MEASUREMENTS: Mortality and time to transplantation among patients receiving 
dialysis, and performance of dialysis facilities on the basis of quality 
indicators (anemia management, dialysis adequacy, and facility-level mortality 
rates).
RESULTS: Most black patients (50.3%) but few white patients (5%) lived in the 3% 
(n = 769) of ZIP codes in which most residents were black. In analyses adjusted 
for patient and ZIP code characteristics, mortality rates were higher among 
white patients but not among black patients living in areas with a higher 
percentage of black residents (adjusted hazard ratio for ZIP codes with > or 
=75% black residents vs. <10% black residents, 1.14 [95% CI, 1.07 to 1.21] for 
white patients and 1.02 [CI, 0.99 to 1.06] for black patients). Time to 
transplantation was longer among both black and white patients (adjusted hazard 
ratio for ZIP codes with > or =75% black residents vs. <10% black residents, 
0.84 [CI, 0.78 to 0.92] and 0.63 [CI, 0.57 to 0.71] for black patients and white 
patients, respectively). Dialysis facilities located in areas with a higher 
percentage of black residents were more likely to have higher-than-expected 
mortality rates and were less likely to meet performance targets.
LIMITATIONS: Patient-level analyses were restricted to black and non-Hispanic 
white patients. Patient-level and facility-level analyses focused only on the 
percentage of black residents in each ZIP code.
CONCLUSIONS: The racial composition of urban residential areas is associated 
with time to transplantation and dialysis facility performance on standard 
quality measures. Closer scrutiny of care provided to patients receiving 
dialysis who live in predominantly black residential areas and to dialysis 
facilities operating in these areas may be warranted.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-146-7-200704030-00005
PMID: 17404351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Ann Pharm Fr. 2007 Mar;65(2):85-94. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4509(07)90021-8.

[New antitoagulants].

[Article in French]

Samama MM(1), Gerotziafas G.

Author information:
(1)Service d'h√©matologie Biologique, H√¥tel-Dieu, place du Parvis Notre-Dame, F 
75181 Paris Cedex 04. mmsamama@aol.com

In contrast to older anticoagulant agents vitamin K antagonists and heparins, 
the new ones are directed towards a single target in general. The main 
characteristics of the new agents are: their site of action in the coagulation 
cascade and their mechanism of action which is indirect, antithrombin dependent, 
most often such as Fondaparinux and Idraparinux or direct such as Dabigatran, 
Rivaroxaban; the specificity of the new molecules, since they must not interact 
with other enzymes: trypsin, kallikrein, t-PA, etc...; their mode of 
administration parenteral and/or oral; their pharmacokinetics and their 
clearance frequently by the kidney (Hirudin, fondaparinux) or through hepatic 
metabolism (argatroban); tolerance including for all compounds the bleeding risk 
or an unexpected hepatic intolerance for Ximelagatran; the availability of a 
specific antidote and the cost of the drug; one compound is registered in France 
Arixtra Fondaparinux in major orthopedic surgery and in the treatment of venous 
thromboembolism and in prophylactic treatment in medical patients. However, the 
main indications of interest for these new drugs is atrial fibrillation. There 
is a real need in this indication and the number of patients to treat is growing 
with the longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4509(07)90021-8
PMID: 17404541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2007 Sep;257(6):330-6. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-007-0727-1. Epub 2007 Apr 1.

Long-term cost-effectiveness of donepezil for the treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Teipel SJ(1), Ewers M, Reisig V, Schweikert B, Hampel H, Happich M.

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Memorial Center and Geriatric Psychiatry Branch, Dementia and 
Neuroimaging Section, Department of Psychiatry, Ludwig-Maximilian University, 
Nussbaumstr.7, Munich, 80336, Germany. stefan.teipel@med.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: (Acetyl-)cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors have been approved for the 
treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, use of ChE 
inhibitors is limited by budget constraints and disincentives on the side of 
health insurances and nursing care insurances.
OBJECTIVE: To analyse under what conditions the application of the 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donepezil is favourable for the treatment of 
patients with AD from the perspective of health insurance and nursing care 
insurance companies in Germany, taking into account factors such as start and 
duration of treatment, duration of follow-up, drug costs, internalization of 
opportunity costs and varying mortality and efficacy rates.
METHODS: Transition probabilities from a Swedish study and German cost data for 
donepezil were merged in a Markov model to follow a cohort of patients over a 
period of 5-10 years. We defined a base case with 1 year treatment and follow-up 
over 5 years and varied treatment length, follow-up interval and cost factors in 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In the base case, the ChE inhibitor donepezil did not lead to cost 
savings but to a cost-effective outcome on side of health insurances and nursing 
care insurances. Early treatment of AD and internalization of opportunity costs 
(caring time devoted to patients) led to less costs per quality adjusted life 
years gained. However, results are very sensitive with respect to varying 
mortality and efficacy rates.
CONCLUSION: The application of donepezil may be cost-effective, but considerable 
uncertainties remain. Moreover, the way the reimbursement system in Germany is 
presently arranged does not support the application of ChE inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-007-0727-1
PMID: 17404699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Neurosurg. 2006 Dec;105(6):811-3; discussion 813-4. doi: 
10.3171/jns.2006.105.6.811.

Health economics and the search for shunt-responsive symptomatic hydrocephalus 
in the elderly.

Pickard JD, Spiegelhalter D, Czosnyka M.

Comment on
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Dec;105(6):815-22.
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Dec;105(6):823-9.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2006.105.6.811
PMID: 17405249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Neurosurg. 2006 Dec;105(6):815-22. doi: 10.3171/jns.2006.105.6.815.

Shunts in normal-pressure hydrocephalus: do we place too many or too few?

Stein SC(1), Burnett MG, Sonnad SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. sherman.stein@uphs.upenn.edu

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Dec;105(6):811-3; discussion 813-4.

OBJECT: The average 65-year-old patient with moderate dementia can look forward 
to only 1.4 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), that is, longevity times 
quality of life. Some of these patients suffer from normal-pressure 
hydrocephalus (NPH) and respond dramatically to shunt insertion. Currently, 
however, NPH cannot be diagnosed with certainty. The authors constructed a 
Markov decision analysis model to predict the outcome in patients with NPH 
treated with and without shunts.
METHODS: Transition probabilities and health utilities were obtained from a 
review of the literature. A sensitivity analysis and Monte Carlo simulation were 
applied to test outcomes over a wide range of parameters. Using shunt response 
and complication rates from the literature, the average patient receiving a 
shunt would gain an additional 1.7 QALYs as a result of automatic shunt 
insertion. Even if 50% of patients receiving a shunt have complications, the 
shunt response rate would need to be less than 5% for empirical shunt insertion 
to do more harm than good. Authors of most studies have reported far better 
statistics.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, many more patients with suspected NPH should be 
considered for shunt insertion.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2006.105.6.815
PMID: 17405250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Neurosurg. 2006 Dec;105(6):823-9. doi: 10.3171/jns.2006.105.6.823.

Screening tests for normal-pressure hydrocephalus: sensitivity, specificity, and 
cost.

Burnett MG(1), Sonnad SS, Stein SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery and Surgery, Hospital of the University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2006 Dec;105(6):811-3; discussion 813-4.

OBJECT: Many tests have been proposed to help choose candidates for shunt 
insertion in cases of suspected normal-pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). It is 
unclear what sensitivity and specificity a prospective test must have to improve 
outcomes, compared with the results of automatic shunt insertion.
METHODS: The authors adapted the decision analysis model used in a companion 
article to allow for application of a screening test. Using the reported 
sensitivities and specificities of several such tests, they evaluated the 
effects such tests would have on the expected outcome of an average 65-year-old 
patient with moderate dementia. They also evaluated the cost-effectiveness of a 
theoretical screening test with superior sensitivity and specificity.
CONCLUSIONS: Although external lumbar drainage comes quite close, none of the 
screening tests reported to date have sufficient sensitivity and specificity to 
improve expected outcome in an average candidate, compared with the results of 
automatic shunt placement in cases of suspected NPH. In addition, even a 
theoretically improved test would need to be considerably less expensive than 
prolonged lumbar drainage to be cost-effective in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2006.105.6.823
PMID: 17405251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 2007 Mar;108(2):69-72.

[Selection of prosthetic heart valves for adult patients by age].

[Article in Japanese]

Hashimoto K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Jikei University School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

The use of bioprosthetic heart valves has dramatically increased over the last 
decade. In 2004, the ratio was 52% for mechanical and 48% for bioprosthetic 
valves in a survey by the Japanese Association for Thoracic Surgery. This 
increase in the use of bioprosthetic valves is related to evidence demonstrating 
the durability of such valves over the last 20 years. The guidelines of the 
Japanese Circulation Society recommend selection of prosthetic heart valves by 
considering the patient's age. In patients who received a mechanical valve in 
previous cardiac surgery, selection of another mechanical valve is inevitable. 
The age of 65 years is when patients are separated into groups receiving either 
mechanical (<64 years) or bioprosthetic (> or =65 years) valves. However, the 
evidence that a bioprosthetic valve is better for patients in their 60s is 
somewhat questionable, particularly in Japanese with a long life expectancy. 
Anticoagulation with warfarin in patients with mechanical valves leads to a 
higher incidence of hemorrhagic complications compared with bioprosthetic 
valves, although the incidence of thromboembolism is the same. Thus patients 
with contraindications to warfarin or a low risk of thromboembolism who are more 
than 65 years old are reasonable candidates for a bioprosthetic valve. It is 
also recommended that women of childbearing age receive bioprosthetic valves 
after being informed of the possibility and risks of reoperation. In addition to 
the information in the guidelines and physicians' preference for valve 
selection, factors such as the patient's lifestyle, wishes, cardiac function, 
other complications, and longevity must always be considered when selecting a 
valve prosthesis.

PMID: 17405540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Acta Chir Belg. 2007 Jan-Feb;107(1):1-7. doi:
10.1080/00015458.2007.11680003.

Outcome of infrapopliteal bypass in the elderly.

Lep√§ntalo M(1), Eskelinen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, 
Helsinki, Finland. mauri.lepantalo@hus.fi

OBJECTIVE: To review the published papers reporting on the use of infrapopliteal 
bypass in elderly patients (aged 70 years or more) in the treatment of critical 
limb ischaemia.
METHODS: A MEDLINE (1966-2006) search for articles relating to the topic. Eight 
single centre studies were identified and in addition one population based study 
from Finland.
RESULTS: Perioperative mortality rate after infrapopliteal bypass surgery among 
elderly patients ranged from 2% to 12%. Patency and limb salvage rates were 
comparable to those reported in literature for younger patients. Data on 
survival rates were inconsistent. Several authors propose an active 
reconstruction policy in the elderly provided that a successful bypass procedure 
is likely to save the leg and improve the quality of life of these patients by 
maintaining ambulatory function and independent living at least for a year.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite a relatively short life expectancy, after successful 
revascularisation, the majority of elderly patients can be expected to spend 
their remaining years ambulatory and at home. The decision whether to 
reconstruct or amputate is always patient bound, taking into consideration 
different risk factors. Age alone should, however, seldom be a reason to decline 
infrapopliteal bypass.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2007.11680003
PMID: 17405591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Jun;36(3):580-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dym011. Epub 2007
Apr 3.

Excess Indigenous mortality: are Indigenous Australians more severely 
disadvantaged than other Indigenous populations?

Hill K(1), Barker B, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard University, 9 Bow 
Street, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. Kenneth_hill@harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: International targets for reducing health inequalities, such as the 
Millennium Development Goals, are stated in terms of national targets. However, 
dramatic health differentials exist within countries, even developed ones. 
Studies indicate that the Indigenous population of Australia suffers a life 
expectancy disadvantage greater than differentials found in Indigenous 
populations of other developed countries. We re-examine recent national 
mortality levels and trends of Indigenous Australians.
METHODS: Analyses of Indigenous mortality are plagued by 'numerator-denominator 
bias', whereby reporting of Indigenous status differs in deaths (numerators) and 
population (denominators). We apply demographic evaluation methods developed to 
address such problems to data from the 1991, 1996 and 2001 censuses of Australia 
and to the death registration data for the period.
RESULTS: The propensity of Australia's population to report Indigenous status 
increased between each census, particularly between 1991 and 1996, while 
recording of deaths as Indigenous increased sharply. Adjusted for bias, the 
Indigenous population had a life expectancy approximately 13 years below that of 
the non-Indigenous population, a 2-year greater disadvantage than recently 
estimated for the Maori in New Zealand. Indigenous mortality fell during the 
1990s, but slightly more slowly than that of non-Indigenous Australians, leaving 
differentials slightly increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Around the world Indigenous populations are estimated to suffer a 
mortality disadvantage compared with non-Indigenous populations. However, 
establishing the magnitude of and trend in the disadvantage is difficult because 
of bias. Using appropriate methods to adjust for bias, the Indigenous population 
of Australia is estimated to suffer a life expectancy shortfall of about 13 
years, greater than similar gaps in other developed countries.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dym011
PMID: 17405802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2007 Apr 4;99(7):571-2; author reply 572. doi: 
10.1093/jnci/djk116.

Re: Age-related lobular involution and risk of breast cancer.

Ferretti G, Felici A, Cognetti F.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2006 Nov 15;98(22):1600-7.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djk116
PMID: 17406003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Rev Med Chil. 2007 Feb;135(2):240-50. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872007000200014.
Epub  2007 Mar 28.

[Trends and main features of Chilean mortality].

[Article in Spanish]

Medina L E(1), Kaempffer R A.

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Salud P√∫blica, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile. emedina@med.uchile.cl

BACKGROUND: Mortality data of a community allow to identify its severest 
diseases and health problems.
AIM: To report epidemiologic data on Chilean mortality.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Information about mortality was obtained from the World 
Health Organization, Pan American Health Organization, the Chilean Institute of 
Statistics and Ministry of Health.
RESULTS: A continuously declining trend in the risk of dying during the last 30 
years was observed. Chile has the best situation among South American countries. 
Infant and general mortality rates fell in 89 and 39%, respectively, during the 
period 1970-2003. This reduction is observed in all Chilean geographical 
regions. At the county level, there are 11 counties that duplicate the figure of 
mortality of the 337 other counties. In the case of infant mortality, there are 
91 counties that duplicate the national figure, indicating an important 
inequity. Mortality is significantly associated with population aging, 
availability and use of hospital beds. There is a lower level of association 
with the proportion of population living in urban areas and poverty levels. A 
projection until 2010 shows and increasing mortality caused by malignant tumors 
and diabetes and a declining trend for circulatory, respiratory and digestive 
diseases and accidental deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality has been managed efficiently in Chile but future trends 
underscore the need for cancer and diabetes prevention and management programs.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872007000200014
PMID: 17406743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Dig Dis Sci. 2007 Sep;52(9):2276-81. doi: 10.1007/s10620-006-9715-y. Epub
2007  Apr 4.

Increased age, male gender, and cirrhosis, but not steatosis or a positive viral 
serology, negatively impact the life expectancy of patients who undergo liver 
biopsy.

Wachtel MS(1), Zhang Y, Kaye KE, Chiriva-Internati M, Frezza EE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 
Lubbock, TX 79415, USA.

Most survival studies of chronic liver disease avoid including more than one 
condition, often present in patients with liver disease; survival analysis of 
patients with liver disease in general was undertaken. Over a 9-year period, the 
survival experience of 365 patients who underwent liver biopsy, with a median 
follow-up of 3 years, was assessed. Log rank tests and Cox regression were used 
to evaluate risk factors. The Flemington-Harrington G(rho) family of tests 
compared the number of deaths expected in the U.S. population in general, 
adjusted for age, sex, and year of biopsy, to the observed number of deaths in 
the patients with cirrhosis and to the observed number of deaths in patients 
without cirrhosis. Twenty-two (6%) patients died. Cirrhosis (HR = 2.9; 95% c.i.: 
1.2-6.7), male sex (HR = 2.7; 95% c.i.: 1.1-6.6), and an additional 20 years of 
age at biopsy (HR = 2.9; 95% c.i:. 1.4-6.2) each negatively impacted survival. 
Patients with cirrhosis experienced 4.58 times the number of expected deaths (p 
< 0.00001). Patients without cirrhosis experienced 1.66 times the number of 
expected deaths (p = 0.15). Steatosis and a positive viral serology did not 
increase the risk of death. Male gender, increased age, and cirrhosis increased 
the risk of death; increased steatosis and positive viral serologic studies did 
not.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-006-9715-y
PMID: 17406827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Mund Kiefer Gesichtschir. 2007 Apr;11(2):81-8. doi:
10.1007/s10006-007-0051-y.

[Surgical management of obstructive sleep apnea].

[Article in German]

Kessler P(1), Ruberg F, Obbarius H, Iro H, Neukam FW.

Author information:
(1)Friedrich-Alexander-Universit√§t, Mund-, Erlangen-N√ºrnberg, Mund-, Kiefer- und 
Gesichtschirurgische Klinik, Gl√ºckstrasse 11, 91054 Erlangen, Germany. 
peter.kessler@mkg.imed.uni-erlangen.de

INTRODUCTION: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder in adults, 
however it also occurs in neonates with severe mandibular hypoplasia. The 
clinical significance of OSA results from hypoxemia and sleep fragmentation due 
to a collapse of the upper airway. Recently OSA has received much attention due 
to its potentially serious consequences on cardiac function. Besides daytime 
sleepiness and fatigue life expectancy is significantly shortened by a higher 
risk for apoplectic insults and heart failures. This paper reviews common 
surgical procedures with an emphasis on jaw advancement procedures.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In six adults (mean age 46,9 ys; 2 female, 4 male; BMI 
averaged 28kg/m(2)) suffering from OSA with a history of a long-lasting 
unsuccessful continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy a bimaxillary 
advancement was performed. The respiratory disturbance was preoperatively 
evaluated by polysomnography; daytime sleepiness was recorded according to the 
'Epworth Sleepiness Scale'. Controls were performed six months after therapy. 
All patients had a regular intermaxillary relation. Bimaxillary advancement was 
planned and performed according to the principles of cranio-maxillofacial 
corrective surgery. To widen the posterior airway space much attention was 
focused on the advancement of the mandible by 10mm.
RESULTS: The apnea/hypopnea index decreased from preoperatively 37/h to 4/h 
after treatment. The minimal peripheral oxygen saturation increased from 78% to 
89%, whereas the average oxygen saturation raised from 92 to 95%. The arousal 
index decreased from 24/h to 9/h. Periods of snoring were reduced from 29,5% to 
6,9%. According to the 'Epworth Sleepiness Scale' the patients' estimation 
improved from a level of 11 to 4. Sleep had a recuperating effect. All surgical 
procedures were uneventful.
CONCLUSION: Standard treatment of OSA is the CPAP-therapy. In some patients, 
however, CPAP-therapy cannot be applied, fails or is not well accepted. A great 
variety of surgical procedures for the treatment of OSA have been described. 
Bimaxillary advancement in adults and osteodistraction in neonates are safe and 
successful surgical techniques for an immediate improvement in OSA. 
Osteodistraction treatment can help to avoid tracheotomy in neonates.

DOI: 10.1007/s10006-007-0051-y
PMID: 17406922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2007 Jun;30(3):406. doi: 10.1007/s10545-007-0485-2.
Epub  2007 Apr 3.

Serum lipid and lipoprotein profile of patients with glycogen storage disease 
types I, III and IX.

Geberhiwot T(1), Alger S, McKiernan P, Packard C, Caslake M, Elias E, Cramb R.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham Children's Hospital, Steelhouse Lane, Birmingham, B4 6NH, UK. 
tgeberhiwot@nhs.net

With current dietary therapy, life expectancy in glycogen storage disease (GSD) 
has improved considerably and more children reach adulthood. Notwithstanding 
intensive dietary therapy, moderate to severe hyperlipidaemia is still observed 
frequently. There is limited information about the type and extent of 
hyperlipidaemia. We studied the lipid profile in 20 patients, aged 8-54 years, 
of the three (types I, III and IX) most common forms of adult GSD. 
Hyperlipidaemia was shown to be type-specific, affecting predominantly patients 
with GSD type Ia, who showed marked combined hypercholesterolaemia and 
hypertriglyceridaemia. By contrast, a heterogeneous distribution of HDL was 
found in patients with GSD I and III. There was no significant difference in Apo 
Al and Apo B concentrations between groups. In addition, mass measurements of 
the fractions of VLDL1, VLDL2 and IDL were raised in all patients with GSD Ia by 
comparison with all other patients with GSD. Patients with GSD type Ia have 
lipid concentrations and individual mass measurements that are consistent with 
ranges found in patients who have a significant risk of atherosclerosis. 
Accumulated evidence, however, suggest GSD type Ia patients do not have an 
increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD) but the reason 
remains unknown. Intervention to reduce their lipid levels could therefore be on 
the basis of seeking to prevent the risk of pancreatitis rather than that of 
CVD.
