anguillicaudatus).

Fujimoto T(1), Kataoka T, Sakao S, Saito T, Yamaha E, Arai K.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Aquaculture Genetics and Genomics, Division of Marine Life 
Science, Graduate School of Fisheries Sciences, Hokkaido University, Hakodate, 
Hokkaido, Japan. motchan@fish.hokudai.ac.jp

The staging of embryonic and larval development, and the germ cell lineage of 
the loach, Misgurnus anguillicaudatus, are described. Fertilized eggs were 
obtained by artificial insemination. For the convenience of detailed observation 
and photography of the external appearance, we use dechorionated embryos. 
Through a series of operations, these embryos were cultured at 20 degrees C in 
an incubator. Embryonic and larval development of the loach was divided into 
five periods: cleavage, blastula, gastrula, segmentation, and hatching. Stages 
were assigned within each of these periods. Developmental stages were determined 
and named by morphological features and somite number. The staging series were 
photographed and tabulated. The germ cell lineage was then elucidated by whole 
mount in situ hybridization of mRNA expression of the germ-cell-specific marker 
vasa and histological analysis. Primordial germ cells (PGCs) of the loach 
derived from the cleavage furrows of 8-cell stage embryos began proliferation in 
the late blastula period and migrated to the gonadal anlagen through a migration 
pathway similar to that of the zebrafish. However, it is characteristic of the 
loach that PGCs migrate a long distance and stay in the posterior part of the 
yolk-extension region.

DOI: 10.2108/zsj.23.977
PMID: 17189910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Chir Ital. 2006 Nov-Dec;58(6):717-22.

The art of decision-making in surgery. To what extent does economics influence 
choice?

Vannelli A(1), Battaglia L, Poiasina E, Belli F, Bonfanti G, Gallino G, 
Vitellaro M, De Dosso S, Leo E.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery B, National Tumour Institute, Milan, Italy.

Traditionally most surgeons have paid little attention to the costs of 
healthcare treatments. With the increase in the number of efficacious surgical 
alternatives, a distinct scarcity of available resources has emerged. Since the 
Eighties, the impact of surgical expenditure has been increasing everywhere. The 
causes are: medical progress, increased life expectancy, escalating costs and 
decreasing revenues. The surgeon has been increasingly forced to weigh up 
theories, doctrines and techniques of economics and management. This created new 
problems of choice. In any event, the surgeon's decision-making could lead to 
negative consequences if the primary concern is with the financial constraints 
and he is prompted simply to act rather than to achieve his therapeutic goal. In 
conclusion, although the impact of economic considerations is inevitable in the 
choice of surgery, the terms and methods involved in the process are rather 
ambiguous. In other words, surgeons face with the dilemma of the patient to whom 
the economist denies treatment. To be aware of this issue is the first step, but 
there is still much more to do in order to define the terms of action.

PMID: 17190276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2006 Nov-Dec;21(6):951-6.

Implant-prosthetic treatment in HIV-infected patients receiving highly active 
antiretroviral therapy: report of cases.

Strietzel FP(1), Rothe S, Reichart PA, Schmidt-Westhausen AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery and Dental Radiology, Center for Dental Medicine, 
Campus Virchow-Klinikum, Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Germany. 
frank.strietzel@charite.de

PURPOSE: Since 1997, the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has 
significantly improved systemic health and life expectancy of patients who test 
positive for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in industrialized countries. 
Therefore, although implant-supported prosthetic rehabilitation has been 
restricted to immunocompetent individuals, it may be considered for these 
patients.
CASE REPORTS: The treatment course of implant-prosthetic rehabilitation in 3 
patients is reported. Patient 1 (male, age 64 years) was under 4-drug therapy; 
patient 2 (male, age 38 years) and patient 3 (female, age 49 years) were under 
3-drug therapy. Two patients had suffered from AIDS-defining diseases prior to 
HAART. Oral manifestations of HIV infection were not diagnosed throughout the 
observation period. Patients had CD4+ cell counts between 250 and 800/mL, and 
viral load was below 50/mL. Perioperative antibiotic treatment was not applied. 
Two patients presented with edentulous mandibles. In the third patient, 
single-tooth replacement of both mandibular first molars was performed. A total 
of 10 Frialit-2 implants were placed without augmentation procedures.
RESULTS: One implant failed after 3 months and was successfully replaced. Two 
patients received magnet-retained overdentures in the mandible, and 1 patient 
was treated with single crowns. All implants and restorations are successfully 
in function. Neither radiographic nor clinical signs of inflammation were 
detected during the observation period (range, 7 to 32 months).
CONCLUSIONS: The outcomes of the 3 patients suggest that immunologically stable 
HIV-positive patients on HAART may be considered for implant-prosthetic 
rehabilitation.

PMID: 17190306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2007 Jan;56(1):91-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2006.07.007.

Recurrence rates of primary basal cell carcinoma in facial risk areas treated 
with curettage and electrodesiccation.

Rodriguez-Vigil T(1), Vázquez-López F, Perez-Oliva N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Asturias Central University Hospital, University 
of Oviedo, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is increasing. Curettage 
and electrodesiccation (CE) are not recommended for BCC treatment at medium- and 
high-risk facial sites. Surgical excision has been proposed as the treatment of 
choice.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to evaluate the cumulative recurrence rate (RR) of primary 
BCC in facial areas of medium and high risk after CE.
METHODS: This nonrandomized, clinical trial enrolled 257 patients with primary 
BCC located in medium- and high-risk facial areas, and treated with 4 or 5 
cycles of CE by a single operator from a section specializing in BCC CE in a 
tertiary teaching hospital in Oviedo, Spain. Exclusion criteria for study entry 
included: recurrent BCC, fibrosing BCC, ill-defined BCC, and BCC larger than 10 
mm in diameter (high-risk facial sites) or larger than 15 mm in diameter 
(medium-risk sites); BCC smaller than 4 mm; and nonbiopsy-proven BCC. BCCs 
included in the study were from the nose, and paranasal and nasal-labial fold (n 
= 105); eyelids and canthi (n = 48); perioral areas (n = 12); ears (n = 11); 
forehead and temples (n = 48); periauricular areas (n = 14); and malar areas and 
cheeks (n = 19). The primary outcome was recurrence of carcinoma, which was 
clinically evaluated by at least two observers in consensus. Data were analyzed 
using both a life table method and Kaplan-Meier analysis. The statistical 
analysis included best- and worst-case scenarios (which means that all cases 
lost to follow-up were considered as recurrences).
RESULTS: The 5-year cumulative non-RR in the best-case scenario was 98.80% (SE 
0.70, 95% confidence interval 97.40%-100%); thus, a 5-year cumulative RR of 
1.20% was found after CE in our medium- and high-risk BCCs of the face (best 
case). The 5-year cumulative non-RR in the worst-case scenario was 79.40% (95% 
confidence interval 78.90%-79.90%); thus, a 5-year cumulative RR of 20.60%.
LIMITATIONS: Retrospective design with a relatively small number of patients 
lost to follow-up is a study limitation.
CONCLUSION: High 5-year cure rates can be obtained after CE of primary, 
nonfibrosing BCCs of medium- and high-risk areas of the face performed in a 
specialized section.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2006.07.007
PMID: 17190625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. J Biochem. 2007 Mar;141(3):309-17. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvm031. Epub 2006 Dec 26.

Characteristic expression of Lewis-antigenic glycolipids in human ovarian 
carcinoma-derived cells with anticancer drug-resistance.

Iwamori M(1), Iwamori Y, Kubushiro K, Ishiwata I, Kiguchi K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science and Technology, Kinki 
University, 3-4-1 Kowakae, Higashiosaka, Osaka 577-8502, Japan. 
iwamori@life.kindai.ac.jp

By comparing ovarian carcinoma-derived KF28 cells with the corresponding 
anticancer drug-resistant cells, the taxol- and cisplatin-resistant properties 
were found to be closely related with MDR1 and BSEP, and MRP2 transporters, 
respectively. In addition to the transporters expression, the amounts of 
glycolipids, particularly their longer carbohydrate structures, in the resistant 
cells increased to 3-4-fold of those in the sensitive cells due to enhanced 
transcription of the respective glycosyltransferases. The major glycolipids in 
the sensitive and resistant cells were GlcCer and Gb(3)Cer, respectively, and 
extension of the carbohydrate structure into Lewis antigen characteristically 
occurred in the resistant cells. Le(b), which was not detected in the 
cisplatin-resistant cells, was present in the taxol-resistant cells, while Le(x) 
was present in the cisplatin-resistant cells at a higher concentration than in 
the taxol-resistant cells. 2-Hydroxy fatty acids were significantly abundant in 
glycolipids of the resistant cells, but they were not detected in free ceramides 
or sphingomyelin, indicating that the enhanced synthesis of glycolipids in the 
resistant cells was not linked with the removal pathway for virulent ceramides 
derived from sphingomyelin. The resistant cells with abundant glycolipids 
exhibited lower membrane fluidity than the KF28 cells, and this property might 
be involved in the anticancer drug-resistance.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvm031
PMID: 17190787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Jan 2;104(1):213-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.0607845104.  Epub 2006 Dec 26.

Parasitic inhibition of cell death facilitates symbiosis.

Pannebakker BA(1), Loppin B, Elemans CP, Humblot L, Vavre F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive, Unité Mixte de Recherche 
5558, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Université Claude Bernard 
Lyon 1, IFR 41, 69622 Villeurbanne Cédex, France. bart.pannebakker@ed.ac.uk

Symbiotic microorganisms have had a large impact on eukaryotic evolution, with 
effects ranging from parasitic to mutualistic. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are 
prime examples of symbiotic microorganisms that have become obligate for their 
hosts, allowing for a dramatic extension of suitable habitats for life. Out of 
the extraordinary diversity of bacterial endosymbionts in insects, most are 
facultative for their hosts, such as the ubiquitous Wolbachia, which manipulates 
host reproduction. Some endosymbionts, however, have become obligatory for host 
reproduction and/or survival. In the parasitoid wasp Asobara tabida the presence 
of Wolbachia is necessary for host oogenesis, but the mechanism involved is yet 
unknown. We show that Wolbachia influences programmed cell death processes (a 
host regulatory feature typically targeted by pathogens) in A. tabida, making 
its presence essential for the wasps' oocytes to mature. This suggests that 
parasite strategies, such as bacterial regulation of host apoptosis, can drive 
the evolution of host dependence, allowing for a swift transition from 
parasitism to mutualism.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0607845104
PMCID: PMC1765438
PMID: 17190825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


902. JAMA. 2006 Dec 27;296(24):2939-46. doi: 10.1001/jama.296.24.2939.

Trends in incidence, lifetime risk, severity, and 30-day mortality of stroke 
over the past 50 years.

Carandang R(1), Seshadri S, Beiser A, Kelly-Hayes M, Kase CS, Kannel WB, Wolf 
PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Boston University, Boston, Mass 
02118-2526, USA.

CONTEXT: Prior estimates of long-term trends in the incidence and severity of 
stroke have varied; trends in lifetime risk have not been reported.
OBJECTIVE: To determine long-term trends in the incidence, lifetime risk, 
severity, and 30-day mortality of clinical stroke.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Prospective evaluation of the community-based 
Framingham Study original and offspring cohorts. Participants were 9152 men and 
women free of prevalent stroke and undergoing follow-up for up to 50 years over 
3 consecutive periods (1950-1977, 1978-1989, and 1990-2004), with biennial 
ascertainment of stroke risk factor data and active surveillance for incident 
clinical stroke and cause-specific mortality.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence (age-adjusted, sex-specific), severity, 30-day 
mortality, and mortality-adjusted 10-year and lifetime risk of stroke in each of 
the specified periods.
RESULTS: There were 1030 incident clinical strokes (450 [44%] in men, 629 
atherothrombotic brain infarctions [61%]) in 9152 persons 55 years or older over 
174,917 person-years of follow-up. The age-adjusted incidence of first stroke 
per 1000 person-years in each of the 3 periods was 7.6, 6.2, and 5.3, 
respectively, in men (P = .02 for trend) and 6.2, 5.8, and 5.1 in women (P = .01 
for trend). The lifetime risk at age 65 years decreased from 19.5% to 14.5% in 
men (P = .11) and from 18.0% to 16.1% in women (P = .61). Age-adjusted stroke 
severity did not vary across periods; however, 30-day mortality decreased 
significantly in men (from 23% to 14%; P = .01) but not significantly in women 
(from 21% to 20%; P = .32).
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of men and women free of prevalent clinical stroke 
at initial examination, incidence of stroke has decreased over the past 50 years 
but the lifetime risk has not declined to the same degree, perhaps due to 
improved life expectancy. The results of this study suggest that improved 
control of risk factors has lowered stroke incidence but emphasize the need for 
continued primary prevention efforts.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.296.24.2939
PMID: 17190894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(1):39-54. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200725010-00005.

A lifetime modelled economic evaluation comparing pioglitazone and rosiglitazone 
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in the UK.

Tilden DP(1), Mariz S, O'Bryan-Tear G, Bottomley J, Diamantopoulos A.

Author information:
(1)THEMA Consulting Pty Ltd, Beacon Hill, New South Wales, Australia. 
dtilden@thema.com.au

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(3):237.

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(9):801-2; author reply 802-5.

INTRODUCTION: Adding pioglitazone or rosiglitazone to existing therapy are 
alternative treatment options for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who 
have insufficient glycaemic control while receiving the maximal tolerated dose 
of metformin monotherapy. Our objective was to develop a lifetime model of type 
2 diabetes mellitus and its sequelae in order to compare the costs and benefits 
of pioglitazone versus rosiglitazone in combination with metformin.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model employing a first order Monte Carlo 
simulation of a Markov process was constructed. The model incorporated surrogate 
outcome measures from a large randomised controlled trial (RCT) [n = 802] that 
compared the glycaemic and lipid control of pioglitazone and rosiglitazone 
monotherapy. These efficacy data were used with a recently validated and 
peer-reviewed UKPDS (UK Prospective Diabetes Study) algorithm to simulate the 
progression of these surrogate outcomes to final health outcomes, including 
quality of life (QOL) and mortality, and to calculate the risks of diabetic 
complications and death. The model perspective was of the UK NHS and included 
direct healthcare costs only (pounds, 2004/5 values). Patient outcomes measured 
in the model included life-expectancy (LE) and QALYs. The base-case analysis was 
run for 56-year-old male Caucasions with a haemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)) of 7.57% 
and a body mass index of 33.14 kg/m(2).
RESULTS: Patients treated with pioglitazone experienced a reduction in the total 
cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (TC : HDL-C) ratio of 0.34, 
whereas the TC : HDL-C ratio increased by 0.65 in those receiving rosiglitazone 
(p < 0.001). The HbA(1c) profile was similar between the treatment groups (p = 
0.13), as were other known risk factors for diabetes complications. The lifetime 
healthcare costs per patient estimated by the model were 9585 pounds for 
pioglitazone and 10,299 pounds for rosiglitazone. Patients treated with 
pioglitazone had a discounted LE of 8.83 years versus 8.79 years for those 
treated with rosiglitazone. Patients treated with pioglitazone also gained 
additional QALYs (6.8070 vs 6.7686). With improved health outcomes and lower 
costs, treatment with pioglitazone dominated rosiglitazone treatment.
CONCLUSION: Evidence from the only large head-to-head RCT comparing 
rosiglitazone and pioglitazone suggests that more favourable changes in serum 
lipid profiles in patients treated with pioglitazone translate into improved 
health outcomes in terms of reduced morbidity and mortality and greater gains in 
QOL. In addition, this analysis indicates that treatment with pioglitazone is 
associated with lower costs than rosiglitazone. Therefore, in the UK, adjunctive 
pioglitazone may represent a cost-effective treatment choice for patients with 
type 2 diabetes who have insufficient glycaemic control while receiving the 
maximal tolerated dose of metformin monotherapy.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725010-00005
PMID: 17192117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. J Mol Neurosci. 2006;30(1-2):193-5. doi: 10.1385/JMN:30:1:193.

Production of the butyrylcholinesterase knockout mouse.

Li B(1), Duysen EG, Saunders TL, Lockridge O.

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska Medical Center, Eppley Institute, Omaha, NE 
68198-6805, USA.

The butyrylcholinesterase (BChE [EC 3.1.1.8]) knockout mouse is a model for BChE 
deficiency in humans. The existence of genetic variants of human BChE was 
discovered after a new muscle relaxant, succinylcholine, was introduced into the 
practice of medicine in the late 1950s. People with the atypical variant were 
unable to breathe for 2 h after receiving a dose intended to paralyze for 3-5 
min (Kalow and Gunn, 1957, 1959). The atypical variant was later found to have a 
single-amino-acid mutation at Asp-70 (McGuire et al., 1989), which decreased the 
affinity of BChE for all positively charged compounds. Though the atypical BChE 
mutant is the one most commonly encountered in cases of succinylcholine apnea, 
an additional 58 mutations in the BChE coding sequence have been reported. The 
frequency of BChE mutations in the American population is known (Lockridge, 
1990). One person out of 25 carries one atypical allele (D70G), whereas 1 out of 
2500 is homozygous for D70G. The most frequent mutation, A539T, is carried by 1 
person out of every 4 and is found in homozygous form in 1 person out of 69 
(Bartels et al., 1992). The homozygous A539T form is associated with a 33% 
decrease in plasma BChE activity. Some people have no detectable BChE activity 
in plasma, owing to a mutation that truncates the protein, or inactivates it. 
The frequency of silent BChE is 1 out of 160 for carriers, and 1 out of 110,000 
for homozygotes. The BChE knockout mice are models for silent BChE in humans. 
The literature contains no documentation of the health of people with silent 
BChE, other than to say they are healthy. We know nothing about their life 
expectancy, fertility, risk of cognitive impairment, risk of heart disease, or 
susceptibility to toxins. The BChE knockout mouse will allow us to test the 
hypothesis that the function of BChE is to detoxify poisons and will allow us to 
test the role of BChE in other physiological functions.

DOI: 10.1385/JMN:30:1:193
PMID: 17192674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Mol Gen Genet. 1987 Oct;209(3):445-52. doi: 10.1007/BF00331148.

Selective and accurate initiation of transcription at the T-DNA promoter in a 
soluble chromatin extract from wheat germ.

Yamazaki K(1), Imamoto F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Tsukuba Life Science Center, Riken 3-1-1 
Koyadai, Yatabe-machi, Tsukuba-gun, Ibaraki, 305 Japan.

An in vitro assay system was developed for accurate transcription of the 
octopine type T-DNA gene in a wheat germ extract. The system consists of the 
protein fraction extracted from the chromatin of wheat germ, substrates and 
exogenously added DNA. Specific initiation at the promoter was determined by a 
combination of primer extension analysis and size analysis of the transcripts 
synthesized from DNA templates of various molecular sizes. Synthesis of the 
transcripts was sensitive to alpha-amanitin. With truncated DNA templates 
containing the intact promoter and the proximal transcribing region of several 
hundred base pairs of the T-DNA, run-off transcripts of the expected size 
originating at the authentic promoter were synthesized together with relatively 
small amounts of prematurely terminated RNA molecules. On fractionation of the 
chromatin protein extract by DEAE-cellulose column chromatography, the fraction 
eluted with 0.3 M KCl showed no activity by itself for specific initiation of 
transcription at the promoter by RNA polymerase II. The activity was however 
restored by adding the fraction eluted with 0.15 M KCl, and the reconstituted 
RNA polymerase fraction correctly initiated transcription at the authentic 
promoter.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00331148
PMID: 17193708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Soz Praventivmed. 2006;51(4):221-31. doi: 10.1007/s00038-006-5081-y.

Social differences in the burden of long-standing illness in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Davidsen M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the impact of diseases on social differences in life 
expectancy and expected lifetime with illness among Danes in 1995-99.
METHODS: Expected lifetime with and without long-standing illness were 
calculated for groups with low, medium and high educational levels. Estimates 
based on observed rates of mortality and prevalence of illness were compared 
with those based on rates from which a specific disease had been eliminated.
RESULTS: Partial life expectancy (age 30-75) would increase by almost 1.5 years 
if cancer were eliminated. Expected lifetime without long-standing illness would 
increase by approximately 1 year. Elimination of cardiovascular diseases would 
increase partial life expectancy, mainly among men with a low educational level. 
If diseases of the musculoskeletal system were eliminated the benefit would be 
greatest for persons with a low educational level.
CONCLUSIONS: The gain in life expectancy to be expected by eliminating certain 
diseases decreased with educational level. Elimination of cancer would extend 
lifetime both with and without illness for all educational levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-006-5081-y
PMID: 17193784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Int J Health Geogr. 2006 Dec 28;5:61. doi: 10.1186/1476-072X-5-61.

Health indicators and human development in the Arab region.

Boutayeb A(1), Serghini M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University Mohammed Ier, BP: 717, Oujda, Morocco. 
x.boutayeb@menara.ma

BACKGROUND: The present paper deals with the relationship between health 
indicators and human development in the Arab region. Beyond descriptive analysis 
showing geographic similarities and disparities inter countries, the main 
purpose is to point out health deficiencies and to propose pragmatic strategies 
susceptible to improve health conditions and consequently enhance human 
development in the Arab world.
METHODS: Data analysis using Principal Components Analysis is used to compare 
the achievements of the Arab countries in terms of direct and indirect health 
indicators. The variables (indicators) are seen to be well represented on the 
circle of correlation, allowing for interesting interpretation and analysis. The 
19 countries are projected on the first and second plane respectively.
RESULTS: The results given by the present analysis give a good panorama of the 
Arab countries with their geographic similarities and disparities. The high 
correlation between health indicators and human development is well illustrated 
and consequently, countries are classified by groups having similar human 
development. The analysis shows clearly how health deficits are impeding human 
development in the majority of Arab countries and allows us to formulate 
suggestions to improve health conditions and enhance human development in the 
Arab World.
DISCUSSION: The discussion is based on the link between different direct and 
indirect health indicators and the relationship between these indicators and 
human development index. Without including the GDP indicator, our analysis has 
shown that the 19 Arab countries may be classified, independently of their 
geographic proximity, in three different groups according to their global human 
development level (Low, Medium and High). Consequently, while identifying health 
deficiencies in each group, the focus was made on the countries presenting a 
high potential of improvement in health indicators. In particular, maternal 
mortality and infant mortality which are really challenging health authorities 
of the first and third group were critically discussed.
CONCLUSION: The Arab countries have made substantial economic and social 
progress during the last decades by improving life expectancy and reducing 
maternal and infant mortality. However, considering its natural wealth and human 
resources, the Arab region has accomplished less than expected in terms of human 
development. Huge social inequalities and health inequities exist inter and 
intra Arab countries. In most Arab countries, a large percentage of populations, 
especially in rural areas, are deprived of access to health facilities. 
Consequently, many women still die during pregnancy and labour, yielding 
unacceptable levels of maternal and infant mortality. However, the problem is 
seen to be more complex, going beyond geography and technical accessibility to 
health care, it compasses, among others, levels of literacy, low social and 
economic status of women, qualification of health staff, general behaviour and 
interactions between patients and medical personnel (including corruption).

DOI: 10.1186/1476-072X-5-61
PMCID: PMC1766356
PMID: 17194309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Eur Psychiatry. 2007 Apr;22(3):146-52. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2006.10.006.
Epub  2006 Dec 27.

The economic burden of depression in Sweden from 1997 to 2005.

Sobocki P(1), Lekander I, Borgström F, Ström O, Runeson B.

Author information:
(1)Division for International Health (IHCAR), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden. patrik.sobocki@ki.se

BACKGROUND: Depression is one of the most common causes of disability and is 
associated with substantial reductions in the individual's quality of life. The 
aim of this study was to estimate the economic burden of depression to Swedish 
society from 1997 to 2005.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was conducted in a cost-of-illness framework, 
measuring both the direct cost of providing health care to depressive patients, 
and the indirect costs as the value of production that is lost due to morbidity 
or mortality. The costs were estimated by a prevalence and top-down approach.
RESULTS: The cost of depression increased from a total of 1.7 billion euros in 
1997 to 3.5 billion euros in 2005, representing a doubling of the burden of 
depression to society. The main reason for the cost increase is found in the 
significant increase in indirect costs due to sick leave and early retirement 
during the past decade, whereas direct costs were relatively stable over time. 
In 2005, indirect costs were estimated at 3 billion euros (86% of total costs) 
and direct costs at 500 million euros (16%). Cost of drugs was estimated at 100 
million euros (3% of total cost).
CONCLUSION: The cost of depression is substantial to society and the main cost 
driver is indirect costs due to sick leave and early retirement. The cost of 
depression has doubled during the past eight years making it a major public 
health concern for the individuals afflicted, carers and decision makers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2006.10.006
PMID: 17194573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Oct;17(5):520-5. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl265. Epub
2006  Dec 27.

Gender differences in the consumption of meat, fruit and vegetables are similar 
in Finland and the Baltic countries.

Prättälä R(1), Paalanen L, Grinberga D, Helasoja V, Kasmel A, Petkeviciene J.

Author information:
(1)National Public Health Institute, Department of Health Promotion and Chronic 
Disease Prevention, Helsinki, Finland. ritva.prattala@ktl.fi

BACKGROUND: Women's diets are healthier than men's. Finnish women eat more 
fruits and vegetables but less meat than men. Gender differences may be larger 
in the Baltic countries, which represent Eastern European transition societies 
than in Finland, a society characterized by the Scandinavian welfare ideology 
and a high degree of gender equality.
METHODS: The data are based on questionnaires to random samples of adults in 
Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The data provide a way of addressing 
gender differences at the turn of the century in the economically and culturally 
different countries. The purpose is to explore whether the consumption of foods 
classified as masculine or feminine-meat, fruits and vegetables-follow a similar 
gender pattern in Finland and the Baltic countries.
RESULTS: Men ate meat more often while women ate fruits and vegetables. A high 
educational level was associated with frequent consumption of fruits and 
vegetables. Educational differences in the consumption of meat were few and 
inconsistent. The consumption of fruits and vegetables was more common in urban 
areas except in Finland. Gender differences were similar in all countries 
throughout age and educational groups and in rural and urban areas.
CONCLUSION: The consistent association of gender and food and the similarity of 
gender patterning in population subgroups point to the stability of masculine 
versus feminine food habits. The similarity suggests that food habits contribute 
equally to the gender gap in health in the Baltic countries as they do in 
Finland.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckl265
PMID: 17194710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Am J Public Health. 2007 Feb;97(2):224-8. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.059337.
Epub  2006 Dec 28.

Framing the public health of caregiving.

Talley RC(1), Crews JE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Development and Disability, National Center on Birth 
Defects and Developmental Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd, E-88, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA. rtalley@cdc.gov

Erratum in
    Am J Public Health. 2007 Mar;97(3):393.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 2007 Nov;97(11):1931; author reply 1931-2.
    Am J Public Health. 2007 Nov;97(11):1930-1.

Caregiving has only recently been acknowledged by the nation as an important 
topic for millions of Americans. A psychological or sociological approach to 
care-giving services has been most often applied, with little attention to the 
population-based public health outcomes of caregivers. We conceptualize 
caregiving as an emerging public health issue involving complex and fluctuating 
roles. We contend that caregiving must be considered in the context of life span 
needs that vary according to the ages, developmental levels, mental health 
needs, and physical health demands of both caregivers and care recipients.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2004.059337
PMCID: PMC1781412
PMID: 17194871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. J Trauma Stress. 2006 Dec;19(6):787-97. doi: 10.1002/jts.20190.

A guide to economic evaluation: methods for cost-effectiveness analysis of 
person-level data.

Hoch JS(1), Smith MW.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Inner City Health and St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, 
and the Department of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. jeffrey.hoch@utoronto.ca

The authors introduce economic evaluation with particular attention to 
cost-effectiveness analysis. They begin by establishing why health care 
decisions should be guided by economics. They then explore different types of 
economic evaluations. To illustrate how to conduct and evaluate a 
cost-effectiveness analysis, a hypothetical study about the treatment of 
posttraumatic stress disorder with psychotherapy versus pharmacotherapy is 
considered. The authors conclude with recommendations for increasing the 
strength and relevance of economic evaluations.

DOI: 10.1002/jts.20190
PMID: 17195977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Mech Ageing Dev. 2007 Mar;128(3):237-49. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.12.003.
Epub  2006 Dec 28.

Candidate genes affecting Drosophila life span identified by integrating 
microarray gene expression analysis and QTL mapping.

Lai CQ(1), Parnell LD, Lyman RF, Ordovas JM, Mackay TF.

Author information:
(1)JM-USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging, Nutrition and Genomics, 
Tufts University, Boston, MA 02111, United States. chao.lai@tufts.edu

The current increase in life expectancy observed in industrialized societies 
underscores the need to achieve a better understanding of the aging process that 
could help the development of effective strategies to achieve healthy aging. 
This will require not only identifying genes involved in the aging process, but 
also understanding how their effects are modulated by environmental factors, 
such as dietary intake and life style. Although the human genome has been 
sequenced, it may be impractical to study humans or other long-lived organisms 
to gain a mechanistic understanding about the aging process. Thus, short-lived 
animal models are essential to identifying the mechanisms and genes that affect 
the rate and quality of aging as a first step towards identifying genetic 
variants in humans. In this study, we investigated gene expression changes 
between two strains of Drosophila (Oregon and 2b) for which quantitative trait 
loci (QTLs) affecting life span were identified previously. We collected males 
and females from both strains at young and old ages, and assessed whole genome 
variation in transcript abundance using Affymetrix GeneChips. We observed 8217 
probe sets with detectable transcripts. A total of 2371 probe sets, representing 
2220 genes, exhibited significant changes in transcript abundance with age; and 
839 probe sets were differentially expressed between Oregon and 2b. We focused 
on the 359 probe sets (representing 354 genes) that exhibited significant 
changes in gene expression both with age and between strains. We used these 
genes to integrate the analysis of microarray gene expression data, 
bioinformatics, and the results of genetic mapping studies reported previously, 
to identify 49 candidate genes and four pathways that could potentially be 
responsible for regulating life span and involved in the process of aging in 
Drosophila and humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.12.003
PMID: 17196240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Soc Sci Med. 2007 Apr;64(7):1392-406. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.11.014.
Epub  2006 Dec 29.

Linked versus unlinked estimates of mortality and length of life by education 
and marital status: evidence from the first record linkage study in Lithuania.

Shkolnikov VM(1), Jasilionis D, Andreev EM, Jdanov DA, Stankuniene V, 
Ambrozaitiene D.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research Rostock, Germany. 
shkolnikov@demogr.mpg.de

Earlier studies have found large and increasing with time differences in 
mortality by education and marital status in post-Soviet countries. Their 
results are based on independent tabulations of population and deaths counts 
(unlinked data). The present study provides the first census-linked estimates of 
group-specific mortality and the first comparison between census-linked and 
unlinked mortality estimates for a post-Soviet country. The study is based on a 
data set linking 140,000 deaths occurring in 2001-2004 in Lithuania with the 
population census of 2001. The same socio-demographic information about the 
deceased is available from both the census and death records. Cross-tabulations 
and Poisson regressions are used to compare linked and unlinked data. Linked and 
unlinked estimates of life expectancies and mortality rate ratios are calculated 
with standard life table techniques and Poisson regressions. For the two 
socio-demographic variables under study, the values from the death records 
partly differ from those from the census records. The deviations are especially 
significant for education, with 72-73%, 66-67%, and 82-84% matching for higher 
education, secondary education, and lower education, respectively. For marital 
status, deviations are less frequent. For education and marital status, unlinked 
estimates tend to overstate mortality in disadvantaged groups and they 
understate mortality in advantaged groups. The differences in inter-group life 
expectancy and the mortality rate ratios thus are significantly overestimated in 
the unlinked data. Socio-demographic differences in mortality previously 
observed in Lithuania and possibly other post-Soviet countries are 
overestimated. The growth in inequalities over the 1990s is real but might be 
overstated. The results of this study confirm the existence of large and 
widening health inequalities but call for better data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.11.014
PMID: 17196723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Neuroimage. 2007 Feb 15;34(4):1416-27. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroimage.2006.11.005.  Epub 2006 Dec 28.

Temporal classification of multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy signals of 
motor imagery for developing a brain-computer interface.

Sitaram R(1), Zhang H, Guan C, Thulasidas M, Hoshi Y, Ishikawa A, Shimizu K, 
Birbaumer N.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore. 
sitaram.ranganatha@uni-tuebingen.de

There has been an increase in research interest for brain-computer interface 
(BCI) technology as an alternate mode of communication and environmental control 
for the disabled, such as patients suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS), brainstem stroke and spinal cord injury. Disabled patients with 
appropriate physical care and cognitive ability to communicate with their social 
environment continue to live with a reasonable quality of life over extended 
periods of time. Near-infrared spectroscopy is a non-invasive technique which 
utilizes light in the near-infrared range (700 to 1000 nm) to determine cerebral 
oxygenation, blood flow and metabolic status of localized regions of the brain. 
In this paper, we describe a study conducted to test the feasibility of using 
multichannel NIRS in the development of a BCI. We used a continuous wave 
20-channel NIRS system over the motor cortex of 5 healthy volunteers to measure 
oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin changes during left-hand and right-hand 
motor imagery. We present results of signal analysis indicating that there exist 
distinct patterns of hemodynamic responses which could be utilized in a pattern 
classifier towards developing a BCI. We applied two different pattern 
recognition algorithms separately, Support Vector Machines (SVM) and Hidden 
Markov Model (HMM), to classify the data offline. SVM classified left-hand 
imagery from right-hand imagery with an average accuracy of 73% for all 
volunteers, while HMM performed better with an average accuracy of 89%. Our 
results indicate potential application of NIRS in the development of BCIs. We 
also discuss here future extension of our system to develop a word speller 
application based on a cursor control paradigm incorporating online pattern 
classification of single-trial NIRS data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2006.11.005
PMID: 17196832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2007 Mar 1;67(3):863-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.09.049. Epub 2006 Dec 29.

Immediate postoperative radiotherapy in residual nonfunctioning pituitary 
adenoma: beneficial effect on local control without additional negative impact 
on pituitary function and life expectancy.

van den Bergh AC(1), van den Berg G, Schoorl MA, Sluiter WJ, van der Vliet AM, 
Hoving EW, Szabó BG, Langendijk JA, Wolffenbuttel BH, Dullaart RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Medical Center Groningen, 
Groningen, the Netherlands. a.c.m.van.den.bergh@rt.umcg.nl

PURPOSE: To demonstrate the benefit of immediate postoperative radiotherapy in 
residual nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma (NFA) in perspective to the need for 
hormonal substitution and life expectancy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Retrospective cohort analysis of 122 patients, operated 
for NFA between 1979 and 1998. Recurrence was defined as regrowth on computed 
tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. The occurrence of hormonal 
deficiencies was defined as the starting date of hormonal substitution therapy.
RESULTS: Seventy-six patients had residual NFA after surgery and received 
immediate postoperative radiotherapy (Group 1); three patients developed a 
recurrence, resulting in a 95% local control rate at 10 years. Twenty-eight 
patients had residual NFA after surgery, but were followed by a wait-and-see 
policy (Group 2). Sixteen developed a recurrence, resulting in a local control 
rate of 49% at 5 years and 22% at 10 years (p < 0.001 compared with Group 1). 
There were no differences between Group 1 and 2 regarding the need for 
substitution with thyroid hormone, glucocorticoids, and sex hormones before 
first surgery, directly after surgery and at end of follow-up. There were no 
differences in hormone substitution free survival between Group 1 and Group 2 
during the study period after first surgery. Life expectancy was similar in 
Group 1 and 2, and their median life expectancy did not differ from median life 
expectancy in the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: Immediate postoperative radiotherapy provides a marked improvement 
of local control among patients with residual NFA compared with surgery alone, 
without an additional deleterious effect on pituitary function and life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.09.049
PMID: 17197121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Eur J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2007 Sep;6(3):247-51. doi: 
10.1016/J.EJCNURSE.2006.11.002. Epub 2007 Jan 2.

Self-reported physical activities in patients after the Mustard or Senning 
operation: comparison with healthy control subjects.

De Bleser L(1), Budts W, Sluysmans T, De Wolf D, Massin M, Gewillig M, Suys B, 
Moons P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services and Nursing Research, Katholieke Universiteit 
Leuven, Kapucijnenvoer 35/4, B-3000, Leuven, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Some decades ago, the Mustard or Senning operation was used to treat 
patients who were born with Transposition of the Great Arteries (TGA). Although 
life expectancy is good, previous studies have demonstrated limitations in 
exercise capacity. To what extent these limitations affect day-to-day 
functioning of the patients is not yet known.
AIMS: We therefore investigated self-reported physical activities in patients 
after the Mustard or Senning operation, compared this with those of matched, 
healthy counterparts, and explored potential associations with age, gender and 
complexity of the TGA.
METHODS: Seventy patients were matched with healthy controls. Habitual physical 
activity was measured using the Baecke questionnaire, resulting in a work, 
sports, and leisure time index, which ranges from 1 to 5.
RESULTS: The median index scores of patients were 2.63 for work, 2.50 for 
sports; and 2.75 for leisure time. Only for sports, a significantly lower index 
score was found in patients. Furthermore, we found that older patients were less 
frequently engaged in sport activities (Spearman's rho=-0.38; p=0.02).
CONCLUSION: The results showed that the level of physical activities of patients 
after the Mustard and Senning operation is normal, except for sport activities. 
This indicates that patients after a Mustard or Senning operation tend to 
partake in all activities that they can comfortably perform.

DOI: 10.1016/J.EJCNURSE.2006.11.002
PMID: 17197242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2007 Jan;48(1):96-103. doi: 10.1167/iovs.06-0283.

Public health impact of neovascular age-related macular degeneration treatments 
extrapolated from visual acuity.

Bandello F(1), Lafuma A, Berdeaux G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Udine, Udine, Italy.

PURPOSE: To estimate the potential public health impact of treatment with new 
medications intended to preserve vision in patients with neovascular age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD).
METHODS: A Markov model was used to simulate the natural history of AMD over the 
lifetime of patients with diagnosed neovascular AMD from clinical trials and 
epidemiologic surveys. It applied to a cohort of patients aged 75 years, with 
newly diagnosed neovascular AMD in one eye, whose visual acuity was 0.7 logMAR. 
Probabilities were calculated for the risk of AMD in the remaining eye and for 
premature mortality. Results of the model were expressed as the duration of low 
vision (worse eye VA>1.0 and better eye VA>0.7 logMAR) and blindness (bilateral 
VA >1.0 logMAR). Health consequences of blindness and low vision were estimated 
for depression, hip fractures, institutionalization, and life expectancy.
RESULTS: For AMD patients with a 50% probability of VA >1.0 logMAR at 1 year, in 
one eye, the probability of lifetime bilateral blindness was >47%. The patients 
would live approximately 7 years with monocular vision >1.0 logMAR and an 
additional 4 years with bilateral blindness and a >15% probability of depression 
due to AMD. Life expectancy was decreased by approximately 2 years, >90/1000 
patients would sustain a new hip fracture, and 1.5% of the patients would 
require institutional care for visual impairment due to AMD. To achieve a 
defined public health outcome (visual impairment and consequent comorbidity), it 
was necessary for the VA effectiveness of new treatments to increase in parallel 
with disease severity.
CONCLUSIONS: Comorbidity related to visual impairment contributes significantly 
to the public health impact of AMD. Aggressive lesions need highly effective 
treatments. Models may be used to compare the public health impact of 
placebo-controlled clinical trial results.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.06-0283
PMID: 17197522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Ann Surg. 2007 Jan;245(1):94-103. doi: 10.1097/01.sla.0000225357.82218.ce.

Operative strategies for diverticular peritonitis: a decision analysis between 
primary resection and anastomosis versus Hartmann's procedures.

Constantinides VA(1), Heriot A, Remzi F, Darzi A, Senapati A, Fazio VW, Tekkis 
PP.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College London, Department of Biosurgery and Surgical Technology, 
St. Mary's Hospital London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To compare primary resection and anastomosis (PRA) with and without 
defunctioning stoma to Hartmann's procedure (HP) as the optimal operative 
strategy for patients presenting with Hinchey stage III-IV, perforated 
diverticulitis.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: The choice of operation for perforated diverticulitis 
lies between HP and PRA. Postoperative mortality and morbidity can be high, and 
the long-term consequences life-altering, with no established criteria guiding 
clinicians towards selecting a particular procedure.
METHODS: Probability estimates for 6879 patients with Hinchey III-IV perforated 
diverticulitis were obtained from two databases (n = 204), supplemented by 
expert opinion and summary data from 12 studies (n = 6675) published between 
1980 and 2005. The primary outcome was quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
gained from each strategy. Factors considered were the risk of permanent stoma, 
morbidity, and mortality from the primary or reversal operations. Decision 
analysis from the patient's perspective was used to calculate the optimal 
operative strategy and sensitivity analysis performed.
RESULTS: A total of 135 PRA, 126 primary anastomoses with defunctioning stoma 
(PADS), and 6619 Hartmann's procedures (HP) were considered. The probability of 
morbidity and mortality was 55% and 30% for PRA, 40% and 25% for PADS, and 35% 
and 20% for HP, respectively. Stomas remained permanent in 27% of HP and in 8% 
of PADS. Analysis revealed the optimal strategy to be PADS with 9.98 QALYs, 
compared with 9.44 QALYs after HP and 9.02 QALYs after PRA. Complications after 
PRA reduced patients QALYs to a baseline of 2.713. Patients with postoperative 
complications during both primary and reversal operations for PADS and HP had 
QALYs of 0.366 and 0.325, respectively. HP became the optimal strategy only when 
risk of complications after PRA and PADS reached 50% and 44%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Primary anastomosis with defunctioning stoma may be the optimal 
strategy for selected patients with diverticular peritonitis as may represent a 
good compromise between postoperative adverse events, long-term quality of life 
and risk of permanent stoma. HP may be reserved for patients with risk of 
complications >40% to 50% after consideration of long-term implications.

DOI: 10.1097/01.sla.0000225357.82218.ce
PMCID: PMC1867925
PMID: 17197971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Crit Care Nurs Q. 2007 Jan-Mar;30(1):3-11. doi: 
10.1097/00002727-200701000-00002.

Care of the patient with adult congenital heart disease.

Thompson L(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Intensive Care Unit, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, PA 15213, 
USA. lucy.thompson@chp.edu

The adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) patient population has numerous and 
distinctive needs and comprise a rapidly growing group within the modern day 
healthcare arena. Current treatment provisions along with recommendations for 
future specialized multidisciplinary ACHD teams are discussed. The exclusive 
needs of this patient population have forced professional groups to reconsider 
the availability and appropriateness of current healthcare delivery to this 
group of complex patients, whose survivability and life expectancy have 
continued to improve as a direct result of enhanced research, technology, 
medical, surgical, and nursing care. General care considerations including 
psychosocial issues and patient education are presented, and reveal the 
challenges and strengths of caring for this adult patient population within a 
pediatric facility. Congenital heart disease is a lifelong illness that requires 
a dedicated, consistent approach to healthcare delivery in order to guarantee 
quality care throughout the lifespan.

DOI: 10.1097/00002727-200701000-00002
PMID: 17198032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2006 Dec;54(12):1951-3. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00955.x.

End-of-life decisions and old-age mortality: A cross-country analysis.

Janssen F, van der Heide A, Kunst AE, Mackenbach JP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2006.00955.x
PMID: 17198512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Clin Nutr. 2007 Jun;26(3):364-70. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2006.11.002. Epub 2007
Jan  2.

A cost-utility analysis of multivitamin and multimineral supplements in men and 
women aged 65 years and over.

Kilonzo MM(1), Vale LD, Cook JA, Milne AC, Stephen AI, Avenell A; MAVIS Trial 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, 
Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK. m.kilonzo@abdn.ac.uk

BACKGROUND & AIMS: As people age there is a progressive dysregulation of the 
immune system that may lead to an increased risk of infections, which may 
precipitate hospital admission in people with chronic heart or respiratory 
diseases. Mineral and vitamin supplementation in older people could therefore 
influence infections in older people. However, the evidence from the available 
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) is mixed. The aim of the study was to assess 
the relative efficiency of multivitamin and multimineral supplementation 
compared with no supplementation.
METHODS: Cost-utility analysis alongside an RCT. Participants aged 65 years or 
over from six general practices in Grampian, Scotland, were studied. They were 
randomised to one tablet daily of either a multivitamin and multimineral 
supplement or matching placebo. Exclusion criteria were use of mineral, vitamin 
or fish oil supplements in the previous 3 months (1 month for water soluble 
vitamins), vitamin B12 injection in the last 3 months.
RESULTS: Nine hundred and ten participants were recruited (454 placebo and 456 
supplementation). Use of health service resources and costs were similar between 
the two groups. The supplementation arm was more costly although this was not 
statistically significant ( pound15 per person, 95% CI-3.75 to 34.95). After 
adjusting for minimisation and baseline EQ-5D scores supplementation was 
associated with fewer QALYs per person (-0.018, 95% CI-0.04 to 0.002). It was 
highly unlikely that supplementation would be considered cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence from this study suggests that it is highly unlikely 
that supplementation could be considered cost effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2006.11.002
PMID: 17198742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Br J Dermatol. 2007 Jan;156(1):138-42. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2133.2006.07585.x.

Comparison of clinical and pharmacokinetic profiles of etanercept 25 mg twice 
