809. Anaesthesia. 2007 Jan;62(1):43-52. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2044.2006.04896.x.

Cost effectiveness of recombinant activated factor VII for the control of 
bleeding in patients with severe blunt trauma injuries in the United Kingdom.

Morris S(1), Ridley S, Munro V, Christensen MC.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, Middlesex UB8 
3PH, UK.

The aim of this study was to assess the lifetime cost effectiveness of 
recombinant activated factor VII vs placebo as adjunctive therapy for control of 
bleeding in patients with severe blunt trauma in the UK. We developed a 
cost-effectiveness model based on patient level data from a 30-day 
international, randomised, placebo-controlled Phase II trial. The data were 
supplemented with secondary data from UK sources to estimate lifetime costs and 
benefits. The model produced a baseline estimate of the incremental cost per 
life year gained with recombinant activated factor VII relative to placebo of 12 
613 UK pounds. The incremental cost per quality adjusted life year gained was 18 
825 UK pounds. These estimates are sensitive to the choice of discount rate and 
health state utility values used. Preliminary results suggest that relative to 
placebo, recombinant activated factor VII may be a cost-effective therapy to the 
UK National Health Service.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2044.2006.04896.x
PMID: 17156226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2006 Nov;85(3):620-8. doi:
10.1016/j.pbb.2006.10.017.  Epub 2006 Dec 5.

Beneficial effects of natural antioxidants EGCG and alpha-lipoic acid on life 
span and age-dependent behavioral declines in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Brown MK(1), Evans JL, Luo Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, University of 
Maryland, 20 N. Pine St, PH501, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.

Oxidative stress has been associated with both the aging process and the 
development of age-dependent tissue degenerative pathologies. Beneficial effects 
of antioxidant therapies to abrogate the deleterious consequences of elevated 
free radicals are implicated in disease prevention and cost-effective strategy. 
Previous data have shown protective effects of the polyphenol green tea 
constituent epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) and a classic natural antioxidant 
alpha-lipoic acid (LA) against oxidative stress and aging. In this study, EGCG 
and alpha-lipoic acid were applied to model Caenorhabditis elegans, and their 
ability to modulate the life span and several age-associated behavioral declines 
were examined, including: pharyngeal pumping, chemotaxic behavior and amyloid 
beta-associated pathological behavior. It was demonstrated that both 
antioxidants attenuated the levels of hydrogen peroxide in C. elegans, but their 
effects on age-dependent decline in behaviors were different. EGCG, but not 
alpha-lipoic acid, attenuated the rate of decline in pharyngeal pumping behavior 
in C. elegans. In contrast, alpha-lipoic acid, but not EGCG, extended mean and 
maximal life span in C. elegans. Both EGCG and alpha-lipoic acid were able to 
facilitate the chemotaxis index and this effect was additive. Furthermore, EGCG, 
but not alpha-lipoic acid, moderately alleviated an Abeta-induced pathological 
behavior in a transgenic C. elegans strain. These results indicate that natural 
antioxidants can protect against age-dependent behavioral declines. Other 
protective mechanisms, in addition to their antioxidant properties, may underlie 
their differential beneficial effects on aging and physiological behaviors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2006.10.017
PMID: 17156833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Neuroscience. 2007 Apr 14;145(4):1330-40. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2006.09.032. Epub 2006 Dec 6.

DNA repair in aging rat neurons.

Rao KS(1).

Author information:
(1)ICMR Advanced Center for Research on Aging and Brain, Department of 
Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, University of Hyderabad, Gachibowli, 
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 500 046, India. ksrsl@uohyd.ernet.in

This laboratory, using post-mitotic rat brain neurons as a model system, has 
been testing the hypothesis that the inherited DNA repair potential would have 
profound influence on the aging process of the individual. It has been found 
that both single and double strand breaks in DNA accumulate in neurons with age. 
Since base excision repair (BER) is the pathway to effect repair of the type of 
DNA damage that is likely to occur in neurons, model oligo duplexes were used to 
assess the BER pathway. Both extension of a primer and one or four nucleotide 
gap repair are markedly reduced in aging neurons as compared with the young. The 
extension activity could be restored by supplementing the neuronal extracts with 
pure DNA polymerase beta (pol beta) while the restoration of gap repair needed 
the addition of both pol beta and DNA ligase. It thus appears that both pol beta 
and DNA ligase are deficient in aging neurons. We have also established a system 
to study the non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) mode of DNA repair in neurons. 
The end joining of cohesive but not of blunt or non-matching ends, is reduced 
with age and attempts to identify the limiting factor(s) in this case have been 
unsuccessful so far. These results are reviewed vis-Ã -vis the existing 
literature.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2006.09.032
PMID: 17156934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2006 Dec;32(6):560-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2006.06.006.

Predicted survival vs. actual survival in terminally ill noncancer patients in 
Dutch nursing homes.

Brandt HE(1), Ooms ME, Ribbe MW, van der Wal G, Deliens L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing Home Medicine, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Studies on the prediction of survival have mainly focused on hospital and 
hospice patients suffering from cancer. The aim of this study was to describe 
the predicted vs. the actual survival in terminally ill, mainly noncancer 
patients in Dutch nursing homes (NHs). A prospective cohort study was conducted 
in 16 NHs representative for The Netherlands. A total of 515 NH patients with a 
maximum life expectancy of 6 weeks, as assessed by an NH physician, were 
included. NH physicians were accurate in more than 90% of their prognoses for 
terminally ill--mainly noncancer--NH patients, when death occurred within 7 
days. For a longer period of time, their predictions became inaccurate. In the 
category of patients who were expected to die within 8-21 days, predictions were 
accurate in 16.0%, and in the category of patients expected to die within 22-42 
days, this was 13.0%. Predictions in these categories were mainly optimistic 
(patient died earlier) in 68.6% and 52.2%, respectively. The findings of this 
study suggest that accurate prediction of survival of (mainly) noncancer 
patients in NHs is only possible when death is imminent and seems to be 
dependent on an intimate knowledge of patients. Prognostication over a longer 
period of time tends to be less accurate, and, therefore, continues to be a 
challenging task for NH physicians.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2006.06.006
PMID: 17157758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Soc Sci Med. 2007 Mar;64(6):1242-52. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.10.040.
Epub  2006 Dec 8.

Modelling covariates for the SF-6D standard gamble health state preference data 
using a nonparametric Bayesian method.

Kharroubi S(1), Brazier JE, O'Hagan A.

Author information:
(1)University of York, UK. sak503@york.ac.uk

It has long been recognised that respondent characteristics can impact on the 
values they give to health states. This paper reports on the findings from 
applying a non-parametric approach to estimate the covariates in a model of 
SF-6D health state values using Bayesian methods. The data set is the UK SF-6D 
valuation study, where a sample of 249 states defined by the SF-6D (a derivate 
of the SF-36) was valued by a sample of the UK general population using standard 
gamble. Advantages of the nonparametric model are that it can be used to predict 
scores in populations with different distributions of characteristics and that 
it allows for an impact to vary by health state (whilst ensuring that full 
health passes through unity). The results suggest an important age effect, with 
sex, class, education, employment and physical functioning probably having some 
effect, but the remaining covariates having no discernable effect. Adjusting for 
covariates in the UK sample made little difference to mean health state values. 
The paper discusses the implications of these results for policy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.10.040
PMID: 17157971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Patient Educ Couns. 2007 May;66(2):156-61. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2006.10.006.
Epub  2006 Dec 8.

Communication about euthanasia in general practice: opinions and experiences of 
patients and their general practitioners.

Borgsteede SD(1), Deliens L, Graafland-Riedstra C, Francke AL, van der Wal G, 
Willems DL.

Author information:
(1)VU University Medical Center, Department of Public and Occupational Health, 
EMGO Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. s.borgsteede@vumc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Public opinion and professional organisations dominate the euthanasia 
debate, and there is a need to understand the opinions of people confronted with 
euthanasia. The aim of this study was to investigate whether patients and their 
GPs talk about euthanasia, and if so, how they communicate about this.
METHODS: Qualitative, semi-structured interviews were held with 20 GPs and 30 of 
their patients in primary care in the Netherlands, where euthanasia is 
legalised. The patients had a life expectancy of less than 6 months, and cancer, 
heart failure or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as underlying disease.
RESULTS: Many patients did not communicate about euthanasia with their GP. 
Neither the patient nor the GP were clear in formulating their expectations 
concerning future decision making.
CONCLUSION: The initial patient-GP communication consisted of an exchange of 
opinions about situations in which euthanasia would be desirable. GPs had 
different opinions about who should initiate communication, and found it 
difficult to judge the right moment to talk.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: It is essential to pay attention to education in 
communication about dying and euthanasia and to train the GPs to gain insight in 
the patient's end-of-life preferences, and to direct care at the best possible 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2006.10.006
PMID: 17158015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006 Dec;84(6):1257-8. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/84.6.1257.

Public health success in recent decades may be in danger if lifestyles of the 
elderly are neglected.

van Baak MA, Visscher TL.

Comment on
    Am J Clin Nutr. 2006 Dec;84(6):1317-23.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/84.6.1257
PMID: 17158404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Dec 10;24(35):5482-92. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.07.9434.

Controversies in the management of clinical stage I testis cancer.

de Wit R(1), Fizazi K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology of the Erasmus University Medical Center 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. r.dewit@erasmusmc.nl

During the last two decades, definitive primary treatments and surveillance with 
definitive treatment deferred until relapse have demonstrated 98% to 99% cure 
rates in patients with stage I testis cancer, and these options have obtained 
firm positions in standard management. The development of optimal management 
strategies in various countries were at least partly guided by available 
surgical expertise in retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in the United 
States, and easy access to reference hospitals in densely populated countries in 
Western Europe that facilitated close surveillance programs; hence, treatment 
preferences differ on the two sides of the Atlantic. The success of both 
approaches is highly dependent on the skills of the practitioner, particularly 
of surgery and of scrutinized surveillance. As a result, local expertise and 
familiarity with a chosen modality has strengthened over the years, and 
investigators have been reluctant to embark on randomized trials designed to 
compare one modality with another. Such expertise with one particular technique, 
with the other approach being less familiar territory, has created controversy, 
because both physicians and patients seek evidence-based data coming from 
randomized clinical trials on which to make management decisions. Moreover, the 
reduced risk of relapse resulting from the use of radiotherapy or carboplatin in 
stage I seminoma and of cisplatin-based chemotherapy in stage I nonseminoma must 
be balanced against the potential long-term adverse effects in this population 
of patients with a normal life expectancy. The purpose of this review is to 
present the currently available data and discuss the merits and the 
disadvantages of the various approaches, yielding to the possible conclusion 
that all options appear to be equal in terms of efficacy, but that 
modality-associated adverse effects differ.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.07.9434
PMID: 17158533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Int J Qual Health Care. 2007 Feb;19(1):29-36. doi: 10.1093/intqhc/mzl064.
Epub  2006 Dec 11.

Summary measures of quality of diabetes care: comparison of continuous weighted 
performance measurement and dichotomous thresholds.

Aron D(1), Rajan M, Pogach LM.

Author information:
(1)VA HSR&D Center for Healthcare Knowledge Management Research, VA New Jersey 
Healthcare System, 385 Tremont Avenue, East Orange, NJ, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Institute of Medicine has suggested that related individual 
measures of quality be combined into summary measures. Averages of adherence on 
dichotomous measures for intermediate outcomes have shortcomings because control 
of individual risk factors differs in their health benefit. Therefore, a common 
metric is necessary to weight measures appropriately.
OBJECTIVE: Compare health care system performance using continuous measures 
weighted based on quality adjusted life years saved (QALYsS) versus dichotomous 
threshold measures.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Retrospective cross-sectional analysis of 2000-01 chart 
abstraction data of diabetic patients from 141 Veterans Health Administration 
medical centers. Outcome variables included correlation of individual level and 
facility level adherence to and rankings by continuous weighted individual and 
summary dichotomous measures for glycemic control (<8% A1c), blood pressure 
(<140/80 mm/Hg), and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) <130 mg/dl.
RESULTS: The 141 facilities had a range of 163-740 (mean 263) subjects. The 
population (n = 37 142) was largely male (86.1%) and older (mean age 65.9 years, 
SD +/-11.4 years), with mean overall A1c of 7.58%, systolic blood pressure of 
137.2 mm/Hg, and LDL-C 104.8 mg/dl. There was excellent correlation between 
QALYsS and dichotomous outcomes for A1c (r = 0.86), blood pressure (r = 0.94), 
LDL-C (r = 0.95), and the summary measure (r = 0.92), but poor correlation among 
the risk factors (r = 0.19-0.36). There was considerable difference in rankings 
between the dichotomous and the continuous weighted measures; only 46% of 
facilities remained within the same or within 1 decile.
CONCLUSION: Continuous weighted measures for the major risk factors for 
diabetes-related complications have high correlation with dichotomous measures. 
We propose that a continuous QALYs-weighted summary measure could function as a 
global measure for the quality of diabetes care.

DOI: 10.1093/intqhc/mzl064
PMID: 17159196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Presse Med. 2006 Dec;35(12 Pt 2):1864-75. doi:
10.1016/s0755-4982(06)74919-3.

[Vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome].

[Article in French]

Perdu J(1), Boutouyrie P, Lahlou-LaforÃªt K, Khau Van Kien P, DenariÃ© N, 
Mousseaux E, Sapoval M, Julia P, ZinzindohouÃ© F, Touraine P, Dumez Y, Trystram 
D, Vignal-Clermont C, Gimenez-Roqueplo AP, Jeunemaitre X, Fiessinger JN.

Author information:
(1)Groupe Multidisciplinaire de Prise en Charge du Syndrome d'Ehlers-Danlos 
Vasculaire, HÃ´pital europÃ©en Georges Pompidou, Paris. 
contact@maladiesvasculairesrares.fr

The vascular type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a rare genetic disease 
transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. It is distinguished from other forms 
of EDS by its unstable acrogeric morphotype and by vascular, gastrointestinal, 
and obstetrical complications. Diagnosis is based on various clinical signs, 
noninvasive imaging, and on the identification of a mutation of the COL3A1 gene, 
which provides diagnostic certainty but has a sensitivity of only 61%. When two 
major diagnostic criteria are present, a genetic test should be proposed, 
performed and its result presented in a multidisciplinary group. The 
precautionary principle requires that preventive measures be implemented when 
the diagnosis is suspected. All artery puncture, surgery, and gastrointestinal 
and uterine endoscopy are contraindicated, permissible only in life-threatening 
emergencies. Straining against a closed glottis and all other situations or 
drugs likely to raise blood pressure must be avoided. Contraception must be 
discussed to avoid pregnancy during the diagnostic period. Arterial lesions 
suggestive of the disease include dissecting aneurysms of the internal carotid 
and iliac arteries and of the anterior visceral branches of the abdominal aorta, 
fusiform aneurysms of the splenic artery, and early onset nontraumatic direct 
carotid-cavernous fistulae. Early-onset varicose veins, spontaneous peritonitis 
or unusually important perineal lesions after giving birth should also attract 
the physician's attention. Psychological treatment and support of patients and 
their families is essential, to help them both to live with their disease and to 
deal with the information and screening issues. The prognosis of Ehlers-Danlos 
syndrome, vascular type, is grim but there is wide interindividual variability 
and life expectancy is best among patients receiving regular follow-up. 
Management by an experienced multidisciplinary team, implementation of drastic 
prevention measures and, depending on the results of the BBEST study, the 
possible prescription of beta-blockers should help to reduce the risk of 
complications and justify hope for a real improvement in prognosis in the near 
future.

DOI: 10.1016/s0755-4982(06)74919-3
PMID: 17159712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Biogerontology. 2007 Jun;8(3):315-25. doi: 10.1007/s10522-006-9075-1. Epub
2006  Dec 8.

Heat-induced hormesis in longevity of two sibling Drosophila species.

Scannapieco AC(1), SÃ¸rensen JG, Loeschcke V, Norry FM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de EcologÃ­a, GenÃ©tica y EvoluciÃ³n, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas 
y Naturales, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, 1428, Argentina.

Previous work showed that mild-heat stress induces longevity hormesis in a model 
organism, D. melanogaster. Here we compared the possible heat-induced hormesis 
in longevity of other species of Drosophila, D. buzzatii and its sibling species 
D. koepferae, in a single-sex environment. Possible correlations between 
longevity and heat-stress resistance were also tested by measuring longevity, 
heat-knockdown resistance and the heat-induced Hsp70 expression for each species 
in a common environment. D. buzzatii was longer lived than D. koepferae at 
benign temperature. Knockdown resistance to heat stress was positively 
correlated to longevity within species. However, the shorter-lived species was 
more resistant to knockdown by heat stress than the longer-lived species. The 
heat-induced Hsp70 expression was similar between species. A heat-shock 
treatment (37 degrees C for 1 h at 4 days of age) extended mean longevity in the 
longer lived species but not in the shorter lived species. In D. koepferae, the 
demographic rate of senescence decreased but the baseline mortality rate 
increased by heat-shock, resulting in no extension of mean longevity. Sympatric 
populations of closely related species can be differentially sensitive to 
temperature and exhibit different patterns of 37 degrees C-induced hormesis in 
demographic senescence and longevity. The results also show that positive 
correlations between stress resistance and life span within species can shift in 
sign across closely related species. Finally, this study shows that heat-induced 
hormesis in longevity can be found across different Drosophila species, as 
hormetic effects are not limited to the previously studied D. melanogaster.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-006-9075-1
PMID: 17160437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Lancet. 2006 Dec 9;368(9552):2081-94. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69746-8.

Health in an unequal world.

Sir Michael Marmot(1).

Author information:
(1)University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69746-8
PMID: 17161730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Am J Infect Control. 2006 Dec;34(10):676-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ajic.2006.03.013.

Burden of tuberculosis in Serbia.

Gledovic Z(1), Vlajinac H, Pekmezovic T, Grujicic-Sipetic S, Grgurevic A, Pesut 
D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Epidemiology, School of Medicine, University of Belgrade, 
Visegrdska 26A, Belgrade 11000, Serbia. gledovic@sezampro.yu

The objective of this study is to estimate the burden of tuberculosis (TB) in 
Serbia in the period 1992-2002 based on incidence, mortality, and disability 
adjusted life years (DALY). The average age-adjusted TB incidence rate in the 
period 1992-2002 was 36.7/100,000 in males and 21.4/100,000 in females. During 
the period observed, TB incidence levelled of after a long period of decreasing 
trend during the preceding several decades. The incidence showed slightly 
increasing tendency in males and decreasing one in females. The average 
age-adjusted mortality rate was 4.1/100,000 in males and 1.3/100,000 in females. 
Mortality rates significantly decreased in both males (P = .0001) and females (P 
= .0001). The burden of TB (DALY) was 0.70/1000 for males and 0.26/1000 for 
females. DALY rates significantly decreased in both males (P = .009) and females 
(P = .008). TB incidence and mortality as well as DALY rates increased with 
aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajic.2006.03.013
PMID: 17161745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Soc Sci Med. 2007 Mar;64(6):1253-64. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.10.016.
Epub  2006 Dec 11.

Decentralisation and convergence in health among the provinces of Spain 
(1980-2001).

Montero-Granados R(1), JimÃ©nez Jde D, MartÃ­n J.

Author information:
(1)University of Granada, Granada, Spain. montero@ugr.es

This study measures the process of convergence in the state of health among the 
provinces and regions of Spain during 1980-2001 in order to analyse the possible 
influence of the decentralisation of healthcare management to the regions in 
this period. Sigma and beta convergence models, traditionally employed in 
macroeconomics, have been used, taking Life Expectancy at Birth (LEB) and Infant 
Mortality (IM) as health indicators. The analysis was carried out at two 
territorial levels: provinces and regions. The results reveal that the process 
of decentralisation either does not affect convergence or leads to divergence in 
health. Indeed, in the case of IM the so-called change of role scenario seems to 
have occurred. Thus, certain provinces with initially poor indicators have 
improved, overtaking those that were originally in a better position. The final 
result, however, is of greater dispersion than initially.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2006.10.016
PMID: 17161891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. J Arthroplasty. 2006 Dec;21(8):1215-9. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2005.12.006. Epub
 2006 Jun 8.

Revision total hip arthroplasty in a centenarian: a case report and review of 
the literature.

Grey MA(1), Keggi KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut CT 06520, USA.

The clinical success of primary total hip arthroplasty in elderly patients is 
well established. Because of the rapid growth rate of the population aged 85 
years and older and the increasing life expectancy of this group of patients, 
the number of patients in their 8th, 9th, and even 10th decades of life 
requiring revision total hip arthroplasty will increase. We present the only 
documented case of revision total hip arthroplasty in a centenarian and a review 
of the relevant literature.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2005.12.006
PMID: 17162186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Clin Liver Dis. 2006 Aug;10(3):679-89, xi. doi: 10.1016/j.cld.2006.11.001.

Cost-effectiveness of treating esophageal varices.

Talwalkar JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Liver Diseases Study Group, Division of Gastroenterology and 
Hepatology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA. talwalkar.jayant@mayo.edu

The clinical effectiveness of the various prophylaxis methods used to treat 
esophageal varices remains unknown because of limited evidence. Even less is 
known about the extent of resource use and subsequent impact on health status 
associated with primary and secondary prophylaxis. Recently, several economic 
analyses have been developed to answer these questions and identify gasps in 
knowledge. This article provides an overview of results from these studies and 
explores areas in need of future investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cld.2006.11.001
PMID: 17162235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 7;355(23):2491-2; author reply 2492.

The value of medical spending in the United States.

Goozner M.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Aug 31;355(9):920-7.

PMID: 17162763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Clin Drug Investig. 2006;26(11):629-38. doi:
10.2165/00044011-200626110-00002.

Health-economic comparison of paricalcitol, calcitriol and alfacalcidol for the 
treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism during haemodialysis.

Rosery H(1), Bergemann R, Marx SE, Boehnke A, Melnick J, Sterz R, Williams L.

Author information:
(1)Analytica International GmbH, LÃ¶rrach, Germany. hrosery@de.analyticaintl.com

Comment in
    Clin Drug Investig. 2007;27(12):865-6.

This study evaluated the health-economic consequences of use of intravenous 
paricalcitol (Zemplar), oral calcitriol or oral and intravenous alfacalcidol for 
the treatment of patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism, focusing on a 
third-party payer perspective through inclusion of medication and hospital 
costs, survival rates and utilities. Cost values were based on German treatment 
recommendations and prices. Reference values for survival rates and utilities 
were based on the results of a MEDLINE search. The analysis showed a clear 
advantage for intravenous paricalcitol with respect to costs, effectiveness and 
utilities compared with treatment with oral calcitriol or intravenous 
alfacalcidol. Since the results were very cost sensitive with respect to 
selected diagnosis-related groups (DRGs) for kidney disease with dialysis, a 
sensitivity analysis was performed. This demonstrated first-order dominance of 
intravenous paricalcitol for a wide range of hospitalisation costs. In 
conclusion, this analysis suggested a clear benefit from the perspective of a 
third-party payer for intravenous paricalcitol compared with oral calcitriol and 
intravenous alfacalcidol in the treatment of patients with secondary 
hyperparathyroidism.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200626110-00002
PMID: 17163297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Laryngol Otol. 2007 May;121(5):472-5. doi: 10.1017/S0022215106005275. Epub
 2006 Dec 12.

Bioplastique injection laryngoplasty: voice performance outcome.

Hamilton DW(1), Sachidananda R, Carding PN, Wilson JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK. 
dwhamilton@doctors.org.uk

AIM: To compare voice performance following Bioplastique injection with that 
following Isshiki thyroplasty.
MEASURES: A 12 item, self-reported voice performance questionnaire was completed 
and observer-rated perceptual voice analysis scores were also measured, before 
and after Bioplastique injection, for 14 patients. Results were compared with 
our previously reported outcomes for 28 thyroplasty patients.
RESULTS: Only 14 of 30 patients had complete datasets. For these patients, the 
mean pre-operative voice performance questionnaire score improved significantly, 
from 40.3 to 18.9 (p=0.002, Wilcoxon test). All perceptual analysis parameters 
showed significant improvement. These results compare favourably with the 
thyroplasty cohort (mean voice performance questionnaire score: pre-operative 
35; post-operative 18; p<0.001). One Bioplastique patient developed 
contralateral paresis, requiring partial removal of the material 18 months 
later. Two thyroplasty patients experienced complications and three required 
revision.
CONCLUSIONS: Both Bioplastique injection and Isshiki thyroplasty resulted in a 
significant improvement in both subjective and perceptual voice performance. Our 
data suggest that the effect size of the two interventions is approximately 
similar (in nonrandomised cohorts of surviving patients). As in many similar 
studies, the incomplete follow-up data reflect severe comorbidity. Bioplastique 
injection is a quicker procedure associated with fewer complications, and thus 
appears superior to framework surgery in patients with limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022215106005275
PMID: 17164022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Br J Cancer. 2007 Jan 15;96(1):73-81. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603511. Epub 2006
Dec  12.

Complementary effects of HDAC inhibitor 4-PB on gap junction communication and 
cellular export mechanisms support restoration of chemosensitivity of PDAC 
cells.

Ammerpohl O(1), Trauzold A, Schniewind B, Griep U, Pilarsky C, Grutzmann R, 
Saeger HD, Janssen O, Sipos B, Kloppel G, Kalthoff H.

Author information:
(1)Section Molecular Oncology, Clinic for General Surgery and Thoracic Surgery, 
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein Campus Kiel, Arnold-Heller Strasse 7, 
Kiel 24105, Germany.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a fatal disease and one of the cancer 
entities with the lowest life expectancy. Beside surgical therapy, no effective 
therapeutic options are available yet. Here, we show that 4-phenylbutyrate 
(4-PB), a known and well-tolerable inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDAC), 
induces up to 70% apoptosis in all cell lines tested (Panc 1, T4M-4, COLO 357, 
BxPc3). In contrast, it leads to cell cycle arrest in only half of the cell 
lines tested. This drug increases gap junction communication between adjacent 
T3M-4 cells in a concentration-dependent manner and efficiently inhibits 
cellular export mechanisms in Panc 1, T4M-4, COLO 357 and BxPc3 cells. 
Consequently, in combination with gemcitabine 4-PB shows an overadditive effect 
on induction of apoptosis in BxPc3 and T3M-4 cells (up to 4.5-fold compared to 
single drug treatment) with accompanied activation of Caspase 8, BH3 interacting 
domain death agonist (Bid) and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase family, member 1 
(PARP) cleavage. Although the inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein 
kinase-pathway has no influence on fulminant induction of apoptosis, the 
inhibition of the JNK-pathway by SP600125 completely abolishes the overadditive 
effect induced by the combined application of both drugs, firstly reported by 
this study.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603511
PMCID: PMC2360208
PMID: 17164759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Calcif Tissue Int. 2007 Jan;80(1):39-43. doi: 10.1007/s00223-006-0149-5.
Epub  2006 Dec 8.

Assisted exercise and bone strength in preterm infants.

Litmanovitz I(1), Dolfin T, Arnon S, Regev RH, Nemet D, Eliakim A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Pediatrics, Meir Medical Center, Kfar-Saba, 
Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, 59 Tchernichovsky Street, 
Kfar-Saba 44281, Israel.

Studies have previously demonstrated that brief (4 weeks) passive 
range-of-motion exercise is beneficial for bone development in very low birth 
weight (VLBW) preterm infants. However, the optimal duration of exercise for 
bone development in preterm infants is yet unknown. The aim of the present study 
was to examine the effect of 8 weeks of assisted exercise on bone strength and 
metabolism in VLBW premature infants. Sixteen infants (mean +/- standard error 
of the mean birth weight 1,009 +/- 55 g and gestational age 27.3 +/- 0.3 weeks) 
were randomly assigned into exercise (n = 8) and control (n = 8) groups. The 
intervention started at the first week of life and involved 8 weeks of daily 
passive extension and flexion range-of-motion exercise of the upper and lower 
extremities. Biochemical markers of bone turnover were measured at enrollment 
and after 8 weeks. Bone strength was measured weekly by quantitative ultrasound 
measurement of tibial bone speed of sound (SOS). Bone SOS decreased 
significantly in the control group (-108.1 +/- 33.7 m/second, P < 0.0001) during 
the study period, while remaining stable in the exercise group (11.3 +/- 22.8 
m/second). The main beneficial effect of exercise occurred in the first 4 weeks 
of the intervention. There were no significant differences in the bone turnover 
marker changes between the groups. There is a significant postnatal decrease in 
bone SOS in VLBW preterm infants. Eight weeks of assisted range-of-motion 
exercise attenuates the decrease in bone strength and may decrease the risk of 
osteopenia in premature infants.

DOI: 10.1007/s00223-006-0149-5
PMID: 17164971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Mar;8(1):25-30. doi: 10.1007/s10198-006-0002-9.

Utility loss and indirect costs following cardiovascular events in hypertensive 
patients: the ASCOT health economic substudy.

Lindgren P(1), Kahan T, Poulter N, Buxton M, Svarvar P, DahlÃ¶f B, Jonsson B; 
ASCOT investigators.

Author information:
(1)European Health Economics, Vasagatan 38, 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden. 
peter.lindgren@healtheconomics.se

This study assessed the loss of utility and indirect costs associated with first 
cardiovascular events. Data was collected (using EQ-5D) prospectively at 3, 6, 
and 12 months following an event in the Swedish part of the Anglo-Scandinavian 
cardiac outcomes trial (ASCOT), including patients with mild to moderate 
hypertension and additional risk factors. Sixty patients were eligible for 
analysis. An event was associated with a one-year utility loss of 0.075 (95% CI: 
0.038-0.114). For a stroke, the reduction was 0.145 (CI: 0.059-0.249) and for 
acute coronary syndromes (myocardial infarction or unstable angina) the loss was 
0.051 (-0.003 to 0.103). The utility at baseline was no different to the utility 
in a control group. The indirect cost over the first 12 months (2003 Swedish 
Kronor, SEK) was 90028 SEK (CI: 46027-146754), 9866 euro for patients in the 
workforce. These results are helpful in future economic evaluations of primary 
preventive measures in cardiovascular medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-006-0002-9
PMID: 17165074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Support Care Cancer. 2007 Jun;15(6):577-582. doi: 10.1007/s00520-006-0202-y.
 Epub 2006 Dec 13.

Telephone consultation in palliative care for cancer patients: 5 years of 
experience in The Netherlands.

Teunissen SCCM(1), Verhagen EH(2), Brink M(2), van der Linden BA(3), Voest 
EE(1), de Graeff A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, F02.126, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
P.O. Box 85500, 3508 GA, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Comprehensive Cancer Center Middle Netherlands, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)ZonMW, The Hague, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, F02.126, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
P.O. Box 85500, 3508 GA, Utrecht, The Netherlands. a.degraeff@umcutrecht.nl.

GOALS OF WORK: To analyze cancer patient-related consultations of a telephone 
helpdesk (TH) for palliative care over a period of 5 years in the region of 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A descriptive analysis was performed of consultations 
over a period of 5 years (2001-2006). The discipline and location of requesting 
professionals, patient characteristics, reasons for calling, symptoms, 
palliative care problems and needs for support were registered.
MAIN RESULTS: A total of 1,794 consultations were analyzed. There was an 
increasing number of consultations during the study period. Of the patients, 51% 
were male and their median age was 65 years (range 0-104). Eighty-four percent 
were treated at home by their general practitioner. Two thirds of the patients 
had a life expectancy <4 weeks. Most questions referred to pain (49%), delirium 
(20%), nausea and vomiting (16%) and dyspnea (12%). The median number of 
symptoms was 1 (0-6). Of the questions, 54% were related to pharmacological 
problems, 19% to psychological problems and 21% to the organization of care. Of 
the requesting professionals, 17% asked for support for themselves. Of the 
consultations, 14% were related to end-of-life issues: palliative sedation (11%) 
and euthanasia (3%).
CONCLUSION: After more than 5 years, the 24-h telephone consultation service 
fulfills a need for general practitioners dealing with daily dilemmas in 
palliative care treatment for cancer patients at home during the last period of 
their life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-006-0202-y
PMID: 17165090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Pharmacoeconomics. 1998 May;13(5 Pt 2):645-51. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-199813050-00015.

Cost effectiveness of early treatment with oral aciclovir in adult chickenpox.

Smith KJ(1), Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15219, USA.

Treatment of adult chickenpox with aciclovir is controversial because of the 
relatively high cost of medication and small proven benefits of therapy. A 
decision-tree model was used to estimate the cost effectiveness of aciclovir, 
from third-party payer and societal perspectives: the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained was calculated for aciclovir treatment 
of chickenpox compared with no antiviral therapy in immunocompetent adults who 
presented within 24 hours of the onset of chickenpox rash. Incremental costs for 
aciclovir compared with no antiviral treatment were 42,900 US dollars per QALY 
gained, when viewed from a third-party payer perspective; however, results are 
sensitive to variation of clinical parameters. From a societal perspective, 
aciclovir therapy was cost saving compared with no antiviral treatment; 
aciclovir remained cost saving or cost effective (less than 50,000 US dollars 
per QALY gained) when probabilities, quality-of-life utility values and costs 
were varied within clinically plausible ranges, and when other scenarios for 
chickenpox severity and aciclovir effectiveness were examined. From a societal 
perspective, oral aciclovir is cost effective, and perhaps cost saving, when 
given within 24 hours of rash onset in adult chickenpox. The argument for 
antiviral use may be less strong when viewed from the perspective of a 
third-party payer.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199813050-00015
PMID: 17165329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Health Stat Q. 2006 Winter;(32):87-96.

Health expectancies for local authorities in England and Wales, 2001.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 17165471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Health Stat Q. 2006 Winter;(32):97-106.

Life expectancy at birth by local authorities in England and Wales, 2003-2005.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 17165472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 Dec;22(12):2549-56. doi: 10.1185/030079906X148490.

A health economic model to determine the long-term costs and clinical outcomes 
of raising low HDL-cholesterol in the prevention of coronary heart disease.

Roze S(1), Liens D, Palmer A, Berger W, Tucker D, Renaudin C.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research, A Unit of IMS, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to describe a health economic model 
developed to project lifetime clinical and cost outcomes of lipid-modifying 
interventions in patients not reaching target lipid levels and to assess the 
validity of the model.
METHODS: The internet-based, computer simulation model is made up of two 
decision analytic sub-models, the first utilizing Monte Carlo simulation, and 
the second applying Markov modeling techniques. Monte Carlo simulation generates 
a baseline cohort for long-term simulation by assigning an individual lipid 
profile to each patient, and applying the treatment effects of interventions 
under investigation. The Markov model then estimates the long-term clinical 
(coronary heart disease events, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy) and cost outcomes up to a lifetime horizon, based on risk equations 
from the Framingham study. Internal and external validation analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: The results of the model validation analyses, plotted against 
corresponding real-life values from Framingham, 4S, AFCAPS/TexCAPS, and a 
meta-analysis by Gordon et al., showed that the majority of values were close to 
the y = x line, which indicates a perfect fit. The R2 value was 0.9575 and the 
gradient of the regression line was 0.9329, both very close to the perfect fit 
(= 1).
CONCLUSIONS: Validation analyses of the computer simulation model suggest the 
model is able to recreate the outcomes from published clinical studies and would 
be a valuable tool for the evaluation of new and existing therapy options for 
patients with persistent dyslipidemia.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906X148490
PMID: 17166337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Fungal Genet Biol. 2007 Jul;44(7):659-71. doi: 10.1016/j.fgb.2006.10.007.
Epub  2006 Dec 12.

Integration of a pAL2-1 homologous mitochondrial plasmid associated with life 
span extension in Podospora anserina.

Maas MF(1), Sellem CH, Hoekstra RF, Debets AJ, Sainsard-Chanet A.

Author information:
(1)CNRS, Centre de GÃ©nÃ©tique MolÃ©culaire, 1 Avenue de la terrasse, 91198 
Gif-sur-Yvette cedex, France. Maas@cgm.cnrs-gif.fr

We isolated and characterized a novel spontaneous longevity mutant of Podospora 
anserina strain Wa32 carrying one of the pAL2-1 homologous mitochondrial 
plasmids. This mutant is at least ten fold longer-lived than the wild type, and 
is hence a formal suppressor of both the regular and the 'plasmid-based' 
senescence process. We show that the longevity trait is maternally inherited and 
coincides with the presence of a copy of the plasmid integrated in the 5' UTR of 
the mitochondrial Complex I genes nd2 and nd3. This mutation is associated with 
complex alterations in the respiratory chain, including a dispensable induction 
of the alternative oxidase. It is also associated with a stabilization of the 
mitochondrial chromosome and a reduction of the overall cellular level of 
reactive oxygen species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fgb.2006.10.007
PMID: 17166751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. J Trop Pediatr. 2007 Feb;53(1):32-8. doi: 10.1093/tropej/fml077. Epub 2006
Dec  13.

Mortality and morbidity in common variable immunodeficiency.

Aghamohammadi A(1), Pouladi N, Parvaneh N, Yeganeh M, Movahedi M, Gharagolou M, 
Pourpak Z, Rezaei N, Salavati A, Abdollahzade S, Moin M.

Author information:
(1)Children's Medical Center, Department of Pediatrics, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. aghamohammadi@sina.tums.ac.ir

Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is a heterogeneous group of disorders, 
characterized by hypogammaglobulinemia, defective specific-antibody production 
resulting in recurrent bacterial infections. Delay in diagnosis and inadequate 
treatment result in increased irreversible complications and mortality. To 
determine persistent morbidities, mortality rate and survival in Iranian 
patients with CVID, hospital records of 72 (39 males and 33 females) diagnosed 
CVID patients were reviewed. Probabilities of survival after diagnosis of CVID 
were estimated from Kaplan-Meier life tables. Studied patients were enrolled 
over a 20-year period (1984-2005). The most commonly observed complication was 
bronchiectasis (24 cases), followed by splenomegaly, intestinal villous atrophy 
(11 cases), and failure to thrive (10 cases). Post-diagnosis survival was 
estimated as 65% for the first 6.5 years, which remains the same until 14 years 
after diagnosis when the survival curve drops to nearly 45%. The mortality rate 
among patients who had no regular visits and did not receive periodical IVIG was 
more remarkable when compared with those who had been followed up timely 
(p-value = 0.001). The most common cause of death was respiratory failure. Based 
on our observation, it can be highlighted that all patients with CVID, even 
under regular immunoglobulin replacement, need close monitoring for early 
detection of complications and introduction of appropriate management.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/fml077
PMID: 17166933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Chest. 2006 Dec;130(6):1879-86. doi: 10.1378/chest.130.6.1879.

Recent advances in respiratory care for neuromuscular disease.

Simonds AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Brompton Hospital, Sydney Street, London SW3 6NP, UK. 
A.Simonds@rbht.nhs.uk

The impact of ventilatory support on the natural history of neuromuscular 
disease (NMD) has become clearer over the last 2 decades as techniques have been 
more widely applied. Noninvasive ventilation (NIV) allows some patients with 
nonprogressive pathology to live to nearly normal life expectancy, extends 
survival by many years in patients with other conditions (eg, Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy), and in those patients with rapidly deteriorating disease (eg, 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) survival may be increased, but symptoms can be 
palliated even if mortality is not reduced. A growing number of children with 
NMD are surviving to adulthood with the aid of ventilatory support. The 
combination of NIV with cough-assist techniques decreases pulmonary morbidity 
and hospital admissions. Trials have confirmed that NIV works in part by 
enhancing chemosensitivity, and in patients with many different neuromuscular 
conditions the most effective time to introduce NIV is when symptomatic 
sleep-disordered breathing develops.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.130.6.1879
PMID: 17167012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2006 Oct;18(5):349-51. doi: 10.1007/BF03324829.

Trends in population health.

Robine JM.

Comment on
    Aging Clin Exp Res. 2006 Oct;18(5):352-8.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324829
PMID: 17167297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2006 Oct;18(5):352-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03324830.

Decreasing prevalence of disability in activities of daily living, functional 
limitations and poor self-rated health: a 6-year follow-up study in Spain.

Zunzunegui MV(1), Nunez O, Durban M, GarcÃ­a de YÃ©benes MJ, Otero A.

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partement de MÃ©decine sociale et prÃ©ventive, UniversitÃ© de MontrÃ©al, CP 
6128, Succursale Centre-Ville, MontrÃ©al H3C 3J7, QuÃ©bec, Canada. 
maria.victoria.zunzunegui@umontreal.ca

Comment in
    Aging Clin Exp Res. 2006 Oct;18(5):349-51.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Forecasting functional status in elderly populations is 
uncertain. Our aim is to provide evidence of population trends of Activities of 
Daily Living (ADL) disability, functional limitations and self-rated health.
METHODS: Data come from a longitudinal study of aging in LeganÃ©s (Spain), 
collected in 1993, 1995, 1997 and 1999, on a representative sample of 1560 
community dwelling people over 65. Response rate at baseline was 82%. ADL 
disability was defined as needing help in at least one of the following: walking 
across a small room, taking a shower, toileting, getting out of bed, getting up 
from a chair, using the toilet, dressing and eating. Functional limitations were 
based on questions of difficulty with upper and lower limbs. Self-rated health 
was assessed with a single question. ADL disability, functional limitations and 
self-rated health were regressed on age, survey year, sex and education.
RESULTS: There are significant declines in ADL disability, functional 
limitations and poor self-rated health at every age and up to very advanced 
ages. Over 90, the ADL disability trend may be reversed, with the emergence of a 
very old and disabled population. Women and people with little education have a 
higher prevalence of disability, functional limitations and poor health, when 
compared with men and those with higher education.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest the postponement of severe disability onset in this 
Spanish population, leading to longer healthy life expectancy, and support the 
emergence of a very disabled population over 90 years of age.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324830
PMID: 17167298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2006 Dec 15;55(49):1321-5.

Visual impairment and eye care among older adults - five States, 2005.

Bailey RN(1), Indian RW, Zhang X, Geiss LS, Duenas MR, Saaddine JB; Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention.

Author information:
(1)College of Optometry, Univ of Houston, Texas, USA.

Blindness and visual impairment are among the 10 most common causes of 
disability in the United States and are associated with shorter life expectancy 
and lower quality of life. Previously, state-specific prevalences of visual 
impairment and eye disease were estimated from national prevalences. However, in 
2005, five states (Iowa, Louisiana, Ohio, Tennessee, and Texas) provided 
state-specific estimates by using the new CDC Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS) vision module. CDC analyzed data from the module to 
determine the self-reported prevalence of visual impairment, eye disease, eye 
injury, and lack of eye-care insurance and eye examination among persons aged 
>or=50 years in each of these five states and among certain sociodemographic 
