healthcare authorities and professional transplantation organizations have to 
tackle the donor crisis by designing legally acceptable utilitarian solutions. 
For instance, through the formation of international organ exchange programs 
under formal agreements or, in the case of kidney transplantation, through the 
establishment of a regulated compensated donation system.

PMID: 17111711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2006;(9-10):50-6.

[Present-day problems of occupation medicine].

[Article in Russian]

Izmerov NF.

The author determines and substantiates the priority areas of scientific studies 
and presents the overall results of fundamental research into the topical 
problems of occupation medicine, such as the pathomorphosis of the modern forms 
of occupational and industrial diseases, new cell technologies and 
DNA-diagnostic technologies, occupational stress, the evaluation of health 
hazards, the combined effects of industrial factors, sociohygienic monitoring, 
reproductive health, harmonization, etc. as scientific basis for measures 
directed towards the improvement of health of working population in Russia.

PMID: 17111925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Sex Health. 2006 Dec;3(4):225-34. doi: 10.1071/sh06016.

The cost effectiveness of screening for genital Chlamydia trachomatis infection 
in Australia.

Walleser S(1), Salkeld G, Donovan B.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, NSW 2050, Australia. 
swalleser@ctc.usyd.edu.au

BACKGROUND: In Australia, there is no published study on the cost effectiveness 
of screening for chlamydia. The aim of this study was to examine the cost 
effectiveness of a hypothetical screening programme for chlamydia based on 
annual opportunistic testing of all women 25 years of age or younger consulting 
a general practitioner, compared with no screening.
METHODS: A decision-analytic modelling approach was used to determine the 
incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) of screening compared with no 
screening over 25 years. The analysis measured Australian health-care costs and 
benefits were assessed in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The analysis resulted in a cost per QALY of 2968 dollars for screening. 
One-way sensitivity analyses on all variables, and multi-way sensitivity 
analyses on some variables, showed a wide range for the cost effectiveness, from 
dominance (where screening is effective and saves money overall) to an ICER of 
67,715 dollars per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that annual opportunistic screening for 
chlamydia in women under 25 is a potentially worthwhile undertaking. However, 
the analysis also highlights uncertainties around the natural history of 
chlamydia and the effectiveness of chlamydia screening. Given these 
uncertainties, the need for further primary data collection in these areas 
becomes apparent.

DOI: 10.1071/sh06016
PMID: 17112432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Math Biosci. 2007 May;207(1):104-12. doi: 10.1016/j.mbs.2006.09.007. Epub
2006  Sep 23.

Aging: damage accumulation versus increasing mortality rate.

Finkelstein M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical Statistics, University of Free State, PO Box 339, 
9300 Bloemfontein, South Africa. FinkelM@sci.uovs.ac.za

If aging is understood as some process of damage accumulation, it does not 
necessarily lead to increasing mortality rate. Within the framework of a 
suggested generalization of the Strehler-Mildwan (1960) [B.L. Strehler, A.S. 
Mildvan (1960). General theory of mortality and aging, Science, 132, 14] model, 
we show that even for models with monotonically increasing degradation, the 
mortality rate can still decrease. The decline in vitality and functions, as 
manifestation of aging, is modeled by the monotonically decreasing quality of 
life function. Using this function, the initial lifetime random variable with 
ultimately decreasing mortality rate is 'weighted' to result in a new random 
variable, which is already characterized by the increasing mortality rate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mbs.2006.09.007
PMID: 17112546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Transplant Proc. 2006 Nov;38(9):3004-5. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2006.08.129.

Extracorporeal membrane oxygenator assistance as "bridge" to combined heart and 
liver transplantation.

Dell'Amore A(1), Botta L, Gallieri S, Arpesella G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Bologna, Italy.

Heart transplantation is accepted worldwide as the treatment of choice for 
patients with end-stage heart disease who have a life expectancy of less than 1 
year. Mechanical Cardiac assistance might be necessary as a bridge to 
transplantation and, in selected cases, to multiorgan transplantation. We report 
a successful case of a 15-day extracorporeal membrane oxygenator assistance as 
bridge to combined heart and liver transplantation in a young man with dilated 
cardiomyopathy and chronic hepatitis C virus infection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2006.08.129
PMID: 17112885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2006 Dec;30(6):827-32. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2006.10.002.

Talc poudrage versus talc slurry in the treatment of malignant pleural effusion. 
A prospective comparative study.

Stefani A(1), Natali P, Casali C, Morandi U.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Department of General Surgery and Surgical 
Specialities, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy.

Comment in
    Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2007 Jun;31(6):1147; author reply 1147-8.
    Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2007 Aug;32(2):397; author reply 397-8.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the effectiveness, safety 
and appropriate mode of administration of intrapleural talc for pleurodesis, in 
the treatment of malignant pleural effusion (MPE).
METHODS: Prospective not randomized trial was conducted to compare thoracoscopic 
talc poudrage (TP) with tube thoracostomy and talc slurry (TS) for the local 
control of malignant pleural effusion. Both procedures were previously 
standardized; 6g of talc was administered for each procedure. Only the patients 
with lung re-expansion after drainage entered the study. Patients at high risk 
for general anaesthesia, poor general conditions and short life-expectancy 
received talc slurry through a chest tube, at the bedside. All the other 
patients underwent videothoracoscopic talc poudrage, with a pneumatic atomizer, 
under general anaesthesia. Morbidity, 30-day freedom from recurrence and 
long-term results were assessed and the two groups were compared.
RESULTS: One hundred and nine patients entered the study (72 TP, 37 TS). 
Sixty-three patients in the TP group (87.5%) and 27 in the TS group (73%) had an 
immediate successful pleurodesis (p = 0.049); 53 patients (88.3%) and 16 
patients (69.6%) had a successful pleurodesis 90 days after the procedure; 59 
patients (81.9%) and 23 patients (62.2%), respectively, had a life-long pleural 
symphysis (p = 0.023). Adverse effects were generally mild: chest pain (36.1% in 
TP patients, 48.6% in TS patients) and fever (38.8% and 35.1%, respectively) 
were the more common but the difference was not significant between the two 
groups. We observed neither acute respiratory failure nor mortality due to the 
procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study confirms that intrapleural talc carries good results in 
the treatment of malignant pleural effusion. TP was significantly more effective 
than TS; both methods were safe but TS had a higher incidence of thoracic pain 
during the procedure. Talc pleurodesis should be offered to every patient with 
MPE, apart from terminally ill ones, provided that a satisfying lung 
re-expansion has been achieved. TP should be performed whenever possible; 
otherwise, a slurry bedside procedure will be worthwhile, even in patients with 
low performance status (PS), though poorer results have to be expected. A 
careful selection is essential to define the proper technique.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2006.10.002
PMID: 17113008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Brain Res. 2007 Jan 5;1127(1):10-8. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2006.10.040.
Epub  2006 Nov 17.

Effects of age and caloric intake on glutathione redox state in different brain 
regions of C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice.

Rebrin I(1), Forster MJ, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.

The main purpose of the present study was to determine whether specific regions 
of the mouse brain exhibit different age-related changes in oxidative stress, as 
indicated by glutathione redox state and the level of protein-glutathionyl mixed 
disulfides. Comparison of 3- and 21-month-old mice indicated an age-related 
decrease in the ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione (GSH/GSSG) as well as a 
pro-oxidizing shift in the calculated redox potential (ranging from 6 to 15 mV) 
in the cortex, hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum, whereas there was little 
change in the brainstem. This pro-oxidizing shift in redox state was due to a 
modest decrease in GSH content occurring in all the brain regions examined, and 
elevations in GSSG amount that were most pronounced in the striatum and 
cerebellum. The regional changes in glutathione redox state were paralleled by 
increases in the amounts of protein-mixed disulfides. A reduction of caloric 
intake by 40% for a short period (7 weeks), implemented in relatively old mice 
(17 months), increased the GSH/GSSG ratio and redox potential at 19 months in 
the same brain regions that exhibited age-related decreases. The effects of age 
and caloric restriction were qualitatively similar in C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice. 
However, young DBA/2 mice, which do not show extension of life span in response 
to long-term caloric restriction, had lower GSH/GSSG ratios and higher 
protein-mixed disulfides than age-matched C57BL/6 mice. The current findings 
demonstrate that oxidative stress, as reflected by glutathione redox state, 
increases in the aging brain in regions linked to age-associated losses of 
function and neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2006.10.040
PMCID: PMC2112744
PMID: 17113050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. J Clin Neurosci. 2006 Dec;13(10):1038-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2005.12.033.

Pituitary abscess.

Su YH(1), Chen Y, Tseng SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University Hospital and National 
Taiwan University College of Medicine, 7 Chung-Shan S. Rd, Taipei 100, Taiwan.

Pituitary abscess is a rare disease, but one with potentially high mortality and 
morbidity. We present a 46-year-old man with progressive visual disturbance and 
general malaise for 1 year. Endocrine studies revealed hypopituitarism, and 
magnetic resonance imaging revealed a pituitary lesion with suprasellar 
extension. We attempted to excise the lesion using a transsphenoidal approach, 
but pus in the pituitary fossa was found at operation, and no tumour was 
identified. The culture yielded coagulase-negative Staphylococcus. Antibiotics 
were administered for 3 weeks, and the patient made a good postoperative 
recovery. He required life-long hormone replacement therapy. After one and a 
half years of follow-up, he was well and had no evidence of focal or systemic 
infection. We review the literature regarding pituitary abscess and discuss the 
appropriate treatment and possible pathological mechanism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2005.12.033
PMID: 17113986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. New Sci. 2006 May 13-19;190(2551):32-8.

The incredibles.

Lawton G.

PMID: 17115500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Lakartidningen. 2006 Oct 4-10;103(40):2963-5.

[Osteoporosis in health economic perspective].

[Article in Swedish]

Borgström F(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Management Centre, Karolinska institutet, och European Health 
Economics, Stockholm. fredrik.b@healtheconomics.se

PMID: 17115658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2007 Jan;9(1):131-41. doi: 10.1089/ars.2007.9.131.

Dietary thioproline decreases spontaneous food intake and increases survival and 
neurological function in mice.

Navarro A(1), Sánchez-Pino MJ, Gómez C, Bández MJ, Cadenas E, Boveris A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Medicine, 
University of Cádiz, Cádiz, Spain. ana.navarro@uca.es

Male mice on a diet supplemented with thioproline (l-thiazolidine-4-carboxylic 
acid), a physiological metabolite of 5-hydroxytryptamine, at 2.0 g/kg of food 
from 28 weeks of age and for their entire life, showed a 23-29% increased median 
and maximal life span. These survival increases were associated with improved 
neurological functions. Compared to control mice, thioproline-supplemented mice 
had a 20% lower integral spontaneous food intake, and 10% lower body weight at 
100 weeks of age. Body weight showed a statistically significant inverse 
relationship with survival and neurological performances. 
Thioproline-supplemented mice exhibited a 58-70% decrease of the age-dependent 
oxidative damage in brain and liver mitochondria at 52 weeks (old mice) and 78 
weeks (senescent mice) of age, respectively. The age-associated decrease of 
brain mitochondrial enzyme activities, NADH-dehydrogenase, cytochrome c oxidase, 
and mitochondrial nitric oxide synthase (mtNOS), in old and senescent mice were 
markedly prevented (51-74%) by thioproline. In vitro, thioproline neither 
exhibited direct antioxidant activity nor had any effect on the electron 
transfer or mtNOS functional activities of brain and liver mitochondria. It is 
surmised that thioproline induces an anorexic effect associated with improved 
survival and neurological function through a decreased oxidative damage and 
regulation that may involve hypothalamic appetite centers.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2007.9.131
PMID: 17115892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Cephalalgia. 2006 Dec;26(12):1473-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2982.2006.01240.x.

Cost-effectiveness of migraine prevention: the case of topiramate in the UK.

Brown JS(1), Papadopoulos G, Neumann PJ, Price M, Friedman M, Menzin J.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School/Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, Department of Ambulatory 
Care & Prevention, Boston, MA, USA.

The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of topiramate vs. no 
preventive treatment in the UK. Model inputs included baseline migraine 
frequency, treatment discontinuation and response, preventive and acute medical 
cost per attack [2005 GBP ( pound)] and gain in health utility. Outcomes 
included monthly migraines averted, acute and preventive treatment costs and 
cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Topiramate was associated with 1.8 
fewer monthly migraines and a QALY gain of 0.0384. The incremental cost of 
topiramate vs. no preventive treatment was about 10 UK pounds per migraine 
averted and 5700 UK pounds per QALY. Results are sensitive to baseline monthly 
migraine frequency, triptan use rate and the gain in utility. Incorporating 
savings from reduced work loss (about 36 UK pounds per month) suggests that 
topiramate would be cost saving compared with no preventive treatment. This 
analysis suggests that topiramate is a cost-effective treatment for migraine 
prevention compared with no preventive treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-2982.2006.01240.x
PMID: 17116098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2006 Dec;20(4):891-912. doi: 
10.1016/j.idc.2006.09.002.

Rheumatic manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection.

Medina F(1), Pérez-Saleme L, Moreno J.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department, Hospital de Especialidades, Centro Médico Nacional 
Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, 330 Cuauhtemoc Avenue, México 
City, DF 06720, Mexico. fmedina99@gmail.com

Rheumatic complaints are common in patients with HIV, and HIV positivity confers 
an increased susceptibility in populations with similar risk factors for HIV 
infection. With the advent of the modern combined antiretroviral treatment, 
HAART has had a profound beneficial effect on survival in HIV-infected patients, 
with lifelong control of HIV infection and normalization of life expectancy; but 
it has also contributed to both an altered frequency and a different nature of 
rheumatic complications now being observed in this population, with new 
rheumatic complications, such as osteoporosis, osteonecrosis, gout, 
mycobacterial, mycotic osteoarticular infections, and neoplasia perhaps more 
prevalent. Rheumatologists, internists, and general physicians need to be aware 
of these changes to provide optimal diagnosis and how to disclose the results to 
their patients. They also need to be familiar with the management of HIV 
infection and to direct careful attention to the prevention of HIV transmission 
in health care facilities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.idc.2006.09.002
PMID: 17118295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Mech Ageing Dev. 2007 Jan;128(1):45-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.11.009. Epub
2006  Nov 21.

A simple model system for age-dependent DNA damage and cancer.

Madia F(1), Gattazzo C, Fabrizio P, Longo VD.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center and Department of Biological Sciences, University 
of Southern California, 3715 McClintock Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90089-0191, 
United States.

Aging is the major risk factor for many human cancers. However, the mechanisms 
responsible for the effect of aging on tumor incidence are poorly understood, in 
part because few model systems are available to study age-dependent genomic 
instability. Furthermore, the role of DNA mutations in "normal aging" and "life 
span extension" is unclear. Our laboratory has developed a novel method to study 
aging in yeast based on the survival of non-dividing populations (chronological 
life span). Two major pathways have been identified that control chronological 
aging: the Ras/PKA/Msn2/4 and the Sch9 pathways. The downregulation of either of 
them promotes life span extension. Importantly, similar pathways 
(insulin/IGF-I-like), regulate longevity in higher eukaryotes suggesting a 
common evolutionary origin for the life span-regulatory mechanisms. Moreover, 
both Ras and Sch9 are functional homologs of two major mammalian oncogenes (Ras 
and Akt), which underlines the close link between cancer and aging. By combining 
chronological life span with simple assays for the detection of DNA mutations 
and dedifferentiation we have developed a powerful system to identify genes that 
regulate genomic instability and understand the fundamental mechanisms that may 
be responsible for age-dependent DNA mutations and cancer in mammals. Here, we 
describe the use of this system to monitor the age-dependent accumulation of 
different types of DNA mutations including base substitutions, frame-shift 
mutations, and gross chromosomal rearrangements (GCRs).

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2006.11.009
PMCID: PMC1847572
PMID: 17118426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Exp Gerontol. 2007 Mar;42(3):166-72. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.10.002. Epub
2006  Nov 21.

A search for principles of disability using experimental impairment of 
Drosophila melanogaster.

Carey JR(1), Pinter-Wollman N, Wyman M, Müller HG, Molleman F, Zhang N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. 
jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

The results of life table experiments to determine the effects of artificial 
impairment (leg amputation) in 7500 Drosophila melanogaster adults revealed that 
the extent to which life expectancy was reduced in impaired individuals was 
conditional on: (1) leg location and number amputated--front leg had greatest 
impact and the number of legs amputated directly correlated with mortality 
impact; (2) age of amputation--the greatest relative reduction in remaining life 
expectancy occurred when young flies were impaired; (3) vial 
orientation--mortality in impaired flies was the least when vials held 
upside-down (most friendly environment) and the greatest when they were 
right-side up (least friendly environment); and (4) sex--male mortality was 
increased more than female mortality in nearly all impairment treatments. These 
results were used to formulate a set of general principles of disability that 
would apply not only to humans but to all organisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.10.002
PMCID: PMC1892206
PMID: 17118600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Braz J Biol. 2006 Aug;66(3):899-905. doi: 10.1590/s1519-69842006000500016.

Reproductive performance of the mite Brevipalpus phoenicis (Geijskes, 1939) on 
citrus and coffee, using life table parameters.

Teodoro AV(1), Reis PR.

Author information:
(1)Setor de Entomologia, Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal 
de Viçosa, Viçosa, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

The flat-mite Brevipalpus phoenicis (Geijskes, 1939) (Acari: Tenuipalpidae) is 
considered important in citrus (Citrus spp.) and coffee plants (Coffea spp.) in 
Brazil, and is known as the leprosis and coffee ring spot mite, as being a 
vector of the Citrus Leprosis Rhabdovirus - CitLV and Coffee Ring Spot Virus - 
CoRSV. The objective of this work is to find out about the reproductive success 
of B. phoenicis on citric fruits and coffee leaves by fertility life table 
parameters and its biology. The experiments were carried out in laboratory 
conditions at 25 +/- 2 degrees C, 70 +/- 10% of relative humidity and 14 h of 
photophase. The lengths of embryonic and post-embryonic periods were different 
due to the host where the mite was reared. B. phoenicis showed better 
development and higher survival and fecundity in citric fruits than coffee 
leaves. The intrinsic rate of the population increase (r(m)) was 0.128 and 0.090 
- females/female/day on citric fruits and coffee leaves, respectively. The 
citric fruits were more appropriate for the development of B. phoenicis than 
coffee leaves.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842006000500016
PMID: 17119838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Mayo Clin Proc. 2006 Nov;81(11):1487-94. doi: 10.4065/81.11.1487.

Late referral of patients with chronic kidney disease: no time to waste.

Sprangers B(1), Evenepoel P, Vanrenterghem Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.

Erratum in
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2007 Feb;82(2):253.

Comment in
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2006 Nov;81(11):1420-2.
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2007 Feb;82(2):252-3.

The prevalence of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in the US 
population is approximately 11%, and because of the increase in life expectancy 
and in diabetic nephropathy incidence, an exponential increase is predicted for 
the next decades. During the past decade, evidence that the progression of CKD 
can be attenuated by a multifactorial therapeutic approach has been increasing. 
However, a substantial percentage of patients with CKD will have progression to 
CKD stage V (ie, need for renal replacement therapy). Late referral of these 
patients (ie, <1 to 6 months before the start of renal replacement therapy) has 
been shown to be associated with higher mortality, morbidity, and costs. 
However, up to 64% of patients with CKD are still referred late. This review 
presents the available data on the epidemiology, causes, and consequences of 
late patient referral. Furthermore, it offers information to prevent late 
referral, improve CKD patient care, and change clinical practice.

DOI: 10.4065/81.11.1487
PMID: 17120405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2006 Dec;65(6):729-36. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.2006.02659.x.

Determinants of life expectancy in medullary thyroid cancer: age does not 
matter.

de Groot JW(1), Plukker JT, Wolffenbuttel BH, Wiggers T, Sluiter WJ, Links TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, University Medical Centre, Groningen, the 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: In medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) age is considered an important 
prognostic factor but survival has never been properly adjusted for baseline 
mortality in the general population. We aimed to identify prognostic factors by 
analysing patients with MTC regarding life expectancy.
DESIGN: We described a retrospective cohort study with a median follow-up of 8 
years (range 1-35 years).
PATIENTS: We included 120 consecutive patients of whom 66 (55%) had sporadic 
MTC. Male/female ratio was 1 : 1; median age was 45 years (range 3-83 years).
MEASUREMENTS: Measurements were overall and disease-specific survival and life 
expectancy expressed as survival adjusted for baseline mortality rate in the 
general population.
RESULTS: Overall and disease-specific 10-year survival was 65% and 73%, 
respectively. After 10 years, 29% of patients were biochemically and 63% 
clinically cured. Median overall life expectancy was 0.58 (95%CI 0.37-0.80). 
Detectable recurrence occurred in 60 patients after a median of 36 months (range 
5-518 months). On multivariate regression analysis only stage of disease and 
extrathyroidal extension predicted recurrence-free life expectancy. 
Extrathyroidal extension was the only independent predictor of overall life 
expectancy. Persistent biochemical MTC did not independently affect life 
expectancy but calcitonin doubling time of less than one year indicated worse 
prognosis. Patients without detectable recurrences after initial treatment had a 
life expectancy similar to the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: In MTC patients, extrathyroidal extension and stage at diagnosis 
are the only independent predictors of (recurrence-free) life expectancy. 
Patients diagnosed in an early stage of disease and patients without detectable 
recurrence have favourable life expectancy independently of biochemical cure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.2006.02659.x
PMID: 17121523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Stroke. 2007 Jan;38(1):85-9. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000251790.19419.a8. Epub
2006  Nov 22.

Cost-effectiveness of intravenous thrombolysis with alteplase within a 3-hour 
window after acute ischemic stroke.

Ehlers L(1), Andersen G, Clausen LB, Bech M, Kjølby M.

Author information:
(1)HTA Unit, Aarhus University Hospital, Olof Palmes Allé 17, 8200 Aarhus N, 
Denmark. le@ag.aaa.dk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to assess the costs and 
cost-effectiveness of intravenous thrombolysis treatment with alteplase 
(Actilyse) of acute ischemic stroke with 24-hour in-house neurology coverage and 
use of magnetic resonance imaging.
METHODS: A health economic model was designed to calculate the marginal 
cost-effectiveness ratios for time spans of 1, 2, 3 and 30 years. Effect data 
were extracted from a meta-analysis of six large-scale randomized and 
placebo-controlled studies of thrombolytic therapy with alteplase. Cost data 
were extracted from thrombolysis treatment at Aarhus Hospital, Denmark, and from 
previously published literature.
RESULTS: The calculated cost-effectiveness ratio after the first year was 
$55,591 US per quality-adjusted life-year (base case). After the second year, 
computation of the cost-effectiveness ratio showed that thrombolysis was 
cost-effective. The long-term computations (30 years) showed that thrombolysis 
was a dominant strategy compared with conservative treatment given the model 
premises.
CONCLUSIONS: A high-quality thrombolysis treatment with 24-hour in-house 
neurology coverage and magnetic resonance imaging might not be cost-effective in 
the short term compared with conservative treatment. In the long term, there are 
potentially large-scale health economic cost savings.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000251790.19419.a8
PMID: 17122430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Nature. 2006 Dec 7;444(7120):748-51. doi: 10.1038/nature05314. Epub 2006 Nov
22.

How Neanderthal molar teeth grew.

Macchiarelli R(1), Bondioli L, Debénath A, Mazurier A, Tournepiche JF, Birch W, 
Dean MC.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Géobiologie, Biochronologie et Paléontologie Humaine, UMR 6046 
CNRS, Université de Poitiers, 86022 Poitiers, France.

Growth and development are both fundamental components of demographic structure 
and life history strategy. Together with information about developmental timing 
they ultimately contribute to a better understanding of Neanderthal extinction. 
Primate molar tooth development tracks the pace of life history evolution most 
closely, and tooth histology reveals a record of birth as well as the timing of 
crown and root growth. High-resolution micro-computed tomography now allows us 
to image complex structures and uncover subtle differences in adult tooth 
morphology that are determined early in embryonic development. Here we show that 
the timing of molar crown and root completion in Neanderthals matches those 
known for modern humans but that a more complex enamel-dentine junction 
morphology and a late peak in root extension rate sets them apart. Previous 
predictions about Neanderthal growth, based only on anterior tooth surfaces, 
were necessarily speculative. These data are the first on internal molar 
microstructure; they firmly place key Neanderthal life history variables within 
those known for modern humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature05314
PMID: 17122777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Curr Probl Cancer. 2006 Nov-Dec;30(6):307-18. doi: 
10.1016/j.currproblcancer.2006.08.008.

Combining symptom and survival data.

Atherton PJ(1), Mandrekar SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.currproblcancer.2006.08.008
PMID: 17123882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Ann Rheum Dis. 2007 May;66(5):658-63. doi: 10.1136/ard.2006.061234. Epub
2006  Nov 23.

Is shared care with annual hospital review better value for money than 
predominantly hospital-based care in patients with established stable rheumatoid 
arthritis?

Davies LM(1), Fargher EA, Tricker K, Dawes P, Scott DL, Symmons D.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research at Manchester, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK. linda.davies@manchester.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness and cost effectiveness acceptability 
of symptom control delivered by shared care (SCSC) and aggressive treatment 
delivered in hospital (ATH) for established rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: Economic data were collected within the British Rheumatoid Outcome 
Study Group randomised controlled trial of SCSC and ATH. A broad perspective was 
used (UK National Health Service, social support services and patients). Cost 
per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained, net benefit statistics and cost 
effectiveness acceptability curves were estimated. Costs and outcomes were 
discounted at 3.5%. Sensitivity analysis tested the robustness of the results to 
analytical assumptions.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) cost per person was 4540 pounds (4700) in the SCSC group 
and 4440 pounds (4900) in the ATH group. The mean (SD) QALYs per person for 3 
years were 1.67 (0.56) in the SCSC group and 1.60 (0.60) in the ATH group. If 
decision makers are prepared to pay > or = 2000 pounds to gain 1 QALY, SCSC is 
likely to be cost effective in 60-90% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS: The primary economic analysis and sensitivity analyses indicate 
that SCSC is likely to be more cost effective than ATH in 60-90% of cases. This 
result seems to be robust to assumptions required by the analysis. This study is 
one of a limited number of randomised controlled trials to collect detailed 
resource use and health status data and estimate the costs and QALYs of 
treatment for established RA. This trial is one of the largest RA studies to use 
the EuroQol.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2006.061234
PMCID: PMC1954606
PMID: 17124249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


742. Bull Soc Sci Med Grand Duche Luxemb. 2006;(2):249-64.

[Importance and extension of the qualitative approach in phenomeno-structural 
method in psychopathology].

[Article in French]

Barthélémy JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Université de Savoie. barthelemy@univ-savoie.fr

Fundamental principles of phenomeno-structural method partly originate from a 
phenomenological approach in psychiatry for which, as Jaspers says, "the 
important thing is less the study of innumerable cases than the intuitive and 
major comprehension of some particular ones". It means that, far from 
traditional statistical proceedings, it does not give any priority to the 
temptation of a cumulative and accumulative collection of data, for which it 
even receives their greatest misgivings, leaving it out of its procedures. This 
method also owes a lot to Bergson's insistence on the qualitative 
characteristics of the "immediate data of consciousness" and of experienced 
temporality, for which analytical and chronological fragmentations can do 
nothing but distort the authentically comprehensive grasping, and make them 
loose their specificity, unity and thus the indecomposability that, by nature, 
they precisely contain. According to Eugene Minkowski, the psychopathical 
break-up, proceeding from the deep heart of life, is essentially going to 
express itself, with its own properties, as a qualitative modification. In this 
way, the study of some cases carefully chosen, in accordance with their 
"typical" value, is more important than a blind acquisition of data, i.e. 
without previous option, orientation or perspective. Starting from their 
spontaneous words collected during a conversation, the meticulous analysis of 
the language of the patients, put in resonance with the vivid metaphors of the 
language in which they are expressed, as Minkowski will so brilliantly show, or 
via mediations connecting image and language, as in the experiment of the 
Rorschach--particularly approached in its essential mechanisms by his wife 
Francoise Minkowska--represents, from this point of view, a mediator and an 
irreplaceable instrument of a qualitative approach of a normal as well as a 
pathological personality and, more widely, of the person itself.

PMID: 17124801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. S D Med. 2006 Oct;59(10):425-7.

Management of papillary microcarcinoma of the thyroid.

Haas SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Stanford School of Medicine, University of 
South Dakota, Rapid City, USA.

Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid is usually an indolent tumor with a good 
survival prognosis especially when small and limited to the thyroid gland. The 
prevalence of this tumor in younger patients with long life expectancies, 
however, magnifies the problem of late recurrences. Current published guidelines 
recommend near total thyroidectomy for all differentiated thyroid cancers with 
the exception of small papillary carcinomas (< 1.0 cm) found coincidentally 
after surgery for benign disease, providing there are no other risk factors. 
Presentation of completion thyroidectomy as an option to the patient is 
recommended. Both the patient and physician should be aware that 15-20% of cases 
will have another focus in the contralateral lobe and that long-term recurrent 
disease may reach 20% or more in the absence of complete resection. Despite 
their small size, 5% or more of these tumors may be associated with invasion of 
the capsule or distant metastases (Stage III or IV). The task for patient and 
physician is to fairly balance these factors against the risks and cost of the 
additional procedures.

PMID: 17124919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Exp Gerontol. 2007 Mar;42(3):247-51. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.10.009. Epub
2006  Nov 27.

Counting calories in Drosophila diet restriction.

Min KJ(1), Flatt T, Kulaots I, Tatar M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown University, Providence, 
RI 02912, USA.

Comment in
    Exp Gerontol. 2007 Apr;42(4):253-5.

The extension of life span by diet restriction in Drosophila has been argued to 
occur without limiting calories. Here we directly measure the calories 
assimilated by flies when maintained on full- and restricted-diets. We find that 
caloric intake is reduced on all diets that extend life span. Flies on low-yeast 
diet are long-lived and consume about half the calories of flies on high-yeast 
diets, regardless of the energetic content of the diet itself. Since caloric 
intake correlates with yeast concentration and thus with the intake of every 
metabolite in this dietary component, it is premature to conclude for Drosophila 
that calories do not explain extension of life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2006.10.009
PMCID: PMC2606145
PMID: 17125951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Clin Geriatr Med. 2007 Feb;23(1):179-92. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2006.08.007.

Surgical treatment of heart failure in the elderly.

Malekan R(1), Lansman SL.

Author information:
(1)New York Medical College, Westchester Medical Center, Macy Pavilion 114 West, 
Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.

Republished in
    Heart Fail Clin. 2007 Oct;3(4):501-9.

Heart failure (HF) in elderly patients who may benefit from surgical therapy is 
usually secondary to ischemic or valvular heart disease. When referring such 
patients for surgery, life expectancy, along with the expectations of the 
patient and family with regard to the surgical treatment, must be considered. 
The goals of cardiac surgery in this patient population are to maintain or 
improve cardiac function, decrease HF episodes, reduce hospital admissions,and 
improve functional class. Safer surgical techniques developed during the last 
two decades have allowed high-risk patients well into their 80s to undergo 
complex cardiac operations with decreasing morbidity and mortality. Successful 
surgical intervention often leads to a more productive and independent life for 
elderly patients who have HF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2006.08.007
PMID: 17126761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Indian J Pediatr. 2006 Nov;73(11):1011-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02758310.

Addressing the "New" NEC: Part I: rediscovering the basics.

Simmonds A(1), LaGamma EF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Newborn Medicine, The Regional Neonatal Center, Maria Fareri 
Children's Hospital of Westchester Medical Center, New York Medical College, 
Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.

Epithelial cell functions ultimately define the ability of the extremely low 
birth weight human fetus to survive outside of the uterus. These specialized 
epithelial cell capacities manage all human interactions with the ex utero world 
including: (i) lung mechanics, surface chemistry and gas exchange, (ii) renal 
tubular balance of fluid and electrolytes, (iii) barrier functions of the 
intestine and skin for keeping bacteria out and water in, plus enabling 
intestinal digestion, as well as (iv) maintaining an intact neuroepithelium 
lining of the ventricles of the brain and retina. In Part I of this two part 
review, the authors describe why the gut barrier is a clinically relevant model 
system for studying the complex interplay between innate and adaptive immunity, 
dendritic &epithelial cell interactions, intraepithelial lymphocytes, M-cells, 
as well as the gut associated lymphoid tissues where colonization after birth, 
clinician feeding practices, use of antibiotics as well as exposure to 
prebiotics, probiotics and maternal vaginal flora all program the neonate for a 
life-time of immune competence distinguishing "self" from foreign antigens. 
These barrier defense capacities become destructive during disease processes 
like necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) when an otherwise maturationally normal, 
yet dysregulated and immature, immune defense system is associated with high 
levels of certain inflammatory mediators like TNFa. In Part II, the authors will 
discuss the theoretical advantages of using rhG-CSF in managing NEC or sepsis by 
augmenting neonatal neutrophil number and killing capacity including an 
unexpected, paradoxical and potent anti-TNFa function that may serve to limit 
extension of tissue destruction without impairing bacterial killing capacity. 
The authors conclude by arguing that NEC may be the ideal disease process for 
testing whether a clearly defined clinical benefit of cytokine therapy can prove 
beneficial.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02758310
PMID: 17127784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Indian J Pediatr. 2006 Nov;73(11):1019-26. doi: 10.1007/BF02758311.

Toward improving mucosal barrier defenses: rhG-CSF plus IgG antibody.

Simmonds A(1), LaGamma EF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Newborn Medicine, The Regional Neonatal Center, Maria Fareri 
Children's Hospital of Westchester Medical Center, New York Medical College, 
Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.

Epithelial cell functions ultimately define the ability of the extremely low 
birth weight human fetus to survive outside of the uterus. These specialized 
epithelial cell capacities manage all human interactions with the ex utero world 
including: (i) lung mechanics, surface chemistry and gas exchange, (ii) renal 
tubular balance of fluid and electrolytes, (iii) barrier functions of the 
intestine and skin for keeping bacteria out and water in, plus enabling 
intestinal digestion, as well as (iv) maintaining an intact neuroepithelium 
lining of the ventricles of the brain and retina. In Part I of this two part 
review, the authors describe why the gut barrier is a clinically relevant model 
system for studying the complex interplay between innate and adaptive immunity, 
dendritic &epithelial cell interactions, intraepithelial lymphocytes, M-cells, 
as well as the gut associated lymphoid tissues where colonization after birth, 
clinician feeding practices, use of antibiotics as well as exposure to 
prebiotics, probiotics and maternal vaginal flora all program the neonate for a 
life-time of immune competence distinguishing "self" from foreign antigens. 
These barrier defense capacities become destructive during disease processes 
like necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) when an otherwise maturationally normal, 
yet dysregulated and immature, immune defense system is associated with high 
levels of certain inflammatory mediators like TNFa. In Part II the authors 
discuss the rationale for why rhG-CSF has theoretical advantages in managing NEC 
or sepsis by augmenting neonatal neutrophil number, neutrophil expression of Fcg 
and complement receptors, as well as phagocytic function and oxidative burst. 
rhG-CSF also has potent anti-TNFa functions that may serve to limit extension of 
tissue destruction while not impairing bacterial killing capacity. Healthy, 
non-infected neutropenic and septic neonates differ in their ability to respond 
to rhG-CSF; however, no neonatal clinical trials to date have identified a clear 
clinical benefit of rhG-CSF therapy. This manuscript will review the literature 
and evidence available for identifying the ideal subject for cytokine treatment 
using NEC as the model disease target.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02758311
PMID: 17127785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Rev Mal Respir. 2006 Sep;23(4 Pt 2):10S17-10S20.

[How to take into account the cost effectiveness parameters in the management of 
bronchial carcinoma?].

[Article in French]

Vergnenègre A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de l'Information Médicale et de l'Evaluation, Hôpital du Cluzeau - 
87042 Limoges Cedex. alain.vergnenegre@unilim.fr

PMID: 17127955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Cleve Clin J Med. 2006 Nov;73(11):993-1007. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.73.11.993.

Risks and benefits of bariatric surgery: current evidence.

Brethauer SA(1), Chand B, Schauer PR.

Author information:
(1)Section of Advanced Laparoscopic and Bariatric Surgery, Department of General 
Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, USA. schauep@ccf.org

Comment in
    Cleve Clin J Med. 2006 Nov;73(11):969-70.
    Cleve Clin J Med. 2007 Mar;74(3):237; author reply 237-8.

Patients typically lose more than 50% of their excess weight after bariatric 
surgery. Obesity-related diseases markedly improve, reducing cardiovascular risk 
and improving life expectancy. Obese patients lose more weight with bariatric 
surgery than with medical weight-loss treatment.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.73.11.993
PMID: 17128540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Postgrad Med. 2006 Sep;Spec No:20-6.

Health monitoring for patients who have schizophrenia. Summary of the Mount 
Sinai Conference recommendations.

Covell NH(1), Jackson CT, Weissman EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Connecticut DMHAS 
Research Division, Hartford 06134, USA. Nancy.covell@po.state.ct.us

Schizophrenia is associated with several chronic medical illnesses and a reduced 
life expectancy. This paper summarizes findings and recommendations from "The 
Mount Sinai Conference," held at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York 
on October 17-18, 2002, and discusses the implications for improving medical 
monitoring of patients with schizophrenia who are managed in outpatient settings 
from the initiation of treatment. The Mount Sinai Conference involved a diverse 
panel of experts, including specialists on schizophrenia, obesity, diabetes, 
cardiology, endocrinology, and ophthalmology. Consensus recommendations included 
baseline measurement and regular monitoring of body mass index, blood glucose, 
lipid profiles, signs of prolactin elevation or sexual dysfunction, and movement 
disorders. Information from such measurements should be considered when 
selecting or switching antipsychotic agents and should trigger an evaluation of 
medication when abnormalities are detected.

PMID: 17128658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(12):1173-7. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200624120-00002.

Do pharmacogenomic tests provide value to policy makers?

Shih YC, Pusztai L.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624120-00002
PMID: 17129072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(12):1221-32. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200624120-00006.

Cost effectiveness of tumour necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors as first-line 
agents in rheumatoid arthritis.

Spalding JR(1), Hay J.

Author information:
(1)Astellas Pharma US, Deerfield, Illinois, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease 
with an unknown aetiology that results in >9 million physician visits and >250 
000 hospitalisations per year in the US. Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) 
inhibitors are effective agents in treating RA; however, their cost 
effectiveness as first-line agents has not been investigated. This study aimed 
to examine the cost effectiveness of using TNFalpha inhibitors (both as 
monotherapy and in combination with methotrexate) as first-line agents versus 
methotrexate (monotherapy) from a payer perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed utilising a discount rate of 3% per annum, 
a cycle length of 1 year and a lifetime time-horizon for a hypothetical cohort 
of US females aged 55-60 years who had been diagnosed with RA. The source of 
data for predicted probabilities, expected mortality rates and treatment costs 
in year 2005 US dollars (drug, toxicity, monitoring and hospitalisation) was 
from the literature. These costs are assigned in 5-year cycles (calculated from 
initial 1-year estimates) along with the effect on quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), which were calculated using the Health Assessment Questionnaire score. 
Univariate sensitivity analyses were conducted on all relevant parameters.
RESULTS: Adalimumab, etanercept, adalimumab plus methotrexate and infliximab 
plus methotrexate had incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) versus 
methotrexate monotherapy of $US63 769, $US89 772, $US194 589 and $US409 523 per 
QALY, respectively. When taking into consideration age at diagnosis, the ICER 
for etanercept ranged from $US84 129 to $US96 225 per QALY. In considering males 
for the base-case age at diagnosis, the ICER for etanercept versus methotrexate 
was $US85 100 per QALY. The average lifetime cost across all treatment arms in a 
woman diagnosed between 55 and 60 years of age was $US211 702.
CONCLUSION: While these ICERs cannot be used to directly compare one biological 
agent with another since there are no comparative trials, they do provide a 
valid comparison versus methotrexate as first-line agents. Depending where the 
cost-effectiveness threshold is drawn (i.e. whether it is considered to be $US50 
000 or $US100 000 per QALY), etanercept and adalimumab may be considered 
relatively cost-effective first-line treatments for RA compared with 
methotrexate monotherapy.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200624120-00006
PMID: 17129076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Pharmacoeconomics. 2006;24(12):1249-72. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200624120-00008.

Candesartan cilexetil: a pharmacoeconomic review of its use in chronic heart 
