populations overall. This report describes the results of that analysis, which 
indicated variation in disease prevalence and use of eye care among individual 
states and also among racial/ethnic populations and age groups within the five 
states combined. The variability among state data suggests that statespecific 
surveillance of visual impairment and eye care and investigation by states to 
identify influencing factors might lead to creation of vision programs better 
suited to individual state needs.

PMID: 17167393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2006 Nov;22(6):907-13. doi: 
10.1016/s1872-2075(06)60064-2.

[Expression and secretion of human bone morphogenetic protein-7 in Pichia 
pastoris].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen L(1), Huang YD, Zhang YD.

Author information:
(1)College of life science, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou 350007, China.

The synonymous codons are used in a highly non-random manner in hosts of widely 
divergent species, which is termed "codon usage bias". Several reports suggest 
that codon usage bias sometimes frustrate attempts to express high levels of 
exogenous genes. In this study, we attempted to express mature peptide of human 
bone morphogenetic protein-7(hBMP7), with optimized codons in P. pastoris 
expression system. Three low-usage ARG codons (CGG or CGA) of gene fragment 
coding the mature peptide of hBMP7 have been successfully converted into P. 
pastoris-preferred ARG codons (AGA) by overlap extension PCR-based 
multiple-site-directed mutagenesis for a high level expression of hBMP7 mature 
peptide. The present results showed that the production level (25.45 mg/L) of 
codon-optimized hbmp7 had a remarkably improvement of 4.6-fold relative to that 
(5.5 mg/L) of non-codon-optimized hbmp7. Furthermore, a strain haboring 
multi-copy of codon-optimized hbmp7 expression cassette was screened, and showed 
a increased level of expression with 2-fold more potent than the single-copy 
one. The recombinant hBMP7 mature peptide were produced as a 18 kD monomer 
proteins, and were easily purified from culture supernatants by using 
ion-exchange chromatography. Functional assay demonstrated that rhBMP7 could 
induce ectopic cartilage formation, although its inductive ability was much less 
active than CHO cell-derived hBMP7.

DOI: 10.1016/s1872-2075(06)60064-2
PMID: 17168311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. J Org Chem. 2006 Dec 22;71(26):9609-21. doi: 10.1021/jo0617161.

Construction and structural characterization of versatile 
lactosaminoglycan-related compound library for the synthesis of complex 
glycopeptides and glycosphingolipids.

Naruchi K(1), Hamamoto T, Kurogochi M, Hinou H, Shimizu H, Matsushita T, 
Fujitani N, Kondo H, Nishimura S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Advanced Chemical Biology, Graduate School of Advanced Life 
Science, Frontier Research Center for the Post-Genome Science and Technology, 
Hokkaido University, N21, W11, Sapporo 001-0021, Japan.

We have established a facile and efficient protocol for the preparative-scale 
synthesis of various compound libraries related to lactosaminoglycans: cell 
surface oligosaccharides composed of N-acetyllactosamine as a repeating 
disaccharide unit, based on chemical and enzymatic approaches. Substrate 
specificity and feasibility of a bacterial glycosyltransferase, Neisseria 
meningitidis beta1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (LgtA), were investigated 
in order to synthesize various key intermediates suited for the construction of 
mammalian O-glycopeptides and glycosphingolipids containing 
poly-N-acetyllactosamine structures. Recombinant LgtA exhibited the highest 
glycosyltransferase activity with strongly basic conditions (pH = 10, 
glycine-NaOH buffer) and a broad range of optimal temperatures from 20 to 30 
degrees C. Interestingly, it was found that LgtA discriminates L-serine and 
L-threonine and functions both as a core-1 
beta1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase and core-2 
beta1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase toward Fmoc-Ser derivatives, while LgtA 
showed only core-2 beta1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity in the 
presence of Fmoc-Thr derivatives. Combined use of LgtA with human 
beta1,4-galactosyltransferase allowed for controlled sugar extension reactions 
from synthetic sugar amino acids and gave synthetic lactosaminoglycans, such as 
a decasaccharide derivative, Galbeta(1 --> 4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 3)Galbeta(1 --> 
4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 3)Galbeta(1 --> 4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 3)Galbeta(1 --> 
4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 6)[Galbeta(1 --> 3)]GalNAcalpha1 --> Fmoc-Ser-OH (6), and a 
dodecasaccharide derivative, Galbeta(1 --> 4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 3)Galbeta(1 --> 
4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 3)Galbeta(1 --> 4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 6)[Galbeta(1 --> 
4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 3)Galbeta(1 --> 4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 3)Galbeta(1 --> 
3)]GalNAcalpha1 --> Fmoc-Ser-OH (9). A partially protected pentasaccharide 
intermediate, GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 3)Galbeta(1 --> 4)GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 6)[Galbeta(1 
--> 3)]GalNAcalpha1 --> Fmoc-Thr-OH (11), was applied for the microwave-assisted 
solid-phase synthesis of a MUC1-related glycopeptide 19 (MW = 2610.1). The 
findings suggest that this sugar extension strategy can be employed for the 
modification of lactosyl ceramide mimetic polymers to afford convenient 
precursors for the synthesis of various glycosphingolipids.

DOI: 10.1021/jo0617161
PMID: 17168577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2006 Dec;3(5):411-9. doi: 10.2174/156720506779025233.

Alzheimer's and dementia in the oldest-old: a century of challenges.

Kawas CH(1), Corrada MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-4540, 
USA. ckawas@uci.edu

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia in the US and much 
of the world with rates increasing exponentially from age 65. Increases in life 
expectancy in the last century have resulted in a large number of people living 
to old ages and will result in a quadrupling of AD cases by the middle of the 
century. Preventing or delaying the onset of AD could have a huge impact in the 
number of cases expected to develop. The oldest-old are the fastest growing 
segment of the population and are estimated to account for 12% of the population 
over 65. Establishing accurate estimates of dementia and AD rates in this group 
is crucial for public health planning. Prevalence and incidence estimates above 
age 85 are imprecise and inconsistent because of the lack of very old 
individuals in most studies. Moreover, risk and protective factors in our oldest 
citizens have been studied little, and clinical-pathological correlations appear 
to be poor. We introduce The 90+ Study, established to address some of the 
unanswered questions about AD and dementia in the oldest-old. Our preliminary 
results show that close to half of demented oldest-old do not have known 
cerebral pathology to account for their cognitive deficits. Furthermore, the 
APOE-e4 allele appears to be a risk factor for AD only in the women in our 
study. In addition to the challenge of preventing and treating AD, the 
oldest-old will require major investigative energy to better understand the 
concomitants of longevity, the causes of dementia, and the factors that promote 
successful aging in oldest citizens.

DOI: 10.2174/156720506779025233
PMCID: PMC3373256
PMID: 17168640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2006 Dec;13(6):371-7. doi: 10.1080/09286580600864794.

Assessment of vision-related quality of life in an older population subsample: 
The Blue Mountains Eye Study.

Chia EM(1), Mitchell P, Ojaimi E, Rochtchina E, Wang JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centre for Vision Research, Westmead Millennium 
Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

PURPOSE: To assess visual functioning and vision-specific health-related quality 
of life (HRQOL) in an older, community-dwelling-based population subsample, 
using the 25-item National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire 
(NEI-VFQ-25).
METHODS: Three-quarters (76%, n = 892) of Extension Blue Mountains Eye Study 
participants (aged > or = 50 years, mean 60.8 years) completed the 
self-administered NEI-VFQ-25, an instrument consisting of 12 dimensions and one 
summary composite score, and comprehensive eye examinations, including monocular 
distance visual acuity. Visual impairment was defined as visual acuity < 6/12. 
Unilateral and bilateral visual impairment was defined by the worse eye and 
better eye, respectively. Correctable visual impairment was defined as that 
which improved, and non-correctable visual impairment as that which persisted 
after subjective refraction. Mild visual impairment was defined as visual acuity 
< 6/12 but > or = 6/24, moderate as < 6/24 but > or = 6/60, and severe as < 
6/60.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in age, sex, or vision status 
between NEI-VFQ-25 responders and non-responders. Men had significantly better 
scores in three subscales than women but there were no significant differences 
in their overall composite scores (men 88.5+/- 0.5; women 88.1+/- 0.4). Persons 
aged 60-69 years had the best NEI-VFQ-25 profiles (mean composite score +/- 
standard error, 90.2 +/- 0.5; 50-59 years, 88.5 +/- 0.4; > or =70 years, 86.2 
+/- 0.8). Presenting bilateral visual impairment (77.1 +/- 1.4) was associated 
with significantly poorer functioning than unilateral (87.5 +/- 0.8) or no 
visual impairment (89.4 +/- 0.3). Increasing levels of impairment were 
associated with poorer levels of visual functioning. The impact of impairment 
was principally from non-correctable (49.2 +/- 2.6) rather than refractive 
impairments (85.3 +/- 1.4), although the latter accounted for over 
three-quarters (77.5%) of presenting bilateral impairment. Non-correctable 
unilateral impairment (85.3 +/- 1.1) was associated with poorer functioning than 
no impairment.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings from this community-dwelling older population show 
that the NEI-VFQ-25 differentiates well between various levels of visual 
impairment with regard to the magnitude of their impact on vision-specific 
quality of life. Greater impacts were noted among persons with bilateral 
compared to unilateral impairment, with increasing impacts at greater severities 
of visual impairment. Visual impairment from refractive errors is more frequent 
than from underlying pathologic disorders, but the impact of correctable visual 
impairment was considerably milder than the impact of non-correctable visual 
impairment.

DOI: 10.1080/09286580600864794
PMID: 17169850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Tree Physiol. 2006 Dec;26(12):1549-58. doi: 10.1093/treephys/26.12.1549.

Mechanical and ecophysiological significance of the form of a young Acer 
rufinerve tree: vertical gradient in branch mechanical properties.

Sone K(1), Noguchi K, Terashima I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, 1-1 
Machikaneyama-cho, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043, Japan sonek@biol.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Most tree biomechanics models assume uniformity of mechanical properties within 
a tree, and only a few studies have focused on differences in mechanical status 
among branches. We examined mechanical properties of 49 branches of two 
10-year-old trees of Acer rufinerve Sieb. et Zucc. For each branch, bending 
moment due to its own fresh mass, elastic modulus, section modulus and flexural 
stiffness were obtained. Elastic modulus of the branch was correlated with the 
density and thickness of the fiber cell wall and decreased with crown depth, 
indicating that branches at lower positions were more elastic than branches at 
upper positions. Compared to lower branches, upper branches were less inclined, 
possessed thicker growth rings, more long shoots and were subject to smaller 
stresses. The leaf arrangement in the upper branches might be effective in 
transmitting more light to the lower branches. In contrast, the lower branches 
were more inclined toward the horizontal and subject to greater stresses than 
the upper branches. Lower branch inclinations were attributed to smaller dry 
matter investment in diameter growth. Upper and lower branch inclinations were 
slightly greater and smaller, respectively, than those predicted by beam theory. 
The alleviation in inclination of the lower branches is probably caused by 
negative gravitropic responses such as tension wood formation or upward shoot 
elongation, or both. The horizontal display of leaves in the lower branches 
would be effective in light interception. The reduction in cost of the lower 
branches can be adaptive because they have a shorter life expectancy than the 
upper branches. The results showed that an adaptive tree form is realized by a 
vertical gradient in branch mechanical properties.

DOI: 10.1093/treephys/26.12.1549
PMID: 17169894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Palliat Med. 2007 Jan;21(1):15-22. doi: 10.1177/0269216306072086.

Patient demographics and centre description in European palliative care units.

Kaasa S(1), Torvik K, Cherny N, Hanks G, de Conno F.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim and Department of Oncology, St. Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, 
Norway. stein.kaasa@ntnu.no

Patients in palliative care are elderly, frail and in decline with multisystem 
disease. These and other factors make palliative care research particularly 
challenging, and has been one of several reasons why relatively little 
systematic research has been performed. The European Association for Palliative 
Care (EAPC) is seeking to emphasise the importance of research. The present 
project is the first empirical multicentre study organised by the EAPC Research 
Network, with the aim of identifying the patient population using specialised 
palliative care, and identifying a network of palliative care services across 
Europe, able to participate in a multicentre collaboration for research. During 
a designated week in the autumn of 2000, data on patients were recorded from 143 
centres. The survey was carried out by means of two questionnaires, one centre 
questionnaire and one patient questionnaire. Data were submitted on 3013 
patients from 22 different European countries. Almost all patients had cancer 
(94%), while some had neurological disease (3%). The majority (75%) had been 
referred to a palliative care service during the six to seven months before the 
survey was performed. Very few patients had less than one week of expected 
survival (6%), the majority were expected to live one to six months, while as 
many as 16% were expected to live more than one year. The majority of the 
patients (27%) were fully ambulatory--the ability to walk independently without 
any assistance. The majority of the patients (60%) received care as an 
outpatient, either at a traditional clinic in an outpatient cancer hospital 
(12%), in home-care programs from a specialised advisory service (24%), or 
external nursing care (24%). The population of patients included in this survey 
was not a sample of dying patients. There were a substantial number of patients 
with an anticipated life expectancy of more than six months. The study 
demonstrated a considerable enthusiasm for research in the palliative care 
community across Europe. The heterogeneity of the sample is evident, and this 
will need careful consideration for future clinical trials. This calls for an 
international consensus on how to report on patient characteristics within 
palliative care research. This is necessary in order to be able to evaluate the 
representativity of the study population, as well as to compare data between 
studies. The range of services encountered in the survey highlights the need for 
the organisational and clinical standards for palliative care, which can be 
audited.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216306072086
PMID: 17169955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Clin Trials. 2006;3(6):543-51. doi: 10.1177/1740774506073105.

Cost-effectiveness as an outcome in randomized clinical trials.

Hlatky MA(1), Owens DK, Sanders GD.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305-5405, USA. 
hlatky@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Economic outcomes are now included in many contemporary randomized 
trials and provide an additional dimension to the assessment of interventions. 
Economic data collection and analysis pose several methodologic challenges, 
however.
PURPOSE: This paper reviews methods of incorporating economic outcomes in 
clinical trials.
RESULTS: Data on medical resource utilization and cost can readily be collected 
along with data on clinical outcomes. The cost of planned interventions can be 
measured with reasonable accuracy, but costs due to unplanned clinical events 
are more difficult to measure reliably. The total cost depends critically on 
these relatively infrequent, yet costly, adverse outcomes, which may partially, 
or even completely, offset any difference between the planned costs of the 
randomized therapies. Newer therapies are typically more expensive than older 
therapies, so the most important question is whether patient outcomes are 
improved sufficiently to justify the added expense. Cost-effectiveness analysis 
helps gauge the value provided by a new therapy. The cost-effectiveness of an 
intervention compared with an alternative is defined as the ratio of the 
incremental costs and the incremental clinical benefits, measured as dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year added. The follow-up period in most clinical trials 
is generally long enough to measure the added cost of therapy, but may not 
capture the full benefits of treatment. The limited time horizon of clinical 
trials makes it necessary to use a model to extrapolate the observed effect of 
treatment and project the increase in life expectancy. The resulting 
cost-effectiveness ratio is sensitive to assumptions about the long-term 
efficacy of treatment, particularly whether the treatment effect will continue 
or dissipate over time.
CONCLUSION: Economic outcomes can be measured alongside clinical outcomes in 
randomized trial. While the use of cost-effectiveness models falls outside the 
strictly empirical, within-trial analysis framework that is embraced by most 
clinical trialists, it provides an explicit approach to assessing whether the 
intervention under study provides a clinically meaningful improvement in outcome 
that is worthwhile.

DOI: 10.1177/1740774506073105
PMID: 17170039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Skull Base Surg. 2000;10(1):1-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-6789.

Tumors of the infratemporal fossa.

Tiwari R, Quak J, Egeler S, Smeele L, Waal IV, Valk PV, Leemans R.

Neoplastic processes involving the infratemporal fossa may originate from the 
tissues in the region, but more often are the result of extension from 
neighboring structures. Metastatic lesions located in the region are rarely 
encountered. Because of its concealed localization, tumors may remain unnoticed 
for some time. Clinical signs and symptoms often arise late, are insidious, and 
may be mistakenly attributed to other structures. The close proximity of the 
area to the intracranial structures, the orbit, the paranasal sinuses, the 
nasopharynx, and the facial area demands careful planning of surgical excision 
and combined procedures may be called for. Modern imaging techniques have made 
three-dimensional visualization of the extent of the pathology possible. 
Treatment depends on the histopathology and staging of the tumor. Several 
surgical approaches have been developed over the years. Radical tumor excision 
with preservation of the quality of life remain the ultimate goal for those 
tumors where surgery is indicated. Experience over a decade with various 
pathologies is presented.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-6789
PMCID: PMC1656742
PMID: 17171095


850. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 2006;123(1):153-74.

[Demographic changes and health management].

[Article in Spanish]

Calero Jdel R.

Since our Constitution declaration in 1978 and General Law for Health in 1986, 
to date, the Spanish society has undergorne marked social changes. 
Socio-economic and health indicators in Spain have also improved as to an 
increased life expectancy, important reduction in infant mortality, and 
favourable changes reported in the national Health Survey. Risk factors 
influence the main causes of death, thus it is said that "man does not die but 
it kills himself". Healthy health practices are specified, and there is 
empirical evidence of greater disability-adjusted life years, a better adherence 
to Mediterranean diet, no smoking, moderate consumption of alcohol, enough time 
of sleeping, weight control, avoiding obsity and overweight, and increased 
physical activity, all the above practices achieving a healthier life. At a 
global scale in the world we live, famine has no frontiers, and fighting against 
this plague can not await longer. Overall, health and poverty are correlated and 
it must be overcome for reasons of human dignity, universal rights (even in ius 
gentium), and ethical dimension as normative of new socio-economic structures. 
Present must be transformed to recover hope in ou global world, still hungry, 
and in need of justice, enlightenment and solidarity.

PMID: 17172218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Perspect Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther. 2006 Sep;18(3):226-37. doi: 
10.1177/1531003506296488.

Neurofibromatosis type 1: from presentation and diagnosis to vascular and 
endovascular therapy.

Delis KT(1), Gloviczki P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Medical Center, Marousi, Athens, Greece. 
k.delis@ic.ac.uk

Neurofibromatosis type 1, also called von Recklinghausen's disease, is an 
autosomal dominant disorder linked to chromosome 17, characterized by growth 
impairment of the neural crest cells (ectoderm) manifested by multiple neural 
tumors, cutaneous pigmentations, and Lisch nodules. Disease phenotype develops 
with time, making its penetrance almost complete by 5 years of age. Compression 
of the gastro-intestinal, urinary, or pulmonary tracts by visceral neurofibromas 
may generate serious complications. Neurofibromatosis type 1 is remarkable for 
its association with occlusive (stenoses) or aneurysmal arterial disease 
affecting predominantly the renal arteries and less often the abdominal aorta 
(middle aortic syndrome), and mesenteric and peripheral arteries. Appraisal of 
existing literature reveals that timely vascular intervention by way of 
conventional surgery and/or endovascular therapy may provide patients with 
effective and durable treatment. The far greater propensity for malignant 
connective/soft-tissue neoplasms and vascular disease in neurofibromatosis type 
1, amid potential complications from the gastro-intestinal, urinary, and 
pulmonary tracts, leads to a significantly increased morbidity and decreased 
life expectancy. Neurofibromatosis type 1, from presentation and diagnosis to 
its treatment, is reviewed, with emphasis on vascular disease and its management 
with open vascular surgery and endovascular therapy.

DOI: 10.1177/1531003506296488
PMID: 17172538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. BMC Bioinformatics. 2006 Dec 15;7:534. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-7-534.

iHOPerator: user-scripting a personalized bioinformatics Web, starting with the 
iHOP website.

Good BM(1), Kawas EA, Kuo BY, Wilkinson MD.

Author information:
(1)The James Hogg iCAPTURE Centre for Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Research, 
Providence Health Care/University of British Columbia, St, Paul's Hospital, Rm, 
166, 1081 Burrard St, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6Z 1Y6, Canada. 
goodb@interchange.ubc.ca

BACKGROUND: User-scripts are programs stored in Web browsers that can manipulate 
the content of websites prior to display in the browser. They provide a novel 
mechanism by which users can conveniently gain increased control over the 
content and the display of the information presented to them on the Web. As the 
Web is the primary medium by which scientists retrieve biological information, 
any improvements in the mechanisms that govern the utility or accessibility of 
this information may have profound effects. GreaseMonkey is a Mozilla Firefox 
extension that facilitates the development and deployment of user-scripts for 
the Firefox web-browser. We utilize this to enhance the content and the 
presentation of the iHOP (information Hyperlinked Over Proteins) website.
RESULTS: The iHOPerator is a GreaseMonkey user-script that augments the 
gene-centred pages on iHOP by providing a compact, configurable visualization of 
the defining information for each gene and by enabling additional data, such as 
biochemical pathway diagrams, to be collected automatically from third party 
resources and displayed in the same browsing context.
CONCLUSION: This open-source script provides an extension to the iHOP website, 
demonstrating how user-scripts can personalize and enhance the Web browsing 
experience in a relevant biological setting. The novel, user-driven controls 
over the content and the display of Web resources made possible by user-scripts, 
such as the iHOPerator, herald the beginning of a transition from a 
resource-centric to a user-centric Web experience. We believe that this 
transition is a necessary step in the development of Web technology that will 
eventually result in profound improvements in the way life scientists interact 
with information.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-7-534
PMCID: PMC1764905
PMID: 17173692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Dev Biol. 2007 Mar 1;303(1):270-80. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2006.11.014. Epub
2006  Nov 11.

A novel gene, BENI is required for the convergent extension during Xenopus 
laevis gastrulation.

Homma M(1), Inui M, Fukui A, Michiue T, Okabayashi K, Asashima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Biology), Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

Activin-like signaling plays an important role in early embryogenesis. Activin 
A, a TGF-beta family protein, induces mesodermal/endodermal tissues in animal 
cap assays. In a screen for genes expressed early after treatment with activin 
A, we isolated a novel gene, denoted as BENI (Brachyury Expression Nuclear 
Inhibitor). The BENI protein has a conserved domain at the N-terminus that 
contains a nuclear localization signal (NLS), and two other NLSs in the 
C-terminal domain. BENI mRNA was localized to the animal hemisphere at the 
gastrula stages and to ectoderm except for neural regions at stage 17; 
expression persisted until the tadpole stage. The overexpression of BENI caused 
gastrulation defects and inhibition of elongation of activin-treated animal caps 
with reduction of Xbra expression. Moreover, whole-mount in situ hybridization 
revealed reduced expression of Xbra in BENI mRNA-injected regions of gastrula 
embryos. Functional knockdown of BENI using an antisense morpholino 
oligonucleotide also resulted in an abnormal phenotype of embryos curling to the 
dorsal side, and excessive elongation of activin-treated animal caps without 
altered expression of mesodermal markers. These results suggested that BENI 
expression is regulated by activin-like signaling, and that this regulation is 
crucial for Xbra expression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2006.11.014
PMID: 17174295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Eur J Radiol. 2007 Jan;61(1):11-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2006.11.008. Epub
2006  Dec 15.

Liver manifestations of cystic fibrosis.

Akata D(1), Akhan O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hacettepe University Medical School, 06100 Ankara, 
Turkey. fdakta@hacettepe.edu.tr

Chronic liver disease is one of the major complications of cystic fibrosis (CF). 
Significant liver disease is seen in 13-25% of children with CF. Improved life 
expectancy and prolonged follow-up have favored better characterization of the 
hepatic manifestations of CF and allowed direct observation of an increasing 
number of liver-related events. Liver disease typically develops in the first 
decade of life, with the incidence dropping rapidly after the age of 10 years. 
The wide spectrum of liver disease ranging from asymptomatic gallbladder 
abnormalities to biliary cirrhosis will be reviewed in this article.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2006.11.008
PMID: 17174503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Am Heart J. 2007 Jan;153(1):140-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2006.09.009.

Treatment practices and outcomes of patients with established peripheral 
arterial disease hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction in a community 
setting.

Spencer FA(1), Lessard D, Doubeni C, Yarzebski J, Gore JM, Goldberg RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of 
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: There are little contemporary data available describing the hospital 
and long-term outcomes of patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) who 
are hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The objectives of our 
population-based study were to examine the hospital and long-term outcomes, as 
well as the use of different treatment practices, among patients with 
established PAD who were hospitalized with AMI.
METHODS: The study sample consisted of 4480 patients hospitalized with AMI at 
all Worcester, Mass, medical centers in 4 alternate years between 1997 and 2003.
RESULTS: Among the metropolitan Worcester residents hospitalized with AMI, 13.5% 
had a history of PAD. Prior use of proven cardiac therapies in patients with, 
and without, PAD was less than optimal though more often used in patients with 
prior PAD. Patients with PAD were significantly less likely to be treated with 
thrombolytic therapy during hospitalization than patients without PAD. Patients 
with PAD were not at significantly increased risk of dying during 
hospitalization (adjusted OR 1.29, 0.95% CI 0.97-1.71), though they were at a 
significantly increased risk of dying at 1 year after hospital discharge 
(adjusted OR 2.00, 95% CI 1.58-2.52) in comparison with patients without prior 
PAD.
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately 1 in 8 patients presenting with AMI in this 
community-wide study had a history of clinically recognized PAD. These patients 
are at increased risk of dying during the first year after hospital discharge. 
Our data indicate that there is a room for improvement for the enhanced use of 
effective treatment modalities and implementation of secondary prevention 
strategies in these high-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2006.09.009
PMID: 17174652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Feb;36(1):93-101. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl252. Epub 2006
Dec  14.

The relationship between parity and overweight varies with household wealth and 
national development.

Kim SA(1), Yount KM, Ramakrishnan U, Martorell R.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Health Sciences Program, Graduate Division of Biological and 
Biomedical Sciences, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Feb;36(1):102-3.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies support a positive relationship between parity and 
overweight among women of developing countries; however, it is unclear whether 
these effects vary by household wealth and national development. Our objective 
was to determine whether the association between parity and overweight [body 
mass index (BMI) > or =25 kg/m(2)] in women living in developing countries 
varies with levels of national human development and/or household wealth.
METHODS: We used data from 28 nationally representative, cross-sectional surveys 
conducted between 1996 and 2003 (n = 275 704 women, 15-49 years). The 
relationship between parity and overweight was modelled using logistic 
regression, controlling for several biological and sociodemographic factors and 
national development, as reflected by the United Nations' Human Development 
Index. We also modelled the interaction between parity and national development, 
and the three-way interaction between parity, household wealth and national 
development.
RESULTS: Parity had a weak, positive association with overweight, which varied 
by household wealth and national development. Among the poorest women and women 
in the second tertile of household wealth, parity was positively related to 
overweight only in the most developed countries. Among the wealthiest women, 
parity was positively related to overweight regardless of the level of national 
development.
CONCLUSIONS: As development increases, the burden of parity-related overweight 
shifts to include poor as well as wealthy women. In the least-developed 
countries, programmes to prevent parity-related overweight should target wealthy 
women, whereas such programmes should be provided to all women in more developed 
countries.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl252
PMID: 17175546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Dev Psychopathol. 2006 Fall;18(4):935-8. doi: 10.1017/s0954579406060469.

Toward a life span developmental psychopathology perspective on bipolar 
disorder.

Miklowitz DJ, Cicchetti D.

DOI: 10.1017/s0954579406060469
PMID: 17175607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Chronic Illn. 2006 Jun;2(2):97-107. doi: 10.1177/17423953060020020501.

Cost-effectiveness analyses and modelling the lifetime costs and benefits of 
health-behaviour interventions.

Graves N(1), McKinnon L, Reeves M, Scuffham P, Gordon L, Eakin E.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Queensland University of Technology, Kelvin Grove 
Campus, Victoria Park Road, Kelvin Grove, Queensland, QLD 4059, Australia. 
n.graves@qut.edu.au

BACKGROUND: We describe an approach to estimating the cost-effectiveness of an 
intervention that changes health behaviour. The method captures the lifetime 
costs and benefits incurred by participants in an ongoing cluster-randomized 
controlled trial of an intervention that aims to change health behaviour. The 
existing literature only captures short-term economic and health outcomes.
METHODS: We develop a state-transition Markov model of how individuals move 
between different health behaviour states over time. We simulate hypothetical 
data to describe the costs and health benefits of the intervention, illustrate 
how the data collected in the ongoing randomized controlled trial can be used 
and demonstrate how incremental cost-effectiveness ratios are estimated.
RESULTS: On the basis of the simulated (i.e. hypothetical) data, we estimate the 
cost per quality-adjusted life year. The estimate reflects the lifetime health 
and economic consequences of the intervention.
DISCUSSION: The method used for the cost-effectiveness analysis described in 
this paper is appropriate for investigating whether interventions that change 
health behaviour in relation to chronic diseases represent good value for money 
as compared to alternative uses of scarce healthcare resources.

DOI: 10.1177/17423953060020020501
PMID: 17175653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Int J Health Serv. 2006;36(4):679-96. doi: 10.2190/C2PP-WF4R-X081-W2QN.

"Social capital," GNP per capita, relative income, and health: an ecological 
study of 23 countries.

Lindström C(1), Lindström M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Malmö University Hospital, Lund University, 
Sweden.

The effects of social capital, income inequality, and absolute per capita income 
were investigated in an ecological analysis of 23 rich and poor countries. Trust 
was chosen as an indicator of social capital, and GNP (gross national product) 
per capita and Gini index measured absolute and relative income, respectively. 
These independent variables were analyzed in a linear regression model with the 
dependent variables adult mortality rate (25-64 years), life expectancy, and 
infant mortality rate (IMR). Separate analyses were performed for poor and rich 
countries as well as all countries combined. Social capital (trust) showed no 
significant association with the three health outcomes. A particularly strong 
relationship was found between Gini index and IMR for rich countries, and GNP 
per capita and life expectancy for all countries. In the group of poor 
countries, GNP per capita and Gini index in the same model were associated with 
IMR. The results contradict the suggested impact of social capital on health, 
and instead support the notion that economic factors such as absolute income and 
relative income distribution are of importance.

DOI: 10.2190/C2PP-WF4R-X081-W2QN
PMID: 17175841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Int J Health Serv. 2006;36(4):767-86. doi: 10.2190/6V5W-0N36-AQNF-GPD1.

Is democracy good for health?

Safaei J(1).

Author information:
(1)Economics Program, University of Northern British Columbia, Prince George, 
Canada. safaeij@unbc.ca

Studies of health have recognized the influence of socioeconomic position on 
health outcomes. People with higher socioeconomic ranking, in general, tend to 
be healthier than those with lower socioeconomic rankings. The effect of 
political environment on population health has not been adequately researched, 
however. This study investigates the effect of democracy (or lack thereof) along 
with socioeconomic factors on population health. It is maintained that democracy 
may have an impact on health independent of the effects of socioeconomic 
factors. Such impact is considered as the direct effect of democracy on health. 
Democracy may also affect population health indirectly by affecting 
socioeconomic position. To investigate these theoretical links, some broad 
measures of population health (e.g., mortality rates and life expectancies) are 
empirically examined across a spectrum of countries categorized as autocratic, 
incoherent, and democratic polities. The regression findings support the 
positive influence of democracy on population health. Incoherent polities, 
however, do not seem to have any significant health advantage over autocratic 
polities as the reference category. More rigorous tests of the links between 
democracy and health should await data from multi-country population health 
surveys that include specific measures of mental and physical morbidity.

DOI: 10.2190/6V5W-0N36-AQNF-GPD1
PMID: 17175845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Health Promot J Austr. 2006 Dec;17(3):163-5.

Equity and the social determinants of health.

Baum F, Harris E.

PMID: 17176226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Health Promot J Austr. 2006 Dec;17(3):170-3.

Are social determinants of health the same as societal determinants of health?

Starfield B.

PMID: 17176229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Soz Praventivmed. 2006;51(5):257-8. doi: 10.1007/s00038-006-5080-z.

Tackling health inequalities--two European projects will identify effective 
strategies from 2004 to 2007.

Weyers S, Kunst A.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-006-5080-z
PMCID: PMC2792344
PMID: 17176646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2007 
Jan;50(1):112-8. doi: 10.1007/s00103-007-0116-y.

[Effects of fine particular matter pollution on mortality and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Englert N(1).

Author information:
(1)Umweltbundesamt, Berlin, BRD. norbert.englert@uba.de

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-007-0116-y
PMID: 17177092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Am J Primatol. 2007 Jun;69(6):641-51. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20386.

Demography and life history of Thomas langurs (Presbytis thomasi).

Wich SA(1), Steenbeek R, Sterck EH, Korstjens AH, Willems EP, Van Schaik CP.

Author information:
(1)Great Ape Trust of Iowa, Des Moines, Iowa 50320, USA. swich@greatapetrust.org

Life history data from wild primate populations are necessary to explain 
variation in primate social systems and explain differences between primates and 
other mammals. Here we report life history data from a 12.5-year study on wild 
Thomas langurs. Mean age at first reproduction was 5.4 years and the sex ratio 
at birth was even. The mean interbirth interval (IBI) after a surviving infant 
was 26.8 mo, after nonsurviving infants 17.7 mo, and combined 22.0 mo. Mean 
annual birth rate of adult females was 0.44, while reaching a peak at 6 years of 
age and showing no decrease with age. Mortality was highest during the first 
year of life (48.0% for males and 43.0% for females) and consistently higher for 
males than females. The oldest female observed during the study was estimated to 
be 20 years of age, whereas the oldest male disappeared at age 13 years, 
indicating that males die at a much earlier age than females. A Leslie matrix 
based on these estimates yielded a growth rate of 1.01, which is comparable to 
the nonsignificant increase in density indicated by our long-term field data. A 
comparison with life history data for sympatric frugivorous primates suggests 
that folivory might be associated with faster life history.

(c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20386
PMID: 17177311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Clin Drug Investig. 2007;27(1):67-74. doi: 10.2165/00044011-200727010-00006.

Cost effectiveness of lopinavir/ritonavir compared with atazanavir in 
antiretroviral-naive patients: modelling the combined effects of HIV and heart 
disease.

Simpson KN(1), Luo MP, Chumney EC, King MS, Brun S.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina 29425, USA. 
simpsonk@musc.edu

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The choice of initial highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART) should take into account the need to balance efficacy, adverse 
event risk, resistance concerns for the treatment of HIV and treatment costs. 
Increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) may be of special concern in the 
selection of HAART therapy, because differences in potential CHD risk have been 
reported for different regimens. This study aimed to estimate the long-term 
combined effects of HIV disease and antiretroviral (ARV)-related risk for CHD on 
quality-adjusted survival and healthcare costs for ARV-naive patients.
METHODS: A previously validated Markov model was updated and supplemented with 
the Framingham CHD risk equation. In the model, the average patient was male, 
aged 37 years and had a baseline 10-year CHD risk of 4.6%. Patients started with 
either lopinavir/ritonavir or unboosted atazanavir as the first protease 
inhibitor (PI). Clinical trial data were used to estimate the differences 
between these two therapies. The daily PI costs were $US18.52 for 
lopinavir/ritonavir and $US22.08 for atazanavir. Other costs were estimated from 
Medicaid billing databases and average wholesale drug price reports. All model 
costs were reported as the 2004 present value in US currency. The model's time 
horizon reflected a patient's lifetime, and the perspective of the analysis was 
that of the healthcare system and did not include indirect costs in the model 
cost estimates. Various CHD risk levels were tested in the sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: In the base case, the model predicted a median duration of initial PI 
regimen of 5.6 years for lopinavir/ritonavir and 3.8 years for atazanavir. Over 
10 years, patients who started on atazanavir had 30 additional AIDS events per 
100 patients. Only 0.7 additional CHD events per 100 patients occurred for those 
who started on lopinavir/ritonavir. The model estimated 10-year total healthcare 
cost savings of $US12,543 per patient in the lopinavir/ritonavir group. The 
lifetime incremental cost effectiveness of lopinavir/ritonavir versus atazanavir 
was $US6797 per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: Lopinavir/ritonavir is a highly cost-effective regimen relative to 
atazanavir for the treatment of HIV. The effect of lopinavir/ritonavir on 
long-term CHD risk was minimal compared with the increased risk of AIDS/death 
projected for a less efficacious first PI regimen. The cost of lipid-lowering 
drugs and treatment of CHD for patients taking the lopinavir/ritonavir regimen 
was only 1.2% of the cost of AIDS care per person, which was too small to have a 
significant effect on the overall cost savings with lopinavir/ritonavir therapy. 
Thus, a decision to forgo potency and durability in an ARV regimen for an 
ARV-naive patient in favour of a less potent regimen with an improved lipid 
profile may prove to be costly over time, in terms of both budget impact and 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200727010-00006
PMID: 17177581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2006 Nov;59 Suppl 3:2-9. doi: 10.1157/13096252.

[Inoperable valve disease: should percutaneous valve replacement be an option?].

[Article in Spanish]

Fuster V(1).

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, NY 10029-6574, USA.

Surgical valve replacement is the treatment of choice in patients with severe 
valvular heart disease. However, published data clearly show that long-term 
survival is seriously compromised in those with a low inotropic reserve. In 
addition, a growing number of patients (estimated to be around 15% of those with 
aortic stenosis) present in such a poor and deteriorating clinical condition 
that they cannot be accepted for surgery because it involves a very high risk of 
death. Percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty is a less aggressive alternative which 
offers a form of palliative treatment that can increase the patient's life 
expectancy and bring about immediate hemodynamic and clinical improvement. It is 
in this context that the possibility of carrying out percutaneous valve 
replacement has become available as a novel therapeutic option since Cribier 
first reported using the procedure to treat a patient with severe aortic 
stenosis. Since this first operation, both the techniques employed and the 
material composition of the prosthesis have undergone substantial development. 
However, significant problems have been encountered in evaluating the safety and 
efficacy of percutaneous valve replacement. These, to a great extent, stem from 
the risks associated with treating elderly patients who have high morbidity and 
mortality. In the United States, one clinical study was even suspended because 
two of the first four patients undergoing treatment died. In contrast, studies 
carried out in other countries, although they have involved only a few patients, 
have produced more promising results. Moreover, because the cause of death in 
these series was frequently due to factors that were independent of good 
valvular function, the future of the technique is generally thought to be 
positive. Nevertheless, the results obtained with percutaneous mitral valve 
replacement have been poor. In conclusion, the technique of percutaneous valve 
replacement, although still undergoing development, is becoming established as a 
viable alternative for treating inoperable valve disease, at least in aortic 
valves.

DOI: 10.1157/13096252
PMID: 17178059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Arch Bronconeumol. 2006 Dec;42(12):660-2. doi:
10.1016/s1579-2129(07)60008-1.

[Outpatient management of malignant pleural effusion using a tunneled pleural 
catheter: Preliminary experience].

[Article in Spanish]

Seijo L(1), Campo A, Alcaide AB, Lacunza MM, Armendáriz AC, Zulueta JJ.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Neumología, Clínica Universitaria, Universidad de Navarra, 
Pamplona, Navarra, España. lmseijo@unav.es

Inpatient management of malignant pleural effusion includes the placement of a 
conventional thoracostomy tube for drainage and talc slurry pleurodesis and/or a 
surgical approach consisting of video-assisted thoracoscopic talc insufflation. 
Both techniques require prolonged hospital stays of up to 1 week. Unfortunately, 
life expectancy in patients with this disease does not usually exceed 6 months, 
and so the primary aim of any palliative intervention intended to improve 
quality of life should be to avoid hospital admissions and to relieve pain as 
far as possible. Of the few outpatient alternatives to hospital management the 
most frequently used is repeated thoracentesis. We describe the outpatient 
management of malignant pleural effusion by placement of a tunneled pleural 
catheter in a patient with stage IIIB lung adenocarcinoma. In our opinion, the 
use of this catheter offers a viable alternative to conventional therapy and is 
better tolerated.

DOI: 10.1016/s1579-2129(07)60008-1
PMID: 17178070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Semin Pediatr Neurol. 2006 Dec;13(4):271-8. doi: 10.1016/j.spen.2006.09.007.

Management of the child with weakness.

Wong BL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Neurology, Cincinnati 
Children's Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 
45229, USA. brenda.wong@chmcc.org

With increased life expectancy associated with improved respiratory care and 
research advances in pediatric neuromuscular diseases leading to clinical trials 
involving potential curative treatments, the goal in the care of the child with 
weakness is to optimize survival and quality of life. The care of the child with 
weakness includes management of motor dysfunction because of weakness, 
orthopedic complications of contractures and scoliosis, and comorbid 
complications specific to each neuromuscular disease. Optimal holistic 
integrative care of the multisystemic problems of such patients is best provided 
by the collaborative efforts of health care providers of an interdisciplinary 
team.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spen.2006.09.007
PMID: 17178357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Biol Bull. 2006 Dec;211(3):212-22. doi: 10.2307/4134544.

Patterns of motor activity in the isolated nerve cord of the octopus arm.

Gutfreund Y(1), Matzner H, Flash T, Hochner B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Center for Neuronal Computation, Institute of 
Life Sciences, Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

The extremely flexible octopus arm provides a unique opportunity for studying 
movement control in a highly redundant motor system. We describe a novel 
preparation that allows analysis of the peripheral nervous system of the octopus 
arm and its interaction with the muscular and mechanosensory elements of the 
arm's intrinsic muscular system. First we examined the synaptic responses in 
muscle fibers to identify the motor pathways from the axial nerve cord of the 
arm to the surrounding musculature. We show that the motor axons project to the 
muscles via nerve roots originating laterally from the arm nerve cord. The motor 
field of each nerve is limited to the region where the nerve enters the arm 
musculature. The same roots also carry afferent mechanosensory information from 
the intrinsic muscle to the axial nerve cord. Next, we characterized the pattern 
of activity generated in the dorsal roots by electrically stimulating the axial 
nerve cord. The evoked activity, although far reaching and long lasting, cannot 
alone account for the arm extension movements generated by similar electrical 
stimulation. The mismatch between patterns of activity in the isolated cord and 
in an intact arm may stem from the involvement of mechanosensory feedback in 
natural arm extension.

DOI: 10.2307/4134544
PMID: 17179381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2006 Dec 20;98(24):1786-94. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djj496.

Cost-utility analysis of short- versus long-course palliative radiotherapy in 
patients with non-small-cell lung cancer.

van den Hout WB(1), Kramer GW, Noordijk EM, Leer JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, J10-S, Leiden University Medical 
Center, PO Box 9600, 2300RC Leiden, The Netherlands. w.b.van_den_hout@lumc.nl

BACKGROUND: Radiotherapy can effectively palliate the symptoms of poor-prognosis 
patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. However, controversy remains about 
whether short-course or more protracted radiotherapy schedules provide better 
value for the money. We conducted a societal cost-utility analysis of a Dutch 
multicenter randomized trial with 1-year follow-up that compared the efficacy of 
