in a population-based study in Yazd, Islamic Republic of Iran, in 2006.
DESIGN: This cross-sectional study estimates age at natural menopause among a 
sample of 346 menopausal women through cluster sampling and according to their 
age and the onset of menopause (12 months of consecutive menstrual cessation).
RESULTS: We found that the mean (SD) age at menopause was 47.39 (5.089) years 
(95% CI: 46.85-47.92) and the median age was 48 years. The Iranian women 
demonstrated a moderate to high frequency of reporting four symptoms in 
vasomotor, vaginal, sleep-related, emotional, and somatic categories. Physical 
factors (height, weight, body mass index, handedness) and sociodemographic 
factors (educational level, income) were not significantly related to early mean 
age at menopause.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides an estimate of age at menopause for Iranian 
center women, which is similar to the overall estimates previously reported for 
Iranian populations. Different factors influence age at natural menopause; 
however, there has not been a study in which this factor has been confirmed as a 
significant factor.

DOI: 10.1097/gme.0b013e318032b2e6
PMID: 17438516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Sheng Li Ke Xue Jin Zhan. 2007 Jan;38(1):14-8.

[Mechanisms of aging and its theories].

[Article in Chinese]

Tong TJ(1), Zhang ZY.

Author information:
(1)Peking University Research Center on Aging, Peking University Health Science 
Center, Beijing 100083, China.

The velocity of aging is rather different in various species, and even in 
various tissues and cells of the same individual. Both genetic and environmental 
factors affect aging process. It is evident that life expectancy mainly relates 
to environment, while maximum life-span of a species more depends on its genetic 
background. Poor environment possibly affects genes or their products and then 
influences the process of human senescence. As aspect of genetic causes, aging 
is not totally depends on one gene, but rather on the interaction of networks of 
activated or repressed genes and their products. DNA (especially, mitochondrial 
DNA) is not as stable as previously conceived. The stability of genetic 
substance, including genes, could be affected by stresses from external or 
internal environment, which are particularly induced by harmful substances, such 
as reactive oxygen species, leading to accelerate aging process.

PMID: 17438947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 2007 Apr-Jun;47(2):157-85.

[Nature and magnitude of the need for dental care in Belgium: the point of view 
of dentists].

[Article in French]

Gobert M(1), Deliège D.

Author information:
(1)Socio-économie de la santé, Ecole de santé publique Université catholique de 
Louvain. gobert@sesa.ucl.ac.be

In most countries, oral and dental problems (decay, gingivitis, parodontitis,..) 
are frequent and impact on overall health. Such problems can often be avoided 
and treated. Health professionals and patients become gradually more aware of 
the importance of oral health. Oral hygiene and other measures may prevent 
several problems, which is beneficial to individuals and to public health, since 
the consequences of oral diseases are very expensive for all. Our study aims to 
analyze the features of the profession and to assess their possible evolution in 
the future. The design of our study combines two approaches: a quantitative 
study -based on data of the national health insurance scheme regarding 
utilization of care- and a qualitative study based on deep-interviews of 
dentists. According to the latter, dental care is expensive for the patient and 
also for professionals. The workload becomes heavier because patients expect too 
much. It is expanding, due to longer life expectancy and to medical progress 
which enables to conserve natural dentition, thus requiring extra care for the 
surviving teeth. These factors explain the increase of dental services which we 
highlight for the last 20 years; for the future, most of services are expected 
to expand, mainly for elderly (65 + years), One exception is noticeable: a 
probable decrease of "traditional care" for young and adult populations (<65 
years). The authorities should take these trends into account in order to cover 
such new requirements, while also introducing measures in order to limit 
potential undue demand. However, a few socioeconomic groups remain out of the 
care system: all disabled persons living in institutions (inter alia elderly in 
nursing homes); furthermore, the population of low socioeconomic status is 
unaware of the benefits of a good oral hygiene; professionals denounce these 
gaps of the system and suggest improvements. Education about oral hygiene should 
also be promoted; consequently, the profession of oral hygienist should obtain 
an official license.

PMID: 17439085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. BMC Womens Health. 2007 Apr 17;7:6. doi: 10.1186/1472-6874-7-6.

Cost-effectiveness of preventative therapies for postmenopausal women with 
osteopenia.

Meadows ES(1), Klein R, Rousculp MD, Smolen L, Ohsfeldt RL, Johnston JA.

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA. emeadows@lilly.com

BACKGROUND: Limited data are available regarding the cost-effectiveness of 
preventative therapies for postmenopausal women with osteopenia. The objective 
of the present study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of raloxifene, 
alendronate and conservative care in this population.
METHODS: We developed a microsimulation model to assess the incremental cost and 
effectiveness of raloxifene and alendronate relative to conservative care. We 
assumed a societal perspective and a lifetime time horizon. We examined clinical 
scenarios involving postmenopausal women from 55 to 75 years of age with bone 
mineral density T-scores ranging from -1.0 to -2.4. Modeled health events 
included vertebral and nonvertebral fractures, invasive breast cancer, and 
venous thromboembolism (VTE). Raloxifene and alendronate were assumed to reduce 
the incidence of vertebral but not nonvertebral fractures; raloxifene was 
assumed to decrease the incidence of breast cancer and increase the incidence of 
VTEs. Cost-effectiveness is reported in $/QALYs gained.
RESULTS: For women 55 to 60 years of age with a T-score of -1.8, raloxifene cost 
approximately $50,000/QALY gained relative to conservative care. Raloxifene was 
less cost-effective for women 65 and older. At all ages, alendronate was both 
more expensive and less effective than raloxifene. In most clinical scenarios, 
raloxifene conferred a greater benefit (in QALYs) from prevention of invasive 
breast cancer than from fracture prevention. Results were most sensitive to the 
population's underlying risk of fracture and breast cancer, assumed efficacy and 
costs of treatment, and the discount rate.
CONCLUSION: For 55 and 60 year old women with osteopenia, treatment with 
raloxifene compares favorably to interventions accepted as cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6874-7-6
PMCID: PMC1866224
PMID: 17439652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Gesundheitswesen. 2007 Mar;69(3):146-50. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-971069.

[Chronic HCV infections. A model disease for therapy, economics and 
social-medical aspects].

[Article in German]

Rossol S(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Krankenhaus Nordwest, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. 
siegbert.rossol@khnw.de

In Germany up to 800,000 persons are chronically infected with the hepatis C 
virus. This chronic disease is correlated with a significant morbidity and 
mortality. This is a consequence of the development of liver cirrhosis and 
hepatocellular carcinoma in a substantial proportion of the patients. Health 
quality of life is also affected by the infection. There are reliable standards 
available for diagnosis and treatment. Antiviral treatment is highly effective 
and the combination of pegylated interferon alpha with ribavirin leads to a 
sustained viral eradication in about 60% of the cases. The treatment is also 
cost-effective and results in an increased life expectancy. Costs for HCV 
treatment are favourable in comparison to other well accepted therapies and 
interventions and a reduction of future costs can be expected.Thus, active 
screening for HCV infected persons should be intensified to improve the quality 
of medical care. Early and broad treatment is potentially able to reduce the 
future burden of HCV-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-971069
PMID: 17440844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Can J Public Health. 2007 Mar-Apr;98(2):143-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03404327.

Exploring rural health inequalities at a local scale: the case of Portneuf, 
Québec.

Pampalon R(1), Lebel A, Hamel D.

Author information:
(1)Institut national de santé publique du Québec.

BACKGROUND: The most common way of accounting for the countryside in health 
studies has been to compare it, as a whole, to the city. Furthermore, most of 
the work on small area health inequalities has been confined to major urban 
centres. To counter this trend, in this paper, we explore small area health 
inequalities in the predominantly rural county of Portneuf (population = 
44,545), Québec. Such information can be of interest for local health planning.
METHODS: Three sources of data were used to define neighbourhood units: 
historical data, socio-economic data and perceptions of local stakeholders. 
Demographic, socioeconomic and general health status indicators were calculated 
by neighbourhood unit. For health status indicators, data came from mortality 
files (1998 to 2002), hospitalization files (2001/02) and the 2001 census for 
disability (individuals who reported being often limited in their daily 
activities) and the reference population.
RESULTS: The county of Portneuf was subdivided into 8 neighbourhoods. 
Differences between neighbourhoods were noticeable for demographic, 
socio-economic and all health status indicators. The greatest differences were 
found between the town of Pont-Rouge (population=4975) and the hinterland of the 
towns of Donnacona (population=6125) and Saint-Marc-des-Carrières 
(population=3160). The most striking was a difference of 6 to 8 years of 
disability-free life expectancy between the two groups, to the advantage of 
Pont-Rouge.
CONCLUSION: Although measuring rural health inequalities at a local level has 
some methodological limitations, true health inequalities exist in the county of 
Portneuf. These now need to be examined further.

CONTEXTE: Jusqu’à maintenant, dans les études de santé, le monde rural a surtout 
été considéré globalement, en le comparant à la ville, et l’intérêt pour les 
inégalités locales de santé s’est confiné aux grandes villes. Dans cet article, 
nous explorons l’existence d’inégalités de santé à l’échelle de petits 
territoires dans le comté principalement rural de Portneuf (population = 44 
545), au Québec. La connaissance de telles inégalités peut s’avérer utile pour 
les planificateurs locaux.
MÉTHODE: De petits territoires ou unités de voisinage ont été définis, en 
combinant des informations de nature historique, socio-économique et 
perceptuelle, notamment le point de vue d’acteurs locaux. Sur la base de ces 
unités, des mesures démographiques, socio-économiques et de l’état de santé 
général de la population ont été produites. Pour les mesures de l’état de santé, 
les données viennent du fichier des décès (de 1998 à 2002), du fichier des 
hospitalisations (2001-2002) et du recensement de 2001 pour la définition de 
l’incapacité (personnes ayant signalé être souvent limitées dans leurs activités 
quotidiennes) et de la population de référence.
RÉSULTATS: Le comté de Portneuf a été subdivisé en 8 unités de voisinage. Des 
différences entre ces unités sont perceptibles tant sur le plan démographique et 
socio-économique que pour tous les indicateurs de santé considérés. Les plus 
fortes différences ont été trouvées entre la ville de Pont-Rouge (population = 4 
975) et l’arrière-pays des villes de Donnacona (population = 6 125) et de 
Saint-Marc-des-Carrières (population = 3 160). En termes d’espérance de santé, 
l’écart s’étend de 6 à 8 ans entre ces deux groupes, à l’avantage de Pont-Rouge.
CONCLUSION: Même si la mesure des inégalités de santé à l’échelle locale en 
milieu rural pose certains problèmes, de vraies disparités existent dans le 
comté de Portneuf, et celles-ci demandent maintenant à être examinées plus à 
fond.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404327
PMCID: PMC6975598
PMID: 17441540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Aust J Rural Health. 2007 Apr;15(2):94-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1584.2007.00860.x.

Securing and retaining a mental health workforce in Far Western New South Wales.

Perkins D(1), Larsen K, Lyle D, Burns P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Equity and Primary Health Research in the Illawarra and 
Shoalhaven, Centre for Primary Health Care and Equity, University of New South 
Wales, Australia. david.perkins@unsw.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To identify strategies local managers can use to optimise recruitment 
and retention of mental health staff in rural locations.
DESIGN: Forty-one staff were interviewed about factors that attracted them to 
work in remote locations, their initial intentions and factors that encourage 
them to stay.
SETTING: The former Far West Health Area of New South Wales.
RESULTS: Overall job satisfaction was high (68%). Key attractors were rural 
lifestyle and environment. Family reasons, the field of work and the rural 
lifestyle were factors that keep staff in their positions. Some mentioned the 
desire to achieve professional goals and see projects completed. Many staff 
reported that their initial intentions to stay had remained the same (43.9%). 
Reasons for extended intention to stay were: greater career opportunities; a 
desire to complete professional goals; extension of positions; and personal 
factors. The most common reason for leaving was better career opportunities. 
Other reasons included: changes to personal commitments; heavy workloads or 
burnout; service management; and workplace politics. A large number of 
respondents mentioned key differences when comparing rural and metropolitan 
areas: more travel (greater distances); less service options for referral; 
greater spectrum of illnesses and conditions; more autonomy and responsibility.
CONCLUSIONS: Strategies to recruit and retain staff must take account of 
personal needs and aspirations. While there is room for state strategies to 
improve employment incentives, there is also considerable scope for local 
managers to improve the design and attractiveness of jobs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1584.2007.00860.x
PMID: 17441817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Int Orthop. 2008 Oct;32(5):597-604. doi: 10.1007/s00264-007-0364-3. Epub
2007  Apr 19.

Total hip arthroplasties: what are the reasons for revision?

Ulrich SD(1), Seyler TM, Bennett D, Delanois RE, Saleh KJ, Thongtrangan I, 
Kuskowski M, Cheng EY, Sharkey PF, Parvizi J, Stiehl JB, Mont MA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Joint Preservation and Reconstruction, Rubin Institute for 
Advanced Orthopedics, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, Baltimore, MD 21215, USA.

Primary total hip arthroplasties have reported success rates of greater than 95% 
in many series with a longer than 10-year follow-up. Revision total hip 
arthroplasty due to such factors as increased high-activity levels, younger 
patients undergoing the procedure and increasing life expectancy has become more 
prevalent. An understanding of the mechanisms and timing of total hip 
arthroplasty failure can direct efforts aimed at reducing revision rates. This 
study was conducted to evaluate the indications for revision hip arthroplasty 
and relate these to the time after the index primary hip arthroplasty. A review 
of all revision hip arthroplasties at two centres over a 6-year time period 
identified 225 patients who underwent 237 revisions. The overall mean time to 
revision was 83 months (range: 0-360 months). The cause of failure was aseptic 
loosening in 123 hips (51.9%), instability in 40 hips (16.9%) and infection in 
37 hips (5.5%). When stratified into two groups (less than 5 years, more than 5 
years after the index primary hip arthroplasty), 118 of 237 (50%) revisions 
occurred in less than 5 years, with 33% due to instability and 24% resulting 
from infection. The majority of the causes of failure within 5 years in these 
early revisions were instability and deep infection. The success of hip 
arthroplasty is likely to be compromized if technical aspects of the surgery for 
appropriate component positioning and critical protocols to minimise 
complications such as infection are not given the proper attention.

A dix ans de recul moyen les prothèses totales de hanches ont un taux de 95% de 
réussite dans la plupart des séries. Les facteurs ayant entraînés une 
réintervention, de type révision dépendent du niveau d’activité des sujets, de 
leurs jeunes âges, et de l’augmentation de la durée de vie. La compréhension des 
mécanismes d’échecs des prothèses totales de hanche devrait permettre de réduire 
le taux de révision. Cette étude a pour but d’évaluer les indications de 
révisions des prothèses totales de hanche. Pour cela, ont été revus, dans deux 
centres, avec six ans de recul moyen 225 patients qui ont bénéficié de 237 
révisions. Le temps moyen pour la révision a été de 83 mois (0 à 360 mois). La 
cause de l’échec a été le descellement aseptique 123 hanches (51.9%), 
instabilité sur 40 hanches (16.9%) et infection sur 37 hanches (5.5%). Si l’on 
reclasse ces patients en deux groupes à moins et plus de 5 ans, 118 des 237 
révisions (50%) surviennent dans une période de moins de 5 ans, 33% sont dues à 
l’instabilité, 24% à l’infection. Les causes d’échecs majeures avant 5 ans avec 
révisions, sont donc l’instabilité de la hanche et les infections profondes. Le 
succès d’une arthroplastie totale de hanche passe donc par le bon positionnement 
des implants et le respect du protocole de façon à éviter les complications 
infectieuses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-007-0364-3
PMCID: PMC2551710
PMID: 17443324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Psychiatr Prax. 2007 Apr;34(3):105-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-970801.

[Geriatric psychiatry: from the margins to the center].

[Article in German]

Gutzmann H.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-970801
PMID: 17443450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Clin Infect Dis. 2007 May 15;44(10):1280-8. doi: 10.1086/514342. Epub 2007
Apr  3.

Cost-effectiveness of a vaccine to prevent herpes zoster and postherpetic 
neuralgia in older adults.

Rothberg MB(1), Virapongse A, Smith KJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, Baystate 
Medical Center, Springfield, MA 01199, USA. Michael.Rothberg@bhs.org

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2007 Dec 1;45(11):1527-9.

BACKGROUND: A vaccine to prevent herpes zoster was recently approved by the 
United States Food and Drug Administration. We sought to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of this vaccine for different age groups.
METHODS: We constructed a cost-effectiveness model, based on the Shingles 
Prevention Study, to compare varicella zoster vaccination with usual care for 
healthy adults aged >60 years. Outcomes included cost in 2005 US dollars and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy. Costs and natural history data were drawn from 
the published literature; vaccine efficacy was assumed to persist for 10 years.
RESULTS: For the base case analysis, compared with usual care, vaccination 
increased quality-adjusted life expectancy by 0.0007-0.0024 quality-adjusted 
life years per person, depending on age at vaccination and sex. These increases 
came almost exclusively as a result of prevention of acute pain associated with 
herpes zoster and postherpetic neuralgia. Vaccination also increased costs by 
$94-$135 per person, compared with no vaccination. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ranged from $44,000 per quality-adjusted life year saved for 
a 70-year-old woman to $191,000 per quality-adjusted life year saved for an 
80-year-old man. For the sensitivity analysis, the decision was most sensitive 
to vaccine cost. At a cost of $46 per dose, vaccination cost <$50,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year saved for all adults >60 years of age. Other 
variables related to the vaccine (duration, efficacy, and adverse effects), 
postherpetic neuralgia (incidence, duration, and utility), herpes zoster 
(incidence and severity), and the discount rate all affected the 
cost-effectiveness ratio by >20%.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of the varicella zoster vaccine varies 
substantially with patient age and often exceeds $100,000 per quality-adjusted 
life year saved. Age should be considered in vaccine recommendations.

DOI: 10.1086/514342
PMID: 17443464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007 Apr 18;(2):CD002945. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD002945.pub2.

Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Cosford PA(1), Leng GC.

Author information:
(1)Victoria House, East of England Strategic Health Authority, Capital Park, 
Fulbourn, Cambridge, UK, CB1 5XB. Paul.Cosford@eoe.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is found in 5% to 10% of men aged 65 
to 79 years. The major complication is rupture which presents as a surgical 
emergency. The mortality after rupture is high, 80% for patients reaching 
hospital and 50% for those undergoing surgery for emergency repair. Currently 
elective surgical repair is recommended for aneurysms discovered to be larger 
than 5.5 cm to prevent rupture. There is interest in population screening to 
detect, monitor and repair abdominal aortic aneurysms before rupture.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the effects of screening asymptomatic individuals for 
AAA on mortality, subsequent treatment, quality of life and cost effectiveness 
of screening.
SEARCH STRATEGY: The Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group searched their 
Trials Register (last searched 26 January 2007) and CENTRAL (last searched Issue 
1, 2007).
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials of population screening for 
AAA.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed trials and 
extracted data.
MAIN RESULTS: Four studies involving 127,891 men and 9,342 women were included 
in this review. Only one study included women. Results for men and women were 
analysed separately. Three to five years after screening there was no 
significant difference in all-cause mortality between screened and unscreened 
groups for men or women (men, odds ratio (OR) 0.95; 95% Confidence interval (CI) 
0.85 to 1.07; for women OR 1.06; 95% CI 0.93 to 1.21). There was a significant 
decrease in mortality from AAA in men (OR 0.60; 95% CI 0.47 to 0.78), but not 
for women (OR 1.99; 95% CI 0.36 to 10.88). In this analysis mortality includes 
death from rupture and from emergency or elective surgery for aneurysm repair. 
There was also a decreased incidence of ruptured aneurysm in men (OR 0.45; 95% 
CI 0.21 to 0.99) but not in women (OR 1.49; 95% CI 0.25 to 8.94). There was a 
significant increase in surgery for AAA in men (OR 2.03; 95% CI 1.59 to 2.59). 
This was not reported in women. There were no data on life expectancy, 
complications of surgery or subjective quality of life.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence of a significant reduction in mortality 
from AAA in men aged 65 to 79 years who undergo ultrasound screening. There is 
insufficient evidence to demonstrate benefit in women. The cost effectiveness 
may be acceptable, but needs further expert analysis. These findings need 
careful consideration in judging whether a co-ordinated population-based 
screening programme should be introduced.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002945.pub2
PMID: 17443519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007 Apr 18;(2):CD005599. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD005599.pub2.

Topical cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene replacement for 
cystic fibrosis-related lung disease.

Lee T(1), Southern KW.

Author information:
(1)Children's Day Hospital, Leeds Regional Paediatric Cystic Fibrosis Centre, St 
James's University Hospital, Beckett Street, Leeds, UK, LS9 7TF. 
timlee@doctors.org.uk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;10:CD005599.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis is caused by a defective gene encoding a protein 
called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), and is 
characterised by chronic lung infection resulting in inflammation and 
progressive lung damage that results in a reduced life expectancy.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether topical CFTR gene replacement therapy to the 
lungs in people with cystic fibrosis is associated with improvements in clinical 
outcomes, and to assess any adverse effects.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group Trials Register comprising references identified from comprehensive 
electronic database searches, handsearching relevant journals and abstract books 
of conference proceedings. Date of most recent search: February 2007
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials comparing topical CFTR gene 
delivery to the lung, using either viral or non-viral delivery systems, with 
placebo or an alternative delivery system in people with confirmed cystic 
fibrosis.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The authors independently extracted data and 
assessed study quality. Authors of included studies were contacted and asked for 
any available additional data. Meta-analysis was limited due to differing study 
designs.
MAIN RESULTS: Three randomised controlled trials met the inclusion criteria for 
this review, involving a total of 155 participants. Thirteen studies were 
excluded. The included studies differed in terms of CFTR gene replacement agent 
and study design, which limited the meta-analysis. Although the first Moss study 
reported a significant improvement in respiratory function (FEV(1)) 30 days 
after participants had received their first dose of gene therapy agent, this 
finding was not confirmed in their larger second study or in our 
meta-analysis.In participants who received the CFTR gene transfer agents in the 
Alton study, "influenza-like" symptoms were found (relative risk 7.00 (95% 
confidence interval (CI) 1.10 to 44.61)). There were no other significant 
increases in adverse events in any of the studies. Alton measured ion transport 
in the lower airways and demonstrated significant changes toward normal values 
in the participants who received gene transfer agents (P < 0.0001), weighted 
mean difference 6.86 (95% CI of 3.77 to 9.95). In these participants there was 
also evidence of increased salt transport in cells obtained by brushing the 
lower airway. These outcomes, whilst important, are not of direct clinical 
relevance.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is currently no evidence to support the use of CFTR 
gene transfer reagents as a treatment for lung disease in people with cystic 
fibrosis. Future studies need to investigate clinically important outcome 
measures.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005599.pub2
PMID: 17443603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Biotechnol J. 2007 May;2(5):584-95. doi: 10.1002/biot.200600248.

Caenorhabditis elegans mitochondrial mutants as an investigative tool to study 
human neurodegenerative diseases associated with mitochondrial dysfunction.

Ventura N(1), Rea SL.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, 
Boulder, CO, USA.

In humans, well over one hundred diseases have been linked to mitochondrial 
dysfunction and many of these are associated with neurodegeneration. At the root 
of most of these diseases lay ineffectual energy production, caused either by 
direct or indirect disruption to components of the mitochondrial electron 
transport chain. It is surprising then to learn that, in the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans, a collection of mutants which share disruptions in some 
of the same genes that cause mitochondrial pathogenesis in humans are in fact 
long-lived. Recently, we resolved this paradox by showing that the C. elegans 
"Mit mutants" only exhibit life extension in a defined window of mitochondrial 
dysfunction. Similar to humans, when mitochondrial dysfunction becomes too 
severe these mutants also exhibit pathogenic life reduction. We have proposed 
that life extension in the Mit mutants occurs as a by-product of compensatory 
processes specifically activated to maintain mitochondrial function. We have 
also proposed that similar kinds of processes may act to delay the symptomatic 
appearance in many human mitochondrial-associated disorders. In the present 
report, we describe our progress in using the Mit mutants as an investigative 
tool to study some of the processes potentially employed by human cells to 
offset pathological mitochondrial dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.200600248
PMID: 17443764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Chem Biodivers. 2007 Apr;4(4):784-802. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.200790064.

Chemical primer extension: individual steps of spontaneous replication.

Stütz JA(1), Kervio E, Deck C, Richert C.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Organic Chemistry, University of Karlsruhe TH, D-76131 
Karlsruhe.

The replication of genetic information, as we know it from today's biology, 
relies on template-directed, polymerase-catalyzed extension of primers. It is 
known that short stretches of complementary RNA can form on templates in the 
absence of enzymes. This account summarizes recent work on efficient enzyme-free 
primer extension, both with 3'-amino-terminal deoxyribonucleotide primers and 
with primers made of unmodified RNA. Near-quantitative primer extension with 
half-life times on the order of hours has been demonstrated by using 
azaoxybenzotriazolides of nucleotides and downstream-binding oligomers. Further, 
small non-nucleosidic substituents placed on the terminus of the template or the 
downstream-binding oligomer have been shown to increase the rate and fidelity of 
primer-extension reactions. Since all four templating bases (A, C, G, T/U) 
direct sequence-selective primer-extension steps, we feel that there is renewed 
hope that full, nonenzymatic replication from monomers may eventually be 
achieved.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.200790064
PMID: 17443889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. US News World Rep. 2007 Mar 12;142(9):62-3.

Vitamins and good sense.

Healy B.

PMID: 17444186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Obes Rev. 2007 May;8(3):223-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2006.00296.x.

The prevalence and determinants of obesity in adults with intellectual 
disabilities.

Melville CA(1), Hamilton S, Hankey CR, Miller S, Boyle S.

Author information:
(1)Section of Psychological Medicine, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. 
C.Melville@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

People with intellectual disabilities experience significant health inequalities 
compared with the general population, including a shorter life expectancy and 
high levels of unmet health needs. Another accepted measure of health 
inequalities, the prevalence of obesity, has been shown to be higher in adults 
with intellectual disabilities than in the general population. While the factors 
contributing to the increased prevalence among adults with intellectual 
disabilities are not well understood, the high rates of obesity among younger 
adults highlight the need for further research involving children and 
adolescents with intellectual disabilities. To take forward the priorities for 
research and the development of effective, accessible services, there is a need 
for collaboration between professionals working in the fields of intellectual 
disabilities and obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2006.00296.x
PMID: 17444964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Environ Entomol. 2007 Apr;36(2):329-36. doi: 
10.1603/0046-225x(2007)36[329:dlosim]2.0.co;2.

Do larvae of species in macrolepidopteran assemblages share traits that 
influence susceptibility to parasitism?

Barbosa P(1), Caldas A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, 
USA. pbarbosa@umd.edu

Research on how morphology, behavior, and life histories of insects determine 
their susceptibility to parasitism has primarily focused on the traits of single 
host species. Very little research has been conducted attempting to determine if 
similarities or differences in the traits of co-occurring species, on a single 
plant or in a habitat, influence levels of parasitism imposed on any member of 
an assemblage. In this study, we use categorical and regression tree analyses to 
determine which traits of the larvae of macrolepidopteran species are associated 
with highest levels of parasitism. Of a variety of morphological, behavioral, 
and ecological traits of 72 species (representing eight families), caterpillar 
color was the trait that had the greatest influence on susceptibility to 
parasitism. The highest levels of parasitism were associated primarily with 
green larvae. These results suggest that the herbivore species composition and, 
specifically, the traits possessed by the species may influence community or 
assemblagewide patterns of parasitism. That is, sharing of traits that enhance 
host finding and successful parasitism may result in associational 
susceptibility to parasitism, whereas co-occurrence with species that differ 
morphologically, behaviorally, or ecologically may reduce the likelihood of 
parasitism and thus result in associational resistance. The concepts of 
associational resistance and susceptibility have historically been restricted to 
plant-plant interactions. The extension of these concepts to herbivores is 
novel. If found to be widespread, these interactions can have significant 
impacts on our expectations of the effectiveness of biological control agents.

DOI: 10.1603/0046-225x(2007)36[329:dlosim]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17445367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Environ Entomol. 2007 Apr;36(2):369-75. doi: 
10.1603/0046-225x(2007)36[369:paltof]2.0.co;2.

Predation and life table of Feltiella acarisuga (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) preying 
on eggs of Tetranychus urticae (Acari: Tetranychidae).

Mo TL(1), Liu TX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, College of Plant Protection, Shandong Agricultural 
University, Taian, Shandong 271018, China.

Feltiella acarisuga (Vallot) is a common gall midge that feeds on many species 
of spider mites. Predation and all major biological and life table parameters of 
F. acarisuga were determined using eggs of the twospotted spider mite, 
Tetranychus urticae (Koch), as prey under laboratory conditions (26.7 degrees C, 
85% RH, and 14:10 [L:D] h). First-, second-, and third-instar F. acarisuga 
larvae consumed an average of 37.8, 60.4, and 87.2 T. urticae eggs per day, 
respectively. Larvae consumed a total of 185.4 eggs each from first to third 
instars, and female larvae consumed 201.2 spider mite eggs, 18.6% more than male 
larvae. Developmental time of F. acarisuga was 2.6, 7.8, and 7.0 d for eggs, 
larvae, and pupae, respectively, with an average of 17.4 d from oviposition to 
adult emergence. Female immatures developed slightly slower ( approximately 1 d) 
than males. Adult longevities of F. acarisuga averaged 13.0 d. After an average 
of 1.1-d preoviposition period, each female laid an average of 33.3 eggs during 
her lifespan. The intrinsic rate of natural population increase (r), net 
reproductive rates (R(o)), gross reproductive rate (Sigmam(x)), generation time 
(T), doubling time (DT), and the finite rate of increase (lambda) of F. 
acarisuga were estimated by life table analysis at 0.1155/d, 15.25 eggs per 
female, 21.69 eggs per female, 23.6 d, 6.0 d, and 1.1225/d, respectively. 
Because the r value of F. acarisuga is relatively lower than that of T. urticae, 
frequent release of F. acarisuga may be necessary to suppress populations of T. 
urticae.

DOI: 10.1603/0046-225x(2007)36[369:paltof]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17445371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2007 Sep 1;69(1):88-94. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2007.02.022. Epub 2007 Apr 18.

Accuracy of life tables in predicting overall survival in candidates for 
radiotherapy for prostate cancer.

Walz J(1), Gallina A, Hutterer G, Perrotte P, Shariat SF, Graefen M, McCormack 
M, Bénard F, Valiquette L, Saad F, Karakiewicz PI.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada.

PURPOSE: To test the accuracy of life tables (LTs) in predicting survival in men 
treated with radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We selected the records of 3,176 patients treated with 
radiotherapy and who had no clinical evidence of disease relapse. Life 
table-derived life expectancy (LE) was defined for every individual using a 
population-specific LT. Age, Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI), and LT-derived LE 
were then used as predictors of overall mortality in Cox regression models. 
Predictive accuracy (PA) was estimated with the Harrell's concordance index and 
was internally validated with 200 bootstrap resamples.
RESULTS: The actuarial median survival was 4.7 years (mean, 6.4 years). At 
radiotherapy, median age was 70.6 years, median CCI was 2, and median LT-derived 
LE was 12 years. All variables were statistically significant predictors of 
overall mortality (all p values <0.001). Age (PA, 60.2%), CCI (PA, 60.1%), and 
LT-derived LE (PA, 60.2%) were equally accurate. Finally, when age and CCI were 
combined (PA, 63.2%), both variables provided more accurate mortality 
predictions than either variable alone (all p values = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Life tables have a limited ability to predict LE in patients 
treated with radiotherapy for prostate cancer. We, therefore, recommend the use 
of multivariate prognostic models that integrate several variables, such as at 
least age and comorbidities, to estimate LE. This might help to improve LE 
estimation during prostate cancer treatment decision making.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2007.02.022
PMID: 17446004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Blood. 2007 Aug 1;110(3):815-25. doi: 10.1182/blood-2006-10-050435. Epub
2007  Apr 19.

Mortality rates, life expectancy, and causes of death in people with hemophilia 
A or B in the United Kingdom who were not infected with HIV.

Darby SC(1), Kan SW, Spooner RJ, Giangrande PL, Hill FG, Hay CR, Lee CA, Ludlam 
CA, Williams M.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trial Service Unit, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Since the 1970s, mortality in the hemophilia population has been dominated by 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and few reports have described mortality in 
uninfected individuals. This study presents mortality in 6018 people with 
hemophilia A or B in the United Kingdom during 1977 to 1998 who were not 
infected with HIV, with follow-up until January 1, 2000. Given disease severity 
and factor inhibitor status, all-cause mortality did not differ significantly 
between hemophilia A and hemophilia B. In severe hemophilia, all-cause mortality 
did not change significantly during 1977 to 1999. During this period, it 
exceeded mortality in the general population by a factor of 2.69 (95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 2.37-3.05), and median life expectancy in severe hemophilia was 
63 years. In moderate/mild hemophilia, all-cause mortality did not change 
significantly during 1985 to 1999, and median life expectancy was 75 years. 
Compared with mortality in the general population, mortality from bleeding and 
its consequences, and from liver diseases and Hodgkin disease, was increased, 
but for ischemic heart disease it was lower, at only 62% (95% CI: 51%-76%) of 
general population rates, and for 14 other specific causes it did not differ 
significantly from general population rates. There was no evidence of any death 
from variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease or from conditions that could be confused 
with it.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2006-10-050435
PMID: 17446349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2007 Apr;19(2):160-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03324683.

New approach to gerontology: building up "successful aging" conditions.

Inelmen EM(1), Sergi G, Enzi G, Toffanello ED, Coin A, Inelmen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Science, Division of Geriatrics, 
University of Padova, Padova, Italy. eminemeral.inelmen@unipd.it

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Great efforts have been made in developed societies to 
extend human life expectancy as much as possible. Continuing investments into 
extending the life-span into the "fourth age" actually reduce the opportunities 
of people to age successfully and die in dignity. Consequently, in recent years, 
the concept of "Successful Aging" (SA) has gained increased attention: 
investigators recognize the importance of separating pathologic changes from 
those which may be attributed to aging in itself, in order to interpret 
correctly the differences between Pathologic Aging, Normal Aging, and Successful 
Aging. Hence, according to recent literature on aging, our aim was to question 
here the validity of recommendations made in the literature for policy making in 
the treatment of aging and suggest new alternatives.
METHODS: We have tried to understand and develop a method of analysis to the 
following question: what do we actually mean by SA? Successful Aging may be seen 
as an arbitrary, subjective term, so we studied which indicators characterize 
elderly persons as successful aged.
RESULTS: The results of this study show that older people's views of SA appear 
to be multidimensional and more complex than the apparent viewpoint of many of 
early studies, which tended to focus on a single dimension of health - 
psychological or mental.
CONCLUSIONS: We argue the proper use of various health indicators and health 
enhancers, as proposed in the current international literature, in the 
definition of SA.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324683
PMID: 17446728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2007 Apr;14(2):265-72. doi: 
10.1097/01.hjr.0000216550.74258.12.

Plant stanol esters are potentially cost-effective in the prevention of coronary 
heart disease in men: Bayesian modelling approach.

Martikainen JA(1), Ottelin AM, Kiviniemi V, Gylling H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Pharmacy, Centre for Pharmaceutical Policy and 
Economics, University of Kuopio, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland. 
janne.martikainen@uku.fi

BACKGROUND: Plant stanol esters in spreads have demonstrated efficacy in 
reducing serum cholesterol. The cost-effectiveness of plant stanol esters in the 
prevention of coronary heart disease, however, has remained unevaluated.
DESIGN: A Bayesian modelling approach was applied to synthesize clinical 
evidence and evaluate the cost-effectiveness (Euro/quality-adjusted life years) 
of plant stanol esters in spread in the prevention of coronary heart disease 
based on published FINRISK and 4S risk functions.
RESULTS: The regular use of plant stanol esters reduced total serum cholesterol 
by -0.362 mmol/l [95% credibility interval (CrI) -0.31 to -0.41]. The 
corresponding placebo-adjusted reduction attributable to stanol esters when 
combined with statin was -0.385 mmol/l (95% CrI -0.18 to -0.61). The 
cost-effectiveness estimations were assessed for men and women separately at 
four different initial ages at which the regular use of stanol esters was 
assumed to be started. The base case cost per quality-adjusted life years gained 
by using stanol esters regularly ranged from 7436 to 20,999 Euro in men and from 
34,327 to 112,151 Euro in women based on the initial starting age. According to 
uncertainty analysis, there is over a 90% probability that the use of plant 
stanol esters is cost-effective for men inclusively and for 60-year-old and 
older women assuming that decision-makers' maximum willingness to pay per 
quality-adjusted life year is 50,000 Euro.
CONCLUSIONS: A recommendation that plant stanol ester-containing spreads be used 
as a part of daily diet replacing regular spread could be viewed as potentially 
cost-effective public health policy in the prevention of CHD in all adult men 
and in older age-groups of women with total serum cholesterol levels of 5 mmol/l 
or greater.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjr.0000216550.74258.12
PMID: 17446806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2007 Apr;14(2):280-6. doi: 
10.1097/01.hjr.0000214602.68619.05.

Survival in relation to angina symptoms and diagnosis among men aged 70-90 
years: the Whitehall Study.

Clarke R(1), Shipley M, Breeze E, Collins R, Marmot M, Halsey J, Fletcher A, 
Hemingway H.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, UK. robert.clarke@ctsu.ox.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: While the excess mortality associated with a diagnosis of angina, 
myocardial infarction in middle-aged individuals is well established, there is 
little available evidence on the natural history of angina in population-based 
studies of older people.
DESIGN: We conducted a 5-year follow-up of 6655 older men aged 67-90 years (mean 
age 77 years) who participated in the Whitehall Study of London Civil Servants.
METHODS: Survival was examined in relation to a diagnosis of angina or 
myocardial infarction and to angina symptoms in a population-based study of 
older men living in the United Kingdom in the late 1990s.
RESULTS: Compared with men without a diagnosis of myocardial ischaemia (n=5219), 
a diagnosis of angina alone (n=617), myocardial infarction alone (n=421) or both 
(n=398) were associated with about a threefold, fourfold and sixfold higher risk 
of death from coronary heart disease, respectively. Median expectation of life 
at age 70 years was reduced by about 2, 5 and 6 years for those with angina, 
myocardial infarction, or both, respectively. Current symptoms of angina among 
those without previously diagnosed angina, was associated with a 2-fold higher 
risk of coronary heart disease mortality than those without either diagnosis or 
symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Both angina symptoms and diagnosis have a significant adverse 
effect on survival among men aged 70-90 years highlighting the importance of 
diagnosis and appropriate treatment of angina in old age.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjr.0000214602.68619.05
PMID: 17446808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Med Care. 2007 May;45(5):377-85. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000257142.12600.c1.

Health-related quality of life consequences of implantable cardioverter 
defibrillators: results from MADIT II.

Noyes K(1), Corona E, Zwanziger J, Hall WJ, Zhao H, Wang H, Moss AJ, Dick AW; 
Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial II.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Rochester 
School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, New York 14620, USA. 
katia_noyes@urmc.rochester.edu

Comment in
    Med Care. 2007 May;45(5):371-3.

BACKGROUND: Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) improve survival and 
extend lives of patients with severe heart disease.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to evaluate the impact of ICDs on health-related quality of 
life (HRQOL) during the first 3 years after implantation.
SUBJECTS: A total of 1089 patients from the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator 
Implantation Trial II (MADIT II) were randomized to an ICD or medical treatment 
only.
MEASURES: Health Utility Index (HUI3) at baseline, 3, 12, 24, and 36 months 
following randomization; survival data.
RESEARCH DESIGN: We constructed mean profiles of HRQOL for living patients, 
estimated overall quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), separately by treatment 
arm, and calculated cumulative QALY gains/losses as the difference between the 
areas under the treatment specific HRQOL profiles. Multivariate fixed effect 
regression models were developed to impute the missing HRQOL data using baseline 
patient characteristics (age, gender, treatment, HUI3 score, diabetes, diuretics 
use, and NYHA class). Bootstrapped standard errors were calculated for the 
estimated differences in HRQOL gains/losses between treatment arms. Similarly, 
we performed subgroup analyses (by gender, age, and baseline NYHA class, blood 
urine nitrogen, ejection fraction, and QRS).
RESULTS: There were no differences in QALYs loss for living patients by 
treatment group (-0.037, P = 0.64) or in overall QALYs loss by treatment group 
(0.043, P = 0.37) over 3 years. In subgroup analysis, female subjects 
demonstrated a trend towards greater survival benefit (0.298, P = 0.07) and 
overall QALYs (0.261, P = 0.14).
CONCLUSIONS: Adverse effects of the ICD on HRQOL together with lower HRQOL among 
survivors may offset the 3-year survival benefits of ICDs.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000257142.12600.c1
PMID: 17446823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Med Care. 2007 May;45(5):386-93. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000255248.79308.41.

Are regional variations in end-of-life care intensity explained by patient 
preferences?: A Study of the US Medicare Population.

Barnato AE(1), Herndon MB, Anthony DL, Gallagher PM, Skinner JS, Bynum JP, 
Fisher ES.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research on Health Care, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15312, USA. barnatoae@upmc.edu

Comment in
    Med Care. 2007 May;45(5):374-6.

OBJECTIVE: We sought to test whether variations across regions in end-of-life 
(EOL) treatment intensity are associated with regional differences in patient 
preferences for EOL care.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Dual-language (English/Spanish) survey conducted March to 
October 2005, either by mail or computer-assisted telephone questionnaire, among 
a probability sample of 3480 Medicare part A and/or B eligible beneficiaries in 
the 20% denominator file, age 65 or older on July 1, 2003. Data collected 
included demographics, health status, and general preferences for medical care 
in the event the respondent had a serious illness and less than 1 year to live. 
EOL concerns and preferences were regressed on hospital referral region EOL 
spending, a validated measure of treatment intensity.
RESULTS: A total of 2515 Medicare beneficiaries completed the survey (65% 
response rate). In analyses adjusted for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, 
financial strain, and health status, there were no differences by spending in 
concern about getting too little treatment (39.6% in lowest spending quintile, 
Q1; 41.2% in highest, Q5; P value for trend, 0.637) or too much treatment (44.2% 
Q1, 45.1% Q5; P = 0.797) at the end of life, preference for spending their last 
days in a hospital (8.4% Q1, 8.5% Q5; P = 0.965), for potentially 
life-prolonging drugs that made them feel worse all the time (14.4% Q1, 16.5% 
Q5; P = 0.326), for palliative drugs, even if they might be life-shortening 
(77.7% Q1, 73.4% Q5; P = 0.138), for mechanical ventilation if it would extend 
their life by 1 month (21% Q1, 21.4% Q5; P = 0.870) or by 1 week (12.1% Q1, 
11.7%; P = 0.875).
CONCLUSIONS: Medicare beneficiaries generally prefer treatment focused on 
palliation rather than life-extension. Differences in preferences are unlikely 
to explain regional variations in EOL spending.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000255248.79308.41
PMCID: PMC2147061
PMID: 17446824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Heart Advis. 2007 Mar;10(3):8.

Ask the doctors. I've read that tissue valve replacement is good for only about 
10 years. If true, my time would be up very soon. What can I do to extend the 
life of my valve and myself?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 17447324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. CNS Drugs. 2007;21(5):407-16. doi: 10.2165/00023210-200721050-00004.

Effect of adjunctive modafinil on wakefulness and quality of life in patients 
with excessive sleepiness-associated obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea 
syndrome: a 12-month, open-label extension study.

Hirshkowitz M(1), Black J.

Author information:
(1)Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center - Sleep Diagnostic Clinic, 
Houston, Texas, USA. maxh@bcm.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term effect on wakefulness, functional status 
and quality of life and tolerability of adjunctive modafinil in continuous 
positive airway pressure (CPAP)-treated patients with residual excessive 
sleepiness (ES) associated with obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome 
(OSA/HS).
STUDY DESIGN: 12-month, open-label extension of a 12-week, randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
SETTING: Thirty-seven centres in the US and four in the UK.
PATIENTS: Two hundred and sixty-six patients experiencing ES associated with 
OSA/HS who completed at least 8 weeks of the 12-week double-blind study, and who 
