radiotherapy schedules consisting of 10 fractions of 3 Gy (10 x 3 Gy) versus two 
fractions of 8 Gy (2 x 8 Gy) in 297 patients with inoperable stage IIIA/B or 
stage IV non-small-cell lung cancer. this trial found that the 10 x 3-Gy group 
had better survival than the 2 x 8-Gy group.
METHODS: Lifetime quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were estimated using the 
EuroQol questionnaire. Lifetime societal costs were estimated using a model 
estimated based on data from cost questionnaires filled out by a subset of 
patients (n = 56). Differences were analyzed statistically using two-sided 
nonparametric bootstrapping.
RESULTS: Compared with the 2 x 8-Gy group, the 10 x 3-Gy group accrued 
statistically significantly more QALYs (20.0 versus 13.2 weeks; difference = 6.8 
weeks, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.1 to 13.5 weeks, P = .05), which was 
mainly due to the statistically significantly better survival (38.1 versus 27.4 
weeks; difference = 10.7 weeks, 95% CI = 0.9 to 20.6 weeks, P = .03) without a 
statistically significant difference with respect to the average valuation of 
health (P = .27). Total radiotherapy and radiotherapy-related costs were 
estimated at 5236 dollars for the 10 x 3-Gy group and 2512 dollars for the 2 x 
8-Gy group (difference = 2724 dollars, 95% CI = 2501 dollars to 2947 dollars, 
P<.001). The 39% increase in life expectancy in the 10 x 3-Gy group as compared 
with the 2 x 8-Gy group was associated with a 30% increase in survival-related 
nonradiotherapy costs (11,254 dollars versus 8651 dollars, difference 2602 
dollars, 95% CI = -357 dollars to 5562 dollars, P = .09). The cost-utility ratio 
for the 10 x 3-Gy schedule versus the 2 x 8-Gy schedule was estimated at 40,900 
dollars per QALY (95% CI = 19,400 dollars to 1,100,000 dollars per QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: In these poor-prognosis non-small-cell lung cancer patients, the 
estimated cost-utility ratio for the palliative 10 x 3-Gy schedule was 
acceptable according to current economic standards. However, the additional 
costs for the protracted schedule were justified not by improved quality of life 
but by longer survival.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djj496
PMID: 17179480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2006 Dec 20;98(24):1826; author reply 1826. doi: 
10.1093/jnci/djj490.

Re: Incidence of initial local therapy among men with lower-risk prostate cancer 
in the United States.

Vikram B.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2006 Aug 16;98(16):1134-41.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djj490
PMID: 17179485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Jan;11(1):1-90. doi: 10.3310/hta11010.

Pemetrexed disodium for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma: a 
systematic review and economic evaluation.

Dundar Y(1), Bagust A, Dickson R, Dodd S, Green J, Haycox A, Hill R, McLeod C, 
Walley T.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, University of Liverpool, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
pemetrexed disodium in combination with cisplatin for the treatment of 
unresectable pleural mesothelioma in chemotherapy-naive patients.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched up to May 2005.
REVIEW METHODS: The systematic review was conducted following accepted 
guidelines. An assessment of the economic submission received from the 
manufacturer of pemetrexed was also carried out. This comprised two sections, 
each employing an economic model. One of these models was then reformulated in 
order to carry out a separate exploration of economic performance.
RESULTS: One randomised controlled trial comparing pemetrexed and cisplatin with 
cisplatin alone, and involving a total study population of 448 patients, met the 
inclusion criteria. Pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin in this trial 
showed a 2.8-month gain in median survival compared with cisplatin alone in an 
intention-to-treat (ITT) population (12.1 and 9.3 months, respectively, p = 
0.020, hazard ratio of 0.77). During the trial, increased reporting of severe 
toxicity in the pemetrexed arm led to a change in the protocol to add folic acid 
and vitamin B12 supplementation to therapy. For fully supplemented patients (n = 
331) the hazard ratio for median survival in favour of pemetrexed plus cisplatin 
was also comparable (0.75), but of borderline significance between treatment 
arms (p = 0.051). The trial inclusion criteria restricted recruitment to those 
with a Karnofsky performance status of 70 or greater (equivalent to ECOG/WHO 0 
or 1 scales more widely used in the UK). Quality of life scores using the Lung 
Cancer Symptom Scale demonstrated significantly greater improvement for pain and 
dyspnoea for patients in the combination group compared with those in the 
cisplatin group. In the ITT population, the incidence of serious toxicities with 
pemetrexed plus cisplatin was higher compared with cisplatin alone. However, the 
grade 3/4 toxicities of the combination arm, particularly leucopenia, 
neutropenia and diarrhoea, were found to be greatly improved by the addition of 
vitamin B12 and folic acid. The existing published economic literature was very 
limited. The economic evaluation conducted by the study (and that submitted by 
the manufacturer) suggested that pemetrexed is unlikely to be considered 
cost-effective at conventionally accepted thresholds in the UK for all patients, 
mainly because of the high cost of pemetrexed itself compared with cisplatin. 
These findings were better for some patient subgroups, e.g. especially for fully 
supplemented (FS) patients with good performance status (0/1) and advanced 
disease (AD). These findings seem robust. The estimated cost-effectiveness 
results were for the FS population, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained = pound59,600; for the FS with AD 
population, ICER per QALY = pound47,600; for the FS with performance status 0/1 
population, ICER per QALY = pound49,800; and for the FS with performance status 
0/1 and AD population, ICER per QALY = pound36,700.
CONCLUSIONS: The new therapy examined in this document demonstrates an extension 
of life expectancy and palliation, as measured by time to progression of disease 
and other end-points. However, the absolute benefit obtained is small, and it 
needs to be weighed against the benefits of effective palliative care services. 
The limited benefit was also at the expense of considerable toxicity to 
patients. The economic evaluation conducted in this study and that of the 
manufacturers suggest that pemetrexed is not cost-effective at conventional 
thresholds for all patients. Cost-effectiveness seems better for some patient 
subgroups, e.g. especially for patients with good performance status and with 
advanced diseases, where it is estimated the ICER per QALY would be pound36,700. 
Given the relatively small number of patients with mesothelioma, albeit 
increasing, the overall budget impact of pemetrexed would be unlikely to be more 
than pound5 million per year at present costs. Much more research is needed into 
the optimum chemotherapy for patients with mesothelioma and a clear definition 
of what constitutes best supportive care.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11010
PMID: 17181984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Jan;11(2):iii-iv, xv-xviii, 1-179. doi: 
10.3310/hta11020.

A systematic review and economic model of the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of docetaxel in combination with prednisone or prednisolone 
for the treatment of hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer.

Collins R(1), Fenwick E, Trowman R, Perard R, Norman G, Light K, Birtle A, 
Palmer S, Riemsma R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: A systematic review was undertaken and an economic model constructed 
to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of docetaxel 
(Taxotere, Sanofi-Aventis) in combination with prednisone/prednisolone for the 
treatment of metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer (mHRPC). The main 
comparators considered were other established chemotherapy regimens and best 
supportive care.
DATA SOURCES: Twenty-one resources (including MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane 
Library) were searched to April 2005.
REVIEW METHODS: Two reviewers independently assessed studies for inclusion. Data 
from included studies were extracted and quality assessed. Where appropriate, 
outcomes were synthesised using formal analytic approaches. A new economic model 
was developed in order to establish the cost-effectiveness of docetaxel compared 
with a range of potential comparators. A separate review was undertaken to 
identify sources of utility data required to estimate quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). Sensitivity analyses were also undertaken to explore the 
robustness of the main analysis to alternative assumptions related to quality of 
life. Monte Carlo simulation was used to propagate uncertainty in input 
parameters through the model in such a way that the results of the analysis 
could be presented with their uncertainty. The impact of uncertainty surrounding 
the decision was established using value of information and implementation 
approaches.
RESULTS: Seven randomised controlled trials were identified that met the 
inclusion criteria. A direct comparison of docetaxel plus prednisone versus 
mitoxantrone plus prednisone in an open-label randomised trial showed improved 
outcomes for docetaxel plus prednisone in terms of overall survival, quality of 
life, pain and prostate-specific antigen decline. Two other chemotherapy 
regimens that included docetaxel: docetaxel plus estramustine and docetaxel plus 
prednisone plus estramustine, also showed improved outcomes in comparison with 
mitoxantrone plus prednisone. Indirect comparison suggested that docetaxel plus 
prednisone seems to be superior to corticosteroids alone in terms of overall 
survival. Conclusions on cost-effectiveness were primarily informed by the 
results of the in-house model. This indicated that mitoxantrone plus a 
corticosteroid is probably cheaper and more effective than corticosteroid alone. 
Compared with mitoxantrone plus prednisone/prednisolone, the use of docetaxel 
plus prednisone/prednisolone (3-weekly) appears cost-effective only if the NHS 
is prepared to pay 33,000 pounds per QALY. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio associated with docetaxel plus prednisone (3-weekly) remained fairly 
robust to these variations with estimates ranging from 28,000 pounds to 33,000 
pounds per QALY. Value of information analysis revealed that further research is 
potentially valuable. Given a maximum acceptable ratio of 30,000 pounds per 
QALY, the expected value of information was estimated to be approximately 13 
million pounds.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review of the research suggests that docetaxel plus 
prednisone seems to be the most effective treatment for men with mHRPC. The 
economic model suggests that treatment with docetaxel plus 
prednisone/prednisolone is cost-effective in patients with mHRPC provided the 
NHS is prepared to pay 33,000 pounds per additional QALY. Future research should 
include the direct assessment of quality of life and utility gain associated 
with different treatments, including the effect of adverse events of treatment, 
using generic instruments, which are suitable for the purposes of 
cost-effectiveness analyses.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11020
PMID: 17181985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Eur Psychiatry. 2007 May;22(4):203-10. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2006.09.008.
Epub  2006 Dec 19.

One-year outcome of low-intensity booster sessions versus care as usual in 
psychosis patients after a short-term psychoeducational intervention.

Sibitz I(1), Amering M, Gössler R, Unger A, Katschnig H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 
18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: In this study we aimed to evaluate long-term effects of a 
community-based, quality of life oriented psychoeducational intervention for 
schizophrenia with and without booster sessions.
METHOD: One hundred and three outpatients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or 
schizoaffective disorder completed a 9-week psychoeducational programme. At the 
end of the programme groups were block-randomised to either an extension 
programme comprising monthly booster sessions for a further nine months (booster 
condition) or routine clinical care with no further group meetings (non-booster 
condition). Outcome measures were applied before and after the seminar and at 6 
and 12 months.
RESULTS: Positive effects were observed after the short-term 9-week programme 
with regard to symptoms, knowledge about the illness, illness concept, control 
convictions and quality of life. These effects were retained over the 12-month 
period in both conditions. The only relevant difference between the booster and 
the non-booster conditions concerned external control convictions.
CONCLUSION: Overall this 9-week programme has shown encouraging effects still 
present at 12 months after baseline independent of booster or non-booster 
conditions. Further studies are needed to explore whether a subgroup of 
patients, those with impaired neurocognitive and social functioning, can benefit 
significantly from booster sessions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2006.09.008
PMID: 17182222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. J Chin Med Assoc. 2006 Dec;69(12):591-5. doi: 10.1016/S1726-4901(09)70336-3.

Vestibular rehabilitation in a patient with whiplash-associated disorders.

Tuo KS(1), Cheng YY, Kao CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Kaohsiung Armed Forces 
General Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R.O.C.

Whiplash-associated disorders are characterized by multiple physical complaints 
after a flexion-extension trauma to the neck. They are difficult to treat, and 
they often result in great impact on the patient's quality of life. In this 
paper, the comprehensive treatment of a patient with whiplash-associated 
disorders is presented. The purpose is to highlight the importance of accurate 
diagnosis and appropriate treatment plans to improve patients' quality of life. 
This 23-year-old woman experienced a traffic accident which caused severely 
painful neck disability, numbness over bilateral upper limbs, dizziness, double 
vision and loss of balance. Among these symptoms, dizziness was the problem that 
bothered the patient most. She received a comprehensive rehabilitation program 
including physical modalities, trigger point injections for relief of pain, as 
well as a vestibular rehabilitation program, which included exercises 
challenging and improving her balance function, head-eye coordination exercise, 
visual-ocular control exercise and sensory substitution-promoting exercises. She 
resumed her previous full-time work after 3 weeks of treatment. This 
successfully treated case illustrates the importance of correct diagnosis and 
appropriate treatment for patients who suffer from whiplash-associated 
disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/S1726-4901(09)70336-3
PMID: 17182355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr;36(2):374-84. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl257. Epub 2006
Dec  20.

Epidemiologic transition interrupted: a reassessment of mortality trends in 
Thailand, 1980-2000.

Hill K(1), Vapattanawong P, Prasartkul P, Porapakkham Y, Lim SS, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and International Health, Harvard School of Public 
Health, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr;36(2):384-6.

BACKGROUND: In the late 1980s and early 1990s a generalized HIV epidemic 
affected Thailand which was relatively well controlled by an intensive national 
campaign by the mid 1990s. The extent to which the epidemic has slowed or 
possibly reversed the epidemiological transition in Thailand is relatively 
unknown.
METHODS: Under-five mortality rates (U5MR) were determined from various sources 
and weighted least squares regression conducted to determine U5MR over the years 
1980-2000. Direct and indirect estimates of the completeness of death 
registration were used to estimate mortality levels in those aged more than 5 
years for the 1980-90 and 1990-2000 periods. Life tables were constructed using 
the various estimates to determine changes in life-expectancy between the two 
time periods.
RESULTS: U5MR in Thailand is estimated to have been 58/1000 live births in 1980, 
declining to 30 in 1990 and to 23 in 2000. The vital registration system clearly 
underestimates U5MR. Successive surveys of Population Change (SPC) imply 
coverage of death registration improving from 75-77% in 1985-86 to 95% in 
1995-96, partly due to a reliance on self-reported registration in the latter 
survey. In contrast, the General Growth Balance-Synthetic Extinction Generations 
(GGB-SEG) method suggests coverage worsening from 78-85% in 1980-90 to 64-72% in 
1990-2000. Life tables based on SPC adjustments show continued declines in 
female, and to a lesser extent, male adult mortality with corresponding 
increases in life-expectancy at birth of around 6 years for both sexes from 
1980-90 to 1990-2000. In contrast, the indirect adjustments suggest a 
substantial increase in male adult mortality with female adult mortality 
unchanged; life expectancy decreased by 4 years for males and was only 
marginally higher in females.
CONCLUSION: Given the conflicting evidence a definitive assessment of mortality 
change in Thailand between 1980 and 2000 is difficult to make. Indirect 
adjustments, based on demographic methods point to a major reversal in mortality 
decline among males, and a slowing in females. If adult mortality registration 
has declined, and given the continued under-registration of infant and child 
deaths, remedial measures are urgently required if the mortality system is to 
better inform and monitor health development in Thailand.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl257
PMID: 17182635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Alzheimers Dis. 2006 Dec;10(4):417-22. doi: 10.3233/jad-2006-10411.

Calorie restriction attenuates Alzheimer's disease type brain amyloidosis in 
Squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus).

Qin W(1), Chachich M, Lane M, Roth G, Bryant M, de Cabo R, Ottinger MA, Mattison 
J, Ingram D, Gandy S, Pasinetti GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, 
USA.

Recent studies from our laboratories and others suggest that calorie restriction 
(CR) may benefit Alzheimer's disease (AD) by preventing amyloid-beta (Abeta) 
neuropathology in the mouse models of AD. Moreover, we found that promotion of 
the NAD+-dependent SIRT1 mediated deacetylase activity, a key regulator in CR 
extension of life span, may be a mechanism by which CR influences AD-type 
neuropathology. In this study we continued to explore the role of CR in AD-type 
brain amyloidosis in Squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus). Monkeys were 
maintained on the normal and CR diets throughout the entire lifespan until they 
died of natural causes. We found that 30% CR resulted in reduced contents of 
Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42 peptides in the temporal cortex of Squirrel monkeys, 
relative to control (CON) fed monkeys. The decreased contents of cortical Abeta 
peptide inversely correlated with SIRT1 protein concentrations in the same brain 
region; no detectable change in total full-length amyloid-beta protein precursor 
(AbetaPP) level was found. Most interestingly, we found that 30% CR resulted in 
a select elevation of alpha- but not beta- or gamma- secretase activity which 
coincided with decreased ROCK1 protein content in the same brain region, 
relative to CON group. Collectively, the study suggests that investigation of 
the role of CR in non-human primates may provide a valuable approach for further 
clarifying the role of CR in AD.

DOI: 10.3233/jad-2006-10411
PMID: 17183154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Nat Clin Pract Nephrol. 2007 Jan;3(1):31-41. doi: 10.1038/ncpneph0383.

Living donor renal transplantation: recent developments and perspectives.

Baid-Agrawal S(1), Frei UA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Medical Intensive Care, Campus Virchow-Klinikum, 
Charité Universitaetsmedizin Berlin, Germany.

Renal transplantation is the optimal treatment for patients of all ages with 
end-stage renal disease. Life expectancy of the population in general is 
increasing consistently, as is the age of the dialysis population. Consequently, 
the average ages of kidney donors and recipients are rising. The combination of 
a growing number of patients with end-stage renal disease and a shortage of 
organs poses a significant challenge to the transplant community. Donor shortage 
is associated with unfavorable consequences (e.g. prolonged waiting time, and 
compromised graft and patient survival). As such, multidirectional efforts are 
required to expand the donor pool. Increasing the frequency of living donation 
seems to be an efficient solution. Living donation is associated with superior 
results for the recipient, and relatively benign long-term outcomes for donors. 
Reluctance to use organs from living donors whose eligibility was previously 
considered marginal (e.g. elderly donors) is declining. Although increased donor 
age is associated with reduced graft survival rates, this should not preclude 
use of older living donors; transplantation is definitely superior to remaining 
on dialysis. Thorough, standardized evaluation and careful screening for 
premorbid conditions in both elderly donors and elderly recipients are 
essential. Here, we present various options for expanding the living donor pool, 
with emphasis on the utilization of elderly living donors and transplantation in 
elderly recipients.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpneph0383
PMID: 17183260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Nature. 2006 Dec 21;444(7122):1038-43. doi: 10.1038/nature05456.

A new progeroid syndrome reveals that genotoxic stress suppresses the 
somatotroph axis.

Niedernhofer LJ(1), Garinis GA, Raams A, Lalai AS, Robinson AR, Appeldoorn E, 
Odijk H, Oostendorp R, Ahmad A, van Leeuwen W, Theil AF, Vermeulen W, van der 
Horst GT, Meinecke P, Kleijer WJ, Vijg J, Jaspers NG, Hoeijmakers JH.

Author information:
(1)Center for Biomedical Genetics Medical Genetic Center Department of Cell 
Biology and Genetics, Erasmus Medical Center, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2006 Dec 21;444(7122):1015-7.

XPF-ERCC1 endonuclease is required for repair of helix-distorting DNA lesions 
and cytotoxic DNA interstrand crosslinks. Mild mutations in XPF cause the 
cancer-prone syndrome xeroderma pigmentosum. A patient presented with a severe 
XPF mutation leading to profound crosslink sensitivity and dramatic progeroid 
symptoms. It is not known how unrepaired DNA damage accelerates ageing or its 
relevance to natural ageing. Here we show a highly significant correlation 
between the liver transcriptome of old mice and a mouse model of this progeroid 
syndrome. Expression data from XPF-ERCC1-deficient mice indicate increased cell 
death and anti-oxidant defences, a shift towards anabolism and reduced growth 
hormone/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) signalling, a known regulator of 
lifespan. Similar changes are seen in wild-type mice in response to chronic 
genotoxic stress, caloric restriction, or with ageing. We conclude that 
unrepaired cytotoxic DNA damage induces a highly conserved metabolic response 
mediated by the IGF1/insulin pathway, which re-allocates resources from growth 
to somatic preservation and life extension. This highlights a causal 
contribution of DNA damage to ageing and demonstrates that ageing and 
end-of-life fitness are determined both by stochastic damage, which is the cause 
of functional decline, and genetics, which determines the rates of damage 
accumulation and decline.

DOI: 10.1038/nature05456
PMID: 17183314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Nutr Health Aging. 2006 Nov-Dec;10(6):554-60.

Meals-on-wheels improves energy and nutrient intake in a frail free-living 
elderly population.

Roy MA(1), Payette H.

Author information:
(1)Research Centre on Aging, Sherbrooke Geriatric University Institute, 1036 
Belvedere Sud, Sherbrooke, Qc, J1H 4C4, Canada.

BACKGROUND: With the increasing life expectancy and associated health care cost 
in the elderly population, it is fundamental to study and improve interventions 
that help older persons to have a better and healthier life in their home for a 
longer period.
OBJECTIVES: Evaluate the effect of Meals-on-Wheels (MOW) on dietary intakes of 
frail elderly.
DESIGN: An untreated control group quasi-experimental design with pretest and 
post-test was used to compare users (n = 20) and non-users (n = 31) of MOW. 
Descriptive and dietary data were compared at pretest and 8 weeks later. 
Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) was used to control for initial differences 
between groups.
RESULTS: Both groups were similar at pretest except for weight (p = 0.028) and 
weekly number of meals eaten outside the home (p = 0.008). In both groups, 
dietary intakes at pretest were below Estimated Average Requirements (EAR) for 
the same nutrients. At post-test, intake of most nutrients increased in the 
Experimental group in comparison with the Control group. After controlling with 
the ANCOVA model, increases were significant for energy (p = 0.050), protein (p 
= 0.030), lipid (p = 0.034) and thiamin (p = 0.035). Provision of MOW did not 
permit to achieve a low risk of nutrient inadequacy in the Experimental group.
CONCLUSIONS: MOW programs improve dietary intakes of recipients. However, a more 
intensive intervention is needed to prevent nutrient deficiencies in this group.

PMID: 17183428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. J Rheumatol. 2007 Feb;34(2):336-40. Epub 2006 Dec 15.

Summarizing disease features over time: II. Variability measures of SLEDAI-2K.

Ibañez D(1), Gladman D, Urowitz M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prognostic Studies in the Rheumatic Diseases, Toronto Western 
Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: o determine if the variability of the Systemic Lupus Erythematosus 
Disease Activity Index 2000 (SLEDAI-2K), along with the Adjusted Mean SLEDAI-2K 
(AMS), can better predict major outcomes in SLE than the AMS alone.
METHODS: Patients were followed in the Lupus Clinic at 2-6 month intervals. 
Clinical and laboratory information necessary to compute the SLEDAI-2K and 
Systemic Lupus International Collaborating Clinics/American College of 
Rheumatology damage index was collected prospectively and entered onto a 
computerized database. Patients followed for a minimum of 3 visits, and without 
absence for a period > 18 consecutive months, were included in the study. Six 
different approaches to measure variability of SLEDAI-2K were evaluated for each 
visit, along with AMS. Approaches were the standard deviation, the slope, 
average rate of change by visit, the range, the coefficient of variation, and 
the Percentage of the visits with a change in SLEDAI-2K > or = 3. The SLE 
outcomes under study were death, presence of damage, coronary artery disease 
(CAD), and osteonecrosis (ON). The predictability of each outcome was evaluated 
through time-dependent covariate survival analyses. Regression models included 
other known major risk factors such as sex, age at diagnosis, SLEDAI-2K at 
presentation, and disease duration.
RESULTS: Five hundred seventy-five patients seen from 1970 to 2002 were 
included. The average time between visits was 4.0 +/- 2.2 months. Eighty-five 
patients died, 325 developed damage, 55 had CAD, and 68 had ON. None of the 6 
variability measures added more statistical significance in the prediction of 
any of the 4 outcomes. For the prediction of survival, AMS [hazard ratio (HR) = 
1.16, p < 0.0001] and age at diagnosis (HR 1.05, p < 0.0001) were the only 
significant risk factors. For presence of damage, AMS (HR 1.06, p < 0.0001), age 
at diagnosis (HR 1.02, p = 0.0004), and disease duration (HR 1.05, p < 0.0001) 
were predictors. CAD was predicted by AMS (HR 1.12, p = 0.0003), male sex (HR 
2.31, p = 0.02), age at diagnosis (HR 1.06, p < 0.0001), and disease duration 
(HR 1.10, p < 0.0001). For ON, SLEDAI-2K at presentation (HR 1.04, p = 0.003) 
and disease duration (HR 0.92, p = 0.05) were significant risk factors.
CONCLUSION: Multivariate analysis revealed that AMS, independent of variability 
of the SLEDAI-2K, is an important predictor of major outcomes in SLE.

PMID: 17183620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2005 Nov;54(6):339-43. doi: 
10.1016/j.ancard.2005.09.008.

[Operative risk of heart valve surgery after 80 years].

[Article in French]

Hanania G(1), Maroni JP.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie, hôpital Robert-Ballanger, boulevard Robert-Ballanger, 
93602 Aulnay-sous-Bois, France. ghanania@free.fr

The continuous prolongation of life expectancy in developed nations and the 
progress made in the surgical treatment of valvulopathy have substantially 
increased the number of octogenarians undergoing heart valve surgery with 
extracorporeal circulation. Most of them have calcified aortic stenosis and the 
valve is replaced with a bioprosthesis. At these ages, mitral valve 
disease--usually insufficiency--is predominantly treated by repair rather than 
valve replacement. In both cases, the etiology is primarily degenerative. In 
addition, an ever-increasing percentage of these patients require replacement of 
deteriorated bioprostheses. These octogenarians are exposed to surgical risk 
estimated to be about 9-10%, i.e. 2-3 times higher than that of patients under 
70 years of age, and even higher when surgery is a reintervention. Furthermore, 
morbidity affecting approximately an additional third of those undergoing 
surgery must be added to this mortality. Therefore, only half of the patients 
have uncomplicated surgical outcomes. Age is not the only factor enhancing the 
risk, which is also linked to comorbidities, preoperative functional class, 
stage of the evolving valvulopathy, and association of coronary artery disease. 
Predictive scores (Parsonnet, EuroScore) have been devised to evaluate the 
surgical risk to which these patients are subjected. Rigorous selection of 
patients with severe valvulopathy should enable potential candidates, willing to 
undergo an intervention, to be provided with indications for surgery 
sufficiently early so as to not enhance the risk by intervening too late.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ancard.2005.09.008
PMID: 17183830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2007 Mar;9(3):293-9. doi: 10.1089/ars.2006.1467.

A high glycolytic flux supports the proliferative potential of murine embryonic 
stem cells.

Kondoh H(1), Lleonart ME, Nakashima Y, Yokode M, Tanaka M, Bernard D, Gil J, 
Beach D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 
University, Kyoto, Japan. hkondoh@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Embryonic stem (ES) cells are immortal and present the ability to self-renew 
while retaining their ability to differentiate. In contrast, most primary cells 
possess a limited proliferative potential, and when this is exhausted, undergo 
an irreversible growth arrest termed senescence. In primary cells, senescence 
can be also triggered by a variety of stress to which ES cells are highly 
refractory. Here the authors report that the proliferative capacity of murine ES 
cells closely correlates with high activity of different glycolytic enzymes, 
elevated glycolytic flux, and low mitochondrial oxygen consumption. The direct 
relation between glycolytic flux and the ability of ES cells to proliferate is 
further remarked in experiments where glycolysis or ES cell self-renewal was 
specifically inhibited. It was previously reported that the upregulation of 
glycolysis in primary cells results in life span extension. The authors 
hypothesize that the naturally high glycolytic flux observed in murine ES cells 
can be responsible for their unlimited proliferative potential.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2006.1467
PMID: 17184172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 Jan;83(1):47-54. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.08.039.

Altered myocardial shear strains are associated with chronic ischemic mitral 
regurgitation.

Nguyen TC(1), Cheng A, Langer F, Rodriguez F, Oakes RA, Itoh A, Ennis DB, Liang 
D, Daughters GT, Ingels NB Jr, Miller DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, California 94305-5247, USA.

BACKGROUND: Ischemic mitral regurgitation (IMR) limits life expectancy and can 
lead to postinfarction global left ventricular (LV) dilatation and remodeling, 
the pathogenesis of which is not completely known. We tested the hypothesis that 
IMR perturbs adjacent myocardial LV systolic strains.
METHODS: Thirteen sheep had three columns of miniature beads inserted across the 
lateral LV wall, with additional epicardial markers silhouetting the ventricle. 
One week later posterolateral infarction was created. Seven weeks thereafter, 
the animals were divided into two groups according to severity of IMR (< or = 
1+, n = 7, IMR[-] vs > or = 2+, n = 6, IMR[+]). Four dimensional marker 
coordinates and quantitative histology were used to calculate ventricular 
volumes, transmural myocardial systolic strains, and systolic fiber shortening.
RESULTS: Seven weeks after infarction, end-diastolic (ED) volume increased 
similarly in both groups, end-systolic (ES) E13 (circumferential-radial) shear 
increased in both groups, but more so in IMR(+) than IMR(-) (+0.12 vs 0.04, p < 
0.005), and E12 (circumferential-longitudinal) shear increased in IMR(-) but not 
IMR(+) (+0.04 vs -0.01, p < 0.005). There were no significant differences in ED 
or ES remodeling strains or systolic fiber shortening between IMR(-) and IMR(+).
CONCLUSIONS: An equivalent increase in LV end-diastolic (ED) volume in both 
groups, coupled with unchanged ED and end-systolic remodeling strains as well as 
systolic circumferential, longitudinal, and radial strains, argue against a 
global LV or regional myocardial geometric basis for the cardiomyopathy 
associated with IMR. Further, similar systolic fiber shortening in both groups 
militates against an intracellular (cardiomyocyte) mechanism. The differences in 
subepicardial E12 and E13 shears, however, suggest a causal role of altered 
interfiber (cytoskeleton and extracellular-matrix) interactions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.08.039
PMID: 17184629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Gastrointest Endosc. 2007 Jan;65(1):3-10. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2006.04.033.

Curative endoscopic resection of early esophageal adenocarcinomas (Barrett's 
cancer).

Ell C(1), May A, Pech O, Gossner L, Guenter E, Behrens A, Nachbar L, Huijsmans 
J, Vieth M, Stolte M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II, HSK Wiesbaden, Teaching Hospital of the 
University of Mainz, Wiesbaden, Germany.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2007 Jan;65(1):11-3.
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2007 Jan;65(1):14-5.
    Gastroenterology. 2007 Jul;133(1):360-2.

BACKGROUND: In view of the increasing incidence of adenocarcinoma in Barrett's 
esophagus and the mortality and high morbidity rates associated with surgical 
therapy for this condition, safe and effective but less invasive methods of 
treatment are needed.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate efficacy and safety of endoscopic resection in these 
patients.
DESIGN: Single-center prospective study.
SETTING: Teaching hospital, conducted between October 1996 and September 2003.
PATIENTS: A total of 100 consecutive patients (mean age, 62.1 +/- 10.9 years; 
range, 31-86 years) with low-risk adenocarcinoma of the esophagus (macroscopic 
types I, IIa, IIb, and IIc; lesion diameter up to 20 mm; mucosal lesion without 
invasion into lymph vessels and veins; and histologic grades G1 and G2) arising 
in Barrett's metaplasia.
INTERVENTIONS: Endoscopic resection with the suck-and-cut technique.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Complete local remission.
RESULTS: A total of 144 resections (1.47 per patient) were performed without 
technical problems. No major complications and only 11 minor ones (bleedings 
without decrease of Hb >2 g/dL; treated with injection therapy) occurred. 
Complete local remission was achieved in 99 of the 100 patients after 1.9 months 
(range, 1-18 months) and a maximum of 3 resections. During a mean follow-up 
period of 36.7 months, recurrent or metachronous carcinomas were found in 11% of 
the patients, but successful repeat treatment with endoscopic resection was 
possible in all of these cases. The calculated 5-year survival rate was 98%. Two 
patients died of other causes.
LIMITATIONS: Nonblinded, nonrandomized study.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic resection is associated with favorable outcomes for 
low-risk patients with early esophageal adenocarcinoma (Barrett's carcinoma).

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2006.04.033
PMID: 17185072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Adolesc Health. 2007 Jan;40(1):61-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jadohealth.2006.08.012.  Epub 2006 Oct 27.

Costs and cost-effectiveness of adolescent compliance with treatment for latent 
tuberculosis infection: results from a randomized trial.

Kominski GF(1), Varon SF, Morisky DE, Malotte CK, Ebin VJ, Coly A, Chiao C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, UCLA School of Public Health, Los Angeles, 
California 90024, USA. kominski@ucla.edu

PURPOSE: Assess the costs and cost-effectiveness of an incentive-based 
tuberculosis (TB) program designed to promote adolescents' compliance with 
treatment for latent TB infection (LTBI).
METHODS: Randomized controlled trial. Adolescents between the ages of 11 and 19 
years who were referred to one of two participating clinics after being screened 
for TB and receiving a positive diagnosis indicating LTBI (n = 794) were 
assigned to one of four groups: usual care, peer counseling, contingency 
contracting, and combined peer counseling/contingency contracting. Primary 
outcome variables were completion of isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT), total 
treatment costs, and lifetime TB-related costs per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) in each of the four study groups (three treatment, one control). Cost 
effectiveness was evaluated using a five-stage Markov model and a Monte Carlo 
simulation with 10,000 trials.
RESULTS: Average costs were 199 dollars for usual care (UC), 277 dollars for 
peer counseling (PC), 326 dollars for contingency contracting (CC), and 341 
dollars for PC + CC combined. The differences among these groups were all 
significant at the p = .001 level. Only the PC + CC group improved the rate of 
IPT completion (83.8%) relative to usual care (75.9%) (p = .051), with an 
overall incremental CE ratio of 209 dollars per QALY relative to usual care.
CONCLUSION: Incentives combined with peer counseling are a cost-effective 
strategy for helping adolescents to complete care when combined with peer 
counseling.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2006.08.012
PMID: 17185207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Vet Intern Med. 2006 Nov-Dec;20(6):1287; author reply 1287-8. doi: 
10.1892/0891-6640(2006)20[1287a:c]2.0.co;2.

Physiologic VDD versus nonphysiologic VVI pacing in canine 3rd degree 
atrioventricular block.

McMillan FD.

Comment on
    J Vet Intern Med. 2006 Mar-Apr;20(2):257-71.

DOI: 10.1892/0891-6640(2006)20[1287a:c]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17186838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. J Palliat Med. 2006 Dec;9(6):1401-11. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2006.9.1401.

An Evaluation of the Advanced Illness Management (AIM) Program: Increasing 
hospice utilization in the San Francisco Bay area.

Ciemins EL(1), Stuart B, Gerber R, Newman J, Bauman M.

Author information:
(1)Sutter Health Institute for Research and Education, San Francisco, California 
94611, USA. CieminE@sutterhealth.org

BACKGROUND: In the Medicare population, end-of-life care is fragmented and 
hospice is underutilized. Evidence suggests that hospice care is associated with 
increased patient/family satisfaction and reductions in overall health care 
costs. Advanced Illness Management (AIM) is a home-based program established to 
ease the transition between curative and comfort care for seriously ill patients 
who lack coordinated hospital, home health, and hospice care.
OBJECTIVE: Measure the impact of the AIM program on the discharge disposition of 
participating home health patients.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING/SUBJECTS: A total of 435 patients who received home health services 
through the Sutter Visiting Nurse Association and Hospice (SVNA&H) and who were 
discharged between 2003 and September 2005 were included in this study. 
Participants were selected based on a life expectancy of 6 months or less and 
additionally matched on prognosis of current episode of illness and symptom 
status. Intervention patients were compared to those receiving usual home health 
care at two SVNA&H branches.
RESULTS: In the within-branch comparison, a 28% difference was observed in the 
number of hospice referrals between patients who received the AIM intervention 
and Usual Care I (47% AIM; 33% UCI, p = 0.003). When patients receiving the AIM 
intervention were compared to patients from another branch, Usual Care II, a 67% 
difference emerged (47% AIM; 16% UCII, p < 0.0001). Among African American 
patients, 60% and 73% more patients were referred to hospice when AIM patients 
were compared to Usual Care I and Usual Care II patients, respectively (p < 
0.01). These differences persisted after controlling for symptom status, patient 
demographics and home health length of stay.
CONCLUSIONS: The AIM program was successful at increasing hospice utilization 
through a targeted intervention focused on palliative and end-of-life care, 
increased patient education and decision making, and a dynamic treatment 
approach. The finding of increased utilization by African Americans, a 
population traditionally reluctant to use hospice, was particularly noteworthy.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2006.9.1401
PMID: 17187548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Dev Biol. 2007 Mar 15;303(2):474-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2006.11.028. Epub
2006  Nov 22.

Multiple sensory G proteins in the olfactory, gustatory and nociceptive neurons 
modulate longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Lans H(1), Jansen G.

Author information:
(1)MGC Department of Cell Biology and Genetics, Center for Biomedical Genetics, 
Erasmus MC, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The life span of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is under control of sensory 
signals detected by the amphid neurons. In these neurons, C. elegans expresses 
at least 13 Galpha subunits and a Ggamma subunit, which are involved in the 
transduction and modulation of sensory signals. Here, we show that 
loss-of-function mutations in the Galpha subunits odr-3, gpa-1 and gpa-9, in the 
Ggamma subunit gpc-1 and the introduction of extra copies of the Galpha subunit 
gpa-11 extend the life span of C. elegans. Loss-of-function of odr-3 and extra 
copies of gpa-11 act synergistically and can together extend life span more than 
two-fold, indicating that sensory signals play an important role in regulating 
life span. We show that gpa-1, gpa-11, odr-3 and gpc-1 all signal via the daf-16 
FOXO family transcription factor. In addition, odr-3 and gpa-11 might suppress 
life span extension partially independent of the insulin/IGF-1 like receptor 
homologue daf-2. Our results suggest that the previously unanticipated 
nociceptive ASH and/or ADL neurons regulate longevity. We expect that the 
implication of specific G proteins will eventually contribute to the 
identification of the sensory cues that determine the rate of aging in C. 
elegans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2006.11.028
PMID: 17187771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Am J Ophthalmol. 2007 Jan;143(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2006.10.003. Epub
2006  Nov 13.

LXIII Edward Jackson Memorial Lecture: Eye care: dollars and sense.

Taylor HR(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, 32 Gisborne 
Street, East Melbourne, Victoria 3002, Australia. h.taylor@unimelb.edu.au

PURPOSE: The development of health economic data for vision loss and eye disease 
is described.
DESIGN: Data from population-based epidemiologic studies of eye disease, studies 
of the impact of vision loss on daily living, Australian national health-care 
costs, census, and demographic projections were combined to develop a model of 
the economic impact of vision loss in Australia.
METHODS: Data were considered to assess the current magnitude and costs of 
vision loss and to make projections as to future costs. Further analysis 
investigated the costs and economic benefits of various interventions to address 
avoidable vision loss.
RESULTS: The amount of vision loss increases three-fold and the number with 
vision loss will double in 20 years. Vision loss cost Australia a total of AU 
$9.85 billion in 2004. Vision loss ranks seventh in causes of loss of 
well-being. An intervention package to address avoidable vision loss would cost 
AU $190 million or AU $5,591/Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) and give lifetime 
savings of AU $911 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Although specific for Australia, these data can help guide health 
care policy debate and the priority given to eye care in other developed 
economies. For each dollar spent on the prevention of vision loss and eye care, 
there is a 5 dollar return to the community.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2006.10.003
PMID: 17188039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Surgery. 2006 Dec;140(6):874-81; discussion 881-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.surg.2006.07.032. Epub 2006 Nov 1.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of parathyroidectomy for asymptomatic primary 
hyperparathyroidism.

Zanocco K(1), Angelos P, Sturgeon C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Gastrointestinal & Endocrine Surgery, 
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

BACKGROUND: Controversy exists concerning the best treatment for asymptomatic 
primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) when the National Institutes of Health 
consensus conference criteria for parathyroidectomy are not met. We hypothesized 
that parathyroidectomy would be more cost-effective than observation or 
pharmacologic therapy for these patients.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed comparing treatment 
strategies for asymptomatic PHPT. Treatment outcomes, their probabilities, and 
costs were identified on the basis of literature and cost database review. 
Outcomes were weighted by using established quality-of-life utility factors. 
Sensitivity analysis was used to examine the uncertainty of costs and utility 
estimates in the model.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for parathyroidectomy was US 
dollars 4778 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Operation remained 
cost-effective until the average cost of parathyroidectomy increased from the 
estimated value of US dollars 4778 to US dollars 14,650. Pharmacologic therapy 
was not cost-effective unless the annual cost of therapy decreased from an 
estimated US dollars 7406 (for cinacalcet) to US dollars 221. Parathyroidectomy 
ceases to be preferred over monitoring if a quality-of-life difference is not 
demonstrable after curative operation.
CONCLUSIONS: Parathyroidectomy is more cost-effective than observation for 
managing asymptomatic PHPT patients who do not meet National Institutes of 
Health criteria for parathyroidectomy. Furthermore, pharmacologic therapies with 
a greater than US dollars 221 annual cost were not cost-effective in this model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2006.07.032
PMID: 17188133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Anal Biochem. 2007 Feb 1;361(1):126-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2006.11.015. Epub
2006  Dec 4.

Time-resolved detection probe for homogeneous nucleic acid analyses in one-step 
format.

Laitala V(1), Ylikoski A, Raussi HM, Ollikka P, Hemmilä I.

Author information:
(1)PerkinElmer Life and Analytical Sciences, Wallac, Fin-20101 Turku, Finland. 
ville.laitala@perkinelmer.com

We report here an extension of homogeneous assays based on fluorescence 
intensity and lifetime measuring on DNA hybridization. A novel decay probe that 
allows simple one-step nucleic acid detection with subnanomolar sensitivity, and 
is suitable for closed-tube applications, is introduced. The decay probe uses 
fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between a europium chelate donor 
and an organic fluorophore acceptor. The substantial change in the acceptor 
emission decay time on hybridization with the target sequence allows the direct 
separation of the hybridized and unhybridized probe populations in a 
time-resolved measurement. No additional sample manipulation or 
self-hybridization of the probes is required. The wavelength and decay time of a 
decay probe can be adjusted according to the selection of probe length and 
acceptor fluorophore, thereby making the probes applicable to multiplexed 
assays. Here we demonstrate the decay probe principle and decay probe-based, 
one-step, dual DNA assay using celiac disease-related target oligonucleotides 
(single-nucleotide polymorphisms [SNPs]) as model analytes. Decay probes showed 
specific response for their complementary DNA target and allowed good signal 
deconvolution based on simultaneous optical and temporal filtering. This 
technique potentially could be used to further increase the number of 
simultaneously detected DNA targets in a simple one-step homogeneous assay.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2006.11.015
PMID: 17188225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2007 Jan 1;67(1):211-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.07.1390.

Using economic analysis to evaluate the potential of multimodality therapy for 
elderly patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer.

Krzyzanowska MK(1), Earle CC, Kuntz KM, Weeks JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA. 
monika.krzyzanowska@uhn.on.ca

PURPOSE: Development of new and expensive drugs with activity against pancreatic 
cancer has made economic considerations more relevant to treatment 
decision-making for advanced disease. Economic modeling can be used to explore 
the potential of such novel therapies and to inform clinical trial design.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We developed a Markov model to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of radiation plus fluorouracil (RT-FU) relative to no 
treatment in elderly patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) and 
to determine the economic potential of radiation plus gemcitabine (RT-GEM), a 
novel regimen for this disease. We used the SEER-Medicare database to estimate 
effectiveness and costs supplemented by data from the literature where 
necessary.
RESULTS: Relative to no treatment, RT-FU was associated with a 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $68,724/QALY in the base case analysis. 
Compared with RT-FU, the ICER for RT-GEM was below $100,000/QALY when the risk 
of dying with the new regimen was <85% than with the standard regimen. However, 
>1,000 subjects would be necessary to demonstrate this level of efficacy in a 
randomized trial. The ICER of RT-GEM was most sensitive to utility values, and, 
at lower efficacy levels, to costs of gemcitabine and treatment-related 
toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: In elderly patients with LAPC, RT-FU is a cost-effective 
alternative to no treatment. The novel regimen of RT-GEM is likely to be 
cost-effective at any clinically meaningful benefit, but quality-of-life issues, 
drug acquisition, and toxicity-related costs may be relevant, especially at 
lower efficacy levels.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2006.07.1390
PMID: 17189071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. J Biol Chem. 2007 Feb 23;282(8):5180-94. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M606831200. Epub
2006  Dec 22.

Organization and function of the YsiA regulon of Bacillus subtilis involved in 
fatty acid degradation.

Matsuoka H(1), Hirooka K, Fujita Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Science and Biotechnology, 
Fukuyama University, Hiroshima 729-0292, Japan.

The organization and function of the Bacillus subtilis YsiA regulon involved in 
fatty acid degradation were investigated. Northern and primer extension analyses 
indicated that this regulon comprises five operons, i.e. lcfA-ysiA-B-etfB-A, 
ykuF-G, yhfL, yusM-L-K-J, and ywjF-acdA-rpoE. YusJ and AcdA, YsiB and YusL, and 
YusK presumably encode acyl-CoA dehydrogenases, 3-hydroxyl-CoA 
dehydrogenase/enoyl-CoA hydratase complexes, and acetyl-CoA C-acyltransferase, 
respectively, which are directly involved in the fatty acid beta-oxidation 
cycle. In addition, LcfA and YhfL are likely to encode long chain acyl-CoA 
ligases. On gel retardation and footprinting analyses involving the purified 
YsiA protein, we identified cis-sequences for YsiA binding (YsiA boxes) in the 
promoter regions upstream of ysiA, ykuF, yusL, yhfL, and ywjF, the equilibrium 
dissociation constants (K(d)) for YsiA binding being 20, 21, 37, 43, and 65 nm, 
respectively. YsiA binding was specifically inhibited by long chain acyl-CoAs 
with 14-20 carbon atoms, acyl-CoAs with 18 carbon atoms being more effective; 
out of long chain acyl-CoAs tested, monounsaturated oleoyl-CoA, and branched 
chain 12-metyltetradecanoyl-CoA were most effective. These in vitro findings 
were supported by the in vivo observation that the knock-out of acyl-CoA 
dehydrogenation through yusJ, etfA, or etfB disruption resulted in YsiA 
inactivation, probably because of the accumulation of long chain acyl-CoAs in 
the cells. Furthermore, the disruption of yusL, yusK, yusJ, etfA, etfB, or ykuG 
affected the utilization of palmitic acid, a representative long chain fatty 
acid. Based on this work, ysiA, ysiB, ykuF, ykuG, yhfL, yusM, yusL, yusK, yusJ, 
and ywjF can be renamed fadR, fadB, fadH, fadG, lcfB, fadM, fadN, fadA, fadE, 
and fadF.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M606831200
PMID: 17189250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Zoolog Sci. 2006 Nov;23(11):977-89. doi: 10.2108/zsj.23.977.

Developmental stages and germ cell lineage of the loach (Misgurnus 
