among heterosexuals, reproductive issues are becoming increasingly important. We 
discuss the management of conception and pregnancy in HIV-infected couples. 
Couples where one or both partners are HIV infected may also experience 
subfertility and in this article we review the methods available to treat 
subfertility in this population and the current guidelines for the use of these 
techniques. HIV-infected couples can enjoy normal, healthy lives and should have 
access to the same investigation and treatment as their HIV-negative 
counterparts. Current inequities in the treatment available must be addressed.

DOI: 10.1258/095646207779949871
PMID: 17326853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nat Clin Pract Oncol. 2007 Mar;4(3):135. doi: 10.1038/ncponc0746.

NICE: friend and foe.

Low E.

DOI: 10.1038/ncponc0746
PMID: 17327853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Assist Inferm Ric. 2006 Oct-Dec;25(4):236-48.

[At a great price: inequalities in health].

[Article in Italian]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 17328485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2007 Mar;127(3):399-406. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.127.399.

Food and health longevity.

Kinae N(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Food and Nutritional Sciences, University of Shizuoka, Shizuoka 
City, Japan. kinae@smail.u-shizuoka-ken.ac.jp

Japan has the longest life expectancy in the world. It was an average 85.59 
years for women and 78.64 years for men and 77.2 years for women and 71.9 years 
for men in average health expectancy in 2004. As the diet becomes more 
westernized, the number of patients with diabetic, cardiovascular, and 
cerebrovascular diseases due to the metabolic syndrome is increasing. In 2002, 
our university was selected as a COE21st century participant by the Ministry of 
Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology. Our program is entitled 
"Center of Excellence for Evolutionary Human Health Sciences". The aim of this 
program is to obtain and provide significant information for maintaining human 
health through research/education on food and medicine. The combined use of 
specialized foods and medicines will enhance the effectiveness and decrease the 
adverse effects of medicines. Safety evaluation methods will be developed for 
the combined use, thus establishing a novel academic field for human health 
sciences. We call this "borderless sciences of food and medicine" (yaku-shoku 
dogen).

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.127.399
PMID: 17329925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Clin Invest Med. 2006 Dec;29(6):383-7.

CSCI Joe Doupe Lecture: End stage renal disease among Aboriginal people.

Hemmelgarn BR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division ofNephrology, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada. brenda.hemmelgarn@calgaryhealthregion.ca

Aboriginal people in Canada have an increased prevalence of ESRD, are more 
likely to initiate renal-replacement therapy on hemodialysis, and are much less 
likely to receive a kidney transplant compared to non-Aboriginals. Once 
established on dialysis quality of care and survival is similar for Aboriginal 
and non-Aboriginal people with ESRD. Understanding issues central to the health 
and outcomes of Aboriginal patients with ESRD, and documenting potential 
inequities in care, is essential to guide strategies to develop a new model for 
delivery of services for management of ESRD among Aboriginal people. Two areas 
in particular require further investigation for Aboriginal people with ESRD, 
namely the need to further investigate potential barriers to kidney 
transplantation, and reasons for lower rates of peritoneal dialysis as a form of 
renal replacement therapy. Research in this area will enable targeted 
interventions to be developed in partnership with the Aboriginal communities, 
with a goal to increase the health outcomes and quality of life for Aboriginal 
people with ESRD.

PMID: 17330455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. South Med J. 2007 Feb;100(2):158-61; quiz 162, 194. doi: 
10.1097/SMJ.0b013e31802efaa4.

Local biological factors that influence amputations in diabetic patients.

Wachtel MS(1), Frezza EE.

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Pathology and General Surgery, Texas Tech University 
Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA.

Comment in
    South Med J. 2007 Feb;100(2):128-9.

Lower extremity amputation is one of the worst complications of diabetes, as it 
usually has a life expectancy that is below that of most cancers. Four local 
biologic factors-ulcer, ischemia, neuropathy, and infection-have been shown to 
be related to amputation. These factors interact with one another, such that 
neuropathy has been shown to cause ulcers and ischemia and to prevent the 
healing of ulcers. In addition, ischemia and neuropathy are independent risk 
factors for infection. More coordinated efforts are needed to create better 
grading schemes and therapeutic protocols.

DOI: 10.1097/SMJ.0b013e31802efaa4
PMID: 17330686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Eur J Cancer. 2007 May;43(7):1200-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.01.021. Epub
2007  Feb 28.

The reversed social gradient: higher breast cancer mortality in the higher 
educated compared to lower educated. A comparison of 11 European populations 
during the 1990s.

Strand BH(1), Kunst A, Huisman M, Menvielle G, Glickman M, Bopp M, Borell C, 
Borgan JK, Costa G, Deboosere P, Regidor E, Valkonen T, Mackenbach JP; EU 
Working Group on Socioeconomic Inequalities in Health.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Nydalen, 
Oslo, Norway. heine@fhi.no

Higher socioeconomic position has been reported to be associated with increased 
risk of breast cancer mortality. Our aim was to see if this is consistently 
observed within 11 European populations in the 1990s. Longitudinal data on 
breast cancer mortality by educational level and marital status were obtained 
for Finland, Norway, Denmark, England and Wales, Belgium, France, Switzerland, 
Austria, Turin, Barcelona and Madrid. The relationship between breast cancer 
mortality and education was summarised by means of the relative index of 
inequality. A positive association was found in all populations, except for 
Finland, France and Barcelona. Overall, women with a higher educational level 
had approximately 15% greater risk of dying from breast cancer than those with 
lower education. This was observed both among never- and ever-married women. The 
greater risk of breast cancer mortality among women with a higher level of 
education was a persistent and generalised phenomenon in Europe in the 1990s.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.01.021
PMID: 17331712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Stroke. 2007 Apr;38(4):1222-4. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000260093.49693.7a. Epub
 2007 Mar 1.

Life expectancy after perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Greebe P(1), Rinkel GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, University 
Medical Centre, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Patients with a perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal 
subarachnoid hemorrhage are not at risk for rebleeding in the initial years 
after the hemorrhage. Nevertheless, uncertainty remains on the long-term 
prognosis after perimesencephalic hemorrhage, and former patients are often 
considered high-risk cases for health insurance or are denied life insurance. We 
performed a very long-term follow-up study of a large consecutive series of such 
patients and compared mortality in this cohort with that in the general 
population.
METHODS: All patients with a perimesencephalic hemorrhage (defined by pattern of 
hemorrhage on computed tomography within 72 hours after onset and absence of 
aneurysm) admitted between 1983 and 2005 to our service were followed-up by 
telephone. For patients who had died, we retrieved age and cause of death. We 
compared the age- and sex-specific mortality of this cohort with that of the 
general population by means of standardized mortality ratios with corresponding 
95% confidence intervals.
RESULTS: The cohort consisted of 160 patients, with a total number of 
patient-years of 1213. No new episodes of subarachnoid hemorrhage had occurred. 
During follow-up 11 patients had died; the expected number of deaths based on 
mortality rates in the general population (adjusted for age and gender) was 
18.1. The standardized mortality ratio was 0.61 (95% confidence interval, 0.34 
to 1.1).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with perimesencephalic hemorrhage have a normal life 
expectancy and are not at risk for rebleeding. No restrictions should be imposed 
on these patients by physicians or health or life insurance companies.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000260093.49693.7a
PMID: 17332451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Int Orthop. 2008 Jun;32(3):339-43. doi: 10.1007/s00264-007-0324-y. Epub 2007
Feb  28.

The mortality, morbidity and cost benefits of elective total knee arthroplasty 
in the nonagenarian population.

Karuppiah SV(1), Banaszkiewicz PA, Ledingham WM.

Author information:
(1)Grampian University Hospitals NHS Trust, Woodend Hospital, Eday Road, 
Aberdeen, AB15 6XS Scotland, UK. saravanavail@yahoo.com

With the increasing life expectancy, a greater number of elderly patients are 
being referred to an orthopaedic department to have elective total knee 
arthroplasty (TKA). Total knee arthroplasty should be considered in the very 
elderly only after carefully balancing the benefits of surgery against the risks 
of surgery. The aim of this study was to analyse the mortality, morbidity and 
cost benefits of elective TKA in a cohort group of the nonagenarian population. 
Between 1990 and 2006, 42 patients >or=90 years of age had TKA surgery. 
Patient's notes were retrospectively analysed. A cost-benefit analysis was 
carried out by comparing the surgical costs against nursing home placement. The 
mean age at surgery was 90.4 years (range: 90-90.6). There was one major and 11 
minor postoperative complications with no immediate or late postoperative 
deaths. The Knee Society Scores improved from 25 points (range: 8-44) to 81 
points (range: 60-95), and the WOMAC Scores improved from 62 points (range: 
54-73) to 41 points (range: 34-46) (p<0.002). The calculated cost-benefit 
savings for 42 patients at 5 years after TKA was estimated to be pound 
2,746,839. Total knee arthroplasty in the nonagenarian population is safe, 
beneficial and cost-effective.

L’augmentation de la durée de vie fait qu’une population de plus en plus âgée 
présente les conditions pour bénéficier d’une prothèse totale du genou. La 
prothèse totale du genou doit être considérée dans cette population en comparant 
les bénéfices de la chirurgie et les risques de celle-ci. Le but de cette étude 
est d’analyser la mortalité, la morbidité, le rapport coût/bénéfice après 
prothèse totale du genou dans une cohorte de patients nonagénaires. Entre 1990 
et 2006, 42 patients d’âge supérieur ou égal à 90 ans ont bénéficié d’une 
chirurgie par arthroplastie totale du genou. L’analyse de ces patients a été 
rétrospective. Le rapport coût/bénéfice a été réalisé en comparant le coût 
chirurgical versus, le coût du nursing à domicile. La moyenne d’âge a été de 
90,4 ans (de 90 à 90,6). Ces patients ont présenté une seule complication 
majeure et 11 complications mineures sans décès post-opératoire. Le score de la 
Knee Society a été amélioré en passant de 25 points (8 à 44) à 81 points (60 à 
95) et le score Womac a été amélioré de 62 points (54 à 73) à 41 points (34 à 
46) (p < 0.002). Le rapport coût/bénéfice de ces 42 patients à 5 ans de 
l’utilisation de la prothèse a été estimé à 2.746.839£. La prothèse totale du 
genou dans une population de nonagénaire est une intervention sûre et qui permet 
un rapport coût/bénéfice positif pour la société.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-007-0324-y
PMCID: PMC2323413
PMID: 17333185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Osteoporos Int. 2007 Aug;18(8):1047-61. doi: 10.1007/s00198-007-0349-5. Epub
 2007 Feb 28.

Cost-effectiveness of alendronate in the treatment of postmenopausal women in 9 
European countries--an economic evaluation based on the fracture intervention 
trial.

Ström O(1), Borgström F, Sen SS, Boonen S, Haentjens P, Johnell O, Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)European Health Economics, Vasagaatn 38 2 tr, SE-111 20, Stockholm, Sweden. 
oskar.s@healtheconomics.se

Treatment with alendronate (Fosamax) has been shown to significantly reduce the 
risk of fragility fractures. Cost-effectiveness of treatment was assessed in 
nine European countries in a Markov model and was generally found to be cost 
effective in women with a previous spine fracture.
INTRODUCTION: Treatment with alendronate (Fosamax) reduces the risk of 
osteoporotic fractures at the spine, hip and wrist in women with and without 
prevalent vertebral fracture. Cost-effectiveness estimates in one country may 
not be applicable elsewhere due to differences in fracture risks, costs and drug 
prices. The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of treating 
postmenopausal women with alendronate in nine European countries, comprising 
Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Norway, Spain, Sweden, and the UK.
METHODS: A Markov model was populated with data for the nine European 
populations. Effect of treatment was taken from the Fracture Intervention Trial, 
which recruited women with low BMD alone or with a prior vertebral fracture.
RESULTS: The cost per QALY gained of treating postmenopausal women with prior 
vertebral fractures ranged in the base case from "cost saving" in the 
Scandinavian countries to <euro>15,000 in Italy. Corresponding estimates for 
women without prior vertebral fractures ranged from "cost saving" to 
<euro>40,000.
CONCLUSIONS: In relation to thresholds generally used, the analysis suggests 
that alendronate is very cost effective in the treatment of women with previous 
vertebral fracture, and in women without previous vertebral fracture, 
cost-effectiveness depends on the country setting, discount rates, and chosen 
monetary thresholds.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-007-0349-5
PMID: 17333449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Local Popul Stud. 2006 Autumn;(77):12-23.

Mortality in eighteenth-century London: a new look at the bills.

Woods R(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Liverpool.

PMID: 17333852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Wurzbg Medizinhist Mitt. 2006;25:241-338.

[Mortality in Nuremberg in the 19th century (about 1800 to 1913)].

[Article in German]

Vasold M.

Before the middle of the 19th century urban life was hazardous, life expectancy 
in big cities was shorter than in the countryside, it was half as high as it is 
today. Cities used to be called "the graves of mankind"; they were unhygienic, 
since their inhabitants lived under crowded, unhealthy conditions. In German 
cities infant mortality was extremely high, one out of three new-born children 
died within its first year. In most big cities more people died in any given 
year than were born. In 1806, when the Imperial City of Nuremberg was absorbed 
by the Kingdom of Bavaria, it had 25 000 inhabitants, fewer than around the year 
1600. In the following decades Nuremberg grew quickly, up to 50000 in 1846 and 
100000 in 1881, 330000 in 1910. Its population was living extremely crowded 
within the medieval city-walls, up to 58 000 (1885) in the old parts of the 
city, more than twice as many as in 1806. Mortality was bound to increase, as 
more and more people moved to Nuremberg. Mortality rose from 25.5 per thousand 
in the 1820's to 29.4 in the 1850's and 32.8 in the 1860's. This increase of 
population was mainly due to migration from outside, from the countryside. New 
industries settled down in Nuremberg and provided new jobs, the new factories 
produced lots of smoke and dangerous dust. The general living conditions of the 
workers were poor, people were much smaller than nowadays. During the 
industrialisation labor was backbreaking, working hours were extremely long, and 
annual working hours were more than twice as long as today. New and better 
legislation was written by the Northern German Confederation, founded in 1867. 
Now the magistrate of Nuremberg recognised that something had to be done. In the 
following years physicians began to collect information as to morbidity and 
mortality in various parts of Nuremberg. Very many people still died of 
infectious diseases, esp. of tubercolosis, typhoid fever, diphtheria, pertussis, 
scarlet fever and other infectious diseases. There were many cases of bronchitis 
and deadly pneumonia. Even suicide was an important cause of death. In 1886 
mortality at Nuremberg peaked for the last time above 30. Nuremberg had fewer 
doctors than other big cities in Germany. The city-fathers noticed that the 
public wells and the drinking water were dirty--they were getting more and more 
contaminated as time went by. It proved extremely difficult to provide this fast 
growing population with "free goods" like clean water and air. In the 1870's 
Nuremberg began to build a new water supply and a modern municipal sewer system. 
Cases of typhoid fever declined quickly thereafter. The magistrate did not 
provide new apartment-houses, but it took care that the new houses were more 
hygienic, with toilets and other necessary facilities. After 1880 new 
vaccinations were developed by modern medicine, these and other methods of 
preventive medicin proved to be more important for prolonging human lifes than 
therapeutic medicine. In the 1880's a steep rise of income can be registered, it 
brought more and better food, more meat, and better living and working 
conditions--and fewer working-hours per year. At the eve of World War I, 
Nuremberg was one of the ten or twelve biggest cities in Germany, an 
industrialized city with a hard-working population, people with little education 
and income. Urban mortality in Nuremberg declined rather slowly. In 1867 35.7 
percent of all deceased persons were infants, less than one year old, in 1913 
that percentage had declined to 30.7. In 1867 only 9.3 per cent of the deceased 
were older than 70, in 1913 the elderly constituted 14.2 per cent. Very many 
people still died in their forties or fifties.

PMID: 17333866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Nurs Times. 2007 Feb 20-26;103(8):23-4.

Inequality and infant mortality.

Hairon N.

The government has a target to achieve a 10% reduction in inequalities in health 
outcomes by 2010 as measured by infant mortality and life expectancy at birth. 
The Department of Health has carried out a review of progress due to concerns 
that while the infant mortality rate in England is at an all-time low, the gap 
between different social groups remains. The review found the gap has widened. 
This article outlines the results of the review and the actions healthcare 
professionals can take to help reduce health inequalities.

PMID: 17333872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Nurs Ethics. 2007 Jan;14(1):72-82. doi: 10.1177/0969733007071360.

QALY: an ethical issue that dare not speak its name.

Hirskyj P(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiff School of Nursing and Midwifery Studies, Cardiff University, Room 
3.1, Ty Dewi Sant, Heath Park, Cardiff CF14 4XN, UK. hirskyj@cf.ac.uk

The current British Government's policy towards resource allocation for health 
care has been informed by the commissioned Wanless Report. This makes a case for 
the use of quality adjusted life years (QALYs) to form a rationale for 
resourcing health care and has implications for the staff and patients who work 
in and use the health service. This article offers a definition of the term 
'QALY' and considers some of the strengths and weaknesses of this approach to 
resource distribution. An account is also given of an alternative formula, the 
DALY (disability adjusted life years), which can address some of the problems 
that are associated with QALYs. The values of the public, patients and nurses 
are identified and linked to the potential effect of a QALY formula. The 
implications of QALY use are applied to the health care of patients and a 
discussion is offered with regard to whether this method of resource allocation 
can be considered as just.

DOI: 10.1177/0969733007071360
PMID: 17334172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Laryngoscope. 2007 Mar;117(3):507-10. doi: 10.1097/MLG.0b013e31802e3739.

Health-related quality of life in thyroid cancer survivors.

Tan LG(1), Nan L, Thumboo J, Sundram F, Tan LK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, National University 
Hospital, Singapore, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore.

OBJECTIVE: The study objective was to study the impact of the diagnosis, 
treatment, and follow-up of differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) on the quality 
of life and related issues in an urban multi-ethnic Asian population.
DESIGN: A self-administered questionnaire containing the Short Form 36 Health 
Survey (SF-36) and assessing sociodemographic, disease, and treatment-related 
status was mailed to patients with DTC.
MAIN OUTCOMES: One hundred fifty-two (52.4%) of 290 patients answered the 
questionnaire. There was a statistically significant decrease in SF-36 scores 
between thyroid cancer survivors and the general population in all domains 
except for social functioning (SF). Physical functioning (PF) was worse in those 
survivors who were aged 50 years or older. Mental health (MH) scores were better 
in those who had more than 12 years of formal education. Being employed had a 
positive influence on role physical (RP) and role emotional (RE) scores. Being 
of Malay/Indian ethnicity strongly correlated with lower scores in bodily pain 
(BP), SF, RE and MH domains.
CONCLUSION: Although most patients with well-differentiated thyroid cancer have 
near normal life expectancy, our study has shown that there is a significant 
decrease in their quality of life, especially in the elderly and poorer 
educated. Returning to work should be encouraged to improve the quality of life 
in DTC survivors.

DOI: 10.1097/MLG.0b013e31802e3739
PMID: 17334313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Exp Appl Acarol. 2007;41(1-2):45-53. doi: 10.1007/s10493-007-9053-6. Epub
2007  Mar 3.

Life tables of the predatory mite Phytoseiulus longipes feeding on Tetranychus 
evansi at four temperatures (Acari: Phytoseiidae, Tetranychidae).

Ferrero M(1), de Moraes GJ, Kreiter S, Tixier MS, Knapp M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Acarologie, Montpellier Supagro, Unité d'Ecologie Animale et de 
Zoologie Agricole, 2 Place Pierre Viala, 34060 Montpellier cedex 01, France. 
maxime.ferrero@gmail.com

The tomato red spider mite, Tetranychus evansi, is reported as a severe pest of 
tomato and other solanaceous crops from Africa, from Atlantic and Mediterranean 
Islands, and more recently from the south of Europe (Portugal, Spain and 
France). A population of the predaceous mite Phytoseiulus longipes has been 
recently found in Brazil in association with T. evansi. The objective of this 
paper was to assess the development and reproduction abilities of this strain on 
T. evansi under laboratory conditions at four temperatures: 15, 20, 25 and 30 
degrees C. The duration of the immature phase ranged from 3.1 to 15.4 days, at 
30 and 15 degrees C, respectively. Global immature lower thermal threshold was 
12.0 degrees C. Immature survival was high at all temperatures tested (minimum 
of 88% at 30 degrees C). The intrinsic rate of increase (r (m)) of P. longipes 
ranged from 0.091 to 0.416 female/female/day, at 15 and 30 degrees C, 
respectively. P. longipes would be able to develop at a wide range of 
temperatures feeding on T. evansi and has the potential to control T. evansi 
populations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-007-9053-6
PMID: 17334816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Drugs. 2007;67(3):435-55. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200767030-00007.

Agalsidase Beta: a review of its use in the management of Fabry disease.

Keating GM(1), Simpson D.

Author information:
(1)Wolters Kluwer Health, Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Agalsidase beta (Fabrazyme) is a recombinant human alpha-galactosidase A enzyme 
approved for intravenous use in the treatment of Fabry disease. Fabry disease is 
a progressive, multisystemic, potentially life threatening disorder caused by a 
deficiency of alpha-galactosidase A. This deficiency results in accumulation of 
glycosphingolipids, particularly globotriaosylceramide (GL-3), in the lysosomes 
of various tissues. This accumulation is the underlying driver of disease 
progression. Agalsidase beta provides an exogenous source of alpha-galactosidase 
A.Intravenous agalsidase beta is effective and well tolerated in patients with 
Fabry disease. In a phase III trial, agalsidase beta was shown to clear GL-3 
from various target cells and, in a subsequent extension of this trial, prevent 
GL-3 reaccumulation. In a post-approval trial, agalsidase beta was shown to 
provide significant clinical benefit by reducing the risk of a major clinical 
event. Thus, agalsidase beta represents an important advance in the treatment of 
Fabry disease, and agalsidase beta therapy should be strongly considered in 
patients with Fabry disease who are suitable candidates.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200767030-00007
PMID: 17335299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(3):209-21. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200725030-00004.

Do drugs reduce utilisation of other healthcare resources?

Crémieux PY(1), Ouellette P, Petit P.

Author information:
(1)Analysis Group, Inc., Boston, MA 02199, USA. pcremieux@analysisgroup.com

BACKGROUND: Drug expenditures per capita have drastically increased over the 
last quarter century in Canada, with a share of overall healthcare costs rising 
from 8.8% in 1980 to 16.8% in 2002. Pressure to curb expenditure on drugs has 
increased accordingly, but containing drug expenditure might increase costs 
elsewhere in the healthcare sector.
OBJECTIVE: To measure substitution patterns between drugs and other healthcare 
resources over the last 25 years and thus assess whether containing drug costs 
might result in higher expenditure elsewhere in the healthcare system.
METHODS AND DATA: A production function approach was used, in which life 
expectancy was modelled as a function of per capita drugs and non-drug 
healthcare resources, among other factors. Estimates are used to calculate a 
marginal rate of substitution, or trade-off, between drugs and non-drug 
healthcare resources, for a given level of life expectancy in the population. 
The model is estimated from a societal perspective, with panel data techniques 
using Canadian provincial-level data on health expenditure and spending on 
physicians per capita for the period 1980-2002, as well as individual survey 
data on lifestyle habits such as cigarette consumption and body mass index.
RESULT: Using life expectancy at birth for males as the production function, 
increasing drug spending by Can 1.00 dollars (constant 2003 values) was 
accompanied by a decrease of Can 1.48 dollars in non-drug, non-physician 
healthcare resources over the study period, without affecting life expectancy at 
birth. Results using life expectancy at birth for females as the production 
function showed a decrease of Can 1.05 dollars in non-drug, non-physician 
healthcare resources over the same period.
CONCLUSION: Using life expectancy as a general health indicator, results suggest 
that increases in drug spending could be more than offset by decreases in other 
healthcare spending without affecting the health of the population. This 
suggests that better access to drugs may be an effective strategy to decrease 
overall healthcare costs. Freeing up healthcare dollars by reallocating spending 
towards drugs could provide opportunities for overall healthcare cost savings 
without negatively impacting the health of the population.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725030-00004
PMID: 17335307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(3):253-66. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200725030-00007.

Modelling cost effectiveness of insulin glargine for the treatment of type 1 and 
2 diabetes in Canada.

Grima DT(1), Thompson MF, Sauriol L.

Author information:
(1)Cornerstone Research Group Inc., Burlington, Ontario, Canada. 
dgrima@cornerstone-research.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Intensive insulin therapy improves glycosylated 
haemoglobin (Hb(A1C)) levels and delays the onset of long-term diabetes-related 
complications. Current treatment guidelines recommend maintaining a glycosylated 
haemoglobin (Hb(A1C)) of < or = 7% in patients with type 1 and 2 diabetes 
mellitus. However, the risk of hypoglycaemia increases with lower Hb(A1C) 
levels. As such, patients often choose to settle for suboptimal glucose control 
in order to prevent hypoglycaemic events. At a given Hb(A1C) level, treatment 
with insulin glargine results in a lower risk of hypoglycaemia in type 1 and 2 
diabetes compared with NPH insulin. It has been proposed that the lower 
hypoglycaemic risk will allow more patients to achieve target Hb(A1C) levels 
with insulin glargine compared with NPH insulin. The objective of this study was 
to assess the cost effectiveness of insulin glargine compared with NPH insulin 
in patients with type 1 or 2 diabetes who had inadequate glycaemic control.
METHODS: A long-term, state-transition model was developed to simulate the 
natural history of type 1 and 2 diabetes. Risks of diabetes-related macro- and 
microvascular complications and mortality by Hb(A1C) levels were estimated based 
on the UKPDS (United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study). Outcome measures 
included complication rates and associated costs, insulin costs, life years 
(LYs) and QALYs. The baseline analysis was conducted for patients with type 1 
and 2 diabetes (aged 27 and 53 years, respectively) with Hb(A1C) levels >7%, 
using a 36-year time horizon and a Canadian public payer perspective. Costs and 
effects were discounted at 5% per annum. Univariate sensitivity analyses were 
performed on key model inputs. All costs were reported in $Can (2005 values).
RESULTS: The NPH insulin group had lower total costs than the insulin glargine 
group for patients with inadequately controlled diabetes (Hb(A1C) >7%; lifetime 
difference 1398 Can dollars and 1992 Can dollars, respectively, in type 1 and 2 
diabetes). However, patients treated with insulin glargine had greater total and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy than those who received NPH insulin 
(incremental LY = 0.08 and QALYs = 0.07 in type 1 diabetes and incremental LY = 
0.25 and QALYs = 0.23 in type 2 diabetes). The weighted incremental cost per LY 
gained and QALY gained were 18,661 Can dollars and 20,799 Can dollars, 
respectively, in type 1 diabetes and 8041 Can dollars and 8618 Can dollars, 
respectively, in type 2 diabetes (discounted results).
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness ratios for insulin glargine use for type 1 
and 2 diabetes provide evidence for its adoption from a Canadian healthcare 
payer perspective.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725030-00007
PMID: 17335310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Epidemiol Infect. 2008 Jan;136(1):44-55. doi: 10.1017/S0950268807008151.
Epub  2007 Mar 5.

Exploring the cost effectiveness of an immunization programme for rotavirus 
gastroenteritis in the United Kingdom.

Lorgelly PK(1), Joshi D, Iturriza Gómara M, Gray J, Mugford M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Public Health and Health Policy, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, 
UK. p.lorgelly@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

Rotavirus is the most common cause of gastroenteritis in children aged <5 years 
old, two new vaccines have recently been developed which can prevent associated 
morbidity and mortality. While apparently safe and efficacious, it is also 
important to establish whether rotavirus immunization is cost effective. A 
decision analytical model which employs data from a review of published evidence 
is used to determine the cost effectiveness of a rotavirus vaccine. The results 
suggest that some of the health sector costs, and all of the societal costs, of 
rotavirus gastroenteritis in children can be avoided by an immunization 
programme. The additional cost to the health sector may be considered worthwhile 
if there is a sufficient improvement in the quality-of-life of children and 
parents affected by gastroenteritis; this study did not find any evidence of 
research which has measured the utility gains from vaccination.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268807008151
PMCID: PMC2870763
PMID: 17335631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Med Clin (Barc). 2007 Feb 24;128(7):263-7. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7753(07)72555-1.

[Terminal heart failure].

[Article in Spanish]

Formiga F(1), Manito N, Pujol R.

Author information:
(1)UFISS Geriatría, Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital Universitari de 
Bellvitge, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, España. fformiga@csub.scs.es

Heart failure (HF) is a cardiovascular disease with a permanent increase in 
prevalence, incidence and mortality. Current optimal therapies for HF are 
effective only for slowing, but not stopping, its progression. HF-related 
mortality is high, even at the time of the disease onset. Approximately 40% of 
HF-attributable deaths will be related to disease progression - however, its 
course is difficult to predict and therefore identifying patients experiencing 
the terminal stage of the disease is not correctly done. Most patients and their 
relatives do not identify HF as a progressive, terminal disease, and this 
perception also stands among health professionals - in consequence, end-stage HF 
patients often undergo active treatment procedures, event near the occurrence of 
death, although its implementation will be occasionally futile. Efforts should 
be undertaken by all health professionals to improve the identification and 
management of HF patients in the terminal stage of their disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7753(07)72555-1
PMID: 17335740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Am J Ophthalmol. 2007 May;143(5):755-762. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.01.015.
Epub  2007 Feb 28.

Therapeutic keratoplasty for advanced suppurative keratitis.

Ti SE(1), Scott JA, Janardhanan P, Tan DT.

Author information:
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore, Republic of Singapore.

PURPOSE: To determine indications, therapeutic success, and corneal 
transplantation techniques for advanced medically uncontrolled infectious 
keratitis.
DESIGN: Retrospective, interventional case series.
METHODS: A review of 92 consecutive patients (1991 to 2002) who underwent 
therapeutic keratoplasty for acute infectious keratitis performed at Singapore 
National Eye Centre. Causative organism(s) were identified and outcomes were 
evaluated in terms of infectious cure (therapeutic success), graft clarity, and 
visual acuity.
RESULTS: Pseudomonas aeruginosa (58.7%) and Fusarium species (32.3%) were the 
predominant organisms for bacterial and fungal keratitis, respectively. 
Keratoplasty types included penetrating keratoplasty (PK; n = 80) and lamellar 
keratoplasty (n = 12). Mean graft diameter was 9.5 mm (range, 5.5 to 14 mm). 
Seventy-four patients (80.4%) achieved therapeutic success after one 
keratoplasty procedure, three patients were cured after a second keratoplasty. 
Life-table survival analysis computed the one-year therapeutic survival for 
bacterial and fungal keratitis as 76.6% and 72.4%, respectively (P = .76). The 
Kaplan-Meier one-year survival rate for PK optical clarity was 72%. Twenty-two 
patients underwent repeat keratoplasty for various reasons (optical, n = 8; 
recurrent primary infection, n = 7; perforation or subsequent new infections, n 
= 7). Of the 15 patients for whom therapy failed, 11 had fungal keratitis. 
Infection recurrence time was four days to one year. Most recurrences (n = 11) 
appeared within six weeks after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Therapeutic keratoplasty may treat severe, refractory infectious 
keratitis effectively. High cure rates are achievable, although infection 
recurrence despite prolonged treatment remains a significant problem in fungal 
keratitis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.01.015
PMID: 17335767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Health Policy. 2007 Oct;83(2-3):257-67. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.01.003.  Epub 2007 Mar 1.

A national hypertension treatment program in Germany and its estimated impact on 
costs, life expectancy, and cost-effectiveness.

Gandjour A(1), Stock S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. afschin.gandjour@uk-koeln.de

Almost 15 million Germans may suffer from untreated hypertension. The purpose of 
this paper is to estimate the cost-effectiveness of a national hypertension 
treatment program compared to no program. A Markov decision model from the 
perspective of the statutory health insurance (SHI) was built. All data were 
taken from secondary sources. The target population consists of hypertensive 
male and female patients at high or low risk for cardiovascular events at 
different age groups (40-49, 50-59, and 60-69 years). The analysis shows fairly 
moderate cost-effectiveness ratios even for low-risk groups (less than 12,000 
euros per life year gained). In women at high risk antihypertensive treatment 
even leads to savings. This suggests that a national hypertension treatment 
program provides good value for money. Given the considerable costs of the 
program itself, any savings from avoiding long-term consequences of hypertension 
are likely to be offset, however.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.01.003
PMID: 17335933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Life Sci. 2007 Apr 10;80(18):1669-77. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2007.01.057. Epub
2007  Feb 12.

A novel cyathane diterpene, cyrneine A, induces neurite outgrowth in a 
Rac1-dependent mechanism in PC12 cells.

Obara Y(1), Hoshino T, Marcotullio MC, Pagiotti R, Nakahata N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular Signaling and 21st COE program CRESCENDO, Graduate 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tohoku University, Aoba, Aramaki, Sendai, 
Miyagi, Japan. obaray@mail.pharm.tohoku.ac.jp

We examined the effects of cyrneine A, a novel diterpene isolated from the 
mushroom Sarcodon cyrneus, on morphology of rat pheochromocytoma cells (PC12). 
In response to cyrneine A, PC12 cells extended their neurites, an effect 
partially blocked by the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase 
inhibitor PD98059, but not by the protein kinase C inhibitor GF109203X, nor the 
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase inhibitor wortmannin. Cyrneine A did not activate 
ERK at any of the time points tested (5-120 min), indicating that only the basal 
activity of ERK is required for cyrneine A-induced neurite outgrowth. As 
transcriptional regulation is required for neurite extension, the activity of 
three major transcription factors was determined. Cyrneine A enhanced activation 
of the transcription factors activator protein-1 (AP-1) and nuclear 
factor-kappaB, but not CREB, and this was accompanied by enhanced c-fos 
expression. Moreover, we determined the role of Rac1, a small GTPase protein of 
the Rho family that regulates actin dynamics, in cyrneine A-induced neurite 
outgrowth. Treatment with cyrneine A led to actin translocation and 
subsequently, to accumulation of F-actin at the tip of neurites. Rac1 activity 
was increased by cyrneine A and expression of a dominant-negative Rac1 mutant 
significantly inhibited the cyrneine A-induced extension of neurites. These 
results suggest that cyrneine A induces neurite outgrowth in a Rac1-dependent 
mechanism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2007.01.057
PMID: 17337280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Asian J Surg. 2007 Jan;30(1):1-5. doi: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60120-2.

Palliative care in the surgical intensive care unit: where least expected, where 
most needed.

Dunn GP(1), Mosenthal AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hamot Medical Center, Erie, Pennsylvania 16505, and 
New Jersey Medical School-University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, 
Newark, USA. gpdunn1@earthlink.net

Despite dramatic improvements in survival from a broad range of afflictions seen 
in the surgical critical care unit, the problem of suffering in its many forms 
and its long-term consequences will remain as long as mortality characterizes 
the human condition. Palliative care in the surgical intensive care unit is an 
extension of time-honoured surgical principles and traditions that aims to 
relieve suffering and improve quality of life associated with serious illness as 
an end in it self or as part of treatment to save and prolong life.

DOI: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60120-2
PMID: 17337364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Asian J Surg. 2007 Jan;30(1):75-9. doi: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60133-0.

Malignant paraganglioma of the retroperitoneum with lung metastases: a 13-year 
survivor after radical surgery.

Matsui H(1), Ikeuchi S, Onoda N, Tsutsumi Y.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Life Extension and Department of Surgery, Eiju General 
Hospital, Tokyo, and Department of Pathology, Fujita Health University School of 
Medicine, Aichi, Japan. maheday@u01.gate01.com

We present a 23-year-old patient with extra-adrenal retroperitoneal 
paraganglioma with lung metastases who was successfully treated by complete 
removal of the tumour. Lung metastases were the first manifestation of the 
disease, and an abdominal computed tomography scan showed a large mass in the 
retroperitoneum with marked contrast enhancement. Angiography demonstrated a 
hypervascular mass with many feeding arteries, but vascular invasion was not 
apparent. The retroperitoneal tumour was resected completely followed by 
resection of lung metastases after 1 month of observation. The patient was 
disease free for 13 years after this radical surgery. The survival rate in 
patients with retroperitoneal paraganglioma with lung metastasis is low, and 
this case represents the longest surviving period reported in the literature. 
These tumours are usually large and located in the para-aortic region, and hence 
resection is sometimes challenging. We believe that a complete and meticulous 
surgical procedure is a prerequisite for long survival from this rare disease.

DOI: 10.1016/S1015-9584(09)60133-0
PMID: 17337377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. BMJ. 2007 Mar 24;334(7594):621. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39112.480023.BE. Epub 2007
Mar  2.

Cost effectiveness analysis of minimally invasive internal thoracic artery 
bypass versus percutaneous revascularisation for isolated lesions of the left 
anterior descending artery.

Rao C(1), Aziz O, Panesar SS, Jones C, Morris S, Darzi A, Athanasiou T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosurgery and Surgical Technology, Imperial College London, St 
Mary's Hospital, London W2 1NY.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2007 Mar 24;334(7594):593-4.
    BMJ. 2007 Jul 21;335(7611):111.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of percutaneous transluminal 
coronary artery stenting with minimally invasive internal thoracic artery bypass 
for isolated lesions of the left anterior descending artery.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Embase, Medline, Cochrane, Google Scholar, and Health Technology 
Assessment databases (1966-2005), and reference sources for utility values and 
economical variables.
METHODS: Decision analytical modelling and Markov simulation were used to model 
medium and long term costs, quality of life, and cost effectiveness after either 
intervention using data from referenced sources. Probabilistic sensitivity and 
alternative analyses were used to investigate the effect of uncertainty about 
the value of model variables and model structure.
RESULTS: Stenting was the dominant strategy in the first two years, being both 
more effective and less costly than bypass surgery. In the third year bypass 
surgery still remained more expensive but became marginally more effective. As 
the incremental cost effectiveness was 1,108,130.40 pounds sterling (1 
682,146.00 euros; $2,179,194) per quality adjusted life year (QALY), the 
additional effectiveness could not be said to justify the additional cost at 
this stage. By five years, however, the incremental cost effectiveness ratio of 
28,042.95 pounds sterling per QALY began to compare favourably with other 
interventions. At 10 years the additional effectiveness of 0.132 QALYs (range 
-0.166 to 0.430) probably justified the additional cost of 829.02 pounds 
sterling (range 205.56 pounds sterling to 1452.48 pounds sterling), with an 
incremental cost effectiveness of 6274.02 pounds sterling per QALY. Sensitivity 
and alternative analysis showed the results were sensitive to the time horizon 
and stent type.
CONCLUSIONS: Minimally invasive left internal thoracic artery bypass may be a 
more cost effective medium and long term alternative to percutaneous 
transluminal coronary artery stenting.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39112.480023.BE
PMCID: PMC1831990
PMID: 17337457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


202. Am J Sports Med. 2007 Jun;35(6):889-96. doi: 10.1177/0363546506298582. Epub
2007  Mar 2.

Effectiveness of bioabsorbable arrows compared with inside-out suturing for 
vertical, reparable meniscal lesions: a randomized clinical trial.

Bryant D(1), Dill J, Litchfield R, Amendola A, Giffin R, Fowler P, Kirkley A.

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Department of Surgery, Orthopaedic Division, 
University of Western Ontario, Elborn College, London, ON, N6G 1H1, Canada. 
Dianne.Bryant@uwo.ca

BACKGROUND: Techniques for repairing the meniscus include both open and 
arthroscopic techniques using sutures and bioabsorbable implants. The purpose of 
this study was to compare the effectiveness of inside-out suturing and 
bioabsorbable arrows for repair of vertical meniscal lesions.
STUDY DESIGN: Randomized controlled clinical trial; Level of evidence, 1.
METHODS: One hundred consecutive patients were randomly assigned to arrows (n = 
51) or sutures (n = 49). Sixty-five percent of patients (31 sutures, 34 arrows) 
underwent a concomitant anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. A blinded 
research associate conducted assessments at 6 weeks and 3, 6, 12, and 24 months 
postoperatively. The primary outcome was retear rate. Secondary outcomes 
included the Western Ontario Meniscal Evaluation Tool, Anterior Cruciate 
Ligament Quality of Life Outcome Measure, and side-to-side comparisons of 
flexion and extension.
RESULTS: At baseline, groups were similar in age, gender, time from injury to 
surgery, and length and location of tear. Mean follow-up was 28.0 +/- 8.4 
months. There were 22 failed meniscal repairs (11 in each group), which did not 
represent a significant difference in the rate of failure between groups (P = 
.92). The mean quality of life scores and side-to-side differences in extension 
and flexion measurements were not significantly different between groups. Two 
patients from the arrow group crossed over into the suture group at the time of 
surgery because of technical difficulties with the device, and in 3 instances, a 
single suture was needed to keep the tear reduced while arrows were introduced. 
Two patients required reoperation for removal of a prominent, subcutaneous 
arrow, and 1 patient in the suture group suffered a transient peroneal nerve 
palsy during revision suturing.
CONCLUSION: At intermediate follow-up, there were no statistically significant 
differences in measured outcomes between meniscal suturing and arrows. Longer 
term follow-up is necessary to identify differences between these 2 treatments, 
particularly to estimate the incidence of articular surface damage in patients 
whose meniscal tear was repaired using arrows.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546506298582
PMID: 17337726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2007 Jan;54(1):25-31.

[Healthy life expectancy and the standardized mortality ratio for the elderly in 
Japan's 47 Prefectures].

[Article in Japanese]

Takeda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Public Health and Welfare, Wakabayashi-Ku, Sendai.

OBJECTIVE: To derive values for life expectancy and healthy life expectancy 
(number of years people are expected to live without certification as being in 
need of long-term care) for Japanese at 65 years of age across 47 Prefectures in 
Japan, based on both national death statistics and long-term care insurance 
data, and to analyze their relationships with the standardized mortality ratio 
(SMR) for the elderly aged 65 years and more.
METHOD: Life expectancy was calculated using Chiang's method and healthy life 
expectancy using Sullivan's method. The number of years of living with long-term 
care needed (duration of care need) was determined by subtracting the healthy 
life expectancy from life expectancy. The SMR was calculated in comparison with 
that for the nation set at 1. The relationships between the indices were 
analyzed based on the Spearman rank-order correlation coefficient.
RESULTS: (1) Among the 47 prefectures, healthy life expectancy at 65 years of 
age in 2004 for males was the longest in Nagano Prefecture (16.72 years) and the 
shortest in Aomori Prefecture (14.32 years). For females, it was the longest in 
Yamanashi Prefecture (19.18 years) and the shortest in Osaka Prefecture (16.47 
years). (2) Healthy life expectancy for males and females positively correlated 
with life expectancy, and negatively correlated with the duration of care need 
and SMR. Life expectancy negatively correlated with SMR for males and females, 
and, for females, it positively correlated with the duration of care need as 
well.
CONCLUSION: (1) Among the 47 prefectures, healthy life expectancy at 65 years of 
age in 2004 was the longest in Nagano Prefecture and the shortest in Aomori 
Prefecture. For females, it was the longest in Yamanashi Prefecture and the 
shortest in Osaka Prefecture. (2) For males and females, lowering the mortality 
rate as well as the prevalence of ill health with long-term care need is 
important for extending healthy life expectancy. For females, long life 
expectancy is associated with a long duration of care needed.

PMID: 17338191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2007 Jan;54(1):43-52.

[Characteristics of urban community-dwelling elderly women with multiple 
symptoms of the geriatric syndrome and related factors].

[Article in Japanese]

Kim H(1), Suzuki T, Yoshida H, Yoshida Y, Sugiura M, Iwasa H, Kwon J, Furuna T.

Author information:
(1)Research Team for Promoting Independence of the Elderly, Tokyo Metropolitan 
Institute of Gerontology.

OBJECTIVE: The present study was performed to comprehensively investigate the 
prevalence of multiple symptoms of the geriatric syndrome, characteristics and 
related factors in urban community-dwelling elderly women.
METHODS: Among 669 women aged 70 years and above living in 5 areas of 
Itabashi-ku, who attended the Otassha Kenshin (comprehensive health check for 
the elderly) in November 2004 and gave consent to participate in this study, 668 
had no missing data and their interview and physical fitness data were analyzed. 
The criteria for the geriatric syndrome were: (1) functional decline: a score of 
10 points or below for the 13 items of the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of 
Gerontology (TMIG) index of competence; (2) falls: "have fallen" once or more in 
the last year; and (3) urinary incontinence: frequency of urine leakage of "1 to 
3 times in a month" in daily life. The interview and physical fitness data were 
compared between healthy persons, persons with one symptom and persons with 
multiple symptoms. Multiple logistic regression models were used to analyse 
related factors.
RESULTS: The prevalence of multiple geriatric syndromes was 15.3%; comprising 
2.2% with "functional decline+falls", 6.0% with "functional decline+urinary 
