BSC at 1 year. The costs of lenalidomide therapy were substantially offset by 
reduced blood transfusion and EPO costs. One-year total treatment costs were 
estimated at $63,385 for lenalidomide and $54,940 for BSC. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for lenalidomide vs BSC was estimated at $16,066 per 
transfusion-free year and $35,050 per QALY gained, values within the acceptable 
cost-effectiveness ranges for a new therapy. Results suggest that oral 
lenalidomide is cost effective in the United States in the treatment of 
transfusion-dependent, low- or intermediate-1-risk MDS associated with a 
deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality. Confirmation of these findings awaits 
results of an ongoing randomized phase III trial (MDS-004 study).

DOI: 10.1177/107327480601304s04
PMID: 17242663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Cancer Control. 2007 Jan;14(1):7-12. doi: 10.1177/107327480701400102.

Aging, frailty, and chemotherapy.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL 33612, USA. balducci@moffitt.org

BACKGROUND: In many cases, elderly individuals have not been offered life-saving 
interventions due to the assumption that these treatments would be too toxic to 
tolerate.
METHODS: This article offers an overview of the biology of aging, reviews the 
assessment of an individual's physiologic age, and explores the medical 
definition of frailty and its implications in cancer treatment.
RESULTS: The definition of frailty is controversial. Rather than chronologic 
age, a more accurate assessment relies on individual estimates of life 
expectancy and functional reserve, including serum levels of interleukin 6 and 
D-dimer, the levels of a number of inflammatory cytokines, and the circulating 
level of C-reacting protein. Decision making for optimal cancer treatment in the 
older-aged patient benefits from a comprehensive geriatric assessment, a 
functional test, and a laboratory evaluation to determine a patient's life 
expectancy and functional reserve.
CONCLUSIONS: Most older patients appear to benefit from cancer treatment to an 
extent comparable to that of younger individuals, and only a minority of these 
patients should be excluded from treatment due to reduced tolerance.

DOI: 10.1177/107327480701400102
PMID: 17242666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Br J Cancer. 2007 Jan 29;96(2):206-12. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603561.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of cetuximab/irinotecan vs active/best supportive 
care for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer patients who have failed 
previous chemotherapy treatment.

Starling N(1), Tilden D, White J, Cunningham D.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, Surrey, UK.

The treatment of colorectal cancer is rapidly becoming a significant financial 
burden to health-care systems within economically developed nations. A current 
challenge for oncologists and health-care payers is to integrate new, often 
high-cost, biologic therapies into clinical practice. Inherent to this process 
is the consideration of cost-effectiveness. The aim of this study was to compare 
the cost-effectiveness of cetuximab plus irinotecan with an appropriate 
comparator from a National Health Service (NHS) perspective. This economic 
evaluation is a trial-based study of cetuximab vs active/best supportive care. 
Effectiveness estimates for the treatment groups were modelled from key clinical 
trials. Cunningham et al (2004) compared cetuximab/irinotecan with cetuximab 
monotherapy; Cunningham et al (1998) compared irinotecan monotherapy in a 
second-line setting with supportive care. Modelling was necessary owing to an 
absence of head-to-head clinical trial data of cetuximab/irinotecan vs current 
standard care. Costs were calculated for the study drugs received, associated 
administration, palliative chemotherapy for patients in the standard care arm 
and other nonchemotherapy resources. The discounted life-expectancy of patients 
treated with cetuximab/irinotecan was 0.91 life-years, and 0.47 discounted 
life-years for patients receiving active/best supportive care. Patients treated 
with cetuximab/irinotecan accumulated mean additional costs of 18 901 pounds per 
patient relative to the comparator arm, with 11 802 pounds attributable to 
cetuximab. The incremental cost per life-year gained with cetuximab/irinotecan 
therapy compared with active/best supportive care was 42 975 pounds . The 
incremental cost per quality adjusted life-year gained was 57 608 pounds . The 
incremental cost per life-year gained for cetuximab/irinotecan is relatively 
high compared with other health-care interventions. However, this result should 
be considered in the context of a number of factors specific to the treated 
patient population.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603561
PMCID: PMC2359988
PMID: 17242694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2006 Nov-Dec;52(6):409-12. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302006000600020.

[Mortality pattern of Jewish community of Belo Horizonte in the 20th century].

[Article in Portuguese]

Balabram D(1), Gobbi H.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Avenida Alfredo 
Balena 190, Belo Horizonte, MG.

OBJECTIVE: Genetic and environmental factors are known for their importance in 
the genesis of the majority of diseases. It is possible to study them through 
the observation of prevalence of diseases, and also the mortality causes, 
relating it to social habits and ethnic and familial origins of the individuals. 
In those studies, communities in which there are social and genetic links stand 
out. The Jewish community of Belo Horizonte fits these criteria. It has been 
consolidated in the 20th decade of the last century. Nowadays the Federação 
Israelita de Minas Gerais (FISEMG) has records of approximately 600 families. 
The purpose of this study is to define the mortality pattern in this community, 
and how it has changed since the community's formation.
METHODS: Data was recovered from the files of the Instituto Histórico Israelita 
Mineiro, the FISEMG and from the cemeteries Israelita and Bonfim.
RESULTS: 601 death registries have been studied, 61,6% belonging to men and 
38,4% to women. The diseases of the circulatory system were the most frequent 
cause of death since the '40s, and infectious diseases, including tuberculosis, 
deserve note in the '30s and '40s.
CONCLUSION: There was a change in death pattern of the Jewish community of Belo 
Horizonte.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302006000600020
PMID: 17242777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Biogerontology. 2007 Jun;8(3):291-302. doi: 10.1007/s10522-006-9073-3. Epub
2007  Jan 23.

Health decline, aging and mortality: how are they related?

Yashin AI(1), Arbeev KG, Kulminski A, Akushevich I, Akushevich L, Ukraintseva 
SV.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, 2117 Campus Drive, 90408, 
Durham, NC 27708, USA. yashin@cds.duke.edu

The deterioration of human health with age is manifested in changes of thousands 
of physiological and biological variables. The contribution of some of such 
changes to the mortality risk may be small and cannot be reliably detected by 
existing statistical methods. A cumulative index of health/well-being disorders, 
which counts changes in observed variables on the way of losing health, may be 
an appropriate way to take the effects of such variables into account. In this 
paper we investigate regularities of the aging-related changes in human 
health/well-being/survival status described by such an index using the new 
version of the quadratic hazard model of human aging and mortality. We found 
that the shape and the location of the mortality risk, considered as a function 
of the introduced health-related index, changes with age reflecting the decline 
in stress resistance and the age-dependence of the "optimal" health/well-being 
status. Comparison of these results with findings from early studies using the 
Cox's-like model of risk function indicates that the results are likely to 
describe regularities of deterioration in human health during the aging process.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-006-9073-3
PMCID: PMC1995090
PMID: 17242962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 2006 Jul;76(4):253-6. doi: 10.1024/0300-9831.76.4.253.

The situation of the epidemiology and management of obesity in Japan.

Sakamoto M(1).

Author information:
(1)Wayo Womens University, School of Home Economics, Department of Health and 
Nutrition, Koonodai, Ichiawa, Chiba, Japan. sakamoto@wayo.ac.jp

Obesity and overweight have become one of the most concerning health problems in 
Japan. Japan has been keeping the longest life expectancy in the last decade 
after the very rapid economic growth. However, the increases in chronic 
degenerative diseases that are partly due to over-nutrition and obesity will be 
a large burden in an aging society. Also in Japan, the increase of obese and 
overweight population is not only due to over eating but also to less exercise 
and daily activities. In this paper, the situation of the obese and overweight 
people and the trends of obesity from 1947 to 2000 in adults and children as 
well as the food intake tendencies during the past 50 years are summarized.

DOI: 10.1024/0300-9831.76.4.253
PMID: 17243090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Res Q Exerc Sport. 2006 Dec;77(4):408-16. doi:
10.1080/02701367.2006.10599376.

Effects of series elasticity on the human knee extension torque-angle 
relationship in vivo.

Kubo K(1), Ohgo K, Takeishi R, Yoshinaga K, Tsunoda N, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, University of Tokyo, Japan. 
kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of series elasticity on 
the torque-angle relationship of the knee extensors in vivo. Forty-two men 
volunteered to take part in the present study. The participants performed 
maximal voluntary isometric contractions at eight knee-joint angles (40, 50, 60, 
70, 80, 90, 100, 110 degrees). The elongation of the tendon and aponeurosis of 
the vastus lateralis muscle was directly measured by ultrasonography, while the 
participants performed ramp isometric knee extensions to the voluntary maximum 
at 800 of knee angle. There was no significant difference in the torque value 
between 50 degrees and 100 degrees, although there was variation in the shape of 
the "torque-angle" relationship. The variability in the torque-angle curve was 
not affected by the activation level of agonist and antagonist muscles and the 
moment arm length. The ratio of torque at 1000 compared to that at 50 degrees 
was significantly (r(2) = 18-23 %) correlated to the maximal elongation and 
strain (to initial length) of the tendon structures. These results suggest that 
increased compliance of tendon structures of the knee extensors may contribute 
to variations in the torque-angle curves of the knee extensors.

DOI: 10.1080/02701367.2006.10599376
PMID: 17243216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Biomacromolecules. 2007 Feb;8(2):560-5. doi: 10.1021/bm060746a. Epub 2007 Jan
 23.

Fabrication of single carbonic anhydrase nanogel against denaturation and 
aggregation at high temperature.

Yan M(1), Liu Z, Lu D, Liu Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, 
China.

A two-step procedure to encapsulate a single bovine carbonic anhydrase (BCA) 
molecule into a spherical nanogel was proposed. BCA was reacted first with 
N-acryloxysuccinimide to introduce surface vinyl groups, followed by in-situ 
aqueous polymerization. Characterization of the nanogel by dynamic light 
scattering, transmission electron microscopy, and atomic force microscopy 
confirmed that each nanogel contained a single BCA molecule. The encapsulated 
BCA maintained 70% of the activity of its free counterpart, but exhibited an 
increase in the molten temperature from 64 to 81 degrees C demonstrated by 
differential scanning calorimetry and an extension of the half-life from less 
than 3 to over 90 min at 75 degrees C. Circular dichroism spectroscopy indicated 
that the encapsulation and the multi-point covalent linkage between BCA and the 
polymer shell strengthened the secondary structure and thus inhibited the 
aggregation at high temperature. The uniform BCA nanogel with enhanced 
structural stability against denaturation and aggregation expands the 
applications of BCA catalysis, particularly those carried out at high 
temperatures.

DOI: 10.1021/bm060746a
PMID: 17243764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Semin Dial. 2007 Jan-Feb;20(1):50-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2007.00241.x.

Is there more to living than not dying? A reflection on survival studies in 
dialysis.

Bargman JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, and the University Health 
Network, Toronto, Canada. joanne.bargman@uhn.on.ca

The publication of the CHOICE study, which compared survival of US hemodialysis 
and peritoneal dialysis patients, has re-opened the debate about the relative 
merits of the two dialysis modalities. The principal focus of the research and 
associated commentary, however, is about which modality is associated with the 
longest life expectancy. What appears to be missing, however, in the quagmire of 
propensity scores, comorbidity and confounding factors is that outcomes other 
than duration of survival must be addressed in discussions of the merits of 
renal replacement therapies. Home dialysis is very different from in-center 
hemodialysis, and each therapy has advantages and disadvantages that will have 
different implications for each patient. Given that overall survival is 
comparable between home peritoneal dialysis and in-center hemodialysis, we need 
to stop focusing so much on survival time and let the informed patient choose 
the modality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2007.00241.x
PMID: 17244122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Semin Dial. 2007 Jan-Feb;20(1):86-90. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2007.00249.x.

Withdrawal from dialysis in end-stage renal disease: medical, social, and 
psychological issues.

Hackett AS(1), Watnick SG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland VA Medical Center, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

Dialysis withdrawal is common, accounting for over 20% of patient deaths. It is 
the third leading cause of death among patients receiving dialysis, after 
cardiovascular disease and infectious complications. Here we present a case of a 
patient with significant comorbid disease who ultimately elected to withdraw 
from dialysis. The medical, social and psychological issues encountered by 
caregivers are reviewed. Additionally we discuss the available data on factors 
affecting the decision to withdraw, current practice guidelines, and efforts to 
educate nephrology fellows on end-of-life issues.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2007.00249.x
PMID: 17244129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Breast Cancer. 2007;14(1):81-7. doi: 10.2325/jbcs.14.81.

Economic evaluation of the prevention and treatment of breast cancer--present 
status and open issues.

Imai H(1), Kuroi K, Ohsumi S, Ono M, Shimozuma K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Institute of Public Health, Japan.

BACKGROUND: More effective methods of preventing and treating breast cancer are 
being sought by clinicians every day, and new drugs and interventions for 
overcoming this cancer are being energetically evaluated. At present, there are 
wide treatment options and many different objectives for breast cancer. These 
circumstances led us to seek information about the relative costs of the 
different medical options for the prevention and treatment of breast cancer and 
to try to ascertain whether one course of action is more efficient than other 
courses. Economic evaluation of healthcare is indispensable for selection of the 
best alternatives among medical interventions which are becoming more diverse 
day after day. The total medical expenditure continues to rise each year and 
some sort of evaluation from an objective and external viewpoint is required to 
provide the information with which to suppress this rise.
METHODS: This paper surveys the three major reports published on this topic to 
date, for the purpose of demonstrating the importance and necessity of 
performing an economic analysis of the treatment and prevention of breast 
cancer. The three reports to be surveyed pertain to: (1) cost-effectiveness 
analysis of adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with lymph node negative breast 
cancer, (2) cost utility analysis of first-line hormonal therapy in advanced 
breast cancer, namely comparison of two aromatase inhibitors to tamoxifen, and 
(3) cost-effectiveness analysis of tamoxifen in the prevention of breast cancer. 
In addition, this paper discusses the advantages, limitations and perspective 
for the future of the economic evaluation of healthcare for breast cancer.
RESULTS: (1) The authors concluded that if the average risk of all women of 
undergoing recurrence after this therapy is assumed to be 4% per year, adjuvant 
chemotherapy is definitely of benefit for node-negative, estrogen 
receptor-negative breast cancer patients. They additionally stated that this 
benefit decreases markedly if the changes in long-term survival are less than 
those in disease-free survival. In this connection, they pointed out that the 
benefit is considerably smaller among postmenopausal 60-year-old women. (2) The 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted progression-free life year (QAPFY) for 
letrozole and anastrozole, relative to tamoxifen, was Can $12,500-19,600, which 
was lower than the criterion level (US $50,000). On the basis of this result, 
the authors concluded that these two drugs are economically acceptable. 
Furthermore, when efficacy and cost effectiveness were analyzed together, it was 
concluded that letrozole is in fact preferable to anastrozole. (3) The model 
analysis of tamoxifen's cost effectiveness among women at increased risk for 
breast cancer yielded the following results. In the base-case analysis, 
involving the calculation of the costs and benefits of 5-year tamoxifen 
administration, the incremental cost effectiveness of tamoxifen was $41,372 per 
life-year gained for women age 35 to 49 years, whereas for women age 50 to 59 
years and 60 to 69 years, these values were $68,349 and $74,981, respectively. 
For women who had undergone hysterectomy and thus had no risk of the onset of 
endometrial cancer, the incremental cost effectiveness of tamoxifen was $46,060 
per life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: Medico-economic evaluation of breast cancer is very significant and 
valuable and is expected to stimulate efficient utilization of healthcare 
resources. It can provide important information to physicians, patients, 
insurers, pharmaceutical and other industries, healthcare policy planners, and 
others.

DOI: 10.2325/jbcs.14.81
PMID: 17245000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Hum Vaccin. 2007 Jan-Feb;3(1):14-22. doi: 10.4161/hv.3.1.3657. Epub 2007 Jan
29.

Cost-effectiveness of adjuvanted influenza vaccination of healthy children 6 to 
60 months of age.

Marchetti M(1), Kühnel UM, Colombo GL, Esposito S, Principi N.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Clinical Epidemiology, IRCCS Policlinico S.Matteo, Pavia, Italy.

This study estimated the health and economic outcomes of universal 
administration of a adjuvanted influenza vaccine to healthy preschool children, 
as compared with current immunization practice. A Markov model simulated a 
cohort of 3 million children and their households undergoing five influenza 
seasons. Assuming a vaccine uptake rate of 30%, at the current acquisition cost 
of Euro 5.50 per vaccine dose influenza vaccination (two doses for unprimed 
children) of 6- to 60-month- (5-year) old children averted more than 1 million 
clinical influenza episodes and saved Euro 63 million, from the perspective of 
the Italian society. From the perspective of the Italian health care service, 
influenza vaccination of 6- to 60- and of 6- to 24-month-old children cost Euro 
10,000 and Euro 13,333 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) saved, 
respectively. Administration of a adjuvanted influenza vaccine to children aged 
6 to 60 months was highly cost-effective for the health care service and cost 
saving for the society.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.3.1.3657
PMID: 17245134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. PLoS One. 2007 Jan 24;2(1):e173. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000173.

Cost-effectiveness of genotypic antiretroviral resistance testing in 
HIV-infected patients with treatment failure.

Sendi P(1), Günthard HF, Simcock M, Ledergerber B, Schüpbach J, Battegay M; 
Swiss HIV Cohort Study.

Collaborators: Battegay M, Bernasconi E, Böni J, Bucher H, Bürgisser P, Cattacin 
S, Cavassini M, Dubs R, Egger M, Elzi L, Erb P, Fischer M, Flepp M, Fontana A, 
Fracioli P, Furrer H, Gorgievski M, Günthard H, Hirsch H, Hirschel B, Hösli I, 
Kahlert Ch, Kaiser L, Karrer U, Keiser O, Kind C, Klimkait T, Ledergerber B, 
Martinetti G, Martinez B, Müller N, Nadal D, Opravil M, Paccaud F, Pantaleo G, 
Perrin L, Rickenbach M, Rudin C, Schmid P, Schultze D, Schüpbach J, Speck R, 
Taffé P, Tarr P, Telenti A, Trkola A, Vernazza P, Weber R, Yerly S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and Hospital Epidemiology, Basel University 
Hospital, Basel, Switzerland. pedram.sendi@unibas.ch

BACKGROUND: Genotypic antiretroviral resistance testing (GRT) in HIV infection 
with drug resistant virus is recommended to optimize antiretroviral therapy, in 
particular in patients with virological failure. We estimated the clinical 
effect, cost and cost-effectiveness of using GRT as compared to expert opinion 
in patients with antiretroviral treatment failure.
METHODS: We developed a mathematical model of HIV disease to describe disease 
progression in HIV-infected patients with treatment failure and compared the 
incremental impact of GRT versus expert opinion to guide antiretroviral therapy. 
The analysis was conducted from the health care (discount rate 4%) and societal 
(discount rate 2%) perspective. Outcome measures included life-expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life-expectancy, health care costs, productivity costs and 
cost-effectiveness in US Dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. 
Clinical and economic data were extracted from the large Swiss HIV Cohort Study 
and clinical trials.
RESULTS: Patients whose treatment was optimized with GRT versus expert opinion 
had an increase in discounted life-expectancy and quality-adjusted 
life-expectancy of three and two weeks, respectively. Health care costs with and 
without GRT were $US 421,000 and $US 419,000, leading to an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $US 35,000 per QALY gained. In the analysis from the 
societal perspective, GRT versus expert opinion led to an increase in discounted 
life-expectancy and quality-adjusted life-expectancy of three and four weeks, 
respectively. Health care costs with and without GRT were $US 551,000 and $US 
549,000, respectively. When productivity changes were included in the analysis, 
GRT was cost-saving.
CONCLUSIONS: GRT for treatment optimization in HIV-infected patients with 
treatment failure is a cost-effective use of scarce health care resources and 
beneficial to the society at large.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000173
PMCID: PMC1769464
PMID: 17245449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


22. Drugs Today (Barc). 2006 Dec;42 Suppl C:5-8.

Worldwide spread of lifestyle diseases and its importance for cardiovascular 
events.

Erdmann E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine III, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Most cardiovascular disease risk factors are modifiable by lifestyle changes. 
Nevertheless, the modern lifestyle is associated with increasing cardiovascular 
risk worldwide, with high prevalence of smoking, physical inactivity and 
obesity. Obesity is linked with diabetes, which has risen alarmingly, presently 
affecting 194 million people worldwide. The number of people with diabetes is 
also expected to double by 2025. Diabetes increases the risk of cardiovascular 
disease, which is the number one cause of death in industrialized countries. The 
complications of diabetes also increase disability, reduce life expectancy and 
create tremendous health costs. There is research available, however, which 
shows that diabetes can be prevented in the obese through lifestyle 
intervention. Such interventions are necessary to overcome what may be the most 
challenging health problem of the 21st century.

(c) 2006 Prous Science. All rights reserved.

PMID: 17245475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2007 Dec;106(2):229-38. doi:
10.1007/s10549-006-9483-6.  Epub 2007 Jan 24.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of anastrozole versus tamoxifen as primary adjuvant 
therapy for postmenopausal women with early breast cancer: a US healthcare 
system perspective. The 5-year completed treatment analysis of the ATAC 
('Arimidex', Tamoxifen Alone or in Combination) trial.

Locker GY(1), Mansel R, Cella D, Dobrez D, Sorensen S, Gandhi SK; ATAC 
Trialists' Group.

Author information:
(1)Evanston Northwestern Healthcare, 2650 Ridge Room 5134, Evanston, IL 60201, 
USA. gylocker@northwestern.edu

BACKGROUND: This study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of anastrozole versus 
generic tamoxifen for primary adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with 
hormone receptor-positive (HR+) early breast cancer (EBC), from a US healthcare 
perspective.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was developed using the 5-year completed 
treatment analysis of the ATAC ('Arimidex', Tamoxifen Alone or in Combination) 
trial (ISRCTN 18233230) to project outcomes for anastrozole and tamoxifen to 25 
years. Resource utilization data were obtained primarily from published 
literature and a physician survey (including expert opinion from ATAC Steering 
Committee members). Drug costs were taken from published wholesale acquisition 
costs (anastrozole $6.56/day, generic tamoxifen $1.33/day). Other unit costs 
($US 2003-4) were from standard sources. Utility estimates of relevant health 
states, used to compute quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), were collected 
using the standard gamble technique in a cross-sectional sample of 44 patients. 
Costs and benefits were discounted 3% annually.
RESULTS: In a cohort of 1000 postmenopausal women with HR+ EBC, the model showed 
anastrozole treatment (versus tamoxifen) would lead to 257 QALYs gained (0.26 
QALYs gained per patient), at an additional cost of $5.21 million over 25 years 
($5,212 per patient). The estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
of anastrozole compared with tamoxifen was $20,246 per QALY gained ($23,541 per 
life-year gained). Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves indicated a >90% 
probability that the cost per QALY gained with anastrozole would be <$50,000. 
Results were robust in a sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSION: Anastrozole is a cost-effective alternative to tamoxifen for the 
primary adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with HR+ EBC.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-006-9483-6
PMID: 17245540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Vector Ecol. 2006 Dec;31(2):275-84. doi: 
10.3376/1081-1710(2006)31[275:gdolta]2.0.co;2.

Geographic differentiation of life table attributes among Anopheles sacharovi 
(Diptera: Culicidae) populations in Turkey.

Yurttas H(1), Alten B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ecology Section, EBAL 
Laboratories, Hacettepe University, 06800 Ankara, Turkey.

Biological data were compared under laboratory conditions for four local 
populations of the malaria vector, Anopheles sacharovi (Favre, 1903) in 
different ecological conditions at altitudes between 353 and 1,126 m in the 
Sanliurfa province of Turkey. No significant differences were found for complete 
development time from egg to adult among the populations and development times 
were not correlated with altitude. Based on cohorts of adults in each 
population, horizontal life tables were constructed. The average longevity was 
in the range of 15.19 +/- 0.69 to 21.86 +/- 1.04 days for adult females, which 
was longer than for adult males. No significant difference was found in life 
expectancy at emergence, e(x) when x = 1, between females and males in general 
(P > 0.05) in all populations. The net reproductive rate, R(o), was the highest 
for the SND population, while the rest of the populations showed very low 
reproductive rates independent of altitudinal effects. Populations that produced 
offspring earlier in life also produced more total female offspring, since the 
generation time, T(c), was negatively correlated with R(o) among the populations 
(r = -0.712, P < 0.05). Important parameters to explain the population growth, 
the intrinsic rate of increase, r(m) and birth rate, b, were found to be higher 
in the SND (0.13 and 0.30, respectively). Time required for the population to 
increase two-fold (doubling time, DT) was also significantly shorter in the SND 
population. Nineteen parameters in all life stages, both pre-adult and adult 
features of An. sacharovi, were used as physiological variables and these 
Operational Taxonomic Units were analyzed using Principal Component Analysis 
(PCA). Analyses confirmed results from the previous molecular studies that BRC 
and SND formed a distinct group from the other pair, PMK and GDK, along the 
first two principal components.

DOI: 10.3376/1081-1710(2006)31[275:gdolta]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17249345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2007 Feb;31(2):285-92. doi: 
10.1111/j.1530-0277.2006.00304.x.

Alcohol and hepatitis C mortality among males and females in the United States: 
a life table analysis.

Chen CM(1), Yoon YH, Yi HY, Lucas DL.

Author information:
(1)CSR, Incorporated, Arlington, Virginia 22201, USA. cchen@csrincorporated.com

OBJECTIVE: Evidence from previous studies suggests that heavy alcohol use (HAU) 
exacerbates the rate of fibrosis progression in the liver and results in 
increased probability for premature death among patients with hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) infection. The current study uses population-based mortality data to 
investigate whether heavy drinking affects the age of death among individuals 
with HCV and, if so, whether this effect differs between men and women.
METHODS: A total of 7,263,163 death records in the United States between 2000 
and 2002 were drawn from the Multiple Cause of Death (MCD) public-use data files 
compiled by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS). International 
Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision (ICD-10) codes were used to identify 
the presence of HCV (B17.1 and B18.2) and HAU (as indicated by alcohol-induced 
medical conditions, F10 and K70) either as the underlying cause or as one of the 
contributing causes of death. The deaths were divided into 4 distinctive 
cause-of-death categories: HCV without HAU, HAU without HCV, HCV plus HAU, and 
all others. The mean ages of death and the cumulative probabilities of death 
derived from multiple-cause life table were compared across these categories.
RESULTS: Hepatitis C virus deaths showed an excessive prevalence of HAU when 
compared with non-HCV deaths. Compared with deaths of HCV without HAU, the mean 
age of death was shortened for deaths of HCV plus HAU (from 55.1 to 50.0 years 
among males, and from 61.0 to 49.1 years among females). The cumulative 
probability of death before age 65 was much higher for the latter than the 
former group (0.91 vs 0.68 among males, and 0.88 vs 0.47 among females). While 
HCV alone showed a disproportionate effect on premature death in males, HAU 
presented a stronger effect in females, resulting in a "catching-up" effect that 
diminished the gender difference in age of HCV death.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides mortality-based evidence to further establish 
heavy alcohol consumption as one of the key risk factors contributing to 
premature deaths from HCV in the United States. More importantly, this study, 
for the first time, presents empirical evidence that alcohol consumption affects 
men and women differently in HCV mortality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2006.00304.x
PMID: 17250621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J R Soc Interface. 2007 Apr 22;4(13):395-403. doi: 10.1098/rsif.2006.0199.

Life extension of self-healing polymers with rapidly growing fatigue cracks.

Jones AS(1), Rule JD, Moore JS, Sottos NR, White SR.

Author information:
(1)Beckman Institute, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801, USA. 
alsjones@iupui.edu

Self-healing polymers, based on microencapsulated dicyclopentadiene and Grubbs' 
catalyst embedded in the polymer matrix, are capable of responding to 
propagating fatigue cracks by autonomic processes that lead to higher endurance 
limits and life extension, or even the complete arrest of the crack growth. The 
amount of fatigue-life extension depends on the relative magnitude of the 
mechanical kinetics of crack propagation and the chemical kinetics of healing. 
As the healing kinetics are accelerated, greater fatigue life extension is 
achieved. The use of wax-protected, recrystallized Grubbs' catalyst leads to a 
fourfold increase in the rate of polymerization of bulk dicyclopentadiene and 
extends the fatigue life of a polymer specimen over 30 times longer than a 
comparable non-healing specimen. The fatigue life of polymers under extremely 
fast fatigue crack growth can be extended through the incorporation of periodic 
rest periods, effectively training the self-healing polymeric material to 
achieve higher endurance limits.

DOI: 10.1098/rsif.2006.0199
PMCID: PMC2359847
PMID: 17251129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Feb;36(1):3-10. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl296. Epub 2007 Jan
24.

Sex, race and social role--history and the social determinants of health.

Kunitz SJ.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl296
PMID: 17251243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr;36(2):458-67. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl294. Epub 2007
Jan  24.

Alcohol accounts for a high proportion of premature mortality in central and 
eastern Europe.

Rehm J(1), Sulkowska U, Mańczuk M, Boffetta P, Powles J, Popova S, Zatoński W.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Center and Institute of Oncology, Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention 
Division, Warsaw, Poland. jtrehm@aol.com

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr;36(2):468-9.

BACKGROUND: There is a west-east mortality gradient in Europe, more pronounced 
in men. The objective of this article was to quantify the contribution of 
alcohol use to the gap in premature adult mortality between three old (France, 
Sweden and United Kingdom) and four new (Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania and 
Poland) European Union (EU) member states for the year 2002. Russia was added as 
an external comparator.
METHODS: Exposure data were taken from surveys and per capita consumption 
records from the World Health Organization (WHO) Global Alcohol Database. 
Mortality data were taken from the WHO databank. The risk relationships were 
taken from published meta-analyses and from the WHO Comparative Risk Assessment 
project. Alcohol exposure and relative risk information was combined to derive 
alcohol-attributable fractions for relevant causes of premature mortality.
RESULTS: Alcohol consumption was responsible for 14.6% of all premature adult 
mortality in the eight countries, 17.3% in men and 8.0% in women. This 
proportion was clearly higher in the new EU member states and Russia compared 
with the comparison countries from the old EU. For men, Russia with 29.0 
alcohol-attributable premature deaths per 10,000 population had a more than 
10-fold higher rate compared with Sweden (2.7 deaths/10,000). For women, the 
ratio between Hungary (5.0 alcohol-attributable deaths/10,000) and Russia (4.7 
deaths/10,000) compared with Sweden (0.5 deaths/10,000) was almost as high, but 
the rates were much lower. The Czech Republic and Poland showed proportionally 
less alcohol-attributable premature mortality than the other new EU member 
states or Russia for both genders, which, however, was still higher than in any 
of the old EU member states.
CONCLUSIONS: Alcohol is a strong contributor to the health gap between western 
and central and eastern Europe, with both average volume of consumption and 
patterns of drinking contributing to burden of disease and injury. Alcohol also 
contributes substantially to male-female differences in mortality and life 
expectancy. However, there are feasible and cost-effective measures to reduce 
alcohol-related burden that should be implemented in central and eastern Europe.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl294
PMID: 17251244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2007 Feb;86(2):93-103. doi:
10.1097/PHM.0b013e31802ede64.

Functional vs. strength training in disabled elderly outpatients.

Krebs DE(1), Scarborough DM, McGibbon CA.

Author information:
(1)MGH Institute of Health Professions, Boston, Massachusetts 02129-4557, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether high-intensity functional training (FT) or 
strength training (ST) better enables impairment, disability, and functional 
gains among disabled community-dwelling elders.
DESIGN: Randomized, blinded, prospective clinical trial in a large, tertiary 
care outpatient rehabilitation department. Fifteen elders (62-85 yrs old) 
referred for physical therapy with one or more impairments, including lower-limb 
arthritis, participated in 6 wks of FT (weekly outpatient and three to five 
times per week of home practice in rapid and correct execution of locomotor 
activities of daily living, including gait, stepping, and sit to stand) or 
progressive resistive ST using elastic bands with intensity, therapist contact, 
and home practice similar to those of FT.
RESULTS: Both groups significantly improved their combined lower-extremity 
strength (hip abduction, ankle dorsiflexion, knee flexion, ankle plantarflexion, 
and knee extension) (P = 0.003), but no statistical difference between the ST 
and FT group gains (P = 0.203) was found. Subjects in both interventions 
improved their gait speed, but the FT group improved more than the ST group (P = 
0.001). During chair rise, the FT group improved their maximum knee torque more 
than the ST group (P = 0.033), indicating that they employed a more controlled 
and efficient movement strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that an intensive FT intervention results in 
strength improvements of comparable magnitude as those attained from ST and that 
FT also confers greater improvements in dynamic balance control and coordination 
while performing daily life tasks.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0b013e31802ede64
PMID: 17251692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Pneumologie. 2007 Jan;61(1):11-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-954989.

[Smoking and pulmonary diseases, positive effects of smoking cessation].

[Article in German]

Raupach T(1), Nowak D, Hering T, Batra A, Andreas S.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Kardiologie und Pneumologie, Georg August Universität Göttingen.

Comment in
    Pneumologie. 2007 Apr;61(4):270; author reply 270-1.

More than 30 % of the German population are regular smokers, over half of whom 
will eventually die of smoking-related diseases. Life expectancy is abridged by 
10 years in smokers compared to non-smokers. Smoking tobacco is the main risk 
factor for lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and 
predisposes to a number of other lung diseases. A smoking cessation programme 
including pharmacological as well as psychosocial support is highly effective in 
COPD Patients. Smoking cessation improves lung function, symptoms and mortality. 
In conclusion, smoking cessation services are among the most effective medical 
interventions. Thus, a sufficient supply of smoking cessation services on a 
population level must be ensured.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-954989
PMID: 17253206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007 Jan 24;(1):CD001447. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD001447.pub2.

Riluzole for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)/motor neuron disease (MND).

Miller RG(1), Mitchell JD, Lyon M, Moore DH.

Author information:
(1)California Pacific Medical Center, Department of Neurosciences, 2324 
Sacramento Street, Suite 150, San Francisco, California 94115, USA. 
millerrx@sutterhealth.org

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;3:CD001447.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2002;(2):CD001447.

BACKGROUND: Riluzole has been approved for treatment of patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in most countries. Questions persist about its 
clinical utility because of high cost and modest efficacy.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the efficacy of riluzole in prolonging survival, and in 
delaying the use of surrogates (tracheostomy and mechanical ventilation) to 
sustain survival.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Register 
for randomized trials in December 2004 and made enquiries of authors of trials, 
Aventis (manufacturer of riluzole) and other experts in the field. We searched 
MEDLINE (January 1966 to August 25 2006) and EMBASE (January 1980 to September 
30th 2006).
SELECTION CRITERIA: Types of studies: randomized trials.
TYPES OF PARTICIPANTS: adults with a diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
Types of interventions: treatment with riluzole or placebo. Types of outcome 
measures: Primary: pooled hazard ratio of tracheostomy-free survival over all 
time points with riluzole 100 mg. Secondary: per cent mortality with riluzole 
50, 100 and 200 mg; neurologic function, muscle strength and adverse events.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We identified four eligible randomized trials.
MAIN RESULTS: The four trials examining tracheostomy-free survival included a 
total of 974 riluzole treated patients and 503 placebo treated patients. The 
methodological quality was acceptable and three trials were easily comparable, 
although one trial included older patients in more advanced stages of 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and one had multiple primary endpoints. Riluzole 
100 mg per day provided a benefit for the homogeneous group of patients in the 
first two trials (P value = 0.042, hazard ratio 0.80, 95% confidence interval 
0.64 to 0.99) and there was no evidence of heterogeneity (P value = 0.33). When 
the third trial (which included older and more seriously affected patients) was 
added, there was evidence of heterogeneity (P value < 0.0001) and the random 
effects model, which takes this into account, resulted in the overall treatment 
effect estimate falling just short of significance (P value = 0.056, hazard 
ratio 0.84, 95% confidence interval 0.70 to 1.01). This represented a 9% gain in 
the probability of surviving one year (57% in the placebo and 66% in the 
riluzole group). There was a small beneficial effect on both bulbar and limb 
function, but not on muscle strength. A threefold increase in serum alanine 
transferase was more frequent in riluzole treated patients than controls 
(weighted mean difference 2.62, 95% confidence interval 1.59 to 4.31).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Riluzole 100 mg daily is reasonably safe and probably 
prolongs median survival by about two to three months in patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001447.pub2
PMID: 17253460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007 Jan 24;(1):CD005375. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD005375.pub2.

Surgery for scoliosis in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Cheuk DK(1), Wong V, Wraige E, Baxter P, Cole A, N'Diaye T, Mayowe V.

Author information:
(1)University of Hong Kong, Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, 
Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong, China. cheukkl@hkusua.hku.hk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;2:CD005375.

BACKGROUND: Scoliosis in people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy is usually 
progressive and treated with surgery. However, it is unclear whether the 
existing evidence is sufficiently scientifically rigorous to support a 
recommendation for spinal surgery for most people with Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy and scoliosis.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this systematic review were to determine the 
effectiveness and safety of spinal surgery in Duchenne muscular dystrophy 
patients with scoliosis. We intended to test whether spinal surgery is effective 
in increasing life expectancy, improving respiratory function, improving quality 
of life and overall functioning; and whether spinal surgery is associated with 
severe adverse effects.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the specialized registers of the Cochrane 
Neuromuscular Disease Group and Cochrane Back Group, the Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials (January 2006), MEDLINE (January 1966 to January 
2006), EMBASE (January 1980 to January 2006), Dissertation Abstracts 
International (1861 to Jan 2006), CINAHL (January 1982 to January 2006), and the 
National Institute of Health Clinical Trials Database (January 2006). No 
language restrictions were imposed.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Controlled clinical trials using random or quasi-random 
allocation of treatment evaluating all forms of spinal surgery for scoliosis in 
patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy were to be included in the review. The 
control interventions would have been no treatment, non-operative treatment, or 
a different form of spinal surgery.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors examined the search results and 
evaluated the study characteristics against inclusion criteria to decide which 
ones would be included in the review.
MAIN RESULTS: A total of 402 studies were identified from electronic searching. 
Thirty-six studies were relevant but none met the inclusion criteria for the 
review, because they were not clinical trials but prospective or retrospective 
reviews of case series.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Since there were no randomized controlled clinical trials 
available to evaluate the effectiveness of scoliosis surgery in people with 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, no evidence-based recommendation can be made for 
clinical practice. Patients should be informed about the uncertainty of benefits 
and potential risks of surgery for scoliosis. Randomized controlled trials are 
needed to investigate the effectiveness of scoliosis surgery, in terms of 
patients' quality of life, functional status, respiratory function and life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005375.pub2
PMID: 17253553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2007 Feb;49(2):86-92. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2007.00086.x.

Survival in cerebral palsy in the last 20 years: signs of improvement?

Strauss D(1), Shavelle R, Reynolds R, Rosenbloom L, Day S.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA. 
strauss@lifeexpectancy.com

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2007 Feb;49(2):83.
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2008 Jul;50(7):487-93.

This study investigated the possibility of improved survival in cerebral palsy 
(CP) over a 20-year period. Participants were 47 259 persons with CP receiving 
services from the State of California between 1983 and 2002. The person-year 
approach was used. This asks whether the probability of dying in a given 
calendar year changes over the study period after age and severity of disability 
are taken into account. An appreciable improvement over time was found in 
children with severe disabilities and in adults who required gastrostomy 
feeding. In these groups, mortality rates fell by 3.4% per year. Therefore, life 
expectancies reported in earlier studies should be increased by approximately 5 
years if adjustments to 2002 mortality rates are made. For other persons with CP 
there was, at most, a small improvement over the 20-year period. The results 
suggest there have been improvements in the treatment and care of the most 
medically fragile children. Gastrostomy feeding has become much more widespread 
over the past two decades, and the improved survival of persons with 
gastrostomies may reflect better understanding of their requirements.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2007.00086.x
PMID: 17253993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr;36(2):358-65. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyl307. Epub 2007
Jan  25.

Educational differences in the dynamics of disability incidence, recovery and 
mortality: Findings from the MRC Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC CFAS).

Jagger C(1), Matthews R, Melzer D, Matthews F, Brayne C; MRC CFAS.

Author information:
(1)Leicester Nuffield Research Unit, Department of Health Sciences, University 
of Leicester, Leicester, UK. cxj@le.ac.uk

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr;36(2):365-7.

BACKGROUND: This study aims to establish the extent of educational differences 
in the disability transitions of incidence, recovery and mortality in people 
aged 65 years and over, whether these can be explained by differentials in 
disease burden and their relative contribution to educational differences in 
prevalence and disability-free life expectancy (DFLE).
METHODS: A stratified random sample of 13 004 participants in five areas in 
England and Wales were interviewed in 1991-94 and followed up at 2, 6 (one 
centre only) and 10 years. Two levels of disability were analysed: mobility 
difficulty and activities of daily living (ADL) disability. We fitted logistic 
regression models to model educational differences in disability prevalence, 
incidence, recovery and mortality transitions. DFLE was calculated to assess the 
combined effect of the dynamic transitions.
RESULTS: Those with < or =9 years education had higher ADL and mobility 
disability prevalence and higher incidence and lower recovery of mobility 
disability. Differences in disability incidence remained after adjustment for 
comorbidity. Women with the lowest education had shorter life expectancies (1.7 
years less at the age of 65 years) than the most educated and had even shorter 
DFLE (1.9 years free of ADL disability and 2.8 years free of mobility difficulty 
at the age of 65 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Differentials in education continue to contribute to prevalence of 
disability at ages beyond 65 years in both men and women and independently of 
diseases. These appear to be driven predominantly by differentials in disability 
incidence that also compound to produce greater differentials in DFLE between 
education groups than in total years lived.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyl307
PMID: 17255347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2007 Jan 10;96(1-2):3-10; quiz 11-2. doi: 
10.1024/1661-8157.96.1.3.

[Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) -- variable immunodeficiency syndrome].

[Article in German]

Suter-Meyer E(1), Nigg C, Naumann UK, Käser L, Vetter W.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik, Universitätsspital Zürich.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157.96.1.3
PMID: 17256555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Jan;23(1):57-64. doi: 10.1185/030079907X159542.

Cost-effectiveness of continuous combined hormone replacement therapy in 
long-term use: economic evaluation based on a 9-year study in Finland.

Ylikangas S(1), Bäckström T, Heikkinen J.

Author information:
(1)Orion Pharma, Sollentuna, Sweden. stiina.ylikangas@orionpharma.com

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of continuous combined hormone 
replacement therapy (ccHRT) (Indivina) in postmenopausal women in Finland 
treated for up to nine consecutive years in the course of a randomised 
controlled trial.
