received adequate education and intervention efforts to encourage use of nasal 
CPAP (nCPAP).
INTERVENTION: Patients receiving nCPAP therapy were administered modafinil 200 
mg/day during week 1, 300 mg/day during week 2, and then 200, 300 or 400 mg/day, 
based on the investigator's assessment of efficacy and tolerability, for the 
remainder of the study.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Assessments included the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), 
Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire (FOSQ) and Short Form-36 Health 
Survey (SF-36).
RESULTS: One hundred and seventy five patients (66%) completed the study. 
Modafinil maintained a significant effect on wakefulness, as shown by 
improvement in the ESS total score at months 3, 6, 9 and 12 compared with 
baseline (all p < 0.0001). Modafinil also improved functional status (FOSQ total 
score) and general health (SF-36 mental and physical component scores) at months 
6 and 12 compared with baseline (all p < 0.05). Modafinil was well tolerated. 
The most common adverse events reported were infection (11.3%), headache (9.4%) 
and nervousness (9.0%). Serious adverse events were reported in 13 patients, 
with two of these events (mild bradycardia and severe syncope, both in the same 
patient) considered to be possibly related to modafinil. There were few 
clinically meaningful changes in clinical laboratory data, vital signs, physical 
examination findings or ECG results. Important changes included significant 
increase in blood pressure in six patients, five of whom had a history of 
hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjunctive modafinil maintained effects on wakefulness and 
functional outcomes, and improved quality of life in patients with OSA/HS 
experiencing residual ES over a 12-month period. Modafinil was well tolerated 
during long-term therapy.

DOI: 10.2165/00023210-200721050-00004
PMID: 17447828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. J Appl Microbiol. 2007 May;102(5):1178-86. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2672.2007.03400.x.

Intestinal bacteria and ageing.

Woodmansey EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Smith and Nephew Research Centre, York, UK. emma.woodmansey@smith-nephew.com

Advancements in science and medicine, as well as improved living standards, have 
led to a steady increase in life expectancy, and subsequently a rise in the 
elderly population. The intestinal microbiota is important for maintenance of 
host health, providing energy, nutrients and protection against invading 
organisms. Although the colonic microbiota is relatively stable throughout adult 
life, age-related changes in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, as well as changes 
in diet and host immune system reactivity, inevitably affect population 
composition. Recent studies indicate shifts in the composition of the intestinal 
microbiota, which may lead to detrimental effects for the elderly host. 
Increased numbers of facultative anaerobes, in conjunction with a decrease in 
beneficial organisms such as the anaerobic lactobacilli and bifidobacteria, 
amongst other anaerobes, have been reported. These changes, along with a general 
reduction in species diversity in most bacterial groups, and changes to diet and 
digestive physiology such as intestinal transit time, may result in increased 
putrefaction in the colon and a greater susceptibility to disease. Therapeutic 
strategies to counteract these changes have been suggested in ageing people. 
These include dietary supplements containing prebiotics, probiotics and a 
combination of both of these, synbiotics. Limited feeding trials show promising 
results with these supplements, although further longer-term investigations are 
required to substantiate their use in elderly healthcare fields.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2007.03400.x
PMID: 17448153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2007 Apr 24;49(16):1673-5. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2007.01.062.  Epub 2007 Apr 6.

Attacking obesity: lessons from smoking.

Garson A Jr(1), Engelhard CL.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 
22908-0793, USA. garson@virginia.edu

For the first time since the Civil War, American life expectancy is projected to 
decrease, owing to the diseases associated with obesity such as diabetes, 
ultimately causing cardiovascular death. In the past 30 years, the prevalence of 
obesity among U.S. adults has doubled, as has the incidence of type 2 diabetes. 
Enough data. The Surgeon General should attack obesity the same way as smoking 
in 1964, with: 1) Advisory Council creation of public statements; 2) warning 
labels and menu information in all restaurants; 3) legislation for tax 
incentives for industry to promote worksite health; and 4) consideration of 
taxation of fatty food; the cigarette tax is now 42%. It is abundantly clear 
that in short order, obesity will kill more people than smoking. The time has 
come for the country to get serious about obesity and take lessons from our 
nation's campaign to reduce smoking. As patient advocates, scientists, and 
medical professionals, cardiologists should appropriately take the lead.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2007.01.062
PMID: 17448367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Soc Sci Med. 2007 Jun;64(12):2499-503. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.03.013.
 Epub 2007 Apr 20.

Do NHS clinicians and members of the public share the same views about reducing 
inequalities in health?

Tsuchiya A(1), Dolan P.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, and Department of Economics, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. A.Tsuchiya@shef.ac.uk

Decisions about how to allocate resources in health care are as much about 
social value judgements as they are about getting the medical facts right. In 
this context, it is important to compare the social preferences of members of 
the general public with those of National Health Service (NHS) staff involved in 
service delivery. A questionnaire eliciting peoples' preferences over maximising 
life expectancy and reducing inequalities in life expectancy between the highest 
and lowest social classes was completed by 271 members of the UK public and 220 
NHS clinicians. The two samples have different preferences with the general 
public showing a greater willingness than clinicians to sacrifice total health 
for a more equal distribution of health. These differences may highlight 
tensions between what the public wants and what clinicians want, and should be 
subject to further investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.03.013
PMID: 17449155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Semin Oncol. 2007 Apr;34(2 Suppl 1):S12-20. doi: 
10.1053/j.seminoncol.2007.01.007.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC): an update.

Rougier P(1), Mitry E, Barbare JC, Taieb J.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hépato-gastroentérologie, Hopital Ambroise Paré, 92100 Boulogne, 
France. philippe.rougier@apr.ap-hop-paris.fr

In the absence of large randomized trials, the current treatment strategy for 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a matter of choice depending mostly on 
retrospective studies, experience of centers, and the technical therapeutic 
possibilities. In fact, treatment decisions must be based on HCC extension and 
liver function, which is dependent on underlying liver disease. Cirrhosis limits 
therapeutic choices, life expectancy, and tolerance to therapy. Surgical 
resection and/or local destruction are the most common curative treatments. 
Orthotopic liver transplantation is probably the best treatment for small HCC 
developed in cirrhosis because it treats tumor, cirrhosis, and preneoplastic 
lesions at the same time. However, this treatment method is feasible in fewer 
than 5% of cases. Adjuvant treatments include transarterial chemoembolization, 
chemotherapy, polyprenoic acid, interferon, adoptive immunotherapy, and 
intra-arterial radioactive lipiodol. Results from trials warrant confirmation in 
larger randomized trials to show a clear survival benefit on recurrence rate, 
secondary prevention, and overall survival. Chemoembolization is the only 
palliative treatment that has been proven to be active, unlike systemic 
chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and hormone therapy, whose activity is largely 
questionable and must all be restricted to clinical trials. Possible future 
therapeutic strategies include epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors, 
antivascular endothelial growth factor therapies, cyclin D inhibitors, and 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2007.01.007
PMID: 17449346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. QJM. 2007 May;100(5):277-89. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcm020. Epub 2007 Apr 21.

Economic analysis of treatments reducing coronary heart disease mortality in 
England and Wales, 2000-2010.

Fidan D(1), Unal B, Critchley J, Capewell S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Liverpool, Whelan Building, 
Quadrangle, Liverpool L69 3GB, UK.

BACKGROUND: Coronary heart disease (CHD) in the UK affects approximately 3 
million people, with >100,000 deaths annually. Mortality rates have halved since 
the 1980s, but annual NHS treatment costs for CHD exceed 2 billion pounds.
AIM: To examine the cost-effectiveness of specific CHD treatments in England and 
Wales.
METHODS: The IMPACT CHD model was used to calculate the number of life-years 
gained (LYG) from specific cardiological interventions from 2000 to 2010. 
Cost-effectiveness ratios (costs per LYG) were generated for each specific 
intervention, stratified by age and sex. The robustness of the results was 
tested using sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In 2000, medical and surgical treatments together prevented or 
postponed approximately 25,888 deaths in CHD patients aged 25-84 years, thus 
generating approximately 194,929 extra life-years between 2000 and 2010 (range 
143,131-260,167). Aspirin and beta-blockers for secondary prevention following 
myocardial infarction or revascularisation, for angina and heart failure were 
highly cost-effective (< 1000 pounds per LYG). Other secondary prevention 
therapies, including cardiac rehabilitation, ACE inhibitors and statins, were 
reasonably cost-effective (1957 pounds, 3398 pounds and 4246 pounds per LYG, 
respectively), as were CABG surgery (3239 pounds-4601 pounds per LYG) and 
angioplasty (3845 pounds-5889 pounds per LYG). Primary angioplasty for 
myocardial infarction was intermediate (6054 pounds-12,057 pounds per LYG, 
according to age), and statins in primary prevention were much less 
cost-effective (27,828 pounds per LYG, reaching 69,373 pounds per LYG in men 
aged 35-44). Results were relatively consistent across a wide range of 
sensitivity analyses.
DISCUSSION: The cost-effectiveness ratios for standard CHD treatments varied by 
over 100-fold. Large amounts of NHS funding are being spent on relatively less 
cost-effective interventions, such as statins for primary prevention, 
angioplasty and CABG surgery. This merits debate.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcm020
PMID: 17449875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Environ Sci. 2007;14(1):9-14.

A simplified estimation of loss of life expectancy (LLE) using rectangular 
approximation method.

Watanabe N(1), Mizutani S, Takatsuki H.

Author information:
(1)Environment Preservation Center, Kyoto University, Yoshida-Hon-Machi, Kyoto, 
Japan. watanabe@env.oit.ac.jp

In order to evaluate the effects of short exposure period using a simple 
methodology, a plain rectangular approximation method to estimate loss of life 
expectancy (LLE) was devised and applied to evaluate cancer risk. The posed risk 
was expressed as the time of LLE, which is proportional to the period and 
concentration of exposure. This method assumes a rectangular survival curve and 
a flat cancer risk for all ages. In the survival curve, the survival rate of the 
population studied declined due to the risk such that the new survival curve 
became a trapezoid. The area difference between the initial rectangle and the 
trapezoid was converted to an LLE value. Lifetime exposure to the acceptable 
level concentration (ALC), which is equivalent to a 10(-5) lifetime cancer risk, 
gave the base LLE, which was calculated to be 210 min. Exposure to the ALC 
between the ages of 20 and 25 years resulted in an LLE of 18.9 min, which is 
9.0% of the base risk. One minute of exposure to carcinogens at 1000 x ALC is 
equivalent to an LLE of 0.0075 min. Considering that the ALC of benzene is 2 
microg/m(3), 1 min of exposure to 267 mg/m(3) benzene is equal to 1 min of LLE, 
which is as toxic as "smoking tobacco."

PMID: 17450116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2006 Oct;190(7):1385-97; discussion 1397-8, 1475-7.

[Chondrocyte glycosyltransferases: new pharmacological targets for degenerative 
diseases of articular cartilage?].

[Article in French]

Magdalou J(1), Ouzzine M, Netter P, Fournel-Gigleux S.

Author information:
(1)Physiopathologie et Pharmacologie Articulaires, UMR 7561 CNRS--Université 
Henri Poincaré--Nancy-1, Faculté de Médecine, BP 184, F-54505 
Vandeouvre-lès-Nancy.

Arthritis, osteoarthritis and other degenerative diseases characterized by 
cartilage deterioration are the most prevalent chronic human health disorders. 
Despite their major socioeconomic impact there is still no satisfactory 
treatment. Their frequency is increasing with the lengthening of life 
expectancy, creating a major public health challenge for coming years. It is 
important to diagnose such diseases at an early stage and to develop new 
effective therapies. We are attempting to develop new therapeutic approaches in 
this context, keeping in mind that cartilage is one of the few human tissues 
which is unable to regenerate. We intend to identify and characterize key 
proteins involved in the biosynthesis of cartilage matrix components. One 
innovative strategy consists of gene transfer, triggering overexpression of 
native or recombinant factors that can stimulate chondrocyte anabolic activity 
in order to promote cartilage repair The loss of matrix components, and 
especially glycosaminoglycans (GAG), is the earliest event in cartilage 
degeneration. We therefore looked at glycosyltransferases, and especially 
galactose beta1,3-glucuronosyltransferase-I (GlcAT-1), which catalyses one of 
the first steps in GAG biosynthesis. We found that any variation in GlcAT-I 
activity in chondrocytes or cartilage explants (overexpression, or repression 
with antisense RNA) affected the GAG content of cartilage. Interestingly, 
overexpression of this enzyme completely counteracted the GAG depletion produced 
by the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin 1-beta. The neosynthesized GAG was 
qualitatively identical to that present in the original cartilage matrix. These 
results are encouraging for therapeutic approaches based on gene transfer We 
also investigated the structure-function relationship of human recombinant 
GlcAT-I upon expression in the methyltrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. This allowed 
us to determine the molecular basis of the recognition of the donor and acceptor 
substrates of the enzyme. This multidisciplinary research, based on genetic and 
protein engineering, molecular modelling and glycochemistry will lay the 
groundwork for designing original glycomimetics able to stimulate GAG synthesis.

PMID: 17450675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Psychol Rep. 2007 Feb;100(1):57-8. doi: 10.2466/pr0.100.1.57-58.

Some correlates of subjective life expectancy.

Lester D(1), Abdel-Khalek A.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Program, The Richard Stockton College of New Jersey, P.O. Box 195, 
Jimmie Leeds Road, Pomona, NJ 08240-0195, USA.

In samples of 193 American and 209 Kuwaiti college students, the correlates of 
subjective life expectancy differed in the two countries, a Tao orientation and 
existential anxiety in the American students and death anxiety in the Kuwaiti 
students.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.100.1.57-58
PMID: 17451003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Mech Ageing Dev. 2007 May-Jun;128(5-6):365-9. doi:
10.1016/j.mad.2007.03.003.  Epub 2007 Mar 24.

Male rats exhibit higher oxidative protein damage than females of the same 
chronological age.

Kayali R(1), Cakatay U, Tekeli F.

Author information:
(1)Istanbul University, Cerrahpasa Faculty of Medicine, Department of 
Pediatrics, Laboratory of Biochemistry, 34303 Istanbul, Turkey.

The basis of the difference in life expectancy between males and females is 
still unknown. Previous studies have provided compelling evidence for the 
presence of oxidized proteins, and lipids in advanced human atherosclerotic 
lesions. The gender factor responsible for such protein oxidation is unknown and 
controversial. Our aim was to reveal the difference between protein oxidation 
parameters of male and female rats of the same chronological age to understand 
the protein oxidation mechanisms enabling females live longer than males. In the 
current study, we investigated the relation between protein hydroperoxide levels 
(P-OOH) and other protein oxidation parameters such as protein carbonyl (PCO), 
total thiol (T-SH), advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP), and 
nitrotyrosine (NT). Our study also covered other oxidative stress parameters 
such as lipid hydroperoxides (L-OOH), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in 
the plasma of male and female aged rats. Plasma P-OOH and AOPP levels of male 
rats were significantly higher compared with those of the female rats. T-SH 
levels were significantly lower in the aged male rats compared with those of the 
female rats. On the other hand, PCO, NT, and L-OOH levels, and SOD activity were 
all found to be not different. These data support the hypothesis that elevated 
levels of P-OOH and AOPP contribute to the extent of protein, but not lipid, 
oxidation in plasma of aged male rats. Furthermore, the results presented here 
may also rationalize studies, which have shown that protein oxidation is 
modulated on the basis of gender dependency.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2007.03.003
PMID: 17451787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Arch Intern Med. 2007 Apr 23;167(8):774-80. doi: 10.1001/archinte.167.8.774.

The effect of obesity on disability vs mortality in older Americans.

Al Snih S(1), Ottenbacher KJ, Markides KS, Kuo YF, Eschbach K, Goodwin JS.

Author information:
(1)Sealy Center on Aging, Division of Rehabilitation Sciences, School of Allied 
Health Sciences, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, USA. 
soalsnih@utmb.edu

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2007 Apr 23;167(8):750-1.
    Arch Intern Med. 2007 Dec 10;167(22):2527-8; author reply 2528.
    Arch Intern Med. 2007 Dec 10;167(22):2528; author reply 2528.

BACKGROUND: The association between obesity and mortality is reduced or 
eliminated in older subjects. In addition to mortality, disability is an 
important health outcome. The objectives of this study were to examine the 
association between body mass index (BMI), calculated as weight in kilograms 
divided by height in meters squared, and subsequent disability and mortality 
among older Americans, as well as to estimate the effect of BMI on life 
expectancy and disability-free life expectancy among older Americans.
METHODS: We studied 8359 non-Hispanic white Americans, 1931 African Americans, 
and 2435 Mexican Americans 65 years or older who were not disabled at baseline 
from 5 sites of the Established Populations for Epidemiologic Studies of the 
Elderly. Measures included BMI, medical conditions, activities of daily living, 
and demographic information. Cox proportional hazards regression analysis was 
used to estimate the hazard ratios (HRs) for subsequent disability and mortality 
during 7 years of follow-up. Total life expectancy and disability-free life 
expectancy were estimated using the interpolation of Markov chain approach.
RESULTS: The lowest HR (1.02; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.94-1.10) for 
disability was at a BMI of 25 to less than 30. Subjects with BMIs of lower than 
18.5 or 30 or higher at baseline were significantly more likely to experience 
disability during the follow-up period. In contrast, the lowest HRs for 
mortality were seen among subjects with BMIs of 25 to less than 30 (HR, 0.78; 
95% CI, 0.72-0.85) and 30 to less than 35 (HR, 0.80; 95% CI, 0.72-0.90), with 
subjects with BMIs of lower than 25 or 35 or higher experiencing higher hazards 
for mortality. Disability-free life expectancy is greatest among subjects with a 
BMI of 25 to less than 30.
CONCLUSION: Assessments of the effect of obesity on the health of older 
Americans should account for mortality and incidence of disability.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.167.8.774
PMID: 17452539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Circulation. 2007 May 8;115(18):2398-409. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.106.667683. Epub 2007 Apr 23.

Incremental benefit and cost-effectiveness of high-dose statin therapy in 
high-risk patients with coronary artery disease.

Chan PS(1), Nallamothu BK, Gurm HS, Hayward RA, Vijan S.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Department of Internal Medicine, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. 
paulchan@umich.edu

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2007 Nov-Dec;147(3):80.

BACKGROUND: Recent clinical trials found that high-dose statin therapy, compared 
with conventional-dose statin therapy, reduces the risk of cardiovascular events 
in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and stable coronary artery 
disease (CAD). However, the actual benefit and cost-effectiveness of high-dose 
statin therapy are unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We designed a Markov model to compare daily high-dose with 
conventional-dose statin therapy for hypothetical 60-year-old cohorts with ACS 
and stable CAD over patient lifetime. Pooled estimates for major clinical end 
points (all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction, stroke, rehospitalization, 
and revascularization) from relevant clinical trials were incorporated. 
Incremental benefit was quantified as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). 
Threshold analyses determined at what price difference high-dose statins would 
yield incremental cost-effective ratios below $50,000, $100,000, and $150,000 
per QALY gained. In ACS patients, a high-dose versus conventional-dose statin 
strategy resulted in a gain of 0.35 QALYs. In threshold analyses, a high-dose 
statin strategy consistently yielded incremental cost-effective ratios below 
$30,000 per QALY even under conservative model assumptions. In stable CAD 
patients, a high-dose statin strategy yielded a gain of only 0.10 QALYs and was 
sensitive to model assumptions about statin efficacy. The daily cost difference 
between a high- and conventional-dose statin would need to be <$1.70, $2.65, and 
$3.55 to yield incremental cost-effective ratios below $50,000, $100,000, and 
$150,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: High-dose statin therapy is potentially highly effective and 
cost-effective in patients with ACS. In patients with stable CAD, however, the 
cost-effectiveness of high-dose statin therapy is highly sensitive to model 
assumptions about statin efficacy and cost. Use of high-dose statins can be 
supported on health economic grounds in patients with ACS, but the case is less 
clear for patients with stable CAD.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.106.667683
PMID: 17452609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2007 Apr;62(4):408-14. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/62.4.408.

The burden of diseases on disability-free life expectancy in later life.

Jagger C(1), Matthews R, Matthews F, Robinson T, Robine JM, Brayne C; Medical 
Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, United 
Kingdom. cxj@le.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The consequences of diseases in later life have been judged 
predominantly through mortality, resulting in an emphasis on the fatal rather 
than the nonfatal disabling conditions. We use a longitudinal study with 
follow-up at 2, 6, and 10 years to assess the impact of different diseases on 
both total life expectancy (TLE) and disability-free life expectancy (DFLE).
METHODS: The Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study 
investigators interviewed 13,004 people aged 65 years and older from five U.K. 
centers starting in 1991. Persons aged 75 years and older were oversampled. 
Disability (mild, moderate, and severe) was assessed through basic Activities of 
Daily Living (ADL) and Instrumental ADL (IADL) scales at baseline and at 
follow-ups at 2, 6, and 10 years. TLE and DFLE were compared for persons with 
and without each of nine conditions.
RESULTS: At age 65, men had a TLE of 15.3 years of which 12.1 (79%) were free of 
any disability, whereas women of the same age had an average TLE of 19.4 years, 
11.0 years (57%) disability-free. Men (women) aged 65 years without stroke had 
4.8 (4.6) more years of TLE and 6.5 (5.8) more years DFLE. Without diabetes, men 
(women) lived 4.4 (5.6) years longer and had 4.1 (5.1) years disability-free.
CONCLUSIONS: More disability-free years were gained than total life years in 
persons free of stroke, cognitive impairment, arthritis, and/or visual 
impairment at baseline. This finding suggests that elimination of these 
conditions would result in a compression of disability.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/62.4.408
PMID: 17452735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Singapore Med J. 2007 May;48(5):e154-6.

Intracranial metastases from carcinoma of the cervix.

Agrawal A(1), Kumar A, Sinha AK, Kumar M, Pandey SR, Khaniya S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences, Dharan, 
Nepal. dramitagralwal@gmail.com

Uterine cervix carcinoma usually spread by local extension and through the 
lymphatics to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Brain metastases are extremely 
rare in the course, are usually seen late and have poor prognosis. We report a 
49-year-old woman with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix who developed right 
parieto-occipital lobe metastasis after three years of treatment of the primary 
disease. The presenting symptoms of the metastatic disease were hemiparesis, 
headache, and vomiting. Her hemiparesis improved after surgical excision of the 
metastasis. Treatment in these cases is mainly palliative but may offer 
symptomatic relief and improvement in the quality of life.

PMID: 17453090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Clin Res Cardiol. 2007 Jul;96(7):522-3. doi: 10.1007/s00392-007-0523-y. Epub
 2007 Apr 26.

Quantitating loss of life by smoking a single cigarette.

Gohlke H, Yusuf S.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-007-0523-y
PMID: 17453128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Acta Oncol. 2007;46(2):153-64. doi: 10.1080/02841860601096841.

Trastuzumab in adjuvant breast cancer therapy. A model based cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Norum J(1), Olsen JA, Wist EA, Lønning PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, Norway. 
jan.norum@unn.no

Trastuzumab has shown activity in early breast cancer patients that overexpress 
HER2. Significant resources have to be allocated to finance this therapy, 
underlining the need for cost-effectiveness analysis. A model was set up, 
societal costs were calculated and the discount rate was 3%. Life expectancy 
data were based on the literature and prolonged according to qualified guess 
(10% and 20% absolute improvement in overall survival (OS)). The comparator was 
the FEC(100) regimen. The median additional health care cost per patient treated 
was 33,597 euros. The yielding cost per life year gained (LYG) was 15,341 euros 
with a 20% improved OS and 35,947 euros with 10% improved OS. The corresponding 
net health care cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) was 19,176 euros and 
44,934 euros. Including all resource use the figures were 8148 euros and 30,290 
euros per LYG. Sensitivity analyses documented survival gain, price of 
trastuzumab, production gain and discount rate to be the major factors 
influencing cost-effectiveness ratio. Trastuzumab is indicated cost effective in 
Norway.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860601096841
PMID: 17453363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Acta Oncol. 2007;46(2):230-3. doi: 10.1080/02841860600693473.

Efficacy of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in patients with advanced 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Lind PA(1), Naucler G, Holm A, Gubanski M, Svensson C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

Presently, no effective systemic therapy is available for patients with advanced 
hepatocellular carcinoma (aHCC). We sought to determine whether systemic 
treatment with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) would yield a response rate 
of 20% in chemotherapy naïve patients with aHCC. The study was designed 
according to the phase II Gehan two-step procedure with a precision of 10%. 
Enrollment criteria included histological diagnosis and radiological 
documentation of unresectable/metastatic HCC, WHO PS 0-2, relatively normal 
organ function, life expectancy greater than three months, lack of 
cardiomyopathy and active cardiac disease NYHA > or = II. PLD (40 mg/m(2) IV 
1h-infusion) was administered on d1 q 4 wk and response to treatment was 
evaluated radiologically every 3rd cycle (WHO-criteria). Secondary endpoints 
included overall (OS) and progression free survival (PFS) and registration of 
toxicity. The median number of administered PLD cycles was 3. The best 
radiological response among the first 14 patients was 1 PR, 5 SD, 3 PD, and 6 NE 
due to progressive disease clinically (Step 1). The 15th patient did not respond 
to the PLD-therapy and the study was closed for accrual as the pre-planned 
analysis could be executed (Step 2). A response rate > or = 20% could be ruled 
out. The median PFS and OS survival was 82 days and 130 days, respectively. 
Adverse events were generally mild in the subgroup of patients without signs of 
moderate hepatic failure at base line. Patients with WHO PS 2, liver tumour 
involvement >50%, bilirubin > or = 34 micromol/L, albumin <33 g/L, and/or Child 
Pugh B were unlikely to survive >90 days. PLD can be delivered safely in 
patients with aHCC and no signs of moderate hepatic failure. The therapy 
resulted, however, in few responses or cases of disease stabilization and has 
thus very limited activity in aHCC. Future studies on systemic chemotherapy 
should focus on patients without moderate hepatic failure, with WHO PS <2, and 
with liver tumour involvement <50%.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860600693473
PMID: 17453374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Acta Orthop. 2007 Feb;78(1):108-15. doi: 10.1080/17453670610013501.

Effectiveness of hip or knee replacement surgery in terms of quality-adjusted 
life years and costs.

Räsänen P(1), Paavolainen P, Sintonen H, Koivisto AM, Blom M, Ryynänen OP, Roine 
RP.

Author information:
(1)Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital Group, Group Administration, P.O. Box 100, HUS 
00029, Finland. pirjo.rasanen@hus.fi

BACKGROUND: Concurrent head-to-head comparisons of healthcare interventions 
regarding cost-utility are rare. The concept of favorable cost-effectiveness of 
total hip or knee arthroplasty is thus inadequately verified.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a trial involving several thousand patients from 10 
medical specialties, 223 patients who were enrolled for hip or knee replacement 
surgery were asked to fill in the 15D health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 
survey before and after operation.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) HRQoL score (on a 0-1 scale) increased in primary hip 
replacement patients (n = 96) from 0.81 (0.084) preoperatively to 0.86 (0.12) at 
12 months (p < 0.001). In revision hip replacement (n = 24) the corresponding 
scores were 0.81 (0.086) and 0.82 (0.097) respectively (p = 0.4), and in knee 
replacement (n = 103) the scores were 0.81 (0.093) and 0.84 (0.11) respectively 
(p < 0.001). Of 15 health dimensions, there were statistically significant 
improvements in moving, usual activities, discomfort and symptoms, distress, and 
vitality in both primary replacement groups. Mean cost per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained during a 1-year period was euro 6,710 for primary hip 
replacement, euro 52,274 for revision hip replacement, and euro 13,995 for 
primary knee replacement.
INTERPRETATION: Hip and knee replacement both improve HRQoL. The cost per QALY 
gained from knee replacement is twice that gained from hip replacement.

DOI: 10.1080/17453670610013501
PMID: 17453401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Ergonomics. 2007 May;50(5):647-59. doi: 10.1080/00140130601164490.

Accuracy and feasibility of using an electrogoniometer for measuring simple 
thumb movements.

Jonsson P(1), Johnson PW, Hagberg M.

Author information:
(1)Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Sahlgrenska University Hospital and 
Academy at Göteborg University, Göteborg, Sweden. per.jonsson@amm.gu.se

The aim of this study was to determine the accuracy and feasibility of using an 
electrogoniometer (Model SG 110; Biometrics, Gwent, UK) for measuring simple 
thumb movements. Thumb disorders have been associated with the use of hand held 
devices such as mobile phones and these devices have become an integral part of 
modern life. In 15 young subjects, the measurements of eight flexion/extension 
(Flex/Ext) and adduction/abduction (Ad/Ab) thumb positions were compared between 
a thumb-mounted electrogoniometer and manual goniometer (which was taken as the 
benchmark). Group mean electrogoniometric measurement errors were below 4 
degrees and 5 degrees for Ad/Ab and Flex/Ext measurements, respectively. During 
mobile phone use, the electrogoniometers measured differences in maximal joint 
angle postures, which appeared to be related to differences in mobile phone 
size. High movement velocities may increase the risk of musculoskeletal injury 
and the results indicated that Ad/Ab movements were twice the speed of Flex/Ext 
movements during mobile phone use. Electrogoniometers have utility for studying 
thumb movements during mobile phone use and may be used to evaluate other 
thumb-based input devices.

DOI: 10.1080/00140130601164490
PMID: 17454085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. IUBMB Life. 2007 Feb;59(2):68-75. doi: 10.1080/15216540701218722.

T-armless tRNAs and elongated elongation factor Tu.

Ohtsuki T(1), Watanabe Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Okayama University, Okayama, 
Japan. ohtsuk@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp

Most tRNAs share a common secondary structure containing a T arm, a D arm, an 
anticodon arm and an acceptor stem. However, there are some exceptions. Most 
nematode mitochondrial tRNAs and some animal mitochondrial tRNAs lack the T arm, 
which is necessary for binding to canonical elongation factor Tu (EF-Tu). The 
mitochondria of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans have a unique EF-Tu, named 
EF-Tu1, whose structure has supplied clues as to how truncated tRNAs can work in 
translation. EF-Tu1 has a C-terminal extension of about 60 aa that is absent in 
canonical EF-Tu. Recent data from our laboratory strongly suggests that EF-Tu1 
recognizes the D-arm instead of the T arm by a mechanism involving this 
C-terminal region. Further biochemical analysis of mitochondrial tRNAs and EF-Tu 
from the distantly related nematode Trichinella spp. and sequence information on 
nuclear and mitochondrial DNA in arthropods suggest that T-armless tRNAs may 
have arisen as a result of duplication of the EF-Tu gene. These studies provide 
valuable insights into the co-evolution of RNA and RNA-binding proteins.

DOI: 10.1080/15216540701218722
PMID: 17454297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Tumori. 2007 Jan-Feb;93(1):23-5. doi: 10.1177/030089160709300105.

Comprehensive geriatric assessment in elderly cancer patients: an experience in 
an outpatient population.

Arnoldi E(1), Dieli M, Mangia M, Minetti B, Labianca R.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Department, Ospedali Riuniti, Bergamo, Italy. 
earnoldi@ospedaliriuniti.bergamo.it

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: Cancer is an age-related disease, and the increase in life 
expectancy will lead to a progressive increase of cancer cases in the elderly (> 
or =70 years of age). We have created a group called GONG (Gruppo Oncologico 
Geriatrico) to apply cancer geriatric assessment in elderly cancer patients, in 
order to select which of them are eligible for oncological treatment or 
supportive care only.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We applied this model to evaluate 153 patients from March 
2004 to August 2005. Our model included three categories of patients: frail (at 
least one of the following items: Activities of Daily Living scale <80, > or =3 
comorbidities unrelated to the tumor according to the Charlson Index, 
performance status < or =60/> or =3 according respectively to Karnofsky and the 
ECOG scale, > or =1 geriatric syndrome); borderline (patients with multiple 
comorbidities not affecting performance status or ability in daily activities); 
non-frail.
RESULTS: Applying the aforementioned criteria, we found 30 borderline, 14 frail 
and 109 non-frail patients. Statistical analysis showed a significant difference 
in mortality between frail and non-frail patients (P <0.05), whereas there was 
no difference between borderline and non-frail patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model was thus able to identify patients at higher risk of 
death. These results confirm the importance of cancer geriatric assessment also 
for the clinical evaluation of oncological patients. Additional randomized 
studies with a larger number of patients, also in an adjuvant setting, should be 
performed to confirm the effectiveness of this approach.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160709300105
PMID: 17455867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Am J Transplant. 2007 May;7(5):1271-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2006.01681.x.

The effect of recipient's age on lung transplant outcome.

Gutierrez C(1), Al-Faifi S, Chaparro C, Waddell T, Hadjiliadis D, Singer L, 
Keshavjee S, Hutcheon M.

Author information:
(1)Toronto General Hospital, Respirology-Lung Transplantation, University of 
Toronto, Medicine, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Selection criteria for organ transplantation have evolved over time. Age has 
been revisited periodically. We studied the outcome of lung transplant adjusted 
by age in a single center transplant population. We matched the 42 lung graft 
recipients older than 60 years transplanted by July 1999 to younger controls by 
lung disease, transplant era within 2 years, type of transplant and gender. The 
female to male ratios were 17/25 among the older cohort (median age 61.6 years), 
and 15/27 (median age 51.9 years) among the matched younger. Survival analysis 
demonstrated a significant difference: at 1 year, 60% versus 86%, and at 5 
years, 37% versus 57%, for older and younger, respectively, p=0.005. Excess 
annual mortality, calculated with the declining exponential approximation to 
life expectancy (DEALE), showed an older/younger ratio of 1.9. Eleven deaths 
occurred within 6 months among the older patients, 10 due to infection. After 6 
months, there were 20 more deaths, 6 due to malignancy, 5 to Bronchiolitis 
Obliterans Syndrome (BOS), 3 to infection and 6 to other causes. Among the 
younger there were 6 deaths within 6 months and 12 more thereafter; among the 
latter, 8 were due to BOS. Despite stringent selection, lung transplant 
recipients older than 60 years show increased mortality even after adjusting for 
their expected higher age-related mortality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2006.01681.x
PMID: 17456202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):159-60. doi:
10.1348/135910707X182268.

Minds and gaps.

Carroll D, Bennett P, Vedhara K.

Comment on
    Br J Health Psychol. 2006 Nov;11(Pt 4):623-42.

DOI: 10.1348/135910707X182268
PMID: 17456277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):179-84. doi:
10.1348/135910707X178128.

Literacy not intelligence moderates the relationships between economic 
development, income inequality and health.

Marks DF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, City University, UK. d.marks@city.ac.uk

Comment on
    Br J Health Psychol. 2006 Nov;11(Pt 4):623-42.

OBJECTIVES: Kanazawa (2006) presented data allegedly supporting a racist version 
of evolutionary psychology that claims that the populations of wealthier and 
more egalitarian societies live longer and stay healthier, not because they are 
wealthier and more egalitarian, but because they are more intelligent. The 
objectives of this study are: (i) to determine the relationship between IQ and 
literacy in Kanazawa's sample of countries and (ii) to reanalyse Kanazawa's 
dataset using measures of literacy in lieu of national IQ test scores.
METHOD: Correlation and regression were employed.
RESULTS: National literacy scores across the countries in the sample are highly 
skewed. In spite of this, the literacy measures are highly correlated with 
alleged differences in national IQ (r = .83-.86). The measure of literacy 
together with economic development (GDPpc) and income inequality (Gini 
coefficient) control at least 59-64% of the variance in national life expectancy 
at birth.
CONCLUSIONS: There is no scientific justification for believing that alleged 
intelligence differences play any role in explaining international differences 
in health status. Measures of alleged national IQ scores are highly confounded 
with differences in literacy. Literacy is a key factor in the health of any 
community and policies designed to enhance the literacy of a population are 
expected to lead to significant improvements in health status.

DOI: 10.1348/135910707X178128
PMID: 17456280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Br J Health Psychol. 2007 May;12(Pt 2):185-90. doi:
10.1348/135910707X180224.

A commentary on Satoshi Kanazawa's study of intelligence and health.

Alemayehu D(1), Sineshaw T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Columbia University, New York 10027, USA. 
alem@stat.columbia.edu

Comment on
    Br J Health Psychol. 2006 Nov;11(Pt 4):623-42.

We provide an exposition of the major conceptual, methodological and statistical 
shortcomings of the paper by Kanazawa (2006), concerning the relationship 
between intelligence and life expectancy. It is argued that the validity and 
robustness of the conclusions of the paper are compromised by fundamental 
problems, including failure to present competing views with fair balance, use of 
samples of convenience to draw conclusions about populations, performing tests 
of significance when there is no theoretical basis to do so and confusing 
association with causation. Given the far-reaching socio-economic implications 
of the conclusions, it is suggested that the messages of the paper be critically 
evaluated in relation to the major limitations of the research.

DOI: 10.1348/135910707X180224
PMID: 17456281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Cancer. 2007 Jun 1;109(11):2357-64. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22670.

Cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination in working-age cancer patients.

Avritscher EB(1), Cooksley CD, Geraci JM, Bekele BN, Cantor SB, Rolston KV, 
Elting LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Applied Mathematics, The University of Texas 
M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. ecaramel@mdanderson.org

BACKGROUND: Despite recommendations to immunize all patients at an increased 
risk of influenza complications, the vaccine utilization among high-risk 
nonelderly adults remains low and its cost-effectiveness is unclear. In the 
current study, the authors analyzed the cost-effectiveness of influenza 
vaccination in working-age (ages 20-64 years) cancer patients.
METHODS: The authors developed a decision-analytic model, from the societal 
perspective, using epidemiologic, vaccine effectiveness, resource utilization, 
cost, survival, and utility data from published sources, supplemented with data 
collected from the authors' own institutional accounting system. Two strategies 
were compared: influenza vaccination of working-age cancer patients and no 
vaccination. The base-case patient was assumed to be a 51-year-old cancer 
patient (the mean age for the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results [SEER] population of working-age patients within 5 
years of cancer diagnosis).
RESULTS: The effectiveness of the influenza vaccine was 6.02 quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) at a cost of $30.10. The effectiveness of the no vaccination 
strategy was 6.01 QALYs at a cost of $27.86. Compared with the no vaccination 
strategy, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of vaccinating working-age 
cancer patients would be $224.00 per QALY gained. Using the benchmark of $50,000 
per QALY, the model was only sensitive to changes in cancer survival (threshold 
of 2.8 months).
CONCLUSIONS: The influenza vaccine is cost-effective for working-age cancer 
patients with a life expectancy of >or=3 months. All working-age cancer patients 
who are within 5 years of cancer diagnosis and have a life expectancy of at 
least 3 months should be vaccinated against influenza.

(c) 2007 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22670
PMID: 17457827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2007 Jun;30(3):365-9. doi: 10.1007/s10545-007-0513-2.
Epub  2007 Apr 24.

High incidence of autoantibodies in Fabry disease patients.

Martinez P(1), Aggio M, Rozenfeld P.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Penna, Bahía Blanca, Argentina.

Fabry disease (FD) is an X-linked disorder of glycosphingolipid catabolism that 
results from a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme alpha-galactosidase A. This 
defect leads to the accumulation of its substrates, mainly 
globotriaosylceramide, in lysosomes of cells of different tissues. Different 
studies have shown the involvement of immunopathologies in different 
sphingolipidoses. The coexistence of FD and immune disorders such as systemic 
lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis and IgA nephropathy, has been 
described in the literature. The aim of this study was to evaluate the 
prevalence of a group of autoantibodies in a series of Argentine FD patients. 
Autoantibodies against extractable nuclear antigens (ENAs), double-stranded DNA, 
anticardiolipin and phosphatidylserine were assayed by ELISA. Lupus 
anticoagulants were also tested. Fifty-seven per cent of the samples showed 
reactivity with at least one autoantigen. Such reactivities were more frequent 
among males than among females. Antiphospholipid autoantibodies were detected in 
45% of our patients. The high rate of thrombosis associated with FD could be 
related, at least in part, to the presence of antiphospholipid autoantibodies in 
Fabry patients. We found the presence of ENAs, which are a characteristic 
finding of rheumatological diseases, previous a frequent misdiagnosis of FD, in 
around 39% of the cases. The detection of a high level of autoantibodies must be 
correlated clinically to determine the existence of an underlying autoimmune 
disease. With the recent development of therapy, the life expectancy in FD will 
increase and autoimmune diseases might play an important role in the morbidity 
of FD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-007-0513-2
PMID: 17458709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Int J Food Microbiol. 2007 Jun 10;117(1):91-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2007.02.016. Epub 2007 Mar 6.

Shelf-life of minimally processed cabbage treated with neutral electrolysed 
oxidising water and stored under equilibrium modified atmosphere.

Gómez-López VM(1), Ragaert P, Ryckeboer J, Jeyachchandran V, Debevere J, 
Devlieghere F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Microbiology and Food Preservation, Ghent University, 
Coupure Links, 653-9000 Gent, Belgium.

Minimally processed vegetables (MPV) have a short shelf-life. Neutral 
electrolysed oxidising water (NEW) is a novel decontamination method. The 
objective of this study was to test the potential of NEW to extend the 
shelf-life of a MPV, namely shredded cabbage. Samples of shredded cabbage were 
immersed in NEW containing 40 mg/L of free chlorine or tap water (control) up to 
5 min, and then stored under equilibrium modified atmosphere at 4 degrees C and 
7 degrees C. Proliferation of aerobic mesophilic bacteria, psychrotrophic 
bacteria, lactic acid bacteria and yeasts were studied during the shelf-life. 
Also pH and sensorial quality of the samples as well as O(2) and CO(2) 
composition of the headspace of the bags was evaluated. From the microbial 
groups, only psychrotrophic counts decreased significantly (P<0.05) due to the 
effect of NEW, but the counts in treated samples and controls were similar after 
3 days of storage at 4 degrees C and 7 degrees C. Packaging configurations kept 
O(2) concentration around 5% and prevented CO(2) accumulation. pH increased from 
6.1-6.2 to 6.4 during the shelf-life. No microbial parameter reached 
unacceptable counts after 14 days at 4 degrees C and 8 days of storage at 7 
degrees C. The shelf-life of controls stored at 4 degrees C was limited to 9 
days by overall visual quality (OVQ), while samples treated with NEW remained 
acceptable during the 14 days of the experiment. The shelf-life of controls 
stored at 7 degrees C was limited to 6 days by OVQ and browning, while that of 
samples treated with NEW were limited to 9 days by OVQ, browning and dryness. 
According to these results, a shelf-life extension of at least 5 days and 3 days 
in samples stored respectively at 4 degrees C and 7 degrees C can be achieved by 
treating shredded cabbage with NEW. NEW seems to be a promising method to 
prolong the shelf-life of MPV.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2007.02.016
PMID: 17459505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2007 Jun;86(3):197-209. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2007.02.009. Epub 2007 Apr 24.

Computer-assisted predictive formulas expressing survival probability and life 
expectancy in US adults, men and women, 2001.

Chung SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Morristown-Hamblen Healthcare System, Morristown, TN 
37814, USA. sung.chung@comcast.net <sung.chung@comcast.net>

The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) reported the United States life 
tables, 2001 for US total, male and female populations on the basis of 2001 
mortality statistics, the 2000 decennial census and the data from the Medicare 
program [E. Arias, United State life tables, 2001, Natl. Vital Stat. Rep. 52 
(2004) 1-40]. The life tables show life expectancy, survival and death rate at 
each year between birth and 100 years of age. In this study formulas expressing 
survival probability and life expectancy in US adults, men and women are 
constructed from the data of the NCHS. A model of the 'probacent'-probability 
equation previously published by the author is employed in the study. Analysis 
of the formula-predicted values and the NCHS-reported data indicates that the 
formulas are accurate and reliable with a close agreement. The formula 
representing a generalized lognormal distribution might be useful for biomedical 
investigation, and epidemiological and demographic studies in US adults, men and 
women.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2007.02.009
PMID: 17459517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Apr;1100:1-13. doi: 10.1196/annals.1395.001.

Biological aging is no longer an unsolved problem.

Hayflick L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of California, San Francisco, School of 
Medicine, P.O. Box 89, The Sea Ranch, CA 95497, USA. len@gene.com

The belief that aging is still an unsolved problem in biology is no longer true. 
