caused by a mutation of the fibrillin-1 gene. The syndrome is characterized by a 
wide range of clinical manifestations. Common cardiovascular manifestations, 
most of which are substantial contributors to mortality, include annuloaortic 
ectasia with or without aortic valve insufficiency, aortic dissection, aortic 
aneurysm, pulmonary artery dilatation, and mitral valve prolapse. Scoliosis, 
pectus excavatum and carinatum, arachnodactyly, and acetabular protrusion are 
common musculoskeletal manifestations. Dural ectasia is a characteristic central 
nervous system manifestation. In some patients with Marfan syndrome, there is 
also pulmonary and ocular involvement. Early identification and treatment of 
these conditions contribute to an improved quality of life and a life expectancy 
close to the average for the general population in the United States. 
Radiologists play a key role in the diagnosis of Marfan syndrome. Knowledge 
about the various manifestations of Marfan syndrome and awareness of their 
radiologic appearances permit a comprehensive diagnostic approach that allows 
better patient care.

RSNA, 2007

DOI: 10.1148/rg.274065171
PMID: 17620463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Arch Ophthalmol. 2007 Jul;125(7):895-900. doi: 10.1001/archopht.125.7.895.

Infliximab therapy for the treatment of refractory ocular inflammatory disease.

Sobrin L(1), Kim EC, Christen W, Papadaki T, Letko E, Foster CS.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts Eye Research and Surgery Institute, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To report the outcomes of infliximab therapy in the treatment of 
ocular inflammatory disease refractory to traditional immunomodulatory therapy 
(IMT).
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 27 patients. All 
patients had noninfectious ocular inflammatory disease refractory to traditional 
IMT and received 5 mg/kg of infliximab at 2-week to 8-week intervals. Main 
outcome measures were clinical response, reduction in concomitant IMT, and 
adverse effects. Cumulative incidences of inflammation control and vision change 
were calculated using life-table methods.
RESULTS: Twenty-one patients experienced sustained improvement in inflammation 
with their initial course of infliximab therapy. Cumulative incidence of 
inflammation resolution at 12 months was greater than 90%. Sixteen patients were 
able to decrease the dose of their concomitant IMT medication or stop all other 
IMT. Four patients were able to discontinue all other IMT while receiving 
infliximab therapy. Three patients with scleritis were eventually able to remain 
inflammation-free while not taking any medication. At 12 months, 56% and 65% of 
left and right eyes, respectively, showed visual acuity improvement by 2 or more 
Snellen lines. Only 1 patient developed an adverse event requiring therapy 
discontinuation.
CONCLUSIONS: We found a high rate of ocular inflammation control with infliximab 
therapy. The incidence of adverse effects in this study was low.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.125.7.895
PMID: 17620567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. J Invasive Cardiol. 2007 Jul;19(7):E199-202.

Percutaneous treatment of catheter-induced dissection of the right coronary 
artery and adjacent aortic wall.

Sohrabi B(1), Kazemi B, Aslanabadi N.

Author information:
(1)Madani Cardiovascular Medical and Research Center, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

Acute aortic dissection during coronary arteriography is quite rare, but is a 
catastrophic and life-threatening complication. Patients in this clinical 
setting may have a potential risk for acute myocardial infarction requiring 
emergency life-saving surgery. Awareness of the problem and its prompt 
recognition are essential. We describe a case in which a right coronary artery 
(RCA) dissection occurred during diagnostic coronary arteriography and extended 
beyond the coronary ostium into the ascending aorta. Extension to the ascending 
aorta occurred during injections done for positioning of stents in the proximal 
RCA. Sealing of the aortic dissection and rescue of the RCA with stabilization 
of the patient was possible with rapid stenting of its ostium.

PMID: 17620687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. AIDS. 2007 Jul;21 Suppl 4:S11-20. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000279702.71062.52.

Combining prevention, treatment and care: lessons from South Africa.

Achmat Z(1), Simcock J.

Author information:
(1)Treatment Action Campaign, Muizenberg, South Africa. zackie@tac.org.za

Over one million people in sub-Saharan Africa now access HIV treatment, and as 
the prognosis of life expectancy on antiretroviral therapy (ART) improves, the 
central question that arises for governments, civil society and the private 
sector must be: how will we pay for the healthcare costs?This paper critically 
evaluates the need to provide effective treatment, prevention and care for HIV 
over the long term. Compelling evidence and moral argument suggest that the 
right combination of treatment and prevention policies, bolstered by grassroots 
mobilization and effective treatment literacy campaigns, can prevent new 
infections, save lives and mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS. South Africa's HIV 
epidemic and its antiretroviral roll-out provide instructive global templates. 
The scale of the epidemic, the political responses, the epidemiological evidence 
and the outcomes data are lessons for countries where there is only a low-level 
epidemic at present. The investment needed to provide universal ART in South 
Africa will be substantial, but the economic rationale to act now is compelling. 
Brazil and to a lesser extent Thailand have responded with increased urgency and 
foresight. When compared with South Africa, their successes lend further 
credence to the importance of augmenting HIV prevention efforts with widespread 
access to treatment and care. Despite the obstacles, important gains have been 
made in South Africa, with community level health facilities documenting 
noteworthy treatment and adherence results. Our example suggests that even after 
tragic mistakes have been made, collective action, evidence-informed programmes, 
and sustained investment can still save lives and mitigate the epidemic.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000279702.71062.52
PMID: 17620746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. AIDS. 2007 Jul;21 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):S117-28. doi: 
10.1097/01.aids.0000279714.60935.a2.

Clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of antiretroviral therapy in India: 
starting criteria and second-line therapy.

Freedberg KA(1), Kumarasamy N, Losina E, Cecelia AJ, Scott CA, Divi N, Flanigan 
TP, Lu Z, Weinstein MC, Wang B, Ganesh AK, Bender MA, Mayer KH, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of General Medicine and Infectious Disease and the Partners AIDS 
Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. 
kfreedberg@partners.org

BACKGROUND: India has more than 5.7 million people infected with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In 2004, the Indian government began providing 
antiretroviral therapy (ART), and there are now an estimated 56 500 people 
receiving ART.
OBJECTIVE: To project the life expectancy, cost, and cost-effectiveness 
associated with different strategies for using ART in India, to inform treatment 
programs.
METHODS: We utilized an HIV disease simulation model, incorporating data on 
natural history, treatment efficacy, and costs of care from India. Input 
parameters for the simulated cohort included mean age 32.6 years and mean CD4 
count 318 cells/microl (SD 291 cells/microl). We examined different criteria for 
starting and stopping ART with a first-line regimen of 
stavudine/lamivudine/nevirapine, and the impact of a second-line 
protease-inhibitor-based regimen. Cost-effectiveness in US dollars per year of 
life saved (US$/YLS) was compared incrementally among alternative starting, 
sequencing, and stopping criteria.
RESULTS: Discounted (undiscounted) mean survival ranged from 34.5 (37.5) months 
with no ART to 64.7 (73.6) months with one line of therapy initiated at CD4 <350 
cells/microl, to 88.9 (106.5) months with two lines of therapy initiated at CD4 
<350 cells/microl. Lifetime medical costs ranged from US$530 (no ART) to US$5430 
(two ART regimens) per person. With one line of therapy, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from US$430/YLS to US$550/YLS as the CD4 
starting criterion was increased from CD4 <250 cells/microl to <350 
cells/microl. Use of two lines of therapy had an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of US$1880/YLS compared with the use of first-line therapy alone. Results 
were sensitive to the costs of second-line therapy and criteria for stopping 
therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: In India, antiretroviral therapy will lead to major survival 
benefits and is cost-effective by World Health Organization criteria. The 
availability of second-line regimens will further increase survival, but their 
cost-effectiveness depends on their relative cost compared with first-line 
regimens.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000279714.60935.a2
PMCID: PMC2365748
PMID: 17620747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. AIDS. 2007 Jul;21 Suppl 4:S31-5. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000279704.16804.ae.

Treatment at scale in Brazil: a physician's perspective.

Schechter M(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario Clementino Fraga Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rua Professor Rodolpho Paulo Rocco no, 255, Ilha do FundÃ£o, CEP 
21941.590 Rio de Janeiro, SP, Brazil. maurosch@hucff.ufrj.br

In 1996, Brazil became the first developing country to provide universal access 
to antiretroviral therapy (ART), based on a strategy that utilizes an 
individualized approach to treatment and an open formulary. At the time, the 
number of patients in need of treatment was less than 15% of what it is today, 
there were six approved drugs for the treatment of HIV infection (compared with 
25 today), and the life expectancy of patients was measured in months and years, 
not in decades. In recent years, preventable and treatable conditions such as 
cardiovascular diseases increased significantly faster as causes of death among 
HIV-infected individuals than in the general population. In the near future 
there will be a substantial increase in the number of patients in need of 
therapy and in the number of patients using more complex regimens who also have 
co-morbidities that impact prognosis. Brazil will thus need to expand its 
network of treatment facilities, increase its capacity to manage more complex 
clinical conditions, and decide on the proper balance of sophistication that 
will be required. As the Brazilian scientific output is not commensurate with 
its successes in the treatment and prevention of HIV infection, there is little 
empirical basis to inform decisions on how best to allocate finite resources. 
The Brazilian response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, universal access to ART in 
particular, is an example to other developing countries. The Brazilian 
experience also shows that operational research should be an integral part of 
programmes of access to treatment, if their long-term sustainability is to be 
ensured.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000279704.16804.ae
PMID: 17620750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2007 Sep 1;46(1):91-100. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181342564.

Cost-effectiveness of alternative strategies for initiating and monitoring 
highly active antiretroviral therapy in the developing world.

Vijayaraghavan A(1), Efrusy MB, Mazonson PD, Ebrahim O, Sanne IM, Santas CC.

Author information:
(1)Mosaic Health Care Consultants, Larkspur, CA, USA. 
vijayaraghavan_arthi@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: Determine the cost-effectiveness of initiating and monitoring highly 
active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in developing countries according to 
developing world versus developed world guidelines.
DESIGN: Lifetime Markov model incorporating costs, quality of life, survival, 
and transmission to sexual contacts.
METHODS: We evaluated treating patients with HIV in South Africa according to 
World Health Organization (WHO) "3 by 5" guidelines (treat CD4 counts <or=200 
cells/mm or patients with AIDS, and monitor CD4 cell counts every 6 months) 
versus modified WHO guidelines that incorporate the following key differences 
from developed world guidelines: treat CD4 counts <or=350 cells/mm or viral 
loads >100,000 copies/mL, and monitor CD4 cell counts and viral load every 3 
months.
RESULTS: Incorporating transmission to partners (excluding indirect costs), 
treating patients according to developed versus developing world guidelines 
increased costs by US $11,867 and increased life expectancy by 3.00 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), for an incremental cost-effectiveness of 
$3956 per QALY. Including indirect costs, over the duration of the model, there 
are net cost savings to the economy of $39.4 billion, with increased direct 
medical costs of $60.5 billion offset by indirect cost savings of $99.9 billion.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating patients with HIV according to developed versus developing 
world guidelines is highly cost-effective and may result in substantial 
long-term savings.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181342564
PMID: 17621241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Bioessays. 2007 Aug;29(8):811-8. doi: 10.1002/bies.20618.

Insulin resistance is an evolutionarily conserved physiological mechanism at the 
cellular level for protection against increased oxidative stress.

Erol A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Celal Bayar University, 
Manisa, Turkey. adnan.erol@bayar.edu.tr

Several protective cellular mechanisms protect against the accumulation of 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the concomitant oxidative stress. Therefore, 
any reduction in glucose or fatty acid flux into cells leading to a decrease in 
the production of reducing equivalents would also lead to a decreased ROS 
production and protect cells against oxidative stress. In the presence of 
insulin, FOXO proteins are localized from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and 
degraded. An increase in cellular glucose uptake will lead to increased 
production of ROS. This in turn activates the stress-responsive Jun-N-terminal 
kinase (JNK), which promotes nuclear translocation of FOXO proteins, 
upregulating some important target genes including stress resistance. 
Consequently, insulin resistance should result in decreased cellular ROS 
production. For this reason, insulin resistance could be a physiological 
mechanism activated at the cellular level in response to conditions stimulating 
ROS production and leading to the prevention of oxidative stress, and extension 
of life. Concerning the whole organism, however, IR is a maladaptive process in 
the long term causing a diabetic state.

(c) 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.20618
PMID: 17621670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. World Hosp Health Serv. 2007;43(1):23-6.

New dimensions for future health care facilities.

Del Nord R(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Florence, Italy.

The questions most insistently asked nowadays are: what "space" will health 
treatment have, and what should we understand by "care" or "assistance", in a 
future scenario characterized by a renewed dimension of the concept of health? 
As things stand, over 40% of the social/health expenditure borne by governments 
is absorbed by hospital structures. The main factors cutting into this 
expenditure and determining the very nature of the hospital today are directly 
connected to phenomena such as the growing use of techno-medicines, 
biotechnologies and e-health, the unstoppable increase in health service 
consumerism, and the effects induced by longer life expectancy. The progressive 
and necessary disappearance of the boundaries between the various 
medical/surgical specializations aimed at making treatment less fragmented, the 
growth of new "medical practices" connected to the introduction of gene 
therapies, selective chemotherapies, immunotherapy, stem cells, the most recent 
radiotherapy techniques, and the ever-growing weight of chronic pathologies and 
rehabilitation activities are all factors that make it essential to rethink not 
only the idea of "Hospital", but also the idea of the whole infrastructural 
system within which said "Hospital" is situated.

PMID: 17621770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Prog Urol. 2007 May;17(3):347-51. doi: 10.1016/s1166-7087(07)92328-3.

[Lower urinary tract dysfunction and spinal cord injury].

[Article in French]

Even-Schneider A(1), Denys P, Chartier-Kastler E, Ruffion A.

Author information:
(1)Service de MÃ©decine physique et de rÃ©adaptation, Hopital Raymond PoincarÃ©, 
Garches, France. even.schneider@rpc.aphp.fr

The life expectancy of spinal cord injury patients has increased considerably 
over recent years due to improved management based on a better understanding of 
the pathophysiology of the abnormalities induced by spinal cord injury. The 
objective of treatment of spinal cord injury patients is to prevent the various 
complications, but also allow patients to regain maximum independence in order 
to facilitate their social rehabilitation. This result can only be obtained and 
maintained by multidisciplinary management in a network including urologists, 
as, although urinary complications have considerably decreased (they no longer 
represent the leading cause of mortality), they still constitute a frequent 
presenting complaint or reason for rehospitalization in this population.

DOI: 10.1016/s1166-7087(07)92328-3
PMID: 17622057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Prog Urol. 2007 May;17(3):352-7. doi: 10.1016/s1166-7087(07)92329-5.

[Vesicosphincteric and sexual disorders associated with spina bifida and 
myelomeningocele].

[Article in French]

GamÃ© X(1), Grima F, Chartier-Kastler E, Ruffion A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, centre hospitalo-universitaire de Toulouse, France. 
game.x@chu-toulouse.fr

Neurogenic bladder secondary to spina bifida can have a very variable clinical 
presentation, but all forms share a common feature: a high risk of deterioration 
of the patient's quality of life and their life expectancy due to damage to the 
upper urinary tract. In this article, the authors present the epidemiological 
characteristics of this disease, its main clinical and urodynamic signs and 
discuss the prognosis of the disease, with particular emphasis on the value of 
close surveillance of these high-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1166-7087(07)92329-5
PMID: 17622058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Prog Urol. 2007 May;17(3):457-61. doi: 10.1016/s1166-7087(07)92348-9.

[Specific features of the early diagnosis of prostate cancer in the presence of 
neurogenic bladder].

[Article in French]

Gignoux A(1), Chartier-Kastler E, Ruffion A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie Lyon Sud, Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud, UCBL Lyon 1, 
France. alexandre.gignoux@chu-lyon.fr

Due to their increased life expectancy, a growing number of neurological 
patients, particularly spinal cord injury patients, develop prostate cancer. 
Although prostate cancer appears to be slightly less frequent in spinal cord 
injury patients than in the general population (level of proof 3b), especially 
in the case of high and severe spinal cord injury (level of proof 3b), there is 
evidence to suggest that prostate cancer is responsible for morbidity (level of 
proof 4) and excess mortality (level of proof 5) in neurological patients with a 
life expectancy greater than 10 or 15 years. According to urology society 
guidelines, prostate cancer screening should be proposed to neurological 
patients with a life expectancy greater than 10 or 15 years (level of proof 5), 
particularly paraplegics aged 50 to 60 or 65 years. As in the general 
population, this screening could be based on digital rectal examination and 
annual PSA assay, which can still be interpreted, even in patients performing 
intermittent catheterization (level of proof 3b). However; PSA cannot be used in 
patients with an indwelling catheter (level of proof 3b). The histological 
diagnosis is based on prostatic biopsies, which should probably be preceded by 
systematic urine culture with appropriate antibiotic therapy, if necessary, to 
limit the risk of infection (level of proof 5). The treatment of localized 
prostate cancer in neurological patients, as in the general population, is based 
on radical prostatectomy and external beam radiotherapy. The indication must be 
adapted to each patient, taking into account the voiding mode and urodynamic 
assessment of lower urinary tract function. Brachytherapy does not appear to be 
an appropriate treatment modality because of its adverse effects (level of proof 
5).

DOI: 10.1016/s1166-7087(07)92348-9
PMID: 17622077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. PLoS One. 2007 Jul 11;2(7):e606. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000606.

Natural selection on female life-history traits in relation to socio-economic 
class in pre-industrial human populations.

Pettay JE(1), Helle S, Jokela J, Lummaa V.

Author information:
(1)Section of Ecology, Department of Biology, University of Turku, Turku, 
Finland. jenni.pettay@utu.fi

Life-history theory predicts that resource scarcity constrains individual 
optimal reproductive strategies and shapes the evolution of life-history traits. 
In species where the inherited structure of social class may lead to consistent 
resource differences among family lines, between-class variation in resource 
availability should select for divergence in optimal reproductive strategies. 
Evaluating this prediction requires information on the phenotypic selection and 
quantitative genetics of life-history trait variation in relation to individual 
lifetime access to resources. Here, we show using path analysis how resource 
availability, measured as the wealth class of the family, affected the 
opportunity and intensity of phenotypic selection on the key life-history traits 
of women living in pre-industrial Finland during the 1800s and 1900s. We found 
the highest opportunity for total selection and the strongest selection on 
earlier age at first reproduction in women of the poorest wealth class, whereas 
selection favoured older age at reproductive cessation in mothers of the 
wealthier classes. We also found clear differences in female life-history traits 
across wealth classes: the poorest women had the lowest age-specific survival 
throughout their lives, they started reproduction later, delivered fewer 
offspring during their lifetime, ceased reproduction younger, had poorer 
offspring survival to adulthood and, hence, had lower fitness compared to the 
wealthier women. Our results show that the amount of wealth affected the 
selection pressure on female life-history in a pre-industrial human population.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000606
PMCID: PMC1904257
PMID: 17622351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


880. Can J Cardiol. 2007 Jul;23(9):711-8. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70815-2.

Lessons for a national pharmaceuticals strategy in Canada from Australia and New 
Zealand.

LeLorier J(1), Rawson NS.

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche CHUM - HÃ´tel-Dieu de MontrÃ©al, Pharmacoepidemiology and 
Pharmacoeconomics Research Unit, Montreal, Quebec. massicoa@umontreal.ca

BACKGROUND: The provincial formulary review processes in Canada lead to the slow 
and inequitable availability of new products. In 2004, the exploration of a 
national pharmaceuticals strategy (NPS) was announced. The pricing policies of 
New Zealand and Australia have been suggested as possible models for the NPS.
OBJECTIVE: To compare health care indexes and health care use information from 
Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
METHODS: The 2006 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development health 
data were used to compare health and health care indexes from Canada, Australia 
and New Zealand between 1994 and 2002 to 2004. The principal focus of the 
evaluation was cardiovascular and respiratory disorders.
RESULTS: Although the mortality rate from acute myocardial infarction decreased 
in each country from 1994, it levelled off in New Zealand in 1997, 1998 and 
1999. Between 1994 and 2003, the average length of hospital stay for any cause 
and for cardiovascular disorders was stable in Australia and Canada, but 
increased in New Zealand, while the rate of hospital discharges for 
cardiovascular diseases decreased in Canada and Australia, but strongly 
increased in New Zealand. Over the same period, sales of cardiovascular drugs 
decreased in New Zealand, while sharply increasing in Canada and Australia.
CONCLUSIONS: Although only circumstantial, our results suggest an association 
between decreasing cardiovascular drug sales and markers of declining 
cardiovascular health in New Zealand. Careful consideration must be given to the 
potential consequences of any model for an NPS in Canada, as well as to 
opportunities provided for discussion and input from health care professionals 
and patients.

CONTEXTE: Le processus de rÃ©vision des listes provinciales de mÃ©dicaments au 
Canada conduit Ã  une arrivÃ©e lente et inÃ©quitable des nouveaux produits. 
Lâanalyse exploratoire dâune stratÃ©gie pharmaceutique nationale (SPN) a Ã©tÃ© 
annoncÃ©e en 2004. On a suggÃ©rÃ© dâappliquer les politiques dâÃ©tablissement des 
prix en vigueur en Australie et en Nouvelle-ZÃ©lande comme modÃ¨les possibles de 
SPN.
BUT: LâÃ©tude avait pour but de comparer les indices de soins de santÃ© et les 
donnÃ©es sur lâutilisation des soins de santÃ© entre le Canada, lâAustralie et la 
Nouvelle-ZÃ©lande.
MÃTHODE: Nous avons utilisÃ© les donnÃ©es 2006 de lâOrganisation de coopÃ©ration et 
de dÃ©veloppement Ã©conomiques sur la santÃ© pour comparer les indices de santÃ© et 
de soins de santÃ© entre le Canada, lâAustralie et la Nouvelle-ZÃ©lande, de 1994 Ã  
2002 jusquâen 2004. Le principal point dâintÃ©rÃªt Ã©tait les maladies 
respiratoires et cardiovasculaires.
RÃSULTATS: MÃªme si le taux de mortalitÃ© attribuable Ã  lâinfarctus du myocarde a 
diminuÃ© dans chacun des pays Ã  partir de 1994, il a atteint un plateau en 
Nouvelle-ZÃ©lande en 1997, 1998 et 1999. La durÃ©e moyenne du sÃ©jour Ã  lâhÃ´pital, 
de 1994 Ã  2003, pour tous types de troubles et pour les troubles 
cardiovasculaires est restÃ©e stable en Australie et au Canada mais a augmentÃ© en 
Nouvelle-ZÃ©lande, tandis que le taux de sortie de lâhÃ´pital pour les maladies 
cardiovasculaires a diminuÃ© au Canada et en Australie mais a considÃ©rablement 
augmentÃ© en Nouvelle-ZÃ©lande. Pendant la mÃªme pÃ©riode, les ventes de mÃ©dicaments 
Ã  action cardiovasculaire ont diminuÃ© en Nouvelle-ZÃ©lande mais ont fortement 
augmentÃ© au Canada et en Australie.
CONCLUSIONS: Bien quâil ne sâagisse que dâÃ©lÃ©ments probants indirects, les 
rÃ©sultats donnent Ã  penser quâil existe un lien entre la diminution des ventes 
de mÃ©dicaments Ã  action cardiovasculaire et les indicateurs de dÃ©tÃ©rioration de 
la santÃ© cardiovasculaire en Nouvelle-ZÃ©lande. Aussi faudra-t-il porter une 
attention particuliÃ¨re aux consÃ©quences possibles des diffÃ©rents modÃ¨les de SPN 
au Canada et aux possibilitÃ©s, pour les professionnels de la santÃ© et pour les 
patients, de participer aux discussions et dâÃ©mettre leurs commentaires.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70815-2
PMCID: PMC2651914
PMID: 17622393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. JAMA. 2007 Jul 11;298(2):221-4. doi: 10.1001/jama.298.2.221.

Relevance of cost-effectiveness analysis to clinicians and policy makers.

Detsky AS(1), Laupacis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Management, and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. allan.detsky@uhn.on.ca

DOI: 10.1001/jama.298.2.221
PMID: 17622605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Int J STD AIDS. 2007 Jul;18(7):501-4. doi: 10.1258/095646207781147364.

HIV-associated early gastric adenocarcinoma successfully cured with surgery, and 
followed over eight years.

Manfredi R(1), Sabbatani S, Fasulo G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Clinical and Experimental 
Medicine, 'Alma Mater Studiorum' University of Bologna, S Orsola-Malpighi 
Hospital, Bologna, Italy. roberto.manfredi@unibo.it

An extremely rare case report of HIV-associated gastric adenocarcinoma 
surgically treated in the year 1998 in a 37-year-old male patient already HIV 
positive for 10 years, with a complete post-surgery disease-free follow-up of 
eight years, is described. An international literature search allowed us to 
report the available details of the only nine cases of HIV-associated gastric 
cancer yet published. Seven occurred prior to the introduction of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and were burdened by a rapid disease evolution, 
while only two patients were reported after the introduction of HAART (like 
ours) and obtained surgical cure. Detailed data regarding complications, 
sequelae and overall survival are not given. Notably, even four of the nine 
published reports came from Japan, and an early disease development was usual 
(37-50 years of age at diagnosis). Due to its relevant differential diagnosis 
implications with many other HIV-related gastrointestinal disturbances caused by 
functional and organic diseases (drug-related disturbances, HIV infection 
itself, opportunistic infections, and Kaposi's sarcoma and malignant lymphomas 
being the most frequent disorders) and the possibility of maintaining an 
adequate life-expectancy when diagnosis and aggressive treatment are not 
delayed, gastric cancer should be considered carefully by all clinicians dealing 
with HIV disease.

DOI: 10.1258/095646207781147364
PMID: 17623512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. JOP. 2007 Jul 9;8(4):365-73.

Pancreatic cancer: is this bleak landscape finally changing? Highlights from the 
'43rd ASCO Annual Meeting'. Chicago, IL, USA. June 1-5, 2007.

Saif MW.

Pancreatic cancer remains a major therapeutic challenge in 2007. Most patients 
with advanced pancreatic cancer experience pain and must limit their daily 
activities because of tumor-related symptoms. Single-agent gemcitabine remains 
the standard treatment for advanced pancreatic cancer , which has shown 
improvement in disease-related symptoms and a modest benefit in survival. Recent 
phase III trials using gemcitabine in combination with other chemotherapeutic 
agents have failed to show improvements in survival, although the 
gemcitabine/oxaliplatin and gemcitabine/capecitabine combinations have shown 
some promise. The combination of gemcitabine with erlotinib, though showed a 
statistically significant prolongation of survival, may not be clinically 
significant. Encouraging results in two separate phase II trials of gemcitabine 
in combination with bevacizumab and cetuximab respectively led to two major 
randomized comparative trials of the combination (Cancer and Leukemia Group B, 
CALGB 80303; Southwest Oncology Group, SWOG S0205). The results of these studies 
presented at the 43rd American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual 
Meeting, Chicago, IL, USA (June 1-5, 2007) showed no benefit of the combination. 
'How can we change this bleak landscape?'. Probably by truly targeting our 
therapy with the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) agents as well as other 
biologic agents by identifying those patients who are most likely to derive 
benefit and achieve meaningful responses. This is particularly crucial in a 
disease such as pancreatic cancer that has such a short life expectancy that the 
'window' for any given treatment may be quite small. Consequently, further study 
should include the development of more predictive assays and improved 
exploitation of surrogate biomarkers of response. We need to study locally 
advanced pancreatic cancer patients separate from advanced pancreatic cancer 
patients. Role of multiple-targeted agents is also warranted. It's also time to 
investigate gemcitabine-free regimens. Two recent studies presented at ASCO 
showed that irinotecan/docetaxel or FOLFIRINOX (5-fluorouracil/leucovorin, 
irinotecan and oxaliplatin) can offer comparable results to gemcitabine when 
used as first-line treatment for advanced pancreatic cancer. Development of 
novel agents and approaches, are urgently needed in conjunction with improvement 
in access to clinical trials for patients.

PMID: 17625289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Inorg Chem. 2007 Aug 6;46(16):6621-31. doi: 10.1021/ic7006843. Epub 2007 Jul
11.

Structural, kinetic, and thermodynamic characterization of the interconverting 
isomers of MS-325, a gadolinium(III)-based magnetic resonance angiography 
contrast agent.

Tyeklar Z(1), Dunham SU, Midelfort K, Scott DM, Sajiki H, Ong K, Lauffer RB, 
Caravan P, McMurry TJ.

Author information:
(1)EPIX Pharmaceuticals Inc, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.

The amphiphilic gadolinium complex MS-325 
((trisodium-{(2-(R)-[(4,4-diphenylcyclohexyl) phosphonooxymethyl] 
diethylenetriaminepentaacetato) (aquo)gadolinium(III)}) is a contrast agent for 
magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). MS-325 comprises a GdDTPA core with an 
appended phosphodiester moiety linked to a diphenylcyclohexyl group to 
facilitate noncovalent binding to serum albumin and extension of the plasma 
half-life in vivo. The chiral DTPA ligand (R) was derived from L-serine, and 
upon complexation with gadolinium, forms two interconvertible diastereomers, 
denoted herein as isomers A and B. X-ray crystallography of the 
tris(ethylenediamine)cobalt(III) salt derivative of isomer A revealed a 
structure in the polar acentric space group P32. The structure consisted of 
three independent molecules of the gadolinium complex in the asymmetric unit 
along with three Delta-[Co(en)3]3+ cations, and it represents an unusual example 
of spontaneous Pasteur resolution of the cobalt cation. The geometry of the 
coordination core was best described as a distorted trigonal prism, and the 
final R factor was 5.6%. The configuration of the chiral central nitrogen of the 
DTPA core was S. The Gd-water (2.47-2.48 A), the Gd-acetate oxygens (2.34-2.42 
A), and the Gd-N bond distances (central N, 2.59-2.63 A; terminal N, 2.74-2.80 
A) were similar to other reported GdDTPA structures. The structurally 
characterized single crystal was one of two interconvertable diastereomers 
(isomers A and B) that equilibrated to a ratio of 1.81 to 1 at pH 7.4 and were 
separable at elevated pH by ion-exchange chromatography. The rate of 
isomerization was highly pH dependent: k1 = (1.45 +/- 0.08) x 102[H+] + (4.16 
+/- 0.30) x 105[H+]2; k-1 = (2.57 +/- 0.17) x 102[H+] + (7.54 +/- 0.60) x 
105[H+]2.

DOI: 10.1021/ic7006843
PMID: 17625838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Sex Transm Infect. 2007 Oct;83(6):441-6. doi: 10.1136/sti.2007.025361. Epub
2007  Jul 11.

One to one interventions to reduce sexually transmitted infections and under the 
age of 18 conceptions: a systematic review of the economic evaluations.

Barham L(1), Lewis D, Latimer N.

Author information:
(1)NERA Economic Consulting, 15 Stratford Place, London, UK, W1C 1BE. 
leela.barham@nera.com

Comment in
    Sex Transm Infect. 2007 Oct;83(6):423-4.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically review and critically appraise the economic 
evaluations of one to one interventions to reduce sexually transmitted 
infections (STIs) and teenage conceptions.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
DATA SOURCES: Search of four electronic bibliographic databases from 1990 to 
January 2006. Search keywords included teenage, pregnancy, adolescent, 
unplanned, unwanted, cost benefit, cost utility, economic evaluation, cost 
effectiveness and all terms for STIs, including specific diseases.
REVIEW METHODS: We included studies that evaluated a broad range of one to one 
interventions to reduce STIs. Outcomes included major outcomes averted, life 
years and quality adjusted life years (QALY). All studies were assessed against 
quality criteria.
RESULTS: Of 3,190 identified papers, 55 were included. The majority of studies 
found one to one interventions to be either cost saving or cost effective, 
although one highlighted the need to target the population to receive 
post-exposure prophylaxis to reduce transmission of HIV. Most studies used a 
static approach that ignores the potential re-infection of treated patients.
CONCLUSION: One to one interventions have been shown to be cost saving or cost 
effective but there are some limitations in applying this evidence to the UK 
policy context. More UK research using dynamic modelling approaches and QALYs 
would provide improved evidence, enabling more robust policy recommendations to 
be made about which one to one interventions are cost effective in reducing STIs 
in the UK setting. The results of this review can be used by policy makers, 
health economists and researchers considering further research in this area.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.2007.025361
PMCID: PMC2598700
PMID: 17626115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None


886. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Jul 12;7:108. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-108.

HIV prevention costs and program scale: data from the PANCEA project in five low 
and middle-income countries.

Marseille E(1), Dandona L, Marshall N, Gaist P, Bautista-Arredondo S, Rollins B, 
Bertozzi SM, Coovadia J, Saba J, Lioznov D, Du Plessis JA, Krupitsky E, Stanley 
N, Over M, Peryshkina A, Kumar SG, Muyingo S, Pitter C, Lundberg M, Kahn JG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy Studies, University of California, San Francisco, 
USA. emarseille@comcast.net

BACKGROUND: Economic theory and limited empirical data suggest that costs per 
unit of HIV prevention program output (unit costs) will initially decrease as 
small programs expand. Unit costs may then reach a nadir and start to increase 
if expansion continues beyond the economically optimal size. Information on the 
relationship between scale and unit costs is critical to project the cost of 
global HIV prevention efforts and to allocate prevention resources efficiently.
METHODS: The "Prevent AIDS: Network for Cost-Effectiveness Analysis" (PANCEA) 
project collected 2003 and 2004 cost and output data from 206 HIV prevention 
programs of six types in five countries. The association between scale and 
efficiency for each intervention type was examined for each country. Our team 
characterized the direction, shape, and strength of this association by fitting 
bivariate regression lines to scatter plots of output levels and unit costs. We 
chose the regression forms with the highest explanatory power (R2).
RESULTS: Efficiency increased with scale, across all countries and 
interventions. This association varied within intervention and within country, 
in terms of the range in scale and efficiency, the best fitting regression form, 
and the slope of the regression. The fraction of variation in efficiency 
explained by scale ranged from 26-96%. Doubling in scale resulted in reductions 
in unit costs averaging 34.2% (ranging from 2.4% to 58.0%). Two regression 
trends, in India, suggested an inflection point beyond which unit costs 
increased.
CONCLUSION: Unit costs decrease with scale across a wide range of service types 
and volumes. These country and intervention-specific findings can inform 
projections of the global cost of scaling up HIV prevention efforts.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-108
PMCID: PMC1936993
PMID: 17626616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Musculoskelet Neuronal Interact. 2007 Apr-Jun;7(2):131-43.

Middle East and North Africa consensus on osteoporosis.

Maalouf G(1), GannagÃ©-Yared MH, Ezzedine J, Larijani B, Badawi S, Rached A, 
Zakroui L, Masri B, Azar E, Saba E, Nammari R, Adib G, Abou Samra H, Alrawi Z, 
Salman S, El Muntasser K, Tarseen R, El Kharousi W, Al-Lamki M, Alothman AN, 
Almarzook N, El Dessouki M, Sulaimani R, Saleh J, Suhaili AR, Khan A, Delmas P, 
Seeman E.

Author information:
(1)Lebanese Osteoporosis Prevention Society, Shariati Hospital, Iran.

With the increasing life expectancy, osteoporosis is becoming a major worldwide 
health problem. The magnitude of the disease may become larger in developing 
countries, more particularly in the Middle East region where the prevalence of 
low bone mass is higher than in western countries. Although several local 
organizations and countries have developed guidelines for osteoporosis, no 
previous regional guidelines have been developed encompassing all Middle-Eastern 
and North African countries. The present document reviews all the regional 
published data on bone mineral density, risk factors, fracture prevalence and 
vitamin D status. It also gives simple recommendations applicable to all these 
countries. This document was endorsed by leading members of all the different 
regional countries including, Iran, Egypt, Tunisia, Jordan, Palestine, Syria, 
Iraq, Libya, Oman, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain.

PMID: 17627082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Qual Manag Health Care. 2007 Jul-Sep;16(3):250-5. doi: 
10.1097/01.QMH.0000281061.15108.f8.

A patient-centered decision rule for referral of patients to weight-loss 
programs.

Rohrer JE(1), Merry SP, Lopez-Jimenez F, Adamson SC, Wilshusen L.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. rohrer.james@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND: The obesity epidemic threatens to shorten life expectancy and reduce 
the quality of life for large segments of the population. The purpose of this 
study was to develop a decision rule for referral to a weight-loss program on 
the basis of the relationship between body mass index (BMI) and self-rated 
overall health.
METHODS: We employed a patient satisfaction survey of family medicine patients 
treated in Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, linked with medical record 
information, to test the theory that, in primary care patients, BMI exhibits an 
inverse and independent relationship with overall self-rated health after 
adjusting for age, gender, marital status, and cigarette smoking. Interviews 
were linked to medical records for 679 adult patients.
RESULTS: Adjusting for age and other confounders using multiple logistic 
regression analysis revealed that overweight (BMI = 25-30 kg/m(2)) was not a 
risk factor for poor self-rated health and only BMI above 35 kg/m(2) was 
significantly related to poor overall health (adjusted odds ratio = 0.33, 
confidence interval = 0.17-0.64, P = .0012).
CONCLUSIONS: Quality improvement programs should monitor whether obesity is 
being addressed in clinical settings. A patient-centered decision rule for 
addressing obesity could involve referral of patients whose BMI is above 35 
kg/m(2) to weight management programs, monitoring of patients whose BMI scores 
are between 30 and 35 kg/m(2), and encouragement of patients whose BMI is above 
25 kg/m(2) to avoid weight gain.

DOI: 10.1097/01.QMH.0000281061.15108.f8
PMID: 17627220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Mol Microbiol. 2007 Aug;65(4):948-58. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2007.05839.x.
 Epub 2007 Jul 11.

Deletion of putative apoptosis factors leads to lifespan extension in the fungal 
ageing model Podospora anserina.

Hamann A(1), Brust D, Osiewacz HD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences, Institute of Molecular Biosciences, J.W. Goethe 
University, Max-von-Laue-Str. 9, D-60438 Frankfurt, Germany. 
a.hamann@bio.uni-frankfurt.de

Podospora anserina is a filamentous fungus with a limited lifespan. After a 
strain-specific period of growth, cultures turn to senescence and ultimately 
die. Here we provide evidence that the last step in the ageing of P. anserina is 
not accidental but programmed. In this study, PaAMID1, a homologue of a 
mammalian 'AIF-homologous mitochondrion-associated inducer of death', was 
analysed as a putative member of a caspase-independent signalling pathway. In 
addition, two metacaspases, PaMCA1 and PaMCA2, were investigated. While deletion 
of PaAmid1 as well as of PaMca2 was found to result in a moderate lifespan 
extension (59% and 78%, respectively), a 148% increase in lifespan was observed 
after deletion of PaMca1. Measurement of arginine-specific protease activity 
demonstrates a metacaspase-dependent activity in senescent but not in juvenile 
cultures, pointing to an activation of these proteases in the senescent stage of 
the life cycle. Moreover, treatment of juvenile wild-type cultures with hydrogen 
peroxide leads to a PaMCA1-dependent activity. The presented data strongly 
suggest that death of senescent wild-type cultures is triggered by an apoptotic 
programme induced by an age-dependent increase of reactive oxygen species during 
ageing of cultures and is executed after metacaspase activation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2007.05839.x
PMID: 17627766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. BioDrugs. 2007;21(4):269-71. doi: 10.2165/00063030-200721040-00007.

Spotlight on agalsidase beta in Fabry disease.

Keating GM(1), Simpson D.

Author information:
(1)Wolters Kluwer Health/Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Agalsidase beta (Fabrazyme) is a recombinant human alpha-galactosidase A enzyme 
approved for intravenous use in the treatment of Fabry disease. Fabry disease is 
a progressive, multisystemic, potentially life-threatening disorder caused by a 
deficiency of alpha-galactosidase A. This deficiency results in accumulation of 
glycosphingolipids, particularly globotriaosylceramide (GL-3), in the lysosomes 
of various tissues. This accumulation is the underlying driver of disease 
progression. Agalsidase beta provides an exogenous source of alpha-galactosidase 
A. Intravenous agalsidase beta is effective and well tolerated in patients with 
Fabry disease. In a phase III trial, agalsidase beta was shown to clear GL-3 
from various target cells and, in a subsequent extension of this trial, prevent 
GL-3 reaccumulation. In a post-approval trial, agalsidase beta was shown to 
provide significant clinical benefit by reducing the risk of a major clinical 
event. Thus, agalsidase beta represents an important advance in the treatment of 
Fabry disease, and agalsidase beta therapy should be strongly considered in 
patients with Fabry disease who are suitable candidates.

DOI: 10.2165/00063030-200721040-00007
PMID: 17628124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Ann Vasc Surg. 2007 Jul;21(4):443-51. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2006.08.005. Epub
2007  Feb 26.

A prospective feasibility study of duplex ultrasound arterial mapping, 
digital-subtraction angiography, and magnetic resonance angiography in 
management of critical lower limb ischemia by endovascular revascularization.

Lowery AJ(1), Hynes N, Manning BJ, Mahendran M, Tawfik S, Sultan S.

Author information:
(1)Western Vascular Institute, University College Hospital, Galway, Ireland.

Duplex ultrasound arterial mapping (DUAM) allows precise evaluation of 
peripheral vascular disease (PVD). However, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) 
and digital-subtraction angiography (DSA) are the diagnostic tools used most 
frequently prior to intervention. Our aim was to compare clinical pragmatism, 
hemodynamic outcomes, and cost-effectiveness when using DUAM alone compared to 
DSA or MRA as preoperative assessment tools for endovascular revascularization 
(EvR) in critical lower limb ischemia (CLI). From 2002 through 2005, 465 
patients were referred with PVD. Of these, 199 had CLI and 137 required EvR. 
Preoperative diagnostic evaluation included DUAM (n = 41), DSA (n = 50), or MRA 
(n = 46). EvR was aortoiliac in 27% of cases and infrainguinal in 73%. Patients 
were assessed at day 1, 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months. Composite end points 
were relief of rest pain, ulcer/gangrene healing, and increase in perfusion 
pressure, as measured by ankle-brachial index (ABI) and digital pressures. 
Patency by DUAM, limb salvage, morbidity, mortality, length of stay, and 
cost-effectiveness were compared between groups using nonparametric t-test, 
analysis of variance, and Kaplan-Meier analysis. The three groups were 
comparable in terms of age, sex, comorbidity, and Society for Vascular 
Surgery/International Society of Cardiovascular Surgery clinical classification. 
Six-month mean improvement in ABI in the DUAM group was comparable to that in 
the DSA group (P = 0.25) and significantly better than that in the MRA group (P 
< 0.05). Six-month patency rates for the DUAM group were comparable to those in 
the DSA group (P = 0.68, relative risk [RR] = 0.74, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
0.18-2.99) and superior to that in the MRA group (P = 0.022, RR = 0.255, 95% CI 
0.09-0.71). Length of hospital stay was lower in the DUAM group compared with 
the DSA group (P < 0.0001) and the MRA group (P = 0.0003). The cost of DUAM is 
lower than that of both DSA and MRA. DUAM accurately identified the total number 
of target lesions for revascularization; however, MRA overestimated it. Our 
results indicate that DUAM is outstanding when compared with other available 
modalities as a preoperative imaging tool in a successful EvR program. DUAM is a 
minimally invasive preoperative evaluation for EvR and offers precise 
consecutive data with patency and limb salvage rates comparable to EvR based on 
DSA and superior to MRA. We believe that our feasibility study has established 
DUAM as an economically proficient primary modality for investigating patients 
with CLI that significantly shortens length of hospital stay.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2006.08.005
PMID: 17628263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Urol Oncol. 2007 Jul-Aug;25(4):291-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2006.08.001.

Prostate cancer disease-free survival after radical retropubic prostatectomy in 
patients older than 70 years compared to younger cohorts.

Malaeb BS(1), Rashid HH, Lotan Y, Khoddami SM, Shariat SF, Sagalowsky AI, 
McConnell JD, Roehrborn CG, Koeneman KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the feasibility of radical retropubic prostatectomy 
(RRP) as an option for treating men older than 70 years with organ confined 
prostate cancer and to compare biochemical progression-free survival with 
younger cohorts.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 689 consecutive patients who were treated with 
RRP from 1994 to 2002 for clinically localized prostate cancer were categorized 
into 3 different age groups: younger than 50 years (n = 49), 50-70 years (n = 
601), and older than 70 years (n = 39). Patients older than 70 years were 
healthy individuals for their age. Preoperative and postoperative 
cancer-specific characteristics were compared among these 3 groups.
RESULTS: There was no statistical significant difference among the 3 age strata 
in terms of clinical parameters (prostate-specific antigen, Gleason score, 
clinical stage, percent and number of positive biopsy cores) and pathologic 
findings (surgical margin, lymph node status, extracapsular extension, 
lymphovascular invasion, and pathologic Gleason score). The rate of seminal 
vesicle invasion and prostate volume increased with advancing age (P = 0.034 and 
P < 0.001). In multivariate logistic regression analysis, age was not associated 
with seminal vesicle invasion. The 5-year prostate-specific antigen 
progression-free estimates for patients younger than 50, 50-70, and older than 
70 years were 82% (95% confidence interval [CI] 69% to 96%), 82% (95% CI 78% to 
86%), and 65% (95% CI 43% to 86%), respectively (P = 0.349). The overall and 
cause-specific mortalities were not different.
CONCLUSIONS: RRP could be considered a standard treatment option in men older 
than 70 years with localized prostate cancer. Further studies are necessary to 
assess the survival benefit and health-related quality of life after radical 
prostatectomy versus watchful waiting in patients older than 70 years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2006.08.001
PMID: 17628294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Med Mal Infect. 2007 Dec;37(12):809-15. doi: 10.1016/j.medmal.2007.05.003.
Epub  2007 Jul 12.

[Antiretroviral therapy in critically ill patients: a French national study].

[Article in French]

Dinh A(1), Salomon J, Vuagnat A, De Truchis P, Maury E, Bernard L.

Author information:
(1)Service des maladies infectieuses, CHU Raymond-PoincarÃ©, APHP, 104, boulevard 
Raymond-PoincarÃ©, 92380 Garches, France.

SETTINGS: The HIV-positive population is still increasing because the incidence 
of the disease remains high while the effectiveness of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has dramatically reduced mortality. HIV infected 
patients have an increased life expectancy and are more readily admitted to 
intensive care units.
METHOD: We conducted a nation-wide comparative study in France of how these 
patients are managed by ICU specialists, on one hand, and HIV specialists, on 
the other, to better understand the use of antiretroviral therapy in critically 
ill patients.
RESULTS: The results show heterogeneous responses of ICU specialists with an 
important proportion of non decisive answers. The answers of HIV specialists are 
more homogeneous. There appears to be little or no cooperation between the two 
specialties. The CISIH (French centers for the information and care of human 
immunodeficiency) are rarely consulted.
CONCLUSIONS: ICU specialists must be better informed on this rapidly evolving 
disease. Access to updated information or to an HIV specialists must be made 
easier. Studies should also be made on how HAART is employed in ICUs 
(pharmacology, pharmacodynamics...).
