PMCID: PMC2043181
PMID: 17638703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Cancer Res. 2007 Jul 15;67(14):6612-8. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-0085.

SIRT1 is significantly elevated in mouse and human prostate cancer.

Huffman DM(1), Grizzle WE, Bamman MM, Kim JS, Eltoum IA, Elgavish A, Nagy TR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Physiology and Metabolism, Department of Nutrition Sciences, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, 1670 University Boulevard, Birmingham, AL 
35294, USA. dhuffman@uab.edu

Erratum in
    Cancer Res. 2007 Sep 1;67(17):8423.

Evidence suggests that the histone deacetylase, SIRT1, is a mediator of life 
span extension by calorie restriction; however, SIRT1 may paradoxically increase 
the risk of cancer. To better understand the relationship among SIRT1, energy 
balance, and cancer, two experiments were done. First, a transgenic mouse model 
of prostate cancer (transgenic adenocarcinoma of mouse prostate; TRAMP) was used 
to determine the role of energy balance on SIRT1 expression and the effect of 
cancer stage on SIRT1 and hypermethylated in cancer-1 (HIC-1). Second, 
immunohistochemistry was done on human prostate tumors to determine if SIRT1 was 
differentially expressed in tumor cells versus uninvolved cells. Results show 
that SIRT1 is not increased in the dorsolateral prostate (DLP) of 
calorie-restricted mice during carcinogenesis. In contrast, when examined in the 
DLP as a function of pathologic score, SIRT1 was significantly elevated in mice 
with poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas compared with those with 
less-advanced disease. HIC-1, which has been shown to regulate SIRT1 levels, was 
markedly reduced in the same tumors, suggesting that a reduction in HIC-1 may be 
in part responsible for the increased expression of SIRT1 in prostatic 
adenocarcinomas. Furthermore, immunostaining of human prostate tumors showed 
that cancer cells had greater SIRT1 expression than uninvolved cells. In 
conclusion, DLP SIRT1 expression from calorie-restricted mice was not altered 
during carcinogenesis. However, SIRT1 expression was increased in mice with 
poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas and in human prostate cancer cells. 
Because SIRT1 may function as a tumor promoter, these results suggest that SIRT1 
should be considered as a potential therapeutic target for prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-0085
PMID: 17638871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Bull World Health Organ. 2007 May;85(5):341-7. doi: 10.2471/blt.06.037820.

Planning to improve global health: the next decade of tuberculosis control.

Maher D(1), Dye C, Floyd K, Pantoja A, Lonnroth K, Reid A, Nathanson E, Pennas 
T, Fruth U, Cunningham J, Ignatius H, Raviglione MC, Koek I, Espinal M.

Author information:
(1)Stop TB Department, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland.

The Global Plan to Stop TB 2006-2015 is a road map for policy-makers and 
managers of national programmes. It sets out the key actions needed to achieve 
the targets of the Millennium Development Goals relating to tuberculosis (TB): 
to halve the prevalence and deaths by 2015 relative to 1990 levels and to save 
14 million lives. Developed by a broad coalition of partners, the plan presents 
a model approach combining interventions that can feasibly be supplied on the 
ground. The main areas of activity set out in the plan are: scaling up 
interventions to control tuberculosis; promoting the research and development of 
improved diagnostics, drugs and vaccines; and engaging in related activities for 
advocacy, communications and social mobilization. Scenarios for the planning 
process were developed; these looked at issues both globally and in seven 
epidemiological regions. The scenarios made ambitious but realistic assumptions 
about the pace of scale-up and implementation coverage of the activities. A 
mathematical model was used to estimate the impact of scaling up current 
interventions based on data from studies of tuberculosis biology and from 
experience with tuberculosis control in diverse settings. The estimated costs of 
the activities set out in the Global Plan were based on implementing 
interventions and researching and developing drugs, diagnostics and vaccines; 
these costs were US$ 56 billion over 10 years. When translated into cost per 
disability adjusted life year averted, these costs compare favourably with those 
of other public health interventions. This approach to planning for global 
tuberculosis control is a valuable example of developing plans to improve global 
health that has relevance for other health issues.

Le plan mondial Halte à la tuberculose 2006-2015 fournit des lignes directrices 
aux décideurs politiques et aux directeurs de programmes nationaux. Il présente 
les interventions clés nécessaires à la réalisation des objectifs du Millénaire 
pour le développement concernant la tuberculose (TB), à savoir faire baisser de 
moitié, entre 1990 et 2015, la prévalence de cette maladie et la mortalité lui 
étant imputable et épargner 14 millions de vies. Mis au point par un vaste 
groupement de partenaires, le plan propose un modèle de stratégie associant des 
interventions faciles à mettre en œuvre sur le terrain. Les principaux domaines 
d’activité prévus sont : le passage à l’échelle supérieure des interventions de 
lutte antituberculeuse, la promotion des travaux de recherche et développement 
concernant des outils diagnostiques, des médicaments et des vaccins plus 
performants et l’engagement dans des activités connexes de plaidoyer, de 
communication et de mobilisation sociale. Des scénarios ont été développés pour 
aider au processus de planification : ils considèrent les problèmes à l’échelle 
mondiale et dans sept régions épidémiologiques. Ces scénarios reposent sur des 
hypothèses ambitieuses, mais réalistes, quant au rythme de passage à l’échelle 
supérieure et de développement de la couverture des activités. Un modèle 
mathématique a été utilisé pour évaluer l’impact du passage à l’échelle 
supérieure des interventions en cours à partir de données d’études biologiques 
sur la tuberculose et de l’expérience acquise dans divers contextes en matière 
de lutte antituberculeuse. Les estimations de coûts pour les activités prévues 
par le Plan mondial correspondent à la mise en œuvre des interventions et aux 
travaux de recherche et développement de médicaments, d’outils diagnostiques et 
de vaccins améliorés ; elles se montent à US$ 56 milliard sur 10 ans. Une fois 
convertis en coûts par année de vie corrigée de l’incapacité (DALY), ces 
chiffres supportent favorablement la comparaison avec ceux d’autres 
interventions de santé publique. Cette stratégie de planification de la lutte 
contre la tuberculose au niveau mondial est un exemple utile de programme de 
développement pour l’amélioration de la santé dans le monde, qui intéresse 
d’autres problèmes sanitaires.

El Plan Mundial para Detener la Tuberculosis 2006-2015 es una hoja de ruta para 
instancias normativas y gestores de programas nacionales. En él se establecen 
las principales intervenciones necesarias para alcanzar las metas de los 
Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio relacionadas con la tuberculosis: reducir a 
la mitad la prevalencia de esta enfermedad y la mortalidad por esa causa para 
2015 en comparación con los niveles de 1990 y salvar así 14 millones de vidas. 
Elaborado por una amplia coalición de asociados, el plan presenta un modelo que 
combina diversas intervenciones que pueden aplicarse de forma viable sobre el 
terreno. Las áreas principales de actividad contempladas en el plan son las 
siguientes: expansión de las intervenciones de lucha antituberculosa; promoción 
de la investigación y el desarrollo de mejores medios diagnósticos, medicamentos 
y vacunas; y participación en las actividades relacionadas con la promoción, las 
comunicaciones y la movilización social. Se desarrollaron distintos escenarios 
para el proceso de planificación, considerando los problemas a nivel mundial y 
en siete regiones epidemiológicas. Los escenarios partían de hipótesis 
ambiciosas pero realistas sobre el ritmo de expansión y la cobertura de 
aplicación de las actividades. Se utilizó un modelo matemático para estimar la 
repercusión de la expansión de las intervenciones actuales sobre la base de 
datos procedentes de estudios de la biología de la tuberculosis y de la 
experiencia de la lucha antituberculosa en diversos entornos. Los costos 
estimados de las actividades establecidas en el Plan Mundial -correspondientes a 
la ejecución de las intervenciones y la investigación y el desarrollo de 
medicamentos, medios de diagnóstico y vacunas- ascendían a US$ 56 000 millones a 
lo largo de 10 años. Traducidos al costo por AVAD (años de vida ajustados en 
función de la discapacidad) evitado, la cifra es más baja que la de otras 
intervenciones de salud pública. Este método de planificación del control 
mundial de la tuberculosis brinda un valioso ejemplo para elaborar planes de 
mejora de la salud mundial que revistan interés para otros problemas sanitarios.

تُعد الخطة العالمية لدحر السل 2006 – 2015 بمثابة خارطة طريق لأصحاب القرار 
السياسي ومديري البرامج الوطنية؛ فەي توطِّد الأنشطة الرئيسية اللازمة لتحقيق 
المرامي الإنمائية للألفية وأەدافەا المتعلِّقة بالسل؛ وەي الوصول بمعدلات الانتشار 
والوفيات عام 2015 إلى نصف ما كانت عليە عام 1990، وإنقاذ حياة 14 مليون نسمة. 
وتمثـِّل الخطة العالمية التي شارك في إعدادەا تحالف واسع النطاق من الشركاء 
أسلوباً نموذجياً يضم التدخلات التي يمكن تنفيذەا بسەولة في الواقع. أما مجالات 
العمل الرئيسية التي وطَّدتەا الخطة العالمية لدحر السل 2006 – 2015 فەي: النەوض 
بالتدخلات لمكافحة السل، وتعزيز البحوث وابتكار مواد تشخيصية وأدوات ولقاحات 
مُحَسَّنة، والمساەمة في الأنشطة المتعلِّقة بالحملات الإعلامية وبأنشطة التواصل، 
واستنەاض المجتمع لمكافحة السل. وقد أُعِدَّت السيناريوەات لعملية التخطيط، 
وتـتناول ەذە السيناريوەات القضايا على الصعيد العالمي وعلى صعيد الأقاليم 
الإبيديميولوجية السبعة. وقد وَضَعَتْ السيناريوەات افتـراضاتٍ طموحةً ولكنەا 
واقعية حول سرعة النەوض بالأنشطة وحول التغطية بتنفيذەا، كما استُخْدِم نموذج حسابي 
لتقدير أثر النەوض بالتدخلات الحالية اعتماداً على المعطيات التي جُمِعَتْ من 
دراسات حول بيولوجيا السل ومن الخبرات حول مكافحة السل في مواقع واسعة التباين. وقد 
ارتكزت التكاليف المقدَّرة للأنشطة التي وضعتەا الخطة العالمية لدحر السل 2006 – 
2015، على تنفيذ التدخلات وعلى البحوث وعلى ابتكار الأدوية والمواد التشخيصية 
واللقاحات، وقُدِّرَتْ ەذە التكاليف بـ 56 مليون دولار على مدى عشر سنوات، أما عند 
تـرجمتەا إلى التكاليف وفق سنوات العمر المصحِّحة باحتساب مُدَد العجز التي يمكن 
تفاديەا، فإن ەذە التكاليف تفوق التدخلات الأخرى للصحة العمومية عند مقارنتەا بەا. 
إن ەذا الأسلوب من التخطيط لمكافحة السل على الصعيد العالمي يُعد مثالاً ەاماً 
لإعداد الخطط لتحسين الصحة في العالم والتي قد يكون لەا علاقة مع القضايا الصحية 
الأخرى.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.06.037820
PMCID: PMC2636650
PMID: 17639217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Bull World Health Organ. 2007 Jun;85(6):474-81. doi: 10.2471/blt.06.036202.

Global comparative assessments of life expectancy: the impact of migration with 
reference to Australia.

Page A(1), Begg S, Taylor R, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of immigration on life expectancy in 
Australia for the period from 1981 to 2003, and to compare life expectancy of 
the Australian-born population with that of other countries in the Organisation 
for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
METHODS: Standard life-table methods using age-specific all-cause mortality and 
population data from 1981 to 2003 were used to calculate life expectancy at 
birth (e0) for the total Australian population (including migrants) and for 
people born in Australia (excluding migrants). Mean differences in life 
expectancy for each sex were compared using paired t-tests. Rankings of life 
expectancy among OECD countries were reassessed, and rank changes measured using 
the Wilcoxon signed rank test.
FINDINGS: Life expectancy of males and females was significantly lower in the 
Australian-born group than in the total Australian population. During 1981 to 
2003, there was a mean difference in life expectancy of 0.41 years (95% 
confidence interval, CI: 0.37-0.44; t(17) = 27.0; P < 0.0001) in males and 0.29 
years (95% CI: 0.26-0.31; t(17) = 27.6; P < 0.0001) in females between the 
Australian-born and the total population. After excluding migrant groups, 
Australia no longer ranked among the top five OECD countries with the highest 
life expectancy in the two most recent years examined.
CONCLUSION: While Australia has one of the highest life expectancies in the 
industrialized world, this is partly attributable to immigration of populations 
with low rates of mortality. This effect needs to be considered in international 
comparative assessments of mortality levels.

OBJECTIF: Etudier l’effet de l’immigration sur l’espérance de vie en Australie 
sur la période 1981–2003 et comparer l’espérance de vie pour les habitants de ce 
pays nés Australiens avec celle des habitants des autres pays de l’Organisation 
pour la coopération et le développement économiques (OCDE).
MÉTHODES: On a appliqué des méthodes classiques d’étude des courbes de survie à 
des données de mortalité par âge toutes causes confondues et à des données 
démographiques pour la période 1981–2003 afin de calculer l’espérance de vie à 
la naissance (En) de la population australienne totale (y compris les immigrés) 
et de la population née Australienne (sans les immigrés). On a comparé les 
espérances de vie moyennes pour chaque sexe au moyen de tests t appariés. On a 
réévalué le classement par espérance de vie des pays de l’OCDE et on a mesuré 
les changements de classement par le test de rangs de Wilcoxon.
RÉSULTATS: Les espérances de vie des hommes et des femmes appartenant à la 
fraction de la population née en Australie étaient significativement inférieures 
à celles des membres masculins et féminins de la population totale. Pour la 
période allant de 1981 à 2003, on a relevé une différence moyenne entre le 
groupe de population né en Australie et la population totale de 0,41 an 
[intervalle de confiance à 95% (IC) : 0,37–0,44 ; t17 = 27,0, p < 0,0001] pour 
les hommes et de 0,29 an [intervalle de confiance à 95% (IC) : 0,26–0,31 ; t17 = 
27,6 ; p < 0,0001] pour les femmes. Après exclusion des groupes de population 
immigrée, l’Australie ne fait plus partie des cinq premiers pays de l’OCDE les 
mieux placés pour l’espérance de vie pour les deux années étudiées les plus 
récentes.
CONCLUSION: Si l’espérance de vie calculée pour l’Australie est parmi les plus 
élevées du monde industrialisé, cette situation est en partie imputable à la 
présence de populations immigrées à faible taux de mortalité. Cet effet doit 
être pris en compte dans les évaluations comparatives à l’échelle internationale 
des taux de mortalité.

OBJETIVO: Investigar el efecto de la inmigración en la esperanza de vida en 
Australia durante el periodo de 1981 a 2003, y comparar la esperanza de vida de 
la población nacida en Australia con la de otros países de la Organización de 
Cooperación y Desarrollo Económicos (OCDE).
MÉTODOS: Se emplearon métodos estándar de las tablas de vida en los que se 
usaron la mortalidad por todas las causas por edades y datos demográficos de 
1981 a 2003 para calcular la esperanza de vida al nacer (e0) en la población 
australiana global (migrantes incluidos) y en la población nacida en Australia 
(migrantes excluidos). Las diferencias medias en la esperanza de vida para cada 
sexo se compararon mediante pruebas t pareadas. Se reevaluó la esperanza de vida 
en los países de la OCDE, reordenándolos por ese criterio, y se aplicó la prueba 
de ordenamiento con signo de Wilcoxon para medir los cambios de rango.
RESULTADOS: La esperanza de vida de hombres y mujeres fue significativamente 
inferior en el grupo nacido en Australia que en la población australiana global. 
Entre 1981 y 2003, se detectó una diferencia media de la esperanza de vida de 
0,41 años (intervalo de confianza (IC) del 95%: 0,37–0,44; t17 = 27,0; P < 
0,0001) en los hombres y de 0,29 años (IC95%: 0,26–0,31; t17 = 27,6; P < 0,0001) 
en las mujeres entre los nacidos en Australia y la población total. Tras excluir 
a los grupos migrantes, Australia dejó de figurar entre los cinco países de la 
OCDE con mayor esperanza de vida en los dos años más recientes examinados.
CONCLUSIÓN: Aunque Australia presenta una de las esperanzas de vida más altas 
del mundo industrializado, ello se debe en parte a la inmigración de poblaciones 
con tasas bajas de mortalidad. Este efecto debería tenerse en cuenta en las 
evaluaciones comparativas internacionales de la mortalidad.

الەدف: دراسة تأثير الەجرة على مأمول الحياة في استـراليا في الفتـرة بين 1981 
و2003؛ ومقارنة مأمول الحياة لدى السكان الذين وُلِدوا في استـراليا مع السكان 
الذين وُلِدوا في بلدان أخرى لمنظمة التعاون والتنمية في الميدان الاقتصادي.
الطريقة: استخدمت طرق معيارية لدراسة جدول مجريات الحياة بالاعتماد على معطيات 
سكانية ومعدلات الوفيات الناجمة عن جميع الأسباب والمعدلات الخاصة بكل مجموعة عمرية 
على حدة، في الفتـرة بين 1981 و2003، ولقياس مأمول الحياة وقت الولادة لمجمل السكان 
في استـراليا (ويشمل المەاجرين)، وللسكان الذين ولدوا في استـراليا (ولا يشمل 
المەاجرين) وقورنت الاختلافات الوسطية في مأمول الحياة لكلٍّ من الذكور والإناث على 
حدة باستخدام اختبارات ت – ستيودنت المزدوجة. وأُعيد تقيـيم مراتب مأمول الحياة بين 
بلدان منظمة التعاون والتنمية في الميدان الاقتصادي، وقياس التغيرات التي طرأت على 
المراتب باستخدام اختبار ويلكوكسون للمراتب ذات العلامات.
الموجودات: لقد كان مأمول الحياة لدى كل من الرجال والنساء في المجموعة التي وُلِد 
أفرادەا في استـراليا أقل بمقدار يُعْتَد بە إحصائياً من مجمل السكان 
الاستـراليـين. فخلال الفتـرة بين 1981 و2003، كان الاختلاف الوسطي في مأمول الحياة 
0.41 سنة (بفاصلة ثقة 95%، إذ تـراوح الاختلاف بين 0.37 و0.44، وكانت قيمة t17 
تساوي 27.0، وقوة الاحتمال أقل من 0.0001)، لدى الآباء و0.29 سنة (بفاصلة ثقة 95% 
إذ تـراوح الاختلاف بين 0.26 و0.31، وكانت قيمة t17تساوي 27.6، وقوة الاحتمال أقل 
من 0.0001)، لدى الأمەات ممن وُلِدوا في استـراليا وغيرەن من مجمل السكان. وبعد 
استبعاد مجموعات المەاجرين، لم تَعُد استـراليا ضمن البلدان الخمسة الأولى من بين 
بلدان منظمة التعاون والتنمية في الميدان الاقتصادي ذات مأمول الحياة الأعلى وفقاً 
للسنتَيْن الأخيرتَيْن اللتَيْن دُرِسَتا.
الاستنتاج: رغم أن لاستـراليا أعلى مأمول حياة من بين البلدان الصناعية، فإن ذلك 
الارتفاع يُعزى جزئياً لەجرة السكان من ذوي المعدلات المنخفضة في معدل الوفيات، 
ولابد من أخذ ەذا التأثير في الاعتبار عند إجراء التقيـيمات المقارنة الدولية 
لمستويات معدلات الوفيات.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.06.036202
PMCID: PMC2636351
PMID: 17639245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2007 Mar-Apr;81(2):155-65. doi: 
10.1590/s1135-57272007000200006.

[Differences in disability-free life expectancy by gender and autonomous regions 
in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Gispert R(1), Ruíz-Ramos M, Barés MA, Viciana F, Clot-Razquin G.

Author information:
(1)Servei d'Informació i Estudis, Departament de Salut, Generalitat de 
Catalunya. rosa.gispert@gencat.net

BACKGROUND: Improvement of population health is the main aim and an important 
challenge for the health system. To monitor the population health indicators 
like disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) have been implemented. The purpose 
of this paper was to analyze the geographical distribution of DFLE according to 
autonomous regions in Spain.
METHODS: Data of mortality, population and disability for the year 1999, 
provided by the National Institute of Statistics (INE), were used. To calculate 
DFLE by gender and region we used the Sullivan method that weights the expected 
time to live according to the status of disablement of the population. The 
standard error of DFLE, the expectation of disability and the proportion of time 
lived free of disability have also been estimated.
RESULTS: In 1999 the DFLE at birth in Spain was 68.5 year for men and 72.2 years 
in women. Men lived proportionally more time free of disability than women (91% 
versus 87.7%) with an expectation of disability of 6.8 and 10.1 years 
respectively. Variability among regions was higher in DFLE than in life 
expectancy (LE). The regions with highest LE are not always those with the 
highest proportion of time lived without disability.
CONCLUSIONS: Highest life expectancy does not always mean best health as it has 
been assumed currently. The DFLE indicator is a useful tool to show health 
status differences among the Spanish population.

DOI: 10.1590/s1135-57272007000200006
PMID: 17639683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(8):685-93. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200725080-00006.

A stated preference binary choice experiment to explore NICE decision making.

Tappenden P(1), Brazier J, Ratcliffe J, Chilcott J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, England. P.Tappenden@Sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To explore whether the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) takes account of concerns other than just incremental cost 
effectiveness in commissioning healthcare services.
METHOD: A stated preference binary choice experiment was used to explore the 
preferences of members of NICE's Appraisal Committees for incremental cost 
effectiveness, the degree of uncertainty surrounding incremental costs and 
health outcomes, the age of beneficiaries, baseline health-related quality of 
life (HR-QOL) and the availability of alternative therapies when considering 
whether to recommend health technologies.
RESULTS: A logit modelling analysis of Committee members' stated preferences 
suggested that increases in the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio and 
economic uncertainty, and the availability of other therapies was associated 
with statistically significant reductions in the odds of a positive 
recommendation (p < 0.01). The transition from a very low to a comparatively 
high level of baseline HR-QOL was also associated with a statistically 
significant reduction in the odds of a positive recommendation (p = 0.003). The 
age of beneficiaries did not significantly affect decisions concerning whether 
to recommend technologies.
CONCLUSION: The results of the choice experiment support the notion of a 
probabilistic adoption/rejection approach rather than the operation of a single 
cost-effectiveness threshold.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725080-00006
PMID: 17640110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Br J Health Psychol. 2007 Sep;12(Pt 3):315-21. doi:
10.1348/135910707X212381.

IQ and the health of nations: some critical comments on Kanazawa (2006).

Der G(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Social & Public Health Sciences Unit, UK. Geoff@msoc.mrc.gla.ac.uk

Comment on
    Br J Health Psychol. 2006 Nov;11(Pt 4):623-42.

Cognitive epidemiology aims to explain health differentials in terms of 
cognitive functions, including intelligence. Kanazawa has proposed extending 
this to the explanation of health differences between nations. He concludes that 
'wealthier and more egalitarian societies live longer and stay healthier ... 
because they are more intelligent'. The result does not apply to sub-Saharan 
Africa, but this exception is explained by reference to his theory of 
evolutionary psychology, 'The Savanna Principle'. We reanalyse the data, taking 
into account non-linearity in the relationship of GDP to life expectancy and 
find that the results no longer support his conclusions. We also argue that HIV 
prevalence rates are a more parsimonious explanation for differences between 
sub-Saharan Africa and elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1348/135910707X212381
PMID: 17640449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Br J Health Psychol. 2007 Sep;12(Pt 3):403-19. doi:
10.1348/135910706X118413.

Patterns of self-referral in men with symptoms of prostate disease.

Hale S(1), Grogan S, Willott S.

Author information:
(1)Staffordshire University, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Analysis of health statistics reveals that, although men have a 
shorter life expectancy and a higher mortality rate than women, they have less 
contact with their GP. This study investigates men's experiences of prostate 
disease, with a particular focus on how they made the decision to seek medical 
help.
METHOD: Semi-structured interviews were carried out with 20 men aged 51-75 with 
prostate disease who had recently contacted their GP. These were audiotaped, 
transcribed and subjected to interpretative phenomenological analysis.
RESULTS: Analysis revealed that their referral behaviours were profoundly 
influenced by a need to live up to traditional images of masculinity. Far from 
being uncaring, men were extremely anxious about their health and fears about 
the effects of illness and treatment emerged as major influences on their 
decision to seek help. Their delay in approaching their GP was due to their 
beliefs about symptoms as markers of serious disease, their ability to hide 
symptoms from others and their attitude towards male GPs who were often seen as 
having negative attitudes towards male patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies some reasons why men with prostate disease 
may fail to seek medical care and has implications for increasing referral rates 
for men.

DOI: 10.1348/135910706X118413
PMID: 17640454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Heart. 2008 Feb;94(2):178-81. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2007.118323. Epub 2007 Jul
19.

Coronary heart disease trends in England and Wales from 1984 to 2004: concealed 
levelling of mortality rates among young adults.

O'Flaherty M(1), Ford E, Allender S, Scarborough P, Capewell S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health, University of Liverpool, UK. 
m.oflaherty@liverpool.ac.uk

Comment in
    Heart. 2008 Feb;94(2):229; author reply 229.

BACKGROUND: Trends in cardiovascular risk factors among UK adults present a 
complex picture. Ominous increases in obesity and diabetes among young adults 
raise concerns about subsequent coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality rates in 
this group.
OBJECTIVE: To examine recent trends in age-specific mortality rates from CHD, 
particularly those among younger adults.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Mortality data from 1984 to 2004 were used to calculate 
age-specific mortality rates for British adults aged 35+ years, and joinpoint 
regression was used to assess changes in trends. Overall, the age-adjusted 
mortality rate decreased by 54.7% in men and by 48.3% in women. However, among 
men aged 35-44 years, CHD mortality rates in 2002 increased for the first time 
in over two decades. Furthermore, the recent declines in CHD mortality rates 
seem to be slowing in both men and women aged 45-54. Among older adults, 
however, mortality rates continued to decrease steadily throughout the period.
CONCLUSIONS: The flattening mortality rates for CHD among younger adults may 
represent a sentinel event. Deteriorations in medical management of CHD appear 
implausible. Thus, unfavourable trends in risk factors for CHD, specifically 
obesity and diabetes, provide the most likely explanation for the observed 
trends.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2007.118323
PMID: 17641070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Nihon Rinsho. 2007 Jul;65(7):1327-30.

[Economic evaluation of a new treatment for rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Japanese]

Suka M(1), Yoshida K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, St. Marianna University School of 
Medicine.

In recent years, new biologic agents have been approved for the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis. These agents may yield clear clinical benefits but impose 
greater costs than standard treatment. Economic evaluations have been used to 
provide evidence for the cost-effectiveness of treatment. We described two 
approaches to the cost-effectiveness analysis of the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis-micro-level economic evaluation based on quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) and macro-level economic evaluation based on disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs).

PMID: 17642251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Oct;43(15):2264-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.06.003. Epub
2007  Jul 20.

Breast cancer in elderly women: can radiotherapy be omitted?

Scalliet PG(1), Kirkove C.

Author information:
(1)Department Radiation Oncology, Cliniques Universitaires Saint Luc, Université 
Catholique de Louvain, 10, Avenue Hippocrate, UCL 4763, B-1200 Bruxelles, 
Belgium. Pierre.Scalliet@imre.ucl.ac.be <Pierre.Scalliet@imre.ucl.ac.be>

It is tempting to spare elderly women the burden of adjuvant radiotherapy after 
breast cancer surgery, even if such a treatment would be justified in light of 
the available clinical evidence. The reason is that evidence-based radiotherapy 
derives from clinical trials that excluded elderly women, and that breast cancer 
is often believed to be more indolent at advanced ages. Unfortunately, the 
epidemiological evidence, and the few clinical trials recruiting patients over 
65 or 70 year of age, all point to the need for postoperative irradiation in a 
similar set-up as in younger patients. So far, there is no evidence that a 
subgroup exists in which radiotherapy can be safely omitted. Therefore, the 
decision to treat or not to treat should be openly discussed with the patient, 
addressing risks and benefits of both attitudes. Only in frail patients, with an 
obviously limited life expectancy (months or at most a few years), can omission 
of radiotherapy be considered, as the burden of local recurrence is likely not 
to appear before the patient dies from an other cause.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.06.003
PMID: 17643291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 Aug;84(2):459-65. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.04.063.

Quality of life after implantation of bileaflet prostheses in elderly patients: 
an anticoagulation work group experience.

Vicchio M(1), Della Corte A, De Feo M, Santarpino G, De Santo LS, Romano G, 
Caianiello G, Scardone M, Cotrufo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Sciences, Second University of Naples, Naples, 
Italy. marianovicchio@libero.it

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 Aug;84(2):465-6.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to examine our experience with the implant 
of bileaflet mechanical prostheses and with a centralized management of 
anticoagulation and the related risks in patients aged older than 70 years, 
focusing on the resulting expectancy and quality of life.
METHODS: Between January 1988 and January 2005, 681 consecutive patients older 
than 70 years (mean age, 73 +/- 3.3 years) underwent bileaflet prostheses 
implantation in an isolated procedure (77%) or concomitant with other procedures 
(23%). Data were retrospectively collected, and follow-up was conducted by mean 
of outpatient chart review and outpatient clinic controls. Follow-up included 
assessment of perceived quality of life through the Medical Outcomes Trust Short 
Form 36-Item Health Survey tool (SF-36). The scores obtained by the patients 
were compared with those of the Italian general population matched for age and 
sex.
RESULTS: Hospital mortality was 11.8%, and 74 late deaths (12.3%) occurred. Mean 
follow-up was 4.38 +/- 2.85 years. Actuarial survival was 85.2% +/- 0.014% at 1 
year, 77.9% +/- 0.017% at 5 years, 74.2% +/- 0.02% at 10 years, and 71.8% +/- 
0.031% at 15 years. The mean international normalized ratio variability was 4.5% 
+/- 1.2%. Freedom from bleeding was 98.7% +/- 0.005% at 5 years and 98.3% +/- 
0.007% at 10 and 15 years. Freedom from thromboembolism was 99.1% +/- 0.004% at 
5 years, and 98.3% +/- 0.007% at 10 and 15 years. The mean SF-36 scores in the 
study patients were significantly higher than those of the general population 
matched for age and sex (p < 0.001 in all domains).
CONCLUSIONS: Septuagenarian patients receiving mechanical valve prostheses did 
not experience increased rates of anticoagulation-related complications and 
perceived a satisfactory quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.04.063
PMID: 17643615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Pediatr. 2007 Aug;151(2):145-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2007.02.063. Epub
2007  Jun 22.

A randomized clinical trial of a new orthodontic appliance to improve upper 
airway obstruction in infants with Pierre Robin sequence.

Buchenau W(1), Urschitz MS, Sautermeister J, Bacher M, Herberts T, Arand J, 
Poets CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, University Hospital Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that a new orthodontic appliance with a velar 
extension that shifts the tongue anteriorly would reduce upper airway 
obstruction in infants with Pierre Robin sequence (PRS).
STUDY DESIGN: Eleven infants with PRS (median age, 3 days) and an apnea index 
(AI) >3 were studied. The effect of the new appliance on the AI was compared 
with that of a conventional appliance without a velar extension by using a 
crossover study design with random allocation.
RESULTS: Compared with baseline (mean AI, 13.8), there was a significant 
decrease in the AI with the new appliance (3.9; P value <.001), but no change 
with the conventional appliance (14.8; P = .842). Thus, the relative change in 
AI was -71% (95% CI, -84--49) for the new appliance and +8% (95% CI, -52-142) 
for the conventional appliance, which was significantly different (P = .004). No 
severe adverse effects were observed.
CONCLUSION: This new orthodontic appliance appears to be safe and effective in 
reducing upper airway obstruction in infants with PRS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2007.02.063
PMID: 17643765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Eur Urol. 2007 Oct;52(4):973-82. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2007.07.002. Epub
2007  Jul 10.

Secondary cancer after radiotherapy for prostate cancer: should we be more aware 
of the risk?

Bostrom PJ(1), Soloway MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, 
Florida, USA. peter.bostrom@tyks.fi

OBJECTIVES: As the number of prostate cancer survivors is increasing, the 
long-term health of prostate cancer patients has become a significant health 
issue. Radiation is known to induce malignant transformation, and prostate 
cancer radiotherapy is suggested to induce secondary malignancies. This report 
reviews the available data regarding the risk of secondary cancer after 
radiation for prostate cancer.
METHODS: Epidemiological studies of the secondary cancer risk in patients with a 
history of prostate cancer radiation and the literature regarding 
radiation-induced carcinogenesis were reviewed.
RESULTS: Prostate cancer is not associated with an increased number of 
additional malignancies. The data suggests a modest increase in secondary 
cancers associated with radiation for prostate cancer, as approximately one in 
70 patients undergoing radiation and surviving more than 10 yr will develop 
secondary cancer. The most common sites for secondary cancers are bladder and 
rectum. In addition to the cancers adjacent to the radiation field, there is 
also an increase of cancers in distant sites, such as lung. The increased risk 
for secondary cancers is reported after external radiation, not after 
brachytherapy. The available data originated from studies of patients undergoing 
conventional radiotherapy. New treatment methods, such as intensity-modulated 
radiotherapy, may be associated with a higher risk of secondary cancers.
CONCLUSION: Although the incidence of secondary cancers after prostate cancer 
radiotherapy is not dramatically different from the overall population, patients 
should be informed about this risk. Other treatment modalities should be 
considered for patients with long life expectancy and for patients with 
additional risk factors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2007.07.002
PMID: 17644245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Can Rev Sociol Anthropol. 2007 Feb;44(1):101-22. doi: 
10.1111/j.1755-618x.2007.tb01149.x.

From divergence to convergence: the sex differential in life expectancy in 
Canada, 1971-2000.

Trovato F(1), Lalu N.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta. ftrovato@ualberta.ca

Over the 20th century sex differences in life expectancy in the industrialized 
countries have widened in favour of women. Recently, a reversal in the long-term 
pattern of this differential has been noted in some countries. In Canada, 
between 1981 and 2000, this differential narrowed by almost two years. Greater 
than expected improvements in male death rates with respect to heart disease, 
lung cancer, accidents and violence (excluding suicide) explain a large part of 
this phenomenon. Change in male and female smoking prevalence correlates 
strongly with change in sex differences in mortality from heart disease and 
cancer. The reasons underlying men's greater mortality improvements in regard to 
accidents and violence are less clear and need further investigation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-618x.2007.tb01149.x
PMID: 17644998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Health Care Financ Rev. 2007 Spring;28(3):109-16.

Medicare's quality improvement organization program value in nursing homes.

Shih A(1), Dewar DM, Hartman T.

Author information:
(1)The Commonwealth Fund, New York, NY 10021, USA. ts@cmwf.org

CMS operates the quality improvement organization (QIO) program to improve the 
quality of care delivered to Medicare beneficiaries. Although there have been 
several studies regarding the effectiveness of this program, there have not been 
studies regarding this program's value. This article seeks to answer the value 
question using costutility analysis. Although additional research is warranted, 
the results suggest that CMS' investment in the QIO program, estimated at $2,063 
to $7,667 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for nursing home quality 
improvement (QI) work, represents a good value for health care dollars.

PMCID: PMC4194992
PMID: 17645159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. J Forensic Sci. 2007 Sep;52(5):1164-70. doi:
10.1111/j.1556-4029.2007.00512.x.  Epub 2007 Jul 21.

Forensic considerations in cases of neurofibromatosis--an overview.

Byard RW(1).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Pathology, Level 3 Medical School North Building, The 
University of Adelaide, Frome Road, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia. 
byard.roger@saugov.sa.gov.au

Neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2 are inherited neurocutaneous disorders 
characterized by a variety of manifestations that involve the circulatory 
system, the central and peripheral nervous systems, the skin, and the skeleton. 
Significant reduction in lifespan occurs in both conditions often related to 
complications of malignancy and hypertension. Individuals with these conditions 
may also be the subject of medicolegal autopsy investigation if sudden death 
occurs. Unexpected lethal events may be associated with intracranial neoplasia 
and hemorrhage or brainstem compression. Vasculopathy with fibrointimal 
proliferation may result in critical reduction in blood flow within the coronary 
or cerebral circulations, and aneurysmal dilatation may be associated with 
rupture and life-threatening hemorrhage. An autopsy approach to potential cases 
should include review of the history/hospital record, liaison with a clinical 
geneticist (to include family follow-up), a full external examination with 
careful documentation of skin lesions and nodules, measurement of the head 
circumference in children, photography, possible radiologic examination, a 
standard internal autopsy examination, documentation of the effects of previous 
surgery and/or chemo/radiotherapy, examination for specific tumors, specific 
examination and sampling of vasculature (renal, cerebral, and cardiac), formal 
neuropathologic examination of brain and spinal cord, possible examination of 
the eyeballs, examination of the gastrointestinal tract, histology to include 
tumors, vessels, gut, and bone marrow, toxicological testing for 
anticonvulsants, and sampling of blood and tissue for possible 
cytogenetic/molecular evaluation if required.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1556-4029.2007.00512.x
PMID: 17645486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Value Health. 2007 Jul-Aug;10(4):238-46. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00179.x.

Economic evaluation of tegaserod vs. placebo in the treatment of patients with 
irritable bowel syndrome: an analysis of the TENOR study.

Bracco A(1), Jönsson B, Ricci JF, Drummond M, Nyhlin H.

Author information:
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland. andrea.bracco@amgen.com

OBJECTIVES: Tegaserod is effective, safe, and well-tolerated in the treatment of 
patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with constipation. The aim of this 
study was to assess, from a payer perspective, the cost-effectiveness of 
tegaserod in the treatment of IBS patients, based on the TEgaserod in NORdic 
region (TENOR) trial data.
METHODS: Female and male patients (Rome II criteria) were randomized to receive 
tegaserod 6 mg b.i.d. or placebo for 12 weeks. Patients (247 tegaserod; 238 
placebo) completed the EuroQol EQ-5D questionnaire at baseline, Week 4, and Week 
12. A 12-week economic study was undertaken to assess the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of tegaserod in terms of cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Cost-effectiveness acceptability 
curves were calculated to estimate the probability of tegaserod being 
cost-effective at different benchmark values of cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: By assuming a daily drug cost to payers of Euro 2, Euro 3, and Euro 4, 
the ICER of tegaserod ranges between Euro 19,000 and Euro 38,000 per QALY 
gained, with the percentage of the bootstrap estimates below the willingness to 
pay level of Euro 50,000 per QALY gained ranging between 90% and 69%.
CONCLUSIONS: This study established directly from a randomized controlled 
clinical trial that tegaserod is cost-effective in the treatment of non-D-IBS 
patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00179.x
PMID: 17645678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Value Health. 2007 Jul-Aug;10(4):256-65. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00174.x.

Assessing differences in utility scores: a comparison of four widely used 
preference-based instruments.

Wee HL(1), Machin D, Loke WC, Li SC, Cheung YB, Luo N, Feeny D, Fong KY, Thumboo 
J.

Author information:
(1)Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.

OBJECTIVES: To characterize the differences in utility scores (dUTY) among four 
commonly used preference-based Health-Related Quality of Life instruments, to 
evaluate the potential impact of these differences on cost-utility analyses 
(CUA), and to determine if sociodemographic/clinical factors influenced the 
magnitude of these differences.
METHODS: Consenting adult Chinese, Malay and Indian subjects in Singapore were 
interviewed using Singapore English, Chinese, Malay or Tamil versions of the 
EQ-5D, Health Utilities Index Mark 2 (HUI2) and Mark 3 (HUI3), and SF-6D. 
Agreement between instruments was assessed using Bland-Altman (BA) plots. 
Changes in incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) from dUTY were investigated 
using eight hypothetical decision trees. The influence of 
sociodemographic/clinical factors on dUTY between instrument pairs was studied 
using multiple linear regression (MLR) models for English-speaking subjects 
(circumventing structural zero issues).
RESULTS: In 667 subjects (median age 48 years, 59% female), median utility 
scores ranged from 0.80 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.80, 0.85) for the EQ-5D 
to 0.89 (95% CI 0.88, 0.89) for the SF-6D. BA plots: Mean differences (95% CI) 
exceeded the clinically important difference (CID) of 0.04 for four of six 
pairwise comparisons, with the exception of the HUI2/EQ-5D (0.03, CI: 0.02, 
0.04) and SF-6D/HUI2 (0.02, CI: 0.006, 0.02). Decision trees: The ICER ranged 
from $94,661/QALY (quality-adjusted life-year; 6.3% difference from base case) 
to 100,693 dollars/QALY (0.3% difference from base case). MLR: Chronic medical 
conditions, marital status, and Family Functioning Measures scores significantly 
(P-value < 0.05) influenced dUTY for several instrument pairs.
CONCLUSION: Although CIDs in utility measurements were present for different 
preference-based instruments, the impact of these differences on CUA appeared 
relatively minor. Chronic medical conditions, marital status, and family 
functioning influenced the magnitude of these differences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00174.x
PMID: 17645680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Jul 23;7:116. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-116.

A pragmatic randomised, controlled trial of intensive care follow up programmes 
in improving longer-term outcomes from critical illness. The PRACTICAL study.

Cuthbertson BH(1), Rattray J, Johnston M, Wildsmith JA, Wilson E, Hernendez R, 
Ramsey C, Hull AM, Norrie J, Campbell M.

Author information:
(1)Health Service Research Unit, Health Sciences Building, University of 
Aberdeen, Foresterhill, Aberdeen, UK. b.h.cuthbertson@abdn.ac.uk 
<b.h.cuthbertson@abdn.ac.uk>

BACKGROUND: A number of intensive care (ICU) patients experience significant 
problems with physical, psychological, and social functioning for some time 
after discharge from ICU. These problems have implications not just for 
patients, but impose a continuing financial burden for the National Health 
Service. To support recovery, a number of hospitals across the UK have developed 
Intensive Care follow-up clinics. However, there is a lack of evidence base to 
support these, and this study aims to test the hypothesis that intensive care 
follow up programmes are effective and cost-effective at improving physical and 
psychological quality of life in the year after intensive care discharge.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a multi-centre, pragmatic, randomised controlled trial. 
Patients (n = 270) will be recruited prior to hospital discharge from three 
intensive care units in the UK, and randomised to one of two groups. The control 
group will receive standard in-hospital follow-up and the intervention group 
will participate in an ICU follow-up programme with clinic appointments 2-3 and 
9 months after ICU discharge. The primary outcome measure is Health-related 
Quality of Life (HRQoL) 12 months after ICU discharge as measured by the Short 
Form-36. Secondary measures include: HRQoL at six months; Quality-adjusted life 
years using EQ-5D; posttraumatic psychopathology as measured by Davidson Trauma 
Scale; and anxiety and depression using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression 
Scale at both six and twelve months after ICU discharge. Contacts with health 
services in the twelve months after ICU discharge will be measured as part of 
the economic analysis.
DISCUSSION: The provision of intensive care follow-up clinics within the UK has 
developed in an ad hoc manner, is inconsistent in both the number of hospitals 
offering such a service or in the type of service offered. This study provides 
the opportunity to evaluate such services both in terms of patient benefit and 
cost-effectiveness. The results of this study therefore will inform clinical 
practice and policy with regard to the appropriate development of such services 
aimed at improving outcomes after intensive care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN24294750.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-116
PMCID: PMC1963330
PMID: 17645791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Bull Entomol Res. 2007 Aug;97(4):421-32. doi: 10.1017/S0007485307005202.

Seasonal mortality factors of the coffee leafminer, Leucoptera coffeella.

Pereira EJ(1), Picanço MC, Bacci L, Crespo AL, Guedes RN.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36571-000 
Viçosa, MG, Brazil.

Seasonal population fluctuation of the coffee leafminer, Leucoptera coffeella 
(Guérin-Méneville & Perrottet) (Lepidoptera: Lyonetiidae), led to an 
investigation of its natural mortality factors during the rainy season when the 
population level is low and during the dry season when population peaks occur. 
Life-table data were collected from insecticide-free plots within a 3 ha coffee 
plantation on the upper, medium and lower canopy. Leafminer mortality was 
similar among the canopy parts but varied in the two seasons studied. During the 
rainy season, the generational mortality averaged 94.3%, with 50.2, 33.7 and 
10.4% occurring during egg, larval and pupal stages, respectively. During the 
dry season, total mortality was 89%, with 13.2, 61.0 and 14.8% occurring during 
egg, larval and pupal stages, respectively. Marginal mortality rates during the 
rainy season were highest for physiological disturbances, rainfall and egg 
inviability; but, in the dry season, they were highest for predaceous wasps, 
physiological disturbances and parasitoids. Egg and larval stages accounted for 
most of the mortality variation in the rainy season, while the combination of 
larval and pupal mortality better described the generational mortality in the 
dry season. Variation in mortality during the rainy season was primarily 
associated with egg inviability, rainfall and parasitoids. In contrast, 
predatory wasps and physiological disturbances were the main factors associated 
with mortality variation during the dry season. These results suggest that 
weather conditions, natural enemies and plant quality attributes are the main 
determinants of the population dynamics of L. coffeella.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007485307005202
PMID: 17645824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Environ Pollut. 2008 Jan;151(2):362-7. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2007.06.012.
Epub  2007 Jul 23.

Human health effects of air pollution.

Kampa M(1), Castanas E.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Endocrinology, University of Crete, School of 
Medicine, Heraklion, Greece. kampa@med.uoc.gr

Hazardous chemicals escape to the environment by a number of natural and/or 
anthropogenic activities and may cause adverse effects on human health and the 
environment. Increased combustion of fossil fuels in the last century is 
responsible for the progressive change in the atmospheric composition. Air 
pollutants, such as carbon monoxide (CO), sulfur dioxide (SO(2)), nitrogen 
oxides (NOx), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), ozone (O(3)), heavy metals, and 
respirable particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10), differ in their chemical 
composition, reaction properties, emission, time of disintegration and ability 
to diffuse in long or short distances. Air pollution has both acute and chronic 
effects on human health, affecting a number of different systems and organs. It 
ranges from minor upper respiratory irritation to chronic respiratory and heart 
disease, lung cancer, acute respiratory infections in children and chronic 
bronchitis in adults, aggravating pre-existing heart and lung disease, or 
asthmatic attacks. In addition, short- and long-term exposures have also been 
linked with premature mortality and reduced life expectancy. These effects of 
air pollutants on human health and their mechanism of action are briefly 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2007.06.012
PMID: 17646040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Mol Cells. 2007 Jun 30;23(3):304-15.

Molecular characterization of a dsRNA mycovirus, Fusarium graminearum 
virus-DK21, which is phylogenetically related to hypoviruses but has a genome 
organization and gene expression strategy resembling those of plant potex-like 
viruses.

Kwon SJ(1), Lim WS, Park SH, Park MR, Kim KH.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National 
University, Seoul 151-921, Korea.

Erratum in
    Mol Cells. 2009 Jul;28(1):73-4.

Fusarium graminearum causes a serious scab disease of small grains in Korea. The 
nucleotide sequence of the genomic RNA of a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) virus, 
Fusarium graminearum virus-DK21 (FgV-DK21), from F. graminearum strain DK21, 
which is associated with hypovirulence in F. graminearum, was determined and 
compared to the genome sequences of other mycoviruses, including Cryponectria 
hypoviruses. The FgV-DK21 dsRNA consists of 6,621 [corrected] nucleotides, 
excluding the 3'-terminal poly(A) tail. The viral genome has 53- and 
46-nucleotide 5' and 3' untranslated regions (UTRs), respectively, and four 
[corrected] putative open reading frames. A phylogenetic analysis of the deduced 
amino acid sequence of ORF1, which encodes a putative RNA-dependent RNA 
polymerase, and those of other mycoviruses revealed that this organism forms a 
distinct virus clade with other hypoviruses, and is more distantly related to 
other mycoviruses (3.8 to 24.0% identity). However, pairwise sequence 
comparisons of the nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of ORFs 2 through 
4 [corrected] revealed no close relationships to other protein sequences 
currently available in GenBank. Analyses of RNA accumulation by Northern blot 
and primer extension indicated that these putative gene products are expressed 
from at least two different subgenomic RNAs (sgRNAs), in contrast to the cases 
in other hypoviruses. This study suggests the existence of a new, as yet 
unassigned, genus of mycoviruses that exhibits a potex-like genome organization 
and sgRNA accumulation.

PMID: 17646704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Herzschrittmacherther Elektrophysiol. 2007 Jun;18(2):54-61. doi: 
10.1007/s00399-007-0567-8.

[History of rhythm surgery with focus on surgical ablation procedures to treate 
atrial fibrillation].

[Article in German]

Knaut M(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herzchirurgie des Herzzentrums Dresden an der Technischen 
Universität Dresden, Fetscherstr. 76, 01307 Dresden, Germany. 
M.Knaut@Herzzentrum-Dresden.com

Rhythm surgery, which was initiated many years ago, has fundamentally changed by 
the development of sparing interventional treatment procedures and the 
successful introduction of the implantable defibrillator.A cornerstone in the 
history was the first successful treatment of a patient with 
Wolff-Parkinson-White-Syndrome separating accessory conduction lines between 
atrium and ventricle in 1968. The experience and knowledge of the surgical 
therapy of the 70ies has promoted the implementation of successful 
interventional ablation procedures in the early 80ies.Further steps in the 
rapidly developing area of rhythm surgery were the left and right atrial 
isolation procedures for the treatment of automatically atrial tachycardia's, 
the use of cryo-surgery for AV-node ablation in patients with AV-re-entry 
tachycardia's in the 80ies and finally the procedures for the treatment of 
atrial fibrillation like the transsection procedure, the corridor operation and 
the Maze procedure. Special methods for the therapy of ventricular arrhythmias 
should be mentioned for the sake of completeness, but are not extensively 
discussed. These are the right ventricular disconnection procedure, endocardial 
