functioning and minimize persons' experience of disability in the presence of a 
health condition. Rehabilitation research is uniquely positioned to integrate 
and translate scientific advances into benefits for people and the society. 
Rehabilitation research from the comprehensive perspective can thus become a 
catalyst of interdisciplinary research that crosses the boundaries of the 
natural sciences and engineering research, the human and behavioral sciences, 
the social sciences and a wide range of related scientific areas. Rehabilitation 
research is also uniquely positioned to cross the boundaries of medicine and the 
health sector at large, and to translate knowledge across sectors including 
education, labor and social affairs.

DOI: 10.2340/16501977-0038
PMID: 17468805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Qual Life Res. 2007 Aug;16(6):1073-81. doi: 10.1007/s11136-007-9202-8. Epub
2007  Apr 28.

Health related quality of life in different states of breast cancer.

Lidgren M(1), Wilking N, Jönsson B, Rehnberg C.

Author information:
(1)Medical Management Centre, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. 
mathias.lidgren@hhs.se

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to describe the health related quality of 
life (HRQoL) in different breast cancer disease states using preference-based 
measures.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 361 consecutive breast cancer patients 
attending the breast cancer outpatient clinic at Karolinska University hospital 
Solna for outpatient visits between April and May 2005 were included in the 
study. The EQ-5D self classifier and a direct Time Trade Off (TTO) question were 
used to estimate the HRQoL in different breast cancer disease states.
RESULTS: Patients in their first year after a primary breast cancer had a mean 
EQ-5D index value of 0.696 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.634-0.747)). 
Patients in their first year after a recurrence had a mean EQ-5D index value of 
0.779 (CI: 0.700-0.849). Patients who had not had a primary breast cancer 
diagnosis or a recurrence during the previous year had a mean EQ-5D index value 
of 0.779 (CI: 0.745-0.811). Patients with metastatic disease reported the lowest 
HRQoL values, and had a mean EQ-5D index value of 0.685 (CI: 0.620-0.735). The 
main driver behind the reduction in HRQoL was pain and discomfort as well as 
anxiety and depression. TTO values were higher for all diseases states compared 
to the EQ-5D index values.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that breast cancer is associated with a reduction 
in HRQoL. This effect is most pronounced for patients with metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-007-9202-8
PMID: 17468943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Salud Publica Mex. 2007;49 Suppl 1:S23-36. doi:
10.1590/s0036-36342007000700007.

[Comprehensive reform to improve health system performance in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Frenk J(1), González-Pier E, Gómez-Dantés O, Lezana MA, Knaul FM.

Author information:
(1)Fundación Billy Melinda Gates.

Despite having achieved an average life expectancy of 75 years, much the same as 
that of more developed countries, Mexico entered the 21st century with a health 
system mared by its failure to offer financial protection in health to more than 
half of its citizens; this was both a result and a cause of the social 
inequalities that have marked the development process in Mexico. Several 
structural limitations have hampered performance and limited the progress of the 
health system. Conscious that the lack of financial protection was the major 
bottleneck, Mexico has embarked on a structural reform to improve health system 
performance by establishing the System of Social Protection in Health (SSPH), 
which has introduced new financial rules and incentives. The main innovation of 
the reform has been the Seguro Popular (Popular Health Insurance), the 
insurance-based component of the SSPH, aimed at funding health care for all 
those families, most of them poor, who had been previously excluded from social 
health insurance. The reform has allowed for a substantial increase in public 
investment in health while realigning incentives towards better technical and 
interpersonal quality. This paper describes the main features and initial 
results of the Mexican reform effort, and derives lessons for other countries 
considering health-system transformations under similarly challenging 
circumstances.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-36342007000700007
PMID: 17469397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Diabet Med. 2007 May;24(5):451-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2007.02157.x.

International Diabetes Federation: a consensus on Type 2 diabetes prevention.

Alberti KG(1), Zimmet P, Shaw J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolic Medicine, St Mary's Hospital, 
London, UK. george.alberti@ncl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Diabet Med. 2008 Mar;25(3):378-9.

AIMS: Early intervention and avoidance or delay of progression to Type 2 
diabetes is of enormous benefit to patients in terms of increasing life 
expectancy and quality of life, and potentially in economic terms for society 
and health-care payers. To address the growing impact of Type 2 diabetes the 
International Diabetes Federation (IDF) Taskforce on Prevention and Epidemiology 
convened a consensus workshop in 2006. The primary goal of the workshop and this 
document was the prevention of Type 2 diabetes in both the developed and 
developing world. A second aim was to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease 
in people who are identified as being at a higher risk of Type 2 diabetes. The 
IDF plan for prevention of Type 2 diabetes is based on controlling modifiable 
risk factors and can be divided into two target groups: People at high risk of 
developing Type 2 diabetes. The entire population.
CONCLUSIONS: In planning national measures for the prevention of Type 2 
diabetes, both groups should be targeted simultaneously with lifestyle 
modification the primary goal through a stepwise approach. In addition, it is 
important that all activities are tailored to the specific local situation. 
Further information on the prevention of diabetes can be found on the IDF 
website: http://www.idf.org/prevention.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2007.02157.x
PMID: 17470191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Sociol Health Illn. 2007 Apr;29(3):457-73. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-9566.2007.00492.x.

Health lifestyles and the absence of the Russian middle class.

Cockerham WC(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. wcocker@uab.edu

This paper examines the pivotal role of social stratification in Russia's health 
crisis. The primary level causal factor is increased mortality from heart 
disease and alcohol-related poisonings and accidents. In order to understand the 
origin of the primary causes, it is necessary to look further for secondary 
level factors. Whereas policy and stress are important, the leading secondary 
determinant is negative health lifestyles. The question then arises: What is the 
source of this lifestyle? This question necessitates a search for tertiary level 
causes and the absence of a strong middle class in Russia is identified. In 
Western society, the middle class, especially the upper middle class, is the 
social carrier of positive health lifestyles across class boundaries. The 
Russian middle class has not initiated positive health lifestyles countering the 
predominately negative health lifestyle practices because a middle class similar 
to that in the West does not exist. Russia needs a civil society in which a 
similarly stable and empowered middle class can promote positive health 
lifestyles within its own stratum and elsewhere in the class structure; until 
this happens, the health situation in that country may not stabilise for the 
better.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9566.2007.00492.x
PMID: 17470221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Exp Gerontol. 2007 Jul;42(7):610-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.03.004. Epub
2007  Mar 27.

Telomerase activity is maintained throughout the lifespan of long-lived birds.

Haussmann MF(1), Winkler DW, Huntington CE, Nisbet IC, Vleck CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Kenyon College, Gambier, OH 43022, USA. 
haussmannm@kenyon.edu

Telomerase is an enzyme capable of elongating telomeres, the caps at the ends of 
chromosomes associated with aging, lifespan and survival. We investigated 
tissue-level variation in telomerase across different ages in four bird species 
that vary widely in their life history. Telomerase activity in bone marrow may 
be associated with the rate of erythrocyte telomere shortening; birds with lower 
rates of telomere shortening and longer lifespans have higher bone marrow 
telomerase activity throughout life. Telomerase activity in all of the species 
appears to be tightly correlated with the proliferative potential of specific 
organs, and it is also highest in the hatchling age-class, when the 
proliferative demands of most organs are the highest. This study offers an 
alternative view to the commonly held hypothesis that telomerase activity is 
down-regulated in all post-mitotic somatic tissues in long-lived organisms as a 
tumor-protective mechanism. This highlights the need for more comparative 
analyses of telomerase, lifespan and the incidence of tumor formation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.03.004
PMID: 17470387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Eur J Public Health. 2007 Dec;17(6):585-6. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm045. Epub
2007  Apr 30.

Increasing social inequality in life expectancy in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Baadsgaard M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Øster Farimagsgade 5A, 1399 Copenhagen, 
Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the study was to determine trends in social 
inequality in mortality and life expectancy in Denmark.
METHODS: The study was based on register data on educational level and mortality 
during the period 1981-2005 and comprised all deaths among Danes aged 30-60. 
Sex- and age-specific death rates for each of three levels of education were 
calculated and age-standardized to allow comparisons over time and between 
groups. As data obtained since 1996 included ages up to 74, partial life 
expectancy (i.e. expected lifetime of 30-year-olds before the age of 75) was 
calculated for the period 1996-2005.
RESULTS: Between 1981 and 2005, the difference in death rates between people 
aged 30-60 with low and high educational level increased by two-thirds for men 
and was doubled for women. During the period 1996-2005, the gap in partial life 
expectancy from age 30 to 75 between people with low and high educational level 
increased by 0.3 years.
CONCLUSION: During the past 25 years, the social gap in mortality has widened in 
Denmark. In particular, women with a low educational level have been left 
behind.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm045
PMID: 17470463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr;36(2):384-6. doi: 10.1093/ije/dym054. Epub 2007
Apr  30.

Commentary: 'epidemiologic transition' interrupted or sweep to the second stage 
of 'health transition'?

Vallin J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut National d'Etudes Démographiques, Paris, France. vallin@ined.fr

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2007 Apr;36(2):374-84.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dym054
PMID: 17470493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Cell Biol. 2007 May 7;177(3):465-76. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200610005. Epub 2007
Apr  30.

Cofilin promotes stimulus-induced lamellipodium formation by generating an 
abundant supply of actin monomers.

Kiuchi T(1), Ohashi K, Kurita S, Mizuno K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku 
University, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan.

Cofilin stimulates actin filament disassembly and accelerates actin filament 
turnover. Cofilin is also involved in stimulus-induced actin filament assembly 
during lamellipodium formation. However, it is not clear whether this occurs by 
replenishing the actin monomer pool, through filament disassembly, or by 
creating free barbed ends, through its severing activity. Using photoactivatable 
Dronpa-actin, we show that cofilin is involved in producing more than half of 
all cytoplasmic actin monomers and that the rate of actin monomer incorporation 
into the tip of the lamellipodium is dependent on the size of this actin monomer 
pool. Finally, in cofilin-depleted cells, stimulus-induced actin monomer 
incorporation at the cell periphery is attenuated, but the incorporation of 
microinjected actin monomers is not. We propose that cofilin contributes to 
stimulus-induced actin filament assembly and lamellipodium extension by 
supplying an abundant pool of cytoplasmic actin monomers.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200610005
PMCID: PMC2064820
PMID: 17470633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. J Cell Biol. 2007 May 7;177(3):377-85. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200612090. Epub 2007
Apr  30.

The beginning of kinesin's force-generating cycle visualized at 9-A resolution.

Sindelar CV(1), Downing KH.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 
94720, USA.

We have used cryo-electron microscopy of kinesin-decorated microtubules to 
resolve the structure of the motor protein kinesin's crucial nucleotide response 
elements, switch I and the switch II helix, in kinesin's poorly understood 
nucleotide-free state. Both of the switch elements undergo conformational change 
relative to the microtubule-free state. The changes in switch I suggest a role 
for it in "ejecting" adenosine diphosphate when kinesin initially binds to the 
microtubule. The switch II helix has an N-terminal extension, apparently 
stabilized by conserved microtubule contacts, implying a microtubule activation 
mechanism that could convey the state of the bound nucleotide to kinesin's 
putative force-delivering element (the "neck linker"). In deriving this 
structure, we have adapted an image-processing technique, single-particle 
reconstruction, for analyzing decorated microtubules. The resulting 
reconstruction visualizes the asymmetric seam present in native, 
13-protofilament microtubules, and this method will provide an avenue to 
higher-resolution characterization of a variety of microtubule- binding 
proteins, as well as the microtubule itself.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200612090
PMCID: PMC2064809
PMID: 17470637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Neurology. 2007 May 1;68(18):1524-8. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000260699.09720.ad.

Quantifying the risks and benefits of natalizumab in relapsing multiple 
sclerosis.

Dorsey ER(1), Thompson JP, Noyes K, Dick AW, Holloway RG, Schwid SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
NY 14620, USA. ray.dorsey@ctcc.rochester.edu

Using published data, we quantified the risk and benefits of natalizumab in 
relapsing multiple sclerosis using quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) as a 
metric. Over the first 2 years of therapy, the negative health effects from 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy were small (loss of 0.001 QALYs) 
relative to the positive effects on relapses and disability resulting in 0.033 
QALYs (12 quality-adjusted days) gained. For context, we performed an analogous 
calculation for interferon beta-1a, which also had a net health benefit of 0.033 
QALYs (12 quality-adjusted days).

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000260699.09720.ad
PMID: 17470756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Clin Oncol. 2007 May 1;25(13):1705-12. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.08.1455.

Sex differences in lung cancer survival: do tumors behave differently in elderly 
women?

Wisnivesky JP(1), Halm EA.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Pulmonary, Critical Care, 
Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA. 
juan.wisnivesky@mssm.edu

PURPOSE: Women with lung cancer appear to have better survival. Whether this 
results from better response to treatment, different tumor biology, or a longer 
life expectancy is not well understood. This study sought to assess sex 
differences in the natural history of lung cancer after controlling for 
unrelated causes of death and type of treatment.
METHODS: This study included 18,967 elderly patients with stage I and II 
non-small-cell lung cancer diagnosed between 1991 and 1999 from the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results registry linked to Medicare records. 
Patients were grouped into three categories according to the treatment received: 
surgery, radiation or chemotherapy but no surgery, and untreated cases. We used 
stratified and multivariate analyses to evaluate sex differences in survival 
using three methods to control for competing risks: lung cancer-specific 
survival, overall survival adjusting for comorbidities, and relative survival. 
Sensitivity analysis was used to test whether potential differences in smoking 
could account for the observed association of sex with survival.
RESULTS: Women in all treatment groups had better lung cancer-specific, overall, 
and relative survival than did men (P < .0001). Stratified and multivariate 
analyses showed that women had better survival than did men after controlling 
for confounders. Sensitivity analyses showed that potential sex differences in 
smoking did not explain our findings.
CONCLUSION: In this national, population-based sample, elderly women with early 
lung cancer had better risk-adjusted survival regardless of the type of 
treatment. That sex differences were observed among untreated patients suggests 
that lung cancer in women may have a different natural history.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.08.1455
PMID: 17470862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Clin Calcium. 2007 May;17(5):660-4.

[Disorders of bone and mineral metabolism in CKD: CKD-MBD as a new entity].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsukamoto Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Shuwa General Hospital, Division of Nephrology, Japan.

Since vascular calcification due to mineral disorder has been revealed a chief 
cause of decreasing life expectancy of chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients in 
recent years, the term "renal osteodystrophy" can no longer express the 
pathophysiology of entire bone and mineral disorder in CKD. This is the reason 
why new disease entity "CKD-bone mineral disorden (MBD)" was introduced by the 
GBMI (Global Bone and Mineral Initiative) (one of the workgroups of KDIGO 
[Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcome]). GBMI has also produced new 
pathological classification of renal osteodystrophy (ROD) as TMV (turnover, 
mineralization, volume) classification and LBC (laboratory abnormalities, bone 
abnormalities, extra osseous calcification) classification for CKD-MBD.

PMID: 17470993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Clin Calcium. 2007 May;17(5):760-6.

[Indication of parathyroid intervention].

[Article in Japanese]

Koiwa F(1), Hasegawa T.

Author information:
(1)Showa University Fujigaoka Hospital, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Division of Nephrology, Japan.

Secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) is one of mineral bone disorders in chronic 
kidney disease (CKD) , when stage of SHPT become advance, not only 
responsiveness for drug will be decreased, but also serum parathyroid hormone 
(PTH), calcium (Ca) , and Pi level become also aggravate. Such a clinical 
condition is called resistance to medical treatment, and if intact PTH level is 
over than 500 pg/mL or there is at least one parathyroid grand more than 0.5 
cm(3) in size, it is strongly suspected that SHPT becomes advance with 
resistance to medical treatment. Moreover, hypercalcemia and hyperphosphataemia 
have also been associated with reduced life expectancy, parathyroid intervention 
is the treatment choice for SHPT in behalf of medical therapy. Parathyroid 
intervention has better be chosen when there is resistant to medical treatment, 
even though intact PTH level is less than 500 pg/mL. Parathyroidectomy is 
desirable from the long term effect if more than two numbers of glands are 
detected by ultrasonography. Parathyroid intervention is chosen depending on the 
degree of SHPT and presence of some complications, and it should be perform in 
the appropriate period.

PMID: 17471007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Skull Base. 2006 Nov;16(4):201-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-950387.

Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Skull Base and Neck in a Patient with AIDS and 
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma.

Cavel O(1), Gil Z, Khafif A, Leider-Trejo L, Segev Y, Werner B, Pivarov A, Fliss 
DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Tel-Aviv Sourasky 
Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, 
Israel.

Necrotizing fasciitis is a rapidly progressing, life-threatening soft tissue 
bacterial infection found more frequently in immunocompromised subjects and 
rarely in the head and neck. We report a rare case of a patient with acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) who presented 
with a high fever and supraorbital cellulitis 1 week after undergoing 
chemotherapy. He received intravenous antibiotic therapy but soon developed 
dyspnea and trismus with rapid extension of the cellulitis to the face, 
ipsilateral infratemporal fossa (ITF), and bilateral neck. An awake tracheotomy 
was followed by surgical exploration and drainage and debridement of the 
supraorbital and ITF areas, parotid gland, and bilateral neck. He received 
intravenous antibiotic therapy and the surgical wound was regularly debrided for 
10 days. Following a gradual recovery, the patient was discharged 2 weeks later. 
Early antibiotic therapy, wide surgical exploration, and a secured airway are 
the therapeutic mainstay for necrotizing fasciitis of the skull base and neck.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-950387
PMCID: PMC1766461
PMID: 17471319


528. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2006;52 Suppl 2:5-10.

[Rational therapeutic approach in rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Polish]

Tłustochowicz W(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinika Chorób Wewnetrznych i Reumatologii Wojskowego Instytutu Medycznego 
CSK MON w Warszawie ul. Szaserów 128, 00-909 Warszawa.

The natural course of rheumatoid arthritis inevitably leads to joint damage and 
reduced life expectancy. Therefore, active treatment of rheumatoid arthritis is 
indispensable. Although the etiology still remains unknown resulting in 
unsuccessful prophylaxis and incurability of rheumatoid arthritis, learning more 
about its pathophysiology broadens the spectrum of therapeutic possibilities. 
The aim of treatment is remission of the disease. Current standards of treatment 
are based on the idea to start aggressive treatment as early as possible to 
suppress the activity of the disease. This can be achieved by pharmacotherapy 
and rehabilitation. Physiotherapy is supplementary but there is no room for spa 
treatment or alternative therapies. Treatment should be introduced immediately 
because the "window" for successful change in the natural course of the disease 
covers the first three months since onset. Diagnostic difficulties during this 
period support the idea of "early arthritis" and "early rheumatoid arthritis". 
Glycocorticosteroids at a dose suitable to suppress inflammation represent the 
first-line treatment. Basic therapy which usually is synonymous for methotrexate 
15-25 mg once weekly should be introduced from the 4th month at the latest. In 
case of methotrexate intolerance, leflunomide is an alternative. Lack of 
efficacy of monotherapy with these drugs mandates the combination therapy of 
methotrexate with leflunomide, cyclosporine or sulphasalazine together with 
hydroxychlorochine. The use of two latter drugs should be limited due to their 
low efficacy. Patients refractory to combination therapy should be considered as 
candidates to anticytokine drugs or to lymphocyte B depleting drugs. However, it 
should be emphasized that their high efficacy is achieved only in combination 
with full doses of methotrexate. The same rules should be applied to therapeutic 
decisions in elderly patients and in patients with long history of rheumatoid 
arthritis. However, lower doses of the drugs should be used at initiation of 
therapy. Contraindications related to side effects and concomitant diseases 
should be considered. In these groups, glycocorticosteroids play a more 
important role and cyclophosphamide is used more frequently. Surgical treatment 
should be reserved for patients with advanced disease. Total joint replacement 
is an effective method for large joints. Synovectomy should be done only 
exceptionally when all options of pharmacotherapy were ineffective.

PMID: 17471832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Apr 14;151(15):895; author reply 895.

[The cost per year of life gained: trends and internal contradictions].

[Article in Dutch]

van Dam J.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2006 Nov 11;150(45):2467-70.

PMID: 17472124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Ann Rheum Dis. 2007 Nov;66(11):1467-72. doi: 10.1136/ard.2007.069609. Epub
2007  May 1.

Selective endothelin A receptor antagonism with sitaxsentan for pulmonary 
arterial hypertension associated with connective tissue disease.

Girgis RE(1), Frost AE, Hill NS, Horn EM, Langleben D, McLaughlin VV, Oudiz RJ, 
Robbins IM, Seibold JR, Shapiro S, Tapson VF, Barst RJ.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Clin Pract Rheumatol. 2008 May;4(5):238-9.

INTRODUCTION: Endothelin receptor antagonism has become an important component 
in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) associated with 
connective tissue disease (CTD). The purpose of this study was to analyse the 
safety and effectiveness of sitaxsentan, a selective antagonist of the ET(A) 
receptor, in a cohort of patients with PAH and CTD. Short-term clinical and 
haemodynamic effects and longer-term follow-up data are presented.
METHODS: A post hoc subgroup analysis was performed on 42 patients who had PAH 
associated with CTD, out of a group of 178 patients enrolled in a 12-week, 
double-blind, randomised clinical trial of sitaxsentan versus placebo. Data from 
33 patients assigned to sitaxsentan 100 mg or 300 mg daily were pooled and 
compared with nine placebo-treated patients. There were 41 patients entered into 
the blinded extension study, in which all patients received either 100 mg or 300 
mg sitaxsentan once daily.
RESULTS: Patients treated with sitaxsentan had a mean (SD) increase in 6 minute 
walk distance of 20 (5) m from baseline to week 12 (p = 0.037), whereas the 
placebo group had a decrease of 38 (84) m, resulting in a placebo-subtracted 
treatment effect of 58 m (p = 0.027). Parallel improvements in quality of life 
and haemodynamics were also observed. No patient discontinued their drug during 
the 12-week trial. In the blinded extension study (median treatment duration 26 
weeks), more patients were in functional class I-II than in III-IV (p<0.001) at 
the end of the study compared with the start of active therapy. Elevation of 
hepatic transaminase levels occurred in two patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Sitaxsentan appears to be efficacious in patients with PAH 
associated with CTD.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2007.069609
PMCID: PMC2111639
PMID: 17472992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2007 Apr;45(4):203-20. doi: 10.5414/cpp45203.

Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of insulin glargine compared with NPH 
insulin based on a 10-year simulation of long-term complications with the 
Diabetes Mellitus Model in patients with type 2 diabetes in Switzerland.

Brändle M(1), Azoulay M, Greiner RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kantonsspital St. Gallen, Switzerland. Michael.Braendle@kssg.ch

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
insulin glargine compared with NPH insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes and 
in whom OAD (oral anti-diabetics) had failed in Switzerland.
METHODS: Long-term diabetes outcomes were simulated with the Diabetes Mellitus 
Model (DMM) over a period of 10 years. The incidences of long-term complications 
(micro- and macrovascular events) were simulated for 10,000 patients over 10 
years for six different scenarios. The scenarios were based on HbA1c reductions 
observed in clinical trials. For insulin glargine, HbA1c reductions of 0.96% 
(pessimistic case) and 1.24% (optimistic case) were simulated for three 
different HbA1c baseline values (10, 9 and 8%). For NPH insulin the HbA1c 
reduction was assumed to be 0.84%. A cost model and a utility model were 
developed in order to use the cumulated incidences of the simulations for the 
calculation of cost and QALYs (quality-adjusted life years). The unit costs of 
micro- and macrovascular events were assessed on the basis of published 
literature and guideline-projected resource-use estimations for Switzerland. 
Disutility values of diabetes-related long-term complications were derived from 
the literature. Total direct medical costs or QALYs were assessed by a 
combination of cumulated incidences of each event up to 10 years with the 
corresponding unit cost per event (in addition to the acquisition cost) or with 
disutility values per event, respectively. Events, total cost, and QALYs were 
discounted at 3%. In scenarios where no savings could be shown for insulin 
glargine, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated as the 
incremental cost per event prevented and the cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Cost comparison demonstrated that insulin glargine is the dominant 
strategy for the optimistic case scenario starting at a baseline HbA1c value of 
10% as savings in the management of complications exceeded the difference in 
acquisition costs after 8 years of treatment. Optimistic case scenarios for 
baseline HbA1c values of 9 and 8% achieved costs per QALY gained amounting to 
CHF 2,853 and CHF 5,711 and costs per event prevented amounting to CHF 2,054 and 
CHF 4,899, respectively. Pessimistic case scenarios for baseline HbA1c values of 
10, 9 and 8% resulted in costs per QALY gained amounting to CHF 40,441, CHF 
45,701 and CHF 49,468 and costs per event prevented amounting to CHF 27,742, CHF 
32,451 and CHF 41,620, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study investigated the long-term health-economic implications 
of treating type 2 diabetes patients, in whom OAD had failed, with insulin 
glargine versus NPH insulin in Switzerland. The 10-year simulations demonstrated 
that the deltaHbA1c reductions of 0.4 and 0.12% achieved with insulin glargine 
led to a reduction of long-term complications, mortality and associated costs as 
well as to an improved quality of life. Insulin glargine proved to be 
cost-effective and represents good to excellent value for money compared to NPH 
insulin.

DOI: 10.5414/cpp45203
PMID: 17474539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Wiad Lek. 2002;55 Suppl 1(Pt 2):723-31.

[Perspectives of public health as a system of knowledge and practice].

[Article in Polish]

Kirschner H(1).

Author information:
(1)Instytutu Medycyny Społecznej Akademii Medycznej w Warszawie.

For at least 200 years we have experienced extension of the public health scope 
as an organized activity in favour of human population. It is stimulated by 
civilization progress and changes in the condition of social life, development 
of medical knowledge, as well as emerging new hazards and social needs. Within 
the interest of public health there are various tasks: health status monitoring, 
identification of hazards and the resulting health risks, setting environmental 
standards and their surveillance, health education and health promotion, special 
preventive programs etc. As systems of health care develop, covering the whole 
population, some quite new tasks are added. They are related to effective and 
accessible care through better management and rational use of available 
resources. A question arises to what extent the public health meets these 
challenges. According to some views the system of public health has been in deep 
crisis or at least far reaching disarray. Undoubtedly, various measures for 
improvement of the situation are needed. In Poland, one of the main appropriate 
measures in this regard is education which will enable building up professional 
staff in the area of public health.

PMID: 17474590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Int J Health Geogr. 2007 May 2;6:16. doi: 10.1186/1476-072X-6-16.

A model for spatial variations in life expectancy; mortality in Chinese regions 
in 2000.

Congdon P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, Queen Mary, University of London, London, UK. 
p.congdon@qmul.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy in China has been improving markedly but health 
gains have been uneven and there is inequality in survival chances between 
regions and in rural as against urban areas. This paper applies a statistical 
modelling approach to mortality data collected in conjunction with the 2000 
Census to formally assess spatial mortality contrasts in China. The modelling 
approach provides interpretable summary parameters (e.g. the relative mortality 
risk in rural as against urban areas) and is more parsimonious in terms of 
parameters than the conventional life table model.
RESULTS: Predictive fit is assessed both globally and at the level of individual 
five year age groups. A proportional model (age and area effects independent) 
has a worse fit than one allowing age-area interactions following a bilinear 
form. The best fit is obtained by allowing for child and oldest age mortality 
rates to vary spatially.
CONCLUSION: There is evidence that age (21 age groups) and area (31 Chinese 
administrative divisions) are not proportional (i.e. independent) mortality risk 
factors. In fact, spatial contrasts are greatest at young ages. There is a 
pronounced rural survival disadvantage, and large differences in life expectancy 
between provinces.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-072X-6-16
PMCID: PMC1876206
PMID: 17475003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Sex Transm Infect. 2007 Jul;83(4):267-74; discussion 274-5. doi: 
10.1136/sti.2006.024364.

The cost effectiveness of opportunistic chlamydia screening in England.

Adams EJ(1), Turner KM, Edmunds WJ.

Author information:
(1)Modelling & Economics Unit, Health Protection Agency, 61 Colindale Avenue, 
Colindale, London NW9 5EQ, UK.

BACKGROUND/AIM: The National Chlamydia Screening Programme (NCSP) is being 
implemented in England. This study aims to estimate the cost effectiveness of 
(a) the NCSP strategy (annual screening offer to men and women aged under 25 
years) and (b) alternative screening strategies.
METHODS: A stochastic, individual based, dynamic sexual network model was 
combined with a cost effectiveness model to estimate the complications and 
associated costs of chlamydial infection. The model was constructed and 
parameterised from the perspective of the National Health Service (NHS) 
(England), including the direct costs of infection, complications and screening. 
Unit costs were derived from standard data sources and published studies. The 
average and incremental cost effectiveness ratio (cost per major outcome averted 
or quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained) of chlamydia screening strategies 
targeting women and/or men of different age groups was estimated. Sensitivity 
analyses were done to explore model uncertainty.
RESULTS: All screening strategies modelled are likely to cost the NHS money and 
improve health. If pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) progression is less than 
10% then screening at any level is unlikely to be cost effective. However, if 
PID progression is 10% or higher the NCSP strategy compared to no screening 
appears to be cost effective. The incremental cost effectiveness analysis 
suggests that screening men and women aged under 20 years is the most beneficial 
strategy that falls below accepted thresholds. There is a high degree of 
uncertainty in the findings.
CONCLUSIONS: Offering an annual screening test to men and women aged under 20 
years may be the most cost effective strategy (that is, under accepted 
thresholds) if PID progression is 10% or higher.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.2006.024364
PMCID: PMC2598679
PMID: 17475686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: none.


535. EMBO J. 2007 May 16;26(10):2513-26. doi: 10.1038/sj.emboj.7601688. Epub 2007
May  3.

Essential role for beta-arrestin 2 in the regulation of Xenopus convergent 
extension movements.

Kim GH(1), Han JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Division of Molecular and Life Sciences, Pohang 
University of Science and Technology, Pohang, Kyungbuk, Republic of Korea.

beta-Arrestin 2 (betaarr2) is a multifunctional protein that regulates numerous 
aspects of G-protein-coupled receptor function. However, its possible 
involvement in developmental processes is poorly understood. In this work, we 
examined the potential role of betaarr2 during Xenopus early development. Gain- 
and loss-of-function studies showed that Xenopus betaarr2 (xbetaarr2) is 
required for proper convergent extension (CE) movements, and normal cell 
polarization and intercalation without affecting cell fate. Moreover, for CE 
movements, betaarr2 acts as an essential regulator of dishevelled-mediated PCP 
(planar cell polarity) signaling, but not G-protein-mediated Ca(2+) signaling. 
Notably, xbetaarr2 is localized with the same distribution as the dishevelled 
protein, which is reasonable, as xbetaarr2 is required for dishevelled 
activation of RhoA. Furthermore, xbetaarr2 interacts with the N-terminal quarter 
of Daam1 and RhoA proteins, but not Rac1, and regulates RhoA activation through 
Daam1 activation for CE movements. We provide evidence that the endocytic 
activity of xbetaarr2 is essential for control of CE movements. Taken together, 
our results suggest that betaarr2 has a pivotal role in the regulation of 
Xenopus CE movements.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.emboj.7601688
PMCID: PMC1868900
PMID: 17476309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Alzheimers Dement. 2005 Jul;1(1):55-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jalz.2005.06.003.

Ways toward an early diagnosis in Alzheimer's disease: the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI).

Mueller SG(1), Weiner MW, Thal LJ, Petersen RC, Jack CR, Jagust W, Trojanowski 
JQ, Toga AW, Beckett L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Imaging of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Veterans Administration 
Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, USA.

With the increasing life expectancy in developed countries, the incidence of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and thus its socioeconomic impact are growing. 
Increasing knowledge over the last years about the pathomechanisms involved in 
AD allow for the development of specific treatment strategies aimed at slowing 
down or even preventing neuronal death in AD. However, this requires also that 
(1) AD can be diagnosed with high accuracy, because non-AD dementias would not 
benefit from an AD-specific treatment; (2) AD can be diagnosed in very early 
stages when any intervention would be most effective; and (3) treatment efficacy 
can be reliably and meaningfully monitored. Although there currently is no ideal 
biomarker that would fulfill all these requirements, there is increasing 
evidence that a combination of currently existing neuroimaging and cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) and blood biomarkers can provide important complementary information 
and thus contribute to a more accurate and earlier diagnosis of AD. The 
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is exploring which 
combinations of these biomarkers are the most powerful for diagnosis of AD and 
monitoring of treatment effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jalz.2005.06.003
PMCID: PMC1864941
PMID: 17476317


537. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2007 Aug;76(1):83-9. doi:
10.1007/s00253-007-0985-x.  Epub 2007 May 3.

Effect of culture temperature on follicle-stimulating hormone production by 
Chinese hamster ovary cells in a perfusion bioreactor.

Yoon SK(1), Ahn YH, Jeong MH.

Author information:
(1)Bioprocess R&D, LG Life Science Ltd, P.O. Box 61, Yusong-Gu, Science Town, 
Daejeon, 305-380, South Korea. skyoonb@lgls.co.kr

Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) was produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) 
cells using a perfusion bioreactor. Perfusion culture at 37 degrees C yielded a 
high cell density but a low FSH production. To investigate the effect of culture 
temperature in the range of 26-37 degrees C on cell growth and FSH production, 
batch cultures were performed. Lowering culture temperature below 32 degrees C 
resulted in growth suppression. However, specific productivity of FSH, q (FSH), 
increased as culture temperature decreased, and the maximum q (FSH) of 43.4 
ng/10(6) cells/h was obtained at 28 degrees C, which is 13-fold higher than that 
at 37 degrees C. Based on the results obtained from batch cultures, we performed 
perfusion cultures with two consecutive temperatures. CHO cells were grown up to 
3.2 x 10(7) cells/ml at 37 degrees C and culture temperature shifted down to 28 
degrees C to obtain a high FSH titer. Soon after the maximum FSH titer of 21 
mug/ml was achieved, a rapid loss of not only viable cell concentration but also 
cell viability was observed, probably due to the low activities of enzymes 
related to cell growth. Thus, the extension of production period at 28 degrees C 
is critical for the enhancement of FSH production, and the use of antiapoptotic 
genes seems to be promising.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-007-0985-x
PMID: 17476501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Obes Surg. 2007 Feb;17(2):168-75. doi: 10.1007/s11695-007-9043-0.

Laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding in 1,791 consecutive obese patients: 
12-year results.

Favretti F(1), Segato G, Ashton D, Busetto L, De Luca M, Mazza M, Ceoloni A, 
Banzato O, Calo E, Enzi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Regional Hospital - Vicenza, Italy. ffavret@tin.it

BACKGROUND: This study examines 1,791 consecutive laparoscopic adjustable 
gastric banding (LAGB) procedures with up to 12 years follow-up. Long-term 
results of LAGB with a high follow-up rate are not common.
METHODS: Between September 1993 and December 2005, 1,791 consecutive patients 
(75.1% women, mean age 38.7 years, mean weight 127.7 +/- 24 kg, mean BMI 46.2 
+/- 7.7) underwent LAGB by the same surgical team. Perigastric dissection was 
used in 77.8% of the patients, while subsequently pars flaccida was used in 
21.5% and a mixed approach in 0.8%. Data were analyzed according to 
co-morbidities, conversion, short- and long-term complications and weight loss. 
Fluoroscopy-guided band adjustments were performed and patients received 
intensive follow-up. The effects of LAGB on life expectancy were measured in a 
case/control study involving 821 surgically-treated patients versus 821 treated 
by medical therapy.
RESULTS: Most common baseline co-morbidities (%) were hypertension (35.6), 
osteoarthritis (57.8), diabetes (22), dyslipidemia (27.1), sleep apnea syndrome 
(31.4), depression (21.2), sweet eating (22.5) and binge eating (18.5). 
Conversion to open was 1.7%: due to technical difficulties (1.2) and due to 
intraoperative complications (0.5). Together with the re-positioning of the 
band, additional surgery was performed in 11.9% of the patients: hiatal hernia 
repair (2.4), cholecystectomy (7.8) and other procedures (1.7). There was no 
mortality. Reoperation was required in 106 patients (5.9%): band removal 55 
(3.7%), band repositioning 50 (2.7 %), and other 1 (0.05 %). Port-related 
complications occurred in 200 patients (11.2%). 41 patients (2.3%) underwent 
further surgery due to unsatisfactory results: removal of the band in 12 (0.7%), 
biliopancreatic diversion in 5 (0.27%) and a biliopancreatic diversion with 
gastric preservation ("bandinaro") in 24 (1.3%). Weight in kg was 103.7 +/- 
21.6, 102.5 +/- 22.5, 105.0 +/- 23.6, 106.8 +/- 24.3, 103.3 +/- 26.2 and 101.4 
+/- 27.1 at 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11 years after LAGB. BMI at the same intervals was 
37.7 +/- 7.1, 37.2 +/- 7.2, 38.1 +/- 7.6, 38.5 +/- 7.9, 37.5 +/- 8.5 and 37.7 
+/- 9.1. The case/control study found a statistically significant difference in 
survival in favor of the surgically-treated group.
CONCLUSIONS: LAGB can achieve effective, safe and stable long-term weight loss. 
In experienced hands, the complication rate is low. Follow-up is paramount.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-007-9043-0
PMID: 17476867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Harefuah. 2007 Apr;146(4):297-300, 316.

[Ageing, stem cells and indefinitely prolonged lives].

[Article in Hebrew]

Simonstein F(1).

Author information:
(1)The Center for Women's Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion 
University, Beer Sheba, Israel. fridas@yvc.ac.il

This paper argues that stem cells, with their ability to replace damaged tissues 
and organs may open new horizons for prolonging-life therapies. The article 
suggests that stopping this research is improbable and also undesirable, because 
if successful, millions of people will greatly benefit. On the other hand, this 
progression in curing disease may result in prolonging life, possibly 
indefinitely. This paper explores notions of human indefinitely prolonged life 
(IPL)--assuming that IPL maintains people's health and full capabilities--and 
suggests that existing claims against IPL, such as overpopulation, reduced brain 
capacity and possible personal boredom, do not justify avoiding IPL when, and if 
it becomes available. Nor does global justice require people from developed 
societies to give up their lives. It concludes however, that, although we should 
not prevent people from living longer lives, new schemes of morality should be 
developed under this perspective.

PMID: 17476939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. J Neurosci Nurs. 2007 Apr;39(2):107-11. doi:
10.1097/01376517-200704000-00007.

Diagnosis and treatment of idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus.

Vacca V(1).

Author information:
(1)ICU, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. vmvacca@partners.org

Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) is characterized by a classic 
triad of symptoms including dementia, urinary incontinence, and gait 
disturbance. INPH is clinically diagnosed in most patients during the sixth or 
seventh decade of life. Many older adults are incorrectly diagnosed with 
disorders such as Parkinson's disease and dementia when their symptoms are 
actually caused by INPH. As life expectancy increases, the necessity of 
accurately diagnosing and effectively treating these affected individuals will 
become more challenging. The diagnosis of INPH is challenging and requires a 
combination of clinical signs and symptoms, radiographic findings, and 
diagnostic testing. The purpose of evaluation and testing of individuals with 
suspected INPH is to determine if surgical implantation of a 
ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt will be beneficial. VP shunting is now a common 
neurosurgical procedure, but it is one associated with risks and complications, 
which makes evaluation of "shunt-responsiveness" essential.

DOI: 10.1097/01376517-200704000-00007
PMID: 17477225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. J Rheumatol. 2007 May;34(5):1178-83.

Considerations and preliminary proposals for defining a reference case for 
economic evaluations in ankylosing spondylitis.

Bansback N(1), Maetzel A, Drummond M, Anis A, Marra C, Conway P, Boers M, 
Tugwell P, Boonen A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcome Sciences, St. Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

Since healthcare resources are scarce, choices have to be made on how they will 
be allocated. The use of economic evaluations using cost-effectiveness analyses 
has increased rapidly as policymakers have realized their value in maximizing 
the population's benefits (in terms of length of life and health status) within 
a given budget. Following efforts by OMERACT to create reference case 
definitions for the conduct of economic evaluation in rheumatoid arthritis, 
osteoporosis, and osteoarthritis, we review various methodological areas and 
research decisions that could benefit from a consensus between researchers, 
clinicians, and drug developers in terms of an ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
reference case. Ten methodological issues are presented that will be important 
for future development of evaluations. Tentative proposals to define the issues 
in a reference case for AS are made, along with recommendations for further 
research.

PMID: 17477483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Clin Sci (Lond). 2007 Sep;113(5):259-66. doi: 10.1042/CS20070085.

Abnormal regional myocardial deformation properties and increased aortic 
stiffness in normotensive patients with aortic coarctation despite successful 
correction: an ABPM, standard echocardiography and strain rate imaging study.

di Salvo G(1), Pacileo G, Limongelli G, Verrengia M, Rea A, Santoro G, Gala S, 
Castaldi B, D'Andrea A, Caso P, Giovanna Russo M, Calabró R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Second University of Naples, Monaldi 
Hospital, Naples, Italy. giodisal@yahoo.it

The long-term follow-up data subsequent to a successful repair of AoC (aortic 
coarctation) show that life expectancy remains reduced. Previous standard 
echocardiographic studies have demonstrated normal or increased systolic cardiac 
function in patients following successful repair of AoC. SR (strain rate) 
imaging is a new technique able to detect subclinical myocardial abnormalities. 
In the present study we investigated whether young patients (without 
hypertension, as assessed using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and an 
exercise test) following successful AoC repair already have abnormal myocardial 
deformation properties, and the relationship of the deformation properties with 
aortic stiffness. We studied 166 subjects, 83 AoC non-hypertensive patients 
(mean age 12+/-4 years) a number of years after successful repair of AoC and 83 
age- and sex-matched subjects as controls. Peak systolic SR (1/s) for both 
regional longitudinal and radial function was assessed. The aortic stiffness 
index was calculated from the echocardiographically derived thoracic aortic 
diameters, and the measurement of blood pressure was obtained by cuff 
sphygmomanometry. The LV (left ventricular) ejection fraction was significantly 
increased in AoC patients, whereas regional longitudinal SRs were significantly 
reduced (-1.1+/-0.9 compared with -2+/-0.5, P<0.0001) in patients. The aortic 
stiffness index was significantly increased in AoC patients (12+/-9, P<0.0001). 
At multilinear regression analysis, age at repair (P=0.005; coefficient, -0.201; 
