
An economic model of long-term use of celecoxib in patients with osteoarthritis.

Loyd M(1), Rublee D, Jacobs P.

Author information:
(1)Michael Loyd & Associates Ltd, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. mloydassoc@shaw.ca 
<mloydassoc@shaw.ca>

BACKGROUND: Previous evaluations of the cost-effectiveness of the 
cyclooxygenase-2 selective inhibitor celecoxib (Celebrex, Pfizer Inc, USA) have 
produced conflicting results. The recent controversy over the cardiovascular 
(CV) risks of rofecoxib and other coxibs has renewed interest in the economic 
profile of celecoxib, the only coxib now available in the United States. The 
objective of our study was to evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of 
celecoxib compared with nonselective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(nsNSAIDs) in a population of 60-year-old osteoarthritis (OA) patients with 
average risks of upper gastrointestinal (UGI) complications who require chronic 
daily NSAID therapy.
METHODS: We used decision analysis based on data from the literature to evaluate 
cost-effectiveness from a modified societal perspective over patients' 
lifetimes, with outcomes expressed as incremental costs per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained. Sensitivity tests were performed to evaluate the 
impacts of advancing age, CV thromboembolic event risk, different analytic 
horizons and alternate treatment strategies after UGI adverse events.
RESULTS: Our main findings were: 1) the base model incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for celecoxib versus nsNSAIDs was $31,097 per 
QALY; 2) the ICER per QALY was $19,309 for a model in which UGI ulcer and ulcer 
complication event risks increased with advancing age; 3) the ICER per QALY was 
$17,120 in sensitivity analyses combining serious CV thromboembolic event 
(myocardial infarction, stroke, CV death) risks with base model assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Our model suggests that chronic celecoxib is cost-effective versus 
nsNSAIDs in a population of 60-year-old OA patients with average risks of UGI 
events.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-230X-7-25
PMCID: PMC1925103
PMID: 17610716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Aug;23(8):1887-901. doi: 10.1185/030079907X210688.

Cost-effectiveness of the two-compound formulation calcipotriol and 
betamethasone dipropionate compared with commonly used topical treatments in the 
management of moderately severe plaque psoriasis in Scotland.

Bottomley JM(1), Auland ME, Morais J, Boyd G, Douglas WS.

Author information:
(1)Amygdala Ltd, Letchworth Garden City, UK. jmb@amygdala.uk.com 
<jmb@amygdala.uk.com>

OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness of calcipotriol/betamethasone 
dipropionate (Dovobet) in the initial treatment of moderate severity plaque 
psoriasis vulgaris in Scotland.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: An economic model was developed to simulate the 
costs and benefits of the most commonly used topicals in the management of 
plaque psoriasis. This was informed by an indirect unadjusted comparison of the 
effectiveness data to determine the relative efficacy of commonly used topicals. 
The model estimated their impact on costs and utility gain over a 1-year period. 
We accounted for direct medical costs from a health payer perspective. The 
cost-utility analysis included pharmacy costs and costs of failure of topicals 
in primary care in terms of secondary-care referrals for phototherapy. Extensive 
sensitivity analyses were undertaken to address areas of uncertainty in the 
parameters of the model.
RESULTS: Patients treated with the two-compound formulation (TCF) of 
calcipotriol and betamethasone dipropionate (BDP) experienced better control of 
their psoriasis. In our model, this translated into reduced costs, as patients 
were less likely to be referred for phototherapy, and increased quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) relative to other commonly used topicals. The TCF was 
estimated to generate annual savings ranging from 96 to 276 pounds per patient 
per year compared to the other commonly used alternative topicals. With reduced 
costs and superior outcomes, the TCF 'dominated' these other treatments since 
the latter were associated with higher cost and lower utility or QALY gain. The 
model findings were not influenced by changes to a range of model input 
parameters within plausible limits.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the TCF in patients with plaque psoriasis represents 
excellent value for money by delivering savings to the National Health Service 
(NHS) in Scotland. Similar findings are predicted for the management of 
psoriasis patients elsewhere in the UK.

DOI: 10.1185/030079907X210688
PMID: 17610804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Jul;11(26):iii-iv, ix-xi, 1-134. doi: 
10.3310/hta11260.

Hormonal therapies for early breast cancer: systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Hind D(1), Ward S, De Nigris E, Simpson E, Carroll C, Wyld L.

Author information:
(1)The School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To establish the clinical and cost-effectiveness of aromatase 
inhibitors (AIs) anastrozole, letrozole and exemestane compared with tamoxifen 
in the adjuvant treatment of early oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer in 
postmenopausal women.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases and three trials registers were 
searched from May to June 2005. Three conference abstract databases were 
searched in December 2005. Industry submissions.
REVIEW METHODS: Studies evaluating the clinical effectiveness of AIs against 5 
years' tamoxifen treatment were included and critically appraised. The review of 
the health economics of AIs in early breast cancer in comparison with standard 
therapies included a review of existing economic evaluations of the relevant 
therapies, a critique of each of the economic evaluations submitted to the 
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) by pharmaceutical 
manufacturers and a detailed explanation of the methodologies and results of the 
authors' economic model. The three treatment strategies (primary adjuvant 
therapy, unplanned switch therapy and extended adjuvant therapy) were considered 
separately within the authors' economic analysis.
RESULTS: A meta-analysis of three trials found a significant difference in 
overall survival when an unplanned anastrozole switching strategy was compared 
with 5 years' tamoxifen. Significant improvements in overall survival are yet to 
be demonstrated in other strategies. Compared with 5 years' tamoxifen, 
disease-free survival (disease recurrence or death from any cause) was 
significantly improved in the primary adjuvant setting with anastrozole and 
letrozole, and with an exemestane switching strategy. Other trials did not 
report this outcome. Breast cancer recurrence (censoring death as an event) was 
significantly improved with primary adjuvant anastrozole and letrozole, 
anastrozole switching, extended adjuvant anastrozole or letrozole. The AIs and 
tamoxifen have different side-effect profiles, with tamoxifen responsible for 
small but statistically significant increases in endometrial cancer and, 
sometimes, thromboembolic events and stroke. AIs show a trend towards increases 
in osteoporosis, the statistical significance of which increases with follow-up 
time. The absence of tamoxifen treatment also increases the risk of 
hypercholesterolaemia and cardiac events in postmenopausal women. There was no 
significant difference in overall health-related quality of life between 
standard treatment and either primary adjuvant anastrozole and extended adjuvant 
letrozole strategies. The cost-effectiveness results for AIs compared with 
tamoxifen in the primary adjuvant setting, are estimated to be between 21,000 
pounds and 32,000 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) based on an 
analysis over 35 years. There is currently no trial evidence for exemestane in 
this setting. The cost-effectiveness results for anastrozole and exemestane, 
compared with tamoxifen in the unplanned switching setting, are estimated to be 
23,200 pounds and 19,200 pounds per QALY, respectively, based on an analysis 
over 35 years. There is currently no trial evidence for letrozole in this 
setting. In the extended adjuvant setting, the cost per QALY for letrozole 
compared with placebo is estimated to be 9800 pounds, based on an analysis over 
35 years. All these results are considered to be conservative. In the base case 
it is assumed that the benefits of AIs over tamoxifen or placebo seen during the 
therapy period are gradually lost during the following 10 years. An alternative 
scenario, the 'benefits maintained' scenario, is tested in sensitivity analysis. 
Here it is assumed that following the treatment period the annual rate of 
recurrence in both arms is the same. This reduces the cost-effectiveness ratio 
by over 50%, to around 10,000-12,000 pounds, 5000 pounds and 3000 pounds in the 
primary adjuvant, unplanned switching and extended adjuvant setting, 
respectively. The limited evidence to date of benefits after the therapy period 
suggests that the 'benefits maintained' scenario may be realistic. The results 
from the economic analyses within the industry submissions are generally lower 
than the results from the authors' model and are close to or below 12,000 pounds 
in all three settings. The authors' analyses generally produce a lower estimate 
of QALY gain for the aromatase inhibitors, due to the more conservative 
assumption regarding benefits, along with differences in the utility values used 
in the their analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of the current data and within their licensed 
indications, AIs can be considered clinically effective compared with standard 
tamoxifen treatment. However, their long-term effects, in terms of both benefits 
and harms, remain unclear. Under the conservative assumption that benefits 
gained by AIs during the treatment period are gradually lost over the following 
10 years, the cost per QALY for AIs compared with tamoxifen is estimated to be 
between 21,000 pounds and 32,000 pounds in the primary adjuvant setting and 
around 20,000 pounds in the unplanned switch setting. The cost per QALY for AIs 
compared with placebo in the extended adjuvant setting is estimated to be around 
10,000 pounds. Under the less conservative assumption that rates of recurrence 
are the same in both arms after the therapy period is complete, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios are typically at least 50% lower, suggesting that AIs 
are likely to be considered cost-effective in all three settings. Understanding 
of the long-term treatment effects on cost-effectiveness is, however, 
incomplete. Data on the impact of AIs on survival are awaited from the majority 
of the trials to confirm whether or not the benefits seen in disease-free 
survival and recurrence rates are translated into overall survival benefit in 
the medium to long-term.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11260
PMID: 17610808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Respir Med. 2007 Sep;101(9):1885-94. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2007.05.003. Epub
2007  Jul 3.

Cost-effectiveness of GRAZAX for prevention of grass pollen induced 
rhinoconjunctivitis in Southern Europe.

Canonica GW(1), Poulsen PB, Vestenbaek U.

Author information:
(1)Allergy and Respiratory Diseases Clinic, DIMI, University of Genova, 
Pad.Maragliano, L.go R.Benzi 10, 16132 Genoa, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis is a global health problem. Around 14 
million people in Spain, France, Italy, and Austria suffer from grass pollen 
induced allergic rhinitis. Standard care only provides symptoms relief, while 
allergen specific immunotherapy (SIT) treats the underlying cause of the 
disease. Grazax from ALK-Abelló is a new, tablet-based, effective route of SIT 
for home treatment. The objective was to assess the cost-effectiveness of Grazax 
in four Southern European countries.
METHODS: A prospective pharmacoeconomic analyses was carried out alongside a 
multinational, clinical trial measuring the efficacy of Grazax. Pooled data on 
resource use and health outcomes were collected. A societal perspective was 
adopted, and the analysis had a nine-year time horizon. The primary outcome 
measure was quality adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Grazax was superior to standard care for all efficacy endpoints, 
including QALYs gained, and resulted in significantly less use of rescue 
medication and fewer hours missed from work. Grazax was cost-effective for all 
countries for an annual price in the range of 1500 euros - 1900 euros. The 
result was improved by inclusion of future costs of asthma and exclusion of 
Spanish trial centers which experienced an exceptionally low pollen season.
CONCLUSION: The analysis illustrates that allergen SIT with Grazax for grass 
pollen induced rhinoconjunctivitis is a cost-effective intervention in Southern 
Europe.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2007.05.003
PMID: 17611095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Bioorg Med Chem. 2007 Sep 1;15(17):5775-86. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2007.06.004.
Epub  2007 Jun 8.

A new therapeutic approach in Alzheimer disease: some novel pyrazole derivatives 
as dual MAO-B inhibitors and antiinflammatory analgesics.

Gökhan-Kelekçi N(1), Yabanoğlu S, Küpeli E, Salgin U, Ozgen O, Uçar G, Yeşilada 
E, Kendi E, Yeşilada A, Bilgin AA.

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Chemistry, 06100 Sihhiye, Ankara, Turkey. onesrin@hacettepe.edu.tr

The increasing life expectancy in our population makes Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
a growing public health problem. There is a great need to find a way to prevent 
and delay the disease. It was shown that monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitors 
and antiinflammatory agents might be effective in treating AD. Therefore, a 
novel series of 1-thiocarbamoyl-3-substituted 
phenyl-5-(2-pyrrolyl)-4,5-dihydro-(1H)-pyrazole derivatives as promising MAO-B 
inhibitors was synthesized and investigated for the ability to inhibit 
selectively the activity of the A and B isoforms of monoamine oxidase (MAO). 
Most of the synthesized compounds showed high activity against both the MAO-A 
(compounds 3e-3h) and the MAO-B (compounds 3i-3l) isoforms. All the synthesized 
compounds were also tested for their in vivo antiinflammatory activity by two 
different bioassays namely, carrageenan-induced oedema and acetic acid-induced 
increase in capillary permeability in mice. In addition, analgesic and 
ulcerogenic activities were determined. The combined antiinflammatory data from 
in vivo animal models showed that compound 3k exhibited anti-inflammatory 
activity comparable to that of indomethacin with no ulcerogenic effects. Since 
compound 3k exhibits both antiinflammatory-analgesic activity and MAO-B 
inhibition, it needs further detailed studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2007.06.004
PMID: 17611112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Comp Biochem Physiol B Biochem Mol Biol. 2007 Nov;148(3):245-55. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbpb.2007.06.002. Epub 2007 Jun 12.

Akt and its downstream targets play key roles in mediating dormancy in land 
snails.

Ramnanan CJ(1), Groom AG, Storey KB.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Department of Molecular Physiology, 
710 Robinson Research Building, 2200 Pierce Avenue, Nashville, TN 37232, USA. 
chris.ramnanan@vanderbilt.edu

Estivation, a state of aerobic dormancy, facilitates survival during adverse 
environmental conditions and is characterized at the molecular level by 
regulatory protein phosphorylation. The Akt (protein kinase B) signaling pathway 
regulates diverse responses in cells and the present study analyzes its role in 
the estivating desert snail Otala lactea. Kinetic analysis (maximal velocity, 
substrate affinities) determined that Akt was activated in tissues of estivating 
snails and Western blotting and in vitro incubations promoting changes to Akt 
phosphorylation state both confirmed that higher amounts of active 
(phosphorylated Ser473) Akt were present during estivation. Akt protein 
stability was also enhanced during estivation as assessed from urea denaturation 
studies. Multiple downstream targets of Akt were differentially regulated during 
estivation. Estivating animals showed elevated levels of phosphorylated FOXO3a 
(Ser253) and BAD (Ser136), no change in mTOR (Ser2481 and Ser2448), and reduced 
amounts of phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) beta subunit 
(Ser9). Kinetic analysis of GSK-3 showed 1.5-1.7 fold higher activities in 
estivating snails coupled with increased GSK-3 substrate affinities in 
hepatopancreas. The data suggest an active role for Akt signaling during 
estivation emphasizing anti-apoptotic actions but uncoupling 
growth/proliferation actions to help achieve life extension on a limited energy 
budget.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpb.2007.06.002
PMID: 17611133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Food Prot. 2007 Jun;70(6):1434-9. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-70.6.1434.

Influence of peroxyacetic acid-based carcass rinse on the onset of "blown pack" 
spoilage in artificially inoculated vacuum-packed chilled beef.

Boerema JA(1), Broda DM, Penney N, Brightwell G.

Author information:
(1)AgResearch, Ruakura Campus, East Street, Hamilton, 2001, New Zealand.

"Blown pack" spoilage is an increasingly reported spoilage condition of 
vacuum-packed chilled meats. This spoilage condition is primarily caused by a 
psychrophilic obligately anaerobic microorganism, Clostridium estertheticum. The 
present study investigated whether peroxyacetic acid (POAA)-based carcass rinse 
can delay the onset of gas production in chilled vacuum-packed beef artificially 
inoculated with C. estertheticum spores. The variables studied were (i) two 
prepackaging meat rinses (water and POAA-based rinse); (ii) three levels of C. 
estertheticum spores (0, 4, and 40 spores per cm2); and (iii) three 
postpackaging storage temperatures (-1.5, 0, and 2 degrees C). Treatment with 
POAA-based rinse marginally delayed the onset of pack blowing in packs carrying 
high numbers of C. estertheticum spores but not in packs carrying low levels of 
inoculum or in uninoculated controls. The presence of as few as 4 spores per cm2 
of meat surface effectively decreased by two-thirds the nominal shelf life of 
vacuum-packed chilled beef. Increasing the inoculum by 10-fold to 40 spores per 
cm2 resulted in the additional acceleration of the onset of pack blowing. The 
onset of gas production was significantly delayed by storing the packaged 
product at -1.5 degrees C rather than at 0 degrees C. The results of this study 
indicate that the POAA-based rinse tested will not eliminate the spoilage threat 
posed by clostridial blown pack spoilage spores present on meat surfaces. 
POAA-based rinse can be used alone to achieve some extension of shelf life of 
beef cuts heavily contaminated with C. estertheticum spores. Alternatively, the 
rinse may offer an opportunity for a more substantial extension of shelf life of 
contaminated cuts when used with additional hurdles.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-70.6.1434
PMID: 17612074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. MMW Fortschr Med. 2007 Mar 1;149(9):33-5. doi: 10.1007/BF03371999.

[Prevention and anti-aging in endocrinology].

[Article in German]

Von Bamberger CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Präventions Centrum, Hamburg (MPCH) am, Universitätsklinikum 
Hamburg-Eppendorf. bamberger@mpch.de

The aging process is associated with a characteristic decline in the levels of 
certain hormones. In both sexes, growth hormones, melatonin, 
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulfate compound DHEAS reach their maximum 
levels in the third decade of life, and then decline progressively. In addition, 
a constant decrease in the production of biologically active free testosterone 
of approximately 1% per year is observed in men. The abrupt cessation of sex 
hormone production seen in women is not observed in men. Irrespective of the 
hormone being supplemented, it should always be remembered that not merely the 
hormone-producing organ, but also the target tissue has aged, and may thus 
manifest a different reaction to the substituted hormone than youthful tissue.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03371999
PMID: 17612247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Waste Manag Res. 2007 Jun;25(3):220-6. doi: 10.1177/0734242X07079183.

Exploration of urban deposits: long-term prospects for resource and waste 
management.

Wittmer D(1), Lichtensteiger T.

Author information:
(1)ETH Zurich - Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich, Switzerland. 
dominic.wittmer@alumni.ethz.ch

Many materials currently in use are potentially available to become raw 
materials for future production if the materials are recycled instead of 
discarded as solid waste. However, the structure and life-expectancy of these 
secondary resources have not been sufficiently examined, and comprehensive 
methods for forecasting the availability of such materials are still lacking. 
This study presents a method for identifying anthropogenic material stocks in 
combination with the method of material flow analysis (MFA). The method was 
applied to copper in Switzerland as an example, with the focus on use in 
buildings. The exploration concept was a three-step process. First, a MFA 
identified the relevant stocks within the inventory of the region. Second, these 
stocks were inventoried through a building stock model and determination of key 
parameters that were defined by surveying selected buildings and from the 
literature. Third, the study team developed a dynamic MFA model to describe the 
copper stocks and flows during the period 1900-2000. The results of the copper 
stock calculation (in kg capita(-1)) were: buildings 79 +/- 11, infrastructure 
107 +/- 25, movables 34 +/- 9, landfills 50 +/- 12. The calibrated model enabled 
the study team to develop resource and waste management scenarios forecasting 
waste flows. It is shown that the conversion of buildings into other uses may 
affect the waste flows significantly.

DOI: 10.1177/0734242X07079183
PMID: 17612321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. IUBMB Life. 2007 Jun;59(6):388-93. doi: 10.1080/15216540701370721.

The regulatory domains of CNA have different effects on the inhibition of CN 
activity by FK506 and CsA.

Wang HL(1), Du YW, Xiang BQ, Lin WL, Wei Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Beijing Normal University, 
Beijing Key Laboratory, Beijing, PR China.

Calcineurin (CN) is the common receptor for two immunophilin-immunosuppressant 
complexes, Cyp-CsA and FKBP-FK506. Calcineurin is composed of a catalytic 
subunit (CNA) and a regulatory subunit (CNB). CNA contains the catalytic domain 
and three regulatory domains: a CNB-binding domain (BBH, 350-370), a calmodulin- 
binding domain (CBD, 389-413), and an autoinhibitory domain (AID, 457-482). To 
investigate the effects of these three regulatory domains on the inhibition of 
CN by the two drugs we constructed three C-terminal deletion mutants: CNAabc 
(1-456), CNAab (1-388) and CNAa (1-347). Inhibition of CNA and its derivatives 
by the two drugs was examined and compared with inhibition by peptides (AID 
[457-482] and LCBD [389-456], CBD and the extension of the AID were included). 
Our results show that the BBH is critical for inhibition of CN by Cyp-CsA and 
FKBP-FK506. The LCBD has no effect and the AID reduces the inhibition of CN by 
two complexes. In addition, LCBD and AID as autoinhibitors may inhibit enzyme 
activity via different sites.

DOI: 10.1080/15216540701370721
PMID: 17613169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2007 Jul;26(7):687-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2007.04.008. Epub 2007 Jun 13.

Long-term improvement in pulmonary function after living donor lobar lung 
transplantation.

Yamane M(1), Date H, Okazaki M, Toyooka S, Aoe M, Sano Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer and Thoracic Surgery (Surgery II), Okayama University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: As an alternative to cadaveric transplantation, living donor lobar 
lung transplantation (LDLLT) has been applied in critical patients with 
end-stage pulmonary disease because of the mismatch between the supply and 
demand of lungs for transplantation. However, it is unclear whether two 
pulmonary lobes can provide adequate long-term pulmonary function and 
satisfactory clinical outcome in recipients.
METHODS: Between October 1998 and September 2004, 28 females and 3 males, 
including 5 children, underwent LDLLT at Okayama University Hospital. Their mean 
age was 31.8 years, and the mean observation period was 53.8 months. One patient 
who underwent single-lung transplantation and another who died peri-operatively 
were excluded from further analyses.
RESULTS: The most common indication for transplantation was pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (32.3%). The overall survival rate was 93.6%. Seven recipients 
(22.6%) developed bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome after LDLLT. The mean 
percent predicted forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in 1 
second (FEV1) improved between 12 and 24 months after transplantation (71.8 +/- 
12.9% and 65.8 +/- 17.2% at 12 months vs 77.4 +/- 16.6% and 72.8 +/- 14.6% at 24 
months; p < 0.005 and p < 0.05, respectively). The actual recipient FVC 
ultimately reached 123.0% of the estimated graft FVC of two donor lobes 
(calculated based on the donor FVC and number of segments implanted) at 36 
months after LDLLT.
CONCLUSIONS: Although LDLLT may be associated with the limitation of size 
mismatch, it holds promise for providing well-functioning pulmonary lobar grafts 
to critically ill patients with poor life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2007.04.008
PMID: 17613398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. J Sports Sci. 2007 Aug;25(10):1081-93. doi: 10.1080/02640410601165270.

Hiking physiology and the "quasi-isometric" concept.

Spurway NC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, 
UK. n.spurway@bio.gla.ac.uk

The literature indicates that the heart rate of a planing-dinghy sailor, in 
winds of 4 - 5 m . s(-1), is in the range seen in aerobic athletes, yet oxygen 
consumption (VO(2)) is roughly half that of the same individual cycling at that 
heart rate. Thus, although upper-body dynamic activity is a contributing factor, 
the dominant physiological demand must be the "quasi-isometric" stress on the 
lower-body anterior muscles - especially the quadriceps, which appears to impose 
40 - 50% of the total oxygen demand in a typical hiking posture. Therefore, a 
non-trivial part of the sailor's fitness training should involve sustained 
quadriceps stress. Estimates of this stress on water vary widely in the 
literature, but about 25 - 30% maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) tallies with 
endurance times recorded both in the literature and in an outline of new work 
reported here. Muscle blood flow is restricted under such a load, but not 
occluded. Laser Doppler measurements of femoral blood flow on a leg-extension 
ergometer found similar values during 10 - 30% MVC, much less at 40%, and marked 
hyperaemia on relaxation from 20% MVC or more - implying metabolic debt. Adding 
low-amplitude alternating leg movements while holding the same overall load 
stationary, and therefore increasing only internal not external work, further 
elevates blood flow and VO(2) both during and after exercise. Femoral-vein 
lactate concentration is also higher after these movements. Speculations that 
unusually dynamic lower-body movements by elite sailors might assist hiking 
endurance are not supported by these findings. Nevertheless, afloat or ashore, 
capillary lactate concentrations hardly ever exceed 5 mmol . l(-1), even during 
the post-exercise surge - challenging assumptions that the quadriceps had been 
profoundly anaerobic while under load. On the contrary, it appears that aerobic 
metabolism contributes substantially, if not completely, to energy supply. A 
preliminary comparison of elite sailors with aerobic athletes suggests that 
isometric endurance at a given percentage MVC does not differ between the two 
groups, but the sailors have higher MVCs. In individuals not highly 
strength-trained, greater electromyogram activity immediately before 
capitulation than in an MVC performed while fresh indicates that physiological 
(not just volitional) limits have been reached. It is concluded that the 
literature and the outline of my recent work with colleagues support the view 
that the predominant physiological load during single-handed dinghy sailing is 
quasi-isometric in form and accounts for roughly half of the metabolic demand. 
Any more complete account of the physiology of hiking will require simultaneous 
on-water measurement of electromyographic, cardiovascular, and metabolic 
indicators in sailors extending from club to Gold Medal standard.

DOI: 10.1080/02640410601165270
PMID: 17613731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Psychol Sci. 2007 Jul;18(7):642-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9280.2007.01952.x.

Extended multisensory space in blind cane users.

Serino A(1), Bassolino M, Farnè A, Làdavas E.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Psicologia, Universitaà degli Studi di Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy. andrea.serino@unibo.it

In the present work, we investigated whether an auditory peripersonal space 
exists around the hand and whether such a space might be extended by a brief 
tool-use experience or by long-term experience using a tool in everyday life. To 
this end, we studied audio-tactile integration in the space around the hand and 
in far space, in blind subjects who regularly used a cane to navigate and in 
sighted subjects, before and after brief training with the cane. In sighted 
subjects, auditory peripersonal space was limited to around the hand before tool 
use, then expanded after tool use, and contracted backward after a resting 
period. In contrast, in blind subjects, peri-hand space was immediately expanded 
when they held the cane but was limited to around the hand when they held a 
short handle. These results suggest that long-term experience with the cane 
induces a durable extension of the peripersonal space.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9280.2007.01952.x
PMID: 17614874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Int J Health Geogr. 2007 Jul 5;6:27. doi: 10.1186/1476-072X-6-27.

A multi-perspective approach for defining neighbourhood units in the context of 
a study on health inequalities in the Quebec City region.

Lebel A(1), Pampalon R, Villeneuve PY.

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche en aménagement et développement, Université Laval, 
Québec, Canada. alexandre.lebel@crad.ulaval.ca

BACKGROUND: Identification of socioeconomic and health inequalities at the local 
scale is facilitated by using relevant small geographical sectors. Although 
these places are routinely defined according to administrative boundaries on the 
basis of statistical criteria, it is important to carefully consider the way 
they are circumscribed as they can create spatial analysis problems and produce 
misleading information. This article introduces a new approach to defining 
neighbourhood units which is based on the integration of elements stemming from 
the socioeconomic situation of the area, its history, and how it is perceived by 
local key actors.
RESULTS: Using this set of geographical units shows important socioeconomic and 
health disparities at the local scale. These disparities can be seen, for 
example, in a 16-year difference in disability-free life expectancy at birth, 
and a $10,000-difference in average personal income between close 
neighbourhoods. The geographical units also facilitate information transfer to 
local stakeholders.
CONCLUSION: The context of this study has made it possible to explore several 
relevant methodological issues related to the definition of neighbourhood units. 
This multi-perspective approach allows the combination of many different 
elements such as physical structures, historical and administrative boundaries, 
material and social deprivation of the population, and sense of belonging. 
Results made sense to local stakeholders and helped them to raise important 
issues to improve future developments.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-072X-6-27
PMCID: PMC1936419
PMID: 17615065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Korean J Intern Med. 2007 Jun;22(2):118-21. doi: 10.3904/kjim.2007.22.2.118.

Superior vena cava syndrome caused by encircling soft tissue.

Kim DH(1), Jeon YS, Kim GC, Ahn IS, Kwan J, Park KS, Lee WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine Inha University, 
Incheon, Korea. kdhmd@korea.com

Superior vena cava syndrome can occur from benign conditions that might not 
alter life expectancy. Here we present a case of a superior vena cava (SVC) 
obstruction caused by soft tissue encircling the SVC, which was strongly 
suspected of being an unusual focal type of fibrosing mediastinitis. A 
39-year-old man with no prior medical history presented with a four-week history 
of facial plethora, headache and dilated veins of the neck with a dark purple 
color change on the anterior chest wall. Radiology examinations, including 
venography, and computed tomography with a 3-dimensional volume-rendering image 
of the chest, had revealed severe narrowing of the SVC due to tiny encircling 
soft tissue and collateral vessels. A total occlusion of the SVC occurred as a 
result of a thrombus that developed within 1 day after the diagnostic SVC 
angiogram. The patient underwent stent deployment three days after the 
administration of thrombolytic therapy.

DOI: 10.3904/kjim.2007.22.2.118
PMCID: PMC2687620
PMID: 17616029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Int J Pharm. 2007 Oct 1;343(1-2):196-207. doi:
10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.05.050.  Epub 2007 May 26.

Modeling drug release from bioerodible microspheres using a cellular automaton.

Bertrand N(1), Leclair G, Hildgen P.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Montreal, C.P. 6128, succ. Centre-Ville, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada H3C 3J7. nicolas.bertrand@umontreal.ca

Mathematical modeling of drug release from biodegradable microspheres is 
designed to improve understanding of phenomena involved in this complex process. 
In spite of the considerable information obtained from conventional models, 
their use of equation curve fitting often limits the possibility to generalize 
their results. The objective of the presented study is to develop a model 
involving a three-dimensional cellular automaton to simulate both polymer 
erosion and drug diffusion independently. The model involves millions of 
independent cells in different states representing the components present in 
microspheres. The different states allow representation of polymer, drug, pores 
and solvent. For erosion, each cell is defined with a life expectancy and its 
chance of being eroded evolves according to the number of direct neighbours 
containing solvent. For diffusion, drug-containing cells are allowed to randomly 
diffuse their content in their neighbouring solvent-containing cells. Good 
correlations are obtained between simulations and two sets of experimental data 
obtained from release study at different pH. The model offers some insights 
about important drug release phases, like burst and subsequent release. 
Graphical representations obtained from the cellular automaton are also compared 
to SEM images. Cellular automaton proves to be an interesting tool for drug 
release modeling offering insights on the phenomena involved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.05.050
PMID: 17616285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Small Anim Pract. 2007 Oct;48(10):546-53. doi: 
10.1111/j.1748-5827.2007.00386.x. Epub 2007 Jul 6.

Cognitive dysfunction and the neurobiology of ageing in cats.

Gunn-Moore D(1), Moffat K, Christie LA, Head E.

Author information:
(1)Easter Bush Veterinary Centre, Hospital for Small Animals, University of 
Edinburgh, Roslin, Edinburgh EH25 9RG, UK.

With improvements in nutrition and veterinary medicine the life expectancy of 
pet cats is increasing. Accompanying this growing geriatric population there are 
increasing numbers of cats with signs of apparent senility. A recent study 
suggests that 28 per cent of pet cats aged 11 to 14 years develop at least one 
geriatric onset behavioural problem, and this increases to over 50 per cent for 
cats of 15 years of age or older. While behavioural changes may result from 
systemic illness, organic brain disease or true behavioural problems, the 
possibility of age-related cognitive dysfunction is often overlooked. Studies 
have revealed a number of changes in the brains of geriatric cats that showed 
signs of cognitive dysfunction, and potential causes include vascular 
insufficiency leading to hypoxia, increased free radical damage and the 
deposition of beta-amyloid plaques and/or the modification of other proteins. By 
recognising the importance of behavioural changes in old cats, investigating 
them fully for potentially treatable medical conditions, and instigating dietary 
and environmental modifications to meet their changing needs, we can make the 
lives of our geriatric cats much more comfortable and rewarding.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-5827.2007.00386.x
PMID: 17617164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2007 Jun;4(2):93-100. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph2007040002.

Inequities in the global health workforce: the greatest impediment to health in 
sub-Saharan Africa.

Anyangwe SC(1), Mtonga C.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization Country Office, Andrew Mwenya/Beit Roads, Lusaka, 
Republic of Zambia, Africa. stellaanyangwe@yahoo.com

Health systems played a key role in the dramatic rise in global life expectancy 
that occurred during the 20th century, and have continued to contribute 
enormously to the improvement of the health of most of the world's population. 
The health workforce is the backbone of each health system, the lubricant that 
facilitates the smooth implementation of health action for sustainable 
socio-economic development. It has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the 
density of the health workforce is directly correlated with positive health 
outcomes. In other words, health workers save lives and improve health. About 59 
million people make up the health workforce of paid full-time health workers 
world-wide. However, enormous gaps remain between the potential of health 
systems and their actual performance, and there are far too many inequities in 
the distribution of health workers between countries and within countries. The 
Americas (mainly USA and Canada) are home to 14% of the world's population, bear 
only 10% of the world's disease burden, have 37% of the global health workforce 
and spend about 50% of the world's financial resources for health. Conversely, 
sub-Saharan Africa, with about 11% of the world's population bears over 24% of 
the global disease burden, is home to only 3% of the global health workforce, 
and spends less than 1% of the world's financial resources on health. In most 
developing countries, the health workforce is concentrated in the major towns 
and cities, while rural areas can only boast of about 23% and 38% of the 
country's doctors and nurses respectively. The imbalances exist not only in the 
total numbers and geographical distribution of health workers, but also in the 
skills mix of available health workers. WHO estimates that 57 countries world 
wide have a critical shortage of health workers, equivalent to a global deficit 
of about 2.4 million doctors, nurses and midwives. Thirty six of these countries 
are in sub- Saharan Africa. They would need to increase their health workforce 
by about 140% to achieve enough coverage for essential health interventions to 
make a positive difference in the health and life expectancy of their 
populations. The extent causes and consequences of the health workforce crisis 
in Sub-Saharan Africa, and the various factors that influence and are related to 
it are well known and described. Although there is no "magic bullet" solution to 
the problem, there are several documented, tested and tried best practices from 
various countries. The global health workforce crisis can be tackled if there is 
global responsibility, political will, financial commitment and public-private 
partnership for country-led and country-specific interventions that seek 
solutions beyond the health sector. Only when enough health workers can be 
trained, sustained and retained in sub-Saharan African countries will there be 
meaningful socio-economic development and the faintest hope of attaining the 
Millennium Development Goals in the sub-continent.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph2007040002
PMCID: PMC3728573
PMID: 17617671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. BMC Genomics. 2007 Jul 6;8:219. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-8-219.

Inference of transcription modification in long-live yeast strains from their 
expression profiles.

Cheng C(1), Fabrizio P, Ge H, Longo VD, Li LM.

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Computational biology program, Department of Biological 
Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089-2910, USA. 
lilei@usc.edu

BACKGROUND: Three kinases: Sch9, PKA and TOR, are suggested to be involved in 
both the replicative and chronological ageing in yeast. They function in 
pathways whose down-regulation leads to life span extension. Several stress 
response proteins, including two transcription factors Msn2 and Msn4, mediate 
the longevity extension phenotype associated with decreased activity of either 
Sch9, PKA, or TOR. However, the mechanisms of longevity, especially the 
underlying transcription program have not been fully understood.
RESULTS: We measured the gene expression profiles in wild type yeast and three 
long-lived mutants: sch9Delta, ras2Delta, and tor1Delta. To elucidate the 
transcription program that may account for the longevity extension, we 
identified the transcription factors that are systematically and significantly 
associated with the expression differentiation in these mutants with respect to 
wild type by integrating microarray expression data with motif and ChIP-chip 
data, respectively. Our analysis suggests that three stress response 
transcription factors, Msn2, Msn4 and Gis1, are activated in all the three 
mutants. We also identify some other transcription factors such as Fhl1 and 
Hsf1, which may also be involved in the transcriptional modification in the 
long-lived mutants.
CONCLUSION: Combining microarray expression data with other data sources such as 
motif and ChIP-chip data provides biological insights into the transcription 
modification that leads to life span extension. In the chronologically 
long-lived mutant: sch9Delta, ras2Delta, and tor1Delta, several common stress 
response transcription factors are activated compared with the wild type 
according to our systematic transcription inference.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-8-219
PMCID: PMC1949827
PMID: 17617911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Addict Behav. 2008 Jan;33(1):54-68. doi: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2007.06.003. Epub
2007  Jun 9.

The Positive Drinking Consequences Questionnaire (PDCQ): validation of a new 
assessment tool.

Corbin WR(1), Morean ME, Benedict D.

Author information:
(1)Yale University, New Haven, CT 06520, USA. William.corbin@yale.edu

Expected and experienced negative consequences and expected positive 
consequences of alcohol use have been widely studied, while little attention has 
been given to experienced positive drinking consequences. Although existing 
studies suggest that positive consequences may be important [Park, C.L. (2004). 
Positive and negative consequences of alcohol consumption in college students. 
Addictive Behaviors, 29, 311-321.; Park, C.L. & Grant, C. (2005). Determinants 
of positive and negative consequences of alcohol consumption in college 
students: Alcohol use, gender, and psychological characteristics. Addictive 
Behaviors, 30, 755-765.], it is not clear if they are distinct from expected 
positive outcomes or uniquely associated with drinking behavior. The primary 
goal of the current study was to develop a measure that directly assessed 
specific, real life drinking consequences rather than relying on general past 
tense derivations ("I forgot my worries") of expectancy items. Such a measure is 
necessary to determine whether or not positive consequences are distinct from 
positive expectancies and to assess the unique contribution of positive drinking 
consequences to drinking behavior. Participants were 423 undergraduate students 
who completed an online survey; 277 drinkers (56.5% women) completed all data 
necessary for analyses. Principal components analysis of the Positive Drinking 
Consequences Questionnaire (PDCQ) identified a single-factor structure with good 
internal and split-half reliability. The PDCQ also demonstrated discriminant 
validity relative to a positive expectancy measure and incremental validity in 
relation to drinking behavior. Although additional studies with heavier drinking 
populations are needed, the PDCQ may ultimately serve as a valuable research and 
clinical assessment tool.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2007.06.003
PMID: 17618063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2007 Jul;197(1):62.e1-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2007.02.039.

Is Burch colposuspension ever cost-effective compared with tension-free vaginal 
tape for stress incontinence?

Wu JM(1), Visco AG, Weidner AC, Myers ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of Burch 
colposuspension compared with tension-free vaginal tape.
STUDY DESIGN: A Markov decision model was developed to compare costs (2005 US 
dollars) and effectiveness (quality-adjusted life years) of Burch and 
tension-free vaginal tape for stress urinary incontinence over 10 years from a 
health care system perspective. After surgery, outcomes included cure, 
persistent stress urinary incontinence followed by second surgery, and 
persistent stress urinary incontinence and mesh erosion after tension-free 
vaginal tape. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of less than $50,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year was considered cost-effective.
RESULTS: For the base-case, the Burch strategy cost more than tension-free 
vaginal tape ($9320 vs $8081), but was slightly more effective (7.260 vs 7.248 
quality-adjusted life years). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 
$98,755 per quality-adjusted life year. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
was less than $50,000 per quality-adjusted life year when the relative risk of 
cure after Burch to tension-free vaginal tape was greater than 1.09.
CONCLUSION: Burch colposuspension was not cost-effective compared with 
tension-free vaginal tape. However, if the tension-free vaginal tape failure 
rate was to increase over time, Burch may become cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2007.02.039
PMID: 17618760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. ScientificWorldJournal. 2006 Feb 17;6:2531-41. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2006.393.

Tips on establishing a robotics program in an academic setting.

Steers WD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Virginia School of Medicine, 
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA. wds6t@virginia.edu

Over the past 5 years, robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery has gone from being 
a novelty to an accepted approach for intra-abdominal and pelvic surgery. 
Driving this trend has been the large number of robotic-assisted laparoscopic 
prostatectomies performed throughout the U.S. Nearly a quarter of the 
prostatectomies done for prostate cancer in the U.S. in 2006 will use robotic 
assistance, yet reports fail to confirm cost effectiveness. The most important 
predictor of a successful program is a champion at the institution. Studies have 
demonstrated safety and immediate benefits with regard to reduced surgical 
morbidity such as pain, loss of work, quality of life, and blood loss for a 
variety of surgeries patients. Specific to prostatectomy for cancer, long-term 
data on biochemical (PSA) failures and cancer cures, as well as validated 
secondary outcomes for continence and potency, are still unavailable. Benefits 
accrue for the surgeon as well with improved ergonomics and potential extension 
of a surgical career. Yet, enthusiasm for robotics must be tempered by this lack 
of data and economic limitations. However, if a thoughtful and thorough process 
in initiating a robotic program is undertaken, the risks to the institution can 
be minimized. With proper training, the risk to the patient is reduced and with 
due diligence with regard to market and operative resources, the risk to the 
surgeon can be eliminated. This report reviews the steps to assess, plan, 
initiate, and maintain a robotics program at an academic institution with the 
hope that other programs can benefit from lessons acquired by early adopters of 
this expensive technology.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2006.393
PMCID: PMC5917135
PMID: 17619728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. ScientificWorldJournal. 2007 Apr 30;7:860-8. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2007.157.

The role of surveillance in the management of small renal masses.

Volpe A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, San Luigi Hospital, University of Turin, Regione 
Gonzole, Orbassano (Turin), Italy. foxal@tin.it

Incidentally detected, small renal masses (SRMs) have been increasing 
significantly in recent years due to the widespread use of improved 
cross-sectional imaging. A significant number of incidental SRMs are diagnosed 
in elderly patients who are more likely to undergo imaging for other medical 
issues. The natural history of SRMs has not been historically well understood 
because most masses are surgically removed soon after diagnosis. Several reports 
of surveillance of SRMs have been published in the last few years. When followed 
conservatively with serial imaging, SRMs have variable growth rates with an 
average of 0.28 cm/year, according to a recent meta-analysis. Larger series with 
longer follow-up are needed, but a significant number of small tumors seem to 
have an indolent behavior with a slow growth rate and a limited tendency to 
progress. The standard of care for enhancing SRMs is surgery. Up to one-third of 
surgically removed, <4-cm tumors are histologically benign. The outcomes of 
current surgical treatment of histologically confirmed, <4-cm, renal cell 
carcinomas are excellent, but this has not led to a decrease in mortality. Based 
on these considerations and on the available data on the natural history of 
SRMs, it seems reasonable to consider that we may be overtreating these lesions. 
This is especially true for elderly or unfit patients who have a decreased life 
expectancy. In these selected patients and in patients who refuse active 
treatment, it seems reasonable to propose an initial period of active 
surveillance for incidental SRMs, with delayed intervention for those tumors 
that will exhibit fast growth during follow-up. Percutaneous needle biopsies of 
renal tumors can be safely performed with the use of modern techniques and have 
the potential to characterize SRMs at histologically diagnosis, thereby allowing 
a better selection of the conservative or active treatment that is best suited 
for each individual patient.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2007.157
PMCID: PMC5901275
PMID: 17619771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Sep;8 Suppl 1:S3. doi: 10.1007/s10198-007-0067-0.

Technology assessment in the German context.

Drummond M.

Comment on
    Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Sep;8 Suppl 1:S5-31.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-007-0067-0
PMID: 17619919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Pneumologie. 2007 Oct;61(10):644-52. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-980063. Epub 2007
Jul  10.

[Mechanical ventilation in chronic ventilatory insufficiency].

[Article in German]

Schucher B(1), Magnussen H.

Author information:
(1)Krankenhaus Grosshansdorf, Zentrum für Pneumologie und Thoraxchirurgie, 
Grosshansdorf. b.schucher@kh-grosshansdorf.de

Mechanical ventilation has become an important treatment option in chronic 
ventilatory failure. There are different diseases which lead to ventilatory 
failure and to home mechanical ventilation (HMV). A primary loss of in- and 
expiratory muscle strength is the reason for respiratory deterioration in 
neuromuscular disease. In most of these diseases ventilatory failure develops 
because of the progressive character of muscular damage. Initially, ventilatory 
failure can be found during night-time. In the case of hypercapnia at daytime, 
life expectancy is strongly reduced, especially in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. HMV leads to a prolongation of life and to an 
increase in quality of life, if bulbar involvement is not severe. Impressive 
clinical improvements under HMV have been found in restrictive disorders of the 
rib cage like kyphoscoliosis or posttuberculosis sequelae, with an increase of 
quality of life, walking distance and a decrease in pulmonary hypertension. Only 
few data are published about long-term results of HMV in Obesity 
Hypoventilation. In terms of retrospective analyses of clinical data HMV seems 
to improve survival in this population. Some patients only need CPAP treatment, 
but most patients have to be treated with ventilatory support. The application 
of HMV in patients with chronic ventilatory failure due to chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) is growing, but there are controversial results in 
randomised clinical trials. Analysis of these data suggest better results of HMV 
in patients with severe hypercapnia, with the application of higher effective 
ventilatory pressure and a ventilator mode with a significant reduction in the 
work of breathing. Under such conditions HMV leads to a reduction of 
hypercapnia, an improvement in sleep quality, walking distance and quality of 
life, but until now there is no evidence in reduction of mortality in COPD.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-980063
PMID: 17620231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Radiographics. 2007 Jul-Aug;27(4):989-1004. doi: 10.1148/rg.274065171.

Imaging of Marfan syndrome: multisystemic manifestations.

Ha HI(1), Seo JB, Lee SH, Kang JW, Goo HW, Lim TH, Shin MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan 
Medical Center, 388-1 Pungnap-2 dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul 138-736, Korea.

Marfan syndrome is an inherited multisystemic connective-tissue disease that is 
