prolonged therapy. Assessing complications of disease and its therapy becomes an 
important outcome measure by which to evaluate our therapeutic interventions and 
appraise quality of life. In this paper we review the development of the 
Systemic Lupus International Collaborative Clinics (SLICC)/American College of 
Rheumatology (ACR) Damage Index (SDI) and its application to the pSLE 
population. We examine the profile of damage in pSLE as identified by the SDI. 
However we also critically appraise its application and identify potential 
limitations in the SDI as a measure of permanent disease damage in children. In 
this paper we put forth suggestions for additional domains addressing pediatric 
specific issues such as decreased final height and delayed puberty. We also 
suggest modifications to domains of gonadal failure, diabetes mellitus, 
cognitive impairment and osteonecrosis in the SDI to make it more reflective of 
the damage phenomenon observed in pediatrics.

DOI: 10.1177/0961203307078975
PMID: 17711904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Phys Ther. 2007 Oct;87(10):1399-406. doi: 10.2522/ptj.20060334. Epub 2007 Aug
 21.

Aging and Down syndrome: implications for physical therapy.

Barnhart RC(1), Connolly B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, East Tennessee State University, Box 70624, 
Johnson City, TN 37614, USA. barnhart@etsu.edu

The number of people over the age of 60 years with lifelong developmental delays 
is predicted to double by 2030. Down syndrome (DS) is the most frequent 
chromosomal cause of developmental delays. As the life expectancy of people with 
DS increases, changes in body function and structure secondary to aging have the 
potential to lead to activity limitations and participation restrictions for 
this population. The purpose of this update is to: (1) provide an overview of 
the common body function and structure changes that occur in adults with DS as 
they age (thyroid dysfunction, cardiovascular disorders, obesity, 
musculoskeletal disorders, Alzheimer disease, depression) and (2) apply current 
research on exercise to the prevention of activity limitations and participation 
restrictions. As individuals with DS age, a shift in emphasis from disability 
prevention to the prevention of conditions that lead to activity and 
participation limitations must occur. Exercise programs appear to have potential 
to positively affect the overall health of adults with DS, thereby increasing 
the quality of life and years of healthy life for these individuals.

DOI: 10.2522/ptj.20060334
PMID: 17712035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2007 Sep;20(3):172-7. doi: 
10.1177/0891988707301864.

Survival of ethnic Chinese with Alzheimer's disease: a 5-year longitudinal study 
in Taiwan.

Tsai PH(1), Chen SP, Lin KN, Wang PN, Wang HC, Liu CY, Hong CJ, Liu HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, 
Taiwan.

Survival time and mortality risk factors in patients with Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) have been documented in Western countries, but comparable information on 
the ethnic Chinese is scarce. We consecutively recruited 159 AD patients and 145 
control subjects from the Memory Clinic of Taipei Veterans General Hospital. 
After admission to the study, each subject received clinical, 
neuropsychological, and psychiatric evaluation and apolipoprotein E genotyping. 
Survival status was followed for 5 years. Forty-six AD patients (28.9%) and 3 
control subjects (2.1%) died during the 5-year follow-up period. The mean 
survival time for AD patients was 4.48 years (SD = 0.1 years) after the time of 
enrollment. Among individuals with AD, those with severe disease, older 
patients, and those experiencing hallucinations were at greater risk for 
increased mortality. As expected, AD shortened life expectancy in these 
patients. The factors found to correlate with a shorter life span may suggest 
effective health care strategies for AD patients.

DOI: 10.1177/0891988707301864
PMID: 17712101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Med Care. 2007 Sep;45(9):860-8. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3180618bac.

Evaluating chronic disease for heterogeneous populations: the case of arthritis.

Scharff RL(1), Jessup A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Consumer Sciences, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 
43210, USA. Scharf.8@osu.edu

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness evaluation for health care programs often 
involves the use of quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) estimates to measure 
morbidity losses from health conditions. Current techniques for measuring 
morbidity losses are often subjective, inflexible, impractical, and subject to 
bias.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine the impact of population heterogeneity on QALY 
values for arthritis sufferers by estimating an alternative health-adjusted 
life-year (HALY) measure based on self-assessed health status.
RESEARCH DESIGN: We present a feasible approach for the assessment of improved 
QALY estimates for chronic conditions affecting heterogeneous populations. An 
ordered probit model, using data from the National Health Interview Survey 
(NHIS), is used to calculate expected HALY losses from arthritis for distinct 
population subgroups. These measures are used to scale existing QALY measures 
that have been calculated for distinct homogeneous populations.
RESULTS: : We find that QALY losses from chronic arthritis vary by age, time 
since onset, and type of arthritis. When we apply these results to prevention 
programs aimed at reducing the incidence of Salmonella enteritidis infections 
(and the resulting reactive arthritis sequelae), we find that age-invariant 
QALYs underestimate the true discounted lifetime QALY losses from arthritis by 
15%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that a failure to account for population 
heterogeneity can lead to biased health loss estimates. The modified HALY 
measure presented here can be used to help inform policymakers faced with 
heterogeneous populations.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3180618bac
PMID: 17712256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2007 Nov;8(11):931-7. doi: 10.1038/nrm2245.

Autophagy: from phenomenology to molecular understanding in less than a decade.

Klionsky DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, 210 Washtenaw Avenue, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan 48109-2216, USA. klionsky@umich.edu

In 2000, it was suggested to me that "Autophagy will be the wave of the future; 
it will become the new apoptosis." Few people would have agreed at the time, but 
this statement turned out to be prophetic, and this process of 'self-eating' 
rapidly exploded as a research field, as scientists discovered connections to 
cancer, neurodegeneration and even lifespan extension. Amazingly, the molecular 
breakthroughs in autophagy have taken place during only the past decade.

DOI: 10.1038/nrm2245
PMID: 17712358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Chem Biodivers. 2007 Aug;4(8):1729-43. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.200790150.

Cannabis, pain, and sleep: lessons from therapeutic clinical trials of Sativex, 
a cannabis-based medicine.

Russo EB(1), Guy GW, Robson PJ.

Author information:
(1)GW Pharmaceuticals, Porton Down Science Park, Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4OJQ, 
UK. erusso@gwpharm.com

Cannabis sativa L. has been utilized for treatment of pain and sleep disorders 
since ancient times. This review examines modern studies on effects of 
Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) on sleep. It goes on to 
report new information on the effects on sleep in the context of medical 
treatment of neuropathic pain and symptoms of multiple sclerosis, employing 
standardized oromucosal cannabis-based medicines containing primarily THC, CBD, 
or a 1 : 1 combination of the two (Sativex). Sleep-laboratory results indicate a 
mild activating effect of CBD, and slight residual sedation with THC-predominant 
extracts. Experience to date with Sativex in numerous Phase I-III studies in 
2000 subjects with 1000 patient years of exposure demonstrate marked improvement 
in subjective sleep parameters in patients with a wide variety of pain 
conditions including multiple sclerosis, peripheral neuropathic pain, 
intractable cancer pain, and rheumatoid arthritis, with an acceptable adverse 
event profile. No tolerance to the benefit of Sativex on pain or sleep, nor need 
for dosage increases have been noted in safety extension studies of up to four 
years, wherein 40-50% of subjects attained good or very good sleep quality, a 
key source of disability in chronic pain syndromes that may contribute to 
patients' quality of life.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.200790150
PMID: 17712817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2007 Sep;46 Suppl 1:S19-30. doi: 
10.1097/01.qai.0000286598.00313.a6.

Antiretroviral treatment strategies and immune reconstitution in treatment-naïve 
HIV-infected patients with advanced disease.

Soria A(1), Lazzarin A.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Infections Disease, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, 
Italy. soria.alessandro@hsr.it

Treatment-naïve advanced HIV-infected patients have a lower life expectancy than 
those treated early with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Early 
treatment allows greater immunological recovery, a reduction of AIDS 
progression, a reduced risk of related illnesses, and lower mortality compared 
with HAART initiation in advanced disease. Given the numbers with advanced 
disease worldwide and the high cost of care, strategies encouraging early 
detection may be life saving and cost effective. Factors associated with 
increased clinical progression include higher baseline HIV viral load and older 
age, emphasizing the need for early viral load suppression. HAART initiation 
faces many challenges; interactions between antiretroviral agents and drugs used 
to treat life-threatening opportunistic infections may cause subtherapeutic 
antiretroviral exposure and the development of resistance or supratherapeutic 
levels resulting in adverse effects. Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome 
can be another cause of suboptimal outcomes. The management of patients with 
advanced HIV infection should include rapid short-term immune reconstitution to 
limit the risk of disease progression plus aggressive antiviral treatment to 
achieve rapid virological suppression. Clear evidence on the optimal regimen and 
agents to use to target advanced HIV disease is lacking. Therefore, 
antiretroviral treatment for these patients has to be carefully tailored to the 
individual according to many variables.

DOI: 10.1097/01.qai.0000286598.00313.a6
PMID: 17713422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 2007 Aug 23;448(7156):875-6. doi: 10.1038/448875a.

Economics: age, health and wealth.

Cairncross F.

DOI: 10.1038/448875a
PMID: 17713520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Commun Med. 2007;4(1):79-97. doi: 10.1515/CAM.2007.009.

Adapting to conversation as a language-impaired speaker: changes in aphasic turn 
construction over time.

Wilkinson R(1), Gower M, Beeke S, Maxim J.

Author information:
(1)University College London, UK. ray.wilkinson@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Commun Med. 2007;4(1):111-5.

Using the methodology and findings of conversation analysis, we analyze changes 
in the talk of a man with aphasia (a language disorder acquired following brain 
damage) at two points in his spontaneous recovery period in the first months 
post-stroke. We note that in the earlier conversation (15 weeks post-stroke) two 
of the turn constructional methods he particularly makes use of are replacement 
(a form of repair) and extension. By the time of the latter conversation (30 
weeks poststroke) these methods are less prevalent, while another repair 
operation, insertion, is now used in a particular way not seen in the earlier 
conversation. We suggest that these methods are means by which the aphasic 
speaker adapts his limited linguistic resources to the demands of constructing a 
turn-at-talk in conversation in order to lessen the extent of repair and delay 
with the turn and thus lessen the exposure of his linguistic noncompetence and 
his identity as 'different', 'disabled', or 'language impaired'. These turn 
constructional methods are dynamic and change as the speaker recovers. We 
suggest that communication disorders such as aphasia can be problematic not only 
because of difficulties they can cause in conveying information or producing 
other social actions, but also because they can create difficulties in the 
presentation of self in everyday life.

DOI: 10.1515/CAM.2007.009
PMID: 17714046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Environ Health. 2007 Aug 23;6:24. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-6-24.

Parameter and model uncertainty in a life-table model for fine particles 
(PM2.5): a statistical modeling study.

Tainio M(1), Tuomisto JT, Hänninen O, Ruuskanen J, Jantunen MJ, Pekkanen J.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Excellence for Environmental Health Risk Analysis, National Public 
Health Institute, Kuopio, Finland. Marko.Tainio@ktl.fi

BACKGROUND: The estimation of health impacts involves often uncertain input 
variables and assumptions which have to be incorporated into the model 
structure. These uncertainties may have significant effects on the results 
obtained with model, and, thus, on decision making. Fine particles (PM2.5) are 
believed to cause major health impacts, and, consequently, uncertainties in 
their health impact assessment have clear relevance to policy-making. We studied 
the effects of various uncertain input variables by building a life-table model 
for fine particles.
METHODS: Life-expectancy of the Helsinki metropolitan area population and the 
change in life-expectancy due to fine particle exposures were predicted using a 
life-table model. A number of parameter and model uncertainties were estimated. 
Sensitivity analysis for input variables was performed by calculating rank-order 
correlations between input and output variables. The studied model uncertainties 
were (i) plausibility of mortality outcomes and (ii) lag, and parameter 
uncertainties (iii) exposure-response coefficients for different mortality 
outcomes, and (iv) exposure estimates for different age groups. The monetary 
value of the years-of-life-lost and the relative importance of the uncertainties 
related to monetary valuation were predicted to compare the relative importance 
of the monetary valuation on the health effect uncertainties.
RESULTS: The magnitude of the health effects costs depended mostly on discount 
rate, exposure-response coefficient, and plausibility of the cardiopulmonary 
mortality. Other mortality outcomes (lung cancer, other non-accidental and 
infant mortality) and lag had only minor impact on the output. The results 
highlight the importance of the uncertainties associated with cardiopulmonary 
mortality in the fine particle impact assessment when compared with other 
uncertainties.
CONCLUSION: When estimating life-expectancy, the estimates used for 
cardiopulmonary exposure-response coefficient, discount rate, and plausibility 
require careful assessment, while complicated lag estimates can be omitted 
without this having any major effect on the results.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-6-24
PMCID: PMC2000460
PMID: 17714598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Exp Gerontol. 2008 Feb;43(2):114-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.06.007. Epub
2007  Jul 4.

Analysis of HLA-DRB1, DQA1, DQB1 haplotypes in Sardinian centenarians.

Scola L(1), Lio D, Candore G, Forte GI, Crivello A, Colonna-Romano G, Pes MG, 
Carru C, Ferrucci L, Deiana L, Baggio G, Franceschi C, Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)Gruppo di Studio dell'Immunosenescenza, Dipartimento di Biopatologia e 
Metodologie, Biomediche, Università di Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

Some genetic determinants of longevity might reside in those polymorphisms for 
the immune system genes that regulate immune responses. Many longevity 
association studies focused their attention on HLA (the human MHC) 
polymorphisms, but discordant results have been obtained. Sardinians are a 
relatively isolate population and represent a suitable population for 
association studies. Some HLA-DR and DQ alleles form very stable haplotypes with 
a strong linkage disequilibrium. In a previous study on Sardinian centenarians 
we have suggested that HLA-DRB1 *15 allele might be marginally associated to 
longevity. HLA-DR,DQ haplotypes are in strong linkage disequilibrium and well 
conserved playing a role in the association to diseases. Hence, we have 
evaluated, by amplification refractory mutation system/polymerase chain reaction 
(ARMS-PCR) the HLADQA1 and HLA-DQB1 allele frequencies in 123 centenarians and 
92 controls from Sardinia to assess whether the association to HLA-DRB1 *15 
allele may be due to the other genes involved in the HLA-DR,DQ haplotypes. The 
frequencies of HLA-DQA1, DQB1 haplotypes were not significantly modified in 
centenarians. Nevertheless by evaluating the frequency of DRB1 *15 linked 
haplotypes, we observed a not significant increase in centenarians of HLA-DQA1 
*01, DQB1 *05 and HLA-DQA1 *01,DQB1 *06 haplotypes. These data suggest that 
these haplotypes might have a role in determining life span expectancy and 
longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.06.007
PMCID: PMC2645697
PMID: 17714903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Sep;22(9):1494-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2006.04539.x.

Cost-effectiveness of peginterferon alpha-2a compared to lamivudine treatment in 
patients with hepatitis B e antigen positive chronic hepatitis B in Taiwan.

Sullivan SD(1), Veenstra DL, Chen PJ, Chang TT, Chuang WL, Tsai C, Patel K.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA. 
sdsull@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Sep;22(9):1357-9.

BACKGROUND: Peginterferon alpha-2a (40KD), a new treatment option for patients 
with chronic hepatitis B (CHB), offers improved efficacy with a defined 
treatment duration compared with lamivudine, but at a higher cost. We undertook 
an economic evaluation of peginterferon alpha-2a from the perspective of the 
Taiwan Bureau of National Health Insurance to assess the clinical outcomes and 
costs of 48 weeks of peginterferon alpha-2a for the treatment of patients with 
hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive CHB, compared to lamivudine treatment for 
48 weeks.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis using a state-transition 
Markov model simulating the natural history of HBeAg-positive CHB. Efficacy data 
were obtained from a randomized clinical trial of 820 patients (87% were Asian) 
comparing peginterferon alpha-2a to lamivudine. We modeled a hypothetical cohort 
of 32-year-old patients with HBeAg-positive CHB. Life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, lifetime costs ($NTD) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were estimated. One-way sensitivity analyses 
were performed on all parameters in the model to evaluate uncertainty.
RESULTS: Treatment with peginterferon alpha-2a compared to lamivudine resulted 
in higher total costs, but longer quality-adjusted life expectancy, yielding an 
ICER of $NTD 381 000 ($US 12,000) per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. 
Although there is uncertainty associated with the prognosis of HBeAg-positive 
CHB, the ICER did not exceed $NTD 485,000 ($US 15,000) per QALY gained despite 
variation in the parameters used in the analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that 48-week treatment with peginterferon 
alpha-2a compared to 48-week treatment with lamivudine in HBeAg-positive 
patients offers life expectancy and quality of life benefits at a favorable 
cost-effectiveness ratio.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2006.04539.x
PMID: 17716353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. BMC Bioinformatics. 2007 Aug 23;8:307. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-8-307.

Protein structural similarity search by Ramachandran codes.

Lo WC(1), Huang PJ, Chang CH, Lyu PC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioinformatics and Structural Biology, National Tsing Hua 
University, 101, Section 2 Kuang Fu Road, Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan. 
b861636@life.nthu.edu.tw

BACKGROUND: Protein structural data has increased exponentially, such that fast 
and accurate tools are necessary to access structure similarity search. To 
improve the search speed, several methods have been designed to reduce 
three-dimensional protein structures to one-dimensional text strings that are 
then analyzed by traditional sequence alignment methods; however, the accuracy 
is usually sacrificed and the speed is still unable to match sequence similarity 
search tools. Here, we aimed to improve the linear encoding methodology and 
develop efficient search tools that can rapidly retrieve structural homologs 
from large protein databases.
RESULTS: We propose a new linear encoding method, SARST (Structural similarity 
search Aided by Ramachandran Sequential Transformation). SARST transforms 
protein structures into text strings through a Ramachandran map organized by 
nearest-neighbor clustering and uses a regenerative approach to produce 
substitution matrices. Then, classical sequence similarity search methods can be 
applied to the structural similarity search. Its accuracy is similar to 
Combinatorial Extension (CE) and works over 243,000 times faster, searching 
34,000 proteins in 0.34 sec with a 3.2-GHz CPU. SARST provides statistically 
meaningful expectation values to assess the retrieved information. It has been 
implemented into a web service and a stand-alone Java program that is able to 
run on many different platforms.
CONCLUSION: As a database search method, SARST can rapidly distinguish high from 
low similarities and efficiently retrieve homologous structures. It demonstrates 
that the easily accessible linear encoding methodology has the potential to 
serve as a foundation for efficient protein structural similarity search tools. 
These search tools are supposed applicable to automated and high-throughput 
functional annotations or predictions for the ever increasing number of 
published protein structures in this post-genomic era.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-8-307
PMCID: PMC2194796
PMID: 17716377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2007 Jul;12(3):190; author reply 190-1. doi: 
10.1258/135581907781543058.

Searching for a threshold - Not so NICE..

Mooney G, Coast J, Jan S; Di McIntyre; Ryan M, Wiseman V.

Comment on
    J Health Serv Res Policy. 2007 Jan;12(1):56-8.

DOI: 10.1258/135581907781543058
PMID: 17716427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2008 Jan;121(1):81-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jaci.2007.06.047.  Epub 2007 Aug 22.

An economic analysis of aspirin desensitization in aspirin-exacerbated 
respiratory disease.

Shaker M(1), Lobb A, Jenkins P, O'Rourke D, Takemoto SK, Sheth S, Burroughs T, 
Dykewicz MS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Department of Pediatrics and 
Community and Family Medicine, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03756, USA. Marcus.Shaker@dartmouth.edu

BACKGROUND: Aspirin desensitization is an effective therapy for 
moderate-to-severe aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD). 
Desensitization also allows the use of aspirin for secondary cardiovascular 
prevention.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to investigate the cost-effectiveness of aspirin 
desensitization with subsequent aspirin therapy in patients with AERD.
METHODS: The Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project was used, together with 
average reimbursements from a large Midwestern health care plan, to model the 
costs of aspirin desensitization for therapeutic and prophylactic use in 
patients with AERD. Event probabilities were based on the published literature.
RESULTS: Ambulatory desensitization for AERD cost $6768 per quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) saved ($18.54 per additional symptom-free day). Aspirin 
desensitization for AERD remained cost-effective (<$50,000 per QALY saved) 
across a wide range of assumptions. When secondary cardiovascular prophylaxis 
was considered, ambulatory aspirin desensitization was less expensive than an 
alternative antiplatelet agent, clopidogrel. Clopidogrel cost $106,453 per 
incremental QALY saved when compared with desensitization.
CONCLUSIONS: Aspirin desensitization is a cost-effective therapeutic 
intervention in patients with moderate-to-severe AERD. Although the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel in individuals with aspirin allergy is 
marginal, if available, ambulatory desensitization remains a less-expensive 
option for secondary cardiovascular prophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2007.06.047
PMID: 17716716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Heart. 2007 Oct;93(10):1238-43. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2006.111401. Epub 2007 Aug
23.

Is primary angioplasty cost effective in the UK? Results of a comprehensive 
decision analysis.

Bravo Vergel Y(1), Palmer S, Asseburg C, Fenwick E, de Belder M, Abrams K, 
Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

Comment in
    Heart. 2007 Oct;93(10):1161-3.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of primary angioplasty, compared 
with medical management with thrombolytic drugs, to achieve reperfusion after 
acute myocardial infarction (AMI) from the perspective of the UK NHS.
DESIGN: Bayesian evidence synthesis and decision analytic model.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted and Bayesian statistical methods used 
to synthesise evidence from 22 randomised control trials. Resource utilisation 
was based on UK registry data, published literature and national databases, with 
unit costs taken from routine NHS sources and published literature.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Costs from a health service perspective and outcomes 
measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: For the base case, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of primary 
angioplasty was 9241 pounds sterling for each additional QALY, with a 
probability of being cost effective of 0.90 for a cost-effectiveness threshold 
of 20,000 pounds sterling. Results were sensitive to variations in the 
additional time required to initiate treatment with primary angioplasty.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary angioplasty is cost effective for the treatment of AMI on 
the basis of threshold cost-effectiveness values used in the NHS and subject to 
a delay of up to about 80 minutes. These findings are mainly explained by the 
superior mortality benefit and the prevention of non-fatal outcomes associated 
with primary angioplasty for delays of up to this length.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2006.111401
PMCID: PMC2000945
PMID: 17717037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Mark Sculpher and Mark de 
Belder have received research funding and consultancy fees from various 
manufacturers of medical devices such as coronary stents. No other authors have 
competing interests to declare.


104. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Oct;1114:428-33. doi: 10.1196/annals.1396.005. Epub
2007  Aug 23.

Life extension by calorie restriction in humans.

Everitt AV(1), Le Couteur DG.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Education and Research on Ageing, University of Sydney, and 
Concord RG Hospital, Sydney, NSW 2139, Australia. arthureveritt@yahoo.com.au

Long-term reduction in energy intake in the diet (calorie restriction [CR]) 
extends the life of the laboratory rat by about 25%. However, in humans there 
are no life-long studies of CR, but only short-term trials which indicate that 
20% CR acting over periods of 2-6 years is associated with reduced body weight, 
blood pressure, blood cholesterol, and blood glucose--risk factors for the major 
killer diseases of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. In addition, recent 
research has shown that CR for 6 months is able to improve biomarkers for 
longevity (deep body temperature and plasma insulin) and thus should increase 
life expectancy. The magnitude of the life-extension effect of CR in humans can 
only be estimated. The Okinawans, the longest-lived people on earth, consume 40% 
fewer calories than the Americans and live only 4 years longer. Similarly, women 
in United States consume 25% fewer calories than men and live 5 years longer. 
From the survival studies of overweight and obese people, it is estimated that 
long-term CR to prevent excessive weight gain could add only 3-13 years to life 
expectancy. Thus the effects of CR on human life extension are probably much 
smaller than those achieved by medical and public health interventions, which 
have extended life by about 30 years in developed countries in the 20th century, 
by greatly reducing deaths from infections, accidents, and cardiovascular 
disease.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1396.005
PMID: 17717102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. BMJ. 2007 Aug 25;335(7616):358-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39308.560069.BE.

NICE's cost effectiveness threshold.

Appleby J, Devlin N, Parkin D.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2007 Sep 15;335(7619):527-8.

How high should it be?

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39308.560069.BE
PMCID: PMC1952475
PMID: 17717337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: With others, the authors 
are currently involved in a research study funded by NICE to assess the 
feasibility of ascertaining the implicit cost per QALY gained of investment and 
disinvestment decisions taken in the NHS.


106. Ann Surg. 2007 Sep;246(3):512-21; discussion 521-3. doi: 
10.1097/SLA.0b013e318148c6e6.

Arteriovenous CO2 removal improves survival compared to high frequency 
percussive and low tidal volume ventilation in a smoke/burn sheep acute 
respiratory distress syndrome model.

Schmalstieg FC(1), Keeney SE, Rudloff HE, Palkowetz KH, Cevallos M, Zhou X, Cox 
RA, Hawkins HK, Traber DL, Zwischenberger JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 
77555, USA. fschmals@utmb.edu

OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY BACKGROUND: Low tidal volume ventilation (LTV) has 
improved survival with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) by reducing 
lung stretch associated with volutrauma and barotrauma. Additional strategies to 
reduce lung stretch include arteriovenous carbon dioxide removal (AVCO2R), and 
high frequency percussive ventilation (HFPV). We performed a prospective, 
randomized study comparing these techniques in our clinically relevant LD100 
sheep model of ARDS to compare survival, pathology, and inflammation between the 
3 ventilator methods.
METHODS: Adult sheep (n = 61) received smoke inhalation (48 breaths) and a 40% 
third-degree burn. After ARDS developed (Pao2/FiO2 <200), animals were 
randomized. In experiment 1, animals were killed at 48 hours after 
randomization. Hemodynamics, pulmonary function, injury scores, myeloperoxidase 
(MPO) in lung tissues and neutrophils, IL-8 in lung tissues, and apoptosis were 
evaluated. In experiment 2, the end point was survival to 72 hours after onset 
of ARDS or end-of-life criteria with extension of the same studies performed in 
experiment 1.
RESULTS: There were no differences in hemodynamics, but minute ventilation was 
lower in the AVCO2R group and Paco2 for the HFPV and AVCO2R animals remained 
lower than LTV. Airway obstruction and injury scores were not different among 
the 3 ventilation strategies. In experiment 1, lung tissue MPO and IL-8 were not 
different among the ventilation strategies. However, in experiment 2, lung 
tissue MPO was significantly lower for AVCO2R-treated animals (AVCO2R < HFPV < 
LTV). TUNEL staining showed little DNA breakage in neutrophils from experiment 
1, but significantly increased breakage in all 3 ventilator strategies in 
experiment 2. In contrast, AVCO2R tissue neutrophils showed significant 
apoptosis at 72 hours post-ARDS criteria as measured by nuclear condensation (P 
< 0.001). Survival 72 hours post-ARDS criteria was highest for AVCO2R (71%) 
compared with HFPV (55%) and LTV (33%) (AVCO2R vs. LTV, P = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Significantly more animals survived AVCO2R than LTV. In experiment 
2, Lung MPO was significantly lower for AVCO2R, compared with LTV (P < 0.05). 
This finding taken together with the TUNEL and neutrophil apoptosis results, 
suggested that disposition of neutrophils 72 hours post-ARDS criteria was 
different among the ventilatory strategies with neutrophils from AVCO2R-treated 
animals removed chiefly through apoptosis, but in the cases of HFPV and LTV, 
dying by necrosis in lung tissue.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e318148c6e6
PMCID: PMC1959342
PMID: 17717455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Arch Esp Urol. 2007 Jun;60(5):571-6. doi: 10.4321/s0004-06142007000500011.

[Infantile myofibromatosis. Relationship with the genitourinary tract. Case 
reports and bibliographic review].

[Article in Spanish]

Hermida Pérez JA(1), Ochoa Montes de Oca J, Ochoa Urdangararain O, Bastian Manso 
L, Morell Molina E.

Author information:
(1)Especialista en Urología, Universidad de Camagüey, Cuba. hermidana@yahoo.es

OBJECTIVE: To present a case of infantile myofibromatosis of visceral location 
and a review of the literature.
METHOD/RESULTS: We report the case of an 11-year-old Caucasian girl hospitalized 
for abdominal tumorous mass, weight loss and lack of appetite. Physical 
examination showed: cutaneous-mucous paleness and a painless, palpable tumorous 
mass of 8-10cm in the right abdominal flank, of firm consistency with defined 
edges and extending past the midline. Blood test showed hemoglobin 90 mg/l and 
erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 130 mm/hour. Chest x-ray and bone study were 
normal, while abdominal x-ray showed intratumorous calcification, intravenous 
urographyc showed light displace downwards and outwards of the right kidney. 
Ultrasound showed a solid echogenic mass with a diameter of 11cm in the right 
abdominal flank, above and extending towards the lower portion of the right 
kidney. Surgical treatment for possible neuroblastoma was initiated, during 
which various tumorous growths were observed in the mesocolon, the largest 
measuring 7cm, which were removed. Macroscopic examination showed whitish 
well-defined tumorous growths of firm consistency with focal calcifications. 
Microscopic examination showed a proliferation of fibroblastic type cells, with 
some areas having smooth muscle cell characteristics. Diagnosis was 
myofibromatosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Infantile myofibromatosis is the most common fibrous disorder of 
infancy and childhood, more commonly found between birth and two years of age, 
may also appear later in life. Etiology is unclear, but certain studies report 
estrogen involvement in its pathogenesis. Clinical symptoms depend on the 
location and extension of the lesion and age at presentation. Spontaneous 
relapse may occur. Prognosis is good in the absence of visceral damage, although 
generalized congenital myofibromatosis with visceral damage is associated with 
high mortality especially in the first months of life, due to its destructive 
capacity, obstruction of vital organs, growth inhibition or infection. Urologic 
concerns include possible infiltration of genito-urinary organs (kidney, corpus 
spongiosum) and its association with urologic abnormalities. Ultrastructural and 
immunohistochemical studies show that the tumor is composed of myofibroblasts, 
with estrogen receptors, displaying vimentin and smooth muscle actin 
immunoreactivity. Strict follow up is recommended in patients with congenital 
myofibromatosis to avoid or detect possible complications that may be 
life-threatening (Bone survey abdominal-pelvic ultrasound, echocardiogram, 
chest-abdominal CT and biopsy). The treatment of choice is surgical removal, 
with extensive excision to avoid possible relapse.

DOI: 10.4321/s0004-06142007000500011
PMID: 17718213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2007 Sep;49(9):647-53. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2007.00647.x.

Change in ambulatory ability of adolescents and young adults with cerebral 
palsy.

Day SM(1), Wu YW, Strauss DJ, Shavelle RM, Reynolds RJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA, USA. Day@LifeExpectancy.com

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2007 Sep;49(9):644.

This study aimed to determine the probability that a child with cerebral palsy 
(CP) will lose or gain ambulatory ability through adolescence and young 
adulthood. We analyzed retrospectively data from 1987 to 2002 on Californians 
with CP initially aged 10 years (SD 0.9y; n=7550 [4304 males, 3246 females]) and 
25 years (SD 0.8y; n=5721 [3261 males, 2460 females]) who had varying levels of 
ambulatory ability (initial Gross Motor Function Classification System Levels 
I-IV). We used the Aalen-Johansen estimator to estimate probabilities of 
transition to other levels of ambulatory ability in the future. Those who walked 
and climbed stairs without difficulty at age 10 had only a 23% chance of decline 
(to requiring a handrail to manage stairs, or worse) 15 years later. Those who 
ambulated with some difficulty but did not use a wheelchair had a significant 
chance (33%) of improvement (to being able to walk unsteadily alone at least 3m 
or better) and only a small chance (11%) of becoming non-ambulatory. Those who 
used a wheelchair were more likely to lose ambulatory ability (34%) or die (6%). 
Those who walked and climbed stairs well at age 25 were likely to maintain that 
ability 15 years later (76%), while those needing support to climb stairs were 
more likely to lose ability. Improvement in ambulation after age 25 was 
unlikely. Children and young adults with CP are likely to maintain their 
ambulatory ability during their next 15 years. Some who ambulate with difficulty 
at age 10 may improve through adolescence, but those who use a wheelchair are 
more likely to decline. By age 25 improvement in ambulation is unlikely and 
decline more likely. Most, however, will not change over the next 15 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2007.00647.x
PMID: 17718819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. HIV Clin Trials. 2007 Jul-Aug;8(4):235-45. doi: 10.1310/hct0804-235.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of enfuvirtide (ENF) added to an optimized therapy 
compared with an optimized therapy in patients with HIV/AIDS.

Badia X(1), Lizán L, Magaz S, Sanz AC, Green J, Serrano D.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics & Outcomes Research, IMS Health, Barcelona, Spain. 
xbadia@es.imshealth.com

BACKGROUND: Fuzeon (enfuvirtide) (ENF) is the first drug among the HIV fusion 
inhibitors that has shown high efficacy in HIV-1/AIDS patients resistant to 
conventional antiretroviral agents.
PURPOSE: To analyze the cost-effectiveness of ENF plus optimized therapy (OT) in 
HIV patients.
METHOD: A Markov model was used to calculate the cost-effectiveness of ENF in 
terms of incremental cost per life-year gained. The model has a 10-year horizon, 
with monthly cycles, and the perspective is the Spanish National Health System. 
Efficacy rates and transition probabilities were obtained from clinical and 
epidemiological trials. Resource use data were retrieved from published 
literature and a panel of clinicians. Unit costs refer to the year 2003.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: Adding ENF to OT increased patient life expectancy by 1.6 years (6.2 
years with OT compared with 7.8 years with ENF + OT). Total costs were 160,728 
euro for OT and 200,859 euro with ENF + OT, mainly due to increasing life 
expectancy raising resource use and costs. Incremental cost per life-year gained 
with ENF was 25,082 euro.
CONCLUSION: ENF plus OT increased life expectancy for HIV-1-treated patients and 
is an efficient treatment option.

DOI: 10.1310/hct0804-235
PMID: 17720664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Top HIV Med. 2007 Aug-Sep;15(4):130-3.

Human papillomavirus infection in HIV-infected persons.

Palefsky J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Rates of cervical and anal human papillomavirus (HPV) infection and abnormal 
cytology are high in HIV-infected women, as are rates of anal HPV infection and 
abnormal cytology in HIV-infected men who have sex with men (MSM). Available 
evidence indicates that the incidence of anal cancer in HIV-infected MSM has 
increased in association with prolonged life expectancy achieved with 
antiretroviral therapy. Routine screening for cervical neoplasia is recommended 
for HIV-infected women. Routine screening is not yet universally recommended for 
anal neoplasia, although it should be considered for at-risk patients, 
particularly given recent improvements in local treatments. A preventive vaccine 
against cervical HPV infection is approved for use in young women before onset 
of sexual activity and acquisition of HPV infection. Its potential benefit in 
preventing anal infection in women and men has yet to be determined, and its 
potential utility in those with HIV infection remains unknown. This article 
summarizes a presentation on HPV infection in HIV-infected patients made by Joel 
Palefsky, MD, at an International AIDS Society-USA Continuing Medical Education 
course in Chicago in May 2007. The original presentation is available as a 
Webcast at www.iasusa.org.

PMID: 17720998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Eye (Lond). 2009 Jan;23(1):132-40. doi: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702964. Epub 2007
Aug  24.

Cost-effectiveness of latanoprost and timolol maleate for the treatment of 
glaucoma in Scandinavia and the United Kingdom, using a decision-analytic health 
economic model.

Stewart WC(1), Stewart JA, Mychaskiw MA.

Author information:
(1)PRN Pharmaceutical Research Network, LLC, Charleston, SC, USA. 
info@prnorb.com

Comment in
    Eye (Lond). 2009 Dec;23(12):2264; author reply 2264.

PURPOSE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of latanoprost or timolol in glaucoma 
treatment in Norway, Sweden, Denmark (Scandinavia) and the United Kingdom (UK).
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to perform a cost-effectiveness 
analysis. Health states were 'stable' and 'progressed' glaucoma, and transition 
probabilities for both primary open-angle and exfoliation glaucoma were derived 
from the medical literature. Practice patterns were obtained from surveys 
completed by 54 ophthalmologists geographically dispersed throughout each 
country. Country specific unit costs were used for medications, patient visits, 
diagnostics, and therapeutic procedures.
RESULTS: Over the life of the model latanoprost was less expensive than timolol 
by 5.3-7.6% (Scandinavia) and 2.1% (UK). Following adjustments, therapy in the 
original timolol-treated cohort was slightly more effective in each country with 
a difference in 0.003-0.015 years to progression of glaucoma existing between 
latanoprost. This may have resulted from the model design, which reflected that 
physicians ultimately control most patients' glaucoma over 5 years by adding or 
changing therapy. The associated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for 
latanoprost vs timolol generated by the Scandinavian and the UK models, 
respectively, were: Norway 351,396 NOK; Sweden 988,985 SEK; Denmark 351,641; and 
the UK 4751 GBP.
CONCLUSIONS: Over 5 years, in the UK timolol is the cost-effective option, 
whereas in Scandinavia latanoprost may be the cost-effective alternative to 
timolol.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702964
PMID: 17721497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Pol Arch Med Wewn. 2007 Apr;117(4):16-24.

[Survival and relapses assessment in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis and 
predominant renal involvement].

[Article in Polish]

Zycińska K(1), Wardyn KA.

Author information:
(1)Poradnia Układowych Zapaleń Naczyń, Oddział Kliniczny Medycyny Rodzinnej, 
Chorób Wewnetrznych i Metabolicznych, Akademia Medyczna, Warszawa. 
kzycinska@poczta.fm

INTRODUCTION: Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) is a potentially fatal condition 
with remissions and high relapses rates.
OBJECTIVES: Assessment of survival and relapses in a population based cohort of 
patients with WG with predominant renal involvement.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A prospective cohort study including 60 patients--median 
age of 42 years with different dynamics and clinical presentation. Patients were 
divided into 3 groups (group 1, group 2 and group 3 respectively, and subgroups: 
3.1, 3.2, 3.3): group 1--WG patients without renal involvement, group 2--WG 
patients with abnormalities in urinary sediment, group 3.1--WG patients with 
chronic renal failure, group 3.2--WG patients with diffuse alveloar hemorrhage 
(DAH) and rapid progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN), and group 3.3--WG 
patients with RPGN. The clinical analysis has been conducted using the disease 
extent index (DEl) only and Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score-Wegener's 
granulomatosis (BVAS-WG) disease activity questionnaire. Logistic regression 
analysis and the Wilcoxon test were used. Survival time and death risk were 
assessed using the Kaplan-Meier estimator and Cox proportional hazard model.
RESULTS: Eighty-eight percent of patients survived the first year follow-up 
since the diagnosis, while 84% of patients remained alive after the second year 
of observation. Life expectancy was 67.1 +/- 4.4 months. During the first year 
of observation 9.8% of patients died, after 2 years death hazard amounted to 
3.7% per year, and after 4 years 2.6% per year (p < 0.05). Death risk was 
1.3-fold higher in group 2 and 3.3-fold higher in group 3 compared to group 1 (p 
> 0.05). Mortality in patients from group 3.1 was 6-fold lower than in patients 
from group 3.2 (p < 0.03) and in group 3.3 was more than 4-fold lower than in 
patients from group 3.2 (p < 0.04). Relapse risk after first the year of 
follow-up was 20% per year and minimally changed after 3 years of observation, 
then decreased to 6% after 5 years. Relapse hazard ratio in group 2 was 
significantly lower in comparison with group 1 (HR1/3.6, p < 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: We found significant differences in survival and relapses in 
various subpopulationsof WG patients.

PMID: 17722471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Pol Arch Med Wewn. 2007 Apr;117(4):38-43.

[Adult patient after correction of tetralogy of Fallot--diagnostic and 
therapeutic issues].

[Article in Polish]

Mizia-Stec K(1), Gasior Z, Haberka M, Oleś R, Adamczyk T.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Klinika Kardiologii, Slaska Akademia Medyczna, Katowice. 
kmizia@op.pl

Over the last 40 years, we have witnessed an impressive revolution in the 
management of congenital heart disease (CHD). The major factors contributing to 
this advance include: enhanced diagnostic abilities, improved surgical 
procedures, sophisticated intensive care and finally better understanding of 
natural history of CHD. Recent epidemiological studies have documented that 
although CHD still remains the principal cause o death among infants, a 
significant increase in the number of patients with heart defects who survive 
into the adulthood have been observed. Nowadays, for the first time, the number 
of adults with CHD equals the numbe of children with this defect. Tetralogy of 
Fallot (TOF) is one of the most frequent congenital cyanotic heart diseases 
treated with either corrective or palliative surgical techniques. Successful 
operation followed by specialized care enable patients to have almost normal 
life expectancy. In the current paper, we have provided the update on the 
management, diagnostic approach and treatment of adult patients after the TOF 
correction. Figures present typical problems related to the echocardiographic 
evaluation.

PMID: 17722474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Zhonghua Lao Dong Wei Sheng Zhi Ye Bing Za Zhi. 2007 Jun;25(6):326-30.

[Burden of major cancers on years of life lost with premature death in 
crocidolite-contaminated area in Dayao].

[Article in Chinese]

Zou H(1), Luo SQ, Yang CY, Zhang MB.

Author information:
(1)Zhejiang Center for Disease Prevention and Control, Hangzhou 310009, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of environmental low-dose exposure to 
crocidolite on people's health and the society. METHODS The mortality data of 
cancer between 1994 and 2003 in an environmental crocidolite-contaminated area 
was obtained from hospital medical records of Dayao Center for Disease 
Prevention and Control, and Dayao Public Health Bureau. The years of life lost 
with premature death (YLLs), was used to measure and assess the death, health 
losses and social burden of cancer in this area.
RESULTS: In the environmental crocidolite-contaminated area, lung cancer was the 
prime cause of death in all kinds of cancers between 1994 and 2003, followed by 
liver cancer, mesothelioma stomach cancer and colorectal cancer, with mortality 
10.15/10(5), 9.04/10(5), 8.48/10(5), 3.96/10(5) and 3.55/10(5) respectively. The 
mortality of main cancer in male and female increased with age growing except 
that of breast cancer in female. Results showed that the types of leading 
cancers of YLLs were liver cancer, lung cancer, mesothelioma, leukemia and 
stomach cancer with YLLs 1981.39 person-year, 1886.63 person-year, 1799.23 
person-year, 948.01 person-year and 754.18 person-year respectively. The 
distribution of YLLs was similar in both sexes, higher in the middle age group 
(aged from 15 to 44 years and 45 to 59 years) and lower in other age groups. The 
indirect economic loss resulting from lung cancer (15.02% of the total loss), 
liver cancer (13.98% of the total loss) and mesothelioma (13.01% of the total 
loss) was relatively great. The YLLs and the indirect economic loss attributable 
to environmental low-dose exposure to crocidolite were 3092.23 person-year and 
5,175,800 Yuan respectively.
CONCLUSION: Lung cancer, liver cancer, mesothelioma, leukemia and breast cancer 
are the major cancers with an important impact on people's health and premature 
mortality in the environmental crocidolite-contaminated area. The impact of 
cancer mortality is more severer in those aged over 45 years. Social burden of 
cancer is the greatest in persons aged from 15 to 59 years. Policies and plans 
should be worked out for the protection of environment and the prevention of 
cancer.

PMID: 17723186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Sep;134(3):702-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2007.03.051.

Usefulness of microsimulation to translate valve performance into patient 
outcome: patient prognosis after aortic valve replacement with the 
Carpentier-Edwards supra-annular valve.

van Geldorp MW(1), Jamieson WR, Kappetein AP, Puvimanasinghe JP, Eijkemans MJ, 
Grunkemeier GL, Takkenberg JJ, Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-thoracic Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.vangeldorp@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Numerous reports have been published documenting the results of 
aortic valve replacement. It is often not easy to translate these outcomes 
involving the condition of the valve into the actual consequences for the 
patient. We previously developed an alternative method to study outcome after 
aortic valve replacement that allows direct estimation of patient outcome after 
aortic valve replacement: microsimulation modeling. The goal of this article is 
to provide insight into microsimulation methodology and to give an overview of 
the advantages and disadvantages of simulation methods (in particular 
microsimulation) in comparison with standard methods of outcome analysis.
METHODS: By using a primary dataset containing 1847 patients and 14,429 
patient-years, advantages and disadvantages of standard methods of outcome 
